“Yes, right?”
She smiled. Despite himself, Ilvriss had to grin. The Drake went on with a sigh as she picked up the knitting needles.
“But I got them to install one in one of the rooms.”
“Oh. So what was the problem? It was—uncomfortable?”
The Drake looked blank.
“No. It’s that everyone wants to use it. I get to use it once every two weeks, if I’m lucky. So it goes. Pardon me—I’m just knitting socks for a friend. It’s a hobby. I wouldn’t have brought out the needles if I thought…again.”
She was knitting as she talked, with that ability some people had to knit without really thinking about it. That told you they were the hardcore, real knitters, not the posers.
Ilvriss nodded.
“So you work here. And this job is…well, I have visited places like this before. Never here, but I ah, was reluctant to do so. My companions seem to think it will help.”
He couldn’t think of anything else to say. Xesci nodded.
“I know. Word travels fast around here. It might, if you wanted it. I’m happy to be charming—but I don’t think that’s you.”
“And you know me?”
She raised her brows.
“I seem to. I’m very good at knowing people.”
Click, click, went the needles. Ilvriss had to admit she was right. He sighed.
“Well…I apologize then. If there is anything to apologize for. I will pay the fee. Or I’ll make Brilm do it for bringing me here.”
She smiled and nodded.
“Thank you. Well, that’s three minutes. Seventeen to go. While you wait, would you like to talk or just sit? Or you can sleep in the bed. Don’t worry—they clean it every time.”
Ilvriss shuddered.
“No thank you. And—talk?”
“Oh yes. You thought your friend was lying, didn’t you?”
“Brilm? He actually talks here?”
She smiled at him and he felt rather foolish.
“Of course we talk. All the time. You must have last come here as a young man. They—do not tend to talk. Most gulp stamina potions and ask me questions about how they’re doing sometimes.”
Ilvriss shifted uncomfortably. This was not a subject of conversation one brought up in polite society. Ever. But this place was one of those areas not technically…Drake. It existed and they let it exist because it was better to have it than make it a crime, but they did not talk about it.
Xesci looked at him as if reading his mind.
“I apologize. I forget this isn’t comfortable talk.”
“It—is perfectly fine with me. So, Brilm comes here? He has his face on the wall.”
“Yes. He’s quite well-liked, you know. He’s generous, doesn’t act…out of turn. And he does talk with his favorite women. Shakra—I think she, no it was Aranna, actually—she told him about the Singer of Terandria, you know.”
“What? You mean those song-crystals he made a fortune on—”
“He’s good at listening too.”
Ilvriss’ opinion of The Drake’s Pearl did not change markedly. But despite himself, twenty minutes later, he found himself asking questions like someone just discovering an entirely new culture or field of work.
Which is what Xesci’s life was, really. He had never thought to ask.
“It’s fine work. If there’s protection. Other cities have none and it creates…danger. Far better to have rules and guards and so on.”
“Other cities don’t do that?”
She sighed.
“Human cities. Zeres banned it for nearly a decade when the Serpentine Matriarch, in her great wisdom, objected to it. One of the Admirals got her to reverse it, which was good. It was criminals and [Sailors] fighting and…”
“You were there, personally?”
She looked surprised.
“Zeres? Only for a year. Then I left. I’ve been to Pallass, Zeres—Salazsar is the best for me. I came from the north.”
“What, really?”
“Drakes live there. I was born in the north. I learned my trade from Human women. In safety, actually. I left to find my people, but this is my job. Maybe I’ll go north after earning enough.”
“Safety?”
She smiled.
“Do you know the Gangs, Wall Lord? I was a part of the Sisters of Chell’s business. They’re an all-female gang that protects my sort of person. In exchange for fees, of course.”
“Really. But there must be danger with a criminal underworld…”
Xesci sighed.
“There is. And they can be…nearly as bad as any other gang. But if you’re honest with them, it’s almost always fine. You know they’re [Nightstalkers] and such? A kind of [Rogue] mixed with [Temptress]. Many of them were in my profession, but learned to defend themselves after being attacked. Or they were recruited. They know what it’s like and they respect you, which is rare.”
He had no idea. Before he knew it, he was chatting about Izrilian gangs, and how many places Xesci had been. They were talking about Pallass, and Zeres, both places which he’d visited—and the vastly different experiences of each when Xesci glanced up.
“Oh no. It’s been forty minutes already.”
“So?”
“So, your friends are going to get the wrong idea. Unless that’s fine? I don’t want to take up your time, Wall Lord.”
She looked at him. Ilvriss hesitated.
“I’m quite relaxed. Although—is this normally how it goes?”
He gestured awkwardly around. She smiled.
“For a first client who’s nervous? Maybe it’s even their first time? Yes, actually. I might be more…flirtatious. But at this point I might subtly suggest we be more intimate. Offer to get you something. Sit closer. Move my tail like…”
She made a gesture. Ilvriss coughed.
“Ah. Thank you for your consideration.”
She nodded. Incidentally—Ilvriss was not more attracted to her now than he had been when first entering the brothel. He did like her more, that was certain.
“You were so confident I wouldn’t be interested, though. Were you at all interested?”
He pressed her in time. She smiled. Ilvriss was curious. It wasn’t as if he was…without an ego.
The female Drake eyed him. Then she smiled and chuckled.
“Wall Lord. If I wanted to entice you, this is exactly how I’d do it. Play disinterested and then slowly warm to you. Claim I was entirely fine with not having sex and then let you make me admit how interested I really am.”
He blinked at her. Then flushed red under his scales.
“I—”
I didn’t mean that. But he’d fallen into the trap!
Or not a trap? She was shaking her head. And she’d told him this would have been a trap, proving she wasn’t trying to seduce him, or was this a gambit to actually make him drop his guard twice in order to…
Abruptly, Ilvriss realized he was overthinking this again. If she wanted to seduce him, she could. Mainly because this was a brothel. He sighed.
“I must be tired. I’m…I suppose Tasilt had a point, Miss Xesci. It has been a while. But I—don’t wish to do anything. I think I am tempted, though.”
She nodded.
“Most people are. There is nothing wrong with it. But Wall Lord…I am sure you don’t want me. In that, your friend Brilm was the most wrong.”
He looked at her.
“How do you mean, Xesci?”
“I mean, Wall Lord, that if I am right, you would have been better served with the receptionist—who is, in fact, the third-most requested person here. Or anyone else before me, even Shakra, the Human woman you met.”
“What?”
“Oh yes. Do you think the first thing most returning customers ask isn’t ‘and what about you, Miss’? The management is sometimes clever.”
He smiled again. But he was curious now. And he felt the same niggling feeling at the back of his mind.
There was something…here.
“What would be so wrong with you, Miss Xesci? And if this is a trap to fully seduce me, please let me know.”
She shook her head, looking at him.
“It is not. But I see how I’ve stabbed myself in the leg. Damn. This is why I should watch myself. I’m so conniving when I knit—”
She tossed down the needles, surprising Ilvriss. For a moment her voice changed. He looked at her.
“What do you mean?”
She sighed.
“Curiosity. How did that strange woman put it? ‘Curiosity drives my customers to me. The rest is the truth of what I offer.’ I can see where this is going, Wall Lord. Very well. Since there’s no help for it…please don’t be alarmed. Or do. I…am going to show you something that might upset you.”
He stirred as Xesci got up. She turned, fiddling with her dress, and he uneasily stood.
“Miss Xesci, you needn’t undress. Wait. Are you a Selphid?”
She looked back at him and smiled.
“It would be very amusing if I was, wouldn’t it? No. And don’t…worry…”
The dress came off. Ilvriss saw a bare back and hesitated. He made to avert his gaze from her tail, at least, but nothing amazingly different made itself known in the brief glimpse his mind now had on auto-replay in his mind. Nor did Xesci turn around.
“Wall Lord—this is why I am the most requested here. Also, why you don’t want me.”
The Drake clapped her claws and the room went dark. The magical light spell was programmed to turn off when someone did that, apparently.
Ilvriss’ claw was on his sword when he heard the two claps again. He was tensed, his other claw ready to trigger a spell from one of his rings.
If this had been a trap—
But she would have gotten him naked without his rings or equipment if it was, surely. He looked around—but the Drake was alone.
Standing where she had been. But not the same. She was facing him. He hesitated, but she was clothed. She wore…
…
…
…
…Armor. The Wall Lord saw what might have been enchanted leather. Snug, secure. Not enchanted. But it should have been.
Her scales had changed color. The Drake was taller. Her scales were light blue. She had a scar on her forearm.
He knew that. He looked up.
She was younger. She was no longer ordinary, indistinguishable from a thousand faces. He knew this face. He knew this Drake.
She stared at him, then at her body. Her arms were muscular. A [Soldier]’s arms. She had once killed a Wyvern by herself.
She—
It was Periss. The Drake looked exactly like her.
It was Periss, down to every line of her. But the armor wasn’t enchanted. She carried no weapon. But it was P—
Ilvriss drew his sword. The Drake backed up.
“Wall Lord—”
“What did you do? What did you do?”
The fake Periss backed up. Ilvriss stared at her. That was her. Every inch of her. Every bit of her he remembered, the parts he had started to forget, realized in perfect detail.
But it was not her.
“Has someone drawn a weapon in the room? Our sensor went off. Excuse us, Wall L—”
The door burst open. The Drake’s Pearl had a security system in place. The bouncer and fake receptionist stopped as they saw Ilvriss.
“Oh no. Not again. Xesci—”
“Wall Lord, please lower the sword.”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss, put your b—”
Ilvriss pointed the sword at the [Bouncer]’s face. The Gnoll was probably good. But Ilvriss was wearing his full equipment and his sword—both of them stopped.
“What. Did. You. Do? An illusion no—what are you doing? Stop it! Undo—”
He was beginning to shout as more people gathered, more of the staff hurried forwards. But before he could—the voices shouting in his head—
Periss, Xesci, stepped forwards and grabbed his arm. With the other hand she grabbed his ring-hand. Then—she head-butted him.
Ilvriss hadn’t been expecting that. His head rang as the Drake let go. He hadn’t let go of the sword, but she pointed down at him as he tensed.
“Get ahold of yourself, Wall Lord! This is a Skill! Or have you taken leave of your senses?”
She snapped. He froze.
It was her voice. And that instinctive reaction to—he looked up. The Drake folded her arms.
“Drop the sword and I’ll explain. If you’re too addled to think, the staff will have to beat you down and tie you up until you listen. And it won’t be the tenth time either.”
She looked at him. The voice, mannerisms—Ilvriss dropped the sword.
“Tell me.”
 
—-
 
“My class is [Courtesan of Change], more or less. High-level. Each time, I become someone either I or my client has met. It affects my personality too, so please excuse me.”
The Drake sat in a chair, military-straight. Unlike the plain Drake of before, Periss—
No, Xesci was direct, forthright, even aggressive. This was how Periss treated subordinates—or idiots. It wasn’t the relationship she’d had with Ilvriss in private.
He was almost grateful of that. Because she was so much like Periss it hurt.
“Can you—can you change to another?”
“Not for a while. Sorry. Also, not very sorry. You asked. I know the knitting Xesci was manipulating you—or doing it without realizing it even—but you did ask.”
The [Courtesan] sighed. Ilvriss was trying to wrap his head around it.
“What is your true form?”
“I don’t know. I’ve forgotten.”
He stared at her. The Drake woman gave him a weary sigh.
“My class changed me. At first—I was good at mimicking other people. It helps you in the business to put on an act. Soon—it became what I was good at. Some are good at sex itself. Some? Charming, or addictive. I…become.”
Like the [Actors] that Erin had made. No—this was the class that had existed before them. This…woman…
“Are you even a Drake?”
“Yes I was. But I don’t have to be.”
His head spun. This was beyond Selphid levels of alteration. Xesci saw his expression and clarified.
“Don’t think I can become a Minotauress. I can’t. I can alter my height and become anyone within two feet of my original height. It used to be only an inch.”
“But you become them. You wore armor—”
“It disappears if I take it off. And it’s probably not as strong as actual armor. Wall Lord. It may be hard for you to understand, but this is a class. A high-level class. No more.”
He looked at her.
“You’re over Level 40. At least. No…Level 50?”
She didn’t answer. Nor was she appraisable by a spell. Periss-Xesci sighed.
“I’m sorry for doing this. I like being the knitting Drake because she’s so…un-sexual. I thought it would help and look what happened. I met her once—she was a strange person. But she knits like a genius…”
To say that it was an incident was no joke. Brilm had emerged to find Ilvriss talking with Xesci, after having nearly gotten expelled for drawing a blade on one of the workers here.
But Ilvriss…he couldn’t look away. His throat felt tight.
“You…do you know who you look like right now?”
“I can guess. I’m sorry. It was the first…person in your mind. Far and above the young woman.”
She gave him a sympathetic look. He started.
“You can tell?”
“Vaguely. I know who you might love…or find too real. As I said, I know my job. If I’m bothering you—”
“No. Please stay.”
She nodded. She knew what he wanted. Of course. She sat there and he looked at Periss again.
It was like the faerie drink all over again. But it hurt more, now, seeing the not-Periss.
