“Don’t argue with me, Ilvriss! I’m still the instructor here. Now—”
 
—-
 
She broke his arm. It took her four minutes in the savage duel that unfolded. True to her promise, she used no Skills. And Zelir pressed her hard, at first. He didn’t use Skills either. It was down to the ability with the blade—the strength of each one’s body—and fighting style.
At first, Shriekblade just danced around Zelir, moving faster than even the [Weapon Trainer], who often did the same to Ilvriss. She blocked, parrying his angry thrusts and strikes. Ilvriss watched, ready to jump in, uneasy.
She let Zelir tire himself and show her his fighting style for a minute. Then she began raining down fast blows towards his head. She scored him twice, but light blows. He went in harder, and touched her on the shoulder. Just a touch—
That was when she lost her temper. She struck from above, then, as his sword was parrying and riposting towards her face, kicked him in the stomach.
He didn’t expect that. And then Shriekblade hit him—one handed. Ilvriss stopped her, but it was too late.
“Arm’s broken. Maybe the wrist, too.”
The [Healer] pronounced the injury as Zelir was lifted to a clinic. Merla’s. He was lying there. Possibly from the vicious blows that had broken said arm—possibly just from shame.
“Please treat him. I will check on him as soon as possible. I have to deal with…”
Shriekblade was standing on the edge of the training grounds. She looked over her shoulder and then sullenly turned to face him as he stalked over.
“Master Zelir’s healing costs will come out of your wages, Adventurer.”
“What? He challenged me.”
“You were taunting him. And you could have beaten him without breaking his arm. Let alone dueling him. You will not do so again, is that clear?”
The Wall Lord snapped. Shriekblade glowered. Then she looked at the sky, past his head.
“Fine. I hate everything. I’m sorry.”
She rolled her eyes. Ilvriss resisted the urge to say or do something—mainly because she was a Named Adventurer. But this? He was going to insist that she medicate herself from now on.
To calm himself, he took a few steps away and stood at the end of the training grounds. You could look almost entirely straight down, until the tower widened and you saw more expansions below. A pool of water, in this case.
The enchantments, as noted, saved people from falling. Every tower had them—but there were always accidents. Drakes falling and bouncing off the tower and…well, you either learned how to deal with, enjoy heights, or you didn’t live in Salazsar. Ilvriss stared down at his city below. So far down. The people like small insects, millions moving around, going about their lives, doing good work. A city he was proud of, that was his home. That he loved and would defend…
“Jump. Kill yourself.”
Someone whispered behind him. Ilvriss did not jump. He slowly turned his head.
“Adventurer. What did you just say to me?”
Shriekblade looked around, blankly. And he realized—she hadn’t been talking to him. The Wall Lord’s imminent wrath hesitated.
“Hm? Oh. Don’t you feel like jumping?”
He stared at her. Then down below.
“No. What are you thinking of? You mean the enchantments?”
“No. I forgot this place has them. And there’s a pool so you wouldn’t die. Here’s probably better. You jump from here and—bam. You’re dead.”
She walked around to the side. Ilvriss stared at her back. She tilted her head down.
“Don’t you feel like it, when you stand up here?”
“No.”
The young adventuress turned to him.
“You don’t hear a voice in your head telling you to do that?”
“No. You…hear a voice?”
She shrugged.
“It’s just me. Merla says it’s my problem. You really don’t ever hear it? A little voice saying—‘kill yourself’? All the time?”
Ilvriss stared down over the edge of the training grounds. Well, now he did. He looked at her.
“I do not. Is this why y—”
“Well, I guess it’s just me, then. Sorry I broke your Master’s arm. Sorry I’m here.”
She stalked away from him, quickly. Scowling. Fumbling for something she began chewing hard. Ilvriss looked at her back. He came to two quick decisions.
“Adventurer.”
She stopped and turned to face him, sullenly.
“Yes, sir?”
“You will report to Captain Shieldscale and she will deploy you to the mining tunnels to perform monster-slaying duties. If there are none in the Gemscale operations, you will assist other companies.”
It was unorthodox, but Shriekblade brightened up.
“Yay. Alright. What else?”
He met her gaze.
“Report to my quarters tonight. We have more to discuss, then.”
Her face…flickered. Fell. She looked at him, then nodded and turned.
“Fine.”
 
—-
 
The Shriekblade incident aside, today, Ilvriss was fully-prepared to deal with conversations about his collapse and the brothel incident. He assumed it was the talk of the city.
He was wrong. He had a brunch with his mother and Navine. Uncomfortable, but they tried to at least be civil.
“We’ll be going to Oteslia. I’m almost sad I don’t get to see all of the drama here.”
“Around me? Navine, I’m sure it will all blow over soon. And nothing happened. It was a misunderstanding…”
Helessia and Navine blinked at him.
“What are you talking about, Ilvriss? You? You mean you collapsing? No one’s talking about that today. We might have—but everyone’s talking about—haven’t you heard? Sellme did another painting!”
“Sell me?”
The two Drakes exchanged a look. Navine shook her head.
“No—Sellme. The street artist? She did a painting last night of the Emera family. You know? That stuck up Rellmel and his awful sister, Gisha? You do know who Sellme is, don’t you? Wait. Ancestors. You’ve been gone on that campaign against Zel Shivertail and you were in Liscor…mother, he doesn’t know!”
Ilvriss blinked. It seemed even Helessia knew, from the way the two Drakes exchanged excited looks.
“Who—or what is this Sellme? I know about the Emera family’s company, of course…”
They weren’t doing so well as Gemscale, but they’d hit a profitable seam, or so Alrric said. Rellmel had never been Ilvriss’ friend, although they were around the same age. And Navine had a terrible opinion of Gisha, who, Ilvriss understood, was the one who really called the shots, despite Rellmel being the head of the company.
As usual however, his take was not Navine’s. She glared at him, her tail curling up under the table.
“That’s just the—business of it, Ilvriss. You don’t think about the people. You do know that the Emera company is firing all the [Miners] they had for the last six years and replacing them with new hires, each?”
“Why would they do that? They’ll lose all their experienced workers.”
Ilvriss blinked. Navine rolled her eyes.
“Because the mining teams had an agreement that if they struck a payload, they’d get a share of the total profits. The Emera corporation agreed since they thought all they had was silver and a few minor gemstones in that shaft. But when they hit magical stones…”
It all came together. The mining dispute was one of the classic fights between a company and the workers. And in this case, the Emera corporation had terminated all their workers in this shaft rather than honor the agreement. They had managed to use a loophole in their contract and it was a bad look.
However, no one could really stop them. And that was where Sellme had come in with the painting on the wall.
“They want to take it down. But the apartment complex is owned by the Geirscale family and they hate Emera, so they refuse to. That’s what Sellme does.”
“And he—”
“She. It’s probably a she. No one knows, but I think it is. She’s an [Artist] who puts up pictures, usually pointing something out. Sometimes for fun, but she started a bit after you left on your glorious campaign.”
Ilvriss sat back. Huh. ‘Sellme’ was clearly an alias, and they had a clear grudge against the Walled Families. Navine disputed that.
“Just about corruption, arrogance, Ilvriss. Sellme targets people like the Emera group.”
“Hm. Until she goes after you or I.”
“Why would she? I run my company without issues like that.”
She glowered at him. Ilvriss opened his mouth—and then decided not to engage. He could have said that even Navine’s ‘equitable’ company still had her at the top and that she was supporting this artist until they went after her, but he did not.
Family.
 
—-
 
“It’s Wall Lord Rellmel, Ilvriss. What?”
Alrric glanced at Ilvriss. The Drake rubbed at his head.
“That’s the second time I’ve heard his name come up today.”
“Ah. The Sellme painting.”
“Does everyone know about it but me?”
Alrric smiled slightly.
“It’s already made that apartment go up nearly a thousand percent in value. People will want to live there—if someone doesn’t steal the wall.”
“Steal the wall. I saw it last night. It was forty feet high, Alrric.”
“Really? You must have seen it as it was made, then! Did you see Sellme? No, of course you didn’t…”
The [Administrator] looked up. He went on as Ilvriss looked over the reports. Their mining seam was turning up more adamantine and people wanted it bad. Pelt of…Esthelm? Ah, yes. Terandria, Chandrar—
He hesitated, and then authorized a sale to Esthelm. He could have held onto it, but the Dwarf wanted less than other nations. Alrric frowned over it, but didn’t comment. It was still money in the vaults.
“They steal the wall if they can. An entire wall was knocked down and stolen overnight when Sellme did a picture for a neighborhood. Tragic. But they’re amazingly popular. There are replicas—everyone loves them.”
“And they just appeared last year?”
“Oh, no. You don’t get a reputation like that overnight. But I think they came to Salazsar recently. They lampooned their way from Fissival and city-to-city until they got here.”
Ilvriss looked up.
“They were in Fissival?”
“That’s where it first started. Making fun of the Scholarium’s magic-bias. I think it got too dangerous for them, so they headed off. Speaking of Fissival…no, wait. I was doing my check for artifacts you could snap up, and I thought I had something…wait. I do have a note on a high-level individual who I can add to your lists.”
“Never mind that now, Alrric. But I do need to consult you on some other matters. Tell me why you brought up Rellmel and we’ll get to that.”
Ilvriss was thinking of Xesci. Poor Zelir was out of the picture, now. Alrric nodded.
“Sorry. Slipped my mind. Rellmel owns the Potion of Regeneration. But he’s not selling.”
The Wall Lord sat back.
“Ah.”
And here it was again. One of his ghosts…wasn’t dead. Maybe. There was a chance.
“Did you ask him what he might consider…?”
“I went from four hundred thousand gold pieces, Ilvriss, and went up. I went to one million and the Emera family’s representative didn’t even blink. They’re not selling.”
Ilvriss exhaled. A million gold was…but he slowly nodded.
“We hang on to artifacts like that.”
“Especially if you lose a leg in an accident or…I’m sorry, Ilvriss. I can try, but it’s not in my purview. It might not be impossible, though. Nerul is back. And he has success to report.”
Ilvriss glanced up.
“He is? Excellent. How did he do?”
Alrric smiled.
“Wall Lord, please. You’ll hurt his feelings. We have a contract.”
The Drake had been on the hunt for individuals who could help him. And even his family had trouble recruiting, finding them. But they did have one, if you didn’t count Navine, Helessia, Zail, Ilvriss, or Alrric.
A shame he wasn’t a [Warrior], or he might have given Shriekblade a real opponent. But Nerul was no combat Drake.
He was a [Diplomat].
 
—-
 
The Trisstral Alliance was a collection of cities that had banded together to safeguard interests, secure borders, and trade. You needed alliances, like the Hectval…something alliance. If only to resist larger cities.
Like the Walled Cities. The Trisstral Alliance had in fact been relatively happy to trade with Fissival and Salazsar for decades, but their relationship had turned less-than-amicable of late.
They had strong agriculture and food industries, which Salazsar and Fissival prized, being farther from Oteslia. If they fought with Oteslia, or were on the outs, they needed food, since neither Walled City was particularly good at making it.
Trisstral supplied it, cheaper, faster, but they’d pointed out that the two Walled Cities were importing the food at losses for their economy. They’d asked to renegotiate, as well as impose tarrifs of their own on goods from each city, which passed through their cities without a copper earned. Gemstones and magic.
Fissival had agreed, Salazsar had refused. In response, the Trisstral Alliance decided to trade with Fissival. Salazsar demanded they resume trade. Trisstral asked to renegotiate. Salazsar threatened them instead. Trisstral told them to shove their tails up their behinds.
Salazsar went to war.
…That was old history. That was why Zel Shivertail, who had been appointed [General] of the Trisstral Alliance, took the fight to Ilvriss’ forces. He beat one army—then had to fall back, back, as Ilvriss tried to corner his forces and force the Trisstral Alliance to sign some bad terms for their cities.
Then they met past the Bloodfields, in the winter, after a grueling campaign where Zel kept ahead of Ilvriss, but the Wall Lord refused to stop chasing him.
Then…Periss died.
Then Ilvriss and Zel ran into the Goblin Lord, and went to Liscor.
Then Zel Shivertail fell and then…
But the original fight was still there, even if so many things had happened. Salazsar needed food. Trisstral was hopping mad, still. But neither side wanted war after so much loss.
That was when Nerul had arrived. He’d swept into the city, walked into the negotiating room where the angry Council of the city of Dellek was waiting, representatives from the rest of the alliance, and spoken.
“Ladies and gentledrakes, I am Nerul, [Diplomat] of the Gemscale family and officially designated representative of the Walled City of Salazsar in regards to the war between the Trisstral Alliance and Salazsar. Both sides want peace, and an amicable solution if one can be arranged. Let’s work this out.”
The Drakes—and Gnolls—in the room had bristled at first. They expected an arrogant Drake from Salazsar to sweep in and say how it was going to be. But Nerul caught them off guard. He stood there in their first meeting, looked around, and identified the head of Dellek’s Council. He inclined his head to him.
“First Scale of Dellek, Councilmembers—I assume you’re speaking on behalf of the alliance? Please correct me if I’m wrong. What does Trisstral want?”
