Shakra doused the puffer. Aranna and ‘Medroniaria’, the half-Elf [Courtesan] who dressed like one of Terandria’s nobility in an odd mix of fetishes, both looked interested.
Brilm was a familiar face. The other two? Xesci listened.
“Who’s the other Drake? He’s been here.”
“Yes…but not recently. Not for years, apparently. Tasilt?”
“What? He’s married. I know his wife! She’s like a hero to me!”
Aranna looked dismayed. The [Prostitute] spying for everyone reported back.
“Don’t worry. He’s only here to take the third one.”
“Oh, thank goodness.”
The Gnoll sighed, and, surprisingly, so did the other two Gnolls, all of whom wanted to believe in the one Wall Lord who had married a Gnoll. Shakra on the other hand, looked disappointed and relit her puffer.
“If Tasilt is here, Brilm’s going to ask for you, Aranna. He always does every time he hangs out with that Wall Lord.”
“You’re sure?”
Aranna began fussing with the perfume bottle she’d been showing around. Shakra grimaced.
“Want to bet on it? Who’s the last Drake? Maybe they’re in the mood for Human?”
The Gnoll spying with her enhanced hearing looked around. And she looked uncharacteristically…
“Maybe, Shakra. You’d actually better get ready. He’s new, but he might ask for you. Brilm is, um, recommending you?”
“What? No one comes here on first go and asks for a Human—”
The back room fell silent. Everyone looked around. Oh.
Gossip went around the city, and especially in places like this. Xesci stirred.
“You must be joking. Menorra?”
“It’s Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
The entire back room went into a flurry as everyone tried to win one of the most eligible Wall Lord’s attentions. In the lobby, he was arguing with his fellow Wall Lords—in fact, more had secretly come to er, support him in his hour of stress. And to do business here.
But. Xesci knew that he hadn’t come here—recently—because he had been off the market so to speak for a while. And if recent events were any guide…she shook her head.
“Idiots.”
Then she went to dress up.
 
—-
 
Ilvriss was a bit irked. Ilvriss was a bit narked. Ilvriss was a bit upset, but he tried to explain why to Brilm and Tasilt.
“Brilm. This is not the cure for my overwork of late. This will not make me feel…better.”
He was angry. Mostly at Tasilt, even though Brilm had instigated the idea. Tasilt should have known better than to suggest something so…asinine.
However, it was Brilm who countered Ilvriss.
“Have you checked?”
“What?”
“Have you checked if it helps, Ilvriss? Be honest. Have you visited such a fine establishment—or found yourself in company once in the last month?”
“That is entirely—”
“I think, Ilvriss, that it is.”
Tasilt spoke up. He was having a drink, since he would not avail himself of this place’s services. Ilvriss gave him a long look.
“You must be joking, Tasilt.”
“Everyone has needs, Ilvriss. It may be indecorous, but Brilm brought up a fair point. Sometimes you just need…something. And since my plan of dragging you to a bar and getting into a fight didn’t fly, Brilm wins.”
The other Wall Lord shook his head.
“I will not be getting my groin kicked or be stomped on—although I hear you can pay for that here.”
Ilvriss closed his eyes. He did not need to hear that. He looked around.
“And you really want me to…?”
“Well, we’re not going to watch so it’s up to you, Ilvriss. But loneliness is a terrible thing. At least you can pay for company after…”
Tasilt stomped on Brilm’s foot. Ilvriss’ head swiveled around and the Wall Lord coughed and headed off.
“That was rude, even for Brilm. Sorry, Ilvriss. He doesn’t know how to deal with this.”
“And this was your best foot forwards, Tasilt?”
Ilvriss glowered at his friend. Tasilt exhaled.
“I suggest you avail yourself of this place. Or drink one of those Orgasm Potions I heard were banned in Pallass.”
“Why? In the name of the Ancestors, what has gotten into you, Tasilt?”
Ilvriss demanded hotly, enough that some of the other inconspicuous guests in their own partitioned space—some with disguises on—looked around. Tasilt just met his gaze levelly.
“Because it does help, Ilvriss. I can go home and hold my wife after a tragedy. Sometimes you just need—distraction. Brilm’s right when he’s right.”
He was that. It was impossible to say ‘Brilm was always wrong’ because right when he told you about the most idiotic investment opportunity, something happened and he made up all his other losses and came out way ahead. Ilvriss hesitated.
And he was never going to get out that door anyways. The employees of The Drake’s Pearl knew money when they saw it. Also? Getting Ilvriss in, even if he denied everything, was a lot of…street cred? Reputation? Something like that.
“Wall Lord, please at least let us show you around. We have a very fine selection of talented people here. Your friend Brilm has paid for everything and we cannot just refund the fee…”
It was probably a Skill like, ‘[No Pulling Out]’, which might have double entendre uses, especially here. Ilvriss felt like he was a young Drake on an outing with his friends again, daring themselves in here.
Periss…
It was wrong to come here, even if Tasilt and Brilm thought it was about the Human in Liscor he was missing.
However, Ilvriss had to admit—he did laugh for the first time in a while upon entering the ‘selection room’, where you could meet and socialize with the women currently working, or inspect, well, a catalogue of people and arrange other visits, sometimes privately.
The Drake’s Pearl had private rooms, rooms for all kinds of things, like ‘rescuing’ a damsel from a monster—actual monsters like slimes cost extra since you got to kill them—themed rooms, even full suites complete with hot baths and so on.
It was, after all, the best such establishment in Salazsar. But that didn’t make Ilvriss laugh. What made him laugh, involuntarily, was the hall of fame on the wall.
There were actual pictures of guests who’d agreed to have their faces up—or just names or aliases. Brilm was there. But what made Ilvriss laugh was the ‘longest period of consummation award’.
Four hours, eight minutes, fifty one seconds.
“Ancestors.”
“That poor woman.”
Tasilt sighed. Ilvriss stifled his laughter, staring at the picture. It was, apparently, a record held by ‘Mister Superior’, a Drake of unknown origin. Date listed.
“Who was the other half of the event?”
The female Drake trying to show them to the women turned.
“Excuse me, Wall Lord?”
Ilvriss pointed to the hall of fame record.
“The other partner. It takes two.”
“Oh—I’m not sure.”
Tasilt shook his head.
“Someone give her a plaque. Unless it was only ‘Mister Superior’ by himself. Wait a second. If that’s how you break the record, I’ll do it myself and go for twenty hours! For the record, of course. You can even have my name and face up.”
Ilvriss snorted. Brilm, who was already flirting, gave them both a resigned look. But then Ilvriss sobered. And felt…apprehension.
 
—-
 
Xesci was not out with the others. She had declined to line up, as the others were surely doing. But she was listening from the back room. It was very quiet. She’d smiled herself as Ilvriss pointed out the plaque. But now…
It was a bad idea. That was her opinion. But it was how [Soldiers] did it. Someone lost a friend? They tossed them in here and perhaps it did help. She had held more than one adventurer or warrior afterwards.
Still.
“I—I am flattered by the attention. But I really don’t feel interested—nor is your company helping, frankly, Brilm, Tasilt.”
“Oh, fine. And I understand that part. Tasilt?”
“I’m going to break the record, Brilm. By myself. Is there any way you can confirm it’s just me on the plaque? So my wife doesn’t kill me.”
They left Ilvriss alone. And now the Wall Lord was a…small fish around big fish.
Xesci didn’t know fish.
She heard murmurs. Flirtatious voices—or however the ‘ladies of the night’ were scouting out Ilvriss. They’d be tossing charm Skills and other similar abilities out, but Xesci wondered if Ilvriss might be a hard opponent.
He was a strong [Lord] and his aura could probably take most of what they could use on him. Unless he was willing. She listened.
“Are you interested in something more…wild, Wall Lord?”
That was Aranna, straight to the point. Ilvriss backed up.
“Fancy a night, sir?”
Shakra. Xesci was curious, but Ilvriss replied distinctly.
“No—thank you, Miss. But no. Not Humans. No one, preferably, but—I apologize.”
That surprised and disappointed the people. Xesci just nodded.
Who thought he wanted to see a Human face right now?
“You. If you want me, I will have you crawl on hands and knees, yes. No?”
…And that established what Ilvriss was not interested in. Xesci listened as he practically jumped across the room. He kept turning down people, and she knew he was using his aura. She felt it in the air—command, pure and simple. It meant no one would be seducing him past his senses.
“Ilvriss, you’re being unreasonable. I—er—have to go, but I’m not going to let it drop until you’re at least in the same room with one of these women. They’re amazing conversationalists! Really! Do you think I’m just in and out in five minutes?”
“Brilm, I can’t do this. I don’t even know what I want, but I don’t think it’s here, with respect to all these beautiful women, of course.”
That sparked a challenge among the people here, although Ilvriss couldn’t have known it. Did they enjoy their jobs? Well, did you enjoy your job in any profession all the time? It was just work. But it was well-paid work and there was still pride in what you did.
Unless people told you to be ashamed. Xesci had heard it all. Brilm exhaled—and then paused.
“Hold on. If you don’t know…”
In the back room, the Drake saw the other workers look around. And Brilm was speaking to the desk manager.
“I know someone who’ll fit. Is Xesci…?”
And that was how they met.
 
—-
 
Xesci had not been among the young women of every species in the meeting room. Ilvriss felt like there was something significant about her, though.
Everyone had seemed to know what Brilm meant when he said there was no one else to choose in response to…Ilvriss denying he was interested?
Well, he was forced into at least meeting the woman. She was already in a private ‘apartment’ where you could do anything from cook to sleep to…well, there was one point and one alone in the end.
Wasn’t that so? He hesitated. It had felt like a long time since he’d come into a place like this. He had met Periss and before that…assignations with other members of the Walled Families, mostly.
But Periss had been so long and now? He would not be doing anything more than Tasilt—less than the other Drake, who had apparently asked if he could set a ‘personal consummation time record’, or upset Mister Superior.
This was a silly place. For the laugh alone, and his friend’s clear, if totally incomprehensible method of helping, he would have thanked them.
But no. It would be a betrayal of…
“Excuse me, Miss Xesci?”
He pushed the door open and it closed behind him. Someone was waiting on the rather overdone bed with copious sheets and pillows. The entire room had a…chartreuse color theme. Padded.
There sat a Drake with two needles in her claws. Ilvriss instantly hesitated.
If this is like that Gnoll who threatened to put a collar on my neck and take me for a walk, I will stab Brilm. He eyed the needles—
But they were, in fact, knitting needles. And the Drake was knitting a…sock?
It was a sock. A nice, thick one for cold weather or stomping around in mud. She was making it out of a rather nice wool, too. Something properly expensive, not thick and cheap.
There was even the beginning of decoration on it. Also—a Drake sock, so one tailored around their clawed toes. You tightened socks rather than jam a foot into them like Human ones. So they were more like foot-wraps that you laced around your foot. So much better than socks that had only one method of being put on.
…Why was she knitting a sock?
“I’m sorry, Wall Lord. I didn’t think you’d be too interested in me.”
The Drake stood up, putting down the needles, yarn, and unfinished sock and apologizing. Ilvriss blinked.
Xesci was a female Drake. That much had been obvious from the ‘catalogue’. But unlike every other person on the list, she had not had a picture illustration.
She was dressed fairly skimpily, but with clothing you could actually wear on a warm day. A violet dress with black hemline, not transparent, but simply ‘nice’. And the Drake herself looked…
Er…
There was no way for Ilvriss to say this politely, even in the confines of his head. But he was taken aback because she was plain.
Completely ordinary, that was. Which was fine. But every female [Concubine] or so on in that room back there had been surpassingly beautiful, as you might expect in a place like this. Some were older, others young and vibrant, but Xesci was…
Average. Completely. She looked like she was in her early…thirties? Ilvriss couldn’t tell. Her scales were a light green, one of the most common colors.
Every part of her face was ordinary. Not perfectly symmetrical, or flawless. Just amazingly ordinary. You could pass her ten million times on the street and never notice.
“I…er…well, thank you. You are Miss Xesci?”
“Yes, Wall Lord. I’m quite happy to let you sit here for…twenty minutes and then refund you. I think your companions would accept that.”
The Drake got up and nodded at him. Just nodded. No bow, not that Drakes tended to do that. But she seemed—Ilvriss was off-put.
But also relieved.
“You seem to understand my situation, Miss Xesci. Thank you for that.”
He looked around; there was a padded seat he cautiously inserted himself into. She sat back on the side of the bed, grimacing.
“These things make you sink into them…you could probably suffocate with enough blankets and pillows.”
He smiled despite himself.
“This is ah—the typical bed you might use when—”
He stumbled over his words. Now, Xesci smiled.
“You don’t need to be so formal, Ilvriss. And you may call me Xesci. Yes, when I have sex. It can get quite taxing on the back. I’ve asked them for a harder mattress for years now.”
He sat there, completely ill at ease…for about five minutes. Then he began talking to her like another person.
“And they don’t oblige you? I imagine for a place this…well patronized, it wouldn’t be too expensive.”
“You think that. But they do love to reuse everything. Also, you have to get stain-proof enchantments on everything so I understood the expense.”
“Eurgh.”
