More. And less. Because the wound was healing, Ilvriss realized. It might have torn open now—but if he had seen her months ago, he might have well gone mad.
The Wall Lord’s head was in his claws. Xesci hesitated, but when he looked up, he was clear-eyed.
He had not wept. Ilvriss looked at her and nodded.
“Thank you, Miss Xesci. I…understand, now, your reservations. I apologize for my reaction.”
“Many have it. I should have just said as much from the start. But the knitting-Drake…she never says anything completely straight.”
He nodded again. The Wall Lord stood up. Xesci waited.
This was the moment he would ask, and she would be reluctant, very reluctant if he did. But he just turned away.
“I regret asking, Miss Xesci. And yet—may I request a visit with you tomorrow? Yes…tomorrow.”
Her head sunk. Then her eyes flashed. Whoever this was had a temper. She controlled her tongue—and her instinct to kick his ass, this might be good if she was ever in a fight like some Gnolls she’d met—and sighed.
She had better get used to this body, then. She had mixed feelings about it, but this is why they came back. Again, again…
“Of course, Wall Lord. And this is all discreet. I will only take this form when we’re together and never speak of…”
He looked at her. The [Courtesan], for all the confidence this body gave her, felt her tongue dry up in her mouth. Ilvriss spoke.
“I would like to talk, Miss Xesci. Not…whatever you might be thinking. I mean that truthfully, without artifice. Never take her shape again.”
He met her gaze. Slowly, the Drake nodded.
“I won’t. Very well…Ilvriss.”
The Drake stood. He walked towards the door, looking as pale as if he’d collapsed again. But definitely vigorous. Full of emotion, for better or worse. He had the door half open when he looked back at her.
“Her name was Periss.”
She nodded. He opened the door and strode out.
 
—-
 
Ghosts. The Wall Lord was haunted—no, accompanied by them.
Not Ghosts, the malignant specters that were monsters summoned by dark magic. He meant…spirits.
Shades.
…All those were undead subtypes. The Wall Lord walked back to his tower unsteadily. Brilm and Tasilt hadn’t understood what had happened, but Brilm had been upset he’d failed to help. Tasilt was engaged in setting records, apparently.
Ilvriss walked by evening in the lower part of Salazsar. He really wanted a drink. And he knew why that would not happen.
Dead people, then. Not zombies. Just…memories. They followed him around. Pushing him, reminding him.
Zel Shivertail, to follow.
Periss, to avenge.
And Erin Solstice now.
There were more. Friends he’d had who suffered accidents, companions in war. Teachers.
If he looked behind him, would he see them clinging to his shoulders? Ilvriss looked—but all he saw was a group of Gnoll children racing about, young, in one of those little packs of children.
He shook his head. And he didn’t feel…as if they were dragging him down.
Remember the dead. Because of Periss, he wasn’t drowning in a bottle.
Xesci. She had shaken him. He was still—angry. Confused. Shaken.
However, his mind was racing.
Hers was a class and level beyond any he’d seen recently. Beyond his, really. The ability to change your form without magic?
He rubbed at his forehead.
“…On the other wing, that wasn’t what Periss could do.”
If she—the real Periss—had really head-butted him, she might have cracked his forehead without a protective Skill or enchantment. So Xesci was only borrowing form, perhaps native ability. Not Skills.
Little potential in war, then. Even if you planted her as a—a—[Saboteur]-type individual, without that class she wouldn’t manage to assassinate a [General]. A [Strategist], maybe.
But to dismiss her was a narrow-minded way of thinking. Ilvriss considered how useful she could be as a [Spy]. As…
He shook his head. Ridiculous. A night worker?
However. He was reminded of another comparison, the one Alrric had made.
She travelled from city to city, even went from the north to the south. She definitely doesn’t fit into classic Drake society.
This meeting had opened up possibilities, and helped him, despite what Brilm and Tasilt may have intended. Ilvriss walked on.
Then he paused.
The lower city of Salazsar was far more crowded. But Salazsar, home to millions, one of the largest cities in the world, still had space. It was ever-expanding. Someday, it would absorb the entire mountain it was built out of.
Thus—you could find yourself alone from time to time. And it seemed he was walking down a street devoid of people.
…His aura had obliterated something. Ilvriss narrowed his eyes. He was a [Lord], and he had been fending off the advances of the people in the brothel. He’d subconsciously broken through some sort of keep-away Skill. He felt the slight urge to walk off and not go down this street.
Reflexively, he checked himself. Nothing to his rear—none of his rings or amulets was buzzing for hostile magic. The Drake put his claw near his sword—then slowly moved it away.
If it came to it, he’d point his Ring of Greater Fireball and activate it. No one expected a [Fireball] to the face.
The street was empty. He looked ahead and found…
Well, a lone person hurrying down the street. Had they seen Ilvriss? They were cloaked, and he saw a long tail. Drake. Ilvriss saw them glance around—then hurry around the corner.
“Hm.”
They hadn’t realized someone had broken through their Skill. What had they been doing? Ilvriss looked past them and saw…
“Oh.”
Interesting. He came across a giant…painting on the side of one of the apartment-complexes in the lower residences. The paint was drying even now. And it was, er…
Ilvriss stepped back. It was startlingly good. Accurate to life, even scaled up. Splendid coloration—a bit more vivid than reality, so it popped along the slightly dirty stonework. The artist had also given it a faint grey background to canvas the Gnoll hanging onto the windowsill.
Yes, a Gnoll—a [Miner] if ever Ilvriss saw one, in the traditional gear, his pickaxe holstered at his waist. He was holding onto the windowsill of the apartment—the artist had incorporated the natural scenery.
He had a desperate look on his face. Clearly, he was trying to climb up. But the problem in the painting, the motif if you will, the subtle message in the art…
…Was the pair of Drakes currently engaged in trying to push him out as they held huge gemstones and bags of gold in their claws. They were uh, cartoonishly sneering down at the Gnoll.
The problem, if Ilvriss would have critiqued this art in a gallery, was that this painting had painted the every-Gnoll, without specific detail on his fur. But the two Drakes?
He knew them. The distinct speckle-pattern of gold on the female Drake’s blue scales she loved belonged to Wall Lady Gisha—and her brother didn’t paint his scales gold, but that had to be Wall Lord Rellmel, with that streak of green across one arm, mixing with the onyx scales.
The entire painting stood out to Ilvriss. Bits of gold dropping as the two Drakes tried to kill the [Miner]—or at least make him drop off the windowsill. Excellent art. Provocative message.
Ilvriss looked at it for about four minutes, admired the art, and went on his way.
He had more important things to do.
 
—-
 
The next day, Ilvriss awoke after purple-pilling himself into oblivion. He had a breakfast on time, asked Osthia how her training was going.
“I think the Gem Regiments are well suited for—strike missions, Wall Lord. The Rubirel Guard are especially impressive. I couldn’t even scratch their armor. I only have one concern…”
“Which is?”
“What if someone [Dispels] their armor? They have entirely enclosed armor, but it seems weak to enchantment attacks—”
“A casual [Dispel] won’t break their armor, Captain Shieldscale. And if the enemy decides to field an [Enchanter] of that strength, every artifact is in danger. I think if the Rubirel Guard did lose their enchantments, they’d…remove their helmets.”
“Good point, Wall Lord. I was just concerned about fighting high-level spellcasters.”
Ilvriss had nodded.
“For now, they’ll be excellent against anything short of that unlikely scenario, Captain.”
After that, training with Zelir. Ilvriss was walking out of his tower when Shriekblade appeared.
“I’m here.”
She stood in front of him as the doors to the Gemscale residence opened. Ilvriss blinked.
The female Drake wore the kind of expression he’d seen [Soldiers] with incredible hangovers wear. Sullen, angry, and also annoyed. Toss in boredom to that—it was an amazing stew of emotion.
“Adventurer Shriekblade. You didn’t report yesterday.”
“Yeah.”
She said nothing else. Ilvriss eyed her.
“Are you in need of more potions or scrolls?”
“I don’t want them. Can I kill something?”
He hesitated. Osthia paused and eyed the Named Adventurer.
“Do you want me to handle…?”
Shriekblade gave her a look and Ilvriss recalled the issues with her before. He sighed. This had happened multiple times.
“Adventurer Tessa—”
“Call me Shriekblade. Everyone does.”
“Very well. Shriekblade. If you are fit to work, accompany me for the day. I don’t envision fighting. But I will tell Captain Shieldscale to contact you if any monsters arise in the mines.”
“Fine. Yay. Standing around. Kill me now.”
She stomped after him, making no effort to resume her professional, if eerie, normal shadowing. As she was now, she was talkative, had a personality—but a foul one.
Case in point, halfway to his appointment with Zelir, Ilvriss heard a small sound. He saw Shriekblade puffing away on a huge cigar.
“…Is that Dreamleaf? That is contraband in Salazsar.”
“Who cares? I’m a Named Adventurer. I can defend you drunk. Can I get a drink?”
“No.”
Ilvriss dropped it. Zelir was no less interested by Shriekblade’s new attitude today. He eyed her—and the cigar—disapprovingly. She was lounging against one wall, watching them, incredibly bored, but alternating between puffing and watching people in the city below.
“I never noticed the…Miss Shriekblade before, Wall Lord.”
“She has been here on many occasions, Zelir. I’ve hired her to take care of combat issues. Monsters and so on.”
“I see. You’re not in fear of your life?”
“Not at all.”
Ilvriss lied. Zelir had never detected Shriekblade before. But the [Weapon Trainer] quickly dismissed her.
“Did you want to discuss something with me, Wall Lord?”
“After our training, I think.”
Ilvriss had decided to make Zelir part of his mission, for all the reasons he’d thought of yesterday. They began to warm up, first sparring—then Ilvriss trying out the new sword style.
“Not bad, not bad…but you won’t ever get to your old level of fighting prowess without constant practice.”
The older Drake was approving. Ilvriss felt annoyed at the new style. However, he knew he had to make his body learn to parry the new way.
“Why don’t you try using your Skills while we fight, lad? It might help you learn a new style.”
“As you like. Careful, though—[Flurry Strikes]!”
“[Parry Blade]!”
Zelir and Ilvriss’ practice swords flashed at each other. Ilvriss had fewer combat Skills—but he was a strong [Lord]. Even so, not one of the nine fast strikes hit Zelir. He knocked down seven blows perfectly—then the other more clumsily, but took himself out of range of the last one with a [Fast Backstep].
“What’s that? Seven charges?”
The [Weapon Trainer] smiled. He had [Parry Blade]—but a spin on the Skill. [Parry Blade — Sevenfold Reserve], which meant in layman terms that he could parry an incoming blow seven times, then it ran out. It would ‘recharge’ in time.
“You’ve gotten too good with your Skill, lad. Time was you could only do four strikes. You might get me one of these days!”
“That would be a shame, if I someday managed to win more spars than I lost. Too bad I—[Reaching Slash]!”
Zelir cursed and used his Skill to duck it. The two Drakes went back and forth, as Ilvriss began to warm to the new style. It was only halfway through the serious spar as both used their Skills that his tunnel vision and hearing made him realize Shriekblade was making a sound.
She was…sniggering. He hesitated, and saw Zelir glance to the side.
“Something wrong, Miss Adventurer?”
“This is so stupid.”
She flicked the butt of her cigar over the edge of the training grounds. Ilvriss eyed her, feeling a spark of real annoyance in his chest. He and Zelir had been going at it for about thirty minutes by now.
“Do you have an objection to our training methods, Adventurer?”
She shrugged insolently at Zelir’s clear ire.
“If the Wall Lord wants to learn how to fight, he should ask me. You two fight like you’re on the sparring courts.”
The two male Drakes looked at each other.
“We are.”
“Yeah. I didn’t see one of you kick dirt in the others’ faces. No body blows, no one coming from behind with a knife. That won’t work on a battlefield. The sword style, maybe. But you—you’re not doing more than teaching him how to hold the sword.”
She pointed at Zelir. Ilvriss saw the [Weapon Trainer] bristle. He put down his practice sword and looked at Shriekblade.
“Master Zelir is an old family friend and mentor, Adventurer. Watch your tongue.”
She shut her mouth and folded her arms. Zelir nodded to Ilvriss. They tried to get back to it, but Shriekblade’s words had soured the entire affair. Zelir pressed Ilvriss—hard. Fighting aggressively, testing Ilvriss, as if to prove Shriekblade wrong.
She rolled her eyes. She said nothing, but she was so pointedly dismissive that Ilvriss began pushing at Zelir, so his back was to Shriekblade.
Even so—Drakes had tempers and Zelir was proud of his skill. When he tried to parry Ilvriss and got a score on the arm, Shriekblade might have snorted. The [Weapon Trainer] rounded on her.
“If you think this is a game, Adventurer, pick up a practice blade and show me you can do better!”
She stopped lounging against the wall. Ilvriss put up his blade.
“Master Zelir. This isn’t a good—”
Zelir rounded on him. He was normally polite, but Ilvriss remembered his temper. He snapped at the Wall Lord.
“There are things I can stand, lad, and things I can’t. This is swordsmanship, not a street fight! This Adventurer can show me she can back her talk up, or she can wait elsewhere.”
“I can use a sword. Better than both of you combined. I’m a Named Adventurer. You’re old and you make money training people outside of battlefields. I’ll take you on with one hand and no Skills if you stop bugging me. How about it, Wall Lord?”
Shriekblade waved a claw at him. Zelir bristled.
“Pick up a sword!”
“Zelir—”
