“Hm. Well, I can’t fault that. You’re moving too slowly, even for practice in the Denial of Action. Try again.”
Ilvriss did. This was an old school that Drakes had invented, and as such also taught you how to guard your tail in combat. Also—unpleasantly or practically—it had a number of strikes designed to de-tail your opponent. He’d declined to learn those.
His enemy was Human and used the bodies of all species.
 
—-
 
The practice took an hour and Ilvriss was sore afterwards. He refused to use a healing potion though; it erased your hard work. Zelir nodded.
“Same time tomorrow, then? So you can sleep properly.”
“A moment, Master Zelir? I wanted to consult with you.”
The Drake paused. He looked to the door of the outdoor training court, dizzyingly high up—although protected with enchantments. Still…there were no guard rails so you could walk over the edge of the training grounds. The spells would catch you, but Ilvriss had no fear of heights after many sessions sparring on the edge of the training court. A Salazsarian bladesman could fight you on the edge of a cliff.
They sat together, dangling their legs over the edge of the training court. Below them, people were specks or walking on far distant bridges below. Ilvriss smiled.
“You used to make me do this all the time for our talks.”
Zelir had advised a young, sometimes moody or frustrated Ilvriss, growing up. The old trainer grinned.
“Times never change. How can I help you?”
Ilvriss glanced sideways. Now, here was a Drake with better swordsmanship than his. Solid, reliable. He wasn’t the highest-leveled Drake in the city, but he was over Level 30. Yes, he wouldn’t be as large an asset as Shriekblade…but you could trust Zelir.
Why not him? Ilvriss had a list. It was only in his head. But it had Osthia, himself, and tentatively, Shriekblade for things she could do that she wouldn’t ask questions about.
It was time to expand that list. He’d dithered and wavered and tried to be sure but—the Summer Solstice and the events just before that had shown him time was running out.
I should have hired bodyguards. I should have put money into the inn. I could have hired a Gold-rank team to guard the place every hour of the day. Why didn’t I?
“You had a question, Ilvriss?”
Zelir prompted Ilvriss. The Wall Lord looked up.
“I’m…hunting for high-level people, Zelir. In Salazsar. This is confidential to the Walled Families…”
The [Weapon Trainer] gave a serious nod. Ilvriss’ cover was the anti-Antinium task force, and even this was secret to Zelir. Ilvriss briefly explained and the Drake whistled.
“And you need some high-level Drakes to fight…? Well, if you wanted my sword, I’m afraid I’m not the best! Not that I wouldn’t mind having more students.”
He gave Ilvriss a sideways glance. The Wall Lord smiled at the testing look.
“I am, actually. But Zelir—beyond you. I’ve looked around the city and…why are there so few high-level Drakes in Salazsar? It feels like there’s no one exceptional I can call on in our standing forces. Excellent soldiers and companies, don’t get me wrong. But high-level [Warriors]? Shriekblade is an exception, but—do you see my point?”
Zelir exhaled.
“I do indeed, lad. That is—Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss ignored the reflexive name. Zelir went on after a moment.
“It’s common to Drake cities. We have high-level [Commanders], a few heroes, extraordinary adventurers like Saliss of Lights, Shriekblade…but we do have less outstanding individuals in our armed forces. It’s mostly to do with our military style compared to Humans. Do you understand what I mean?”
Ilvriss tilted his head as he watched a bird fly past and give the two Drakes a side-eye.
“You mean, the fact that our [Soldiers] aren’t Human militias?”
Drakes kept larger standing armies and drilled their [Soldiers] more extensively than the north’s conscripted armies, which each [Lord] had. Their City Watches, for instance, were tied into the army’s strength. Zelir nodded.
“Yes. Efficiency. Nothing like a Drake spear wall to hold a line. It’s what we’re known for…even small cities have organized and drilled [Soldiers], especially compared to the Humans. Our Watch gets funding and training while theirs can be corrupt or good or bad. We have standards. It occurs to me we might have gone too far.”
“How so?”
The Drake smoothed his neck spines as he tried to explain.
“Let’s say there’s a monster attack. Who sorts it out? The Watch in the south as much as adventurers. So we have less adventurers. Let’s say there’s a battle and a spear group is faltering. We pull them back—because we can, because they’re trained to fall back—and throw in a new one. We don’t abandon them.”
“Of course not.”
The Drake nodded.
“Human armies though…sometimes they gamble. Here’s a group of conscripts with swords and shields and a month’s practice. Throw them in, bail them out with a [Knight] charge if you can. Sure, many die. But the ones who survive level. They have [Knights] and poor infantry.”
Ilvriss got it.
“So they’re creating ways for individuals to excel.”
“Exactly. And between you and me, lad. Drakes make it so that everyone can perform to standard. But we sometimes make it harder to stand out because of that. Not that it’s a bad thing to do it this way, but it does change how levels work. Everyone’s a bit higher…and less people are highest.”
Zelir gave Ilvriss a long look. What he said in privacy might be seditious—in other companies, in another city. Ilvriss just sighed.
“That’s what I’ve observed.”
He had scoured the ranks of Salazsar’s command for people he could snap up that wouldn’t be missed. He couldn’t take their best [General] to go running around fighting secret wars. But it meant that everyone below wasn’t much better than Osthia. And she was good…
But he needed exceptionalism.
“Thank you, Master Zelir. I’ll see you tomorrow. Same time?”
“So long as you sleep in.”
The Drake chuckled as he rose. Ilvriss nodded to him. Tomorrow, he’d ask Zelir to join his army of three. The old Drake might not be young or as high-level, but Ilvriss would arm him in artifacts. That would help.
 
—-
 
The problem of high-level individuals Ilvriss brought up to Alrric again, as he visited the company.
“I’ll visit the mining crews and not faint this time.”
“If you like, Wall Lord. But if you do faint a second time, I’m going to have to ban you from doing inspections. Our current seam is giving us adamantium along with gems and I can’t have you holding us up.”
Ilvriss smiled at that and Alrric grinned for a moment. It was a jest at Ilvriss’ expense, and a sign of the new working relationship. Alrric had been wary at first, but now he seemed more at home—and they had worked together for a long time.
“How is the family doing? I hope I didn’t hold you up with my collapse.”
“Well. And I got back to them on time. My daughter, Sidinel, is getting to be a handful. She wants to travel about.”
“By herself?”
“Herself, her friends, with us—young Gnolls, no, young people.”
Alrric sighed. Ilvriss nodded without any personal experience into the matter, as non-parents did when told about parent-things.
“So, about one of my requests, Alrric.”
“Which one? Sourcing the Potion of Regeneration or high-level recruits?”
Ilvriss paused.
He had received Lyonette’s [Message] when Erin was hurt. On that day, in that very hour, he had opened the Gemscale vaults and inspected every inch of it.
They had hoarded gold, gemstones, and artifacts. More than you thought. Less than Ilvriss would have liked, to be honest. The problem was that Drakes did use artifacts throughout the years and a Potion of Regeneration?
If they had had one, Zail would have used it. They had none.
And getting one was tricky.
“Does anyone else have one in their vaults?”
Alrric put down his quill. He scrubbed at some ink on his brown fur, then stopped.
“I made inquiries, Ilvriss. Few Walled Families are willing to even give me a straight answer, but Wall Lord Meiss is the only one who has one—”
“And he won’t sell.”
Ilvriss nodded. He’d tried. But who was going to sell an heirloom artifact that couldn’t be produced in this world? Ten thousand gold pieces? Go stuff it up your tail. A hundred thousand, even? Not even close.
A million? Well, that might be enough to turn a head, but it was still a priceless relic. And there were limits to even Ilvriss’ largess.
He put that aside.
“High-leveled individuals. Anyone? I was talking with Master Zelir—my [Weapon Trainer]—about the issue.”
Alrric consulted his notes. That was the power of an [Administrator]. He took the need, found people who could do the job, and had it done and waiting the next day.
“Let’s see. High-level. High-level…no one new in military matters, I’m afraid. You know every Level 40+ combat-rated individual in all of Salazsar. I’m sorry, Ilvriss. But at that level you pretty much have to hire them. A [General] bounces between cities, or [Swordsmasters]…”
Ilvriss was well familiar with how Drake cities enticed good warriors and leaders. Every nation did it. Pallass had stolen Pelt when he’d been on the market, for instance. And he didn’t want the public bidding war that always ensued. He didn’t want mercenaries.
“Well, that’s it.”
He grumpily sat back, putting down his signed documents for filing. He felt like he was chasing his own tail. Day in, day out, it was all incremental progress. He needed action. He needed…to do something. Now.
Alrric cleared his throat.
“If it helps, Ilvriss—this problem isn’t unique to Salazsar’s military. Your instructor? What did he say about Drakes and leveling?”
Ilvriss repeated the contents of the conversation and Alrric nodded. He sighed.
“Ah, that’s true. ‘No exceptions, just exceptional averageness.’ Your instructor’s take strikes me as eminently correct.”
“That sounds like a quote.”
The purple-scaled drake raised one eyebrow. Alrric blinked.
“It is. Have you heard of the tale of Salii the [Secretary]?”
The name was familiar. Ilvriss sat forwards.
“Wasn’t she responsible for the Ruby Run…six years back? Practically quadrupled the holdings of her company.”
“Not just from that. Yes, she was as good as they came. Better than me, although I wasn’t as good as I am at the time. The highest-leveled [Secretary] in all of Salazsar.”
“But she’s not here. Didn’t she go to another city?”
The Gnoll licked his finger pad and flicked a piece of paper over.
“Nope. She went to Chandrar. Pomle.”
“…The training ground for [Martial Artists]? Why?”
Alrric looked up with a grin.
“She said it was to improve herself. To challenge herself and keep leveling. Did you know that along with Salazsar, she worked in Manus, Zeres, and Fissival? All for only a year or two. She came in, took the hardest jobs at low pay, and when she had things running right, she quit and left. Right when she succeeded. Right when it got easy.”
Ilvriss sat back. His mouth opened and his tail stirred.
“To level up. That’s…extraordinary.”
“She left a mark. Even now, someone says they ‘got a Salii’ when they get a diamond in the rough. If you wanted to improve anything, you should get her. Although I doubt she wants to return to Salazsar.”
Ilvriss grimaced. Recruiting from other cities was hard enough. Other continents?
“See if you can get in touch with her. Do they even have [Mages] over there?”
“She has a Scroll of [Messages]. I’ll have it linked to you for later. Speaking of which, I have a shortlist of unique individuals you could grab from around Izril’s south. Nothing special. Level 30+, all of them. A [Spearmaster], a [Master Archer], a [Lancer]…”
“I’ll look it over later. Thank you.”
Ilvriss sat back with a sigh. Salii the [Secretary]. There was something to it. But a [Secretary] wouldn’t be useful against the Necromancer.
…Right?
 
—-
 
Ilvriss visited Osthia after concluding his work with Alrric. He didn’t waste time as he entered the private work rooms he’d sequestered to plan his countering the Necromancer.
“I’m going to add some standing forces to your command, Osthia.”
She looked up. Her blue-dyed scales itched, but she could scratch here, stretch, and so on.
“How so, Ilvriss? Also—Shriekblade’s gone missing. I think she’s off her potions.”
Ilvriss stopped. He looked around and realized Shriekblade hadn’t stopped outside the rooms like normal.
“I was walking around and didn’t even notice her.”
Osthia grimaced. Shriekblade was Ilvriss’ bodyguard as well as an agent in their war, but she was normally Ilvriss’ shadow.
“She didn’t report this morning. I think she’s…erratic. I’ll check on her tomorrow.”
Hiding in her room, threatening to kill Osthia if she entered. Stuff like that. Ilvriss rubbed at his forehead.
“See to that, thank you. And I’ll get you more subordinates. Not ones you can tell the secret to—but ones under your direct command.”
“Who? More Gemscale soldiers? Your sister already wants to know why I have a hundred for being your bodyguard.”
The Gemscale family had their own standing forces, but Ilvriss shook his head.
“My family doesn’t employ high-level [Guards] or [Warriors]. If they were—they’d find other work. No, we’re going to get an elite group—so you can at least take down monsters, and other threats. I wanted you to come with me so they know who to report to. It won’t take more than thirty minutes…”
Elite group? Osthia hesitated. She tried not to roll her eyes—then remembered she and Ilvriss weren’t subordinate and commander in the same sense as in the army. She coughed into a claw and Ilvriss looked at her as he went for the door.
“Not to offend Salazsar or this group, Ilvriss, but we have a saying in Pallass. ‘Every unit’s elite until we kick their tails in.’ If this is like one of Pallass’ elite groups—every army has them. I…don’t know if it’s going to be that helpful compared to the one you have in training.”
And that one would take months more of drilling, for all most had [Enhanced Strength] or [Greater Toughness]. They had potential, but no battle experience and training.
Far from being offended at the insinuation, Ilvriss only smiled.
“Specialized infantry, then, Osthia. And I think they might meet your standards. Here. Follow me.”
Curious, she rose and followed.
 
—-
 
Ilvriss took her down through his tower and into one of the central ones. A shared spire, for the power of the Walled Families.
