They blinked, looked at each other. What did they want? Well—the First Scale had risen, eyes flashing.
“An end to the war! A ceasefire, and agreement to no hostilities! Reparations for the dead, including General Zel Shivertail who fell because of this long damned war that took him into the path of a Goblin Lord! The fair trade terms we wanted from the start!”
Nerul nodded to each point as the Drake shouted at him.
“Yes, of course. Do you have numbers, a contract? I can review it now—and I am authorized to sign on behalf of all of Salazsar. I don’t need to talk to the Walled Families unless there’s something outside of my authority.”
The Council hesitated. One of them stared suspiciously at Nerul.
“This is a trick.”
He shook his head at her.
“Not at all, Councilmember. Salazsar mourns the death of Zel Shivertail. It acknowledges the waste of a war—and the act of aggression made. Or at least, the families that voted in majority to. I am here to end this conflict without a single life lost. And I’m willing to do so fairly. Now. What numbers are we talking about?”
He’d caught them off-guard, and they actually had to recess to pull up actual figures. The caving of what they’d thought they’d have to fight over caught them unawares.
And of course, when they did come back with exact terms and a contract, the real negotiations began.
It took Nerul three months. At first, the entire Council and many representatives, including other Councilmembers, even a Watch Captain, sat in on the talks. But they quickly found that what they wanted, they got.
“I’d like the ceasefire signed today, if possible. We can talk about the reparations later.”
“If we sign a ceasefire, how are we to assume Salazsar will honor the rest once the threat has ended?”
The [Diplomat] shook his head patiently as the Watch Captain snapped back.
“Trisstral has all the agriculture that Salazsar desires, Watch Captain Cells. But a ceasefire means we can all relax. Can we agree to that?”
The cease fire was signed the next day. Thereafter, the real arguments began. It was mostly over numbers. The Trisstral Alliance wanted Salazsar to pay through the nose holes for every dead [Soldier] and General Shivertail. They wanted non-aggression contracts for four—no, six decades, a guarantee of no tariffs, and so on.
That was unreasonable, and Nerul pointed out that no Drake cities had contracts over two decades—and if they did, they were broken. Salazsar couldn’t justify that length.
They argued for nearly four days—Nerul being polite—on the issue of length. Soon, only designated representatives were hammering out terms with the [Diplomat]. The Council had to do more than sit in.
Which was what the [Diplomat] wanted, of course. After he’d established the main negotiators, he talked with them, catching them after the official negotiations. He unveiled some of the cargo his small team had brought.
Gifts. He didn’t press them on the negotiators, nor did he offer them to just them; it was to the Council.
Obviously they were wary. But Nerul was polite, friendly, and after the grueling negotiations, he made a point of visiting the attractions in the city. He asked the negotiators for tips on places to visit—since he was here for a while.
In time, he ended up drinking with them at a bar after they were done, or being invited over to a home. Even visiting other cities.
The thing was, Nerul was representing the Walled Families, Salazsar. He had a lot of sympathy for Trisstral, and there were things he couldn’t agree to—that they would refuse to accept.
“I can do a ten year peace treaty. But twenty? I won’t be a [Diplomat] the next day. And we can offer the open borders to Dellek because it’s closer. But not the other cities. You understand my point, Councilmember?”
That was one noticeable conversation with the Dellek representative, who did have to put her city’s interests with that of the alliance in general. Nerul visited the city of Selmis the next day and spent two weeks there being hosted by the negotiator there, who he had grown friendly with. Which of course made Dellek a bit nervous…
Gifts, friendliness—even charm—a reasonable attitude and someone who never actually got mad or rose to jibes, and was certainly willing to acknowledge fault, and most importantly, honesty.
Nerul never promised anything he didn’t mean. Nor did he try to play cities against each other; the negotiators did check. But he was completely willing to take a six-hour-tour with a negotiator, and rack up several thousand gold pieces on the Gemscale family bill with gifts, money spent while drinking or talking with the others…
The trick was that Nerul bent over backwards—did backflips—if he had to. Personal concessions for ones on the actual peace treaty he eventually signed on behalf of Salazsar and had sent to the Walled City to be further signed by all the Walled Families. When he left Trisstral, the negotiators threw him a farewell party.
And whilst the cities ended up with less than they wanted, their image of Salazsar had turned from ‘a city we wouldn’t mind tossing Creler eggs over the walls at’, to ‘a city we dislike because of all the stupid stuff they’ve done, but there was Nerul and we have a trading contract with our neighbors, even peace terms in case Fissival tries something, since they’ve done that too’.
It was called being a [Diplomat]. And Nerul was good at his job.
 
—-
 
“Nephew! How is my favorite troublemaker? Start any more wars for me to fix?”
Nerul Gemscale had a luncheon with Ilvriss. His first comment to his nephew before the huge bear hug essentially continued every interaction he’d had with the younger Wall Lord.
Nerul was a different sort of Drake. For instance, he wasn’t at all close to succeeding the Gemscale family. He had achieved success in other ways and established his value—but he was no [Lord].
If Brilm was a pudgy sort of Drake, well, Nerul was, er, big. He had already begun lunch in a fine restaurant; it was customary for him to dine at the one of his choosing after coming back from a sojourn abroad.
“Uncle Nerul, you’ve bailed me out again.”
“And this is the first time you’ve ever thanked me for it. Something’s changed. Wait—less Zail, not necessarily more Helessia.”
Nerul’s eyes bounced up and down as he studied Ilvriss. He was eating with some of his ‘team’, lesser [Negotiators] and assistants. Ilvriss nodded.
Nerul was—or had been—something of a black sheep in the family, mainly because Zail and Ilvriss had not approved of a Drake who came in after the fighting was done.
“Are you drinking with us?”
“I’ve quit.”
“Really? You continue to upset me, nephew. I’ll have his drink, then.”
Nerul spoke to the [Server]. He could and had drunk every person in the room under the table. He sat back as he and Ilvriss caught up.
“The Trisstral Alliance is at peace, and we’ll stop seeing those huge increases on the price of…food. Which is a relief. And I have been three months out there.”
“It amazes me it takes so long.”
The larger Drake snorted, and wiped at his pale purple scales; some wine had been splashed around.
“If you had won the war, let alone captured General Shivertail, I would have had a different response, nephew. Three months? Thank the Ancestors it wasn’t eight! I would have had to stall, but I have results. Peace and more than just the word of it.”
He sat back, eying Ilvriss. Normally Ilvriss wouldn’t have even joined the meal. Now, the Wall Lord sat back.
“Tell me. I’ve never appreciated the other truces you’ve hammered out.”
Nerul’s eyes bounced again. He did that—he appraised people fast. He patted at his mouth with a napkin.
“Well, we have peace. Trade. But more importantly, if you were to walk into one of the cities of the Trisstral Alliance and, say, order something from a shop? Instead of reaching for a knife to stab you, the [Shopkeeper] will give you the time of day. I have made friends with each city’s High Command. And the people are more kindly disposed. There will not be ambushes on our people. They will not raid us, or instantly go to war if, say, we should become rivals with Fissival and the lines are drawn. I have changed the mood of the city, where they were ready to kill every person in Salazsar for the war and General Shivertail’s death, as they saw it.”
Ilvriss nodded. That was the power of the top [Diplomat] that Salazsar could field.
“Your Skill, wasn’t it?”
Nerul tapped a ring on his finger with a practiced air. In the silent bubble, he leaned over.
“[A Gradual Change of Disposition]. My capstone Skill. City-wide. If I had to, I’d stay a year. But peace is all we need. Be grateful it was three months.”
Ilvriss nodded. The bubble burst.
“Does it last?”
“Does anything last?”
His uncle returned. He drummed his claws on the table.
“It doesn’t work on all. It’s about practicing what you preach, nephew. I went around and talked with the widows. I apologized. I flung myself on the mercy of the people—and sometimes smacked the ground. At least they laughed at that.”
The Wall Lord nodded.
“And if I had won?”
Nerul lowered the cup. He looked at Ilvriss and then drank.
“I would have marched through their gates with two dozen of the Rubirel Guard and given their alliance a week to surrender with thunder and fury. There is a time for action, a time to build ties. I can do both. Why? Are you starting another unnecessary war? We’re running out of war heroes, you know.”
That was why Ilvriss had disliked him. Nerul was not a [Diplomat] among his family.
“Not at all, uncle. I just came to thank you—and speak to you about levels.”
The Drake lowered his cup.
“Intriguing. What happened to you when you fought Zel Shivertail? No—don’t answer that. What happened afterwards?”
Ilvriss bit his tongue. He evaded the question, but Nerul was happy to discuss levels. He sighed.
“Ah, Ilvriss. A [Courtesan]—and Sellme made another painting? Are you surprised?”
“Honestly, yes.”
“Why? Look around, Ilvriss. The highest-leveled Drakes in our society are all oddballs. Me included.”
“That’s not a hard and fast rule. Our High Command—”
“War is the exception. Battle is adversity. I’m talking outside of that. Listen.”
Nerul waved a claw.
“Saliss of Lights. Naked. Nice as you like, but mad as a loon. Salii the Secretary, learning how to punch holes through rocks in Chandrar. Zel Shivertail—a hero of the Antinium Wars—and a public pariah until he became a universally loved hero in death. Sellme, someone who paints pictures of dissent. Your [Courtesan], who isn’t fit for polite society.”
He waved a claw around the restaurant.
“Yes, we have high-level military leaders. So what? War and battle are adversity unto themselves and are exceptions to this phenomenon, which people use in bad-faith arguments to go against the truth. Look around, Ilvriss. There’s a Human saying about how the highest nail gets hammered down first. Well—in our culture, Drakes swing the hammer twice as hard and twice as fast.”
He sat back and ordered dessert. Ilvriss stayed a while telling him the more easy things to talk about in Liscor.
“And you didn’t bring me back a cake? Or how to make this gelato? Ice cream?”
The Drake was outraged. Ilvriss found himself more at ease with Nerul—he remembered hating the Drake’s guts. He could see why.
The Ilvriss of today smiled.
“I’ll have my [Chef] send over both recipes to yours, Uncle. Also—mayonnaise.”
“Young Ilvriss, if I thought people could never change for the better, you’ve proved me wrong.”
Nerul seized his claw and smiled. They parted like that.
Warily, Ilvriss thought. Nerul was exceptionally clever. He made you think you were his best friend, regardless of what he felt. He had to be wondering what had inspired Ilvriss to change.
Ilvriss just wondered if a [Diplomat] of his level had more tricks Ilvriss—who had thought in terms of armies and military strength or economic—had never thought of.
Soft power.
 
—-
 
It was an extraordinarily soft bed after all. Ilvriss poked it gingerly. Then he sat.
“I—hope I haven’t disturbed The Drake’s Pearl too much, Miss Xesci?”
She shrugged.
“It was an incident, but no one was hurt or bothered. They’re more curious about why you came back. They think—well, you can imagine.”
She nodded to the closed door. Ilvriss nodded. He began to speak, but she went first.
“I think I have to apologize to you, Wall Lord. I…acted in bad faith yesterday. I didn’t realize how manipulative the knitting-Drake was. She was a creepy bitch. Sorry. It’s the new body.”
The [Courtesan] was different today. Feet up on the second chair; it was why he had the bed. Lounging in a chair.
“And you are…?”
She scratched at her neck-spines and sighed.
“A coworker. She’s a bit—prickly. I was trying her out, but I don’t think it fits. Better than yesterday, though. That other Drake had a temper.”
Periss always did. Ilvriss nodded warily.
“These…forms. They influence your personality?”
“Oh yes. And it can be bad.”
“How so?”
The Drake sighed and sat forwards, resting her elbows on her knees, hunched over, a completely different posture than the other two people she’d been.
“Well? You saw how I was getting into playing mind games with you. That’s an extreme example; but each personality is different. Most people are the same, but some are…unexpected. Even to me. I might be overly timid—or aggressive. Or worse. You can imagine.”
Ilvriss thought of Shriekblade and nodded slowly.
“You have an extraordinary class, Miss Xesci. I suppose I’ve come back to talk more. Process…yesterday.”
“I’m sorry, again. And I will be more honest.”
She nodded at him. He adjusted his seat; he felt like the bed was trying to swallow him rear-first.
“About your ability. You said you can mimic people within two feet of your height. And you saw Periss in me. Can you…see more faces?”
The woman hesitated. She glanced at the door and then Ilvriss.
“Wall Lord, normally I assure you that nothing said or done here is leaked. No watch-spells, no peep holes. And I keep my mouth shut. Can I ask you to do the same?”
He inclined his head. She waited.
“Yes.”
Xesci exhaled. She ran a claw through her neck spines again.
“The trouble with being a loudmouth is…argh. Fine. I blame Reta’s poor impulse-control. Yes, I see other faces. If I look at you? I can see old flames. Not your mother. Or your sister. I know you have them; I can’t tell. It’s about…interest.”
“Ah.”
“Sexual. I note who you’ve at least had sexual encounters with, or even desire—”
“Yes, thank you.”
“Just making sure you can tell.”
Ilvriss folded his arms, feeling defensive.
