Well…he still probably was. Navine did not get along with Ilvriss, even if he was less grating than before. His sojourn abroad had changed him more than any of his other military expeditions or trips.
She was here, though. Because they were family despite it all and Drakes stuck together. She lashed her tail as her two parents made small talk.
“Poison in the mines. It must be. Good Wall Lords have died to that before. He shouldn’t go in person. No need.”
Zail was talking, having repeated himself twice in the last twenty minutes. Helessia sighed.
“The mines should be safe, Zail. I wonder what it is. Captain Shieldscale said he is on his way.”
“Who?”
“His new assistant, Zail. He’s introduced you before.”
A moment of confusion—then guilt—crossed Zail’s face.
“Of course I recall her.”
Navine wondered if Ilvriss was bedding this new Drake. It fit his old ways; she knew about his relationship with the late Periss, his second-in-command. But she somehow doubted it. Shieldscale and Ilvriss were too…familiar, if that made sense. Familiar, and yet not intimate.
Another mystery of why he’d bother scouting a Pallassian [Captain] anyways. She wasn’t high-level, just decent.
Besides which, Navine had thought she’d known why Ilvriss had changed. It came down to Liscor. And the reason for his collapse? The same.
Humans. It was always Humans, one way or the other. Even so—Navine wouldn’t have believed it. But it fit. And as Ilvriss strode into the apartments and stopped as he saw his entire immediate family present, she solidified that hint in her mind.
“Stress?”
Helessia looked appalled. Zail, horrified. To him, there could be nothing more embarrassing than being brought low by something as weak as stress.
“It was a bad display, father, mother. I will make another inspection, tour the mines and thank them for their help.”
“Tomorrow. You must rest if stress has eaten you up.”
Helessia insisted. Ilvriss nodded. Zail peered at Ilvriss.
“Lack of sleep did this?”
“A week or two of it, father. I—recalled that I’d barely slept more than three or four hours the entire week.”
Helessia made a dismayed sound. Zail blinked a few times.
“You were never insomniac. Is it—”
He caught himself. Navine nodded and poured some wine for herself.
Ancestors. She hadn’t believed it. But he really had fallen for a female Human in Liscor. Given her his ring and everything! He kept claiming it was a gesture of respect, not romantic bonds, but everyone knew the modern customs.
And more—she knew the Human was dead. She even knew her name, now.
Erin Solstice. An [Innkeeper]. Ilvriss kept talking to his family, glancing at her, but she only told him she’d been concerned. He thanked her, stiffly. And they went on with their lives.
 
—-
 
It was not as if Erin Solstice alone had laid the Wall Lord low. Indeed, weeks had passed since the news of her death. A Summer Solstice that had brought tragedy even to Salazsar…
A hundred and twelve miscarriages. People were wearing white armbands, still. Salazsar had joined the Drakes of Izril in sending more aid, more reinforcements to Rhir. And more to come. But they were debating that.
Ilvriss had been working, before and after the news came. And it had not been him throwing himself into his work either that did it.
But he was burning his candle at all ends, including the middle. He worked for almost all of his day when not exercising, eating, or, increasingly seldom, sleeping.
He worked in his company with Alrric, his Gnoll [Administrator], making sure they were making a profit. Then he visited his secret task force authorized by Salazsar, training new [Soldiers], equipping them in secret.
And then—unbeknownst to all, he would join Osthia Blackwing in poring over records, details, trying to track suspicious payments, links to Regrika Blackpaw or a certain location—looking into mysterious absences or strange breaks in other important Drakes’ past lives over the last two decades—or more!
Some time in between all of this, and his frequent conversations with his father, Zail, or entertaining his closest friends, Ilvriss would find time to fit in sword practice, or do research into other cities’ battle tactics. Historical records and stories about wars with undead of old.
He had done this since he had come back. Work, work, and for a change, intense work. And perhaps that had been taking its invisible toll the entire time.
But it seemed more to those that knew Ilvriss that the news of two weeks ago had simply…removed something that had been keeping it all from overwhelming him.
Hope, perhaps.
 
—-
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss took a purple pill early in the night, after assuring his family he was well, sending word to Alrric to pass out some puffers or a good vintage to the mining crew he’d been with as an apology, reschedule all his appointments, send word to his well-wishers and friends…
He sat in his bed, popped the pill Healer Merla had given into his mouth, put his head back—
And woke up with the sun shining down on his face.
“What did she give me?”
The Wall Lord blinked and struggled out of his bed. He felt…well, a bit more alive, but groggy, as his body began to protest getting more sleep than it was used to.
“Wall Lord? Do you wish breakfast? It’s two hours past your usual time…”
One of the employed Drakes—not servants, Drakes were particular about that—greeted Ilvriss as he strode out of his room in some robes. He rubbed at his face.
“Yes, thank you. I’ll take it in the dining room. And please send Captain Shieldscale to me—tell Master Zelir I will be delayed, with apologies.”
“Of course, Wall Lord.”
He had a speedy breakfast of Solin Chop—a rather fancy take on a classic dish. Wherein you took a tomato, a large one, in this case a Veil Tomato from Noelictus, chewier, more succulent, and hollowed it. You re-filled it with, well, a meat and/or grain mixture. Gave it the obvious spice and toppings, which could be cheese, a gravy in this case, and surrounded it with appetizers.
It was a good meal and Ilvriss sped through it, despite the hard work of the [Chef] his family employed.
Osthia appeared halfway through the meal.
“Wall Lord.”
She bowed, although Ilvriss had told her in private to drop the need for formalities. But the staff were hovering; no doubt worried about him. So he greeted her in their coded parlance which was second nature by now.
“Captain Shieldscale. Anything to report today?”
“Nothing of note, sir. Although we were going to speak on Gemscale’s standing forces. If you’d like to delay that…”
“No, I’ll meet you in the evening. Thank you, Captain. I’ll leave you to your duties until then.”
She nodded as Ilvriss sighed. Nothing of note meant she hadn’t uncovered another potential spy by the Necromancer—or identified someone they had to get on the secret task force’s side. She also looked for artifacts, through the histories, just like he did.
“Excellent breakfast. My apologies for the rush, but I must be about my day. I’ll take my lunch while working. Please tell my father I might not have time to meet today.”
“Of course, sir.”
They nodded to him and he left. The Wall Lord strode out of his tower and across the interconnected bridges that crisscrossed the spires of Salazsar.
Built into the mountain. Built out of the mountain, where the Drakes and Gnolls dug and added to the city constantly. Salazsar, founded on the richest gem and mineral seam in the world. And Ilvriss, at the top of the world.
He descended to a lower point as the tower widened. Sky-terraces were common, and each spire contained the upper classes; the bottom of the city was manufacturing, public residences, and so on.
The training court was about eighty feet down, and he took a side staircase to avoid people asking if he was well. No doubt gossip would have him repeating the events and assuring people all week.
Not that the Drake he was going to visit didn’t bring it up.
“Stress, eh? I told you to rest, Ilvriss!”
Master-Trainer Zelir, a high-level [Weapon Trainer], struck at Ilvriss cautiously to test him. Ilvriss parried and riposted.
“You did, Master Zelir. I should have taken your advice. Thank you for waiting.”
“Ah, well. My best student says he wants to improve? What am I to do?”
The Drake was old. Not as old as Merla, but Ilvriss was noting how many pivotal Drakes in his life were old.
The ones who were younger were dead.
His blade faltered and the other Drake flicked his sword through the gap. Ilvriss leaned back, with a curse. The tip caught his practice armor.
“Sloppy. If I was carrying an enchanted blade, you’d be bleeding. And if I was a [Duelist], that would be enchanted with Evercut and poison. So I walk away and…you’re dead.”
Zelir demonstrated, stepping back and spreading his arm and training sword. Ilvriss sighed, and nodded.
“My attention’s lacking.”
“Well, you did collapse. The body can’t just recover in a day. But we train to fight at our worst. So—concentrate!”
Zelir was a mix of encouraging and stern. He had been Ilvriss’ weapon instructor since the Drake was a boy. Zail had hired him and the old mentor had been the one to make Ilvriss a fine duelist.
Among the Drake nobility. But Ilvriss had brought his trusted Coldedge Longsword to a duel with Zel Shivertail and the [General] had taken him to pieces without his elite escort.
Fair was fair—that was a Drake war hero, but Ilvriss recounted the moment to Zelir during a break.
“Did I ever tell you how Zel Shivertail beat me in our battle, Master Zelir?”
The old Drake’s eyes sparked with interest. He wasn’t too old compared to Ilvriss; he had about ten or fifteen years at most, and his Skills kept him fresh.
“Tell me. You kept your guard up, I hope? Wasn’t over in a flash? I’m told he just charges in and has most enemies to rights in seconds. His claws…”
“Yes. He used both, obviously, so it was me keeping him back and trying to score decisive strikes while he blocked and kept closing. He didn’t charge—not after the first encounter. He actually parried a lot of my blows.”
“Really?”
Zelir had always been a fan of Zel Shivertail, not least because they had the same name root. He leaned on his practice sword as Ilvriss demonstrated.
“Well, he knew my sword was leeching his strength with every cut. Frost and Torpor enchantments.”
“Smart. He’s no [Duelist]…was no [Duelist]…how did he take you down, then? It sounds like it was your battle to lose. Yes, he has two claws for one sword, but you have a longsword’s reach and enchantment.”
Ilvriss grimaced.
“That’s what I thought. I touched him about eight times. Guess what he did? He baited me into thinking he was slowing more than I thought. I was wary of course, but then he knocked my blade down. I was ready for him to kick or slash at me. He feinted a kick—then hurled snow into my face with his tail. Next thing I know, he has my sword arm and…well, you can imagine how well I did after that.”
He’d been a training dummy for the next three minutes. He’d refused to let go of his sword, but Zel Shivertail had refused to let go of his arm. Zelir laughed until he caught himself.
“Really? That’s how he got you?”
Ilvriss gave him a wry grin.
“I was furious at the time, as I recall. I refused to surrender. I think I told the Tidebreaker to his face that ‘a [General] does not brawl’.”
“There you are, then. But you’re wiser than you were then. Or you wouldn’t put it like that. And if you did—I’d set you straight.”
Zelir swished his blade. Ilvriss nodded and set himself. They exchanged more blows, pivoting for strikes, and Ilvriss scored a point. He was about matched with Zelir without Skills, but of course, the Drake was more than just his individual ability with the blade.
“Hm. Practice is done. Now, let’s get to actual work.”
The [Weapon Trainer] adjusted his stance. Ilvriss copied him. First the Drake performed a slow strike, then let Ilvriss watch him from the side. The Wall Lord tried to copy the new movement. He moved through the different motions of attack and defense, while Zelir watched, critically.
“You’re progressing through the Llevian school quickly. But you’re going to have to switch and start practicing only in that style soon.”
“How long until then?”
“Mm. One more week. Are you doing those sword cuts…? No, I shouldn’t tell you to do that if you’ve been pushing yourself.”
“I practice at least a hundred times when I can. I won’t slack. Not when it’s my neck on the line.”
Zelir nodded approvingly.
The Llevian school was a sword-style invented by Drakes. It had a completely different approach to combat than, well, the traditionalist methods of attack and defense.
Sword schools, blade arts, were generally Skills one picked up. Deliberately learning and mastering an entire school of fighting wasn’t done. For instance, Zelir hadn’t taught Ilvriss to do that; he’d grounded Ilvriss like he would any basic [Warrior].
It was practicality; the young Wall Lord hadn’t had an entire lifetime to devote to the sword school, which was sometimes what you needed. Why learn to parry this exact way when you could learn to cut, thrust, for whichever method suited the occasion?
Two reasons. The first was that a sword school, a good one, gave you a defense and attack for every occasion. Even so, the polyglot fighting style of most [Warriors] trumped specialization with its strengths and weaknesses.
Except that a master in a particular fighting style would unlock its unique Skills and abilities. Ilvriss focused on the two-handed blade style of the Llevian School, which actually drew from axe-style downward sweeps. You tried to ground your opponent’s blade by parrying in one direction, and capitalize in that moment.
It was an unusual style and Zelir had been surprised when Ilvriss brought out old Gemscale teaching manuals. But he’d been willing to teach Ilvriss the style.
It was one suited for fighting opponents armed with axes, revolving around nimble, graceful strikes. Footwork was as important as parrying.
And it was also good against oversized opponents like undead. Ilvriss didn’t mention that.
“The fact that you wanted to learn an entire school of swordsmanship…did you feel like your training wasn’t good enough? That’s on me, although even I wouldn’t expect my best student to take on the Tidebreaker.”
Zelir commented from the side. Ilvriss grunted as his muscles adjusted, trying to work the new attack pattern into his body and subconscious.
“Not you, Zelir. Rather—I just felt like I was relying on my artifacts too much.”
“That’s fine for a Wall Lord.”
“I want to be better.”
