He was already halfway down the stairs and storming for the door. The [Message] was in his claws. It was a simple one. A request for aid, like many sent to him. But this one had not been sent to Ilvriss. It was one of the [Messages] Alrric had dutifully copied that were sent to the city of Liscor. Public notices.
 
—-
 
This one was from the Horns of Hammerad. Ilvriss was in his office as a blinking Alrric found he’d been beaten to work.
“Wall Lord?”
“The Village of the Dead. What do you know about it, Alrric?”
The [Administrator] had to look it up over tea. He had all kinds of encyclopedias and almanacs. It was Shriekblade who answered, visible, and uncharacteristically talkative.
“Designation—Named-rank threat. Death zone. Uncleared. Passive. Undead-type threat.”
“Those are adventurer terms. Explain it.”
Ilvriss snapped. Shriekblade shrugged.
“It means only a Named-rank Adventurer should even go near it. Death zone means that it’s a place where you die if you go. Like…Rhir. And uncleared means no one’s found out what lies inside. Passive means it isn’t expanding. Like Creler nests. Undead-type means…”
“I have it, Wall Lord. A Human village to the north. A known threat. It appeared, well, thousands of years ago and has never been erased or destroyed.”
“That’s not like the Humans.”
Alrric nodded. He wondered—no, it had to be the [Message] he’d copied over. But he didn’t see why Ilvriss was galvanized. The pieces were there. He tried to recall it. It was a bit lengthy, but the key parts might have been…
 
…may have something that can be traded or help her. We, the Horns of Hammerad, intend to assault the Village of Death in two week’s time. We are calling in every team associated with The Wandering Inn to join us if possible. To any adventurer, we are offering full shares after a first pick of any item and compensation at market value if not. We know it’s dangerous. Come anyways, for the [Innkeeper] of Liscor.
 
“There have been attempts. The Five Families sent armies into the Village of Death.”
“And?”
The Wall Lord looked up. Alrric frowned at the book, closed it abruptly. He shook his head.
“The Village grew. The armies retreated after being overwhelmed by the undead, who seemed to regenerate even from near-complete destruction, or pushed into the village and were lost to observers. With more bodies…lost, the village’s radius expanded. The area was attempted by Named-rank adventurers. Two. One a team, one a solo member. The team fell back. The solo adventurer was presumed lost. The area was declared a death zone.”
“And a Gold-rank team is going in there? Crazy. Sounds like fun. If they paid me, I’d go. How much are they offering?”
Ilvriss showed Shriekblade the [Message]. The Drake glanced at the missive, looking for a number.
“Compensation? For that? Pass.”
“What would it take for you to join in the fighting?”
Alrric and Shriekblade did a double-take.
“Me?”
The Named Adventurer thought. Then she smiled.
“I’ll fight until they retreat for two hundred.”
“Two hundred gold?”
“Thousand.”
Alrric choked on his morning tea. Ilvriss frowned.
“That’s exorbitant, even for you, Shriekblade.”
“It’s a death zone.”
She shrugged. But she looked excited at the idea. Ilvriss drummed his claws on the table.
“The problem is the destination. If you could get to Liscor, you can jump to Invrisil. But this is…Ancestors damn it. Three days old. You’d barely make it to Pallass, let alone Invrisil. I’d have to clear you for Pegasus-flight direct if Oteslia even acknowledges it.”
“I’m banned.”
The Wall Lord closed his eyes.
“Of course you are. Fine, then. I don’t know if you’d even make it on time. Alrric—send a [Message] to Ceria Springwalker. Ask her if she will delay the assault. Meanwhile—get me…”
He was writing furiously. Alrric nodded for an assistant to take over as he went to clean the tea from his fur. Shriekblade pointed.
“I know those names. Some of them. Gold-ranks.”
“Yes. These are adventurers to contact. Tell them I have a job offer for them in regards to the Horns of Hammerad’s [Message]—get me a [Mage], as well as [Message] scrolls. I’ll have the contents in ten minutes. And I need a list of teams in Invrisil or the region. Inquire, will you?”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
The Drake took the list and rushed off. Ilvriss sat forwards. He began to write a [Message]. It was short, brief, and the first one he sent to Keldrass of the Flamewardens.
He would have sent one to Bevussa, but she was on contract. Ilvriss went down the list. First—Gold-ranks. He received a flurry of [Messages] and replied briefly. Then he went to Silver.
“Keldrass of the Flamewardens. I would like you to participate in the Horns of Hammerad’s request for a joint-assault on the Village of Death. I am prepared to offer your team compensation for joining in the effort, regardless of success or failure. Pending your agreement with the Adventurer’s Guild, I will transfer twenty thousand gold pieces into your account at the Merchant’s Guild.”
Alrric stared at the [Message] he’d just read out. He shook his head. Then he began authorizing payments from Ilvriss’ personal account. The Wall Lord was spending money on this assault. Shriekblade was waiting on a response from the Horns of Hammerad…
And Ilvriss couldn’t sit still. Saliss of Lights wasn’t in Pallass and besides, he was out of his arsenal. Other big Named Adventurers in the areas refused—to leave their posts, to go north, or just because they were engaged.
Crowdcaller Merdon and Elia Arcsinger had already declined, and some were in contract to the Five Families for instance.
But he could hire teams from Pallass, Liscor, Invrisil—he stopped pacing.
“And here is your bill, Wall Lord. I’ve taken it from your account.”
“Hm. Thank you, Alrric.”
Ilvriss glanced at the figure. It was more than what Shriekblade would charge, although it would double again if she agreed and could make it.
It did not matter. He thought of that inn. This—this was something.
Something. The feeling in his veins felt like—satisfaction. Progress. Ilvriss turned.
“Alrric, is Nerul unoccupied?”
“I can check.”
“I’d like to meet him now. After that—I need Captain Shieldscale. I am going to visit The Drake’s Pearl shortly after that.”
The Gnoll hesitated. One did not normally announce that last bit in a loud voice. But the Wall Lord didn’t seem to care that half his staff in the office had recognized the name and were staring at him sidelong.
“Is everything alright, Ilvriss?”
The Drake came to a stop. He looked at Alrric.
“No. But I intend to set it right. Time to take risks. Throw frying pans.”
“Is…that an expression?”
Ilvriss didn’t bother replying. He walked into his office.
“Shriekblade. I have a mission for you.”
“Besides going to that Village of Death? What do you want?”
He told her. She blinked.
“Really? That sounds like fun. What do I do? Kill?”
“No, find. I want it done before I leave The Drake’s Pearl. That will be…”
“How long does it take? Ten minutes? Five? Two?”
Ilvriss ignored that.
“Let’s call it evening. Succeed by then and you’ll have a bonus.”
“Really? I’ll find them.”
She vanished.
Nerul was next, and Captain Shieldscale. Ilvriss stood up.
“Nephew, what’s this about? Your Gnoll said it was urgent. I have a hangover, though. Started any wars? Disputes you want me to end?”
The portly Drake looked reproachful. Ilvriss stood up.
“Uncle, I have a request. I want you to help me and I am prepared to compensate you. It’s a personal favor, not a Gemscale family one.”
“Really?”
The Drake blinked. Ilvriss told him what he wanted. The Drake inhaled.
“That’s a two-year project if ever I heard of one. But I can do it in my off-time.”
“No. It’s a today-project.”
The [Diplomat] stopped in his tracks.
“You must be joking. No…this isn’t playing around, Ilvriss. It’s unfriendly. It could lead to conflict. Have you cleared this with Zail?”
“No, and I don’t intend to. I want it done. I am the acting head of the Gemscale family. And you can name your price.”
Nerul licked his lips.
“Well. I have to admit, it would be the kind of thing that I like doing now and then. And it’s a leveling opportunity. Hm. Hmm…it’s not any scales off my tail, Ilvriss. Are you sure?”
He met his uncle’s gaze.
“Yes.”
The [Diplomat] sighed, rubbed at the back of his neck and his neck-spines, and nodded.
“There was too much conviction there for my liking. It must be needed. Very well. I can do it tonight. It is going to be unpleasant and you are going to have to let me do all the talking first, understand? No going out of line or it fails. Let me gather a group. I need down payments—”
“Alrric.”
“Very well. I’ll set it up. What has gotten into you today, Ilvriss?”
The Wall Lord stood there, adjusting his clothing, which he’d donned in a hurry. He knew this would damage Gemscale’s reputation. Much less what he was going to do. He didn’t care.
“I have to hurry, Uncle. I’m tired of sitting around.”
He looked at the Drake. Nerul nodded.
“Fair enough.”
 
—-
 
Xesci was engaged when Wall Lord Ilvriss stormed into The Drake’s Pearl for the third day.
“He must be obsessed. He wants to see you right now.”
The [Manager] told Xesci when she had emerged. The Drake frowned.
“Not with me in the way you’re thinking. I wonder what he wants.”
This time, she was wearing a shorter Gnoll’s body. A sweetheart. And she was certainly smiling, if bewildered, as Ilvriss walked into the room.
“Wall Lord. How can I help you?”
He sat down abruptly. The air around him had changed. Before, when they had first met, he had been reluctant, even tired. Now—he was almost unable to sit still. He met her gaze.
“Miss Xesci. When we first spoke, you mentioned that one of your dreams was to return to the north in time, perhaps after having saved up enough. Was that true or an exaggeration?”
She blinked.
“I…it wasn’t untruthful. I’d like to retire. Wouldn’t we all? I don’t know where I’d settle, but yes, I would at least visit.”
“I see. And do you enjoy your job or would you retire if you had the choice?”
She rested her chin on her hands.
“You mean, would I continue working here? Wall Lord—it’s a job. Sometimes it’s enjoyable, sometimes not. But it’s not a passion. Especially if you’re the only expert in the room.”
The woman grinned at him, inviting him to share the joke. He did not.
“In that case, Miss Xesci, I have a proposition for you. I would like to hire you to work for me in an unusual capacity. Not as a [Courtesan], but as an…agent. I cannot go into details here, but I would be prepared to offer you enough gold to retire on after your work is completed. A year—two at most.”
She stared at him. Then she rubbed at one ear.
“…What?”
The Wall Lord repeated himself. The woman stared.
“What could I possibly offer…is this an exceptionally personal matter, Wall Lord?”
She’d heard of contracts like this. She wasn’t opposed, but Ilvriss denied it again.
“I am not asking you to…bed me. I won’t rule it out, but I don’t think it’s necessary. And it will never be me. I am not willing to go into details. Only that I would like to know if you would accept the request.”
“Wall Lord, I’m working in the best brothel in all of Salazsar. I don’t know how much you think I earn, but—”
“Four hundred thousand gold pieces for one year.”
She nearly fell out of bed. Er…she slowly looked at him.
“You are serious.”
“Yes I am. One year. A formal, magical contract.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss waited as she thought, blinking. This…was a lot, even for him. He couldn’t just throw money around.
No, wait. Yes he could.
Ilvriss had one power, and it was making money. But it wasn’t a power unless you used it, and the Wall Lord was dumping gold like it was going out of style. He could afford this.
“I have to know what it’s about.”
“Then I will meet you at this location in the Gemscale Spire…tomorrow. I may be busy today, Miss Xesci. Here is the exact floor…please come alone. You are obviously assured of your safety, but I can swear on a truth stone now if you would like. However, this is a confidential affair for my family and I, and I cannot risk speaking of it here.”
She nodded. He could only imagine what intrigues she was thinking of—but the sum persuaded her.
“I may refuse, Wall Lord?”
“Of course.”
But he hoped she would not. And he felt as though the truth was…enough. Ilvriss stood up, and walked out of the room. Xesci stared after his back.
What did he need her for? To seduce some Human [Lord]? Uncover an infidelity plot in the Walled Families?
What she didn’t realize was that it wasn’t just her.
 
—-
 
Ilvriss wanted talent. Talent was hard to get. But there were individuals in this city who exceeded all the others.
The best. Literally. Not ‘second-best’, but indisputable masters. And there was one in every city.
Saliss of Lights, for instance, a name people knew in a city of millions.
But there was the thing. Even if you knew them, even if they were your friends, it was hard to get them to do something for you. You would either have to be a charismatic, charming [Innkeeper] with the ability to create miracles and who befriended such people to help her as the need arose…
Or you were a Wall Lord of Salazsar who would drown you in gold pieces. Someone with the kind of power and willingness to expend parts of what he’d hoarded for his entire life in one moment.
The famous artist known as ‘Sellme’ ran through the streets of Salazsar, pushing past people. Disaster!
They were running for the gates. One of the walls to the city. Anywhere. Their tenure in Salazsar was done. They’d made a name for themselves and had finally begun really stabbing the Walled Families where it hurt—their ego and flaws.
However, the City of Gems had gone on the offensive too fast. Way too fast. And it was a bit of bad luck, but really, it was also the fact that a Named Adventurer had been deployed to end Sellme.
Shriekblade the killer. She was after Sellme, and not only did she have the advantage of all her contacts in the city, Ilvriss had given her a useful piece of advice.
You’re looking for a Drake.
He’d even seen Sellme’s tail color. But the reason Sellme had been found was really Ilvriss knowing how the elusive [Painter] did their work. Shriekblade had gone hunting for streets where Skills were keeping people away and found the [Painter] doing one of their pieces—another lampoon against Rellmel’s ongoing treatment of [Miners].
“That way!”
