Ali returned to the refugee camp out in the forest right as dawn began to break. The dappled light spread softly over a slowly waking town, and finally she managed to relax a little. It was beautiful out here in the forest, and she understood why Lira had loved it so much. Even though she was still fending off the dungeon rage, her domain had pockets of normalcy amid the sea of rot and fungal creep she had acquired, and it was slowly beginning to feel like home once more. Not to mention, constantly being forced to hear that thing speaking in Lira’s voice, copying her mannerisms had been weighing heavily on her heart, and taking a bit of a break had been good for her.

Ali teleported, switching with one of her tiny golden glitter dragonets, appearing in the center of Weldin’s shop out in the forest. It was one of the nicer benefits of having her domain expanded through the entirety of the town encampment. She could teleport directly from the Abyssal Realm to the store if she wanted. As expected, Weldin was already up, setting out his wares for the day, carefully laying them upon the tables she had sculpted for him.

“Hi, Weldin,” she said, startling the Gnome. But to his credit, he hid it well.

Merchant – Gnome – level 93 (Space).

“Top o’ the morning to you, Aliandra. You’re up early.”

“So are you,” she said, smiling at him. “I brought you today’s haul.” She unloaded all the essences she had collected with her rounds – not quite as large as it had once been, but she took that as a good sign – there were fewer dungeon break monsters now that the Blooming Rot had been contained to the library and Lira’s cavern.

It looked like he had been progressing quite nicely, and she would soon need to unlock the shrine for him. He was the only space-affinity mage in the guild, and she had to admit she was curious to see what he might unlock.

“Thank you,” he said, getting out a large leather-bound ledger to note all the items and their appraisal in a chapter titled ‘Aliandra Amariel’. It seemed to be quite a large chapter. “These rot essences have been quite in demand in the last few days. I bet Morwynne and Eliyen are going to be happy.”

“Do you think your skills might be useful in preventing that teleport?” she asked. “Perhaps after your evolution?”

“I can’t rule it out,” he said, raising the eyebrow not covered by his eye patch. “But a Porter’s skills seem to be focused more on non-combat applications. Storage and Town Portal seem to be the flavor.”

“That’s fair,” she said. It was true, classes tended to offer skills in a theme. His class seemed to be about storing lots of items – his storage enchant was now two orders of magnitude larger than any ring she had ever seen – and moving large groups of people using the Town Portal Gate magic.

She had had a lot of opportunities over the last few days to study his magic – and she had found remarkable similarities between what he did, and what she could do with her Gates. The main difference being his did not require a circle of stone or metal upon which to inscribe the runes, and he powered his with vastly less mana.

His spell is much more similar to Cael’s portals, she thought, recalling how Cael’s magic had been overpowered simply because it needed to punch through his domain-wide teleportation suppression, and when she had destroyed that, his magic had required far less mana…

Wait…

Teleportation Suppression.

She stopped, suddenly stunned as the memory of that dungeon-spanning runic formation crashed into her mind. How could I have forgotten? If she needed to overcome a teleportation spell, what better way than to consult with a space dungeon that had survived for thousands of years against a shadow rift with nothing more than a suppression spell. Her mind exploded with possibilities – if anyone could tell her how to defeat the triggered Tree Stride, it would be Cael.

“Sorry, Weldin,” she yelped. “I gotta run! Fly! Teleport – whatever!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
