After over twenty-four years of war, Ranthia had more than a few opinions about it, and none of them were positive. Which was why she had been extremely reluctant to get around to reading one specific book that Avyna had stocked in her rentals: a treatise on war, written by an anonymous author that self-identified as a tactical expert. Yet when she finally gave the book a try, she found that it summarized her own feelings quite well.

War was interesting—in the most terrible definition of the word that could be imagined—only at its inception and during any major shift in the tides of battle. Beyond those indescribable moments, it turned into a mundane horror that weighed upon and shaped the lives of those afflicted with it. With rare exceptions, the breadth of war was boring, yet a constant source of stress and misery. Then its conclusion could take one of two forms, it would either be fiery and climactic—and suitably awful for everyone—or it would be a complete non-event that came about as the result of some meeting that few touched by the war even knew about. And either way, when war came to an end, it was a gradual, rolling process that still claimed the lives of countless people long after the date it was recorded as “done.”

But no matter what Legion Command continued to claim—even as the years passed by—the war the Coalition waged against the shimagu was not coming to an end. Instead, they remained trapped in a boring source of omnipresent stress and misery. People died and shimagu parasites were culled from the face of Pallos, yet no meaningful progress in the state of the war was obtained.

Instead, Remera once again—after two days of nonstop combat—repelled yet another attempted siege. Remera, like (as of last year) three other Launchpoint bases, continued to serve a key strategic role. They were important enough that there was a Sentinel assigned to each, though Ranthia had no idea if a familiar face protected any of the other bases, or if they were all strangers to her. But it also meant that the shimagu felt obligated to harass the aggressively positioned bases as frequently as they could, even when they lacked the numbers to properly threaten the base.

With every victory extracted at the cost of blood and sacrifice, Ranthia was left weary. It wasn’t the kind of weariness that was conducive to sleep, it was the insidious kind that her [Mind Healer] had helped her to recognize—the weariness that would erode her heart if it were left to fester. Thus, instead of sleeping, Ranthia took a hot meal and chose to spend quality time with the love of her life. Not because it was the prize that she was owed, but because she wanted to remind herself of how precious life could be, in the wake of Black Crow’s latest harvest.

To fight against the pall of the dark mood that weighed upon her heart, Ranthia chose to mercilessly spoil Avyna. They lounged on the chaise with Avyna’s head in her lap while she silently massaged Avyna’s horns with their newest scented oil—a refreshingly light minty aroma. She no longer needed the audible cue of her humming to keep the rhythm firmly in the range that inspired elven bliss, instead she trusted her hands to dance along the length of Avyna’s horn soothingly while she enjoyed the warmth and tenderness of the moment. Two of her images stood nearby, each holding a book. Ranthia’s eyes sometimes drifted over the words within her dry treatise of war—for some strange reason she seemed to struggle to enjoy it on the heels of prolonged conflict—while Avyna remained distractedly fixated on her own book, namely a heavily illustrated tome describing the various wedding traditions found throughout Remus.

But even with Avyna’s fixation and Ranthia’s borderline disinterest, Avyna was only signaling for a new page once for every several that Ranthia read. Her elf seemed to spend much of her time staring off into space with a distant, dreamy expression adorably inscribed upon her features. And Ranthia somehow doubted that it was solely because of her mastery of horn massages.

“<My love, please keep this to yourself, as I shall deny it if you ever do whisper a word of this, but a part of me almost wishes that I had been born a human just for how beautiful and charming some of these marriage traditions of your people are.>” Avyna dreamily whispered into the warm silence that they had been luxuriating within.

“<Mm, I’ll try to resist my deep-seated urge to write to every other elf I know about this shocking revelation.>” Ranthia affectionately teased her lover. Playful banter was better than wondering just how biased that book was. After all, Remus had some outright horrific marriage traditions, especially in some of the older and smaller cities that had time to enshrine their views of women as property to be claimed by their husbands as ‘tradition.’

Cute and sweet ceremonies were largely the purview of the largest cities and the handful of other progressive cities. Unless, of course, things had changed severely in the intervening years. Women had been granted most of the same rights as men for much of Ranthia’s life, after all—surely things must have improved.

…Gods and goddesses, was she seriously already completely out of touch with the reality of her own nation?

“<You have become quite mean.>” Avyna’s mock complaint pulled Ranthia out of her concerning thoughts. “<But I am serious, my love. Our pledging ceremonies are sweet—for those that even bother to make a ceremony out of it—but the weddings your people favor are just… romantic. I find myself somewhat jealous.>”

“<I always found your contract romantic. We literally came together as we mapped out what we wanted out of our lives.>” Ranthia offered a heartfelt rebuttal.

“<So sweet of you to notice. I put a lot of thought into that, you know, and I am proud of what I came up with. However…>” Avyna trailed off, seemingly unsure of how to phrase the amorphous emotional point that she’d hoped to make.

“<What sort of wedding ceremony would you want, if you had the chance?>” Ranthia asked, relishing the warm smile that readily came to her the very moment she chose to indulge in Avyna’s sappy mood.

Especially when Avyna met it with her own bright and happy smile before she closed her eyes and gave it some thought.

“<I have never actually rented one before, but there is an obscenely expensive type of clothing known as gemweave. A specialist [Artisan] uses their Skills to turn gemstones into flexible strands that they use to create, thread by thread, an elaborate garment made entirely out of a small fortune worth of gemstones. But you cannot just buy such a garment, you require the services of the [Artisan] as well. Without them, the garment turns rigid and is quite fragile. For a wedding, I would accept the expense to lease a gorgeous gemweave dress. One that uses emeralds for the base, of course.

“<As to the wedding itself… I enjoy parties, but for this I would prefer an intimate gathering of only those we are properly close to. I would not be averse to a ceremony that was tied to the chaotic creator you worship. I do not think I have a specific vision for the ceremony itself, though perhaps one where you and I exchange rings or pendants as part of the ceremony would work best.>” Avyna’s eyes were distant as she imagined the ceremony she described. Minor twitches of her eyes—and once, when she was obviously displeased with the image she conjured in her mind’s eye, her nose—denoted the adjustments she made to the scene while she spoke.

Ranthia’s heart thumped loudly within her chest when Avyna described the wedding as a ceremony made alongside her. Rationally, Avyna was presumably just daydreaming about something she had decided was beautiful, but Ranthia’s heart wanted it to be a hint. She desperately hoped that Avyna was trying to suggest that she wanted something far more permanent than the fifty-four years that remained under their contract.

But even if she wanted to hope, Ranthia chose not to give voice to the assumption that her heart craved. They were sharing a tender and happy moment together, and the last thing that Ranthia wanted to do was to sour the air with talk of how little time they had left.

Her selfishness required limits.

“Get the wounded back to base!” Ranthia shouted a heartbeat before her shift concluded. Her fresh image intercepted another group of shimagu while she silently hoped that anyone still upright—mostly the survivors of the dwarven team—followed her orders. There were too many hostiles for her to possibly micromanage the retreat, it was taking everything she had to try to stave off such a large group to buy time.

Unfortunately, the damned parasites had truly caught Remera off-guard. It was sometimes all too easy to consider the shimagu incompetent, but they were a clever adversary—and their greatest weapon was feigned predictability.

Remera had been almost desperate for a resupply. Many years ago, the Legions started using overland supply convoys to supplement Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship], since she was often tasked with other missions and couldn’t single-handedly manage the war’s logistics. …Gods and goddesses, it’d been three years since Ranthia last laid eyes on the [Starship] and she was trying not to think about what that likely implied. But Remera hadn’t seen a convoy either in over a month, and the base commander had sent more than a few messages requesting one before the base’s ability to defend itself was compromised.

Then, in the early hours just before sunrise, the convoy appeared. As expected, they were coming from the east and bore the standards of Remus on both the wagons and the legionaries that escorted them. It was a welcome relief, even if Legion Command hadn’t bothered to send word. The base commander, drowsy from being woken with the news, ordered a [Healer] (with proper escort) to head out to meet them to expedite the convoy’s verification and get them admitted to Remera before anything could go wrong.

And that was all the information Glorine had time to convey while she struggled to keep pace with Ranthia while she geared up and threw herself into the situation. The wagons—which were in pieces—had obviously been filled with ogres that had joined the infected humans wearing stolen and scavenged Legion equipment. Even the beasts of burden had parasites in them, or perhaps a [Tamer] amongst the enemy, and were proving to be a problem.

The good news was that Remera’s gates were, by design, both easy and fast to close. Those that lifted the heavy stone just had to stop their Skills and let it drop. But that still left one [Healer] and roughly thirty-two guards trapped on the wrong side of the walls and surrounded by enemies.

The shimagu-infected legionaries were aping Legion tactics. They formed imperfect ranks and walled Ranthia off with shields while ogres weaponized their greater reach from behind the barricade. But that was fine, all Ranthia needed to do was to halt the enemy’s advance and let the defenders on the wall—

The bolt of Lightning that nearly took her from the side curved and grounded itself into a shimagu’s shield. The warning that [Combat Awareness] offered had come too late for her to act, instead she was protected by one of the element’s myriad quirks. Not that it helped her with either beam of Brilliance that followed. Fortunately, the shimagu wielding Brilliance were lower level than the Lightning [Mage] and their spells struggled to pierce through her flesh.

Elements with seemingly instant attacks were so godsdamned unfair!

“The enemy are too close for us to raise the gates!” Someone shouted from the walls above, as if she needed more problems to solve.

Xaoc damn it all!

“Just lift the gate enough to pass the wounded through one-by-one! A team to slide them under and a team to pull them inside!” Ranthia shouted back.

A lack of response prompted one of the dwarves to echo her orders a few moments later, obviously no one on the wall could hear her over the din of battle. Ranthia parried another crude weapon with her left knife while the shimagu [Mages] continued to carve pieces out of her. Making the two Brilliance wielders miss wasn’t hard, but they could ‘walk’ their attacks before they concluded, which meant they were inflicting at least a little damage almost every time. No matter how she danced, she was suffering. The greater problem was the Lightning [Mage], an ogre with [Mage – Lightning], [Warrior – Wind], and [Warrior – Mountain]. Its level was only in the mid-five hundreds and Ranthia was mostly certain that it was another faux-twin, but it was still a problem.

The faux-twins were another annoying bit of cleverness the shimagu had inflicted upon the war. Parasites with classes that mirrored those of the host, which generated calls of confirmed twins and forced Coalition elites to respond to what was ultimately a false alarm. The faux-twins were usually well trained and were equipped with some of the best equipment the shimagu had shown, but they were ultimately far less capable than a true twin could ever be. Unfortunately, it was a bear to be certain that they weren’t true twins without engaging them.

But even if he was a faux-twin, it was impossible to miss that the shimagu had specifically prepared a counter for her in their surprise attack. The force was too small to take Remera, but they were doing more damage than a group their size should have been capable of.

One of the infected beasts attempted to charge past her, which forced Ranthia to tap [Sustained Chaos] to throw her right knife—fully imbued with her Skills—into the spine at the base of its skull as it thundered past. The kill notification confirmed that beast and parasite were both killed in the moment of impact—even if the body was still in motion.

Her right bracer crumbled into sand and replaced her knife, just barely in time to intercept the rusty sword that another ogre tried to stab into her. There was no time for her to wrestle with [Adamant Commander] to retrieve the knife from the dense tissue of the resilient dinosaur, which meant she was down a bracer. Ranthia altered her dance to compensate and focused on sending out more images.

She needed to shift to a fresh body before she accumulated too many injuries, but the enemy were aggressive enough that her images were being shattered almost as fast as she could replace them.

It truly was damned annoying to face enemies that were familiar with her and were fully prepared to capitalize on her weaknesses. But it wasn’t the first time she had dealt with it and it wouldn’t be the last.

“Brindelt, Vargrath, on me! We got this lot, Grace!” One of the dwarves yelled as he prepared to charge in her direction.

