“Belgrade, actually. It helps differentiate them. And it makes sense.”
Pawn nodded slowly. He hesitated. Archer Group F arrived, walking into the room, holding bows and arrows, both crude. But no less deadly.
“I confess, Anand. I did not understand the plight of the Workers until now. I was too focused on the Soldiers. I’ve ignored part of our Hive. Again.”
Anand shrugged. He leaned on a wall; the action was so spontaneous and natural that neither Worker noticed. But the other Workers and Soldiers stared: none of them would ever have done that. None had.
“You were busy with the Painted Soldiers, Pawn. You gave to them what the Workers could obtain with chess. You cannot be everywhere.”
“You’ve looked after these Workers, then. I thank you.”
Anand hesitated.
“To an extent. The ones in this room—excluding the Archer Groups—are mine. But the vast majority of the Workers I don’t interact with. This is my personal group. Belgrade has his.”
That shocked Pawn. He opened his mandibles wide and hissed at Anand.
“It is not fair to single out separate Workers, Anand! They all deserve the same amount of attention!”
The [Tactician] tilted his head thoughtfully to one side.
“Fair? Of course not. But it is more efficient, Pawn. We cannot be everywhere, Belgrade and I. And Garry and Bird have not as yet expressed the desire to speak to any Workers or Soldiers.”
“But if you rotated them—”
“This group is my group. They are all [Tacticians]. They have the aptitude. I don’t need [Archers] or Workers whose talents lie elsewhere, Pawn. I like this group. I know all their names.”
“But they’re all Workers, Anand. Autonomous Workers. And the other Workers, the ones who aren’t Autonomous—if you don’t spend time with them, I can’t do it alone! It would not be equal, not be fair!”
Pawn stared at his old friend. Anand was nodding, but then he shook his head abruptly.
“Why would that matter? Fairness? That is a wrong concept, I think. Some individuals within the Hive possess capabilities greater than others. And unique existences such as the Queen and Revalantor Klbkch are worth more than any number of Soldiers or Workers. Our value is not equal, Pawn. Mine is not the same as yours, let alone Revalantor Klbkch’s. Or Erin’s. If we are to die, better it be Belgrade or I first.”
He tapped his chest. Pawn stared at the spot. Anand went on.
“In the same way, these Workers matter more to me. Archer Group A matters most because I know them. I realize it is unfair. But I cannot be fair. To make this group strong, I must prioritize it over others. And if there is a danger I think will wipe out an Archer Group, I would not send Archer Group A. That would be the wrong move strategically, you understand?”
He’d said that in front of Archer Groups B and F. Pawn looked at them, horrified. But he saw the Workers nodding calmly in response to Anand’s words. They approved of the logic.
“I can’t accept that. If we’re not equal, if one life has more value than the others, how can we understand each other? We were all Workers once, Anand.”
The [Tactician] paused as Pawn reached out to him. He grasped Pawn’s arm gently.
“That is true. That is very true.”
Pawn relaxed. Anand hesitated.
“And yet, I would say that has no bearing on how I conduct strategy or which Workers I select to be around me. Your line of thought interests me. It is not Antinium, Pawn. It comes from Erin, and Miss Ryoka, who you spoke to. It comes from above, from other species. I do not say it is wrong. I only wish to tell you that it may not be practical.”
He spread his arms, and Pawn could not deny that. Logically, Anand was correct. But illogically, in his heart, Pawn hurt for the Workers that Anand would never meet.
“I must disagree with your philosophy then, Anand. Even while I admit that your strategy is sound.”
The words were bitter. Anand nodded, accepting them. Then he looked up.
“Good. And I hope you will not change how you act, Pawn.”
The [Acolyte] twitched his left antenna. The [Tactician] smiled.
“I do not think I am wrong. Nor do I think it is wrong of you to continue believing as you do, Pawn. But I will act as I can for the Hive while balancing what I understand with what you say. I hold your words in great esteem. I only wish I could fulfill your expectations of me.”
And to that, Pawn had nothing to say at all. Anand thoughtfully looked back at his map. And then he raised his head. A Worker rushed into the room.
“Contact on Breach 1, Individual Anand. Thirty Eggwalkers.”
“Ah. I must attend to this. Send fifteen Painted! 40 S! Archery Group D!”
The Worker strode back among his peers, shouting orders. Only, Anand wasn’t really one of the other Autonomous Workers. He did seem taller among them, more animated. Pawn walked back, and the Workers and Soldiers in his group followed him. Anand waved to Pawn at the door.
“It is good to see you are not unhappy, Pawn. We will speak later.”
Pawn nodded. He walked past the other Workers clustering around Anand. It was hard even for Pawn to tell them apart. But then he saw one of them turn.
“Individual Pawn? This one will try his best to become worthy of the name Bishop.”
Pawn stared at Bishop. He hesitated. Then he nodded.
“Thank you. Goodbye, Bishop.”
Then he turned and went to find Belgrade.
 
——
 
“Anand has changed.”
Pawn spoke to Belgrade in front of a curious sight. Workers were constructing formations of dirt, terrain, even tunnels in a large cavern. It was a new addition to the Hive; it had replaced a storeroom and three access tunnels to be built. Presumably, it was important if the Hive had shifted its structure to allow for it. Belgrade stood in front of the flurry of Workers and nodded slowly in response to Pawn’s statement.
“Yes. As have I. More dirt to this section. There. Now, trigger trap six.”
He pointed absently as Workers packed dirt on a long tunnel. Pawn watched as one of them pushed a pillar made of dirt and set off a chain reaction. The tunnel ahead of the Worker collapsed in a whumph of dirt. Belgrade looked up.
“Six seconds. The speed can be improved. And I am dissatisfied about the weight dumped. It would not be able to crush one of the suits of enchanted armor, don’t you agree, Pawn? Try tripling the weight. We may have to add boulders.”
The Workers swarmed over trap six. Pawn looked at Belgrade. The Worker was still as he stared down at some blueprints on a piece of parchment, but his instructions were precise. The patrol that Pawn had brought waited, content to watch the other Workers while the two Individuals talked.
“Pardon me for not taking time to speak with you fully, Pawn. But I want to complete my latest trap modifications for the kill zone in front of the dungeon by today. Lyonette has requested an Antinium team to begin construction on The Wandering Inn. I will be directing the Soldiers and Workers to that duty. Unless you would like to fulfill the objective yourself? Or will you visit the inn?”
“She has? I—I think she told me about that. No. I’ll be going above with a patrol today. I’m…I don’t wish to have the duty. I’m sorry, Belgrade.”
Pawn lamely looked at the [Tactician] who was hard at work. While Pawn had mainly sat about and led prayers with his Painted Soldiers. The [Tactician] looked unconcerned.
“Do not be. I enjoy it.”
“Really? This?”
The traps and attempts at creating a more sturdy foundation were as boring to Pawn as anything he had seen. Belgrade was measuring how much one dirt, load-bearing column could hold. And comparing that against a similar weight in rocks. The Worker shrugged.
“Anand is always better at free-roaming tactics. Aggressive, evolving maneuvers of instinct. I have played chess, Shogi, and Go against him. I have lost more games than I have won. Except when he plays a strategy I am familiar with. You see, I prefer to create scenarios in which I can triumph. Which is why I like traps. Traps are predictable.”
One of the load-bearing columns collapsed. Belgrade made a note on his plans.
“Dirt is cheap too. I have now constructed six miles of traps from here to the dungeon by which we are able to eliminate most monster types. Workers and Soldiers are still needed especially against Flesh Worms and the like, which can tunnel, but we are now slowly gaining in numbers, rather than maintaining an acceptable casualty rate. I wonder how the other Workers and Soldiers will be deployed? Perhaps to your unit?”
He glanced up at Pawn. The [Acolyte] hesitated.
“I do not know. Revalantor Klbkch has ordered me to expand, but slowly. I think that is wise. I hope the Soldiers and Workers have a chance to rest if they are not needed to fight.”
“Most likely Revalantor Klbkch will send them into the dungeon to curb the enemy’s numbers. Or use the Worker in more construction projects. They are useless idle. Have you seen the Archer Groups at work, Pawn? They are most efficient for their kill-to-death ratio. Pawn? Pawn?”
Belgrade kept working on his blueprints for a minute before he realized Pawn had gone silent. He looked up. Pawn’s voice trembled.
“How—how can you speak of Soldiers and Workers dying like that, Belgrade? They are us.”
Belgrade paused.
“They are not, Pawn. They are Autonomous. Or regular Soldiers and Workers. They are not you. I have grown used to losing them. I could not bear to lose you. So. Do not die, please.”
He looked down. Pawn stared at him. He swept the blueprints from the desk. Belgrade made a clicking sound.
“Pawn!”
“Look at me, Belgrade! How can you say that? How can you not care about their deaths?”
Pawn seized Belgrade with all four arms. The other Worker raised his, then paused. He stared into the depths of Pawn’s gaze. And what was reflected in Belgrade’s multi-faceted eyes was—
“I counted, Pawn. After my first engagement as [Tactician] on the front, I was deeply disturbed and did not maintain adequate sleep after the first Soldiers and Workers died.”
Pawn stopped shaking Belgrade. His friend’s voice was soft.
“After the first week, I stopped waking up. Perhaps I was too tired. But I maintained adequate sleep. For the most part. After the first thousand. I stopped thinking about them with my every waking thought. I have counted them, though.”
“Counted?”
The [Tactician] nodded.
“My failures. I have lost…six thousand seven hundred and twenty-three Workers in engagements under my command. Is it a high number? Or is it lower than the Hive’s average? I do not know.”
He looked down at the blueprints lying on the ground. The Workers in the room beyond had stopped working. They stared at Pawn, along with the patrol. Belgrade’s voice was far away.
“They die when I fail. They die when I succeed. There is not a day where a Worker does not die under my command. And they look like me. They look like you. They look like us. But they are not us. They cannot be. Or else what am I doing?”
No one answered. Belgrade walked out of Pawn’s limp grip. He bent and picked up his plans, dusted them off.
“Traps. Traps are nice. They don’t kill Workers or Soldiers. Usually. But I will order them to their deaths if need be. If monsters breach my defenses, I will drown them in Antinium blood.”
He looked up abruptly at Pawn. The [Acolyte] couldn’t move.
“Facestealer killed four hundred Workers, Pawn. I just sent them into the tunnel until he left. I went there to see when he was gone. He took their heads, Pawn. Took them and left them. Lined them up. They stared at me. They looked like you. Like you and Anand and Garry and Bird and Knight and Bishop…like me. Are they me, Pawn? Me, before I met Erin?”
“Belgrade. I—”
Pawn reached out. Belgrade stepped back. He held his plans in his four hands. And his voice cracked. But he was no Aberration. He was just Belgrade. Trembling. Suddenly shaking, his stoic demeanor gone.
“Tell me. What am I now? Pawn?”
There was no answer Pawn could give. But at the same time, he could have never been still. He threw all four arms around Belgrade. The two Workers shivered, and Pawn slowly dragged Belgrade back. Out of that room filled with traps. The other Autonomous Workers helped Pawn pull Belgrade up as the [Tactician] protested weakly. Out of the dark Hive, and into the light. Towards the inn, where Belgrade sat and shook and Pawn called for Erin. And the patrol sat in the sunlight and drank blue fruit juice. And that was special.
Pawn sat in the familiar inn, because he was special and he had been there more times than he could count. He saw how Anand was wrong and right at the same time. Erin came out with Lyonette and hugged Belgrade. And the [Tactician] stopped shaking. Pawn explained, and Erin’s face contorted with sadness. And that was a crime in itself.
But for the first time, as he explained Belgrade’s anguish, Pawn saw the uncertainty on her face. As if she had no idea how to comfort the [Tactician] who had counted every Antinium he’d ever lost. He wondered if that expression had been on her face from the very start and he’d never noticed. Pawn wished he hadn’t seen it. But it was important that he had.
Everything changes.
 
——
 
She might not have known what to do. But she found out. It was a warm cup of milk, a blanket, and a dozen hugs. A gentle song as she rocked Belgrade. A flower from outside held up in a white Gnoll’s paw. And a pretty lie.
“It’s going to be alright, Belgrade. It’s alright.”
Erin held her old friend. And Belgrade calmed. And, eventually, he looked at Erin timidly.
“Do you have time to play a game of Go, Erin? Anand and I have wished to play you for a long time.”
The [Innkeeper] laughed.
“Of course I can. Settle down over here; I’ll get a board. Who else wants to play? You? And you? Who are you?”
“This one is Archer B23.”
“Oh. Oh? That’s a good name!”
“Yes, it is. Thank you.”
“And who are you?”
“Archer B1.”
“That’s a good name too! Alright, you sit here, and I’ll show you how to play if you don’t know. Someone get more milk for these guys?”
Lyonette grabbed a pitcher of warm milk by the fire. She brought it over and whispered.
“Erin, they’re acting on stage.”
“Oh. Right, right! I’ll lower my voice. Everyone who wants to watch, sit over there. I’ll go over here and teach these guys. Be shush. Hey, Archer B23. Do you know Bird?”
Pawn smiled. He sat with Lyonette. The [Princess] sat next to him, watching the rest of the Soldiers and Workers taking tables closer to the stage. The Players of Celum, clearly pleased to have an audience not heckling them, decided it was time to put on a full performance of Macbeth.
“You haven’t been here lately, Pawn.”
“No. I’m sorry, Lyonette. But I’ve been—”
Her hand found his on the table.
