“You don’t have to explain. I’m just glad you came up. With Belgrade.”
“Yes.”
And somehow, Lyonette’s silence was more comforting than anything Belgrade or Anand had said. It was a good silence. And Pawn sat with her as Mrsha crawled up onto a chair next to Lyonette and decided to nap on her other side. And he sat there for…he couldn’t have said how long. Watching the play. Until the door burst open and Ceria shouted into the inn.
“It’s a damn election!”
And then, of course, things were noisy. But Pawn felt the warmth on his hand even when Lyonette got up. He turned obligingly as Ceria and Yvlon entered from Liscor’s door to shout about something with Erin and Lyonette in the corner. Another Antinium followed them. He was notable because he had three arms. And he was as different as Belgrade and Pawn. But…
“Ksmvr.”
“Hello, Pawn.”
The former Prognugator stiffened a bit when he looked at Pawn. And Pawn felt the phantom pain racing down his arm. Ksmvr edged backwards. He seemed smaller to Pawn. Less terrifying. Pawn wondered if he should shout something. But then he looked at Ksmvr’s missing arm and decided not to. The Prognugator looked around.
“I will get out of your way. Excuse me.”
“I…you don’t need to. That is your team. I am simply listening.”
Pawn walked past Ksmvr. The other Antinium stared at him. Then he ducked his head slowly and joined the group.
“An election? Really?”
“That’s right. And we just heard the latest. Uh—Ceria, explain it.”
The half-Elf had a very good imitation of Pisces’ sniff in Pawn’s opinion.
“The Antinium are funding Liscor’s expansion and giving money to the City Watch’s budget, among other things. But that depends upon Krshia getting her seat on the Council. So she’s likely to sweep her district because who doesn’t want free gold? I’d vote for her.”
Yvlon nodded. Erin whistled softly, an action that made every Antinium in the room instantly turn to look at her. The [Innkeeper] glanced at Pawn.
“Whoa. That’s big. Pawn, did you know about this?”
The Worker shook his head. He didn’t really care, but he cared that everyone else cared. Then he thought about Workers getting a chance to work in the sunlight. Maybe Soldiers could guard them or help?
“I think this is a good idea. But I have no idea what it is about.”
“Krshia’s claiming that the Antinium will pay two thousand gold per year. Possibly more. Not bad, although I can see that not going too far in the case of the City Watch. Even steel’s expensive if you’re arming a thousand. But more? And helping pay for construction? That is a big incentive—I don’t know if the Council can deny an election with that on the table.”
Drassi, who’d also been sent to gather information, was chattering to the others. She had the pulse of the crowds. News was spreading fast about the proposed election, and the Antinium offer had just pushed public opinion hard. Lyonette nibbled a fingernail as she thought, frowning.
“Klbkch is offering a lot to Krshia, Selys, and Zevara. I’m surprised they’re the ones behind it. Erin, you’re sure you didn’t say anything to them?”
“No! I mean, not about this specifically. Why does everyone think this is my fault?”
Lyonette turned towards Pawn.
“Can the Antinium really fund all this, Pawn? Or even more?”
Belgrade looked up from his table where he was pondering his next set of moves. He hesitated and closed his mandibles without speaking. Erin absently placed a Go stone down as Archer B23 hopefully placed a black stone.
Pawn thought of the storage areas devoted only to holding the gold, copper, and silver. They had to be reinforced to account for the weight of all that metal. Then he thought of the artifact chambers, and other stockpiles in the Hive. He shrugged.
“The Hive can pay for it. It would not be hard.”
“Well then, I’m sold. Go election! Hey, can anyone run?”
Drassi threw up her claws in delight. Erin was smiling too.
“That’s so cool! Democracy! And I didn’t do anything! Honest! I think. Wait…no, I’m pretty sure! Hey, let’s go see what Krshia’s saying! How about it?”
She looked around. The others nodded. Pawn found himself following Erin through the door. She reassured him.
“Your Workers and Soldiers are fine. Belgrade’s there, and he thinks he can plot out a victory while I’m gone. Hah! Although he’s a lot better. But I’ve been practicing Go. It’s nice to have a good opponent! Where’s—oh, wow!”
She’d come to Market Street, or rather, the crowd hanging out the back of it. Drakes and Gnolls let Erin’s group push into the crowd—mainly because they weren’t given any choice. Yvlon was polite—Drassi knew every third person, but Ceria and Selys unapologetically pushed through.
They tripped, cast minor cantrips, and elbowed without mercy. Drakes and Gnolls sprang aside, swearing at him as cold spells made them move. Erin followed, apologizing profusely for her friends. Which, Pawn realized, coincidentally brought her through the crowd as well. Ksmvr was taking notes.
Krshia was standing on her stall, but she was now speaking to a huge number of people. And many of them were chanting ‘election’ while others shouted questions at the Gnoll. She was fielding them, and pitching her election plan every few minutes to the crowd coming in and out.
“The Antinium have agreed to help expand Liscor! Yes! And contribute to the funding of the City Watch and Adventurer’s Guild! That is an opportunity we should not pass up! Think of it! We could expand Liscor and build an entirely new district! And with that space, we could build more than just apartments, yes? Let both Drakes, Gnolls, and, yes, Humans immigrate to Liscor! We could construct forges for [Blacksmiths], perhaps even huge warehouses like those used in Pallass! Or—what about a forest, a park inside the city walls? One with trees?”
The citizens of Liscor stared at Krshia, caught by the ideas she was floating past them. Erin, who’d reached the crowd right in front of Krshia, paused, and Pawn heard someone else half-shouting.
“Tone it down, Krshia! Don’t promise too much!”
“Let her! It’s just an idea!”
Two Drakes were standing in front of a group of Gnolls. Pawn recognized Zevara and Selys. The Watch Captain was shaking her head, dismayed by Krshia’s rhetoric.
“This idea is getting too big. I mean, we didn’t even consider it! Inviting Humans to settle in Liscor? A huge park? Swimming pools? Who gave her those ideas?”
Both Drakes turned and stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] shrugged innocently.
“Hey. Krshia just asked me for ideas the other day. And if the Antinium are going to build it, they can do it, right? I mean, I’ve seen some cool stuff in Pallass, but even they don’t have pools! And you could make walkways and add more floors to all the buildings! Build the walls even higher! Raise those walls! Raise those walls! Whoo!”
She raised her fist. The Gnolls turned around and the chant started spreading through the crowd. Erin laughed. Then she looked unaccountably guilty.
“Ooh. I don’t know if that’s a good one to shout. Oh well.”
Pawn looked around. He didn’t know what Erin meant, but the crowd seemed very pleased with Krshia’s ideas, as far as he could tell. Krshia was getting cheers, and the chant of ‘raise that wall’ was already being adopted. Zevara was addressing Erin when Pawn turned his attention back to them.
“You can help. Ancestors preserve me, but I’m okay with that. Especially if you can get Klbkch to promise more gold. But you have to promise me—no disasters!”
“Hey! I don’t try—okay, sometimes I do try—”
“No disasters! No one knocks down a wall or—or you somehow invite a group of Half-Giant [Architects] to the city! Got it?”
“Do half-Giant [Architects] exist? I wonder if Moore knows any.”
“Gah! Selys, do something about her!”
“Calm down, Zevara. Erin’s not doing anything. This is our idea. She can’t—”
“Raise those walls! Raise those walls!”
“Elections! Gnolls on the Council!”
“Vote for Krshia! How do we vote?”
“No more Antinium!”
The voice cut through the shouting. It was a strident shout, a piercing note of dissonance. The crowd quieted. Zevara closed her eyes. Krshia’s head turned around. Her smiling face turned into a snarl.
Pawn looked left. Coming down the street was a group of Drakes. Some Gnolls, but mostly Drakes. And they were being led by someone being carried on his own stall. Pawn didn’t recognize him until Selys hissed his name.
“Lism. Oh, Creler eggs. What is he doing now?”
The [Shopkeeper] swayed as his counter crowd advanced down the street. He came to a stop, grabbing at the side of his stall, and glared at Krshia. His voice was a shout.
“Let Humans into Liscor? Do you not remember the army that was besieging our city not a month ago? Hello?”
The jubilant mood of the crowd was gone in a second. Pawn was quite impressed. He stared as Lism shook a fist at Krshia.
“And what’s this? Antinium paying for Liscor? Excuse me, but am I the only one who sees a problem with that?”
“Only you could find a way to object to free money, Lism!”
Krshia snapped back to a laugh from the crowd. Lism turned red, but Selys leaned over to Erin, looking worried.
“What is he doing here? Krshia chased him off once, but he’s got a crowd behind him. Is he trying to stop the election?”
Drassi snorted. She’d come up on Selys’ other side and leaned on her friend.
“He’s just a blowhard. Who’s going to argue against expanding the city if it’s cheap? And free money? We’ll take that from the Antinium, thanks!”
The Gnolls around her nodded. But Selys looked worried. So did Zevara. And Pawn, looking at Lism, saw the Drake sneer at Krshia.
“You think the Antinium do anything for free? You’re delusional, Silverfang. And what’s this about having them construct the city? Would you trust walls built by the Antinium? They’re the only thing that’s kept the Antinium from wiping us out!”
He pointed dramatically at the walls of Liscor in the distance. The crowd craned their necks to see. Krshia folded her arms and glared.
“You say that, but unless you can solve our housing issue—”
Lism bawled over her, cutting Krshia off with sheer force of volume!
“I don’t need to hear a bad idea to refute it! No Antinium walls! No Ant builders! No Humans taking our city!”
“No Humans! No more walls!”
The crowd chanted behind him. They weren’t larger than Krshia’s crowd, but this group was organized and united. Some of the listeners began looking towards Lism instead of Krshia. The Gnolls around Erin, Selys, and Pawn looked disgusted. Krshia growled.
“You’d do nothing, Lism? You’re as bad as the Council!”
“Hah! I’d do better than you, Silverfang! And I wouldn’t be a tool of the Antinium! People, don’t listen to this furball! If you want leadership, vote for me, Lism!”
The Drake struck a pose to cheers from the people around him. The Gnolls shouted in outrage.
“Furball!?”
“Not an hour ago, you were against an election. Why the sudden change of heart?”
Krshia shouted back at Lism. The Drake laughed at her.
“If we do have an election, why not run? And what’s more, I can promise better than Antinium gold and Antinium favors!”
“Lies. Pure lies! You don’t have anything to offer!”
Krshia howled. Lism smirked.
“Oh, I don’t, do I? Everyone, please direct your attention that way! Wing Commander, please take your men forwards!”
There was a moment of silence as the crowd turned to look. Zevara, standing in front of Pawn, suddenly groaned.
“Wing Commander? Oh no—”
Pawn heard the first beat of the marching drum like a tingle on the back of his carapace. Then the ratatatattat of the drum sounded, and trumpets began to blow a triumphal melody. Pawn looked up and saw the crowd parting.
They marched down the street, four abreast, as precise as a unit of Antinium Soldiers. Their armor was polished. Their neck spines were oiled; their fur was combed. The [Soldiers] were Drakes and Gnolls, but their insignia marked them. Liscor’s sons and daughters.
The army of Liscor. They came down the street like thunder. One of the Drake [Captains] roared above the sound of the trumpets and beating drum.
“4th Company! Present arms!”
The Drakes and Gnolls unsheathed their blades and held them out. The crowd jumped back, but the 4th Company’s track was perfectly calculated. They walked forwards, their feet a solid, pounding beat accompanying the drums. And at their head rode a Drake whose scales were as fiery as the blush on her cheeks.
“Citizens of Liscor, I give you the hero of the Battle for Liscor. Wing Commander Embria!”
Lism roared over the sound. Krshia stared. She pointed at Embria.
“What is she doing here? This is not a military affair! The army left Liscor in our darkest—”
“The army was here! They held the line! Or do you forget that the 4th Company fought and died outside our walls?”
Lism bawled at the crowd. The Drakes, even the Gnolls, looked ashamed for a moment. The 4th Company did indeed have conspicuous holes in the hundred that had first come to Liscor. Krshia tried to shout something, but Lism had the momentum. And perhaps a voice-enhancing spell, because his voice resounded even over the marching 4th Company.
“The army defended us! It was Drake [Soldiers] and Gnoll [Guardsmen] on that wall! More than the Antinium. Liscor defended itself! And the army was here. If they had known the Goblin Lord was assaulting Liscor, our army would have come back in force to smash both the Goblins and Tyrion Veltras to bits! But I agree with honored Krshia. We should have more than just one company! That’s why if I’m elected, I’ll call for three more companies to be stationed permanently in Liscor!”
The thump thump thump of the boots was a backdrop to Lism’s voice as well as the beat of the drums.
“I’ve spoken with our High Command, and they’ve agreed to send permanent reinforcements to aid our heroic City Watch. We don’t need foreigners and Ants flooding our city. I hear the Antinium want to bring more of their kind in. The High Command has also approved to fund Liscor’s walls with honest money the army earned themselves! Vote for me, and we’ll bring our army back! Bring them back! Bring them back!”
The crowd howled the same words behind Lism.
“Bring them back! No more Ants! No more Humans! Bring them back!”
Lism stood on his platform and raised a hand. Embria had reached him. Reluctantly, the Wing Commander looked around from the back of her restless steed. Lism pointed at her, raising a claw clenched in triumph.
