Painted Antinium. Their thoughts stood out from the others. Once, Klbkch would have followed that Soldier, taken him away from the other Antinium and beheaded him with a cut from one of the silvery blades he carried if the Soldier failed his test. And if he had not, Klbkch would still have watched that Soldier like a hawk, hoping that the Soldier was something else. Something new.
Emotion, thought—they were signs of Aberration, or hints of Individuality. Either one made the Soldier precious. Once, such a way of thinking would have made that Soldier rarer than diamonds. Although that was a poor comparison, because diamonds were useless and worthless in the Hive. Klbkch had ordered the Workers to stop throwing them away or using them to pack the walls with stones, though; apparently, they had value as commodities.
Yes, half a year ago, that Painted Soldier would have consumed Klbkch’s thoughts and his day. Now, Klbkch just kept heading to the surface.
“Once.”
The Painted Soldier’s head turned as he heard Klbkch’s faint voice. He halted; the other Workers and Soldiers paused, heads straight, hesitating with indecision. Klbkch met the Painted Soldier’s gaze.
“Nothing. Carry on.”
The other Workers and Soldiers moved forwards smoothly, never looking back. The Painted Soldier hesitated. He gazed at Klbkch and then ducked his head. Shy? Afraid? Embarrassed? Klbkch didn’t bother reaching for the Painted Soldier’s thoughts. He didn’t care to know.
The Soldier with blue dots continued walking, and Klbkch watched him go. Even now, the Painted Soldier was valuable. More valuable than a hundred Soldiers like him. Because he was something new. An Individual. But he was not what Klbkch had hoped for.
Once. Once, he would have known what was happening above in detail as it happened. Once, Klbkch wouldn’t have had to strain to read the thoughts of the Antinium around him. He could have reached out and known what a Worker walking ten miles away from him was thinking, what the Antinium was seeing, sensing, whether it was injured or hungry—everything and anything, as if that Worker and Klbkch were the same. And the Workers and Soldiers would have known Klbkch’s thoughts. But those days were past. And they might never come again.
“More Antinium are coming. The Hives will reunite. There is hope. Especially if the other Queens will take inspiration. If more Individuals appear, then we will have an irregular force. Prognugator-level leaders. If nothing else.”
Klbkch spoke as he ascended through the maze of tunnels. The Painted Soldiers, the new Individual Workers, and the leaders like Anand, Pawn, and the others were extremely valuable. Not what Klbkch or the Free Queen had envisioned, but valuable nonetheless. Change was coming to Liscor. It was just that he still remembered what had been, and if you had seen perfection, how could you ever admire anything short of that?
That was how Klbkch lived. How he lived almost every day, in fact. Caught between maintaining the Hive, remembering the past, thinking of the distant, possibly unobtainable future, and being surprised by how his Hive had changed almost without him knowing.
He did not dream of the future, and he seldom slept. He had a job to do, and he did it with every hour he spent awake. He was driven, a perfect example of what was Antinium surrounded by fake copies. Klbkch walked and remembered.
Once, they had been better.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail peered into the Hive and shivered, true to her last name. It was a full-body shiver that had nothing to do with cold; the dark tunnel leading downwards was purely ominous. And worse, Selys could see the half-hidden shapes of the Soldiers waiting in their alcoves. The Drake danced from foot to foot nervously, then looked at the Drake beside her.
“I’m going to wet myself if one of them so much as moves. Can’t we stand further back?”
The Drake standing next to her with light blue scales, a very fit figure, and a more muscular, yet shorter and less curved tail than Selys’ turned her head. Watch Captain Zevara shook her head after a moment’s pause and resumed staring into the Hive.
“They won’t attack so long as we don’t go down into the tunnel. Even if you slip, you’ll be fine. And if you need to pee, do it over there.”
She shooed Selys over to the side. Selys bit her tongue at Zevara’s dismissive tone. But she was also embarrassed. The [Receptionist] turned [Heiress] squared her shoulders a touch indignantly.
“You’ve done this all the time then? It’s my first time looking into the Hive.”
“Really? I have to talk with Klbkch often. This is how we do it.”
Selys remembered Zevara walking a few feet into the Hive and calling out for Klbkch as the Soldiers moved to block the way. That had been a moment she was going to remember in her nightmares. Yes, the Soldiers were part of Liscor. And yes, Selys even knew some Antinium like Pawn and liked them. Still, the sight of a dozen huge shapes stepping out of the walls with all four fists raised, ready to kill—
“Uh—so. What do you do on your days off, Zevara? I’ve never really seen you outside of work. Not that I really see you around. Do you, um, dance? In bars? There’s this really good one that I went to the other day. It’s this troupe at Wishdrinks. They play really well. Have you been to Wishdrinks…?”
The Watch Captain turned her head slightly and gave Selys a fish eye glance.
Shut up, Selys, you’re embarrassing yourself! The younger Drake closed her mouth. She was still an adult, even if Zevara had nearly a decade on her, but she felt like a hatchling. After a second, Zevara shrugged slightly.
“I don’t do much off-duty. Watch Captains have to work all hours. You know that.”
“Right, right.”
Silence. After a second, Zevara checked her posture.
“…I tend to drink at bars where most of the City Watch goes when they’re off-duty. Other than that? I might read a book. Clean my apartment. Sometimes I pay for a mage-show, or go to an event with some of the Senior Guardsmen. Wishdrinks is out of my budget most of the time, though. I’ve never actually gone, just planned on it and that was a disaster.”
“Oh! Me too. I mean, it was. Until I, uh, earned some money. You should join me sometime. I’m sure my friends would be delighted to meet you.”
“Hm. Perhaps. I wouldn’t want to spoil the atmosphere. A Watch Captain tends to drag down a night’s entertainment.”
“Ah…”
More silence. The two Drakes looked at each other. Selys hesitated.
“Maybe with Erin?”
“The H—Erin Solstice?”
“She’s been visiting Pallass a lot, but she’s always interested in new experiences. And she’s impossible to bother, as far as I’ve seen. Maybe with her, Lyonette, Drassi—”
Zevara winced with each progressive name. Selys bit her tongue again. The Watch Captain eyed her again and sighed.
“Perhaps. It’s not that I mind her too much, you understand? But she causes trouble. Why not, though? Let me know and I’ll see if my schedule lines up. The, er, thief girl’s actually pleasant to be around these days. And your chatterbox friend isn’t bad either.”
Selys blinked.
“You know Drassi?”
“Doesn’t everyone?”
“True. But she knows you?”
Zevara almost smiled. She uncrossed her folded arms, which appeared to be her default stance.
“I’ve met her on patrol. Even before I was Watch Captain. And she is one of Liscor’s finest [Gossips]. Even when she was a little brat—er, hatchling, running about the streets, she’d talk my ear off while I was on duty. I had to deal with eleven noise complaints involving her.”
“I had no idea.”
Tickled, Selys grinned. She saw a smile flash across Zevara’s face. The two Drakes looked at each other, and then caught themselves. Zevara cleared her throat, and Selys coughed.
“We haven’t talked much.”
“No. We have not.”
It was an odd pairing. Selys was a [Receptionist], a no-name grunt in a standard job. Admittedly, her grandmother was head of the Adventurer’s Guild and Selys worked there, but Zevara was a Watch Captain. One of the most important people in Liscor outside of the army. Neither had exchanged many words before, and certainly, Zevara hadn’t known Selys personally.
But here they were. Standing in front of the Hive. And they were also collaborators in a huge project that might change Liscor forever. Krshia, Selys, and Zevara were part of an alliance to force an election for Liscor’s council. But they needed help. And as if thinking that had summoned him, a shape appeared in the dark tunnel and marched up it.
For a moment, Selys was uneasy. But she relaxed as soon as she saw the familiar, even friendly form of the one Antinium everyone in Liscor knew. Senior Guardsman Klbkch, the dependable partner of Relc and popular member of the Watch, appeared out of the Hive. And only when Selys looked at him in this context did she remember that he was also Revalantor Klbkch, the Slayer of the Antinium Wars. But Liscor had grown used to Klbkch’s face, and the Antinium’s precise voice was even pleasant to hear as he nodded to both Drakes.
“Ah. Watch Captain Zevara. Miss Selys. I apologize for the delay. I was at work. How may I help you?”
Zevara coughed, and a tiny plume of smoke escaped her mouth.
“Klbkch. Sorry to call you out before your shift starts. I was hoping I could speak with you with Selys here. I’m off-duty, but this matter concerns the Antinium. And the Watch.”
Klbkch’s head turned for a second to Selys. He paused and then nodded.
“Certainly. The Hive is not a suitable place for casual conversation. May I recommend a nearby bar?”
Both Drakes nodded, so Klbkch indicated the left street, and they walked past the opening to the Hive. Drakes and Gnolls used this street; the Hive’s entrance, an area of excavated dirt, was an anomaly in the road. The area around it had been cleared of buildings, but the hustle and bustle of Liscor resumed barely a dozen feet from the entrance. Klbkch led Zevara into the first tavern he came to. Instantly, a Drake [Server] came up.
“Watch Captain Zevara? Senior Guardsman Klbkch? And…”
He frowned at Selys.
“Are you General Shivertail’s—no, Guildmistress Tekshia’s—”
He bit his tongue.
“Er, how can I help you all? Is this a Watch matter? The owner’s out, so if it is…”
He looked nervous, as well he might. Zevara coughed again and shook her head.
“Not Watch business. We’re all off-duty. Could we have a private table to talk?”
“Of course!”
Much relieved, the [Server] immediately ushered the party to a table closer to the back. Selys realized that her face along with Klbkch’s and Zevara’s attracted immediate attention from the patrons in the morning crowd. But Klbkch was received with neutrality at the worst—some people even waved to him. Selys got stares, which was new and possibly relating to her most recent Skill; it was only Zevara who made anyone with a guilty conscience hunch up.
“What’ll it be? We’ve got a Dwarven brandy on tap. Very strong stuff, although not as potent as good Drake spirits, of course.”
“Of course.”
Selys and Zevara chorused with straight faces. Zevara shrugged.
“I’ll have that brandy for a taste. Get me a mug of water too to go with it. Selys?”
“Uh…yeah, that sounds good! Water too, please. Klbkch? Order anything you want. It’s on me.”
Lamely, Selys copied Zevara. Klbkch glanced up at the chalk writing on a board above the bar.
“I will have a mulled wine. Thank you.”
The [Server] disappeared and came back with three containers filled to the brim. Selys accepted her mug and sipped from the heady, sweet liquid. It was certainly strong, and Selys was glad she’d gotten water with Zevara. She decided she liked it, and waved a claw.
“Do you have snacks?”
“Of course! We’ve got some nuts, some Gnoll, uh, silkap, and french fries. Hot! With that katsup stuff.”
“Ketchup.”
The [Server] blinked. Then he eyed Selys.
“Right. You know that [Innkeeper] who made it. Ours is good! You want salt?”
“I’ll take the nuts, actually. Can we get two bowls?”
“Sure, sure. You wouldn’t happen to know how that white stuff is made?”
“Mayonnaise? No idea, sorry.”
“Well, I tried. Tell my boss that if he rips off my tail.”
The [Server] disappeared again. Selys looked at Klbkch. He was sipping from his drink and exchanging polite conversation with Zevara.
“And you stopped Relc from beating the [Thieves] into the ground? Thanks, Klbkch. I don’t mind the bruises, but we have to fix broken bones.”
“It is part of my job, Watch Captain. Moderate bodily harm is appropriate under our code of conduct.”
“Tell Relc that. If he weren’t so useful, I would have kicked him out of the Watch years ago. As it is, I think he can be put to better use. Although he does keep [Thieves] off the streets for a few days after he catches one…”
Zevara sighed. She leaned back, sipping her drink, and popped a few walnuts into her mouth as they arrived in a bowl. She nodded, burped a small gout of flame, and, to Selys’ delight, blushed.
“Sorry. Flame breath. Happens sometimes. Duck if I sneeze. Klbkch, mind if I cut to the chase?”
“I believe we have done an appropriate amount of socializing, yes, Watch Captain. What is the issue you would like to discuss with me?”
Selys edged closer to their booth table. Zevara leaned forwards as well, and Selys studied Klbkch. He was someone she hadn’t really known before Erin either. Oh, she saw him around, but like Zevara, he wasn’t someone she’d ever imagined she would have been friends with, or talked to as an equal. A coconspirator. A…partner? She looked at Zevara, and the Watch Captain nodded. They’d agreed to let her do the talking. Selys was just here to help with the negotiations. And Krshia?
She was hard at work selling the idea to Liscor. Zevara leaned forwards, bracing herself with an arm on the table.
“Alright, Klbkch. Here’s the details. You’re aware that the Council is changing seats this month? Well, Krshia and Selys approached me two days ago with a plan that involves changing how the Council forms itself…”
 
——
 
The pitch was short. Zevara finished explaining the concept before her mug had half-emptied, with Selys adding in a few details. But its effect on Klbkch was anything but trivial.
The Antinium sat back at his table. The mulled wine in his cup he’d ordered to be sociable was untouched. Klbkch blinked down at it, realized he’d forgotten to drink, and downed the entire cup while he thought. Zevara and Selys stared at Klbkch as he calmly put down his empty cup. Alcohol had a limited effect on Antinium, as did most poisons.
“One Council member per district. I see. And your assumption is that Krshia Silverfang would win in her area?”
