“Why? Because they have strength? Numbers? A thicker carapace? That is not strength. An army of Soldiers fights together. It is true. The Antinium have cohesion. But the True Antinium were beyond that. If you had seen them, you would understand. An army of True Antinium Soldiers moved as one being. They looked with a thousand eyes. Thought with a thousand minds. Thus linked, an army of Soldiers could outmaneuver most [Strategists] and fight with a unity no other force could match. Imagine it. A Soldier could dodge a blow from behind or know a charge was coming without needing to hear. He would comprehend and react at the speed of thought!”
“Oh.”
Garry nodded. Bird opened his mandibles.
“But we all react at the speed of thought. Don’t we?”
Garry and the Free Queen looked down at him. Bird shrank.
“Don’t we? Am I wrong? I am wrong. Wrong…”
The Free Queen patted his stomach gently. Bird stopped rocking.
“They thought with every mind present, Bird. That is the difference. Consider this. One of the abilities of the True Antinium was the power to coordinate flawlessly over long distances. Queens could work together in small groups or by the hundreds and amplify our connection. It was known as a Unitasis Network—we formed a similar bond during the First and Second Antinium Wars, the few of us that remained. But we had to route our connections through our Prognugators, and at distance we lost focus, cohesion. If we had armies of True Antinium, we would have not needed to strain so to make our voices heard. We would not have needed Prognugators.”
“Because we would have all been linked. One command would have reached us all.”
The Free Queen nodded. Garry understood. He looked up at her.
“Is that what we lost, my Queen? In our voyage across the sea?”
She looked down at him, startled. Dark memories swam across the Free Queen’s mind, but she chased them back. She bent down.
“What do you know of the crossing of the ocean, Garry?”
He shrank. The Free Queen forced herself to pull her head back.
“Only—only what Anand said, my Queen. He found a book. About the Antinium Wars. It said that we lost many ships leaving Rhir. Were we on Rhir?”
The question was both painful and offensive. The Free Queen recoiled from Garry, and her body rose, almost convulsing. She raised her limbs furiously. And then paused. He did not know. It was not his fault. Garry flinched, looking up at his Queen. When she spoke, her voice was taut.
“You have never witnessed the True Antinium. You cannot imagine it, little Garry, little Bird. But the six remaining Queens of the Antinium remember. Xrn. Klbkch. Wrymvr. The last of the Centenium. They remember. Yes. We were on Rhir. We may still be. And we left it. And we were glorious. Look around. Look around my chambers. Look upon me. Walk the length of our Hive. And understand this if nothing else, Garry, Bird. What you think is the Antinium is nothing less than a fraction of what we are. What we were.”
They looked up at her. They had no reference, no frame to understand. But the Free Queen tried to make them understand. Suddenly, she was gripped by that horrible compulsion. She tried to project it to them as if they were Klbkchhezeim. But they were deaf and mute.
“You think this Hive is large? It is small. Insignificant. You think I am a proper Queen? I am weak. Compared to my predecessors, I am a fool. A fool and pathetic.”
“But you are our Queen.”
Garry’s voice was small. The Free Queen paused. Then she shook her head.
“You were not there. You did not see them. The glories of a true Hive. The forms of true Antinium. As varied as the species that walk Izril. There were so many Queens. So many Prognugators and Centenium, yes, Centenium like Klbkch. But he was different too. Our Hives stretched countless miles down into the earth. Our armies could have swept across Izril like a true tide. In our youth, we were mighty.”
They were just words. But still, they held Bird and Garry. The Free Queen went on, and her eyes saw glorious halls and sights that decades had failed to erase. A glimpse. Oh, a glimpse.
“We were so strong! We emerged from the ground and took all four walls of Rhir. We could have taken the capital, but we were fleeing. The kingdom was necessary to safeguard. So we left. Because our enemy was that strong. That terrible. That even the combined Hives of the True Antinium and our armies were helpless against it.”
The shadows grew long in the Free Queen’s chambers. She raised her feelers helplessly, as if she could conjure the scenes she spoke of with shadows instead of memory.
“We fled. Yes. But even in flight, in retreat, in decline, it was an age of glory that exceeds any of a species above ground. They wane. But we are a species younger than any other. We were created. And we created ourselves. You have seen Klbkchhezeim’s new form. I shaped that. But my work is clumsy. Slight. The Queens of old were capable of shaping chitin and flesh as easily as Garry shapes food. They created Antinium of every color and size and function to serve the Hive’s needs. And we had our champions.”
“Who were they?”
Bird’s voice was wondering. Garry simply stood, staring at his Queen as she spoke, more animated than he had ever seen her. The Free Queen struggled to even speak.
“How could I ever tell you if I could not show you? They were giants. War Queens, mighty and immune to harm. Shaper Queens, who spun new Antinium as easily as thought. And Hive Queens, who administrated our Hives, tended to supplies and security and expansion. And there were smaller Queens too. Junior Queens who assisted the older Queens in their duties. I—I was a Junior Queen.”
“You?”
“Oh yes. Barely created. I was one of the last generation to leave our home. And I was part of the fleet sent to cross the oceans. To take Terandria, a nation described to us as weakest of the four other continents. But we failed the voyage.”
“Because of the water.”
Both Workers shuddered. The Free Queen hesitated.
“No. Yes. Perhaps. It was a failing of parts. We had never been at sea. We knew water, but we had never dreamed of sailing across it. We underestimated the distance. The trials. But we might have made it better than we did. We had brought an army. But the army died without more than a fraction having fought.”
“How? Did the boats sink?”
The Free Queens’ voice darkened. The shadows cast on the wall writhed.
“Worse. They died asleep. The bulk of our force was sealed in the bottom of the ships. In stasis, to avoid the need to consume our own during the voyage. We left the mightiest of our Queens and the Centenium to guard the ships. We thought…the Grand Queen of the time must have thought it was enough. It was not.”
Her voice quivered. And then grew flat. As if emotion were something you could simply switch off.
“First it was pursuit. Warships sent by Rhir. They sank our ships with fire and magic. We were unprepared. The Antinium had not adapted to the water. We could not swim. They used that against us and sank our ships. But we destroyed them. Then came pirates. People of the waters. They clashed with us. We killed them. Overran their vessels and slaughtered them at sea. Monsters preyed on us. We hunted them. Soldiers leapt from the edges of the boats and died killing their foes. But we continued. Our fleet would have made it. Then the storms came.”
The darkness closed in as the two Workers looked up at the looming Free Queen. She whispered, reaching out. Rain and water fell from the skies, until it seemed as if the horizon, the ocean itself, was all water.
“I have never seen such storms. Xrn says they were more than winter storms. They came from Wistram itself, from the [Mages] of every nation in the world. I do not know. I only know that the waves were fifty times as large as the tallest ships. They swallowed ships whole. And yet, we sailed through them. Xrn broke the waves in half with magic. The Queens sailed their ships through whirlpools and maelstroms. They had never crossed the ocean, but they dared the storms. And for every ship that broke, six survived. And we might have survived. But then it came.”
“What?”
Something with a hundred limbs reached out. The Free Queen looked around. One of the lead ships disappeared. A Queen called a warning in thought and mind. Below the ships, a dark shadow appeared in the churning waters. One miles long.
“I understand it to be called a Kraken. A devourer of fleets. This enemy brought the storm. Or perhaps the storm summoned it. It came to feast. And it brought all the horrors of the ocean with it. But the Antinium did not give in. We had nowhere to run. So we brought the fight to it. Our Queens dove from the railings. They cut it. Xrn brought down lightning. But it was not enough. One by one, they leapt. Into the waters.”
Galuc the Builder clung to a tentacle as it gripped a ship. The giant of the Antinium tore into flesh until the limb retreated to the waters. And blood turned the waters purple. But Galuc never returned. The Antinium were leaping, into a maw that split the sea. Fighting, dying, as the ships struggled to flee.
“Sixteen of the Centenium died there. Klbkchhezeim lost his true form. Our fleet sank, and with it, all the true Antinium were lost into the waters before they had a chance to fight. Sorcery could not damage the vessels our War Queens and Shaper Queens resided in. Even the Soldiers’ containers were impregnable against ordinary steel wielded by faulty flesh. But water killed the Antinium of Rhir where no other force in the world could. We have never suffered such a defeat save for when the First Queen fell.”
The roaring storm subsided. The howl of the Kraken faded into memory. The ships drifted as Xrn’s magics kept them together. Wrymvr flew, cutting a path in blood towards the shore, a distant speck. And the Free Queen looked around for someone. Anyone. But all that was left were children. Two hundred warships gone. Four, battered, sinking, all that remained.
Gone.
“We were less than twenty when we landed on Izril. We were all juniors. The oldest of us was an apprentice. And we had lost everything. All you see now, the works of decades, is a paltry fraction compared to what left Rhir. A disgrace.”
The Free Queen’s limbs trembled. The hole in her was opening, trying to swallow her again. She looked around reflexively, but there was nothing to eat. Two Workers stared up at her. So she finished the story, bitterly.
“I lost my mentor. She died before my eyes. I saw our Grand Queen’s ship go down. Our species died there, on the water. We were supposed to be the hope. In a decade, we would have returned to Rhir, bringing justice and retribution. Instead, we are locked in a struggle. Forced to a stalemate by a handful of species incapable of working together. That is the Antinium of now. But we were greater then. She was greater than I will ever be.”
“Who?”
Garry asked, but the Free Queen could not speak her name. She retreated, sinking down. And the word beat at her mind, a scream of longing, regret. Until she heard it.
“Bessachidia.”
The Free Queen thought she’d said it out loud. But the voice that spoke it was quiet. Male. She looked down. Bird stared up at her. He said the name again.
“Bessachidia. It is a pretty name.”
“How do you know that name?”
The Free Queen breathed slowly. Then not at all. She reached down. Bird tilted his head as she lifted him up, staring at him.
“I can hear it. Like a distant bird flapping. Very far away. Sometimes, it sounds like the other thoughts in my head. Or words. Is that what it is? Is that you, my Queen? I thought it was just me. Or something else.”
“You can hear me.”
“Maybe?”
Bird was uncertain. He looked at the Free Queen intently, like the birds he hunted. The Free Queen shook her head.
“You heard me. Then, at the battle with the Goblin Lord. You heard me and the Soldiers.”
“They were laughing. And sad. But laughing. Sometimes, I hear things like that. You were very loud.”
“I was.”
“That was her name. A Queen had a name? Was—was she the Grand Queen?”
Garry’s voice was awed. The Free Queen laughed bitterly.
“She was not the Grand Queen. Bessachidia was my teacher. My mentor and one of the finest Queens ever to be created of the Hives. She was a Shaper Queen, a master of manipulating and creating the essence of which all Antinium are formed. She could weave forms as well as any but our First Queen. She might have even created something akin to one of the Centenium had she the resources and time.”
“Ooh.”
That was all Bird said. The Free Queen made a sound like laughter as she held him. And it was laughter; the True Antinium had known laughter, rare as it was. It was said the First Queen laughed before she died. But now the Free Queen thought of her mentor.
“Bessachidia. If she had lived, she could have brought all the war forms and images of our people to live on Izril, even alone. She could have created other Queens. And she could have fixed you in minutes, little one. I was meant to learn from her. Everything I have done now is based on the few lessons I learned. I, and the Silent Queen. But we were never Shaper Queens. We were just…”
Her voice trailed off. Birds looked up at her. Garry was trembling, overcome by too many emotions.
“Do you want to go back?”
“Where?”
“To Rhir. You said you’d go back. Was that a lie? Erin does not like it when I lie.”
The question paused the Free Queen. She stared at Bird. Then she nodded. Slowly.
“Yes. That is what we swore. And that is what the Grand Queen claims we will do, when Izril is ours. But I do not know if she believes. And the other Queens—I do not know if they believe.”
“Do you?”
“Yes. I still believe. I still work for that day, little Bird. The day we return and bring justice and vengeance to Rhir. So does Klbkch. But I have grown. I am…different now. Very different from the Queen I once was. I eat this—food. I cannot help it. I cannot stop. It hurts.”
She gestured towards Garry’s kitchen, and the [Cook] looked up at her, suddenly alarmed. Bird glanced at the kitchen.
“Does it hurt very muchly? Eating?”
“No. Living. Always, Bird. We destroyed our bodies birthing the first thousands of Antinium. And we were not meant for it; we had to modify ourselves during those first days in Izril. Experiment—some of us bore more of the cost than others. Silent Queen, the Flying Queen, and I were…lucky. We were youngest, our bodies frail, so we were not chosen for the first tests. The older Queens accepted it. Eight died. Of the first that survived were the Twisted Queen. The Armored Queen. The Grand Queen at the time was less affected. But we all suffer.”
“It sounds bad. I do not like it. Do you want a healing potion?”
