Bird’s voice quivered. The Free Queen made a sound like a laugh.
“It is. And no healing potion can change how our bodies have altered, Bird. But we persevere. And I—I have found what I need. I was exiled from the other Hives. Cast out, because I tried to create an Individual. Or one of the True Antinium. One who could think as we originally did. I thought it was an impossible task at times. But Klbkchhezeim believed. And now. Now I have found a True Antinium.”
“Where?”
Bird looked around excitedly. The Free Queen made the same sound. Garry looked up.
“She means you, Bird.”
“Me?”
“Yes.”
The Free Queen reached for Bird’s head. And she stopped. She looked at Bird and tried. Oh, she tried. But it was hard. Harder than words. It shouldn’t have been. Why did it have to be him?
“If it were my mentor, she could have found out what makes you different. But I am not her. I have none of her Skill. And even if I took you apart, I might not find out what makes the True Antinium. But even a fragment of a chance is enough. If I could just kill you without regret. If you did not sing, little Bird. How easy it would be.”
He looked at her, and the Free Queen saw he understood. Bird looked at her feelers. At her limbs. At her. And he spoke clearly.
“But I do not want to die.”
“I know.”
The Free Queen held him to her face. Her mandibles opened and closed.
“And yet, you can hear me. Barely. But it is enough. What makes you so, Bird? I must know. The True Antinium are what made us strong. If I was sure, it would be so easy. And if I knew it would matter…to strike a blow at our enemy, I would kill you, dear Bird. I would tear myself apart bit by bit if it would help.”
“But I do not want to die.”
He looked at her. The Free Queen hesitated. She reached for him, and Bird rocked. But the Free Queen did not squeeze, or snuff that little life out. Slowly, gently, she placed him on the ground. Garry ran to Bird and hugged him. Bird stared up. The Free Queen sat. She felt old and tired. And it hurt.
“What should I do? We are waning, Bird. Waning. Even Klbkchhezeim, my Slayer, is faded.”
“Really? Klbkch is very scary. He has swords.”
This time, the Free Queen did laugh. She thought of Klbkchhezeim and laughed, and laughed, a despairing, echoing sound.
“Once upon a time, he needed no blades. His body was a weapon. He walked in shadows and danced like death as he cut his enemies apart. We lost his form in the waves, and only the Silent Queen’s imitations even come close to what he was. He was Centenium. And we will never recreate that, not with a thousand years of trying.”
Garry and Bird looked up. Garry was holding Bird protectively. He dragged Bird backwards slowly, edging away from the Queen.
“My Queen, what are the Centenium?”
The Free Queen watched him.
“The Centenium were a hundred prototypes, Garry. Created by the First Queen, whose skill was unrivaled, even by Bessachidia or the other Shaper Queens who came after. Each one unique. We could copy their forms, but never their identity. And now there are three. Three, from a hundred. Can you imagine the loss?”
“Yes, my Queen. But what can be done?”
Garry was tugging Bird back. A few more steps and he’d be out of the Free Queen’s immediate reach. She spoke slowly.
“That is the question all the Queens ask. Each has another answer, hence our Hives. The other Queens believe it is numbers, or armaments of a superior form, that will save the Antinium. I say not. I say war with the Drakes is fruitless. I say we are bound to return. And I say that we must have our Centenium. Our leaders. Our heroes.”
Garry stopped. Bird looked up.
“Heroes, my Queen?”
She nodded. And the Free Queen rose as she raised herself on old limbs. Garry began to retreat with Bird. But the cavern was suddenly so small.
“The Centenium were heroes. They were our greatest, Individuals. For we had Individuals. Prognugators, even among the True Antinium. They led us. And they were what we have not been able to replicate. Queens and heroes. That is why I came to Liscor. And that is why you, Garry, and you, Bird, are precious. Too precious to kill.”
She caught them. Garry stopped. He looked up at the Free Queen. Bird did too, on his back.
“I am good at killing things. But I am only Bird.”
“Yes. But you are an Individual. One of five true Individuals. And you are strong, little Bird. Klbkchhezeim told me you killed a Flesh Worm yourself in the dungeon.”
“…Maybe? Was it a bird?”
The Free Queen shrugged.
“It does not matter. You are precious. And you sing. If you did not, little Bird, I would never have cared. But you sing. Bessachidia sang. And you are Bird.”
“Yes. Will you kill me, my Queen?”
“No.”
The Free Queen sat. She raised a feeler, and Garry turned to her. And both he and she were trembling.
“Garry. Take Bird before I change my mind. Bring him somewhere else. Far from me. And Bird, grow your legs. Grow your arms. And go back to your inn. Grow. Level. And never be injured. Never come back to me. When you die, I will take your body and find out what makes you True Antinium.”
Garry bowed. Bird looked up at the Free Queen.
“But I like you.”
“And I like you, little Bird. So fly away. Or else I will eat you.”
The Free Queen bent, and Bird reached up. She touched his hand. And Garry pulled him towards the door. The Soldiers stood there. Garry slowed. Her mandibles opened, and he gasped. The Free Queen ignored him. She looked past Garry, past Bird. She spoke to the Antinium gathered there, and to her faithful Prognugator above.
“Klbkchhezeim. Come back to the Hive. You say it is time? Very well. I am ready. Show these Drakes, then. And show the Free Antinium something akin to what you were. What Xrn is.”
She rose. And Garry and Bird stopped. The Antinium standing in the doorway paused, and the Soldier retreated. The Free Queen spoke.
“You. I am tired. But you are my greatest work yet. You, who know why the Antinium struggle. Go. And show me something that can rival the True Antinium. Show me a new kind of Antinium.”
She received no reply. Garry looked back at the Free Queen and tugged Bird towards the door. The Worker, lying on his back, stared up as he passed by Soldiers. He blinked, and his antennae waved. He spoke almost hesitantly.
“Hello. My name is Bird.”
“I know.”
 
——
 
Two sides met and mingled in Market Street. But the debate, no, the argument had taken a life of its own across the city. Somehow, the debate had changed. It wasn’t ‘should we have an election’, it was ‘who will we choose?’ And the easy question became difficult.
“Let me ask you something, people of Liscor. Do we want more adventurers crowding our city? Do we need the Antinium to do the jobs of our [Builders], [Bricklayers], and [Masons]? And, with respect to ‘honored Krshia’, is she really the best person for the Council?”
Lism stood on his platform and shouted at the crowd. Drakes booed Krshia. Some Gnolls looked unhappy. The 4th Company of Liscor’s army marched, their breastplates gleaming in the sun. Lism pointed at them.
“For your consideration, citizens of Liscor! A hero of Liscor! And Wing Commander Embria does not trust the Antinium. Do you?”
On the other side, Krshia growled, and her Gnolls howled insults and Drakes shouted insults at Lism’s crowd.
“The army sent back only a hundred soldiers in Liscor’s direst hour! Is that heroism? The Antinium fought for the city! They saved it from the Necromancer, no? Is that not worthy of trust?”
The crowd split and mingled. Lism bellowed, his scales flushed with rage.
“Who held the line in front of Liscor? Our army! Who kept the Goblins from the breach, who foiled Tyrion Veltras’ plans? Wing Commander Embria!”
“Hero of Liscor? You mean, Butcher of Liscor! It was Goblins who saved the city. An army of them, not a hundred or so [Soldiers]!”
Krshia bellowed back. But not everyone was with her, not even her own species. In the crowd, Erin looked up at Lism, fists clenched. Pawn was silent. Hurt. He wanted to leave the crowd, but Lyonette was holding his hand tightly. She glared up at Lism. Selys’ voice was tight.
“You get up there, Erin. Tell him to go walk into a Shield Spider nest.”
“No.”
“You’re more of a hero than Embria ever—”
“No.”
Drassi looked at Zevara and Selys.
“Not that I’m saying this is a good idea, but what about Numbtong—”
“No.”
Everyone around Drassi chorused that. A Goblin wasn’t the right person to call a hero at this moment. More than a few citizens around Lism were waving old banners, Drake banners with heraldry of Dragons, or Liscor’s symbol, a city-on-the-waters. The city that divided a continent.
And it was a divided crowd that Lism crowed to. He pointed at Krshia.
“Butcher? Harsh words for someone who fought! Wing Commander Embria held the line to defend our city. She had orders, and for Liscor, she would have died. She is a daughter of the city, and she does not trust the Antinium. Wing Commander?”
There was a shuffle. Wing Commander Embria got onto the podium, looking upset. But her voice was clear as she spoke.
“The Antinium cannot be trusted. Will you trust them with the walls of our city? Why not let honest Drakes and Gnolls build it with their own claws? Why not let us defend our home?”
She raised her spear, and the 4th Company shouted in reply. The crowd looked at Krshia, and the Gnoll had no one to hold up.
The issue was dividing the crowd. Goblins and Antinium. Humans and open borders versus the Walled Cities and Liscor’s army. It wasn’t that Lism was making great points; it was just that whenever Krshia tried to poke holes in his words, he’d have the drums begin banging or shout over her.
“Do we even need an election? Why not let the army send their reinforcements? Why risk doing things like Pallass? Do we need to deal with this?”
Lism changed his stance a third time, appealing to the parts of the crowd that were sick of the argument on the streets. Krshia opened her mouth and shouted back at him.
“Are you afraid of Gnolls on the Council, Lism?”
“I’m not the one trying to strike a deal with the Antinium to steal a spot, Silverfang. Why do you feel entitled to a seat?”
Lism sneered back. Krshia glowered.
“Why not put it to a vote, then? An honest vote?”
“Oh, sure, sure! Let me see. Vote for the Gnoll who came here ten years ago or a Drake that’s lived in Liscor all his life? And who has the support of a hero of Liscor?”
Lism raised his arms to another cheer from his supporters. Selys ground her teeth together.
“That’s not even an argument! He’s just making noise! Krshia’s getting killed up there! Erin, come on, you can shout something at Lism.”
She grabbed Erin’s arm. But the young woman looked sick as she stared at Lism.
“I don’t want to.”
“Erin—of all the times—!”
“If she does not wish to speak, it would be a minor felony to force her to do so against her will, Miss Selys. This is a warning, although I am not currently on duty.”
A voice spoke up from behind Selys. Pawn turned. Watch Captain Zevara blinked.
“Klbkch?”
The Antinium had appeared out of the crowd. He calmly surveyed the scene.
“I seem to have arrived in time. And I understand this argument has gone against Shopkeeper Krshia? I see. Her ability to debate Shopkeeper Lism is impaired. She is using rational arguments. The trick is to employ words like swords. Something I had to learn from people who were not Antinium.”
“What?”
Everyone around Klbkch stared at him. But Pawn only looked at Klbkch and silently moved out of the way. Klbkch walked past him.
“If you would allow me, Watch Captain Zevara, I believe I can assist Miss Krshia at this moment.”
“If you think you can—be my guest!”
Klbkch nodded. He reached for a stone at his throat and clicked his mandibles.
Click.
The sound made the entire crowd wince. Lism swore at the same volume and looked around, clutching at his earholes.
“Who on—oh. One of them.”
He pointed at Klbkch with disgust. Some of the Drakes among his supporters made disgusted expressions, but most of the crowd, even those supporting Lism, turned to Klbkch with curiosity. The [Soldiers] in Embria’s 4th Company were among those who glared at Klbkch. The Antinium made a sound like clearing his throat.
“Good evening. Pardon my interruption. I would simply like to clarify a few details for the sake of accuracy. To begin with, the Antinium have no goal of sabotaging Liscor or its walls. Our offer to assist with the construction of Liscor’s walls and contribute funds to the city was made with goodwill. I deeply regret any misunderstandings that have occurred due to lack of clarification.”
He gazed steadily at Lism as he said that. The [Shopkeeper] flushed.
“Well, how can we trust—”
This time it was Klbkch who spoke over Lism.
“Furthermore, I would like to clarify a detail surrounding the battle for Liscor, as it is being referred to, against the Goblin Lord’s army. For right or wrong, Liscor’s army did fight. But a fraction held the walls and took to the field. Statistically, Pallass’ army spilled twenty-eight times more blood than Liscor’s army did on the field. They held the walls. And the Antinium took to the field before Wing Commander Embria.”
This time, there was silence. Erin leaned over to Pawn.
“Oh snap.”
The 4th Company of Liscor’s army was giving Klbkch a death-glare, as was Wing Commander Embria. Lism’s face mottled.
“Are you—Senior Guardsman Klbkch—accusing Wing Commander Embria and the heroes, no, martyrs who gave their lives of cowardice? How dare you. How—”
“I do not make any allegations of cowardice, Shopkeeper Lism. I only respectfully point out that if there is a debt in blood to be honored, it is to be shared with the Antinium and Goblins who died to the last to stop the Goblin Lord. For they did die. Goblins attacked Liscor. And Goblins saved it.”
“Lies! That was a Goblin civil war, not some grand act of goodness!”
Lism bellowed loud enough to make the shutters rattle on nearby apartments. Klbkch’s voice snapped back, calm and collected as the ice.
“Shopkeeper Lism. I am Senior Guardsman Klbkch. I do not lie. To do so would be a violation of my duty. And you are one of the people I am sworn to protect and serve, sir. That duty I will uphold until death and after it. Regardless of how I am perceived in your eyes. Goblins fought for Liscor. And they did so to save the city. That is the truth. I will swear it on a truth detection spell. Will you do the same?”
The Drake hesitated. Before he could reply, Klbkch turned. His voice rose by another order of magnitude.
