Klbkch sat in a small office inside the Hive of the Free Antinium of Liscor. He had a desk, a proper wooden one, and a chair. Aside from that, his office didn’t resemble any other building by the name in this world or Erin’s. At least, Klbkch assumed this was the case. If there were any Humans who worked in what was essentially a hole in the ground that would have induced claustrophobia in most species, he would nod to efficiency of space optimization if nothing else.
Most offices had filing cabinets. Or lights. Or at the very least, bathrooms. But Klbkch’s office had none of these things. If need be, he could access the waste disposal areas the Antinium used. The Hive was literally five steps out a door, which he did not, in fact, have. And he needed little of the supplies most [Secretaries] or [Receptionists] or [Clerks] needed.
Klbkch’s desk had a quill and ink pot among the few devices in place. He used that to write notes. But as mentioned, he seldom stored any writing. A truly important document, say, a map of Albez, would go to one of the Hive’s storage rooms specifically designated for reading materials.
But Klbkch’s personal correspondence or information he recycled, tossing organics into the vats tended to by Workers, which made the Antinium’s edible paste. Paper and parchment and even most kinds of ink were actually more palatable than what went into those vats. Non-edibles were disposed of very sanitarily.
Klbkch kept almost nothing. He remembered what was important. And he never, ever forgot what was truly important. All else was dust.
At the moment, Klbkch sat straight in his chair, reading some notes. They were his daily briefing; the totality of information available to him as the Free Antinium’s Revalantor, which meant spymaster, head of security, vice-ruler, steward, strategist, engineer, diplomat…essentially everything and anything he needed to be. The Free Queen was, of course, in charge, but she listened to Klbkch’s opinions, and he could overrule her if need be.
So this was his report. It was short compared to, say, the pages and pages of neatly written documents that Ressa received every morning, which had already been reviewed by Magnolia’s staff. And that was because Klbkch had few information sources compared to anyone else.
The Antinium did not get [Criers], or written [Messages] from overseas. They did not have [Informants], although they did have ways of obtaining information. Nevertheless, it was sometimes difficult to get the most public of information.
An Antinium Listener, one of the rare subtypes of Antinium the Hive used, was a specialized version of their kind designed only to listen to sounds. They could pick up a conversation five miles away in a quiet room. But the Listeners couldn’t listen to everything, and they had short lives before their sensory organs experienced overload and they died. They died quickly, even for Antinium. And while Klbkch had learned all kinds of interesting things over the years from the Antinium’s networks, he sometimes missed the mountain for the shiny pebbles on the road.
The scrawls of the Listeners recorded conversations in full. The marching of feet, in number and proximity to the Hive. Sounds—animals, magic, or sometimes the gurgle of water flowing underground. All of it had been transcribed, and interpreting it would be impossible to most. But Klbkch could scan through the pages of the day’s overheard sounds and dismiss most at once. Three times he noted down interesting details.
“Water is eroding the sewer system underneath the southeastern street…in Scaithi Walk. The sounds indicate crumbling stonework. I will report the issue to Watch Captain Zevara. A conversation in a bar between ‘you idiot’ and Resci—possible male Drake, or male Gnoll raised in Liscor—indicates an exchange of illegal goods. Follow through with Relc during work hours. Possible link to drugs? Lastly, Shield Spider mating and reproduction appear greatly heightened, most likely due to Face-Eater Moth and Goblin corpses feeding population.”
Klbkch tapped his quill’s tip lightly on the table. He had not written any of that down. All of it was committed to memory now. The verbal repetition was to process Klbkch’s thoughts as an audio cue he could easily recall. Because, obviously, conscious thought and inferences were stored in a different way than auditory memory. One was easier for Klbkch to file and draw upon than the other. He didn’t think it worked so conveniently for other species, which was their loss.
Well, that was typical of the Listener’s reports. Scattered information at best; usually random unless something made a very loud and repeated sound. Like the marching of an army. But they had limits to their range as well. They could tell Klbkch nothing about politics or the world outside of Liscor. And he needed that information, so Klbkch studied a second piece of parchment. This was covered in his own handwriting.
Ironically, Klbkch’s best and most reliable news source for public information came from Relc and sitting in bars, listening to gossip. Because no one else talked to the Antinium. And while Relc was a very unreliable source, Klbkch was still able to glean the most-repeated facts and sift through the gossip. His notes from last night were only slightly smudged from some ale that Relc had spilled on his parchment. Klbkch read out loud, memorizing and thinking at the same time.
“An enduring war in Tiqr. The Mages of Wistram are selling scrying artifacts at an expensive profit. The sales coming through First Landing and Zeres are allegedly at least four hundred thousand gold pieces’ worth alone. In addition, the market value of such artifacts has risen suddenly and collapsed due to the sudden influx of manufactured artifacts coming from Wistram. Magnolia Reinhart and her peers were the subject of assassination attempts, all failed. The Drake city of Wicess was the subject of a large attack by hungry Griffins, unusual given their usual hunting territory…”
Klbkch read for eight minutes. He paused, digested everything he’d read, and discarded most of it. Instead, he focused on the news about Chandrar for a moment and sat back against the plain wooden back of his chair.
“The King of Destruction. What will he do? Tiqr is unlikely to last as more forces begin occupying its lands. Will the King of Destruction move? Could he, in theory, send out his vassals to roam as Gazi Pathseeker once did? His remaining war leaders are each capable of toppling nations in the right circumstances. It would be problematic if he fell and they were employed on Izril. Is that a possibility?”
Klbkch pondered. He distinctly recalled Gazi of Reim. As Named Adventurers went, she hadn’t been the most fearsome of the ones he had personally encountered or heard reports of during the Antinium Wars. But she was dangerous. And he had a small dossier on the rest of the King of Destruction’s Seven, which placed them all at Level 40. At least.
He had never met Flos of Reim. He had no idea what the King of Destruction’s war capabilities were. Nor had the Antinium ever done battle with the Titan of Baleros.
And yet, Klbkch was a Revalantor of the Hive, and it was his job to prepare for the worst scenario. He might only be part of the Free Antinium, but the fate of all the six remaining Hives concerned him. He did not like the possibility of either individual ever coming to Izril.
“The odds of any of his vassals seeking employment on Rhir are remote. However, destabilization in Chandrar shifts attention towards that continent. The King of Destruction’s success and Tiqr’s survival is to be hoped for—so long as he himself does not regain his former strength. What will be, will be. This speculation is fruitless for now. Monetary aid would not change the situation, even if it were feasible.”
With that said, Klbkch dismissed Chandrar and the King of Destruction from his list of immediate worries. And with that, he was nearly done with his daily routine. The last number on his short docket was a list of short integers. They had no context because Klbkch did not need the context. He knew what they were.
Casualty reports. Tallies of wounded Antinium, Soldiers and Workers on duty. Income earned, money spent. Levels gained by Individual Antinium. New Antinium created in the Hive. Tunnels constructed. Tunnels collapsed…
Numbers. Klbkch also wished he had access to the statistics of the other five Hives, all located in southern Izril. But his Hive had been cut off, his Free Queen rejected by her peers. Until now. Now, Klbkch thought of Xrn’s proposal to him. He did calculations that involved Antinium Soldiers, distance…
And boats. But that too was a far-off plan, one that required time to come to fruition. For now, Klbkch analyzed his Hive and judged it to be sound. He added two more notes to the day’s auditory recollections, not that he needed to remember. But they needed to be said out loud.
“I must speak to Wrymvr. And the tunnel linking Liscor to the Hives must be completed. And we must have more Queens.”
Simple tasks, impossible tasks. They were all the same to Klbkch. They had to be done. So he would do them or die. And even death was only an obstacle. Although it seemed with each death, it would be his final one…
Klbkch stood up after a second. The pieces of parchment covered with ink he carelessly tucked into his belt pouch for disposal. His table was now clean, and he was done with his duty. So it was back to work.
Last night, he had completed a shift with Relc into late morning, a total of nine hours. He had slept for three hours. This morning he had conducted a sweep of the Hive, gone to the barracks for scheduled socializing for an hour and a half and to fill out paperwork, and returned to the Hive to collect Listener reports and summarize his own notes here.
Now, Klbkch strode out of his office, ready to get back to work. He had to patrol with Relc again tonight, and there were his Revalantor duties to fulfill. The first one appeared not eight steps out of Klbkch’s office. Klbkch stopped as the smaller figure approached him.
“Revalantor Klbkch. Am I interrupting you?”
“Anand. Speak.”
The Worker nodded deferentially. He and Klbkch stood outside the office; Klbkch didn’t normally have a chair for anyone but himself.
“I came to inform you that Pawn is still not eating a fully balanced intake of nutrition. He eats, but he does not speak often. He does tend to the Painted Soldiers. But he is—dispirited.”
The [Tactician] paused hesitantly. Klbkch studied the Worker and wondered if Anand was afraid to bring the topic up to him again. He spoke curtly.
“Since the siege at Liscor. This is not new information.”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch. I bring it up because it has been another week since my last report.”
Klbkch’s head ached for the first time this day. He closed his mandibles firmly and, after a second’s thought, shook his head.
“Your report is received, Anand. So long as Pawn maintains some form of intake and he is able to respond and carries out his functions, that will be sufficient. If he is…unhappy, let him be so. I have spoken to Erin on the subject, and she has expressed her philosophy. So long as Pawn eats and does not neglect the other Painted Antinium, he may be emotionally unfit as he wishes to be. I can do nothing for him. I am, apparently, not a nurturing figure. Even if I am a father one. According to Erin Solstice.”
“A father figure?”
“Apparently.”
Both Antinium stared at each other for a long moment. Anand’s mandibles opened and closed a few times.
“I see. I will inquire as to the meaning when I see Miss Solstice again. And I will continue monitoring Pawn.”
“Do so. Apprise me in a week unless a situation develops.”
Anand nodded a bit reluctantly. Klbkch ignored that too. He would readily admit that both Anand and Belgrade had become instrumental in making the Hive more efficient, but they were still subordinates with personalities. And Klbkch wasn’t used to having other individual Antinium around him besides the Queen. He had functioned like this for a decade. And before that…
Alarm. Alarm. ALARM.
It wasn’t actually that word. But it was danger, an intense, alert, but not panicked feeling. And it came from above. Klbkch’s head snapped up immediately, and Anand paused.
“Revalantor?”
“The Soldiers guarding the Hive’s city entrance report intruders.”
“An invasion?”
Anand shifted. Now he was ready to run. Klbkch shook his head. The nuance of the thoughts he’d picked up on from above weren’t as immediate as they would be if someone had actually attempted to breach the Hive. Klbkch would have sensed them fighting as well. He concentrated, sending his thoughts up to see exactly what the Soldiers saw as he stood still.
It was faint. Klbkch had to listen hard, to pick up on the signals being conveyed from the Soldiers on guard duty at the Hive’s entrance. Their thoughts were an open book to him, of course, but a distant book, on a bookshelf fifteen feet away with that tiny writing that was so obnoxious.
“…No. No assault. Someone has sent a message through the Hive. They are requesting my presence. It is not an emergency.”
It was just that the Soldiers reacted to anything coming into the Hive with the utmost paranoia, as they should. Anand relaxed. Klbkch began walking.
“I will attend to it. Return to your duties.”
“Yes, Revalantor…”
Klbkch didn’t hear the rest. He walked down the tunnel, and then up a sloping intersection, past Workers and Soldiers, who all paused and stood aside to let him through. The Hive moved like a machine, but Klbkch was an anomaly in the perfect, organized motion.
And yet, he was an integral part of the Hive too. He glanced from side to side, picking up the thoughts of all the Workers and Soldiers he passed. Their direction and actions were easy to read. And ensuring that he didn’t hear any stray thoughts, any hints of violence or…insanity, was his job. Klbkch ‘heard’ nothing out of the ordinary. And then—
The sky.
The thought paused Klbkch straight in his tracks. The image that flickered through his head was faint—one thought among hundreds nearby. But it was a burst of color, emotion, so vibrant among the other mechanical instructions that it was impossible to miss. Klbkch’s head turned, and he found the sender.
A Painted Soldier. The Antinium was marching along, perhaps to consume nutrients, or to sleep. The Soldier was not walking with his unit, as Soldiers always did. He had little blue dots drawn all over his carapace, the armor of his body. Klbkch stared at him for a second. Then the Revalantor kept moving.
