They had paid a bloody price for it. Once again. Only, this time, it had cost Yellow Splatters. Cost a hundred Painted Soldiers. Was that the new equation? Was every step forward bathed in the blood of the Painted Antinium? Pawn feared it was.
Hence his despair. For what was right? It was good, beautiful that the Painted Antinium existed. But the cost—the cost they paid so willingly—Pawn wasn’t sure if his heart could bear it.
It was the argument he had had so many times in the past. And again, there would be no answer. But Pawn couldn’t avoid it. He walked past Soldiers. And then he remembered his duties and paused. He asked them what they were doing, spoke to them, and he saw that they were happy. One showed him a clay cup. Another, a picture in a well-worn book. And that was all they had ever wanted. No—they had never wanted this because they had never known it existed.
And perhaps if he had been like them, he would have been happy despite the deaths. But Pawn had dreamed of heaven. And that glorious sight was too much for a mortal mind to bear. He had heard of salvation, and he craved it. So Pawn kept walking. Until he reached one of the entrances to the barracks. And an entering Antinium nearly ran into him.
It was a near miss. Unlike the usual order of the Hive, Workers and Painted Soldiers were free to move about as they pleased. So only in this place did collisions occur. And when they did—no one got hurt. Why would they? The Antinium’s bodies were covered in shells. It was just a funny peculiarity.
This time, Pawn saw the Worker coming in a rush of other Workers. The others noticed Pawn, but this one failed to and nearly stepped into Pawn. He moved back, of course. The Worker paused and looked up. He saw Pawn and the [Acolyte]’s censer stick.
“Excuse me.”
Pawn politely stepped aside and gestured, as he had been taught to do on Liscor’s streets as a humble Worker himself. But the Worker in front of him froze.
“This one apologizes, Individual Pawn. This one is deeply sorry.”
The Worker quivered. Pawn stopped and stared at him.
“It’s nothing.”
“This one was in your way. This one humbly moves. Apologies, apologies.”
The Worker scuttled back. The other Workers in his group looked at him. And like him, they wilted.
They were the same height as Pawn. But he felt like he was looking down on them. Certainly on the Worker in front of him; the Worker was hunched, much like Pawn remembered doing when he was miserable or feared having made a mistake. The sight hurt Pawn to see.
“It’s nothing. Please. It was my fault as well. Don’t be worried.”
Pawn unconsciously reached out and patted the Worker’s shoulders with two arms as if he were a Soldier. The Worker stared.
“T-thank you.”
It was such a timid reply. And yet—the words, the tone, made Pawn think he wasn’t speaking to a regular Worker. No, of course not; if the Worker were allowed into the barracks, it meant they weren’t a regular Worker. Pawn paused. He looked at the Worker.
“What is your name, Worker? If you have a name.”
Too late, he remembered. Some workers didn’t have names. They hadn’t chosen like him. He tensed, but the Worker did not begin shaking. He did not behave as Pawn once had when Erin asked. Instead, the Worker ducked his head and replied timidly.
“This one is Archer B23.”
“Archer…B23? That is your name?”
“Yes, Individual Pawn. It was given to me by Revalantor Klbkch. It is my name.”
Pawn stared. Then he started.
“Klbkch gave you that name? I mean, Revalantor Klbkch?”
“Yes, Individual Pawn. This one passed the test and was named. This—I am Archer B23. He gave me my name along with the other Workers in Archer Unit B.”
That at least was clear. Pawn looked at the other Workers in the group. Let’s see. Twenty-four. Probably about right.
“Archer B23. Why did Klbkch give you that name?”
It was almost as bad as calling all the Workers…Workers. Archer B23 paused.
“This one does not know what Revalantor Klbkch thought. But Archer B23 is this one’s name. It is a functional name.”
Was there a touch of defiance at the skepticism in Pawn’s tone? The [Acolyte] stared at Archer B23.
“Of course it is. It’s a fine name. Forgive me. I am Pawn. You…know me?”
Archer B23 nodded. He looked up at Pawn.
“You are Individual Pawn. All the Autonomous Workers know of you.”
“Autonomous Workers?”
The title threw Pawn. Archer B23 looked around at his companions as if seeking help. Another spoke up.
“We—I—I—are Workers who have passed Revalantor Klbkch’s tests. We are Autonomous Workers, Individual Pawn. But we are not you.”
The other Workers nodded as one. They gathered around their two companions. And they looked the same. They even acted the same. But they could say ‘I’. They were…
Pawn remembered them. The other Workers playing chess in the break room back at the start. The Workers who had passed Klbkch’s tests. So this is what they had become?
They played chess. But they had never met Erin. Or if they had, it was a fleeting meeting. Not like her chess lessons. They were like Pawn had been at the start, with the other members of the chess club.
The [Acolyte] touched his chest, above his heart.
“I see. Autonomous Workers. Not Individuals. And you are all Archers?”
“Yes, Individual Pawn. I am Archer B25.”
“I am Archer B11.”
“I am Archer B3.”
“I am Archer B8.”
“I am…”
Pawn’s head turned to each Worker as they began to introduce themselves. They did so eagerly, never mind that even Mrsha would have caught onto the pattern after the eighth Worker. But Pawn listened to all twenty-five, nodding as each spoke their name. Because it mattered to them.
It was their name. And suddenly, Pawn had so many questions.
“You are all on break?”
“Yes, Individual Pawn. We are relieved from duty.”
“I see. Then will you sit with me? Some of the fluff places are open.”
In fact, they all were. The Soldiers let the Workers sit with Pawn. The Workers carefully touched at the blankets and pillows, afraid to sit too heavily. Pawn sat on the ground, refusing the pillows.
“You’re [Archers]. And you…fight.”
“Yes, Individual Pawn. Revalantor Klbkch assigned us to an archery unit. We were the second one formed. We support the Soldiers. It is an experimental role. We are experimental.”
“No. You’re not.”
The Workers started. Pawn held up a hand.
“I’m sorry. I meant…you’re not experimental. You’re all very—vital. You help fight, don’t you? That is a function the Hive needs. You use bows. That’s brave.”
They stared at him hungrily. And Pawn didn’t know why, until he remembered what it was like being them. Hungry for…
“Was it hard?”
“We fulfill our roles. We try not to fail. Sometimes we do. Our arrows miss.”
“Arrows miss. But you shoot at monsters coming straight at you. You do a good job. Have—have you ever been above?”
“Once.”
The whisper came from all of them. And they spoke in unison as much as apart. Pawn looked at them.
“Only once?”
“We were on a patrol. We saw the sky. We fought Shield Spiders. We did not eat food. The inn was closed. But we saw a dog. It barked at us.”
The Workers all nodded together. That was important. Pawn remembered being a [Carpenter] above. Yes, it was special if you saw anything other than the building you were ordered to construct, deconstruct, or repair. He nodded solemnly.
“That is very special.”
And inside, he felt a knife cutting his organs to pieces. Look at these Workers. They stared at Pawn as if they were staring at the Queen herself. And they had only been above once. The same for many Soldiers. Purple Smile took patrols above, of course, but—
“Let’s go above.”
The words came out of Pawn. They stunned the Workers. They hugged the pillows and blankets.
“Now?”
“Are we allowed? Is it permitted?”
“We have gone above once, though.”
“Some Workers have not. Archer Group F has not.”
“No? Then they should come too. Let’s get them. Where are they?”
Pawn stood up. He felt terrible, but in a different way all of a sudden. Look at these Workers! What was he doing? The Workers stood with him.
“Archer Group F is on the frontlines. Individual Anand has their group.”
“Let’s find them. You—come with me. Purple Smile! I’m going to lead a patrol to the surface. That’s fine. I think.”
Pawn waved at Purple Smile. The [Sergeant] smiled widely with his mandibles. Soldiers turned. Pawn pointed at a group waiting for their turn in the sparring circles.
“Are you free? Come with me. We’ll go to the surface.”
The Soldiers fell into line. The Workers followed Pawn, excited, as he strode down the tunnels. Nearly forty Antinium walked behind Pawn. It would be the biggest patrol ever allowed onto Liscor’s streets outside of a battle. Pawn didn’t care. He marched towards the front lines, where the dungeon met the Hive. The fortified sections of tunnel weren’t rushing with activity, which meant there was no fighting. And indeed, Anand was standing in a war room, speaking calmly.
“Shore up the first layer of Belgrade’s traps. Archer Group F will delegate ten members. Bring up five Painted Soldiers and send twenty regular Soldiers and fifteen Workers. In notation, this order will be: Shore 1st Layer. Reinforcements: Archer F, 10. Painted 5, 20 S, 15 W. Execute. Are we clear on the details?”
“Yes, Individual Anand.”
A group of Workers chorused around Anand. Pawn stopped, surprised. Anand was standing around a map of the Hive. And the Workers around him were…the [Tactician] mumbled to himself, clicking his mandibles.
“The notation is flawed. Once we implement unit designations across all the Hive, it will be easier to specify exact numbers from exact groups. Until then, draw from the reserves first and then the nearest tunnel not bracing for action or engaged. I trust your judgment. One of you send the message. Now, I—Pawn?”
He looked up, surprised. One of the Workers hurried down the corridor. Pawn stepped forwards.
“Anand. Am I interrupting you?”
“No. There is no fighting. Belgrade’s traps—Pawn, it is good to see you moving. What is this? Reinforcements?”
“No. A patrol. I was hoping to get Archer Group F to bring them to the surface for the first time. What is this?”
The two Workers met, stepping past all the other silent Antinium. Pawn and Anand, two of the original members of Erin’s chess club. Anand opened his mouth in a smile, and Pawn did likewise. They had both changed. But they were connected. Always.
“I am maintaining the defense of the Hive, Pawn. Belgrade is supervising the construction. I can pull Archer Group F and replace them if you want them. Someone go rescind the order. Order Archer Group C to fill their role. You…Steinitz.”
He pointed to a Worker. Pawn stared as the Worker sped off after the first Worker.
“Steinitz? That Worker is an Autonomous Worker too?”
“Yes. They aren’t Individual. But they have names, and they passed Revalantor Klbkch’s test. All of them are now [Archers] or assisting me in my war room instead of regular Worker duties.”
Anand gestured to the group of Workers around him. Pawn stared.
“Why?”
“It was my idea, Pawn. Mine and Belgrade’s, on order of Revalantor Klbkch. These semi-Individual Workers aren’t like we were. You understand that after meeting them, don’t you?”
“Yes. But why—”
“To teach them. And so they level. Having regular Workers fill the role won’t level them much. But some of these Workers—Archer Group A has two of their members who are Level 7 [Archers] already! Imagine what will happen if they reach Level 10? Or Level 20?”
Pawn nodded slowly.
“They’re valuable. Like the Painted Soldiers.”
Anand caught the note in his voice. He turned back to Pawn, his antennae twitching apologetically.
“Strategist. I am a [Tactician], Pawn. But there’s someone I want to introduce you to. You, come forwards.”
He pointed to the Worker who’d been standing closest to Anand. The Worker approached. Anand gestured to him.
“Pawn. This is Bishop.”
Pawn jerked back. He stared at the Worker, who raised a tentative hand. He was holding a clipboard, which was really a nail board since the bit of parchment was held in place by a small nail.
“Hello, Individual Pawn. I am Bishop. Individual Anand has told me about you. I am—”
“That’s not Bishop.”
The Worker recoiled. Anand whirled.
“Pawn.”
Pawn was shaking. The Worker looked at the other two. His voice was trembling. Blooms of fury were rising in his chest.
“Bishop named himself in the battle for Liscor. He died there, Anand. That was his name. You should have known—no. That was his name. You have to take another.”
He looked at the fake Antinium. The Worker was trembling.
“I—I am sorry, Individual Pawn. This one didn’t know. This one—”
Anand put two arms out in front of Bishop.
“Enough. Pawn. I allowed him to take the name Bishop.”
“You allowed?”
Pawn looked at Anand, shocked. The [Tactician] nodded.
“Two Antinium may have the same name, Pawn. And Bishop would not have begrudged his name being used. He might even have liked it, if he had understood it.”
“But it was his name. If another Worker has it—”
Pawn couldn’t articulate the rest. How would they remember Bishop, the real Bishop? But Anand just shook his head.
“The name is both of theirs. And it will matter to both. What this Bishop becomes and the Bishop we knew—it is not one thing or the other. They are both Bishop. Pawn. He wanted that name. Look at him.”
He pointed to Bishop. The Worker was shuddering. Hunched, like Archer B23. Pawn instantly felt his anger subside. He reached out.
“I am sorry. I did not mean that. I am sorry. Bishop. Forgive me.”
“Forgive?”
The Worker looked up. Anand put a hand on his shoulder.
“Say yes, if you bear Pawn no ill will, Bishop. It is your decision. Your power. No one may force you to say yes.”
The Worker looked back at Anand. The Soldiers the room stared at Anand as well. Workers and Soldiers. The [Tactician] looked around. And Bishop stared at Pawn. He hesitated. And thought. And then he spoke.
“Yes. I bear you no ill will, Individual Pawn.”
“Thank you.”
Susurration. Pawn stood back. Anand let Bishop walk back to his peers. The two looked around, and at each other.
“We were still growing. We were barely Individual, then. Even you. Now we are truly Individual. But these are Autonomous Workers. Not like us. Bishop is the closest, I think, because I play chess with him, and he helps me. But even he has a way to go. I am not sure about your Painted Soldiers, but I think all but Purple Smile and Yellow Splatters are closer to Autonomous than Individual.”
“That is the new metric? Did Klbkch come up with it?”
