There were a number of classes that Klbkch possessed that no one knew he had. Not even his Queen. [Guardsman], [Sword Slayer], these were only the ones everyone knew. But Klbkch possessed a number of tertiary classes. Unfortunately, he had come to understand that these classes were inhibiting him from leveling from his conversation with Ryoka. But they did come in useful, particularly one of his classes. [Diplomat].
The idea of an Antinium [Diplomat] was a joke anywhere in the world. What did the Antinium need to negotiate? And—everyone knew they barely leveled up. Why would they specialize in that? So those people thought, and they were all fools. Because the best [Diplomat] was one you never saw coming. And Klbkch, Klbkch the Slayer, had that class.
He’d told Ryoka that. It might be a drain on his levels, but he was a Level 11 [Diplomat]. And he had one Skill from that class he used all the time. Every day, in fact. He had used it on Erin Solstice. He was a master of it.
[Reassuring Presence]. That was all. A Level 10 Skill, and hardly a powerful one. But for Klbkch, it was a mighty Skill. Because what was an Antinium? An enemy. And he, Klbkch the Slayer, was a known villain to the Drakes. But with one Skill, he could influence those around him to give him a chance.
To reevaluate him and think twice. And he had used that Skill for ten years. Perhaps all of his reputation in Liscor was the product of the Skill. Perhaps it had little effect other than smoothing his entry into the city. But Klbkch used it. And no one had any idea.
Of such secrets was the world made. Klbkch waited, talking a bit with Selys, but the female Drake was too nervous to make much conversation. Klbkch saw Zevara come back eight minutes later. The Watch Captain sat down and spoke abruptly.
“Okay. I agree.”
Selys let out a huge breath. Klbkch exhaled silently. But internally he was as happy as he had ever been.
Success. Zevara met Klbkch’s eyes squarely.
“I’m in, Klbkch. For what the Antinium are offering? Well, if you could increase the amount you’re giving to the city, especially the Watch—we’ll sort out the details. But I can try to get you both an expansion on your Hive’s limits and the right to allow other Antinium into the city. But I’m warning you, Klbkch. It’s going to be tricky. Even if Krshia could swing the Council, this is bigger than I am. Krshia will say the same thing. We can try to get you both deals, but neither she nor I can guarantee it, even if we win the election.”
If Krshia and Zevara won, Klbkch would consider that a victory in itself. He nodded calmly and took a sip from his new mug.
“Allowing the Antinium more autonomy aboveground and giving the Hive a construction project of this magnitude is a sufficient promise for now. If you promise to advocate for open borders with the Hives, I will take it on…faith, Captain Zevara. Miss Selys.”
And if Liscor refuses, the other Prognugators will simply have to keep their presence hidden in the Hive. They can be smuggled to Erin’s inn some other way. And Gnolls on the Council might well moderate their views. At the very least, Krshia Silverfang was friends with Erin Solstice. Any way you looked at it, a victory for Krshia meant that the Antinium won.
“I’ll tell Krshia at once. She’ll be ecstatic. She’s already outlining her proposal—with this, she can plan out even more! We could expand the city a huge amount! If the Council has the money. Ancestors, I’ll pay for a few streets if it means we can deal with the overcrowding and the rent!”
Selys excitedly got to her feet. Zevara did likewise. She hesitated and held out a claw.
“So it’s a deal, Klbkch?”
“The Antinium will support Krshia Silverfang, Watch Captain. To the utmost of our ability. This strengthens Liscor.”
Klbkch shook Zevara’s hand firmly. He paused as they headed to the door; Selys had left a two-gold coin tip, which made the [Server]’s eyes pop.
“Watch Captain. It occurs to me there is another small concession I would like to request.”
Zevara turned at the door, again wary.
“Go on.”
“I would also like to formally request that the number of allowed Soldiers for my Hive be increased from six hundred?”
The Antinium stared innocuously at Zevara. The Drake paused. Her lips twitched, and she gave Klbkch a raised brow.
“Of course, I’ll take that into consideration.”
She left Klbkch there, with promises to have Krshia meet with him that very night. Klbkch looked forwards to it; he was already calculating how much gold he could be persuaded into giving Krshia’s cause. How much was suspicious or too much? Ten thousand? Eight thousand per year?
He would be circumspect. But the Hive would be generous, ‘unknowingly’ if need be. The Antinium were not thought to have a strong grasp of economics, a fact Klbkch had played up his first years working with Relc. The truth was that Klbkch agreed with everything Krshia had proposed. What strengthened Liscor strengthened the Free Antinium. And more.
Krshia Silverfang on the Council. Selys Shivertail and Zevara were helping her. It was a combination of individuals that Klbkch had never anticipated. But it came together because Krshia was important, at least among the Gnolls. Zevara was a Watch Captain, so that fit. And Selys had inherited…
The Heartflame Armor. Yes, now it belonged to Selys. And Zel Shivertail was dead. So many developments in favor of the Antinium, not that Zel Shivertail’s death was necessarily one such. All thanks to one person? No. Thanks to another world.
Thanks to Erin Solstice. The Antinium of Liscor had been struggling until she had come here, trying to make Individuals and instead creating Aberrations. She had done so much for the Hive. Klbkch was sure that this latest development was in some way related to her, or simply an effect of her coming from her world.
Another world. What other effects might Erin and Ryoka be having on this world? What if there were more of their people? How would that affect the continents, the countless nations? The Antinium themselves?
That was impossible for Klbkch to imagine. But he would speculate with Xrn. She could be trusted. And perhaps his Queen, although Klbkch feared she could not be trusted. Not with this. She was brave, and she had risen to every occasion. But this was something only the First Queen would have been able to understand fully.
For now, this election. Klbkch walked through the streets. And now he was aboveground, he noticed the disciplined chaos in the city, something he would only have picked up on with his evening patrol duties with Relc. Klbkch watched. He listened to Krshia speaking at her stall, and he saw Selys hurrying up to the Gnoll.
Yes. Krshia had to win the election. And the election had to occur. That was the new priority of the day. He walked back to the Hive. And on the way, he noticed more things that gave him pause. Among them was Lism arguing in front of the Mage’s Guild. Screaming, rather. At Wing Commander Embria.
Klbkch walked back towards his Hive, thinking carefully. Now he was analyzing the situation, Zevara and Selys’ confidence in the surety of Krshia’s victory wasn’t something he shared. He was already anticipating what would follow. In his way, he understood more of Drake politics than either Zevara or Selys.
But that was fine. Klbkch stopped at the entrance of the Hive and descended slowly. The Soldiers waiting at the entrance let him past, their thoughts alert, watchful. Klbkch cast his own thoughts downwards and spoke. An auditory component helped reinforce the clarity of the signal, or so he’d found.
“My Queen. I have an opportunity for you. If you are ready.”
He listened for the response, and his mandibles rose in a smile. Yes. Krshia’s small party had come to him seeking a trade. But they were looking at it like Drakes. Or how a Gnoll [Shopkeeper] might. They thought of things in give and take. The Antinium did not. What benefitted the Hive was all. Krshia was beneficial to the Hive. Zevara had promised something Klbkch wanted, so he would put the full weight of the Free Antinium behind them. Or just one Antinium. Sometimes that was all you needed. Klbkch descended, speaking to his Queen.
“We await the right moment, then, my Queen. If you will prepare, I will signal the moment. Wait. This ‘election’ may be won without uncertainty, in which case there is no need. If not—is he able to move?”
Of course.
Klbkch smiled. And he thought of how this would change events above and below. Klbkch waited for the moment to change everything he could. And if Pawn didn’t cheer up after this, Klbkch would seriously consider dumping him at Erin’s inn and leaving him there.
…He wondered if Erin was selling Acid Flies yet.
 
——
 
Deep in the Hive, Pawn knelt. He clasped his four arms together and prayed. It was a simple prayer.
“Please let my people stop suffering. Let there be peace. Let there be Heaven. And let us build it if none such exists. Only give us the chance. Give us any chance. And let there be peace. Amen.”
It was a poor prayer. One without the—the graciousness of words, the elegance that Pawn wished he could have. But it came from the heart. And that was all Pawn had. His heart, which beat painfully in his chest.
He rose. And in the darkness, hundreds of bodies rose with him. Painted Soldiers, their bodies dabbed with bright colors, stood. They looked at Pawn. And he looked across their heads.
Each one was different. Each one was unique. Though their bodies were the same, they were as individual as could be. Even other species were less unique. For what separated two Humans? A difference in height? Different bones, or skin color? The quality of their voice?
Those were uncertain variables. But this? This was different. Each Soldier’s carapace was decorated. They each bore a symbol of who they were, and they could reapply that proof whenever they needed to. They had chosen who they were.
The Painted Soldiers. The Individuals of the Hive. Pawn’s flock. That’s what Erin had called them. But if they were his flock, he was a poor [Shepherd]. And he was tired. And so, so very sad.
“Thank you.”
Pawn spoke simply. The large chamber in which he stood was both the Painted Soldier’s barracks for sleeping as well as their break hall. And home. And memorial. On the walls covered with the signs of fallen Soldiers were spaces dedicated to reading. Small, children’s picture books shared space next to boards that were extra-large to allow Soldiers to play chess or Go together. There was a spot to sit on fluffy, comfy blankets and pillows, always in high demand. Even a spot to paint.
But the Soldiers had stopped their tasks to kneel or sit in front of Pawn. For his morning prayer. He offered two a day. Morning and night. Not all of the Soldiers could be present; even now, some fought or guarded parts of the Hive. But all who could come came, and they listened. So Pawn tried to pray as best he could. He never repeated himself. And he tried to be short.
It was inadequate. But with so many expectant faces, Pawn could never do nothing. So now he raised the stick on which hung the censer and waved it. The fragrance of cinnamon hung in the air as Pawn walked past the Soldiers. He hadn’t lit it, but the censer still smelled of the wonderful, sweet scent.
“Go in peace. Go, thinking of peace. You may go. Thank you. Thank you…”
The Soldiers waited until Pawn was past them to move. Slowly, they filed past him, returning to their lives. And they looked at Pawn as he walked slowly past him. He was an [Acolyte]. The only one of his kind. And he felt like a fraud. But he kept walking until he reached the end of the cavern. Then he let the Soldiers get back to work. And he sat.
It had been weeks since Yellow Splatters had died. Since the hundred fell at Liscor. Pawn knew he should do something. Erin had come to see him. And he had duties. But he couldn’t find the strength to do any of it.
They had died around him. Shielding him from the Goblin Lord’s magic. And they had died because he asked them to save her. And they had. Erin Solstice lived. And that was one of the reasons Pawn lived. But they had all died for her.
Yellow Splatters. Pawn bowed his head and wished an Antinium could weep. But he made no sound. Because the Soldiers were walking around, enjoying being alive. Enjoying their time off that they were given as Painted Soldiers. And looking at him. So Pawn sat. He made no sound, though he would have wailed. He ate when it was time to eat, and he slept when it was time to sleep. He prayed, and he spoke. Because he could not abandon these Soldiers to his despair as he had so selfishly before. They were all he had left.
Him. And Purple Smile. The [Sergeant] came over to Pawn and waved two of his arms. The peculiar Soldier raised his purple-colored mandibles in a smile. And Pawn tried to copy it.
“Hello Purple Smile. Is it time to eat?”
The [Sergeant] shrugged. He stared at Pawn and then sat next to him. That was his way. As any Soldier, Purple Smile couldn’t speak, but his hands did the talking. Thumbs-up, a walking hand, another thumb, a pointing finger—his crude, Soldier’s fingers on his four hands constructed a message.
“Thank you. It was a good prayer? And…I should go for a walk?”
Nod. Pawn looked at Purple Smile’s finger.
“The inn? Maybe later. I’m sure Erin’s busy.”
Purple Smile stared at Pawn. Both Antinium knew he was lying, or rather, avoiding saying what he meant. It was not an Antinium thing. But Purple Smile didn’t give up. Slowly, he urged Pawn up, taking the Worker’s arm as carefully as if he were clutching paper. And the Worker couldn’t very well refuse. Purple Smile had given so much. He still fought against the monsters of the dungeon. And Pawn had asked so much of the Soldiers. If they asked him anything—
“Very well. Where should I walk?”
Around. Purple Smile gestured. Pawn nodded. Slowly, he walked around the barracks. His body felt…tired. He’d been doing a lot of sitting. And remembering. Thinking, really. Thinking of how things had come to this.
Look. Look at the barracks now. They were incomparable to before. The barracks of the Painted Soldiers were now more of a wing; the tight, intersecting tunnels had been excavated as the barracks grew, becoming larger, with a more open design than any standard Antinium area. Something that reflected the architecture above, with a higher ceiling, the space to move without being cramped.
An echo of the sky. And the colors that shone from the walls were nowhere else to be found in the Hive. If Pawn had not known what this was, he would have thought he had stumbled into a magical land here. Soldiers were free to rest. And they had things to occupy themselves. Fun. Games. Things no Antinium had ever dreamed of.
