“Wing Commander Embria is a hero of Liscor. And so is Watch Captain Zevara. They held the walls, and they held the breach. But they did not assail the Goblin Lord. They did not give their lives for the city. My Soldiers did. I would remind those listening that they died for this city. And the Antinium believe in Krshia Silverfang’s vision for Liscor. They believe it is something worth dying to protect.”
The Drakes and Gnolls quieted. They listened and looked at Klbkch. And he stood alone, in a circle of people who were not his own.
“I regret that I am unable to bring forwards a company of the victorious Soldiers who fought against the Goblin Lord. But they perished in the line of their duties, unlike the 4th Company of Liscor. And yet, a hero of that battle does stand with us.”
His head turned. Pawn, standing a few feet away from him, had a terrible premonition and began to back away. Klbkch looked towards him, and Pawn felt Selys grab his arm and look pleadingly at him. But the Worker was shaking his head frantically as more and more Drakes and Gnolls looked at him and remembered.
“I have heard that true heroes never die. This is true of the Antinium. If Wing Commander Embria stands here, it is only fair that a hero of the Antinium answer her.”
“No. No.”
Pawn resisted the clawed hands pushing him forwards. He was going to shout at Klbkch. He could not do this. But strangely, Klbkch was not looking at him. His head had turned past Pawn. And slowly, Pawn’s head turned too. And he heard it.
A shout. A cry that rent the air. Above the shouting of the crowd, Lism’s failing voice charm. Shouts. And then screams.
“The Antinium are invading! Sound the alarm!”
Someone cried that in the distance. Every head turned back to Klbkch. He did not reply. And the crowd laughed. Someone had probably seen that patrol of Antinium. Who was panicking? Idiots.
But it was an invasion. The laughter became gasps and even screams. A black army was flooding out of the Hive. Soldiers were rushing out of the Hive. Soldiers and Workers. They filled the streets, pouring forwards.
“Attack! It’s a coup! Flee for your lives! Soldiers, defend us!”
Lism panicked on his platform. The 4th Company formed a line, and Embria grabbed her spear, staring. Then her eyes widened. Pawn, craning to see, desperately pushed through the crowd. The Drakes and Gnolls moved back, afraid of the black tide that flowed forth. But it was not towards the other Antinium that Pawn looked.
The Free Antinium followed him. A single figure, striding out ahead of the rest. He was not like the Soldiers or Workers that followed him. Not in body. Nor in whom he was.
He was taller. Larger. The Soldiers, who were all the same, were a head shorter than him. And this Antinium’s body was enhanced beyond even that of the regular Soldiers. His four arms flexed, and his fully realized digits stretched in the air. The sun shone down on his shoulders. He walked in front of them, taller with each step. A colossus. A familiar soul.
He came to a stop as Pawn stumbled forwards. The Worker was shaking. Disbelieving. It couldn’t be. But it was. The giant looked down at Pawn, and he was taller than Pawn remembered. His body was changed. But the smile was the same. And the yellow glinting off the arm he offered Pawn was real.
The Antinium turned to the crowd. And he opened his mandibles and spoke.
“I am Yellow Splatters.”
His voice was deep. And commanding. Yellow Splatters stood in front of the people of Liscor. His body was new. It had been built by a despairing Queen. It had been filled with a soul of a Soldier. A dying warrior. A son of Liscor. And though he had not been created with the genius of the Shaper Queens of old, the Free Queen of the Antinium could give him a voice. And voices were just sound. Easy to make. So she had given him the voice of a leader. A general.
A hero.
Yellow Splatters opened his mandibles and spoke. To the disbelieving citizens. To the 4th Company of Izril, who faced this giant among Antinium uneasily. To Erin Solstice, eyes full of tears. To the Antinium of his Hive. And to Pawn. And the Antinium could not weep. But they could listen.
“I am one of the Painted Antinium. I perished in battle against the Goblin Lord. My hundred Soldiers and I fought to the last for Liscor. I was brought back to life. I have heard what Krshia Silverfang has proposed. And the Free Antinium of Liscor support her. For Liscor is worth dying for. This is what I have come here to say. The Antinium die for Liscor. Let us help build our home as well.”
That was all. Two of Yellow Splatter’s arms came up, and he saluted along his left side. Then he turned and walked back. But that was all he needed to say. In the silence, no one could speak. Not even Lism. Well, not really.
“That’s clearly an impostor. They got another Soldier, put yellow paint on him—they all look alike. How could anyone fall for…”
He trailed off and stared at Yellow Splatters’ back. Someone whispered as Yellow Splatters passed by, followed by his people.
“It’s part of his body. Look.”
The bits of yellow on his body weren’t paint. They weren’t added on. The yellow color was part of the Antinium’s carapace. Irreversibly marking him. And where he walked, the people turned and stared. At a miracle. A truth too large to be a lie.
There he walked. And Pawn followed him, feet away. So close he could touch the broad back. A giant among Soldiers. Larger. Stronger. And he had a voice.
Yellow Splatters.
He stopped in front of the Hive. Amid a wave, a sea of Workers and Soldiers. They stared at him. There Yellow Splatters stood. And when he spoke next, it was just for them. To them.
“I have died. I have come back. I stand here to tell you all one thing. One truth I saw after I died with the others.”
He looked at Pawn. And the Worker trembled. He shook with guilt and regret. But Yellow Splatters gently took Pawn’s shoulders. He looked down into Pawn’s eyes.
“You were right. It is there.”
The Worker didn’t know what he meant. Then his legs grew weak.
“You saw it? Truly?”
The head nodded once.
“I saw it. Heaven. It exists. Believe. It exists.”
The Antinium stopped. The Hive looked up. Yellow Splatters gazed towards the sky and shook his head.
“It is not up. It is not down. And it is tiny. It is as fragile as this. As small as…”
He opened his hand and grasped at the air. He clenched his fist and met every eye.
“But it exists. And it is being built. It can be built. We must make it grow. So believe. Believe. And you will be saved.”
He looked around. Pawn fell to his knees. The Workers and Soldiers looked at Yellow Splatters.
They had all gone away. Soldiers and Workers. They had died for glory, ignobly, by ones and twos and by the thousands. But at last—after so long—it had happened. Yellow Splatters had died, fighting for the Hive. He had sacrificed everything he had. But that was not what made him a hero. If that was so, all Antinium were heroes and none were. No. It was that Yellow Splatters had fought. He had gone to protect the Hive. And then he came back.
He came back.
That was all they had ever wanted. Pawn knelt. He bowed. And he no longer needed to believe.
Because it was true.
 
[Acolyte Level 18!]
[Miracle – Heal Minor Wounds obtained!]
