On the humorous side, when more than two guards tried to attack Lea at once, Terry interfered, keeping them back. Even so, the avian did allow them to switch out when Lea’s non-biological stamina and all-out fighting style drove them seemingly to exhaustion.

Tala hadn’t considered that as a tactic for the girl, but clearly her daughter had—either that or she noticed the opportunity and took advantage of it seamlessly—using the rotation of guards to truly refine her fighting against humanoid opponents who were clearly bent on her destruction.

Her daughter’s safety once again verified, she turned her attention to the column before her, a vestige at its heart.

In her moment of wandering focus, many arcanes had rushed in close before falling to the ground before her.

On either side of the hold’s core—in the remnants of the room that had been built around it—knelt near-to a dozen white hue-folk, foreheads pressed to the floor in supplication. They were each as lightly clad as the first Pillar had been, seemingly comfortable in the environment that would be dangerously frigid to almost anyone else.

One was a bit forward of the others, and when he seemed to sense her attention on him, he spoke, not lifting his head. “Revered Eskau of the House of Blood, what can we humble remnants do to aid you and help you on your way this day?”

Tala huffed a laugh, smiling despite none of them being able to see it. “I am here to free this vestige from its tortured imprisonment.”

A few of the kneeling arcanes looked up at her in shock, but the seeming leader did not move. “Oh great Eskau, that would doom this hold and all those who reside within. I do not mean to presume, but would that not be a violation of our writ of establishment, granted by the City Lord for this hold?”

“You are right to be so concerned. For another, that would, indeed, be a concern.”

Most of them seemed to relax at her words, but again, the leader seemed to see through his own immediate assumptions. “For another?”

“Yes. For me, that is no concern. I will be providing for the power requirements of this hold, myself.”

That took the man entirely by surprise, and finally caused him to straighten and meet her gaze. “From another, I would assume that meant you were replacing our vestige with a new one, but your manner of expression… Will your gate be the very source of power here?”

Tala smiled contently as she nodded. “That is well understood.”

“But… That would put you in control of this hold. We could not…” He blanched, his skin seemingly becoming duller to her eyes. “We would be under the auspices of the House of Blood. Our greater House would not allow this branch to be so encumbered. That is no different than destroying the hold.”

“One could see it that way, but the truth is, you do have the option of staying. The hold will continue as long as the House of the Frost Lance maintains its presence within.”

A moment of impotent rage built within the man’s eyes before the spark died, and he slumped just slightly, eyes flicking to the Eskau’s body, not far away. “You are understood, Revered Eskau. Unless my reports are wrong, only our Pillars and Eskau have fallen. Is that true?”

“Your reports are accurate.”

He didn’t contest her, eyes focusing on the projection orb for a brief moment before he sighed, dropping his gaze once more. “Then, I thank you for your restraint, and I applaud your tactic. I will carry word of your magnanimity to the Pillars of the House of the Frost Lance. I beg of the ancestors that we may meet again, as partners in conflict rather than enemies.” He bowed low, forehead touching the floor once more. “We will depart within the hour. Will you grant us that time?”

Tala nodded in return. “Go in peace. I will free the vestige and remain until you and yours have left.”

Thus, the House of Blood rebuked the House of the Frost Lance for their arrogance and insolence.

Thus, was all of Platoiri reminded of the cost of so openly opposing the House of Blood.
