“I see,” Ali said, recalling some of the problems he had mentioned with his class – skeletons and zombies required appropriate fresh corpses to raise, but his strength came from the monsters he raised. A troublesome problem if he found himself with no minions to get going. “Your Volatile Wraith is also incorporeal, and it doesn’t require a corpse, right?”

“Yes.”

“I’m thinking of that more like a fireball spell than a summon,” Ali said. It was such a memorable spell. The Death Wight had employed it to great effect against them down in the ruins. “An undead, guided, incorporeal fireball. So, maybe getting the death bolt wouldn’t be solving any new problems for you?”

“It’s a little awkward to use Volatile Wraith in a group because it can do life drain,” Seth answered, grimacing. “I was considering swapping it for Death Bolt. Party members don’t like it when you drain them by accident.”

Ali was sure there was a story there somewhere, but she let it go. “But if you’re in a group, you can rely on them killing a few easier monsters to get you started, right?”

“True.” He hesitated. “I like taking solo quests at night, though.”

“I have to admit, my preference would be for Empowered Army,” Ali finally concluded. “While the ghosts are nice because you can make them without a corpse, they’re also limited in number, and they go away after an hour. If the recharge or the minimum level doesn’t scale, it will get statistically worse as you level up. I don’t like that you could need a monster urgently and it only summons a level one ghost by chance.” Ali was well acquainted with this problem, having had more than enough experience rolling the dice with her Grimoire prior to receiving her Customization advancement. “Empowered Army is multiplicative across all your minions and will get stronger as you get more of them. Improving your attributes is strong, too.”

“I think I like it too, but it’s only one attribute. Most of the others have skills that boost three attributes at the same time,” Seth said. “I worry that it’s underpowered because of that.”

“It’s quite similar to my skill,” Ali said, sharing her Empowered Summoner. “Don’t underestimate that damage it adds on every hit. It adds up to a lot, and scales as you get more and stronger minions. On my first advancement, I got the option to upgrade it to two attributes.”

“Huh, why does yours only have a ten percent reservation?”

“I’m not sure. I think it’s because I have a domain aptitude that gives me effectively double the mana pool. Ten percent reservation works out to the same amount of mana as a twenty percent for some other class without that.”

“You would go with Empowered Army then, over Summon Ghost?”

“Yes, definitely,” Ali said. “Stronger minions instead of more. Your other offerings overlap a lot with what you can already do. If you keep intelligence as your highest attribute, it will increase that, making most of your skills scale up to be much more powerful. If you get a second attribute on an advancement, choose wisdom, and then your army will expand dramatically because you can reserve more mana.”

“Ok, that sounds smart.”

“Also, note that Empowered Army is keying off your highest attribute, not the base attribute, so you can control it with gear choices if you like,” she said.

“Oh, cool. That’s an expensive option, but I think it could be useful later,” Seth answered, sounding rather interested in the obscure detail, reminding her strongly of Calen’s fascination for skill interactions and optimization.

Perhaps I should have him talk to Calen, too?

“Why don’t you try the ghosts and the army out on your next group quest? With your team supporting you, you have a little more leeway to experiment.”

“That’s a good idea. We were planning to kill the wolves a couple more times to get some levels, and then go raid the abominations in the forest. I’ll try it there – thank you!” He seemed much happier than when she had first found him sitting there.

“Why don’t you guys kill the shamans in the lake too?” Ali asked, unable to hide her curiosity. Sure, the magicite she had left in the den was a great incentive, but the mana-purified water from the lake was running low, according to Weldin, so it had to be worth retrieving.

“The team doesn’t like that boss,” Seth said, grimacing. “Some of them don’t like swimming, and our strategy isn’t the greatest.”

“But your skeletons don’t need to breathe, right?” Ali asked. “And the Volatile Wraith should work underwater too.”

“Uh… oh!” Seth’s face lit up with comic suddenness as the realization struck home.

***

“Here dear, you’ve been studying for hours.” The steaming cup clinked softly as Lira placed it carefully on the table beside her, far enough away from the open books strewn across the polished mahogany surface that there would be no risk of spilling.

“Thank you,” Ali said, looking up from her mother’s book and stretching her neck and shoulders as she smelled the refreshing aroma of the tea Lira had brewed. It’s probably a good idea to take a break.

With Mato’s armor being reforged, and the guild being rebuilt, they had decided to spend the next couple of days relaxing, and she had chosen to hunt down the elusive idea of mana affinities and how they overlapped and could sometimes be translated from one to another. Much like how Nathaniel Sunstrider’s powerful arcane mass teleport and Professor Addlestone’s space magic version had been strikingly similar.

She reasoned that if anyone had known the intricate rules for how it worked, it would have been her mother – and if she could just learn how to do the transcription from one affinity to another, she would have a fantastic new source of spells for her runic magic. She had visions of arcane fireballs and nature magic versions of ice lance, only conjured from wood. But the subject was impossibly complex, and she barely understood half of what was written in the Eldritch Tome. In fact, she was beginning to suspect that not all the information was actually there, which had her on a half-hour tangent, trying to cajole the recalcitrant book into sharing any secret info with her.

It hadn’t worked, and it just gained her some very strange stares from the guildmembers who had begun taking advantage of her newest teleportation circle to the library until she realized that Clarence was shy and wouldn’t reveal himself when others were watching, meaning she just looked like she was arguing with an inanimate book.

As was often the case when she had no pressing deadline or emergency, she had found herself hurtling down an unexpected rabbit hole of knowledge, a side-passage to a side-passage that had whisked her away into an esoteric discussion of the magic of skills, and how sometimes skills had the same exact framework, but a different payload attached, and this allowed them to be much more easily understood and modified.

It had triggered a strong sense of déjà vu, but for the life of her, she couldn’t recall where she had seen one of them.

Definitely a good time for a break, she thought. At least before she got frustrated. She leaned back in her seat and sipped at the tea, making sure to not get it near the books.

“What are you working on?” Lira asked, taking a seat beside her, her soft voice soothing after spending so long immersed in the books.

“I got sidetracked by something called homologous magic. It’s apparently possible to have two spells that have the same structure, but certain parts are shaped differently to produce different effects,” she explained. It fascinated the scholar within her, but it likely had very little practical use.

“That sounds like something your mother must have named,” Lira said with a smile, sipping on her tea.

“It’s nice to have people in the library again,” Ali said, sighing happily. It had a rightness to it – libraries were meant for people to read and learn. Obviously, she was used to having Lira around, and her friends, but there were five adventurers from the guild sitting at various tables studying magic, combat stances, skills, or whatever struck their fancy.

“Yes, it is good,” Lira said. “Maybe I should go into town and buy more tea – perhaps they would like some?”

“That’s a good idea,” Ali said, idly watching as one of the novices pulled out a small cube, placed it on the table beside him, and activated a light magic enchantment within it using a small puff of his own mana. The tiny magical formation blossomed up and out of the simple artifact and a soft reading light manifested floating in the air above the table.

“That’s it!” she exclaimed suddenly, almost dropping her tea as she suddenly remembered the elusive magic that had slipped her mind earlier.

She ignored Lira’s knowing smile as she rummaged through her storage ring with her mind, finding and retrieving her old notebook. She paged through it and quickly found the runic inscriptions she had noted there, representing Calen’s Motes of Light spell.

“I know exactly where I saw this,” she muttered, flipping through her Grimoire looking for a small variant she had barely used. Aah, here it is: Luminous Dragonet.

She slowed down, studying the densely packed runic structure encoding the tiny dragon she had learned in the jungle. Here it is, she thought confirming her memories had been accurate as her fingers brushed across a runic structure that matched the spell in her notebook almost exactly. She did not understand the structure of the imprint magic in her Grimoire, but if she had to guess, she was looking at a light magic skill that was almost identical to the Motes of Light spell Calen had allowed her to study for so long.

There was a large structural section to the spell that seemed identical, but contained within it was a core that had a different function. On a hunch, she directed her Runic Script magic to the page in her Grimoire, beginning to inscribe the runic magic from her notebook.

To her great surprise, the Grimoire did not resist her efforts, instead, it simply created space for her new magic beside the existing spell runes. Her mana flowed into the receptive pages just like it did into magical ink or her electrum, only the Grimoire’s pages accepted her mana imprint decidedly more readily. Somehow, she was using her Imbued Runes advancement to inscribe runes directly onto the pages of her Grimoire – a construct of her own magic.

Not understanding precisely what she was doing – or how – she enabled her Sage of Learning and continued transcribing the runes from her notebook into the growing space her Grimoire provided, carefully linking the runes in exactly the same way as the existing spell, copying all the duplicate runes for the homologous structure keeping the same relationship to the rest of the imprint, as if grafting something new into the same space.

Fully immersed in her study trance, she didn’t notice the intense glow emanating from her Grimoire until she finished, and her notification chime sounded.

Runic Script has reached level 31.Sage of Learning has reached level 23.Variant: Glitter Dragonet added to Imprint: Dragon.

A new creature?

Ali stared at the notification for a long while as the implications of what she had just done slowly seeped in. Suddenly, her curiosity caught up with her and she poured her mana into the new variant and created the creature.

Glitter Dragonet – Dragon – level 1 (Light) x9Your reserved mana has increased by +1.

Ali stared at the bevy of tiny golden dragons that perched on the table, their gleaming scaled necks arching and craning this way and that as they studied her with their luminous eyes or explored the books at their feet. Each was about the size of a kitten but with a significantly longer tail. The nearest one’s small reptilian eyes gazed at her intently with an inner burning light. It blinked, two sets of eyelids closing, and then opening. Its deep golden-colored scales were accented by black along the spine ridges on its back, down its tail, and its four clawed feet. The tiny horns and spines protruding backward from its head were also tipped with black. Shimmering trails of softly sparkling light and mana followed them wherever they went.

So pretty!

Just then the tiny dragon perched upon Clarence made a confused expression, as the book shifted, trying to dislodge it. It suddenly let out a belch, emitting a small mote of light that hovered in the air in front of its face. It cocked its head and stared at it quizzically as the mote slowly rose in the air. It had risen several meters when a small buzzing shape was drawn to its light, flying around and around in a circle.

Every single tiny dragon head turned, eyes tracking the movement with the pure focus and alertness of a hunter spying its prey. Quick as a flash, the tiny dragon launched itself into the air, and with two rapid strokes of its outstretched wings, and a snap of its jaw, the moth became the dragon’s first dinner. It raised its tiny head and let out a tiny, absolutely adorable roar of triumph. Ali couldn’t help grinning. Baring its fangs, it gathered its mana into a delicate spell formation of light affinity and released a stream of motes from its mouth like a child blowing shimmering golden bubbles of light that drifted around floating upward.

The entire flight of dragonets took to the air in a sudden display of golden wings, aerial acrobatics, and an explosion of tiny motes of light as the hunt for more insects began.

Without hesitation, Ali summoned more and more of them, filling the library with the soft illumination of floating Motes of Light, drifting glitter, and tiny soaring dragons, stopping only when she had created more than two hundred tiny dragonets. Everyone visiting the library stopped to watch their playful antics as they darted about chasing insects, each other, or alighting to roost on branches of the elder tree, or the tables and bookshelves of the library.

Ali grinned happily, enjoying the antics of the dragonets. Most of her monsters were terrifying, but the Glitter Dragonets were truly beautiful, elegant, and graceful as they swooped about, but by far her favorite was the one with his tiny head raised to the sky roaring his tiny fierce roar, declaring himself the king of the bookshelf. And the entire flight of more than two hundred had cost only twenty-three mana, so she didn’t bother even attaching them to her domain, simply allowing them to roam wherever they liked without instructions.

“Think with monsters,” she murmured. Just from her mana sight, she could tell she had finally succeeded in duplicating Calen’s stealth-dispelling spell.

