Wisdom, wisdom, and more wisdom! Your primary defense against mental assault is to build up your wisdom. However, by its very nature, mind magic is a subtle art. You must be aware of a mental attack to bring the bulk of your defenses to bear – without awareness, you are as vulnerable as a newborn baby. It is much like an Assassin, striking from the shadows to gain the critical damage from Ambush and it is how I’ve learned to apply my skills effectively to those substantially higher level than myself. I use acting, mundane deception, distractions, and costumes all to show my target what they expect to see. And then, I strike.The defense against being unaware is simple – training, and a healthy investment in perception. - Mieriel Dawnbloom, Mind Mage and Guild Administrator, Private lesson to the senior members of the Myrin’s Keep Adventurers Guild.

“Hi, Elton,” Ali greeted the apprentice, who stood behind the counter in the elegant receiving room of Lydia’s allure. He wore his signature dark suit, and his hair had been slicked back in what Ali was only peripherally aware was ‘in’ among the circles frequented by the wealthy and influential right now. “Is Lydia in? Nice outfit, by the way.”

Tailor – Human – level 4 (Shadow)

The tall, newly minted tailor looked up from the cloth he was cutting, curious dark wisps of his shadow mana pausing interrupted in their flowing dance. His lips crooked the barest hint of a smile – which, Ali was certain, was for him a beaming grin. “Good morning, Aliandra. Thank you. Yes, she’s in the back, I will tell her you’re here.”

Already level four, she thought as he ducked out of sight through a doorway. He must be working hard. She had to admit, she was curious to see what a shadow-affinity tailor would be able to make when he earned a few more class levels.

“Oh, there you are! Hi, Aliandra,” Lydia said brightly, stepping into the main room of her store with a distinct energy to her steps. “It’s good to see you.” She, of course, stepped around the counter and gave Calen a big hug which made him blush fiercely as usual.

Tailor – Human – level 68

Wow, sixty-eight! She’s doing so well. “Lydia, this is Brena Novaspark,” Ali said, introducing the novice guildmember. “She’s a Lightning Mage and we wanted to see if you could help her with an upgrade. She’s outleveled her gear already.”

“Hi there,” Lydia greeted Brena with a smile, distracting the Gnome who had been staring with intent curiosity at all the expensively tailored dresses on display. “You must be Donella’s daughter, right?”

“Yes,” she answered with a nod and a guarded expression. Likely, she was used to being recognized by her mother’s reputation.

“Mmm, they outlevel things so fast early on,” Lydia said, running her fingertips gently across the fabric of the cuffs of Brena’s cloth robe with professional ease. “I’m just glad you brought her to me, Aliandra, instead of having her wear that nasty stuff you had on the first time you visited.”

Brena coughed, hiding a laugh behind her hand.

“Aah, yes,” Ali said, grimacing at the uncomfortable memory – at the time she had been so happy to have something that had resistance against the fireballs, but the Kobold Tattered Robes had been quite nasty and reeked. She was ever so glad she had destroyed them, and that she had far better options even for low-level Kobolds now.

“How about something similar to the first piece I made for you?” Lydia asked, her eyes still sizing up the novice.

“That should be perfect,” Ali answered.

“Lightning and intelligence?” Lydia asked.

It took a moment before Brena realized Lydia was asking her. “Oh… yes!”

“Perfect,” Lydia said, mana flickering as she activated several skills while she had Brena turn around a few times. She jotted down a few things down in her notebook, a mannerism so like Calen’s that Ali almost laughed out loud. “This shouldn’t take more than a few minutes,” she said, surprising Ali with how little time she needed.

Leveling up has been good for her, she thought.

“Elton, would you mind grabbing the box in the back with Aliandra’s name on it?” Lydia said, as she walked through the open doorway into the next area and began laying out some silky, royal-blue fabric with a tight weave on the worktable.

Box? Ali wasn’t sure what Lydia was doing, but Elton returned from the storage room in the back a few moments later with a small box, and Lydia directed him to give it to her.

“I made this for you – a thank-you gift for the fire silk,” Lydia explained, wearing a beaming, happy smile that lit up her face.

Ali’s curiosity was almost burning her up as she accepted the box from the tall apprentice.

She flipped up the lid. Nestled within it were a pair of cloth slippers, cut from the clean, white fabric that shimmered with red dancing flame embedded within the weave itself. She reached out to touch the familiar fabric that matched her robes feeling the innate warmth of the fire magic that was woven together with the thread. “Ooh…”

Fire Silk Slippers – level 60Elegantly crafted footwear designed to be stylish enough for high society, and yet robust enough for dungeon delving. +15% to resistance against Fire damage.+40 Intelligence+23 Wisdom+67% to mana regenerationRequirements: Intelligence 210Created by Lydia Avery.Feet – Fire Silk

Ali’s breath caught in her throat as she stared at the mesmerizing silk slippers for a long moment, not quite believing what she was seeing. The fabric was stunningly beautiful, and the design elegant – but the enchantments Lydia had managed to weave into the item were astounding.

And four…

“How…” she didn’t quite know what to say.

“Do you like them?” Lydia asked, a grin creasing the sides of her eyes.

“This is amazing! How did you manage to make this? There are four enchantments – four!” The words spilled out of Ali’s mouth in a tumbling rush.

“The book you got me taught me how to combine them, and with high-level fabric like this fire silk, it ended up being surprisingly straightforward. Technically, I can only make three enchantments right now, but the fabric has such a strong fire affinity it can take one extra fire enchantment as long as it’s not too powerful,” Lydia said. “That’s where the fire resistance one comes from.”

“She didn’t sleep a wink,” Elton added archly from the counter where he was back to working with his fabric.

“Elton!”

Calen just chuckled in the background.

“You can’t just give me such an expensive gift!” Ali exclaimed.

“Ali,” Lydia said, finally using the familiar form of her name, “I don’t think you understand just how much money I made from selling fire silk dresses to the nobles. After Mieriel went to the party at the Asterford House, everyone needed one. And because the supply is so restricted, I can charge whatever I want for the couple I’m able to make.” She smiled wryly, “I’m pretty sure not even you could afford the going rate for those slippers – but it’s not about the money. I’m truly grateful for everything you’ve done for me.”

I probably could afford it, Ali thought, but she understood that wasn’t Lydia’s point and accepted the gift with a happy smile. She could easily pay it back in kind with more materials – including the demonic silk webbing she was carrying. Seeing Brena trying to remain polite despite her obvious curiosity, Ali showed her the slippers.

“Your shoes have almost as much intelligence as me,” she said, earning a round of chuckles and laughs.

“Well, now you know who to come to when you level up,” Ali said, carefully putting the slippers on her feet.

“She won’t have any fire silk left by then,” Brena pointed out, her dramatic pout nearly making Ali snort.

“The flame web comes from a fire-affinity spider I can make,” Ali explained. “I was planning to make an area for them in my dungeon so that Lydia can offer collection quests at the guild for it.”

Lydia’s ears immediately perked up. “How… soon… do you think you might have those spiders ready?” she asked and then coughed awkwardly.

“Any time,” Ali answered. “But nobody in the guild is strong enough to kill them yet.” Well, that wasn’t quite true – Vivian could take them out, but she didn’t do delves anymore, now that she was retired. She turned back to Brena, and said, “When you get to the early fifties you should be able to collect the raw materials for your robes yourself.”

“That’s too bad,” Lydia said. “We’ll just have to help them get stronger then, shall we?”

Ali was not sure what part of their comments had caused surprise, but Brena lapsed into a quiet thoughtfulness for the entire time Lydia worked. But, soon enough, there was a new round of excitement as she got to try on her brand-new robe. Masterfully crafted from monstrous silk, it would probably be quite a bit tougher than the original cotton items Ali had used, and now that Lydia had surpassed her class plateau, Brena’s robe had a nice intelligence enchant and something to boost lightning damage. It had clearly been much simpler and easier for Lydia to create than her brand-new slippers, but Brena would be replacing it quickly as she leveled up.

“I have one more thing for you to play with,” Ali said, getting Lydia’s immediate attention as she retrieved the demonic silk web from where she had stored it in her ring.

“Oh, new thread!” Lydia exclaimed, fetching the enchanted spool, and transferring the web to it, her skills allowing her to handle the dangerous, sticky webbing without difficulty. “Elton, be a dear and run next door and get Hilda again please?”

“I don’t imagine this will be useful for high fashion, but I don’t think adventurers will care about wearing fabric with a demonic trait,” Ali said. The webbing seemed to have a darkness to it that shimmered and shifted, causing her eyes to want to look elsewhere, just like the Abyssal Stalker itself. “I’m guessing it might work well with stealth traits?”

“I think you’d be surprised what the nobility and wealthy will do to one-up each other,” Lydia said casually while finishing storing the web itself. “If you can get your hands on more of this, I’m definitely interested in seeing what we can make with it.”

“I can get you some more right now,” Ali said, snapping a broad barrier disk into place, hovering vertically in the air beside the waiting chairs.

“Huh?”

“Shoot that,” Ali instructed.

Brena happened to be facing the exact corner where the Abyssal Stalker lurked, clinging upside down to the ceiling. She let out a shrill scream, as the demon appeared and plastered the barrier with demonic webbing.

Even Lydia had jumped back in surprise.

“Aah, sorry,” Ali apologized, “I should have warned you.” She had forgotten just how terrifying the stalkers were the first time she had seen them. Brena was only level nine, and Lydia had no combat skills. But it was just a few moments to collect more silk with a barrier that she could dismiss, avoiding all the stickiness issues.

The door chime suddenly sounded, announcing the return of Elton and the dwarven Weaver.

“Would ya look at that!” she exclaimed, eyes already glued to the web.

***

Mage – Human – level 22 (Death)

“Congratulations on passing twenty, Seth,” Ali said. “Did you get anything good for your class skill unlock?” She sat on her barrier in the open-air area the guild was using as its makeshift hall while construction was underway. All around, there was the bustle and noise of construction, less than ideal for a conversation, but Seth had asked for help, and it sounded important.

“I think so,” he answered cautiously. “I didn’t choose yet; I was hoping to get your advice. Not many people understand the tradeoffs for summoners.”

“Do you mind sharing your choices? I can tell you what I think,” she answered. It had always been a challenge to decide, particularly early on, but what had helped her out immensely was having a few people she trusted to discuss it with.

“Ok,” he answered, and her notification chimed as he shared three skill choices with her, the text showing up as a strangely familiar glowing black light on ashy parchment.

Summon GhostMana: Summon a ghost to serve as a minion. Ghost level is random [up to class level]. Reserve: by level. Recharge: 15 minutes. Duration: 1 hour.Death, Minion, IntelligenceDeath BoltMana: Fire a bolt of death magic. Range: 50 meters.Death, Ranged, IntelligenceEmpowered ArmyMana: Your minions gain added Death damage on hit. Your highest attribute is increased by an amount dependent on the number and class levels of your minions. Range: 15 meters. Reserve: 20%Death, Minion, Buff, Intelligence

“They all look like decent skills,” Ali said, studying them carefully, trying to put herself in the shoes of the necromancer to figure out what would be the most useful for him, rather than what looked best to her.

“Yes, that’s the problem,” he answered. “It’s hard to decide.”

“If it helps, you don’t lose the options after you choose, and you can replace them if it doesn’t work out,” she told him, continuing to weigh the choices.

“Oh, I didn’t know that,” he said. “How did you figure it out? I think some of the others will be interested in that tip.”

“Or perhaps I can mention it to the Guildmaster, it sounds like she should include that in the basic instruction,” Ali said. “Mato figured it out when he had to remove a berserker skill that almost made him kill me.” It wasn’t particularly obscure information, just she was almost certain most people wouldn’t risk experimenting with their skills unless they knew for certain, but it made choosing so much less stressful. There were a few rare cases where taking a new skill consumed an existing one, and those presumably couldn’t be reverted nearly as easily, but those seemed rare. “What are your first thoughts on the skills?”

“Summon Ghost is nice,” Seth said, pinching his chin thoughtfully. “It doesn’t require a corpse, but it is limited in number of minions. They’re incorporeal though, which is strong. Death Bolt would help me get started when I have no minions to make my first corpse. On the other hand, Empowered Army would make all my minions stronger, so I like that too. Empowered Army is an offering influenced by your mentorship, by the way.”

