“Alright... now look at it from everyone else’s perspective,” Azal said in a serious voice. “You led negotiations on the most contested planet and galaxy in the new universe, managed to establish a permanent presence there, along with access rights for the Risen faction to go there. Additionally, you secured us rights that are recognized as equal to those of every other race. At the same time, the Holy Church was pushed out of the entire galaxy. In summary, you accomplished a major diplomatic feat, all while making our greatest enemy look horrible in comparison.”

“See, I’m not arguing any of that happened. What I’m saying is I shouldn’t be the one to get the credit for it,” Casper insisted.

“Who should then? Who is the reason why we Risen are allowed a presence on your home planet?” Azal asked his very leading question.

“Jake is, obviously,” Casper shrugged.

“See, just the fact you can call the Chosen of the Malefic One by his name is worthy of recognizing you,” Azal said with a sigh. “It’s quite obvious your connection to the Chosen is the leading force behind your success, but realize that your success is the success of the Risen. Simply on account of being his friend, you will remain on the frontline of diplomacy with him and the entire Order of the Malefic Viper. Giving you a title of recognition will only lend legitimacy to any negotiations and agreements you take part in, while it would look incredibly poor to send someone who’s seemingly a no-name to be the leading diplomat.”

Casper didn’t even try to argue, as deep down, he knew Azal was right. The Risen wanted to present the interpretation of events that the Ghost King represented earlier, all to make the Risen look better. Jake had gathered so many eyes on him these days, especially after he killed Ell’Hakan and conquered the Milky Way Galaxy, so for the Risen to integrate themselves with such an individual was a huge accomplishment.

“You also shouldn’t sell yourself short,” Azal continued. “You might still be below the usual standards of Ghost Kings when it comes to combat, but when taking your dungeon engineering skills into account, you’re certainly qualified.”

“I don’t feel qualified,” Casper joked. “Then again, my standards probably are totally warped considering the people I compare myself against.”

“They most certainly are,” Azal chuckled. “Now follow me. I’ve been granted the honor of escorting you to the banquet hall, and we shall not embarrass ourselves by being late.”

“Alright,” Casper nodded as he took one final look at himself in the mirror. “I look presentable, right?”

“As long as you don’t show up naked, no one cares,” Azal said honestly. “That pendant alone is proof of the Blightfather’s grace and all anyone will see.”

“So I shouldn’t change the shir-“

Before Casper could even finish, Azal took him by the nape of his clothes, and to make matters worse, he even felt his pendant push against his body as he was dragged backwards, forced toward his old award ceremony.
