Matt was sure if he spent some time and tweaked some variables that he could manage aura rifts, but for all the popularity that Zack and Allie had brought to the mana types, they were rare for anyone to specialize in at such a low Tier, so they were far down on his priority list to get aura rifts working for.

Instead, after the four basic elements, Matt’s main goal was to recreate something like a sword or sharpness aura.

He wasn’t sure how he was supposed to create those auras, as there wasn’t a sword mana type, but weapon Concepts were very common and making an aura that was compatible for those who wished to travel down that path was a top priority.

He was contemplating how he could get close when his [AI] started getting flooded with messages.

Eclavorn: “This is unbelievable, unacceptable!”

Moe: “Something gnawing your caw?”

Eclavorn: “TufTal relocated their main factory, and their new stress toys have a weird chew to them now. They said they didn’t change anything but I know something is off.”

Matt raised an eyebrow at that.

Chew?

Did Eclavorn have a chew toy?

That couldn’t be right. Could it?

Except, at Ellen's prompting, Eclavorn sent a message of a giant bone shaped rubber looking chew toy that had a set of teeth marks in its form. A dragon maw shaped row of teeth marks.

Eclavorn: “Look at it. I should have known something was off when the color was slightly infraredder than it should have been.”

Matt stopped his work as he contemplated a dragon chewing on a massive chew toy and he just couldn't stop chortling.

Aster: “Oh I bet that sucks. I had a few friends at Red Feather who liked to chew and they were very particular about their implements.”

Eclavorn: “For good reason! TufTal had the best ratio of give and spring back. The texture was just superb.”

Beyond disbelief, Matt spun up a temporary sub-group with the offline bloodline-less Ascenders: “Are they fucking with us? Is this a joke?”

Brian: “Can’t tell to be honest. A bottle of Steel Bones to anyone who can get a video of stick up his ass Eclavorn chewing on a chew toy.”

A flurry of acceptance nearly caused Matt to miss Lila stirring the pot.

An image of her coiled around hundreds of boxes labeled ‘TufTal’ dropped into the chat: “And this is why you buy extra of a good things. See it and weep, fledgling.”

Eclavorn immediately replied, “Send me half. I’ll pay triple.”

“Fat chance. These babies are all mine. Though perhaps once I ascend… I’ll give them to Aster. Maybe I have some old unused mid-twenty bones lying around somewhere that you can try now. You don’t know what you’re missing, I need to check some old rings. Be right backkk.”

Eclavorn kept sending messages asking for less and less of the chew toys, or stress balls as the dragons called them, but Lila ignored all of his messages, causing the Monster Collective dragon to nearly go apoplectic when Lila was not right back.

Still chuckling, Matt could only shake his head as Eclavorn not so slowly lost his mind.
