The separation made the formation plates simpler, which meant cheaper and easier to replace in the case of a malfunction. It also allowed them to change their security without impacting the rifts.

Matt knew it was his past whispering in his ear that meant he liked the idea of a built-in offensive function. Objectively, though, he knew the enchanting space was better spent on other functions.

The next iteration took advantage of the added space by adding in a secondary isolation function, typically used to isolate Seekers when they used their ability, that would hopefully help isolate the enclosed space from more outside variables than the simple mana barrier.

Each iteration built on the idea of taking advantage of the space the lack of offensive runes would have taken up, but by then, his original testbed of rifts had cycled and he spent a few seconds inspecting them all again.

There was nothing too out of the ordinary with the rifts, and still no sign of aura, so Matt went ahead and Tiered them up once again.

An annoying number of the rifts simply collapsed as he powered them above the planetary Tier, but enough stuck around that he just kept going with his tests. None of them had aura at Tier 5, and instead of waiting around for yet another cycle, he decided to just Tier them up to Tier 6 and see if he had any more luck there.

That turned out to be a bad idea. Attempting to create seventy-odd rifts two Tiers above Lilly’s own resulted in some interesting flows in the essence that wound up starving all but four of them, and the subsequent collapse of seventy-odd Tier 6 rifts somehow disrupted those four rifts as well, forcing him to start over.

He repeated the process again, and after three more failures, Matt just took it upon himself to make two rifts. One with his new mana, one with his old mana.

Annoyingly, even with just two rifts to work with, it still took a good dozen tries before he got both rifts at Tier 6 and not de-aspecting. But eventually, he got there, and he had to stop himself from automatically tearing the rifts apart as he caught sight of wispy, phantasmal red flames dancing across the backs of a salamander in his old, endless-only mana rifts.

Inspecting the monster, he found it was a typical flame aura salamander, and as he killed the monster, he used a bottle created to harvest the aura from the creature.

Aura could be harvested manually, but it was a slightly finicky procedure that not every low Tier could manage. Someone some time in the distant past had created a device that could automatically harvest the aura off a creature, and the bottles were staples at the few natural aura rifts.

Inspecting the small clear sight window on the protected bottle, Matt looked at the swirling red fire aura. It wasn’t enough to create a potion in and of itself, but a delver would typically full clear an aura rift for the valuable resource. If the public process to alchemically stabilize aura into a medium that a cultivator could use to create their own Concept was accurate, this single rift instance should produce enough aura for two, maybe two and a half people.

If Matt could figure out how to make the rifts larger, and therefore contain more monsters, it was possible to increase that number, but it was a damn good start.

It meant that if the rift was delved perfectly every cycle, 240 to 300 people could theoretically create a Concept out of this single rift. Reality wasn’t quite so kind, as some people would need multiple doses of the potion and not every monster would be perfectly harvested, no matter how good the bottles were, leading to loss. But it was a good start.

It would be far better if Matt could figure out the trick to making Tier 4 aura rifts, but he had given himself two years out of his decade to figure out the secret before he just looked at how Manny’s people did it.

With anticipation building, Matt turned his attention to the other rift, made with his current endless-dense mana, only to have his hopes quashed immediately. They were practically identical to the salamanders in the other rift, but none had the all-important aura wreathing them.

There was a chance that he had just been unlucky, but Matt suspected that the addition of his new mana sub-aspect had changed things enough that the delicate balance had been disturbed.

Now that he’d confirmed he was still doing his old method correctly, Matt dispersed both rifts and re-created a Tier 6 rift with his current mana. It nearly collapsed, but it stabilized into a forest rift. None of the spiders inside had any aura, so he destroyed and recreated the rift again.

It collapsed instead of reaching Tier 6, so he tried again.

At last, on the ninth destruction and creation cycle, he finally found what he had been looking for. He’d nearly dispelled the rift on reflex when he saw it had de-aspected from fire, but he was glad he hadn’t.

It was a meadow-like rift populated primarily by hand-sized butterflies, and… two of them, with each flap of their wings, left a ghostly afterimage in their wake, a ghostly apparition of sunshine yellow.

Aura.

But it looked… different. It might have just been his too-attentive senses playing tricks on him, but it looked different from the fire aura he’d just harvested, even discounting the different aspect. It looked denser, more solid, as though his second sub-aspect had given its own impact on how the aura formed.

He harvested and stored it dutifully for later study. Someone who wasn’t him could determine if it had any properties meaningfully different from standard aura, but with his primary goal fulfilled, confirming that his current mana could still create aura rifts, he destroyed the butterfly meadow and created another handful of rifts. None had aura, but that wasn’t too much of a surprise.

They’d need to do more and more careful tests to determine the exact impact his new sub-aspect had on aura-making, but he penciled in ‘workable, but not ideal’ as the current status of his mana. For now, he was trying to determine how to reliably make aura without relying on what Manny and his teams had done.

He didn’t want to cheat, after all.

When given the packet, Manny had said it was within Matt’s capabilities of figuring out, so that meant he just needed to start tweaking variables.

Which was exactly what he started to do.

With his mana situation sorted for now, Matt threw himself into further testing using only his older mana. Doing rifts one at a time at least made the rifts more likely to survive to Tier 6, but it also meant it took forever to get even a basic statistical analysis.

The first thing he did was to test the other four basic elements, air, water, and earth. All four regularly made aura rifts starting at Tier 6, and Matt started to test other, rarer, mana types.

After all, not everyone would be content with the basic four elements. Ideally he wanted to create a neutral aura that would work as a blank canvas that could work for any Concept type.

Unfortunately even with most of the details removed from his mind by Minkalla he still held faint impressions of just how long it took to figure neutral rifts out. So he wasn’t surprised when his tentative attempts at doing so ended in utter failure. And as he was sure many craftsmen and inventors had done before him, he cursed Minkalla for letting him figure out something revolutionary and then taking it away from him. At least it meant he was confident it was possible at all.

From there, he moved on to light and shadow. Though level 1 mana types, just like the basic four, the two elements were substantially less common in nature, as evidenced by their respective manipulations showing up at Tier 14 instead of Tier 8.

The Tier 1 light rift felt odd to Matt’s spiritual perception, and so he entered it just to stare in confusion.

The rift was a midair rift that had a narrow path just three feet wide, running down the center of the space in a winding path.

While rare, mid air rifts in the lower Tiers weren’t that uncommon. What was uncommon were the enemies; swirling balls of light surrounding three concentric rotating rings of copper.

Matt stepped forward, off the larger platform the rift entrance was on and onto the path, where the nearest monster shot him with something that felt a bit like [Light Beam]. It definitely wasn’t the Tier 14 skill, but it was still interesting that it had a decidedly magical ranged attack this early. Doubly so that it came from a flying creature. He’d never heard of a Tier 1 rift anything like it.

With a thought, Matt pulled the construct to him and studied it.

The monster kept firing the weaker light beams at him every three seconds, but Matt ignored that while he inspected the mass of magical energies in the center of the monster.

That was undoubtedly his mana.

The core of the monster was circulating something similar to his endless sub-aspected mana, which allowed the Tier 1 creature to exist like an elemental, but at far lower of a Tier than was normally seen.

Crushing the monster, Matt walked through the rift just getting a feel for it and quickly determined that it wasn’t a rift suitable for most Tier 1 parties, but would have its uses.

The light beams the monsters shot weren't harmless, but even a Tier 1 should survive anything less than a headshot if they were wearing even the weakest armor. Melee combatants could get dodging lessons hammered into them in this rift, but ranged combatants would love this rift as its wide open spaces and narrow ledges would force them to actually use the lessons about hitting moving targets and watching their feet placement.

Thinking about his time at the orphanage, Matt changed his mind. Guilds and anywhere who trained Tier 1 mages or archers would love this rift. The Tier 1s would probably hate it with every fiber of their being as they were forced to dodge for risk of falling into the ‘abyss’.

Said abyss was only three feet below the rocky platform, the rift just didn’t have enough space at Tier 1 to create endless distance for people to fall into, even if it looked like the rift went on forever. Anyone who fell would find themselves standing on seeming air as they reached the border of the rift space, but they wouldn’t be in any risk of anything more than getting ribbed by their fellows, so long as they didn’t break their neck on the landing.

Surprisingly enough, the boss wasn’t just a larger version of the flying constructs, but instead was a cube split into eight smaller cubes that surrounded a similar core. By shuffling the faces pointing at the delver, it could change the nature of its light beam attack. One was a wide area attack reminiscent of a flashlight, the second was a stronger version of the normal attack, the third created a channeled shield around the core, and the fourth and final combination created was a charged up and much stronger version of the light beam that forced the boss to float around aimlessly as it recouped energy.

All told, it was a very interesting rift, and one Matt wanted to explore more of.

Having his expectations set so high, Matt went into the shadow mana rift to still find himself surprised.

After the open area of the light rift he had been expecting a dark and cramped rift with shadowy monsters, but he was only half right.

The rift was pitch black to his eye’s sight, but that was because he was encased in a tar like substance that resisted any of his movements like a non-newtonian fluid. He had made some of the liquid in school by mixing cornstarch and water together, which when moved slowly, acted like any normal liquid, but the more force was applied to the mixture, the more it acted like a solid. So one could slowly dip their hand into the liquid, but if they tried to shove their hand into the liquid it would firm up, and it would be as solid as the walls of their school.

This darkness acted the same way, but thankfully didn't obstruct breathing in any way, so the rift wasn’t a death trap to mortals.

With Matt’s physical body he could break through the restriction, but a mortal would find their movements restricted to something like half of a normal speed or they would end up fighting the darkness.

Testing a theory, Matt pulled out a light and activated it and nodded as a smaller than normal area was illuminated.

The light was restricted by eighty or so percent and was practically useless.

Instead, this rift seemed like it was meant to be cleared by spiritual perception. Tier 1 spiritual perception was only a few inches, but in a higher Tier rift, this could be a useful training method to force delvers to rely on their extra sense instead of just their mundane senses.

Not that spiritual perception was perfect, but many people struggled to actually use the new sense as they should, having not grown up with it like the mundane ones.

What was interesting was that the rift was a puzzle rift, and a safe one at that.

Matt wouldn’t call the arrow trap non-lethal, but the pitfall trap didn’t have any spikes in it and the ‘spears’ that came out of the wall lacked any sharpened ends and instead were more like poles.

Combined with light sources still working, the rift was entirely clearable by Tier 1s, and they would even earn small amounts of essence for clearing the traps and obstacles without triggering the trap or not getting hit.

Leaving the rift, Matt really wanted to start playing with trying to create custom rifts, especially with variations of light and shadow mana, but he resisted the urge and instead Tiered up the rifts to Tier 6, hoping to get aura.

Dozens of failures due to the rifts de-aspecting later, Matt found neither rift produced aura. He hadn’t really expected any aura from the monsters-less shadow rifts, but he had hoped the light rifts’ flying constructs would have aura. But alas, he was disappointed.

