A shimmer flickered above, and a radiant figure stepped out from the Spirit Realm. It was Calen, but… more. Where the half-elf’s complexion had once been pale, it now shone with an ethereal inner radiance, like his alabaster skin was the veil to an otherworldly realm of starlight. Jagged lines of blazing light adorned his skin like cracks through which the radiant heart of the sun was escaping. His eyes shone, his silvery hair floated unbound behind him, and his wings were so intense that Ali could hardly look. In his hand, his bow buzzed with barely repressed power.

“Calen?” Ali whispered, staring at the radiant form of her friend.

Archer [Realm Traveler] – Celestial Half-Elf – level 250 (Light)

Celestial? Did he become an Archon? Her mind immediately leapt to the implications. Nice!

A second figure stepped out beside him. A colossal, ruddy-brown, shaggy bear that loomed over the already-tall shining archer. He had been large before, but now he loomed over Calen, larger even than a Forest Guardian. Gathered about the bear were half a dozen sizzling shields the color of nothing, the shades of disintegration, the very absence of existence which was the essence of the void. Shields the size of dinner plates that hung effortlessly in the air, each in the shape of a dragon’s scale. He walked upon shields buzzing beneath his feet, high above the battlefield.

Ali identified him, too.

Druid [Incorruptible] – Beastkin – level 250 (Nature / Void)

“Mato? You’re… flying!” Ali gasped. “And you’re so much bigger!”

“I’m not big, you’re just little,” Mato whispered into her mind from far above the enemy with a mental tone that bubbled with mirth. Then he raised his head and unleashed a roar that split the skies like thunder, and the entire undead army seemed to shiver as thousands of undead eyes and empty sockets locked their gaze upon him. The void shields beneath his paws winked out and what had to be several tons of fur, muscle, and armor plummeted to the ground like an apocalyptic meteor. The ground crumpled in several concentric rings from the shattering force of his impact, tossing dirt and monsters into the air. Out of the dust-filled crater he surged in a blur of fury, charging through the dead like an unstoppable, snarling juggernaut and laying into them with furious paw swipes that sent even the mithril-clad Death Knights flying.

Calen turned and met her gaze of stunned disbelief, and even at this distance, she could see the cheeky wink. Then he vanished, and in his place, nine of him appeared. All nine raised their bows and unleashed a storm of shining arrows into the dead, the individual detonations blending into a rolling peal of continuous thunder in the wake of his arrows.

That’s Mirror Image! Ali would recognize that spell anywhere – she had stolen it from every Fractured Archon she had faced. Wait, Calen! Have you been secretly sneaking sips from the Wells? Rascal.

Hope, fresh and poignant, seared into her breast.

Instantly, Ali realized what she had to do. She teleported to the nearest boss on the battlements and unsummoned it to make room. Using one of her freshly earned points of Authority and the Quicken Spell from Velis’ Final Word – her onyx choker – she summoned her favorite undead killer, boosted to tier-three courtesy of Azryet.

Blazka [Bane of the Dead] – Kobold – level 250 (Holy)

The petite, white-robed kobold manifested in a cloud of golden motes. She blinked reptilian eyes and swiveled her head from left to right as she surveyed the sea of undead arrayed before the walls. Then she grinned wickedly, baring glinting fangs and summoning dancing tongues of holy flame to her talons.

Working as rapidly as she could, Ali applied her champion enhancements to the veteran Wielder of the Sacred Flame, who had earned her name and title destroying banshees and worse by the score in their conquest of the Well of Corruption dungeon at Ciradyl.

“Let’s put that title of yours to work,” Ali said, getting a solemn nod from the freshly summoned kobold mage that was effectively a bow.

She saw no reason to improvise on a formula that had proven so successful, offering her minion the same enhancements: Amplify Skill and Spell Cascade for Holy Fireball, a holy Affinity Aura, and Clone. Blazka wasted no time duplicating herself and distributing her overlapping holy auras, to much cheering from the nearby guards, and then she immediately went to work, lobbing a rain of blazing, white-flame holy fireballs into the fray in volleys of twenty at a time. Down below, Ali could hear howls and sizzling as the resulting fires of consecration triggered the Bane of the Dead title’s Turn Undead spell.

Then, the guild’s platinum adventurers charged through the splintering South Gate behind a shining, mithril-clad Goblin and a petite Ahn Khen girl wielding a heavy shield that likely weighed more than a horse, and a gleaming shortsword.

Sabri shouted, and the clutching undead recoiled backward from the shimmering shockwave of her Soul Shout.

“For Azryet!” Havok screamed with glee, rushing into the gap and smacking a ghoul in the face with his Holy Shield. “Thanks for the damage! Mighty damage!”

They’re all maniacs, Ali thought as the rest of the adventurers barreled into the undead with whoops and hollers, and no small measure of damage dished out.

Ali had five more points of Authority to spend, thanks to Calen and Mato’s timely advancements – and there was an endless expanse of golden, domain-reinforced battlements to protect. She launched herself at her task with her Grimoire blazing beside her, and the undead army’s advance ground to a halt.

The Lich’s hiss of displeasure rippled through his army like a shudder of exquisite pain, and with a sharp wave of his gaunt hand, unspeakable horrors – spirits from a forsaken underworld – began to claw their way forth from the shadows beneath his rippling robes. Eyes burning with malevolence turned their ravenous gazes upon the living, and a spine-chilling howl rose to shatter the already fraying will of the beleaguered defenders.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
