That day, Sybil found out what approaching the soul-mana barrier felt like. The bunnykin described it as four hangovers fighting for first place.

Her sparring excesses were nonetheless very useful in stress-testing the mana gauntlets, which ended up working surprisingly well for a custom-made piece of enchanted gear.

While Leandro worked with the two to figure out the best way to use their expanded mana reserves, and in Sybil's case, how to properly pace their mana usage, Marshalla kept running extensive tests on the pair. The results were much the same as with Papo: little to no deleterious effects. In fact, she was seeing signs to the contrary, with the resilience and integrity of their mana pathways appearing to trend upward.

It was still too early to tell, but it seemed that using a lot of pure mana was a way to reinforce someone's mana pathways.

Perhaps, Marshalla thought, that a certain fairy might find this interesting, even potentially life-saving...

With the gauntlet project done, the enchanters resumed their efforts on the Blast-Grenades. As far as David was concerned, having a powerful enough weapon was non-negotiable for heading back up north into hummer territory.

At some point during this time, Niala's octuple got wind of her plan to investigate the orchestrator. All eight of them requested to be brought along. To their dismay, she refused, stating that their first and only goal was to continue rediscovering themselves.

One of them even argued her decision, which made her break out joyous laughter, utterly confusing the hummers, who were still somehow expecting their master to 'discipline' their insolence.

That, as Niala explained afterwards, was the reason she was denying their request; they were still bound up by their mental conditioning. Their desire to accompany her into danger may not be their true selves speaking.

David figured that, while it might be the case, he wouldn't be surprised one bit if they'd still insist on coming along even if they were fully healed. Their growing devotion to his wife wasn't hard to notice, if you paid attention.

More faithfuls for the church of Niala.

With little else to do but wait for the final piece, husband and wife spent their time training, experimenting, and trying to enjoy life, and especially each other.

It was a quiet Sunday when David and Niala decided to take a day of rest. Linzy was spending the day at the Boot Inn, testing her newest alchemical alcohol batch on their customers. Papo was with Charlie, and Jordo was patrolling outside.

Only Lychee was with them, licking clean the intricate corners of one of Charlie's “Flying Rinka” bottles, which Niala used as a sort of chew toy for a bumblemoss, and Cookie was resting in his pile.

Breakfast had been shared with Linzy before she left, but now they were alone, snuggling on the couch, and trying to decide what to do with their day.

Apparently, not taking a day off for over a season meant you forgot how to entertain yourself.

With Niala lying on top of him, face down and gently rubbing her face in the crook of his neck while he stroked her hair, David wasn't terribly concerned about it. Staying like this all day was far from the worst way to spend their time if he were to be honest.

Niala, however, wanted to do something. Her ears twitched as she spoke into his neck. “How about a picnic?”

“Hmm, where?”

“I don't know... a park somewhere? Out west in the farm lands?” She suggested.

“Sure, that sounds nice.”

Her tail whipped once. “You don't sound too enthusiastic.”

“I'm just relaxed. It could be fun. We can do that if you want.”

She looked up at him from the corner of her eye. “Then... do you want to go to the Fairlands, watch that Stormborn 'movie', as Totori called it?”

He let his hand run down her neck. “Sure, but didn't you say you wanted to bring everyone along for that? She said we had a private 'theatre' at my mansion.”

“Oh, yeah... though if it's fun we could watch it twice? Once with only us, another time with everybody?”

“Hmm, sure.”

She sighed and slumped down on him, her ears flopping. “You just want to stay here all day with me on top of you, don't you?”

“It's not the worst thing in the world... but it's fine if you want to do something. Just pick, I'll go along.”

She poked him in the side. “David! I want to do something with you!”

“Huff! Kitten, I'll do anything with you! Just choose something!”

Furrowing her brows, she pushed herself up on her arms and looked him in the eyes. “Anything?”

He nodded. “Anything.”

“Then... my clothes have gotten a bit loose since I've started training again. I could use a visit to Yrlemagne for some fitting, and maybe shop for a few new things...” she proposed, trailing off, trying to call his bluff that he was fine with anything.

His eyes flung open wide as he ran his gaze up and down her body. “Let's go.”

Her brows arched outward. “Really? Shopping for clothes is what gets you excited?”

“I think getting you new, tighter clothes is a very interesting activity. Come on, get up so we can get going!”

“David!”

He blinked. “...what?”

She stared at him for a second before hiding her face and her burgeoning blush behind her bangs. “You just want to see me try on Yrlemagne's skimpy dresses.”

“Yes.”

“David!”

“Niala!”

She groaned. “At least try to deny it a little!”

He shook his head. “Never. I will always want to see you look pretty and sexy, and I will never be ashamed of it.”

She went still for a bit, her body shivering a bit before she threw herself off of him, turning her head away so he couldn't see her face. “Fine! We're going shopping for clothes, and you're not allowed to complain about anything!”

He only smiled as he got up and followed his wife as she stomped down the stairs. His mind was already in Bellharbour, imagining all of his wife's distracting curves that Yrlemagne's dresses would display.

Instead of taking the railcar, he convinced her to summon an aetheric bird, saying they could be there in half a bell at maximum speed. She put up token resistance, for the sake of appearances.

Deep down, she might have been kind of looking forward to having David fawn over her.

But she would never admit to it.

They arrived in Bellharbour twenty-five minutes later, David having pumped mana into the aetheric bird during the whole trip.

He flipped a silver regent coin to the gate guard who had seen the pair come flying in on a scintillant magical flying beast which puffed away in a burst of air blades and glitters behind them. They were through the door before he thought about asking for their names. When he turned around, they were already gone.

They made their way toward the market street and to Yrlemagne's shop and its intricate facade. Being still rather early on a Sunday, there were only a handful of customers inside, with Fimmzi hopping from one to the next.

The goblin saleswoman spotted the duo right away, greeting them before asking how her daughter Linzy was doing. A bit of a chat later, she sent them to the backstore where Yrlemagne was training a new employee.

They had barely stepped through the door leading to the back when the elf's ears twitched, and she spun around, her eyes going round over a wide smile as she recognized her guests.

“David! Niala!” she exclaimed, throwing her hands up and walking the short distance to the catkin, wrapping her arms around her in a friendly hug, all in a single, smooth motion. “Niala, dear! You are positively glowing!”

She kept her hands on Niala's shoulders as she looked at David. “And you, David! You need a new shirt! Your shoulders are about to rip that poor piece of fabric apart!”

He smiled. “Hello, Mistress Yrlemagne. You seem in good health yourself.”

“Oh, David, dear! I have never been better!”

Niala, still held in place by the elf's hands, cleared her throat, her ears wiggling. “It's nice to see you again, Yrlemagne. You really do look good. Did something happen?” She asked, turning her eyes toward the young woman whom the elf had been talking to when they came in.

The mistress blinked, turned to look at her new employee, and chuckled, letting go of Niala. “Apologies, dear! I was just so happy to see you! Yes, I finally found someone with the talent necessary to join my shop!”

She paced back to stand beside the young, petite brunette. “This is Mireill. She is still learning all there is about the beautiful world of tailoring, but she is a little gem! Hands of a fairy, and a real love for the art! Say hi, dear!”

Mireill smiled, a light blush on her cheeks, and gave a little wave with her hand.

Yrlemagne smiled. “Before you wonder if she is simply shy, no. Mireill is unfortunately mute, that is all. Now, what brings you two to my shop? Just a courtesy visit? Or...” She narrowed her eyes, letting them trail up and down Niala.

Her smile turned complicit. “Or are you in need of a wardrobe refresh, my dear? Why, you are practically floating in that dress, except for the bust and hips, which are straining at the seams to be let free!”

To her credit, Niala's blush was only halfway to a cooked lobster. “I, ah, yes. I would like some adjustment. I brought a bunch of clothes that don't fit that well anymore.”

“Of course, dear! Of course!”

David spoke up. “Also new, tightly-fitting clothes, please. I'll pay.”

Yrlemagne grinned. “My, David! Marriage hasn't doused your hunger for your beautiful girl! Of course we can do that! I can already think of several pieces which would beautifully accentuate dear Niala's figure!”

She deposited her fingers against her chin and looked at the catkin with a glint in her eyes. “Hmm, and would you say you are looking for both public and private garments?”

Niala opened her mouth to answer, but David beat her to it. “That would be most amenable, yes.”

His wife shot him a glare, but he was already gone into imagination mode.

Yrlemagne laughed. “Ha ha ha! Very good! Youth ought to be enjoyed in all the ways, isn't that so, Mireill?” She turned and asked her apprentice.

The silent brunette had a sly smile on her face as she nodded and sized up Niala's form with her eyes.

It clicked for David; Yrlemagne had found another Yrlemagne, only this one couldn't speak.

Well, all the better for him, and Niala's wardrobe, of course.

He smiled at the pleading smile his wife showed him.

Yes, all the better.

They walked out well into the afternoon. Yrlemagne and Mireil had managed to refit a few of Niala's dresses in that time, and she was wearing one now.

David had a hard time taking his eyes off her. Her waist had slimmed down somewhat, and the deeper curves she had were from how her hips and thighs had firmed up. The way up from there was just as mesmerizing, with her developing pectorals forcing her already generous bust to push up and greet the world with more confidence.

He tried to let her go first, so he could follow, but she slapped his arm and told him to just walk alongside her. A little disappointed, but he acted the dutiful husband nonetheless.

The smile and blush she'd had when she slapped him didn't leave his mind, though, and it was hard to ignore the lust-tinted love pouring out of their link.

He really had the best, most beautiful wife that could be.

The rest of Niala's clothes alongside their new purchase would be delivered later this week, once everything had been resized.

He glanced her way, smiling at the way her tail swayed and the little pep in he step. Yep, she was happy, and so was he. “What do you think about the new clothes you got? From all of them, I think my favourite is the bunny su-”

She gripped his arm and squeezed as her smile strained. “David, trumpet, how about you don't give me a reason to add hairy fingertip poison to your soup?”

He sagely nodded. “Good suggestion. Did you want to go lunch out? I know a few good places nearby, and there's also a few fancy ones.”

She let go of his arm and narrowed the distance between them, locking arms with him and leaning his way. “Hmm, could we grab something to go? Yrlemagne told me about a nice spot by the river. We could still have a picnic.”

“Oh! That's a great idea! I know just what to get; it's a place called Stick-and-Grill, they have meat sticks and salads to go.”

Her ears waggled as she beamed at him. “Sounds perfect!”

“And we'll stop at a pastry shop nearby, get a dessert...”

“Cream puff!”

“I think they have those.”

“A box full!”

He smiled. “Sure, kitten.”

She smiled and rubbed her face against his arm.

They made their way over to the small food shop nestled among others around a wide plaza, and had just gotten into line when they heard shouting from across the open space.

Heads turned toward the source of the noise. Several men were shouting, ordering someone to stop. David glimpsed a few of them through the crowd; guards. He told as such to Niala, along with an unspoken question: Should we go help?

She nodded and took a few steps into an open space, concentrating on the cluster of mana between her shoulder blades.

The people around gasped and stepped back as her wings unfurled, and she flung herself up into the air on a pillar of wind.

From up above, the scene was easy to see; a trio of town guards were running after what looked like a young boy in rags, holding a parcel in his hands as if his life depended on it.

The young boy was weaving through the crowd like a wild rabbit, with the snarling guards crashing through the forest of bystanders to get to him.

Should I help the guards, or the boy?