“The caravan’s survivors are underway without incident.” Glorine announced.

The news was welcome. Avyna smiled as though she had always known that everything would be just fine, but Ranthia could see the little signs of relief writ across her beloved’s musculature. With the elves underway, the presumed-blind archer was planning to (literally) pick Caeli up and race her to Coalition City, for delivery to a trusted Sentinel.

Avyna was willing to trust the high-level elves implicitly, so Ranthia had to trust in that. After all, Avyna was a better judge of people than Ranthia could ever hope to be.

Which meant that it was time for Ranthia to hand Glorine the ‘cover’ message that was bound for the quartermaster. Scroll in hand, Glorine saluted and made her exit.

Her departure left Ranthia and Avyna truly alone for the first time since… since Ranthia struck the light of her life. An incident that simultaneously felt fresh enough to haunt her and distant, as though it happened a mortal lifespan ago. Which left Ranthia unsure of what to do. She had already offered Xaoc her muted prayers, including a somewhat selfish prayer on Caelillia’s behalf—asking Him to watch over Ranthia’s not-quite family.

If Ranthia was left to her own devices, she would have probably found somewhere to sit and mope while she dwelled on her darker thoughts that she had yet to truly confront, but Avyna refused to leave her side. Instead, the wise elf kept Ranthia talking. They talked about what happened. They talked about Coalition City—and Avyna continued to call their pending visit ‘a vacation.’ It wasn’t a term that Ranthia was familiar with. She had seen it in her Creation to High Elvish dictionary and some stories—she knew the definition—but the concept felt alien. Prolonged periods of downtime, removed from her comfortable surroundings, just sounded profoundly dull.

Okay, yes, she was technically on downtime while they waited to see how—and, as Ranthia silently worried, if—the other Sentinels would respond to the situation, but it wasn’t like she had a chance to get bored. Avyna still needed to prep her shop for a prolonged closure. Naturally, she dragged Ranthia along, though their shared understanding of High Elvish afforded them at least some degree of privacy no matter where they were.

As part of the plan, Ranthia feigned weakness while they were outside of their home, whether or not she thought anyone else could see her. She kept her walking speed slow and leaned against things to rest her weight any time they stopped while they moved back and forth through Remera. And they were stopped often. Legionaries and dwarves were often eager to exchange a few words with Avyna—or, in a few cases, to gawk at the inexplicably living Ranthia.

Avyna had always been a bit of a darling around Remera. Humans and dwarves—including dwarves that inexplicably went out of their way to paint their fondness of Avyna as an exception to their normal behavior—sought her out to wish her well. Avyna always shrugged it off as a side-effect of having grateful customers and a captive audience, but Ranthia knew that a lot of it was her lover’s sheer likeability. …And, no doubt, Avyna’s incredible beauty played more than a small role too, but those thoughts easily led to dark emotions that Ranthia had struggled to work on ever since they got together. She didn’t want to be jealous and possessive.

She trusted Avyna. She just didn’t trust anyone else.

In contrast, Ranthia had unwittingly developed a reputation as someone that was largely unapproachable. She always tried to be friendly, but her clear preference for her friends or certain groups of dwarves had left her a bit more socially isolated than she had ever known. Yes, she had overheard blunt rumors that suggested that she considered ‘regular’ people to be beneath her, but she had always written that off as an artifact of the era when many of the lower-level legionaries judged her for standing around while they fought—as if she had ever resented that any less than they did.

After nearly everyone within Remera saw her struggle against the shimagu twin—saw her die—many were visibly unsure what to think about her presence. Worried and awed whispers both accompanied them as they travelled through Remera. After everything, she still walked among them—and there was some absurd rumor that she’d been infected by the shimagu, which was a frequent topic for the worried whisperers. Some people accepted that she was a Sentinel and surviving the impossible was expected. Others assumed something darker was at work.

Damned few chose to speak directly to her, no matter how popular her partner was. They preferred to pretend she wasn’t there—as if Ranthia was somehow unaware of their frequent glances in her direction—while they traded words with Avyna.

But the ridiculousness of people wasn’t relevant. Ranthia tried to focus on their task at hand. To close up the shop they needed to make things as secure as they could be. Avyna chose to leave the books in place—thank Xaoc—but the bulk of her merchandise needed to be packed up and hauled back to their home. The security enchantments—and the materials—were, per Avyna, significantly better in their home. Avyna wasn’t willing to leave her goods in a location of “inferior security” for multiple years, and Ranthia had yet to convince her lover that there was no way they would remain gone for so long.

News that the shop was closing temporarily spread fast, which only increased the number of interruptions they had to deal with. Even if Avyna politely declined assistance from everyone that asked, others still felt inexplicably obligated to make the exact same offer—as though something had changed in the span of minutes.

Irritating interruptions aside, the conversations she shared with Avyna while they worked felt like they were helping. Her eternally wise elf had a knack for wresting inner thoughts—even those that Ranthia wasn’t sure she had the words for—out of Ranthia. It helped that Avyna was thoughtful and gentle, even with Ranthia’s vulnerabilities and fears.

Frequent cuddle breaks and kisses helped even more.

Gradually, throughout the day, shelves were emptied into crates. They had even borrowed a big cart that they pushed ‘together’ to take the crates home, lest anyone wonder how Ranthia was managing physical labor in her faux condition. And as they progressed, their home was increasingly blocked off by walls of crates.

Which posed its own problems.

“<Er, Gemheart, did we need anything from that dresser?>” Ranthia foolishly asked a rather foolish question when she realized their latest unloading had blocked the drawers.

It wasn’t the first time—nor the last—that they had to shuffle things around to maintain access to everything they needed.

Not even remotely surprisingly, the day came to an end before their tasks were completed. Even once the work with the shop was done, they had to pack a few bags with everything they needed—just in case Night or Aurora showed up during the night.

At least when that was done, they finally had time to rest and enjoy some quiet affection. On their chaise, Avyna lounged with her head across Ranthia’s legs. Ranthia was treating her beloved to a horn massage while Avyna held up the book that Ranthia was reading, turning the pages as required. Avyna had been adamant that the rented books had to stay in Remera (“I offer no exceptions to my rules, not even for you, my love.”) and Ranthia really wanted to finish the book before they left.

She just had to know if the wanderer would make it back to her hometown with the treasure she won, before the woman she loved was forced to choose another! The love interest’s parents had bought into a rumor that the wanderer had died when the darkstone tunnel collapsed—largely because they had secretly hated her from the beginning. Okay, yes, it wasn’t like the guy the parents favored was a jerk—he seemed to be a legitimately decent sort—but Ranthia doubted that the love interest could ever be happy with a man. The fictional woman’s thoughts on men, from much earlier in the tale, felt far too similar to her own.

Naturally, peaceful reading wasn’t on the table—Ranthia heard the subtle sound of the entrance to their home flapping open. A few moments later, Glorine slipped through the privacy curtain, a smile on her face.

“Scouts saw the glowing flying Sentinel ship… thing!” Glorine announced.

“How far out?” Ranthia asked without looking up while she continued to stubbornly read. With her time running out, she picked up the pace, gently tapping Avyna to request an early page turn.

“Um… I mean usually it only takes a short while once we can see it?” Glorine hesitantly offered.

“…I can make it, damnit.” Ranthia decided, before she concluded the horn massage.

Once Avyna sat up, Ranthia sent out a new image and shifted to it—cleansing her hands—and gently traded a quick kiss with her beloved in exchange for the book. Immediately, Ranthia accelerated her perception to its limits and relied on her dexterity to keep the book safe while she focused on reading.

She wasn’t wearing her armor, just her mistweave tunic, but that was fine. She had packed her armor, along with her usual belt pouches, into one of her bags anyway.

Avyna was laughing into the side of her wrist at Ranthia’s antics, but the elf dutifully took charge of packing the items they couldn’t leave in their bags. They had already packed some clothing, minimal cosmetics, and a few… accessories, but the remaining Ilan bread and a few other items still needed to be gathered. Most of what they needed could easily be acquired in Coalition City—often for cheaper than it was for them to get it in Remera—but there was no sense in leaving perishable items to rot in their absence. Even stasis enchantments had their limits.

Once they were ready, Ranthia and Avyna hugged Glorine and Gailla—wait, when had Gailla arrived?—farewell. Ranthia continued to read throughout it all and bristled ever so slightly every time she was forced to break eye contact with the page. She was so close!

The wanderer was only a single town away—and she chose to stop for the night! Ranthia could have screamed at the fictional woman. Seriously girl, you just took down the Beast of Nightmare Mountain; you can handle whatever local nasties came out at night! Gooo, get your girl!

They exited their home and Avyna dithered while she activated the underutilized full scope of the security enchantments. Glorine and Gailla would still have access to their home if they needed a safer shelter—and to water the plants—but their home wouldn’t be a home for a time. Ranthia largely ignored the entire process as she desperately read onward, aided by [Vision of the Void]’s night vision.

The wanderer had decided she needed a big breakfast before she continued her journey home! For the love of Xaoc, why?! She had literally just commented that she could be there before lunch! Just grab something and go! Why are you not rushing to the woman you love?!

Together, Ranthia and Avyna made their way to the drop-off zone while Glorine and Gailla followed. Ranthia was forced to peer through the book occasionally, using [Vision of the Void]’s ability to see through solid objects, to prevent herself from running into anything, but she mostly just read.

Really? Three shadow wolves (which were just ordinary wolves with the crappiest natural [Dark] caster monster class she had ever heard of, at least assuming the fanciful story had been set in Pallos) were somehow stalling the wanderer at the last minute? Her faithful sword, Flashing Glory, slew the much more powerful underboars in a single stroke while she fought to reach Nightmare Mountain! In fact, her Amulet of Sobel should have kept such weak monsters from ever getting near her!

The [Starship] had descended as far as Sentinel Aurora dared and a cursing Ranthia finally closed her newly finished—and hated—book. The wanderer was too late! The woman she loved had agreed to be bound to the boring nice guy scant hours before she arrived. Then the wanderer had just kissed her one last time and said that it was for the best!? Just because she intended to continue to venture out and see the world, she couldn’t be the partner that the woman deserved?!

Ranthia not-entirely-silently fumed and wrote her own—much better—ending in her head while she watched Sentinel Aurora show off the [Starship]’s latest flashy trick. Sections of the [Starship] broke apart and formed their own miniature replicas of the main vessel, lowering individual crates and barrels to ground-level where legionaries could swap them out for the handful of outbound supplies and missives.

While everyone was distracted by the pretty lights and bursts of movement, Ranthia’s accelerated perception—she needed time to get over her outrage, and she was rushing through her efforts to do so—allowed her to spot something less expected. From the main Skill-created ship of Celestial beauty, a dark blur—Sentinel Night—launched himself through the air and promptly vanished into the narrow gap between two storage tents.

…He didn’t want anyone to know he was there.

Ranthia’s outraged thoughts about a piece of unimportant fiction withered and died as the implications settled over her. Back when Ocean had ordered her to deal with the rebels that had seized a city, Ranthia learned the truth of Night’s role among them. The man wasn’t intended to be a frontline combatant—she would have never had a seat to claim had he shared the same specialization. The man was at his best in subtle applications.

It was absolute proof that her true message—that Caelillia—had reached the Sentinels. Night had to be there to investigate what truly happened to her. …Which was the nice way to think about it. More honestly, Ranthia knew without a doubt that he was there to cull whatever problem(s) lurked within Remera’s walls.

…And no matter how shocked and concerned she was at first, she was fine with that—in fact, the more she thought about it, the less it bothered her. Someone had tried their utmost to kill her. Whether there was a shimagu acting within Remera or if the corruption came from the top, they had tried to take her life. They failed, so it seemed fair that their own life—or even lives—should be forfeited.

“Sentinel Grace, and er… guest, come on up!” Sentinel Aurora called over the side of her diminished [Starship].

