Then Ryo Da’in sighed and the Sword King cracked a smile, offering Binesi a silent nod of apology before turning a stern, fatherly scowl upon his daughter. “You see? The Famed Fifty are well deserving of their reputation, and are not so easily cowed by rank or status. Young Rain was right to insist the Major be included.”

Now that was a surprise. Binesi had long since sussed out that this was a test to check if he was loyal or determined enough to his duty through to the end, but the foundling was the last person he expected to speak up for him. Perhaps it was merely self-preservation, as he wasn’t certain of the Ryo family’s allegiance and wanted Binesi there to guard him, which showed the foundling wasn’t entirely brainless, only mostly. Taking a moment to swallow his latest mouthful of food, Rain washed it down with another cup of buttered tea and said, “Bad news Major. As much as I’d like to sit around all day, I can’t.”

The foundling gestured at an unmarked envelope sitting on the table, and went back to eating while Binesi read it. Inside were two tickets to a showing of ‘The Whispering Wind’, along with a note which read, “The Peony Pavilion tea house has desserts to die for, though their tofu pudding is rather lacking.” There was no signature or seal denoting who the tickets were from, but evidently, the foundling already knew.

Politicians and their word games. “So what’s this mean then?”

“It means the Legate wants me out of the manor and go watch an opera show.” Again speaking with his mouth full, he pretended not to notice his mother’s glare and continued, “Then visit a tea house, where someone will definitely try to kill me and I will hopefully survive.” Another shrug. “Or I die, and I guess the Ryos have an excuse to wipe out whoever is behind the attack.”

“Why Rain,” Da’in cried, affecting a girlish pout. “How could you even think such a thing? As if I would ever shame myself with failure, intentionally or otherwise.”

“No offence,” the foundling replied, which all but guaranteed he was about to say something offensive, “But I’m still not entirely sure if the Legate believes my continued survival is in his best interests, so I can’t really trust the Legate’s minions.”

“Hmph.” Da’in scoffed as she interlocked her fingers together, no doubt in a conscious effort to keep her hands away from her swords. “I am no one’s minion.”

“You might think so, but that’s not how the Legate sees things.” Another shrug, followed by another sip of tea, and it astounded Binesi to see that Rain’s nonchalance was entirely genuine despite rising tensions. Even Binesi would have to treat Da’in with respect should it come to blows, but Rain took Bekhai Martial superiority for granted. “Imperial Nobles all tout about unity, alliance, and partnership, but only insofar as it serves them. I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but the only Eastern soldiers I’ve seen on the front lines were the ones assigned to guard me.” Casually pouring himself another cup of tea, he added, “Same goes for Divinities. If Guan Suo, Gang Shu, and the Abbot hadn’t come along with me, then there’d be no banquet for the heroes of Sinuji. Doubt there’d even be a funeral pyre.”

“Did it ever occur to you,” Ryo Dae Jung began, resting a hand on his daughter’s shoulder to rein her in, “That there was no Imperial Divinity stationed in Sinuji because you brought three with you? Contrary to what you might believe, Divinities do not grow on the side of the street like cabbages.”

“Sure, but I have never, in my entire life, seen a street-side cabbage.” Pretending not to notice the twins giggling at his disrespectful remark, the foundling shrugged and said, “Just saying.”

“Enough, boy.” Fed up with the foundling’s insolence, Du Min Gyu finally spoke up. “Regardless of your suspicions, the course is set. When you first received your invitation to the banquet, you told us the Legate ordered you to mend your tarnished reputation, so that is what you must do.”

And miracle of miracles, the foundling held his tongue instead of spouting off about rebellion in front of highly ranked military officers sworn to duty and alienating would-be allies from his cause. Maybe he was learning, or maybe he kept quiet because he was still busy chewing, but either way, Binesi didn’t give the foundling a chance to respond. “I will send word to the Colonel General to request assistance, but we should double your Death Corps guards to start, as a show of force.”

“Pretty sure it won’t help,” the foundling interjected, earning another rap on the head from his mother for speaking while eating. It clearly wasn’t working, and quite possibly was the reason Rain was so dumb in the first place, so Binesi dearly wished the famed Thorny Mountain Rose would try something different. “There are only so many people we can fit inside the opera theatre and tea house. Safest thing to do is not play their games.”

“Lord Husband is correct.” Joining the conversation for the first time, the Imperial Servant beamed prettily and added, “Strutting around the Citadel under heavy guard will do nothing to improve his reputation. With all the rumours of conflict flying about, it would mean much if Lord Husband set out as he normally does, with minimal visible guards and his pets trailing behind him. Such is his way, brave and courageous while lacking all airs and pretensions, which has endeared him to the common people before.”

For a moment, Binesi almost thought the Imperial Servant was baiting her Lord Husband to death, but then the foundling frowned and shook his head. “Much as I hate to say it, but the pets should all stay behind. There’s no sense bringing the animals out when we know we’re walking into a trap, though we’ll have to bring Ping Ping regardless. Plus, I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but the love of the common people isn’t exactly a valued commodity.”

Clever girl. If Binesi told the foundling to leave the pets behind, he would have dug in his heels and fought the order tooth and nail, but by suggesting he bring them out, the Imperial Consort forced him to consider the risks himself. Back and forth they went, discussing the preparations for this trip, and with Binesi’s dogged determination and Zheng Luo’s subtle and skilful manipulations, they eventually came up with an agreeable plan with a reasonable chance of success in keeping the foundling alive.

Their meeting over, Ryo Dae Jung brought his daughter away the same way they’d come in, shrouded in Concealment and without use of the manor doors. This coincidentally spared Binesi’s subordinate from a month of latrine inspection duty for not informing him that the Sword King had come to visit, but he still berated his sentries for missing it regardless. Then, he immediately changed all of his plans which didn’t involve the Ryo family, because he trusted them less than he trusted the foundling to act sensibly. Perhaps the Legate felt a Bekhai rebellion a small price to pay, or maybe he already had people in place to eliminate Baatar, Akanai, and the rest of the foundling’s supporters, but regardless of the reason, Binesi’s job was to keep Falling Rain alive, and alive the foundling would stay, no matter the cost.

The first hour went well, as the foundling simply sat in the park and played with his pets and the Guardian Turtle, though it took great effort on his part to retain his dignity while doing so. It didn’t help that the weasel-bear wasn’t having any of it, snarling viciously every time the foundling or one of his pets looked in its direction, and almost taking off the boy’s hand when he refused to heed its all too obvious warnings. Song didn’t help matters much by coddling the fierce creature the entire time, though Binesi wasn’t certain if her actions were to calm the weasel-bear, or restrain it.

The next step was to bring the Guardian Turtle out on a stroll through the Citadel, but most streets hadn’t been built with her massive bulk in mind, which made their route painfully predictable. Binesi’s Concealed subordinates ranged ahead to scout his route while the Death Corps guards maintained a close perimeter around the foundling, but he was still more exposed than Binesi would like. At least Sarnai was there with the foundling, a formidable warrior in her own right, as well as multiple hidden Bannermen guarding him from the shadows. The boy was as well protected as circumstances would allow, and certainly better guarded than most nobles, but one could never be too careful with the fate of the Empire hanging in the balance.

Still, as he assessed and dismissed possible threats while paying mind to their overall situation, there was a small, almost infinitesimally tiny part of Binesi’s mind which hoped the foundling’s enemies would attack, and a handful of assassins did make it through. Not because he wished the foundling harm or wanted the Bekhai to rebel, but because the quickest way for Falling Rain to mend his reputation was to slaughter his enemies with ease, the same way he’d slaughtered three Demons barehanded back in Sinuji, only this time, it would be nice if he did so in front of thousands of impartial civilian witnesses. A risky gamble to take, considering the foundling had no control over his strength, but after five days of stressful travel, two mitigated attacks, seven attempted intrusions, and an entire sleepless night, this nerve-wracking shopping trip might just well be the straw that broke Binesi’s back.

And there was still the opera show, the tea house, and two whole days before the banquet itself.

All in all, it was almost enough to make a proud, but tired, mountain warrior cry...

Chapter Meme
