“Hello, Minerva,” Piety said. “This is Father Vytal, and Sister Temperance. We’re here to rescue you.” She held her hand out to the purple-eyed woman.

Through her fear, Minerva smiled and took Piety’s hand. Piety’s head rang with chimes like belfries on Newyear.

“Yes,” said Minerva. “Thank you for coming. All of you.”

“Minerva.”

At Father Vytal’s voice, Piety started. The chiming faded and she let go Minerva’s hand. She took a deep breath and shook her head. Temperance put a hand on her shoulder, and Piety smiled at her.

Minerva looked at Father Vytal.

“I know you’ve traveled a lot recently, but we should be going. I fear a snowstorm is moving in, and if Erin Kempenny was keeping you prisoner, she may well have sent agents to pursue you.”

Minerva nodded. “I’m ready when you are.”

Just as they stood to leave, a distant bell began to clang. Within moments, a second joined it and a third.

The establishment’s owner came out of the back, a look of concern upon his face. “Do you hear that?”

Father Vytal looked at the purple-eyed woman, Minerva. “Let’s go,” he said. He took her by the arm and guided her to the door, Temperance and Piety close behind.

Before leaving, Piety turned back to the innkeeper. “You should gather your family and get on your brother-in-law’s ship. I think there’s going to be trouble.”

Minerva mounted behind Piety, forcing Temperance to mount behind Father Vytal. Minerva held tight around Piety’s waist. They rode against the flow of people from town toward the port where the boats and ships made hasty preparations to flee. At the edge of town, they could see what made the villagers flee.

From the south, an army of black-and-blue-clad soldiers marched. Officers on chargers road at the head of each column while messengers on lighter horses relayed orders.

"The Dark General marches on Upton Port," said the purpled-eyed woman.

“Are they here for you?” Piety asked as she directed her horse to follow Father Vytal, north and west, away from the approaching army and into the hills.

“No. I don’t think so. They’re going to take the port and use it as a safe harbor for Mountain Kingdom mercenaries.”

“How do you know?”

“I’m a decent student of history.”

“We’ll flee into the hills,” decided Father Vytal. “If they’re here for the port, they’ll ignore us.”

He spurred his horse and Piety followed suit. She kept her eyes on the line of foothills, though couldn’t help but track the progress of Kempenny’s soldiers.

They were nearly upon the hill when Minerva shouted.

“Wait, we’re going the wrong way. The Royal Army is coming over that hill with cannons.”

As she spoke, grey-clad soldiers from Pinefort crested the hill, five of the black, cylindrical fire-arms rolling into position. Quickly, efficiently, the teams working each demon stabilized it, prepped it, and loaded it. Within moments, the demons were ready to launch their deadly projectiles into the black and blue of Kempenny. The black-clad army had turned to meet the grey-clad and, though black outnumbered grey, grey had the advantage of height, the demons, and whatever of their number might be hidden on the other side of the hill.

They were trapped between the armies.

Piety and Father Vytal had only had time to pull their horses to a hasty halt before a disjointed cacophonic roar belched the demons’ fire.

“Stop!” Piety shouted mentally and physically, and she enveloped the four of them on their horses in a dome of telekinesis. A heavy, sharp pressure slammed against her telekinetic shield, and a pressed on the space just above and to the side of her eyes. She smelled burning stew. She winced and swayed on her horse, but the young purple-eyed woman held her upright.

Piety blinked, but it must have been a fast blink, for when she could see again, she looked at the, black-clad army charging the hill, pikes at the ready. One of the men pulled ahead of his compatriots by several strides. He looked young, though age was difficult to determine under the brimmed skullcap helmet. He was tall and strong, his muscles bulging under the short sleeves of the blue tunic under his black tabard. His eyes were lined and narrowed in anger, his mouth open in a defiant scream as he charged.

But what held Piety’s gaze, was the pale green scarf he wore around his neck. She wondered who had given him that scarf; a mother perhaps, who had blessed it and hoped it would keep him safe, a sweetheart who wanted to give him something to remember her by, or maybe he had acquired it himself to keep his neck warm.

The war masters at Pinefort had experimented with a variety of projectiles: arrowheads, spears, bundles of arrows, even just a bunch of small rocks, but the iron balls worked best. The ball struck the man with the green scarf in the stomach and he doubled around it, lifted from his feet. In the next moment, the ball exploded out his back in a spray of red shrapnel. It continued on its course to take off the shoulder of the next soldier, clip another’s head, crushing his helmet, and break the legs of four more after that.

Three more of the demon-belched projectiles ripped into the ranks of the black-clad soldiers. Piety watched soldiers fall in a tangle of broken pikes and limbs, watched them stumble over bodies and slip on muddy blood.

And then the soldiers were upon them. The soldiers thrust their pikes, and Piety’s horse reared. The pikes were turned by the telekinetic field and the field held, but she felt each thrust, like a jab inside her brain. And then, from the top of the hill, the grey-clad soldiers made their own charge, meeting the black-clad halfway down. With the superior position to their advantage, the Royal Army crashed through Kempenny’s with as much destructive force as the demon fire had. Soldiers fell and died in a cacophony of shouts and screams, grinding wood, and twisted metal.

Piety’s telekinetic field held, but the constant buffeting made her shiver with the stress of it.

“Piety!” Father Vytal’s shouted in her mind and she realized he’d been trying to get her attention for several moments.

“Piety, we must leave now,” he said urgently.

“Yes,” she agreed absently, her focus on the shield.

“We can’t get though your telekinesis,” he told her. “And you can’t take the stress of keeping it up under this.”

Piety nodded.

“We’ll retreat up the hill,” Father Vytal said, both mentally and aloud. “The Royal Army will control this position in moments, then drop your shield, Piety.”

Piety nodded again.

A moment later, at Father Vytal’s signal, she released the telekinetic field and spurred her horse up the hill. Piety had thought the grey-clad soldiers would make way for them, but once the telekinetic barrier was down, the soldiers were all around them. Many of them charged past, but a knot of ten or more held their pikes at them threateningly.

“Surrender!” A tall man with the golden knots of rank upon his shoulder shouted at them.

Father Vytal put a finger on the sunburst at his chest. “I am Tristam Vytal, Councilor of the Church of Khulanty. Let us pass,” he commanded.

The officer snorted. “Any fool can wear a sunburst. Dismount and surrender.”

The chaos of battle tumbled down the hill and the noise with it. The officer didn’t need to shout to be heard, but he shouted anyway. The demons roared again, fire bursting from their black maws. Piety flinched and readied her power, but she noted the weapons had been angled to fire over the heads of their own men to strike into the heart of the black-clad army.

Piety didn’t watch.

“Dismount, now!”

Piety looked at the officer, stunned. With all that was happening around them, she did not understand how this man could insist on arresting them.

Father Vytal kept his gaze on the officer and she could feel him preparing to use his telepathy to convince him to let them passed.

Someone nearby shouted, “Arrows!”

Everyone’s eyes went to the sky where the black streaks of a volley of arrows arced toward them.

Piety thrust her hands skyward, but the arrows’ descent was fast, and sharp metal bit at earth and flesh and bone. People screamed. Piety’s horse added its scream to those around them and bucked and writhed as it collapsed. Piety was thrown, landing hard, and struggled to her feet. Panicked, she scanned the bodies. The officer who had tried to arrest them was down, riddled with arrows.

She found Father Vytal, kneeling, could feel his healing energy at work. The purple-eyed woman knelt nearby. She looked up and saw Piety, her purple eyes shining. She gestured at Piety desperately. Hurrying to their side, she found Temperance flat on her back, two arrows piercing her chest.

Without waiting she fed healing energy into Temperance’s body, letting the work Father Vytal had already done guide her. With their combined efforts, the arrows were drawn from her body, the muscles and tissues mended. Temperance coughed before she sat up, wincing.

“We must go,” the purple-eyed woman said.

“Can you stand?” Father Vytal asked.

Temperance nodded. Piety and Father Vytal helped Temperance up and the four of them continued their trek up the hill, tired, dazed, and bruised. The horse Father Vytal and Temperance had been riding was not in evidence. Piety hoped it had run away and wasn’t in the tangle of bodies around them.

They were nearly to the top of the hill where coteries of soldiers manned the dreadful fire-arms. Those demons roared again, launching their deadly projectiles among the enemy.

Piety winced. Temperance sobbed.

“Stop!”

The shout came from behind, and there was no time. No time to turn around, no time to stop it, no time to heal it. One moment, Father Vytal was walking up the hill, supporting Temperance, the next, he was on his knees, the point of a pike protruding from his chest, his mouth open, his eyes wide. Piety knelt in front of him, her power already going into his body, but there was nothing to heal.

The thrust had destroyed his heart.

He had died instantly.

Piety’s breathing slowed and her vision went bright, as though a great light came from every direction, washing out color and sharpening contrast. Chimes rang frantically. Her body went numb, refusing to feel. She closed her eyes and bowed her head and tried to escape, to go somewhere where she didn’t have to look at the bloody pike and Father Vytal’s ruined chest.

When she opened her eyes, she was in the room in her mind and, as before, the wall opposite her desk was gone, and in its place was that great cosmos speckled with stars, outlined in purple.

For a moment, Piety was tempted by that stary void, the purple-tinged cosmos. She recalled how it had felt when she’d been within the cosmos; peaceful, serene, calm, and she wanted to feel that way again. It would have been a great comfort to fall into the cosmos forever, to forget the image seared into her mind, of Father Vytal bloody, ruined, dead. But she quickly rejected the idea. She would not abandon Temperance.

She blinked again, and again and the chaos of battle raged at the foot of the hill. Kempenny’s army had pushed the Royal Army back up the hill with the pure advantage of numbers. Piety knew she hadn’t been in the room in her mind long, so the tide of battle had shifted quickly. The demons roared again and she could feel men die as the heavy, metal spheres crashed into them.

Piety’s gaze moved to behind Father Vytal to the young, grey-clad man, one of their own soldiers, who had stabbed him. His eyes were wide in horror, staring at the weapon in his hands and at where it entered the body of another man.

“Oh my God,” the soldier whispered. “I’ve killed a cleric, God, no.”

In a flare of heat and tears and wails, Piety felt fury, and in a breath choked with the stink of death, she felt it calm to a gentle sadness. Temperance clung to her and sobbed.

The purple-eyed woman knelt next to them. “I’m sorry, Light Cleric. I’m sorry. I didn’t know this would happen. I swear I didn’t.”

The soldier babbled the same words over and over, “God, no, no, please God, no…” Tears tracked through the dirt on his face.

Piety reached out with her telepathy and slipped easily into the young man’s mind. She closed him down, put him to sleep, then found his terror and quieted it. For a moment, she considered removing it entirely, making him forget, but that felt too intrusive. Instead, she kept it from breaking his mind, and let him rest.

A great roar of humanity drew their attention to the battle—much closer than Piety expected. She wanted to make them stop. She wanted to reach into each mind and still them. But she didn’t have enough power. No one did. The only time she felt that much power was from the cosmos.

Piety blinked.

She stood in her mindspce, staring into the cosmos. She stood on the battlefield, staring into combat. She leapt into the cosmos and let it empty her of fear, let it fill her with power.

She reached her mind in all directions at once. She could feel each soldier, could feel their bodies as they hacked at each other with great pieces of metal sharpened for the job. She could feel their fear, their rage, their blind panic, and, with a touch, she quieted them all. The shouts and groans and cries ceased.

She lifted herself off the ground, hovering over the quieted soldiers. Their faces, all upturned to look at her, were illuminated with a bright white light, a light, she realized, emanating from her. The power of the cosmos, filtered through her, sought out those still living and repaired them. In the space of moments, she thought of a dozen things she might say to make them stop fighting forever, but none seemed appropriate. Instead she looked upon her fallen mentor and the sleeping soldier who had killed him, and she wept.

It had happened too fast.
