Piety could smell the ocean long before she could see it. The briny tang on the breeze from the east startled her the morning of their sixth day, just as she was finished cleaning up breakfast. She had, of course, had absolutely nothing to do with the preparation of the meal so insisted on being the one to clean up. When the morning breeze padded gently into their campsite, Piety paused in kicking dirt to smother the last of the cook fire. She raised her face to the sky and took a deep breath.

“What’s that?” she asked.

“The ocean,” said Father Vytal.

Piety took another deep breath and felt her chest clench. There was something about the smell she couldn’t identify. Kinswell, where she had lived for several months, was by the ocean, but she’d only seen it once, just before leaving, and this smell, this clean, crisp scent untainted by the stink of the docks, promised a freedom she had not felt since leaving Sacred Heart, and that freedom had felt tenuous, she hadn’t had the opportunity to relish in it.

“It smells nice,” she said and returned to her chores, but her mind stayed on the ocean. She wanted now, with a desperation she couldn’t explain, to see the ocean, to run to it.

Piety’s attention was caught by the trilling cry of a great white bird with grey wings. She looked up to see it circling lazily.

“I wonder,” she said quietly.

Piety closed her eyes and launched her consciousness into the air, stretching it far and fast and in moments found the soft, pleasant spark of the bird. She touched it tenuously because she had never touched the mind of an animal before. The bird’s mind did not respond to her touch—it did not shy away, defend itself, or attack. It seemed unaware of her. With a light touch, she slid her consciousness into the bird’s, and a moment later shared its vision.

At first, it was disconcerting. At once there was nothing beneath her and yet she could feel the solid ground. She felt dizzy, as though she was about to fall and yet knew the strength of the air currents supported her. But the bird continued to circle slowly and, after a few more moments, Piety got used to the odd flat vision and intense sense of smell.

“Piety? Piety, what’s wrong?” It was Temperance. Piety could hear her in a strange echoy way.

Piety suggested to the bird that, perhaps, it might want to fly toward the ocean and the bird acquiesced, altering its wing position, its tail feathers, and suddenly it was riding a warm current and flying east.

“Piety?”

“I’m here” Piety said mentally, “Temperance, you’ve got to see this.” With a thought, she embraced Temperance’s consciousness and lifted it to the bird’s mind and let her see too.

“What’s going on?” Temperance panicked.

“Just hold on to me,” Piety assured her.

Before them was a low, tree-covered hill. The sun touched the tops of the trees and made their winter-bare branches golden. The bird swooped low, and Piety felt Temperance gasp and grab onto her, physically and mentally. The bird continued to descend, picking up speed, bringing them closer to the tops of the trees. Then the bird flapped its wings with long, powerful strokes, and they crested the hill.

Before them spread the panorama of the ocean stretching all the way to the grey-smudged horizon. Its shining surface rippled gently, a multitude of flashes as it reflected the early morning light in white and yellow and orange. More birds like the one whose consciousness they rode flew over that expanse of water

Piety marveled at the sight, at a loss to explain the joy she found in gazing upon the ocean.

“Piety, put me back,” Temperance’s voice came slow and scared. “Put me back right now.”

“Hmm?” Piety blinked slowly and for a moment experienced a double vision as she shared the bird’s sight and saw through her own eyes. With a breath and a moment of concentration, she brought herself fully back to her own senses and brought Temperance with her. She came back into her body to find herself sitting awkwardly, one leg beneath her, the other splayed out, as though she’d fallen, but leaning against Temperance and wrapped in her friend’s embrace.

Leaning over them both, was Father Vytal.

“Piety, are you there?”

Piety nodded and smiled.

“Where did you go?” he asked.

Piety gestured vaguely upward. “Bird. I saw through the bird’s eyes. I really wanted to see the ocean.” Her smile widened. “It was amazing.”

Temperance shivered against her. “That was not fun,” she said.

“Sorry, Temperance.” Piety got her feet under her and stood, then turned to help Temperance to her feet.

“You collapsed,” Temperance said, “I thought you were hurt.”

Piety blushed. “I suppose I should have sat down first. I… I didn’t really think the whole thing through.”

Father Vytal made a small noise and both girls turned to face him.

“You are full of surprises, Piety. Sharing senses with an animal is a rare talent among telepaths. I don’t suppose that’s something they taught you at the High Temple?”

“No.” Piety shook her head. “I just sort of did it.”

“Because you wanted to see the ocean?”

Piety nodded, concerned with her own answers. “I was really excited to see it, like it was something I longed for. But I don’t know why.” She did not voice the thought that perhaps it had been someone else who had been excited to see the ocean. She tried not to think about those old fears that someone else might have access to the room in her mind.

• • •

Upton Port was less a small town and more a medium sized port with a town clinging to its hull. The town was without a wall and without a guard, both of which struck Piety as odd. As the three of them rode into town, Piety found herself looking to the town’s weaknesses, how troops might be able to move in and occupy the hamlet, which positions could be most easily guarded, and which buildings to take first.

With a firm shake of her head, Piety tossed the thoughts from her mind, frightened they might not be hers. On the one hand, she had spent the last several months at a military camp, listening to military minds discuss military matters, but Piety knew she was no strategist and the thoughts felt foreign. Examining a structure for its defensive and offensive potential was not something she did on a regular basis.

Piety shivered at a sudden, cold wind. The scent of snow mixed with that of the ocean, and despite the clear, bright sky above Piety suspected a snow storm was rolling in.

With a small start, Piety realized Father Vytal and Temperance had dismounted and were securing their mounts to the hitching post in front of a small inn, probably the town’s only inn. Giving herself another firm shake, she followed suit.

The small common room of the inn held two tables, seven chairs and a counter with three stools. A small fireplace stood ready with stacked split wood. A narrow staircase dominated one wall, presumably leading to the rooms for rent. Behind the counter stood a man cleaning out a pewter mug with a dubious cloth. The room was dimly lit but clean and smelled faintly of spices and cooking—but what specifically, Piety couldn’t tell.

“Morning, folks,” said the man behind the counter. “You looking to take passage? My brother-in-law is making plans to sail south in the next few days. He has a clean ship and charges a fair price.”

Father Vytal shook his head as he approached the counter. “No, we’re not sailing. We’re planning to meet someone.”

“In Upton Port?”

Father Vytal nodded.

The man shrugged and gestured at the room in a vague sort of way. “Well, here’s as good a place as any I suppose. I’ve got stew on in the back and a barrel of ale tapped two nights ago. Care for some lunch?”

Father Vytal gave the man a few coins, which the other man quickly scooped up before disappearing through the door behind the counter.

Father Vytal took a chair at one of the tables, facing the door and Piety and Temperance joined him.

“So, now what?” Piety asked, feeling anxious.

“Now we wait.”

“Are we sure she’s going to show up?”

“Not sure, no.”

“How long are we going to wait?”

“We’ll wait a few days if necessary, but no longer than the week we’ve been allotted.”

Piety was set to ask another question, but stopped herself. Father Vytal bore his usual patient visage, but her own impatient questions had begun to irritate her. She glanced at the kitchen door, then at the door to the street, then back at the kitchen door, wondering when the lunches would arrive. She considered standing to pace along the small room when the man returned with a tray burdened with bowls of stew and mugs of ale before returning to the kitchen.

Piety picked up her spoon, but rather than eat, she poked at her stew restlessly.

“Piety, relax,” said Father Vytal.

She looked up and found him looking at her intently.

“Do you remember the concentration exercises?”

Piety nodded.

“You need to relax, you’ll have the innkeeper spreading stories if you keep acting like we’ve got something to hide.”

Piety nodded. “Sorry, Father,” she said quietly. “I’m feeling things, thinking things that aren’t me. I’m getting nervous.”

“Like this morning’s incident?” he asked.

“Yes.”

“Use the concentration exercises,” he told her. “Still your mind. We have a mission to accomplish.”

Piety closed her eyes and concentrated on her breathing. She noted the dank, faintly salty aroma permeating everything in Upton Port. The tabletop upon which her hands rested was smooth and faintly damp, as though it had just been cleaned. Her lower back and backside and thighs ached faintly from the ride into town. And then, with ease of practice, she slipped into the room in her mind.

She felt her body go still where it sat at the table, aware of her physical self only in the periphery of her mind. Beside her, Temperance ate slowly, keeping her eyes on her food and trying not to look at her. Piety felt a pang of sorrow. It had been reckless and rude to pluck Temperance’s consciousness from her body. She understood now that Temperance had been terrified, only her trust in Piety keeping her from total panic during the short ordeal. Piety further realized that what she had done frightened her as well. The ability to take someone’s consciousness from their body and put it somewhere else was a power that should have been beyond her.

She looked at the chessboard in the middle of the room with some trepidation. Maybe there really was someone sharing the room in her mind, maybe that was the reason for the foreign feelings and thoughts of this morning. She shivered at the thought and tried to herd her thoughts another direction. She looked at the chessboard. The last game had spanned weeks and she’d managed to maneuver into a draw, the best she’d ever done. This game though, this game she was coming close to an actual win, if she could just manage to defend her Royal long enough to…

But no, that wasn’t right.

Piety sat in the comfortable chair of white and black and silver patterns and let herself become consumed with examining the chessboard. Certainly her opponent had several threats within one or two moves of putting her Royal in check and had two more pieces than her, but, as Piety studied the board, she realized her opponent had presented so many threats in an attempt to make her focus on defense. But the objective of the game was not to defend her Royal, it was to capture the Royal of her opponent, and Piety’s white pieces were in position to do so.

With a small smile, Piety moved a pawn to trap the black Royal. She spent several minutes examining the board to make sure she hadn’t missed anything, that there wasn’t some way for her opponent to escape and, once satisfied, gently placed the black Royal on its side, as she had found her own Royal so many times before.

Satisfied, she stood from the chair and turned her attention to the bookshelf. The bookshelf was well stuffed with a wide variety of books, each of which she had read. She scanned the titles quickly, looking for something new, but found nothing. She took down one of the few volumes she had added to the shelf, the red-leather bound copy of the Scriptures. She opened it and flipped through the pages absently, thinking about all the other books on that shelf and wondering who had put them there.

Long ago, she’d convinced herself that her mind had somehow collected the books and games on their own. But occasionally she suspected there was someone unseen.

With a sudden determinedness, Piety sat on the straight-backed chair at the desk, retrieved a page of paper and shook the bottle of ink. With a silver-feathered quill, Piety wrote a quick note.

Black,

I’m curious, are you real, or are you just in my head?

-White

With a bit of sand and a bit of time, the ink was dry and she folded the note and placed it upon the chessboard, over the black Royal, like a burial shroud.

When she was finished, Piety felt a faint brush against her right hand and looked down to see nothing there.

“Piety,” Temperance whispered, and Piety knew that the sensation was Temperance’s hand on hers in her real body.

“Piety, she’s here.”

Piety eased into her body and opened her eyes. The dimness of the small common room after the sourceless light of the room in her mind, required her eyes to adjust, but she looked to the door anyway, to see the silhouette of a figure well wrapped in robes. She hesitated, looking about the small room before coming to them.

She wore a thick, rough robe like the clerics of long ago and a shawl over her head and face, revealing only her eyes. Piety recognized those eyes, those vibrant purple eyes. Her whole body tingled. Chimes rang at the edge of hearing. Her vision faded to brilliant purple, and when she tried to blink it away, she realized it was the woman’s aura.

“May I sit here?” the woman asked, voice high and quiet, clearly afraid.

Father Vytal nodded. “Certainly.”

Piety took a deep breath, focused in her mindspace, and forced the purple aura to the back of perception. Even so, her vision was edged in violet.

The woman sat and pulled her shawl down around her shoulders to reveal a young, round face. The smile lines at cheeks and eyes from Piety’s memory weren’t present, the iron grey hair was instead dark brown, wavy, and shoulder length. For a moment, Piety doubted this woman was the woman they sought, but there was no mistaking the eyes. Not just because they were the proper color but because behind the fear was a kindness that was everything Piety’s earliest memories had to offer.

“I’m Minerva.”

