“I’ll take that one.”

“And that piece.”

“That’s a good one right there,” I exclaim.

I move between crates, picking out the samples of ore that have the highest content of kaglese. The size of the sample doesn’t matter; as long as the rock has a higher content of the ore I need, I set it off to the side in a pile.

Once I pick out the best samples I can find from each crate of ore, I further narrow down my ore choice so that I’m taking back only the best pieces with me. I eventually end up standing over a pile of ore that weighs roughly 100 pounds.

“Are you sure that will be enough ore for you to make the general’s arrow?” Mr. Grey asks from behind his desk.

“I’ll make it work,” I confidently proclaim. “The amount of kaglese in this pile of ore is the same as three hundred pounds of the other stuff. I'm used to helping my father carry large loads of timber, but I need to be able to move fast, so I can't carry more than a hundred and fifty pounds or so. And I’m already close to that limit,” I look at my travel pack sitting off to the side.

When I started this journey, my pack carried around twenty pounds of supplies; now, it bulges at the seams. Kervin took me to a stall this morning to buy more dried rations for my trip home, and he let me grab a few pairs of pants and a shirt from the clothes I folded. I 'convinced' him that I shouldn't have to pay for the clothes after I took the time to clean part of his house.

I quickly move the chunks of kaglese to a sack Mr. Grey provided for me. I'll secure the pack to a wooden frame that will help me carry the load, just like when I help father.

"Do you need to weigh this or something?" I ask Grey after all the kaglese ore is in the sack.

“I’m sure it’s close to what you said it is,” He smiles at me. Damn, I should have kept the extra chunks of ore after all!

I place the unknown metal for the arrowheads in with the kaglese ore and tie the sack shut. “And the feathers?” I ask.

“Right here,” Mr. Grey stands up and hands me a ceramic tube, sealed by a piece of fabric and some twine.

I untie the string and move aside the fabric to reach inside and pull out a feather. The Fechin feather sparkles just as beautifully as the one I saw yesterday did. I count ten feathers inside the tube, including the one in my hands.

Smiling while I seal the tube back up, I move over to the rest of my supplies and start strapping everything down.

I use a part of my Strength to tug in a few spots to ensure everything is secure. Confident in my work, I move in front of Mr. Grey’s desk. “I think everything is secure, ready to show me what’s in the box?” I motion to a spot behind his desk. The hidden box caught my attention as soon as I stepped into his office.

“Some might call that a breach of privacy,” He grumbles.

“That’s rich coming from you,” I sarcastically retort. “You think I wouldn’t notice a box holding multiple enchanted items?”

"Yeah, yeah," Mr. Grey leans over and pulls the hidden box onto his desk and opens it. One by one, he pulls out bundles of fine cloth and spreads them across his desk. He unwraps each bundle of fabric to reveal a different piece of jewelry. "Each one is enchanted to obscure a person’s mana.”

“May I?”

Grey waves his hand over the jewelry, giving me free rein to inspect them.

“Are there any differences between them?” I ask, looking between the two rings, an amulet, and a bracelet, all of which have a mana gem embedded in them.

“These pieces came from the capital. See the makers mark on them; they come from a workshop specializing in mana obscuring magic tools. The two rings are low-tier 3 items, the bracelet is mid-tier 3, and the amulet is a high-tier 3 magic tool." He explains to me while I’m holding one of the rings.

“What separates them in the same tier?” I question.

Mr. Grey goes full teacher mode on me. "Magic items are classified by many factors. The most important deciding factors on a magic item's price are the enchantment and the magic gem used. How much mana the runes need, how well it utilizes the mana, and the effect of the runes combined with different qualities of mana gems, decide the tier and price of the item."

“What about the item itself?” I ask.

"You'd be surprised how little that matters to most people. If the item is good enough to support an enchantment, you already know it's of decent quality. Imagine you have two swords to choose from, one is made slightly better than the other. Both swords have the same enchantment, but the lesser one has a better mana gem and more efficient runes. Nine times out of ten, people will buy the cheaper made sword with the better enchantments.”

Mr. Grey gestures to the ring in my hand. “All four of these pieces of jewelry are made from materials just strong enough to hold their individual enchantments. That’s why each of them looks pretty similar, but I’m sure a person with your skills can tell the difference between them.”

I start scanning the items one by one and quickly see what he means. They all use a silver alloy mixed with copper and another metal I haven't seen before. The only noticeable difference in their structures is the bracelet and amulet have a little extra of the unknown metal in their alloys.

I pour in enough mana to activate each item for a few minutes to observe their gems and runic structures. Size and clarity look to be the most contributing factors to the mana gems’ capacity. The jewel inside the amulet is the smallest, but the mana contained within is 25% more than the bracelet and 55% more than the two rings because of the sapphire's clarity.

Though the materials and mana gems are interesting to look at, it's the runes that have me mesmerized. Not only are the enchantments small enough to fit on a ring, but this is the first time I've seen tier 3 runes. Just like master told me, each rune is three-dimensional and incredibly complicated. I have no idea how an enchanter can carve perfect structures within an item without compromising its integrity.

“Is it really that interesting?” Mr. Grey asks me, reminding me where I am. I was so focused on the engravings I tuned everything else out.

"If you could see the beauty hidden inside these items, you wouldn't be asking me that question." I give him a half-smile. "I've only been able to look at cheap magic tools, items that have tier 1 and 2 runes at the most. I'd be tempted to ask whoever made this for an apprenticeship.”

“Really?” Kervin asks in disbelief.

I turn to him, “No, but I would try to drown him in compliments if it would earn me one piece of advice.” I chuckle to myself, staring at the amulet in my hands.

After another minute of quietly looking at the magic item, I put it back on its cloth covering and ask the big question. "So now that you have me hooked, what are their prices?" I eyeball the jewelry.

Grey points to one of the rings, "15 gold coins." Then he points to the other ring, "16 gold coins." He sits back in his chair and folds his hands. "The bracelet is 19 gold coins, and the amulet is 23."

I whistle at the prices. “And if we add in everything else?”

“The kaglese is 7 gold coins, and the ten feathers are 40 silver coins; which of the magic tools are you thinking about?” Mr. Grey asks.

"I want the amulet." I point at it, sitting on the desk.

“I don’t want to persuade you to pick one of the other options, but why the most expensive one?” He inquisitively asks me.

“I use my magic during everyday life. The amulet will waste the least amount of my mana pool while I keep it activated. In the future, I might even ask you to buy me a tier 4 version if I can afford it."

Grey laughs, "Tier 4 mana obscuring magic tools start at 40 gold coins and go up to 100 for the best ones. And don't ask me about tier 5; only a few are auctioned off by the Stone-Kin each year. I wouldn’t even be able to tell you the price of the starting bid.”

Holy crap! "You said Stone-Kin sold them; you can't get one from a human enchanter?" I ask Mr. Grey.

"There are only two enchanters in our kingdom that can craft tier 5 runes, and it's unknown how many they know. I'm not sure if you know this, but we humans are known for our celestial spells while the Stone-Kin focus on runic magic. When it comes to war, our army mages are brutal on the battlefield, but we'll never be able to compete with Stone-Kin when it comes to engraving." He explains to me.

Tier 5 runes, I wonder how much more complicated they are compared to tier 3?

“Let’s get back on track,” Grey brings my attention back to him. “The amulet is 23 gold coins, add in the materials you selected, and your total is 30.4 gold coins.”

“Whoa, there! I think you might have drunk too much last night. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe we made a deal yesterday,” I stop him before he can take the lead.

“Really, you think so?” Mr. Grey shows me his confident side and activates his skills.

I activate my own merchant skills, but they pale in comparison to his. If I didn't have Mental Resistance, I'm sure I would have agreed to pay him double if he asked for it. I do my best not to let the intimidation show on my face or in my body language.

“I think the price is fair,” Grey stands up from his chair and stretches out his hand, expecting me to agree.

“And the deal we made yesterday? You’re supposed to give me a discount in exchange for two of the special arrows I make later.” I raise my chin in defiance.

Mr. Grey looks shocked that I didn't agree to his deal. "How are you!?" He stops, knowing I won't answer. He straightens his back, "I remember our deal, that's why I'm not charging you for the special metal. If I were to charge you for the special ore, your total price would be more than 50 gold coins."

“And you aren’t going to get your money back with the arrows I make for you?” I make sure he knows I’m not a sucker.

He gives me a contemplative look. “Fine, 28 gold coins.” Whatever merchant skills he’s using once again decimate my own and try to force me to agree.

“You said the special metal would be sold for over 20 gold coins; you’ll easily make double that with my arrows. 20 gold coins for everything.” My skills try to push back against his, but I can't feel them making any progress.

"I'd agree to that price if you tell me how you're negating my skills. If not, 27 gold coins.” He narrows his eyes.

“No chance,” I fire back. “Give me everything for 25 gold coins.” I stand firm.

For the briefest of moments, his smile turns into that of a predator before quickly softening. "Deal," He holds his hand out.

I reach out and take his hand. “I’ll write out a quick contract regarding the arrows, and that you owe us 22.5 gold coins.”

I feel our skills finalize the deal, but I’m more focused on the sudden price drop. “Wait, why did you drop the price further?”

He continues to smile while his hand flashes across a piece of parchment. "I was informed a while ago by headquarters to give you a 10% discount."

“On everything?” I try to clarify.

“Of course, everything Kervin has bought for you has had a flat 10% taken off of the price." Mr. Grey quickly looks up and gives me a matter of fact look.

I send Kervin a questioning look, but he shakes his head, denying any knowledge of the fact.

“I thought you would get everything for 27 gold, but I guess seeing another part of your skills was worth the extra 5 gold coins.” Grey turns the contract upside down and pushes it over to me to sign.

It only takes me a moment to scan the document to make sure there’re no hidden clauses. I sign the contract, feeling a small bond forming between the two of us, while Grey puts the other three magic tools away.

I push the contract back to his side of the table and pick up my new amulet.

"Allow me," Kervin offers. I hand him the necklace and let him attach it around my neck for me. As soon as it's fastened, I fill it with mana and watch as an invisible barrier forms around my body. I'm happy knowing I have another defensive layer around me, even though it isn’t a physical one.

“Now that business is done,” Mr. Grey grabs mine and Kervin’s attention. “I’d like to hear the answer to my question last night.”

“The one asking if my opinion changed?” I make sure to clarify.

"That's the one," Grey appears happy I remembered.

"I'd be a fool if I trusted you after two meetings and a dinner." Grey looks saddened by my answer, like I kicked his dog. "However," I continue. "You've been good to me while I was here. I'm starting to think working with Silver Herd isn't as bad as I originally thought it would be." Grey, and by extension, Kervin, brighten up after hearing the second part of my answer.

“That doesn’t mean I want to deal with anyone other than Kervin.” I remind Grey.

"I can understand that. Hopefully, in the future, you'll feel more inclined to work with me as well." Grey and I share a mutual smile.

“Oh! I almost forgot.” Grey shifts in his seat. “Headquarters told me they would try to get you the instructions you asked for, but they need time. You know how matters regarding engraving ink are sensitive.”

I’m surprised by the news. “And you didn’t think to tell me that piece of news before you asked me what I thought about you?” I give him a smile that says I know what he did there.

“It never occurred to me.” Grey lies through his teeth, feigning ignorance. "Headquarters did want me to ask you one more thing, though."

“What is it?” I ask.

“Do you know anyone who has ties with the Panetta family?" Grey asks me in a tone that says he doesn't care about the answer.

“Panetta family? I’ve never heard of them. Are they people I need to watch out for?” I ask.

