One strong swing of his sends me stumbling back for a second time.

“She’s not even fighting back!” One of the onlooker’s shouts.

He’s right, why am I hesitating?

Because he's human?

The thought of these men as humans fades from my mind. These are monsters, worse than goblins. If I don't kill them, they will surely attack Kervin or, worse, the village.

“We’re going to have so much fun together,” The bandit advances again.

This time his movements appear to slow as I silence the part of my brain reminding me it's a person in front of me.

I activate Flash Step and Precise Strike, appearing behind him. I face the cheering bandits with empty eyes as I hear the man’s body fall to the ground behind me.

Their cheering stops. One man stutters at the boss, “Holy Fuck! She cleaved Jim’s head off; what do we do now?”

“Looks like she has some fight in her after all,” The leader excitedly claims. “What are you whining about? Your share of the loot just got bigger. Besides, the girl is on her last leg, she can’t use that skill again. Who wants to go next?”

I thought my decapitation of their friend would scare them off, but the next man steps forward. I realize my swords flames aren't helpful in this situation, so I reabsorb the mana in my sword to save it for later.

“We’re down to ten shares, is it going to be nine?” The leader laughs and his men join him. It doesn’t look like any of them care if the man in front of me dies either. They will fight me one at a time, whittling away my Stamina until I’m helpless, while the survivors get a bigger cut of the profit, and apparently, the winner gets me.

My next opponent is level 39 and comes at me with his sword already drawn. He slashes at me, and I block, I try to cut him, and he dodges. We start dancing to the ringing of our swords.

A few times, he grazes Mana Skin, but he doesn't appear to notice it. He seems much more cautious of Flash Step, but it uses up too much of my Stamina.

I get a lucky cut in, and slice open his arm. When he recoils, I score a second hit opening his stomach. When he starts to stagger, I put him out of his misery by piercing his heart.

I try to take a few deep breaths, while the bandits decide who is challenging me next.

“The girl is fierce,” The bandit leader mocks me. “But I can tell her Stamina is almost empty; who else wants to give it a try?"

“I’m next!” Another bandit with an axe steps forward. If I remember correctly, his level was 40.

The back to back fights are quickly taking their toll. Compared to goblins of the same level, these men have years of experience and use strategy instead of brawn.

The man runs at me aggressively and swings his axe. While the last guy was wary of my movement skill, this guy’s strategy is keeping me on the defensive and it’s working.

I can match his Strength, but his weapon is heavier than mine, and my Stamina is nearly out.

Before my Stamina reaches below 100, I gamble and activate Weighted Strike. The axe wielding bandit can’t hold up against my weapon’s sudden weight change, allowing my sword to push his axe to the side and deliver a deep diagonal slash across his chest. The man falls face down in the snow and bleeds out in a matter of seconds, dying the frost crimson. Another win by the skin of my teeth.

I stumble forward away from the blood-soaked snow and collapse to my knees.

Seeing my prone form, the remaining eight bandits start to cheer. “Do you want to fight another one of my boys, or do you want to surrender? Either way is fine with us.” The leader laughs maniacally.

What do I do?

Do I kill myself?

I'd instead do that, then let them touch me.

The only thing I have left is my mana, but Mana Skin will only hold them off for so long.

Right now would be a great time to know how to throw a fireball.

Wait!

I might not be able to conjure a fireball, but I can make a small flame!

A crazy idea pops into my head.

Worst case scenario, I die and take most of them with me.

Let's try it!

Reel’s Point of View:

Shit, shit, shit.

I arrive just in time to watch Aaliyah collapse on her knees. Why couldn’t she run just a bit slower or take a break sooner!?

I reach into my side pouch and withdraw a small green vial. I pull the stopper and drink the sappy medical paste and wait for it to boost my Stamina. I'll crash after the effect wears off, but it should let me fight.

I observe the situation from my hiding place behind a tree at the clearing’s entrance.

Why couldn't she kill a few more of them? I complain in my head. My fighting style is better suited for one on one fights. They've already lost three of their men to Aaliyah, so I doubt they'd take such a cavalier stance to my showing up.

I've only known Aaliyah for a little while, but I know she won't give up without a fight. As soon as she makes her last stand, I'll charge in while they're distracted and take her to hide in the woods. I think I’m still in range, so I can call Giovanni and have him send backup while we hide.

I feel my Stamina pool rapidly filling.

Alright, as soon as she…

I watch horrified as she tosses her sword and dagger away. “I give up,” She pants heavily.

Fuck!

"Smart move, girl. No need for your death to be a painful one. If you serve us with a smile, we might even decide to sell you off instead of killing you.” The leader of their group smiles triumphantly.

Aaliyah doesn’t answer him and instead brings her hands together and appears to start praying.

The eight remaining men start to converge on her like a pack of starving wolves. One of the men grabs her sword and dagger.

I’ll only get one chance to save her. When they start arguing about who should get to go first, I’ll rush in.

When the men make it a few feet from her, Aaliyah opens her hands to reveal a small fire burning in her palm.

A few of the men jump back while the leader laughs at them. “It’s only a tier 1 spell, if she could cast anything better, she would’ve done it long ago.” He savagely looks down on her. “What are you planning to do with that?” He taunts.

“Kill all of you,” I hear Aaliyah say. So, she is going to try something!

“How are you going to do that?” The leader asks in between laughing.

This is my chance! I activate all my stealth and movement skills to close the distance rapidly.

When I'm halfway to Aaliyah, I hear her say something that makes my Danger Sense go haywire. “Like this.”

Following my instincts, I activate Emergency Escape, changing my direction back towards where I was hiding.

I make it three steps before an explosion erupts behind me.

A blast wave knocks me off my feet and throws me forward before a wave of fire washes over me. My emergency magic ring negates a large part of the damage, but I still lose 10% of my health.

I look up from where I landed on the ground and see a plume of smoke where Aaliyah and the bandits once were.

Did she use a suicide spell!?

My limbs shake as I climb to my feet and wait for the smoke to clear and the magic fire to dissipate.

As everything clears, I see the remains of the bandits strewn across the ground. If I hadn't used my escape skill, or if I was a little bit closer, that could've been me. Explosive magic is exponentially deadlier the closer you are to its epicenter.

As I move a little closer, I hear something.

*Cough* *Cough*

My head snaps to the center of the blast, where the sounds of coughing are coming from.

Laying in a small crater is the prone form of Aaliyah.

I rush to her side and cradle her head. I fish out another potion from my pouch, this time purple, and force her to drink it.

I wait for the healing tonic to kick in before I drag her away from the explosion site. I see her eyes flutter before she starts thrashing as I move her.

"It's me, Aaliyah; it's Reel!" I shout, trying to get her to stop thrashing.

She doesn't open her eyes, but she does open her mouth. "What are you doing here?"

“You think my boss would let you run home by yourself?” I tell her as I set her on a bed of snow.

“Some help you were.” I hear her mumble.

"If you didn't run so fast, this might not have happened." I retort.

“Couldn’t keep up with a little girl, huh.” I look at Aaliyah to tell her to stop talking and freeze when I see her eyes open and giving me a strained smile. “Thanks for coming.”

I run over to her supplies that were knocked away by the blast and drag it over to her before I fish out her traveling blanket.

I lay out her blanket and gently move her on top of it before folding it over and tucking her in. "Who taught you that spell? It's a miracle you're still alive." I criticize the reckless girl.

“Would you believe me if I told you it was a tier 1 spell?” She must not be in her right state of mind if she’s so readily talking to me.

“Let’s say I did believe you; how did you make a tier 1 spell do that?” I ask her, not expecting an answer.

"A skill I recently earned; I can use extra mana to boost a spell. That was a tier 1 fire-starting spell using twenty times the usual mana." She deliriously laughs and ends up coughing. "I'm tired. See you in the morning." She manages to say before passing out.

I have just enough time to set up a temporary camp before my Stamina starts to fall rapidly. My tonic is wearing off fast.

I get comfortable next to the sleeping girl just as my Stamina reaches 0. I look down at her sleeping face; despite a few scratches and bruises, she seems fine. She must have used that skill she keeps around herself to endure the majority of the blast.

She risked her life to take out every one of the bandits. Maybe I should tease her less in the future?

I glance at her again and can tell she's knocked out cold. She's probably suffering from Mana and Stamina depletion. If she wakes up before sunrise tomorrow, it will be another miracle.

I let out a long sigh; how am I supposed to report this to Giovanni? It will be a miracle for me if he doesn’t send One to terminate me.

"Oh well, tomorrow's problems. For now, I’ll watch over the problem child.” I quickly decide.

I sit utterly still, waiting for my Stamina to start regenerating again.

I slowly let my thoughts fade away and focus only on our surroundings. The last thought I push from my mind is, I don't know if she has a devil's luck but I hope this girl is worth all the trouble.
