“No, no, everything should be fine. I don’t know what headquarters is thinking sometimes,” Grey laughs.

“Alright, I should be heading out. It was a pleasure to meet you.” I hold out my hand.

“The pleasure was all mine. If you come back to Drey for any reason, stop by, and I’ll get us another table at Alizio’s.” Mr. Grey firmly shakes my hand.

I turn around to grab everything, only to see Max holding my back sling in his arms, so it's easier for me to put it on.

I thank Max while fastening the straps around my shoulders. A quick jump up and down to check if anything is loose lets me know everything is secured.

“Anytime, Miss Aaliyah.” Max moves to open the door for Kervin and me.

I give the two men in the office one last departing smile before Kervin leads us back through the building towards the front desk. As soon as we make it into the lobby, Lurte, Ryiba, and Reel get up from their chairs and greet us.

“Ready to go?” Lurte asks me.

“I think so,” I answer.

“You’re going to make your niece carry everything?” A reproachful voice comes from the front desk. The head receptionist is shaking her head at Kervin.

“I, aaaa…” Kervin chokes.

"It's ok," I step in. "I've always helped move things around; this is nothing."

“It’s the principle of the matter, sweety.” She tries to scold me as my mother would.

“It’s really fine,” I try to tell her. “I’m thankful for your consideration, Miss…?” I try to get her name.

“Oh, it’s fine. We girls need to stick together.” She expertly continues the conversation, ignoring the bit about her name. She gives me a once over with her eyes and asks, “Are you leaving?”

"Yeah, it was fun hanging out with uncle Kervin, but I have stuff to do at home," I answer her with a fake smile.

“Well, I hope you enjoyed your time with us. I also hope you come back to say hi to me again soon!” She says in her bubbly voice and a warm smile.

“I did, and I will.” I lightly bow my head.

"Safe travels back to your village." It takes everything I have not to flinch. How does she know I live in a village?

I force a nod and turn around, hiding my nerves from the scary woman.

I take a few steps before I hear her call out to me. “By the way, I like your necklace. Very practical.”

I don’t turn around and move just a little bit faster to get out of the building. If I never see that woman again, it would be too soon.

“You sure you don’t need anything else?” Kervin asks me for the fifth time.

“I said no the last four times, mom,” I complain to him.

“You remember the way we came? You can have Reel go with you,” He asks me with a worried look.

I sigh in defeat, “I’m fine on my own. I follow the wall until I find the old path that leads to my village. Father taught me how to tell which direction I’m going, so you don’t have to worry.” I try to reassure him.

I lean forward, so people passing by can't hear what I say next. "And remember my level. I'll be fine,” I whisper.

Kervin shifts back and forth on his legs. “Ok,” he reluctantly says. “I’ll be back to your village in nine days.”

"Thanks for bringing me here, Kervin." I give him a genuine smile. "Wish me luck with the arrow, both our futures ride on it," I smirk when a nervous expression falls on his face.

“That’s not funny,” He complains.

I smirk to myself as I turn around and head to the gate leading out of the city.

I stop right before I enter the tunnel leading out of the city and look behind me. I commit the city's landscape to heart. It was a challenging couple of days, but it was worth seeing a part of the larger world.

I wave to the four men watching me leave, and get three to wave back to me in return. On the bright side, it will be nine days before I have to see Reel again.

I turn back around and start my journey home. I'm surprised to see the guards don't care about the people leaving the city.

As soon as I leave the gate, I'm greeted with an open landscape and the smell of fresh air. The sky is clear, and the winter winds are pushing in the direction I need to go.

A few people waiting to get into Drey give me curious looks, no doubt because of how young I look. I ignore their gazes and start walking on the path leading around Drey’s walls.

As the people I pass become fewer in number, I put more of my Strength into my legs. Walking turns into jogging, and soon I'm running down the trail.

Double Step helps me gain more speed despite the weight I’m carrying. Mana Skin keeps the winter wind from giving me an ice burn as I continue to gain momentum in the cold.

I soon reach a speed I’m comfortable keeping that won’t expend too much of my Stamina. This is what I always wanted to do, visit Drey, and return on my own terms. It's disappointing I didn't have time to stop by brother’s and Sandra's place, but they should be coming home soon.

I imagine our family reunion as I start to pass by more and more trees. Kervin's bivol could never hope to match the pace I'm going.

I start humming Country Road, with every step bringing me closer to home.

Reel’s Point of View After Aaliyah Leaves Through Drey’s Gate:

12, I count to myself.

The idiots next to me stop waving after Aaliyah vanishes through the gate.

“You think she’ll be ok?” Ryiba asks out loud.

“I’m sure she will. I mean, she has a higher level than most of us.” Lurte assures Ryiba.

Kervin is practically oozing nervousness.

124, I keep track in my head.

The four of us stand around in the cold, watching people coming into Drey. Our boss looks unsure of what to do, 491.

When I reach 600 in my head, I move next to Kervin, who hasn't moved from his spot. “You’re staying in Drey for the next few days, right?” I ask.

Kervin looks at me, uncomprehending. "Staying at your home?" I ask again with a little bite to my voice.

“Yeah,” He hesitantly answers me.

“Good. If, for whatever reason, something unexpected comes up, ask Leonard for help." I start walking to the gate.

683

“Where are you going!?” Kervin yells at my back.

I turn to face him but continue moving towards the gate by walking backwards. "I'm going to take a piss," I ignore the foul looks that the people walking by send me. "Probably take me a few days."

A look of realization crosses my coworker's faces, took them long enough.

725, I count as I make it through the gate. Aaliyah has a twelve-minute head start.

It will be tricky to tail her until she reaches the forest, then I can close the gap between us without her noticing me following her.

First things first. I start running the way we came to Drey. Even if there's a considerable distance between us, I need to get eyes on her.

I start running.

When I don’t see her on the horizon, I pick up speed.

I move faster!

And faster.

…

…….

“Where the Fuck, is she!?” I swear out loud.

My heart starts to beat faster until I see a blurry figure far in the distance. I activate my Perception skills to confirm it’s Aaliyah.

The giant sack tied to her back, and her red hair is all the confirmation I need.

Only…

HOW IS SHE MOVING SO FAST!

I push myself harder as she moves out of my sight again.

We should have almost the same Strength and Dexterity stats. What level is her Running skill!?

Is she planning on being a courier if her blacksmithing job falls through?! Is there anything this girl isn’t a monster at?

Follow her home, Giovanni said. It should be easy for you, he said. I curse my rotten luck and push myself faster at the cost of my Stamina.

This is going to be a long couple of days.

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

I need to work running back into my schedule; I forgot how much it helped clear my mind. And the feeling of running fast is second to no other; I could probably reach the same speed as cars traveling around a city.

I've been running for four hours, and with the amount of ground I'm covering, I should make it back to the village late afternoon tomorrow. By the time I stop for the night, I'll be over a third of the way home.

I’ve seen a handful of goblins just off of the road, but I fly past them before they even realize that I’m there.

If I remember correctly, I’m coming up on a small clearing that will be an excellent spot to rest for a little bit.

Following the forest path, I see the clearing, but I also see a downed tree blocking the way towards the village.

I move to check out the fallen tree, but halfway through the clearing, Sense Mana picks up the presence of humans hidden in the forest, and they’re rapidly approaching the clearing!

I dig my feet into the snow, trying to stop, but the extra weight I’m carrying causes me to skid forward closer to where the figures are approaching from.

Damn, I sense two more are closing in from the sides, moving to cut off my escape!

I draw my dagger and cut the straps securing my pack. As my goods hit the ground, I move to my left, gaining the most distance I can get from where most of the people are going to emerge from the woods.

I see their figures coming out of the trees as I switch out my knife for my sword.

“Look what we have here, boys! It might not be the merchant we heard about, but a beautiful girl is always a bonus!" A large rugged man in armor shouts as he walks out of the tree line.

I start counting the men as they enter the clearing, following closely behind the armored man. The two I sensed last appear off to my sides, keeping me boxed in and nine men spread out in front of me, all armed with different weapons and varying degrees of armor. I silently watch each of their movements.

“Why the silent treatment, girly?” The big man asks me. Judging by his pompous attitude, he must be the leader. "You don't want to ask who we are, why we're here? That's what people usually say in this situation." His smile disgusts me.

“It’s obvious who you are.” I narrow my eyes on the man but keep my other senses on the rest of the men, particularly the two boxing me in.

“You’re taking the fun out of this,” The leader feigns feeling hurt while twirling his mace around.

I don’t respond to the man and just sneer at him.

“Boss!”

"What!" He snaps at the man beside him.

“My skills are going crazy; she has to have over 5 gold on her!” He shouts in excitement. All the men start eyeballing me and my bag that I left off to the side.

"It's our lucky day, boys! A beauty and a profit!" The leader shouts, and the men cheer.

I can't let things continue as they are. Each time the leader speaks, the bandits become surer of themselves and more confident.

I need to be smart about this, so I decide to laugh. I start out chuckling before I take large breaths and erupt in laughter until the bandits become quiet.

“It’s too early for you to snap, girl. We haven’t even tasted you yet.” The boss tries to regain his momentum.

“Sorry,” I apologize as I rein in my maniacal laughter. “It’s just you have no idea who you’re dealing with," I say in the most ominous tone I can imagine hoping my Acting skill can keep up.

“Is that so?” The boss calls my bluff.

I give the man a sweet smile before I point at one of his men. Activating Sense Soul, I start calling out their levels. "39, 41, 38, 40, 42, 39, 41, 38, 38, your buddy who can tell how much money I have is level 45, and your level is 49." Each number I call out causes the recipient to falter. Even the leader cringes when I tell him his level. "None of you are as strong as I am!" I push my mana into my sword and ignite its flames.

“Oh, gods!” A few of the men call out.

"Quiet!" The leader's voice echoes throughout the clearing.

“I’ll admit you’re flashy," He takes a step forward. "You might be able to scare these fools, but I've seen how people with real power act. If you were strong enough to take us out, you would've attacked us already. You're running back to your village, so your Stamina can’t be full right now. And by the way your sword is trembling, you've never killed a man before!”

I try to keep my confident facade up, but he's right. My Stamina is only around 600, and I've never seriously fought with another human before.

"We'll use the same rules as always," The leader shouts out. "Who wants to try first? The winner gets first taste!"

What the hell is he saying!? These bastards think so little of me that they’re willing to come at me one at a time!

“I’ll go,” a bandit holding an axe steps forward. His level was 41. "Surrender, and I won't be too rough with that body of yours," The man licks his lips at me. "Though a little blood helps with lubrication." The animal and his friends laugh at the taunt, and my hair stands on end.

I think about running, but I quickly toss aside the idea. I wouldn't make it far before my Stamina hit 0, and I doubt they wouldn't chase me.

"Fuck off," I try to convey confidence while taking up my stance, but I'm panicking on the inside.

“This should be fun,” The bandit raises his axe and charges at me.

I immediately notice he’s leaving his midsection open. I ready to cut open his stomach, but I hesitate when he enters my striking range. I recover and slash, but he skillfully uses his axe to deflect my strike and push me back.

"You're right, boss!" The man shouts over his shoulder. I gave her an opening, and she hesitated." A round of cheers erupts at my opponent's news. A few of the bandits are cursing for not volunteering to go first.

The man takes up another stance, only this time he properly guards himself. He left himself open to test me!

So many emotions flash through my mind but two most of all, anger and fear.

The bandit doesn’t wait for me to recover and starts swinging with his axe again. The man has killed before and is used to fighting other humans. Each of his strikes is aimed to maim me but not kill.

