“I figured it out!” Barbara said from the little booth at the back, and came out with a big smile on her face.

“Thanks a lot, Barbara.” Ren said and sat down in the middle recliner. “Can you turn down the lights, too?”

“Sure.” Barbara said and pulled the dimmer switch by the door. The room's lights faded down into semi-darkness, and Ren reached out and pushed the button to move the chair back into the reclined position, and sat there to wait for the show to start. He felt a delicate touch on his left hand and turned it to hold onto Lisa's offered hand. A moment later he felt Elise take his other hand, and the three of them sat there as they held hands, then watch the commercials that they had to sit through to see the next episode of his show.

*

Detective John Ramirez drove his partner home after they had driven to a bunch of random spots in the city to try and cover their tracks. They had even stopped to get something to eat, but neither of them had spoken a word until John pulled to the curb at Officer Holly Stonewall's place.

“Holly, please let it go.” John said.

“We don't have any proof that he was telling the truth.” Holly said.

“Is this where I'm supposed to say there's no proof he isn't?” John asked. “He's got no reason to lie, and he was pretty mad at us.”

“At me, you mean.” Holly said.

“No, he was mad at me, too.” John said. “He might be able to tolerate me more, but he was right. Anyone that's keeping tabs on us is going to know where we went today.”

Holly sighed. “How did he guess that it was Elise that I had called?”

“I don't know.” John said. “Process of elimination, maybe.” He said. “He's a pretty smart kid.”

“I can't believe you gave him a copy of everything we had so far.”

“I can't believe we haven't found anything else out.” John said. “He needed to know a few things from that anyways... like his psychiatrist being involved right from the start.”

Holly nodded. “I do feel bad that they can't be charged criminally with only circumstantial evidence.”

“I'm sure once he shares that folder with Elise, things are going to change.”

“I certainly hope so.” Holly said. “Maybe one of these bastards will make a mistake and we can catch them at it.”

“I do, too.” John said. “Goodnight, Holly.”

“Goodnight, John.” Holly said and got out of the car, then walked to her front door and went inside. She hopped in the shower to quickly freshen up, dressed in a t-shirt and jogging pants that were eerily similar to the ones John had loaned her earlier that day, and she sat down at her improvised work station and looked at the monitor.

“He won't go in until the evening is over, so I've got a bit of time to relax.” Holly said, and slipped on her VR headset. “Getting to sleep for 4 hours every real life hour is great.” She said and relaxed.

“Flow Login Start.”
