If Anesidora wasn’t an island, he would already have run away.


He tried not to meet anyone’s eyes as he hastily shoved everything back into the locker.


“Uh…good morning, Lute.”


Konstantin. Two lockers over.


He’d never said a single cruel thing to Lute. He never would. It just wasn’t his personality. He’d even tell people to knock it off, sometimes, if they said something completely awful by his standards. A lot like Vandy. A lot like Tuyet. A lot like a lot of nice people who didn’t want to see something too bad happen right in front of them…


But it ended there.


Kon had friends over all the time. He put together groups to go hang out at Rosa Grove. Sometimes Declan Gao was in those groups.


Lute never was.


“Good morning,” said Lute.


In classes, he was quiet. At lunch, he sat alone.


He made it through another week.


And another.


One more.


They had an ongoing pen pal assignment with students in Canada. Lute’s Canadian was depressed that she was Lute’s Canadian. All the other people in her class got to have video calls and send emails to future Avowed.


The instructor announced that they would start rotating pen pals.


Everyone knew why.


“Honestly,” said Carlotta. “You knew what she wanted to hear. Why didn’t you just lie and say you were one of us? The rest of us were having fun getting to know people and now we have to swap!”


“She doesn't mean it like that,” said Haoyu. “It might be fun to swap.”


“I did mean it like that,” she said. She stalked away.


“Well,” Haoyu said, sounding uncomfortable. “Her older sister just got D. She’s stressed out.”


“Yes, it must be so stressful for her,” said Lute, loud enough for everyone in the vicinity to hear him. “Just imagine how horrible it must be to get D when you’re expecting C. I think I’d cry my eyes out every day if I wound up as a lowly D, don’t you?”


It wasn’t quite fair. He knew he was being a little bit of an asshole, too.


But he felt less like a ghost after he’d said what was on his mind.


Without meaning to, he kept doing it. A retort here. A waspish remark there. It didn’t feel like he was doing it very often at all.


Every minute of every day, someone was stabbing him. On purpose. Accidentally. And the ones who weren’t stabbing him were ignoring the ones who were ninety percent of the time.


Will the world really come to an end, he wondered, if I just stop trying so hard to stay out of everyone’s way?


He took Angela Aubergine to the school talent show. They each got three minutes. He played his song. The biology teacher was the one who was giving everyone the signal to get off stage. Lute looked at him, and he suddenly realized…that guy will wait ages before he walks out here and actually makes me move.


He kept playing.


There was no grand plan. He had no delusions that anyone would think he was cool for this. They didn’t even like the harp. They thought classical music was dull.


He could’ve played something popular to try to win a few of them over, but he didn’t. Arranging Handel’s Suite in D Minor for himself was his current project. He cared about it. He had to listen to what they cared about every second of every day.


They could listen to him for a change.


I am good at this, he thought as he plucked the strings with more vigor than Handel might have wanted. I have made myself good at this. You’re all so proud of what a magic spell is going to turn you into.


One day, I’m going to be the best harpist in the world. Maybe that’s not as spectacular as what you’ll all be. But at least I’m going to earn it for myself.


The stage lights were getting hot.


Lute Velra was getting angry.


When the biology teacher finally stomped onto the stage and tried to touch Angela, Lute quit. The auditorium was full of people giggling or staring at him with wide eyes.


“This is inappropriate behavior, Lute. You need to apologize to all of us.”


Oh, though Lute. I’ve actually made him mad. He didn’t look that mad when they were torturing me in class the other day.


“Why?” Lute asked.


“I think you know why! You took five times as long as students are allowed—”


“That’s because I’m five times as talented as the rest of them,” said Lute.


 


 


 Love this novel? Read it on Royal Road to ensure the author gets credit.

 


 


“You didn't,” said Alden. “On stage in front of the whole school?”


“It felt so good,” said Lute. “Even as I said it, I knew it was social suicide. But I was already socially dead, and I’d begun to snap, and I kind of wanted to be expelled. I was so calm about it while I sat in the principal’s office.”


“They expelled you for playing the harp for fifteen minutes and talking back to a teacher?”


“Of course not. They just called my parents. They regretted that because Aulia showed up instead of Jessica or Cyril. I was shocked. The principal was shocked. I think my bio teacher almost pissed himself.


“I’d never gotten in trouble like that, so I didn’t realize that my grandmother was even available for Lute screw-ups. I’m sure the academy didn’t either. But my parents didn’t involve themselves at school much. Even when I was in third grade. Cyril couldn’t getting along with the other parents, and I guess Jessica knew people might tease me. And…power, you know. Nobody treats Aulia like she’s less than them.”


“Was she mad at you?”


Lute sighed. “She was very amused. When they told her what I’d done, she said, ‘Well, were you five times better than the rest of them?’


“It didn’t endear me to the faculty. That’s for sure. And my refusing-to-be-a-doormat phase didn’t win me any friends. I was mad at all of them, you know. I was almost more angry at the people who weren’t heinous. People can tell when you’re mad at them, and it offends them, and they stop feeling even a little sorry for you, and then it just…seventh grade sucked so bad.”
 


 

 


 


Declan Gao was evil. So were a few of the others.


Unless the System installed one hell of an empathy patch in their twisted brains when it gave them their powers, they were going to grow up to be supervillains. Terrorists, animal abusers, politicians in favor of a zero-human Anesidora—something like that.


Deciding they were evil helped. Lute despised them, and he still braced himself as he walked through the doors of the building, trying to prepare for whatever terrible thing would be funny to them that week. But even though they could still hurt him, he was no longer hurt by the fact that they wanted to hurt him.


Evil was what they were. What else could you expect from them?


An evil person nicknaming you Quadruple Decimal because your chance of being granted powers was four decimal places to the right of zero wasn’t surprising. 
 
It was like a leech sucking your blood. Or like Hazel screaming at you to stop playing while she was chaining because she was fifteen now and she had mere days left to practice before she became one of the most powerful creatures on Earth.


It was just what they did. You could hate it, but you couldn’t be surprised by them anymore.


What hurt his feelings the most lately was all the others—the ones who weren’t evil. The friendly ones…who still didn’t really want to be his friend.


Well, I guess, he thought one morning in November as he sat down at his desk, I am an inconvenient person to be friends with. My family is complicated. We’ll only be in school together for a couple more years before they all head off to the Avowed high schools. My own life goal is to leave them all behind.


What else did I expect?


Part of him knew that what he’d expected was for primary school friendships to last. He’d expected them to keep liking him and wanting to hang out with him until they were all grown up. Because he’d liked them so much. They hadn’t been like the cousins, so he’d thought they were similar to children on cartoons—friends forever no matter the differences or distances.


But that was just an embarrassing thing to want, so he pretended he hadn’t. That he didn’t. It was easier that way.


He reached into his bag for his fountain pen. Fountain pens were his latest collectible distraction. All the different ink colors and the nibs and the chore of cleaning them gave him something to do. When school was particularly bad, he bought himself another one.


Some people use them for art. Maybe I’ll learn to draw.


When he set the pen inside his desk, his fingers brushed against something unfamiliar. He grabbed the unexpected object and looked down. It took him a minute to realize what the thing in the pink foil wrapper was.


This…is a condom.


They’d had an uncomfortable so-you’re-all-growing-up-now sex education class a couple of weeks ago. He’d only just managed to wipe it from his brain. Was this left over from that somehow? How could he not have noticed until today?


I can’t let anyone see me with this!


He shoved it into the back of the desk, blushing furiously. If anyone found it, he’d have to swim to Antarctica and feed himself to a leopard seal. There would be no other option.


His nerves about one of the super children developing the ability to see through wooden surfaces or his teacher announcing that there would be a desk-check for the first time ever kept him so distracted that he almost forgot to hate class. And he’d been really devoted to hating class that week because they were playing a game.


A stupid game. It’s all they ever talk about anymore anyway, so I don’t see why we have to make it official.


It was supposed to be a career-planning assignment, and it was a reward for making it through the school year. They were about to take their December break. Seventh grade was pretty much over. They’d all go home for a few weeks and come back as eighth graders.


This week was full of fun activities that were pretending to be work.


For the assignment, they had bags full of multisided dice. Some were even big, hundred-sided ones that looked like golfballs. To start the game, they closed their eyes and grabbed a random black bag from the plastic crate full of them at the front of the room. When you opened it up, the slip of paper inside determined your rank, and the color of your dice determined your Avowed class.


Congratulations! You’ve been selected!


They had a trading time slot and fake money where everyone tried to talk their friends into giving them the general class they wanted. Then you used one of the dice to pick you subclass. And the others could be rolled to randomize whatever was applicable to your class. You looked up corresponding numbers for talents the System might offer you on a chart, and you slowly built your dream profile as well as you could within the limits of chance. Afterward, they all talked about how great it was to be that type of Avowed and what kinds of jobs they could have.


Lute wasn’t required to participate. But if he didn’t participate, he had to sit in his desk trying to read a book while everyone squealed with excitement or groaned in despair at their imaginary fates.


And he caught pitying looks sometimes. He hated those, and they didn’t bother to shoot as many his way if he played, too.


The only one who’s almost always happy with how it works out for them is Haoyu, he thought while he rolled a green die.


He seemed to be gradually settling on Stamina Brute as his class preference. Nobody else ever wanted it.


Kind of unexpected. His parents could get him just about anything, and what he wants is the simplest thing to get.


Lute was a C-rank Meister today, rolling for his tool.


“Lute? Hey, Lute! Can I have your bag?”


The plastic die bounced across his desk, and Lute slapped his hand on it to keep it from escaping. He looked at Carlotta. She’d crossed the room with a bag full of the red Brute dice in her hand. Declan was behind her.


Other peoples’ dice were clattering around. The door to the hall was open so that they could come and go to make trades and discuss things with seventh graders in the nearby classrooms. Their current teacher was chatting with one of the others by the lockers instead of monitoring them.


The last days of the school year were always so haphazard.


“I’m already rolling for my subtype,” said Lute. “And I haven’t been Meister before, so…”


He always kept whatever he drew so that he didn’t have to negotiate with his classmates. It had been Brute every time so far. There were more of them in the box than any of the other colors.


“Yeah, but I’ve been Brute already,” she said. “And you know I want Meister so much.”


“You should give it to her,” Declan said.


“Meister’s more fun than Brute,” said Lute. “Maybe you’ll get it tomorrow.”


“Come on!” said Carlotta, thrusting her dice bag toward him. “Don’t be selfish!”


“She needs it way more than you.”


These two were the worst of the worst. And Lute wasn’t being a doormat anymore; that was the only thing that was keeping him sane. He wasn’t giving them a damn thing.


He squeezed the bag of dice. “No. Leave me alone. I need to finish the assignment.”


And then…


“You really ought to give it to her.”


The voice cut across the classroom. Vandy Carisson had a tendency to announce things for all to hear when she made a judgment.


Everyone started to look up to see who she’d decided to correct. She’d been sitting on the floor by the board, casting her dice with some of the other girls. She’d stood to make her proclamation.


“She wants to make a Meister profile to prepare herself,” said Vandy, staring at Lute with her pale eyes. She’d gotten rather pretty this year.


What a stupid thing to think at a time like this.


