“You never take this seriously, Lute,” she continued. “You just pick random foundation points and talents that don’t fit together and then write them on your form.”


“What else would he do?” someone muttered.


“I don’t have to give her my dice.” Lute wondered why he felt nervous, suddenly. Everyone was staring. “I drew them from the box the same as everyone else. Nobody has to trade. Those are the rules.”


Rules. Vandy loved rules. She’d probably printed out a copy of the student handbook to sleep with.


“You don’t have to,” she said slowly. “But why wouldn’t you? This is important to us. And it’s not to you.”


“She’s kind of right,” said Konstantin from a desk nearby. “I mean, you don’t care, and she cares a lot…”


No, thought Lute. No, this is wrong. It’s not fair.


They had these looks on their faces…like he was hurting them. Even the nice ones. The probable high ranks. The hero kids.


Why…? What do they expect from me? They know how she treats me but…


Was this game so important now that the way she treated Lute didn’t matter in comparison?


“I guess…” Vandy said, her eyes going round as if she’d suddenly had a shocking thought. “Oh. Did you really want Meister, too? I guess if you did want it…that would be different. If you wanted to take building a profile seriously today. In case.”


A few people had still been playing around with their dice. The last one clicked to a stop, and the classroom went so quiet that they could hear the teachers murmuring together in the hall.


Lute felt like every eye in the room was carving out a piece of his heart.


“You will never be chosen. You will never be an Avowed. You will never do any magic other than wordchains. Do you understand?”


“But, Mommy, everybody else…”


“Say you understand.”


“I’m going to be a harpist,” Lute said. “I’ve never wanted to be anything else. Why would I take any of this seriously?”


Something left the room. Some enormous tension between him and them—worse than any he’d ever felt before—faded.


Eyes rolled, chairs creaked.


“Of course he doesn’t want to be a Meister for real, Vandy. He's got his own thing. He played boring music for like an hour at the talent show.”


“Quadruple Decimal’s got his whoooole future planned out,” Declan said. He shoved his hand into Lute’s desk. It was clear he knew exactly what he was looking for. “And look! He’s being responsible.”


He slapped Lute on the back hard and held up the pink foil wrapper. “We must prevent more whiffs!”


People gasped. Or laughed.


“Declan, seriously, what’s wrong with you?” said Kon. “That’s not funny.”


“Is that a condom?” someone said in horror.


“Is it?” Vandy asked, looking around for an answer.


Lute suddenly didn’t care at all about the condom. It was just Hazel’s original revelation about how some Avowed talked about people like him in a new form. The terrible joke of the day.


Instead, he cared about the fact that when Carlotta reached for his dice, his fingers let go.


Even the nice ones had said he shouldn’t have them, so…


Everyone else was freaking out about that condom though. They made a ton of noise about it, the teachers heard, and Declan got dragged off to the principal’s office.


Lute sat in his desk, and he tried to roll his dice.


Red ones.


His vision was blurry for some reason. Not tears, surely. He was thirteen. He’d seriously rather be eaten by a leopard seal than cry in front of them.


But he couldn’t see the numbers.


Two days later, when everyone went to select their dice bags, they discovered some of the dice had been replaced.


The discovery came after the colors had been seen and the trades had happened. It came after almost everyone was holding the dice set for their dream class.


Sometimes, when you rolled one, instead of getting the number that should have been on that face, you got a percentage. And a message written in tiny logograms.


People had to look up the meanings on their phones.


“This…this is an A-rank Adjuster’s chance of returning home after an emergency summons,” Kon said in a high voice.


“Mine’s for A-rank Brute! And there’s another die with the chance of being killed in combat on Earth!”


“Here’s one for…for unhealable mind damage,” Tuyet whispered.


“Mine’s S-rank Meister. It’s for death on Matadero. But the number’s zero.”


Yes, thought Lute, sitting at his desk with the red dice again. I wanted to be evenhanded. Nobody ever actually dies on Matadero.


“Mine’s the annual chance of getting an emergency summons as an S-rank.”


“Is the death rate really this high for S-rank Life Shapers?” someone said in a panicked voice. “You guys! Is it? My mom gets summoned sometimes, and she’s an S-rank Life Shaper!”


 


 

 


 


Alden and Lute stared at each other for a long time without saying anything.


“Alright then…” Alden said finally. “That was all horrible.”


“I know. I ruined the end of the school year. And apparently Haoyu’s mother was on an emergency summons when I did it. He was probably really scared for her. I didn’t know. He should have punched me. I hope I wouldn’t have done it if I had known, but I’m not sure. I snapped. Really snapped. It took more than a day to look up all the statistics, design the dice, and have them 3d printed. And it still felt like a reasonable and measured response when I shoved them in the bags.”


“I didn’t really mean you,” said Alden. “Just all of it. Your school sounds like hell.”


“They did take me to see Victoria Falls,” said Lute. “It was breathtaking.


Then he grimaced. “Haoyu’s tried to get me to hang out with some of them a couple of times. During Diwali. This morning at the skate park. He says he thinks being selected made them more mature, and…I do believe him. Mostly. The mood was already starting to shift when I left Paragon to come to CNH. But you should see their faces when they look at me.”


Alden had seen their faces when Lute name was mentioned. He could imagine.


“People like Vandy didn’t hate me before I said I hoped they and their parents all got summoned to die agonizing deaths—”


“Was that really what you were trying to say?”


“No. But that's how they took it. My enraged thirteen-year-old self thought he was making an impressive point. About how if the dice were so serious that I was a bad person for not giving one of my bullies her favorite color, then maybe the dice should actually be serious. That nuance was lost on everyone else. It turns out that a die covered in ways you and your loved ones might die doesn’t lend itself to conveying anything beyond, ‘Die, all of you.””


He rested his elbows on the table and propped his chin on his hands.


It was getting later. The noises of people moving through the building and outside on the walkways had gone quiet.


“I don’t think any of them ever understood I was upset about them making me give up the dice. They thought it was all about the condom, and I was being insane by taking out my anger on them when they didn’t have anything to do with it.” He looked at Alden. “I told you the story because I wanted to explain…I don’t feel that way. I grew up here. I know seriously bad shit happens to Avowed sometimes. And I know it’s not something to mock.”


Alden cleared his throat. “What are the statistics for B-rank Rabbits getting stuck on moons without Systems?”


Lute’s face relaxed. “You’ll never believe this, but I didn’t include that one on my ‘terrible Avowed facts’ dice.”


“Major oversight. You’ll have to pay more attention to the safe ranks and classes next time.”


“Chainer’s a safe class,” said Lute. “The safest there is. Everyone knows we don’t die. I guess Keiko could doing hero work, but the rest of us…I can’t imagine that adds to my old classmates’ opinion about my charact—”


“Oh, screw that. Your character’s fine,” said Alden. “Except…you know…”


“What?” Lute asked worriedly.


“You’re a bathtub hog,” said Alden in a serious tone. “I know it’s usually Lexi who complains, but that’s only because he wants to hog the tub, too. Haoyu and I get nothing but showers. We’re starting to talk bad about you both.”


“You guys get the fancy drug sauna! You don’t need the tub!”


“We pay for the drug sauna,” Alden said. “The tub is a free household resource. We are entitled to a quarter of all tub nights each. I understand you’re used to having constant access to multiple swimming pools—”


“Only two…or three if I didn’t mind putting up with certain people!”


“And in the absence of your two or three swimming pools, you’re clearly suffering from a lack of hydration,” said Alden. “Like some kind of tropical Velra plant. But you need to learn to water yourself in the shower once in a while instead.”


Lute looked thoughtful. “Are you going to tell Lexi he’s a tub hog, too?”


“No way. He carries a whip with him to the bathroom. Haoyu can tell him.”
 
*
