He watched her cautiously.


“My hat,” she muttered, reaching over him to grab it. She perched it back on top of her head. “You’re such a spoiled brat. You can’t even let me enjoy my Coming of Age. And you’re so stupid you don’t know anything. I don’t know why I talk to you.”


Lute opened his mouth.


“Aunt Jessica will pick up whatever any other member of the family drops,” Hazel whispered in his ear. “My dad and mom said so, and I watched, and it’s true.”


He could tell she thought she was saying something awful to him, but…


“What does that mean?” he asked in spite of his own better judgment.


“Even when she’s not working. Even if there are servants around. If anyone else in the family makes a mess, she cleans it. Because she knows she’s the assistant. It’s not just her job. It’s what she is.”


Lute was cold all over. Maybe the under-table heaters had stopped working. “You think my mom’s not a family member because she tidies up. That doesn’t even make sense.”


“Watch. You’ll see.” She straightened again. The expression on her face smoothed. “And another thing—I wasn’t going to mention this one because it’s just awful, but…family members? We get slots with a rejuvenator. They’ve all been booked and contracted for the next several years. I asked Grandma Aulia to give my mom one, and she did. Six years from now. Your mom? She hasn’t ever had one. And she’s still not booked for one. Do you know why?”


Wait, thought Lute. Stop talking. Stop.


His head was spinning. He felt like he was going to faint.


“I bet you do. I bet you have noticed. Family members—if they’re even a tiny bit important to Grandma—get to stay young. That’s half the reason other people hate us. Because we take up tons of slots with the Healers who have the rejuve talents.” Hazel exhaled sharply through her nose. “You and Jessica get lots of things for being the family’s assistants. But you don’t get that. Because there’s not enough of it to go around. And…well…it doesn’t really hurt the Velra line, does it? If your mom gets too old to make more kids like you.”


Lute was too overwhelmed to speak. There was no retort.


He watched Hazel leave in a daze. The band was playing a mambo song suddenly. Most of the family, friends, and random Aulia-invited guests were cheering on their favorite Brutes as they lapped the track again.


Clay spattered onto the pavilion roof.


Hazel walked straight over to Cousin Katsuro, one of Aimi’s brothers. He was talking to Jessica and drinking a glass of the imitation champagne that tasted so terrible Lute couldn’t imagine the real stuff was anything like it.


Hazel bumped into his arm. The glass tumbled from his hand into the grass. Maybe he would have bent down to pick it up himself, but before he could, Lute’s mother dove for it. They said something to each other. She patted Katsuro on the arm. She nodded to Hazel. Then she hurried over to the mocktail bar to fetch him another drink.


Hazel turned around, looked back at Lute, and smiled.


 


 





 


 


“I ran away from the Royal Ascot party,” Lute said casually. “For some reason, I left my homework behind and took two puddings with me instead.”


Once again, Alden had no idea what to say. The remains of the trail mix was spread on the table between them. They’d eaten out all the dark chocolate and nuts, and now there were a bunch of raisins left.


“The sticky toffee ones covered in all that gold leaf,” Lute added. “They were individual serving sizes. I don’t even remember going to pick them up. One minute, I was in my chair watching Hazel smile at me and the next I was on a train, holding two puddings on these little gold plates.”


“I wonder if I wanted to hit her with them?” he mused. “Maybe I grabbed the puddings, planning to smash them into her face in front of two hundred people and a band playing Latin music, but then I just left instead. I ended up at Cyril’s place. I told him I’d brought the pudding for him.


“Of course, she got a second Coming of Age party the next year.”


What was the theme for that one? Alden wondered.


“I can’t believe people memorize exactly how old other Avowed were when they got selected,” he said. “Down to the day.”


“Really? To me it feels like a natural extension of everything else. The soon-to-be-super lunacy that takes people over as their big birthdays approach is something to behold when you think it doesn’t apply to you at all.” Lute crossed his arms over his chest and leaned back. “By seventh grade, I was starting to hate everything about it so much. On this side of it, I can see that I was unreasonable in some ways. A lot of what upset me was just…unavoidable for everyone. But after an entire year of people ignoring me, teasing me, or talking endlessly about all the cool things in their lives and their futures that I thought I couldn’t take part in, I was done with the whole country. I wanted it to vanish like Atlantis.


“I did get an early audition with the youth orchestra in sixth grade, though. I was so tired of waiting, I went and asked, and it turned out they weren’t that serious about the age limit. It was just like, ‘Yeah, sure. Come on. Whatever.’”


He pursed his lips. “Anesidora sucks that way. For someone like I was. Teenagers tend not to have really serious hobbies unrelated to their future dream class. And in a lot of cases, the way people practice for those dream classes is different from how a non-Avowed would practice for the nearest equivalent. So there really wasn’t anything for someone my age who wanted to get to the next level as a musician. I just had to stick with tutors.”


“People who want to be instrument Meisters don’t study music?” Alden asked.


“They study music,” Lute said. “But they’re encouraged to try different types of instrument instead of focusing too much on one. Youth orchestra is really just for them to see if they like playing in a group. The thing is, even if they know what subclass they want, there’s no guarantee that the System will offer something similar, or that their families will be able to get it for them. And musical instrument Meisters aren’t particularly common either. So the teachers and directors try to make sure they’re falling in love with music and the lifestyle of an Avowed musician, but they discourage them from getting too into any one thing. They want them to play around and get ideas for lots of different futures. It makes sense.”


He raised an eyebrow then added, “It also means most of them are kind of terrible before they get chosen. And afterward they don’t…have quite the right mindset in my opinion.”


“You’re saying that instrument Meisters don’t have the right mindset for being musicians.” Alden grinned at him.


“All right. I’m extremely snobby about this,” Lute said. “I admit it. And my snobbishness is actually why I decided I wouldn’t mind being friendly with Lexi around the same time. He was one of the only people in our entire school other than me who had an artistic hobby he was actually devoted to instead of just killing time with.”


“The ballet stuff?”


Lute nodded. “It’s just his personality, I think. He can’t stand to half-ass whatever he starts. If his parents had given him a hockey stick or a paintbrush when he was little, he’d have done those things instead. But they were dancers, so they put him in dance classes, and that’s what he turned all of his perfectionism toward while he was waiting for what came next.”


“Is he talented?”


“I’m a musician, not a dancer. But he was a lot better than the other kids were. I heard he was dancing with a community ballet of adults a little last year…Avowed adults. I’m sure they were way more casual and nothing like his parents’ company, but that still had to be next level.”


“And then he just quit,” said Alden.


“To spend more time with his whip,” Lute agreed. “I mean…of course he did. You can only be a perfectionist in so many different directions at once, and the hero program was always his goal. Is he good with it in gym?”


“I think he is.” It wasn’t easy for Alden to tell because he had no idea how difficult Writher might be to use. When Lexi practiced picking up small objects with it in the apartment, he had a tendency to cut them in half instead of lifting them. “He seems really good at changing its length, phasing it, and slicing. I think he might be having trouble with aiming the tip and controlling its general danger level? But that still seems impressive to me. He’s only had it a few months.”


“I knew he was going to pick Meister, but I still can’t believe he chose to have an Artonan chain whip linked to his brain. That was kind of ballsy. I pictured him with something much more traditional. Like a sword.”


“My class at selection was Meister.”


Lute looked startled. “How did you end up with Chainer, then?”


“I traded into it.”


“Ha!” said Lute. “That means Corin’s office screwed up! They should have been glued to the class trade system. Or it was luckier for you to hand deliver it to them for some reason? Or someone whose family hated mine had it, and they would never have sold it to us. But they didn’t want to force their kid to take it either. In that case, you’d think they would sell it to someone else who hated us, though.”


Alden had thought about Andrzej a bit since coming to Celena North. Lute’s comment just cemented his opinion. “I assume the person who gave it to me was offloading it before their family found out they had been chosen. I think they were afraid they would be forced to take it themselves if someone knew.”


“Ooo…a clan of extreme Velra dislikers then? Those are fun. They came out of the woodwork when I was in seventh grade and all their offspring turned extra monstrous for a while.”


“Why then?”


Lute’s eye shot skyward. “Aulia ran for re-election. You wouldn’t think it would be that bad since she was on the council for ages. You’d think they’d have gotten used to her, right? But no. They dug up old family news and pretended it was just as shocking as the day it happened. About halfway through the year I tried to quit, actually.”


“School?”


“I asked for private instruction, like I’d had when I was little. Like almost all the Velra kids get. It had gotten to the point where I thought I could withstand my relatives better than some of my classmates…total reversal, I know.” He stopped leaning and let the legs of his chair hit the floor with a clack. “Jessica said no. She wanted me to stay in school.”


 


 


******


******


Nilama Paragon Academy


July 19, 2038


7:46 AM


******


******


 


 


The wind was freezing, and the sky was still dark as Lute climbed the steps up to the front doors of the middle school building.


I can’t believe I’m here. I can’t believe I’m doing this, he thought, as he clutched at his scarf with a gloved hand and stared down at his shoes. I can’t believe I announced I was leaving like some kind of drama lord on Friday. Why didn’t I just stay quiet?


It was in his second science class of the day. Biology. That one went off the rails a lot, and the teacher always let it go too far before he stepped in. He was a brownnose who always wanted to pick the right side, and he could never figure out which of his illustrious young Avowed to suck up to at any given moment.


Things had to explode before he said some tepid thing like, “Now quiet down, everyone. We’re all friends here.”


Why didn’t I just stay quiet? Wasn’t the plan to stay quiet?


The door handle felt icy even through his glove. He pulled it open and headed down the hall, trying to hide behind his scarf.


They’d called his mother a mule.


Declan was a terrible comedian who couldn’t even make his jokes work without a minute-long explanation in follow up, but still…still…


You know how horses and donkeys make mules? And mules are barren? Well maybe if a human and an Artonan make a mule, the mule can’t ever do magic!


The Lutes-mom-is-half-Artonan bullshit had been all over the school since before the election. The votes had been cast now. Aulia had won. Why wasn’t it going away?


We used to be friends. He came to my sleepovers. Mom was nice to him.


Lute didn’t understand what was so enthralling about the half-Artonan rumors anyway. There were other people who had similar features. There were people who begged the System or their surgeons for similar features.


Everyone knew alien-human hybrids weren’t a thing.


We were in a biology classroom surrounded by books and computers that said they weren’t a thing.


Lute had snapped. He’d stood up and told the whole classroom full of his peers not to expect him back on Monday.


So long, you psychos. I hate you all, and I’m looking forward to never seeing a single one of you again.


He’d been one hundred percent confident that his mom would let him quit school if he told her he was being bullied. It wasn’t like they couldn’t afford tutors for him. It wasn’t like he’d get a worse education at home. He’d get a better one.


The classes at Paragon were excellent. For most of the people here. But now that they were older, so much of the day was focused on the Triplanets, the Contract, System theory, superhuman history. At home, with his own program, he could skip all of that pre-Avowed crap and focus on things people learned in the real world. A literature class would be cool. Paragon didn’t even have those.


He’d been so certain, he’d cleaned out his locker. Now he was trudging toward it with a loaded backpack. To fill it back up again.


