******


******


Pandora Anthropodrome


February 23, 2037


09:17 PM


******


******

 

Lute was trying to do his homework in the most isolated spot of the most isolated pavilion at one of the most ridiculous family parties he’d ever been to when the guest of honor found him.


He was in a cream colored morning suit with a matching top hat. For some unfathomable reason, all male family members had also been ordered to carry decorative walking sticks. His stick was lying on the ground in front of the white folding chair he was sitting in. He tried to ignore the patter of clay on the pavilion roof. It was a strange kind of rain, created by men and women running faster than horses could have dreamed around the massive earthen track.


The clay rain was supposed to be part of the experience somehow, but it was just worrying him because what if the transparent barriers between them and the track edge gave out? What if some Brute speedster lost control of their powers and smashed through the tent, killing themselves and some of the people here?


On top of that, his homework sucked. He was memorizing the human morality clauses. Because they were in middle school, and it was time for them to prepare for the day when they would all be Avowed.


A lot of his classes were now Avowed-focused in a way that they hadn’t been before.


Imagine you are a speedster running to catch the train. Your top safe speed with your skills fully activated and your spell impressions aiding you is 198 km/hr. You are nineteen standard F-city blocks away. If the train is approaching the station at 50 km/hr and is only one block away…


Now Lute was slouching in his seat beside the crumbs of a sticky toffee pudding that had been decorated with an unappetizing amount of gold leaf, and here came the birthday girl.


It was garbage on top of garbage on top of a perfectly rotten day.


Quiet. If I’m just quiet and polite, it’ll be fine.


Biting his tongue had been working at school so far. Just the other day, someone had...sniffed him. In the hallway. One of the new kids who’d started attending this year so that they could have the pre-selection Avowed prep experience at a fancier middle school.


There were so many students like that, and he was much funnier to them than he was to the people he’d spent the past few years growing up with. And the fact that they found him so funny seemed to be making it more all right for some of the ones he had grown up with to…


Anyway, Lute knew what the sniffing joke was, but he’d pretended not to. So only a couple of people had laughed, and then it had died out. It was fine.


“There you are!” said Hazel. She was being trailed by a couple of her friendish people and a few of the weak cousins who were too far from Aulia’s graces to be bitter about her position in the way the more talented family members were.


The boys were in their top hats and morning suits. The girls were all in dresses and big hats. There was a lot of lace and ribbons going on.


Why on Earth would they come over here to bother me? Lute wondered. There is a live band. There are Avowed running around in circles to watch. She’s got a fireworks launch every fifteen minutes. I can’t even be in the top twenty most interesting things here.


“Hello, Hazel,” he said. “Happy birthday.”


“You too!” she said brightly. Turning to the others, she added, “Lute’s birthday was last month. He turned twelve. He didn’t have a party.”


“I didn’t want a party,” Lute muttered.


Then he berated himself because that wasn’t being quiet. That was arguing. He wouldn’t do it again.


If I’m just quiet, she’ll get bored.


Her friends were already bored. Hazel had led them here, but for three or four minutes, it seemed like she was just chatting with Lute. Or at Lute. And he couldn’t imagine what she was getting out of it.


For a moment, he actually had to entertain the fact that she might be trying to be nice to him. She was declaring to the world that she would be coming of age this year, which was just absurd. But maybe she was trying to be adult by coming to visit him in his lonely corner and make amends?


Then Hazel suddenly said, “Even though Lute didn’t have a party, he wanted Libra all to himself for his birthday. Aunt Jessica begged Grandmother to give it to him, so my family had to leave even though we were vacationing on it last month. I’ve been so busy on the Triplanets with our family’s friends that I needed a rest. But I didn’t mind giving up the yacht at all of course. Not to you Lute.”


Lute stared at her. “You got thrown off the yacht?”


For me?


Nobody had told him that. His mother had said they’d have his little get-together of favored adults at the apartment if Libra wasn’t available. He’d just assumed it had been available.


Lute’s birthday was January 22nd. Hazel said Libra was supposed to be her family’s for the month…had Jessica really gotten them kicked off a whole week early? Hugh, Cady, Corin, Orpheus, Hazel…all of them?


Well, maybe not Orpheus. He drifted around. There was no guarantee he was with the rest of them.


“We left,” Hazel said tightly. “For you. Because we understand you don’t have friends other than the crew and you have difficulties.”


They got kicked off. For me.


He smiled. Just a little.


“Grandma Aulia is modeling our family after some concepts she likes from Artonan history and culture,” Hazel said, taking off her wide-brimmed white hat and setting it on the table behind Lute. “So it all makes sense to me now. Hold on, let me perform a wordchain.”


Lute didn’t roll his eyes, but it took a lot of effort. “‘Hold on, let me perform a wordchain,’ was practically Hazel’s catchphrase. She whipped them out periodically to show off how many she knew.


She spoke in Artonan. Her hands flicked around. Lute assumed she was doing it correctly because she usually was.


When she was done, she sighed. “There. Much better. That one enhanced my ability to perceive certain things visually. It’s the fourteenth wordchain I’ve cast on my fourteenth birthday. For luck!”


“Wow! Fourteen!” said a guy who had to be three years older than the rest of them.


Hazel smiled at him.


Gross. Is he her boyfriend?


She looked back at Lute. “As I was saying, it all makes sense now. Why Grandma keeps you and Aunt Jessica with her all the time and why she does favors for you that she wouldn’t do for most of the family members… it’s because you’re the assistants.”


“My mom’s her assistant,” Lute said. “I’m just her grandson.”


Hazel was staring at his face with her somehow-enhanced eyes. “No, I mean, you’re like a wizard’s assistants. Both of you. The wizard class is supposed to protect the non-wizard class, and they take especially good care of their assistants. They give them a home to live in. And clothes to wear. And they give them gifts all the time.”


I have to argue after all.


“Hazel, that’s what families do, too. Grandma gives you clothes to wear and a yacht to live on, and she gives you gifts all the time. I don’t know everything about Artonan culture, but I’ve lived on Earth for a while. Sharing things with your relatives is normal.”


He was glad her attempt to get back at him for the yacht ousting was so pitiful.


“Yes, of course it is,” Hazel said. “But you’re different. Want to see?”


Suddenly, Lute sensed danger. Hazel did stupid things sometimes because she had no sense of… something important most people had. A sense of consequence maybe?


But she wasn’t stupid.


And she’d brought over witnesses. She was confident that she was right about this insane Artonan assistant thing. She thought Lute had gotten something that was supposed to be hers because of an alien version of…what was that phrase he’d heard his grandmother say a couple of times?


Beatnik? No, that wasn’t it. That was just a random memory of Aulia resurfacing.


Noblesse oblige, he thought. That one.


“Hazel, I’m doing my homework.”


He tried not to let his nerves show. They must have anyway.


“Never mind.” The corners of Hazel’s lips turned up. “I can tell you don’t want to hear this. The last time I told you the truth about what people said about you, you cried. That was wrong of me. Assistants are supposed to be protected from painful information.”


Lute stood.


“You’re cracked,” he spat. “Why can’t you leave me alone!? Roman barely notices I exist! Miyo asked me if I still played piano at Christmas! None of the important cousins care about me at all. You know who bothers me at school? It’s mostly not the future S-ranks, Hazel! You act like an F.”


This was an insult based entirely on Lute’s lived experience. Hazel probably didn’t even understand it, but it was true. Lexi Roberts had actually implied it over a year ago, when he doubted Kon’s assertion that Lute would be able to get along with the low ranks.


Lute was at the very bottom, and the people who were most aware of that were not the members of his class who were aiming for Apex. They’d already left him so far behind that he’d have had to scream in their faces to remind them he was still alive.


It was painful. But with the exception of those high rank children who had a specific grievance with his family, the kids who saw him and snickered about him and sniffed the whiff, were the ones who felt like they were being left behind, too.


Just like the cousins. Exactly like them.


The cousins who were always the most eager to start speaking languages he didn’t know and talking about things he’d never be able to do were the people who were hoping they’d end up as C’s and B’s.


Hazel was the Chosen One. She had no business being so obsessed with Lute’s business.


“You’re pathetic!” he said. “You’re so used to getting first you can’t stand to come in second for a single moment! The only reason you care about me at all is because I live with Grandma and you’re afraid that means she might take three seconds out of her month to look at me instead of you!”


“I’m pathetic!” Hazel scoffed. She looked around at her friends for support. “Me? I spend hours every day with Grandma Aulia. I spend days on the Triplanets every month. I don’t need to worry about you. I just pity you.”


“Your birthday party is the stupidest thing ever! The theme is weird. Morning suits are for daytime! You’ve got Brutes instead of horses. And you’re fourteen! Coming of Age parties are at fifteen. Were you soooo busy doing mysterious things on the Triplanets you forgot how to count or did you just want us all to lick your feet a few extra times?”


At this, a couple of her hangers-on did look uncomfortable.


“I might be chosen at fourteen,” Hazel said, running her hands over the sides of her white lace dress. “If I am, this will be my only chance to have a Coming of Age party.”


Lute gave her a blank look.


“He’s a little bit right,” Cousin Uma said unexpectedly. She was wearing a peach dress with a big tulle flower on the hip. “My parents were saying the same thing on the way over here…”


Hazel rounded on her.


“They weren’t saying it mean! Like he just did. With the feet licking…they were just saying that nobody in the family has ever been a pre-fifteen selectee. Orpheus was the earliest, wasn’t he? Fifteen years, fifty-one days.”


“You don’t think I can beat Orpheus? He started dosing himself with potions the second he made it to the Triplanets! He’s going to get fired. Did you even know an Avowed could be fired?”


“You’re not getting picked at fourteen,” said Lute.


“It’s not unlikely I will be,” said Hazel, turning back to him. “Even Grandma says so.”


Her fake smile had dropped. Her confidence at being surrounded by her friends seemed to have faded, too. She looked peeved.


“The System hates making outliers,” Lute said. “That’s why they’re outliers. Only a few people get chosen before fifteen each year and some of them are usually U-types. You can’t count them. Everything about them is strange.”


“Hazel is unique,” the person who might have been a boyfriend said, glaring at Lute. “There’s nobody else like her on all of Anesidora. So there’s no reason to think she won’t be chosen at fourteen. The Gloom was selected at fourteen years, two hundred eighty-seven days. Rime was chosen at fourteen years, three hundred days. Neha—”


Oh he’s one of those, Lute thought as he droned on. He didn’t just have the selection dates of hyperboles memorized; if he was bringing up Neha, he’d gone and memorized all the significant S’s on the island, too.


He wondered how long it would be before his classmates started doing this kind of thing.


“Sonde was picked at thirteen years, three hundred eleven days,” Hazel announced, apparently miffed that the boyfriend hadn’t included her genetic father.


He’s a U, though, thought Lute. And a massive outlier. That was kind of my point.


“He’s a U, though,” said Uma, as if she’s read Lute’s mind. “You can't be a U, Hazel.”


Hazel’s expression turned even more irritated.


“I just came over here to say hello,” she ground out. “Since Lute didn’t even come greet me on my birthday. I’m done now. Let’s go.”


Amazing, thought Lute as she stalked away with her posse trailing after her. She even forgot to prove her point, whatever it was.


It looked like she was heading for the towering confection of silver and gold boxes that was the gift table. Everyone had been told to stick to certain wrapping guidelines for their presents so that they wouldn’t clash with the decor. Then she suddenly turned around, and leaving her friends behind, she stalked back toward Lute.


