"You want to win a round, Nat? Go follow this kid to the doctor's and heal that mechanic. If he wakes up, he'll be able to fix those robots himself."

Nat's eyes lighten up as she realizes my plan.

I pull out my daggers, then turn toward the monsters coming our way.

"In the meantime, I'll handle these. Trust me!"

I run forward, and the white-haired healer follows the boy back into the town full of panicking villagers.

As the timer in the sky ticks down, arcs of lightning fill the valley, and I decapitate all of the ranked-up beasts that get in my path.

I push my suppressed mana control to its limit, and even move slightly faster than I did during the agility trials during the physical exam to make sure no monsters get by. This is definitely a 2 or 3 hunter job, but I'm the only one left capable of doing it, so pushing my perceived limits is what has to be done.

About 7 full minutes pass before the monsters from one dungeon completely disappear while I'm fighting them.

Then, No more than 4 minutes later, two enormous metal robots join me in the fight to protect the town using mana-powered lasers to mow down the ranked-up monsters with deadly precision.

I look behind me to see Natalie waving with one hand while using the other, glowing bright white on the back of an old man carrying a set of tools and all kinds of colorful gems. Even from here, they don't give off any mana aura at all; they're just for show.

However, my idea of healing the only man that could fix these things worked. I delegated all of the tasks and we wasted no time at all for this trial.

Another 3 and a half minutes pass, then the next dungeon break is cleared, and the monsters coming out dissipate into the air.

[Congratulations! [00:36:17] Remaining! Trial 2 Complete! 1 Point awarded to all applicants! 1 MVP point awarded to Natalie Sterling. You've come in 1st place, 1 additional point awarded to all applicants! Please rest until your next Trial begins.]

The whole desert scene fades away, and we're left in a white room again with an open silver door leading back to the resting area.

Marcie and Dane are both sweating hard and out of breath, while Natalie looks somewhat pale from healing the mechanic.

However, the room fills with excitement once we look at the leaderboard on the ceiling and everyone realizes we just won a round.

Despite not being the strongest, smartest, or from the Regions that have hidden information about these exams and guided toward victory, there's still a chance for us to rack up some serious points during this event if we play our cards right.
