Vanna had done an admirable job getting them into port, then hammering out a deal with the harbor master and sending Samson, Mahria, and Lyn to do some quick reconnaissance. Said scout team had just finished giving their report, and in a nutshell, the city seemed safe enough. That was good, because if he’d tried to keep everyone on board, he’d probably have a riot on his hands.

For many, reaching Barstone had felt like reaching safety and civilization after their panicked flight from Three Cliffs. For those that had been with Ascension since the beginning—himself included—even Three Cliffs had been nothing but a rest-stop on the non-stop highway of panic since Fel Sadanis. Not to diminish that experience, there was also the small but very real inconvenience that most of the unawakened—and a few awakened too—hadn’t fared well with their first sea journey. While Purify could clean up the aftermath, neither it nor Healing Word did much to stop seasickness.

The core point was, everyone needed a break.

Exchanging polite words with Jamus and Meloni on the way, Rain made his way up the stairs to the navigation deck, feeling more and more eyes upon him. He nodded to Shu at the helm, then approached the edge to stare out at the colorful scene—flickers of people’s souls, appearing and vanishing in waves, like ripples spreading across a pond. The colors were vibrant, but devoid of meaning. Also, irritatingly, he found himself lately unable to turn them off, though they at least did not disrupt his normal vision. It seemed similar to how Ameliah described Mana Sight, less an overlay like his HUD, and more like having a complete second set of eyes in his skull.

My poor visual cortex. He sighed. And Sana says I’m doing well. Lie, I say! Lie, I say but can’t prove!

Again reminding himself that it had only been a few days, and seeing that Ameliah and Vanna had joined Jamus and Meloni at the front and were waiting for him, he cleared his throat. “Okay, everyone! Listen up!”

“Ye’ lettin’ us ashore this time!?” Kettel shouted from the back before even the last of the conversations had died away.

“Yes, we, the council, are!” Rain called, triggering a wave of relieved sighs and excited mumbling, with only a few cheers. He spread his hands before anyone got too excited, seeing some already edging for the gangway. “Hold on, folks. Let’s talk ground rules.”

“Boo!” Kettel yelled.

Rain ignored him, raising a finger. “First! It’s dangerous to go alone. I strongly suggest you don’t go anywhere without someone to watch your back, and also to hold you back, in case some drunk sailor insults your face.”

There were a few chuckles, which he’d been after, then laughs as Evonna punched Carten in the shoulder.

“Oi!”

Smiling, Rain continued. “For anyone with a Standard Combat Rating of three or less, this suggestion is NOT optional! For awakened who haven’t checked the codes in a while, remember that your SCR is not your level. If you don’t have your rating yet, you can talk to Samson to get one. If he’s busy, just party up like everyone else who can’t benchpress a yak.”

“What’s a yak?” Thrast yelled, only to be elbowed into silence.

“On the other hand,” Rain continued, “if you need a weapon to meet your SCR, you MUST take that weapon with you! Swords are not to be drawn from their sheaths in the city, but there is no rule against carrying them or other weapons. Magic is fine if it isn’t hostile or overly flashy, but err on the side of caution. Always announce what you are doing before you do it if its going to be visible. Note that if you have a Guild or Watch plate, you must wear it per city law, and if you are otherwise awakened, you must wear a red armband around your upper arm.” He tapped his bicep to demonstrate, then flared his cloak. “Ascension cloaks are recommended but not required.”

Letting his cloak fall again, he continued. “Second! In exchange for allowing us to dock, the harbormaster has demanded there be no offloading of trade goods from this vessel, but this does not include currency. In other words, you are free to buy whatever you want, but no selling! The spirit of this restriction is for large shipments of things like grain, lumber, and sheep, but also anything that might be seen as competition by Havenheild or any of the Bank’s other subsidiaries.”

“What’s a subsidiary?” someone yelled. Thrast again.

Rain shot him a flat look. “A group of yaks,” he said, drawing a snort from Carten. “Also, raise your hand if you have a question, please. Don’t just shout it out when the speaker is talking. I just finished training everyone.”

“Sorry!” Thrast shouted, raising a hand. “Still don’t understand, though!”

Rain sighed, realizing that maybe he was being a bit too hard on the underpowered silverplate. Both ‘yak’ and ‘subsidiary’ were words in common, but ones he’d only encountered in Staavo’s dictionary. It was perfectly reasonable for someone not to know them. Looking up, he made a placating gesture. “A yak is a woolly cow from Lemario, and a subsidiary is unrelated. That part was a joke. It just means a group that’s under the control of a bigger group.”

“Oh!” Thrast shouted. “A subsidiary! I know what that is! You said it funny!”

Rain rolled his eyes. “Anyway, as I was saying, I’ll be going to visit the Bank first thing to deal with the issue of our charter, so until then, I want everyone following the harbormaster’s rule to the letter! No selling! That means you, Mlem!”

“Boo!” it was Mlem’s turn to call, getting a wave of chuckles.

“Third!” Rain shouted, pressing on. “There will be a curfew! Everyone needs to be back at the ship by tenth bell. No exceptions! No staying overnight in the city! If you’re not back by ten, I will come and find you, and my mood will depend very much on WHY you are late! As a related point, do NOT disregard the constabulary! If you are arrested for any reason, deserved or undeserved, submit peacefully! Send a request for aid back to the ship if you are able to do so, and if you are not, I will come bail your ass out of whatever hot water you’re in when tenth bell rolls around! That said, if someone tries to remove you from the city, whether by the teleporter or tied up in the back of a cart, you are authorized to bash their teeth in! And while we’re on the subject of the teleporter, even if you can afford to use it, you are not allowed to do so without express permission from me AND ONLY ME! I can’t rescue you if you wander half a world away.” Pausing, he pointed at Ameliah, seeing she’d raised her hand midway through his monologue. “Yes?”

Hopping up on an Airwalk platform to address the crowd from where she’d been standing, Ameliah raised her voice. “I’ll be staying with the ship while Rain’s at the Bank, so if there’s any trouble, just come back here, and I’ll deal with it.”

“What she said,” Rain said as she dropped back down. “Thanks, Ameliah, I forgot to mention that. Where was I? Oh yeah, fourth! While these restrictions clearly only apply to all Ascension members, I encourage non-members to abide by them as well. For those with sponsors, if you wish to part ways with Ascension, let us know so we know not to look for you when curfew comes. If you do not have a sponsor, get one, or get off!”

He paused.

“Okay, that came out a little rude, but to be clear, when we next sail, only passengers with a sponsor will be allowed with us! You know who you are.” He deliberately didn’t look at Thrast as he pointed at the city. “Finally, some general information! That street at the end of the pier is Wharf Street. There are a number of inns and drinking halls along it, catering to sailors, merchants, and so forth. The locals recommend Clair’s, the Thrice-Feathered Raven, and the Kilmen Brewhouse. The Guild is at the north end, at the very point of the peninsula. You are free to visit and take on any quests you’d like, provided that they don’t require you to leave the city. You may also register with them if you can prove you are awakened, if that is your wish.”

Rain shifted his finger, pointing south. “Exploring that way, on the other hand, might be a bad idea. Wharf Street becomes the Golden Row, just past that blue building, and it’s far less refined than it sounds. I won’t judge you if you are after rowdier entertainment, but stick to the codes. Do NOT be an asshole, and do NOT tolerate assholery if you can do something about it without bringing Birdman down on us. Use your brain, and come back for help if you need it. Also, if you go too far down Golden Row, you’ll be in Soggy Bottom. Trust me when I tell you that there is nothing worse than a soggy bottom!”

Rain turned back to look at the crowd, several people chuckling despite their lack of exposure to British television. He clapped his hands sharply, happy he’d managed to keep the mood relatively light through his entire speech. “That’s it! Shoreleave is granted! See you all back here at ten!”

Without waiting for questions, he turned away from the excited crowd, which was already climbing over itself in a rush for the gangway. He had to stop, though, as Shu was waiting for him, watching him with a hard-to-read expression.

Rain tilted his head. “What is it?”

“Do those include me?” Shu asked.

“Sorry? Do what include you?”

“Your rules of the ground, as you called them. Do they include me? May I go?”

Rain tilted his head. “Do you mean, like, go ashore, or GO, go?”

Shu paused for a long moment, then shrugged. “Either.”

Rain shrugged back. “If you just want to go ashore, go right ahead—with a buddy, mind. You can probably take care of yourself, but all the same. If you want to leave us, though, I suppose I’d have to clear that with Samson and Vanna. I wouldn’t recommend it, but it’s your life, and you’ve given me no reason to detain you any longer. You don’t really want to be on your own in the middle of the DKE, do you, though?”

“Actually, I...” Shu said, awkwardly looking down and fishing around in his jacket. “Here.”

Rain looked down at the paper the former Imperial had shoved into his hands, recognizing it as a copy of the asshole test. It had been filled out with Shu’s adopted name at the top, and scanning down the page, most of the answers looked correct. Behind his visor, Rain smiled, then extended a hand for Ascension’s newest member to shake. “I was wondering when you’d ask.”

Silently, Val slunk away from the stairwell, now having something more important to think about than whether Rain would allow him to partake in a few friendly Guild duels.

‘Detain him any longer,’ he said. Which means he WAS detaining him before, and not just for his own protection. No, with the badly-hidden accent, the fact he’s stopped pretending to be unawakened, and how familiar he is with the ship, I’m sure of it. Shu is no exiled Illuminator. He’s something else entirely.

Rubbing idly at his scarred cheek, Val glanced back at the Adamant soldier standing beside the helm, then quickly away.

Interesting. Very interesting.
