It took just under five days to steam the five-hundred-odd kilometers from Barstone to the heavily patrolled waters off Eastspar. By the end of it, even with Bakal and Mahria having sculpted and streamlined Temerity’s icy shell to the point that it mirrored the underlying knife-like hull, the vessel did not so much cut through the waves as plow through them. Tarny secretly suspected the one alteration from the ship’s original profile, the bulbous bow, might be responsible for that. Rain swore it was better, though he freely admitted his knowledge of the subject to be incomplete, and while he’d given them several shapes to try, he hadn’t been taking an active role in the design.

Indeed, very little of the captain had been seen since his excursion to the mainland.

They still won’t talk about what happened between them. At least they seem better now.

Tarny’s hands tightened on the telescope he no longer needed, staring at the enormous pair of lighthouses offshore in the distance, known together as the Golden Gates. Despite being kilometers away, they towered above the waves, marking the only safe channel to Splendor and Bellost beyond. The scale of the construction boggled the mind. It had been done at sea, too, and without so much as islands to serve as foundations. How far those towers sunk below the waves, he could only guess. If not for the cozy, filling crispness of Fall reminding him of how far he’d come, he was sure he’d have been staring at them in abject, slack-jawed awe.

The world is so much bigger than I’d ever imagined.

He glanced at Vanna, whom Rain had tasked with overseeing the approach to the city on the tip of the peninsula, which was also visible now and impressive in its own right. He knew Vanna quite well, both from serving under her leadership when they’d both been lowly laborers, and after she’d risen to become second in command of Ascension. Like him, she had no business being here, but unlike him, she was doing a much better job of hiding how overwhelmed she had to be feeling. She’d always been good at that, though. It was why she made such a good leader.

Presently, she was engaged in a game of chess with Mlem, the two sitting across from each other at a wooden table beside the hatch set into the glacial wall behind them. Temerity’s top deck was flat now, crusted with sand brought up from the sea floor for traction and surrounded by a solid railing of ice. Much like a traditional ship, it also had a raised aft deck. Looking up from where they were sitting, Tarny could see Shu standing up there at the ship’s aluminum wheel, which was connected by a heavy chain and a series of gears to the rudder below. Very little had been seen of Tallheart of late, either, but that didn’t mean the smith hadn’t been busy.

Other than the sentries at the far bow, the only other person on deck at the moment was someone Tarny was trying not to think about, despite the old pirate having been instrumental in the ship’s transformation. Bakal was seated beside the chess table, perched atop a wooden stool entirely too small and watching the game as he enthusiastically snacked on an enormous basket of grease hoops. The battered and fried onions had been popular ever since Rain had first introduced them to the lunch rotation on the way to Three Cliffs. Tarny was sure that somewhere below, someone was complaining loudly about the basket’s absence from the mess.

“You have something to say, little man?” Bakal asked, lifting his eyes from the game.

His expression tightening, Tarny put aside his distaste to address what was really bothering him. “I just wanted to ask what you think you’re doing up here. The city will Scry us soon, if they haven’t already. What if they recognize you?”

“I would be flattered if they did,” Bakal replied, laughing and dragging yet another grease hoop through the thick, tomato-y sauce they were served with. “I have been out of the game for years and years. It would be satisfying indeed to learn that my reputation has survived my retirement.”

“But...” Tarny began, but the old pirate raised a hand.

“My charter is clean and clear of any accusations, as any self-respecting gentleman sailor’s should be.” He pointed with a meaty finger at the plain white scrap of canvas flapping from a pole above their heads. “That will draw far more attention than a plump old man watching a lively game of...sorry, what was it called again?”

“Chess,” Vanna said, moving a pawn and making Mlem deflate like a punctured wineskin.

Tarny’s scowl deepened, but it had nothing to do with the merchant’s defeat. Charter flags were yet another thing he’d been late to learn about. With the stranglehold the Bank had on international shipping, the flags they required traders to fly near Splendor had become the de facto standard of identification for ships the world over. In most places, it was perfectly fine to sail without colors, but near Eastspar, sailing without a visible flag would get you declared a pirate on sight, even if you were sailing a coracle. Especially if you were sailing a coracle. A craft so ill-suited to the sea was a sure sign that its occupant was a Water Mage of some description. Temerity, with its sheer size, lack of sails, and armor of ice, would send an even bolder message than that.

Thus, the white flag. It meant they had either lost their charter or had never had one in the first place. Though the fears of Temerity breaking apart had faded somewhat, the lack of a charter flag made stopping at Eastspar to talk to the Bank all but mandatory, which was another complication. Rain had made no secret that the Detection anchor he’d left ashore had been picked up not two hours later by a person with a ruby plate around their neck. The Banker had either worked out what Rain’s anchor was, or he was appropriately paranoid about random magical objects picked up from the ground. After a brief inspection, he’d destroyed the anchor instead of bringing it aboard the Goldship following them.

And it IS following us, no mistake.

Tarny looked up, shading his eyes as he sought Emerton against the backdrop of clouds while Mlem reset the chess pieces. With the metal wings Tallheart and Staavo had made him, and with Temerity’s icy deck now flattened into a passable runway, Emerton had become invaluable as Ascension’s airborne scout. Keeping close tabs on the Goldship was but one reason for his frequent patrols.

Spotting a metallic glint in the sky, Tarny lifted the telescope he still held and peered through it until he spotted the former noble, who was quite far away but gliding closer. What really caught Tarny’s attention, though, was the second figure behind. Even with the telescope, it was hard to pick out detail, but it was clearly a human, not a bird, despite the enormous hawk-like wings.

“Shu!” Tarny shouted, standing sharply and lowering the telescope to wave for the navigator’s attention. As the pale, foreign-looking man looked over, Tarny pointed at the sky. “Someone’s up there with Emerton! Take a look!”

“I will do this,” Shu called back, releasing his grip on the wheel and raising his hands. The air shimmered between his palms, and a pane of light appeared, not unlike those Val summoned but more transparent. “I can see him!” he shouted. “It is a feather-winged man, wearing green and with a silver three-pointed star sigil on his chest. His wings are broad, but unlike those of Emerton Sale. They sprout from his shoulders while his arms remain free, ending in cruel talons.”

“Shit,” Vanna swore, she and Mlem both getting to their feet. “Is Emerton under attack?” She motioned sharply for the telescope, and Tarny quickly handed it to her.

“It does not appear so!” Shu called.

Vanna muttered to herself as she scanned the sky through the telescope, quickly correcting as she found her target. “I’ve got them. Shu’s right! Birdman’s just following him! It looks like Emerton’s leading him in!”

“The pointed star belongs to Citizen Eastspar,” Bakal added with his mouth full, not having risen from his stool. He sucked on his fingers, then wiped them on his self-cleaning robe, apparently unconcerned by their approaching visitor.

“Does the Citizen have wings?” Mlem asked, looking at the pirate. “Could he be, uh... Perhaps I should not say that thought out loud.”

Bakal shrugged. “The Citizen does not have wings. I would have heard about it if he did. It sounds like we have a Demishifter on our hands, one in his employ.”

“It’s somebody important, that’s for sure,” Tarny said, already headed for the tunnel. “I’ll get Rain.”

“Hold,” Vanna said sharply. “Rain was very precise with his instructions. We’re to dock at one of the city’s piers, including any negotiations or procedures the city has in place for doing that. He said not to disturb him until we’re in port unless we’re under literal attack or it looks like we’re not going to dock for some reason.”

Stopping short, Tarny turned, considering.

Rain left this to us? Is he testing us?

Vanna had lowered the telescope, no longer needed. As always, Emerton’s speed barely decreased until the last moment when he flared his metal wings. To Tarny’s surprise, given the fledgling Aeromancer’s past struggles, he actually managed a decent landing, windmilling his legs as he furiously tried to keep them beneath him. He skidded to a panting stop a moment later, but any congratulations for the improvement would have to wait.

With a series of heavy flaps that sent waves of frost through the air, their visitor touched down with scaly black-taloned feet as smoothly as stepping down from a staircase. Folding his wings neatly behind himself, the bird man walked toward them, wearing a professional, almost imperious expression to match his noble outfit. He glanced at Vanna as she moved to meet him, but his eyes—hawk’s eyes, Tarny noted—immediately slid from her to settle on the still-seated Bakal.

“Are you the captain of this...vessel?” he asked, his voice dispassionate and smooth, far from the avian screech Tarny had half-expected.

“Not I,” Bakal said, gesturing to himself with a grease hoop. “I am retired and merely a passenger. Bakal is my name. And you are?”

Birdman scowled, then turned to survey the others in turn. “Are none of you the captain?” His eyes fell on Tarny. “What is this spell you are using on me? Are you a Beacon or something?”

Hurriedly, Tarny canceled Fall, but this only made the birdman’s scowl deepen.

Vanna cleared her throat, stepping forward. “I am Commander Vanna, second in command of Ascension, and this is our ship, Temerity. Our captain wished for me to negotiate on his behalf.”

Birdman raised an eyebrow, fixing her with his hawk-eyed stare. “Very well, then, Guilder. State your purpose and your last port of call.”

Vanna nodded, straightening herself up. “We sailed from Three Cliffs, stopping briefly at Barstone. I am not a Guilder, but our captain is. He is also a Custodian of the Watch, though Ascension is an independent organization. Our purpose here is to dock and properly register Temerity as whatever category of vessel the Bank deems appropriate.”

“And to visit the merchant stalls!” Mlem added, stepping forward and making an elaborate bow, then rising to twirl his mustache. “Mlemlek Ko-Latti, at your service. We are hoping to acquire a large quantity of ore, you see, amongst other things. Apologies, but do you represent the city? I take it from your fine garb that you do. Your name was...?”

Birdman ignored him completely, crossing his arms and tapping his elbow with a talon. “Most irregular, even for Guilders.” His eyes flitted to Emerton, who was struggling to free his arms from his metallic wings, then at Bakal again before returning them to Vanna. “Your captain wouldn’t happen to be the new Custodian, would he? Death Zone, the so-called liberator of Fel Sadanis? The one who gave away our city?”

“You are well informed,” Vanna said. “Yes, that’s him, but it was never the DKE’s city, as you should well know. And he doesn’t like that title.”

“Liberator?” Birdman asked, arching an eyebrow with a wry smile that made Tarny’s blood run cold.

Vanna shook her head, seemingly unfazed. “Death Zone. His name is Rain, and he prefers simply that. No title.”

“I see,” Birdman said, then clicked his tongue. “No matter. The sordid doings of Guilders and Watch foundlings are of little interest to me, even had I the luxury of calling the remnants of Westbridge’s drama my most pressing concern. Perhaps you are not yet aware, fresh from Barstone as you claim to be, but the Citizens have vanished.”

“All of them?” Vanna asked, doing an admirable job of showing shock. Tarny didn’t question her decision to feign ignorance. “Is it because of the war? Some secret offensive?”

“I do not know,” Birdman said, ruffling his brown-and-white feathers, “nor would I reveal privileged DKE intelligence, were that the case. I merely mention it in passing.” Without warning, he spread his enormous wings wide, making Tarny take a step back. He pointed west with a polished talon. “Proceed to pier three. Cause no trouble in my brother’s city, and no trouble will find you. See you get yourselves that charter.” He glanced at Emerton. “And work on your landings.”

“Thank—” Vanna began.

Birdman—the Citizen’s brother—brought his wings down with such speed that he vanished. The crash of thunder and blast of wind was strong enough to send everyone stumbling back, and when Tarny lowered the arm he’d used to shield his eyes, he saw Emerton had been knocked from his feet with his wings still partially strapped to his shoulders. The metal-feathered Aeromancer was already getting back up, though, so rather than moving to help, Tarny looked up to the sky, finding the birdman as no more than a rapidly retreating speck.

“Youth today,” Bakal lamented in the ringing silence, through a mouth filled with fried batter, onion, and tomato. “No manners at all.”

Rain squinted at the riot of color as he stepped out onto the sandy ice, a few of the nearer conversations faltering as people noticed his presence. The deck was packed, with what seemed like all of Ascension having come up to gawk at the city, and with all the practice he’d been doing, he could Feel their collective expectation as a weight in the air. Just over the bow, he could see the city, front and center, and the gangway leading down to the colossal pier at which they’d docked was only slightly angled with the tide.

