The liquid burned as it travelled down his throat and he sputtered in distress. A tear leaked out as he gasped for breath, thumping his chest to ease the pain. Cheeks burning in humiliation, he scolded himself for a fool as Gerel smiled his natural, arrogant smile and finished his drink in the same manner, without any difficulty. After clearing his throat several times, Charok finally gasped out a few words. “You wished to speak, so speak.”

Gerel filled both cups before answering. “Orders from the Chief Provost, Rain is to be tested before we leave.”

His hand slammed down on the table, sending everything flying, but Gerel caught everything neatly, plate, glasses and jug without spilling a drop. “More testing? I have watched you beat him bloody every day for months and still that is not enough? He has shed enough blood and sweat to earn his place among the Sentinels ten times over, even ignoring his achievements! Explain yourself, or I will have him withdraw!”

“Calm down, you're drunk. You always were a lightweight.” Placing everything down gently, he chewed his food slowly before answering. “She wants to test his leadership skill, see how he does in combat.”

Frowning at the cup in front of him, Charok picked it up and sipped slowly, wary of the potent liquor. It wasn't so bad if you were prepared, an earthy taste that lingered. Sniffing once, he shook his head. “Rain is too young for command.”

“Agreed.” Shrugging lightly, Gerel feigned humility. “But she is the Chief Provost, and I but a lowly servant. Who am I to argue?”

“Who will be his opponents? Bandits?”

“That's why I'm here. She wants to pit him against the Society spies and bristleboar slaves lingering around the mountains. Made me waste months keeping track of their movements and she won't even let me kill them myself, it's ridiculous.” With all his false smiles and pretty stories, it was easy to forget that Gerel was more bloodthirsty than any, more eager than anyone to ride out to battle. “Anyway, I thought it prudent to have you come along to help play nursemaid. Who knows, maybe he'll turn into a deranged, murderous maniac again.”

“Pitu.” Knowing he would have to clean it up, Charok didn't truly spit, only making the sound with his lips. “He suffered much at the hands of the bristleboars, his hatred is justified.”

“Hatred I can understand, but this was something else. He watched a young man die slowly, smiling the entire time, happy as a pig in a peach orchard. There's something broken in that boy, I knew it the day we met him.”

“You're one to talk, you were no better at that age, beat me bloody the first time I challenged you. Almost killed me in fact, and we were like brothers.”

Rolling his eyes, Gerel flicked him on the forehead. “You. Provoked. Me. Challenging me immediately after I earned my place on the Banner, hoping to defeat a tired opponent. How was I supposed to react? Besides, that was over a decade ago, let it be.”

“I provoked you? You stormed into my wedding and declared I was not worthy of my wife!”

Waving dismissively, Gerel leaned back with a scoff. “I was young, drunk, and thought myself in love. The handsome young hero paired with the beautiful and fearsome tigress, we seemed a match made by the Mother. You were the baker's son, mediocre and plain-looking, her choice confused me.” Smirking, he shrugged. “Still does.” Raising his hands in mock surrender, he sighed. “Believe me, I paid dearly for that blunder; Sarnai beat me so badly I shit blood for a week. Left me on the floor of my home, crying in pain and misery, didn't even take me to the healers. Thought I was going to die covered in shit and blood.” He stopped to visibly shudder at the memory, his eyes going unfocused for a moment before continuing.  “Anyway, I should thank you, I don't think I'd survive with her as my mother-in-law.”

They shared a chuckle before finishing their drinks, Charok understanding this was Gerel's way of apologizing, sharing his humiliating ordeal. Unfortunately, two cups of expensive liquor and a quasi-apology were not enough to overcome a decade of hostility, and they lapsed into awkward silence. “So...What, uh...” Charok scratched his neck, feeling the heat from the drink. “What is... What is the plan? With Rain?”

“Simple enough, I tell the boy his mission and then we stand around and watch him blunder through it, should be good for a few laughs. After that, we pull his ass out of the fire before too many trainees die. We'll lose a few, but hopefully, the boy learns a valuable lesson.” Gerel filled their cups a third time, chewing on a piece of fat hanging out of his mouth as he started to laugh. “You know, I watched him charge face first into Vichear's elbow today. Even Amplified his footsteps so he could get there faster, it was hilarious. It's madness, even I would be cautious sparring with that bulky bastard, but not Rain. Fearless.” Clinking glasses, they drank deeply, exhaling in synchronized satisfaction before refilling the cups once more. “Can't decide if he's brave or stupid.”

“Perhaps a bit of both.” After another short pause, he asked, “So... any new war stories?”

Lighting up like a child, Gerel launched into a tale of battling Demons, drinking and laughing in good cheer. Several stories and several cups later, they were both leaning  heavily on the table. While pouring their seventh or eighth drink, Gerel asked, “So... what's it like being a father?”

“Ah, it's the best feeling in the world. Nothing better than going home to see my babies.”

“...S'not a lot of work?”

“Oh yea, but having Rain around really helps, I've never changed or washed a single diaper, most responsible kid I ever met. Don't care what anyone says, I trust him with my life, my kids' lives, s'my brother.” He paused to burp loudly, feeling the burning liquid rise in his throat before swallowing it down. “You thinkin' 'bout gettin' married, havin' some kids of your own?”

“Mhmm... had a tryst or two with this beautiful woman, the Marshal's attendant, can't get her off my mind, no matter how hard I try. Expert warrior, ice in her veins, always ready to fight or fuck and doesn't care which.”

“So, a female you?”

“Haha, indeed... no wonder I like her so much!”

They drank until the jug was empty, and as they left the restaurant, Charok realized something profound. They met as children, friends for fifteen years before their falling out, outweighing their years of enmity. It felt good to make peace with his childhood hero. Grinning like a maniac, he stumbled away, both supporting and being supported by his old friend as they roamed through the village in search of more to drink, making up for lost time.

Chapter Meme
