“A word of caution, boss.” Ulfsaar’s soft-spoken manner belies his ferocious reputation, but he’s a decent sort all around. The bunnies certainly love him, crowding around his ankles and headbutting his boots. Or maybe they think he’s a threat. “Doing so would be unwise,” he says without trying to spare my feelings. “Strength is respected and cowardice spurned. You conquered unworthy foes before the Magistrate, yet sat silent when faced with true challengers, which leads others to believe you were protected by the young magistrate and young patriarch. These challenges are a test, and refusing to fight and offering an excuse will only earn you scorn and stoke their courage.”

“True... but I know nothing about Central’s talents and it’s a waste of time fighting them one by one.” Nor am I brave enough to randomly pick eight and fight them all at once. That’s Baledagh’s thing. “Any suggestions?”

Smiling, Ulfsaar nods and says, “Burn the challenges.”

... “Wasn’t that the plan to begin with?”

“No boss.” Lightly poking me in the chest, Ulfsaar says, “Burn them yourself at the duelling grounds and belittle your challengers. Then, find and defeat Central’s strongest for all to see. This will put an end to their games.”

My people have far too much faith in my abilities. Ryo Geom-Chi and Tam Taewoong didn’t seem too impressive, but they were both drunk and probably unused to fighting without their Spiritual Weapons, while Fung and BoShui have had months of practise without them. Most people forget that Spiritual Weapons are a large part of a warrior’s strength, as the Binding ritual makes it a part of you. At times, it’s like the weapon is guiding you along, teaching you the proper way to kill and fight. Using an unfamiliar weapon is like running in uncomfortable shoes or swimming fully clothed, a handicap which can easily throw you off. Besides, duelling isn’t my strong suit, not when the fight ends at first blood. Most of my prowess comes from my ability to trade injuries and outlast my opponent.

In short, there’s more to lose then there is to gain, so no dice. “Let’s keep that plan in our pocket, should we need it. No sense in ruffling anyone’s feathers unless we need to.” Unperturbed by my refusal, Ulfsaar nods knowingly as if I have a master plan in mind. Crazy bastard probably thinks I’m waiting on a bigger audience or more formidable foes or something.

After seeing Rustram, Dastan, and Ulfsaar out the yurt, I reward myself for completing my occupational obligations with a bunny cuddle session. Unleashing the full strength of my loving Aura, I lay down and giggle while a horde of bunnies hop, flop, and snuggle around me, all ecstatic to be in my presence. I can only target three at a time, but even after my Aura switches to a new target, the bunnies either still remember how it feels or are too dumb to notice it’s gone.

Whatever. This is pure bliss. Fluffy, cuddly, bunny bliss.

Everything comes to an abrupt end as Ping-Ping stands and makes her hunger known with a loud, adorable squeak. Reluctantly packing the bunnies into their saddlebag, I bring them out of the yurt to find a famished turtle impatiently waiting for me to follow. The big girl eats a lot but refuses to go hunting in the sea unless I wait by the beach. It’s ridiculous, but what other options do I have? Lightening myself, I hop onto her back and enjoy the ride as she scurries towards the sandy beach, less than five minutes south of my yurt. Packed to the brim with Sentinels and quins, they all make way for Ping-Ping as she barrels towards them. Hopping off before she reaches the water, I wave goodbye as she heads out for lunch. Pausing before she submerges, Ping-Ping turns and cocks her head, as if asking why I’m not coming along.

Ha, like hell I’m going to swim out into kraken infested waters. I’d rather starve. “Go on without me!” I yell, waving goodbye. “Have fun.” I’m not sure if she understands what I’m saying, but Ping-Ping snorts and heads out into the Azure Sea. Thankfully, the Legate’s fishing rules only applies to people so the giant turtle and our massive pack of roosequins are free to scour the Azure Sea clean of clams, mussels, fish, and whatever else they eat.

Better to take everything and leave nothing behind for the Enemy. If I had my way, I’d burn all of Central and salt the earth in my wake, before going home to the North to hide behind our giant-ass walls.

...I wonder if I can train a quin to bring crabs back? I’m not a huge fan of seafood, but last night, Li Song ordered this delicious, spicy, deep-fried crab which was to die for. Ping Ping usually takes around thirty minutes to eat, helped along by the pack of quins driving food towards her, so after she comes back, we’ll head into town for lunch. While I feel bad for my retinue who are stuck outside the city, I can’t bring myself to choke down another meal of dried meat and hard bread. Things got so bad, I even had a dream of eating Mama Bun, which is a big no-no since Guard Leader would kill me if...

...

Where’s Mama Bun?

Spotting a hairy white blob floating in the water, I choke on my spit and hand my saddlebag of bunnies to the closest Sentinel. “Hold that, I’ll be right back.” Running into the water, I leap over the gentle waves until the water’s deep enough to dive in, reaching the half-drowned Mama Bun in less than thirty seconds. Panicked and afraid, she bites and claws at my hands until I lift her clean out of the water, shocking her into stunned compliance. After giving her time to recuperate, I lower her gently to my chest and swim backwards to shore, consoling the poor, shivering, stupid bunny the entire time. “There’s a good bun-bun,” I say in my sweetest voice. “Everything’s gonna be all right. You must be the dumbest creature alive, yes you are. I have no idea how you survived this long. Why would you run out into the sea if you don't know how to swim?”

Seriously dumb. How am I supposed to keep fifteen more of them alive? I guess I need harnesses. And help, lots of help. This is my life now. Falling Rain, Turtle Attendant and Rabbit Lifeguard.

Oh well. At least she got a bath. The rancid rabbit milk was really starting to stink.

Chapter Meme
