Though it pained him to do so, Zian nodded in gratitude and Rain graciously accepted it with a nod of his own before leaving to greet his next waiting guests. Silently promising to return this favour ten-fold, Zian hung back to allow Mother and Uncle Yang lead the way while he waited for Jing Fei, drinking in the sight of her voluptuous body squeezed into a tiny dress. Mother in Heaven, why was he so entranced by this viper of a woman?

Offering her his arm, he gingerly patted her hand as they strode into the courtyard. “You’ve clawed me often enough with your poison dipped nails,” he Sent, doing his best not to sound accusing, “yet I still breathe. Why is that?”

With an indifferent shrug, she Sent back, “You’ve nothing to worry about. The incense we use is a general antidote and it will do you good to build up your resistance. I will admit not all my clawings are... voluntary, however.”

Zian hid his satisfaction with a noncommittal grunt. “In the future, I’d like to remain informed regarding your... preventative measures.”

“As you command, husband mine.” Fighting the urge to flinch away from her hands, Zian froze in place as she adjusted his collar. Flashing a mischievous smile to show she noticed, Jing Fei Sent, “I know it irks you to rely on Rain, so go out and find new allies, preferably some silly little lady with a powerful family you can seduce with your winning smile. I suggest you start with the Ryo siblings, they’re behind you and to your left. Make friends with the brother and charm one or both sisters. Good hunting dear husband, Fei-Fei wishes you the best of luck.”

Though he didn’t need her permission or understanding to take a wife, Zian was glad to see Jing Fei handling this so well. Truth be told, were it not for his dire circumstances, he wouldn’t even want to take a wife, content to spend his days and nights with his intoxicating concubine. Not only was she beautiful, intelligent, and perceptive, she was also a skilled Martial Warrior, not quite as strong as Fung or BoShui, but close. In comparison, other women were boring, meek, unappealing creatures, incapable of drawing his interest or holding his attention, but circumstances demanded he go seek one out. In a just world, he would make Jing Fei his official wife, but as outstanding as she was, she lacked the backing necessary to contend against the Society. He needed new allies, and the easiest way to secure them was through marriage.

Despite the logic behind his decision, Zian was reluctant to start his ‘hunt’, instead standing around to silently greet a few familiar faces while searching for Mila in the crowd. How was she handling the news of yet another woman in Rain’s life? Not well considering her pride and temperament. Sadly, Mila was nowhere to be seen, nor were Li Song, Mei Lin, or any of Rain’s pets. Either Mila would debut alongside the new concubine or she had eschewed the festivities in silent protest. A small part of him hoped it would be the latter and eventually lead to Mila calling off her betrothal, allowing Zian to swoop in to console and win her over. Then he would have a true alliance with the Bekhai, without having to rely on Rain’s goodwill and... friendship.

Drowning in a sea of guilt and self-reproach, Zian banished all thoughts of stealing Mila away. Much as he hated to admit it, she seemed happiest when at Rain’s side, her charming pout turning into a dazzling smile every time she saw him, and she’d already proven to be fine with sharing him with other women. It wasn’t right for Zian to pine after his friend’s betrothed, and even though it felt strange to call Rain his friend, denying it at this point would be silly and self-destructive. Maddeningly enough, Zian had precious few friends. None, in fact. Previously, all Zian had were allies and enemies, and while it’d never bothered him before, he found it... irksome Rain would be his first. Even Sang Ryong, a fellow member of the Society who he’d fought beside in Sanshu, refused to return Zian’s nod, while Jin ZhiLan, the other Society Warrant Officer he’d fought beside, had to make sure no one of note was watching before she returned his greeting. Though Zian’s precarious circumstances were known only to the Clan and select few others, the other factions of the Society had spies aplenty to inform them of his fall from grace.

Which meant he had to act fast before word spread and his value plummeted. As a future Patriarch and Magistrate, his dual status would be enough to entice all but the most powerful of Central noble families, but a disgraced heir in conflict with his powerful clan? No noble family would spare him a second glance.

Many an alliance had begun at parties like this, with friendships struck and marriages made over polite conversation and too many drinks, and Zian intended to take advantage. Following Jing Fei’s advice, he approached Ryo Geom-Chi with a smile, but before he could speak, Geom Chi moved to shield his sisters like a thuggish bodyguard, arm crossed and nose pointed skyward. “Away with you,” he said, lip curled in a sneer, “Neither of my sisters are interested in a playboy, dandy masochist.”

“Mind your manners now Chi-Chi.” Graceful and refined, “Chi-Chi’s” elder sister Ryo Da’in was more deadly than beautiful, though still easily one of the most beautiful women in the room. Where Jing Fei was shapely and seductive, Da’in was slender and supple, her every movement made with finesse and elegance. Wearing a modest, traditional dress, she possessed the bearing of a bold, unyielding warrior. Seeing her brother instinctively give way set off all sorts of warnings. Her slow, gliding pace with feet never leaving the floor, her delicate fingers twitching towards the hilt of her sword, how Geom-Chi gave her enough room to draw her weapon, all this and more reminded him of Da’in’s reputation, a former number one talent who dominated her peers in the Hwarang for five years with her dazzling swordsmanship, and one itching for a fight.

Which happened to be exactly Zian’s type.

Even her smile was aggressive, given with narrowed eyes and bared teeth as she offered a martial salute instead of a curtsy. “Young Patriarch Situ Jia Zian, Da’in has heard much about your exploits in Nan Ping, especially after you defeated my dear baby brother. What does the former number one talent of the North think of Central’s level of ability?”

Erring on the side of caution, Zian responded with humble cordiality. “As with everywhere else, there are exceptional warriors and mediocre warriors, though I have had the privilege and pleasure to cross blades with more than a few exceptional members of Central.”

“Oh?” Disappointment flashed across Da’in’s eyes as Zian’s modest response cost him her interest. “And here I thought Situ Jia Zian was a dragon among men. How boring. Leave now.”

No wonder she was still unmarried at twenty-eight years of age. No matter, there was still a younger sister. Ignoring Da’in’s offhand dismissal, Zian smiled at Geom-Chi and said, “I enjoyed our last match. We are close equals in strength and our styles complimentary. We would both benefit much from sparring again.”

Cognizant of Zian’s intentions, Geom-Chi smirked and gestured towards his younger sister, who stood with arms crossed and a look of contempt pasted across her fair face, so full of youthful vigour. “Seoyoon makes Da’in seem bashful and polite in comparison.”

“Take care then.” Nodding in thanks for the warning, Zian strode off in search of another target, but found no woman who drew his interest. Worse, few even cared to keep him company, his attempts to make polite conversation kept falling flat, whether it be with Tam Taewoong, Yong-Jin, Dienne, or any of the other well known talents present, though he saw no sign of Du Min Yan, Wu Gam, or Mitsu Hideo. Even lesser known warriors barely made a modest effort to carry on a conversation, while others chose to outright snub him. For the first time in his life, Zian’s charms and good looks failed him. His ‘stubborn and shameless’ display on the duelling stages made him something of a pariah in Central, where they valued face and victory far more than actual growth.

How maddening. What did they expect, for him to tuck tail and run home because he lost a handful of matches? In retrospect, keeping his Natal Palace a secret had cost Zian more than he’d expected, his reputation as a martial genius now called into question. Everyone saw him as a failed has-been, replaced by the new rising stars of the North, Falling Rain and Dastan Zhandos, though neither one was present. In their absence, Fung and BoShui stood high in the public’s eye, surrounded by admirers who sought to connect with the Bekhai through their closest allies.

How depressing. Despite Rain’s warm welcome, it seemed like everyone had already decided Situ Jia Zian was a name to forget.

“Zian!” As if noticing him for the first time, Fung’s boisterous voice boomed out over the music, an irksome, languid smile stretched across his stupid face as he strode up with arms outstretched. “It’s about time you arrived. Always so fashionably late. I told Rain that gifting you a pocket-watch was a waste.” Wrapping Zian in a friendly hug, Fung Sent, “Stop struggling and play along you cantankerous ingrate. We’re friends now, remember? Mother in Heaven, you have the acting skills of a brick. How did you survive so long?”

Realizing Fung was trying to help, Zian faked a smile and returned the warm greeting, though felt utterly awkward doing so. Fung was Zian’s least favourite sparring partner, though not for any fault of his own. For years he’d heard rumours of how Tong Da Fung would be the next Situ Jia Zian, an affluent, carefree, womanizer of prodigious martial talent, and while those rumours never bothered him before, it vexed him to watch Fung’s star rise while Zian’s blinked out of existence.

It had nothing to do with how Fung used to be betrothed to Jing Fei. Nothing at all. Zian disliked Fung long before Jing Fei came into his life.

While BoShui introduced Zian to the fawning onlookers, Fung and Zian stood side by side like the best of friends, struggling to keep their fake smiles while exchanging barbs through Sending. “I’ll never understand Rain,” Fung Sent, squeezing Zian’s shoulder harder than necessary. “Were it up to me, I’d leave you for the wolves. Your little cousin Gulong would be much easier to deal with, but alas, Rain is a merciful man. He does so love collecting pets, but you’re easily the ugliest one yet.”

“Perhaps he’s grown tired of playing nursemaid and tutor to a grown man-child like yourself,” Zian replied, his fingers digging into the back of Fung’s neck, “And yearns for an actual peer to associate with.”

“That’s rich, coming from the profligate Situ Jia Zian. Then again, after seeing you fail miserably with the Ryo sisters, I’m beginning to think those rumours were all lies. You were so awkward and bumbling, it was painful to watch. Come, this young master will take pity upon you and teach you how to properly seduce a woman like Ryo Da’in.”

“Hmph. And I suppose you have your eye on Seoyoon?”

“I do, but oddly enough, her old maid of a sister disapproves. I figured the best way to deal with her was to sacrifice some poor, luckless bastard to that she-devil and I immediately thought of you. You’re about as ancient as she is, so you two will have much to talk about, like your aching bones and thinning hair.”

As much as Zian wanted to refuse, Fung’s help was exactly what he needed. Only now did he realize Situ Jia Zian had never been a ‘hunter’ of women. He was a caged tiger, with meals delivered to his doorstep whenever he desired them, wholly out of his element in the wilds and at a loss on how to entice the alluring and contentious Ryo Da’in. Left with no other choice, Zian swallowed his pride and played along with the farce, treating Fung and BoShui like his bosom buddies as they laughed and drank with the most prominent youths of the Empire.

Tonight marked the death of Situ Jia Zian and the rise of Lu Jia Zian, son of Lu An Jing and Situ Jia Ying, Disciple of Jukai, Nephew to Situ Jia Yang, and a dragon among men.

Chapter Meme
