My Celestial Fire and Demonic Corruption stop circulating around me and seep back into my sacred body, falling back into my cores.

The manifestation of horns on my head recedes, and my face is revealed to the outside world. However, this instantly limits my field of view. Not outwardly portraying my true self disrupts the natural flow of my aura and even makes my linked vision with Maria weaker.

I let my Greater and Astral Forms deactivate, along with my Sacred Body.

The massive pull of the purple threads in the air, and the automatic tethering to loose Celestial energy for hundreds of trillions of kilometers in every direction, stops.

Maria's angel wings fade in a sparkling aura of light, and her hundreds of thousands of pseudo cores begin stacking back into each other and deactivating, reverting back to a single one. Her Arch Angel and Ice Goddess Forms dissolve at the same rate as mine.

We both let go of our borrowed stats, and the process of shrinking back down to smaller and smaller base forms speeds up.

I can feel the raw strength and overwhelming power leaving my being, but at the same time, a massive wave of relief is washing through my psyche. I can no longer see the high-quality ether commands in the air. Even when I try to stare into the bark of one of the trees nearby, it just looks like a pure white wall. I cannot perceive a thing.

The Primordial Aura that was pouring out of my soul moments ago does not shrink with everything else.

It doesn't go away in Maria's surroundings either.

Even as our energy bodies collapse back into our souls, the strength and dense nature of our Primordial Auras don't fade. It is like there is an enormous bubble of invisible shielding surrounding our bodies, and we're too weak to see through it and harm ourselves.

I'm still perfectly connected with this aura, and I can sense the same sinking feeling that these trees have souls and are imbued with an unfathomable amount of Primordial aura too; but that is the full extent of my senses.

My fresh and untrained mind is no longer burdened by the secrets of this zone.

Maria and I stop shrinking once we reach a few hundred kilometers tall each.

I glow bright crimson, and she stays icy blue.

Enormous Purple True Cores cycle in our chests, and throughout the 25 billion kilometer-wide bubbles of Primordial Aura surrounding us, there are still thin lines of white Celestial energy that seep through, attracted to our soul energy cores.

This is because neither of us has sealed our Royal Vibrations off at all.

Oddly enough, while repeating many variations of ways to survive moments ago using my foresight skill, I found a strange variable. If I limit or try to seal off my Vibrations, using Seraphel's suppression technique, or just sealing them back in my normal human form, my Primordial aura is affected.

Imagery of it seeping back into my soul with the vibrations showed up in all of my mental trials.

I don't know enough about either for this to make any sense. However, having my Vibrations burst out into this forest doesn't seem to be a problem. They do not pick up on any harmful readings on their own. In fact, they're better used as a crude form of echolocation.

Not only are the three trees we found before visible, but I begin to sense dozens more in every direction before my range cuts out.

Each has thick trunks varying in width from a few trillion to up to tens of trillions of kilometers thick. Many of the trees grow up high into the air, higher than I can see, but a large amount of them have long-reaching branches with thick white leaves. None of them have any openings that show the sky above.

A majority of the air is filled with high-quality ether, but it just flows right through our auras like a hologram; the only bits of the atmosphere we can touch is the Celestial Energy, and it's a minuscule amount, less than 0.01%. Yet, it's enough to feel like multiple Dark Blue Zone's Celestial Seas are flowing into our soul Energy Cores every second.

Maria and I walk closer to each other to make physical contact again and cycle this energy through our cores to refine it further.

We're on flat ground, but it's unclear what it's made of.

The surface is bright white and smooth, like a marble floor made of high-quality ether.

However, it's only smooth because we are so small in comparison to the Zone around us.

I can sense it shift in elevation slightly in between each tree, and there are even thick roots from these trees that puncture the floor and grow deep down into them. The roots are potent with Primordial Aura, like its constantly flowing through them. I don't have enough proficiency to see if this aura is flowing up into the trees or down and out.

Everything around me is so confusing.

Maria speaks through our telepathy link and points far out into the forest.

"Do... you see that too...?"

Through our soul bond, I can feel exactly where she's pointing, about six trees away, but it takes a moment for me to focus and wrap my vibrations around it to really tell what she means.

"Yes, I do..." I reply with a hesitant tone.

The outline of a lizard on the side of one of these trees flows into my mind.

The strange thing is, I don't sense any Primordial Aura or Vibrations coming off of it. The creature is ten million kilometers from nose to tail at most. It's either incredibly good at concealing these two sources of power, or it's made of pure high-quality ether.

While getting up close to it to see the monster with my own eyes would probably answer these questions, in our current limited state, I don't want to take any chances.

There is no need to come to a verbal agreement on what to do next; both of us turn in the opposite direction and slowly begin moving away.

Using pure Royal Vibrations wrapped around small pockets of Celestial Fire and Ice beneath our feet, we're able to float upward and travel through the forest much easier than the low vantage point of staying on the ground.

The gravity in this zone is extremely strong. It takes quite a bit of effort to propel ourselves forward. Despite our auras spreading outward into the environment almost instantly, it takes us about half an hour to pass by the full trunk of the closest tree.

We do not randomly head off into the forest away from the potential threat; our destination is still pointed in the vague direction of Ember's Soul bond. I try to contact him through the system, but his profile has gone dark. It's like he's sealed in some place outside of space, similar to when I was in the Ravine. Yet, I'm positive he's here. In my current form, I cannot feel the potent link I had when first entering this zone, but I can feel a vague direction.

Despite surviving the initial threat of the high quality ether overstimulation almost melting our minds, I'm still extremely on edge.

There are far too many variables in this Zone I don't understand.

Whatever that creature is, it didn't move or react when my aura probed it. That doesn't mean it can't see me... On top of that, if there's one, there must be more... and not to mention I still have to worry about the ruler of this Zone. The Demon's in every other Royal Family below respected or feared the Imperials. In the lower levels of the Upper Realm, every ruler in the past had Zone-wide security features, so I don't see why it would be any different here.

After all, we did just kill two more family heads.

Oceans of Celestial Energy flow into us from the air, but with every passing minute and no noticeable increase or change in our ability to safely perceive high-quality ether, my paranoia grows.

I believe we've made it to the Purple Zone of the Upper Realm, but have no idea what this place is or how to navigate it safely...
