Oh no… Eppie suddenly realised why the [Causality] cost was so damn high. [All the World’s a Stage] had brought all the other actors to Valorie's level, so their acting could mesh. What she had seen was… literally three other people spontaneously running [Physicality], [Act Natural], and [Vocality] at the A-tier, while suddenly and exquisitely comprehending their characters thanks to [Script Analysis].

Could I even afford this? A full play was… 2 hours and… 15 minutes? Not counting the opening and closing. That’s… [405000] [Causality]?!

She… she had [110514] left!  But then again… if all the actors were equally skilful… Would [Stage] still cost so much? No doubt Valorie needed only a smidgen, while the [System] was supercharging everyone else with supernatural skill sets. At my expense.

Sorry guys… she felt sorry for Elizabeth, Charles and Joshua as they beamed at Cooper. Hope you learned something from today… because there likely won’t be a repeat until LAPAGANZA…

“Sir, Ma’am,” Eppie slipped in between her instructors once class finished. “Can I talk to you for a moment? I’ve got something to show you.”

“Oh?” Tyker’s interest was piqued. “Lead the way.”

They moved to one of the empty theatre rooms. Eppie logged into her student account and played the video she had uploaded of Odette’s craft, along with production stills from the Ninagawa production. She showed them the stump and the mouthpiece, with dense red strings sweeping from the body, smearing the white kimono as it moved.

“What do you think?” She turned to regard her two instructors.

“This is… incredible,” Tyker looked as impressed as she was confused. What is this, even?

“Imagineering,” Eppie gave them a mysterious smile. “Disney.”

“REALLY?” Cooper, for all his community theatre experience, had never extended an olive branch to corporate theme park costume magic. “Eppie, you know that’s… movie magic? It’s studio, not community.”

“And it's for free,” Eppie brought home the whole bird. Well, it's favours, just not ones we can yet repay.

“Well…” Tyker looked as if she were already drafting the new scene in her head. “That’s a YES from me. That thing fits in the sleeves?”

“It does. The batteries are wired to the back. Just six double AAs. Activation can be by wire or remote. There’s issues with retraction—though—would we need it more than once?”

Tyker looked at Cooper.

“Will Mio be wearing this?” Cooper asked in a low voice. “This horror?”

Tyker’s expression told her everything. “They pluck out mine eyes.”

“Yes,” Eppie affirmed their hypothesis. “That’s the point.”

Indeed, after Lavinia is dragged away, Mio, poor Luciana Mio, would stumble back onto stage, into the light of revelation, of truth, of judgement.

“Behold thy daughter!”

Marcus Andronicus would say, the crowd would gasp, and William—how and what William Chen would do when the Mousetrap snapped shut—was his choice to make.

Her instructors studied her. She saw her reflection in their eyes, this tiny blonde thing, sitting in front of the computer, speckles of ruby red string reflected in her baby-blue irises.

“I am in bloodStepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,Returning were as tedious as go o’er.”

Tyker cited Macbeth's bitterness upon realising the momentum of his course. The two of them shared a wan smile.

Cooper exhaled long and deep, then looked at the two of them with something between exhaustion and sorrow. "You two understand this is going to be the best thing LAPAGANZA has ever staged. If it weren't—" her teacher stopped himself.

The lament was obvious. If it weren't also a trap set for a boy who would never pay for his inexcusable crimes, the play really would make LAPA history.

Tyker parried with humour, her laughter a little bitter around the edges. “When it’s all done, I could use a long holiday.”

“Do you think we’ll finish the performance?” Cooper grinned a little, for tragedy and comedy were invariably entwined. “Or would they shut it down?”

“I think they’ll let it finish…” Eppie replied confidently even as her [Causality] pool trembled at the bloodbath to come. “I am… very confident that… the show will go on.”

Her teachers heard it as comfort. Eppie, of course, meant it as a promise.
