Why did Sandra and Richard have to choose now of all times to visit me?

Don't get me wrong; I want to talk to Sandra; Richard, less so. But gods, the timing! I can’t turn away from the arrow in my hands. It’s a good thing Master got up to warn them not to distract me.

I’m busy soldering the fletching onto an arrow, only I'm not using a soft metal like tin this time. Maybe if I had some sort of magic tin, it would work ok, but regular tin wouldn’t hold up under the forces the arrow was likely to be subjected to.

I was told my previous arrow managed to hurt Pacore, that’s all well and good, but I’ve leveled significantly since I made that arrow, and I want this new batch to be even better.

So, no tin here, this time, I'm using a copper/steel alloy that’s had a bit of mithril thrown into the mixture to do the job instead. I already tested the alloy, and though it keeps most of the steel's strength, it also gives it better flexibility.

Like I did with the previous arrow, I prepped the feathers and carved out the groves where the fletching will sit with my engraving pen. But now's the tricky part. First, I stretched out the chunk of steel alloy I’m using as the filler metal as thin as I could get it, and now I'm shifting it around in my forge.

It might not be pure steel, but the alloy still melts at a much higher melting point than tin. So I need to keep it as hot as possible, which requires me to put it in the hottest part of the forge. Last time I could use Mana Skin to keep my hands safe while retaining my dexterity when soldering, but even though Mana Skin has grown as strong as it has, I can’t just shove my hand into the forge to heat the wire.

At least not yet. Master has demonstrated that he could resist temperatures to a certain degree, but that's only when he's working with metals with a relatively lower melting point like copper, not the 1,100°C odd flames I’m currently working with. For just a bit of comparison, tin melts around 230°C, so I need to be extremely careful.

Using my tongs, I hold the alloy wire in the flames. I'm so close to the forge that I can barely hear anything over the roar of the flames. Master is talking to Brother and Sandra, probably explaining what I'm doing. But again, I don’t have the leisure to listen in on their conversation; I stare into the forge, not taking my eyes off the metal for a second.

If I were a normal person back on earth, this amount of light radiation alone probably would’ve blinded me, but with a Senses stat of 62, my eyes aren’t that weak.

I’m waiting for the perfect moment to remove the wire. I need the tip to be just hot enough to melt properly. If I leave it in too long, my material will drip into the flames, but if I pull it out too soon, I won’t be able to solder anything with it, leaving me with very little margin for error.

That’s it!

Yanking my tongs from the forge, I twist in place and bring the glowing wire over to my arrow shaft I have fastened to my anvil. With the speed and precision of a robot, I drag the molten wire across one of the grooves before setting my tongs and alloy wire over the edge of the forge. The wire needs to remain hot, but I don’t put it so far into the flames that it will melt.

Now that my hands are free, I grab one of the prepared feathers nearby and carefully position it into the rapidly cooling metal. I hold the feather in place until Sense Mana confirms that the feather has adequately bonded with the arrow shaft. Like all joints, the two mana structures don't match up perfectly. Still, the mana conductivity between the two remains high thanks to the mithril empowered metal I used for the filler metal.

If I could get the mana networks to bond better, that would increase the quality of the arrows by another degree. But how do I go about doing that?

Mana networks form naturally in everything, but they aren’t random. All plants and animals, including humans, form mana networks that conform to their body structure- i.e., the body and limbs.

Inanimate objects are slightly different and more like storage containers. Their mana usually pools in one point and evenly radiates out from there; it's because metals hold their mana in this way that I can see when they have microfractures in them. Because microfractures are essentially small voids in the material’s structure, the mana can’t cleanly penetrate them, creating distinct mana currents in the material.

To increase the arrow’s mana conductivity further, I would need to connect the mana network of the fechin feather I attached to the shaft, through the steel alloy, and into the shaft itself.

How would I go about connecting three separate mana networks? Mana bleeds from one to the other due to proximity, but none of the three are welded together like the dellinium arrowhead is to the arrow shaft.

I'll have to think about it going further, but I need to finish this arrow for now, so I shift back to my tongs in the forge.

Again, I wait for the metal to heat up before doing everything again. Then, ten minutes later, my arrow is fully fletched after a third pass.

Taking a step back, I look over the completed arrow. Everything looks good, the arrowhead still needs to be sharpened, but the fletching is on tight, the shaft is straight as... well as an arrow. Overall, some of my best work.

Unclamping the arrow from my anvil, I make my way over to my workbench, where a wooden rack waits for me. I set the arrow down next to the other three I had already completed for the day. The change is minute, but from the bottom up, you can see how the fletching on each of the arrows is getting better. The first one I completed has excess filler metal I’ll need to grind away, but that’s the worst of them. With each one I fletch, the technique I'm using becomes more like second nature to me. It’s a good thing too, because I still have five more to go.

I initially thought I only had enough dellinium for eight more arrows after making the original one, but after working the metal a bit, I realized I could scrounge up enough material to make it nine. It was good to set aside enough kaglese and mithril for ten arrows instead of eight just in case I messed up on something.

I'm almost halfway done.

But before I start on the fifth arrow, I turn to the four people watching me from the benches.

Brother is awkwardly sitting next to Tabitha, while Master has graciously sat up to make room for a pregnant Sandra. For once, Tabitha isn't looking to me for a battle; instead, she's intrigued by her bench mate. I’m sure Tabitha has seen my family around the village, but either because she’s respecting my wishes to not interfere with them, or whether she just doesn’t care, Tabitha has kept her distance from them. Now that I think about it, this is the first time she’s met a member of my family. Richard, for his part, is trying to put up a courteous smile, but that's hard to do with someone like Tabitha staring you down.

“So, you’re not as strong as your sister?” I hear Tabitha bluntly ask my brother as I walk over to them.

“Sadly, no,” Richard responds with a strained look. “I was a physical build when I started my apprenticeship, but I switched focuses after I started apprenticing to be a foreman.”

Tabitha nods in understanding but continues to look over Brother's large frame. He inherited our father’s height, much like I did, but maybe because he's a boy, Richard looks a lot bulkier than I. I bet she has already asked him to spar with her.

Sandra smiles at Brother as he explains himself to the battle junkie, while Master looks happy Tabitha isn’t bothering him for a change.

“Sandra!” I happily call out as I near them.

I open my arms for a friendly hug, even going as far as dropping Mana Skin, only to see Sandra’s face scrunch up. “Whoa there,” she holds her hands out in front of her, keeping me at a distance.

Shit, is she still mad at me? “I’m sorry,” I quickly apologize, stepping back.

Sandra’s eyes widen at me, seeing the hurt look on my face. “No, not that,” she quickly says. “You look like you’ve been swimming, and I can smell you from here.”

Sandra moves to pinch the bridge of her nose as I look down. She's right; not only do I have pit stains, but my shirt’s collar is entirely soaked. I didn’t feel it when I was next to the forge, but I’ve worked up quite the sweat, haven’t I?

Now that I’ve dropped Mana Skin, I can feel the spring breeze as it catches my wet clothing. Of course, my stats keep me from feeling cold, but the wind does send a slight shiver up my spine and give me goosebumps.

“Sorry,” I apologize again, this time about the smell. “Mana Skin protects me from the temperature of the forge, but the heat that does get through does a number on me. I didn't even notice." I don't mention that I can smell myself now that I'm getting a breath of fresh air. It would be nice to use my magic to clean myself, but staying next to the forge for so long eats away at Mana Skin and, in turn, my mana supply. If I want to finish the arrows today, I’ll need all of my mana to do so.

“Oh, stop. I should be the one apologizing for brushing you off like that. You just caught me off guard, is all." Sandra's smile is strained, but her words make me feel better.

“I guess we’re both at fault then,” I nervously chuckle, not sure if Sandra was still mad at me or not. “I’m just happy you came; Master and Tabitha don’t make good conversation partners.”

“Hey!” Master snaps, while Tabitha doesn’t look perturbed by my statement in the least.

“I’ve been busy, practicing my magic… and thinking over things.” Sandra fidgets in place.

“Really, so have I,” I say with a little too much enthusiasm.

“You did?” Sandra seems initially surprised, but that quickly melts away into a questioning look. “What were you thinking about?”

Now it’s my turn to fidget in place. “Just about how I didn’t notice your feelings recently. I've been focusing on myself and I…."

"Let me stop you there," Sandra cuts in as I was stumbling over what to say next. "You didn't do anything wrong. I was the jealous one."

“What?” I ask, more on reflex rather than not understanding what Sandra was saying. It only hit me yesterday that she was feeling left out. Some friend I am. “But I did. I was so caught up in our success and moving forward that I forgot about you.”

“No, it was me who couldn’t help you anymore. You’ve done so much for me, and I can't pay you back like I wanted to.”

There is a long pause where Sandra and I just stare at each other, both of us absorbing what the other said. It then dawned on both of us that, at the core of our worries, we were both worried about what we had to offer to the other. But, unfortunately, that isn't how a friendship works.

“I’m busy the rest of today,” I motion over to the still roaring forge and my equipment. "But we’re still getting together tomorrow, right?” I hesitantly ask.

“I would love to,” Sandra beams at me.

I can’t keep a big smile from growing on my face. “Wonderful! I have some notes I would love to talk to you about if you’d help me.”

“It would be my pleasure,” Sandra replies as she gets a look of inspiration. “Only so long as you let me teach you about Drey and what it’s like outside the village,” she stipulates.

“About Drey; why?” I cock my head to the side.

"I want to repay you any way I can,” she confidently states. “Even if it’s only teaching you what’s considered normal outside the village.” Sandra pauses for a second before her expression hardens. “Also, I want to form a contract with you.”

This time I physically flinch back in surprise; what kind of contract would Sandra need to sign with me? Sandra has heard about my history with contracts in great detail; she even knows that they one-sidedly benefit me, to a certain degree. “I don’t understand?”

A fire ignites in Sandra’s eyes, and they light up as she explains. “I want to sign a contract with you that states I’ll pay you or your family back for what you’ve done for me, the knowledge you've freely given me, as well as the gold you’re spending to get me the materials I need, all of it.”

“You don’t owe me anything,” I try to say, but Sandra softly shakes her head back and forth.

“I know you think that; you're a good friend. But, the contract isn't for you, it's for me. Please?"

“How am I supposed to say no to that look," I grumble under my breath. “If you really feel the need to, I guess I have the skills for it,” I reluctantly agree.

“Thank you!” Sandra shouts and wraps me in a hug, undeterred by my stank.

“I thought I was smelly,” I joke as I return her hug.

“Don’t ruin it,” Sandra quietly snips in an even tone that was honestly a little scary. Her Mom skill level must still be rising. “I’ll use magic when I get home to clean myself.”

We separate, but we're still smiling and holding hands as friends do.

Then there’s clapping off to the side. Sandra and I turn to see Richard sitting on the bench next to Tabitha, clapping with a shit-eating grin plastered on his smug face. “Yes, the two of you are best friends, tears all around. I never saw this happening,” he remarks sarcastically.

I frown in displeasure to Richard’s enjoyment, but it only takes one look from Sandra for him to pause mid-clap immediately and second guess his actions. Sometimes Richard could be so stupid.

*Cough* Richard clears his throat, looking a lot less confident than he was a second ago. “Anyhow, it’s great that the two of you made up. Honestly, I'm happy for you," he stresses his words more towards Sandra than me. “But I actually had a reason to come here today.”

