Huh, and here I figured he was just tagging along with Sandra as he always does on his time off.

Richard reaches to the side of the bench, where he grabs a tube that looks like it would hold a map or some sort of large document. “I actually came to speak with both of you,” he turns and looks at Master Del.

“Oh?” Master raises an eyebrow. Whatever Richard has, it doesn’t look like he discussed it with Master while I was working. Richard already proved himself with the village armory, so I’m curious what he’s designed now.

“I call it the villages shield," Richard proclaims as he opens up the container and unfurls a large piece of parchment for all to see.

(I'm not talented in Paint to make an actual blueprint, but I did make this map of the village along with Richard’s proposed wall. I highlighted a few of the key buildings in the village as well. I hope you like it.)

The parchment is a map of the village and its fields, and surrounding everything is a-.

“You want to build a wall,” I state the obvious. I have a little knowledge of reading blueprints, so I can tell what my brother designed at a quick glance.

“That’s right, just like Drey has.”

“Drey’s walls are huge,” I point out.

“Not that big, but something more manageable, yes.”

I glance at Master, and we share a knowing look. It doesn't take a genius to figure out why brother came to speak to us. "What do you need?" I ask, fearing Richard's answer.

"A lot," is all Brother responds with.

“I think that’s putting it lightly.” Looking at his notes drawn on the blueprints, I start comprehending the extent of what Richard has planned.

The wall looks like it was designed to be built in multiple stages, and it could be argued we would need to supply items at each. The finished product would be a fifteen-foot wall surrounding the village with two gates on either end. I frown when I notice the wall would cut off the quickest way to Del’s clearing. You would need to leave the front gate and loop around.

My frown deepens when I start calculating the material the wall would require. Like any good medieval wall, Richard designed it to be made from stone and plaster, which must be mined from Master's quarry. To build such a structure, a person would need to mine tens of thousands of cubic feet of stone. I think Brother might have gone overboard with his design, even including stats; it would take years to build such a wall.

“Does Camden know what you have planned?” I can’t help but look up and ask the designer of such a monstrosity.

Richard chuckles at my skepticism. "He had the same look you did at first, but he agreed."

“Really?”

Richard motions down at the blueprint with his eyes. "I'm going to start small, build the section of the wall that leads out of town first.”

“Not the back part by the fields?” I note.

The excitement dims in Richard’s eyes a bit as he sends a glance at Tabitha. "At first, I thought about starting in the back, better protection from the forest and all that, but after Pacore showed up.”

Richard doesn't say the rest, but we all know what he's talking about. Everyone in the village was a bit traumatized when Pacore marched the platoon of soldiers to the front of our village. I can only shudder at the thought of what could've happened if they weren't friendly.

We were more likely to be attacked by goblins or farkas in the near future, but a wall in the front of the village would probably make everyone feel safer, if only mentally.

Now I see why Richard wants to start in the front of the village, but the area he plans to cover. Richard’s plans propose we clear out more of the forest and build a reasonable distance away from everybody's homes. I guess it’s for when the village expands in the future, but damn that’s a lot of space.

“You realize how long this will take, right?” I ask my brother.

“It will be a project,” he nods in understanding. “But when the village needed to, it expanded almost as much when the magic beasts attacked, didn’t it? I talked with Salus about it, and he agrees, if we get the same people who helped with the forest expansion, we could start getting a wall up in a few weeks!”

The longer Brother talks about his plans, the more the excitement returns to his face. But after his earlier comments about Sandra and me, I feel it's only fitting to toss some water on his burning passion. "If Master and I agree to help you, that is,” I flatly tell him.

All jokes aside, helping with the wall would be a huge commitment. Even if Master and I don’t help build the thing, it would still be us that would have to mine the stone for the wall. Then the fittings for the gates had to be made, and a strong wall wasn’t just built from stone either. Huge nails to hold everything together were required, along with this world's equivalent of rebar. And don’t get me started on the tools we’d need to make. Unless Brother brought a bunch of stone carving equipment with him, we’d have to make that too.

“I don’t think I can agree to this.” Richard knew my last jab was just me fooling with him, but now that I specifically said I wouldn’t help him, he's no longer smiling. “I don’t know how long I’ll still be in the village,” I remind him. “Once I leave, Master would need to handle everything on his own. I can’t agree to that," I flat-out tell him.

Richard's face scrunches up, and you could see the wheels turning in his head. He’s probably trying to think of what he could say to convince me, but I’m not the one he needs to convince. Out of the corner of my eye, I see Del staring at Brother’s blueprint; it's up to him if we help.

“What about me?” Master Del finally speaks up, startling Brother out of his thoughts.

“Excuse me?”

“What about the path that leads to my house?” Master points to the trail that leads to his clearing and how it indicates a wall would be built there.

“Oh,” Richard appears to understand what Master is asking about, but I highly doubt it. "That would be the very last section of wall to be built; the stone needs to come from your quarry after all."

I was right; Richard didn't understand.

“I get that,” Master growls at my brother. “I mean, what about when people need to come to me for something; are you going to make them walk even farther?”

“Oh, that!” Richard exclaims.

“Yes, that!” Master snaps.

"I just figured you'd move into the village after the wall was done," Richard matter-of-factly tells Master, stunning both of us.

“And why in Tarrow’s forge would I do that!?" It's been a while since I heard Master swear to the god of earth and nature.

“Well…,” Richard hesitates to answer, choosing to scratch the back of his head while looking off to the side. When he does give his answer, it leaves Master’s mouth wide open. “I figured because everyone in the village knows about you now, there was no reason to live out in the middle of nowhere.”

“What… what do they know about me?” Master stutters at first but still manages to send a sharp look at Brother.

“They know,” Brother cryptically responds with only those two words like Master should know what he meant, infuriating him more. Not a wise decision considering Richard needs his help to make his wall a reality.

In a bout of clarity, Richard realizes that his answers were only making Master more enraged, so he bites the bullet and spits out rapidly, "Everyone in the village knows you can talk perfectly fine."

…

……

Silence hung in the air, but I let out a breath I didn't realize I was holding in. Master Del's use of vocabulary wasn't anything important in terms of secrets.

Master must agree too, because I see most of the tension drain out of his face. "Is that so," he blandly remarks.

“Yeah, Salus and Markus have been telling everybody. Plus, everyone in the village saw you stand up to Scholl. Word is out that you aren’t as mean as everybody thought you were.”

I have to suppress a giggle at that, but Richard makes a good point. Del spent years crafting his grouchy Stone kin appearance; without that, does he really need to live out in the forest? He wouldn't need to move for a few years while the wall was being built, and if I'm honest with myself, I'm a little worried about what will happen when I leave. Since I became Del’s apprentice, he’s opened up a lot, and I think it would be good for him to be around more people, especially if everyone realizes what a great person he is.

"What makes you think I would want to leave my clearing?" Master says that, but I can tell he's thinking about it. If the village is expanded like in Richard’s planes, there would be more than enough room to fit all of Master’s equipment and then some.

“You wouldn’t have to make a decision now,” I point out to Master. “You wouldn’t need to move for a few years, and if you decide you don’t want to, Richard could just add a small gate in the wall.”

“That would compromise security,” Richard remarks, but he shuts up when I scowl at him. Honestly, I'm trying to help him here. Master takes forever to convince of anything; we just need to sow the idea now and let it grow over time.

“I’ll think about it,” Master huffs. Usually, when he says that he's brushing somebody off, but something tells me that's not the case this time.

"Does that mean you'll agree to help with the wall?" Richard doesn't miss the conversation turning in his favor and presses Master for an answer.

Del doesn’t immediately agree, making eye contact with me instead. He doesn't need to say anything to understand that he's asking for my opinion.

I only need nod once to convey I think a wall is a good idea. Despite all the work it would take, a fifteen-foot wall would alleviate a lot of my fears. Moreover, after I left, I would sleep better at night knowing my friends and family were safe behind such a wall.

My wordless consent is all Master needs before he turns back to Brother. “Alright, we will help you.”

“Yes!” Brother shouts, looking ready to jump for joy.

"But only with mining the materials and any smithing you need doing," Master quickly reigns in Brother's enthusiasm, but not by much.

“That’s fine,” Richard smiles at Del. I should talk to him later about his relationship with Master. When I leave, I don’t want him to revert to his old ways, and even if we joke a lot, I know Richard's personality; he'd be a good conversation partner for Master. If he agrees to look after him, that would be another thing I wouldn’t need to worry about.

"Good; now, if you've finished, leave me alone so I can take a nap.” Master looks away from Brother like he always does to hide his emotions.

Master probably isn’t even going to go to sleep. Before Richard and Sandra showed up, he watched me work like a hawk.

“Oh, Shit! My work!” I exclaim, using Flash step to run over to the forge. “Crap,” I swear aloud again when I see the flames inside or lack thereof. With all the emotional talk, I forgot about maintaining the fire; it'll take forever to get the temperature back up to what I need it to be.

“Need to pay attention more,” Master comments from his bench as I furiously work the bellows and add more charcoal and blacksmithing logs to the fire. He makes it sound like he also didn’t forget, but if he didn't, Master would've warned me before the flames dimmed this much. He knows how important working on the arrows is to me.

“Is everything ok?” Sandra asks worriedly, concerned that our conversation might have ruined my work.

“It’s fine,” I sigh. “It will just take some extra time to stoke the fire,” I reassure her.

“In that case, we better get going,” Richard wraps moves next to Sandra and protectively wraps his arm around her.

“See you tomorrow?”

"You bet," I tell Sandra.

I keep one eye on my friend and Brother as they move to leave the clearing and the other on my steadily growing fire.

I was not prepared for all this today, but I’m happy they showed up in the end. Sandra alleviated most of my fears regarding our friendship, and Richard's wall will be a massive boon to the village, even if I'll need to somehow work mining for stone into my schedule.

But that’s all for after I finish these arrows. I need to focus again and get back into the right headspace to forge. Once I do that, everything will just come naturally as it always has.
