As my men work to reinforce what they can, Scholl's war tower stops on the other side. Large panels on the front of the tower fall away to reveal a large battering ram hidden inside. I want to order an all-out attack on the tower, but at this exact moment, the two war towers close by light up with their own magic.

Forgoing all manner of defense, the two towers that we've been attacking all-day launch countless spells towards our walls. Fireballs, bolts of lightning, rocks, all manner of spells are launched at us with reckless abandon.

My mages have no choice but to erect shields in defense.

They're pinning us down!

*BOOM**BOOM**BOOM*

You can feel Scholl's battering ram strike the western gate.

"It won't hold! Run!" I hear a mage down by the gate scream and take off.

“Everyone down there! We can’t let them enter the city!” I draw my sword and raise it into the air. I’ve only ever used it during practice, but that hardly matters at the moment. “We can’t let Scholl into the city!”

“They’re breaking through!” I hear more shouting from the gate.

“To the gate!” I valiantly shout.

"To the gate!" A few others roar, following my lead. That inspires just enough people to give hope to those about to run away.

“On me!” I move to gather everyone and rush down the walls. “We’ll fight them street by street if we have to!”

"I'm sorry, Lord Rayes, but I can't let that happen," I hear Jargen say directly behind me.

I can’t even turn around before Jargen knocks my sword from my hand. He then forces my head back with his left hand and holds a knife to my throat with his right. Everything happens so quickly all the surrounding soldiers are stunned in place.

"What- what are you doing," I choke out.

"My job, Lord Rayes," Jargen answers loud enough so everyone can hear him over the sounds of Scholl breaching our gate. "Fighting in the streets would go against Master Pacore's wishes."

The hair on my arms stands on end. “You’re a spy from Scholl?”

"That's right," he calmly tells me. "I had already infiltrated your communication corps a long time ago and was watching the battle. After your previous mage was injured, I took the opening to get close to you. I hope there aren't any hard feelings."

"Then why didn't you kill me earlier or let me die; it would've been easy for you?" I growl in frustration.

“For now, Master Pacore wants to capture as many nobles as possible,” Jargen or whoever he is chuckles in my ear.

“Then your master is going to be disappointed,” I bite back. “The other nobles are probably halfway to Yleles by now.”

The Scholl spy just laughs harder. "Master Pacore is well aware of your nobility's tendency to flee. Not all those who left the battlefield were injured. We have ambushes set up to catch all the fleeing rats. Now, tell your men to stand down," he pokes his dagger into my skin, and I can feel a drop of blood crawl down my neck.

All the soldiers around us are wearily looking to one another, unsure of what they should do. Fools, didn't I say we can't let Scholl into the city. I nervously swallow a lump in my throat. "Men!" I shout, and everyone looks at me, some instinctively raising their weapons. "Scholl is not to enter this city! Kill this man and defend the gate; that is my final order for all of you!"

Jorgan laughs, “I wasn’t expecting that.”

A nearby soldier understands my orders and rushes at us with his spear raised, prepared to skewer us both. I close my eyes, expecting Jargen to kill me or feel the man’s spear pierce me, but instead, he throws me to the ground before stepping forward. With an open hand, Jargen sidesteps the spear thrust and slaps it aside before opening up the soldier's throat with a well-placed swing of his dagger.

I scramble to get to my feet, but Jargen kicks me in the side of the head, and everything becomes fuzzy. The only thing I register before passing out is Jargen killing a few more soldiers and the rumblings of the western gate crumbling.

I failed.

The city is doomed.
