Not fighting. Not wrath or hatred or war. Just this. Tending to the fire. The [Lady] sighed. Didn’t she realize? Perhaps that too was her strength.
But look at all these burning flames. She had blown on the embers, and now they shone. How glorious. Like her flame. The [Lady] raised the glass and drank. Her eyes burned as she closed them.
Still. The young woman was young. And not all flames burned bright. She didn’t tend to them all equally. But again—she was also an [Innkeeper]. Maviola took even more to fire than Erin Solstice.
And she saw the burning souls of all in the inn. So, the [Lady] looked around and saw flames that could be nurtured. Low spirits. She made her way to one.
Not blazing. Erin’s fire was the one that shone in this inn, and two flames only distracted the eye. Maviola was a dull glow besides Erin. She didn’t need to steal the stage like an [Actor] or Magnolia. She knew the value of warmth.
“Hello. Mind if I have a seat?”
A Drake looked up from his half-drunken stupor. Olesm was kicking himself. He’d tried to apologize and talk to Erin as she passed by his table, but she was busy. He blearily looked at Maviola.
“Huh? No. Sure. I mean—have a seat. The table’s open.”
Maviola sat. Olesm tried to drag himself into some semblance of…anything. And he felt warmer, all of a sudden. He blinked as he sobered. The [Lady] looked at him.
“Sorry. I’m new in Liscor. I just came from Invrisil. You were looking depressed, so I couldn’t help but come over.”
“You just…walk over to sad people in bars?”
The young woman laughed. Olesm felt bad about the snippy question. But she smiled and the smile was infectious.
“Why not? Haven’t you tried it? Everyone has a story. Also—I may have heard you were the [Strategist] of Liscor. A lot’s happened, hasn’t it?”
“That’s an understatement. Yes, I’m Olesm Swifttail, nice to meet you. I was hoping to play some chess with the [Innkeeper] here. But I’m something of a pariah these days.”
Maviola nodded, listening. Olesm felt embarrassed, whiny. But something about her reminded him of the old Drake who had raised him before he’d come to Liscor. An openness that didn’t judge. She leaned over.
“Chess? I’ve played a few times. [Strategists] love that game, don’t they?”
“Oh, yes. And Erin’s one of the best in the world.”
Olesm saw Maviola laugh incredulously. He sat up, indignant.
“She is! I can’t even beat her. But—well—”
He looked at Erin, sitting with Saliss. The [Strategist] grimaced. And Maviola followed his gaze.
“Surely someone else can play the game. Speaking of plays—that’s some glorious performance on the stage.”
She indicated the Players of Celum, who’d taken an intermission. The inn shone in Maviola’s eyes. And Olesm perked up. He glanced at the stage—Wesle was shouting.
“And now, a unique performance never played in Liscor—Elisial!”
The crowd went wild. Relc pushed people out of the way as he dragged his daughter to the front row seats. Grev was trying to tell Mrsha and Cade about it as the boy made little magical apparitions come out of his magical box. Mrsha was staring in awe.
Erin was talking to Saliss. Numbtongue had found Octavia with Revi and was talking animatedly about fabrics, which he had an opinion on to both Stitchgirl’s surprise. Or rather, Pyrite did.
Jelaqua, Maughin, and Ulinde had approached Hexel and were exclaiming as the Lamia and his crew brightened to see fellow Balerosians. Kevin was trying to explain peacocks and penguins to Bird, who was buying him drinks.
The inn brightened around Olesm as he came out of his funk. He looked at Maviola. And realized she’d helped him with that. Slowly, the [Strategist] looked around. And there was Belgrade, playing chess with Lyonette as Pawn gave her tips.
Why hadn’t he seen any of this? He was so focused on Erin. But now, the [Lady] laughed.
“I can play chess too. Why don’t we play a game? And you can tell me about Liscor. Do you know—I’ve never visited Liscor? Never gone further than Wales.”
“Really? Well, that’s not surprising. Most Humans don’t go further than Celum. Esthelm’s practically in the middle of nowhere. Besides, you’re quite young…”
Olesm wondered why Maviola laughed so hard at that. But he found himself pulling a chess board over. Absently, he began to play.
“I’m actually a decent player. I run a chess magazine. I haven’t updated in a while…this inn has all kinds of entertainment. The plays, drinks…”
“I saw. So what’s your job?”
“Managing the city. It’s boring—well, it used to be. But I’m still not doing much.”
“Really? A [Strategist] who doesn’t do much? Why?”
“Well, we have a Watch Captain. And a Council. I just give advice.”
“Hm. So you’re just not doing your job?”
Olesm blinked. Maviola gave him a steady look. The Drake found himself clarifying.
“No, I mean, I have ideas. But we have the budget to think of, and we can’t just shake things up—”
“What ideas?”
“Well—I have a number of proposals, but I don’t want to get into them—”
“Like what, exactly?”
The Drake opened and closed his mouth. He peered at Maviola. And the [Lady] moved a piece.
“Check, by the way.”
Olesm looked down at his board. She winked at him.
 
—-
 
Erin talked with Saliss for a while. Then she went into her garden, uprooted a flower, and handed it to him. She sat in her inn.
Better. Not full of angry fire. Still upset. But better. Erin sighed to herself.
“One step at a time.”
The coin burned in her pocket. And Erin had a supposition. Or perhaps it had just been a dream.
But where had the coin come from?
She looked around her inn. And shook her head.
“Dead gods. Dead gods…what a day.”
She looked around. People were applauding the exhausted [Actors]. But many were leaving. The Lamia—the Lamia was smiling at Lyonette, keeping his distance from Lism and Alonna as Krshia shook his hand and left the inn.
Sour notes amid the good. But Erin had given a flower away to an [Alchemist] who told her he could experiment—it just might take a lot of flowers. And she saw Lyonette counting a pile of silver from the magical door.
Good and bad. And perhaps it was because Erin was in a decent mood that the world decided to give her one last kick in the pants. Or again, it could be it was just chance.
“Erin. Excuse me, Erin, we have a problem.”
Ishkr walked over to Erin. The [Innkeeper] groaned.
“What is it, Ishkr?”
“Some of our guests…can’t pay for their meal.”
The Gnoll grimaced. Erin did too. That happened now and then.
“How much did they buy?”
Ishkr named the number. Erin fell out of her chair.
“How?”
“Drinks. Ice cream. Pizzas. Blue fruit juice, chocolate—”
Ishkr rattled off the most expensive items on the menu. Especially the ice cream and chocolate. Erin saw Lyonette’s head turning with wrath and ruination. Both she and Lyonette marched over to the arguing group of seven.
“I thought we had enough!”
“We did! Why does it cost gold?”
“Because no one checked the prices! I—oh—”
Lyonette propped her hands on her hips, looking at the group of young people. Erin blinked. There was something…familiar about them.
“Call the Watch, Erin?”
The [Princess] looked annoyed. Rose raised her hands hurriedly.
“No, please!”
“Someone call for the Watch? I can hit a few people before I get to bed!”
Relc was in a fine mood. He had autographs from the Players, and he was beaming after seeing the new play. He raised a jovial fist. The Earthers stared at him. Kevin laughed incredulously.
“No way. Right?”
He looked around. But Joseph and Rose had seen Erin. They were staring.
“Erin, it’s us. Rose. Remember? Uh—we know each other?”
This time Lyonette and Ishkr both rolled their eyes.
“That’s the oldest trick in the book. Relc? Just hit them a few times and drag them off to the jail, please—”
“No, wait! Erin! It’s us! From Magnolia’s mansion!”
Joseph shouted as Relc walked over with fist raised. Erin blinked. And she remembered.
“Joseph? Rose? Wait—I think I remember—”
She closed her eyes. She heard a thud a shout, panic—Erin opened her eyes. Relc was standing over Joseph. The young man was on the floor. Erin held up a hand.
“Wait! Relc! They’re—they’re from Ryoka! That’s who she meant!”
She turned, eyes wide, to Lyonette. The [Princess] stared at the Earthers. They were ducking away from Relc. The Drake paused, ready to kick Imani as she flinched and covered her head.
“Wait, do I hit them or not?”
Erin looked at the group of seven. They stared at her. Rose tried to smile. Erin looked at their table stacked with dirty dishes. She thought about Ryoka’s letter. Magnolia’s brief aside. And she groaned and ground her teeth.
Lyonette looked at Erin’s face. The [Princess] closed her eyes. And she realized, as Montressa and Beza groaned and Palt made the same, sudden connection and came galloping across the inn’s floor.
“I’m going to kill Ryoka.”
Mrsha solemnly nodded. She looked at the downed Joseph. This was what Ryoka had sent? The Gnoll child wrinkled her nose. Then she sneezed on Joseph and went upstairs to sleep.
Erin looked at the others people from Earth. And then, to everyone’s surprise she laughed.
“Hey. Nice to meet you all again. Welcome to The Wandering Inn.”
She reached down and pulled Joseph up. He blinked at her. And Erin might be exasperated, confused, annoyed, but she looked at them.
“We’re all from the same home. It’s good to see you.”
And Imani burst into tears. Erin reached out and took her hand. And her friends sighed. Or smiled. Relc lowered his fist and patted it sadly. But they were here at last.
It was an eventful night.
