Because her magic was intention, will, emotion. And the moment. One of the moons shone down on her. The other was shrouded, dark.
“Give me a knife.”
Pelt had said he could forge something far better than the steel knife she carried. Erin wanted it. Use her flame. And give her a knife that could cut.
His forge was still lit, a small glow among the few other forges at night. He was still there. Erin’s darkest voices whispered in her head.
 
Make me a knife made of hatred and flame. To cut away my weakness, my enemies, my shame. 
 
“Pelt. Where are you?”
Erin strode into the forge. She saw a single flame, lit in one of the forges. Just for light. An anvil shone. There was a tiny, pointed chisel, lying on top of it. The tip was as fine as could be. Erin looked around.
“Pelt! I want—”
 
Give me a weapon to make a monster out of me. A weapon so terrible the world will flee—
 
And then she found him. Erin Solstice halted. The Dwarf was lying on his back, behind the anvil. Erin’s eyes went round. Pelt held a small mallet in one hand.
His eyes were wide, his mouth agape. Gasping for air, but his lungs didn’t move.
The mithril coin lay next to him. Erin’s black flames—flickered.
“Pelt?”
The Dwarf was twitching. The coin—glittered in the moonlight. It lay on the ground, where Pelt had dropped it. And Erin saw.
The Dwarf had begun restoring it. Erin saw a shining city. Half re-made, the tiny, delicate details given clarity by Pelt’s metalworking tools.
An empire. Symbols of an old nation. A sun rose behind a city. But that was not where it had stopped.
Around the rim of the coin were words.
Letters, delicate. But visible. Erin read them in between Pelt’s choking. A phrase on the minted coin. Or an epitaph to a long-forgotten kingdom.
So old that the mithril had worn with time. And yet, Pelt, the master, had restored it. Almost all of it.
And the words. Shone.
 
Tamaroth, Who Leads. The G— of Rulers. Protect Us in Our Weakness.
 
That one word. Pelt had managed to recreate a single letter of it. But the rest was—scratched out. His shaking hand, so perfectly steady in everything else, had damaged the rest of the word.
Erin Solstice saw this all in a moment, between the Dwarf’s seizing chest, clawed hands. That one word. The flames around her went out. She looked at Pelt. His eyes were wide. He wasn’t breathing.
She took the coin and shoved it in a pocket. And then she screamed for help.
 
—-
 
Later. The flames were gone. Erin Solstice sat, shaking, in Pelt’s forge. The Dwarf was breathing. Coughing. But breathing.
Alive. Saliss knelt next to him—and Ceria, Pisces—Venim—all the people who’d come after Erin. [Smiths] too—the Watch was keeping them back.
The important part was that Pelt was alive. Alive. Erin had found him scarcely a minute after he’d collapsed.
Working on the coin. The scratched out word burned in Erin’s head. The coin felt red-hot in her pocket.
Her flames of hatred were extinguished. Erin hugged Pelt as he coughed and pushed her off him.
“I’m so—glad you’re okay. And I’m so sorry.”
“I just froze up. I started breathing! You didn’t need to pound on my damn chest!”
The [Blacksmith] coughed again. He’d started breathing after the coin was removed. Saliss was offering Pelt a bottle of compressed air.
“Breathe into this. What happened?”
Erin opened and closed her mouth. But the Dwarf just thrust aside the bottle.
“Just an accident at the forge. Too many damn distractions. That was all. I needed a break. Somewhere quieter to work. Said it for years.”
He and she said nothing of the coin. Pelt didn’t even look at Erin. Trembling, he put his tools away.
“Big fuss over nothing.”
Watch Captain Venim sighed. Pelt passed a hand over his eyes.
“Nothing. I saw nothing. Can’t even remember. If I think of it—”
His breath caught in his throat. He choked—everyone reached for him. But the Dwarf started breathing again.
“Nothing happened.”
His gaze was blank. Nothing. Erin met his eyes for a moment. She backed away and Pelt looked around.
“Why did you come here, Erin?”
“I wanted to…”
She’d wanted a knife. But Erin—her desire was extinguished along with the dark thoughts. The hatred was gone. She had looked into Pelt’s face and been terrified for him. She was…she liked to believe she couldn’t kill like that.
But part of her knew otherwise. Something had to change. She’d been blindsided by Magnolia because the [Lady] had planned for her. And Erin—she hadn’t. It was as simple as that.
Vision. Magnolia had once told Erin something like that.
Save the world. But Erin couldn’t even beat Magnolia at Magnolia’s game. At chess, yes. But Magnolia’s board was vaster than Erin’s.
How did you fight Magnolia Reinhart? Erin sat in Pelt’s forge as the Dwarf coughed, already forgetting, snarling that he was fine. And Erin, shaken, looked around.
For something. Her eyes settled on Saliss. The Named-rank adventurer was naked as always. You almost forgot about that. He grinned at Erin.
“Hey. You always show up at the right moment, don’t you? That’s an adventurer’s trick.”
“Hah.”
Erin tried to smile. She looked around, and then sighed.
“Want to go to my inn? Drinks are on me, Saliss, Pelt. And a free round for everyone else.”
The others looked at her. But the [Innkeeper] just smiled wanly. And the others smiled back. Because that was Erin’s power. Her real power, that was.
Soon, they were back in the inn. Lyonette relaxed and Erin went around, apologizing to her friends. She put Pelt in a private table and loaded him up with drinks—despite that probably not being the most sound medical move. But the Dwarf was happy.
And Erin owed him a debt. Saliss followed Erin into the inn on her insistence. He grinned as he saw Octavia and Revi exclaiming over Revi’s stiches. Revi glanced up.
“Oi! Naked Drake! Put some pants on—”
Her eyes widened as she recognized Saliss. Her jaw dropped. And Erin elbowed Saliss.
“Don’t leave just yet. I have something I want to talk to you about.”
He looked at her with a bright smile. And saw right through her. Erin Solstice looked around. She breathed in and out. And then she put on a happy expression. And she made herself—cheerful. And the inn followed suit.
Why did she throw a party even in her darkest hours? Erin Solstice walked around, talking to people. Making them feel welcome, joking about the invisible flame, apologizing. And why?
Because it wasn’t about her. She was an [Innkeeper]. And her guests came to her inn for what she gave them.
The [Lady] saw it all. And approved. Just look!
The Players of Celum and the Players of Liscor were coming back. They entered the inn with an explosion of sound, a babble of voices.
“Dead gods! I’ve never seen acting like that!”
Temile was dumbstruck. He looked at Jasi and Wesle with awe. And even a bit of fear. The [Actors] were radiant as Wesle and Jasi laughed. Emme was hugging Kilkran’s side.
“We did it! The [Ladies] loved the performance! All of them! They were bidding to have us perform in their lands! Private performances—we can go on the road—this is it! We’ve made it!”
The Dwarf [Manager]’s eyes were shining. She didn’t think to keep her voice down. The [Actors] turned as Erin overheard. Wesle faltered.
“Oh. Erin—”
“You did well? You’re going to be sponsored and stuff? Hey, that’s great.”
Erin smiled. And she meant it. Jasi exchanged a look with Wesle.
“We owe you everything, Erin. You have to see us.”
“It was the most impressive performance I’ve seen, Erin. I think I might level just from having seen them!”
Temile was babbling. He had tears in his eyes. Erin wistfully smiled.
“I wish I had seen it.”
“We have a booth reserved just for you. We’ll perform tomorrow.”
Kilkran was stroking his beard as he spoke—he was wearing a wig over his bald head, a rather good one. But then—Wesle looked across the room.
At the stage. The [Grand Theatre] waited. And the [Actor] cleared his throat. The others looked at him.
“Kilkran. Why do we need to wait for a stage? Our first one—well, one of the first—is here already.”
The Players of Celum turned. And they looked at their old stage. Erin’s head rose as Jasi, resplendent in her dress, twirled and looked at her cast.
“Of course! Players of Celum! I believe it’s time for an encore. With all of us! What say you?”
The [Actors] glanced at each other. And then they rushed towards the stage. Erin saw Wesle leap onto the stage.
“Which play?”
“Do them all!”
Relc shouted. He was wide-eyed as the high-level [Actors] fussed about, ushering their Gnoll and Drake counterparts into place, debating. Eltistiman walked forwards, flicking his wand.
Both Liscor’s crowd and Invrisil’s stared through the doorway. The magical door promptly went out as Invrisil’s patrons tried to flood through. And the Players of Celum began to act.
“Dead gods.”
That was all Erin said. The first play they did was Juliet and Romeo. A classic, the very first they’d done. And Wesle was playing Romeo, and Jasi, Juliet.
Erin remembered the first play, full of half-remembered lines, awkward [Actors] who didn’t know how to face the audience. But still with that spark, buried among the lines. The magic of the stage.
Now, that magic shone. You could believe the love story, see it amid you. Erin wiped at one eye as she stared at the stage.
“But they just did a performance. They’re exhausted.”
Emme whispered as she watched. And that was true. The Players were tired. Some voices were hoarse. Erin’s stage was smaller, the set less grandiose. The other [Actors] from the Players of Liscor who were joining in lower-level.
But still, the [Actors] shone. Temile looked at the stage. And he had seen the best performance of his life an hour ago. The best—until the one tonight.
“We’ll never recapture this.”
He murmured, looking at the [Actors], striding about on the stage. The audience watched, laughing, enraptured, gasping at the fight scenes.
Look at it, lightning in a bottle. Erin looked at Jasi, shining, and remembered the [Washer] whom she’d met in Celum. How could they be one and the same? But because they were—it was glorious.
She walked around her inn, as the guests turned and smiled. Greeting people. Slowly moving towards her destination.
“Miss Solstice, I presume? The Council of Liscor has hired me. My name is Hexel Quithail. Might I ask if my three apprentices and I could stay at your inn?”
A Lamia, a half-snake person addressed Erin. She blinked at him. And then smiled.
“Of course! Hey, are you a…um…snake-person? That’s totally cool.”
Hexel blinked at his serpentine half. And then—the [Architect] began to laugh with genuine amusement for the first time. The three scared apprentices forgot their nerves and fell over themselves laughing. Hexel assured Erin he was. And she grinned.
“Sorry, Lamia. Right! Of course you can stay! We just built some new rooms, so they’re a bit rough…”
“Really? Well, I happen to be an [Architect], Miss Solstice. Lovely inn you have. Could use some changes to accommodate for the Skills. And is that a secret Garden I spotted?”
The young woman went on, shaking hands, speaking to people. And the Gentlemen Callers found her at their table. She smiled.
“Hey, how are you two doing? Can I get you anything? Nice hats.”
“Why, thank you miss. And we’re quite well set up ourselves. But it’s a kind word you have for us, and a lovely play!”
Wilovan touched his hat. Erin blinked at the unique speech, but then beamed at him.
“Glad you like it! Let me know if I can do anything! Oh—and we’re serving a special drink. The Minotaur’s Punch. Try it later!”
The bar was lighting up with her fire of glory as Erin conjured some for Drassi. The duo glanced after Erin. Wilovan murmured.
“Ah. What a nice young lady. Not that I’d speculate, but whatever would the Tallman want with her?”
“I suspect we’ll find out. But insofar as we’ve seen, Wilovan? Who wouldn’t want to know more about an establishment such as this? Let’s try that drink.”
And they were unprepared for the shot of memory. Even them, the famous duo. The [Actors] shone on stage.
Erin stopped at the last table on her route. She’d saved Saliss for last. Pelt was snorting and waving off her apology; he was drinking and looking around the inn, thoughtfully. And Saliss of Lights was smiling.
He was drinking the Minotaur’s Punch. He looked at Erin.
“I hear you had another fire. And I wasn’t here to see it! Then again—I also hear it wasn’t the best one.”
“It was stupid fire. I don’t think anyone should have it.”
Erin sat down at the table. She looked at Saliss. And wondered about him. But Saliss smiled. And Erin felt a kinship, of sorts.
How did you beat Magnolia Reinhart? The question was in her head. By making plans, thinking ahead. But you had to do it well. And—she looked at the stage. At Saliss, a person who could bottle that lightning.
“Say, Saliss?”
“Yes, my lovely Erin Solstice?”
He fluttered his eyes at her. Erin smiled and rolled her eyes. Because they both looked at each other and saw the other was pretending. To be happy. To be helpful, even when they didn’t feel it. Because, fundamentally, they believed in good things. So Erin took a deep breath.
“You know, Octavia tells me you use up a lot of ingredients when you experiment. And I’m not saying I have a lot of them. But if I had some…flowers. Do you think you’d be able to make something with them? For a price.”
The [Alchemist]’s eyes widened. Erin met his gaze, serious. Because you had to prepare for the future. The Named Adventurer sat back. And his eyes glittered as he imagined what could be.
And also waving the flowers in front of Xif’s shop until the Gnoll cried.
 
—-
 
She was wrong. That was what Maviola thought. So close, and yet so far. The [Lady] looked around Erin’s inn and saw genius.
“What a beautiful inn.”
Lady Firestarter gazed at The Wandering Inn and beheld it all fully. Like the fire she had seen on Erin, she saw all of it.
Look at this place. Gold-rank adventurers and Hobgoblins just as fierce, sitting together in this inn with Antinium and a Named-rank Adventurer?
Erin Solstice had made only one mistake. And that was going to Pelt for her knife. Going to Saliss with her flowers. That was thinking like Magnolia Reinhart. But this? She was nearly there in Maviola’s mind.
Nearly. And she thought she was weak? Ridiculous! The strongest [Lady] in Izril had been forced to ambush her with allies just to get her way. Who else could lay such a claim?
Erin Solstice didn’t need a weapon. This was her power.
