“We have a new enemy. A name, among the countless species. Magnolia Reinhart.”
Xrn spoke calmly to the images of the assembled Queens. Her voice was controlled, but her eyes belied her true state. Darkness crossed each of the colors. Black fury.
Klbkch stood by Xrn’s side. Marveling. Not at her, or the unrest of the other Queens. Xrn was calm.
No—he was simply astounded by a new kind of war. One with not a single drop of blood spilled, but had done more damage than even a hundred [Siege Fireballs] might. That woman—that [Lady] had reached into the Hive and unearthed terrible secrets. Their numbers, their fortifications, the true extent of the Free Antinium’s Hive. The tunnel leading south—
Everything. And she had managed it because the [Ladies] fought in ways that drew not blood you could see. But Klbkch, a master of blades, felt cut.
“What will happen next, Xrn? You assured me your presence would bring only benefit to the Hives.”
The Grand Queen snapped. Xrn leaned on her staff.
“We must take precautions, see what the Drake’s response will be, my Queen. And mark her. Like Zel Shivertail, I ask that the Hives agree to designate Magnolia Reinhart an entity of maximum threat.”
The Queens stirred. But none objected. The Silent Queen spoke, thoughtfully.
“So she is among my Hive’s targets if we go to war.”
The Silent Antinium, including Xeu, moved slightly. Their targets were marked across Izril.
“Do you object, my Queen?”
Xrn bowed. The Silent Queen raised one feeler.
“No. It shall be done. The Silent Antinium agree.”
“That woman withstood two of our Centenium. The Armored Antinium designate her a threat, in the past and now. Let this Magnolia Reinhart never rally to the Drake’s defense a third time. We agree.”
The Armored Queen turned her massive head. The Flying Queen, smaller, rubbed her feelers together anxiously; her Hive rustled around her, mirroring her mood.
“What strange classes, [Ladies] are. To use such Skills. Can she employ such in war?”
“If. She can. Wrymvr will slay. Her.”
The Twisted Queen’s halting speech was last of all. Klbkch saw her turn towards him, looking past the Free Queen.
“Klbkchhezeim. Wrymvr wishes. To speak to you. It would please the Twisted. Antinium. For you to visit.”
Xrn’s head rose. She looked at Klbkch, cautiously. The other Antinium folded his arms.
Wrymvr of the Centenium. Wrymvr the Deathless, the other races named him. And his name was most fitting of all the Centenium they had met. Xrn wanted to speak, but she held her voice.
And Klbkch bowed.
“It may be suitable, Twisted Queen. I can make no promises.”
“Then it is agreed. Magnolia Reinhart is marked. Now tell me Xrn. How were you unable to stop this…[Druid]? We encountered that class seldom. Speak. And what will happen to the Free Antinium now? Are we…”
The Grand Queen spoke impatiently, and the Queens debated. And elsewhere in Izril, the Walled Cities were in conference. Arguing, trying to understand both the information they had been given and why they had been given it.
Magnolia Reinhart of the Five Families. An enemy of the Drakes—or rather, her family had been. An ally?
There was a party scheduled in Oteslia soon. And suddenly—it was even more important than it had been. People marveled. At Magnolia Reinhart’s information network, the audacity of her move, to confront Antinium directly, at the unnerving actions of the Antinium—even distant figures like the Blighted King paid attention to an old foe.
Look at her, Magnolia Reinhart. And that dress. Fashion and spectacle and treachery and Skill.
And while the rest of the world heaved—the inn that had been used by Magnolia Reinhart was bubbling. No—burning with what had happened. And you might hate it, or approve of what had happened. But forget about the world for a moment. The world was sometimes a stupid place.
In The Wandering Inn, that night, many faces, new and old met and mingled. And—that young woman, that [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice. Her place had been used by Magnolia Reinhart. And she was sorely hurt.
Yet, the night was more than Magnolia Reinhart. One by one, they arrived.
 
—-
 
Guests. Old friends. New people, stumbling in, looking around, wide-eyed.
The Wandering Inn had come to Invrisil. What event. What chaos.
But Magnolia had overshadowed it. Used the inn harshly, like a piece on a larger chessboard. It was unsettling. And so—at first, they came in like visitors to a wake.
At first.
“Erin…?”
Ceria Springwalker walked into The Wandering Inn. She still felt—stunned. The [Ladies] had swept through the Players of Celum’s inn. And Ceria had just watched them moving—only when they’d gone had she ceased to be a member of the audience.
A young woman was sitting in a chair. And—Ceria had thought of her friend often. But Erin looked unfamiliar, for a moment.
Older. Tired. Sadder, staring down at her clasped hands. Like—someone overburdened, and young. Not the force of personality and goodwill she normally was.
“Erin?”
She reminded Ceria of Erin before Skinner, a young woman who did her best, but hadn’t been the Crazy Human of Liscor. For a moment. Then, hearing the half-Elf’s voice, she raised her head.
“Ceria…?”
Lyonette stirred. The [Princess] was holding Mrsha, at a loss for words. But both looked at Ceria. And the half-Elf raised one hand.
“Hi. Um—we made it.”
She didn’t know what to say, but Erin’s head rose. And she smiled.
“You did. Ceria!”
She rose to her feet, slowly. But she walked over and gave Ceria a big hug. The [Cryomancer] felt Erin squeezing, and hugged back. For a moment, Erin just leaned on Ceria.
“Sorry. I had no idea that Lady Magnolia Reinhart would—”
“S’okay. I don’t think anyone did. She just—hey, Ceria. Where’ve you been? And the others?”
Erin raised her head tiredly. And behind Ceria was Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Pieces, all standing in the inn. Behind them were the young people they’d just met, the Players of Celum—the door flickered out as Grev ran through.
Everyone was just watching, though. Erin Solstice looked so tired.
Mortally tired. She’d thrown everything she had against the three [Ladies]. And she hadn’t stopped a thing. It wasn’t just physical exhaustion, it was mental, spiritual. Ceria saw Erin looking around, blinking.
“Yvlon? Pisces. Ksmvr. Is that—Wesle and Jasi? E-Emme? Kilkran? Grev? Where did you all come from?”
“We’ve been eager to see you, Erin.”
Jasi spoke hesitantly. The others nodded, but the mood was somber. Erin Solstice smiled, but it wasn’t that glorious look, that picked you up on your darkest day and said that everything would be alright. It was just a curve of the lips.
The [Innkeeper] had lost. And she was so tired. And the [Innkeeper] was her inn. Ceria felt Erin straightening, but she held her friend, as if Erin might fall down.
In that moment, even the [Actors] didn’t know what to say. They could pretend everything was alright, but it was so clearly not. The adventurers? Yvlon looked around at the inn and shook her head. Ksmvr was opening and closing his mandibles uncertainly.
Who could say something? And what would it be? Ceria didn’t know—but then she saw, out of the corner of her eye, one of Erin’s oldest friends moving. Because of course, he had been there way back when.
Slowly, Pisces looked around. The [Necromancer] found a chair in the silent inn. And, as Drakes and Gnolls and guests from Invrisil looked at him, he sat down. And then he leaned back, precariously perching on the back two legs of the chair. And he put his feet up on the tabletop.
Pisces sniffed, and looked at Erin. And his voice was mock-acerbic and mostly kind.
“Well, I expect service, Miss Innkeeper. Pasta and blue juice, if you please. For me and my team.”
The young woman and Ceria looked at Pisces. Ceria opened her mouth, and saw Erin’s face. The young woman sniffed. And if she’d been close to tears—they were gone when she put her hands on her hips and glared.
“You again? You’d better have some money.”
Pisces ostentatiously slapped a few coins on the table. And he smiled at her.
“If the food is good, I suppose I could give you a tip.”
And Erin Solstice laughed. Like a normal person, but her eyes lit up. She looked around her inn, at her old friends. And they smiled. Erin inhaled, and looked about.
“Hey. We’ve got guests. Lyonette, do we have any food left? Get something for Mister Necromancer here.”
The [Princess] rolled her eyes. But she was smiling. Mrsha leapt out of her arms and tackled Ceria’s legs. The half-Elf hadn’t been expecting that. She went over with a crash. Yvlon winced. Ksmvr hurried over to help her out.
And Pisces began laughing. So did Erin. And the inn came alive. More people laughed, and Ceria, getting up, saw Erin turning. The [Innkeeper] breathed in and out. And then she smiled.
She wasn’t over it. But she had guests, so Erin put the feelings away for a bit. And The Wandering Inn began to shine again.
“Damn, the door’s out of mana again. Are the Sage’s Grass not working right?”
Palt grumbled as he trotted over. Ceria looked up and saw Montressa holding out a slow hand. Ceria took it, unthinking, and Montressa helped haul her up. Bezale was standing next to her, arms folded. She grunted at Yvlon and the [Armsmistress] nodded slowly back.
As the others began chatting, Ceria saw Numbtongue reaching behind the bar for a drink with Bird. A love struck Belgrade was still standing where he had been.
“So pretty.”
Pawn was hurrying after Lyonette. And the Players of Celum were looking around. Temile made a choked sound and began to push towards Wesle and Jasi. Ceria realized Maviola was missing. Still in Invrisil?
And at that moment, one of the young people looked at Pisces and exclaimed. Kevin pointed at Pisces.
“Dude. He’s a [Necromancer]?”
Everyone turned to look at Pisces. And the [Necromancer] stiffened. But Kevin promptly turned to his friends.
“That’s so cool.”
 
—-
 
The first few minutes afterwards were full of chaos. Erin was surrounded by the Horns of Hammerad, who she was hugging and talking to. But then she looked up and her eyes widened.
“No way. Halrac’s here? And Revi and Typhenous?”
She saw the second team standing by the door. Revi waved as she looked around.
“This place looks a lot better than it used to. I always thought the old place looked a bit run down. Hi, Erin.”
“Miss Solstice.”
Typhenous’ eyes twinkled. Halrac nodded to Erin, cool as could be. He was not prepared for the [Innkeeper] to charge him.
“Halrac! How’ve you been?”
Erin tackle-hugged the [Scout]. He growled, embarrassed.
“Get off. Erin. It’s good to see—”
A flying Gnoll, Mrsha, in this case, leapt off the table and shot towards him. Halrac caught her rather than let her drop and she hugged him gleefully. Revi and Typhenous started guffawing at the look on Halrac’s face as Mrsha tried to nuzzle his face and Erin laughed.
Someone else slapped her thighs and nearly doubled over. Erin turned as Briganda, eyes streaming, pointed at Halrac as he tried to get Mrsha to let go.
“Halrac the Grim! More like ‘Halrac the Softie’! Hah! Wait till I tell Elm and Cassielle about this!”
Erin saw Briganda stride over. The [Shield Maiden] grabbed Erin in a one-arm and wrapped an arm around Halrac and Mrsha. She gave them all a bear hug. Erin squeaked.
“Let. Go.”
Halrac growled. He retreated, letting Mrsha drop to the floor. She and Erin turned to the woman.
Erin’s first impression of Briganda was a smiling face. She was probably ten years older than Erin—still young, but she seemed more motherly. That wasn’t just a lucky guess either; she had that sense of looking out for children.
“Hello! Who are you?”
“The name’s Briganda. I’m a member of Griffon Hunt. One of the old crew. I just rejoined. And are you Erin Solstice? I’ve heard so much about you!”
“Really? I mean, hi! Any teammate of Griffon Hunt’s is welcome. I’m Erin—this is Mrsha—”
“I know! Hello, little one! Is she yours? Halrac didn’t say. And he didn’t say she was so adventurous! She’d be a regular [Swashbuckler]!”
Briganda knelt down. Mrsha blinked up at her, but then boldly rose onto two legs and stuck out a paw. Briganda clasped it and shook vigorously. And Mrsha was quite pleased by the [Shield Maiden]’s bold smile.
“Mine…? No, Mrsha’s, uh—I mean, I raise her, but she’s not mine. She’s—”
“Mine. Hello. Halrac, Revi, Typhenous! And did I hear Briganda? I’m Lyonette, the manager of the inn.”
The [Princess] came over. Briganda turned and her eyebrows shot up. She looked at Lyonette, who was eighteen or closer to nineteen these days, up and down.
“Well! You started early, but she’s a darling child! And who’s the man, I mean, Gnoll?”
“Oh—”
Halrac slapped his face. Revi choked and Typhenous starting chuckling into his beard again.
“Briganda—”
“Oh. Oh. Dead gods, tell me these things, Halrac!”
Briganda grew flustered as she saw Halrac’s face. She turned to Lyonette.
“Males, am I right? Up and leaving you? Sorry about that. I’d like to say mine ran off, but I never knew who it was! I have a kid myself.”
She smiled as Lyonette’s face contorted, trying to sort out what part of the misunderstanding to address first. Erin started laughing.
“It’s so good to see you all! Give me a hug, Typh! You too, Revi!”
The old man was only too glad to, and Mrsha raised her arms so she could be picked up and hugged. Revi embraced Erin lightly, laughing.
“It feels like ages since we saw you! Erin! How did you manage to get Pallass attacked by Wyverns?”
Erin colored.
“I didn’t—that was just a coincidence! I think! You’re looking good! New stitches?”
“You noticed?”
That was a guess, but Revi was beyond pleased. She scooped Mrsha up and the Gnoll promptly licked her cheek. Mrsha liked Revi.
“Come in, sit, sit! Did you get to Invrisil at the same time as the Horns? What’s happened?”
“Aside from travelling and Halrac punching our old teammate? Nothing much.”
“Whaaaaaat?”
“Why don’t we sit? Erin—any chance of a drink and some food?”
Halrac cleared his throat, avoiding Erin’s gaze. The young woman brightened up.
“Oh my gosh! You have to try the Minotaur’s Punch, Halrac! I mean, the flaming glory drink! I mean—I can make fire!”
The Gold-rank adventurers knew she meant something else, but Revi had to take her shot.
“Congratulations. So can anyone with a flint and tinder. Sure, set us up.”
“Over here!”
Erin led them to a table and was seating them, chattering and trying to explain the memory flames Skill she had—not to mention the Garden—when Briganda exclaimed and stormed over.
“Halrac, you pissant!”
