“The what?”
“Magus Grimalkin has a theory. I was talking to him about—never mind! If they are from…we have to do something.”
“Too right. Let’s grab them when they go outside to the outhouse, throw them in the prison cube and run for it.”
Bezale cracked her knuckles. Montressa looked askance.
“Bezale!”
“I’m not taking risks. This would redeem us both, Montressa. And then some!”
“Yes, but you want to start something in this inn? With three Gold-rank teams, Erin, and everyone else?”
The Minotauress hesitated. She glanced about.
“Then what?”
“Wait. Confirm they’re guests. And then—find out where they’re staying. We make them an offer first, like Erin. They’ll jump at it! Come on, we need to get closer…”
Montressa began to look for a good place to listen in. Thankfully, Palt wasn’t about to interfere—the Centaur was helping cook some food in the kitchen, having been press-ganged into the job by Lyonette. This was their moment. Montressa began to cast a listening spell. It went right past the table with Typhenous and the two men in hats. One of them actually leaned out of the way.
“Something wrong, Ratici?”
The Drake adjusted his cap.
“Listening spell. Not on us. Continue.”
And the inn was merry. Oh, there were any number of little plots, intersecting goals—but it was a party! And that was strange.
Because Erin Solstice hadn’t arranged the party. She was in her room, moodily playing chess. Aside from greeting her friends—she hadn’t organized the convivial mood in her inn in any way. Perhaps it was a function of her class—or the reputation of her inn—that her guests instantly began to celebrate any occasion like this. Even without her.
But then—that was why it was just a nice atmosphere, not Erin Solstice’s brand of contagious excitement. The inn depended on the [Innkeeper]. But she was—
Upset. Beyond that, really. The young woman came down the stairs, too angry to even continue her game of chess. She walked down and looked around at the happy guests.
And felt annoyed they were so happy. Didn’t they know what Magnolia Reinhart had done? No, some of them even approved. Idiots. 
The [Innkeeper] just stood there as Drassi came over, smiling. The Drake [Bartender] took one look at Erin’s face and her smile dropped. She backed up. And Erin Solstice turned her head as Jelaqua wobbled over.
“Erin! Erin, come tell the story about Pallass and the Wyverns to the others! They want to hear it!”
“No.”
The Selphid hesitated. But Erin’s expression was inhospitable. And—the atmosphere was spreading. Jelaqua put a hand on Erin’s shoulder, recoiled as Erin brushed the hand off. She walked backwards.
“Fine. Be like that.”
She sat down with a harrumph at the table. The adventurers fell silent. And the goodwill—began to turn sour. Maviola looked up as Jelaqua ignored Maughin leaning over to talk to her. She stared at Jelaqua. And then she turned her head.
“Five Families, what—”
Lyonette felt it too. A sour aura, running through the inn. It came straight from Erin. And it was—powerful. People stopped smiling. They began frowning. That was the power of an [Innkeeper]. And usually it was such a positive force.
Not this time. The Earthers began arguing at their table.
“We don’t need to buy drinks! Stop wasting our money!”
“Our money? You mean, my sword!”
Joseph snapped at Rose. The two began quarrelling again. Lyonette frowned and concentrated. She tried to push back, but she wasn’t Magnolia. And this was Erin’s place. Lyonette made her way over to Erin.
“Erin, what are you doing?”
“Nothing. What?”
The [Innkeeper] looked up. Her eyes flashed and Lyonette stepped back. Something was wrong. But what?
Maviola was just staring at Jelaqua. And then Erin. Her eyes were wide.
“She has it too? But—”
And then her head spun, searching. Maviola saw another figure getting to his feet. And she swore.
Wailant Strongheart was drinking. Or had drunk and was still drinking, rather. But his jovial expression from entering the inn was…changed. He made his way across the inn’s floor, shaking off his wife’s arm.
“Wailant!”
But the former [Pirate] was in no mood for reason. He stopped at the adventurer’s table.
“Oi. Sailwinds. I want a word about what you said about my crewmates.”
The laughing adventurers looked up. Seborn smiled, in a good mood for once.
“I meant what I said. Obviously. That was a sight. That Drowned Man [Depth Captain]? That was actually my f—”
Wailant’s fist hit the table. All the dishes and some of the adventurers jumped.
“Take back what you said about [Pirates].”
Seborn blinked.
“It was a jest. Why are you taking it personally?”
He gave Wailant a very odd look. Seborn had said any number of things, but Wailant was the last person he’d have expected to take it personally. But the [Pirate] turned [Farmer] was angry.
“Our ships would’ve trashed the Underseas Crews in a real fight. Let’s settle this, Drowned Man.”
He reached for Seborn. The [Rogue] leapt out of his chair.
“Are you drunk? What’s gotten into you? We settled this—”
“Until you insulted my class!”
Wailant snapped. He went for Seborn, but Moore, Halrac, and Yvlon all grabbed him. They pulled Wailant back as he snarled.
“I’m sorry, this isn’t like him. I have no idea what—Wailant! Stop disgracing yourself! He’s never like this, even when he’s at his drunkest!”
Viceria hurried forwards. Wailant cursed as the others pulled him back. Yvlon was frowning. Halrac glared. And even Moore’s expression turned into a frown as he looked at Seborn.
“It’s not his fault. Seborn, did you have to be so rude?”
“Me? They were a seafolk’s jests!”
Seborn looked incredulously at the half-Giant’s frown. But it was spreading. Maviola looked around wildly. No one was seeing this?
No, of course not. She slapped her forehead and rose.
“Ceria. I’m borrowing this—”
She grabbed a pitcher of the most potent drink at the table, the Firebreath Whiskey. The half-Elf, distracted, was staring at the fight. Maviola hurried across the room.
“I’m not mad.”
“Then why are you speaking like that? And making that face?”
Lyonette was glaring at Erin. It was on her, too. She scowled at Erin as the young woman raised her head.
“I’m just tired and I’m not in the mood to be friendly today, alright? Why doesn’t everyone just get out of my inn?”
Her voice quieted the room. The others looked up. And most just stared. But a few—sensed something.
“Wilovan, you feel that?”
Ratici narrowed his eyes at Erin. The Gnoll frowned. He sniffed the air cautiously.
“I suspect I do, but whatever it might be is too elusive for me to pick up. Definitely an aura, but…”
Erin was standing. Her eyes flashed with anger. Lyonette was sparking too.
“Don’t get rid of our customers!”
“Customers? You mean, your profits! It’s my inn!”
The two began to clash. The [Princess] narrowed her eyes as Mrsha ran forwards. She bumped into Erin, hugging the [Innkeeper]’s leg. And then she began to glare and try and pull the two adults apart.
It was turning ugly. Moore, Halrac, and Yvlon were snapping at Wailant and their teammates. So was Jelaqua, and now Maughin. Erin was glaring at Lyonette. She raised a hand to shove the [Princess] aside—
“Oops! Watch out!”
And Maviola tripped and threw the entire pitcher of alcohol over the arguing trio. Erin was doused. So was Lyonette, and Mrsha.
“Hey! What the heck was—”
Erin whirled. And then fire bloomed around her. Mrsha ran, screaming in fear, and Lyonette shouted. Fire! The liquid—the whiskey had ignited as it hit them!
But how? The two stared at each other. The fire was burning on them. But it wasn’t burning their skin, or Mrsha’s fur. Because the other fire was—
The other fire? Erin stared down at her body. Her arms, legs, even her clothes were covered by flames. They were barely visible as the mundane fire licked across her body. But now she saw it.
She was on fire. But the flames were—invisible? Erin stared at the burning fire on her arm before the alcohol burned away. Lyonette’s entire arm had been engulfed, and so had Mrsha’s paw.
Where they’d touched Erin. Slowly, the [Innkeeper] looked up. Her patrons stared. Then, they whirled.
Alcohol flew, and water. Mostly it just drenched people. But Jelaqua exclaimed.
“What the hell is this?”
She was aflame. Wailant was almost consumed by the magical fire. So were the adventurers who’d touched him.
“It’s—your fire. Erin? What did you do?”
Too shaken to be angry, Lyonette looked at the young woman. And Erin knew.
“Hatred.”
Maviola murmured. It burned in her vision. A black flame. Erin tried to explain.
“I—must have conjured it. But why is it invisible? It should be hot. Burning—”
That was what she thought. But—Erin looked around and realized.
Of course it was invisible. Hatred wasn’t even that hot—no one was being burned physically by it. But it was all-consuming. It spread, from person to person. An insidious flame.
And—she saw Viceria beating at the fire on Wailant, Jelaqua pouring water on her arms.
It was so hard to put out.
“Make it stop! It’s burning Mrsha!”
The flames were beginning to eat away at the finest hairs on the tips of Mrsha’s fur. Erin realized her skin was…hurting. She reached for Mrsha, but the Gnoll recoiled as Lyonette grabbed her with her free arm, and brushed at the invisible flames.
“Stop it, Erin!”
“I don’t know how!”
The [Innkeeper] looked around. And she felt the hatred burning on her skin. She fought against it. But how did you get rid of it?
“Pull it back to you. It’s yours.”
Someone spoke. Erin’s head turned. But she didn’t see who it was. Still—the words were right. She concentrated.
“Come back. Come back, right now—”
Across the inn, the black flame winked out. Jelaqua gasped as she stared at her dead flesh—the flames had eaten away at her dead body fastest. She looked up. No flames on her, or Wailant. The [Pirate] relaxed.
“Storms at sea. What was that—”
Every head turned to Erin. The young woman was engulfed in the fire. From head to toe. It did not burn on the floorboards as she stepped back from Lyonette and Mrsha. It only thrived on living things. And now it was visible.
A dancing, dark flame, like a shadow in the light. Lyonette held Mrsha as she backed away.
“Erin? Can you put it out? Someone—get some water!”
She nearly reached for Erin, but someone—a young woman with black and red hair, put an arm out. And Erin Solstice turned. She saw Ishkr grab a glass of water and hurl it at her.
The water burned away as it landed on the fire. Lyonette saw Erin regarding her hands.
“Can we help?”
“No. I’m fine.”
Slowly, the shrouded young woman looked up. Her eyes burned behind the black veil. They flashed as she looked around.
“You’re not fine. We need to put that out—I’ll try my magic.”
Ceria stood up. Erin glanced at her friend.
“No. Sit down.”
The half-Elf froze, and slowly her legs collapsed. Erin Solstice looked around. And then she walked towards the magic door.
“I’m going for a walk.”
She reached for the magic door, adjusted the dial, and opened it. Walked through. The flames engulfed her. Her hatred.
But that was right. That was what she needed. Not a damn party. She needed strength. Magnolia. Erin narrowed her eyes. She walked forwards. Sergeant Kel backed up in his checkpoint.
“Let me through.”
The Drake opened his mouth. Erin Solstice looked at him. She grabbed the portcullis. And the steel—slowly—began to heat up. Warp. The [Sergeant] looked at Erin. He turned.
“Raise the gates.”
“Sir?”
The [Guard] looked at Kel incredulously. The [Sergeant] snapped as he stared at Erin and the dark, almost invisible fire. It was only visible under the light. In the shadows, it just made her form ripple.
“Open the gate. And send a runner to the Watch Captain, Grand Strategist, and—Saliss of Lights. Run!”
The gates opened. Erin Solstice strode through. She turned, and walked down the street. The flames were invisible on her in the darkening night. But people avoided her. The look on the Human woman’s face cleared her way in the already emptying streets as she walked.
Listening to the sound of hatred whispering in her ears.
 
—-
 
She was being consumed by it. Maviola tried to go after Erin, but the [Sergeant] refused to let anyone else through. She hesitated. But it was the young woman’s fire. It wouldn’t kill her. Maviola just hoped it wouldn’t consume her.
“She’ll be alright. I’ll go after her. Mrsha, stay here. Mister Kel, let me through!”
Lyonette went after Erin. The others stood still, murmuring. But without the flame and Erin—the inn was returning to normal.
“Something crazy each time I come here. I tell you, that’s our crazy Human.”
A Drake joked. There was laughter, nervous. But aside from Erin’s friends, people were relaxing. And as Ceria, Pisces, Jelaqua, Maughin, and a few others hurried after Lyonette to Pallass, the others sat back.
“I’m uh—anyone going to Liscor? Wailant? Are you alright?”
Drassi looked at the [Pirate]. He laughed, a bit shakily.
“Nothing burned, Miss Drassi. Apologies, Seborn. That was a hell of a fire, though.”
“No offense taken.”
The Drowned Man nodded warily. Drassi began adjusting the door, letting some people through and out. She opened the door to Liscor—and blinked at her next guests.
“Oh! Olesm! Councilmembers?”
“Hello, Drassi. We’d like a private table.”
Krshia smiled at Drassi. Elirr was with her, and behind her, Guildmistress of the Mage’s Guild, Alonna. And—
“We’re still discussing the matter, Silverfang! The council session is not over! Bah! And this inn’s at the heart of it all!”
Lism strode through the door, tail lashing the ground. The Councilmembers glowered, but they nodded as Drassi looked about hurriedly.
“We can put you at the table at the back over there—um! Oh, hi, Olesm. Are you sitting with…?”
“No, Drassi. Is Erin here?”
A [Strategist] entered the inn. Olesm, blue-scaled, tail hung low, was exhausted. As the four Councilmembers marched over to the table, still bickering, Olesm deliberately hung back.
“Wow. You look tired.”
Drassi was adjusting the door to Esthelm. Olesm nodded.
“The Council’s been in session for hours. Well—they’re still talking. Jeiss and Raekea had to go, but…Ancestors, you heard about what happened, right?”
The [Gossip] nodded, not quite comprehending.
“That Lady Reinhart found out how many Antinium were living under the city and other stuff, right?”
“That’s putting it mildly.”
