“Miss Solst—Erin. I hope you will never have to defend all of Invrisil. Let alone Lady Reinhart’s estates, which contains more land and people than many [Kings] or [Queens] will ever rule. It is true she can be cruel. It is true that for her justice or safety, she runs roughshod over the rights of a few for the many.”
He looked at her.
“She is cruel. But have you never hurt someone to help them? I set bones in battle. And men screamed and cursed my name at the time. But they thanked me later. Perhaps Lady Reinhart could be kinder. But was she wrong? Erin Solstice, you have never seen The Black Tide march. Perhaps you would change your opinions then. But I hope never to see such a sight again.”
The young woman didn’t know what to say to the polite [Butler]. But the [Princess]? Lyonette du Marquin looked at Reynold.
“Well said, Mister Reynold, was it? I’d expect nothing less from one of Magnolia Reinhart’s servants. She does garner loyalty from her people.”
She paused as Reynold and Erin looked at her. Lyonette went on.
“She has earned your loyalty, sir. But I fear Lady Reinhart treats others like disposable objects to be used against their will. I hope you never find yourself a piece in one of her games.”
The [Butler]’s eyes flickered as Erin looked gratefully at Lyonette. He hesitated, and then Reynold bowed again.
“Begging your deepest pardons for my incivility, Miss Solstice, Miss Lyon. I will not trouble you further.”
He turned and marched over to Yvlon. The [Butler] bowed, handed Yvlon a letter. Then, he returned to Lyonette, handed her six silver coins, and walked out the door and back through to Invrisil.
“Damn.”
That was all Erin could come up with after that. Another slap in the face. And worst—she couldn’t even undo the slap. She tried—she could go through, but when she asked Ceria to flout Magnolia’s rules, the half-Elf found she couldn’t leave without handing Erin six silver coins.
“Now that’s enforcement of a rule. A Skill for a [Lady]. Yvlon, what was that missive?”
Pisces observed. Yvlon stared up at him from her letter. The woman’s face was pale.
“She knew. Take a look at this.”
She showed her team the letter. It was a short message from Magnolia Reinhart.
 
Dear Yvlon,
I consider the presence of your little friend, Ksmvr, an acceptable one in Invrisil, and I have spoken with the Watch Commander regarding it. Please do refrain from using your rank too much in Invrisil, although I quite understand this occasion.
On another note, do send me more of your little letters if you ever have the time! I did regret it when they stopped, but I suppose you grew older. You must call upon me on my estates sometime. Oh—and your Gold-rank is exceptionally well-deserved. Do introduce me to your team when you get the chance.
Best,
–Magnolia Reinhart
 
“No way. How did she know?”
Ceria stared at Yvlon. The young woman was blinking.
“I—I’d almost forgotten I used to send her letters every week. I stopped when my brother and father told me it wasn’t good etiquette. She missed them?”
Another moment of awe, superstition around Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s reputation. Erin had had enough of her.
“I’m going to go upstairs and play chess. No one had better bother me!”
She growled and stomped off. Her mood was darker still and she couldn’t shake it off. Damn Magnolia Reinhart and her stupid laws.
On Invrisil’s side, Veeid was relieved about the rule. He waved at Lyonette as he spooned ice cream out of the bowl.
“Lady Reinhart has it, Miss Lyon. We’ll also be safe of people sneaking through—unless they’ve the Skills or level to defeat Lady Reinhart’s Skill! Hm, shall I let people come through now? And may I purchase this delightful ice cream?”
Lyonette smiled.
“Certainly. We’ll talk pricing later. But The Wandering Inn is open for anyone who’d like to come through—or visit Liscor! Line up and once Master Veeid accepts your coin, we’ll send you through. One moment!”
She closed the door and began to announce to Pallass the new fee—not that Magnolia’s Skill worked on Pallass’ side. Lyonette just thought it was a good idea to establish standards.
And that was that. A few patrons promptly went to Veeid, but most were content on this side—for the time being. After all, the Players had left so Erin’s inn really only had the food going for it, and that was flowing through the door. The new travel-fee was sensible, mildly obtrusive, didn’t gate the door’s usage too much…
“Oh no.”
—But really put a sour note in Maviola’s mouth. She felt at her belt pouch. And then she began to curse Lady Bethal and her charming husband with every word she knew. And unlike Erin—she knew a lot of them.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn was beginning to gather a crowd. It hadn’t been much more than early evening when Magnolia had launched her sneak attack, so now the dinner crowd and people wanting to be in the inn where the drama had happened were flooding in.
Mrsha was over the moon. She was leaping from Griffon Hunt’s table to the Horn’s, playing with her old friends! And here came the Halfseekers, who hadn’t had to pay any silver!
“Halrac! We got to Invrisil at last! Come here you idiots!”
Jelaqua charged the table and Halrac kicked her away. He’d had enough of hugging. But then Moore and Seborn and that new Ulinde were coming through! Mrsha beamed.
But they were so busy talking they had no time for her! Moore patted her head a few times, but everyone was caught up reminiscing. And Mrsha was bored.
So she took to the street, which was actually the inn’s floor. And went hunting, or rather, begging for scraps.
“Aw, what a cute Gnoll!”
A Human exclaimed. Rose offered Mrsha some fries. Mrsha stole the plate. She ran away as the Earthers laughed and just ordered another. Mrsha wasn’t really that hungry, but the victory of snatching food was the rush she craved.
She was dashing towards the door to Invrisil, wondering if she could intercept some ice cream on the way out—although Ishkr was a tricky opponent, who’d promptly call Lyonette for any trouble—when a boy appeared in the crowd.
He was short—thirteen or so—but taller than Mrsha. Just by a bit if she stood up! And he looked tough, agile on his feet. He blinked as Mrsha appeared and she blinked at him.
She…knew him. Grev? Grev, yes! From the Players of Celum. Only, he hadn’t gone with the [Actors] to the play.
“Hey! You’re that Mrsha kid! Fancy that! We meet again!”
Grev grinned at her. Mrsha didn’t like the ‘kid’ bit. But she saw Grev tug and out of the crowd came a little, bawling…
Boy? Yes, a little boy! He was all snotty and crying. Grev showed him to Mrsha; the boy was very young.
“This here’s Cade. Mind helpin’ me find Briganda? This is her boy and he’s snottin’ up something fierce wanting her.”
“Mom!”
Cade wailed. Mrsha realized Briganda must have forgotten about him in the heat of being caught up with all these new people. And Cade had wandered into The Wandering Inn through the door, rather than staying in Redit’s care. A failure on multiple sides, although Briganda would probably kick Redit into the wall.
“She’s around here somewhere. But all these adults are getting in the way!”
Grev groused as the inn filled to maximum, despite the [Grand Theatre] Skill. Mrsha looked around. Even she couldn’t see over the crowd, but she knew where the adventurers were…roughly.
The problem was that Grev and Mrsha might have dodged the many legs, but Cade was slow and much less nimble. Mrsha regarded him. Then she tapped Grev on the shoulder.
“What? What? What’s that paw-stuff? Oh, right. Can’t speak, can you?”
Mrsha rolled her eyes as the [Street Urchin] squinted at her. She pointed at the nearest wall and Grev tugged Cade over.
“C’mon, Cade. Your mom’s not far. Stop crying, would you? I should’ve gone with Jasi and the lot, but I’ve seen all the plays dozens of times…here. Look, this’ Mrsha. She’ll help you find your mom, see?”
Cade stopped crying as Grev pointed at Mrsha. He was clutching his magical little box in his other hand, but he dropped it as he stared at the white Gnoll. His mouth dropped open.
“Dog?”
Mrsha shook her head. Then she jerked backwards; the little boy was trying to pet her head!
Grev sighed as he scooped up Cade’s precious toy.
“Not a dog, Cade. A Gnoll. Don’t pet her head! What’s this, Mrsha? That’s a wall. We going around the edge of the room? Might work.”
He critically eyed Mrsha. She shook her head and pointed. Grev was a kid of the street. But in his way he knew his world. He was asking her, a [Hunter] in her domain, where to go.
She had ways. Grev’s eyes lit up as Mrsha walked towards a wall and motioned. He stared as the magical entrance appeared, showcasing a grassy hill, a jungle to the left. His jaw dropped.
The Garden of Sanctuary. Cade stopped crying through his eyes and nose entirely.
“Blooming rat shit. That Miss Erin got even weirder than I remember. No one’ll ever believe this!”
Grev strode up towards the door. Mrsha raced forwards as guests of the inn turned, and Grev, Cade, and a few Drakes and Gnolls tried to follow her. All ran smack into the invisible barrier.
Cade began to cry again. Grev felt at the magical barrier, frowning, as some of the adults pushed. But that [Druid]—Nathal-whatever—hadn’t broken the entry mechanism. Mrsha frowned.
Normally Erin had to let them in, but Mrsha had assumed Grev and Cade, as children, were on her list. But apparently not. Still—Mrsha needed them to come through.
So she tried it. She padded over and grabbed both’s hands. Then Mrsha tried to pull them into the garden.
There was resistance, but Mrsha felt both pulling forwards. Cade and Grev yelped, not exactly in pain, and Mrsha ­heaved. There was a pop and both tumbled forwards.
Into the Garden of Sanctuary. Grev immediately got up and stared around.
“No way. It’s grass and stuff! And it even smells nice!”
“It’s pretty.”
Cade looked around, wide-eyed. Mrsha was smiling smugly. She gestured around and then made the door reappear by the adventurers. But Cade and Grev were awestruck. They stared around and Mrsha decided to give them the silver-coin tour. She raced forwards and they ran after her, excited as could be.
As they ran, they didn’t notice the figure sitting on the hilltop at first. But that was because he was green, and sitting still.
Numbtongue chewed on some of Erin’s new calzone and listened. He was separate from the main inn, having retreated here for some peace and quiet. Sit in the inn among all the other people and be bothered? No thank you.
But he was also in…a conference. A meeting of minds. Or souls.
His other two guests weren’t eating, but Pyrite had had a minute’s worth of pizza—just a slice, you had to savor your food—and pronounce it good. And the other Goblin—well, he wasn’t part of Numbtongue. Yet.
And they were speaking. Advising the [Bard]. Numbtongue didn’t trust the Goblin Lord. He had killed Headscratcher, or Az’kerash had, through him. But he was listening. That was all.
He’d been blindsided by the [Ladies]. Helpless as everyone else. He hadn’t even realized he’d done nothing until it was over. That was what terrified the [Bard]. But Pyrite and Reiss were more sanguine about it.
“Can’t defeat high-levels. Plans. Three at once. Not good. [Ladies] hard to kill. Run away—throw an axe when not looking.”
Pyrite opined. He was sitting at his ease, in a Sage’s Grass plant. But his ghost was there. So was Reiss’. The Goblin Lord nodded.
“Ladies can’t hurt you directly. If they wanted to hurt you—you could fight back. They used the power of formality, which relies on doing no direct harm. All their power is like this.”
Reiss reached through Numbtongue. The living Hobgoblin recoiled, but Reiss’ hand was just nothingness. The Goblin Lord nodded.
“The power of [Ladies] is strongest in their class. Alliances. Indirect power. They do nothing to your face, but they hit you a day, a week, a month later with a thousand spears. Words are their weapons. If I was joined with you—I could have resisted. But for one minute.”
“Not bad thing happening to Antinium. Good to watch flanks. Antinium are dangerous. Good ones are good. But bad ones? Like Humans.”
Pyrite nodded as Numbtongue tore off some of the calzone and chewed. He felt better. Reiss nodded.
“Az’kerash is more dangerous. His minions are everywhere. I told you. Let me help. I can enchant basic objects. Use my strength.”
“Not yet.”
Numbtongue muttered. Not yet. He didn’t want to have Reiss in him. It was more than just a grudge. Being Reiss meant living his perspective, knowing his memories. He would see Headscratcher die a second time. He also didn’t want…to sympathize with his foe.
Reiss sighed. He looked at Pyrite and the [Chieftain] tried to chew on some dirt. He was probably thinking of something that would convince Numbtongue when the Goblin heard a scream.
“G-G—Goblin!”
He looked down. Grev was standing there, with Mrsha. But the little boy who’d run up the hill, laughing too hard to notice him at first was unfamiliar. And Cade, for all his youth, was an adventurer’s child. He took one look at Numbtongue and screamed.
“Goblin! Mom! Gooooblin!”
“Hm?”
Numbtongue stared blankly at the child as the boy tumbled down the hill. Cade ran screaming as Numbtongue kept chewing on his food. Mrsha waved her paws, but she couldn’t shout. And Grev wasn’t helping. He laughed at Cade’s panic as the boy fled—
Right until Cade ran into the jungle section. Into one of the burr-bushes Mrsha wanted uprooted and gone out of her garden.
The burrs were big. Not the sharpest, but they hurt more than anything. Numbtongue winced as Cade screamed and thrashed around in the bush. The Hobgoblin got up with a sigh and strode down the hill as Mrsha and Grev tried to help.
“Move.”
The Hobgoblin shooed the children out of the way. He picked Cade up and began to pull the burrs off him as the child screamed.
And only then did Numbtongue look up and realize that the door to Erin’s inn was connected right to the adventurer’s seats. And Briganda was on her feet, looking at him.
“Cade!”
The adventuress bellowed. The other adventurers had been laughing or seeing what was the matter. They didn’t realize how alarmed Briganda, the only one of them not used to Numbtongue, was. She charged and they grabbed for her, shouting, too late.
“Stop, stop! He’s not a monster! Well—he is, but he’s a guest of Miss—”
Grev shouted as he and Mrsha tried to bar the way. But Briganda had her axe and buckler out. She charged with a war cry as Numbtongue put Cade down. Tensely, he felt at his sword.
“Looks strong. Pyrite?”
