But not as mean. He beamed at Erin, peering into the inn.
“Yes, this is the inn that serves the Players of Celum! We’re renaming ourselves to The Player’s Retreat, actually. My name’s Veeid; I’m the [Innkeeper]. Level 36. This is one of the best inns in Invrisil; we can hold over a hundred regular guests easily. Which we’ll need to do if the Players keep growing! And you must be Erin Solstice!”
The young woman blinked at the man’s obvious admiration for the Players.
“That’s me. Wow, a hundred guests?”
“Of course! That’s most of our profits. We have a stables—very fine [Hostlers] who put any animal that comes in right to rest.”
The [Innkeeper] looked shocked. Erin blinked.
“Stables. Wow, other inns actually have them?”
The man looked askance, and then laughed heartily. Erin smiled too. He seemed decent.
“Well—there’s a bit of a crowd around my front door this moment. My [Bouncers] can keep most of ‘em out, but they’re begging just to see what’s in your door. Mind if I let them in? The Players are out and we’ll cordon them from the regular sitting area…”
“Oh!”
Flustered, Erin hesitated.
“We’re going to switch this door to Pallass and Liscor and other places—but yeah, I can keep it here. There won’t be much to see, but maybe they can chat with other people? If they want to come through…well, the door runs out of mana, but we can work something out.”
Veeid was nodding. He hesitated, looking towards the shouting coming from his front door.
“I—I’d be rather pleased if you kept your door here, Miss Solstice. The traffic might bother the Players, but for tonight? Its profits to be made. I’d give you ten percent of what I earn, even if it’s just letting the people in?”
“Ten percent? Nah, I don’t need—”
“Erin!”
Lyonette rushed over and knocked Erin aside. She smiled at Veeid’s shocked expression.
“Sorry, Erin’s too nice for her own good. Let’s do ten percent. And we can sell through to your inn, Mister Veeid? We have ice cream. Gelato, I think it’s called.”
“You have—well, the Players said you did but I didn’t believe ‘em! More fool me! Absolutely, Miss! Sell into my inn and I’ll have my staff take it. Ten percent?”
“Yes. We can just do a headcount if you want to make it simple.”
Lyonette hesitated, but took the man’s hand. He smiled.
“I’ll do an accounting; don’t you worry, Miss…?”
“Lyon, sorry.”
Veeid nodded, waving at his [Head Waiter].
“Don’t you worry. I’ve heard all about them bad eggs in Celum. Mister Wesle and Miss Jasi had some tales. I’m a fair fighter when it comes to adding and subtracting—I know exactly how much I make in a day, down to a half-copper or pennies! Not that anyone pays with those in my inn!”
He laughed. Lyonette smiled in relief. Veeid glanced at the door.
“Redit! Let ‘em in! I’ll tell you when to stop! Just keep out the riffraff!”
The [Bouncer] stepped back. A flood rushed into the inn, staring at the doors. Veeid looked at Erin.
“We can put up a little barrier, keep ‘em out of your inn, Miss Erin.”
“What? You don’t need to do that. It’s free. We just need to move people back and forth.”
The [Innkeeper]’s brows shot up. Maviola, looking around and feeling around for a spare coin, sighed in relief. She began to shove into line as the patrons heard and clustered up.
“Free? You’ll get everyone in Invrisil wanting to duck in and out, Miss Solstice.”
“Ooh. Yeah. Then—hey! We’ll let people in, but later! We’ll do random selections! Don’t make a line! Just give us—half an hour!”
Erin waved her hands at the people. They blinked and shouted back, but Erin shouted.
“No line! Go eat food! We’ll get you menus! Who wants ice cream? Gelato!”
The crowd murmured. They returned to their seats, demanding to see as Lyonette hurried back with menus. Veeid’s eyebrows were almost engulfing his scalp. He stared as Erin nodded at him.
“I’m gonna let Lyonette handle the door. Nice to meet you, Mister Veeid! I think Zevara’s coming and she is angry!”
She hurried off. Veeid glanced at Lyon…or Lyonette. The [Princess] grimaced, but the [Innkeeper] hadn’t caught Erin’s slip. He stared after Erin’s back.
“Who is that, Miss Lyon?”
Lyonette didn’t know what he meant at first. But the male [Innkeeper] was staring at Erin’s back in awe. He looked at his orderly guests.
“She just ordered them about like that. I couldn’t manage it with Redit behind me on a crowded day. She has to be—and that level at her age?”
“She’s…fairly high-level.”
The [Princess] murmured. Veeid gave her a knowing look and shook his head.
“There are less than twenty [Innkeepers] in all of Izril higher level than her, I’d wager. Dead gods. And I thought the Players of Celum made it up. Let me know if you have anything and I’ll be right over, Miss. It’s a…pleasure to have The Wandering Inn connected to mine for the night.”
The [Princess] blinked as he gave her a little nod. She smiled back. And then Veeid turned back.
“Oh. One important thing, Miss Lyon?”
“Yes?”
He’d intercepted a menu. The [Innkeeper] dug out some coins and handed them to Lyon. Exact change.
“One ‘ice cream’ for me, please.”
 
—-
 
Watch Captain Zevara stormed into Erin’s inn. She looked around, and asked if Magnolia or the other [Ladies] were present. When Erin assured her they were not, the Watch Captain grunted.
She’d come here on foot, but more and more people wanted into the inn now. And they were coming via the regular door or the magic one as Lyonette turned the dial frantically.
“If they’re not here…I’ll take some of your portable foods, Miss Solstice. Those ham…ham…”
“Hamburgers?”
“Yes. Make it four. No, five. And some drinks. Alcoholic. I’m not facing this sober. And the door to Pallass—”
She turned as the door opened. Magus Grimalkin strode in.
“Watch Captain. There you are. Pallass’ High Command wants you on a group communication chat. I’ll provide the spell.”
“I was just getting hamburgers. Does four for you work?”
“…Do they have ham? I was under the impression they were beef.”
Both Drakes looked at Erin. She blinked at them. At Grimalkin.
“They’re…beef. With lettuce, tomatoes, onions, cheese, and stuff.”
“No onion on mine.”
Zevara informed Drassi, who’d hurried over with a bag of fries. Grimalkin saw the sealed mug of whiskey.
“Drinks, Watch Captain?”
“I’ll have it after I hear that number Magnolia Reinhart promised me, Sinew Magus. And you?”
He thought about it.
“…Maybe an ale. Miss Erin.”
He turned to her. And then the two looked at each other slowly. Erin gazed up at Grimalkin.
“Are you happy about what Magnolia did, Grimalkin?”
Her face fell as the [Magus] avoided looking directly at her.
“I would have preferred not to be caught off-guard, but on the whole, it was beneficial to Izril, Miss Solstice. Liscor as well. That number…you understand Magnolia Reinhart analyzed the entire Hive? It is substantially higher than it should be, under any implementation of the Antinium’s treaty. This is information all the cities need to know.”
Zevara’s shoulders hunched. She looked at Drassi, hurrying over with the burgers.
“…Double my drink order.”
The [Bartender] threw up her claws and raced off. More people were coming in. No Antinium, save for the ones present. Erin looked at Grimalkin.
“I guess Magnolia’s on your side, then.”
The [Sinew Magus] refused to answer that. Erin felt something dark creeping up on her. But she forced it away. She shook her head.
“Fine. Go.”
“More people from Pallass are waiting to come through! I have two [Tacticians], Watch Captain Venim, Major—”
Sergeant Kel was arguing with Lyonette as she tried to protest that the door would run out of power again. Erin walked up to the door.
“What’s this? The door doesn’t have enough power. Get a [Mage].”
“We would like to enter the inn.”
A haughty Drake informed Erin. She looked at him.
“Oh, really? But are you on Kel’s list?”
The Drake hesitated. Sergeant Kel bit his lip. And Erin shut the door and turned the dial.
Lyonette stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked at her.
“Change it back once we get more people through from Liscor and elsewhere.”
The [Princess] did, biting back a comment about how unusually aggressive Erin had been.
“What do we do about people in Invrisil, Erin? They want to come through and we can’t handle the numbers, even with the Sage’s Grass…”
Erin watched a small flood of Gnolls and Drakes, arguing about what they’d seen, come through. She caught a few hints of conversation.
“—came to our aid the first time during the First Antinium Wars. She may be a Human, but she’s the best of them.”
“She’s one of the Five Families. As trustworthy as a snake in your pants!”
“What kind of snake?”
“She just kneecapped the Antinium with that move. If they have kneecaps. I don’t know. But she’s on our side.”
“Yeah? And I think the Antinium are fine. Who saved us in the Second Antinium Wars?”
“Why are they called the Antinium Wars, scales-for-brains?”
The [Innkeeper] shook her head. She felt—lousy. Despite her friends coming to visit. And the lousiness was getting worse by the second.
“We’ll let some of them through, Lyonette. That’s all from Liscor? Check every five minutes. Now—Esthelm—Wailant’s farm?”
“Dead gods! I just saw everything on the scrying orb! Is that [Lady] still here?”
Wailant stormed into the inn, Viceria on his heels. Erin recoiled as the [Farmer] looked around. He shook Erin’s hand, laughing.
“Rhir’s hell! What a thing to see! No Reinhart, huh? Damn, but I’m in such a good mood! We’ll visit the inn if that’s alright, Miss Erin? And the door’s open to Invrisil?”
“Oh, Wailant. Sure. I mean—yeah!”
“Invrisil. What a miraculous thing. We might have to prevail on you to visit, Erin.”
Viceria’s eyes were shining. Wailant laughed.
“Just drinks for tonight. Dead gods, what a sight! Hey, is that Seborn bastard here? I want to jaw with him about what he said about [Storm Sailors] on that damned scrying orb! As in, punch him in the jaw…”
He walked past Erin. The [Innkeeper] saw Viceria give her an apologetic smile.
“Sorry, Wailant’s very passionate.”
“Oh, no—I’m glad someone is.”
The two entered the inn. And then Lyonette changed the door to Invrisil.
“Okay, so what are we going to do about the visitors, Erin—?”
And he was standing in the doorway. Erin and Lyonette recoiled, but it was too late. He stepped into the inn.
Reynold the [Butler] bowed smartly to both Erin and Lyonette. He had a letter and scroll in his hands. Erin backed up and looked for Magnolia. But she was not there.
“Reynold? What are you…?”
“Good evening, Miss Solstice. I apologize for the disturbance, but Lady Reinhart has ordered me to deliver both a piece of correspondence for Miss Byres and a proclamation regarding the use of your door. I regret the disturbance, and, indeed, the last incident as does her ladyship.”
Reynold spoke crisply, but Erin’s face was frozen. She had liked Reynold. But that had been on their short ride. And he no longer called her by her first name—perhaps sensing that the trust had been broken.
“What does Lady Reinhart want?”
Lyonette was cautious. Reynold unfurled the scroll. He read out loud and to everyone in earshot.
“In light of the marvelous door connecting Invrisil to Liscor, Lady Magnolia Reinhart, as [Lady] of Invrisil, has decreed that the usage of the door is to be taxed per visitor for any usage with exception only in the case of Miss Erin Solstice and the employees of her inn. The price per visitor shall be six silver coins, two of which will be given to Invrisil, two to Liscor, and two to The Wandering Inn.”
Erin blinked in surprise and then outrage. She opened her mouth, but Reynold went on. And there was a—significance to his words.
“Lady Reinhart also decrees that this door shall not be used to transmit correspondence, merchandise, or any other goods or valuables that would interfere with the natural order of trade without signatory agreement between Invrisil and the concerned parties. This order is enforced by Lady Magnolia’s Skill, [Written Decree] and shall take effect this very moment.”
He rolled up the scroll. And Erin felt the Skill take hold in a moment. There was no flash of light. No other effect. She just knew and was bound by it.
And her mood turned blacker still. Reynold bowed slightly to Erin.
“I am sorry, Miss Solstice.”
“Damn. There goes easy selling the Sage’s Grass. That Reinhart is a clever bitch.”
Wailant cursed at his table. Erin looked through the door. Lyonette herself was…impressed.
Six silver? That wasn’t exorbitant, but you had to pay it twice to get back. And it would prohibit most casual people from entering while at the same time promoting healthy visitation. And it would make the inn, Liscor, and Invrisil a tidy profit.
However, Erin was clearly not in the mood to think of that. She glared at Reynold.
“I guess that’s another thing I don’t have a say in, huh?”
“I am deeply sorry for the inconvenience, Miss Erin. But Invrisil is the domain of Lady Reinhart. She has a vested interest in not destabilizing the Runner’s Guild or Merchant’s Guild.”
The [Butler] bowed again. Erin shook her head. She was angry. Hateful. And trying not to throw it onto him. But she couldn’t help herself.
“Reynold. How can you be part of that? That—you’re not a bad guy. But that was wrong. Magnolia could have talked to me! She could have done anything else! But she didn’t. She did the worst thing. She’s—an idiotic—that stupid—”
Erin literally didn’t have enough bad words or practice using them. She was so angry at Magnolia. But—to her surprise, Reynold looked up and shook his head at her words.
He had been shamefaced, refusing to meet her eyes. But now the [Butler] stiffened. He nodded to Erin, politely, but his voice was firm in disagreement.
“Miss Erin. I do regret the way the incident occurred. And Lady Reinhart is less than…polite in her way. She has used your inn to her advantage. However, I would ask that you refrain from insulting her in my presence.”
Erin looked at Reynold incredulously.
“Don’t you know what she did? She wrecked the chances of helping the Antinium! She just made war more likely and for what? To get in with the Walled Cities? She could have done something better. Nicer. She could have—”
The [Butler] met her eyes calmly as he shook his head.
