He’s used his Pyrite-minute already, but the Hob could give him tactical advice. Pyrite stumped over as Numbtongue’s world slowed, and stared at Briganda, sizing her up. The [Chieftain] narrowed his eyes, nodded.
“…Nope.”
The [Magestone Chieftain] sat on the floor. Numbtongue stared at his friendly ghost. And then realized.
“Oh.”
Briganda charged at Numbtongue, who was standing in the garden with her son. She smashed into the open doorway and the invisible barrier protecting the Garden of Sanctuary. Mrsha, Grev, Numbtongue all winced. Cade looked up as his mother reeled backwards.
“Mom?”
Briganda hacked at the invisible door, but she only struck the wall with her enchanted axe. She left a few marks in it before the others pulled her off. And calmed her down.
“We told you there’s a friendly Goblin in the inn! You know the Halfseekers!”
Revi shouted at Briganda, embarrassed, as Numbtongue ushered Cade through the door. The boy, no longer frightened, stared at the Hobgoblin. Briganda was bright red.
“I reacted, okay? I heard Cade screaming and—I’m sorry! I just didn’t—I’m sorry.”
“Apologize to him.”
Halrac turned his head, gesturing at Numbtongue. Briganda stared at him and then called at Numbtongue.
“I’m sorry—Hobgoblin fellow. Didn’t mean it.”
Numbtongue waved idly. He tossed Mrsha and Grev through the door. Then he calmly went back up to the hilltop. Reiss eyed the milkshake Numbtongue had taken.
“Are you sure you do not wish to mingle with them?”
“Nope. Too many people.”
“And you will not accept my aid?”
“Not today.”
The Goblin Lord sighed. He looked at Numbtongue’s food. Pyrite smacked his lips.
“…Is that…tasty?”
The [Bard] smirked.
“Yep.”
 
—-
 
Maviola El stared through the open doorway. She cursed Lady Bethal. She cursed Magnolia Reinhart’s door tax. It looked really fun in there.
“Excuse me. Could I just—”
“No fee, no entry.”
Redit folded his arms. He was managing the door. Maviola fumed.
“Couldn’t I just walk over and…?”
“Nope.”
She could have walked through that door, Magnolia’s orders or not. But the young [Lady] was stuck. Fuming, she watched as, through the door, more people began entering the inn. They were paying, going through—and eating food! Her stomach was rumbling fiercely; she’d had breakfast with the Horns, half a sandwich, and nothing else.
“I know the Horns of Hammerad. Let me at least talk to them. I told you, my money pouch was stolen!”
Maviola snapped at Redit. The [Bouncer] regarded her, and reluctantly, sighed.
“It’d get me in trouble with Master Veeid.”
He looked pointedly at the [Innkeeper], who was among the people enjoying The Wandering Inn’s food. Maviola’s eyes narrowed.
Now, how would she do this as a young woman? Flirt with the big man, probably. That would do the trick. That was a young woman’s trick and it would work.
But Maviola was old and young. And she had no time for insolent [Bouncers]. So, as the crowds cleared, she raised two hands to her mouth and shouted.
“Ceria Springwalker!”
Her voice was loud. Redit winced and began to push Maviola back, but the half-Elf had heard. She came to the door. Her eyes widened.
“Maviola? Oh, tree rot! I’m sorry, I totally forgot you were with us! Come on through! I have to introduce you to Erin! And I think your friends are somewhere around here…”
Maviola smiled in relief.
“Actually, I’ve been stuck here. Someone stole my money pouch! And my horse!”
She neglected to mention who. Ceria’s eyes went wide.
“What? That’s terrible!”
“Can you spot me six silver? I’ll pay you back.”
“I can just give it to you—hey! Redit! Here’s the money. Let her through already! And come on, we’ve got food!”
Ceria waved Maviola through. The young woman smiled triumphantly at Redit, who looked slightly abashed. But she was serene in victory. She only paused at the entrance of the door to give the [Bouncer] a damn good kick in the rear.
“Who’s this?”
The other adventurers blinked at Maviola. Ceria explained about her situation, but the [Lady] was optimistic.
“I’ll put in a request with the Watch. They’ll get the gold back in a couple of days.”
That was what Thomast had promised. Pisces looked dubious, as did Typhenous.
“The Watch doesn’t find most [Thieves]. We can surely feed you. And give you some coin—”
“I’ll take the food. But I can manage with only a bit. Thank you. It was a stroke of luck meeting you all.”
Maviola smiled. Yvlon murmured.
“Unless meeting us got you robbed. And here I thought Invrisil was safe.”
“It is unless you have money. The gangs aren’t as strong elsewhere, but one must watch oneself. If Lady Maviola looked like a ripe mark—er, that is to say, an easy target, she’d have been sought out.”
Typhenous murmured. Pisces grimaced as he glanced sidelong at Maviola.
“…Her horse was quite splendid, what I saw of it. And a [Lady] would be…”
The others fell silent. Maviola grimaced, but only for a moment. And here they thought she was an air-headed [Lady]? Well enough. She sat at the table, and noticed Grev grabbing some pizza. She copied him.
“I’ll sort it out. But tonight, if you’ll tolerate my company—I’ll toast the generosity of adventurers and friends on the road!”
“Hear, hear! So long as you don’t mind drinking with Selphids? And my…partner is coming. Maughin. You have to meet him, Halrac!”
Jelaqua raised her mug, laughing. Maviola laughed.
“Selphid? I’ll trade kisses for drinks with Antinium or Goblins!”
She saw Yvlon blink. So did Ksmvr—well his antennae waved. The others laughed. But Maviola was partly serious. She wanted to know what these…unique Antinium were up to. Why a Hobgoblin with a guitar sat in an inn.
This was a perfect last adventure. But for the moment Maviola bit into the pizza. And the novel experience made her laugh with delight.
 
—-
 
In the inn, the party was really getting started. Although…Erin was upstairs, playing moody games of chess and ignoring her partner, who was asking if ‘anything had happened’. Did he know? Who was he?
The world was sucky. Erin Solstice sat, remembering Magnolia Reinhart smiling as she hurt Erin’s friends. She wouldn’t forget this. She slammed a chess piece down, angry. Not even chess was calming her down.
Below, in the inn, the real party had begun. Relc leapt into the inn.
“I’m here at last! Get me a pizza, a drink, and let’s get this party st—”
He looked around. No one was paying any attention. Relc’s shoulder slumped.
“Aw. Where’re my people? The Players of Liscor?”
He looked at the empty [Grand Theatre], forlorn, as Selys walked past him and towards the table. She was…apprehensive. And then—
“Selys?”
Pisces saw her first. He stood up. Selys waved a claw at him, smiling.
“Hey.”
The two met as the others stood up, calling out greetings to Relc and Selys. The [Necromancer] blinked at Selys.
“Well, I suppose we are meeting all the old friends. Hello.”
He smiled. Selys did too, but with reservation.
“Hi. I didn’t know when you would arrive at Invrisil. You kept us waiting.”
The [Necromancer] smiled ruefully.
“Circumstances…arranged that. But we are back in Liscor, for a time. And, while our future is in the air, I was considering bringing up your—request to me with my team. Why don’t you sit, and we can catch up? This amusing incident occurred with eggs, aside from Lady Magnolia’s eventful arrival, of course.”
Selys smiled. But she was looking about.
“I’d love to, Pisces. But—”
“Selys! And all the adventurers!”
Hawk bounded through the crowd, beaming. He was back in Liscor already, having beaten even the door. And—he was dressed to impress. Pisces blinked as Hawk came over, in a suit contoured for his body. It wasn’t really fitting with the inn—but the Rabbit Beastkin was smiling at Selys.
“Selys, I’ve gotten the private room. Unless you’d like to eat out here? Hi…Halrac, right?”
The Gold-rank adventurers nodded to Hawk. But the Courier wasn’t exactly a regular at the inn. Relc chortled as he edged over to the table.
“Mind if I sit? Hey, do I know you?”
“Yeah. And I’d know you anywhere. Relc, right?”
Grev eyed Relc. But that was background noise. Selys was looking at Pisces. He blinked a few times, and then, instantly, smiled.
“Ah, you’re engaged. Well then, I’ll discuss the matter later.”
“Yeah. Later.”
Selys smiled. The two of them nodded at each other, and Hawk escorted Selys away. Pisces sat back down, reached for a drink, and saw Ceria and Yvlon looking at him. Ceria looked oblivious, laughing at Relc as he blinked at Briganda, who was sizing him up. Yvlon…just tipped her cup up and gave Pisces a nod. He sighed.
“…Do they have anything stronger in this inn?”
Strange meetings. The same question was being asked by Kevin, who had some of Joseph’s sword-money coin and was inquiring about drinks at the bar.
“So…what’s a Drake do for fun, anyways?”
Drassi gave Kevin a blank look as she served drinks.
“The same thing Humans do, I suppose. Are you flirting? Because I’m on duty and I’m probably going to be too tired afterwards. Late night shift on nights like these.”
“Oh. Well—what’ve you got on tap? Strong stuff. Good money for the drink. I’m on a budget.”
Kevin slapped the coins down. Drassi looked at him.
“Hm…Firebreath Whiskey is cheapest. Let me get you…a quarter of a bottle? How many shots?”
“Seven.”
Kevin sighed and leaned against the bar. Strike out. And don’t go back up to bat or you’ll just look stupid. More so than already. The young man sighed, looked around the inn—
And jumped as he saw Bird at the bar. The Antinium was eating—Belgrade and Pawn were enjoying a meal with Lyonette in a private room during her break, but Bird, oblivious to everything, was eating a chicken wing at the bar.
It was breaded. And the Antinium was sitting by himself as no one wanted to be near him; probably why Kevin had been able to order. He stared at Bird. Bird stared at his food.
“…Hey. That’s an Antinium. They’re friendly. Not monsters, got it?”
Drassi poked Kevin in the back. He jumped. She had the shots. He took them, carried them over to the table with his friends, and then came back. Bird was still eating.
“Uh—hey. Cheers.”
Kevin spoke. Bird looked up and the young man took a sip of the powerful, painful, spicy whiskey. It did a lot of good work for what you drank, he knew full well. Bird waved his antennae idly.
“What am I being cheerful about, please?”
“…Stuff. Hey. My name’s Kevin.”
The Worker digested this, and then nodded. He began eating the bird bones as well as the meat.
“I am Bird.”
Kevin looked at him.
“Cool. So, what are you, like—an Ant-person? Nice to meet you.”
“That is correct.”
“So—why’s your name Bird?”
The Antinium looked up again, as if surprised this conversation was still ongoing.
“I like birds.”
Kevin nodded agreeably.
“I like ‘em too. You mean, like…chicken? Turkeys and stuff?”
Bird nodded, and then his mandibles drew together. He paused, and then edged over on his seat. He gave Kevin a long stare.
“…What is this ‘turkey’ you mention? And please explain other stuff, which may be birds.”
And Kevin made a friend.
 
—-
 
They strolled in as gentle as you please. Coins to the doorman, a doff of the cap. And they walked in, proper as you like.
Manners mattered, after all. And the pair of them, while certainly unique, attracted less attention than you might think. After all, with a [Lady] whose hair ran like fire, and Antinium about, much less a half-Giant in his seat and a white Gnoll harassing the tables, who was to notice a pair of smartly-dressed sorts?
Anyone with an eye for such things. But everyone was distracted who might pick up on the clues. And the two made no effort to distinguish themselves.
Aside from common courtesy. The shorter one—and he was short compared to the tall fellow who was more brick than man—touched his cap as he sat.
“We’re much obliged for the menu, Miss. Might we inquire if there’s any specialties of this establishment which we have heretofore not experienced? Somethin’ a traveller might appreciate.”
Lyonette blinked at the rougher speech, but the man was polite as could be. She smiled.
“Pizza’s unusual, but if you want something fancier, the lasagna is always received well. We have small, medium, and large portions. And the ice cream comes from Terandria.”
“Ah, the gelato. I’ve tasted it myself, so I might have one of these—hamburger here. And this—blue fruit juice?”
The smaller man read very carefully from the menu, taking effort to do it. He wore innocuous, brown clothes, and a floppy cap. Lyonette scribbled down the order and smiled.
“And you, sir?”
“I believe I’ll settle for a medium portion of lasagna, this pizza you recommend—and a ‘milkshake’. How many…slices would this be?”
“I’d say two or three unless you’re hungry, sir.”
Lyonette eyed the bigger man, but she was respectful. Because the bigger fellow was rather large, but he had a quite dapper vest and leggings on. And his hat was in fact somewhat tall. Not as splendiferous as a top hat, but certainly with breathing room for the scalp.
He had no problem reading, and his voice, deep as it was, was quite thoughtful and quick. The two settled back as Lyonette nodded and got their orders. They blinked when she brought back fries and condiments.
“Ah, I’m afraid we didn’t order this, Miss.”
The smaller man was quick to point this out. Lyonette smiled.
“Oh, it’s on the house for any larger orders! Help yourselves! These are ‘french fries’.”
“We’re much obliged by the hospitality, ma’am. Any place that as gives out free food must be confident in the rest.”
The smaller man looked happy at the mention of ‘free’. He reached for a fry, but then caught himself. He and the bigger man tipped their caps to Lyonette.
But they didn’t remove them. They were only odd in that way—and perhaps their speech. And they were certainly not snobs. They dug into the french fries with a working man’s appetite. And exclaimed and savored the new food as most clients did.
As normal as could be. Except for the hats. And except, of course, that they were them. The smaller man remarked as he stared at the door to Invrisil, which was still letting in new people.
“Wilovan, I had a thought.”
“Only the one?”
The smaller man gave a quick scowl at the bigger fellow for the wit. Then he went on, eying the people paying in silver to go through the door.
