Olesm’s stomach was in knots. The Antinium were double even the largest estimates he’d seen. And they had a tunnel that led southwards? They could sack Liscor anytime they wanted. And the Walled Cities were in a panic.
The only reason they’d let Liscor’s Council and Olesm go was because they clearly thought the Council and Olesm were idiots who hadn’t known anything about the Antinium. And they were right. Watch Captain Zevara was getting grilled—and Olesm?
He just wanted to talk to Erin. It had been so long since he’d come here. He didn’t feel…welcome anymore. Not after the election. That had been his choice. But…
“I’d really like to speak to Erin, if she’s here?”
The Drake looked hopefully at Drassi. She sucked in her breath.
“Ooh. You know, she was just here. But there was this thing with black fire and uh—not a good time? She’s in Pallass.”
“Pallass? Oh—fine. But let her know I’d really like to talk? If she has time?”
Olesm sighed. Drassi nodded sympathetically.
“Do you want to sit with the Horns?”
“They’re here? Ceria’s here?”
Olesm brightened. He looked around and saw—Yvlon and Ksmvr, talking anxiously. But no Ceria. Drassi winced.
“Ceria’s gone too. She went after Erin—”
The [Strategist] eyed Ksmvr and Yvlon. He sighed.
“I’ll sit alone.”
“Oh! Well, sorry—I’ll let you know when anyone comes over!”
Drassi called out after Olesm. She went back to the magical door, adjusted it to Invrisil and blinked.
“Ancestors! Um. Hello!”
 
—-
 
Olesm found a seat next to the Councilmembers. The four of them were still talking. Lism was speaking to Krshia, Elirr, and Alonna. And for once, they weren’t in disagreement, just shock.
“That was a disgrace. A [Lady] can just—walk into our city and take command? She overwhelmed us! I felt it!”
Alonna nodded. The [Mage] was shaken.
“If that was a brawl, that was the two of them pinning us down while that [Lady] stomped our faces in. I couldn’t move. I didn’t even think! I was just—watching. I don’t know how you and Krshia even moved, Lism—”
“Bah. We didn’t do anything. And I’ll say this. Damn that Reinhart, but she helped us. Don’t give me that look, Silverfang! I can admit that.”
Lism sat back. He gulped from his mug. His claw was trembling.
“Antinium. They have a tunnel. And they’re in our city. I was right.”
Krshia was subdued. She looked pale under her fur.
“They have taken no…action.”
“Don’t give me that! You saw their numbers! And they’re flouting every rule in the treaty! They have a tunnel to the other Hives. This—this could have been the beginning of them sacking the city.”
The other Councilmembers fell silent. Not even Krshia could find a response to that. It was true. The Antinium could have marched all six Hives into Liscor. And no one had known but Magnolia Reinhart. Lism drank again. And his voice was surprisingly steady.
“What do we do? We can’t allow this anymore. I say—we find as much room in the budget as we can. Damn the army—we demand the funds and approach…Fissival? We need [Enchanters] over Level 50 here today! We need to double Watch Captain Zevara’s budget.”
“And the Antinium? Do we kick them out of the city?”
Alonna looked around. Olesm raised his head anxiously. Lism was nodding, but it was Elirr who raised a paw. The Council were being served food, but they weren’t that hungry despite not having eaten dinner. The [Beast Trainer] looked around.
“We must take precautions. But regarding removing the Antinium—even if we agreed. Could we?”
Dead silence. The Council looked at each other. Remove the Antinium? In what world did the Antinium just pack up and leave? Lism growled.
“We have to prepare the city. Fortify it against an attack. Can we—reinforce the ground so they can’t tunnel up through the streets?”
“They could collapse the city. At least—parts of it that aren’t magically reinforced. That’s what one of the [Engineers] in Pallass was saying. How did we not know? How did Magnolia Reinhart…? And what do we do?”
Alonna murmured. The Councilmembers were reaching for their food, trying to think, when a figure slithered up to their table and spoke brightly.
“Excuse me. If you’re debating securing the city, I have some thoughts on the matter. It might be outside your budget, but I can certainly make accommodations to my design.”
The two Drakes and Gnolls looked up. Their jaws dropped. Lism recoiled, and the figure standing or rather—coiled in front of their table smiled brightly.
“Good evening. This is a fortuitous meeting, isn’t it? I hope I’m not interrupting, but that polite Drake told me you were Liscor’s Council. Hello! A pleasure to meet you.”
“What in the name of the walls are you?”
Lism sat back in his seat. Because the figure in the inn was an anomaly in Liscor. In southern Izril for that matter. He was…a Lizardperson. But not just any Lizardperson. Rarer still, even in Baleros.
A Lamia smiled at the group, ignoring the looks of horror or amazement from the others in the inn. He was short—well, average height, when ‘standing’. But his lower, serpentine half was long, trailing behind him.
The Lamia’s scales were larger than a Drake’s, but he possessed two human-like arms; and a more bipedal upper body. Unlike a Naga, who was larger, stronger, or a Gorgon who was even more imposing still, the Lamia’s body was agile. A form suited for intelligence, spellcasting.
His gaze was certainly quick, and the Lamia seemed to be appraising each member of the Council in turn. His eyes flicked to Olesm as the Drake stared at him, but he nodded politely to the table.
“Excuse me. I’m the [Architect]. Hexel Quithail, at your service.”
He bowed slightly, his body undulating with the graceful motion. Lism’s eyes widened and Krshia stood up.
“Master Quithail. We apologize, yes? We had no idea you were here. I am Krshia Silverfang.”
The Lamia beamed. He had a scar on one cheek, Olesm saw. And his reptilian eyes were bright. Olesm saw a trio of nervous Lizardfolk hurrying over behind him. Carrying a number of bags along with their personal bags of holding. They huddled together behind their master as Hexel gestured towards them.
“Not at all. Not at all. Miss Silverfang of the Council of Liscor, I presume? I apologize for the delay; I landed at Zeres, but I had to sail north and disembark in Human lands. Lady Reinhart kindly escorted me to Invrisil and assured me I’d have transport.”
He gestured at the door, smiling widely as he shook Krshia’s paw.
“How incredible. Is this magical door property of Liscor? Or the inn? Ah, but the events of today were also quite dramatic. Antinium under the city? I have my work cut out for me, clearly. I would deeply love to see the maps of their tunnels—I can rework the city in some ways to avoid deliberate sabotage. But again, that will require some redesign. But I do apologize, I’m talking too much.”
He had that chatty way of most Lizardfolk about him. The Council blinked, but then Elirr rose and offered his paw.
“I am Elirr Fultpar. It is an honor to meet you, Master Quithail.”
“Hexel, please. We’ll be working together.”
The Lamia beamed at Elirr. Alonna rose.
“I am Guildmistress Alonna of the Mage’s Guild. Hello.”
Hexel turned to her. He smiled.
“Charmed.”
He did not take her claw. Lism looked at Hexel with obvious distaste.
“It’s good to meet you…Mister Hexel. Our [Builders] have been working according to your designs. But this latest incident has…changed things. This isn’t an official meeting of the Council, but we welcome your input. Please. Sit.”
He nodded a few times, still looking warily at Hexel. And the Lamia smiled. With his teeth.
“Thank you. Councilmember Lism, I presume? I was delighted to be offered the job to build a city like Liscor especially given the weather conditions when I received it. However—before I sit, and indeed, begin my work, may I have a few words on the matter of…security?”
“Security?”
The Councilmembers blinked. Hexel smiled and gestured to his crew of three Lizardpeople. They stared at the Drakes. And Olesm saw Hexel’s eyes flicker to him, Lism, Alonna.
“Indeed. I’d heard Drakes didn’t like Lizardpeople, but I wasn’t aware of how badly that truism ran. Did I mention I first disembarked at Zeres? Well, I was heading north to Liscor. As it happens, Drakes slaughtered half of my [Assistants] and gave me this scar.”
He touched the scar running down his face. The table fell quiet. Lism’s jaw opened and stayed open. The Lamia went on. And his smile widened.
“So, while I’m fully delighted to be working on a project like this, I must insist on [Bodyguards]. And if this inn is open? Yes, I’d prefer to stay here. And I insist on protection for me and my people. Non-Drakes. Gnolls or Humans, preferably. Without that, I will be returning to Invrisil and Baleros this moment.”
He looked at the table. Alonna, Lism—both Drakes looked astounded. Krshia’s eyes were wide.
“Master Hexel—we had no idea. What happened? Were they [Bandits] or…?”
“They were Drakes. More than that, I think they simply objected to Lizardfolk. Astounding, really. Zeres was pleasant, but the further north I went…it was rather reminiscent of the scene in Chandrar, actually. You recall, with the Gnolls? Drakes attacked my party. I was forced to kill the rest after the ambush.”
The [Architect] looked about. And his eyes focused coldly on Lism’s.
“I trust that will not happen here? In fact, I will ensure it will not.”
“Of course not. We’re not about to kill you—that was bandits.”
Lism looked rattled. The Lamia shrugged.
“Just as you say. But I have your word on bodyguards? Now?”
The Council stared at each other and then nodded. Krshia spoke.
“You have our word, Master Hexel. We will arrange it. Absolutely. And let me apologize for…”
She trailed off. The Lamia smiled at the Gnoll. Olesm just looked at Hexel’s assistants. They stared at him and the other Drakes, clearly terrified. And his chest felt tight. Lizardfolk. Of course they were…lizards. But they’d been attacked for being…? Or was it [Bandits]?
Hexel just nodded at Krshia. He smiled again, and slithered over to the table. He didn’t sit, but rather reclined on his lower half. And he beamed. But again—with that edge.
“Excellent. Now that little matter is settled—I will make other provisions tomorrow, as we settle the matter. But for now, let’s get to work. Blueprints!”
He gestured and a Lizardman hurried forwards with a map of Liscor. Hexel produced a wand, waved it. All the dishes on Lism and Alonna’s side went scooting away as the map was unrolled. He addressed the Council.
“If you would like to discuss security for your city, it’s rather been on my mind as well. However, I am delighted to speak with you all. Tell me more about yourselves! And if you wouldn’t mind—I am famished.”
He waved and Ishkr strode over. His apprentices were seated at another table, and Hexel, smiling, ordered and began to chat. He leaned over to Krshia and Elirr, rather ignoring Lism and Alonna. The two Drakes were speechless anyways.
So was Olesm. He looked at Hexel, but what could you say? Olesm was biting his tongue as he remembered well—Lizardpeople jokes. No, it had to be [Bandits]. It was just dislike. No one was actually going to go out and kill a Lizardperson over that grudge. Right?
Surely not. Olesm had to stand up and look for Ceria and Erin. But they were still gone. Some people were discussing what had happened. Olesm found a Human [Mage] and a Minotaur. He vaguely recognized them.
“Excuse me. You wouldn’t know what happened to Erin, would you? I’m a friend. I was hoping to talk to her…”
Montressa and Beza looked up from their covert observation of the Earthers. Montressa nodded to the door.
“She’s in Pallass. Something to do with her magical fire gone wrong.”
“Her…magical fire? Oh, right. That. Uh—gone wrong?”
Olesm blinked a few times. The [Strategist] wondered if something was caught in his earholes. Montressa gave him an odd look.
“Yes. Her magical fire. Anyways, she’s gone. The other adventurers know more about it.”
She pointed. Olesm hesitated. He didn’t know the other adventurers as well as…Ceria and the Horns. He ducked his head.
“Oh, well, thank you.”
He walked past them. As she did, Bezale leaned over to Montressa.
“Who was that? Not one of Erin’s regulars. You know him, Montressa?”
The [Aegiscaster] whispered back, a bit too loudly.
“No idea. He might be new. You know, Erin makes a lot of friends.”
The [Strategist]’s shoulders hunched. He stopped heading over to the adventurers and scuttled back to his table. Then he put his head down.
“Strategist Olesm of Liscor. That’s me. New guest of the inn.”
He muttered into the table. And only the [Lady] with fire in her hair heard him. Olesm waved for a drink. Why had it all gone wrong? He’d just tried to do what was best for Liscor. And the worst part?
He’d been right. But it hadn’t been enough. The Antinium. Olesm clenched one claw into a fist. What was he supposed to do? Be nice to them?
They could wipe out Liscor. He was supposed to be one of the people who would stop them from doing that. But how did you stop The Black Tide?
He was no Zel Shivertail. And now—Erin didn’t even speak to him anymore. Olesm tried to cure this with the only medicine he had.
Lots and lots of alcohol.
 
—-
 
She walked, aflame, through the City of Inventions. The invisible fire flickered by moonlight. But she kept it burning. She let it feed on her.
Erin Solstice welcomed the flame. She didn’t need to be happy now. She didn’t want to put a smile on what Magnolia Reinhart had done.
She wanted to hate. She’d lost again. And Magnolia Reinhart would pay.
Take the hatred. Let it burn her. Let it become her weapon. Erin Solstice walked up the steps, and people flinched away from her.
The [Innkeeper] was weak. But her fire—it could be a weapon. One that could burn even Magnolia’s smile away. Erin wanted to hurt her.
So she walked, along the 9th floor. And she thought of all the ways you could hurt someone. Stab them, burn them, pull out their eyes. Burn their faces off with oil.
Some people deserved to die. That was what the fire whispered to her. And Erin agreed. She wanted a weapon. So she walked towards the one who could make it for her.
The Dwarf. Why hadn’t she carried an acid jar on her? She could have thrown it at Magnolia. What would happen if Ressa tried to block that? Could you pump it through a hose? A sprinkler?
No one was going to take her friends from her again. And this fire—this was power. Like the night she had made the faerie’s meal. Erin felt the power coursing through her.
