She kicked at him. The [Scout] growled as he had to half-leap out of his chair. Briganda’s face was red.
“Why didn’t you tell me about Mrsha before I made an idiot of myself?”
She pointed at Lyonette, who had cleared things up and was investigating the door. Revi chortled but stopped as Briganda raised a fist. Halrac folded his arms.
“If you’d listen before you spoke, Briganda—”
“Argh! I did! Dead gods. And we’re in Liscor? Can we get back? I left Cade in the inn. He’s fine I’m sure, but…”
Briganda glanced anxiously back at the door. Erin hurried to reassure her.
“The door’ll be recharged soon! It just ran out because we had…”
She counted. Nearly twenty people had come through before it had failed. That was a lot better! Like Wailant had claimed, the ambient mana gave the door more teleportations and it would hopefully power back on soon.
“Thank goodness.”
Briganda sighed. And then Erin heard a shout from the side. She turned in time to see Temile charging the other Players of Celum.
“Wesle! Jasi!”
The [Producer] threw his arms around his friends. Wesle was laughing as he pounded Temile on the back and Jasi gave him a hug.
“Temile! We missed you!”
“Liar! Did you even remember me? Wesle—dead gods, are you taller? Kilkran too!”
The [Blacksmith] turned [Actor] with the voice like deep honey was beaming. The other Players crowded around Temile, whom they’d left behind in Celum, laughing and trying to talk at once.
“Yimur and Pralcem too! And where’s that damned [Writer], Andel? His first good play and he writes it only after you get to Invrisil? What have we been paying him for?”
Temile shouted, looking around. A short part-Dwarf woman pushed her way through the others, literally lifting Andel out of the way. She raised a fist and shouted up at Temile.
“And me too! Where’s my [Actors], Temile? You promised me—”
And there they were. The original cast of the Players of Celum turned and saw over two dozen Gnolls, Drakes—even a Garuda staring at them. And they were just the [Actors]!
“Dead gods.”
Wesle breathed. Jasi’s eyes went round at the sight of so many Drakes—an oddity to a Drake girl raised in Celum. Temile beamed.
“May I present to the Players of Celum—the Players of Liscor! That’s what we’ve decided to go as, to avoid confusion. But our [Lead Actors] are over Level 15 already and everyone else is leveling fast! And behind you—”
“The stage. Oh, the stage!”
Jasi sighed. It wasn’t the very first stage she and Wesle had performed in—that had been in The Frenzied Hare, back in Celum. But this one was iconic. And the other, newer [Actors] were staring at the originals.
Perhaps they could even feel the disparity in levels. Because Wesle and Jasi and Kilkran, Yimur, and Pralcem and some of the others shone. But Wesle and Jasi most of all. And—in the silence, Wesle swept a bow.
His voice took on that echoing quality, even though he was speaking normally.
“It’s a pleasure indeed to meet the Players of Liscor! We salute you, fellow [Actors]!”
Yimur and Pralcem, the Gnoll and Human, instantly stood to attention like [Guardsmen], giving such serious salutes that it was comical. Kilkran just drew himself back like the haughty [King] he loved to play and looked down his nose. But it was Jasi who had the best impression.
“[Actors]? Why, my good Wesle, we shouldn’t allow such rabble in an establishment such as this. Send them away at once!”
She turned, with such immediate and haughty distress that one of the Gnolls began to laugh. And then the Players of Celum flooded forwards to meet their counterparts.
“Dead gods! You told me you’d been putting the gold to good use but—dead gods!”
Emme was exclaiming. Temile was grinning at her.
“You think you can use them, then?”
“Of course! We’ve been having Yimur playing every Gnoll character running. And Eltistiman’s been doing illusions along with makeup but it’s not the same! We might have to train them up, but there’s room on even our first lineup for them! You need to give me a list of their Skills—”
“Done. And you have an actual [Illusionist]? We have this Centaur, Palt, helping us, but you have one on the team?”
Emme gave him a sly smile.
“And more gold than you can count! We have our own theatre! Not that The Wandering Inn was bad, but we have security—beard maggots! Have you not heard about the autographs?”
“The—you’re still doing them?”
“Yes! We have to catch up! No—we need to cast you in tonight’s play! Emme! Temile would be the perfect replacement for one of our parts! And Temile—what happened to your thumb?”
Jasi exclaimed. Temile looked down at the missing thumb on one hand and chuckled ruefully.
“I’m afraid I’m ruined for swordplay. But I gave it for a good cause—the Creler attack, I told you, remember? Andel needs to put that to a script.”
The others sobered for a second. Then Emme slapped Temile on the back.
“Of course! Of course! There’s so much we need to do! And we have seats for everyone at the Season’s Theatre—tonight! Everyone! Stop hugging each other! Remember, we have an hour to get on stage! We need to prepare!”
She roared and the Players of Celum stopped talking. Instantly, Wesle turned serious.
“I forgot! But Lady Reinhart and a number of nobles will be in attendance!”
“Dead gods! We need to get into makeup!”
Kilkran tuned pale. The [Actors] rushed towards the door, but it was only just coming back to life.
“Stand back! We’re recharging it. Ceria, Pisces—Revi, Typhenous—can you add your mana to the door? It can probably stand a few trips, but no one goes through! Got it?”
Lyonette shook her fist at the people on the other side and a young woman with black and orange hair backed up. The Players were crowding around the door. Emme, worried, stumped over.
“Can we put the Players back through, Miss Lyonette? We have to perform?”
“Oh—damn! If the [Mages] cooperate, yes! and the Sage’s Grass will do its work, but I need to check on Liscor and—yes, yes! But only a few through at a time! Give the grass time to recharge!”
“Wesle and Jasi first, then. And Kilkran and Yimur.”
Emme immediately ordered the others. The four stormed through and the door went dead again. Lyonette threw up her hands, but it was a faster recharge time.
“They’ll have Eltistiman recharge the door on his end. Dead gods, I’ll pay for [Mages] to recharge the door if I have to! We can’t have our best [Actors] over here! Send a [Message]!”
Emme was pulling at her hair as she shouted. Lyonette was trying to calm Emme.
“Don’t worry! Don’t worry! The door will put all your [Actors] through within an hour, Emme! Definitely! Even without anyone helping!”
“But they need to get prepared now! They need makeup and—”
“Why not use ours?”
Temile interrupted. Emme looked at him. The [Producer] turned and pointed. The Players of Liscor were already ransacking their makeup and props.
“It might not be what you use in Invrisil, but—”
“Temile! My lovely Human!”
Emme dragged him down and planted a kiss on his forehead. Then she pointed.
“To makeup, everyone! And the rest of you—you’ll all be guests of the theatre! In the Solstice booth! Wait—will we have Erin herself? Because we might not have enough room!”
Lyonette and Temile stared.
“The Solstice…?”
Then they looked at Erin. She was high-fiving Briganda and laughing in delight as Ceria and the Horns of Hammerad shouted their own stories. Lyonette shook her head after a moment.
“I think Erin will be here, Emme.”
“Just as well. She’s a guest of honor and she deserves it when we have a moment ready for her. But the rest of you—let’s get this done! The show must go on!”
The part-Dwarf woman and Temile began giving orders as the [Actors] occupied the back of the [Grand Theatre] and began hurrying through the doorway. But they were only a part of the moment.
“Eggs? You got sick eating eggs and that was why you were late?”
Erin stared at Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] rolled her eyes as the rest of her team objected.
“Not just eggs. We beat Golems—Ksmvr got run out of town—”
“Twice.”
“The eggs were just the latest thing.”
Yvlon assured Erin with a long-suffering sigh. Erin grinned.
“You have to tell me everything. But—there’s going to be a lot of people coming in. Chaos. I’ll get you your food, though!”
“When is it not chaos here?”
Ceria wondered aloud, with a laugh. Pisces sniffed.
“You would be surprised how quiet it was before. This is marginally more pleasant. At least now there’s help. Ah, thank you.”
Drassi had brought over a steak. Pisces and Ceria licked their lips and then stared at each other. Ceria whipped out her wand.
“Play you for it.”
Both glanced at each other. Magical symbols began to flash in the air and then both conjured one. Erin saw a floating droplet of water, and a flying raven. Ceria groaned.
“Damn.”
She let Pisces take the steak-dish. The [Necromancer] smirked; it was magical rock-paper-scissors with far more combinations. He began slicing his steak into bite-sized pieces as Ksmvr raised one hand.
“May I have some of the pizza, Miss Erin? Extra crusty?”
No one had ever demanded that, but Erin assured Ksmvr she’d do her best. As she went into the kitchen, a white Gnoll raced up excitedly. Mrsha had hugged Griffon Hunt and now it was their turn!
“Mrsha!”
Yvlon bent. Mrsha sniffed at her arms and hugged her as the [Armsmistress] with excruciating care, gently squeezed Mrsha with a feather’s amount of pressure. The Gnoll wiggled, was put down on the table, and got a hug from Ceria as the half-Elf laughed.
“You’re getting bigger! And heavier!”
Mrsha turned expectantly to Pisces. She spread her arms out mock-reluctantly, pretending to glare. And the [Necromancer] glanced up.
“It’s you! Um…”
He snapped his fingers a few times. Mrsha gave Pisces a look and folded her arms. The [Necromancer]’s face was perfectly blank.
“Ksmvr, help me out here.”
The Antinium looked from Pisces to Mrsha and then his mandibles opened in comprehension.
“I have no idea who this strange Gnoll is, Comrade Pisces. In fact, we should eject her for this rude interruption to our meal—”
Mrsha scowled and leapt off the table. She punched Pisces in the leg. He smiled and flicked his fingers. A cube of cut steak floated off his plate. Mrsha jumped with her mouth open and it swerved out of the way. She glowered at Pisces, and then gave him a grudging thumbs-up with one paw.
It was good to have him back. No one else in the inn dared stand up to her.
Erin giggled as she came back and saw Mrsha leaping about, trying to grab the bit of meat. Pisces was smiling and Ksmvr’s mandibles opened wide.
“What is that?”
“Dis? Dis is a calzone. You want?”
Erin proudly pointed at the abomination that was pizza folded over to create a pocket stuffed with goodies. Ksmvr nodded rapidly.
“It is very good-looking.”
“I’ll have one too, Erin. Not to share.”
The half-Elf waved a hand eagerly. Yvlon looked disgusted.
“Can I get a salad? And something—else?”
“Sure! We have a menu. Wait, I probably should have brought that, shouldn’t I? Here, Ksmvr…I’ll be back!”
Erin hurried into the kitchen as Mrsha poked her head over the table and stared at Ksmvr’s calzone. He put one hand over it, protectively.
“I do not know you, stranger. Begone.”
As Erin walked through her inn, she stopped for a second. She felt incredibly, almost deliriously happy to see her friends—and it hadn’t been that long ago! But—then Erin froze and her brow darkened. Her mind connected something Magnolia had said.
“Oh. Those eggs.”
She looked back at the Horns of Hammerad. And felt something dark in her chest. Magnolia Reinhart. She’d…beaten Erin. At her own game.
She’d been prepared. And Erin had not. She’d thought the Garden could save her friends. But the [Druid] had entered it—and Magnolia?
Erin had meant every word. ‘I hate you.’ Had she ever said that to someone else and meant it? Something black was in Erin’s chest, burning there like a memory.
Hatred. Helpless injustice, rage—oh yes, Erin could remember that. And it was rising in her, like some creeping dark force. Pure, unforgiving loathing—
Erin blinked at her hands. She expected to see black fire, but…there was no flame. Erin sighed, but was almost relieved. She rubbed her hands on her jeans; they were all sweaty. Some fire she didn’t need to see.
And as she passed by them, a group of young people stared at Erin’s back. Kevin whispered.
“That was a calzone. I know it is! And that’s Erin. I think. I don’t remember her, do you?”
“Just wait and see, Kevin. Don’t be an idiot. I think it’s her, but…this is her inn. Let’s just listen.”
Rose whispered back. Joseph was half-rising. He glared at Rose. Why wait? But then—a Gnoll hurried over.
“Sorry, everyone. My name is Ishkr. I will be serving you all for tonight. Do you have your menus? I will take your orders now.”
The Earthers stared up at the tall Gnoll. Then they looked at their menus. And they were hungry. Imani looked at the list of foods and her stomach rumbled from meals missed or cut in half due to their dwindling budget. Joseph felt at his side. He had the coin from selling his sword, after all.
“Um—sure.”
“C-can we get a pizza? No—three?”
Kevin almost begged the Gnoll. Ishkr nodded and wrote down their order. Rose was looking at the menu and salivating.
“Oh my g—is that a milkshake? I’ll have one.”
“And me.”
“And me! And some french fries! French fries, guys—”
The Earthers began ordering feverishly. Ishkr sighed as he wrote down the orders. And they actually cheered when the first pizza came towards them, already hot. It was only after they’d fought over the slices that Joseph raised his head and remembered something.
“Hey. Where did that Maviola person get to?”
 
—-
 
The [Actors] had all left for Invrisil as [Mages] on both sides of the magical door charged it up. However, they were hardly the only people wanting to visit the inn.
Word was spreading. As it did. And Maviola was suddenly among a press of people trying to get into the Player’s inn, let alone The Wandering Inn.
Fortunately, the bouncer, Redit, recognized Maviola and let her in while blocking the mundane patrons. But the [Innkeeper] in Invrisil wasn’t about to let this many paying clients wait. He waved at Erin through the doorway as she passed by.
“Miss! Miss! Can I have a word?”
“Oh! Hey! Are you the [Innkeeper] of this inn? I’m Erin, hi! Sorry about the confusion!”
The man was slightly portly, but jovial and a manager rather than hands-on—almost a stereotype of an [Innkeeper] as Erin imagined them. Sort of like the Drake, Peslas, from Liscor.
