“Doesn’t this put a bit of soot in the eye of all the hard workin’ folk who, have so far and probably must continue to travel about the country by horse or foot? And what does that make us, then? Are we the posh folk who go around with literal magic doors that the regular people can’t afford? Is that where we’ve got to?”
The larger fellow raised his brows. He shifted in his chair, delicately munching on a piece of pizza.
“One imagines that it would be a sign we’ve made it, Ratici, my friend. And what sort of people would we be if, for purely moral or philosophical reasons, we did not use a door of such convenience. Because it exists, the door in itself is not an act of classism. However, the way it is used becomes an act that separates the rich and the poor.”
“True. But the inn’s using it in such a way.”
Testily, the shorter fellow snatched a fry away from Wilovan’s plate. Silently, Wilovan pushed the rest of the fries towards Ratici. He sighed and cleared his throat.
“Happily, I noted in the very minutiae of conversation between yon [Butler] and Miss [Innkeeper] that her door had been free for all up till Lady Reinhart’s order. Therefore, we have established that this inn is egalitarian in principle, even if the world forces it to be otherwise.”
Ratici, munching on his fries and the hamburger, and rather wishing he’d ordered a slice of pizza, coughed.
“True, true. What does ‘egalitarian’ mean?”
“Equal for all. You should know it, Ratici. It’s a line that goes well with your philosophical talk.”
Wilovan replied steadily. Ratici, as shorter men sometimes did, spoke faster than Wilovan’s measured tones, as a man might who was afraid his opinions might not be heard in time or be stomped on. And Ratici tended towards fanciful words as a manner of deliberately heightening his speech, while Wilovan kept up purely as a result of his self-education.
And Ratici was a bit conscious of that. He sighed as he nibbled from a bit of pizza.
“I never needed books to teach me how to be intelligent, Wilovan. Where d’you find all the time to read these books, anyways?”
Wilovan gave Ratici a look.
“I notice you’ve stolen my pizza, Ratici.”
“I’ll buy you another.”
The big man sighed. He waved at Lyonette to effect that at once, rather than let Ratici add it to the list of debts unpaid.
“As you like. And to answer your question—I read in the recumbent embrace of beautiful women, Ratici. As they or we lie together in their inner sanctums, one finds time to read a book or two. I’m a [Reader]; I can read a book and memorize it in an hour, which is often granted to me as the lady and I must rest before parting.”
“Surely that’s a waste of a class in the businesses we find ourselves in, Wilovan?”
“Knowledge should be its own reward, Ratici. But since it affords me classes and levels, I’ll happily keep it as a side class. So long as I keep up with you, there’s no objection, is there?”
“None. Another two pizza slices, Miss? And perhaps some more free fries? And—let’s have a pair of these ‘chocolates’.”
“Are you sure, sir? They’re expensive and small. But a delicacy.”
“Of course.”
Ratici harrumphed. He hated spending too much money on useless things, but food was hardly that and he considered himself an object of paramount value. Too—he hated being seen as stingy. He also hated being seen as lower-class, but he refused to wear anything that looked ‘noble’.
He was an odd mix of contradictions, Ratici. And his partner, Wilovan, was surprisingly unsimple, especially to the women he romanced. Of course, he had a preference.
“Dead gods, what a lady. Did you see, her over yonder?”
The man stared across the inn. Ratici looked up.
“I fail to see her. But knowing your eye—yon [Shield Maiden]?”
“None other. Shame she’s with her child. But what a figure of a lady.”
Wilovan sighed, staring at Briganda’s form. Ratici rolled his eyes.
“Wilovan, your tastes never fail to amaze me. And what, per se, is wrong with a child?”
Wilovan looked offended.
“Only that the poor little fellow shouldn’t be forced to wait—much less topics of an intimate nature discussed about him, shouldn’t you agree? It would be different in other situations. But given the moment, it would be highly inopportune, rude, and I’d expect any woman as amply gifted as that lady to make the child her priority over any hairy interloper such as I.”
The Gnoll sat back in his chair and adjusted his vest. Ratici swished his long, scaly tail back and forth as he counted his fries.
They were of course, men. Just a different kind of men than Human men. And they had come through a door.
Pallass’ door. The Gnoll and Drake partnership was a long one, though, and soon they fell to discussing business.
“It took us longer than we would’ve liked, coming north on an errand as this. But this door is more boon than not, despite its implications. I’ll not miss going around the Bloodfields again.”
The Drake sighed as he nodded at the door. Wilovan nodded. The Gnoll tapped his furry forefingers together.
“We’re late on contract. So the Tall Man might be unhappy.”
“Let him. The Brothers didn’t tell him we were in the south; nor how fast we move.”
Ratici flicked his hands and in so doing, produced the ketchup in its little cup, despite it being right next to Wilovan. The Gnoll didn’t react; he was used to Ratici’s abilities.
“True enough. Then, you’re keen on taking the contract?”
“The Tall Man pays and it seems after this Lady Reinhart business that this is the place to be. We may also practice our work in Invrisil with minimal effort. Think of that, Wilovan.”
“I have assuredly given it all the thought, Ratici. The proximity to home, the pay, and the distinction all make me inclined to agree. But we may still scope out this work before we accept. And I would like to visit home even if we accept.”
The Gnoll nodded sagely, as did Ratici. Home. That was Invrisil; they had both been born in the north, a rarity for a Drake and Gnoll among Humans. That they were…not Human wasn’t a problem either. Their organization, the Brotherhood of Serendipitous Meetings, wasn’t discerning on petty matters like species.
A man’s conduct was more important. His sense of style—not a universal thing, just his internal sense of it, and of course, his skill was what mattered in the end.
And the Gentlemen Callers were the best of the best. The Gnoll and Drake wore hats—the floppy one helping with Ratici’s neck-spines, and the tall one and vest suiting Wilovan quite well, despite the fur. They stood out in their way.
But they could be very hard to find as well. So hard that the passing [Mage], on his way back from the outhouse, never noticed them until Ratici leaned around the support beam where they were sitting and called out.
“Ah, Typhenous. You wouldn’t happen to be runnin’ off, would you now? We’ve come an awful long way to say hi.”
The Plague Mage…froze. He turned his head slowly and saw them.
The hats. The Gnoll and Drake pulled out a chair and Typhenous hesitated. He turned his eyes towards his team, laughing and talking, oblivious in their special corner of the inn. Ratici smiled. With his teeth.
“Don’t be shy. We’re just here to have a nice chat, as it were, without the tit for the tat in this meeting at least. Take a seat. Can we buy you a drink?”
“I—I’m well set. Hello there. You must be…Ratici. And Wilovan.”
The two smiled. Wilovan touched his hat.
“You’ve heard of us?”
“Of course.”
“But were you expectin’ us?”
Ratici looked pointedly at Typhenous. The old man licked his lips.
“And why would I expect the…Gentlemen to pay me a visit?”
The Drake smiled and Wilovan sat back, eying his lasagna and wondering if he had to undo a button on his vest.
“Oh, that might depend. It’d depend whether the Plague Mage owes us a debt or not. In his mind. In our mind, a debt’s owed, Mister Plague Mage. And if it were accidental, that’d be one thing. Intentional now…that’d be a serious matter. We’re here to have a discussion, though.”
He nodded. Wilovan took over as Ratici sipped at his drink.
“Words have been spreading from fellows with hats, Mister Typhenous. Unkind words, about a fellow who did us wrong. So says our Nose, and he sniffed around and asked the right sort of questions. Questions that infer you might have all our answers.”
“I can assure you I’ve done everything in my power to help the brothers.”
Typhenous smiled, but palely. Ratici smiled too. His head turned slightly.
“Debts are debts nonetheless. But let’s talk it over civil-like. Stop whistling for your mates, by the way.”
He raised his claw. The [Thief] had a handful of little glittering things. Spells, little butterflies. Illusions, which should have been untouchable. Typhenous gulped.
Ratici was a [Thief]. Well—broadly. Just like Wilovan was a ‘[Thug]’. But the dapper Gnoll just sat back, looking…patient.
“We have no designs on making this a serious matter at the moment, Mister Typhenous. So we’d be kindly inclined if you didn’t. And as you know—even if it were an unkind debt you owe, calling it in the most final of ways isn’t our style. Repayment takes many forms.”
Ratici nodded. He glanced at the Gold-rank adventurers, but not with fear, so much as…
“Don’t make us take off our hats, Typhenous. ‘Specially not here, with innocent children about.”
“Never here. But we would like to discuss the matter, as gentlemen might.”
Wilovan nodded. So did Typhenous. The two Gentlemen Callers saw the [Mage] relax—slightly.
“In that case—as a gentleman, which I hope you see me as—what should I say to assuage your suspicions, sirs?”
The two looked at each other. Wilovan nodded.
“Why it happened. And no lies, sir. Just the truth as you see fit to tell us. If it’s a poor truth—it must will out.”
Typhenous breathed in and out. And then he spoke, with all the honesty he could muster and as little artifice as he thought he was allowed.
“Would you accept that it was to prevent a certain inn and city from being sacked, Gentlemen Callers? Or at least to let this young [Innkeeper], the child she’s taken in, and her friends escape if an army claimed the city by fire and blood? I also gave your friends fair warning; even I didn’t expect them to be taken out so…quickly.”
The two Gentlemen Callers glanced at each other. A bit surprised by the response. Ratici checked something and nodded.
“Interesting. You told them all of it?”
Typhenous squirmed.
“I…may have under exaggerated some of it. But I told all in scope. They seemed to believe the er…Goblins…weren’t a threat. Which they were.”
“A death by omission. A terrible thing. But you claim it was to aid yon [Innkeeper]?”
Wilovan sat back with a pained sigh. Typhenous nodded, and Ratici glanced at Wilovan, but so swiftly the Plague Mage didn’t notice. The Gnoll spoke, lugubriously.
“We might accept that. Some of our members do not have the kind of vision to see where their actions affect the lives of innocent folk, which is, of course, a thing of honor. And that is a factor.”
“Nevertheless, a debt remains.”
Ratici pointed out quickly. Typhenous inhaled and exhaled. Wilovan nodded and pinched the bridge of his furry nose.
“You’d better tell us all of it, Plague Mage. But you’ve run up a debt. Which—frankly speaking, is how it goes. A debt to foil a theft. Which in turn incurs another debt which must be paid. Nothing comes free in our line of work. Tell me though: was it worth it?”
The other two, Drake and Human, listened and nodded. Nothing was for free in their world. Blood debts were avenged, same as money. Typhenous looked from face to face. And he had been tense. But now, in honesty, he spoke, almost relaxed.
“Gentlemen, I will do my best to tell you the truth, since I cannot lie. I most likely do owe a debt. But I do assure you it was to help a young woman who deserved no theft. To save an innocent life. A glorious one, no less.”
The Drake and the Gnoll looked at him. In another place, another circle, the words would have provoked laughter and derision. Mockery and disdain, because some people could buy a life with a gold coin or less. But the Gentlemen Callers just nodded and tipped their hats.
“Well said!”
They chorused, and then leaned forwards to collect. For a gentleman was a gentleman, but he always honored his debts.
 
—–
 
“It’s…good to see you. Again.”
Montressa du Valeross spoke stiffly to Ceria. The half-Elf nodded. Once.
“Yeah. How’s things?”
“We…sent Isceil’s remains to his family. Ulinde’s part of the Halfseekers and enjoying it. Beza and I—well, Palt too—we’re just at the inn. Doing a bit of Wistram work on the side. You know how it is.”
“…No, not really. Little assignments?”
The [Aegiscaster] shrugged.
“Yeah. Looking into things. Um. You’re looking good. Your aura’s strong. You’ve got it under control now, though.”
“Sort of. I can do this, but it’s not that impressive.”
Ceria picked up her glass of blue fruit juice. And instantly, it was a smoothie as the cold from her hand enveloped it. Montressa smiled slightly.
“Now do that with spells. Pisces had a—deeper mana well. It’s fairly impressive.”
“Oh? Well—he hasn’t needed to use it that much. We fought a few natural Golems…”
The two looked at each other. Ceria’s words drifted off. She coughed.
“Well, why don’t we call Pisces over? He’s not doing anything.”
Indeed, the [Necromancer] was trying to imbibe as much as possible as Ksmvr stared at Cade and the boy stared back. Montressa shook her head slightly.
“No, that’s alright. I’ll wait—um—”
The painful conversation was interrupted by Beza scooting over fast. The Minotauress wasn’t that furtive, but she was doing her best.
“Montressa! Mon—oh.”
She saw Ceria and hesitated. Montressa saw her old…friend…step back.
“Let me give you a moment.”
She wandered back to her team and was soon engulfed in the laughter. Montressa turned, feeling isolated. But Bezale’s eyes were focused.
“Montressa. I think I just spotted some guests.”
“What? There are tons of—”
Montressa had had a few too many drinks. So her mind took a beat longer than it should have. Then she focused.
“Impossible.”
“You think so? This inn has people from Invrisil in it. And I distinctly heard one group—over there, you see? Seven of them? They were arguing about whether this pizza ‘tasted like it did back home’.”
The Minotauress indicated a group of young folk around Montressa’s age. The [Aegiscaster]’s eyes narrowed. They…fit the bill. Around sixteen to twenty six on average, Human…her heart began to beat wildly.
“The Solstice effect.”
