For a long minute, the Priestess conjured the story on her own. And then her helpers regained themselves. They helped create images again. The Shades whispered amongst their small groups. The Priestess continued to talk.

Erick realized something deep in his soul. He found himself whispering, “This is the normal story. The one told every year, except…” He couldn’t say the words.

Quilatalap smiled, wide and happy, his lower fangs showing as he whispered, “Except now everyone knows what a ‘Fire of the Age’ truly is.” He chuckled, low and fulfilled, then added, “This makes you the first True Fire I’ve ever seen.”

The Priestess continued her sermon. Eventually, she finished. The sky brightened as light returned to the dark congregation. The rivers on the mountain flowed water, instead of shadows. The flowers lost their glows. Most people spoke amongst themselves, or stared at Erick. Or maybe they were sizing up Fallopolis on his right, and Quilatalap at his left; it was hard to tell with their eyes so white.

The Priestess spoke, “Some of you might have noticed a change in the sermon.”

Someone commented, “That’s a fucking understatement.”

A lot seemed to agree with that, as murmurs carried on the air.

Priestess continued unabated, “I’m sure you have questions. I will answer none of them at this time. But I will give you some information: I was briefed on this change of the Telling as of ten hours ago by Tania, and then a few hours ago, by Melemizargo Himself, when He came to me after Erick called to Him in the Spire. We thought we knew what Erick’s designation as a Wizard and as the Fire of the Age meant. We were wrong.” With her starbright eye sockets radiating light, she said, “The Fire of the Age is so much more, and I will be doing my part to ensure that whatever may happen, happens as our God demands.”

In the brief lull of the Priestess’s words, Tania Webwalker stepped into the air, demanding attention with her presence alone. She spoke, “Erick. Take a break. We all need to talk. The Feast is delayed.”

Quilatalap said, “Of course.”

“I’m coming, too,” Fallopolis said.

Tania spoke out, “Fine. Both of you, go.”

“I expected this to be over, not to have a meeting.” Queen’s voice rose above the crowd, “I need to check on the party.”

An incani man dressed in black said, “How can you fucking care about the fucking party now? Fuck.”

The Librarian spoke on the other side of the room, “Some of us knew enough to know this was a possibility.” She looked to Tania, saying, “I didn’t think it was quite like that, but it makes sense.”

A goldscale woman shouted, “Some of us have lives outside of the Library, psycho!”

As Shades began arguing and Tania stood in the air over it all, growing obviously angrier by the second, Erick found himself escorted out of the congregation.
