“Queen is not a bad person, but she has certain tics that set her off. The argument of grey is an old one when it comes to her and Quilatalap, but she’s mostly over it. This doesn’t mean that she approves of the color. You wearing grey to the start of this important event would start you and her off on the wrong path. If you capitulate to this desire of hers, going forward will be a lot easier for you and for me.”

“Explain this aversion to grey.” Erick wondered if it had something to do with Queen’s prismatic nature, or perhaps it had something to do with the greys of shadeling eyes. Or maybe something else?

“I cannot, for I do not know.”

“Speculate?”

“I will not, for I do not wish to be removed from employment.”

“Does that mean you will be killed if you displease Queen?”

“No. It means I will likely move to the Temple District, which is where my boyfriend lives.”

“… Fine.” Erick looked to the clothes laid on the bed. “In certain other circumstances, I would love to wear rainbows, but not here, and not now. So… Black. I guess.”

“Do you require assistance putting it on?”

“I do not.” Erick said, “Thank you, Violet. That is all.”

Violet bowed, then walked away. Erick shut the door.

Erick expended an Ophiel, propping up a [Prismatic Ward] into the room, the bedroom, and the closet, sticking the edges of the protected space into the walls, but no further. And then he poked around everything again, checking for holes or empty spaces in the dense air. He even lifted the bed up with his sunform. The thing looked to weigh a literal ton, since it was made of logs and sized to an orcol, but it was no match for Erick’s light. With over 200 Strength, he probably could have lifted it by hand, too, but that would have likely broken something.

There were no empty spaces in the dense air. When a dozen seconds of a [Cleanse Aura] elicited no thick air from anything, Erick dismissed his conjured armor and stripped, taking off his belt, but leaving on his rings.

It was stupid to take off his belt in an environment like this, but if they wanted to kill him, they would have done so already. So Erick decided to enjoy himself.

Standing there, naked, he decided he needed a bath. He’d been up for almost a full 24 hours at this point, and [Cleanse] was just beginning to feel like it wasn’t enough to feel clean. He stepped into the bathroom, and happily allowed three Ophiel into the room with him. They chirped in happy violins to be allowed into such a hallowed space.

Turning on the water, the bathtub filled up rather fast. According to Erick’s previous Imaging, the pipes to this house, and this room, were coming from the Palace. Maybe shadelings used the pipes as hidden passages? Eh. Whatever. The [Prismatic Ward] would block most intruders; it was worth over 100,000 points of defense, too.

But, like, did that much defense even fucking matter, when it came to rooming with an archlich?

Probably not.

Oh well! If they wanted to kill him, they would have!

Erick set his worries aside for a minute, because inside the dense air of his rooms, only the most dangerous could get inside, and what was the point of worrying, then? He still turned off the water and threw another [Cleanse] into the bath before he got in, though. No telling what sort of poisons could be in that water. Everything was getting a [Cleanse] before it went into his body, or touched his flesh, while he was on this trip. The [Cleanse] on the water turned up nothing. Erick felt a bit better about everything.

After a good soak to ease the tension in his shoulders, and a nice scrub with some soaps he had brought with him, that Violet or someone else had put in the bathroom, Erick [Watershape]d himself dry and went out into his room.

He put on the black robes, and then he looked in the convenient mirror next to the door.

He did not like the black robes. Not with his eyes as white as they were, nowadays. He switched to the white robes. With his hair combed and his robes fit, Erick put his belt back on and looked in the mirror. This was better. With some thin, yet strong conjured undergarments, both boxerbriefs and undershirt, Erick finished off his outfit with some conjured boots. None of those conjurings would do much with regard to actual defensive measures versus the big threats he had seen, but they would be fine for other, smaller threats…

“… If there were any smaller threats,” Erick mumbled.

Did those corpses count as smaller threats?

Probably not. Violet was likely a threat, but she seemed more like a spy than an actual, physical danger.

Erick looked to the clock in his room. It was half an hour till the start of Shadow’s Feast. He had been here for almost 24 hours, meaning that 1 hour would have passed outside of Ar’Kendrithyst. The sun had set when he had entered the Dead City, but by now it was truly night out there, for tonight, even the moons were dark.

He briefly tried to telepathically connect to Jane, to Poi, to Kiri, to anyone he knew, but he got nothing; they weren’t out of range, but they were still out of reach. Killzone had told Erick to expect this, but it was still disappointing.

Erick exited his room. Violet waited at the end of the hall, but at Erick’s appearance, she came to attention. After a moment, Quilatalap stepped around the corner.

“Ah!” He said, “We good? We ready?”

Erick said, “Ready as ever. Or… Should I eat something, first?”

Quilatalap said, “The Telling only takes an hour and that’s a serious event, but there’s food and mingling afterward at the First Indulgence, and you might be able to relax a little. Tania will introduce Bulgan to the Clergy at that time, for this is his first year as a Shade, but other than that, the Indulgences are not formal at all, and everyone always brings guests.” He asked, “You’ve been up for a while. Are you good to go another full day?”

“Yes.” With his high Vitality and Immunity to Health Fatigue, Erick could stay awake for three days, no problem, but he didn’t want to. He hoped he wouldn’t have to, either.

“Good.” Quilatalap said, “There’s a rest after the first party. You can sleep on the third day.”

- - - -

Past a twist in the outer roads looping around the Palace, down a dark lane, in a certain place, there is a gate of black stone set into the curtain wall that nominally separates the Palace from the outside world. It is not a tall wall, and they are not tall doors, but they are still imposing. Black fangs extend from that door, and continue left and right along that curtain wall. This is the only place that has such decorations. The rest of the Palace is all about grandeur and brightness and airy beauty. This is a place of hard truths, and gnashing teeth. One might find other such places all throughout Ar’Kendrithyst, but this is the one that was active, on this night.

The door is open; split down the center, the two halves swung inward.

Beyond that door, lies a flooring of dark stone tiles scattered about, that supports dark pillars that reach up to nothing but empty air. This dark space dominates an otherwise pleasant field of wild flowers of every color, and lush green grasses, while the crystal mountain to the south stretches directly up to the sky, so far, far above, and far away. Rivers flow down upon that impressive crystalline height to touch upon more wild green spaces. This is a cultivated, wild space. Or maybe it is one that was broken long ago. Or maybe, this was the finished structure.

The dark flooring of this space does not form an organized square upon which the pillars rise to an organized roof, but the flooring is certainly made of square tiles. None are broken. All are polished to a harsh shine. And while there is a large, central area of black tiles, the edges of this space are not so easily defined by any simple shape. In many places, the tiles go off into the flowering field, and though there is no apparent design, there is the feeling that those spaces are just waiting for the right moment to come alive.

The pillars are not set to support any roof, either. They’re scattered about, like trees in a forest that have been burned black by a fire, and left in the ground. But they are not weak; thinking that a push would topple them would be a foolish thought. Their bottoms are wider than their tops, and though they might actually be obelisks, they are missing the final pyramid-peak common to those items; the tops are flat, as though waiting for something to be placed there. They’re polished to a high-shine, too.

This is not a wild space, though the strange architecture and the wild fields beyond might make it appear that way to some. If one were to look closely, they would see that the wild grasses grow over the edges of the black tiles, but they are trimmed to keep the dark stone flooring empty, and waiting.

It is in this space, where almost fifty Shades, and Quilatalap, have gathered.

And then there’s Erick.

Mercifully, Erick has traversed the Hell that is ‘Panic’.

He is currently in the embrace of ‘Acceptance’, the tendrils of ‘Whimsy’, and with a foot firmly planted in ‘Horny’.

- - - -

Introduction to Shade society had gone as well as Erick could have expected, in that there had been no introduction at all. Erick followed Quilatalap to the odd pavilion-like area, and then they waited, while the Shades talked to each other, and not at all to either Erick, or Quilatalap. Fallopolis winked at him, though, then went right back to talking to some other Shades.

There was no blood, unless you counted the blood dripping off of that guy over there. There was no death, unless you counted the rather tall floating fellow, with every part of him made of either long bones, or floating black cloth. Almost no one cared to look Erick’s way, so he was free to look upon whoever he wished, and oh my, what sights there were! At least ten women had their righteous boobs on display. In dresses, in blouses, in corsets and otherwise. One was even topless, with her prodigious assets buoyed on clouds.

And get a load of that lady, right beside the topless one! Big as cantaloupes! Those tits were overflowing her barely-there black dress that was likely made out of shadows, and nothing else.

And the men! The men, or at least those who cared to put themselves on display, did so with gusto. Erick didn’t really care for the guy, but Hollowsaur was wearing a black satin loincloth that made him look like a porn star waiting to take the stage. Maybe his kilt had been burned or blown up? Whatever the case, he wore more than an incani man who simply wore a sock.

A woman snatched the sock off of the man, and then the man was wearing nothing.

He didn’t seem to mind.

Ah. He could be a pornstar, too. No one needs a dick that big. It’s Blood Magic, right? He had to have had some work done. At that thought, Erick looked to the other people in the crowd. They likely all had work done. Blood Magic could do that, right? Yeah. It could.

And then the skeleton-person was floating to Erick. He? She? They were the first person to do so. Erick had noticed the skeleton when he arrived, but now, he saw the white orb in their empty chest, the way the black cloth held onto flesh that was not there, and the white stars in their empty eye sockets.

“Hello!” Erick happily said to the skeleton, not sure of what else to say.

With a melodious, feminine voice, the skeleton, who definitely seemed like a woman, said, “Hello, Erick. A pleasure to meet you. I’m Priestess. Have you heard of me before?”

Erick wracked his brain for a moment, before saying, “Yes! Killzone mentioned you; yes. You try to convert people, but you never kill, and you rarely show yourself.”

She chimed a pleasant laugh, then said, “Yes; that is me. I am glad that Killzone has given me such a glowing recommendation. I shall have to leave a gift waiting for him at Forward Base.” She added, “I am glad you have chosen to attend the Feast on your first year on Veird. It means much for your future that you have come to us so quickly in your journey.”

“… Uh? Okay?”

“And you’re wearing white! It’s a good color for the Fire of the Age. Your brightness fills the world, and empowers all others to reach a little higher and to cast a little deeper; to truly embrace magic.” Priestess sighed, happy, as she said, “And you even chose the harmonic path! It is a rare one that can make that work, who can call upon ritual and enact their will upon the world. You do this priestess proud.” She added, “Now you just need to free yourself from the constraints of the Script, and choose your true Wizardly Path.”

“What?” Erick found himself walking right into Priestess’s mini-sermon, as he said, “What do you mean? Wizardly Path?”

“The Script is a noose that lifts you up while it chokes you out of true power. Since everyone can do Particle Magic, this is not True Wizardry. True Wizardry breaks the mold and remakes the world. It is unique to the individual. Creation, Destruction, and Paradox, all in one power. You would know your Wizardry if you saw it, and you have not seen it, have you?” Her voice took on a careful edge, as she said, “The first signs of your Wizardry would have appeared as Darkness to everyone else, but to you, it would have appeared as something else.”

Erick stumbled on his words, saying, “I don’t… I don’t think so?”

