And so, the priest kept his position, nodding or frowning all day long, and the Waifs stayed her concern. Much like most of the other Head Avatars, they would be as temporary as any of these proceedings. Of the ones recruited after the Rubix Well fiasco, she didn't know their names and wouldn't let herself remember them until they survived for at least a year. This was the worst thing about experiencing the true joys of one’s longevity: the world changed, but the people just kept making the same mistakes.

Sure, the young came to replace the old, fresh ideas and new cultural winds shifted. But Veronica had been here before. She had lived this moment before. She had seen these people before.

Different faces, different voices, different dresses, same old dance.

Stagnation was the brutal price that came with enduring control. As much as this was torture, it was also to Veronica's benefit because she and, to a lesser extent, Anthony were the only true powers in the room. Everyone else was just a player, an actor more than a politician.

They felt like they mattered. They felt like they had a say in things, and ultimately, they stayed out of her way.

And such was how the Yellowstone Republic endured for all these centuries.

I want to kill these idiot children. To just make the others grow up a little bit. Would be slightly more interesting in the chaos it'd cause.

Veronica should have known better than that. She should have known better than to taunt the System. For as soon as that thought hardened, most of the fingers of Integration curled, leaving only one pointed down upon her.

His presence struck her like a lightning bolt. She felt him with her Divination Skill, his nature flaring bright, the strife practically bleeding out of his pores, making him seem like a flame at the heart of a dark forest, like a siren rising from a sea of silence. But she felt him accelerating toward the temple from well over ten kilometers away. Veronica's mind went blank with disbelief. With the slightest gesture, she shaped a Divination spell and conjured an image of the wayward grandson into her mind.

True to her shock, he was here, back within the capital, soaring recklessly through the air. His armor looked a bit different, but with the triggering of the hidden World Quest, she once again received and his unique mana signature, there was no mistaking Shiv from anyone else. He had a ten-meter-long rod clutched close to his chest, and upon further observation, Veronica realized it was a damned sewer pipe. But most ridiculous of all was how he came right for her.

The boy had gone completely mad. If he wanted to communicate, he could have written. He could have snuck into her personal abode and confronted her there—tried to assassinate her even. But exposing himself to the entirety of the Republic, drawing the attention of the Ascendants, trying to make an attempt on her life here, in a public forum? With a sewer pipe? Udraal’s insane project must have finally lost his mind. Maybe the Tarrasque lurking inside had eaten away what little rationality had been there to begin with.

“Are you seeing this?” Anthony asked, including the Psychomantic equivalent of a raised eyebrow.

“In vivid detail,” Veronica hissed in disbelief. “The boy is on a suicide run. Even he can't be stupid enough to think that he can tear through the protective wards—” Her words trailed off when she noticed the crimson gleam radiating from every edge of his body. Each one projected faint ripples across the world, like eddies spreading over the surface of a lake. But there was something wrong with the projections. Something that made Veronica's insides scream in alarm. And then she noticed the wounds he was tracing on the fabric of Integration. He was less like a man and more like a razor blade being dragged along a channel of flesh.

Veronica had no idea what kind of skill evolution allowed someone to rip the System asunder. Not even a rare Animancy-Vitality Drain Skill Fusion could do something like this passively. This was something different. Something alien. Something Unique.

The Councilwoman's astonishment only grew as a stray spell managed to crash into the Deathless. It struck him from the side. A bolt of lightning flung from afar. The caster was launching electricity blindly, trying to intercept the attacker before he got to the temple. They managed to get lucky, but luck couldn't overcome the powers afforded to the Deathless by his new skill. The rippling waves he projected shredded the lightning down the middle, split mana itself asunder. Bursts of destabilized magic dissipated the air, as shapes turned to broken fractals.

She knew that this wasn't the doing of his Shapeless Tides. That Skill resisted magic; it didn't tear it apart.

The Councilwoman took no chances. She reached out for her grandmother and beckoned the other Ascendants to rouse. The fools on the false Council below her had only just sensed the danger about to come. Suicide run or not, they needed to prepare themselves. If the Deathless wanted to inflict death, then a Necromantic Arrow would strike him next. Veronica's pulse quickened. She mustered her Rhetoric skill and prepared to intercept the impending blast. The worst could be contained, but everyone below Heroic-Tier within this temple and a few blocks of space around it would likely be forfeit if a Legendary Pathbearer with Unique offensive power struck as hard as he could.

Not unless they were shielded by a higher power.

“Harlock!” Veronica called, but Anthony was already acting. Rivers of midnight spilled out from his orifices, splashing through the walls and engulfing all fifty meters of the forum in an instant. The two of them were faster than any of the two hundred other Pathbearers within the chamber by a magnitude. Gilman Stormhalt didn’t even perceive Harlock’s darkness rushing toward him until well after being washed over. The other Council members were found similarly wanting. The bodies of a few who served as lesser Avatars turned incandescent as they called upon their Ascendants. But they were slow, too slow to stop whatever the Deathless was about to do. The cost of staffing her council with those controllable and unthreatening taunted Veronica once more.

Here it comes. She hardened herself and waited for a rift to tear open the fabric of space. For a corrosive arrow infused with Necromancy to strike the Deathless and set him off. If this is your idea of retribution for my little verbal rebuke, I'm going to show you the true meaning of being chastised, you shitty little—

Shiv's attack slammed into the nest of protective Wards guarding the temple. No Necromantic Arrow struck him, no explosion followed, no devastation enveloped the Capital.

Yet what happened next left Veronica reeling with inquisitive horror.

The boy's pipe ceased to be on impact, annihilated by a convergence of magical and physical force. The outside of the temple was engulfed by colors of blinding brightness, a hundred different spells detonating at once. Spells meant to repel. Spells meant to crush. Spells meant to displace someone across space, across time. Meant to shock people. Fry their nervous system. Rip the water from their tissue. Cut out their senses. Break their biology. Sever their tendons, stop their organs, and turn off their brains. Spells that ricocheted from the Deathless's body, like pebbles being thrown at an avalanche. Spells that were sheared down the middle as Shiv continued tunneling forward.

He was a drill digging through a stone. His strange, slicing aura oscillated wildly, faint patterns traced licking cuts across the surface of the world. Open wounds developed not only upon the wards which were being hewed through with every passing second, but also the vitality coating Integration itself. Then came a final surge of overflow tides, and he sank all the way through. The hive of magics serving as a protective hull of the temple was pierced. And where mana tore before the boy like bundles of leather before a falling halberd, physical matter had a resistance comparable to air. Shiv split through the walls like they didn't exist at all and dragged deep gashes along Harlock’s shadows as he completed his invasion.

A ragged gasp filled the forum. Harlock's voice was infused with more surprise than pain. But there was pain there, if just a hint of it, just as there were scratches marring the divine darkness.

With his protection pierced, Harlock drew his shadows back. The Midnight receded, surrendering a stable patch of ground to the gleaming Deathless. A shower of dust rained down from the entrance he'd made, briefly obscuring his form, but when the haze cleared, Veronica noted the abnormal physiology the Deathless now possessed.

One of his arms was missing, but rapidly growing back. Lengths of bone, teeth, and cancers reconstructed the missing limb. A coiled rope made from skin whipped behind him as well. His own skin. And then there were the edges lining his body. Then there were the traces that traveled down from the edges. Then there were the ripples, the cuts that sliced away at the flesh of existence. More than ever before, Veronica understood why the elimination of the Deathless was a World Quest: he evolved so quickly, so normally, that it was impossible to predict what he might be capable of in a week, let alone a year.

In ten years…

It’s not going to take ten years to reach an Incursion or a new apocalypse, Veronica concluded. Not even close.

Veiled by the darkness, she waited for her “not-grandson” to act. She wasn’t the only one watching; Anthony was stalking his way down the forum, flanking Shiv from the right. The other capable Avatars brought their Ascendants across in anticipation of a battle to come. The House representatives were shaping spells and drawing steel, but were discombobulated by the ambush.

Before them, Shiv just stood there, glaring down at his empty hands.

“Ah, hells,” Shiv muttered under his breath. “I should have thought this through some more. Of course the damned pipe was going to explode. Felling… whatever.” His right hand shot up to point at exactly where Veronica stood. “Hey, Chandler. Got something to say to you. Got a few things actually. Starting with this city's infrastructure: It’s kind of shit. You got sewer pipes sticking out from the ground, and Maiden’s temple looks like a metal skin tag next to all the nicer buildings. You gotta do something about that.”
