Effective as of immediately, Former Lady Eileen Harkness is to be considered persona non grata for abandoning her post, deserting her fellows, and exacerbating conflicts between New Albion and Weave (adjustments can be made to the last charge depending on whether diplomatic endeavors offered to the Composer develop).

Former Lady Eileen Harkness departed from surface gateway Theborn days after the Passage Incident, and was last spotted in Republic Fortress-City Utahd.

She is assumed to be operating without any assistance.

Based on information compiled from the prior time she has deserted, she will likely try to insert herself in a volatile and complicated geopolitical situation that is within the Stolen Throne's interests. From there, she will insert herself in a position of power and stabilize local conditions or secure essential assets to purchase her position within the House of Masks back through redemptive valor.

All operatives in the field are to ensure that this situation does not transpire. Lady Eileen Harkness is to be captured if possible and eliminated if necessary.

Under no circumstances is she to fall into the Republic's hands, or any other nation’s, for that matter. (And honestly, can someone just rid us of this meddlesome, arrogant, self-serving, hyper-embarrassment of a Jezebel? This is the tenth time she's done something like this. The tenth!)

—Draft Decree of Capture or Elimination Issued by the House of Masks

314 (I)

To Break a Curse [XI]

Pillar of Orichalcum 367 > 375

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 512 > 514

Parliament was in session today. The Republic's representatives and noble elites were gathered to discuss critical matters that affected the economy and lives of all the Little Folk. Seeing the big ones up top hard at work filled Shiv's heart with inspiration, and he thought to himself, "Maybe I should lodge a personal complaint. See what they think about the Republic's crumbling infrastructure, especially in the poor areas of the Capital."

And so, after having a brief but ultimately fruitless conversation with his new Assassin captive, he decided to turn his attention to other things. Namely, extracting a large sewer pipe that no longer functioned properly and sent spills of waste spraying across the asphalt from where its upper edge stuck out from a fractured stretch of pavement. Things were bad enough that practically everyone avoided Downers Street near the Dragon's Biscuit. The smell was so foul it could be tasted in the air three blocks away.

It was frankly unacceptable. Shiv's civic heart mourned for how much the public had to suffer, even if most of the people in the district were working girls, thugs, robbers, thieves, con artists, brigands, and all sorts of other civilizational wastrels. They shouldn't have to suckle in air that was infused with fecal matter as much as anyone else. It just wasn't right. And so the Deathless saw about lodging his own complaint in the most direct and literal way possible.

Most of the Prismatic Guard were looking for him already. He hadn't been particularly subtle when he ripped that sewer pipe out of the ground. But he moved quickly, and he was still a Hero when it came to Reflexes. It would take some time for them to track him down and effectively pin him in place. But he didn't intend to stay for long. All he wanted to do was have a conversation with Veronica, clear a few things up, or cause a few things to devolve irrevocably into pointless violence, and then leave to begin his vacation in the wonderful land of the Fairwoods.

And so it was with peaceful determination in his heart that he accelerated down from the sky. His inertial sheath thundered in delight. His sewer pipe was pointed directly at a particular building, like a farm post poised to be hammered deep into the soil.

Finding Veronica and the other council members wasn't so difficult. She and a select few glowed the brightest after all. Few could match the vitality of a Legendary Pathbearer, and a True Legend like Veronica was practically a miniature sun amidst a sea of paltry embers.

Shiv’s own body was aflame due to his Bifurcated Processing, and the sewer pipe he held turned molten from air friction. Fire seemed to be the theme of this day. Fire and unanticipated collateral damage. Shiv didn't think he could destroy all the capital in a single blow, not without amassing a considerable amount of overflow tides. But he could make a good go of obliterating the parliamentary forum taking place in Maiden’s Temple of Mechanics and Practical Mysteries. The structure looked like an eyesore to Shiv anyway, being a brass bolt in the middle of a city carved from polished wood, colorful glass panels, and crystalline chains. Even high above, Shiv could hear the clicking and clanging of the gears that shifted on the building's sides.

Something about it reminded him of the Rubix Well, and that soured his mood ever so slightly.

He added that to the list of infrastructural items he wanted to complain about. It was fitting that Maiden's personal house of faith belonged in the same category as the city's broken sewage system, after all.

Warning: You are trespassing in the domain of an Ascendant.

Attention: Maiden the Genius is aware of your presence.

Attention: Daughter the Deadly is aware of your presence.

Attention: Kathereine the Songbringer is aware of your presence.

The World Quest to kill the Deathless popped up in Shiv's vision thereafter. He ignored all of them. He also ignored the complicated webwork of interconnected magical patterns that flared into existence around Maiden's Temple. In an instant, he could no longer see that messy thing of mechanisms and brass alloy. Instead, all that lay before him was magic—so many intricate shapes infused with so many different lores. He could feel the weight of gravity. He could feel the lick of foreign heat. He could feel coldness hidden beneath the flame. He could feel the tickle and pressure of Dimensionality. He could even sense the erosion of time.

The wards arrayed to stop him were a nest of artistic wonder. So many different kinds of mana stitched together via shape and intent. Such a shame it wouldn't matter. Such a shame that Shiv was going to tear right through like an arrowhead shredding cloth.

Between the cutting powers offered by his Severed Shadow and the full Shapeless Tides animated infusion he'd bestowed upon his new body, Shiv was about to ruin a masterpiece.

Warning: You have been marked by Veronica Chandler.

Don’t care. Eat shit.

Shiv struck the wards so hard his sewer pipe disintegrated.

***

Legend-Councilwoman Veronica Chandler prayed to the System for an end to her misery. She'd already suffered twelve hours of drudgery within Maiden's Temple of Mechanics and Practical Mysteries because of one of the silliest house feuds she'd ever experienced in her long career.

Simply put, an alliance formed between House Greenmoor, House Ravenhold, and House McDouglas was currently at odds with House Stormhalt. Because of course the Stormhalts were feuding with someone else for something they did. But rather than being a recent offense, House Stormhalt found themselves accused of a historical grievance in the aftermath of the “Inter-Grave Robbery” incident. Supposedly, certain blessed relics given unto Houses Greenmoor, Ravenhold, and McDouglas by Maiden were found within Stormhalt crypts, left on Stormhalt ancestral corpses.

Naturally, instead of bringing up this grievance in Parliament or addressing it in a grown-up and dignified manner, the three aggrieved houses immediately took matters into their own hands. A series of assassinations, bombings, and arson attacks broke out across various Stormhalt territories. This caused Stormhalt to do what Stormhalt always did: nearly start a civil war within the confines of the capital.

It was only with the intervention of the Prismatic Guard and Veronica's personal involvement that things finally calmed. But that didn't mean this pointless crisis was anywhere near settled.

Thus, the very busy Councilwoman, with Frost Giants up North to worry about and Gods of Blood and Sacrifice to the South encroaching on her borders, was forced to play the role of mediator for these idiot noble children.

Idiot noble children that held substantial sway in the Republic’s politics. Who provided a steady output of High-Tier Pathbearers for her existential wars.

It's good that they're idiots. Idiots are easy to use, at least. Veronica believed these thoughts. She truly did. But there were times that she found herself teetering on the brink of regret. If she could only have some more competent Pathbearers…

But then she would find herself with competent enemies too, and the Republic would be unraveled in an internecine conflict she couldn't contain. Such was the consequence of a world made hyper-individualistic by the System.

“You lying curs, the Inversion Chronometer was bestowed upon Master-General Charles Stormhalt for our glory in the Northern Wars!” A practical sea of spittle exploded out from Adept-Representative Gilman Stormhalt as he stared down his rivals within the temple's forum. Though young, foul-smelling, and possessed of a particularly lecherous reputation towards anything with two legs, Veronica thought higher of Gilman than the rest of his family did.

At least he pretended to care about diplomatic overtures and upholding the laws of the Republic. The fact that he knew his place before the Council also spoke highly of his intelligence. Just a shame he was a bastard born to the wrong concubine. It would take a substantial miracle for him to assume any role of power in the future.

Or even survive long enough to get a chance.

“Havel's probably gonna have that one killed within the next five years,” Anthony said to Veronica via telepathy. “Too much ambition in his heart. Wrong side of the family too.”

“Havel should concern himself with redemption instead of such trivialities,” Veronica replied tersely. “Considering the shame he's covered his house in, I don't think he's in any position to lay judgment on those beneath him.”

“And yet he will.”

“And yet he will,” she agreed. Anthony and she sat side-by-side, the highest among equals, the highest in the chamber, the oldest seats of both the Auroral Council that the public knew and the Ruling Council that held the reins. The loud clicks and groans of moving gears twisted and snapped above them. The entire room trembled and twisted. Even the ground thundered with seismic activity as the floor shifted. It was like they sat upon unstable soil being dragged forever clockwise. If there was any purpose for this disorientation, Maiden didn't tell. Veronica suspected that the Genius had likely long forgotten as well. Maiden’s presence here was faint. Even if this was her temple. Even if this grudge had everything to do with her bestowed glory.

Maiden had other interests taking up her attention these days. Other experiments she would perform halfway before abandoning. Creations she would leave half-finished, turning them from wonders to abominations out of sheer neglect.

The poor nobles were doing a song and dance for an Ascendant that wasn't even truly listening.

If only you all knew how little she cares, Veronica thought as a representative of House Greenmoor shot up from her seat out of turn to call Gilman a mongrel born from the womb of a dog. The boy's face turned a deep shade of scarlet that clashed poorly with his long black mane. Once more, though, he impressed Veronica. Rather than being consumed by his anger, he responded with the flippant suggestion that the rival representative was a whore he'd left ignored in a cheap brothel years before.

Then came the customary sneers, laughs, sputters, and outrage.

Every day in politics was a new problem born from an old problem resembling a moment from yesterday, portrayed by new players fated to make the same mistakes their parents and predecessors once did. Veronica bit back another groan as she watched the circus play on. Down by her left and right, hugging the tall chairs that loomed over the temple’s forum were the other members of the “Auroral Council,” though very few of them were proper Avatars, and no Legendary Pathbearers sat among them, in spite of what the propaganda proudly declared. But that was just as well. Better for the Republic to see familiar faces for a few decades, even if said faces held no true power behind the curtain where the decisions were made.

Not that most of the Ascendants had any kind of political sway these days to begin with. Daughter’s Waifs were unusable both as public-facing Seats and as decision-makers on what was once the Ruling Council for obvious reasons, in practice leaving Daughter’s human mortal representation vacant in the latter and in the form of a kindly old man who knew as much about the true machinations of the nations as a drunken wastrel in the former.

Daughter’s priest sat a few meters down and to Veronica's left, looking on at the chattering and leering noblemen and noblewomen with disapproval. He had a respectable personality and had been in his position for a good while, but unfortunately, a figurehead was all he would ever be. Still, better that than plopping a shivering little girl on the seat and telling her to defuse a political disaster. Veronica might as well attend these parliamentary gatherings in the nude if she were giving up on trying to be taken seriously to that degree.

