Erick floated his platform to the meeting, saying, “Hello, Sirocco. So we’re just turning it back to sand?”

“Mostly: Yes.” Zago stepped to the edge of her platform, nearest to Erick, as she gestured to the large, uneven ridge of black glass behind her. “Except for the larger prominences like this one, it’s all getting turned to sand.”

Erick looked at the black glass protrusion again. It was kinda artsy? Maybe that’s why they wanted it? He asked, “What’s going on with that one?”

“Some of these larger pieces might hold enough remnants of the Red Dot to allow us to understand the Red Dot. It destroyed souls, after all, and not through any necromancy, but through pure power that rewrote Reality into Fire.” Zago waved a dismissive hand through the air, saying, “But that’s for the [Dispel] mages. They’ll give us some insight into unraveling that spell later, I’m sure. That’s not my field of study.”

Erick looked to the people near Zago. A few of them were silently stealing glances Erick’s way, but two people only had time for each other, and the rock. One of them was a pale orcol woman, while the other was a dark wrought incani man.

Erick said, “I heard there was some difficulty with [Dispel]ing the Red Dot.” He asked, “Was the Red Dot just too expensive?”

The wrought must have heard Erick, because he spoke up, “No.” He interrupted his conversation with the orcol woman to turn his attention to Erick, saying, “It was a 10,000 mana spell, at most.”

The orcol woman argued, “It was not that cheap.” She glanced toward Erick, saying, “25,000, at the least. It was the spell of an archmage of some sort.”

“A savant, perhaps. No one I ever heard of,” said the wrought.

Zago said, “Archmage Flatt. May I introduce to you Ranari Irinsi, and Hadragog Newfield.”

Erick said, “Hello.”

Ranari, the wrought, frowned at Erick, saying, “You realize, of course, that your premature detonation of the Red Dot was an ill conceived and almost disastrous end to Spur. Thank the gods for the real archmages like Opal who managed to save the lives of everyone you almost doomed to a fiery end.”

Erick faltered in a response, and Ranari sneered. Anger bloomed in Erick’s chest.

Erick practically spat out, “Did you try and fail to stop the dot? Yes? Okay then. Case closed.”

Ranari chuckled ever so slightly, before saying, “I’m not pretending to be an archmage, unlike some people who shall go unmentioned. All I am is a Dispeller.”

Erick did not look to Zago. He did not look to anyone else. He just nodded, and turned his platform around. He heard quiet, angry voices behind him, but he did not turn to see whatever was going on back there.

But then someone yelped.

Erick turned around just in time to see Hadragog standing where Ranari stood, and Ranari crash to the black glass below. Ranari stood up atop the glass—

Erick turned away. Seeing Ranari get pushed to the ground didn’t make him feel any better. Somehow, it made him feel worse. In a split second, his day had gone bad.

And then he felt bad for feeling bad.

When he had floated far enough away from Zago’s gathering, and his words would not easily reach anyone else’s ears except for Poi’s, Erick asked, “Did I do right, trying to stop the Red Dot? I showed you [Pure Reflection Ward]. It reflects all magic, perfectly. When Jane used it, she managed to make the Queen of the Forest kill herself on her own spell.” He looked around. “But I think when I used it, I just stressed out Opal.”

Poi said, “I have it on good authority that you did not stress Opal’s ability to shield the city. She was only able to block the Red Dot’s fire because most of it had been directed away from the city.” Poi said, “Ranari is a known misanthrope. He is a great Dispeller, but best not to pay him any mind in any social situation.”

“… How bad would it have been if it hit?”

“Messalina’s village was two kilometers wide, but the crater that replaced that location was also two kilometers wide, with well defined edges. The forest beyond her village did not burn; the Red Dot fit the location.” He added, “It is entirely possible that the Red Dot would have carved out a two kilometer hole where the Courthouse is, but it’s theoretically possible that the Red Dot would have carved all the way to the walls. It was a magnitude 9 spell, after all.” He gazed at the black glass all around them, saying, “It certainly created a fire storm 20 kilometers wide, with enough power to melt glass and burn Reality.”

Erick felt his heart drop. “Did I… Did I make it worse?”

“Obviously not.” Poi said, “You detonated that spell early, bringing it from a concentrated magnitude 9 down to a diffuse magnitude 9. That’s a big difference.”

Erick sighed into the northern wind, saying, “You’re going to have to explain that magnitude system to me some day, Poi.”

Poi smiled, saying, “But not today.”

“… I guess not.”

Erick began summoning Ophiel. He had the first one cast a full power [Prismatic Ward] across their floating platform. Then he sent out the rest with [Stoneshape], and directions to turn black glass into fine sand. When his mana came back, he summoned more Ophiel; quickly reaching the full ten.

And then they went to work, together, each of them casting an Aurify’d [Stoneshape], each of them flying in formation, with Erick in the lead. They rolled across the land turning black glass into black sand.

Not all sand was created equally. Erick knew this well before he came to Veird, or to Oceanside, to learn about such spells as [Stoneshape] in a classical classroom setting. And besides, Al spoke about the intricacies of [Stoneshape] enough to jog Erick’s memory.

The classifications of sand was determined by the size of the particles. Sand that is so fine you can’t tell the particle size is actually clay. Between being able to see the particles and clay, you have silt. Sand is anything with a particle size large enough to see; mostly. [Stoneshape] did okay making clay, but clay-making with magic was a process. That was probably what the slow moving people were making.

Or maybe they were making something else?

Whatever the case, Erick and his Ophiels went about making sand. The glass was as much as four foot deep in some locations, but mostly it was only a foot deep, or maybe two, and all of that needed to go away. They’d need clay to make the lake bottom, but other people could do that. Turning this solid, glass land, into workable dirt came first.

Poi spoke up when they were done with the first kilometer of transformation, “Guildmaster Zago has informed me that she appreciates your zeal, but would appreciate it more if you could pretend to have done enough, and let the other people also work to repair their home, too.”

Erick looked up and out. There were maybe only five other groups of people out here, but no one had gotten near each other; there was plenty of work to go around.

“… Please tell her that I’ll do another square kilometer, and then stop.”

Poi nodded. “I will inform her of your decision.”

- - - -

They didn’t want him turning the land back to sand, either up north or anywhere else outside the wall. There were no books to read. The house was immaculate; a place for everything and everything in its place. He asked Poi to ask Liquid if she wanted any more Stat rings and which kinds, but the Army’s Quartermaster declined his offer with little explanation. Dinner was in the oven, cooking away, and Kiri had already made dessert. That dessert was sitting in the kitchen, under a glass cover, right now. Teressa was out working with Merit and the Guard; she had formally transitioned to a soldier of the Guard sometime in the last few days. Erick was kinda miffed about that. Not that she would transition, or anything like that. But he was worried about her.

He was worried about a lot at the moment, but he had done everything he could do aside from more magical experiments, and right now, he couldn’t do much except for worry.

From whatever the Shades were up to, to Jane getting in deeper with Oceanside, to Rats joining up with Messalina, to the fact that there was a power vacuum for hunters in the Crystal Forest. He had hoped that Apogee might show up and take his mind off some of his worries with a good, distracting conversation, but a kid wearing a blue vest and a blue badge appeared at his doorway, carrying a letter declining Erick’s offer of dinner and clippings from his cinnamon trees.

Standing in the foyer, after the kid was gone and the door was shut, Erick brandished the letter at the air, asking Poi, “Did he take some clippings from somewhere else? I thought he would want to know where the cinnamon flavor came from!” He settled down, saying, “I was all ready to talk about the spice trade back on Earth.”

Poi seemed to lightly wrestle with some hidden emotion, then said, “I doubt he’d want to hear it.”

“… You’re probably right.” Erick folded the letter back up. He liked to hold on to the letters, and this one would be the start of a new collection. Or maybe not. He'd set it aside for now, anyway. He asked Poi, “Does Mog have any monsters to kill? Shadow monsters would be good.”

“You cleared her list weeks ago.” Poi paused. He reluctantly offered, “If you wish to try your skills against monsters from the Hole, we can go there at any time.”

Kiri called out from down the hallway, “A hunting trip?” A chair scraped across the stone floor, moments before Kiri appeared. She looked at Erick with hopeful eyes, and Sunny wrapped loosely around her shoulders. “I want to try some things with Sunny at the Hole.”

Erick saw Poi’s unhappiness out of the corner of his eyes. He said to Kiri, “Then you and I can go from here with the [Familiars] and Poi doesn’t have to worry.” He added, “Oh! And we can duel like how we used to, but without holding back.”

Kiri’s eyes lit up green, as she said, “I accept.” She paused. She asked, “Do we need to register the trip with the guild if it’s just the [Familiar]s?”

Poi said, “If you aren’t going yourselves, then that’s just extra paperwork that no one would care to record or file.” He added, “It’s only to keep track of where adventurers were last seen, anyway.”
