“Anyway, Samson, this is Val. Val, Samson.” Rain gestured. “You’ve met him, Val, but you probably don’t remember it. He helped save your life in the Fells.”

“Oh,” Val said. He stepped around Rain, offering Samson his hand. “I suppose I should thank you then.”

Samson shook it firmly, nodding. “Don’t worry about it. So, you’re in this company, too, then?”

“Naturally,” Val said. “We’re going blue hunting. You’d have to be an idiot not to be interested in that.”

“Mmm,” Samson said, reserving his opinion. Rain was one thing, but this Val was the walking embodiment of the adventurer stereotype. I should talk to Rain about enforcing some discipline in this company of his. This could get out of hand quickly, depending on how many adventurers are involved.

Rain nodded. “Anyway, Val, did you want something, or were you just coming over to say boo?”

Val shrugged. “I just wanted to see what a noble was doing here.”

“Joining,” Samson said. “We were just discussing what I could do to help.”

“About that,” Rain said. “I just had an idea when we were talking about the Fells.” He glanced at Val before looking back at Samson. “No, we’re not sneaking in there. It hasn’t gone up in level, and anyway, Bartum says the Watch has it locked up tighter than the Bank vault. I was just thinking that the rest of our party from that delve might want to come. Samson, do you think you can go find out?”

“Hmm, I doubt Arlo and Rina will be interested. Bosco might be, perhaps. I can ask. Breggeh has already left for Jarro, according to Kettel. I spoke with him this morning, and I know that he already intends on joining.”

“Where did you see Kettel?” Rain asked. “I’ve been looking for him. I heard from the Watch that, well… Anyway, I’ve got some yelling to do when I find him. One of the first things that I’m going to do is run a training course on how not to be a reckless jackass.”

“I feel like you’re talking to me,” Val said.

Rain snorted.

Good. Perhaps I will not have to speak with him after all.

Samson nodded. “I saw Kettel by the eastern stronghold. I wouldn’t bother going over there, though. He asked me if I wanted to go with him into the city to scavenge. When I said no, he and the rest of his group wandered off. I haven’t seen them since.”

“And you just let him go?” Rain said, incredulous. “What group?” he demanded. “Who was with him?”

“I am not his father,” Samson said with a shrug. “Some bronzeplates from the Guild. The only one that I knew was Mahria, and only because of her mother. Did you hear that—”

“Yes, I know.” Rain interrupted. “When did they leave? Did you say this morning? Shit, it’s past noon, they… Shit!”

“Where are you going?” Samson said, watching as Rain started sprinting for the exit from the compound.

“Rescue mission,” Val said, grinning.

“Yes, but not alone,” Rain said. He’d stopped almost as soon as he started. Samson glanced at Vanna, then back at Rain as he heard him sigh. “One pack of idiots trying to get themselves killed is enough. Vanna, please manage things here. Try to keep Staavo from bothering Tallheart too much once he gets back. I’m going to find Ameliah, or, if she’s not around, Bartum. I should be able to convince him to give us some help.” He beckoned, then started moving again. “Come on, Samson, Val, let’s go.” He slammed his hands together, his gauntlets making the collision sharp and loud. “Damn it, Kettel!”
