Rain sat cross-legged on the ground near where Tallheart was working, his hands hovering above his keyboard. A terminal window floated in front of him at a comfortable height. Now that he’d built the components, he could use them for whatever, in this case, a text editor. Manually adding things to a panel took effort and concentration to bend the system to his will, while typing was practically effortless. It was faster, too, thanks to the fact that his macros still seemed to run at soul-speed. In fact, he’d had to add delays to some of his scripts to get them to work properly in the real world, but that was neither here nor there. He had a more serious issue to deal with.

Company Names:

(Before Kettel names it something stupid)

(Where is Kettel, anyway?)

Unity?

Sounds like a cult.

Tarny would be thrilled.

Delvers’ Guild?

Too close to the ‘Guild’ guild.

Maybe just “Delve”?

It’s a little on the nose…

Cleaning Crew?

Haha, I crack me up.

No.

The Hunters?

Sounds cool…

Not very accurate…

A little generic.

The Band of the Falcon?

No.

Just no.

Ascension

I think this is the first one I like.

The organization will be about raising people’s levels and stuff, so.

Also, I’m serious about that airship.

How do they not have airships?

Sky pirates when?

Should it be in English, or Common?

The words are similar, and so are one or two others, for that matter…

Sidenote: Why?

The ancestor of the Guild and the Watch was called the Majistraal Ascensi Guildum. Sounds vaguely Latin. Coincidence?? Ancient Roman isekaied through time? Possible thermae connection? Todo: investigate bathing technology.

…

Nobody is going to get that.

Ahem.

Why did I type ahem?

Todo: build proper word processor. I need bullet points. It keeps losing all the indenting. I also need to get the panel to reflow text properly when I resize it…

Todo: transfer todo list from notebook to system.

Add priority and sort…

ah-HEM!

The Federation?

Has the right moral framework

Pro: No copyright lawyers in this world.

Con: I would still know. I’d feel like a hack.

The Culture?

Same problem.

Justice?

Hmm. No, anyone who calls themselves ‘Justice’ isn’t just. Hey, that wasn’t bad.

The Tallheart Fanclub

His reaction would be hilarious. Also, I can never show anyone this list. They’d think I’m bonkers. Sidenote: is there a way to make system panels visible to others?

Slimeco

Lamest thing ever

Auras R Us

I stand corrected

The Nameless

Oooooh. Edgy.

The Null Set

Groan.

Math Club

No.

Zero

Actually, this one’s pretty good. Nice and simple.

Uplift

Similar to Ascension. I think I like Ascension Better.

Ugh!

I should literally just call it “Ugh!”, including the exclamation point.

Naming things is hard.

“Rain,” Tallheart said. “I require your assistance.”

Rain looked up from the window, glad for the distraction. He’d come back to this later. “Sure, Tallheart, what’s up?”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, gesturing to Smelter: Version 2.0.

“Sure, one sec,” Rain said. He got to his feet, wincing at the burning in his muscles. He’d been pushing his body hard, and the effects of his soul damage were still there, leaving him stiff even after a brief rest. He took a minute to stretch, pondering Tallheart’s work from a distance as he did.

Tallheart had been collecting metals for a while now, amassing a modest stockpile in the Lee. His collection had really started to grow once he’d entered the city. Smelter: Version 1.0 had seen heavy use as Tallheart made trip after trip into the swampy ruins of Fel Sadanis, bringing back cups, forks, belt buckles, horseshoes, and more. All of it had gone into the melting pot to be liquefied, purified, and cast into ingots. Late last night, however, the overworked Heat Cryst that allowed the smelter to function had finally given up the ghost. Mlem had come to the rescue, acquiring more Crysts by bartering with the other survivors, though his help had come with a hefty price tag.

Instead of just replacing the Cryst in the old smelter, Tallheart had broken the whole thing down and reforged it anew. He did this using Heat Steel that he created with the Crysts Mlem had gotten him, much as he’d created Dark Steel when he’d made Rain’s armor. Needless to say, Rain had a few questions, but he’d respected Tallheart’s desire to work in silence.

He had the feeling that the cervidian smith was already on edge, being in a crowded human city. The evacuation was moving at the speed of politics, and it looked like they would have at least a few more days to prepare. Perhaps as much as a week if the DKE didn’t get their heads out of their collective asses. That being the case, Rain had set up some wooden partitions to give the smith a little relief from the prying eyes of the city, forming something of a compound for their company near the south gate.

It wasn’t a perfect solution. Even now, Rain could feel people watching them. He sighed and returned his focus to inspecting Tallheart’s latest creation, putting the paparazzi out of his mind as he walked over.

After only a day, the new smelter was almost twice the size of the old. Rain thought he could probably fit inside it, even wearing his armor. It looked basically like an oblong oil tank, with three valves on each side, and one larger one at one end. The other end was fitted with a slanted hopper, clearly the intake. The entire thing was held up by four stout legs that would allow a fire to be set beneath it.

It certainly looked impressive, especially as Tallheart had somehow forged the thing perfectly in half a day, with not so much as a hammer mark to mar the pale crimson metal. What it didn’t look, was mobile.

“Well?” Tallheart asked.

“It certainly looks good,” Rain said. “Much more rugged than the last one, and the multiple spouts will let you pour off different things without changing filters. The one on the back is for waste?”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Yes. The Asshole.”

Rain almost choked. He stared at Tallheart, then broke out into uncontrollable laughter when he saw the satisfied smile on his face.

“It is my own design,” Tallheart said as Rain struggled to get a hold of himself. “But I have based it upon the work of my uncle. He was the smith in our village, and while he was not awakened, he was quite skilled at his craft.”

Rain’s laughter died, the knowledge of what had happened to Tallheart’s family putting a damper on his mirth.

“I do not remember him well,” Tallheart continued, his tone casual, “but I do remember the argument that he and my mother had concerning the naming of this particular feature.” He turned the valve, showing Rain how it could be opened.

“What were their names?” Rain asked cautiously. “Your uncle. And your parents.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, closing the valve again. “My mother was called Imbara, and her brother’s name was Ogara. My father was Oakheart, and I am named after him. His side of the family was more traditional.”

“Will you tell me about them sometime?”

Tallheart nodded. “I will.”

“Thank you. I’d like that.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “So, now that you have inspected the smelter, what problems do you see?”

Rain shrugged. “It doesn’t look like it’s going to be easy to move, for one.”

Tallheart rumbled in agreement. “Yes. I will build a cart of steel, or perhaps modify a wooden one. The smelter will sit atop it with a firepan beneath, so I may work as we travel. I will need to bring my anvil as well, and a stockpile of metal. I will make a… Hmm… A forge-wagon.”

Rain grinned. “Good name, Tallheart. That sounds awesome!” Maybe I should ask him to help name the company.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, sounding pleased. “There is a problem. There are no horses in the city. I could pull it myself, but we will be traveling through snow. Leverage and traction will be an issue. Leverage is always an issue.” Tallheart tilted his head. “I was thinking of the vehicles of your world. I hoped you could help.”

“Oh, yeah, um…” Rain scratched at his beard. Tallheart was right; the weight was going to be a problem. Vanna had come up with a plan to use sleds for most of what they’d need to bring with them, but that wouldn’t work for Tallheart if he wanted to travel with something like the massive smelter. Rain wasn’t about to tell him to just make a smaller one.

Suddenly, an image popped into his head, and he grinned. No, we can’t go smaller. We’re going to go bigger. He had to stop himself from cackling with glee. “Okay, we’re building a tank.” He deliberately didn’t translate the word. It would only cause confusion.

Steam power? Hmm. Maybe, but it could be fiddly figuring out a throttle and everything. I’ll think about it. The treads are the key thing. It isn’t going to just be a forge-wagon, it’s going to be an all-terrain forge-wagon. Tallheart’s a beast; he can just pedal it if he has to. Do they know about gear ratios? They must. Ooh, this is gonna be metal as FUCK.

Rain was already hopping from foot to foot in excitement. “Right, let me go get Staavo. He’d kill me if I don’t bring him in on this. Just…make steel. Lots and lots of steel. I’m going to need paper... Shit, and someone who can draw.” He looked around. “Hey, Jamus!”

Warm, sticky muck squished through Ameliah’s toes as she splashed down onto the bottom of the riverbed, high walls of earth rising on either side of her. Her feet were bare, and she was covered with mud from her slide down the bank, but she didn’t let it bother her. She could feel the power of the earth flowing through the soles of her feet, the passive skill Rooted promising to boost any Earth magic that she chose to cast and to prevent her from being hurled away by the force of the spell.

She walked along the bottom of the river, headed north toward the barrier. While Fel Sadanis was on flat ground, there was clearly enough of a slope to matter when it came to the resting point of the water. For most of the city, the river had remained content to stay within its banks, that being the lowest point. Past the northern wall, however, enough water had drained away to leave the riverbed exposed. Correspondingly, to the southwest, a small lake had formed against the barrier where the river had overflowed.

Ameliah ceased pondering the geography of the situation as she reached the barrier. Before her, there was a wall of churning water smashing into the invisible dome, rising many times her height. Some unknown Earth Mage had built a stone barricade to divert the river to the east—she could see the edge of it pressed up against the barrier, the melted look of shaped stone clear to her eyes. That’s the first thing that needs to go.

Reaching deep into the ground, Ameliah activated a series of metamagics. She began to chant a string of pseudo-sensible syllables, concentrating on the pattern required for the spell she wanted. Earth magic was slow, with the more advanced spells having a lengthy cast time, but it was powerful. She’d spent a significant portion of the day yesterday in meditation, re-creating one of her former builds that focused on the element. She had more power at her fingertips now than she’d had for years, as she was at rank ten in most of the spells. The downside was that there was little progress to be made.

“Break,” Ameliah said, completing her chant. With as much as she’d boosted it, Break Stone’s effect was more like an explosion, blasting fragments of rock and a torrent of water high into the air. The spectacle was lessened slightly by the lack of sound, being on the other side of the barrier, but Ameliah had already started chanting her next spell.

She walked right up to the barrier near the eastern bank, lowering herself into a wide stance as she felt the magic form a connection to the bones of the Earth. “Intrusion!” she shouted when she finally finished the long string of nonsense syllables. She thrust her palm upward and pushed with her legs, guiding the column of stone as she called it from the depths. Intrusion was high-tier magic, and her mana plummeted faster even than the stone rose. It was worth it to avoid wasting hours shaping and hardening the earth with lesser spells. The river was mighty, and building a barrier that could resist it the right way would take significant time and effort, especially now that it had dug itself a new channel.

Ameliah cursed as she was launched upward, having been clipped by the rising pillar of rock. I might have miscalculated slightly. There was a shock of cold water and a sudden blast of sound as the stone carried her through the barrier. It stopped rising, but Ameliah kept going, her momentum sending her flying high into the air.

Redirection! Wait, shit! She flailed her arms, trying to stabilize her flight. She’d gotten used to having the spell and had tried to use it instinctively, despite having removed it last night. Below her, water roared as it crashed into the stone she’d called, not dissimilar from the one that formed the Lee, though not even a quarter the size. Ice screamed as it fractured, the pressure of the water backing up the river as it was forced to find a new path.

Ameliah didn’t have much time to appreciate her handiwork; she needed to figure out how to land with a modicum of grace. Shit, what do I have? Oh, duh, Rock Pull.

A sense of all rock in the area blossomed in her head, and Ameliah latched onto the largest piece around. Her trajectory reversed, and she barely had time to orient herself before she crashed into the tip of the stone pillar. Strength rushed into her, carried from the depths that this shard had called home before she’d so rudely jerked it to the surface. Her passives let her tap into that power, partially refilling her reserves and steadying her footing. This was one of the things that made high-level elemental mages so dangerous.

Still, she was significantly drained. She’d have to hang around Rain for a while to recover the rest of her mana. She was never going to be as efficient about this as a real Earth mage could be. Nevertheless, the job was done. She stood triumphantly, perched upon the stone, resolutely ignoring the fact that she was thoroughly drenched.

Damn, I forgot how good Earth Magic feels.

