She brushed her soggy hair out of her eyes, disheveled from the force of the wind. A quick blast of Purify cleaned her off, though it could do nothing for the cold and the wet. Her sodden clothes clung to her body as she peered down at the ground, and she had to resist the urge to set herself on fire to dry herself out. She’d called enough attention to herself already. She wasn’t worried about the Watch learning of her capabilities—they already knew, and had given her permission to do this—but still.

A whirlpool churned below her as the momentum of the water tried to batter down her obstruction. As powerful as the flow was, it had no hope of victory, so it was forced to find a new path to the west. Water was rapidly soaking the snow that covered the ground, turning it to slush.

She looked east toward Vestvall, then down at the channel that the river had carved, which was now draining. She’d have to fill it in somewhere, making a bridge that their expedition could carry their supplies across. Compared to what she’d just done, that would barely be an inconvenience. Piling up a hill of dirt would be no trouble, as long as it didn’t have to resist the water’s flow. It would be good practice of her finer control.

She needed to get used to these skills again. Earth Magic was perfect for creating fortified camps, a necessity when traveling in a ranked zone. It was just her and Tallheart to protect the others, and without something like this, she’d end up sleeping on a sled all day, just so she could keep watch all night. Every night.

Honestly, did Rain think this through at all?

Freelord Samson Darr approached the wooden partition that Rain’s people had constructed. They’d blocked off access to the southern gate, setting up a private compound for their company. Apparently, the Watch had no issue with this, which wasn’t that surprising. Nobody sane would want to leave by the gate, not with the teleporter as an option.

Samson smiled. I suppose that makes me insane, then.

Passing through the narrow entrance, he paused to look around. There were crates of supplies everywhere, and a small group of workers was busy constructing…snowshoes, it looked like. Numerous Crystal Slimes were oozing through the mess. He watched as one of the slimes stole a fur-lined hat from a crate and started hauling it toward a small pile of other hats, just sitting out on the ground. None of the workers seemed to care.

Huh.

The cervidian—Tallheart, if the rumors had his name correct—was on the other side of the compound, hammering at a thick plate of metal atop an anvil. The sound of his hammer rang clear through the warm air. Next to the smith was a pile of metal scraps and a strange tank, perhaps for water. There was a fire burning under it for some reason.

Samson laid a hand on the sword hanging at his waist. The blade was enchanted, but it was nothing special. It will be good to meet a proper smith. Later, though.

Nearby where he was standing, there was an incongruously gaudy wooden desk with a woman sitting behind it. The desk looked like it had been stolen from some tasteless noble’s estate and dumped here. His mother would probably have had a fit, seeing it sitting on the dirt like that.

Samson smiled. One day, he would raise his children to be true nobility, without the baseless pride that plagued his family. Even his parents were afflicted with it. Awakened though they were, Samson was confident that he had been far stronger than either of them even before his own awakening. They were all lazy, his parents and his siblings, both. They thought that they were inherently better than others simply because of their name and the history of their house. Samson was different. Samson had trained. He had made it through the Citizen’s selection process. He had earned his pride.

Samson turned and headed for the desk. The woman seated there was thirty or so, wearing peasant’s clothes and a tired expression. She was busy writing something on a piece of paper, but she looked up at his approach. Her skin was light brown, and her hair was dark, pointing to some distant measure of Osaran ancestry. She had attractive features, if a bit strong, and they were hardly marred by the smudge of dirt on her cheek. Her eyes narrowed warily as she inspected him in return.

Samson looked down at his own neatly pressed tunic. It was green, with understated gold trim. While it was plain, it made him stand out, given the type of people he saw in the compound. Hmm. I should get something more appropriate for travel.

Hiding his frown, he nodded to the woman. “Hello. I am here to join.”

She blinked at him, raising her eyebrows and setting down her pen. “Wow,” she said. “Really?”

Samson smiled. “Yes, really. My name is Samson. I am an acquaintance of Rain. And you are?”

“Vanna,” the woman said, still looking a little shocked. “You’re a noble?”

“Freelord,” Samson said. The term meant a noble who had broken from their house, and it was often used as a slur, though to whom it applied, it was usually a badge of honor. The woman was still looking at him like he had two heads, so he elaborated. “My great, great, great grandfather was Amnestine Darr, and it is for him that I am honored to keep my name. The rest of them can go and rot. I would pledge my sword to this cause if you will have me. I am awakened, and I have been practicing the sword for my entire life.”

Dearest mother is not going to be pleased. Fortunately for me, she and the rest bribed their way into the second group to Jarro. I wonder if they even noticed that I am gone.

“Ah,” the woman said, adopting a businesslike expression. She put aside the paper she had been working on and pulled a different sheet from a drawer in the desk. “I’ll have to test you.”

Samson blinked. Test me? I am not concerned, but do they not need awakened? Wait, does she doubt my word?

“Name and age?” the woman asked, looking at him.

Her name is Vanna. I must not forget. “Freelord Samson Darr, twenty years.”

“Occupation?”

“Swordsman.”

“Class and level?”

Samson paused. “Is it required for me to answer?”

“No,” Vanna said. “But Rain wanted me to ask.” She gestured to the paper she was writing his information on. “You can just give me a range if you prefer, or we can skip it entirely.”

What is the purpose of this? Does she think I will turn away? “Level five,” Samson said. “No class yet.”

“Wow,” Vanna said, her eyebrows practically climbing into her hair. “I didn’t think you’d actually answer.”

Samson smiled. “I am not afraid of people knowing my secrets. Let them come.”

Vanna snorted. “Okay, now that’s more like what I expected.”

“What is that supposed to mean?”

“Sorry, sorry,” Vanna said, looking back down. “Okay, I’m going to skip down a bit, since we’re on the subject. Noble section, noble section…” She ran her finger down the page. “Ah, there we go.” She cleared her throat. “Would you have a problem taking orders from a commoner?”

“Only if they are incompetent,” Samson said. “Rain is not.”

She looked up at him. “Rain says he isn’t in charge until we have that stupid vote he wants, and I wasn’t talking about him. In general, would you follow orders from a commoner, even an unawakened commoner, if they were your superior?”

“I—” He tilted his head. Hmm. I do not know. “I suppose it would depend on the person. I will not follow a fool.”

“Fair enough,” Vanna said, making a note. “Are you a speciesist?”

“What?”

She gave him a level look. “How do you feel about cervidians?”

Samson glanced at where Tallheart was working, then back at Vanna. “I cannot say that I have any strong opinions. I have never met one. I would never consider killing one because of the Empire’s bounty if that is what you are asking.”

“Good. How about other groups. Are you a racist? Do you discriminate on gender, skin color, sexual orientation, religion, or any other arbitrary category?”

“What is this?” Samson said, looking down at the paper. “Did you write these questions?”

Vanna laughed, flipping it around so he could see. The top of the page bore the words ‘Rain’s Asshole Test, Version: …’ and then a series of symbols he didn’t recognize. “Well?” she said, turning it back around.

“No,” Samson said. “Unless you count thinking that Bankers are greedy bastards and Guilders are reckless fools.”

“Hmm,” Vanna said, making a mark.

“Look, is Rain here?” Samson said. “No offense, Lady Vanna, but he knows me. Do we really have to go through all of this?”

“Oh, ‘Lady’, is it?” Vanna said, snorting. “Just Vanna.”

“I was only being polite,” Samson said.

Vanna sniffed. “Rain!” she shouted suddenly. “Get over here!”

“What?” came a voice from the distance. Rain’s head poked up from behind the pile of scrap near where Tallheart was working. Both of them were looking over. “Oh,” Rain said, waving. “Hey!”

Samson watched as Rain started moving toward him. The Night Cleaner’s form was bulky beneath his black cloak, which was open to show that that size was mostly coming from his armor, though he was blessed with height. Compared to Samson, most people were. Rain wasn’t wearing his helmet, and his face bore a neatly trimmed brown beard that it had lacked the last time Samson had seen him.

As he grew closer, Samson got a look at his eyes. He couldn’t put a finger on what he saw there, but something about his gaze was unsettling, perhaps its intensity. He detected no trace of the man’s rumored Aura of Fear, but he had no doubt that he could activate it if he so chose. The vision of Rain charging a howling pack of kin and burning them to a crisp with barely any effort popped into his mind.

I would never have thought someone could make Aura Magic so terrifying. I have a long way to go.

“Huh, he really does know you,” Vanna said. Samson glanced at her. She’d gotten to her feet and was standing beside him. He noticed that she was almost a hand taller than he was, but he swallowed his irritation. She looked completely at ease at the approach of a man that some called Death Zone, despite the fact that she was presumably unawakened.

Samson turned back, finding himself staring up at Rain, who was almost upon them. If Vanna had a hand of height on Samson, then Rain had a hand of height on her. As he came to a stop, he practically loomed over the pair of them.

“Hey Samson,” Rain said, offering him his hand to shake. “What brings you here?”

Samson grasped Rain’s offered gauntlet, shaking firmly. With his added Strength, he was able to match the Night Cleaner’s firm grip easily. “I came to thank you again for freeing me from the Citizen, as well as to offer you my services.”

Rain blinked, then a huge grin broke out on his face. His teeth were just as unsettlingly white as Samson remembered, and he had to fight to control his expression. They were like bones that had been bleached by the sun and polished to a mirror sheen.

“Rain, I didn’t finish the test, but he seems okay,” Vanna said.

“Good, good,” Rain said, still smiling. He looked at Samson. “So, you really want to join, huh? Not just the trip to Vestvall, but the whole thing?”

“Yes,” Samson said, nodding. “If you will have me. I was impressed by your leadership in the Fells, and I see great value in traveling with you, wherever it may lead.”

“What about your family?” Rain asked. “We didn’t get time to really get to know each other in the Fells, but I heard a bit about them from Lady Par. Just gossip, I’m afraid. If you know Lady Par, you’ll understand what I mean.”

Samson snorted. He knew precisely what Rain meant. “Don’t worry about my family. They have already left for the DKE, and are probably licking Jarro’s boots already. I have no interest in joining them.”

“Well, all right then,” Rain said. “Welcome to the company. We don’t have a name yet, but I’m working on it. I’m also overdue on setting out some official rules, but for now, everyone’s an equal, and the guiding principle is ‘don’t be an asshole.’ You probably figured that out from Vanna’s questions.”

“Fair enough,” Samson said. He looked around at the workers and the slimes, both toiling away industriously. “How can I help?”

“Hmm,” Rain said. “Maybe combat lessons? You’re amazing with that sword. Would you be willing to teach—hang on, one second. Act casual.”

“What?” Samson said.

Rain raised a hand as if to scratch his beard, but instead, he made the hand sign for ‘silence’, then the one for ‘wait’ as soon as his arm was in front of his body. Samson glanced at Vanna, raising an eyebrow. She looked just as confused as he was. Samson jumped, reaching for his sword as Rain suddenly burst into motion.

“CONSTANT VIGILANCE!” Rain roared, cloak whipping as he spun unnaturally fast, trails of wind following his movements. His arm shot up, pointing into the empty air behind him. There was a startled cry, and Samson began to draw his sword as he realized that it had come from the empty spot that Rain was pointing at. Before he could complete the motion, an Osaran man wearing a black jacket popped into view. Samson recognized him as the adventurer that they’d rescued in the Fells.

“Gods damn it, Rain!” the man said, laying a hand on his chest. “What the fuck?!”

“Ha!” Rain said, lowering his hand. “How do you like the taste of your own medicine?” He snorted out a laugh.

Samson slowly slid his sword back into its sheath. The…taste of your own medicine? What’s that supposed to mean? No, more importantly, what’s the Osaran doing here? He can become invisible? I suppose that explains how he got into the Fells…

Samson looked closer at the man. He had dark hair in a ponytail, and there was a spray of tiny pale scars on his left cheek that he didn’t remember being there, almost like the man had been splattered by burning oil. Other than that, he looked in much better condition than the last time he’d seen him.

“Bah,” the Osaran said, lowering his hand from his chest as he stared at Rain. “Did you hear me coming, or was it that skill of yours?”

“The skill, of course,” Rain said. “Face it, Val, your days of sneaking up on me are done.”

“Owned,” Vanna said.

Rain clapped his hands sharply, raising one into the air with an immensely satisfied expression on his face. He laughed. “Perfect usage, Vanna. Just perfect. Much better than last time. Also acceptable would have been ‘wrecked’ or ‘rekt’.”

Is that last one even a word? What is going on?

