Except, dozens more.

[Ancient Centinel - Lvl. 156]

[Ancient Centinel - Lvl. 175]

[Ancient Centinel - Lvl. 161]

[Ancient Centinel - Lvl. 183]

…

My eyes widened at this sight. At the multitude of [Ancient Centinels] that gathered around us. A bead of sweat trickled down my neck as I could only watch them come. They didn’t attack right away, just seemingly gathering around us.

And it was from the center of this gather, I saw a lean pink figure emerge. It was no bigger than a Human. Smaller, in fact. Like it had the upper body of a Goblin. Its lower body was reminiscent of a [Younger Centinel], and it was coiled around itself like a snake clinging onto a pole.

It… almost looked like a woman. It even had a mass of spiked hair coming from its head— something Sage Centinels didn’t. I quickly used [Identification] on it, and the results only made me more nervous.

[??? - Lvl. ???]

I couldn’t see its level.

Sal stepped forward, keeping an arm out so I wouldn’t approach it. He bowed and smiled.

“Greetings, Matriarch Centinel. It has been a while since we’ve last seen each other. My, you’ve leveled quite a bit since the days back in the Endlands, haven’t you?”

It didn’t respond to him. Not immediately. Instead, it just stood before us as the mass of [Ancient Centinels] calmed down. The Devil drew back, still gripping onto his weapon.

“May I ask what the [Progenitor of Secely’s Centinels] wants to do with us? I was under the impression that you were more of a… recluse.”

It brought an arm up, pointing at me, and I tensed.

“Her.”

It made clicking noises that were somehow more garbled than anything I’d heard from any other Centinel thus far.

“Her. Kill. Child. Mine.”

“She killed your child? Well, yes. I’m sure she’s killed plenty of your children. Why do you care? They die all the time.”

Sal just shrugged, but it wasn’t placated by that.

“My. Daughter. My. Own. Child.”

It hugged itself, digging its fingers into its own shell. It began to cry, but instead of tears pouring down from its face, [Infant Centinels] fell out by the dozens. They crawled away from her before she crushed them all with a whip of her lower body.

I grimaced at that— I guess it didn’t care about anything that wasn’t an [Ancient Centinel].

“Kill. Her.”

It pointed at me, and Sal stabbed his pitchfork on the ground.

“Sorry, you may have lost your child, but you have plenty of others. I’m not going to let you have my only daughter.”

The Matriarch Centinel let out a horrific screech as it charged us. The [Ancient Centinels] moved, and I readied for a fight. But Sal just grabbed me by the arm, waving at them and creating a portal.

“Seeya next time!”

And with that, we were gone. The portal closed as they crashed into nothing. When I opened my eyes, I was back in my Dad’s home.

End of Volume 5 Part 1

Author's Notes:

Volume 5 is being split into three parts, each with different focuses and themes. Volume 5 Part 1 focused heavily on Salvos’ own personal growth, and Volume 5 Part 2 will have a different approach too. As said at the start of the week, no chapter tomorrow. So, next chapter will be on Monday.

If you want to read ahead to the start of Salvos Volume 5 Part 2 right now, check out my patreon. MelasD (Melas/Salvos/Tian) is creating Web Novels / Web Serials | Patreon

If you want to, you can check out my merch too. I have a poster! https://deltaverse-merchandise.creator-spring.com/

Once again, do consider checking out the charity linked to support Ukrainians suffering from war. Donate now (redcrossredcrescent.org)

Otherwise, thanks for reading as always.
