Walking out of the makeup room and onto the stage, he waved to the cameras and the crowds behind them. Continuing to his seat, he kept his smile wide and honest, his body language easy and relaxed to prevent it from being read as over eager or desperate. He was relaxed because there was nothing to stress him, as this was a casual interview.

Not because he’d agreed to be given a softball interview with everything planned ahead of time, but because he was willing to see this through to the end. One interview of discomfort meant little in the face of his determination. Though, in the spirit of having a good interview, they’d agreed on some talking points from the outside and he’d given the studio a week to work on their questions and gather their own intelligence.

Rebecca Young smiled at Matt as he sat down, though he could barely see it with her long, porcelain colored hair twisted into a topknot that then fanned out into her signature half-hidden look. However, her grip was firm without showing off her five Tier advantage, and they both paused for a moment to ensure there were good still images for later distribution.

Her voice was mellow as she got them started. “Good afternoon Ascender Titan, it's a pleasure that you reached out to us after the recent media blitz regarding the aura potions, and your very vocal comments about how the situation should be rectified.”

Matt was already nodding before she finished speaking. “Thats exactly right, I’m not happy and I feel no reason to hide it. We have a problem as well as a ready made fix, but a few individuals' self interest seem to outweigh everyone else's interests.”

Rebecca rocked back at his final words, raising a hand to her hair veil, “A very forceful response Ascender Titan, but the various businesses involved in aura development paint a very different picture. We’ve taken the time to highlight some of the core differences each side presents. One of the largest and most fundamental differences seem to be that they say there isn’t an issue with the more limited Concepts that have been recorded coming from aura potions. How do you respond to such a claim?”

“I find that claim absurd, as it is false. Thirty percent of people who break their Concepts find themselves locked into their original element when they go to reforge their Concept. What else can that be considered if not an epidemic? Now that the basic elements are freely available and most people driven enough to reach Tier 4 can buy the potion, even if it takes a few years for them to actually receive it, advancing the elemental compatibility as well as the secondary effects becomes much more important. We need to ensure that our people are not being limited by the very tools meant to elevate them. That is what I and the nobles I partnered with seek to rectify. The first four independent studies done on the topic already warned of the phenomenon, and each of them concluded that the situation would only become worse if countermeasures were not taken. Looking at the numbers, they most certainly haven’t gotten better."

Rebecca gestured with her off hand and the screens around the studio flipped to show various breakdowns of the reports Matt was referencing. Reading everything himself to make sure no one had tried to make a last minute change, he also found curated responses and analysis of each report performed by vetted companies with a good reputation so viewers could make their own opinions.

Most would never bother to look any deeper, but the old adage of pounding the facts when they were on your side was as true now as it ever was, and he didn't mind causing a racket. It, however, wasn’t the only thing he was trying to pound. Facts were often less persuasive than emotions, so he didn’t intend to rely solely on dry information to get his points across.

When Rebecca dropped her hand, the screens went back to show the show's logo as the cameras focused back on them. “While those reports back you up Ascender Titan, there were others that were less doom and gloom. Do you believe they are wrong, fabricated, or are you implying something more sinister might be afoot?”

Matt shook his head making sure the cameras could see it. “I think the reports speak for themselves. Even the ones published or sponsored by the various aura related factions all acknowledge there is a problem. No matter how much they try to obfuscate the issue, deflect responsibility elsewhere, or downplay it, they can’t hide the facts from the people suffering from the limited availability of aura potions. They are out there, and every time a new report, or a new spokesperson downplays the situation, they are minimizing the very people they hurt. I implore you to ask your friends and family who delve if they’ve run into the issue, or if they know of it. You might be surprised how close some of these people are.”

Rebecca leaned forward as she hit something he’d known was coming. “Saying these businesses are hurting people is a big accusation Ascender Titan, when you yourself publicized these methods originally.”

Matt met her veiled gaze without blinking. “I won’t pretend or shy away from such questions because yes, I do feel a level of responsibility to everyone. That is why I’m trying to push for alternatives, find solutions, and implement them.”

Rebecca raised her non-dominant hand a second time and the screens changed to the image they’d deliberately leaked. “Are these your demands, Ascender Titan? Few third parties would call these suggestions anything but onerous. Possibly overreaching in their scope.”

Matt leaned forward slightly as if he hadn’t seen the image before, squinting as he read off the captured projection. “Demand that every aura-related recipe for potions and rifts be published free of charge after the ten millennia patent? I don’t remember talking about any of this in the context you seem to be describing, but then again, this was a leak from a private meeting, so you can’t really take it at face value. This was part of a list of things that while nice, are ultimately impractical to implement in the real world.”

Even with the curtain of porcelain hair obscuring her face, Matt could tell Rebecca didn’t believe a word he’d just said and pushed, “These are still very aggressive demands to throw at companies, guilds, and noble families that are in good standing who, both directly and indirectly, help their communities. They create new jobs and pay local taxes as well as widening the availability of aura related products. Isn’t that the very thing you are asking for? What situation could the listed things be raised in where they weren't at least mildly provocative? If that wasn’t what you are aiming for, what are you?”

Finally getting the question he’d been waiting for, Matt raised his own hand, changing the displayed images showing a different slide. This time, he showcased the current solution. One he found tolerable and the nobles only found mildly overreaching. In short, it was a decent middle ground.

“This is our framework for an aura reform we wish to see implemented Empire wide. At the same time we developed this, we tried to reach out to the various aura related businesses for their input, but they declined to comment or offer their own suggestions.” In reality, they’d asked for a meeting from the three largest companies and they’d declined, even though all of their leadership were already in the Capital.

When he was sure he had everyone's full attention, he finished, “In short, we aim to remove the exclusivity clauses from all existing contracts and ban them going forward.”

Hearing a murmur ripple through the crowd, Matt continued trying to walk a fine line between confident and arrogant. “I understand everyone's resistance to such a large change. It's a big step that has rarely been done before, but we don’t suggest it lightly. We also aren’t demanding it without compensation. We, the noble families pushing this measure, are willing to negotiate paying part of the existing contracts buy out clauses. We are also offering to allow them to add a flat fee to aura potions or any other products made from aura to ensure the companies and their patents are viable long term. We are also willing to allow the patents to be extended by fifty percent to fifteen thousand years, rather than a flat ten.”

Rebecca looked into her palm reading something off of her AI before she looked up. “Ahhh, I was wondering why that sounds remarkably familiar. Is that not similar to the model your own duchy has adopted? Not allowing exclusivity clauses but allowing flat fees? Are there any further modifications away from your baseline? I must say that in our research, most aura companies said they disliked operating in your duchy because of such rules.”

Matt sighed dramatically before smiling again. “Many of them are based on what Liz and I have done, but not as much as I’d have preferred. Instead, our aim was to create a system that would both better handle the rapidly adapting field that is aura and everything related to it, so we don’t have to do this again. From the outset, we tried to craft a framework that will allow for rapid widespread adoption of new aura types, without hampering a businesses ability to make a profit. Every decision is made with that in mind.”

They spent several minutes going through the listed points, but Matt truly did think they were being more than fair. They started by offering to pay five percent of every existing contract's cancellation fees, which was more than generous in his option.

Manny hadn’t used the precedent to retroactively modify contracts, but both of his predecessors had. More relevant to their current situation, neither of them had been so kind as to offer any kind of compensation when they did so. He and their collection of nobles were also very aware that they were not a Tier 50 or anything close. Limited to politics, they felt it was smart to offer some level of reparation.

Against Matt’s initial judgment, the nobles even went as far as offering to allow the aura companies to add a flat fee on each unit of aura pulled out of the rifts. He thought such an allowance was overly generous, though it proved its worth when its existence seemed to surprise Rebecca, who spent ten minutes diving into various sub clauses, helpfully getting a lot of the information out there for the average viewer.

They moved on before it became too dry, but by the time they were done, he conceded that the nobles had been right. Giving up that concession lightened up the mood for the following points, which might have come under heavier scrutiny.

Like Matt’s idea to hardcap the price of aura potions. It had been shot down, but Liz managed to navigate a good middle ground that left everyone upset about something.

Their current plans said any additional fee couldn’t be more than twenty percent of the baseline cost of the potion. That extra expense would balloon the cost of the potions, but it wasn’t so burdensome as to put most potions out of reach for most people. The rarer aura types would always be more expensive, but as the rifts themselves spread, their prices would drop until they reached a happy medium.

“I see that you still demand no exclusivity clauses. What do you have to say about the possible invention of more volatile aura types that might need to be restrictive? Several have raised such points, and I can’t say I love the idea of void Domain users running around willy-nilly."

Matt let some of his chagrin shine through at the comment about void aura. “That sounds like a good problem to have, considering we have hardly touched level 3 mana types, let alone something as complicated as void. But to answer the original question, I have to say it's more deflection from the other side. Talents themselves are dangerous. Just ninety two years ago we had an incident where an awakening went badly and the protective measures weren't enough. Over thirty people died. Many young and with their whole lives ahead of them, simply caught at the wrong place at the wrong time. No one sensible is saying we need to stop awakening everyone because of occasional accidents large enough to bypass the existing restrictions. It's the same with aura. The Empire has measures to protect the public safety. We don’t need companies restricting access to their own goods using such a flimsy reason. They can’t say they are both protecting everyone from the dangers of their own product while also constantly advertising how useful their particular aura potions are over their competitors.”

They exchanged a few more back and forths with Rebecca keeping to their prepared talking points, letting Matt relax slightly, but it didn’t last for long as they were wrapping up the interview.

Having gotten through most of what he wanted to mention, Matt said something she’d said earlier, "Earlier you said we don’t need to wait for higher authority, but might want to. I disagree. We are the Empire's newest generation of dukes. If not us, then who? There is a reason our leaders rotate and always have. Stagnation sets in otherwise, and I think that's important for everyone to remind ourselves of every once and a while.”

When he mentioned stagnation he saw her twitch slightly, so he refrained from standing. It was the correct choice, as instead of starting to send him away, she asked, “One last thing before you go, Ascender Titan. Your previous comment triggered the thought, and now I must ask. Why not wait until the Emperor has returned? With his ear, all of the obstacles we just talked about could be waved away with a single thought. So why act now? Can it really be as simple as stagnation? Most would just wait, would they not?”

