Matt settled in making a show of getting comfortable, looking at Rebecca for a short moment before letting his gaze travel to the crowd, then the cameras where he let his wandering end.

“Thats a very poignant question, so thank you for asking. I think it encapsulates part of my issue. We have a solution already presented before us. It's there, it exists, but we can’t use it because of previous misunderstandings. It's easy to say something like ‘let's grandfather these original companies patents with the old system. It will make everything easier.’ but will it? I don’t know, maybe that would be good enough. Maybe the Emperor can use his wisdom and foresight to see a perfect solution that makes everyone happy, but he's not here. By that same token, the Empire is more than its Tier 50, it's more than its royals or nobles, it's the people. I’m also one of those people, you are, your family is, my family is. We are in this together. So I ask you, when I see a problem, and I see a solution, what should I do?”

Letting the moment hang, Matt continued his expression somber and serious. “My answer is to act in the way I best see fit. That’s why I’m here. I’m doing what I can. I believe I’ve showcased my stance and demonstrated why I’ve reached my conclusions, all backed up by unbiased data from multiple sources. But it has to start somewhere. I’m offering to be that somewhere.”

As the moment passed, Matt forced a smile out and shook Rebecca’s hand before walking off the stage.

Phase three had been started, and now he’d need to finish seeing it through. No matter how much he’d love to return to his and Liz’s Capital suite, he had three more interviews today and four tomorrow.

Checking his [AI] and seeing the messages already pouring in, Matt set an alert for any messages from New Horizon, Aura Sky, or Killian’s Tankard. The moment he got even one of them to nibble, they could skip directly to phase five, but he was confident they couldn’t remain idle too long.

Not with all of them on the Capital. As big as the Tier 47 world was, Matt could make enough noise to drive them out of their burrows.

That was when the real battle would begin.

He’d always wanted to call an Imperial Petition.
