The only other productive thing I do to prepare for our departure is look into some of the Dungeons around Doralak. It’s a city that’s home to a fair amount of Platinums, and they have an entire seven Dungeons within a day of them. The most delicious-sounding of them is one right on the lake beside the city that has shellfish enemies. Unfortunately, it doesn’t have any scallops, but it does have mussel monsters, which sound incredible.

Beyond just giving me a new source of food, though, that Dungeon should also be enough to earn me my final level before my next Evolution. Annoyingly, the timer on my Quest reset again after meeting Arianne and Fabio, but now that all that stuff is dealt with, I should be in the clear. And if I can find a safe place within the city to evolve, I should be able to complete the Quest while I’m evolving. I asked the twins to ask Arianne about that before she left, and she said it sounded plausible, so if it doesn’t work, I blame her.

With my Evolution should come a few exciting things. First of all, the Annoying Red Box said that Named evolutions were different from regular ones, so I might be able to cheat my way through it again. Second, I'll finally get my reward from the Goddess of Bitches, and as annoyed as I am with her for tricking me, I am extremely curious about what reward could be so good I have to wait until my evolution to get it. Third and finally, I just kinda want to see my numbers go up. Maybe after evolving, my Power will finally go over 10,000 and I won’t be weak anymore.

While Lauren, Chad, and I do all that, the twins don’t make any preparations at all beyond creating a device to mask the presence of Annie’s head, which confuses me at first. Then, on the day we plan to leave, I learn why.

Lauren, Chad, and I stand on the street, watching as the twins place their hands on the walls on either side of the gate to their house. I can sense some extremely complex mana signals being sent throughout the walls, and after about a minute, they take a step back, and a moment later, the house vanishes. Completely. Like, it just disappears, basement, garden and all. All that’s left is a plot of dirt that is somehow flat, and not a giant pit where the basement used to be.

The twins walk up to the middle of the dirt and pick up a small disk of metal cut into two parts, each with a chain attached. They take the two half-disks and don them like necklaces before returning to Lauren, Chad, and I, who are all stunned.

“I believe that’s everything,” says A.

“Let’s get going.”

Seven days later, the five of us arrive at Doralak after a comfortable and uneventful journey. I poke my head out as our carriage travels through the city. The city itself is pretty similar to Riverfork, and is nothing special, but it all feels new and interesting. Very soon, I’ll be able to evolve again, and after that, it’s on to Maligar and the first of the Seven Delicacies!
