It wasn’t easy to pinpoint the direction, as the signal was low-powered and had some kind of weird harmonics to it that Nathan was pretty sure were an encryption he didn’t understand. But he didn’t need to decrypt the device's signal. All he needed to do was follow it back to its source. He ran at an angle to the direction he was heading, flaring his stealth skills to avoid being spotted so easily. Then he dived down towards the building that he was pretty sure held his target. The nexus of the guard communications wasn’t in one of the well-marked stations, but rather in a cozy-looking pub.

I'm not the only one who can be sneaky, I see.

Nathan dropped into a nearby alley, took a second to catch his breath, and looked around for a disguise. There wasn’t anything obvious, but he saw a pair of buckets set outside the back door of the building he was trying to get into. He grabbed them and shouldered his way into the building, entering a hallway between the kitchen and the pantry. A member of the staff gave him a once-over, but his disguise skills and the buckets helped convince them that he belonged.

He walked deeper into the building, glancing around and reaching out with his magical senses. Where the hallway met the main room, there was a serving counter with several platters of food on it. Nathan set the buckets down and snagged a tray of food, walking confidently up the staircase towards the concentration of guard-issued magic items. There was some kind of privacy spell over the upper floor of the building, and he'd guess that the upper floor had been commandeered to serve as a temporary headquarters.

The moment Nathan passed through the barrier, he was assaulted by the sound of a loud argument. The occupants were clustered around a table already bearing several plates of food, though they were busy stabbing fingers and claws at a detailed map of the city that lay in the center. One of them was wearing the distinctive shoulder patches that Sarya had indicated, and Nathan placed the platter of food next to him with one hand while dropping the slip of paper down the neck of the man’s armor with the other.

He got a grunt of acknowledgement for the food and turned to leave. Then Nathan’s [Forewarning] skill tweaked, and he ducked past a grasping hand and a yell from one of the others at the table.

Then he was off, dashing down the stairs before most of the people in the room had fully recognized his presence.

The rest of the day followed much the same vein. Nathan played a cat-and-mouse game with the guards, occasionally being boxed in by their coordination and those with the Insights and level to spot him despite his disguise. He still usually managed to escape despite that, his stacked mobility and dodging skills allowing him to slip out of any situation that wasn’t truly hopeless.

He had worse luck getting to more captains and only managed it once more. He got tagged twice while trying to rush into the stations where more of them were hiding out. Still, the whole process was extraordinary training for Nathan’s stealth and disguise skills, and he got a couple of skill ranks.

He also spent a few hours in the evening training with Ushia in hand-to-hand combat. He was actually slightly stronger and faster than the big woman, but she was still able to teach him a few tricks learned over a few millennia of experience.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 83381/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 564

Regenerative Focus: 5460/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 3

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 3

Arcane Insight 4

Evasion 1

Mental Vault 5

Tutoring 9

Parkour 9

Visibility Control 6

High-tier Disguise 6

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
