“His first call was funny. He’s been calling me on Artonan weekends ever since then. It’s not that often, but the calls have kind of been an event every time. We talk for hours. And he’s good at the conversation topics that you usually have to keep in your own head because they’re too hard to discuss with just anyone. Morality, life purposes, healing from trauma, making hard choices about our futures...”

Kon stopped flapping his shirt. “Really? The only person I’ve ever had a conversation like that with is Lexi. And I think I made a joke and brushed him off the last time he wanted to have a serious talk about what it means to be an Avowed. I shouldn’t have done that, I know. But it’s stressful to get into that kind of thing, and I’m never ready for it.”

“I’m surprised,” said Alden. “You’re great at talking to people. And you’re so good at...I can’t think of what to call it. Whatever the positive version of manipulating is?”

“You’re calling me a manipulator? What did I do to deserve this?”

“I said positive manipulation. Like when Søren burned himself. I looked to you for help because I knew you were the person who could clear the room and make everybody listen without making them mad. And you kept the guys from being weird about my commendation when they found out, with just a few sentences in the locker room. I really appreciated that.”

“I’m friendly, Alden. The word you want is friendly. Not manipulative.”

“Expertly friendly, though. Charisma! You have charisma.”

“I’ll take that,” Kon said. “It’s not the same as what you’re talking about, though. The most popular, charismatic person on Earth could probably live until they’re a hundred and eighty and still die without ever having a long talk with someone else about who they are and who they want to be.”

That struck Alden as true. And it also tugged on something inside him in a way he hadn’t expected. Ahead of them, over the white rooftops, a ryeh-b’t was flying. He thought it might be the one he’d seen on a balcony when the Here-to-There had first arrived.

“As someone who’s almost died multiple times—”

Kon looked over at him. “Just start a sentence like that.”

“I spent most of this year thinking I wasn’t going to make it to seventeen, and I haven’t escaped from being morbid yet. And, as a reluctantly morbid person…I’d rather have a few people really know me before I’m gone.”

“Your wizard friend isn’t the only one who’s into talking about serious stuff, I see. It makes sense that two intense people would mesh fast if they got along.”

“Well…”

Sometimes there are roadblocks.

“Anyway, that’s how we met,” Alden said. “And then when Anesidora almost drowned—”

“You and the other new globies became citizens at the worst time. A natural disaster level terrorist attack, entire neighborhoods gone, and we were on the Span with the ocean trying to rip it down! I was looking at what’s left of it the other day and thinking maybe they shouldn’t build a new one. I’m not sure I’m willing to cross a long ocean bridge anymore. I’ll use a dog crate and fly between the islands. Seems safer.”

“I don’t think you remember the death and injury percentages from our later flights if using that method seems safe to you. But yeah. After the flooding, Stuart was worried, so he invited me to his house to hang out and meet his family.”

“Which wizards are known to do,” Kon said.

“They probably are…sometimes. It was fun. I got to know him better. He helped me figure out that I wanted to try mind healing and introduced me to the person I’m seeing for that. And now we’re here.” He waved his hand around at the buildings.

“Yes, we are! I’m so glad you decided to ask me to come.”

Alden smiled at him. “What are you saying, man? I asked you to do me a favor. You had an Agility Brute break into your room and hit you in the head with a brush while you threw on dirty clothes, and then wizards were calling to tell you that you wouldn’t be paid for helping, and then bam you’re here. I’m the one who’s glad you came.”

“I feel a little bad for Mehdi.” Kon was trying to get a picture of the ryeh-b’t with the tablet. “He’s so interested in other places that he internet stalks Jeffy’s grandparents to see what their farm looks like. He’s never left Anesidora, and I’ve been hyperlucky with traveling. I’ve been to the US and Russia to visit family, and since my parents decided to send me to Nilama Paragon at the same time as Lexi, I was there for the world tour trips in fifth grade.”

“Lute told me about those.”

Kon lowered the tablet. “He liked it. We all did. Best weeks ever. But whenever we were about to teleport back home, we’d make up these rituals that we said were magic. To bring us back to that place someday, somehow. Like scratching our names on the ground with a stick or kissing a bottle of maple syrup and burying it by the Zambezi.”

“Why would you bury maple syrup by a river in Africa?”

“We forgot to do a ritual in Canada, so we were trying to cover two places at the same time. And we were eleven. Lute didn’t do most of the rituals with us because he said he’d be able to buy plane tickets to go wherever he wanted one day.”

Alden winced. “Oof.”

“Did you go many places?” Kon asked. “Before you got selected?”

Alden wiped sweat off his forehead with the back of a hand. “I didn’t.”

“Well, now look at us! Do you think I can buy Mehdi a souvenir somewhere?”

“Maybe something at the station? By the way…I’m not intense.”

Kon turned to give him a bemused look.

“You called me intense,” Alden said. “I’m trying to be unintense. Low-key.”

“Haha! Good one. Oh, whoa! Is that the train station? It’s made of sand!”

He was picking up speed again

“Wait a second, Kon. I really do need to tell you something. I don’t know how we got so far off topic. When I asked them if they could summon you here…”

Kon fell back to walk beside him.

Alden swallowed. Maybe some sand was blowing off the station toward them. He felt like he had dust in his throat.

“Um…Bithe tried to summon you after I told him you’d like to help, but…he couldn’t. The System told him that your Avowed service was already assigned. To somebody else. That’s why we had to call Stuart’s parents and get them involved.”

They both stopped at the same time, as if they’d silently agreed on it. They were standing at the corner of a poetry hall. It seemed like a strange place to tell someone something important about his future.

Kon didn’t look scared. Or excited. “To who?”

“I don’t know.”

“What do they want me to do?”

“I’m sorry. I don’t know that either. The only other thing I heard was that the System suggested several people Bithe could call to ask about you, so…maybe a group of summoners is involved? That’s only me assuming.”

“Yeah, that’s not much to go on. It could mean anything.” Kon took a breath and clasped his hands behind his neck. He looked up at the sky.

“I’ll ask everyone I can think of for you,” Alden said.

“Thanks. Details would be good.” He was still looking up. “I think I’d be panicking right now if I was built for combat. They’re not going to ask me to kill enemies with Reader of Records.”

“True. You would not be my first choice among human weapons. Unless I was attacking Lexi. I haven’t forgotten what you did to him during combat assessment.”

Kon snorted. “He never even thanked me for getting him into the program.”

“You think punching him in the nuts was the key to his success?”

“I talked him up in my interview, too.”

He let go of his neck and looked at Alden until they both laughed a little.

“It’s most likely a good job,” said Kon. “Having an employer who knows about me but who hasn’t introduced themselves seems strange, but maybe they aren’t sure when they’ll need me yet. Making a lot of money and seeing some more of the universe would be great.”

“I’ll ask around. I’m sure Stuart’s parents will know things.”

“They’re pretty important? If they can get me here so fast even when I’m assigned to someone else, they must be.”

Pretty important. “About that…would you mind keeping a couple of things about this visit quiet at school?”

“I was about to ask you for the same favor,” said Kon. “Because the last thing I need is Lexi finding out I’ll be summoned for unknown reasons by an unknown person. And…when I say it like that, it sounds like absolutely normal Avowed business. But still, knowing for sure something like this is coming up will make him impossible. He’ll say he told me so. Writher will reveal it can go supernova, and that’s just not on my schedule for Christmas.”

******

They toured the station, admired the swirling cocoon of sand art that surrounded it, and bought an assortment of items from the stalls. A large assortment. Once Kon had picked out some snacks for Mehdi and a curio box made by a local artisan for Everly, he started thinking about how disappointed everyone else would be that he hadn’t gotten them anything. And “everyone else” included their whole class and several people Alden didn’t know.

He promised he would pay Alden back with his next stipend. Alden promised he wouldn’t let him.

“I should’ve bought that exfoliating cloth,” Kon said, arms loaded as they headed toward the station’s teleportation point. “That was a neat exfoliating cloth, and Everly would probably like it more than a box.”

“It was too interactive for me.” Alden glanced over his shoulder to check on a familiar figure in the station behind them. “I don’t want my washcloths to help me out.”

The exfoliator had reminded him of the wound-sucking bandage he’d had the misfortune of using when he was trapped in that last flooded building with Zeridee.

“Did you leave something back there?” Kon asked. “You keep looking.”

“Nah. It’s fine.”

Ryada-bess hadn’t left for the Rapport yet. She’d slipped into plain clothes and come back to the station. To admire it a little more, Alden thought. She was sitting near the poem she’d been standing on earlier.

They’d both spotted each other. She’d nodded. He’d nodded. She hadn’t come over to say hello.

“I think they’re just going to give you a present of some kind and send you back to Anesidora. If you have a single problem, or a question, call me. I’ve set you to ‘no charge’ on my contacts list, so don’t worry if it’s long distance.”

“I’ll pay you back.”

“You already paid me back by coming here. I owe you one.”

Stuffing a chipper Kon and fifty souvenirs into an alcove, Alden found himself wondering which of Stuart’s family members would be meeting the Adjuster back at the siblinghold…and what they were going to think.

******

******

“He seems like a joyful person.”

Ryada was waiting on the steps in front of the station, holding out a silver cloth that looked like it was trying to devour her hand.

“I wanted to thank him for helping us,” she said. “But I didn’t want to insert myself into what seemed to be a relaxed moment for the two of you. Will you give him this for me?”

“I will, Hn’tyon Ryada-bess.”

Her smile faded. “You don’t have to use the title.”

“I was thinking…maybe when the title’s hardest to wear, you deserve to wear it most.” Alden peeled the exfoliating thing she’d just handed him away from his fingers and forced it into his bag. “So I used it. I won’t do it again, if that’s better.”

When he looked back up, she was staring at him hard.

“Poor Bithe,” she said finally. “He shouted at such a thoughtful person this morning. It was my fault, not his. I put everything on him, expecting it to help me, but it only hurt us both. Please don’t blame him for it.”

“I don’t blame anyone. Sometimes…you just have a yell in your throat.”

“Truth.” She pushed a purple curl away from her eyes. It sprang right back.“I hope that when you let yours out, the people who you care about won’t run away.”

Alden felt his auriad tighten around his ankle. “Mine?”

“I think you must have one in you,” said Ryada-bess. “When Stu-art’h says certain things to you, I see it. I don’t know what it is, but I think it will be loud.”

She fought off the curl again. “Or maybe not. I’m not the smartest person, lately. I keep getting everything wrong. Not a proper wizard, not a proper knight, not proper hair…”

One hand mashed the unruly strand to the top of her head. “I’ve been insisting on updates from the others even though they want me to be untroubled. Your soon-friend is being a proper votary today.”

Alden tilted his head.

“He’s successfully demanded that two angry knights go home and entrust the matter of dealing with Olget-ovekondo to him,” said Ryada.

“Oh. It’s irritating that he can’t text me. Does he want me to leave now, too?”

“You should…go assist him,” Ryada said, her lips quirking up. “He’d like that.”

******
