He thought of how no one had reinvented that magic, exactly, because the body worked differently here, in this universe, than it did in the Old Cosmology. Or maybe something else was going on there. Some people had certainly side-stepped the issue, like Quilatilap. Soul Magic was a lateral attack that worked against the problem of natural death.

Maybe real, [Flesh and Blood Immortality] didn’t exist, yet. Phagar had spoken like it didn’t. But were those words an act, or a real display of reality?

If [Immortality] did not exist, was one of the reasons for that failure of reinvention, because of the Script helping with all Healing Magic?

Was this ‘assistance’ on purpose? Did the gods want to keep the populace unable to rise above?

Or was this assistance the act of people (and gods) desperate to hold their world together and to keep everyone alive?

‘Never ascribe to malice what can adequately be explained by ignorance’. And probably fear, too.

Ezekiel was drawn to the idea that this problem of Healing Magic was simply a solution that they had, that worked. But he could easily see how someone could consider this just another part of how the Script constrains real magic.

Hmm.

A more logical explanation for the current state of Healing Magics was that Healing Magic was damned fucking difficult, and if the Script didn’t help with healing, then that entire line of spells simply would not exist.

Look at [Cleanse]! That spell was literally a gift from the gods. It targeted and turned-to-mana everything from cancer to toxins to the filth inside sewerhouses, the world over. That was some major magical assistance, as evident by when anyone tried to get that ‘targeting’ onto a different substance; they usually ended up poofing themselves into mana instead of achieving success.

Anyway.

Back to Healing Magic and [Immortality].

Ezekiel considered all the various individual magics that would need to go into an [Immortality] spell, and his mind quickly went down a hundred different paths.

When he came out of his fugue, the sun was setting outside, and he knew a few of the parts of [Immortality] which would need to be created before [Immortality] could be achieved.

There would have to be some sort of [Telomeres Restoration] spell. That sort of magic would likely come from [Restoration], because that spell targeted the whole body to restore general vibrancy. Maybe restoring the telomeres was already a part of that magic? Maybe.

Some sort of [Mutation Mitigation] would be necessary to remove mutated cells before they could become a problem. There might be a problem with mental growth past a certain point, if consciousness and mental change was linked to mutations in the brain...

Ezekiel did not know how DNA worked in the brain, or even how consciousness truly existed. But! Tiffany’s head got removed once, and she was fine afterward, right? Maybe not directly afterward. It took her a few days, but she was fine. Maybe Ezekiel was overthinking this problem. Maybe mutations in the brain didn’t matter? They probably didn’t. Undead didn’t have mental problems, did they?

(And that right there was a large reason to research necromancy and true summoning with angels and demons, to find out what was going on there with souls and bodies and how memories and learning happened when under the influence of mana instead of biology. The Fractured Citadels in Quintlan and Quilatilap’s necromantic legacy were sort-of on the itinerary, but not really. With this latest concern, maybe that undead place was firmly back on Ezekiel’s Worldly Path.)

There’d have to be some sort of [Stem Cell Restoration], too. Such a spell might overlap with [Telomeres Restoration], but it was good to have multiple failure points in a spell such as [Immortality]. But thinking on it a bit further…

A [Stem Cell Restoration] spell might be all that was needed for [Immortality], along with [Cleanse] to get rid of cancers, of course. He’d need to cast the spell like, what? Once a month? Maybe less. All other Healing Magic, and Blood Magic, could make up for the rest.

But if [Cleanse] was ever taken away, or if the Script just didn’t exist in the worlds to come, he would need a workaround for that functionality. A variation of [Inflict Wounds], perhaps? That automatically targeted all cancerous cells?

Whoa man, that would be a complicated spell.

Maybe, instead, he could work from the front end, and make [Stem Cell Restoration] even better? Something that would boost the immune system to enough strength so that it could overcome and kill cancer all on its own? Identifying the cancer would be the hard part, but [Cascade Imaging] can target DNA, which means mana can target DNA.

And wasn’t that an interesting tangent.

The mana made up for a lot of mistakes, but the clearer a person was with their crafting, and the closer that crafting was to reality, the less mana it took to bridge the gap into usability.

But was that the mana that did that? Or was that the Script?

It was the mana.

Back when he made [Zone of Peace], Rozeta had even said that the mana loved him, and when he asked it to do something that it was not allowed to do, it tried to control the Script. Rozeta did not say that it was the Script that harmed him, but looking back on it, that was exactly what had happened.

Mana could do a lot when the Script wasn’t involved.

But if the Script wasn’t involved… What happened, then? Did spells still get imbued into the soul? Why did he need to raise a Basic Tier spell from level 1 to level X? Was leveling a spell the act of solidifying the spell in the soul? Or was it something else?

What was Experience?

Monsters could ‘cycle’ their mana in order to raise their level. All the shadelings at Candlepoint could easily reach level 55 and gain a Class in this way. Dragons did this, too, but if they failed in the process they became raging wyrms, let loose on the world as the failures of dragonkind.

Ezekiel’s mind wandered.

He also leveled [Regeneration] and [Treat Wounds] to level X by casting from one Odin to another, outside of the pagoda. His soul healed as he leveled them; he watched as the rift over his heart healed, and his Shroud came back, mostly. He might have gotten more questions than answers out of his time spent thinking, but he did get one answer, for sure.

Leveling a spell from 1 to X ‘settled’ that spell into the soul, making it a permanent part of the self.

A few minutes later, Paul entered the room, saying, “Scion Hangzi has invited us to dinner.”

Ezekiel asked him, “Do you care to know if the magic you’ve bought in the Script is real, or fake?”

“Of course it’s real. It’s a part of your soul.”

“But then wouldn’t the resurrected people of Candlepoint still have those same spells in their soul? All of them lost [Cleanse].”

Paul sighed a little, as he said, “I have no idea how [Reincarnation] works. That’s Dark Magic, sir.”

“Fair enough.” Ezekiel added, “And dinner with him is fine.”

Paul asked, “You’re not going to goad Hangzi into something again, are you? You dodged the wyrm once, but I doubt you can dodge a second time.”

Ezekiel chuckled. “Oh, Paul. That guy was being a total asshole, and I was as polite as I should have been! Sometimes little brats need to be told they ain’t shit, and then that telling needs to be backed up with force.” Ezekiel got up from his chair, amending himself, “But I suppose it’s different when we’re talking about brats who will become patriarchs.”

Paul grinned, saying, “Slightly different.”

Tiffany called out from the other room, “Slightly more important to knock them down, you mean!”

“She gets it!” Ezekiel said. “They got all these sayings about ‘don’t wake the dragon’ around here, but by the way some people act, you think they never spotted a dragon.”

Paul deadpanned at him, “Do you really believe that High Clan Devouring Nightmare’s Scion has never met a dragon.”

Ezekiel flinched. “Ah. Maybe he has. I am pretty sure I’ve met at least two, and only one of them was the Headmaster.”

Paul looked at him. He said, “Melemizargo. Rozeta. Headmaster.”

“Okay okay.” Ezekiel said, “Four, then.”

Tiffany came into the room, excited and smiling. “Hey, Boss! If that ‘True Terror’ thing comes up again, I can take it. I want to see what it’s about.”

“… If the topic comes up? Maybe!”

- - - -

On the fifth floor of the Southern House, Ezekiel settled into the provided chair at Hangzi’s table. Yorza sat to his right, Hangzi sat across from him, and Warzi sat to the left. Exactly the same as before.

The dinner itself looked to be a reprise of last night’s opulent meal, with the same number of dishes as before, but with a few variations. The boneless fried chicken tossed in sweet sauce was still there, and it sat closer to Ezekiel tonight. Ezekiel smiled, happy that the servers had noticed that he ate quite a lot of that particular dish, so of course that meal remained, and its size had been increased.

The living octopus babies in saltwater were gone; good riddance.

Ezekiel was less glad that Hangzi seemed to be waiting for the perfect opportunity to pounce. They had made small talk up till the serving of the food, but as Ezekiel dished out some rice and fried sweet sauce chicken to himself, and the servers dished out the first course to the plates of High Clan Devouring Nightmare, Hangzi sat back. He was ready.

Hangzi said, “I understand you have sold your daughter for 20 points.”

Ezekiel almost laughed in the man’s face, again. Instead, he went diplomatic.

“I understand that you have no idea where my own lines lie, so you are trying to figure them out, crossing them as you are wont to see what reaction you cause.” Ezekiel drizzled some sweet sauce over his rice, happily adding, “This is a line you should not cross.”

“Perhaps you misunderstand. I am not threatening you, or her.” Hangzi said, “According to what I am hearing, you could have gotten a lot more for her services.”

Ezekiel looked to the man. Then he turned toward Warzi, but kept his eyes on Hangzi. “I have a nifty little spell I can cast over all of us, allowing us to see outward, and others inward, but which blocks mana sense. It’ll block all of our senses except for sight, actually. Would you like to see it in action?”

Ezekiel wasn’t threatening anyone, but what he had said did sound a certain way.

Warzi dropped his food. His helpers cleaned it up for him.

And silence held in the air for a long moment. Yorza went stock still. Hangzi lightly glared.

Ezekiel nodded, then said, “Let me know if you change your mind.”

Yorza spoke up, “Do the spell.”

Ezekiel complied before anyone could say otherwise. The air flickered magenta, and then a layered, surrounding [Sealed Privacy Ward] enclosed around the table, its occupants, and a few meters in every direction. Warzi’s helpers were inside the spell, but other than the six of them, the world beyond was behind a double layer of now-invisible magic. Everyone could see in, and out, but sounds failed to cross the barrier, and mana sense ended at the spellwork. Warzi could still sense everything inside the space, as could Ezekiel, but this small area was much smaller than the usual 100 to 150 meter range that Ezekiel thought Warzi had.

Ezekiel still had all of his range, though; even his range outside of the space, for he had done a trick. He had shaped the spell so that it cut through his legs. With a piece of himself outside of the barrier, his mana sense was able to sense both sides. It was an odd feeling, for sure, in that the part of himself that was directly inside the [Sealed Privacy Ward] felt numb to his mana sense. But his feet were outside, and that allowed him to see whatever he wanted. Mostly. His range was smaller, but...

This was fine.

Yorza ignored Ezekiel and Hangzi, as she looked to Warzi. Everyone looked to Warzi. Including those who were outside of the bubble. The bubble itself was invisible, but that which laid on both sides was not.

Warzi glanced around, as though coming out of the rain. He un-hunched his shoulders. He breathed deeper. He blinked, and took in the sight of his food, and then the sight of the rest of the room. He laughed once, then again, quickly giggling in joy.

Then he started crying.

Yorza [Blink]ed and was suddenly at Warzi’s side, holding the boy as the boy crawled at her, into her arms. She spoke calming words into Warzi’s ears as the boy cried on her shoulder. She smiled, and waved a hand down at the nearby table of soldiers.

The soldiers relaxed. Or at least they sat back down, properly.

The moment matured, and soon Warzi was laughing in Yorza’s arms. She set him back down and he went to the invisible wall. He touched the spell, his hand vanishing in the between-space, before his finger reached out—

He yanked his hand back like he had been burned; his smile briefly fading.

And then everything was great again. He laughed as he got back in his chair, where he instantly started eating again. This time, he didn’t drop a single bite.

Dinner resumed.

Yorza asked, “How much for this spell? How long does it last?”

“You don’t want this one.” Ezekiel said, “I’m working on something easier to enchant. I’ll see about getting you that one.”

With stronger steel in her voice than before, Yorza asked, “How much? We can offer you points—”

“No we cannot.” Hangzi’s light glare had returned in full force, as he said to Ezekiel, “Points are only awarded for meritorious service toward life and the pursuit of the betterment of us all. Though I love him dearly, Warzi’s condition does not count.”

Yorza hissed at Hangzi, “It does count! It would be in support of the realm!”

With measured calm, Hangzi said, “We’re gearing up for war, Yorza. We are not giving points to someone who could very well be an enemy. We will not make the same mistake Star Song has made.”

“This is not a convincing act.” Ezekiel almost wanted to bring up how Warzi was eyeing the two of them like they were aliens, or how both of them were perfectly in sync with each other, but he didn’t need to. He especially didn’t want to throw the kid under the bus. He asked, “Do people actually fall for this concerted speech, speaking openly in front of the— Ah. Of course they do. You wouldn’t act like this unless it worked. Which means I’m now on some other path of well-understood noble manipulation, aren’t I? I’m not sure I like that either. But at least it’s honest. At least Star Song started off on the honest path with me. You two have needed to be overly goaded before we got here.”

And they still weren’t at full, open honesty. That was fine with Ezekiel.

