He realized what he had done and he was slightly embarrassed by it. This was a multilayered problem—they were always multilayered, weren’t they? Whatever the case, he wouldn’t be doing any more magic today. Maybe not tomorrow, either. He would have to beg off tomorrow’s meeting with Kaffi, too.

“Yeah.” Ezekiel groaned. “I fucked up my body and harmed my soul.” He added, “Got cocky.”

Paul sighed out, “Yes.”

Tiffany frowned. “It looks like normal spell creation soul damage, but… Worse, somehow.”

Ezekiel sat up. “I think you got it in one, Tiffany.” He tried to stand, and Tiffany and Paul helped him succeed. “Thank you.” He breathed out and hit himself with another [Treat Wounds], leveling the skill and also… Huh. Odd. He cast the spell again. The rent in his soul filled in at the same time. Maybe he could still make that meeting with Kaffi, actually, if his soul healed with each cast of his new spell. He said, “I tried to force a spell that wasn’t level 10 to make a new spell. Something didn’t like that.” He gestured at the rat, and said, “Let’s clean up and get back up to the room. I’ll explain up there.”

What he had seen had large implications, and he wasn’t sure of all of them, but he knew a few.

“We can talk a little right now.” Tiffany guessed, “When you make a spell, it makes a thing in the soul, and that thing is where you cast from, and as it levels to 10, it becomes settled, and thus you’re able to build upon it. But stressing your unsettled [Treat Wounds] into making a spell was too much stress, and since spell creation already demands a break in the soul in order to grow, you did the equivalent of building on sand, and hurt yourself in the process.”

Ezekiel smiled wide. “Yup! I didn’t understand how spell creation actually worked until just now, and the spotting of my own failure state.” He added, “You’re much better at this [Soul Sight] than I am.” He looked to the sleeping rat and its whole tail, saying, “Thank you for your assistance, mister rat.”

Paul gestured to the extra rat tail piece, and said, “Get rid of that.”

“Ah. Good thinking, Paul,” Ezekiel said.

With a tap of light, the bit of bloody rat tail was [Teleport Object]’d far away.

The rat went back to the handlers.

Ezekiel thanked Rat Master Toix for his assistance in gaining both [Treat Wounds] and [Regeneration], but that he was done for the day. He would have to resume his work tomorrow, or maybe the day after. Toix smiled wide, then patted the stomach of the sleeping rat, calling him a good boy.

As Ezekiel walked away, he heard Toix whisper to the little guy about how much good food he was going to get tonight, yes he was, yes he was!

- - - -

Ezekiel laid back in his chair, in his room on the fifth floor of the Southern House. He set aside Xue’s journal for a moment, and looked to the window. The view beyond of beauty and power, with multitudes of houses sitting atop forested and cultured mountains, which were full of even more houses, and teaching rooms, and libraries, and armories, and all sorts of other kinds of places. Ezekiel’s room was about 400 meters above the white road of the Alluvial District, so it was rather high, but it was the same height as much of the nicer housing out there, and below the even nicer places. He wasn’t at the top of the world right now. But.

It was pretty.

Ezekiel returned to his reading, but he didn’t pick up Xue’s journal. He picked up Elder Arilitilo’s.

He read for a while, then set that journal aside, then picked up Loremaster Riri’s literature on the enchanting of spider silk. After a while with that one, he set it back down, and went back to the Doctoring books. By the time he read through all of them a third time, the sun was an hour away from setting.

And Ezekiel had a problem.

Remaking [Treat Wounds] and [Regeneration] had been odd. Different than how he had Remade all the other spells he had ever Remade, and it wasn’t just the burst bit of his soul that made him think this. It was that ethereal ‘guiding-hand’ he had heard in the sounds of [Treat Wounds], and [Healing Word]. It was unnatural.

That guiding hand bothered him.

Not because he didn’t appreciate the help making healing spells…

Okay. Actually. Yes. That was it.

He did not appreciate sidestepping the understanding of true magic. Ezekiel wanted to Remake his healing spells without outside help, or at least through the application of his own knowledge onto an arcane set of physics that may or may not be about communicating with a force larger than Reality itself.

He was being contrarian, he knew.

The problem was not that he was calling out to the mana and that the mana responded.

The problem, which was kinda hard to articulate, was that the ‘guiding hand’ did not sound divine.

Ezekiel knew what Divinity sounded like. Divinity sounded like Phagar, or Rozeta.

This sound in [Healing Word] didn’t sound like Melemizargo, either.

It sounded sort of like… chains? Not in the rattling, linked-pieces-of-metal sense. But in the containing sense.

Yes.

That was it.

Ah.

It was the Script. He was hearing the Script in all of his Healing Magic. That was it.

The sound of mana was a pure sound. It could get jumbled, too, but mostly, it was pure. The Sound of the Script was complicated and constraining. A boundary and a channel carved into the mana, to let the mana flow in specific directions. With Healing Magic, this boundary and guide was very present.

How to confirm this hypothesis, though?

Let us consider the facts thus far; old information.

The Script contains and holds the mana on Veird, and ensures that everyone has access to spellwork, even if most people cannot get high into the tiers. Almost everything about the blue boxes is an attempt to impart to the user what is beyond true understanding; to grant them magics that they can not gain themselves, or to constrain their magic to understood phenomena. But the Script is not magic. It is an overlay.

It is an assistant and a jailer.

Ah.

The Script is a yoke, to ensure nothing too bad happens, for rampant use of magic killed the Old Cosmology. Even if the Wizards had nothing to do with the Sundering, the mana (or it was a magic? Same difference, really.) still went on a rampage and killed everyone, erasing existence itself.

The mana left on Veird is the scraps of the Old Cosmology, yoked into usable form.

Where does magic come from, though?

Mana is created from the soul, but magic… also comes from the soul. When a person gains a new spell, that spell becomes a part of their very being; their soul.

Ezekiel looked at himself with [Soul Sight], and cast a [Cleanse].

He didn’t see anything ‘flex’ in his soul when he cast. But maybe he wasn’t meant to? Maybe that particular part of [Soul Sight] and mana sense was hidden from him?

It seemed… Right, to think that the soul held the magic of a person. Ezekiel had considered that Tenebrae used some sort of [Soul Sight] and [Identification] spell in order to ‘read’ Ezekiel’s Status, based upon what was inside of his soul. But he had no proof that that was what Tenebrae had done, except for the man’s ornery nature seeming to get more ornery, when Ezekiel guessed in that direction.

Thinking it over...

… All of that seemed correct.

So the Script did not control the mana itself, but it did assist Ezekiel in (re)making his two new spells.

But had he called out to the mana, or to the Script, in order to make that happen?

He was pretty sure that he had called out to the mana, for sure.

So, taking all of that into account... Had he damaged himself today, not because of any ‘building on shaky foundations’, as Tiffany had theorized, but because he had gone against the shackles of the Script? The Script demanded that a person level a spell to X before they made new spells with it. But his [Treat Wounds] was very much not level X. Had he gained [Regeneration] only because he had forced the issue, through the mana, and the Script had made allowances for the ‘bucking bronco’ that is the mana? But he had been harmed in the process, because the Script didn’t like that?

Where does the body and soul damage come from, exactly, when he makes a new spell?

He mumbled, “The damage has to come from the Script, right?”

Back when Ezekiel was trying to figure out the [Teleport Lock] of the Shades, he guessed that it was not a denial spell of any sort, but instead it was a spell that would ensure a fight. In this way, a Shade’s [Teleport Lock] was more of a lateral attack, and not a straight-up denial. Hard denials are difficult to do under the Script. But a lateral attack is easy.

For instance, when killing a monster with 1000 Health, it is easier to kill the monster by sticking a steel sword through the monster’s brain and getting a critical, than it is to throw a 1000-damage [Force Bolt] at the monster’s flanks and accomplish nothing.

And yes, it was ‘lateral thinking’ to strike at the weak point instead of at the strong point.

When Ezekiel asked the Interfaith Church of Spur and the gods therein about how [Teleport Lock] worked, regarding his own ideas about how to tear down that part of Melemizargo’s power, he was promptly told that to create such a spell would not only be an act of Wizardry, but it would also go directly against Melemizargo’s interests, and the Dark God would give a response. He was also told that Rozeta would still help him make such a spell, but that he might not survive the creation. It would be like [Zone of Peace] all over again, which was another act of violence that Ezekiel didn’t quite understand yet, but he had been told that he had tried to control the Script, and the Script didn’t like that.

Anyway.

Rozeta had sent him a note telling him to come to the Orrery in the Splinter Mountains if he wished to know more about the Script, and why a person is damaged whenever they make new magic.

But Ezekiel was guessing that there was no real secret to this damage.

When a person created new Basic Magic, they became trapped between the free use of mana, and the constraining power of the Script. Going too far out of line with either force would have a disastrous effect on the person in the middle, which often resulted in damage, based upon how much struggle happened between the involved forces.

None of this was truly new information, but with recent events, Ezekiel had cause to go over some old thoughts and to reorganize them into something new, and more informative.

In particular, this ‘guiding hand’ in the mana that helped him to make [Treat Wounds] and [Regneration] was very much not the ‘helping force’ that he spoke to when he made [Call Lightning].

[Call Lightning] came from the Script organizing what the mana had helped Ezekiel to make.

But [Treat Wounds], and all other modern Healing Magic, came from the Script enforcing a specific action of the mana.

Which meant the healing spells he currently knew were not his own, at all. Ezekiel had followed a road laid down in the Script, instead of finding his way through the mana. Remaking [Treat Wounds] and [Regeneration] had been a trick of the system. Not even Tricking Magic was such an obvious trick.

Oddly enough, the only spell he made today that he felt he had made himself was [Inflict Wounds], for that was destruction, and destruction was easy.

Considering that all healing spells used to be divinely granted magics… could he have ever made them himself?

… Maybe not.

Ezekiel didn’t like that.

He didn’t like that, because… Of reasons.

And now he was being contrarian again. So what if the Script helped him to make magic? This was fine, right? The only actual problem would come when Yggdrasil opened up new worlds to new Scripts. If there wasn’t some overarching compatibility with each new ‘Script’ that populated the universe, then Healing Magic would never again exist. All other magic would be easy enough to remake… Maybe.

But not Healing Magic.

And there was another problem.

Ezekiel said, “It means that if there’s ever a space where the Script does not exist, then the magic that has been made might still exist, for it seems to become a part of the soul, but how would anyone gain any new magic? Through learning aura control? That would have to be it, right? But is that even how magic creation actually works? Is all my spellwork actually a function of the Script?” He added, “I want the magic I have made to actually be mine. But is it? Is this [Treat Wounds] actually mine, now, since it is a part of my soul, but I used the Script to do it, and that was an obviously incorrect method? The true way to make this magic would have been to use pure Elemental Healing, and control.” He murmured, “But I didn’t do that.”

Ezekiel let his mind wander.

… He realized rather quickly why he didn’t like this aspect of Healing Magic.

People got [Gate] through a Quest, and thus failed to ever get it on their own, just as most people got Healing Magic through the Healing Quests, and even if they Remade the spell on their own, they were still using the Script-assist to make [Treat Wounds], and all the rest.

Yes.

That was why he was mad.

And he was mad.

He was not mad because he had arcane assistance. A helping hand from the mana itself was fine and wonderful. He was mad because the Script assistance killed his ability to understand what he was actually doing.

And yet, at the same time, Healing Magic was incredibly complicated. Not even Healers in the Old Cosmology made their own healing spells; they got their Healing Magic from the gods, too.

It’s not like you could just increase cell production; that would age a person. Healing Magic did not age a person. And it wasn’t time magic, either. And it wasn’t like [Mend], where the spell looked into the history of the item and manifested that history into the current reality.

In a broken item, [Mend] ‘deleted’ the broken mass of the item as a side effect of restoring the main structure; this was why you needed to mutate [Mend] very far in order to make [Duplicate]. But Healing Magic didn’t care about what flesh had been flung where. Healing Magic made new flesh.

Ezekiel thought of Healing Magic, and of experiments he could do with Elemental Healing, and of stuff he had researched back when he was living on Earth. He had a lot of experience with googling and youtubing and researching how he was going to die one day; the most likely answer was cancer, and of any of three dozen different varieties.

As his thoughts wore on, he considered how to solve those various issues through true, real applications of Elemental Healing.

And he thought of [Immortality].

