Hangzi’s face contorted in disbelief. He opened his mouth to reply.

But he didn’t get a chance.

Ezekiel saw what had happened, after the fact. Hangzi had thought this would be a normal war. A war fought outside of the cities. A war of boasting and constrained power. It was none of those things.

The sky opened up with lancing beams of exploding green power that scattered across the battlefield like dancing lasers, as fast as an eyeblink. The beams skipped across the hundred warriors of Songli. Some managed to deflect the power of the beams, but explosions followed in the trails of the beams, and there was no deflecting those.

Raidu slipped across Hangzi, like a phantom.

Hangzi deflected, but barely. An arm went flying. Half of Hangzi’s neck vanished, and all of his jaw. He turned to shadow and flowed away.

The Scion of Terror Peaks ended his attack amidst Hangzi’s group, already slashing at Hangzi’s people.

Songli’s retort was of song, bright and shining and devoid of everything. Power swept the field, bursting enemy soldiers into dust, then scattering them further on the Void.

Spells and swords came out, as the remains of the original 200 soldiers filled the battlefield with fire and death.

Hangzi reappeared, whole and bloody, a dozen meters to the left of where he had been. He sang a single note, and a concussive wave exploded from him, to sweep across the remaining enemy soldiers. Enemy soldiers died to their own swords.

It took a single minute of back and forth attacks and deflections, each swipe of spellwork or sword reaping lives, each explosion a brightness in the growing dark, but in the end, Hangzi and three random Songli Soldiers were alive.

Raidu was alone.

It was a victory for Songli.

The scattered clumps of clansmen had never taken the field. They had all watched the other side, to ensure that the other side never took the field, either.

With his spotless armor, and having never been struck, Raidu said, “This isn’t over.”

“Bring better tank-grown soldiers if you wish to battle again.” Blooded and dirty, with half of his armor gone, Hangzi said, “But step into Songli without breaking our defenses first, and you’ll be Elixir’d like you Elixir’d our alchemist.”

Raidu said, “You have bargained with Darkness. The result is your death.”

“You have seen our forces. We have beaten you. Further provocation will result in mutual annihilation.”

Raidu glared, and then blipped away in white light.

Terror Peaks vacated the field.
