"I'll reconnect with you after we get past the door. Don’t worry.” Before the Gate Lord could raise any more protests, Shiv drew his mind magic away. Adam wasn’t good with the eldritch. Neither was Shiv, to be honest, but he could come back. He always came back.

“What stands before me?” a voice emanated from the door. It sounded like the rustling of withered leaves, the hissing of snakes, the crackle of a flame desperate not to die at once. “What thing nested in false flesh and soul approaches…”

Shiv expected Cullywier to say something—to reply, but to his surprise, the fae simply strode forward. The Deathless’s surprise was multiplied a thousandfold when the door started screaming at the fae’s merest touch. The eldritch corruption slipped away from the doorway, opening up in patches where Cullywier pressed down. It was like a swarm of insects fleeing a falling flame. The sprawl of unnatural flesh closed, and the shadowy, shifting biomatter descended, shrinking away until there was nothing left. A second thereafter, Shiv found himself staring at a pure, mundane oak door.

Cullywier reached out, found the handle, and turned. It clicked and opened, just as any normal door would, untouched by Outsider influence.

"Wait," Shiv called out. "How did you just do that?"

The fae looked over his shoulder and offered the Deathless a smile, one full of sharp teeth.

"Oh, it's quite simple," Cullywier said. "The deviant and the weird fear the Eternal Samsara. Their nature is poison to your minds. Ours is fire to their existence.”

With that, the fae gave a slight push, and the door swung open.

And as soon as it did, someone walked out and nearly ran right into Shiv.

“Oh, hello, Shiv,” Legend-Headmaster Hades Hymn said, his face bloodied, his flesh mangled by eldritch tendrils burrowing under his skin. “I was just about to go downstairs to get a drink since you were taking so long. And to have a piss in the fountains, but since you’re here, might as well just use the jar in the back so we can get started right away.”
