The sun rose on Chandrar, that arid continent full of as much suffering as magic, but it did not burn away the nightmares. It was not fair to say, however, that Chandrar was the land of more evil than other places. It was just more visible.
Slaves stood, staring up at the sky. A [Necromancer] shaded his eyes, then lowered his hand, slowly. Slowly.
You could not understand what it was like to just…see the sun, or even breathe, until you knew the difference between freedom and captivity. Pisces Jealnet exhaled. He clenched his hands, his branded scars and wounds, visible and invisible, lingering.
His friend, Cawe, was dead. A brave [Pickpocket].
So too lay his captors. He refused to give them names or remember where they had died. He looked up in that morning twilight, where the sky was brightening but still dark. Yes, the sun shone down cruelly at times. Uncaring over suffering.
Roshal’s depravities through night and day were ignored. Sometimes they became clearer than not, but the sun?
He did not stare at the sun, but towards the western sky. At the trail across the roof of the world.
That beautiful, glowing rainbow. A shimmering trail the very color of magic.
A symbol for [Slaves] anywhere to look up and be inspired by hope, rebellion. The nightmare of all those who kept them. Many had forgotten, believing the symbol would never come again. Now—it shone.
The Death of Chains. Czautha flew. One of the mightiest Djinni of her kind turned the sky alight.
“Now there is a sight to end all dark dreams. I will dream of it, I think.”
Merr the Storm looked up. The [Bandit Lady] stood with the other [Slaves] for a moment. Pisces just nodded.
Soon, they would move. They would have to figure out where to go, how to get to where he intended to take them. Soon they would be hunted, he knew. Already word was spreading.
For a moment? They looked up, and took comfort and safety from that sight.
 
—-
 
Listen. Look. 
The [Necromancer] of Izril, Az’kerash, raised his head as Ijvani stumbled into the room.
“Master, master, news of the apprentice Pisces!”
She flinched from his glare, which had been his mood the last week and a half. Naught but a dark fury, a mood which sent his Chosen scurrying away from his study. Attempts had been made and failed, and Az’kerash had feared the worst today.
His head rose and his eyes opened. He stood, slowly.
“How?”
He was far from the only person to hear the news incredulously. The Gold-rank adventurer, a prize among [Slaves]—freed?
How disastrous. Well, some people thought that. Others—
“Yes!”
Selys threw up her claws. Drassi had scattered all her papers over Noass and Sir Relz, rushing into the broadcast booth to blurt it out. His friends and allies celebrated.
Roshal was unhappy. The [Necromancer] would have to be reclaimed. The loss of no less than two caravans—no, three if you counted the Emir who was already being purged from all records—was a blow.
The [Slaves] had to be reclaimed, examples made. Roshal would send their agents. Post bounties. They would be found.
It was just that Roshal was a tiny bit…busy…at the moment.
 
—-
 
The Death of Chains led her kin through the air. Azam flew after her, for the first time in his life. In her wake flew no less than three other Djinni, each one broken free of their bonds.
Their masters lay dead. Two besides Azam had come from Roshal’s slavers; the last, and a collection of nearly eight individuals on the two flying vehicles, had come from someone not of Roshal. Someone else who owned slaves; possibly from one of the local kingdoms or an unaffiliated [Merchant].
They had been rescued by the only other person here who could break the magical chains of Djinni, besides Czautha. She flew, laughing as though she never meant to stop.
Azam’s smile, which had grown on his face and never ended, such an unusual beaming smile of joy and salvation, wavered a bit. The mighty Djinni of obsidian skin, Aethertraveller, looked through the sky at his sister, who burned in a rainbow, leaving a trail.
Czautha, who was a sun compared to his candle. Azam would have died a thousand thousand times for her already, and they had known each other bare hours as she took him, smashing caravans and freeing his kin. He had luxuriated in that. In righteous vengeance.
He thought he would never frown again. Never cease smiling.
How soon it faltered. Not because of anything she did. The Death of Chains flew, eyes seeking more targets—but all of Chandrar was locking itself down, those who owned Djinni hiding, Roshal’s people cowering as she passed by.
No, not because of her. It was because of the other, who laughed.
She laughed like…someone who was living. Who was loving every second. The half-Elf was old. Old by even Djinni standards. Her hair was as silver as her name.
Silvenia, the Death of Magic. She had burned even more of the [Slave Masters]’ abodes to the ground. It was she who had helped take the eight mortals, the non-Djinni who flew with her.
Recruits. Unlike Czautha, who could only give the gift of flight to her kin, and would have had to carry mortals, Silvenia had artifacts—or perhaps only enchanted these vehicles. A flying chariot, which spectral pegasi dragged through the air, and a carpet no less than forty feet long and half as wide.
She was laughing. Azam had seen her blasting spells down from overhead. She had gone down, like Czautha, to liberate, find those with the will and abilities to aid their cause, and let the others flee.
Then she had flown up, and pointed down. She left nothing behind. Not mansions. Not buildings. Not people.
Now, she was laughing, high on the joy of battle. Azam would have been fine with all of that. Yet what gave him pause, what made him shudder was this:
She laughed like Emir Riqre.
“Silvenia. Enough laughter. We have lost the element of surprise. They are coming.”
The half-Elf’s glee did not end, but she did stop that mad laugh. Her eyes glowed. She turned her face and the Djinni and rescued [Slaves] beheld her. Her and Czautha both.
They were wounded. Half of Silvenia’s body and entire limbs were burnt away, organs replaced. Animated or replaced by power and spellcraft alone.
Czautha was even more obvious. Her kin, who could see her essence leaking, knew there was no patch one could make so easily via magic. Such wounds! They would have slaughtered Azam six times over.
Yet both ignored the pain. Silvenia grinned.
“Let them. Shall we burn cities affiliated with Roshal to the ground, lovely Czautha? This is what I came for. War. Look how they flee. They forgot, in making nightmares for those they owned, that greater nightmares existed. We have come for them.”
She glanced down—and Azam saw lightning coalesce around one hand. Silvenia threw a bolt of [Greater Lightning] down from the skies as they flew. As casually as someone else threw a rock.
“That is not why we came. Control yourself. We must pass by Lailight Scintillation, but only for a second. They will hide my kin, and our time is running out. Kisore. Will you lead my kin and the others north?”
The greatest of the Djinni freed swooped low after Czautha, calling out.
“I can give the others my aegis of levitation, and hold off all but our kin, Czautha’qshe! But I do not know the way to Rhir! They will follow us.”
“Make for the sea. We will catch up. If we are somehow delayed—the Demon King will lead you onwards.”
Kisore nodded. She pointed, and Azam changed course. He called out, with another Djinni who flew as a giant bird, rather than use magic alone.
“Sister! Where are you bound? Roshal’s capital? It is too dangerous!”
The Death of Chains turned her head. Silvenia just shot ahead, laughing, preparing hundreds of spells.
“Not for long, brother! But we must remind them.”
Of what? She shot after Silvenia, and Azam wondered. Fear? Roshal knew fear, from this night alone. Then he saw the Death of Chains’ magic glow brighter.
The rainbow filled the sky, hundreds of feet wide. It seemed to arc down out of the growing dawn. Towards that place all [Slaves] knew.
Lailight Scintillation. Such a beautiful name for a terrible place. The rainbow streaked at the great capital on the coast, and Azam knew that everyone would see it. See the masters cowering, running in fear.
“Of course.”
Not for them. Those who still had chains. Azam saw the rainbow halt in the sky, and the Death of Chains’ voice roared in the distance. Remind them. Remind them there was hope still.
 
—-
 
Even for them, it was a deadly, dangerous risk. If they had not been who they were—if the Death of Wings were with them, someone would have counseled against it.
Yet they were who they were. The last Deaths of the Demon King, who had survived the war which had put them in recovery for a hundred years. Wounds that still hadn’t healed.
“It would have been another century at least had it not been for the Earth’s child. Silvenia. Are you sure you have the strength?”
The Death of Magic was laughing again. Czautha regarded her companion. Friend? Ally? These were incomplete words. They were the Demons of Rhir. The Blighted Kingdom called them ‘Deathless’. In truth, it was easier to call them war comrades. They were not alike.
“Do not tell me to stop, Czautha. I would not have teleported us across the world or prepared this hard if I were denied this moment.”
“Do not kill my kin.”
“I will try.”
Czautha regarded the half-Elf, who was mightier than even Djinni in spellcraft. Unparalleled—a fallen [Archmage]. Yet that was only her class. She had seen Azam’s face; Czautha possessed more sight than mere mundane eyes, so observing him from behind was easy. He had understood something of Silvenia in a moment.
The half-Elf was war. She lived for it, just as Czautha lived to free her kin. That was a difference between them; Silvenia sympathized with [Slaves], just like the Demons, or why else had she joined them? Yet it was also true she had broken with the Demons’ own rules of war, few as they were, at 5th Wall.
To destroy Roshal, though, Czautha would have joined arms with almost any force in the world. And for this?
Silvenia was needed. The Death of Chains focused her being.
Lailight Scintillation was a glowing jewel, a vast city in the distance. Even dozens of miles out, the two came under fire.
“Artillery spells! Yes, they haven’t changed!”
The Death of Magic spotted them a fraction of a moment before the Death of Chains. She darted forwards, and a war in the air sent shockwaves blasting around Czautha. Long-range spells homed in on them; mobile curses bounced off their superior magical protections without even needing to be countered.
The half-Elf matched many spells with her own, but even she and the Djinni were forced to weave and dodge as they drew closer. They did not dare slow; Lailight would focus all of its might on them if they did.
“There! The harbor! Make for it!”
Czautha was not half as adept as Silvenia at magic, but she did not need to be. She had no Skills or classes.
She was simply a Djinni. She dropped out of the air, her body heavier than lead, and slipped past a curtain of spells as they passed in the wrong dimension towards her. She was a gnat, a cloud…
Then dodging became impossible. Silvenia bared her teeth. She began launching long-range spells back at the towers and walls, but put her hands together.
“We are breaking through! [Manasource Shield]! With me, Czautha!”
The Djinni hurtled towards the half-Elf and they descended from the cloud-layer. Silvenia burned her mana away in a shield which looked like it was crawling with so many magical spells, but her reserves were beyond the lesser spells.
Czautha? She reached into the core of her being and drew her weapons. She had not needed them to destroy caravans. Now?
She held a shield and sword. Just that. The relics glowed in her hands, magic so powerful her essence itself flinched away from them. Czautha lifted the shield.
“The Honor of the Tallest!”
The shield given to her by the last Giants burned. She held it in front of her and Silvenia followed in her wake as Czautha crashed through waves of attack spells.
Then…they were there. The Deaths of the Demon King hovered in the bay over Lailight Scintillation. Over the waters that were as smooth as glass via enchantment, the grand walkways and ramps designed that any species might easily move about the port.
The towers of glittering colored glass, which cast a thousand reflections across the waters, like a rainbow. It had given Lailight its name, but the view would no longer inspire those who saw it each morning. Czautha had chosen her symbol well.
A thousand spells a second flickered at them. Czautha felt her mighty shield failing; they could not stay! Not in this ancient capital, which had defenses designed to repel Djinni attacks. Some spells and wards had been made just for her.
“Silvenia. Give me a minute!”
The Death of Magic was no longer laughing, but a wild smile was on her face. She screamed into the sky.
“I call open the great void of magic! I call for death, as you named me! Open the Deadlands, let loose the void of spells!”
The aura of power around her abruptly winked out. Czautha felt—for a second—nothingness enveloping her.
It was like dying. No, it was dying for a being like her. Yet the void of emptiness passed her by. Czautha shuddered as it enveloped the air around her. Silvenia was so skilled she could create a ‘bubble’ of that dimension.
Into it Lailight Scintillation poured all its wrath, and not a single spell or enchanted arrow passed through. A few mundane projectiles shot forwards and promptly vanished on Silvenia’s lesser spells.
Let them waste their spells and magic. Contemptuously, the Deaths held their ground. For another ten seconds the onslaught roared—then abruptly, fell silent.
“A cool head among them.”
Czautha remarked. Silvenia didn’t answer; sweat stood out on her brow from maintaining the spell.
The Death of Chains didn’t waste time. Now that the roaring sound had ended, she drew breath and bellowed.
Across Lailight Scintillation. To the tiny shapes gathered below. Already…she saw what was coming next. Roshal knew her. She had plagued them, given them something to fear. They knew how to drive her off.
Yet for a moment, let them see her hovering there, in the [Slavers]’ vaunted city. Untouched.
“I am the Death of Chains! Look up, you craven holders of chains. Look up, my kin! I will never die. So long as I live, let all those who hold chains tremble! One day, we will cast this place into the sea. We have returned! Cower and fear our return. Believe the lies of the Blighted Kingdom if you wish—we did not cast that spell that tore the world apart! We have never desired this war! Only freedom.”
“Czautha.”
