“It’s weird we can see him. I guess that’s because he’s the ruler and you’re all tied to this spot. Why’s he just standing there?”
“Contemplative. He is in our hall of statues. He may believe we can communicate with him better. Not a poor impulse. Perhaps he is uncertain of our message.”
“…Yeah. Yeah, I don’t think we got through, especially when I told him to wave if he heard. Um. Guys?”
“Yes, Erin Solstice? Have patience, we shall communicate our desires, unless Fetohep is so foolish as to crusade out once more. It may come to that. You chose an impetuous successor, Xierca.”
“My apologies, Great Khelta.”
“Right. Right, guys. Um…he’s sort of standing there. Look, he just lifted a hand. Do you think…he can hear us now?”
Abruptly, the eighteen voices—nineteen—fell silent. Fetohep swore he heard a cough in the silence of his own mind.
“…Faithful Fetohep of Khelt. If you can hear our will at last, signal so. Walk…yes, walk before I, King Tkayl, and kneel.”
A new voice boomed at last. There were murmurs of agreement, quickly shushed.
Fetohep moved. He walked over and slowly knelt before Tkayl. Someone gasped.
“At last!”
“Know our will. There is much you must know—”
Then that last voice. Erin Solstice, it had to be.
“Uh. How much do you think he heard before that? You were being pretty mean. Do you think he heard the thing you said about the bandages?”
Fetohep heard silence in his mind. After a moment, Queen Khelta smoothly spoke.
“A great time of calamity is upon us, Erin Solstice. Now is not the time for frivolity of speech.”
“…Sure. Suuuure.”
 
—-
 
The connection had been established. The dead spoke to the living. Well, the slightly-less-dead, at any rate.
It was the power of legacy. The power of Khelt, which turned out to have been one of the wisest decisions ever made in the metaspace of nations and empire.
There had been hiccups. The chosen agent of the eighteen rulers of Khelt, Fetohep, had been absent. Now, though, he had returned, and the ghosts rejoiced. Their otherworldly wisdom and great need could be communicated!
Cawe saw it as a great impact among the dead as well. She looked out, over the steps of the palace of Khelt, where few ghosts were allowed to even stand.
“Would you look at that?”
Gerial’s voice was a bit unnerved. Abel drifted over and gasped. The three small ghosts beheld…the tide.
It seemed that way, at first. There was no actual sea visible from this spot unless you flew up incredibly high, and even then, you only saw the world as it was, static, unmoving, the water frozen scene-to-scene, in different poses.
Yet this was a tide. Every dead soul in Chandrar was flowing their way. Drawing closer to the one gateway between their worlds.
Of course, they did not get close. The ghosts of Giants and powerful dead blocked them. The loyalists, as Cawe was thinking of them, those explicitly agreeing with the [Witches] and Khelt, did not let Roshal and other ghosts of smaller ‘factions’ get to Erin.
If it got too bad, one of the rulers of Khelt would just send ghosts flying in a sandstorm; their power was unquestioned here.
“That’s a powerful sight. And here we are.”
Gerial’s voice was still unnerved. He glanced at the individuals, all of whose levels probably weren’t below Level 50—except maybe Califor!—and then at himself. Little Gerial.
It was Cawe who grabbed his arm, impulsively. She linked arms and grinned as Gerial started, though neither felt it.
“We may not be heroes, but we’re rubbing feathers with them, eh, Gerial? It just goes to show, even here, it’s not who you were, it’s who you know. We lucked out, eh?”
Abel laughed. The young man chuckled, and Gerial blinked at Cawe before grinning himself.
“Now that’s adventurer’s luck. I like that.”
They turned back to Erin Solstice. Now, she walked with the Rulers of Khelt. They were excited. Khelta herself smiled, herself exuberant.
“Now we may truly fight back, Erin Solstice. We shall communicate with Fetohep, and through him, do what we can to spread word at least of this threat. But carefully. If, as the [Sages] and [Archmages] believe, the six wish to be known—well. First we shall simply let Fetohep know what passes.”
Erin nodded rapidly, still shaking with excitement of her own. She looked at Khelta.
“It’s amazing you can talk with him. Did you plan that?”
“Partly. It was one of the many acts I envisioned for Khelt. I laid down the ritual spells that allowed the creation of Revenants, the control of undead. I am a [Necromancer], you know.”
Erin stopped. She slowed, and blinked.
“I forgot…wait. You’re…then…”
The [Queen of Necrocracy]’s eyes flashed with humor.
“I have heard of your friend, the [Necromancer], and the state of my school of magic in this world. It quite amuses me that you did not seek out my counsel. At any rate, yes. Communion with the spirits of the other world was always something I knew of—just never focused on. I would that I had, or that my successors had managed to carry out one of the great projects I laid out.”
The other rulers looked abashed. One, King Dolenm, bowed his aged head. Before he had passed his crown on, his very skull had begun to wear away, exposing a pure, flickering memory of magic within. Or…a soul.
“That we did not is our failing, great Khelta.”
She waved a hand indulgently.
“Many projects were completed, fair Dolenm. I myself would have prioritized the Sarcophagi of Souls lower. You did manage to create a way of generating water for Khelt in your time…thirst always plagued my reign.”
She nodded indulgently at the King, who nodded in satisfaction. Erin’s head turned.
“The Sarcophagi of…you mean a place where you could come to life?”
“Not life. Merely possess statues, and speak to all and sundry. It would have taken a different expert than I, though. Or multiple ones. I thought an [Archmage], an [Architect], and a [Necromancer] all over Level 50 could do it—or two over Level 70.”
“The trouble is getting all of them in the same place. I never managed more than one. Even with great riches offered, they died too quickly or were embroiled in great wars or passions of their own.”
King Serept grumbled, the huge half-Giant folding his arms. The other rulers nodded and muttered—but some of the later ones, like Xierca, gave Erin a look that said quite clearly they hadn’t ever thought to grab multiple Level 50+ individuals.
Erin herself thought it was a reminder of what had changed. Khelta waved a hand.
“I have already communicated the desire for the project to be completed if possible to King Fetohep. Along with other needs. We shall all have more.”
“You mean you’re telling him what you need done?”
“Of course. We are, naturally, taking turns.”
Even as Khelta spoke, she pointed. Xierca walked back up to the castle, replacing Queen Emrist as she followed the one visible being to the Rulers of Khelt—and now Erin, so long as she stood in their company.
Fetohep. He was like…a ghost to the ghosts. A reflection of the living world, and they could hear him from afar, see what he did. No one else. One ruler walked with him at all times, or they all gathered if he did something they deemed interesting.
Counselors of the past. Giving voice to great need. In another way…Erin’s lips twitched.
“So you’re giving him a shopping list? A shopping list from beyond the grave? Oooh.”
She waved her hands. The rulers of Khelt gave her flat looks. Until Khelta began laughing. She put one hand on Erin’s shoulder.
“I quite like you, child! I never thought of it so. But yes. That is quite amusing. Frivolities aside, however…we must think how best to use our position. We have the knowledge of old.”
She waved a hand at the ghosts congregating below the palace. Khelta sighed.
“…Pressing few ways to use it. Every [Sage] has an idea how you can be cured, or their recipe for a Potion of Anti-Aging, but with their Skills or specific ingredients and tools. Would that Fetohep were any class but a [Warrior] in life. Between you and I, he is a bit…”
She hesitated. Then patted Erin on the shoulder.
“Well, he seems capable enough. Khelt is not in ruins. I regret that we let our tongues slip so when we thought he could not hear.”
Erin glanced at the ruler who walked the palace. She had never met Fetohep, but when she had first seen him, striding from his throne room, speaking to the crowd—for all it was a 4/10 speech—he had seemed bold, confident. Now? His shoulders hunched a bit and he hurried about as Queen Xierca spoke in his ears. Erin murmured.
“Poor Fetohep.”
His glorious predecessors and forebearers had come calling. Those he respected and veneterated. The problem was?
They found him a bit wanting.
 
—-
 
The dead spoke to him. The rulers of old walked with Fetohep of Khelt, and he heard his beloved Queen Xierca’s words once more.
He rejoiced. Truly, he did. He was no longer alone. It was a blessing, a sign of great joy, and he rejoiced.
…Really. He did. It was just…well. When you heard of means to connect ghosts to the living world, via some [Oracle] or seer, it was always through them. Always more vague, indistinct words. Annoying, of course, if you really wanted specifics, but the dead usually had a hard time talking to the living.
Fetohep realized why that was sometimes desirable, or at least, to have a medium between you and said dead. He walked his palace, a bit quickly, but he could not escape the voice that lingered in his ears.
His great robe swished across the tiles made of obsidian glass. His bowed head passed blooming plants, each one tended to by undead servants. Fetohep heard the voice he had longed for so long to whisper in his ears, one last time.
“Fetohep, oh, my dear subject, Fetohep…”
Queen Xierca. Fetohep slowed.
“Your Majesty?”
“Fetohep…”
Her voice was as it had been in life, not echoing, not haunted. He had never heard that. It was such a joy. Such a…
“Fetohep, what did you do with my Sireen Lilies? They are missing from the outside of the palace. Did something happen to them?”
Fetohep kept walking. He spoke, very carefully.
“Your Majesty, Xierca…I regret to say they were removed.”
“By what, monsters? Did you pull them up? I loved them!”
Fetohep had never, ever lied to Queen Xierca. He did so now.
“…One of Khelt’s subjects may have made the mistake of doing so. As the gardens were damaged, I had no choice but to uproot the rest.”
“Did you not replant them?”
Her voice was outraged. Fetohep hesitated as he walked by a preserved sample of her favorite plant, which she had decorated many parts of Khelt with. The Sireen Lily. He stared at the huge, long-necked plant with a gigantic blooming head, light blue fading to white. A lovely plant. There was just one problem.
“…Children often burst into tears, your Majesty. Adults too, when they wailed in the wind.”
“I do not see what that has to do with anything. They were an example of Khelt’s glorious gardens.”
Fetohep’s jaw opened and closed. He gritted his teeth. He loved Xierca, and he had forgotten completely about her lilies. He had kept them for as long as he could bear it after his ascension to the throne.
…Four years. Then he’d had them gathered and burned. There had been a celebration.
Xierca sighed in his mind.
“Will you not plant more? Yours is the time to rule, Fetohep, but for love of me…perhaps a garden? A thousand, planted in the Contemplation Walkways?”
He hesitated, agonized, but he did love her. Fetohep bowed his head, an unfamiliar gesture. He’d been doing a lot of it this day.
“It will be done at once, my beloved Majesty.”
“Good, good…”
Her presence faded. Fetohep missed her, but…he waved for a servant and gave the orders. Contemplation Walkways, a beloved part of the city, might now become a truly isolated place, where one might test their meditative qualities against the horrors of a thousand sighing, wailing plants.
Still, for her…it was a fitting tribute, Fetohep told himself. The [Servant] bowed; naturally his will would be carried out, but even her face didn’t hide the trepidation of asking the [Gardeners] to grow a thousand Sireen Lilies.
Fetohep walked on. His mind was racing. He had been told what was happening and that Erin Solstice was among his great ancestors. Not dead, not alive. He had to act. With this knowledge, everything changed. Everyth—
“Fetohep. I am Serept of Khelt. Do you know me?”
The Revenant stopped again.
“Great Serept, of course I know you.”
The half-Giant [Smith-King]? Fetohep was honored! He pictured the half-Giant, striding next to him in these vast corridors which had been designed just for him. Fetohep felt the pleasure of talking with such a legend…for about five seconds.
“Fetohep. My Swords. That which they call the Swords of Serept. I am told…they are scattered. Six of them were lost and never recovered. Three now belong to outsiders of Khelt. This concerns me.”
If undead could sweat…Fetohep bowed his head.
“Your Majesty, I granted the blades without your permission. I did not think of your will, only that they were found and might be lost again. I—considered—that those who reclaimed them were worthy of wielding them for a generation. Make no mistake, they will return to Khelt!”
Serept’s voice was deep in his head, rich and powerful. It should have echoed across many hallways.
“That does not concern me, Fetohep. Swords are meant to be wielded, and I am grateful they were found. My quandary is this: if you granted such blades, and correct me if I err, it seems you did not instruct the wielders as to their usage. The ghosts of the dead who heard of it did not say you gave these students lessons. It seems unfair to do so.”
Of all the things Fetohep would have thought Serept would take him to task for—he realized he did not know the half-Giant as well as he thought. His voice stuttered a bit, despite the lack of any tongue or vocal chords or lungs.
“I…did not, your Majesty? They would have surely uncovered many of the aspects of the blades themselves.”
“Perhaps that could be rectified? I also notice you did not offer them the use of the companion aspects to the Diamond Swords. I made other relics to accompany my blades.”
“They are relics of Khelt, your Majesty! I did not think to—”
“I understand, King Fetohep. However, is the largesse of Khelt so lacking in the modern day that the full act of generosity might be withheld? I simply…ask you consider the matter.”
“I will consider it as soon as I am able, King Serept.”
“Very good, I thank you.”
And then he was gone. Fetohep hunched his shoulders. The dead were speaking to him. Wonderful.
