It had not changed markedly over millennia. Oh, buildings appeared and disappeared, the kingdom was sacked…twice…and the capital relocated both times. A mountain disappeared that was technically bordering Avel, but even in the land of the dead, Avel was much as it always had been.
Terandria had kept much that other places had lost. Yet now…
Now, the ___ of lost things, the forgotten, stopped on its journey. It halted at the coast and saw the ghosts, supplicating, standing on the cliffs.
“Great lord! Hear our plea! Have mercy!”
They were shouting. Terandria was embattled. Six things assailed it. They would devour each continent. Izril had fallen; so the ghosts, these ones at least, stood on the cliffs. Terrified. They shouted at the thing as it regarded them, interested.
“We surrender! Oh spirit, oh master of this realm—give us mercy in this hour! We shall show you the other enclaves of ghosts. Do we do that—consider sparing our souls?”
A woman called out, and a cluster of men and women all added supplications, some going as far as to kneel and bow their heads on the ground.
It was a style that was almost…prayer. The ___ of lost things was intrigued. It had known Terandria remained unassailable. It seemed there were traitors in every land.
So it moved forwards, rather than skirt the coast as it had been, moving across dark seas. Towards Avel, fearing not the same cliffs and beachheads that had turned into deadly chokepoints for any attacking army in wars prior.
Whether or not it would spare them, it had not decided yet. Something smiled, yet it had no face. It had no…discernible features, yet it smiled as it moved towards the pleading ghosts.
It did have a head, though. So that was where the glowing arrow hit it.
Thonk.
The ___ of lost things staggered. It looked up, and the ghosts cheered. They swept back from the cliffs, and it beheld a single figure on the cliffs.
The First King of Avel raised the bow of his kingdom, the relic that had remained from generation to generation, and took aim. A second arrow struck the thing in the chest. Then a third streaked past it as the thing turned and fled.
“That’s right, flee, thou craven parasite!”
The ghosts stopped pretending to plea for mercy and began laughing, applauding the archer and each other and celebrating. The ___ fled, feeling the pain of each strike.
Not a mortal wound, as most would have taken from the arrows, but still a damage in kind. It looked back as it moved out of arrow range. The archer raised the bow over his head, a gesture of defiance.
A weapon in the lands of the dead? Yes.
Just one. It could not be brought with the dead, for they owned nothing, not even Skills or levels anymore, for all it informed the strength of their souls. Yet that?
The First King of Avel held the same bow that shone in reality. So long as the living kept it, kept their own kind of faith, it endured here. That was how, from Silvaria’s shores to Cenidau to the north, the six had been kept at bay.
By Dragonfire, the wrath of Giants, and the relics of humanity. In Baleros, the Dragons turned back the six with even greater success. The lost thing moved away, out of range of those dangerous shores.
It was not annoyed, if such emotions even applied. How vexing. But it was a calm vexation, unlike the other five’s, some of whom were prone to greater rage. The ___ of lost things continued its journey.
For now, Terandria remained safe. The Bow of Avel glowed, one of the last beacons of hope.
 
—-
 
“There it is again. Do you see it?”
The King of Avel—the current one, living, healthy, thank you—held up the bow. His retainers winced.
“Your Majesty, please stop holding it so carelessly.”
The [King] waved the bow around.
“Why? It is the relic of Avel. It won’t break even if I do this—”
He thwacked the bow against the armrest of his throne in a way that no bow should ever be treated. The [Chamberlain] threw her hands over her eyes in horror.
“Your Majesty! Please, desist! That should be in the treasury, under guard! If a [Thief] were to steal it—”
“Bows are meant to be used. I can use the Relic Skills and the enchantments. Didn’t you see how I winged that Griffin last week?”
Happily, the [King] held the bow up to admire. Then he frowned.
“I don’t know why it keeps glowing of late. Someone find the records. There has to be a reason. See? It’s doing it again. Maybe it’s a sign.”
“That the power wanes?”
The court murmured. The [King] thought, pondering long on his throne.
“…That I’m not using it enough. I shall ride to the royal archery range!”
 
—-
 
The living’s concerns and actions did not affect the memory of the bow in the lands of the dead—except if something damaged or exhausted its power.
That was not the case here. The First King of Avel lowered the great longbow, a gift from a Dragon, made with such skill that no [Bowyer] in any time had ever exceeded it, or so it was said, and stared steely-eyed out into the distance.
Solemn sentinel, even in death. Around him stood the ghosts of Avel and nations close to it. An enclave, dedicated to watching the shores of this region for threats. Many were monarchs, like he. In fact, every generation of Avel’s royalty stood with him.
Their class gave them power, even here. With them stood those who had achieved the highest of levels in their time, the greatest of deeds. They mocked the thing as it fled. Then, at last, a [Queen] declaimed.
“That makes six! All six, then. They have fallen for it, each in their arrogance. Had we wine, we should celebrate this occasion. Prithee, let us send for a messenger and inform the other kingdoms of this occasion.”
Her husband, smugly folding his arms, inclined his head.
“It is a triumph in a dark hour. Fain, we shall inspire the others by our wit and words. I decree it, so it shall be done. A [Poet]—find me a [Poet] among our dead and messengers aplenty!”
He clapped his hands. Some lesser ghosts milled about. The First King of Avel took no notice. The other ghosts were allowed to do as they wished; they needed his bow to fend off threats. He stood there, calmly posed, willing to wait years, centuries if need be, for the next shot. After all, he was ruler of Avel and he would defend it in death until—
“My turn.”
Someone yanked the bow out of his hands. The First King of Avel started. Another [King] of Avel was wrestling with the bow.
“You fool! This is my bow! My sacred weapon!”
The third King of Avel gave his grandfather a less-than-filial look.
“It is Avel’s sacred weapon. I have wielded it in times past. You have used it enough—we agreed on a rotation.”
“You all agreed on a rotation. I founded Avel! This bow is mine alone!”
The two ghosts began to argue and tug on the bow, but they were evenly matched, without physical strength or things like gravity, traction, and other details to give them some advantage. It was a [Princess] in the end who separated the two.
“Enough! This is the end of our times and you two fight? Stop quibbling over the only weapon that can defend us!”
The two [Kings] realized they had an audience of their peers, descendants, and subjects. Abashed, they stopped, and the First King reluctantly held the bow out, loosely. The third king of Avel, who had turned what was a very small ‘kingdom’ into a version of the prosperous lands it was today, reached for the bow, haughtily.
The [Princess] snatched it. Both [Kings] started.
“How dare you! That is the bow of kings—”
“And I was better with it than both of you. I’m the highest-levelled [Archer] here. Or have either of you ever actually killed a Dragon with it? Annoying them doesn’t count. I have killed Dragons and Giants and worse.”
The First and Third [Kings] of Avel spluttered. Drawn by the commotion, more ghosts, mostly monarchs, appeared. One waved a hand.
“As King of Delve, I believe we should all be granted a turn with the bow.”
He was promptly ignored by the others. One ruler sneered.
“Delve does not exist, ‘your Majesty’. Let those who founded nations that endure lead.”
It looked like another fight was going to erupt, and the monarchs of Avel were now engaged in a shouting match with their neighbors, the Kingdom of Delve, which had lasted millenia…until it was erased due to that entire shelf of land disappearing into the sea.
It was the Third King of Avel and the Sixth King of Delve who were about to get into it, but another man tried to play peacekeeper. He had a beard that Dwarves had been jealous of in life, which was thick and combed straight. It had once saved him from an arrow in battle and had been claimed to be as soft as Sariant Lamb wool.
“Majesties, peace. Peace. We are all allies in this time of death. Avel and Delve need not bring up the quarrels we had in life. As a [King] who has vassalized both your nations before, I believe it is my duty to ask you all to calm your heads.”
That went about as well as one could expect. The two [Kings] turned on the ghost and attempted to throw him over the cliff. Not that it would have done much good, gravity being gone here, but it was the thought that counted.
It was at this point another [King] floated higher.
“It seems someone must inspire us all. Very well—if it is my duty, then I shall recite my great speech of old. Friends, protectors of this land, good subjects! Lend me your thoughts, if but a passing moment! It is this dire hour which sees us brought together…”
“Oh, shut up. You lost that battle. I beat you after you gave that speech!”
An angry [Duke] shook his fist up at the [King]. The [King] faltered in his speech, and floated down to argue what ‘lost’ really meant.
Old grudges, enemies, spouses who had killed each other via poison, treachery, and so on, were all here. An heir to the throne that deposed the ruling monarch got to spend eternity side-by-side with the victim…well, in other times they would have happily gone the other way, or spent eternity plaguing the other.
Not so, now. They were united. Or rather, forced to share the same space.
It was like watching hens fighting in a henhouse. Or eighteen Drakes fighting over a diamond on the tavern floor. The ghosts of Avel and other nations watched in dismay as their glorious rulers fought. One could almost wish for one of the six to return again—only then was Terandria united.
As it always had been, really. Terandria stood.
The [Queens] of Avel, those not fighting for the bow they had wielded in life with their counterparts, held a more polite conclave a ways off with their peers. They were talking, content to let the fighting ghosts argue.
“So, all six have tried Terandria’s shores. Myself, I like that last one least. It has no face, no features…it is not any species known. If we could, we should watch that one.”
One of the monarchs opined, glancing darkly towards the flat sea in the distance. The others nodded. The last [Queen] of Avel, a dim star compared to some, peered into the distance.
“They try Terandria time and again. I have heard Silvaria has it worst. Around there, they press in. No less than a dozen great ghosts were lost…the trouble with swords is that one must let the enemy close, and these kill at a touch. Silvaria, though, indicates that they come from the south.”
“Izril is lost. It is a base for them, and they do not try Baleros much, according to that Dragon that landed.”
The others nodded. They were in ‘communication’ with the other outposts along the coasts, which meant sending ghosts to receive word. There was news from Baleros. One of the [Seraphines] of Delve, the Torchlight Queens to give them another name, murmured as she sat.
“Izril is gone. Perhaps Chandrar too. They walk in strength there. We have only news that Baleros remains, and Drath. Ghosts from Minos and Izril have both fled here; how long shall we endure?”
The others were meaningfully silent. The hour was dark, and for all they argued over the petty concerns of life, if they could have joined forces in any meaningful way, they would have. Even with those who had murdered them. This was a war for existence, and against foes who did not die.
It was then that one of the [Queens] raised her head. She had watched the ocean, as they all had. Now…she floated a bit past Avel’s cliffs.
“Wait. What is that?”
She frowned, squinted. And then raised her voice. The monarchs around her looked up as one of the [Queens] began to stride through the air.
“What is going on? Have you lost your senses?”
“No, no.”
The [Queen] was growing excited. She called to the others.
“Get the bow! Warn the other outposts! Look! Don’t you see it?”
She pointed. All the ghosts turned now, and the [Princess] holding the Bow of Avel gave a cry. Now they all saw it.
In the distance, a shape was coming. A vast figure, flying across the sea. Purple light flared, but purple in a color that stretched beyond the visible spectrum. Some of the greatest [Archers] saw the light which trended into spectrums beyond the natural and pointed.
“A Dragon! I have never seen such scales!”
“A Void Dragon. They were always rare. That’s…a Dragon. It comes beyond the sea, and it is besieged!”
It was true. Two of them followed hot on the Dragon’s tail, pursuing it, only kept back by the Dragonfire as the desperate Dragon flew north. From…?
“I bear word of Chandrar! To my aid, my kin!”
The roar of Xarkouth, the Dragonlord of Stars, echoed across the silent ocean. And they came. Ghosts, Dragons, monarchs, bearing the relics that still remained, rushed forwards to do grim battle with the two following. News?
He brought news indeed. Hope, as much as there was to grasp at. Words of defiance, but also something which would echo among the dead. A name.
Erin Solstice.
 
—-
 
In the center of the last gathering of Chandrar’s ghosts, the little Garuda and dead of [Slavers] and [Slaves] were brought. They had come north, far north, to a kingdom founded in death.
Why here? Why was this where the ghosts gathered?
Because there was power here. More than that? They had something else.
But look. Cawe’s eyes grew wider, and had she breath, she would have gasped.
The ghosts filled the ground and air. With each step, she passed by countless thousands, millions, even greater numbers that filled the world.
Yet in the center stood the greatest of them, some whose names were still legends, others who had been forgotten. Some whose stories had never been told. It did not matter.
Here they fit. Cawe walked between lines of ghosts half again her height. Great Stitch-[Sages], whose lined features took on tones of immortality with their knowledge. One, whose robes glittered with fabric made of great materials of old.
