This [Queen] was a Stitch-Queen arrayed in Nerrhavia Fallen’s style, impressive silk standing out across even more costly skin. A jeweled brooch hung from her head—no, was embedded in her forehead, Cawe realized. Her arms had bangles of jade that Cawe swore she thought were relics of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
She walked in light slippers, and her brows were impatient, curious, and sympathetic. She…was so different from the others that they realized their lacking emotions by standing around her.
Igheriz’s mild curiosity was a dull thing compared to her impatience. She snapped, her voice crisp, lisping slightly.
“You all. What day is it? What day did you die?”
The others blinked. They glanced at each other. After a second, Hrome answered.
“On Laudas.”
That was a day as Roshal counted it. The [Queen] rolled her eyes and they flashed impatiently, violets streaked with topaz.
“I mean, the calendar date. Any system. You. You seem more awake. What level were you, and when did you die?”
She pointed at Igheriz. He hesitated before answering.
“I was a Level 31 [Slave Master], and a Level 22 [Caravan Master]. It was…Laudas last, yes. The month of…”
The [Queen]’s eyes lit up as she tapped her lips.
“That’s later than anyone else. Good, you are recently dead. [Slavers], though.”
Her lips twisted as she stared at Igheriz and Hrome. They looked…puzzled at her reaction. The Stitch-woman flicked her fingers.
“Your kind will welcome you. I would rather the [Slaves], or anyone not part of Roshal. Your perspectives are less twisted. You. Were you [Slave] or [Slaver]?”
“[Slave]. But I tried to get free.”
Cawe answered, less dreamily than before. A bit of the fury that had been in her when she died rekindled itself and she edged away from Igheriz. Just the presence of this mightier ghost seemed to bring her back to life.
“I killed her.”
Igheriz helpfully explained. He shrank in front of the [Queen]’s glare. She nodded, glanced around, and began issuing orders.
“You. Eight steps back. Do not speak until spoken to. All those who were [Slavers], with him. All those who were not? Stand with the Garuda. You, Garuda. Tell me your name. Did anything interesting happen when you died?”
Cawe hesitated. But the ghosts were shuffling obediently into rows. The Nerrhavian Queen snapped her fingers and other ghosts joined her. They shuffled over and plucked all the ghosts aside, asking the same questions.
They were interrogating the newcomers. Cawe and the [Queen] spoke directly, the most animated of the bunch. The other ghosts were indistinguishable, details forgotten, bland, but the [Queen] was real.
“Who are you, your Majesty?”
Cawe asked. The [Queen] smiled.
“I was the second Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen after the tyrant died. Queen Merindue, Level 43 [Queen of the Freed Peoples]. Lower in level than many, but I ruled, so I maintain who I am. And you?”
“Cawe. Cawe the [Pickpocket]. I was Level 16. Well, I levelled to Level 18 before I died…”
“I see. How did you die, Cawe?”
Cawe told her. The [Queen] was sympathetic, but impatient.
“So it was not a grand death. Did you see anything important? Witness any events? News…no, well, we shall ask anyways.”
“We met a terrible Emir. He…”
Cawe hesitated and wondered if she should tell the whole story. Even here, it was terrible. Did she mention Pisces? The [Queen] seemed to sense it.
“Slave-Emirs are not our concern. I mean, news. Of the world. Of great doings.”
The Garuda nearly shook her head, then brightened.
“Oh. Yes! Igheriz said the Death of Chains killed him.”
“The who?”
Queen Merindue raised her brows, but another ghost recognized the name. A Dullahan walked over.
“That matters. That is important news.”
“I see. Good. Then we return to the others. Come with me, little Cawe. We will bring the [Slaves]. Call for Glorious Donbaaar!”
Donbaaar the Giant himself turned as a ghost caught his slow circuit of Chandrar. He bent, and offered a hand. The bewildered ghosts followed as Queen Merindue followed him up the arm.
“Is this worth taking them back so soon, Queen Merindue?”
“I say it so, Glorious Donbaaar. They have news of an important figure. A first-hand sighting.”
“Then I will walk us back.”
So saying, the Giant strode the way they’d come. Cawe realized this was to save time.
What an odd thing. First off, that all ghosts, even she with wings, would move at the same pace more or less in this world of the dead—but a Giant could travel faster due to his natural stride. So he was acting as a transport.
“But why does anyone need to move fast here? It’s as if time means something. And it doesn’t.”
Merindue heard Cawe’s puzzled words. She walked back over as many ghosts rode Donbaaar’s shoulder as naturally as if it were a horse or solid ground, not even staring down at the passing landscape below. He strode across Great Zeikhal, which had once been vast plains. To Cawe’s amazement, she saw grasslands below, rich and fertile, even huts and yurts set up, kingdoms among the grass…
Before it all turned to sand and was lost forever. The ghost saw Merindue smile.
“Things matter more if you stand next to me, Cawe. I will grant you permission to join my retinue. Or, if you wish, you may stand and lose all that you are. There are no more rules.”
She waited. Cawe’s beak opened.
“I…I would like to feel. Thank you.”
“Good. Either way, we must learn what you know. We have need of such knowledge. I will explain all soon—or a [Sage] will. They keep explaining to all the ghosts.”
There weren’t many as Donbaaar strode along. Cawe thought there should be many more. Everyone who had ever died was here, weren’t they? Merindue smiled.
“Ah, you are thinking again! Your levels may not be high, but your soul is strong. Good, Cawe. Yes! Ask more questions. Yes, there were ghosts all over Chandrar. No longer.”
Cawe hesitated. She felt uneasy for a second.
“Did…something happen to them?”
Merindue’s smile flickered. She glanced ahead.
“Not yet. Not ever by the will of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and…Khelt. Rather, we have gathered them. Every dead soul, and we search for new ones. See?”
She pointed, and Cawe saw it.
Like a beacon in Chandrar. Life, infusing her. She felt her body come alive, or as close as it would get.
Cawe looked down. Now, she saw dirty grey-green feathers. She felt her cracked beak and short tongue move. She even felt, for a second, the cut at her neck. She felt sad. Angry. She was glad Pisces hadn’t died. What had happened to him? Had that bastard Hrome…?
The other ghosts started. They looked up and saw the gathering of the dead. And the countless ghosts as powerful as Merindue or more.
Even the [Queen] came further back to life. She stretched, strutted with poise, chin held at an angle, whirling with decisive, distinctive footwork, remembering how she had walked in life. Only Donbaaar was unaffected; his was a soul that needed no reminders.
“Behold, the last gathering of Chandrar’s dead!”
Merindue shouted. Many ghosts floated up to meet them, calling out, asking questions. Merindue pointed.
“We have recent dead! Laudas! This week! Find me a [Sage]! Er…please.”
She was a lesser ghost among some that were hard at work, and it displeased Merindue. Cawe just stared in awe.
There stood every Named Adventurer and famous person who had ever died on Chandrar. No less than the story of stories, Devourer of Devourers greeted Donbaaar. The Named Adventurer who had slain more Jaws of Zeikhal than any other being in the world…was checking ghosts as they lined up.
“Please go to another line if there is space. Give me your name, when you died, and any events of note. If you were of a level above 30, please proceed to the following lines…”
The Named Adventurer was striding along the lines of ghosts who turned to stare at him, pointing out the lines where august figures and famous heroes of legend stood…taking names and information.
“What is this?”
Hrome was confused. So were the others, even frightened. What power could make so many ghosts work like this? Merindue answered as the Devourer of Devourers crouched to listen to a girl speak shyly into his ear.
“We are processing ghosts. This is an efficient system a [Sage] designed. We can write nothing down except if something is made, and that girl’s materials fade quickly…only the high-level of us can remember and act. You will be processed. But I will be with you, Cawe. You can join me in the hunt as you give your testimony.”
The Garuda nodded, confused, but she was led to the first line. The Devourer of Devourers, Berythe, walked over.
“Merindue.”
“This one has knowledge. They all do. Will you ask them?”
He nodded.
“That is good, Queen Merindue. I thank you for your efforts and Donbaaar for bringing you so quickly. Yet we have a number of ghosts who were slain by the Death of Chains. Are you referring to that?”
Queen Merindue hesitated. Her face soured and turned a bit annoyed.
“…Yes. Perhaps they have a unique perspective?”
“I will call for someone to check.”
Berythe walked off. Merindue hesitated. She stomped one foot, looking annoyed she wasn’t the first one back with important ghosts. Then her scowl deepened into a flash of murderous rage, the only expression of strong emotion Cawe had seen in her brief time dead.
Which was…how long? She didn’t know. The journey here could have taken minutes, or…years. Time had lost its meaning, but the more powerful ghosts seemed to be in a hurry.
Even so, Merindue’s look of pure animosity was such that other ghosts turned to stare. She did not shy away from the emotion; she seemed even happier, in truth, despite her anger. For to rage was to live.
A woman came swaying through the crowd, tall, perfect, a Human, but as amazingly graceful as Merindue’s enhanced fabric. Her eyes were dark whorls of color, and seemed to draw Cawe in.
She made Cawe feel even more alive than the Devourer of Devourers. She was thus important. Her skin was what poets would call ‘alabaster’ or something; Cawe thought it was a lack of sunlight, especially in Chandrar. Yet she had faint tattoos of magic running up and down her arms.
What was most noticeable about her, as they drew closer, was that she was a Stitch-woman. No…parts of her were a Stitch-woman. Somehow, despite being Human, her right arm was sewn on.
It looked unnatural. Like it too was only half-there. It was only the memory of flesh, but Cawe realized the memory was of some kind of ethereal arm. As if it had been a ghost’s in life. The unknown ruler–and she was surely a ruler—also had bare feet, no sandals, and they tapped the ground lightly. A cloth Cawe had never seen, that had lost its power here. She felt they should have left behind traces of another dimension, like footprints upon which ever land she trode.
The two women stopped. Merindue stared at the most powerful ghost yet.
“I hear these might be important? Ah, but if it is only the Death of Chains, then I fear all time is wasted, but I do this in courtesy to you, my descendant. Queen Merindue.”
The woman gave Merindue an arch smile. To that, the second ruler of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, great Queen Merindue, spat only one word.
“Nerrhavia.”
Cawe waited for something else. Then her eyes went round. Nerrhavia as in…? Then they turned their attention to her.
“So, answer quickly now, who witnessed what? Important events only. I do not care for the pettiness of your life or death. Important events. Important people. That means over Level 40. If you have a secret, it had better be worth a hundred thousand gold pieces.”
Nerrhavia snapped at Igheriz, Cawe, and the other ghosts. Their mouths shut. Hrome stuttered.
“We—we have seen the Death of Chains, your Majesty.”
“Anyone else?”
“We knew an Emir Riqre—”
Nerrhavia raised her brow at Merindue. She was acting like the others, Cawe realized. Gathering information. Nerrhavia, the legend behind…acting as a gate guard?
That was just the world they had ended up in. Merindue looked past Nerrhavia as the first ruler smirked.
“A poor haul. Not even the fastest to arrive, Merindue.”
“I moved as fast as I could. I shall return with Donbaaar to searching, then.”
Merindue turned on her heel, embarrassed, flushing, almost forgetting about Cawe. Nerrhavia rolled her eyes.
“Yes, yes. I might as well do a proper job of it. Let me see. You do not know anything of value, so we will let you gather with the others and be told what is occurring.”
Her tone adopted one of bored rote, even here.
“Do you have any information on ‘The Wandering Inn’ in Izril, the city of Liscor, a Mrsha, Lyonette du Marquin, let’s see…Relc Grasstongue, Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, Saliss of Lights, Erin Solstice, of course…”
She was reciting names from memory. The ghosts didn’t know any of them, except maybe vaguely, as those who had heard something once or twice. Then Nerrhavia spoke the name aloud.
“…Griffon Hunt, Horns of Hammerad…”
Cawe blinked. She spoke at the same time as Hrome, Igheriz, and the others.
“Horns of Hammerad? You mean, Pisces?”
Merindue’s head snapped around. Nerrhavia looked up. Her brows shot together.
“You know…Pisces Jealnet?”
“Know him? He was in our company, Great Nerrhavia. He was…well, Igheriz’s [Slave]! He was right there. He killed me!”
Hrome blustered. Nerrhavia’s eyes opened wide. She looked at Queen Merindue, and suddenly the other woman had a triumphant look on her face. She strode over to Cawe.
“My instincts, Nerrhavia, are never wrong. Cawe, you say you know Pisces? How well?”
“I was chained up with him for days. I tried to help him escape. Why, what’s—”
Cawe got no further because Nerrhavia and Merindue grabbed her arms. They rushed her through the crowd. [Sages], [Kings], [Queens], Named Adventurers, and more looked up as Nerrhavia shouted.
“Donbaaar! We have news of Pisces of the Horns of Hammerad! To the center!”
The Giant turned. He bent down at once and scooped them up. Terrified, Cawe saw the sea of ghosts part.
That was how she came to the center of it all. The last stand of the ghosts in Chandrar’s death.
And how she met Erin Solstice.
 
—-
 
In distant Terandria, the kingdom of Avel sat on a network of cliffs. The beaches lay at the bottom of a natural trenchwork of passages, in themselves not difficult to climb up and down, but reminiscent of a child digging lines in stone with a trowel.
The highlands of Avel, the famous Kingdom of Bows, also gave rise to the natural terrain that had made so many great archers out of their people.
