Califor looked down at him. The [Sage], and Elucina herself descended the steps. The weight of their souls made Igheriz back up. The Rebel of String? She met his gaze.
“Do you know me, little man?”
He faltered. Even here, even now, he seemed to recognize Elucina, even if he could not identify her exactly. He and the others of Roshal were forced down the steps. Until Igheriz’s backwards momentum abruptly halted.
Califor’s glare switched targets. Elucina cursed. Erin, watching from the top of the stairs, saw a group of ghosts break past the arguing ones in this central place. They forced their way up the stairs, ignoring the hands, pushing back at the bodies.
“Our kin has a point. Should he not speak? You [Witches] have dictated who meets the [Innkeeper], the living girl for so long. Wisdom from all classes? You do not represent our class. Rulers of Khelt! Do you think it wise to ignore aid wherever it comes from?”
The eighteen turned and looked down. Elucina’s eyes were like diamonds of cold hatred. Erin Solstice looked at the ghosts moving up the stairs in unity. Cawe backed up.
“Roshal.”
Their ghosts were here too. [Slave Masters], [Slave Lords], and their like advanced as a single group. The most powerful of them clashed with Elucina and the ghosts trying to block their advance.
It was not right. They were here too. Death cared not for who died—and Roshal had many high-levelled monsters of its own. They fought to get to Erin and Cawe beheld a bloodless war on the steps, shoving, arguing…no violence, but a bitter contest of wills.
“I do not wish to speak to Roshal.”
Erin whispered. She had not known Roshal, save for a distant word, a place, but with no real grounding or examples near her. Now?
She looked at Cawe, backing up. Yet Roshal was determined to have its say, and many powerful ghosts…Nerrhavia stood to one side, just watching. Even Merindue was silent.
“Roshal once again desires an audience with Erin Solstice. The coven of great [Witches] speaks against. My kin, once more they ask. We who command this gathering by dint of Khelt’s might in death—-what say you?”
The voice came from above Erin. All the ghosts slowed, although locked in their battles, as the first among the eighteen spoke.
Queen Khelta, first of Khelt. With her, seventeen rulers who had defined this nation since. Who could command Khelt’s power, and had kept Chandrar safe.
“I did not treat with Roshal. Nor did I suffer it when I lived.”
So rumbled the half-Giant, King of Khelt. Half the others nodded. One of the Stitch-women raised her hands, turning to the others.
“I allowed [Slaves], but it was by acceptance of their existence, not tacit encouragement. There is wisdom in all classes, as they say.”
“Dark wisdom, Queen Heris. Words have a power of their own and they would make Erin Solstice like one of them. In your time, after Queen Khelta’s death, you made many pacts. In my era, which is second to the present, I suffered not Roshal.”
Queen Xierca, the last ruler before the present, argued. Queen Heris shrugged.
“I merely present their arguments as they make them. We are all enemies of those six. Should not every weapon be wielded? If they left her with codes or knowledge to inspire Roshal to aid her…”
“A cursed blade poisons the wielder. I say not.”
The Garuda slashed her claw. Six other rulers nodded. Queen Khelta mused.
Her face was not, as many of theirs were at times, mummified flesh. The rulers of Khelt were old, and their appearances shifted. Sometimes they were as they had lived in life, flesh and blood. Adorned in resplendent robes, sometimes the very same garments of office, glittering deep purple, golden thread—but other times they were as they became.
Corpses, sitting on a throne. Revenants, bearing the will to protect and guide their people. Erin could see it happen.
The beautiful Stitch-woman of Queen Xierca, lips stitched a carmine red. Turning her head, and becoming…
Decaying fabric. Eyes lost, glittering white flames with hints of amethyst in her sockets. Stitches missing. Slowly disintegrating on her throne until half her face was gone, until it seemed she was a puppet long worn away. As if she might fall to pieces if she moved. Yet still smiling. Wearying, but…
They all did that. The half-Giant rotted away to bone, his glowing eyes shining with dark rubies amid black flame. His spine bowing more as centuries turned his bones further yellow.
Wearying. Yes, that was what happened to all of them. They became undead and the centuries ground them down until they finally ended—and were allowed to rest.
All but Khelta, who was a woman, at varying stages of her life when she chose, but a woman still. She had lived the least of all of them, that founder of their nation.
It was she who led them all. So she raised a hand and their discussion stopped.
“I will not waste time teaching what falls upon deaf ears. Will you listen to Roshal, Erin Solstice?”
She turned to the [Innkeeper]. Erin shook her head immediately.
“No. I don’t want them. I’ll listen to many people. Not them. Not after what they did to my friend. Can you…get rid of them, please?”
Roshal’s masters glared and tried to push harder. Khelta just nodded. She pointed at the ghosts.
“You all have heard her will. If we desire it, we shall summon you. This is the land of Khelt, great kingdom of death. You are not welcome. Begone.”
The other ghosts moved back at once. Roshal’s ghosts flowed up the steps, desperately, reaching for Erin, whispering—too late.
Sand blew out of the air, real sand, stinging, particles of it blasting the ghosts into the air. A sandstorm swept them into the air, and hurled them across Chandrar in a mighty arc. Cawe’s beak opened, and Erin smiled. Not a happy smile, but…
Khelta turned her head without another word, as if she’d just swatted a fly. That alone, that casual disregard, made Cawe love her.
“Thank you.”
The Garuda whispered. Khelta’s head turned, and her eyes flashed once. They were startlingly pale white, just a hint of color in them—pale white and merely the hint of brown, though her skin was native to Chandrar.
“You are welcome, little ghost. Rest here, and they will not trouble you in death if you will it. I shall accept your number into Khelt’s ranks.”
Cawe bowed low. But then she had a terrible, dark thought. She rose, and looked back. Astotha, Shein, and Droppe cowered, and dared not come closer. Yet they were only [Slaves] who had been afraid. Cawe was angry at them, because they had gotten her killed. Yet she knew why they had been so afraid.
A shadow passed over her soul, even here. Even in death…she whispered a name.
“Riqre. Is…is he going to be here?”
The ghosts stopped. The [Witches] glanced at each other and Erin stirred. If she had skin, it would have crawled.
“The Emir? The…the one with the mansion? And jars?”
“Rhir’s hells.”
Gerial muttered. Yet suddenly, Cawe was afraid all over again. Everyone died. That was the great equalizing force. Everyone died, and came here. Yet if there was ever something that could taint even death…
Once more Khelta’s head turned. Two jade earrings swung as she looked about.
“I suffer Roshal and grant their ghosts my protections for we are all common in death. Yet after hearing the testimony of what that thing has done, I will not offer it Chandrar’s soil. Need we take that Sword of Kings and slay it wherever it lurks? I shall order it if so, or hurl it into the sea to flee the six.”
She glanced at Califor, but the [Witch] shook her head. So did the other six [Witches] of the great coven who had gathered to teach Erin.
“That will not be an issue. For a monster like that—fear him not, child.”
Vexcla, the [Witch] of Eyes, the Gazer, murmured, and nodded to Cawe. The Garuda didn’t understand.
“He died, though. Unless…he didn’t? He’ll be here someday.”
She shivered. Yet again, the [Witches] shook their heads. It was the Treant-[Witch] among them who explained, her voice booming, her body a living tree.
“SOME DEEDS ARE TOO DARK. THEY TWIST THE SOUL. THAT ONE WILL NOT APPEAR HERE. WHEN WOMEN AND MEN CEASE TO REMAIN AS PEOPLE, THEY FORFEIT THIS PLACE. THAT IS WHY ROSHAL HAS LITTLE POWER HERE. MANY OF THEIR DARKEST LEGENDS ARE ELSEWHERE. MAY IT BE OBLIVION.”
There was some relief in hearing that. Cawe smiled again.
Erin did not. She stood there, looking around. As the ghosts turned to her, Cawe saw it happen again.
The dead revolved around the one living person. She could have been a [Murderer], a child, or a cat, and they would have flocked around her. Even if it was not for this desperate time, she had a chance.
Nerrhavia looked at Erin, longingly. So did Califor, the [Witches]; even Khelt’s rulers. That was why Roshal wanted her.
She could bring their will back to the world. It was a heavy burden, yet Erin Solstice did not seem—had not seemed troubled by it.
Now, though…she stood there. Looking at Cawe.
“Pisces. He’s alive? This Death of Chains freed him? I like her. It’s a her, right? A Djinni?”
“Yes. The inheritor of my will.”
Elucina spoke first, nodding, smiling. Some of the other ghosts shut their lips tight, their opinions clearly divergent. Erin didn’t notice. She was nodding.
“That’s good. That’s…good. He’s free. He—he didn’t have a good time. But he’s free.”
She looked at Cawe. Then turned.
“Did you say it’s Laudas? I don’t know that day. Is that a Wednesday or something? What’s the date in…Izrilian time?”
“Twenty third of Solla.”
“Oh. Um…what’s that in Earth time? No, I can do this. January, February, March…”
Erin began counting on her fingers. Nerrhavia rolled her eyes, impatient, and began to walk back the way she’d come, where she could do some good. That was the funny thing. For all they hated each other…Merindue made to do the same. They wanted to help. Be useful.
“Oh.”
A quiet voice behind them. Something about the tone…made both women stop. It was in Erin’s voice.
Oh. A slight exclamation, a surprised tone that cracked halfway through. Oh, like someone had told her something terrible and it slipped out. Nerrhavia’s head moved around.
Erin stared at her fingers.
“That’s…later than I thought. It’s been months, now. Well, at least…”
She began to count again on her fingers, but stopped. One of the Earthers, the young man, Abel, came over and tried to do the math for her. Erin was distracted.
She stared at her fingers.
“That’s a longer time than I thought it was.”
The ghosts exchanged glances. Califor cursed and bit her lip; she hadn’t mentioned the date. Someone kicked her. It was without pain, but even so—Vexcla glared at Califor with all her eyes and Califor tugged at the brim of her hat.
“It’s just perception, Miss Solstice. Time flows in different perceptions here.”
Sage Velzimri explained, though he clearly knew it wasn’t the issue. Erin Solstice didn’t reply.
“That’s…a long time. I thought I’d…I mean, I know it’s silly. But they know I’m not fully dead. I mean, dead, but…”
She tried to smile. Then looked at her hands. Three fingers, the last one partly uncurled.
“That’s…a while. I thought that I’d be back by now. I mean—it’s possible. Right, Califor?”
She looked around.
“In theory. You are dead, Erin.”
“Y-yeah. But you said—I mean, I know my friends. Ryoka too. She’s got crazy powers. She doesn’t even level because she’s a rebel like that—you’d like her, Elucina—but she’s got Ivolethe—had—and, and—”
Erin was babbling a bit and she knew it. She looked down at her hands.
“It’s just crossbow bolts. It’s not like I got eaten. You said it could be done, right, Velzimri?”
“If it were I—”
He fell silent at a warning look from one of the [Witches] behind Erin. The young woman turned, but Somillune’s face was calm when she met Erin’s eyes.
“Two and a half months is not long to bring back the dead, Miss Erin Solstice. If it is possible, I believe the living will try.”
“Yeah. But they wouldn’t. No, you’re right. It’s just taking a while. I mean, duh. I know it’s hard. I just—need to get back to my body soon.”
Erin laughed, shakily. Her fingers. She looked at them. The ghosts were silent. They saw what was happening. Nerrhavia glanced at the [Witches], but they were just watching, letting it run its course.
Her two and a half fingers. Erin stared at them, turning her hand over, as if to examine the lines on her palms.
“I need to get back sooner. Now.”
“Why is that, Erin Solstice?”
Somillune asked, her tone mildly curious. Erin looked up. She glanced at Cawe, then back to Somillune.
“Because…because Pisces is out there. I know he’s lost in Chandrar and all those jerks from Roshal are going to be after him, right?”
“That is what Roshal does.”
Nerrhavia muttered. Erin nodded.
“Right. Right—so, I have to get back. So I can help out. Somehow. Maybe I’ll supercharge my door or get Ryoka to fly over or…something.”
“Something. You think you can hop over a continent and defy Roshal?”
Nerrhavia snorted, walking up the steps. Erin Solstice was shaking her head.
“No…well, I mean, I’d try. I just mean…Pisces can take care of himself, but the Horns are lost. That’s what the ghosts say. I bet Lyonette’s worried and Mrsha is sad. I bet Pisces can get all the others to safety. I bet he’s coming to the inn to dump them on me. That’s okay. He’s a smart guy. I never tell him that because he’s snooty, but he’s smart and brave and…I just have to be back when he gets there.”
“Why?”
Califor’s eyes glittered under her hat. Erin tried to unclench her hands, or clench them, but they were frozen. They were shaking. Shaking hard.
Two and a half months? It wasn’t that long, but what had happened while she was gone? Would she see more ghosts? How would she know if they died on Izril, or anywhere but Chandrar?
“Because someone has to be there when he gets back. To hug him. To ask—no. Just to hug him, after all that. After all the things he saw, someone has to give him a hot drink and…greet him at the door. Me. I have to be there. So my friends should hurry up. And revive me. That’s silly. I don’t know why I’m putting it all on them. I just…”
She was babbling. Shaking. The ghosts watched, with concern, looking away in embarrassment, in sympathy, or just waiting, like the [Witches].
Erin stared down at her hands. Then it burst out at last. Something coming behind the laughter, and trying to learn from the legends of old. It bubbled over, with Cawe.
“I…I’m tired of being dead. I’m sorry, everyone. I don’t mean to offend you. I have to get back. I want to live. I want…to live.”
