Silvenia warned. The Death of Magic was tiring fast. Czautha knew it wasn’t the time. Nor would it change many minds, but she had to scream it so some might hear. The Blighted Kingdom and that damned [King] could win the war of [Diplomats] and [Envoys]…she simply raised her sword.
A Djinni’s sword. One of the last relics that had been made for them, by their children. The Jinn’s Memory shone.
“Wait for me, my kin!”
That was all she had come here to say. Wait for me. Do not despair. I will set you free.
If only she could have fulfilled it now. Yet here they came. Czautha looked down as Roshal played its card, the only card they had to drive her off.
Djinni.
They flew up from the city, dozens, nearly a hundred. They screamed at her as their masters ordered them to battle, to slay the Death of Chains and Death of Magic. Some shot arrows, with artifacts of their own; others used their spells or conjured mundane lightning, fire, and hurled it upwards.
Silvenia was laughing again. She lowered the void of magic and began blocking spells, even sending a few hurtling back to slow the advance.
“Silvenia!”
Czautha roared in anger. The Death of Magic relented. They began to ascend, but slowly.
The tower spells weren’t firing; the Djinni were in the air, but already they had forced the two Deaths to retreat. Not because they were outclassed. If anything…Silvenia could have killed the lesser Djinni just by keeping that enchantment up. Yet Czautha could never have allowed it.
They could neither slaughter the Djinni, nor stop them from attacking. So the two Deaths flew up. Czautha longed to break their chains. She heard them.
She saw their colorful faces. Some were humanoid, others took forms of monsters and beings they had seen, or dreamed. Art come to life. She saw a creature with eight wings, a slightly-off beak, and exaggerated colors.
A child’s drawing. Then there was a Stitch-Woman, complete in every detail. So did the slaves remember. So they honored mortals, and their story was their form itself. They rose over the winking city, the so-called Market of Fables, like a forest of tents and stalls, wafting rich smells of spice and exotic scents into the sea’s air.
And below it all, the stench of sweat and fear and misery. Deeper, Czautha knew, behind the pretty colors of Lailight Scintillation, the dark cellars. The hidden chambers. The suffering. The lost. She hoped her voice had reached even them, down in the cracks of the world. She heard the voices, echoing, deep, braying, animalistic…voices no mortals could make as a species, yet her people.
In the sky above the port the Djinni shouted at Czauta, even as they attacked, but not warcries.
“Sister! Sister, you live!”
“Flee, Sister! My master will destroy us both! Cinaelu! You are late!”
“Let all those who hold chains tremble! Go!”
She saw one shoot up and cried out. The two Deaths accelerated, but the Djinni was fast. He rose like a glowing star, smiling at her. She raised her sword.
“Brother! Show me your bonds!”
Where were they? Earrings, cuffs on the wrists, the feet? At last, she saw the glowing metal in his skin; rods embedded in his being.
“I will wound you, brother, to free you! Stay back if you can!”
“I cannot. Sister—stand clear.”
He shouted back. The Djinni was fast, but not mighty. He held a bow and loosed arrows; they barely touched Czautha, despite the enchanted arrowheads detonating. Yet he was closing. What nature was he? Perhaps speed itself.
“They are trying to stop us from going! I cannot teleport him away—let me—”
Silvenia was aiming a finger at the Djinni. She intended to blast him into oblivion. Czautha knocked her aside and dove. She heard Silvenia’s voice, alarmed for the first time.
“Czautha. Stop!”
Her brother shouted a warning of his own. Yet the Death of Chains reached for him as the other Djinni halted their advance. They saw her blur as she dove.
The lesser Djinni drew a shortsword and stabbed her. Eight times, as they tangled; Czautha felt the pain and ignored it. She was tearing at him, holding him still as she tore loose the magical bindings.
Four of them. She plucked one, two, three…in barest seconds, ripping his own essence apart to get at it. Still…too slow. The Djinni whispered, in that time out of time. He was speed incarnate. That was his nature. Speed and starlight.
“Too late. I am free one way or another. Sister—”
“No.”
She reached for the last binding, but they both sensed the change. With all his will, he defied the last command and, laughing, hurled her up. Czautha flew, crying out, and looked down. She saw him lift a hand and—
The Djinni exploded as his master detonated the magical relics embedded in him, to command their servant. The Djinni’s essence joined the explosion. The pursuers below halted, knocked down by the blast.
The two Deaths flew upwards. Czautha was partially caught and screamed as her essence was vaporized—but not from the pain. She emerged, and saw the magic had twisted a hole into the water below. The seabed stared up at the sky for nearly a minute before the distortion in the world began to subside.
“I will never forget this.”
She swore it. Again—her kin were coming up, to destroy her even if it meant their loss too. It was what they did, these captors. The Death of Chains pointed down.
“Wait for me.”
Her kin laughed and cheered her as she fled. But she did flee. Magic pursued them, but the two Deaths blocked and evaded the rest, heading north to meet the others they’d saved.
“I have just enough to teleport us back. I need…a ride.”
Silvenia was spent. She let Czautha carry her. The Death of Chains flew grimly, carrying her comrade.
“Was it worth it?”
Czautha looked down. Silvenia lay in her arms, exhausted. They were still half-dead, the two. Yet, in the end, the Death of Chains nodded.
“I did not think they could catch us. I will mourn him later. It had to be done. We will come back.”
“They will be waiting, next time.”
Yes. They would. But they would scurry from place to place, fear every rainbow they ever saw. Czautha nodded.
“We will return. Let us go, Silvenia. Hope remains. Hope…we have spread hope. Let us take them to the only safe place there is, my kin and I. The only place Roshal cannot touch. There is more hope now than ever. Perhaps the door will open. To a land with allies of our own.”
Silvenia’s eyes opened, and she looked at Czautha before laughing again, laughing without end until she was hoarse and panting.
“An ally for us instead of the Blighted Kingdom? How funny that would be! I have missed your optimism, Czautha.”
“It stands in contrast to your bloodthirst, Silvenia. What do you think will happen if a gateway opens? As you think they tried to make?”
Silvenia just chuckled.
“What do I hope for? Not a sanctuary for Djinni and [Slaves]. I have talked with the girl. You should too. We should find more.”
“Yes.”
Czautha had made for Chandrar the moment she could, before the Death of Wings could even recover from Silvenia’s healing spells now that the Death of Magic was awake. She bent her head lower.
“What do you think will happen, Silvenia? If this Earth connects to our world?”
The Death of Magic smiled up at the sky.
“What I have waited for. My hope, dear friend. The last war. The greatest war to ever come before or since. Do you expect morality from Earth? A just ally?”
She began giggling.
“I cannot wait.”
 
—-
 
The Death of Chains’ attack on Chandrar would echo around the world. Few would actually hear what she had shouted from Lailight Scintillation, and only with difficulty.
Pisces Jealnet being freed was a small headline compared to that. It still mattered to a surprising number of important people. To his friends.
Yet both stories, both tales…had their scope, and reach. In another place, they did not matter. There was nothing either could do, in a real sense, that would matter. After all, for all their might or daring or futures, whatever they might be, they were the concerns of the living.
Cawe sat up and looked down, but her body wasn’t there. The little Garuda ghost sat there. Then, after a moment, she got up.
“That didn’t hurt as much as it should.”
She felt at her neck. Puzzled, really. There was no hole from the blade. She looked as she had a moment before she died.
She felt nothing. That was the first thing the ghosts learned. She felt nothing. She tasted nothing, not even the air; she felt nothing beneath her claws. When she tried to fly, she found she could, but it was only levitation.
There was no air. No touch, no smell, no taste. The world around her was the exact likeness it had been in her death, footprints of the people and all—just no people.
And it was also different. If Cawe tried, she could see that there had been other lands before this, once. The ocean had covered this place at one time, and at another…
All these things were the hallmarks of the land of the dead. It was as instinctual to Cawe as breathing, although she stopped that too, after a moment. She remarked on her death.
“I hope Pisces made it.”
For an instant, a bare flicker of time, Cawe was sad. Worried. Angry…then it faded. She was dead, and the ghost stood there.
Until the second ghost appeared. Cawe looked sideways as a figure cowered.
“No, no—”
Igheriz. The Garuda turned. She did not whirl, or turn with vengeance or hate in her eyes. She just…turned. Igheriz rose.
“I died?”
Cawe saw the brief fury, loss, fear settle across his face, and then fade. The ghost looked up—and saw Cawe.
“You. I killed you.”
“Yes. You died too? Who killed you?”
“The—the Djinni. The Death of Chains. She freed Azam. She freed the slaves. I think she is killing them all.”
Sure enough, more [Guards] appeared. Then Astotha, Droppe, Shein, and a few other [Slaves]. They screamed or wept…then stood.
Cawe saw them realize their deaths. She realized hers, and looked at Igheriz.
“Good. Pisces is going to live. I’m glad she killed you.”
Even in death, her animosity was enough to make her voice angry. Igheriz looked at her, and then away.
“So we’re dead. Is that you, Hrome?”
“He killed me. He…I was good to him.”
A man sat on the ground. Igheriz walked over.
“Who? Pisces? Did you expect more from a [Slave]? But he is ungrateful. Of all of us, I would have expected you to live, Hrome.”
“Yes! But he killed me.”
Hrome looked up. For a brief instant, Cawe saw his face, melted to bone. Then…it shifted to Hrome’s normal face. His features stopped twisting and he slowly rose. Igheriz nodded, his voice with that same dispassion in it as Cawe’s.
“Such a pity.”
Cawe was dead. Yet even here, even now that all her mortal regrets and desires were fading away, she still did not want to be among their company. So she began to…drift away. Igheriz looked at her.
“What are you doing, slave?”
Cawe turned about and faced him.
“I am no longer your slave. You cannot order me about.”
Igheriz blinked. He looked at his hands, semi-transparent, and grimaced.
“So you are. I wonder what will happen next?”
So did Cawe. She felt as though something was missing. Surely something came next. She had never thought about death, but…did she haunt the living or something? She could haunt Pisces she supposed, or slavers. Maybe she’d see her family?
The living weren’t here. Cawe wondered if this was it. Yet blandly; nothing was strong here. Only her intense hatred for Igheriz and Hrome made her walk away.
Rather to her displeasure, they followed her. So did the [Guards]. So did the [Slaves].
“Go away. I don’t like you.”
“You are still my [Slave]. I do not know where to go.”
Igheriz followed Cawe. She stopped. When he walked over, she tried to poke an eye out with her claw. She managed to poke him in the face as he jerked away. It didn’t really hurt, but he felt it, or at least, the obstruction of her talon.
“That is enough. I would hit you, or make you a [Slave]…but I do not see the point.”
Cawe glared at Igheriz.
“And I cannot find the effort to figure out how to kill you. Yet. We’re both dead.”
“Yes.”
The two stared at each other. Then they drifted onwards. They might have done so for a long time, until Cawe decided to go to where she had been born, somewhere that mattered, and Igheriz, the [Slavers], the [Slaves], all did likewise. They might have remained there, standing and letting time pass them by, occasionally remarking on familiar faces, or a change in the living world around them.
But then came the Giant.
He walked across Chandrar in massive strides. Cawe, Igheriz, and the others all slowed. They looked up.
There was a true Giant. He moved with huge, sure steps, his clothing fine, his brows crossed. Eyes…searching. He was stroking his beard, and behind him flew nearly ten thousand smaller ghosts.
Garuda? But also other species native to Chandrar, albeit many not blessed with flight in life. The Giant was striding, purposefully, moving faster than the rest due to his natural size. Every now and then he would stop and point.
He did so now, pointing at something in the distance. Cawe saw eighteen ghosts descend. She frowned.
“That’s a Giant.”
“So it is. I suppose he is dead too.”
Hrome murmured. Igheriz’s brows crossed. His head swung back and forth from Cawe to Hrome.
“That’s…a Giant.”
He said it differently than the other two. With a bit of awe, trepidation in his voice. Cawe nodded.
“Yes. Why do you say it like that?”
“Because…it’s a Giant. I feel as though it should be important. I do not feel awed, though. As awed as I should be.”
Igheriz touched at his chest. Cawe glanced at him, and then at the Giant as he continued his course across Chandrar, moving towards the coast. She felt…so little at all.
Yet then the Giant turned his head, his eyes roving lifeless Chandrar, and he saw the small band. He pointed again, and Cawe saw the finger point at her. The Giant spoke, and she heard his voice.
“There. Newly dead. They were not there last.”
Instantly, near a hundred ghosts flew down. They converged on the small band, who beheld many ghosts of many species. They greeted each other.
“Hello.”
“You’re dead too. When did you die?”
“Why are you flying? Why are you with the Giant?”
The [Guards] and Hrome, even the [Slaves] and Cawe were confused. What was the point of flying? What was the point of walking about? Igheriz was more animated. He blinked as a tall figure floated down towards him.
“Who are you…Miss?”
A [Queen] stood there, eyes searching the crowd of ghosts, shooing away the lesser ghosts around her with impatient flicks of the hand. She stood differently. Even looked…different.
Cawe had clothing on. What kind? Probably what she’d had in life. She was probably a bit dirty, her feathers uncombed or something.
