Fetohep seemed to know that all before he had asked. He knew Stitch-folk, a rarity among someone not from their species. He nodded, gazing at Alked.
“Yet you are a Named Adventurer. A Named Adventurer, one of the greatest sources of pride Nerrhavia’s Fallen is able to claim. Children should aspire to be you. Yet they do not throw holidays in your honor. I have not heard your name called with pride from Nerrhavia Fallen’s subjects, only those of your caste.”
Alked did not reply. He remained motionless, wondering why this undead ruler was bringing up the very things that Alked hated in private. He shouldn’t have been surprised by what came next. Even so, he was.
“Alked Fellbow. Were you a citizen of Khelt, I would honor you properly with holiday and song. I would grant you and your family the citizenship of Khelt in perpetuity. A right that extends to your kin and cousins—those without a great sin to their names. Their families as well. To you, I would grant the right to settle in any part of Khelt you chose, and my subjects would surely seek your hand, of one so beloved.”
Alked Fellbow’s head rose slowly. He blinked, uncomprehending, then his eyes widened.
“You…wish to offer me citizenship, your Majesty?”
“I desire great men and women, Alked Fellbow. You know I am at war?”
All of Chandrar knew that. Alked nodded. It made sense. He didn’t know why Fetohep of Khelt wanted a living warrior, but a Named Adventurer was recruited for this kind of thing all the time.
“I…do not involve myself directly in many wars. I have served Nerrhavia’s Fallen, your Majesty, but I would prefer not to die in battle, even to win an honor such as this.”
Even so, it was a handsome offer. Citizenship…Alked now knew why he was here and was flattered. However—
Fetohep just smiled.
“I am not finished, Alked Fellbow. Firstly, it is not for this war alone I wish your service. It is for the future. You are one of the greatest warriors on the continent. Moreso, I know you to be a man of honor. That I desire more than your levels alone.”
“You…flatter me, your Majesty.”
No one had told him that in Nerrhavia’s courts, yet Alked held his ground. He knew this song and dance. It was a contract—even with these stakes and this setting. Fetohep would flatter him, they might go back and forth, and Alked should wait out the week, seek the best deal before agreeing. If he even did! Fighting a war for citizenship…
“I do not intend you to actually fight in this war. Rather, you shall accompany me when I depart Khelt. There will be wars in the future, Alked Fellbow, but I would not offer mere citizenship to a Named Adventurer.”
Alked’s head snapped up.
“What?”
He was getting a bit dizzy. Now he was sure that Fetohep of Khelt was messing with him. He didn’t want Alked to fight in a war?
Fetohep’s eyes were shining bright in the dim throne room. He stood, slowly, and descended the dais. Then he plucked something from a pillow that sat there. Alked hadn’t even noticed it, as fast as the conversation was going.
“Alked Fellbow. You are the first of those I ask to join my kingdom. Join it, grow old and bear children who will live in peace forever. Find love. And yes, fight for me. Then rest in your later years. I know your courage. I know your worth. I shall not ignore you, nor make light of who you are, or judge you by cloth and weave.”
The undead king held out what he held. Alked’s eyes opened wide, and he stumbled back from the object Fetohep held out.
The Ruler of Khelt was laughing silently. He reached out, and offered it to Alked.
A bow. A bow so glorious it made Alked’s own artifact look like an enchanted toy. The wood was dark like night, and it seemed as though someone had set the night sky to the wood itself. The string burned silver in Alked’s eyes. His hands trembled as they reached out—and then he looked at Fetohep.
“What is…what is…?”
“This is Heavens’ Arc. The most powerful bow in Khelt’s armory. A Relic-class weapon. Alked Fellbow. Pledge yourself to me, and I will give you a bow worthy of your name.”
He held out the weapon, an object that could have made any Gold-rank Adventurer a Named Adventurer. Any Silver-ranked one. Alked looked at it. Then he saw Fetohep gesture.
“Take it. Until you depart. If you depart. We shall speak tomorrow, Alked. In company. Sleep well; if you have need of anything, simply ring the bell in your quarters and it will be provided.”
He could have tapped Alked and knocked the man sprawling. And that was the first day. The next day, Fetohep threw a parade.
Eighteen [Bards] declaimed stories of Alked Fellbow’s triumphs from dawn till dusk in the largest square. The Named Adventurer left the palace and got back six hours later, as admiring subjects flocked around him. He stared at the bow in his quarters, afraid to even touch it.
He barely responded to the frantic messages from Nerrhavia’s Fallen demanding to know what he was doing in Khelt and why he hadn’t queried the palace about permission to leave the borders.
Leave the borders? By contrast, Fetohep had informed Alked that save for moments of war and calamity, he was free to continue his journeys as Named Adventurer so long as he did not take up arms against Khelt’s interests.
It was a…difference. Alked thought of his extended family, who would live like the best of aristocracy, even if they were only granted basic citizens’ rights. He wandered his guest suite and got lost.
The only thing that was keeping him from making an obvious decision was the feeling, the certainty in his chest that he was being pranked. This was too good to be true, and Alked’s long experience working his way up from the bottom told him this just…didn’t happen.
He convinced himself this was a test of loyalty, this was somehow false, that he’d be sent to his death somehow despite Fetohep swearing he had no intention of wasting Alked’s life.
Fellbow had almost managed to persuade himself this was a trap of some kind when he nearly bumped into someone else wandering the palace’s corridors.
“Hello? Hello? It’s been an hour and I can’t figure out where—”
The stranger froze in the jade corridor and nearly went for her blade. Alked recoiled, and nearly brought up his own bow—both relaxed a second later. They were guests. This wasn’t an assassination attempt. Or so he hoped, because Alked recognized the woman.
More importantly, he recognized the beast that had flapped its wings dangerously and nearly taken off from her shoulder. Alked swore.
“Stitch me sideways. It can’t be. Frieke? You’re here?”
The Falcon of Medain, Frieke, goggled at Alked. She nearly dropped her sword.
“Alked? His Majesty said he’d contacted others—dead gods. He’s hiring you? I mean, making you a citizen?”
“He’s making you a citizen?”
The woman who had chopped off Fetohep’s head had been having nightmares for the last four days, ever since he returned. She had been convinced he would seek vengeance.
When he summoned her…she had demanded a hundred assurances, agonized over it, then decided begging forgiveness and explaining she’d had no choice but to fight in the war was better than risking his wrath. He wouldn’t kill a Named Adventurer as a guest, would he? Perric might, but Fetohep?
She had not expected the King of Khelt to offer her citizenship as his Named Adventurer. He had explained himself, simply.
“One must admire an opponent, Frieke of Medain. Naturally, the Named Adventurer skilled enough to take my head would be an asset.”
“You—you don’t bear us any ill will?”
He had laughed, as he presented her with armor for, Konska, her Seahawk, and a Relic-grade pair of blades as part of his offer.
“Do you not see the head on my shoulders, Frieke of Medain? No. I would rather seek the loyalty of the Falcon. Of course, a change must be made. To your name. The Falcon of Khelt inspires rather more grandly. I should be content to have the change announced across Chandrar and Medain especially.”
A King twisted the knife in delightfully painful ways. Frieke could only imagine what would happen if High King Perric heard that. He’d be furious. He’d be…
She and Alked stared at each other’s Relics. Alked’s lips moved.
“He’s serious. He wants Named Adventurers. I thought…”
Frieke grinned weakly.
“If you think that’s amazing, wait till you see the other guests. There are two more. The Jade Garudas are here. The entire team. He’s offering them the same as us. And a Centauress.”
Alked whistled. He began to believe.
 
—-
 
It was fair for Herdmistress Geraeri to be suspicious. She had galloped south, and somehow, been slower than Fetohep. He had summoned her to his palace, next.
“Is this a third renegotiation of the People of Zair’s rights, your Majesty? You have been exceedingly generous…but I would have cause to ask questions if you desired a third pact.”
Fetohep of Khelt accepted the rebuke with a nod as she dined with the Named Rank team of the Jade Garudas, Alked Fellbow, and Frieke of Medain at the banquet table.
“That is fair, Herdmistress. Any would doubt a ruler so predisposed to renegotiation. I seek it not. Rather, I make you the same offer I make the rest of my guests. To you, and you alone. I wish for the [Herdmistress of the Greatland]’s strength. Be one of my great champions. I would offer you this.”
To her, he presented four horseshoes. Each one of a different color and make. Geraeri recognized one as being made of Adamantium crossed with some frozen metal. Another looked like glass. She gazed up at Fetohep.
“Relics for your species. I would also offer you a relic of your choice. Be my citizen, Herdmistress, not an anonymous member of the People of Zair.”
“Why are you offering all of this to us, Great King Fetohep? I have never known Khelt to be so…generous with its relics.”
The leader of the Jade Garudas was both overawed and nervous. Like the others, he suspected some kind of ploy.
There was, of course. Fetohep’s eyes flashed.
“A time for great deeds is coming, Adventurer Leekhe. It is time to use all of Khelt’s wonders. Do you think I am too generous? Fear not. I have a hundred times more wealth to spare. I desire the finest mortals, so I offer you gifts worth your value. We shall not talk overlong of it; for I have given each of you an offer. Merely think. Do your rulers offer you the same? If they would bid on retaining your loyalty, I shall happily exceed any offer they may make.”
His guests looked at each other. Fetohep made polite conversation throughout the meal, though he only drank his mana draught, then stood.
“If you will excuse me. One of my ceremonies is finally concluding. I understand you all worry that I shall involve you in the trifling war between Khelt, Medain, the Claiven Earth, and Terandria despite my assurances over truth stone to the contrary.”
They fell silent. Fetohep glanced back as he paused at the door.
“You shall see that belief is in error shortly. I do not require your aid for that. Excuse me while I summon Revenants.”
He walked out of the room before any of them could say a word. After a second, Frieke upended her plate.
“Am I dreaming or is someone casting an illusion spell on me?”
 
—-
 
The Rite of the Revenant had taken two days to complete. It was a simple ceremony.
It took place in a great space deep in Khelt’s palace. Underneath five statues were…well, tombs. Silent and dark, each one engraved with hundreds of spells.
The ruler from whose era they had been made in stood high, high above them. Grand statues beneath which five tombs rested. Some were vast, multiple graves, as was the case beneath Serept’s cold face.
Queen Heris’ statue was the first. The [Mages] had placed a thousand orbs of mana crystals in the little indentations around the warded stone sarcophagus. They had been glowing so bright they blinded two days ago when Fetohep began the ceremony.
Now? They were all gone. It was the tomb which was glowing, the air charged with enough force that it would have activated many wands or spells just by being brought into this place.
It made Fetohep feel alive, which was the point.
Two more spots out of the five had also been activated.
Queen Heris, King Serept, and King Dolemn were the rulers who had left behind more than relics. More than gold or contracts behind.
No ruler among the last nine of Khelt, including Fetohep, had left behind such things. Five out of nineteen.
Five…promises. Five moments in time, where individuals or groups had been so loyal, they had made pledges that exceeded time itself. Agreed to this. Not just loyalty.
Might. Cost aside, there was a reason Fetohep had never dreamed of utilizing this ritual. He stood there, and intoned the words as the air ripened and the pure power of magic began to awaken the being that slumbered there.
“I call on you as you swore once, servants of Khelt! You, who swore to bring arms and fury against our enemies when the hour called—come! I call your name! Awaken, Vizir Hecrelunn!”
The stone cracked. The palace shook.
Frieke’s [Dangersense] went off. She dove underneath the table.
So did Fetohep’s. He had been thinking of the others. Three of the tombs had been used during the Creler Wars, yet not even the ruler during that time had dared unstopper this grave. Not Queen Heris the second’s last safeguard. If an Elder Creler had reached the palace or pushed past the borders?
Yes. But anything less would b—
The stone tomb exploded. A pillar of obsidian shot out of it and nearly struck the ceiling, a hundred feet up. Fetohep felt the impact of air, but held his ground. He looked up—and dodged the hand of stone that shot down and reached for him.
“Who dares to awaken the [Vizir] Hecrelunn?”
A voice thundered from overhead. Fetohep looked up and saw a person floating there. His robes were rich purple, a royal color, and he was much like Fetohep; a preserved corpse.
The difference was that he held a scepter, the top mounted with a dark diamond cut into a head, larger than Fetohep’s fist. The flames that should have burned in the [Vizir]’s sockets were instead two pinpoints of light, eerily like eyes. They shone bright red.
Oh yes. Fetohep remembered. The reason no one awoke the [Vizir] who had served the Second Queen of Khelt was—
Stone wrapped around him so fast even Fetohep’s reflexes couldn’t dodge it. The floor rippled and he was lifted upwards. The [Vizir] pointed a finger at Fetohep.
“So you are the ruler of Khelt? Pathetic. Did you awaken the [Vizir] to replace you? Khelt would be better served by I, I who remembered Khelta herself. How long has Hecrelunn slumbered?”
“Release me, Vizir Hecrelunn.”
Fetohep did not deign to struggle. The [Vizir] was a powerful [Geomancer] as well as being the second to Queen Herist.
