…He wished they weren’t so needy. Fetohep added ‘giving away priceless relics to a bunch of young students who might get them lost for another thousand years’ to his list of things he now had to do, right under planting a bunch of parasitic lilies which induced depression in people.
He was dreading the next voice. Which one would it be? Fetohep heard a soft tone, and froze.
“Fetohep. I am Khelta. I see your actions, and I give you my thanks, my descendant. You honor me and Khelt by all you do.”
“Great Khelta! I am honored by your words.”
He sank to one knee, all issues forgotten at once. Now here was a spirit he was truly honored to receive. Her words…were a welcome balm on his soul. An acknowledgement from the founder of Khelt itself.
“I see Khelt, and it is far more prosperous than I dreamed. Far greater than when I had died. This pleases me.”
“I am glad of it, your Majesty.”
Fetohep smiled, and his golden flames came to life in their sockets. He stood taller, and almost heard the laugh in Khelta’s voice. A laugh.
“It is wonderful to see. Would that I could look upon Khelt’s citizens. Are they happy?”
“Yes, Great Khelta. They want for nothing.”
“Good, good. And the treasuries full? We may have need of it.”
“Khelt has never been richer.”
Fetohep answered, truthfully. Khelta’s smile continued in her voice.
“This is all pleasing! Then…I would like you to commission a statue, if you would. One of Nerrhavia, of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I think the place they call the Mosk Plaza would be quite suitable. Marble? Whatever is fitting. I trust we have [Sculptors] still?”
The Ruler of Khelt’s smile went out. He hesitated.
“A…statue, Great Khelta?”
“It need not be to form. One may take the best image of her; vanity serves. You see, her ghost remains and it would be a suitable gesture to erect one to maintain favor among the ghosts. A gesture—it would aid us greatly.”
Fetohep had no idea what was passing in the world beyond, but his mind was spinning. The implications of making a statue to Nerrhavia of Nerrhavia’s Fallen aside—and finding an image of her? If the nation ever found out…
“If it need be done, Great Khelta, I shall do it.”
Nevertheless, she had founded Khelt. For her…Fetohep strengthened his resolve. Khelta was pleased.
“Good. Then, by morning would be the best time that she can see it.”
Fetohep’s eye-flames actually went out for a second.
“Morning? As in…next morning?”
“You may spare the gilding. Marble will do.”
She left him standing there. Fetohep actually swayed for a moment.
 
—-
 
The subjects of Khelt had heard the words of war from their great ruler. They had witnessed Fetohep’s rage, and glorious return.
However, they had been curious as to why he did not return to the front, where his armies were skirmishing with the Claiven Earth and Medain, mostly keeping them back in advances that saw a lot of the undead fall, and few of the mortals, yet kept both nations sweating.
Something had clearly transpired, because Fetohep’s towering rage and glorious speech had turned into…well, him pacing about the palace. Rumors came from the servants assigned to day-duty of strange requests.
Plant a thousand Sireen Lilies in the walkways? Erect a statue to Nerrhavia in…? And he was talking to himself, or so the rumors said. Pacing, then issuing those strange orders. He kept bowing to the air.
They feared he was going insane.
 
—-
 
Fetohep feared he was going insane too. He sat on his throne by midnight, after returning to life in Khelt. He felt the most…exhausted he ever had. Fighting with Medain and the Claiven Earth? He could have fought a thousand battles rather than this.
He actually flinched when the next voice assailed him. All eighteen rulers had spoken to him, each one with a suggestion or plan of action. Some wanted aspects restored, or Fetohep to make a gesture to a friend of theirs. He had been forced to explain that he did not have images of half the individuals named—didn’t even know who they were.
Who would be next? Queen Zushe-Greso, wanting to know how many of her beloved lynxes remained in the palace, fed and watered to grow fat and multiply without care?
King His-Xe, with observations on the feng shui of Khelt’s city and how a few buildings could be rearranged to make it flow better?
The voice which came next, though, did not have the regal overtones of past rulers. It was more mundane, brighter, a faster tone that occasionally stumbled or rambled, but was more than anything, friendly.
“Hey, um…hi. Is this thing on? I mean, I didn’t hit a switch, but can you hear me?”
Fetohep sat up slightly.
“Who is…this?”
The voice laughed.
“Great! It works! Hey, Khelta, it works! Whoops, sorry for shouting. I’m Erin! Erin Solstice. You’re Fetohep, right?”
“I am his Majesty Fetohep of Khelt. I greet you, Erin Solstice, guest and friend to the great line of Khelt.”
“Nice to meet you!”
Fetohep sat on his throne. This was the oddest conversation so far. He spoke, resting back on the enchanted throne.
“How may I aid you, Erin Solstice? If it is in regards to your resurrection—I have already attempted to make plans. If you need send word, or send aid to anyone, any task within Khelt’s power, I shall make it so.”
Tiredly, he waved, and an undead skeleton brought him a notepad and the enchanted quill to take dictations. Erin Solstice paused.
“Um. No. I was just going to say hi. I mean…I know you’re busy. I was going to introduce myself and uh—say ‘good job’! Thanks for listening and y’know, communicating with the dead! How’s it going?”
Fetohep paused. He tilted his head.
“How is it…going? Khelt endures. If the rulers wish to know the exact sums in our vaults, I have compiled…”
Again, he reached for another scroll that had been labored on all day by his mortal subjects, but Erin interrupted him.
“No, I mean…how’s things? How are you? Sorry, I don’t mean to give you more work. How’s life being dead? Um…”
Fetohep sat there, bemused, confused, and then he began to smile. Truly smile, though you’d never tell from his face. Yet his voice showed it.
“Ah, I am quite well, Erin Solstice. I rejoice in contact with my predecessors…and it occurs to me I have spoken and acted more in these past months than in many years. In fact, I even know a friend of yours, and those from your world.”
“Bwuh. Whaaaa? No way! You know Earthers? Who do you know that I know?”
Fetohep grinned.
“Do you not know a Kevin of Solar Cycles?”
“You know Kevin? Wait a second—he said he had an important client from Khelt! Hey, that’s the same Khelt as…that’s so amazing! How’s he doing?”
“He has asked for aid for you, and he is quite civil. He is an entertaining young man.”
“Y’know, that’s Kevin. People think he’s random like me, or a goofball, but he’s actually really responsible. Wow. That’s just great…”
Erin trailed off. Fetohep and she were smiling, although only Erin could see it.
She crouched by the throne, speaking there, and looked up at Fetohep. For his part, he was bemused. Of all the ghosts…she was talking to him. Holding a conversation.
“Listen. I know the others want to talk to you and I don’t have important things to say. I mean…there’s a lot to do. I just wanted to say—thank you. And hello. I was…really getting worried I’d never come back to life. I still might not, but since you can hear the rulers of Khelt, that’s really great. Really.”
Her voice betrayed something of her feelings. Fetohep stirred. He did not know where she stood, if one even stood in the lands of the dead. Nor had she spoken much to him, outside that first meeting.
“You stand with the greatest rulers of Khelt, Erin Solstice. I am their mortal agent upon this world. Is the hour so dire this does not offer you reassurance?”
She hesitated.
“…It does. They’re strong, really. Without them Chandrar would have fallen, probably. It’s just…I’m dead.”
She laughed, sadly.
“I should have been more careful. I—I hope you can help. I know it’s a lot to ask, but I’d just like to live. Sorry, I’m rambling and someone else wants a word. I just—thank you.”
She vanished before he could respond. Fetohep sat there for a moment. Interesting. He realized something in that moment, which was only confirmed by Xierca’s whisper.
“I hope you will prioritize reviving Erin Solstice, Fetohep. Her spirit has endured much and she longs to live. On her we place many hopes.”
Her tone was more somber. Fetohep listened, and now the awe, the trepidation, and the frank annoyance and dismay of hearing his predecessors left him, he heard what was truly there.
Uncertainty. The Rulers of Khelt were…uncertain. Something was dire indeed, that they did not even dare tell him the full scale of the lands of the dead. Erin Solstice? She was afraid. She longed to live. And that the other ghosts could not help her with. After all, they were dead.
Still, how curious. Fetohep thought a moment, before replying.
“I shall, Queen Xierca. And I shall put many plans into action.”
“This is well, Fetohep. On that note, I had some thoughts—”
For the first time ever, Fetohep interrupted his beloved queen.
“I am sure, Queen Xierca, but I must make a call in the physical world. I hope you will pardon me.”
Her voice hesitated.
“—Oh. Of course. If I might give my thoughts first, I think—”
“I am afraid, Queen Xierca, I must insist. I…require time to work. I shall speak with you anon in the morning, and the other rulers. Please make your will known then, and not before. I bid you a good night.”
Fetohep rose to his feet. He actually heard a gasp, but the king was walking forwards, summoning the scrying orb to him. He heard nothing else, and paused a moment. Of course, it had to be done.
He wondered, though, if he shouldn’t have enjoyed that as much as he did.
 
—-
 
In the land of the dead, the rulers of Khelt watched Fetohep activate the orb and sit down. He began to talk, but they didn’t speak to him.
“He bade us farewell? Us?”
“Impudence!”
Some of them were offended. Xierca was just dismayed. Even Khelta frowned, but Erin Solstice, who had begun smiling after her little chat with Fetohep, decided it was time.
He had noticed something. And so had she. So she reached out and poked Khelta in the side.
“Hey. You know, you guys are making the same mistake I did with Lyonette, right? She was my employee. You’re…sort of being unfair to Fetohep.”
The rulers of Khelt turned, looking rather offended.
“We are…unfair? He is our mortal agent. Should we not command him to do what must be done?”
King Serept frowned mightily. Erin shrugged, and gestured at Fetohep.
“I know we all need to rely on him, guys. But think about it another way. He’s your descendant and all, but uh…he’s still the ruler of Khelt, you know? And I know you all are. But you don’t speak to him like he’s the ruler. The living ruler.”
The other eighteen monarchs glanced at each other. Erin had noticed it. They seldom said ‘your Majesty’, like Fetohep did.
“We…are his predecessors. Perhaps we lacked some formality.”
Queen Xierca murmured, blushing faintly. Erin smiled.
“I think it’s that. Also—you guys always took the throne after the last one died, right? I mean, fully passed on?”
“That is how it has been since Khelta.”
One of the kings nodded. Erin spread her hands.
“Then you never ruled together, right? So you’re all bossy bosses. You could try being more polite.”
The rulers looked at each other. They glanced at Fetohep, and Erin saw them processing how they would take being given a hundred orders from the dead. She smiled as she saw a few wince.
Then all the heads, disconcertingly, looked straight back at Erin. Khelta folded her arms, amused.
“So sayeth the most disrespectful young woman to ever have walked Khelt’s ground. We take your words as wisdom nevertheless, Erin Solstice. I do wonder, though, if even Dragonlords and the rulers of old merit no respect or couched language from you, who in this vast world does?”
Erin blinked. Then turned a bit red herself.
 
—-
 
Night passed into day. Fetohep of Khelt worked in silence. Not actual silence of course; he was speaking almost nonstop, giving orders, making plans.
The dead left him alone. Which gave Fetohep of Khelt time to think. When the sun rose, he stood at the steps of his palace and felt them around him.
Nineteen souls. Twenty if he included himself. He might never be alone again. Erin Solstice, Khelta, Xierca, and the other rulers.
“King Fetohep of Khelt, Great Descendant. We have been uncouth in our demands. We rejoice to see you, and thank you for continuing to protect Khelt. In this hour, when evil threatens death’s land itself, you we shall rely on. Never forget, never believe we do not hold you in the utmost confidence.”
It was Xierca who spoke to him. Fetohep dipped his head slightly. Below him, he could see his subjects gathering again, wondering if he had a speech to give. Of course, they had seen him walk his city before. He began to descend the steps as he spoke.
“It is I who should apologize, your Majesty, Xierca. To you and Great Khelta of all, and all my forebearers. After all, you spoke truly. I stand in the shadows of those who came before. I have disgraced Khelt by my fall in battle. That I lack the poise of rulers before, the elegance, the diversity of abilities, I humbly submit before you all.”
In the lands of the dead, the rulers looked at each other. Embarrassed and silent. Erin saw Serept open his mouth, hesitate, and look at Xierca. She was distressed.
“Beloved Fetohep, that is not…”
Well, it had been what they meant. Yet Fetohep seemed calmer. Even more confident than before. He walked down the steps, then stopped. His head turned, as if he could see them, walking behind him. Almost at Erin.
“It makes no mockery of the truth to state what is there. I was a [Warrior], your Majesty. I would not compare myself to Queen Khelta, whom even Dragons regarded as a true master of death, who laid the very spells which endure till now. Nor Serept, who forged blades for his Giant ancestors! I did not know the cures to ten thousand poisons as King His-Xe. Erin Solstice, you walk among the greatest stars Chandrar has ever known.”
The rulers stirred. Fetohep of Khelt’s words were both truthful…and highly complimentary. Erin Solstice blinked, and peered at the rulers named. The three stood a bit taller. They smiled, nodding in memory, waving off the compliments, but there it was.
The other ghosts, who could neither hear nor speak to Fetohep, peered at them suspiciously. Nerrhavia, who had been bragging about her new statue all morning, glanced at the smiling rulers of Khelt.
