What strange confidence. What…a difference words made. That was what Fetohep had realized. The dead were nervous. Erin Solstice was uncertain, afraid.
He stood in the shadow of beings whom he had never matched in life. Great heroes and legends. There were some things they could not do, however. They did not live. They were at the mercy of something in the land beyond. And…well. They were dead.
They had forgotten what it was like to speak to the living, truly. Not just him. Erin Solstice. Fetohep heard her fear, and worry, and desire to live. Of all of his predecessors—he remembered how to speak to mortal subjects best.
So here he stood. His subjects had heard him speaking to the air and exchanged looks of great alarm, yet now the king’s head turned. He stood at the foot of the stairs, as his people feared to draw too near and disturb him, but watched. Fetohep’s head rose, and his voice grew louder, so he addressed both the living and the dead.
“I am Fetohep of Khelt. Ruler of Khelt! Nineteenth servant of this kingdom. And I…am but the meanest and least accomplished of those who came before.”
He began to walk forwards.
“Who does not still remember Queen Zushe-Greso, whose reign was considered one of the most blessed of all? Queen Emrist’s pacts, which endure to this day? If I rest upon my laurels, if I am incompetent, it is because the road has been paved too well, too smoothly by those who bore my burdens before me. I have no challenges left because my predecessors crushed all who stood before me, with cunning and wrath!”
He raised his hands. His subjects didn’t know what this was in aid of, but they murmured.
The dead ghosts preened. They might even have glowed, growing more firm in the land of the dead. Erin saw a scar appear on Serept’s arm, a war wound he glanced down at. Of course, they knew their deeds, but to hear and be reminded of it by the living?
That was what King Fetohep had that they did not. Perspective. And…respect for them. Awe for the ghosts, which was genuine. He knew their stories. He had read them all. So he recited their deeds and stories to his people, like a [Bard], like a [Storyteller].
A hype man for the dead. Not just that. Fetohep thought of Erin Solstice. Worried, afraid. He turned, amidst his subjects.
It was not a perfect speech. A baby had begun crying, unhappy at something in this early morning air. Someone kept coughing in the background. He was an imperfect ruler.
Even so. He looked around.
“Now, the hour is nigh. Greater threats come to Khelt than before. I have been remiss. I have been incautious, and yes, I have been insufficient. It is my fault.”
The ghosts were silent. Fetohep sighed…but Erin saw his golden flames glittering. He strutted. He stood, head thrown back, and turned.
“War. Calamity. Great deeds must be done. Therefore…I suppose that for the first time in my short reign as Ruler of Khelt…I shall have to put in actual effort for once.”
He turned, as if facing the crowds, but in truth, turning to the rulers of Khelt.
The ghosts stirred. They looked at each other. A few made incredulous sounds. And then Khelta laughed. Xierca applauded her subject. Erin giggled in delight.
What arrogance. What a claim! The Rulers of Khelt looked at Fetohep of Khelt, Nineteenth King of Khelt. The answer came from their lips, in unified approval, and laughter themselves.
“Well said!”
A King should be conceited. A King should be grand. Fetohep spun, eyes glowing brighter than they ever had before. This was what they couldn’t do. For Erin Solstice—he could reassure her.
“My subjects, these days shall change and dismay you. They shall be harsher days, but grander than ever before. Do not fear. I tell you this, for my actions may change, but I shall not. I am always your king. Am I not the greatest to live, save for those before me?”
The people of Khelt looked at Fetohep. Then a cheer arose from people of all kinds, who had never known thirst or hunger. Who had seen him fight, and inspire.
The wailing child sounded again, amid the cheers. Fetohep moved through the crowd like an arrow. He stopped in front of the embarrassed father trying to shush the babe.
“If I wilt it, is there anything I cannot do? Can I not defeat an army by my presence alone? Can I not command the tides to turn, the ground to heave? Can I not stop a weeping babe with a single glance?”
He gently took the baby from the father’s arms. Instantly, the child went quiet. Cheers and gasps rose from the crowd.
Erin laughed in delight. How had he done that?
The baby had stopped crying at once as Fetohep lifted it in his arms. Of course, it was true the infant stopped crying, but mainly because its face clearly expressed, without words, ‘I am in fear of my mortal existence from this undead monster, someone please help me.’
The end result was the end result. Fetohep could hear Erin Solstice laughing. He gave the baby back to the father. The baby instantly began wailing once more, twice as loud. Fetohep turned, and spread his arms to the palace.
“So what will you, my ancestors of old? Command me! In this war, what shall I use? A hundredth of Khelt’s might? A thousandth? If I stumble, it is only because I did not line the cracks I trod on with diamonds and gold.”
He looked back, and the rulers of Khelt nodded to him. Erin’s smile lit up her face. This was Fetohep. She believed. And so, Khelta stepped forwards. She pointed at Fetohep, though he could not see her.
“Fetohep of Khelt. I speak for all the rulers of Khelt. In the name of our kingdom, do not hoard your strength. Show us your might. Show us your daring! Delve into our hoarded treasures. By my name of Khelta, I order you. Unleash it all. Hold nothing back, or Khelt ends with thee.”
Fetohep knelt gracefully. He lifted his head, as his eyes flashed and the sun warmed his back. At last, he had the true will of Khelt. From the source. His eyes flashed.
He smiled, and nations began to tremble.
 
—-
 
An hour later, Fetohep reclined on his throne. He did not race off on a chariot, at the head of a new army. Rather, he sat there.
He was a [Warrior]. But he was also a king.
“It is for men like that child, Flos Reimarch, to think leading a kingdom ends and begins with the sword at the head of an army. I am at war. So, then. Let me show you how a true King fights his wars.”
He paused. Hummed to himself.
“Five out of ten.”
He was working on his speeches. He made a note. He liked ‘so, then’, but he wasn’t sure about the comparative with the King of Destruction. It felt like a crutch he’d fallen on too many times. Of course, personal dialogue with Jecaina, Trey and Teres was one thing, but was a truly impressive speech not timeless?
He’d work on that. Fetohep returned his attention to his tasks at hand. He studied the last crystal his sweating [Mages] proffered to him.
A thousand mana crystals, all perfectly shaped to the exact same dimensions lay in front of him. Perfect orbs. He nodded.
“Take them to the ritual site. I shall proceed there within minutes and begin the rites.”
Three thousand mana crystals were carried from his throne room. A fortune in power. Fetohep just smiled at the terrified, wide-eyed looks from his servants. They knew what he intended.
“Have any responded to my words yet?”
“Two, your Majesty. Assent.”
“Good. Prepare to receive them. Make ready a guest wing for each. As for my proclamation, have it sent across Khelt.”
The [Servant] bowed her head, and stood, quill at the ready. Fetohep lifted a hand. His eyes flashed.
This was what raced across Khelt, to the most distant parts of it in the following day. King Fetohep addressed his subjects:
 
“My people, we are at war with the Claiven Earth and Medain. Terandria itself thinks to wipe Khelt from this land. I…fear them not. They shall be wiped from Chandrar’s sands. Yet I offer this chance to you.
If you dream of battle, if you would risk your lives in war, come to my palace. Come to the capital, and be tested.
Few of you will pass. And of those who do, you may well die in war. Already, the blood of no less than twenty three of my beloved subjects wets the sand in the north. I cannot promise you safety. Yet if you desire to ride at my side, come.
If I find you worthy, I will make you my [Tomb Champions], my [Scions of Sands], my [Warmasters] and [Heroes]. I shall arm you in Khelt’s great weapons.
So, come, brave children.”
 
Fiery words, and the quill trembled as the [Servant] took them down. After a second, Fetohep lifted a hand.
“Amend one part of that, my loyal servant. Omit ‘[Heroes]’.”
It would be too tiresome to set them up. Too much work. He would need time that he could not spare for this war, if his understanding was correct. As for the other classes? Fetohep’s eyes glittered.
The armory was open. He had every intention of arming any whom he found worthy with great artifacts. Fetohep sat back for a moment, and smiled as the words were rushed out to be cried across Khelt.
Then he rose for a magical working that had not taken place for six generations of rulers before him.
The Rites of the Revenant.
 
—-
 
Four days. Four days of ominous silence. No one knew what was happening in Khelt, but the very limited information sources hinted something was happening that made all of the other rulers…nervous.
Very nervous. Of course, the problem was that Fetohep suffered no [Informants] or [Infiltrators]. So the best source of intelligence from within Khelt was…
“Penpals?”
Queen Yisame turned her head incredulously. Her [Spymaster] was miserable. He gestured to a terrified girl.
“It is all that Fetohep of Khelt permits, your Majesty. I have a copy of the…penpal’s missive.”
The Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen actually stared at a clumsy scrawl from a boy, a rambling text about Fetohep’s proclamation. A subject of Khelt, who wrote to his friend in Nerrhavia. Her lips moved.
“…That is ominous. He is mobilizing an army of the living? Why? Is his undead legion not suitable?”
“Perhaps he intends to level some to counter the foes that brought him down in the last battle?”
Nerrhavia’s courts wondered uneasily. They had no idea. If they had been truly prescient, or taken the time they should have invested outside of their infighting and politics, they would have already known part of what Fetohep had intended.
That they had not was their fault, and they would learn of it too late. They kept too few tabs on him anyways. They took him for granted. After all, in the capital’s elegant courts and rich, Silk-caste domain, even a Named Adventurer was not welcome.
Alked Fellbow, one of Nerrhavia Fallen’s Named Adventurers was of the Hemp. His skin was tough, roughened, almost akin to armor itself. That they knew him as Fellbow was because he was one of the greatest [Archers] living. He had fought in the war with Tiqr.
Yet he was still not someone invited to the palace, or honored at many events. If he had changed his cloth to Silk, or been natively born to them, he would surely have been the darling of such events.
That he was not was a disgrace. A symbol of how Nerrhavia’s Fallen and Stitch-folk in general had forgotten the will of Elucina and the very same people they honored. It was an embarrassment and Alked deserved better.
As it happened…Fetohep of Khelt believed that too. So when Alked Fellbow stopped at the steps to the palace, stepping out of the princely carriage that had come to the border to greet him, it was Fetohep of Khelt who stood there.
“Fellbow.”
“Your Majesty Fetohep of Khelt.”
The Stitch-man hesitated. He had come far on short notice. Ridden day and night, but who would not when Fetohep offered you ten thousand gold pieces to dine on his hospitality and hear a proposal for a week?
Ten thousand gold pieces just to arrive here and meet with the man. If Alked suspected he was being flattered for some great deed—well, his suspicions were doubly aroused when he saw the wing in the palace set out for him.
What kind of quest does the King of Khelt want for me? Slay a Jaw of Zeikhal? Recover the Diamond Swords of Serept as he’s lost his patience? Fight in his war?
The man was nervous, yet Fetohep did not keep him waiting long. They met at sunset, and the King greeted Alked from upon his throne.
“I thank you for your gracious invitation and the suite, your Majesty. It is a true honor.”
Alked was uncomfortable as he stood in the massive throne room, perhaps even richer than Nerrhavia’s own. He had never been in Khelt, but heard stories and the city, this place—none of it lagged behind the tales.
If there was any problem it was that he didn’t know if he should bow. Alked had never respected Nerrhavia’s [Generals], who often contracted him for war or to slay a monster. He had knelt before Queen Yisame and Nerrhavia Fallen’s throne the one time he had been titled Named Adventurer, so should he kneel here, before a foreign power?
Fetohep seemed to sense his thoughts. The undead king lifted a hand, golden flames flashing in his skull.
“Kneel, Fellbow. Do not dance upon pretense of arrogance here. I have no time for it. I am a king. You respect the will of a throne. How can you not, you who have worked long for Nerrhavia Fallen’s own crown?”
Abashed, Alked knelt, clumsily. Fetohep bade him rise after only a moment.
“I apologize, your Majesty. I have spoken to few rulers. My manners are lacking.”
“Yes. Yet I shall not hold that against you, Adventurer Fellbow. Rather, I respect your name and deeds. You are the monster-slayer of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. A great hero for your people…and those of your cloth.”
His gaze swiveled and he glanced at Alked’s rough skin. Leather, not hemp, but it marked him as the lowest caste. For all it had saved his life.
Alked’s skin prickled, as it so often did with glances from courtiers and those who looked appalled. Then he realized Fetohep did not look at him like they did. The king sat forwards on his throne.
“It is perhaps impolite to ask a Stitch-person this. Yet why for all your fame and success have you never changed your cloth, Alked Fellbow? There is surely a valuable fabric that would earn you acclaim had you replaced your cloth with it.”
Alked glanced down at his rough exterior. A monster’s skin, that was how some called it. He shrugged, self-consciously, unprepared for the question and the truth came out. It would have anyways; he was not good at lying.
“It’s who I am, your Majesty. I’m not Silk on the inside. I’d rather look like what I choose. If I wore silk, they would still know…”
He trailed off. Know who I am. He had thought of it before, of course he had. Alked gritted his teeth. He refused to change his cloth and still be sneered at behind the fans of Nerrhavia Fallen’s courts.
