“Aha. Ahaha. A half-Elf [Mage]? Then I shall have a challenge at least. Great Salui. Destroy.”
It was all the warrior had been waiting for. He lifted the axe, stopped his shaking, and pointed.
“That one! THAT OOOOONEEEEE!”
He began running, axe raised, screaming and slashing the earth. Across the huge divide, without even waiting for Khelt’s army to move.
Straight at the Herald of Forests and the Fables. The [Vizir] had also singled out the half-Elf [Mage] among their ranks. He pointed.
“I am told you know water, little [Mage]. Catch. [Meteor Shower].”
“Elves guide us!”
The [General of Bows] screamed as the first glowing comets fell out of the sky. The [Mage] lifted his hands and barriers of water formed desperately.
“Who are these undead?”
High King Perric was screaming as the [Champion of War] ran into a firestorm of arrows and spells, screaming towards the Herald of Forests without slowing. The [Knights] were already charging as Khelt’s own army advanced.
“Cut through their lines! Archers, bring down that thing in the sky! We will break off to take care of that Revenant with the axe—”
The [Knight-Commander] was furiously shouting orders. She couldn’t help but remember what Queen Yisame had said about [Knights] and Dragons. But they had to fight! They had to—
The first rank of half-Giants was marching towards the [Knights]. They looked…better armored than the rest. A bit more sure, a bit too fast. The [Knights] in front lowered their lances, their instincts telling them to be wary, yet they came on in a charge.
“Foes to front! Use your best Skills now!”
One of the [Knights] bellowed. Forewarned, the [Knights] began activating their Skills. They saw the half-Giants slow.
Twenty of them. One of the half-Giants stopped pretending to be a mindless undead. He looked up, sighed, and adjusted his helmet.
“What a pity. Oh, brave little Humans. You match the tall with courage and Skill at times and bring us down. This we know. But…”
The [Knight-Commander]’s head whipped around just in time to see the flames glow in the half-Giant’s sockets as he finished his sentence.
“…only if you outlevel us. You have grown too small. Do you know my Skill?”
He strode forwards as the others put up their shields. The [Knights] craned their necks up as the thirty-foot half-Giant strode at them. Fast. Faster, running. Unlike all the other half-Giants. His mouth moved. His armored body left the ground.
“[Like a Lion, He Leapt].”
They choked as he flew. Every mortal on the ground stared up as the half-Giant drew his weapons. They heard his voice from above.
“[The Scythe Cut Low Across the Grass].”
The first rank of knights vanished. The half-Giant landed, already calling more Skills. His brethren charged after as the [Knights] met a warrior with as many levels as the best of them. As much daring. As much valor and skill. Just…a bit bigger.
 
—-
 
Fetohep let the Named-rank adventurers watch the battle. It was so silent that he thought if he clapped his hands loud enough, Frieke’s heart would stop for good.
Such was the power of Khelt’s Revenants. One of their greatest weapons—unleashed. Fetohep was trembling himself.
Unleash it all. Unleash…Chandrar went still as Fetohep’s wrath manifested itself. Look what Terandria had done, those fools!
They were wrong about why. They were even wrong about his goals. Fetohep walked his palace. Revenants awoke.
Named Adventurers pledged themselves to his service.
Even the King of Destruction was wary.
Yet that was not what mattered. He came to a new wing of the palace. Fetohep halted.
“Is all in readiness?”
The nearly two hundred-strong mortals bowed. They were [Alchemists], [Mages], [Healers], [Scholars], and more. Fetohep himself held an object he handed to one of them. They nearly dropped the potion, which would have been fine, and the gathering stared.
“If another Potion of Regeneration need be taken, it will. Do not stint. Do not waste time. Have you prepared the first experiments?”
He looked at the frozen forms. Animals. One of his subjects murmured.
“Yes, your Majesty. But we lack for ice-experts in the numbers you desire.”
“More will be found. Inform me at once at your first signs of progress.”
Fetohep saw all bow at once. He stood there. Then he turned his head.
“Is it well?”
The mortals followed his gaze, but saw nothing. In the land of the dead, the eighteen rulers of Khelt smiled.
“It is well.”
They chorused. Then they turned to Erin Solstice. The wide-eyed [Innkeeper] peeked at Fetohep, then Khelta. The first ruler of Khelt smiled, and winked.
“It is as I said, Erin Solstice. Our mortal agent is tasked with reviving you. Fetohep of Khelt does not do things by half-measures.”
The first Potion of Regeneration glinted in Fetohep’s gaze. The first, and [Librarians] were scanning Khelt’s spellbooks and scroll collections for any spell that might aid. He heard Khelta go on, and smiled.
“He is our great ruler, and with Khelt on your side, if it is possible in this world, it shall be done.”
She laughed, and Fetohep smiled. So the dead aided the living once more. It was a long way away. It was difficult.
It would be done, Fetohep had sworn it. After a long silence, he heard Erin Solstice’s voice, weak, but…reassured. Hopeful.
“T-ten outta ten.”
Fetohep began to laugh.
