She passed under the arm of a warrior garbed in adamantium armor, a Giant who sat with helmet on the ground that she might converse with a Garuda whose feathers were like a Phoneix’s, in flame.
Cawe saw a [Witch] made of wood turn, her hat of leaves tilting as she caught sight of Nerrhavia and Queen Merindue. She pointed, and eight adventurers turned. One reflexively reached for her whip made of Manticore hide, a nine-tailed weapon, each head coated in a different poison, when she saw Igheriz and recognized him.
The ghosts came to a great palace, which only grew with each generation in the lands of the dead. They looked up the thousand steps, towards the last gathering at the top. There stood arguing [Archmages], uselessly accompanied by floating artifacts, or holding relics that no longer had power, tallying information and coordinating the quest for knowledge. An impatient [Courier] ran along, cursing that his feet, which had turned sand to glass with the speed of his travel, could take him no faster.
At the center of it all stood eighteen men and women. One was a half-Giant, far larger than the rest. Another? A Garuda. The others were Human and Stitch-Folk. They were rulers all. Not more powerful than those gathered here. Many arguably less vivid in the strength of their souls.
Yet the Rulers of Khelt stood in the center of this vast gathering. Among their august peers, they spoke, conferring, deigning to hear the others. At their feet, sitting on the top steps of Khelt’s palace was the person whose name was on everyone’s lips.
She was not as strong as these ghosts, Cawe saw. Not as old, as rich nor as skilled in life. Yet she was more real. A ghost not yet dead. She sat, dangling her legs over the top step, talking with a Stitch-Woman who was eating spaghetti off a plate.
Food? Actual food? Cawe smelled the first thing in the lands of the dead. A slight fragrance from the meaty sauce, the smell of tomatoes, the faint odor of pasta, and her mouth watered. She looked at the decent dish of spaghetti, with butter and noodles, and the [Rogue] eating it. Every inch of her body had been stitched out of adaptive, concealing thread, so at will she could turn invisible, or blend with the sand.
The young woman was plain. In that her body was not made of silk, her features not sculpted by Skill or given unearthly beauty by tonics and potions. She did not move straight-backed, with imperious authority like Nerrhavia, nor did she have the touch of power in her eyes like many [Mages].
Her t-shirt and jeans were colorful, but faded from many washings and wearings. Her hair hadn’t been cut in a while and was tied back with a bit of twine. She had hazel eyes, which danced with amusement at times, then turned round with confusion, sometimes exaggerated. Her laughter was infectious.
Erin Solstice was shaking her head as the [Rogue] ate the memory the [Innkeeper] had conjured up for her.
“I just don’t get it. How am I supposed to find and kill an invisible squid for its ink if it’s invisible?”
The [Rogue] sighed.
“The secret of dyeing cloth is more than the invisible ink. I have given you the recipe for cloth that ten thousand [Thieves], [Assassins], [Rogues], and [Infiltrators] begged for in life and I took to my grave.”
“Yes. Thank you. I’ll try to find invisible squids. Really, I will. Cranberries, really?”
“They enjoy them. Now, my time is up.”
The [Rogue] slowly stood. Erin rose with her.
“You don’t have to go. Stick around. I mean…do you want more food? It disappears fast. Here. Have you ever tried ice cream? This one has sprinkles….well, dried raisins. It’s healthy. Sort of.”
She offered an ice-cream cone to the Stitch-woman. The [Rogue] accepted it and smiled. She peered at the raisins.
“Why these toppings?”
Erin hesitated.
“Well, I didn’t know how to make actual sprinkles or sugary things, so I thought—raisins. They’re sort of like chocolate sprinkles? You know, if you put a banana on a sundae, raisins and ice cream isn’t bad, right? Raisins are sweet. Ice cream is sweet. Put them together and it’s even better.”
A [Chef of Five Winds], who had once captured the very fragrance of sweet morning air, the delight of morning dew and infused it into an ephemeral dish for the palettes of his day, clutched at his head at Erin’s words. Sweet plus sweet? He almost went to strangle her before his peers held him down.
“For the love of cuisine, let us have another turn explaining taste to the [Innkeeper]!”
He shouted at one of the [Witches], a tall woman with spectacles who was keeping the line of ghosts waiting to talk to Erin in order. Califor glanced at the [Cooks], and shook her head.
“I have taste! It’s for dessert, not fancy stuff! I’ve made souffles!”
Erin waved a fist at the [Cooks]. She paused, and then a wicked look entered her eye.
“Have I told you about my acid fly cookies? Or when I fried that bee and put honey on top? Now there’s a dish.”
One of the [Chefs], who had cooked many dishes with insects like cicadas, having explored all of wildlife, slapped a hand over her eyes and turned away. Honey makes insects taste good? Insert flies into cookies, and you have a dish?
They didn’t see how the [Innkeeper] was doing it on purpose. Cawe looked up at Erin Solstice and smiled. She liked her already.
“Make way. Make way. We have something the [Innkeeper] needs to know.”
Nerrhavia shoved ghosts aside as she strode up the steps. Califor turned and barred the way.
“What have you brought, Queen Nerrhavia?”
The woman stopped imperiously, and Erin turned. Nerrhavia gave Erin a smile.
“We meet again, Erin Solstice. I hope you have taken my words to heart.”
“Yeah…hi, you.”
Erin Solstice gave Nerrhavia a puzzled look. The woman’s face went slack, and Queen Merindue laughed aloud. Especially because that too was deliberate, as Erin proved by beaming at the [Queen].
“Hey Merindue! What’s up?”
“What have you brought?”
Califor was unmoved. Nerravia gestured to Cawe and the procession.
“News of one of the [Innkeeper]’s companions. These were all in the company of ‘Pisces Jealnet’. They journeyed with him for two weeks and were with him moments before they died. They also witnessed the Death of Chains in person.”
The rulers of Khelt stirred. Some of the ghosts, Califor included, who were recently-deceased, stirred with recognition of that great name. Yet it was Erin who raised her head. She leapt down the stairs.
“Pisces? You know Pisces?”
She looked around, astounded, then seized Cawe’s talons. Erin blinked down at the oddly-segmented joints, and then looked into Cawe’s eyes. The Garuda realized the [Innkeeper] was perceptive. And…she looked worried when she heard Pisces’ name. But relieved to hear of him.
That was how they met, and how Cawe found herself sitting at Khelt’s palace, among the ghosts, telling her story once more. Erin Solstice lay on the intricately-wrought marble, each stone designed to seamlessly fit with the other, carved by a master with little motifs of Khelt’s glories and enchanted not to wear and tear from the sand or feet.
She propped her chin on her hands and rested her elbows on the ground, legs kicking as she lay on her front. Then she sat up, cross legged, eyes wide with shock—then a flashing fury. Thereafter, she clenched her hands together, lacing her fingers between each other and gripping so tight they would have been white or hurt herself if she had possessed a body.
When that was not enough, she jumped to her feet and began to stride around in angry circles, snapping questions, pointing fingers, throwing up her hands and shouting—until she abruptly sat. Then she sat, legs dangling once more, next to Cawe, hand on her back.
The anger was still there, but it was calm anger, cold, as she listened. She hugged the Garuda, arm around her as she listened to the end. When it was done? Her face was smooth, but her eyes were…deep. Deep with loathing, with hatred.
Califor watched all of it, as did Cawe, though the [Pickpocket] was lost in the memories of retelling. The [Witches] and other ghosts watched Erin too, though the young woman had only eyes for Cawe by the end.
“So there is the young woman I sought to unveil. There is hatred enough to cow lesser men and women. There is the woman who hides among the girl’s petty pretenses.”
Nerrhavia remarked, satisfied. Queen Merindue stood with her, for all their animosity.
“She does not lack for passion, that one. Only for seriousness. If she were always thus—-she would make a far finer [Queen] than [Innkeeper]. Better that than [Witch].”
Nerrhavia and Merindue traded significant looks. In that, they could agree. Yet, frustratingly, they had little power here. The [Witches] had the confidence of Khelt, and Khelt ruled by dint of their authority in death.
“Give me time with her. I will return her to the world of the living as a fit heir to rule new lands.”
Nerrhavia breathed. Merindue snapped her lips shut; unhappy because she had been about to say almost the exact same thing.
That was, of course, why Califor and the [Witches] kept the others back. Give me an hour with her, give me the time to teach her. The [Cooks] demanded it out of decency for the dishes she served as ‘food’.
The monarchs wanted to make a ruler out of her. The [Witches] wanted one of their own kind.
No ghost was exactly impartial. Not when this young woman might return to the living. She was not the heroine of legends they might have wished for, but she was the one person who might one day return. So…into her they poured their wishes and dreams and hopes.
Yet that was not necessarily Erin Solstice. As proof, while the ghosts had presented their best for her to learn from, the ones who remained as counselors of a kind, no, as friends, were the ones she had connected with.
The [Sage] of a Hundred Thousand Secrets, Velzimri.
The [Rebel] of String, Elucina.
The Giant, Donbaaar, and Queen Merindue had been among that number. So had Xarkouth in his own way. Cawe, too. She would not be out of place, for there stood a man with a mustache, a bit of morning growth on his chin, and cheap armor, a plain sword.
Gerial of the Horns of Hammerad. He listened to the tales of the new Horn of Hammerad, frowning.
“So Ceria recruited him after all? We could have used him in the crypt. Pisces, that is. I met him, you know.”
He confided to Elucina and Velzimri. If he felt out-of-place with these two…he was. Elucina nodded.
“I know something of your story, Adventurer Gerial. A [Necromancer]? Some keep undead as one does [Slaves]. This is not such a man, I trust?”
“Pisces? No, no…there was Toren, but…”
Elucina frowned mightily. She had had words with Erin already, and the [Innkeeper] still avoided meeting her gaze. Velzimri leaned down, the tall Sage of a Hundred Thousand Secrets’ robe sweeping around him. Liquid mercury and mithril-weave fabrics swirled around Gerial’s legs.
“This [Necromancer]. Of what type is he?”
“Um. Bone.”
“Ah, then has he mastered the art of raising armies, or does he create individual creations? I knew a [Necromancer] who animated the bones of a Dragon.”
Gerial stuttered a bit.
“Er…I think—he managed to do uh, basic skeletons when I met him? Ceria said he could animate Liches, Skeleton [Mages]. And Ghouls?”
Elucina and Velzimri exchanged a look. The [Sage] mulled over an appropriate response.
“Ah. He has potential to grow, then. That is always welcome.”
They watched Erin’s face as Cawe finally finished. The [Innkeeper] bowed her head, and they all took something different out of it.
Gerial beheld Erin as he had seldom seen her. He had not known her as long as the living. Yet he had known her when Pawn came to the inn, after being tortured by Ksmvr.
Elucina witnessed the same fury in her heart, and it worried her. It could consume. She had seen that too, but she would never gainsay Erin’s fury. She understood the horrors of chains.
Velzimri just saw Erin’s concern. Her anger, her rage? The [Sage] saw the expressions of someone who cared for someone else. That was what he had lacked.
“So he’s alive. He’s…free? Thank you for telling me.”
Erin hugged Cawe one-armed. The [Pickpocket] shook her head.
“I don’t know. We were captive and Igheriz killed me first. What happened next? I don’t know. They do.”
She pointed down the steps and Erin looked at Hrome, Igheriz, Astotha, Shein, Droppe, and the guards. Her face darkened further.
“Those are the [Slavers]? Why are they here?”
“Are you surprised? Everyone dies. Better they are here than among the living. Fear not; if your friend is not here, then he is alive, and the Death of Chains freed the others.”
The reasonable response came from one of the [Witches]. Somillune, the Witch of Ashes. Erin Solstice hesitated, and her anger faded a step. She looked down at Igheriz. The revulsion was written across her face, yet the [Slave Master] walked up the steps. He was more alive, like the others, and Cawe begrudged every bit of the memory of life this place gave him. She glared as he smiled, toothily, up at Erin.
“Miss Solstice, is it? I am Igheriz, Caravan Master of Roshal! You have heard my sl—Cawe. Will you not listen to us? This is a great gathering of the dead.”
Incredulously, the [Innkeeper] stared down at him, but some of the ghosts in the gathering and outside stirred. Nerrhavia watched Erin’s face with interest.
“Me? Speak to you?”
“I knew Pisces longer than that Garuda. Surely if you speak to many ghosts, you have time for me? I knew Pisces and could tell you my story.”
“You tortured him. Cawe just told me.”
Erin’s voice was flat. Igheriz hesitated, but her anger was meaningless here and he knew it. He wagged a finger with his watercloth hand.
“Ah, Miss Human. There are always many stories. How can you trust a [Thief]’s word over mine? Let me just—”
He tried to walk up the steps and Califor blocked his way. So did Velzimri, Somillune, and three other ghosts. Igheriz stopped, unable to push past them. Erin’s eyes flashed.
“I don’t want to talk with you people. If Pisces had died. If…”
She turned away. Igheriz faltered, and Hrome, who’d come up the steps eagerly too, to meet with this girl who might live, also backed up from the powerful ghosts who glared at him.
“I have done little wrong, Miss Solstice! Your friend committed crimes. I am an honest man, and have done everything by the laws of my nation! I was slain by a monster, a nightmare from Rhir! Will you not hear me out?”
Erin was walking away, but she swung around. She looked down at Igheriz.
“How dare you say that?”
The Stitch-man smiled. Unafraid of her wrath.
“You are not needed, [Slave Master]. Nor do you belong here. Begone.”
