He also spoke in third person. Fetohep hadn’t been sure if the accounts were true about that. It seemed they were. He wondered if it was a head wound.
Hecrelunn sneered down at Fetohep. His eyes flicked over Fetohep, perhaps reading his class, then around.
“I do not see the threats for which I allowed myself to be entombed. No monsters cross Khelt’s borders. It has…grown…since I last woke.”
That would be nearly seven rulers prior, Fetohep remembered. He spoke, his voice icy.
“I said, release me, Vizir. I rule Khelt. You are sworn to obey our will.”
The [Vizir] studied him—then waved a hand. Fetohep was lowered to the floor.
“My class is ambition and power. I am greater than you, little ruler. Fetohep of Khelt? Did you think to test your worth against me as that last fool did? If so, I will steal this kingdom away and rule it properly.”
Fetohep was getting annoyed already. The [Vizir] floated down, and the king wondered if he should have brought his halberd.
“I summoned you for war, Vizir Hecrelunn. Khelt’s enemies have not reached the borders. Nor shall they. Terandria sends great armies against Khelt, and I require your battle in the north.”
“Merely war? We are the last guardians of Khelt! You would unleash us for a petty war?”
Vizir Hecrelunn’s rage actually manifested in lesser spells which shot across the air, arcs of death magic. Had he even cast spells or…? He pointed at Fetohep.
“You forget yourself, petty king. We are not yours to command.”
“No. Serept asked us to stay and watch. Not to fight every war. If it was for that alone, it was ill done. Ill-conceived. Yet we will listen first.”
Fetohep and Hecrelunn’s heads turned. Then tilted up. Fetohep nodded slowly.
“I shall explain all soon, great warrior.”
“We shall listen.”
A half-Giant rose to his feet. Thirty feet tall, as tall as Zamea. He leaned on his axe as glowing armor shone over naught but bone. He was all ivory, as were the warriors who rose with him.
Twenty half-Giants. No…Fetohep felt a thrill in his own soul. Twenty half-Giant Revenants.
Half-Giants with levels. Serept’s bodyguard, armed with enchanted weapons. Not the mindless bones of half-Giants; these showed how their bones had been carefully cleaned and polished, their weapons enchanted.
Their glowing eyes stared down at Hecrelunn in disapproval. The [Vizir] floated up, sneering.
“So half-Giants are called forth. When did Khelt become ruled by their kind? You, little king, you think the Vizir needs assistance? If you call him forth for a foe, the Vizir alone is needed.”
“Vizir Hecrelunn. Your arrogance is just as poignant as the histories relate. I shall explain what is needed.”
“You had better do it quick. I too cannot be roused for anything but great need. His-xe is dead. How many years? I am beginning to rage, and there are no foes here.”
A third voice. A skeleton stood from his tomb. He wore a warrior’s plate armor. His eye-flames flickered with fury, but they were pink, like the petals of flowers. Yet he was extremely tall. Dangerous. For proof, he had an axe as tall as he was, and he swung it one-handed.
“I crave war. I crave battle. I will tear this place to pieces if it was for no reason! His-xe! My rage grows by the second! Who is this? The [Vizir] they said was first? Where is my foe? Is it a Dragon? Say it is a Dragon! What else would I be called for?”
He pointed his axe at the Vizir, swinging his head, left, right, like a wild animal. The [Vizir] hissed.
“Do not speak the Vizir’s title without respect, little warrior! I demand to know—”
One of the half-Giants was frowning.
“I sense no foes either. Is this a mistake? Who is in command here?”
“I—”
“I am the Vizir Hecrelunn! Greatest of all Khelt’s servants! Be silent unless the Vizir speaks!”
Fetohep’s head hurt. He really should have done them one at a time.
“Enough!”
His voice and authority silenced all the Revenants. Even the [Vizir], for a moment. Fetohep stood there, smaller than all of them save the [Vizir] who was floating over his head.
The great warrior already succumbing to rage. The half-Giants, standing in solemn formation, heads bowed, the arrogant [Vizir]—he addressed them all.
“I have summoned you for war, great protectors of Khelt. It is time for war, and war without restraint. Each of Khelt’s weapons will be used. You are but the first. The last two tombs will be opened. I have unsealed Khelt’s armories without restraint. This is the hour in which it is needed, though you cannot yet see it.”
The Revenants stirred. Even the Vizir fell silent.
“All the weapons? What war is this? Do Dragons fly in vast armies to swallow the skies once more?”
One of the half-Giants murmured uneasily. The Vizir stared at Fetohep.
“Does something crawl from beyond the world’s edge?”
The warrior muttered.
“I hope it’s big.”
Fetohep shook his head.
“None of these things. An army from Terandria brings [Knights] by the thousand. A nation of half-Elves with their champions, a great [Mage] and [Commander], offer war. A kingdom of Humans sends their armies against Khelt’s forces.”
The Revenants exchanged glances.
“…That’s it?”
The Vizir Hecrelunn shrieked. He swooped down, aiming a finger at Fetohep. A dangerous spell was charging up—Fetohep’s [Dangersense] screamed louder. The Vizir would loose it.
“Only glorious Queen Heris and Khelta herself could command me! I would have wrested power from them if they were not greater than I in every way! You—you are not my level, not my better! You dare wake me for this trivial thing when each ruler knows we are to be used in Khelt’s darkest hour?”
Fetohep held his ground. He met the Vizir’s pinpoints of rage in their sockets and replied with some satisfaction.
“I believe, Vizir Hecrelunn, you mean ‘only glorious Queen Heris and Khelta herself could command the Vizir’.”
A choking sound emerged from Hecrelunn’s body. One of the half-Giants snorted. Before the Vizir could try to kill him, Fetohep went on.
“Do not think I forget the conditions under which you are to be summoned! I know your names and great deeds. Yet I say this: Khelta and the rulers of Khelt walk with me. They speak. They tell me now is the time. Unleash all or Khelt dies. Vizir Hecrelunn, Honor Guard of Serept, Champion of War Salui. Khelta herself calls you to war.”
The Vizir stopped. The Revenants looked at each other. Salui’s rage halted his trembling.
“You lie. Khelta is dead, and she rests. I will not be tricked.”
“I swear by Khelt eternal. Do not make light of my oath. Do you not see the weight of the crown on me?”
Fetohep lost his patience. He and the Vizir glowered at each other, and Fetohep felt the Vizir’s potent aura storming at his own. He held his ground; he might lack for levels, but he was still king.
“How should the Vizir believe you? The Vizir will make his own decisions. Be grateful only that the Vizir lets you live, Fetohep. And if it should turn out you lie—”
“Vizir Hecrelunn.”
The angry Revenant didn’t notice. He and Fetohep were locked in a battle of wills. So the half-Giant grabbed him. The Vizir spun, magic lashing the bone hand, but it bounced off the armor.
“Look.”
The Honor Guard of Serept, his boon companion, pointed a finger up. The Vizir Hecrelunn stopped his raving. Looked up.
And quailed. Fetohep himself turned his head up and froze.
High overhead, in the vaulted room where the Revenants had been laid to rest until they were needed were…statues.
Ornamental. Each one of the rulers who had asked their beloved champions and warriors to wait, wait a while, until they were needed. They stared out into proud infinity, gazes straight ahead.
Or had. Three of the statues were…looking down. Fetohep and Hecrelunn looked up at a noble face, a slightly crooked nose, but a smile that balanced it.
Queen Heris. The half-Giants stared up at Serept’s face. Salui, the [Champion of War], looked up.
“His-Xe.”
All three monarchs gazed down. The Vizir dropped his scepter. He fell to his knees.
“Are you there? Heris? Is it truly you? Is your will…”
The half-Giants were kneeling. Slowly, the Revenants rose. They looked at Fetohep, and up at the statues.
No more did they move. Fetohep himself was shaken. He had not believed…he whispered.
“They have spoken. Will you accept the burden once more, kin of Khelt? For as long as the will remains—we shall serve.”
“We shall serve. For Khelta and this land, for however long it takes.”
Salui whispered. Even the Vizir nodded.
“Then Khelta herself watches us. Give us your orders, King Fetohep of Khelt. It is time for the world to once again hear the Vizir’s name.”
 
—-
 
The battlefield was hot. Physically hot; air rose in shimmering lines from the ground. Yet the Herald of the Forests did not sweat.
She had taken to the field, with a new company. The Fables rode anew. Behind her stood an army of half-Elves, and at the back, the [Mage] who had defeated Khelt’s army once.
Medain’s forces were also arrayed. They still had one Named Adventurer; the other had fled.
Yet that was well, because Fetohep himself had not taken to the field to lead Khelt’s army, and the Jaw of Zeikhal lay dead. Better yet—the Herald glanced left. Her lip curled slightly.
An army of [Knights] now rode between two forces. Terandria’s crusade had come. Even more were disembarking from the ships, and they were a dangerous power indeed.
Faced with that, even Khelt’s vast army looked to be in a bit of trouble, especially since one side would level. Nevertheless, the Herald leaned over her horse.
“Let us not be overconfident, [General]. Khelt’s army still outnumbers all our forces by a factor of five to one. Our advantage is that we may level.”
“Five to one, when it was twenty-to-one or greater last battle? I will take those odds, Herald. It is curious however—Jecrass is far from the battlefield. Queen Jecaina will not interfere this time. Does Fetohep intend to send his army against us without personally commanding it? His subjects will die quickly to our bows and your company.”
The Herald of the Forest shook her head.
“He will appear. Teleportation, or another puppet.”
She was certain of that. It would be wars of attrition as countless armies poured from Khelt. The old half-Elf sighed.
“Armies and armies, and he’ll be there at the head each time. Let the Terandrians besiege Khelt, or we’ll drown in undead.”
“We only need break his forces here, then he will be on the defense. If we liberate the new lands of Khelt in Jecrass or endanger the Arbiter Queen, we may force him to relent.”
The Herald saw few other ways to end Fetohep’s onslaught. Yet she was now confident…his army was reduced and he was one warrior, for all he was dangerous.
That was why High King Perric was back in his army, and the [Knights] advancing already. They were confident. They knew the dangers. They knew Fetohep might come with relics, but they were ready to fight, to take losses, but counter-level and prevail.
It was a good plan. Good assumptions.
They had no idea what was coming next.
The half-Elf sensed it first. He glanced up and snapped.
“Teleportation spell in Khelt’s army! At the head!”
“Just as planned. Make ready!”
The Fables of the Forest roared, lifting their blades as the Herald rode to the front of the army. She saw a figure materialize in front of Khelt’s forces. Fetohep, wearing full plate armor this time. She narrowed her eyes. The half-Elf slowed.
“…Is it just me or does he look…taller…?”
She was uncertain. The warrior who appeared might have been Fetohep; he could probably take any body he chose. Yet this warrior was nearly half again as tall. And, the Herald realized, he carried no halberd but a giant axe as tall as he was. It was ludicrously big, even if it was enchanted to be weightless!
The [Knights] stirred. Horns began to sound as individual [Knight]-orders shouted victory, proclaiming their ranks and orders. Medain’s horns began to warble…the Herald lifted a hand and the Claiven Earth did not follow suit.
The warrior was not Fetohep. Her skin began to prickle. She looked back at the half-Elf. He was standing up from his chair.
“What is that?”
Both of them saw it. The better [Knights] and the Named Adventurer in the armies all stopped. They stared at the warrior.
Whoever that was…they were more dangerous than Fetohep. The Herald’s skin turned cold.
“I didn’t think he would use Khelt’s hoarded relics. Just how angry is Fetohep of Khelt?”
Then the warrior strode forwards. The armies slowed, and a few bows from Medain’s side loosed presumptuously. The arrows actually made it across the ground thanks to Skills.
They just snapped on the warrior’s armor without even detonating. He—it was a he—walked forwards, then stopped. This, at least, was normal. The ignorant mortals besides the Herald waited for a speech from Fetohep. Some grand declaration, another insult or show.
What they got was a shout. A roaring voice, cracking with anger. If spittle could have flown…but the figure was dead. His flesh was torn, and he still had eyeballs, albeit glowing with light, rotting.
“I! I AM SALUI. GREAT WARRIOR OF KING HIS-XE! YOU ARE ALL MY FOES!”
He screamed so loudly that everyone heard it. No poise. No elevated speech. The great warrior lifted his axe. He was…trembling, the Herald realized. No…shaking.
“YOU TAKE ARMS AGAINST KHELT? DIE! DIE SCREAMING! PLEAD AND BEG FOR MERCY! RUN AND LIVE! YOU WOULD HARM HIS-XE’S WORK? TWICE DIE. KILL YOURSELVES. DIE, DIE, DIE, DIE, DIE—”
He was trembling so hard he began to blur in the distance. The mortals stared. They began to realize…that wasn’t Fetohep. King Perric’s jaw worked soundlessly.
The warrior kept shouting ‘die’ for nearly a minute. It was so loud, so wrathful, that some of Noelictus’ [Hunters] began checking to see if it was a curse spell or something.
“Dead gods, what is that? One of Khelt’s champions? It’s a Revenant. I didn’t know they had more than one.”
The [General of Bows] whispered. The Herald didn’t answer. No sooner had Salui calmed then someone else’s voice echoed from the battlefield.
“Pitiful mortals. You have gained the wrath of the Vizir Hecrelunn. In the name of Khelta, you shall perish. Unless you agree to serve Khelt, in which case you shall be spared as [Slaves]. It is an offer made once. The Vizir knows no mercy.”
“Treants.”
Someone whispered. The half-Elf [Mage] looked up. A shape was descending out of the sky.
A cloud had appeared overhead. The Herald of Forests looked up into unexpected shade on the burning day. It was unwelcome. She stared up at the Revenant’s face, copied across the clouds. Two vast pinpoints of crimson light stared down at her.
