“And your daughter too, if she shows interest,” Orodan said, looking at the baby who was now looking intently at the small fire in his hands. “As you know, anyone can learn magic; it’s just a matter of consistency and effort.”

And as he taught the woman a very basic spell, so too did he teach the child in the stool.

And at the end of it all, Teaching went up to 64, and he received a final message about Weaving.

[Weaving 48 → Weaving 49]

For a hundred and fifty-seven loops he’d battered his head against the wall.

This loop, he was going to break it.

#

It was late in the evening and Karilsgard was still bustling with activity. Foot traffic past sundown consisted of merchants, travelers, military patrols and tourists here to partake in late-night activities of a decadent nature. There were dangerous regions on Inuan where travel at certain times of day was ill-advised. Karilsgard and the surrounding area wasn’t one of them. The region was quite safe and its roads well-patrolled; tourists and travelers could walk along the roads in the dead of night alone and not worry about a thing.

Unlike his hometown of Ogdenborough, monsters and criminals had been all but wiped out from the surrounding ten miles of the city walls.

As Orodan walked up to the gates, the same capital guard corporal was on-duty, pulling a double shift. And although the man looked more than a little impatient and ready to head off-duty, he still immediately took note of Orodan the moment he entered view.

“Hold there, militia man. Little late to be walking the roads, isn’t it? Safe as they are, best not to cultivate such a habit lest your feet take you farther from Karilsgard than you should be,” the corporal said. “From which county do you hail? I don’t recognize the color pattern of your uniform.”

“That uniform belongs to the Volarbury County militia sir,” one fresh-faced guardswoman with a snappy voice and overly eager attitude said.

“Right, I’m from Volarbury County,” Orodan answered. “The Ogdenborough barracks.”

“Ogdenborough? Messy business that went down over there. You know anything about that?” the capital guardswoman asked, quickly pulling out a sheaf of papers and taking notes. “There’s a standing order out for any information relevant to that incident.”

The corporal looked about done however and gave his junior a sickeningly sweet smile.

“Avidia?” the corporal asked, a hand laid upon her shoulder.

“…yes corporal?”

“How many field interviews have you done today?” the man asked, his eye twitching.

“Seventy-two… sir?” the guardswoman muttered, growing more wary of the corporal.

“And have you considered, my hard-working guardswoman… that your corporal here has to sign off on and write an addendum for each and every one of these field interview reports?” the man asked, a dangerous smile on his face. “And that I’m at the tail-end of a twenty-four-hour stint of duty?”

“Er… I uh- I hadn’t considered that, corporal… sir…”

“Of course, of course… now then, would you like to perhaps continue this field interview?”

“…no sir.”

“Excellent! Glad we’ve come to an understanding,” the corporal said. “Off to the walls you go, can’t field interview anyone when there’s no one around to talk to.”

The poor guardswoman slunk off, defeated.

“She was just trying to do her job,” Orodan said. “But I suppose punishment is its own form of training.”

He’d gotten beaten black and blue enough times during basic and even a time or two after graduation. Good opportunities for learning and skills development.

“After the seventieth incident of her ‘just trying to do her job’, I think I’ve had enough. Besides, the time on the walls is as much a favor to her as it is punishment. Primarily so she can relax and not overwork herself. She’s not a bad lass, just very official and by the book. One thing they could do with less of in basic training are those damned field interviews,” the corporal said. “Or at the very least… less of the paperwork that comes with it.”

“A tragic state of affairs,” Orodan dryly said.

“Indeed! Glad to see someone understands my… ah, you’re being sarcastic, aren’t you?” the corporal asked. “Get over here so we can conclude this inspection. Orodan Wainwright the Apprentice Wainwright… real funny sort you are.”

“I thought it would be an amusing little jest.”

“Hmm… not concerned at all about being pulled aside for secondary inspection, are you?” the corporal asked.

“Should I be? If I’ve done nothing wrong, this should just be a formality.”

“Well… you’re not wrong about that. I’m certainly not one to enjoy pulling innocent people aside for no reason, it’s just that your Status raises some questions when you’re so obviously well-armed and look capable of defending yourself,” the corporal said. “Still, even if you’ve done nothing wrong, I’d advise caution on which shift you carry that nonchalant attitude into. Not all capital guards are above ruining someone’s day over a perceived slight.”

“Then they’re welcome to try.”

Something about the way he said it must’ve raised the corporal’s alarm bells. Looking closely, Orodan could see a flurry of System energy activity around the section of the man’s soul tied to his Legendary-rarity skill.

As he’d found during these loops, the corporal at the gates would almost certainly send word to Silestor about him. Perhaps it was the way he carried himself, or his well-armed appearance Still, no matter how many times he went through this, the man never once had any doubts about Orodan’s character, merely who his presence should be reported to.

If he acted too brusquely, the corporal would call for backup and sergeants of the capital guard would arrive. And from there a brawl of escalating proportions would ensue where Orodan beat up the captains and commanders and ended up cleansing Alastaia of the tyrant three’s presence early. Needless to say, doing all that before getting to meet Silestor was a bit inconvenient, hence he’d found this level of challenge to be appropriate.

“What’re you here for? You’re no militia man…” the corporal muttered.

“Just here to visit the Cathedral and meet a friend.”

“Cathedral’s closed at this hour of night.”

“I know,” Orodan replied with a smile.

“…go on then.”

No further words were needed. Though the guards near the corporal were more than a little curious about why Orodan had been let off so easily.

“You let him go sir? Surely he doesn’t mean to visit the Cathedral at this hour does he?”

“Sometimes it’s best to leave things above our station to our betters. Something about that man tells me he’ll do whatever he wants. Only reason I didn’t call the captains and commanders down is that my skill told me he’s not here to do any evil. Cathedral likes to handle its own business too, and I’m nobody to step on the toes of someone like him headed there,” the man sad. “I don’t know who he is, but he’s no man of the militia. I’ve told the watchers to follow, but if he’s headed for the Cathedral then Lord Lumenarin can sort the matter out.”

Past the gates, the streets of Karilsgard were bright and still active at night. Even though it was late, the main roads which saw commerce at least were chock full of foot traffic and nighttime merchants who looked to prey upon the lower inhibitions one might have when tired.

Guard patrols were still just as frequent though, and watchers on the rooftops of certain houses were watching him as expected.

The Cathedral of the Prime Five had its double doors closed at this time of night. The hours of worship and visitation were over for the day, with service set to resume in the morning.

A well-dressed but anxious merchant was sitting at the foot of the steps as Orodan began ascending the stairs.

“Don’t bother… I’ve tried petitioning them all day and they haven’t opened the doors. One of the faithful said they might open tomorrow,” the merchant who he’d once threatened said. “Something about the tapestry of fate, but I think they’re getting it under control.”

Which was all thanks to Orodan’s efforts in training across the hundred-and-fifty-seven loops. His Fate Disconnect now sat at level 71, and the chaos he caused upon the tapestry was dramatically lessened as a result.

“That’s quite the good turn for you then, isn’t it? Now you get to hear them tell you how Esgarius of Trumbetton will get one over you.”

The merchant’s face paled and then turned exceedingly red.

“You…! How do you even-”

Orodan ignored the man’s angry rant and walked up to the double doors.

“Cathedral’s closed for the day, come back- hey! Stop!”

The double doors were pushed open, and a light mage with a frown on his face was standing there, looking right at him.

“Leave him.”

“But my lord! he just-”

“I’ve been expecting his arrival,” Silestor said, shutting the armored guards of the faithful up. “Now then. Orodan Wainwright is it? Why are you here?”

In response, Orodan’s dimensional ring activated, and a flood came forth.

Not a flood of water, or the elements…

…but a flood of severed heads.

“I’m told you were looking for mercenaries to assist you with hunting undesirables,” Orodan said. “No need. They’ve all been dealt with.”

Silestor was in shock as the heads of the various cultists, necromancers and vampires that Orodan had slain rolled out onto the Cathedral floor.

“I’m Orodan Wainwright, here to learn light magic from you. And…”

“…I’m in a time loop.”

#

Within his private study at the bottom of the Cathedral, Silestor Lumenarin frowned, a look of disgust on the light mage’s face as the summoned imp in the spell circle scampered about the table only to then be caught by Orodan and sent back to whence it came via Dimensionalism.

[New Skill (Rare) → Summoning 8]

A rare occurrence, as he rarely ever acquired rare skills.

“This…! It goes against every moral fiber within me!”

“Is magic not just a tool whose morality is determined by the user?” Orodan asked.

“You learned the Demonic Summoning skill!”

“Summoning not Demonic Summoning,” Orodan corrected, causing the man to pause. “What? You didn’t think I was gallivanting about trying to find the best scrolls for no reason, did you?”

“Bah! You could’ve learned that from the spirit mages of the north or a specialized tutor in the Eastern Kingdoms,” Silestor said. “Perusing demonic texts researched through blood and agony was unnecessary. You summoned an imp too, the very definition of a demonic creature.”

Orodan felt it was more of a wild creature drawn into crossing the dimensional boundary because of Orodan’s call than a demon, but he didn’t bother correcting Silestor.

“Again, that’s not accurate. I’ve looked into the matter and the spirit mages of the north and the handful who congregate at Rubywater in fact have the Elemental Summoning skill,” Orodan clarified. “Not bad, but it would limit me to calling only creatures from the elemental planes. I want more versatility than that.”

And Orodan felt that merely calling something was rather weak and pitiful. His ambitions extended beyond just that.

“Prove it.”

Orodan did as asked and threw as much mana as he could into the spell circle while holding it strong and ensuring it didn’t break under the flood of his raw power.

[Summoning 8 → Summoning 15]

The circle trembled… and the room suddenly became a fair bit hotter. Orange flames licked at his face, stopped by his Fire Resistance. His clothes didn’t have that luxury and unfortunately caught on fire.

Orodan sighed as he patted the flames out.

[Galewind 32 → Galewind 33]

The wind spell kept the room at a safe temperature as Orodan viewed his latest summon. It didn’t have a well-defined shape to the naked eye, consisting of a spiralling gout of flame with a bright core. It was strong too, Grandmaster-level at least.

“Which ambitious mortal dares to summon Arasha the Ever-Smoldering?” it said, voice echoing with fiery power. “I have felt the raw mana as your powerful call resounded throughout the elemental planes… and I have answered. Gaze upon me now and tremble before the majesty of an elemental lord of flame! You may serve me and- urk!”

Orodan gave its core a light smack.

“Hey, focus. Turn the temperature down or you’ll burn this place to the ground.”

“Y-you dare?!”

“This building might be made of stone but the fixtures, furniture and books within are quite flammable. And I’d rather not see my friend’s private study burned down by the elemental I summoned,” Orodan said. “Matter of fact, I hadn’t even intended to summon you.”

An elemental, and a fire elemental at that. They were the most common type of elemental summoned by spirit mages too.

He’d seen a young spirit mage at the Inter-Academy Tournament also summon elementals, as well as spirit mages on Guzuhar. Orodan could now count himself among their ranks.

Brave and noble mages who summoned spirits to do their fighting for them. How brave and admirable.

“You couldn’t make your derision more apparent if you tried.”

Could he be blamed? Orodan had grown past his dislike of mages, but summoners, beast tamers and necromancers were among the groups he still had a low regard for; particularly those who sat back and commanded from the rear. He similarly had a low opinion of nobility and commanders who shouted orders from the back rank while shying away from the combat.

