“A parasite wouldn’t have saved my life multiple times at no real benefit to herself,” Orodan immediately defended. The spider appeared slightly taken aback at his intensity, and Orodan consciously brought his heat down a notch. “As you say, I’m quite simple-minded, so isn’t having someone capable of more advanced thought a good thing?”

“Hmm… with the amount of thought in that head of yours, you’ll certainly need all the help you can get,” Talricto off-handedly remarked. “Now then, shall we away? I do quite relish the thought of donning this odd hat and spectacle you say I was wearing.”

In fact, after kidnapping and talking to Talricto the easiest method of convincing the spider to come along to Lonvoron was the knowledge that there were plenty of riches and nice things for it to pilfer. As ridiculous as Orodan found the sight of a spider wearing a hat and single-eyed glass… it was an undeniably effective lure.

“Aye, let’s get moving.”

Talricto winked away, which left just Orodan upon Alastaia’s barren moon.

This time, he was determined to get one over Alagameth.

[Teleportation 94 → Teleportation 95]

[Space Mastery 98 → Space Mastery 99]

Normally, Orodan’s spatiomancy was straightforward, brutal and direct, similar to his mentality as a warrior. Now while it was tempting to say this was a weakness, Orodan in fact considered it a strength when backed by his ability to generate copious amounts of power. However, over the almost six months’ worth of looping, Orodan’s movements in space had grown incredibly fluid and seamless. To the point where his spatiomancy was beginning to approach the same league as Talricto’s Dimensionalism, where it was starting to become imperceptible.

When facing an Embodiment of Space who was Orodan’s superior in almost every aspect of spatiomancy, it was no lie to say that bridging that gap would require more than raw force alone. Having a brutal and almost violent style of spatiomancy had its advantages, but learning to also adopt deftness and agility in this field of magic could only be a good thing.

His Teleport continued on, entirely uninterrupted.

As he’d learned on the ninety-fourth loop of this grind, Fate Disconnect at the Elite-level caused his impact on the tapestry of fate to become mostly minimal. It was why the Cathedral on Alastaia was poised to open their doors by the next day. And it was why Alagameth had begun not interrupting Orodan’s Teleportation as well.

Why would it bother when he wasn’t causing such an upheaval that it was noticeable?

It would’ve been great news… if his Teleport was aimed at Lonvoron. Unfortunately for his target, Orodan’s first priority was having a good fight.

Alagameth the Silent Oracle was inside a pocket of folded space the size of a single particle, hanging off the bottom of an inconspicuous asteroid, sitting in quiet meditation and solitude when space almost imperceptibly rippled. It was skilled, still well beyond Orodan despite his training. Yet its beady eyes narrowed in fright as a horrifying force of nature rammed into the passive spatial defenses surrounding it.

Caught off-guard, it scrambled to defend itself as Orodan’s hand came in…

…and gave it a meaty smack upon the head.

“Greetings,” Orodan said with a feral smile. “Let’s fight.”

He allowed his opponent the courtesy of gaining some space, the opportunity to recover from his surprise attack and prepare for combat.

“Maddened interloper, how have you found my place of refuge deep in the void?” Alagameth asked, tranquil fury in its voice. “Your spatiomancy, while passable in skill for a youngling, does not explain how you’ve bypassed every measure I have in place against detection.”

It wasn’t wrong. The pocket of folded space was the size of a singular particle; an utterly absurd feat of finesse and control that Orodan couldn’t even begin to approach. He had raw power enough that he could use Spatial Fold to compress space into a tiny point, enough so that the backlash from its explosion could destroy planets with ease. But that was the difference between Alagameth’s hideout between galaxies and Orodan’s own Spatial Fold… he had no control over the Fold after letting it go, whereas this spatial spider casually maintained a pocket of folded space the size of a particle which it dwelled within.

“You’re right, I cheated. We’ve met before and I already knew where you were hiding,” Orodan said.

“I have met one individual in the last ten-thousand years and you’re not the paranoid mage I duelled against then. I change locations every week and after every occurrence of something passing by within two-hundred thousand light years of me. Your claim is both improbable and illogical,” Alagameth said and its beady eyes homed in on him. “Unless you are implying chronomancy, against which I have a plethora of defenses.”

Instead of just fighting from this point like he had the last thirty times, for once he decided, why not answer?

“I’m in a time loop.”

“…I see. Your overly brash behavior is now explained.”

“I was brash and happy for a fight even before the time loops came.”

“One of the reasons why they have selected you for the time loops no doubt, the honor of being the chosen marionette for powers beyond your ken to manipulate. You have my pity, for what little it is worth,” it said. “I suppose that paranoid schemer’s passive and overly risk-averse way of going about things has lost it the favor of the ones above. But to select one so… stubbornly imprudent, what were they thinking?”

“You know of the time loops?”

“I have seen your kind rise under the addicting power the time loops grant them… and I have seen them fall into eternal agony when that truculent wretch cast aside by the System comes for them. Knowing what it does to you time loopers, you are better served not carelessly revealing your true identity,” the spatial spider warned. “But enough of that… you wanted a fight, yes?”

No further talk was needed between the two of them.

Orodan’s full power was thrown into a Teleportation, and almost immediately it was re-directed with far more ease than he’d known Alagameth to be capable of in the past.

Strong.

Orodan’s teleport was re-directed not towards the void of space…

…but into a fiery blaze.

[Fire Resistance 53 → Fire Resistance 54]

The flames weren’t white or yellow… but blue. And it was only Orodan’s existing Adept-level Fire Resistance that allowed him to remain alive as the skin and surface layer of flesh on his body hissed and bubbled, melting off him even as his body continually regenerated thanks to Harmony of Vitality.

“You teleported me into a star…” Orodan muttered, standing up. Alagameth however, was nowhere to be found, though Orodan could still get a vague sense of the spatial trail the spider had left upon ditching him and departing.

A feral grin overtook his face. This was exactly what he needed!

Previously, his foe simply hadn’t wanted to kill him. But the knowledge that Orodan was a time looper changed things.

An Embodiment-level being was a daunting thing, an apex existence of the cosmos who was the definition of what skill it embodied. If it seemed as though he held the advantage before, it was only because Alagameth fought with two hands tied behind its back for fear of killing Orodan. The spider was far too nice.

Now however, not so much. In direct combat, Alagameth’s arrows of light simply weren’t enough to kill him, it was only Transcendent at these ancillary skills. And its primary skill of spatiomancy? It used it defensively throughout its fights thus far.

But when motivated and reasonably secure in the knowledge that Orodan was a time looper? Teleporting him to environments which were instantly fatal was just the beginning.

The very ‘atmosphere’ around and above him was a brilliant blue flame. If the need for breathing hadn’t been eliminated, Orodan would have suffocated for the lack of air. And as for the surface? Well, calling it a ‘surface’ would have been inaccurate, as it was more like Orodan was diving in fire, with the denser part at a lower depth allowing him to ‘stand’. Just like his visit to Alastaia’s sun, this blue star seemed to intrinsically reject his presence.

Just as Alastaia itself rejected and fought against the Eldritch invaders, this blue star considered him a plague. To it, Orodan was an unnatural life form not meant to remain upon it. And as various elemental beings made of blue fire began arising in the distance, he was certain that the core of this blue star had issued a Quest to slay him.

The first, a Transcendent-level living blob of pure liquid energy, approached and attempted to swallow him. It was far hotter than the surface and atmosphere he was within, and Orodan’s body was scorched far worse as he met it in melee.

[Fire Resistance 54 → Fire Resistance 55]

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 85 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 86]

Unfortunately for it, hot it might’ve been, but sturdy and built for toe-to-toe melee combat it was not.

His smiting slap, which compressed all the impact force into a singular point in time, sent it flying across the dense heavy liquid surface they were stood upon. Skipping it like a bouncy ball, bruised by the impact.

His sword and shield empowered by the light of his soul were held at the ready; they would disintegrate in an instant if his empowerment stopped for even the briefest of instants.

Three loud raps of metal on metal resounded throughout the loud bubbling explosions of the blazing blue battlefield as Orodan’s sword tauntingly smacked the steel boss of his shield.

“Is that all?”

More came forth, Grandmaster-level blobs of pure liquid fire. They were almost like the slimes he knew from Alastaia, though made of pure flame. And given how much the first one scorched him, these were all universally hotter than the star itself.

Like a juggernaut facing soft clumps of hot jelly, Orodan began battering and sending these fiery slimes flying.

A slime leapt at him, and a pummelling elbow buried into it, sending it flying into a dozen more. Another blob tried going for his legs, and a swift punt kick sent it flying into its brethren. More tried swarming him, and he simply slammed them onto the ground with the following waves battered with his shield and the flat and hilt of his sword.

They kept sending them, and Orodan kept knocking them down.

First, dozens approached, and they were scattered. Then hundreds came, and they were flung about. And finally, thousands tried hording him, and Orodan gave them a beating of such severity that the following ten-thousand routed and began fleeing. After just five minutes of battle, the will to fight had left his arrayed foes.

Throughout the entire engagement he gained many levels in Fire Resistance. The challenge in melee was utterly trivial; the slimes of Alastaia were far deadlier overall than these ineffectual blobs of fire. It showed in how Orodan hadn’t even needed to fight seriously and could afford to hold back and not kill any.

His home world was diverse, the slimes there were forced to fight all manner of creatures in the natural war for dominance between monsters. Whether it be the depths or the many wild biomes on Alastaia’s surface, the slimes of his world were used to fighting a varied roster. He’d read about them taking down gigantic animals, elemental creatures and even butchering parties of mortals in adventuring encounters gone bad.

These fiery blobs on the other hand had one trick, which was fire, and they were used to primarily fighting other creatures which used fire. It didn’t make their specialty any less deadly, and any adventurer encountering one of these would certainly be right to fear them. But once that trick was exposed and planned against, they didn’t have much else.

These were elementals, creatures typically summoned by spirit mages.

Frankly, Orodan didn’t understand how and where elementals came from. Alastaian society and education maintained that they came from the elemental planes or the spirit realm, yet here he was fighting on a star against an army of them.

A particularly angry looking elemental, human shaped yet composed of liquid blue fire like the rest, emerged wielding a greatsword. Two exchanges later, and the Transcendent-level being lay tired and in pain on the ground, granted the beating it asked for.

He hadn’t killed anything. Barging onto someone else’s home world, even if by the machinations of another, and then killing the inhabitants would’ve been rather villainous. Still, they could only blame themselves for the beating they’d received for immediately jumping to violence with nary an attempt at dialogue.

That final Transcendent-level being had likely been the star’s mightiest defender. This world’s equivalent of the core guardian defending the world core of Alastaia. With them battered, the planet had nothing else to send against Orodan.

Which meant his real opponent now awaited.

The spatial trail Alagameth had left was still traceable. And even if it hadn’t been, chronomancy to view the spatial spider’s path of retreat was an option.

He cast a Teleportation…

[Bulwark Physical Resistance 87 → Bulwark Physical Resistance 88]

…and immediately walked into a scaly fist which smashed halfway through his head, stopped only by his physical resistance skill and how tough his skull was. He hadn’t stopped to consider that the very obvious spatial trail left behind was a trap.

