The moment he came out of a teleport, the crystal would suddenly change direction, reverse momentum or even catch him off-guard a time or two by ramming into him and then fleeing. And if he got near enough to one, cornering it, the other would come in and engage him for a scant moment to allow its siblings’ retreat.

Its escape tactics were utterly ridiculous and more suited to a comedy bit than an Embodiment-level being! But they were unfortunately effective at eluding Orodan for just long enough that the two crystals managed to reach the galactic boundary of his target galaxy.

And as they did, the first of many layered wards activated, confirming to Orodan that entering Lonvoron by himself would be no easy matter.

Still, the situation wasn’t entirely unsalvageable. Even if the Vystaxium Galaxy and the previous looper remained on high alert, there were two other suspects beside himself who had triggered the wards.

He focused in on the wards, using Vision of Purity.

Useless. It gave him barely any information at all since the wards were some of the purest he’d ever seen.

Accordingly, he switched to the mindset that all mana was dirty, and his body nearly exploded from the mental strain of accounting for the wards surrounding an entire galaxy.

[Vision of Purity 70 → Vision of Purity 73]

Still, feats of mental strain were no new thing for Orodan.

His mind stabilized, and slowly he began to acquire a complete picture of them. Still, the longer he spent dawdling here, the higher the chance a responding force would catch him.

The two parts of Ur-Vah’sahn had already fled deeper into the Yellow Moon Cluster where Lonvoron was too.

The good news was that Lonvoron and the Blackworth Collective were relatively near the galactic boundary. The bad news though, was that the wards were quite stringent, and had barely any gaps.

He smiled.

Barely, didn’t mean none.

He had done this once before, when infiltrating Novar’s Peak to render the crown of Balastion Novar defunct. The wards surrounding Lonvoron and its star system were of the same nature that the wards surrounding Novar’s Peak were.

Multi-layered and ever shifting. Impossible to get through sneakily via spatiomancy for almost anyone in the universe.

Sneaking through the barrier was one thing. But not having someone recognize that a new occupant had entered the space of Lonvoron was another. He had little doubt that the previous time looper was paranoid and had many countermeasures.

His eyes blazed with power as soul energy subsumed him. He prepared two spells. The overwhelming majority of it went into one spell, with the slim remainder going towards a simple Teleportation.

What was space? Orodan occupied space himself, his attacks filled it, it wasn’t a lie to say that he was a spatial being. Advancing his understanding of space then, required embracing the insight that he was as much a part of the canvas of space as the canvas of space was a part of him. Grand objects on the canvas could bend and influence the very canvas, such as planets, stars and on the high end, the black hole at the center of most galaxies.

Orodan too, was a grand cosmic force. He brought the concept of Infinity to bear and had shaken the very System and Boundless Ones themselves. And just like them, like a planet, like a galaxy… like a black hole. Orodan’s influence on the canvas of space was grand.

He was no part of the canvas…

…but a grand force that altered and shook it much like he did the tapestry of fate.

Even as his eyes bled and every cell in his body was on the verge of dying under the mental strain… he never let up on using Vision of Purity. The wards of the entire Vystaxium Galaxy were accounted for in his mind.

And at the narrowest instant, a moment of time so slim that only chronomancers or those with exceptional reaction speed could capitalize upon it, Orodan found the perfect gap that he was looking for.

[Space Mastery 99 → Space Mastery 100]

[New Title → Space Grandmaster]

[Spatial Shift 13 → Spatial Shift 25]

And he stepped through…

…as a single cell.

Nearly dead from the sheer expenditure of soul energy required to spatially shift an entire star system. The shield of Fate Disconnect around his soul had shattered once more during that moment before Orodan hastily reformed it, and the tumultuous activity on the tapestry of fate provided one more layer of obscurity to hide his arrival.

He reformed while falling through the air and crashed through a shanty slum roof of sheet metal.

He extricated himself from the pile of rifles he’d fallen into, looking up at an amused Talricto.

“I’m fairly certain the entire galaxy is aware of your entrance, my dim-witted student.”

“Aware that there was an entry perhaps, but not where the entry was or who it is,” Orodan said. “Though, I suppose the gigantic Living Crystal broken into two pieces isn’t difficult to find.”

“G-gigantic Living Crystal…! You could have suffered a fate worse than death! You absolute buffoon! You utter oaf and imbecile! Do you know how dangerous that-”

Orodan tuned out the rest of Talricto’s rant as he smiled.

The prickly spider liked to act as though it didn’t care for him, but if that was the case then Talricto would’ve never lectured him to begin with. In the context of the loop, the dimensional phase spider had met Orodan for only a singular day, yet it was clearly attached to the man who’d provided it enchanted trinkets, given it a Blessing and promised Talricto plenty of adventures.

“-and why in the name of all goodness and civility are you putting that ugly rag on?!”

“This? Why it’s simply because I’m not looking to cause any trouble.”

“Anytime you say that I’m convinced trouble is most assuredly right around the corner.”

“Oi! Who’s there?! Is that a vagabond I hear!”

And as Orodan’s hand went to clamp down upon the lad who was indeed around the corner, Zaessythra actually laughed.

“No vagabonds here. Just a traveller from another world,” Orodan said, releasing Fenton Penny’s mouth. “One who might be looking to take on a talented young student who’s trying to hide his Enchanting.”

The young lad was more than a bit taken aback; perhaps owing to the menacing rag Orodan had wrapped around his head if not the casual revelation of his secret. Still, things would turn out fine.

His entry upon Port Bellgrave had, from what he was seeing, gone entirely unnoticed. And this time he planned on moving a bit more subtly and learning the lay of the land and some skills first.

It was time for a long loop upon Lonvoron. To try and find this previous time looper and perhaps act in a clandestine manner for as long as he could. But most importantly, on the smaller scale aside from these grand targets…

…it was time to help Fenton Penny and the little folk, and to just spend some time learning what he could upon Port Bellgrave. After all, this island alone had plenty of people to learn from. And not least of all an absolute prodigy of Enchanting who would surpass even Orodan himself with some proper tutelage.

The divine dimension was entirely purged of Eldritch. The Prophet was undoubtedly furious. Orodan certainly had trackers on his tail, not only for entering Lonvoron, but also for approaching Embodiment, and he’d beaten up one Embodiment-level being and caused another to flee while grievously injuring it.

All in all, it was quite the chaotic start to a new long loop.

Not a good start to things if being stealthy was his aim.
