“You are a maniacal and deranged being, Orodan Wainwright. When I threw you into the blue star, I expected you escaped via teleportation or magical means of cooling the temperature… tell me, did you brute force your way through?” his former foe asked.

“Yes. The flames were a good source of Fire Resistance training,” Orodan declared. “And whatever the star threw at me in terms of an eviction force simply wasn’t up to the task.”

“Fire Resistance? How have you obtained this? Were you born with this Bloodline or did you conduct experimentation or absorption to receive the skill?”

“What nonsense is that? I simply stood in place and allowed a pyromancer to burn me to death over and over again.”

His declaration was stoic, and Alagameth the Silent Oracle seemed even more taken aback. It was apparent to Orodan that the spider considered him an unhinged freak of staggering proportions.

“Your existence is utterly improbable. You generate power through the self-flagellation of your soul, fight with ferocity beyond what the human species should be capable of and then have no regard for pain as you power through all manner of adversity,” the Embodier said. “The more I look at you, the more reasonable the idea of you being cultivated to become the time looper seems.”

“Did you not say there were other ‘plucky and heroic’ time loopers like me? Surely there’ve been some mad beings who’ve done the same?” Orodan asked.

“Not to the extent of being burnt alive over and over to simply acquire Fire Resistance… is that the only one you have?”

“I have over ten resistance skills, all earned in a similar manner.”

Alagameth kept with its namesake and became rather silent after that.

“You mentioned a truculent wretch, earlier. Does he wield two swords and act all deranged?” Orodan asked. “I have dealt with him before, and he’s failed to break me. Just like your exercise in teaching me the dangers of my mindset has also failed.”

“You… are not lying, are you?”

“No. The Reject is a mighty foe, but his cage of eternal agony did not break me,” Orodan said and then turned away from the spatial spider. “Now then, I must thank you for teaching me all these things over the many loops we’ve battled, but something I have yet to avenge my losses against now approaches.”

Orodan had slain so many creatures of the void while fighting Alagameth that they didn’t dare to creep through the gaps of ruptured space to attack him like they did the first time he tore space apart. They’d gotten enough of a taste of him. The Grandmaster and Transcendent-level ones at least.

What was coming through the gaps though, was beyond anything else he’d faced in this battle thus far.

“A Living Crystal approaches! Flee you fool! Fly and end your own life before it comes!” the spider warned. “Long have I heard the tale of a time looper who succumbed to madness upon waking in the next loop due to assimilation by one of these creatures. Most Embodiers in the void will avoid them like the plague.”

“I shall be fine. I’ve faced it many times now,” Orodan said. “Farewell Alagameth… and thank you.”

“Orodan Wainwright… you are an exceedingly strange and mad being. The threads of fate tell me you make way for Lonvoron, into the jaws of that paranoid mage’s domain, do you not?” Alagameth asked and Orodan nodded. “Then… if you live, come seek the Conclave’s branch there. May we meet again.”

Alagameth faded away into the gaps between space, so great was its skill. Yes, Orodan had beaten the spatial spider, but that was through raw power. Embodiers were apex existences of the cosmos, and in no way did Orodan’s defeat of the Embodiment of Space imply that he could repeat the result at will. If anything, Alagameth could flee at will and strike at any number of times, with the outcome of a second serious battle being far from clear.

Yet now, a far more fearsome foe, one whose raw power exceeded the spatial spider’s by a large margin, approached.

Ur-Vah’sahn the Harmonious, a Living Crystal spoken of in hushed whispers throughout the cosmos. Even another Embodiment-level being seemed to fear it, and from what Talricto had said it was infamous.

It had been a hundred-and-fifty-seven loops of this battle so far, but even now, confident that he could put up a far greater fight than any time before, Orodan still felt this fight would take his all.

The ruptured canvas tore apart further as a gigantic crystal the size of a star system entered the part of the void Orodan was in, and he knew this was it. A true test of how far he’d come.

He was but a Transcendent against a being at the Embodiment-level. A man against a Living Crystal the size of a star system.

And as the long crystalline tendril approached, beckoning Orodan to submit and assimilate…

…he rejected it with a powerful reciprocal mental assault, returning it.

[Warrior’s Reciprocity 91 → Warrior’s Reciprocity 92]

And as it reeled for a brief instant, Orodan’s sword glowed with power unending. Incipience of Infinity, far stronger than it had been during his first battle against it, poured into the blade, preparing the mightiest of smites Orodan had cast thus far.

Shield slung across his back, both hands gripped his faithful sword tight, swinging downwards with horrifying power and a fell rage.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 86 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 87]

A terrible impact rang out across the void. The force so great that ruptured space briefly became whole in some sections only to immediately crumble entirely, creating pockets of mangled space fatal for any weak beings. His attack was previously enough to destroy a large planet in a singular strike. It was now mighty enough that an entire star system would shake.

A horrifying wound was created upon the crystalline face of Ur-Vah’sahn, a deep gouge from which it would never heal. And immediately, Orodan pressed the advantage, activating Incipience of Infinity to confront its very soul with the unfathomable depths of his own.

The concept of Infinity was domineering, inevitable. Before the endless horizon of Orodan Wainwright’s soul, what chance did this creature stands? None at all.

Ur-Vah’sahn in particular was vulnerable to such psychological attacks as it was composed of not just its core consciousness, but many millions of assimilated beings who became part of the Living Crystal. These beings, when gazing into the depths of Orodan’s soul, suddenly had their free wills returned!

Not only was the Incipience of Infinity capable of terrifying and intimidating… but it could also rouse and give strength to the oppressed!

Immediately, cracks began forming within the Living Crystal, and this was Orodan’s chance.

But how could he even begin to hurt it?

The answer came quick.

He had harmed things far larger than himself before. If anything, from the previous battles he’d had against it, it was quite deft at forcing him onto the defensive at range, but up close once he truly closed the distance and began hammering it in melee like a man mining a mountain… its skills seemed far less effective.

He had a lengthy track record of fighting gigantic creatures. The depths worm beneath Jerestir in his early loops, a peak-Transcendent mutated dragon, and now an Embodiment-level Living Crystal the size of a star system. With nary a thought, Orodan dove right into the exposed cracks created by his mighty blow.

And as he did, he began commanding the consciousnesses of the assimilated to come to him.

[Commandment of War 32 → Commandment of War 33]

Its shrill shrieks, akin to the ear-piercing shattering of glass, were horrible. Orodan’s new skill truly ravaged it, and it was practically coming apart as more rebellious souls within started to break free of the assimilation.

Thirty more seconds of burrowing within passed, until it finally had enough and reminded Orodan exactly how and why it had lived for so long. He had never gotten quite this far in his fights against it before.

The first sign that something was off was when the cracks began widening. With a deafening crash, the Living Crystal separated into three pieces, ejecting Orodan. However, the bad news was when each of these three pieces retained their intelligence and suddenly homed in on Orodan with a deathly mind for vengeance.

He sensed that its offensive power had weakened too, but that didn’t solve the matter of the three separate Living Crystals now charging up powerful beams of destruction.

With nowhere to evade, Orodan held his position in the void. He closed his eyes and tightly gripped the sword with both his hands.

Win or lose, he would throw his all into this one.

And it seemed that his Transcendent-level Combat Mastery and a few of his skills had something to contribute to the matter as well. His mind split and mantled each of his skills.

Logistics, clamorous as usual, was insistent that the ingredients for success were now within Orodan’s reach. It excitedly petitioned the giant Incipience of Infinity for help, and the aloof driver of Orodan’s soul agreed, throwing all its power into Smite of Abrupt Deliverance.

And then… Logistics suggested something which surprised even him.

It roused the newly recruited Commandment of War into targeting Orodan’s own soul energy. The light of his own soul, the fuel for his power, it was commanded to gather most stringently, compressed into a singular edge on Orodan’s blade.

Immediately, he felt the blade shudder, his soul empowerment over it barely holding under such intense compression of energy.

And with that Logistics gave the order for it all to move forward.

Yet, Orodan halted at the last moment.

It wouldn’t be enough! His foe could shatter a star system while Orodan could perhaps cause one to shake, the power gap was too wide!

It was then, that Orodan added his own twist to the equation.

Weaving was thrown in, alongside his newly learned Light Magic Mastery and Recycling.

Elemental magic, something he’d always failed to use alongside his melee combat. Every time he tried lighting his fist up with fire for a punch either a regular fireball or a punch would simply be more effective. The fire either fizzled out and was useless, or his fist was blown backwards and didn’t contribute to the strike. Bringing the two together in harmony was something he always had difficulty with.

Until now.

He’d watched Belina Botterson weave for a long time. In that art, Orodan felt there were some profound secrets that could be applied to the flows of energy in his own body. And now, as he utilized the principles of Weaving alongside Light Magic Mastery to create tightly bound ropes and intricate fibres of light all around his attack, improving its structural integrity, he felt proven right.

The Smite of Abrupt Deliverance roiling to be let loose was bound with reinforced light magic at the points which would take the most stress. These points then were the target of Recycling as the wasted energy would be smoothly woven back into the attack.

As the three beams from the separated Living Crystals approached, he knew what he had to do.

His soul the driver, light magic the stabilizer and reinforcer, with Recycling the gatherer of wasted energy and Weaving tying it all together alongside the contributions Logistics had already provided. With this…

…Orodan unleashed his all.

[Combat Mastery 113 → Combat Mastery 115]

[Logistics 28 → Logistics 29]

[Commandment of War 33 → Commandment of War 35]

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 87 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 88]

[Weaving 49 → Weaving 50]

[New Title → Weaving Adept]

[Recycling 8 → Recycling 14]

[Light Magic Mastery 11 → Light Magic Mastery 18]

Doom and utter destruction.

Orodan felt every single part of his body reel, with even his soul quivering at the sheer amount of soul energy he poured in. His body was reduced to a number of cells which could be counted on one hand. Not by the enemy, but by how much raw power he himself threw into the attack.

He wasn’t sure just how much destruction had been caused, because he was in a void and because the titanic impact actually dazed him for a brief moment.

It was like a lightly armored rider with a spear hitting a target at full gallop, the polearm would simply fly from their hands and the rider would continue on unimpacted. Whereas if a heavily armored rider with plates and lance hand guard which forced the weapon and rider to remain in place hit the target… the impact would be severe for both target and rider.

Orodan’s Smite of Abrupt Deliverance normally bled much of the energy off, not impacting him as much. Now though, he’d sealed that egress for the energy off and also recycled it back into the attack.

As the moments passed, Orodan reformed, and his hands regenerated around his weapons once more.

The turbulent remnants and mist of power was slowly clearing, yet no further attacks came his way.

Finally, as it cleared…

…his eyes widened.

The three pieces of Ur-Vah’sahn were now two!

And they were fleeing!

“Hey! Get back here!”

Orodan immediately gave chase and noted with some annoyance that it was on a dead collision course for a singular target…

…the Vystaxium Galaxy.

Damn it all! He had hoped to enter his destination stealthily but his cravenly foe would now ruin those plans!

Any thoughts of satisfaction at having forced an Embodiment-level enemy to flee were relegated to the back of his mind as Orodan raced to catch up as it approached the galaxy edge.

It skipped through space, and Orodan launched teleports in rapid succession to catch up which it immediately fled from the moment he came out. In smaller form, these two separate pieces of Living Crystal were incredibly fast and nimble.

