Though, taking punches to the face was something he was familiar with and good at, hence the return counterpunch slew the Transcendent creature of the void, some sort of scaly draconic biped, which sought to kill him. A dozen more were poised and ready to advance right behind it.

“First you throw me into a star, and now you’ve brought backup,” Orodan said, carving two more void beasts into pieces. “Rather devious of you. What next? You’ll throw me into a black hole?”

“Approaching a black hole is a death sentence, even I would not throw you there for fear of rousing an Administrator. From the look of things, I get the feeling you have battled me many times,” Alagameth remarked, pelting Orodan with arrows of light from a distance while the void beasts brayed for his blood and soul. “Are you surprised that an Embodiment of Space would fight in such a manner?”

It wasn’t even that these beasts of the void were allied with Alagameth. It was more so that Orodan’s soul burned far hotter, and he was in closer proximity to these blood-thirsted creatures than his opponent was. In such circumstances, they naturally went for the closer and tastier meal.

“It’s the first time you’ve ever fought like this…” Orodan muttered as he carved the remainder apart, only for his wily foe to summon a dozen more via spatiomancy and herd them towards him.

“Ah, I see. This must be the first loop in which you’ve told me you’re a time looper,” Alagameth calmly remarked while continuing to send arrows of light Orodan’s way. “Knowing you are one of those accursed fools, I now have no moral qualms about killing you. You will simply return, will you not?”

“You’re not wrong, but have my sort done something to offend you?” Orodan asked.

“Not at all, I simply wish to aid you by dispelling the poor mindset you’ve cultivated.”

“Poor mindset?” Orodan asked, smashing aside an arrow which entered a spatial rift mid-flight only to assail him from another angle.

“A mindset which will get you irreversibly harmed. It is plain to see that you’re one of those plucky and heroic time loopers who enjoys fighting and charging headfirst into danger. I intend to beat it out of you,” it said. “Better me than someone who would dispense a far worse fate.”

Orodan flashed a feral grin.

“Good luck. Neither of the Administrators have managed that.”

“…you fought them? You lie.”

“And you talk too much,” Orodan said, carving more void beasts apart and inching ever closer towards Alagameth. “If you think it’s a lie, why not beat me to get the answers? Win, and I’ll tell you everything.”

“A boorish suggestion… though I suppose I can deign to teach a rowdy brute some manners.”

Excellent. Good to see someone who knew what he wanted.

The beasts of the void rushed him, and they died. Yet more came, continually summoned by the spatial spider’s deft tricks of spatiomancy. It was a good strategy, overwhelm him with mounting pressure in melee that he couldn’t even think about manipulating space himself.

How could Orodan bring his spatiomancy to bear if he received absolutely no room in melee to do so?

A sensible strategy…

…against someone who fought in a conventional manner.

Attacks which sought to pressure him at every single instant were smashed through, deflected or sometimes outright ignored as he took them head on, suffering damage but using the opportunity to deliver more pain and destruction of his own.

Slobbering, bloodthirsty monsters all. Grandmaster and Transcendent level beasts of the void, many of them hungry for a tasty meal which wasn’t the same tough fare they were used to in the harsh and resource-starved ecosystem between galaxies.

Orodan fought a monster horde…

…and began to show them what a true monster was.

A swarm of fist-sized locust which could drill through mountains attempted to enter his mouth, only for Orodan to embrace the free meal and begin crunching them between his teeth. A dark centipede approached and attempted to overwhelm him through sheer volume of strikes, only for Orodan to turn his own hinges double jointed and strike multiple times in a singular motion, beating it at its own game via raw fisticuffs.

A mass of writhing black worms approached, the conglomeration of at least a hundred separate creatures yet all possessing one soul. Orodan’s fingers whipped about like a rubber band, each joint shooting back and forth to allow for multiple strikes in an incredibly small area and instant. A horrifying, grey-skinned ogre, emaciated and malnourished with its skin stretched taut upon its face charged him in melee, eager to taste his flesh. Yet its savagery borne of hunger was no match for his own rage and terror in melee. It locked his arms in a grapple and tried taking a bite out of his neck, only for Orodan’s headbutt to crunch its nose as he then tore its jugular out with his teeth.

[Combat Mastery 112 → Combat Mastery 113]

In a real fight where the only language was violence, everything was a weapon.

Pressure worked against those who cared about pain and damage in the first place. Orodan Wainwright would not be pressured by any swarm of chaff… instead he would be the one pressuring them.

His sword carved hordes of Transcendents. His shield smashed swarms of Grandmasters.

And slowly they began to break and falter when faced with his raw savagery in close-quarters combat.

The first to quail were the void monsters who approached him in melee. After slaying a few hundred the following ones in line to attack must’ve realized that damage trades against a perpetually healing berserker who bore an endless rage hotter than a star was suicide. Seeing so many die at once must’ve signalled something to them, but they broke and fled.

And with them, the rest of those trying to pelt him from range did too.

Orodan’s mouth, still stained from the blood of an ogre and the bits of the locust, beamed with a happy smile. His red teeth showing in a most unsettling manner.

“Have any more?”

The blazing white light of his soul began to envelop his body, and Orodan began preparing to throw it into one massively powerful teleport.

“How exceedingly violent. From where does that endless rage and power stem?” Alagameth asked, more than a little shocked and preparing itself to receive Orodan’s spatiomancy. “At this rate, our battle will attract far too much attention.”

“Good. I’m counting on it as I have one more score to settle,” Orodan declared. “You said once that brute force would not avail me against the skill, finesse and power of an Embodiment of Space. I’d like to put that to the test.”

Alagameth’s beady insect eyes widened, and its body shook in utter horror as it realized too late the magnitude of just how much power Orodan was putting into a mere Teleportation spell.

The gathered energy, greater than what he could have managed a hundred-and-fifty-seven attempts ago, enough to cause a star system to shake, was unleashed…

[Teleportation 95 → Teleportation 97]

[Incipience of Infinity 134 → Incipience of Infinity 135]

…and calamity began.

Teleportation wasn’t a destructive spell like Spatial Fold was. Yet, at the Transcendent-level, each level provided some mighty benefits, particularly for Orodan who had been ruminating on the meaning of infinity via using the Intimidation and Disguise aspects of his Celestial skill.

Needless to say, at level 135 of Incipience of Infinity, the amount of soul energy he could generate was monstrous, and his control over it iron tight, leading to less damage to his body. As a result, the raw power of the Teleport was capable of some things it normally shouldn’t have been.

Teleportation wasn’t a spell meant for grand-scale impacts upon space. It was neat, to-the-point and low-profile. It wasn’t a spell meant to take such power.

The soul energy shattered Orodan’s shield of Fate Disconnect, causing the tapestry of fate to dangerously tremble, and most importantly…

…it caused space to rupture entirely.

Through the field of ruptured space, the sheer amount of power Orodan threw into the Teleport allowed it to carry him directly towards Alagameth, and he was an instant from grabbing onto it when the spider fearfully unleashed its last trump card in a state of panic.

Never before had the spatial spider drawn from the very source that the Prophet and the Conclave also drew from. Whether it was because Alagameth knew of the Prophet’s true nature or whether it knew the corruptive properties of the light, was unclear. All the same, out of fear and surprise, it called upon the light, threatening to scorch Orodan.

But that was within expectations. After all, Orodan had spent a hundred-and-fifty-seven loops watching Silestor draw from the exact same elemental plane of light whenever the light mage used his Pillar of Light spell.

Yet the one thing that had truly bothered him about the spell was the fact that it relied upon faith to call something down from another plane. And in a similar vein, what truly bothered him about his latest skill, Summoning… was that it was a mere call for something to come down.

Two separate skills, one he knew, one he didn’t. And two weaknesses which irked him.

But what if, instead of a call…

…it was a demand? The warlike insistence, backed by sheer will, that something come down?

A roar tore free from Orodan’s lips, somehow carrying far through the airless void between galaxies. And as it did, he did not gently call or summon anything; it wasn’t his way. Instead, he commanded… demanded that it come down unto him or else.

Not faith, but the very brutal whip of willpower, issuing a decree that something come right down.

A Commandment of War.

[Skill Combination - War Cry 43 + Summoning 16 → Commandment of War 30 (Legendary)]

The light approached, and Orodan instead gave it a singular commandment.

To compress inwards… and ensure every little bit of the beam hit him fully. The commandment went a step further and pulled even more energy from the elemental plane of light, ordering, insisting, that it hit all of his cells from each and every angle.

His body was nearly destroyed down to the particle in but a singular beam of light.

“A skill with which you can summon things, and you use it to make enemy attacks hit you harder. A part of me wants to say it’s the most useless skill I’ve ever seen… but I’m beginning to learn by now not to question you.”

Zaessythra had grown in wisdom.

After all, to Orodan…

…this was simply good training.

Even Alagameth appeared in utter shock. Its attack had been gathered together, compressed and made even more effective!

“You…! You!” it uttered in pure shock.

“I know… you need not say it,” Orodan said, reforming like an unstoppable engine of battle. “This is a good training method.”

“I… I surrender. I have no interest in facing a crazed beast like you any longer. There is no saving you from your own mind! Even the Reject is not so disturbed!”

“Surrender? Why that’s simply unacceptable,” Orodan said, a bloodthirsty smile on his face.

“You… you will kill me? What have I done to offend you?” the spatial spider asked, more than a little terrified. An Embodiment-level being, caught before an existence that knew no logic nor restraint.

“…kill you? You seem to have it mixed up. No… you will attack me again.”

[Commandment of War 30 → Commandment of War 32]

The aggression and hostility were already there, a remnant from when his foe had decided to fight Orodan to start with. A bellowing war cry tore free from Orodan’s lips, commanding, demanding that this existing aggression be summoned unto him.

And the spatial spider suddenly became angry, launching yet another beam of light towards him! With a simple decree, Alagameth’s hostility had been summoned into targeting Orodan. The spider couldn’t help but want to assail him.

And yet again, Orodan commanded the light to compress, becoming even more powerful, and to strike him from every obscure direction possible.

[Body Tempering 71 → Body Tempering 72]

His body grew stronger, yes… but in watching the compressed light, he learned. He gained insights into how his own light magic could work better.

And at last… a beam of his own flew forth from him, striking the hostile beam which was continually burning him down to a smattering of cells.

[Light Beam 36 → Light Beam 37]

[New Skill → Light Magic Mastery 11]

His own beam of light, supercharged by all the available mana he had, actually reduced the power of the incoming beam by two-thirds. A resounding success and a great jump in power.

As Orodan reformed, not only had his body become stronger through directing the attack to hit him so thoroughly… but it was also quite the morale boost! For so long had he struggled to find consistent and effective ways of honing the quality of his physical form and his resistance skills. Enemies would either stop out of fear of making him stronger, or the din of battle would simply move on from such effective moments.

Yet now…

…he could control how he got his training in the midst of battle.

Each enemy stroke, each blow, each spell… they would all hit with maximal effectiveness and be made even stronger. After all, it was simply good training to make your enemies as strong as possible before defeating them.

“An insidious social skill! Have you no honor? Subverting the mind of another?!”

The spider… was not incorrect.

“I apologize, I got carried away in learning this for the first time,” Orodan admitted.

He decided then and there that this would only be used against enemies who wanted to harm him, or allies who consented to aiding him via sparring and not against any who wished to surrender.

