Time had the tendency to pass quickly when one was doing something they greatly enjoyed. Consequently, Orodan went through many loops of stealth, training in light magic and slaying wicked creatures all across Inuan.

And as these loops went by, so did numerous battles against Alagameth and that Living Crystal which always hunted him down. Though, as the attempts continued. he began noting how the Embodiment-level spider interrupted his Teleport with less and less urgency. Mainly because Fate Disconnect steadily gained levels and his effects upon the tapestry were lower and lower.

To most, even other time loopers, fighting a Living Crystal which could control the mind and forcibly assimilate other beings sounded like a nightmare. Far too risky a method of training. For Orodan, it was the first day of his never-ending week. Even if he was slain in a singular strike, these battles were excellent training and a source of steady skill gains across the board.

A hundred and fifty-seven loops of this grind had passed. Orodan had slain vampires, cultists and necromancers galore. The number of repeats had allowed him to memorize the exact locations of each group of vermin at the start of the loops, so he usually went about dispatching them right away without needing to involve Silestor at all.

His light magic steadily improved, but besides the slaying of wicked creatures, Orodan also worked on something else from time to time. Especially since he began to get quicker and quicker at wiping out the separate groups of monsters across Inuan.

A recently acquired skill which had provided unexpected assistance when he most needed it.

“Hey, wait! That’s my rope-laying shed!”

“I know,” Orodan declared.

“You… mean to lay rope now?” Belina Botterson asked, surprised. “First you fix my broken fence and install an entirely new coop, and now you want to weave rope? Selric wasn’t wrong… you’re an odd one, aren’t you? Since when does a militia man know Woodworking?”

“Since it has helped him center his mind and gain a different perspective. The best training often comes from the simplest of places and you never know what you’ll learn by dabbling in unexpected things,” Orodan calmly remarked as he entered the rope-laying shed. “You receive free product, I get some practice in, it’s a beneficial deal, is it not?”

“Well… I won’t say no to that Orodan,” Belina said. Her face then took on an irritated frown. “Though, you could stand to divest yourself of that silly rag upon your head! The eye holes aren’t even on the right side!”

“Apologies… I forgot to remove it after the dealings I recently had,” he remarked as he slipped it off. “Never know when you’ll need a good disguise.”

Frankly, Orodan didn’t need the rag itself. But out of sentiment, he enjoyed keeping it on during his attempts at stealthily taking down the plaza; a reminder of his old attempts at sneaking about. And the only reason Belina knew it was him was because Orodan refused to use Incipience of Infinity on the woman or anyone he cared about for that matter.

There was something almost… cosmically ominous about his soul. Better to not casually use that aspect of the skill when it wasn’t necessary.

Belina let out a long and suffering sigh of resignation.

“…I’m not even going to question it,” she said. “Don’t know how you’ve managed to have that imp so closely attached to your shoulder either.”

Upon cue, Belina’s baby daughter peered over Orodan’s shoulder to gaze curiously at her mother, her little head titling to the side in inquiry. The infant was hanging onto Orodan’s back and watching him work, her wide and curious eyes taking everything in with an intelligence which seemed beyond her years.

“This one’s smarter than you think. She’s destined for great things,” Orodan remarked as he began the process of stripping the bark and soaking it. He then spoke to the infant clinging onto his shoulder. “As you can see, the first part of the process involves stripping the inner bark. Notice, I say inner. That’s because the outer layer isn’t suitable for making decent fiber. Weaving is your mother’s line of work, and while you may or may not choose to go down that path yourself… learning new things can only be a boon. Do you understand?”

The baby nodded, a serious look on her face.

“I hope you’re not alarmed at how smart she is. She nods to me and Selric as though she can understand what we’re saying,” Belina explained. “Never cries or throws a tantrum either. Almost makes me wonder if…”

“No, she’s not possessed. Nor is she reincarnated,” Orodan assuaged. “If you don’t believe me, feel free to get her checked at a temple any one of these days.”

After enough loops of weaving with this little observer upon his shoulder, Orodan had come to learn that the reason for her intelligence and inquisitiveness was tied to how strong her soul was. Where everyone else’s soul was like a candleflame, this child’s was akin to a burning house fire.

She was still an infant and not of developed intelligence, yet Orodan suspected even if she couldn’t read, she had an understanding of the System and already showed the early levels in certain skills. And most importantly, the child had some rudimentary ability to sense souls. Which when coupled with a three-month old baby’s lack of fear for unknown individuals, meant that she found some way to flounder over to Orodan in most loops he visited the house.

It wasn’t unheard of, for the rare individual to be born as the progenitor of a Bloodline or some unique ability. This baby, Orodan felt, was destined to become some legendary figure with proper guidance. The world was a big place. and just like his young friend Fenton Penny upon Lonvoron, absurd talent could emerge anywhere, even Ogdenborough.

Belina took her from Orodan’s shoulder, and the little one was clearly unhappy about that.

“No, you’re getting in Orodan’s way you little imp. Don’t give me that sour look,” Belina chided her daughter. She then relented under a most furious and intense look of pleading. “Fine! But you’ll sit in your chair and not cause any trouble.”

She nodded and obediently caused no fuss as she was sat down and secured upon a baby stool which was at similar height to Orodan’s workstation.

“As I said, smarter than you think,” Orodan remarked with a smile as he used his hand to subtly launch the Time Compression of the Smite of Abrupt Deliverance upon the soaking wood fibres. “Her soul’s quite strong. In time I can see her becoming a powerful figure.”

“Her soul? How can you tell?” Belina asked. “Never mind that… what do you mean by her becoming a powerful figure?”

“Displaying her abilities early on, bringing you and your husband much praise, making her peers jealous and catching the eye of the nobility in Trumbetton or Karilsgard,” Orodan said. “An Academy will do her good once she’s old enough.”

Left unsaid was that this baby’s soul strength was more than a little eye-catching for her age. Her parents being killed and the child kidnapped for grooming into a powerful asset was a very real possibility… if Orodan didn’t plan on eradicating anyone who tried such a nefarious thing.

Having lost his own parents to the manipulations of forces beyond his station, he would not allow such a thing to befall any other.

“An… Academy? We’re getting by and might even be able to move out of Ogdenborough soon, but Selric and I aren’t that well-off for us to afford such a thing,” Belina said, seriously considering the matter.

Orodan shoved a large purse into her hands.

“Should be enough. And even without it, I have little doubt that she’ll be singled out for a sponsorship rather quickly,” Orodan said. “Might I recommend presenting her to House Simarji in Velestok when the time comes? Less… politics.”

Nothing against Burgher Ignatius, but the Simarjis were a closer-knit and homelier sort who preferred to remain away from the more unsavory politics of the nobility. They had fewer enemies as a result.

Belina’s eyes widened when she peered into the mouth of the purse.

“G-gold coins?! At least two dozen too!” Belina said. “I… I cannot accept this. This is far too much! Maybe a quarter of it, sure, but the entire thing? I’ll get robbed within the day!”

“Just make a deposit at the bank in Scarmorrow. I can escort you if that’s what you need,” Orodan said.

“No need, I’ll drag Selric along when he gets off work,” the woman said. “…thank you. But I have questions.”

“Can’t promise I’ll answer them fully.”

She frowned but didn’t raise any further argument.

“First… how have you gotten this much money Orodan? Is Selric not telling me something about how much you lot in the militia make?”

“We make a single gold coin a year in salary, perhaps one-and-a-half for corporals and two for sergeants dependent on location.”

“Then how, pray tell, have you come upon so much money that you’re giving it away to me? Do I need to worry about the authorities kicking down my door for possession of stolen gold?” Belina asked. “And most importantly… why?”

“As for how, don’t worry about it. The amount in that purse is mere change to the man I borrowed it from. A little donation from him to aid the less fortunate given all the misdeeds he’s done,” Orodan said, recalling how he’d taken Baron Viglas Argon’s coin purse after resurrecting the man’s family. Not that the Baron cared about that at all given the new lease on life and second chance he’d received. “And as for why? I owe you.”

“Orodan, the only times I see you are when you and your troop come by for patrol and wave at the window. And you’re possibly the surliest of the bunch and never speak much,” Belina said. “I can’t possibly see how you owe me, unless you’ve come to repay something Selric did for you.”

She wasn’t wrong. The Orodan Wainwright before the time loops had been a singularly focused man, caring only about training and little else. Now though, alongside his goals, he also kept note of those who’d helped him and those he owed a debt to.

This woman was among that lot.

“You taught me Weaving,” Orodan answered with a smile.

The woman looked as though a practical prank was being played upon her. Particularly since Orodan weaved a finer rope than she could ever manage.

“Are you pulling my leg? I’ve never taught you anything,” she said. “That’s a nicer rope than I could ever make myself… how long have you been plying that trade for?”

“Close to half a year,” Orodan said, pulling the soaked wood fibres out and drying them with a quick Candleflame.

“Hold on, hold on! You’re giving me far too many surprises at once!” she exclaimed, shaking her head. “First you’re capable of magic, then the bark’s somehow done despite the fact that you put it in for soaking moments ago, and now you’re some master of weaving who’s been training for half a year only?”

“An Apprentice actually, only at level 48, and I’ve had some other forms of training that allowed me to rapidly acquire insights. I wouldn’t feel too bad about it if I were you.”

“Only level 48 he says… how can you be so talented? I’ve seen some of the Weaving those Adepts in the Academy are capable of, yours looks an awful lot like theirs,” Belina muttered, looking intimidated. “If you can get that good in half a year, what have I been doing with my life?”

“You’re too hard on yourself. Looking after Botterson and your two daughters while also running a chicken farm and weaving rope on the side is rather impressive. That you’ve made an economic living of it is even more so,” Orodan said. “You’d excel just as much as I with the proper support and resources.”

Belina Botterson was a resourceful woman. That she could make profit off of the wood scraps provided by Fodgarton’s and Westwater’s shops while also running a farm and caring for a family was downright fascinating. Orodan wasn’t arrogant enough to lack self-awareness of the fact that having no family and very few friends meant that he was quite unburdened in the time loops.

What if he’d had a child to care for? A spouse? He certainly couldn’t go about the loops the same way. It made him respect hardworking and resourceful folk like her all the more.

Orodan wouldn’t even say he was all that talented at Weaving either. Good at working hard and pursuing precarious avenues of advancement, yes. But outright talented at the art? No. The only reason his Weaving had progressed as fast as it did was due to his repeated battles against two Embodiment-level beings. His Transcendent Combat Mastery though, was the real multiplier for his learning speed. It helped bring skills he might’ve otherwise thought unrelated to combat into his fighting style.

Regular weaving was nice, and the basics would always have their place, but utilizing the principles of Weaving in combat to cast spells and guide the energy flows of his attacks was an excellent form of training itself.

“Come, better to focus on yourself than to dwell on what others can do,” Orodan said, gesturing to a nearby stool. “Want me to teach you some of these spells? I can’t promise you’ll be able to cast them all, especially the chronomancy. But perhaps we can get you to learn a Galewind yet. You already know Candleflame, and a wind spell will round out your ways of drying things.”

“Proper magic tutelage? Me?” Belina asked. “Why I never…”

