The two of them were now stood in front of the entrance to Ranmere’s Folly, in the far western swamps of the Republic, where a clear path to the abyssal depths lay. Orodan didn’t need to bring them here, but it was mainly to give Destartes a chance to collect himself and shake off the alcohol.

The wizard shook his head and began glowing with all manner of energy, courtesy of Orodan’s Blessing.

“I am prepared if you are, Mister Wainwright.”

“Then let’s tarry no longer.”

[Dimensional Step 21 → Dimensional Step 22]

Orodan carried the two of them deep into the bowels of the earth. Spatiomancy would’ve been possible, if slightly more difficult due to the interference of all the world and System energy a planet’s core naturally had. And he didn’t want to risk a passenger’s safety even the slightest bit when they’d trusted him to ferry them along. Dimensionalism though, was well-suited to ignoring such concerns.

An uneventful passage through the porous dimensional boundary took them to a gigantic chamber, a familiar one where a massive, spherical object lay.

Their arrival hadn’t gone unnoticed.

“Interloper!”

A giant, lanky and grey-skinned humanoid whipped an arm towards Destartes.

It was caught in one hand by Orodan, and the attacking Void Horror, a gate guardian for the world core and whose sibling was descending in six months, was thrown into the chamber wall.

It and the other two gate guardians in the chamber were ready to fight. The core guardian, who Orodan remembered was an early Transcendent-level creature, was nowhere to be seen. Likely gone after he cleansed the planet of all Eldritch and broke the controls over its mind.

A booming voice put all that to an end as world energy subtly flowed from the world core to the defensive gate guardians.

“Cease, loyal guardians. This one does not come meaning us harm, we owe a great debt… Orodan Wainwright.”

It was the world core that spoke, Alastaia itself. A world core was but the heart of a planet, but it wasn’t who was speaking. The land, its spirit, the very life suffusing it… Alastaia’s consciousness was the conglomeration of all these things. A consciousness that had come to being and gained sapience as life upon the world had begun flourishing so many billions of years ago. As the living things upon it grew and flourished, so did it. As civilization thrived and ideas spread, so did Alastaia gain knowledge and conscious ability to speak.

If anything, world cores and their consciousnesses were older than most living Transcendents and even some Embodiment-level beings. Orodan wasn’t sure if he could assign them a tier of combat prowess, as they were so unlike any other form of life he’d encountered. Frankly, were they even life themselves? Orodan didn’t know.

He stepped forward, raising two empty hands in a gesture of non-aggression.

“I’ve not come to have a brawl, not here,” he said. “You know of me?”

“Like a wave of warm water washing over a shivering cub in the winter, your power graced our lands and people, purging the foul rot of the plague and liberating our mind for the first time in many years. That same warmth we felt but a day ago, can be from you now, standing before us.”

He wasn’t aware that his skill had a ‘feel’ to it, but perhaps that was the feeling of his soul energy that the world was speaking of?

“Right, then we can put the hostilities aside,” Orodan said. “I’ve come to deal with the potential threats my world will face.”

“The descending darkness, a guardian stolen from us and lost to the corruption of the encroaching plague.”

“Yes, the Eldritch Avatar is but one of the things I will deal with today, but not what I came here to discuss,” Orodan said.

To the side, the Void Horror angrily exhaled and growled in outrage.

“My sibling is the deadliest threat this fledgling world will ever face! Corrupted by those dark powers, he is no footnote to be disregarded! To claim you shall deal with it is simply-”

He didn’t have too much time before he was due to meet Talricto upon the moon. He had fought the Eldritch Avatar more than a few times by now, but even then, on just their third battle, Orodan had pulled it down to Novar’s Peak, diverting its course. Now that Orodan’s Space Mastery had grown by leaps and bounds through facing Alagameth? The matter wasn’t in question at all.

Spatiomancy was also one of those skills he’d really focused upon during his stint of time as a Systemless being. That and the insights gained during his fights against Alagameth meant that freeform manipulation of something in space wasn’t difficult.

Orodan wasn’t sure how many tens of thousands of loops he’d been through in the totality of his existence, but by now he’d memorized the Eldritch Avatar’s starting position and path of arrival through the void quite well.

A spatial rift into the void opened up, and Orodan’s hand reached out to grab a foul Eldritch tentacle protruding from purplish-gray rock.

Confident that it could support its body weight, he tugged…

…and a gigantic meteor the size of a mountain was pulled into the cavernous chamber, no match for Orodan’s raw might.

Immediately it thrashed, breaking free of the rock and frantically looking around, wondering what had ambushed it. And then, its eyes narrowed in a most predatory manner upon seeing the world core right in front of it.

“Blessed fortune granted to us by the provenance… the intended recipient of our truth is right here.”

“Defend the world core! The plague has entered the innermost sanctum!” another gate guardian roared.

“…brother?” the Void Horror called, and then its eyes hardened, preparing for violence.

The other gate guardians were girded for war. Destartes glowed with power, ready to fight it. The Void Horror was unwilling but prepared to do what needed to be done, and Alastaia itself was in a state of sudden shock and quite angered and frightful of the possibility of corruption.

“You have brought the plague into our domain. Such a transgression will- what… is this?”

Everyone’s clamoring on the matter was brought to an end as Orodan’s body blazed with soul energy, emanating enough raw power to shatter the shield of fate around his soul and cause the tapestry of fate to tempestuously erupt. Power enough to outstrip multiple world core was brought to bear; all directed towards his broom.

Orodan wasn’t concerned about any corruption. His planetary purge of his home world had not only eliminated all the Eldritch but also fortified everything against further corruption forevermore. When even the Custodian, the greatest force of cleaning in the cosmos, had failed to achieve talent parity against him, what hope did the Eldritch Avatar and its puppeteering Gods have?

His broom, empowered to the utter limit as Incipience of Infinity had made gains throughout his hundred-and-fifty-seven loops of grinding, sailed forwards…

…and struck the corrupted champion of the Eldritch. And far more behind it.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 148 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 149]

Normally, a level gain should have been a good thing. Yet even as Orodan’s purging wave of power wiped the taint from the Eldritch Avatar, off the three corrupt Gods and beyond even them, cleansing all of the divine dimension…

…he could only feel an ominous sense of foreboding. The familiar feeling in his gut which told him that an Administrator was on his tail.

Unlike last time he’d gained a level, this time he made sure to carefully keep an eye on the tapestry of fate, and he noticed a strange wave pattern emanating out throughout it. It wasn’t that he was producing any strange alarm throughout the System, but that the tapestry of fate itself seemed geared towards detecting when someone was approaching the Embodiment-level.

The System was powerful and held a store of knowledge that it granted individuals as they gained levels… but even if Orodan didn’t have the System everyone else used, the insights and effects he caused upon reality were very much noticeable.

Approaching and achieving Embodiment would only cause problems, just as the Custodian had warned.

“Now then. The Prophet is certainly aware of what I’ve done, likely stopped only by the fact that the tapestry is in utter flux,” Orodan said. “Shall we talk?”

He still had time enough to leave Alastaia. The Prophet was in Lonvoron and Orodan’s intentional shattering of his Fate Disconnect shield meant that the tapestry descended into chaos and tracking him based off the level gain would be difficult.

Still, with the divine dimension entirely purged of Eldritch, one thing was for certain…

…this upcoming loop would be a tumultuous one.

#

In the end, the main problem was the fact that even approaching Embodiment was a dangerous prospect. It wasn’t that Orodan cared about dying himself, but the thought of an angry Prophet descending upon Alastaia and shattering it wasn’t a pleasant one though.

Furthermore, the true problem would start after he attained Embodiment and went past level 150. At that point, he would be akin to a walking beacon any time he used his Celestial skill. He needed to find a method of stopping his - and by extension Alastaia’s - position being broadcasted across the cosmos every time he woke up at the start of the loops.

There was a reason why Embodiment-level beings couldn’t simply be found wandering on planets and living a leisurely life; they instead hid in the void between galaxies like rats. Even if they didn’t use their skill at all, Orodan had never seen or heard of one living within the bounds of a galaxy. Not only did other Embodiment-level beings hunt them down in the hopes of taking more of their insights and dominating the concept they were competing over for themselves… but Administrators too were a part of this hierarchy, and the stronger Embodiment-level beings were constantly pursued and hunted by them.

In comparison to the structuring of society and politics around Grandmasters and Transcendents, the Embodiment-level was a bloodthirsty pit of beasts. It was an entirely lawless ecosystem of dog-eat-dog where the mightiest beings would doubtlessly rise to the top and oppress those beneath them. A zero-sum game which incentivized the hunting down and killing of all competitors; even potential ones like Orodan.

He also faced the additional problem of being a little too talented at cleaning. The pinnacle of System space when it came to cleaning was the Custodian…

…and Orodan had overpowered even that Arch-Devil. Needless to say, once he reached Embodiment, everyone across the cosmos would be out for his head, which sounded just fine to him, but he had to consider the people of his home world who would get caught up in his mess if a dozen Embodiers decided to launch star-shattering assaults towards his planet.

Yet, he knew that it could be done. The previous time looper, though Orodan didn’t know who they were, was without a doubt at the Embodiment-level. Yet they managed to remain within Lonvoron.

Yes, they hid like a rat, paranoid and prepared with layers upon layers of plans and contingencies, but they had undoubtedly made it work. Living proof of the concept that it was possible to hide from other Embodiers. They’d even managed to strike out and acquire the Reject’s Administrator Mantle and evade the Prophet who’d been pursuing them

And while Orodan had no interest in hiding and welcomed the challenge, at the very least he didn’t want Alastaia to get caught up in the crossfire of an Embodier attacking him the moment the loops began.

To that end, he needed to make for Lonvoron not just for his existing goals, but also to potentially learn how to avoid pandemonium at the start of every loop.

And this time, that spatial spider would be taught a lesson. He was nearing a breakthrough and a duel against Alagameth would solidify the understandings Orodan held.

And then…

…good training.

“I won’t even question what you do anymore. Time and time again you’ve proven my derision for your ways to be wrong, therefore I’ll simply keep my mouth shut.”

“Is that why you’ve been so quiet? Because you’ve had enough of my effective methods of training?” Orodan asked.

“A few thousand loops ago would have been a good time to stop being surprised by the absurdity that is you, but now’s as good a time as any to start. Water is wet, fire is hot and Orodan Wainwright routinely engages in madness which somehow gives him exceptional results,” Zaessythra said. “All this is to say, I’m not even surprised by your latest plan. I refuse to be.”

Which was… good? Not like Orodan had ever asked people to act surprised or shocked by what he did. Was it not normal to seek advancement at every turn? There were other geniuses who also engaged in risky and innovative methods of training, yet Zaessythra never gave them half as much lip as she did him.

“That’s because you…! Never mind, I’m getting drawn into your game once again,” she said, sounding as though she’d reached some sort of enlightenment. “Carry on as you were, Orodan. Good job.”

He wasn’t even that weird! She was just being dramatic he felt.

“Finished having a conversation with the companion in your mind which only you can see and hear?” Talricto asked.

“You need not make me sound like I’m afflicted with madness… you noticed the oddity about my soul yourself,” Orodan retorted.

“It does stick out as quite the distorted and mangled thing. At first, I thought it a parasite which needs to be extracted and discarded, but then you started talking to it and I let go of that otherwise sensible notion,” the spider said. “Who am I to interfere with the affairs of my simple-minded and untalented student?”

