True strength came not from allies or fighting alongside others, but from within. In Orodan’s opinion anyhow. Though he would admit that at least those summoners who fought alongside their summons he could still respect.

“Arasha will not brook such insults from you mortal. You have struck her, and now you shall-!”

“I apologize, but I’ll have to send you back. Hadn’t planned on you actually answering the call…”

A quick bout of Dimensionalism sent the pompous fire elemental back to whence she came, which Orodan noted with his skill in the art… was the sun. Hmm, interesting.

Did Summoning grab the closest possible being willing and able to answer the call commensurate with the mana cost?

“You realize that nations would have gone to war in order to secure that elemental as a strategic asset, yes?” Silestor asked.

“What am I supposed to do with an elemental? I have enough allies capable of delivering snarky comments and criticizing everything I do. Let them summon it themselves if they want such a strategic asset.”

If they could manage the mana cost.

“Never mind that, try it once more, this time without enough mana to level a country,” Silestor said.

[Summoning 15 → Summoning 16]

The amount of mana poured in was minuscule this time, only what an average mage would put in. Something was on the other side, wanting to come in, but the feeling Orodan got was that it didn’t know how.

A problem solved easily enough with Dimensionalism, as Orodan gave it a slight nudge and a pull through the doorway of his own creation. The spell circle barely trembled before something appeared with a puff of smoke.

Green, gelatinous and in Orodan’s opinion, quite adorable.

“A slime, how amusing,” he said, petting its head and causing it to happily jiggle.

It tried affectionately molding around his finger and biting it off but was unable.

“An actual monster…? How can that be?”

“You seem oddly stressed,” Orodan said. “Beast tamers bond with slimes often, it shouldn’t be such a shock.”

“Yes, but you summoned one! That shouldn’t be possible!”

Orodan was used to breaking convention and doing what others saw as impossible, but even he had to admit the actual Summoning skill, and not Demon Summoning or Elemental Summoning, was quite valuable. In essence, he could call anything. Learning Demon Summoning or Elemental Summoning, both of which were Uncommon rarity skills, wouldn’t have taken him nearly as many loops or painstaking scroll hunting otherwise.

An overarching skill which let him call anything, from anywhere was incredibly valuable. Of course, it had to be capable of thought and then want to answer his summons. Furthermore, the skill was limited in that only something capable of dimensional or spatial travel itself could come through. Imps and powerful fire elementals fit that bill but not slimes.

Of course, Orodan had circumvented that limitation by knowing Dimensionalism himself and pulling it through anyways.

One more step towards acquiring the skill he wanted. He placed the slime to the side and then returned his attention to the scrolls arrayed before him still.

Various articles were before him. The primary one was the tome for the pillar of light spell, and the others were various scrolls of demonic summoning.

Across the loops, Orodan had found that cultists were a haphazard lot with differing techniques on demonic summoning; some functional, many useless. Hard to have a coherent and consistent method of summoning when cults were spread across Inuan, very rarely had contact with one another and were typically squashed with force once the Cathedral got wind of them.

Two cults could have entirely different methods of summoning a demon. And while this seemed like it was a headache to navigate and could lead to inefficient knowledge, Orodan in fact welcomed the diversity of ideas as it helped him develop his own Summoning skill.

The large group he and Silestor had dealt with on his very first loop of aiding the man, had some vaguely passable technique for devil calling, but it was far from the best. But that was where the benefit of the time loops made themselves known. Not only did a hundred-and-fifty-seven loops of hunting vampires, cultists and necromancers down allow him to memorize their locations for efficient disposal… but it also gave Orodan access to their nefarious techniques and rituals.

Most of them which involved the sacrifice of the innocent were useless to him. Sacrificial rituals which involved others, in Orodan’s opinion, were the way of the weak. Having to rely upon the life force and soul energy of the slain was basically admitting that one didn’t have the strength to empower the ritual themselves. Still, even in studying these useless techniques there was much to be learned.

The three scrolls on demonic summoning he had in front of him had been sourced from a three-hundred strong enclave of cultists near the Novarrian-Dwarven border. Of all the groups of wicked beings he’d slain, that had undoubtedly been the strongest; allowed to grow uninterrupted for a while due to the monster-infested habitat their hideout was in. Entrenched, well-defended and decently trained, their forces had even managed to successfully summon and bind two demons well before Orodan even got to them.

Needless to say, he gave the demons a light beating and let them return to the hells before wiping the whole enclave out. The scrolls he obtained from them were the most comprehensive ones he’d seen yet and, alongside all the other inefficient methods he’d read, allowed him to develop a holistic view of the art and acquire the overarching Summoning skill.

Silestor released an exhausted sigh.

“Anyhow, your actions have caused me quite the headache today. All these revelations in particular,” Silestor said. “Let’s start with the matters which concern me and my mission. You’ve caused quite an uproar by slaying every vampire, cultist and necromancer across Inuan.”

“I didn’t slay all of them. Some were just hermits living off the blood of hunted animals or starving themselves, and there was this one necromancer who raised the corpses of bandits and used them to protect remote villages on the Novarrian border,” Orodan clarified. “Didn’t see any righteousness in bothering them.”

There were also a few cultists who sought to summon demons with their own life force, with the stringent moral boundary of not using any sacrifices. Orodan considered them to be another flavor of mage than he did wicked cultists. He gave them a few pointers on how to develop vitality related skills to aid in fuelling their ritual and wished them good luck with their summoning and the subsequent fight they’d have once their target crossed over to the material plane.

“The necromancer I can understand… but there is no salvation for those who willingly embrace the call of blood,” Silestor accused. “A good vampire? If they were so noble they’d turn themselves over for the purging of their curse.”

“I’ll admit that most vampires I’ve met have been the foul bloodsucking kind who prey upon innocents, yet I’ve also met some who abhor such acts. I’m not about to go around judging the few for the crimes of the many,” Orodan replied, his tone brooking no dissent. “You and I both know that the Cathedral is full of corruption. Your arm of hunters and exorcists is but one part of the organization, what of the others? Should everyone turning themselves in to the grace of the Gods expect to be treated well? I certainly learned the hard way what happens when one places too much faith in divine tyrants.”

Silestor shook his head and remained quiet for a moment.

“You are not incorrect… your tale of being a time looper has made me doubt many things I once took for fact,” Silestor said. “Some of these things sound utterly unbelievable, in the realm of sloppy fiction and childish tales. And yet, your power and the improbable things you’ve done are no lie.”

“I figured you would appreciate the upfront honesty. That’s what you recommended I do when I met you for the first time,” Orodan said. “Now then, onto this pillar of light spell that I’ve been wrestling with for the last hundred and a half loops…”

“And as I must’ve doubtlessly told you before, you need faith.”

“Which I’ve heard enough times… but now I think I understand what you’re really using,” Orodan said. “Hit me with one of your pillars of light, will you?”

“Hit you? As you wish.

“Do it.”

Silestor was a no-nonsense man and didn’t need much convincing. It was a misconception that one needed to call the pillar of light down from the sky specifically. Perhaps that limitation was true at the lower levels, but for Silestor who was a Master, the spell could be conjured from above someone’s head or even from behind or below them. As Orodan had learned from asking the man once, Silestor preferred to keep knowledge of that bit to himself as a trump card.

The power above Orodan’s head roiled, ready to strike. And as the blazing golden light came down and impacted Orodan’s outstretched hand, he was proven right in what exactly the spell was powered by.

It didn’t look much different from any other light beam, visually that was. Yet, Orodan had been killed by this light more than enough times that when it struck, he knew from whence it came.

The power of the beam was low too, yet it still gave Orodan’s surface layer of cells a good singe, unlike what any light magic of the equivalent level should have been capable of.

Silestor however looked more than a little impressed.

“Remarkable… nobody can resist the light to that extent…”

“Matter of fact, your spell punches far above its level, capable of harming even me,” Orodan admitted. “No Master-level magic should be capable of it.”

“The power of light drawn from faith is most mighty indeed.”

“Mighty only because it’s borrowed from someplace else,” Orodan said, causing Silestor to frown. “Interesting to see that you draw from the same elemental plane that my enemy does. With this… perhaps I can get a good understanding of how to counter it.”

The light Silestor had struck him with wasn’t regular light magic, nor was it divine energy. It was light borrowed directly from an elemental plane. The same plane of energy which the Conclave took from, the same plane which the Prophet powered himself with and corrupted with the Eldritch.

Though, Orodan wondered why the spell required faith at all and not just skill in Dimensionalism? A mystery that called for further investigation.

Naturally, he discarded the thought of ever learning and using the pillar of light for himself. But that didn’t mean the spell was useless. Far from it in fact.

Now he knew from where the power was pulled.

And most importantly with his new Summoning skill in hand…

…the beginnings of a way forward began to foment in Orodan’s mind.

Though merely calling something wasn’t the height of his aspirations.

#

Destartes took a swig of the wine bottle he’d conjured from the dimensional ring and passed another to him.

Orodan also took a sip.

“I confess, I’ve never been much of a drinker,” Orodan admitted.

He had little time for gathering at the barracks’ mess hall for some beer or ale after shift. Before the loops, training and fighting were all he cared for. They still were, for the most part, but he could now appreciate some other things about life. Alcohol though, wasn’t one of them.

“Neither have I,” Destartes said, red-faced due to the alcohol. “As you can see, the wine affects me more than a little strongly.”

Orodan quirked an eyebrow at him.

“And yet you take the chance to unseal this millennia aged wine every time I recount the entire situation to you. It doesn’t even taste all that good…”

“In fact, I concur. I won this after a duel against some Novarrian ponce who thought my reputation to be unearned,” the old wizard said. “Out of spite I suspect he might’ve given me something shoddy… or something meant to poison me, hard to tell.”

“You really are a character when you’re loosened up with a bit of drink. While I have no interest in having you fight my battles for me, you do realize we’re about to enter the abyss and go someplace unreached by any other on Alastaia, yes?” Orodan asked. “Will you be ready to defend yourself when we enter?”

In truth, Orodan didn’t need Destartes to be capable of even that, nothing native to Alastaia could threaten him anymore. But it was the principle of the matter.

“Of course, of course,” the old mage said, casting a quick spell which cleared the redness from his cheeks. “There, all better now. You’ve asked me to come along for my mind and connections anyhow, have you not?”

“Aye. The world core and I need to have a talk,” Orodan said. “Best to have someone who’s familiar with the Republic’s military and defenses for what I’ll be discussing.”

Orodan had approached Destartes shortly after dealing with Silestor and purging all the tyrant three and Eldritch from Alastaia. The man and his conspiracy group across the Republic and Eastern Kingdoms would handle the transition of power. But, unlike prior loops, Orodan felt this to be one where he would succeed.

Consequently, leaving the matter of a certain descending comet unresolved would leave a foul taste in his mouth. Orodan felt responsible for the Eldritch Avatar. And while it didn’t matter much what happened to it in the short loops he’d been going through, in a potential long loop, he felt it his duty to take care of it.

