The hammering of metal, the smelting of ore and the gentle taps and clinks of jewelcrafting could be heard all throughout the chamber.

“This is new… we don’t usually get to building this thing until near the end of the loop. Why the change?” Edrosic asked as he sketched out new drawings on the spot within seconds.

The drawings were then telekinetically moved by Destartes to wherever they were needed.

“This time, I have no intentions of using it until much later. We shall also need Fenton’s unique expertise and that of the engineers of Lonvoron,” Orodan replied. “Consider it… pre-building until they arrive and show us where we’ve gone wrong.”

It wasn’t that he had no faith in his enchanting skills, but that Fenton’s abilities and that of Clyburn Anderthorn’s were plainly better. He certainly intended on being capable of building the machine himself down the line. But having such experts around to correct him where he went wrong was important.

After all, Orodan wasn’t exactly naturally talented in either Enchanting or Engineering, and learning them in a void bereft of others like he could with Cleaning wasn’t an option.

Still, with all the people he had gathered now, rebuilding this ancient machine certainly wasn’t an activity bereft of others. If anything, one might argue there were a few too many people here. And much to his consternation, he wasn’t doing much.

“You! Move two paces to the right before you start applying that or else you’ll get in the way of the stonecutter, and you, work in sync with the ritualist below! Don’t start until that ritual is prepared first!”

Old Man Hannegan was barking instructions and corrections left and right, but there were just so many targets for them. So Orodan turned to the one man responsible for all this.

“Balastion…”

“Yes Orodan?”

“You realize that it is supposed to be us who builds the machine, correct?”

“Why, of course I do..”

“…then why are there dozens of additional specialists here?”

“To aid the effort.”

“And have you considered… that we did just fine in the prior attempts we had without all these specialists? When I was allowed to lift a hand and do some work?”

The first emperor laughed and simply clapped him on the shoulder.

“Consider that we each have our own specialties,” Balastion said. “Yes, you are an excellent stonecutter, but here we have Grandmaster Varnok of Scarmorrow and a team of the best stonecutters from the Eastern Kingdoms working on reinforcing the mountain. You are a great Jewelcrafter, but over there is Griok of the Rising Spear Tribe, now a Grandmaster Jewelcrafter and working alongside two other Grandmasters. And of course, we have the best smiths from the High Forges of Karilsgard and the Novarrian armories working together to ensure the metal is as strong as can be; dothril-reinforced in fact.”

“With assistance from the best enchanters of Aldenil too,” Eldarion spoke, in his seat at a conjured table where he, Adeltaj and Destartes were sipping tea. “And might I say that Gregory is as reliable as always? Even our crafters cannot quite understand how they are doing so much better under his guidance.”

“Neither can I. I still have no idea how that old man does it…”

Like a cat hearing its prey across a field, Old Man Hannegan’s ear twitched and he glared across the crowd to look at him.

“Who’re you calling old you rockhead?! Get down here and make yourself useful! I need some of this stuff hauled! Help throw the ore into the smelters and help the ritualists with whatever they need.”

And Orodan immediately moved to get to work, grateful for the opportunity to do something amidst this sea of specialists and experts crowding the chamber of the ancient machine.

It was no challenge for him at all, to pick up the crates of ore and hurl the contents into the openings for the furnaces that had been set up. His Physical Fitness, Body Tempering and even Gourmand had increased in level. The laast one due to the few times he was able to cook and savor a fine meal throughout his intense training regimen, but the former two were all improved during battle against some very strong Embodiers who had begun showing up once he had the goat-woman pressed.

He appreciated the training, certainly, but one among their number would be a real problem. Close to the power of an Administrator.

“In here sir!” a furnace worker called out, Elite-level and capable of extracting far more metal from ore than an untrained person doing the same thing.

Orodan tossed the contents in and could only lament all the skill level gains he was missing out on. The furnacess, specialized devices capable of smelting the incredibly expensive and powerful dothril ore, had been installed here by Novarrian and Republic engineers. The reason being that Balastion believed it best to have everything involved with the process in one chamber, where Old Man Hannegan could have access to it.

On cue, the benefits for that decision showed itself.

“Hey! Smelt that ore properly! Stir the air into that mixture at proper intervals!”

And again, as ridiculous as it was the first time Orodan saw it, the furnace worker’s smelting became smoother and Vision of Purity told him that the metal within was being purified better. Ridiculous. The old man had more than proven his worth. His skillset and ability to direct any form of labor to superior heights was growing by the day.

The ore being smelted wasn’t regular dothril, but dothril Orodan himself had gone down to the abyssal depths to mine. The high density of world energy at those depths allowed for some truly powerful ore. Of course, powerful metal meant the ore was subsequently harder to mine, which meant that he’d needed to use his hands to smash it off the cavern walls. It was difficult to process too, and specialized furnaces capable of reaching extreme temperatures with assisting pyromancers needed to be brought in.

These were the same people who worked at the High Forges of Karilsgard and they knew what they were doing. But they still had their limitations, evident in one pyromancer who was struggling to maintain good control over the fires of her assigned furnace. The devices produced their own heat through the copious and expensive use of high-quality mana crystals fueling them, but pyromancers were still needed in order to control the fire, burn out unwanted air pockets and make sure the temperature was hitting the ore chunks evenly.

And the man who was sweating, the threads of mana between his hands and the furnace’s fire, was a high-Adept pyromancer. And his mana pool was running dry. Still, one didn’t have the full resources of Novarria, the Republic and Eldiron backing them without a good support system in place. But before the man could lift a mana potion to his lips or a replacement pyromancer could come in… Orodan stepped in and began stoking the flames.

“S-sir! This is entirely unnecessary!” the mage protested, embarrassed that his job was being taken over.

[Fire Magic Mastery 70 → Fire Magic Mastery 71]

The furnace’s flames wrapped around the chunk of ore and began targeting the weak points.

Orodan, being an Elite fire magic user himself, could now control external sources of flame. Long ago when he’d visited Guzuhar for the first time he’d seen a blood mage drawing blood out of a hapless guard’s nose. It had demarcated her as an Elite of the art. At that threshold every element’s associated mastery skill allowed the user to control the external element not borne of their own mana.

Just as Dimensionalism allowed him to influence the dimensional forces freely and Space Mastery allowed him to influence or alter enemy spatiomancy, so too did Fire Magic Mastery allow him to control fire, albeit at the cost of mana.

Under his control the ore steadily melted down and was purified into dothril ingots. Of course, there was much processing involved for every aspect of this supply chain.

The freshly made ingots were carefully inspected by a metal mage. He had never seen a mage of that element on Alastaia, but that tracked given how Balastion told him that the woman was one of three mages upon Inuan who possessed the Metal Magic Mastery skill. Exquisite-rarity too, and it made the Elite-level metalmancer’s services come with a hefty price, but one easily borne by the coffers of multiple continents.

The ingots were then looked over by alchemists who treated them and applied several different specialized solutions meant to strengthen it. After which it finally passed into a time compression device. Small in scale, like an oven, but designed to rapidly speed up the passage of time within so that the ingots could rest and the alchemical solution soak a bit.

The end product was marvellous and Orodan wondered if he could reforge his own sword with such a metal.

After a few batches of this process, he heard the old foreman bark again.

“Quick, Orodan! We need those ingots in the cooker for the machine’s new frame! Go on! Now’s the prime time for it.”

As ordered, he swiftly moved and hefted the entire pallet of fifteen-hundred ingots atop his head. Dothril was a dense and sturdy metal even without being empowered by the world energy of the abyssal depths. This pallet then was heavy, not for his arms but for the floor. Enough that the ground of the cavern would collapse if not for the team of earth mages pumping mana and power into reinforcing the earth beneath his feet with each step.

With a casual flick of his wrist he tipped the entire thing over and into a giant furnace designed to heat massive quantities of metal. It was a reinforced furnace of carved granite sourced from the deepest parts of the under-mountain too; the only thing which could bear the extreme temperatures needed to melt the enhanced dothril ingots. Re-melting the ingots after having already cast them was an extra step and he had questioned why they couldn’t just melt the ore down and then pour it into the mold directly, but the forgemasters from Novar’s Peak and Karilsgard had immediately countered by saying that a high-level smelter, high-level metal mage and high-level alchemist adding their expertise to each ingot and then letting them rest in fact improved the metal. Simply melting the metal and pouring it into the mold eliminated the work of such high-level specialists which in turn affected metal quality.

It sounded illogical to him. Why melt ingots and lose all the treatment they had gotten? But again, he’d been reassured that this way was superior. That the ingots he was dumping into the hot mold now were better than simply throwing molten metal into the mold right from the furnaces. Still, perhaps there was something to these extra steps, much like he often did extra things when cleaning.

[Laboring 65 → Laboring 66]

An additional level and a welcome one, proof of all the work he had been doing across the past five loops.

A giant mana crystal, sourced from the treasury of Novarria, was used to fuel this gigantic furnace.

“Damn… just running this thing for a second probably costs more than the budget for our barracks in Ogdenborough, eh Orodan?” Edrosic asked, coming up to stand beside him. “You really think we’re making the damn thing right this time?

“It grates my pride to admit… but from the look of it, they certainly are,” Orodan admitted. “I might have a lot of crafting skills, but I’m not exactly a Grandmaster in either of them.”

This was the power of a full world coming together. Guzuhar, Eldiron, and the three nations of Inuan gathering their resources in order to build this ancient machine properly. Versatile as he was, he was no specialist of crafting on the level of many of these experts. And with the best of the best gathered from across Alastaia to assist? They far outstripped his own efforts.

Grandmaster pyromancers from across the three continents—including one from the Eastern Kingdoms with a Bloodline which gave him Fire Mastery and not just Fire Magic Mastery—began heating up the furnace to extreme temperatures, melting the ingots down. Then Orodan was asked once more to lift, move and serially array a set of gigantic molds beneath the furnace’s dispensing lip so that the casting process could start.

He was still important of course. Especially when it came to handling incredibly heavy objects which would have otherwise taken a team of telekinetic mages or specialized devices to move, but the actual construction of the device? Even the Enchanting he could only assist with since Grandmaster enchanters from across Alastaia were using his techniques and understanding of the enchanting script to do a better job of executing upon it than he was.

Something about that felt profoundly dissatisfactory, he admitted. But one day he vowed to become capable of matching them.

Still, work on the machine proceeded at a good clip. Its newly forged frame was cast with enhanced dothril. It received an entirely new energy battery carved, polished and prepared from the largest mana crystal Eldiron had in their royal vault of Aldenil. And the dwarven Grandmaster stonecutter directed his crew to prepare even a massive portion of the mountain itself, as runes and etching were carved, ready to be slotted in with precious gem powder hand-prepared by Griok and his Jewelcrafters.

After twelve more hours of work, where Orodan wasn’t nearly as involved as he would’ve liked, the work was done, and the ancient machine stood there imposingly, not looking in the slightest like it had in the past. It was a work of art and a splendorous artefact of Alastaia; a testament to what their world was capable of when brought together.

