But the now uncorrupted core guardian, a Transcendent-level bat who had been silently watching from above all this time, finally spoke.

“This is the one who purged all the corruption from our souls. Cease your foolishness. Even the weakest Transcendent of this group is capable of besting me in battle. Better we accept our new lords with grace than invite suffering onto ourselves.”

“But our people past the gates…! How will-”

“They will be allowed to remain where they are and not bothered in the slightest,” Orodan interrupted. “I doubt the heroic Adeltaj Simarji would accept any other answer.”

“Even that I find dissatisfactory. Why should these folk have to hide beneath the ground like moles? If they wish to enter the surface we shall work upon integrating them,” Adeltaj countered.

“That is… that is most generous of you. I… can tentatively accept this arrangement then, provided you keep your word. Under your command we Gate Guardians and even the Core Guardian may join your armies in defense of our world,” the Void Horror added. “Long as you do not press our people into military service, we will follow you, Orodan Wainwright.”

“All that is contingent upon securing the crown of the World Ruler. Come, champion of Alastaia. Let us bequeath to you your right to rule.”

But for Orodan who hated the thought of leading, the sight of that crown and the image of it wrapped around his arm again made him quail. Having to actually lead people sounded like the most dreadful thing he could think of. Even the old Orodan who hated books and magic would agree.

“Can’t anyone else have it? Balastion? Eldarion? Either of you two are far better suited to rule than me,” he countered.

The first emperor looked to consider it for a moment, as did Eldarion, however the two looked at one another and then back at him before shaking their heads in dissent.

“My time in these loops has shown me that the burden of rule is a heavy one. How many mistakes did I make which could have been done better in hindsight? I have also found that I much prefer living in this world of peace you have helped create than ruling over it,” Balastion said. “It also needn’t be said, but Eldiron and the God-Queen would severely disapprove of Balastion Novar holding the world crown of Alastaia. She already bristles at the fact that you asked for Faraine’s release… and I would not subject my friend to further ire from his wife.”

Balastion and Eldarion, once rivals, were no longer so. The two rulers had become quite friendly over the loops of knowing one another and had come to realize that they were more similar than they had thought. And while that was fantastic and made him happy to know, it also didn’t help Orodan in the slightest right now.

“Damn it… Adeltaj? Destartes? You two are wise old men, right? Want to take a shot at ruling?”

“Me? Rule? I’m so old… I think that sort of exhausting thing is best left to the young…”

“You old coot! What was all that about not letting me stand alone!” Orodan protested as the old halberdier shamelessly looked anywhere but at him.

“Don’t look at me Mister Wainwright… I have discoveries to make and magical research to conduct. How can I do such things if I become a subject of study myself?” Destartes spoke.

“What about you Zukelmux?”

He didn’t think it possible for a goblin to turn any greener than they were, but his strongest disciple somehow managed.

“Aliya? Wainroach?”

The two simply shook their heads frantically.

“…Edrosic?”

“How am I to draw a picture of King Orodan Wainwright, the first of his name, if I’m the one wearing the crown?”

Just for that, he would be dispensing extra combat lessons at a later date.

“Damn it… are the lot of you trying to force me into dragging Old Man Hannegan here from his work? I’ll put the crown on his head myself.”

“Unless of course… someone were to put it on yours first.”

Orodan tried to resist, he did. But the chamber of the world core was far too cramped to unleash his full power without damaging anything. And try as he might, he had learned over the past five loops that when given the advantage of a time loop, certain people were just better than him at certain things. Talricto was one of them

And as he trained and grew, so did the spider. If anything, the naturally more talented eight-legged dimensionalist, when given time and exposure to Orodan’s techniques, could adapt to them very quickly.

Sure, he could counter the dimensional phase spider through raw power and brute force, which was his unique advantage. But in a match of finesse and pure skill… Talricto was his superior.

So when, despite his best efforts, the world crown slipped onto his arm via a deft dimensional push of force…

…Orodan could do nothing but grimace.

#

“Group twenty-four rotate out with group forty-eight. Group nine mind your spacing with those rituals unless you want to get in the way of the chronomancers from seven! And you! Tell your group leader to send me that report on the supplies right away!”

A sheaf of paper was practically thrown at the face of the Logistics supervisor, Bodil Bistrid. The woman was reliable enough at her job and familiar with working alongside the old man, thus she’d been specifically called upon for the endeavor.

“Get the supplies on that list out of storage. We’re nearing the end,” Old Man Hannegan said.

“You heard him,” Bodil said. “Get the crystals and energy batteries. You’ll be the one filling them up after all.”

He nodded and set about going through the carefully organized warehouse of materials, pulling out finely crafted jewels and a gigantic energy battery.

[Logistics 31 → Logistics 32]

A level long overdue and part of his final efforts to get some training in while Old Man Hannegan directed the combined forces of Alastaia’s greatest craftsfolk and laborers towards constructing a grand array. Orodan’s own contribution to that effort had been working alongside Bodil Bistrid to manage the logistics, transport and distribution of materials.

A grand array capable of transporting a large group anywhere within the galaxy… or even beyond.

It was a design he recalled the Conclave possessing, a grand array capable of transporting someone very far while avoiding the dangers of the void between galaxies. Unless the device was damaged, only an Embodiment of Space could interrupt it mid-travel.

Yes, Spatial Fold and his existing Space Mastery could likely replicate the feat, but the entire point of this was to make Alastaia self-sufficient. To make it so that its armies could traverse the galaxy as needed with or without him. Destartes in particular was taking meticulous notes, being their looping group’s designated research specialist, as was Old Man Hannegan, committing to memory the best and most efficient ways of rebuilding this thing if needed.

But Orodan found their actions unnecessary. He had faith, that this loop victory would be his. He intended on doing something which would eliminate the necessity of rebuilding from nothing each time.

The final movements for constructing the grand array were performed with utmost care. It was a giant device; the product of every single nation of Alastaia providing its colective resources and wealth towards its construction. The final crystals were slotted into their designated sockets, and the energy battery was dlicately moved by a team of telekinetic mages into its rightful slot. Orodan was not even allowed to slot any of these things in, for so delicate was their placement that specialists alone could move them.

Forgemasters from Inuan and Eldiron, ritualists and diviners from the Eastern Kingdoms and Guzuhar, and enchanters from Xan’Coran. The greatest Grandmasters of each craft were present and providing their skills to this endeavor, and it had paid off.

“Orodan, now. Charge the battery up,” Old Man Hannegan directed.

And instead of filling it with his own power he instead directed the crown of the world ruler upon his arm and instructed Alastaia to do it.

In the last long loop where he’d been a World Ruler, his control over world energy had come through only the crown, and he hadn’t extensively experimented with it either. But now, having built a System of his own his understanding of System energy and its derivative, which was world energy, had grown. He could see and understand its flows. And with Destartes now having his memories returned each loop, the old wizard not only insisted that Orodan experiment and use the world crown in unique ways so that the old mage could take notes, but also that he learn these methods for the future and help the world spirit of Alastaia itself grow used to helping in the planet’s defense.

The transfer of energy was a bit tumultuous. Orodan didn’t have access to the System everyone else did and the crown still worked when used by him although in a far jankier manner than that of any other World Ruler he had seen. But the energy battery powering the grand teleportation array filled up all the same. A tremendous amount of power which could transport any number of people many galaxies away.

The array came to life with a hum, Griok’s handcrafted jewels and the energy battery holding steady under the strain. Space subtly shifted; the only indicator that the array was now working.

“It is… it is done,” Destartes said, looking excited. “I did not think our world and its peoples possessed the resources to build something of this scale, but it appears Alastaia itself has proven me wrong.”

The world spirit was an immediate and critical ally in helping build the array. The thing needed metal, lots of it. Furthermore, Alastaia didn’t have any Transcendent or divine craftsfolk the way the Conclave did. Which meant that their skill in actually executing the task of building such a grand array would be inferior. Which in turn meant that the array had a higher likelihood of failing.

But that was a problem solved by Alastaia’s world core directing them to safe areas within the abyssal depths where they could find more deposits of that enhanced dothril ore. With the gate guardians accompanying them, the mortal nations of the three continents sent mining teams to extract abundant amounts of the precious metal. It was proof of what could be achieved if not just the nations of the world, but it very world spirit and subterranean denizens could do when working together.

With the grand array composed of this enhanced dothril the margin for error was much wider, which allowed the comparatively unskilled specialists of Alastaia to still build the array functionally.

“We simply wish to see our shared abode defended against the coming intruders. If that involves seeking allies and talent from other worlds and galaxies… we shall aid in what we can,” the will of the world spoke through the crown on Orodan’s arm.

“Of course, we shall not be marching through with an army to this Lonvoron. Not initially,” Balastion spoke. “This world of voidships, guns and steam-powered metal machinery will not take kindly to a military incursion. Our forces are likely to be riddled full of holes if we try such a thing.”

“Correct,” Tegin Carrotfoot agreed. “Which is why Mister Wainwright shall go ahead first and establish contact with whoever he needs to. I believe this small island settlement, Port Bellgrave, is where you encountered Fenton Penny, correct?”

“Aye. But getting there was no easy task and I ran afoul of an Embodiment of Space who was more than a little displeased with me as a result. Which in turn drew me into a fight against a Living Crystal, also at the Embodiment-level.”

“Both of which are undesirable. Although friendly contact with this Alagameth you mentioned would not be a bad idea…” Eldarion spoke. “Perhaps if someone other than yourself did the actual talking, we might be able to recruit this spatial spider?”

“I’m not even that bad… we fought, we got along and then we came to an understanding,” Orodan defended.

“As impressive as your diplomatic abilities are, they succeed in spite of your bullheaded methods, not because of them,” Balastion reminded. “In the Prophet, this Alagameth and we share a common foe. Perhaps we can bring it over to our side through diplomacy and the possibility of dealing with this corrupted Administrator.”

“If we can even win… I do not know how you intend to defeat this being which can break galaxies, Mister Wainwright,” Destartes said. “Strong as we have grown, we are still Transcendents while you are the only Embodier among us. And these Administrators seem to be the very pinnacles of Embodiment.”

“Last time, it took the Prophet a while to even commit to the battlefield in pursuit of the Administrator’s Mantle the previous looper bears. I cannot outright confirm this, but from everything I have seen thus far there appears to be some limit on how far these Administrators can go when interfering against lower-level beings. The Warrior seems quite ready to hound its steps should the Prophet act too rashly and too soon.”

“Right… I recall you saying that. Then, it makes no sense for it to act unless the Mantle is right within its grasp, and this Almyra’s secrecy means that it cannot commit lest it waste its shot and attract the Warrior’s ire,” Tegin Carrotfoot added. “If we simply grab this Fenton and aid in liberating Lonvoron of the Eldritch, perhaps that will be enough?”

“In fact… I intend to bring her and the Blackworth Collective with me. So that the eye of our foes may be drawn to Alastaia.”

“You are… confident of success this time. But is it truly wise to court so much attention to our world?” the halfling asked Orodan.

