Now, with everyone here present and ready to guide and advise him, Orodan intended to delicately attempt Elemental Living Enchantment upon Wainroach. She was, as per her own insistence, close to acquiring Fire Resistance too. The culmination of many loops of effort hopping into open braziers, fire pits and even intentionally bearing the attacks of fire-wielding monsters.

She had nearly died many times in her mad pursuit; developing many durability and self-healing skills. She had also legitimately died once forcing Orodan to reverse time and making her his first disciple to suffer a death under his watch. It had been of her own volition, yes, but it still felt him both ashamed and somewhat proud that one of his students was just as obsessed with pursuing insights as he was.

Not that he intended to allow her to repeat that of course.

“Right, well I suppose we should start. Any longer and Wainroach might self-combust with impatience,” Orodan said, channelling a Candleflame upon the tip of his finger.

She frantically gestured with her forelegs for him to get on with it already. And so he did.

[Candleflame 48 → Candleflame 49]

[Fire Magic Mastery 71→ Fire Magic Mastery 72]

A smaller and more delicate Candleflame than any he had conjured before came into existence upon the tip of his finger. And before she could complain about hurrying up, his finger pressed against her flank, driving the flame against her carapace.

Her antennae went rigid, but she gestured that he should not dare to stop. Wainroach now had the Iron Body skill as well as the Regeneration skill, which was apparently far easier for cockroaches to obtain than humans as their species naturally had the ability to begin with and simply needed to develop it.

Wainroach’s carapace began to suffer minor damage despite the low-temperature and delicate nature of the flame, but still, it didn’t seem enough to push her over the threshold.

“As cavalier as this will sound, given that she acquired most of her important gains while under extreme conditions, I do not think such a delicate Candleflame will work,” Eldarion said.

“I do not disagree, but I will only move forward at her insistence.”

And upon hearing it, insist she did.

So Orodan obliged, driving the Candleflame up a notch and allowing the tendrils of flame to enter the very orifices of her insectoid form.

It burned and it hurt, that much he could tell given how wildly her antennae were shaking. The pain was evident in her beady little eyes too, but she held on, and Orodan would not disrespect her by stopping simply because he disliked hurting someone he had grown fond of.

The flames began coursing through her little body, counteracted only by the Iron Body skill and her Regeneration which was working overtime to try and repair the damage she was continually suffering. She had the ability to draw from her mana pool in order to fuel the skill too, and he could sense her reserves slowly but steadily dwindling as her body fought to outpace the damage.

But this still wasn’t enough. And she knew it too.

Her antennae wiggled, demanding he begin the actual enchanting now that she had properly acclimated.

“Alright. Let’s see if we can’t weave an enchantment of toughness into you.”

[Elemental Living Enchantment 45 → Elemental Living Enchantment 46]

Immediately, the flames spiralled along her small body in the shape and inscription of an enchantment, one meant to toughen her body.

“You are utilizing the principles of Weaving while enchanting? Very good. Focus on keeping those threads tightly woven together, an elven Grandmaster said, closely watching but simultaneously in awe at the fact that elements could be used to enchant.

“Good, good! Keep your breathing even and your hands steady Mister Wainwright!” the headmaster of Bluefire’s enchanters instructed. “This is as much an act of elemental mastery as it is Enchanting, someone get the headmaster of pyromancy in here!”

Orodan though, tuned out the instructions and entered into a focused trance. He noticed that Wainroach was beginning to slowly understand something about fire, but he would need to help her along. In her eyes he saw that same trance and desperate drive to find the insights much like he had long, long ago in Eversong Plaza when facing Aeglos Argon’s flames.

[Elemental Living Enchantment 46 → Elemental Living Enchantment 47]

The level gain came as he successfully finished the enchantment of durability and Wainroach’s body toughened further, giving her extra time to make the insights she needed. He had never woven a living enchantment of flame into the body of someone else before. Himself, yes. Another, no.

He was so used to being incredibly tough, resistant to mana and fire, and possessing abilities for self-healing which outpaced the damage delivered by some of the strongest beings in System space. But enchanting the body of Wainroach was such a radically different experience, and it forced him to truly consider the element itself and work on lessening the damage his living enchantment did.

As he worked, he acquired more and more insights.

He hadn’t cared at all about Agrimon and his toadies of the Hegemony. The enchantments he’d woven into them had been full of rage, anger at them for how they’d ruined Zaessythra’s old life. They hadn’t survived those practice sessions.

But he cared about Wainroach, and his inscription of the following enchantment of regeneration was one of the most delicate work he did. He forced himself to truly minimize the amount of damage the element did to her form. It was invaluable practice, getting to see in real time how much damage the skill was causing to the body of another and then being able to make adjustments and get feedback right away.

“Control the fire, Mister Wainwright. You are an elite pyromancer, understand that flames are not just an element but one of the ingredients to life itself in many beings. Your own body possesses heat, but too much and you will die. Similarly, the roach’s body also possesses natural heat,” instructed a Grandmaster fire mage who had just arrived.

And under this instruction Orodan focused and tried his best to understand the fire. It was life, it was heat… it was energy.

[Fire Magic Mastery 72 → Fire Magic Mastery 73]

The enchantment finished, and Wainroach, although still in miserable pain and burning from the inside out, was in a better state than she was before the two enchantments had been woven into her flesh.

“Incredible… this will change Alastaian enchanting forever…” one Novarrian Grandmaster muttered. “Elemental body enchantments… what could we achieve with this?”

“Even applied to just weaponry it would increase the power three or even fourfold!” another elf declared, the arrogant one from earlier.

Yet to Orodan this was dissatisfactory, for his true goal had not been achieved.

[Commandment of War 60 → Commandment of War 61]

“Focus! Wainroach!”

Under his harsh commandment, the insect’s eyes took on a concentrated look despite the pain.

“For many loops now have you been skirting the line between life, death and fire, but today you must take that step into the next level,” Orodan sternly declared. His expectation of her, absolute. “A threshold one cannot cross without truly daring to reach past the boundary. Embrace it, embrace the flames.”

It certainly was not her resolve that was in question. Not when she madly gestured for him to switch from Candleflame to Draconic Fireball and demanded that he inscribe an enchantment of power.

It was madness. Rare for Orodan himself to be thinking such a thing. But it was only natural when he was not the target but another was.

It was mad, it was insane… it was…

…good training.

[Fire Magic Mastery 73 → Fire Magic Mastery 74]

Her insectoid body began turning to ash. She was dying.

But Orodan would not hold back and disrespect a warrior who had asked for this. And the insights he had acquired in lowering the damage were now coming in handy as he tried to inscribe a controlled enchantment of power fueled by his Draconic Fireball spell.

As he learned by weaving the enchantment so too did she.

Despite the agony and the near death.

She managed to find what she had been looking for over all these loops.

[Elemental Living Enchantment 47 → Elemental Living Enchantment 49]

[Teaching 99 → Teaching 100]

[New Title → Teaching Grandmaster]

Something shifted. Orodan felt and saw it first with Vision of Purity, likely before even she did. But he knew then and there that nobody would die today.

Her body was partially ash when all of a sudden, her regeneration began outpacing the damage caused by the enchanting process.

“She’s healing!” Eldarion exclaimed, letting out a great breath.

“It… it can’t be… how?” a Grandmaster asked, completely stumped.

And as Wainroach’s body began to reform before their very eyes, Orodan could only smile and say two words.

“Fire Resistance.”

#

“Filthy surface-dwellers! Always coveting! Always delving deeper and deeper! You would bring an inferior mockery of my kind to confront me?!”

“Given how the inferior mockery is brutalizing you, I’m not sure those words hold true,” Orodan replied.

“Should we… intervene?” Edrosic asked

“Does it look like she needs help?”

“I meant to save the Death Roach…” Edrosic replied.

Orodan brushed off the man’s concerns as he paid close attention to the ongoing clash between Wainroach and a death roach. They were in the deep depths of course, or more specifically, in an energy well. The energy well beneath House Firesword’s mines in Jerestir.

And he was watching as his newly empowered student went one-on-one against one of the most ferocious and infamous creatures of the depths. The exact one Orodan himself had fought against a long time ago in the long loop he had spent at Bluefire. It was a dual-Grandmaster and incredibly strong.

In no way should the Elite-level pyromancer cockroach have been able to fight it.

But against all odds, she was. And Wainroach was winning and the death roach scrambling to find an opening for escape.

“Aren’t they practically cousins?” Edrosic asked.

“Wouldn’t that make the gorillas of the Altarban forest our cousins then?” Orodan posed in return.

“Good point… perhaps not cousins…”

“I do not understand teacher. How has Wainroach grown so powerful?” Zukelmux asked. “Even I would have difficulty fighting against her in her current form.”

“Elemental Living Enchantment. When one has Fire Resistance and is a natural pyromancer… permanent enchantments inscribed with an element aren’t out of the realm of possibility.”

And that was what magnified Wainroach’s combat effectiveness manyfold. As her tiny form blurred from one hard-to-reach part of the death roach’s body to another, the elemental living enchantments Orodan had inscribed within her body glowed with power.

Orodan himself had only used them in the form of burst-style attacks, throwing his all into them even at the expense of bodily destruction. It was what had allowed him to shatter the Living Crystal and best the Prophet in the end. But to see his own student use them in such a sustained manner over the course of a fight? It gave him ideas.

Not only did Wainroach have Fire Resistance now, which allowed her to withstand and outheal the damage caused by the elemental enchantments. But she also possessed Fire Mastery, which made her control over the flames far better than his own. This allowed her to not only fuel the enchantments with her own flames throughout the course of battle, but to also circulate power through them more efficiently and with higher quality flames than he could.

The revelation of that had caused much discussion within that room in Bluefire once he’d finished. It could dramatically amplify the power of battlemages who used a certain element. And Orodan had agreed to inscribe body enchantments upon certain qualified battlemages and warriors who had the very rare Fire Resistance, or even Lightning Resistance since he was getting more confident with that element.

And now, as he witnessed her zooming about the death roach, singing and scalding it with her flames, he had to admit that his Elemental Living Enchantments could be extremely powerful in the right hands. The death roach was still attempting to run, but she refused to let it, continuously cutting off its escape routes. Furthermore, the moment she had entered an orifice… it was bad news for the overgrown bug who had been cooked well and good until it managed to thrash with such force that it dislodged her somehow.

Now, it was slowly being burnt to a crisp as Wainroach circled it, moving with such agility as she guided propulsing flames to allow her limited flight in certain vectors. In a toe-toe-toe battle she wouldn’t have been its match. Its melee abilities were simply too fierce. Even Zukelmux at his current strength had to fight seriously against death roaches.

But when one was as small as Wainroach was and could fly about at great speed the situation was a different one.

The death roach flailed desperately, attempting to hit her, but she simply remained out of reach and obscured the battlefield with bursts of flame which masked her body. Having Fire Resistance meant she could dive right into and through her own flames without any harm, which gave her an opportunity to mask her movements. More importantly it remained in a state of perpetual guard against the possibility of her entering an orifice again.

It had managed to survive the last such incident but had paid dearly for it. It might not survive another one.

