“The treasury of Novar’s Peak was depleted by almost half in funding this endeavor,” Balastion spoke. “Yet I find myself not as dissatisfied with that fact as I would have thought.”

“Hard to muster up a feeling of discontent when such a shining jewel of our civilizations stands before us. At this point… is this even the original machine any longer? We’ve replaced every single part. It’s as though it’s a brand new thing entirely,” Eldarion spoke.

“We’re still basing much of our enchanting script and work off of the inscriptions on the original machine. The dimensional runes and glyphs are not so far off… and while the machine will hold up, I have a feeling the enchantments will not,” Orodan honestly assessed. “This is no rebuke against our enchanters. But certain worlds have specialties that we lack. While we might possess warriors and mages aplenty, Lonvoron’s enchanting and engineering are their strong points.”

“We’re really going to do it then? We’ll be travelling to another galaxy to aid in their war just so we can bring one prodigious enchanter back?” Edrosic asked. “Seems a little fraught with danger… from what you told us of your last battle there, you had to fight an Administrator too, right?”

“Right, and I’ll fight him again. But you aren’t going to get dragged into battle Edrosic, so you needn’t worry,” Orodan assuaged. “I fight my own battles.”

“Well, thing is Orodan… I feel like coming along.”

Now that was a surprise.

“Has Aliya or Wainroach twisted your arm into this? I know it could not be Zukelmux, that one cares far too much about you to do that but-”

“No Orodan, it’s me. I want to come along and fight alongside you. Stupid as this sounds, I want to experience that thrill of real battle.”

In response, he closely began looking up and down, starting at the militia man’s head.

“Hmm… no head injuries… nothing my sight can pick up on the mind and soul either…”

“Oy! Cut that out! I’m serious! No head injuries or mind control here!” Edrosic protested swatting at him. “I know this sounds unbelievable, especially for me, but I mean it. I want to go to Lonvoron and these other worlds with you. I want to learn, I want to fight. I want to help you.”

“I didn’t train you in the hopes that you’d begin helping me Edrosic,” Orodan reminded. “You’re free to do as you wish. Especially now that you’re capable of beating the best student at Oxhead. You’re an Adept now and could pass the Bluefire entrance exam.”

“But that’s just the thing, Orodan! I don’t want any of that… these academies, these lessons, all these Drawing and Calligraphy tutors you get for me each loop. I don’t mean to sound ungrateful, because it’s the exact opposite. Thank you for everything you’ve shown me. I used to be a bloody bumpkin with a carpenter father and seamstress mother, both of whom I love very much. And then one day you show up, shove memories of another time where they were both murdered and I wandered the county seeking strength in the hopes of revenge,” the man spoke. “Initially, that’s what I thought I wanted. Strength so I could go rampage across Novarria… at least that’s what the memories of the other Edrosic said, and he had more drive in him than I ever did in my life. But then… then I began to see how unsuited I was to this fighting business. Zukelmux? That goblin’s beating Grandmasters now. Aliya? She’s teaching you moves with the halberd and spear. And Wainroach? I still remember that damned forest fire which covered half the Aenechean Forest last loop until you stepped in. I know I’m not like them… but I want to be.”

“Nothing in that desire implies you have to fight, Edrosic.”

“Right, and I now know that. But my point is… I’ve had my eyes opened to how big the world is. I used to be Parthus Edrosic the lazy militia man and now I’m Parthus Edrosic the Drawing Elite, close to being a Master. The more I study at the academy each loop, the more they keep telling me how impossible it is that my levels for a skill rose as fast as they did,” the man continued. “And that’s just the thing… how am I going to keep growing if I don’t embrace that unknown over the horizon? You know what’s funny Orodan? I’ve always had the most growth in my Drawing whenever I’ve seen those old fogeys train and fight… but most of all, it’s when I’ve seen you. Gained ten entire skill levels when I drew that portrait of you meeting the adventurer’s fist in Greenvale.”

A staff wielded by a familiar diminutive figure tapped the ground of the chamber behind him.

“I want to as well, teacher,” Aliya spoke. The polearm prodigy was now an Elite with Staff, Spear and Halberd, with Scythe Mastery soon to catch up as well. A far cry from the little girl he remembered rushing into monster infestation sites long ago. “I need to fight in real battle.”

And Wainroach upon her shoulder nodded seriously, determination in her eyes as well. Deadly flames roiled about the cockroach’s form, lethal but not harming Aliya in the slightest. He had in fact picked up an insight or two from her regarding his own pyromancy, and just like the eight-year-old polearms prodigy, he had no doubt that the cockroach would soon surpass him too as she was nearing the Elite-level.

Not in Fire Magic Mastery… but Fire Mastery.

“There’s a real chance you die. The battles upon Lonvoron will be no joke. And the Eldritch is horrifying,” Orodan warned. In fact, he had serious reservations about bringing a child along, no matter how prodigious. Sure, her memories had been ferried along for these loops and the girl had matured far quicker than a child her age normally would… but she was still functionally no more than nine years old.

“And how many times have you died?”

The voice carried challenge in it, and he knew who it was. A part of him glad that the speaker had grown enough to challenge him, but another part a bit frustrated.

“You’ve come to care for them. It’s no surprise that you feel the way you do,” Zaessythra spoke.

“These disciples of mine will be the end of me…”

Turning towards Zukelmux who looked more than ready to fight him over it, Orodan answered.

“Plenty.”

Zukelmux had grown terrifyingly strong under his guidance and with regular battles against the monsters of the abyssal depths. The spear-and-shield wielding goblin was now an excellent unarmed fighter and also capable of self-healing. And he was now a Master-level warrior who could now beat Grandmasters. Hells… Orodan suspected that the goblin could even give a weak new Transcendent a fair challenge.

“Then why will you not allow us the chance to face the same odds and reach out for the strength that we desire? Let us stand alongside you with pride, or are you not Orodan Wainwright, warrior and teacher? The man I know would not refuse anyone their own decision,” the goblin challenged.

“A part of me preferred when you were a meek and humble little student, you know?” Orodan shot back with an exasperated sigh.

The goblin laughed.

“And would that goblin be willing to challenge you to single combat for the right to fight alongside you?” Zukelmux asked, pointing his spear at him. “Teacher. Will you do me the honor of this duel?”

“Us too! Us too!” Aliya exclaimed.

“You melon! How is it a duel if it’s four-on-one?” Edrosic asked.

These idiots… he really was growing to care for them a bit much. This… was no good. It was what he sought to avoid each time; that attachment to those close to him, as it would always brutally be torn away in the end when it all reset.

And yet, over the past years’ worth of loops he had allowed himself to grow close to these fools and many others.

The Avatar of Ozgaric gave him a cheerful wave and sent a cascade of flowers towards him as a jest, the God taking a seat at the conjured table with Destartes, Adeltaj, Eldarion and Balastion. The first emperor’s face seemed light, unburdened. Eldarion was no longer at odds with Novarria and trusting of humanity. Ozgaric looked mirthful as he played tricks upon them, the matter of the Eldritch Avatar not being a concern. And Adeltaj was alive.

The old halberdier was perceptive too. Amidst the revelry and good cheer of finishing their work the Simarji gave him a knowing look, followed by a brief nod of the head.

Did the old man know what Orodan was thinking? Then… perhaps attachments were not a bad thing.

His fist clenched, the determination rolling off him in waves.

This time, he would not fail. He would set things right. He would defend his world and bring everyone together.

“Uh… he looks rather scary Zukelmux… are you sure challenging him to a duel was the right idea?” Edrosic asked.

“A duel? It’s four-on-one, remember? And I think I’m looking at the man who shall be the focus of my attention,” Orodan replied, looking right at the militia man.

He had erred before, causing Edrosic to live in a time where both the man’s parents were dead. But even in mistakes there could be lessons.

And the principles behind that particular mistake, if applied a certain way, could change everything.

#

“Wainroach… are you certain of this?”

Her antennae wiggled in outrage that he would even question it.

“Look… it’s just that you’re my student, not a training dummy. I don’t teach you so that you can be useful to me. Or rather, the use is in helping me level my Teaching skill, not in being an experimental sacrifice for my Elemental Living Enchanting.”

She was adamant.

“Fine, fine. I suppose you require that final push to acquire what you need, do you not?”

She nodded.

“Are you still sore from that duel?”

She nodded again, a little more reluctant as her antennae wiggled with the memories of the beating he’d dispensed upon her and those four.

“A price well-paid was it not? You four showed me your determination, and I’ve agreed to drag you all along to Lonvoron,” Orodan spoke with a cheerful smile.

She shook her little head, disagreeing with the notion that the beating had been that necessary, but agreed that the levels in Iron Body that she’d gained were worth it. Her antennae wiggled, motioning to him that he should get on with what they were here for.

“I… do not understand how you are communicating with her, Mister Wainwright,” Gormir Eltros spoke, although he kept giving nervous looks over his shoulder to the arrayed group behind him.

He was the premier body enchanter of the Republic, and possibly all Inuan. But that didn’t mean he was the best enchanter of them all.

They were within Bluefire Academy’s enchanting workshop, and behind Gormir Eltros was the headmaster of the school of Enchanting, alongside two Novarrian Grandmasters, four elven ones and one from Guzuhar who were either looking studiously at Wainroach or looking judgementally at the workshop itself.

“As I’ve explained many times now, warriors can just understand one another,” Orodan replied.

Frankly, he had theorized on it himself a few times now, but he genuinely believed that the central rune of knowledge in his System was translating her attempts at communication into his mind. It wasn’t a phenomena unique to him either as all his other disciples could understand Wainroach just fine, as could Zaessythra now. The key was being willing to see the cockroach as an individual and pay attention to its body language and eyes as a method of communication. The intent was there.

Most people however, considered cockroaches beneath them. Which was a shame since Wainroach wasn’t the typical foul urban roach, but a forest one which didn’t even stay near peoples’ dwellings. Her kind were integral to keeping the ecosystem of life, death and natural decay running in such environs. It explained why he had singled her mind and soul out as being stronger than the other roaches when he’d first encountered her. Life out in the forest for a wood roach was a lot harder than that of their city-dwelling counterparts.

“Your communication with that thing aside, I must say that this academy’s enchanting workshops are more than a little… inadequate,” an elven Grandmaster of Enchanting complained.

“Inadequate?” the Bluefire headmaster sharply turned. “Why if you are so dissatisfied with it then we can-”

“Friends. Please, let us calm down and work together.”

The voice belonged to a familiar Transcendent who commanded the loyalty of the elves.

“A-apologies lord Eldarion… my display of poor manners shames me,” the arrogant elven Grandmaster grovelled, simmering down.

“Now then, to business. Mister Wainwright, Wainroach claims that she is quite close to acquiring Fire Resistance, and your Elemental Living Enchantment is only five levels away from crossing into the Adept threshold,” Eldarion spoke. “With the combined expertise of Alastaia’s greatest experts of Enchanting, we hope to push he both of you past a threshold today… and hopefully expand the battle power of our world as a whole.”

Over the past five loops, Elemental Living Enchantment had been one of the skills Orodan had trained extensively. On himself primarily, with a few cases of unwilling practice against the Hegemony each time they descended in response to one of his allies becoming Transcendent. And while the training he’d done in forming elemental enchantments within himself was good, the real insights had come from forming enchantments within the body of Astalavar, Avraxas and Agrimon; his foes.

