Unfortunately for Wainroach, fifteen more minutes of battle began to reveal the weakness of the Elemental Living Enchantment for anyone who wasn’t Orodan. The flames of the enchantment inscribed into her flesh were power hungry, the flames a constant drain to keep empowered. He could sense that her soul energy was running low; the cost of maintaining such a heightened state of combat power.

She began flagging, her speed slowing and the flames lowering in amount. Eventually an opening presented itself for the death roach as it finally caught a glimpse of her through the now reduced flames which didn’t completely hide her body. And it took the opportunity…

…to run for its life.

“Smart of it. We shall put you through remedial soul training, Wainroach,” Orodan said, hopping down into the giant cavern.

Everything else at this level of the energy well had fled from the titanic clashes between his disciple and the now escaped death roach. And Wainroach could only look forlorn and disappointed in herself as the rest of the group approached her.

“Do not look so broken!” Zukelmux said, trying to cheer her up. “You fought a dual-Grandmaster while an Elite! Who else could do such a thing?”

Wainroach looked at Orodan and wiggled her forelegs.

“Do not compare yourself to others, but measure your own progress. In time, I’m certain you can beat even a triple-Grandmaster if you address the shortage of energy,” Orodan added. “Now come, I can see old Adeltaj has wrapped up his fight. He’s been waiting up ahead for a while.”

And as they went further down the shaft of the energy well, the advance party consisting of Desartes, Balastion, Eldarion and Talricto became visible. Ozgaric was the only one not present and the Guzuharan God had mentioned that he disliked being underground. They were in a wider portion of the energy well’s shaft, dimly lit by glowing mushrooms on the wall. Their dim light revealing the section’s former owner, a True Vampire, dead on the ground with a halberd through its head.

“Orodan! There you are!” Adeltaj called out. “I feel as though I should be a little happier about this moment, but strangely enough I feel nothing at all. Is revenge meant to feel so hollow?”

Orodan shook his head and palmed his own face.

“Your melodramatics are not as funny as you think. How can it be revenge when you remember nothing of it?” Orodan questioned, causing the old halberdier to give him a wry smile as he yanked the weapon out of the dead bloodsucker’s skull.

“Always ruining my entertainment… aren’t I supposed to be the mirthless old codger and you the brash young man? THen again… with how old you are…”

“You…! I’m not even old!” Orodan retorted.

“But Mister Wainwright, did you not say you spent thousands of years empowering the time loops?” Destartes reminded. “That’s certainly older than everyone here besides Lord Eldarion and his majesty Balastion.”

They were all ganging up on him, because of course they would. Bunch of old fools…

“Do not worry, Orodan. You are still a young man compared to me,” Balastion reassured in a tone that was not at all meant to be so.

They all shared a laugh at seeing him grumble and the party moved onward.

Orodan had never quite gone to the absolute bottom of an energy well. Unlike fighting, idle exploration wasn’t exactly a prime goal of his. That being said, he could already see the world energy in the shaft far denser than he recalled it being at this depth the last time he was here. A natural consequence of him purging all the Eldritch from Alastaia alongside his usage of Domain of Perfect Cleaning to banish the Gods he was hostile towards. It was a good thing he’d trained Zukelmux and Wainroach to not rely upon the external source of power that was world energy or else they’d have been insensate with euphoria.

With the planet and its world core entirely free of Eldritch, not just this well, but even the one at Anthus and those in Eldiron, Guzuhar, the Eastern Kingdoms and Novarria reported far denser levels of world energy.

As the party went deeper and deeper, they encountered some truly powerful monsters. A triple-Grandmaster spider which used blood as its element of choice. Zukelmux had needed a full two hours to slay it in a duel. A large and muscular minotaur wearing sagely robes who had conversed with them and allowed them to go deeper once it realized that they meant no harm, and disgustingly, a smelly fly the size of a house which had its entire section of the energy well lined with half-dead prey it was laying parasitic eggs within. This one, Wainroach took great pride in assisting with as she burnt the eggs and corpses to cinders while Zukelmux duelled it and secured yet another victory.

They proceeded deeper and deeper. And at a certain point Orodan stopped.

“Hmm… we’re a decent distance past the depth of the first gate.”

“And yet, no messages marking us as subjects of a Quest,” Destartes remarked. “Most fascinating. Does this mean that energy wells are a direct path to the world core? A weakness by System design perhaps?”

“Not sure if it can be called a weakness when the creatures dwelling within the shaft are in many cases stronger than even a Gate Guardian,” Orodan remarked.

Yet it seemed a true enough observation as they kept moving down the shaft. Nobody on record had ever reached the very bottom of an energy well. The law of all three Inuanan nations held that going down an energy well past the level of the wild depths required royal or council approval. And while Orodan doubted that some of the shallower energy wells reached all the way down into the planet’s core, this one he felt, did.

And the farther down they traversed the more evident it was becoming that travel down the shaft of one of these allowed someone to go enturely undetected by the world itself. An interesting thing to consider.

Thirty minutes of travel and they were well past the second gate too. And an hour later, they were near what appeared to be an opening. Orodan’s Vision of Purity told him what was on the other side.

“That opening will drop us right next to the chamber of the world core. The core guardian is purified and no longer a threat. Neither is the world core for that matter, though I would watch your back for the angry gate guardians who will have suddenly learned of your presence.”

“Understood,” Balastion said, stepping forward and leading the way as he leapt down.

Everyone else followed, and the moment they touched down, Orodan aside, they all froze. His Vision of Purity had grown in skill, he could sense the searching tendrils of world energy finding and then stiffening in immediate alarm. Alastaia now knew they were here.

“O-Orodan! I’ve just received a warning about being the subject of a Quest!” Edrosic exclaimed. “Says I need to be captured and brought before the world core!”

“Hmm… captured but not killed? Intriguing,” he replied. “Anyone else receive a notification which says otherwise?”

A once over of them all confirmed that they had all received notifications warning that they were to be captured. Perhaps the core had a suspicion about what had happened to it recently? That and its recent purification might have made it far less defensive and bloodthirsty against intruders.

“Well there’s no need for any capture. We’re right here and can just go present ourselves to the core directly,” Destartes said while leading the party onwards.

The vent from the energy well had dropped them off at a side chamber which led to the familiar hallway. GIgantic; a thousand miles wide and double that in length, leading down to a gate at the end. Behind that, around a corner was the chamber of the world core.

Balastion led the group inside while Orodan watched the rear. He wasn’t concerned. With the core and its guardian purged… he knew that they were a lot more amenable to a conversation than one would expect. In fact, it was to a world core’s benefit to have a world ruler and a strong world.

Something proven when they rounded the corner to stand before the world core, and the core guardian was tellingly passive as they approached.

“Welcome, visitors. Are you friend or foe? Do you wish good for the world or ill? Are you saviors of Alastaia or its doom?”

“The world core of Alastaia itself… I have only ever heard myths and fairy tales of such a thing from when I was a little boy…” Balastion whispered, in awe and unable to respond clearly.

“World spirit, soul of the earth, that which our life sustains itself upon. I, Eldarion, emissary of Eldiron, greet you.”

“We welcome you, Eldarion, although your unexpected Transcendence… surprises us. Did you take leave of Alastaia and attain it elsewhere? We have sensed no ripples in the tapestry, no shifts in the tumultuous currents of world energy.”

His students were as stricken by the sense of awe and majesty as Balastion was. Zukelmux could only stare on in awe while Aliya and Wainroach simply looked quite scared. Edrosic of all people though… he had a considering look upon his face, as though mapping something profound to draw in one of his later sketches.

Eldarion was showing respect, Adeltaj seemed just as speechless as Balastion, and Destartes was studying it with an inquisitive look in his eye. But then there was the last member of the party aside from Orodan himself.

“Rather small and pitiful for a world core, is it not? Why, in my travels I’ve seen world cores larger than the very star of this local stellar system!”

“We were not aware that visitors from the unseen planes were gracing our abode. Greetings, wanderer of the cosmos. Your kind are always welcome to come and share a tale.”

“Don’t tell me you know this arrogant bug…” Orodan muttered.

“We do not know it specifically, warrior of unknown origins. Merely of its kind who are often happy to regale us with a tale and move on throughout the otherwise lonley years… although… that was before the madness began setting in…”

“Ah yes, the madness. About that…”

From another entrance a frenzied being blurred through and landed in an animalistic manner, it’s countenance almost feral.

“None shall touch Alastaia!” the Void Horror roared. “I shall fulfil my duty as-”

“Silence. We wish to hear this warrior’s explanation for the good fortune which has recently befallen us.”

The Void Horror, befuddled, could only freeze in confusion and then gradually stand down.

And so Orodan spoke and recanted the entire tale of this loop, the time loops overall and his entire journey. Adeltaj and Destartes stepped in to help at many junctures too, which he was quite grateful for. After all, it felt like each time he had to explain everything it got longer and longer with all the seemingly unbelievable things he had done.

“If anything, I’m surprised your lips do not grow tired of retelling it all. I have personally lost count of all the times you’ve retold it… although I cannot help but intently hang upon the sound of every word each time you do.”

This woman…

“Mister Wainwright? Your face is red, a poison?” Destartes asked, casting numerous spells and ready to respond to defend him.

“N-no… nothing of that sort,” he quickly dismissed to the sound of ringing laughter in his head.

Thankfully, it was Alastaia who interrupted his moment of being caught off-guard.

“Incredible. For a warrior of such prowess to be birthed from our bosom; for him to be anointed by the System itself in an act of supreme ordination. We sensed no falsehood in your words, Orodan Wainwright. You… are our saviour. The crowning jewel of our world, the guardian and almighty champion of Alastaia.”

“You need not lave me with excessive praise. I merely fought, and fought again until I became strong enough to face the foes which threatened me. By extension these enemies just so happened to be threats to Alastaia as well. Now, despite having met you before and having met many world cores in-between, I still do not exactly know what you are. Are you the world itself? A personification of its spirit? Its will? I know not, nor do I care. Such questions I leave to my academically inclined friend,” Orodan said, gesturing towards Destartes. “But what I do know is that you provided me guidance, unwittingly as it was as your System was tampered with, but guidance all the same. The Quest to stop the ancient machine, and then the Quest I took from Cyvrosdyr to stop the Eldritch Avatar. For that, thank you.”

“Vanguard of our world, we require no thanks for merely acting in self-preservation of ourselves and all who dwell upon us. Even throughout our gradual maddening from the source we retained enough clarity of mind to maintain vigil against any major threats and warn the mortal races and World Guardians of them accordingly.”

“Then you have my thanks for playing your role. Whatever it was, it allowed me to have direction when I had none. But this is not over, our work is not done. There are greater cosmic foes which come for us, and for that, Alastaia will need the cooperation and aid of its very world’s will.”

“And the people who dwell upon us shall have it. It only requires one to reach out and grasp the crown within.”

Everyone’s eyes widened as a hollow leading to the center of the world core opened up, and a crown floated out of it, hovering before the arrayed party. Even Orodan was surprised as he didn’t know a world core would or could simply offer up its symbol of authority.

“Alastaia… are you truly offering up your crown so easily? It is not a decision which can be reversed…” the Void Horror spoke, cautioning the world core.

