“We will need it. The Administrators have conflicting opinions of one another, and drawing the Prophet here will be our surest chance of success. Especially with other Administrators converging here in less than two weeks’ time as well,” Orodan answered.

Much as he wanted to fight them head-on, this loop he had something important to do. He had more than just himself to consider.

“Then the peoples of Alastaia shall meet them when they come,” Ozgaric spoke.

“How goes the progress on your end?” Orodan asked.

“Well. That dimensional spider is exceedingly clever… the possibilities he has shown us. With his aid Malzim, Halor and I shall be ready soon.”

“As shall the other three of the elven pantheon,” Eldarion added on. “My wife is… excited at the possibility of what can occur, even though I dread to meet her for too long in the material plane…”

“Which leaves only Lonvoron before us…” Orodan muttered, clenching his fist. “I believe it’s time to get one of my students back.”

#

“Focus, Orodan. I know I call you a barbarian quite often, but I must concede that despite being a savage possessed of ill manners-”

“I’m not-”

“-in contrast to the brutish nature you regularly display-”

“I suppose I am-”

“-you are a hard worker, and passably talented at Dimensionalism for a human. I suppose that odd body composition of yours which allows for you to resist the dimensional forces does help, as does that unfair ability of yours to draw upon endless power as though you are a black hole incarnate… but you are genuinely good at this. If anyone can step past the defences of Lonvoron, besides I, the illustrious Talricto, it would be you, my disciple.”

Last time, he had entered Lonvoron via spatiomancy. This time, he intended to enter via Dimensionalism. His target was the same shanty workshop upon the perpetually rainy island town of Port Bellgrave.

Vision of Purity had grown, but not anywhere near enough to tell whether Fenton was inside the shop from across galactic distances. Nor did he exactly have any vision skills which allowed him to actively look at the wards surrounding the Vystaxium Galaxy at present.

Furthermore, and the real reason he was using Dimensionalism… was that spatiomancy would see every enemy Embodier and those affiliated with them on his tail. Unlike traveling through the dimensional boundary, manipulating space to travel was easier and more powerful, but far more detectable and warded against. Going through the void between galaxies, where Embodiers resided, was fraught with far too much risk if using space.

And he could not afford to tip his hand early, not before everything was ready for him to enact his mad desire.

“I’m still not entirely sure how I’m to step onto Lonvoron while also avoiding the traps and wards meant to detect dimensional intrusion when I cannot see that far at all,” Orodan spoke.

“Foolish student. Do you not adapt to the barbaric tussle of swords and clubs? Why do you lack faith in yourself to adapt to this?” Talricto questioned.

“Like a fight then? An odd way to approach wards which will send out an alarm otherwise is it not?”

“Think less and simply do. You function best when committing to action, like the brute you are.”

The spider wasn’t wrong about that.

The gulf between galaxies was utterly and unfathomably massive. That being said, spatiomancy was in fact the harder field to cross truly gargantuan distances with. In that regard, Dimensionalism was superior as one could simply enter a dimensional plane where distances were incredibly compressed and then peel apart the boundary to re-enter the material plane at a different corresponding location much farther away.

But Orodan wasn’t known for shortcuts, and he had no doubts that Almyra had warded other such adjacent dimensional planes as they were the apparent and easy way to enter her galaxy.

So, with a flex of his full power, Orodan poured it all into a singular Dimensional Step aimed right for the Vystaxium Galaxy.

[Dimensionalism 95 → Dimensionalism 96]

[Dimensional Step 48 → Dimensional Step 50]

Immediately, he encountered the first bit of resistance as he walked past the boundary between dimensions and towards Lonvoron.

Dimensional entities. Strange, skittering things with which seemed to feed off of the colossal energy he poured into his step. They were hungry too, and he could see even Talricto’s Dimensional Step fading out and the spider being forced to stand and confront these things or use alternate tricks to get away.

But while his eight-legged mentor was his superior in skill, that wasn’t the case for brute force.

A dozen of these entities exploded and died on the spot, the sheer energy contained in his Dimensional Step proving too much for them. If anything, they luckily helped bleed some power off as the next obstacle, a ward meant to detect excess dimensional force, like a checkpoint, was ahead.

Naturally… he utterly failed to stop himself being detected by it.

But that was okay, for as Talricto said, if he treated it like a fight he would get far. So he did.

Time Reversal shot out and pulled the alarm state of that ward back to before it detected his spike of power. It had a built-in failsafe to counter such a move… a contracted elemental whose System was somehow tied to the detection as it gained a level from spotting his passing.

This was an ingenious and absolute method of preventing detection. No being in System space could reverse time for someone’s System. That was… unless they were stripped of the System entirely and were a being outside of it like Orodan now was.

Another cast of Time Reversal reverted its level gain and he carried on past it.

Three more obstacles got in his way, basic alarms and wards meant to stop dimensional intrusion. One of them even tied to the divine dimension as a still loyal God of the Blackworth Collective maintained watch over the boundary between planes.

This too, he smashed right past by intimidating the divine sentry into outright ignoring his presence via Incipience of Infinity and brute forcing the other two and then reverting time to reset their alarm states.

Orodan had expected a bit more when he found himself crashing through the familiar sheet metal roof of Fenton’s shanty gunsmithing workshop upon Port Bellgrave.

As usual, he destroyed a few racks of rifles and a familiar set of eight legs perched upon his shoulder immediately after.

“That wasn’t so bad.”

“Congratulations my student. You bypassed all the wards but roused into a frenzy one of the largest swarms of dimensional horrors in this part of the cosmos.”

“…want me to go kill them?”

Orodan wasn’t sure if spiders could sigh or palm their faces like humans could, but whatever Talricto was doing came close to qualifying.

“No… no I do not. I shall handle guiding them away, and you… just try not to upend anything else.”

With that the eight-legged dimensionalist winked out of the material plane, leaving just Orodan in the shop.

Just him and one frightened young lad in a life of indentured servitude and far more enchanting talent than sense.

“Oy! Stay away you vagabond! I won’t be accosted by-”

The orb touched the lad’s head…

…and the entire workshop began glowing with power and resounded with the screams of Fenton Penny as his memories began to meld.

It took a lot longer than the others’ had. The sheer amount of insights and special notes Fenton had packed away into his specific memory bank were a novel function he hadn’t even known the orb was capable of.

Fifteen minutes of writhing and yelling later, the lad’s eyes finally opened. Just in time to see a large palm heading for his head.

Quick as Fenton was, when Orodan wanted to cuff someone atop the head, they would receive and could do nothing about it.

“And that’s for getting yourself killed on my behalf. Stupid lad.”

Fenton, a red lump upon his head and eyes containing recognition could only look at Orodan.

Mist began to gather in the young man’s eyes.

“Hey now… you needn’t have such a look on your face-”

Like a missile, Fenton crashed into him.

“Mister Orodan!”

“You… you’re getting my uniform wet…”

Although he couldn’t bring himself to pry the hysterical young man off, nor stop himself from ruffling the boy’s head.

Idiot disciple of his.

“Y-you came back! You actually came back!” the lad said, pulling himself away and now looking exceedingly embarrassed at getting so emotional.

“Of course I did… did you think you get to slack on your training so easily? There are other students of mine who you’ll be learning alongside too,” Orodan spoke, and then looked the lad up and down. “How much do you remember?”

The boy frowned.

“From when I handed you the orb ser…”

Then the young man remembered a lot. Up to and possibly including his own death too. Yet that also meant that Fenton’s mind was fresh with designs, devices and insights that could make a true difference in his upcoming efforts.

“Did you really come back just to train me ser? Won’t it all reset again when-”

“No. Not this time. We’re going to cure your mother, save your world and get you a new home.”

And at the end of it all, find a way to ensure that no more of these reunions were necessary.
