“Maybe,” Rain said, wiggling a hand as Sana finally allowed Carten to help her don the tank. “I don’t think it depends on how much essence you’ve got, but it might come down to rank and arrangement. We’ll talk about it later, as it touches on things the Council hasn’t cleared yet. Anyway, Blue, first question: do lairs have souls?”

“They are souls,” Bluewash said, and Rain took a moment to admire her for answering in lieu of asking a question of her own. He wasn’t sure he could have managed the same in her shoes.

In retrospect, he should have given her a lot longer to digest the content of the articles. Scheduling was hard.

Electing to just push on, he shook his head. “And how do you know? Does one of your skills tell you, or were you taught?”

“It’s what I was taught,” Bluewash said, slipping on her tank with practiced ease. “Lairs are souls without mind or body, just as monsters lack the former and have the latter. They are held together by Me’ke-Tar Tek—the paling, as your article called it, though it said people had them, not lairs. I thought that was a mistake.” She hesitated. “Am I allowed to ask a question?”

“You just did,” Rain said. “Go ahead. You can have another one.”

“Right...” Bluewash said. “So you two can just...see each other’s souls? Like, physically see them? What does a soul even look like?”

“Like that,” Sana said. She pointed at the lair. “Yours is red. Also, that was three questions.”

“Red?” Carten said as Rain smiled. “That jus’ seems wrong. You messing with me?”

“She isn’t messing with you, and yeah, red,” Rain said. “I would have guessed it would be at least blue-adjacent, but no. Deep ruby red—and metallic, since she’s silver. You’ve been slacking, Carten. You should be able to at least see the general shade of souls by now.”

“Yeah, yeah,” Carten said. “Busy working on the rest of it.”

“Oh, color commentary,” Bluewash said, suddenly snapping her fingers. “I get it.”

“You really don’t,” Sana said as Rain choked on a laugh.

“Here you go, Captain,” Carten said, grinning openly and holding up a tank with the straps spread wide. “Arms through.”

“Thanks,” Rain said, complying. The still-forming aura anchor moved out of the way at his direction, the fragile matrix of magic easily sheltered from the disruptive influence of the metal by his adamantine will. “Anyway, back to the subject of the lair. Bluewash and Carten are the only ones who’ve been in there, so they’ll take the lead once we’re through. We won’t be fighting anything, so don’t worry about that. Bluewash, what’s the skill called? The one that lets you access the core now that you’ve already gotten to it once?”

“Core Access,” Bluewash said. “It’s well-named. Can I ask another question?”

“Just one more, and ask Sana,” Rain said, inspecting the regulator. “I need to figure this thing out, and we need to start soon if I’m to be back in time for my next meeting.”

“Didn’t you give Tallheart the plans?” Carten asked.

“The concept, and that doesn’t mean I’ve gone scuba diving,” Rain said, taking an experimental breath. The valve opened easily as he inhaled, then cut off again as he breathed out.

Tallheart is a damn genius.

Taking a few more test breaths and probing with Detection, Rain made sure he understood how his equipment functioned inside and out. Meanwhile, he listened with half an ear as Bluewash asked not one but several questions about people-palings and Sana did her best to explain. Before things got completely off the rails, he shifted the regulator to the crook of his elbow and clapped his hands. “In we go.”

“But—“

“I’ll reiterate,” Rain said, starting to feel a little impatient. “Step one is to observe. There’ll be plenty of time for questions and answers when we talk to the Council tomorrow. I know I’ve got quite the list of them already. When we’re in there, since we’re all going to sound like chipmunks, let’s stick to hand code. Lastly, remember this is a lair we’re going to be exploring. Just because there won’t be any monsters, it doesn’t mean it’s safe. I’ll protect you, but it’s about keeping good habits.”

Hesitantly, Sana raised her hand.

“Yes?” Rain asked. Given that he was all but broadcasting his desire to get on with it, whatever she wanted to know had to be important.

“Lairs don’t have the damage limit, right?“ she asked as she brought her hand back down. “What happens if one of these tanks blows up?”

“They don’t, and they won’t,” Bluewash said. “Can I ask—?“

“Hold on,” Rain said, cutting her off and smiling at Sana reassuringly. The Watch officer was hiding her unease, but with how far he’d come, the defenses that had given him so much trouble before might as well not have been there. “It will be fine,” he stressed, reaching behind his neck to tap his tank with a finger. “Tallheart made these like six times as strong as they need to be, and Carten and Bluewash have used them many times. Neither of them has exploded, to my knowledge. On top of that, I’ll be using inverted Immolate to suppress sparks. On top of that, I’ve got Wards. I said I’d protect you, and I meant it.”

“It’s just my first lair, you know?” Sana said. She shook her head, then slapped her cheeks with both hands. “I’m being silly. Let’s do this.”

Rain grinned as he turned to face the barrier, then spoke calmly as he stepped through. “Leeroy Jenkins.”
