The young man broke off, shaking his head. Ceria knew he didn’t want to talk about his past, and let the matter drop. Instead, she perked up her pointed ears, trying to listen to what the students were saying. She caught only a fraction as the conversation from other students entered a temporary lull.
“…spell book. I’m sure it has at least one Tier 4 spell in it, but the protections—”
Then the babble rose and Ceria lost the thread. She sighed. More secrets, and this one sounded promising. A spellbook?
Pisces was looking repeatedly over to the group of students as well. Ceria saw him tap his lips thoughtfully, but he didn’t make a move to sidle over. She thought she saw him whisper something, but it might have just been a trick of the light.
As Ceria turned to check on Cessic, she saw a dark shape flit towards the older students. She turned back quickly, but whatever it was had gone the instant she looked.
“See something?”
She shook her head at Pisces and made a face.
“Great. There are rats trapped in here with us.”
“Rats? Are you sure?”
Cessic said that, coming over from the window to rejoin the other two. Pisces frowned as he looked around, and Ceria did too, although she couldn’t spot the dark shape.
“Either that or some large bug.”
“I wouldn’t mind a bug or a rat if that’s all we’ll be eating. You know, I skipped lunch for this.”
The Lizard moaned as he rubbed his stomach. Ceria was about to tell him to suck it up or go searching for the creature in question when Pisces suddenly called out.
“Hello? Is anyone there? We’re trapped here; we could use some help!”
Ceria turned and saw a tall figure through the distorted ice. It stopped and walked over towards them. Ceria held her breath as she saw a porcelain face, and saw the seven foot tall creation move as gracefully as a dancer. She heard Cessic gulp and the other students go quiet.
Pisces smiled in relief at the stone woman who looked as though she had traded stone for flesh. Cognita’s smooth face smiled slightly as she looked down at them.
“You are Cognita, yes? I hesitate to ask, but we’ve found ourselves trapped, you see. A [Mage] made this barrier and we can’t break through it.”
The Truestone Construct, the Golem who acted like a person, nodded. She regarded the ice wall as if she was staring at a speck of dust as she spoke.
“Ah. This is the work of Illphres. Stand back please, and employ any protective spells you know. I will remove this barrier.”
So saying, she let the students scurry backwards twenty feet before she lifted one delicate arm. Her dress rippled as her stone fist casually punched straight through the wall of ice with an impact that sounded like an avalanche.
Ceria and Pisces gaped as bits of ice showered down around Cognita. She raised her hand and punched twice more, and the wall collapsed. With ease, the Golem kicked the ice fragments aside and nodded to the students.
“The path is clear. I will have the rest disposed of soon enough, although the binding spell has already been broken.”
She nodded politely at Pisces and walked away. In silence, the students watched her go. After a minute, they began to file out, avoiding the jagged bits of ice.
Cessic paused after he’d cleared the broken ice wall. He put one hand against the stone wall, looking pale.
“I think I need to go have a lie down.”
Ceria and Pisces agreed with the sentiment, even if they weren’t so ill as Cessic. They slowly began to walk towards their rooms. Ceria stared at the broken ice, and wondered if she’d ever be able to match any of the beings who walked these halls.
 
——
 
The two mages were tired after their small adventure, so they had agreed to take a brief rest before going to dinner. Ceria wanted to have a drink to wash away the stress, so they had agreed to find another party afterwards.
The funny thing about Wistram was that while all the mages studied magic, there was always at least one mage not studying and instead imbibing as much alcohol as possible. Something about rigorous and intense concentration brought it out in people, and the new students were only too happy to drink as much free liquor as possible until someone started throwing spells around.
But there was nothing in Ceria that really wanted to have a drink and relax. She stomped into her room, teeth clenched. She’d been in a bad mood all day, ever since she’d met Illphres. Now that she was alone, Ceria could give vent to her feelings at last.
“Aargh!”
She screamed as loudly as she could in her locked room. Ceria hurled her possessions around and then raised her finger and started shooting [Stone Dart] at one of the walls.
“That stupid—arrogant—mold-headed, sun-baked piece of tree fertilizer! That inbred—”
Shards of stone broke as the rapid stone missiles shattered against the enchanted stone. Ceria felt some fragments strike her and stopped as one cut her.
“Ow! Damn it!”
That just made her madder. She punched the bed, and then started ripping the covers and pillows off and stomping on them.
“Real mages? Real mages? I’ll show her a real mage! I’ll—”
She began kicking everything on the floor before she moved on to punching her bed and then a wall. Ceria let out her aggression on anything in sight—she normally found a quiet bit of forest to raise hell in when she was angry, but Wistram was extremely forest-deficient.
She’d always had a temper. As a child, Ceria could remember getting angry enough to burst and then chasing woodland animals around, punching foxes, biting sticks in half—
“Ceria? Ceria, are you okay? I hear noises.”
Ceria looked up, part of her pillow in her mouth. She spat out the feathers and called out, somewhat sheepishly.
“I’m—fine, Pisces. Sorry.”
“Ah, do you want to talk?”
“Um—”
A few minutes later, Ceria edged out of her doorway. Pisces only caught a glimpse of floating feathers and a very ransacked room before she practically chased him back into his room.
“Sorry about that. Did you hear—much?”
“Not in so many words. Just…noise. I was concerned.”
Pieces offered Ceria his bed, since he only had one chair. She sat on it, and looked around. His room was different than hers; he had a large bed and an actual balcony on his, but besides that his room was very clear—almost austere. His rapier sat in one corner and Pisces had a few clothes in a pile on one side of the room, and nothing else.
“Nice room.”
“I shall take that in the spirit it was intended. I ah, notice you redecorated yours just now.”
Ceria grinned sheepishly.
“Sorry. Was I that loud?”
“Allow me to say it this way: you were audible through the stone. Was that ice mage that upsetting to you?”
The half-Elf shrugged, turning a bit red.
“It’s—okay, yes, she was. But it’s not just that. It’s just—I thought when I got here things would be different. I thought I’d learn magic, not get involved in petty…politics.”
“I must confess, our entry here has been a bit different than what I expected.”
Pisces murmured as he sat next to Ceria. She flicked a feather out of her hair and laughed softly.
“I guess. I shouldn’t be surprised. But doesn’t it feel like we’re not learning everything we could be? I mean, our basic magic classes are fine, but without combat magic—learning that was the entire reason I came here.”
“Mm.”
Pisces nodded, his expression troubled. Ceria let out her breath, giving vent to more of her hitherto unspoken worries.
“And we don’t have that much time, Pisces! If we had a year—or even half of one I could relax. I could prove myself but we have one month. And I don’t know what their exams are, but I can’t just believe they’ll take me because I know a few spells and I’m a half-Elf. I have to be a student here and I just don’t have anything special to offer.”
“Neither do I.”
“Oh come on. You’re the best in our class at our lessons.”
“Best in a class full of new students. That is hardly a ringing endorsement.”
“…True.”
Both students sat together gloomily. Ceria rested her head in her hands, wishing she’d had a real book of spells to study, or that she’d apprenticed under the half-Elf spellcasters back in her village. Pisces sat in his chair, head bowed, apparently lost in thought. Then he slowly raised his head and spoke in a low voice.
“What if there was something we could do?”
“What?”
Ceria looked at him. Pisces’ expression was unreadable, but his fingers twitched and his foot jiggled with nerves. He looked at Ceria and licked his lips.
“I uh, well, you know when we were listening to those older students talk? Before they spoke to us, one of them mentioned a spellbook in conjunction with a Tier 4 spell.”
“I remember that.”
Ceria frowned as she remembered.
“Yeah, they said that. But so what? If they’ve got one—”
“Ah, but they don’t. Have one, that is.”
Pisces raised a finger as Ceria stared at him. He licked his lips again.
“I—happened to overhear the rest of their conversation.”
“How? With a spell?”
Ceria looked at him in disbelief. Her ears were far better than any Human’s and she’d been standing right next to Pisces. He hesitated.
“Something like that. A spell, yes. I’d prefer not to say.”
“Okay.”
Pisces was acting oddly, but Ceria was intrigued now. She scooted over on his bed as he lowered his voice again. No one could hear them in the room, but both felt the need to be secretive.
“I heard the rest of their conversation. They were talking about a spellbook, yes. A book they do not have. There is a book in a hidden part of the library—in a secret section. The students have located it and they are sure it has potent spells, but the book is warded. If they try to take it, it will kill them.”
“Yikes.”
Ceria’s hair rose at the thought. A trapped book? Wistram had more than one library section, but all the books she’d found were normal books or the lowest-level spellbooks full of cantrips. No wonder the other sections were secret if the books had wards like that.
Pisces nodded.
“I also…happened to overhear where the section is, and how to get in. We could gain access to that section.”
“And look around for other spellbooks?”
Ceria’s heart lifted at the thought. But then she thought of the dangers and hesitated. And Pisces was shaking his head.
“Not just that. If we gain access to the library, too many things could go wrong. We aren’t allowed to read higher level spells as new students, and besides, there could be more warding spells. But if we could somehow obtain that particular book they were talking about—”
“You mean steal?”
The half-Elf looked at Pisces in disbelief. His lack of a response was her answer.
“I have a plan. I hesitate to carry it out, but I am sure it would work. I just don’t know whether I should try.”
“It is stealing after all.”
“True, but—it is not as if these students own that book. It is in the library, for anyone to take.”
Ceria slowly let out her breath. Something was tickling her stomach, the same feeling she’d felt back when she was younger.
“Anyone with the courage. And the intelligence to get it without dying.”
“Precisely. It may not be safe. And if we are caught—well, I doubt we will get into that much trouble. But there is danger, especially if the other students find us as we are retrieving the book.”
“And getting it in the first place.”
“Yes.”
Pisces waited. Ceria considered their options, and then shook her head. But not to say no.
“The way I see it…we’ve only got a month—three weeks, really. We can either play the good students, or we can take a risk.”
The young man’s eyes gleamed with excitement as the half-Elf smiled at him, showing teeth. He reached out a hand and Ceria took it.
“Tonight?”
“I believe so. If we wait, the other students may attempt to retrieve it earlier. And I can execute my plan quickly. We just need time, and the right moment when no one is around.”
“Okay then. What if we—”
Ceria turned her head, and paused as she saw an irregularity out of the corner of her eyes. She turned her head.
Something moved in the corner of Pisces’ room, by the dresser. Ceria sat up instantly. She only saw a flash of grey fur before the creature darted back out of sight.
“There’s rats everywhere!”
She stood up, annoyed more than she was upset. She’d eaten rats before, but she didn’t like the disgusting things. She went to the dresser, but Pisces stopped her.
“No need.”
“Oh come on. Where there’s one there could be a dozen. We need to destroy the nest before—”
“I have taken care of it. Don’t worry, Ceria. We have more important things to do.”
She blinked.
“Oh. You got them?”
“Ah, yes. I had a small infestation of mice in my room. This one must be a straggler.”
“Had?”
Pisces blinked.
“Have. Excuse me. I must have neglected to round up all of the vermin in my last sweep. It should be of no consequence.”
Ceria hesitated. She pointed to the dresser.
“Are you sure? One [Flame Jet] and they’re cooked. It’ll smell bad for a while, but—”
“I’m sure. I have my own methods of disposing of such creatures, and we mustn’t waste time. Let us go to dinner, and then we’ll begin the plan.”
He ushered her towards the door. Ceria nodded reluctantly, but she stopped Pisces as he closed the door to get ready.
“Just be sure it isn’t a rat. Mice will leave you alone, but some of the nastier kinds of rats will nibble your nose off as you sleep.”
“I have everything under control.”
Pisces shut the door as Ceria went back into her room to clean up in the few minutes before they left to eat. He breathed a sigh of relief, and then scowled as a small shape slowly climbed up his dresser.
He stared at it. The ‘rat’ stared back with hollow, unblinking eyes. It was no rat. It was a mouse. And it was dead.
Pisces raised a finger, and the mouse scurried over to him. He carefully picked it up and tucked it into the pocket of his robe. And then he opened the door and walked into the corridor.
“Ceria? Are you ready?”
“Coming—just got to stuff the feathers back in here.”
Ceria emerged from her room, blowing away some more feathers. She smiled at Pisces and his heart skipped a beat.
“Ready?”
“To dinner, then. And afterwards…”
“Let’s go grab a spellbook.”
