Cessic turned his head and fanned his neck frills out slightly as he spotted Ceria and Pisces.
“There you two are! You’re just in time—I think we’re about to get our first class in destruction magic!”
“Really?”
“You’re kidding!”
The two mages stared at Cessic in disbelief. Although they’d taken quite a few classes, they still hadn’t managed to find the class that taught illusion magic (Pisces had suggested that such a class didn’t exist and it was a prank pulled on new students; Ceria had agreed), and as far as they’d known, the teacher in charge of teaching combat spells hadn’t shown up to any of her classes.
“How do you know?”
“Look around.”
Cessic pointed to the other students.
“Apparently, the Council—the leaders of all the mage factions in Wistram—chewed out the mage in charge of this class—told them to start teaching right away. I got the tip-off from Calvaron; he sold it to me cheap, since word spread so quick.”
“Of course he did.”
Ceria sighed, although she wasn’t actually that mad. She’d gotten used to Calvaron selling secrets, and she’d even bought two off him for small favors and secrets in return—one to find out where the bathrooms on her floor were, and another for a shortcut that saved her several minutes getting to the banquet hall each day. Apparently, a rather irate [Illusionist] had grown fed-up with waiting in line for the bathroom each day and enchanted her own private restroom, until word had spread of its existence.
“Who’s the mage? Are you sure they’re coming?”
“Fairly. I mean, if they didn’t offer the class they’d be punished, and I don’t think they’d want to risk—”
Cessic cut off and the hubbub around Ceria died. She looked and saw the door to the classroom slowly opening. She held her breath, not sure whom to expect. What she saw was a tall, older woman—perhaps in her late thirties—stepping out of the room. It was actually hard to place this Human’s age, because although her hair was slightly greying, she had no wrinkles. Her face was smooth and flawless so Ceria supposed her hair was just naturally grey. What the woman did give off though was an aura of cold, both in mannerism and temperature.
And Ceria recognized her, vaguely. She was the woman who’d cast [Ice Lance] on the first day at the Ghouls. She was…
“My name is Illphres. I specialize in ice magic, and I’m assigned to teach you all some spells to use in actual combat.”
The woman spoke abruptly and without any hint of welcome. She raised her voice so the silent students could all hear her. Ceria exchanged a glance with Pisces. This sounded like the introduction the other teachers had given a week ago! And why were they all here? Was she going to teach all the students at once?
Illphres’ eyes swept over the assembled students once. Then she spoke again.
“However, I don’t want to be a teacher. I was forced to take this job by the Council, even though I have better things to do. So I’m going to give you a test. Pass it and I’ll teach you magic.”
So saying, Illphres turned and pointed towards the open doorway.
“[Ice Wall].”
The students in the crowd stepped back as ice rose from the ground, forming out of the suddenly misty air and freezing into a thick, impenetrable wall that sealed off the entrance to the classroom. Ceria heard confused voices as she felt the temperature in the corridor drop so suddenly she shivered. People moved back in front of her, stepping away from the extreme cold.
Illphres didn’t seem bothered by the chill. She was wearing light robes, and she touched the ice as if it were just stone. But she had confidence in her spell as well, because her next words were a challenge.
“Melt the ice. Gain entry to the classroom and I will teach you. Do it yourselves, without an artifact or another mage to help you. That is all.”
Without another word she stepped aside. The students stared at her incredulously. So did Ceria.
“That’s it?”
One of the students, a young Drake, stepped forwards angrily. He pointed to the wall of ice.
“You expect us to melt through that? How? We came here to learn combat spells! Some of us don’t know any flame magic!”
“Not my problem.”
Illphres stood with her arms crossed, waiting for someone to make a move. Ceria hesitated. She knew her best flame spell, [Flame Jet], wasn’t nearly good enough to melt through a wall of ice. Maybe if she had time—
She was too busy staring at the wall to see another student stride up to Illphres angrily. He was corpulent—fat being too general a term. He was wearing robes and by the looks of him he was an older student, given that he was brave enough to call Illphres out to her face.
“This isn’t fair! We’re supposed to be taught by you unconditionally! You don’t get to impose a restriction like—”
He cut off sharply as the temperature around Illphres lowered. Ceria felt it lower from where she was standing; she saw the student’s robes suddenly frost over, and then he was stumbling away, sobbing, his clothing crackling with frost.
Illphres flicked a bit of frozen spittle off her robes as if nothing had happened. She spoke quietly, calmly to the other students.
“I’m allowed to test you. So I am. I don’t feel like teaching children who can barely cast [Light], so this is my condition. Pass it or fail; it matters little to me.”
“Fine then.”
Another student moved up. He was a Dullahan, and his fingers burned with flames as he put his head on his shoulders. He raised both his hands and aimed it straight at the wall of ice.
“[Flaming Swathe]!”
Ceria watched as a long stream of fire blew outwards from the mage’s palms, licking over the door and raising the temperature in the corridor several degrees. She exchanged a look with Pisces—he looked impressed as well. It was a [Flaming Swathe], a Tier 3 spell, but the student held it for over twenty seconds, which had to have taken quite a bit of mana.
When he eventually lowered his hands, the Dullahan was panting, sweat standing out on his head. He wiped it away with one gauntlet and smiled confidently as the smoke cleared. But then his face fell.
The barrier of ice stood in the doorway, not even slightly melted by the fire. Illphres shook her head as she looked dismissively at the older student.
“A Tier 3 spell. Not even a good one at that; if you want to clear snow, use that spell. For this, you’d better have something better.”
She stared at the panting Dullahan. He couldn’t meet her eyes as he stepped back. Illphres looked around.
“Anyone else want to try? No? Then I’m going.”
She began to walk away. Silence followed her footsteps. Ceria couldn’t believe what she was seeing. Before she knew it, she’d raised her voice.
“We came here to be mages!”
Ceria shouted it at Illphres’ back. She couldn’t help herself. She raised her voice in outrage as the woman turned and regarded her silently.
“If you don’t want to teach us, take it up with the Council! But we’ve just started learning, and we need help, not an impossible task!”
A few students around her raised their voices in agreement. More spoke up, and then they were all shouting at Illphres. The woman just stared at them all without expression. She didn’t smile or frown—she didn’t even blink. It wasn’t just having a still face; it was as if her own face was frozen in place. It was so unnerving that after a few seconds, the noise had faded from the hallways once again.
When Illphres spoke, it was in a flat voice as she met Ceria’s eyes.
“Real [Mages] don’t need help. They forge their own paths. If you want someone to hold your hand, find another teacher.”
She turned and walked away. Ceria clenched her fists, helpless, as the blurred shape of Illphres disappeared down the corridor. Pisces patted her on the shoulder, and Cessic said something Ceria didn’t quite catch.
Slowly, the students began trooping down the corridor, not saying much. But they paused when they saw a ten foot high wall of ice right as the corridor opened up into the intersection. The wall left a foot of room near the ceiling, but besides that it was impenetrable.
In consternation, the students stared at the wall of shimmering ice. One student disbelievingly put their palm against it and found it stuck. As the shouting started, Ceria stared at the wall, and then at the mage standing at the far end of the intersection. It was hard to see the woman’s face through the distorted ice, but Ceria could swear she was smiling slightly. Then she turned and walked away.
Pisces stared at the ice as Cessic and Ceria just stood there in silence. He looked at Ceria.
“…How are we supposed to get out?”
 
——
 
“We’re going to die here.”
Cessic made that announcement after twenty minutes had passed and the fifty-odd students had made no progress breaking down the wall of ice magic. Over half the students knew at least one flame-based spell, but no matter how they’d pooled their spells and attacked in unison, the icy barrier had resisted all the flames.
“It has to be a Skill! A normal [Ice Wall] spell would melt, however slowly. But this ice is practically resistant to flame!”
Pisces looked as happy as she did. Concerned, he stared at the ice. Ceria just glared. Her spells had washed right over the wall without doing anything to it; and none of the other students still blasting it with low-level spells were having any better luck.
They couldn’t touch the ice, either, or they’d risk getting stuck to it. Several students had already tried climbing the ice, but they’d stopped after leaving good bits of their skin on the frozen surface. Now, most of the students were just standing around and talking, waiting for a higher-level mage to come by and rescue them.
“We’re all going to die.”
The only problem was that some people couldn’t handle waiting. Cessic was pacing back and forth, hyperventilating as he panicked. Ceria sighed and edged away from him; the Lizardman was apparently claustrophobic, and he gave off fear that was starting to spread to some of the other new students.
“We’re not going to die, Cessic. Stop pacing. Just—stand over there and don’t look at the wall, okay? Look out one of the windows?”
“Do—do you think I could jump out of one?”
The Lizardman looked hopefully at one of the windows. Ceria shuddered and grabbed his tail.
“Don’t. It’s a long way down. Just wait, okay? Someone will melt the ice soon enough.”
“Okay. Okay. I’m going to…I’ll just put my head out the window.”
Cessic staggered away. Ceria and Pisces stared at him until they saw he was just looking out the windows rather than climbing out, and then they went back to sitting. In silence.
“I really don’t like her.”
“She does appear to have a most objectionable personality, doesn’t she?”
Pisces nodded to the other wall of ice blocking off the classroom. Ceria scowled and flicked a bit of dirt off the floor. She looked around and saw most of the other students were seated—save for a knot of furious students in robes. They were all older students, a group of five, the Dullahan, and the fat Human who’d gotten frosted by Illphres. They were talking fiercely, and Ceria couldn’t help but edge over a bit to listen.
“We’re third-year students! Illphres was supposed to teach us as well, but the woman doesn’t even respect other mages!”
The overly-pudgy mage was talking to the others angrily, and they were nodding as they stayed out of spit-range. The Dullahan was wearing a sour expression as he stared at the ice wall.
“If I had a Tier 4 spell, I could have melted that ice. I wish I could have wiped that smug expression off of her face.”
“Well, if you want to learn it, there’s always the book. If we could pay someone to get it for us, then—”
The older students looked around, and saw Pisces and Ceria standing not-too-subtly near them. They broke off immediately. After a second of scrutiny, one of them raised their voices.
“You two, you’re new students, aren’t you? Shame you got Illphres as a teacher.”
Ceria and Pisces walked over. The other students introduced themselves.
“I take it this isn’t what normal teachers do?”
“Hardly.”
The overweight student snorted. He gestured towards the classrooms.
“Last year we had proper teachers, but this year the Council decided to make the selection process random. Hah! This is what we get. It looks like you two won’t be learning any combat spells unless you pass your entrance test.”
Dismayed, Pisces and Ceria exchanged a glance. The older students nodded in agreement. One of them grinned at the new students.
“Still getting to know the academy? I remember how confusing it was when I was a new student here.”
“That’s right. We still haven’t found where the illusion class is being taught.”
“Hah! Good luck with that. You could get the location from Calvaron, but he’ll charge you an arm and a horse’s leg for it.”
The older students laughed again, but the Dullahan paused as he stared at Pisces.
“You’re that Pisces, aren’t you? If you trade me a rapier and a bell, I’ll tell you where the illusion classes are being held.”
“Ah.”
Pisces blinked in surprise, and then smiled apologetically.
“Sorry, but my personal accoutrements are not for sale.”
“Pity. Well, until we get this damn barrier melted, we’d best save our mana rather than waste it on this.”
With a flick of the hand the Dullahan indicated the ice barrier. He jerked his head and the other students walked away, saying goodbye to Pisces and Ceria. They found a secluded part of the corridor and began to speak intently again, this time making sure no one was near them.
“That was an odd offer, don’t you think?”
Pisces and Ceria stood in front of the ice wall, talking. Pisces nodded as he looked over to the other students.
“An offer to tell us where the illusion class was being taught for a duelist’s, that is to say, my, bells. That was the most direct trade I’ve heard so far, I believe.”
“Maybe you should have taken him up on the offer.”
Ceria joked, but Pisces just shook his head. He was very intent as he studied the older students from the side.
“Did you notice his companion’s expressions? They clearly didn’t expect his ruse to succeed, once again adding to my theory that the illusion class is, in of itself, an illusion.”
“Why offer if it wouldn’t succeed, then?”
“For the bell. Another clue. If he wants that for simple directions—well, if the class were so easy to find, it would be a very one-sided deal.”
Ceria raised her eyebrows.
“It’s that valuable? That little bell?”
“It is, to some at least. I—”
