And they did. The undead made no effort to chase after them. Instead, they circled over what Viv suspected was the tornado of undead birds without stopping. The only constant was the golem’s gaze following her with unyielding intensity. Ten minutes later, Arthur confirmed she had recovered enough for one last blast.

“Alright. For victory!”

The young dragons roared with excitement. They might like to fight but they liked winning even more, and Viv’s approach was bearing fruits. The wind howled in Viv’s ears as they flew ever faster. The timing would be tight again but the dragons knew their flying.

“You are cunning,” the Harrakan female voice howled over the powerful wind. “And strong.”

It was spoken with a cold detachment, like a scientist making notes after a successful experiment. The lack of any sort of emotions rang alarm bells in Viv’s mind. Was this the golem speaking or someone else? Golems never commented out loud unless they meant to be heard, because it was an inefficient use of resources. It was growing more and more likely that the golem was not just a relay for orders, it was also being remotely commanded.

That or the golem had a pilot but that felt very unlikely. Viv had seen nothing that resembled a cockpit.

As they approached, the escort animated dragons opened their skeletal mouths. Viv immediately cast her shield, then reinforced it with [Aspect of the Guardian]. Arthur hesitated.

“I got it! I got it!”

Rays of concentrated black mana hit her full on, then more joined it as they made their final approach. Viv grit her teeth. The pressure was monstrous. Where was the golem getting all this power? Despite the onslaught, the pair spat their flames at the huddled form, hitting all three reanimated dragons plus the golem in a torrent of fire. Powerful blasts of black mana immediately dimmed the blaze. The effect was even stronger near the golem. Again, point blank dragon fire was still strong enough to bypass those defenses. One of the dragons fell apart as the attackers emerged again from the cloud cover. Arthur huffed in annoyance.

The fire on the golem is already extinguished!

How?

A second dragon collapsed a minute later, but it looked like that would be it.

“I think Meadow might want to get rid of the last one in person. We should be good to go for payload delivery.”

Why are you talking all weird?

“Sorry, habits from my previous life. We’ve been careful enough, now it’s time to finish this.”

The two young dragons climbed again with renewed enthusiasm. Meadow was more than happy to finally get a move on. Viv judged he must be much more resistant to black mana on account of his size and because old dragons just felt stronger in general. He would still be vulnerable to the black mana pulse if the fate of the aggressive lady was any indication, so she would have to go with him.

“Are you ready?” she asked.

You are like a swarm of mosquitoes when I am trying to sleep.

“I’ll take that as a yes. Let’s go!”

They dove again. Viv expected some sort of reaction from the golem but perhaps it hadn’t been built for aerial maneuvering. Still, its glowing eyes followed them as they approached. Runes glowed alongside the skeletal wings while ethereal winds kept ghostly membranes afloat. The lone surviving skeleton flew near its master, a daunting defense made useless by borrowed Earth tactics. This was it. Viv hoped Meadow wouldn’t miss.

Feel the wrath of She-Who-Feasts-on-Many-And-Collects-Much!

Viv weaved her shield, keeping an eye on the golem as it slowly turned over the horde. The good thing was it wouldn’t be dodging anything. She put some extra power into it, just to be sure. Mana was gathering inside of the massive construct. Arthur and Gale happily screeched on their way down, going faster than they should even though they were here as a decoy. Viv could feel Meadow’s presence lag behind her like a weight on her neck. The larger dragon was so focused, she could feel it.

Something flared inside of the golem’s ribcage only a few seconds before impact. Viv’s eyes widened. Her instincts screamed in alarm. The energy didn’t taste like black mana. It was… transparent mana.

She spotted a glyph repeating across the golem’s surface. She used the same for kinetic blasts.

“FUCK!”

Mother?

Viv switched her shield at the last moment, going for force instead. She only had a few instants. The shield crumbled. The shield reformed.

[Aspect of the Guardian!]

Shock.

Acuity reflex: Expert 1

You may pick a specialization later.

All the air in Viv’s lung kept going down while the rest of her tumbled like a wild weed. The sky was down, then up, then down again. She felt immense pressure. She wasn’t on Arthur’s back anymore. The two young dragons flailed their wings at the limit of her vision before disappearing under the cloud layer. By some miracle, her mind latched on her most familiar enchanted item like a drowning woman to her life jacket: her floating harness. She stopped barreling. With a supreme effort of will, the sky was up again. Her next priority — and everything else be damned — was to get air into her lungs. She didn’t know why because the colder part of her mind insisted she didn’t need it immediately, yet an animal instinct brushed all concerns aside.

Air.

Air, now.

Breathing in felt like pushing a door that had been blocked by a couch. A terrible rasp emerged from her throat, and her first intake of sweet air turned into a wet cough. She could see the golem turn from the corner of her eye, making its way towards her for the coup de grace. Pain wracked her form despite her high tolerance. Everything hurt from her scalp to her toes, and it was all she could do to stay conscious. Her vision darkened.

You are suffering from significant internal hemorrhage.

You are dying.

Fuck. Flesh mending potion. Flesh mending potion now while the golem completed its ‘sharp’ turn. How bad did it have to be that she was so hurt? Anyone else would have gotten pulped for sure. Only her half elemental constitution was still keeping her running. Note to self: enemies adapt too. Dammit. Her shaky fingers found the first potion strapped to her chest. It was shattered. A cold chill crawled up her spine but fortunately, the next one was still intact. She swallowed it in a single gulp. She couldn’t even taste it. She wasn’t even sure she’d swallowed it properly but there wasn’t liquid dripping down her chin right now so, probably. She had to run but she couldn’t. The golem was still much faster than her, and right now, she couldn’t trust herself to hit a single revenant.

“You live,” the detached voice said, emerging from the dragon.

“Impressive, though your path as a witch is a major disappointment. You have displayed adequate adaptability. Your prediction ability, however, leaves much to be desired.”

Viv knew what was coming and she couldn’t resist.

“Hey Bozo. Catch.”

Dropped by Meadow, Solfis slammed into the back of the dragon golem. A last-second pulse made absolutely no difference beyond perhaps further charging him. He didn’t wait, he didn’t speak. From landing on all fours, he turned into a blender of sword and claw with no transition. Pieces of bones flew and the turn was aborted.

“You, I recognize you,” the voice continued with the same complete lack of emotion.

If the voice was the golem’s then it didn’t care it was getting picked apart. The last animated dragon was torched by Meadow’s deadly fire though the dragon was too heavy to stop. He still gave Viv a passing glance.

I will help the young ones.

Good luck.

//YOUR MAJESTY, I RECOMMEND INGESTING ALL THE POTIONS YOU HAVE LEFT.

//IMMEDIATELY.

“You are Golemics Grandmaster Irlefen’s pet project,” the voice said.

Viv wanted to ask why since the potions were the super expensive kind and she’d already swallowed one. As soon as she realized that, Viv correctly assumed she had brain damage so she reached for another flesh-mending potion. Who gave a crap about money? She was bleeding out. Healing magic no longer had any effect on her so alchemical help was all she could get, even though potions had diminishing results when consumed too quickly. By Neriad’s unmentionables she was going to soak her own body like meat in a marinade. Her vision cleared after the third and last unsmashed one. Part of her abdomen had grown stiff and she was already getting thirsty so yeah, internal bleeding for sure. Not good. At least her concussion was slowly disappearing. Fuck. It had been a long time since she’d almost gotten killed like that.

“Very clever, to send a golem after a golem, and to solve the flying hurdle by enlisting the help of a dragon. Good improvisation skills. Perhaps a necessity born from a lack of planning.”

“Is the undead horde also part of the job interview?” Viv spat with as much sarcasm as she could salvage.

“Yes.”

Viv sputtered, then she asked the question that had been burning her mind for some days now.

“Who, or rather what, are you?”

“You should have enough information to draw the proper conclusion and act accordingly,” the voice replied just as the dragon’s spine collapsed, revealing the core. Solfis grabbed for it.

“I will now self-destruct this tool. The assessment will continue until I am satisfied.”

“Uh oh.”

//YOUR MAJESTY.

//FLY.

Viv didn’t have to be told twice. She dove head first towards the cloud cover which proved to be an immediate mistake when the urge to vomit made itself known. She swallowed her saliva and focused. The cloud cover enveloped her in a dense mist of darkened droplets. She was feeling very cold.

She was forgetting something. Her instincts screamed again. Shield? Shield.

[Aspect of the Guardian]

A large explosion sounded out of sight, somewhere to her left. The shockwave rang on her protective bubble with a loud ding. She broke through under the clouds.

The explosion must have been larger than she’d thought, because the thick, ever present blanket of gray had been pushed aside and for the first time in centuries, a ray of sunlight pierced the perpetual gloom of the deadlands, a bright, hopeful yellow that was nice while it would last. Below, the horde was in a sort of tizzy. The undead flier hurricane was in the process of breaking apart while the horde itself was losing its organized feel to be more of a mindless mob. A few of the deadly forms of the necrarchs were fighting among each other. Nevertheless, it was still moving like they’d feared. Right towards Sinur’s Gate.

Viv spotted the falling form of Solfis briefly going through the light beam on its way down. She wasn’t worried since the sturdy golem was designed to survive terminal velocity. Silverite was a crazy metal. Beyond that, four dragons were flying here and there including the black one who didn’t look so fresh. Right. She made her way to Arthur first. The dragoness was already in the process of reaching her.

Mother!

Motherrrrrr!

I was afraid you would be mortally wounded.

Well, Viv had been, but thankfully she was rich.

“I’ll be fine.”

She’d be pissing blood for a week.

“We should get Solfis and fuck off to the mana-cleansing springs. I think the black dragon needs it.”

I am She-Who-Rides-The-Storm’s-Darkest-Clouds, human!

Do not dare presume anything!

My kin carrying you on her back is a disgrace!

A disgrace of the highest order!

I will not remain in your presence a moment longer now that the aberration is destroyed.

“I’m pretty confident Judgment meant for you to help with finding the culprit as well, but sure, he strikes me as the patient and forgetful sort,” Viv replied.

Arthur grabbed Viv from the air with a gentle hand, then placed her on her back before giving  She-Who-Rides-The-Storm’s-Darkest-Clouds an even darker glare.

Then enjoy puking black goo for the next three days, idiot!

Meadow rose from the horde with Solfis in his claws. He also aimed for the springs. It took exactly two seconds for Stormrider to change her mind.

What are these springs you mentioned?

Just as they flew, Viv felt a familiar nudge on her soul. Curious, she prayed to Neriad.

“I send you a ton of mana, oh Great One.”

“Outlander, a remark if you will. Cassia’s Last Gift was the culmination of a lifetime of love and sacrifice for her people. It is not a dragon spa.”

“I’m trying to stop an undead invasion with internal bleeding. Would it be too much to ask for everyone to get all the way off my back for one gods-damned minute? Also how the fuck do you know what a spa is?”

“...”

“Hello?”

But the God had disappeared, and so had Viv’s patience.
