Whether due to the effects of his skill, or just regular rage, the longer Nick looked at her, the more his blood boiled. Who was she, and why would she organize something like this? Nick had been lucky enough to fight only strangers so far, but seeing Sophie’s face in this fight nearly made his heart stop. It wasn’t her this time, but what about the next time? Or the time after that? What if it was Bianca? If Sophie and Bianca were experiencing the same thing he was…

“I’m going to fucking kill all of you!” he shouted. “You hear me?! You’re all dead! And if you laid a single finger on my sister, you’re going to wish you died before I got to you!”

Two guards leapt in from the sides jabbing him with blunt spears enchanted with electricity magic. He collapsed to his knees in pain, but struggled back to his feet to give the woman in black one last glare and spit in their direction. Through the veil, he thought he saw the vaguest hint of a smile. Then, his skill wore off and the strength left his body and he fell to the ground, his vision turning dark.

On the night of the warg attack.

“Noooo!” shouted Sophie, but it was too late.

The walls of the cabin were gone, replaced by crumbling stone pillars and blue sky. Sophie looked around for a few seconds in confusion, then flinched with surprise when she realized her arms were empty. Snowberry hadn’t come with her. She flinched again when she realized that Nick and Bianca weren’t there either.

“N-Nick?” she called. “Bianca? M-Mommy? Daddy?”

The only response was a gentle breeze tousling her hair. As far as she could tell, she was alone. She was kneeling on a cracked stone floor in the ruins of something so far gone she couldn’t tell what it had been originally. There were a few broken pillars, but none of whatever they supported was intact, and the ground was covered in broken stone, grass, and moss.

“Nick?” she called, louder this time. “Wh-where are you?”

She got to her feet, slowly and shakily, and walked to the edge of the ruin. When she looked out, she saw that she was on top of a hill overlooking a sandy beach. The sun was high overhead, and there wasn’t a cloud in sight.

“Nick! Bianca! Mommy! Daddy!”

At first there was no response, but then, from off to her left, she thought she heard something approaching. Sophie was about to call out again when a chill ran down her spine, and she stopped herself. She didn’t know where she was. There was no guarantee that whatever was approaching was even humanoid, let alone friendly. She froze for a few seconds, then crept to a nearby pile of rubble and hid behind it.

As whatever was approaching got nearer, Sophie heard not just its footsteps, but also a voice. It was a woman’s voice, and after a few seconds, Sophie was able to start picking out the words.

“-not real. It’s never real. But I need to see anyway. No! I’m not just going to blow it up! You remember what happened last time! Yes, I’m sure I heard it. It was a voice. A girl’s voice. No, not like mine. A young girl, like Alpi. Or was that Sandy. Wait, no, Sandy wasn’t real. This one sounded more real. Of course I know the difference! Do you think I’m crazy?”

The voice got nearer and nearer, and soon Sophie heard the sound of bare feet slapping on stone.

“She’s over there, by the rocks,” continued the voice. “I told you she was real. What? No! You really think she could hurt me? You need to have a higher opinion of myself. Does she know I’m here? Well, she hasn’t moved, so maybe not. Hiding? Why would she do that? I just told you I’m not crazy.”

Sophie didn’t know what to do. Whoever this woman was, she was clearly insane. If Sophie had a choice, she wouldn’t get involved. But did she have a choice? The woman seemed to already know she was there, and there was nowhere for Sophie to run. Not without being seen, at least. It would probably be best to just show herself.

“An elf?”

Sophie almost jumped in surprise as a shadow covered her face and a woman’s head peered down on her from above. How did the woman get there? Sophie didn’t hear any more footsteps. Sophie scrambled forward before turning around to get a better look.

The woman was floating in midair right above the rubble Sophie had been hiding behind, staring with a blank expression. Her hair was long, dangling almost all the way down to the ground, and it looked surprisingly clean. Her face was pretty, but intimidating, and her eyes were bright yellow.

She was also entirely nude, and didn’t seem to care much about it. Like her hair, her body was surprisingly clean, aside from her feet. It was hard to tell due to the angle, but Sophie thought the woman looked very tall.

“No, it’s a half-elf,” she continued. “Elf mother, human father? Yes, I think so. 12 years old. Good stats for her age. What’s her class? That’s not important. Where did she come from? It’s been so long since I’ve had company. Did she walk all the way up here? What? I should just ask her? Shut up, I was getting to that. You. Girl. Who are you? Where did you come from?”

Sophie didn’t know how to respond. Who, or what was this woman? She didn’t seem to have any malicious intent, but there was no telling whether that would continue to be true.

“She’s not answering,” said the woman. “Maybe she doesn’t speak Common. Should I try Elven?”

“I-I speak Common,” said Sophie. “Wh-who are you? Where am I?”

“She says she speaks Common. No, I don’t know. She asked me questions. She hasn’t answered my questions. How arrogant.”

“M-my name is Sophie!” said Sophie hastily. “I was- I used- My brother, he- It was- Teleportation scroll!”

“Liar. She’s lying. Yes I know. It’s impossible to teleport here. She’s lying. Yes, I’m going to ask.”

“I’m not lying!” said Sophie. “I was- I was asleep, and then I woke up and- and it was really cold, and Mommy- my mom said that there was a monster, and then my- my dad had a scroll and he gave- he gave it to my brother, and then we- and then he tore it, and then I was here.” Sophie was sobbing by this point. “I need to get- get back. Can you- help me? Please? My mom and dad are in danger!”

“She’s- Yes, I can see that. What should I do? Why is she crying? She said she used a scroll. An ancient one maybe? One programmed to come here before it was cut off? But where did she get it? It’s not possible. She’s lying. But she’s also crying. What should I do? Tell her to stop? Okay. Girl. Sophie. Stop crying.”

Sophie cried harder.

“That didn’t work. What now? She can’t talk if she’s crying.”

“P-please!” sputtered Sophie. “I need to- get home!”

“Home? She says she wants to go home. Should I tell her? Eh, I don’t want to. You do it. What? That’s no excuse. Ugh. Fine. Girl. Sophie. You want to go home? This is your home now.”

“Wh-what? N-no! I need to- to get back!”

“Back? There is no going back. Welcome to Purgatory.”
