That was another thing that the Bekkies did differently. Dei An couldn’t understand why Bulat rarely visited his sisters for fear of imposing. They were family, so how could family impose on one another? The Bekkies were a tight-knit bunch, and Bulat wished his family was the same, because he did miss his little sisters dearly. Their husbands were both good men, but a big brother would always worry, and he would much rather prefer if his little sisters and their adorable children were close by. “Well,” Bulat rumbled, kissing Dei An’s temple, “Work might be joyless, but I got plenty of joy here at home, more than any one man has the right to have.”

“Home and your wife will always be here for you,” Dei An countered, never willing to give in without a fight. “So why not seek joy in all aspects of your life, rather than limit it to one?”

“So what? Ye want I should quit as mayor and spend all me days at home?”

“Heavens no. I love you dear husband, but you would drive me mad if you were always underfoot.” Grinning as she rubbed his bulging belly, she added, “And I fear what would happen if you had nothing to keep you away from the kitchens.”

Fair enough. “Then what should I do?”

Sitting up to look him in the eye, Dei An answered in a matter-of-fact tone as if the answer was obvious. “Seek joy. Find your passion and pursue it dear husband, as I pursue mine in baking. I love kneading the dough and seeing it rise, the smell of crispy bread baking and the taste of a freshly steamed bun. What I enjoy most is seeing the products of my labour bring more joy to the world, whether it be a satisfied customer leaving the store with a bright smile on their face, or a hungry Khishig offering a small nod of appreciation as they ride off to war.” Waving towards the kitchen, Dei An continued, “This is work, yes, but it is also my passion, my source of joy and satisfaction, something I enjoy more than my weekly games of Mahjong or riding quins along the mountainside. To pursue this is another sort of Balance, that of Balance in life itself, for there is more to life than mere survival.”

It made sense to Bulat, and he quietly mused his wife’s wisdom over, until he arrived at a question he couldn’t answer. “Why’d ye bring the bossman into this? What’s wrong with his life? He seems happy enough.” Two wives, with a third on the way, and a concubine to boot, if Falling Rain wasn’t happy, then he was doing something wrong.

“He pursues the wrong passions,” Dei An explained, frowning as if she couldn’t understand why Bulat still had to ask. “Anyone with eyes can see his temperament is not suited for war and bloodshed, no matter how talented he might be, for the weight of responsibility weighs heavily upon him. He would have been much happier living the life of a Healer or herbalist, but now I see he was meant for more. As Minister of Finance and Legate of the outer provinces, he is finally able to pursue his true passion, which is to better humanity as a whole, but now he errs again and treads the path of war once more. Poor Falling Rain. I did not know he was found as a slave, though we all suspected he suffered something traumatic, and at least now I understand why he is so driven to grow strong.” Stifling a yawn, Dei An shrugged and concluded, “He fears being helpless once more and at the mercy of evil people, so he chases strength just as others chase wealth or reputation, without knowing or caring that it will not bring him true joy.”

Just like being a wealthy mayor wouldn’t bring Bulat true joy, but he suspected he knew what would. A few days ago, the bossman won his greatest victory yet and rose higher than anyone ever thought possible, but Bulat had done nothing to help him achieve it, which left a sour taste in his mouth. Not because of the lack of honour and glory, but because he hadn’t been there when the bossman needed him. Even Bulat hadn’t noticed it, but sweet Dei An knew him better than he knew himself. “I need to go, dear wife.” Meeting her eyes which snapped wide open in both fear and support, Bulat said, “The bossman needs me. War ain’t his path, but mine is to be the mature one of the group, looking after my friends and guardin’ Falling Rain against the Enemy, so that he might one day do what he was meant to.” If not for this war, the bossman might never have become the man that he was today, but if they were able to end the Defiled threat or even bring it down to a manageable level, there was a good chance Falling Rain would lead the Empire into a new age of progress and prosperity. Bulat knew this for truth, because he’d already seen how much good the bossman had done in a few short months, so what might he accomplish if given years, or even decades to work with?

Dei An was right. Despite his prodigious talent, the Martial Path was not suitable for the bossman. He was a leader and visionary, a trailblazer and trendsetter, a man who brought radical new ideas to the Empire and would eventually change it for the better, so long as he survived this war against the Enemy.

And Bulat meant to do everything he could to make that happen.

Long seconds passed in silence as he locked eyes with his beautiful wife, and for a moment, he feared she would ask him to stay and he would be too weak to refuse. Then, she nodded, ever so slightly, and though he could see how much it pained her to see him go and knew how much she would worry while he was gone, this had to be done. “Go pack your soldier’s kit and weapons,” she said, surprising him with her lack of protest. “I will pack you what food we have and meet you out by the stables. It may not be much, but know that I will think of you each and every day.”

“It is everything, dear wife, and know that I will do the same.”

Their farewells took a little longer than he’d like, since they both got a little carried away on the couch, and then the floor, then once more on their bed, but Bulat felt it necessary since he wouldn’t be seeing her for a few weeks at least. Luckily, he’d purchased a good horse after it won him a small fortune in a race, a horse he only bet on it because it was named ‘Little Hero’. It seemed like a sign from the Heavens to bet on the horse, and when he won, Bulat brought the hoofed champion home and let him grow fat and happy in his stables, but alas, now they were heading off to war together. As he set out for the Citadel and raced to catch up with the Bekkies, Bulat felt the wind course through his hair as Little Hero cut loose for the first time in weeks, and finally, the world felt right.

For he was Old Bulat, the most mature twenty-five year old alive, husband to Dei An, son of Maira and Daulet, Aura Capable Warrior of the Empire, and friend of the little hero, Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme
