Though only twenty five years young, Bulat had always considered himself older and wiser than his years.

Aged before his time is how Ma framed it, often looking sad as she did, but he took pride in being the mature one in the group. ‘Old Bulat’, he called himself, and while no one else ever used it, he was willing to look past his friends’ lacking manners, for they were young men who didn’t know any better. It wasn’t easy being the person everyone turned to for guidance, especially since it didn’t come naturally to him. He was no different from any other hot-blooded youth, but while others paid no mind to the consequences on account of their age and ignorance, Bulat knew exactly how much he had to lose.

He was seven when Da passed away from the flux, a reoccurring affliction that broke out every few years in the city. Most were hit hard, then eventually shook it off, but Da had been in poor health for as long as Bulat could remember and this time, the flux had been the final push that put him over the edge. There he lay upon his pallet, tucked into the farthest corner of their modest little hut so as to keep the rest of them from catching it, but Bulat didn’t care and snuck off every night to lay down beside him. There they were on Da’s final night, holding hands while Bulat prayed for him to get better, when Da turned to him, squeezed his hand tight, and smiled. “Baby Bulat,” he whispered, struggling to draw breath with his fluid filled lungs and pale as a cloud in blue summer skies. “Ye’ll be the man of the family, soon enough, so ye look after yer ma and little sisters now, ye hear?” Bulat remembered nodding, but he wasn’t sure if Da ever saw it, because after uttering one last “Love ye, son”, Da went into the arms of the Mother Above.

That was the last day of Bulat’s youth, because from then on, he was a man.

Life was tough for them all afterwards, as Ma struggled to raise a son and two daughters in the slums of Shen Huo. He remembered how hard she worked to keep everyone happy and together, telling him and his sisters living in the streets was like camping in the wilderness without having to worry about waking to find wolves gnawing on your ankles. It was nothing like that of course, with plenty of squatting in alleys and street corners by day and sleeping in a ramshackle lean-to by night. Every few days, hired toughs would come clear out their shelters and the struggle to find a new place to live ensued, but throughout it all, Ma kept them fed, clothed, and most importantly, she kept them safe.

Cognizant of Da’s last words, Bulat did what he could to help the family. Barely a week after starting their new life, he’d already fallen in with a pack of grifters and secured himself a job. It all sort of just happened, as he was just sitting in an alley when he saw a con-man at work passing shiny rocks off as gemstones to unwary buyers. When the grifter finished for the day, Bulat followed him back to his hideout and asked for a job. A risky proposition, but the way Old Bulat saw things, if these grifters were the murderous sort, then they’d be thieves and robbers instead, which made it a fairly safe bet. Thieving was no good, since Ma would beat him with a switch if she caught him stealing and the city guard would do worse, but grifting was just convincing some fool to part with his coin. Course, back then, Bulat only knew this because Da kept calling the medicine peddlers grifters, there to sell them false hope and nothing else. Despite that, Bulat also knew Ma bought medicine from them in secret, and Da had still died, so he was of the mind to never be fooled again.

Grifting was a field in which there was plenty of work for young children, especially if you were quick on the uptake like young Old Bulat. For a time, he played his part as corner-boy and lookout until he earned the group’s trust, at which point they promoted him to errand and bag boy. The pay wasn’t great, but he was fed every day he worked and had enough to save some food every day to pass on to Ma and his sisters when he got home. He even got a few extra coppers every now and then when the grifters were coming off the back of a big score or just drunk and feeling generous. Over the next few years however, he learned all the ins and outs of the grift by watching the others, and eventually started running his own cons with no small success, until he became the most popular point-man in the gang. He knew how to win another person’s confidence or distract them at the perfect time, how to shave the odds in your favour and present them in a way that not only hid this advantage, but also presented it as a disadvantage. Games of chance were his weapon of choice, because then it all came down to a throw of the dice, and despite risking everything he had on gamble after gamble, he kept coming out ahead and bringing good coin into his family’s pockets.

Or at least what he thought was good coin, but the silvers he brought home every month were nothing compared to the tens of hundreds of gold coins a politician could collect in a single day, making them the biggest grifters of all.

The moment the bossman sat down and explained the concept behind his War Bonds, Bulat saw it for what it was. Not a scam exactly, but a means to convince all the tight-fisted, copper-pinching nobles of the Empire to open their purse-strings and throw away all their hard earned coin in return for a piece of parchment. It wasn’t even a unique piece of work, as was the case with art, and it was mind-boggling how no one had ever come up with the concept before. Then again, maybe they had, but only someone in the bossman’s position could execute such a brilliant idea, literally selling face in the form of reasonably cheap silk paper.

Altogether, Bulat maybe earned a good twenty or so gold from eighteen years of grifting, because he never stopped, not even to this day. It wasn’t a vast fortune by any standards, but for a farmer boy from the slums, it wasn’t half bad either. He might’ve made more if he worked harder at it, but when he was thirteen, he did the math and realized the quickest way to get rich (and coincidentally, avoid being killed by all the gullible idiots he’d fleeced) was to become a Martial Warrior. With that goal in mind, he set aside a few hours each day to seek Balance and Form his Core and eventually, randomly succeeded at some three years later. To this day, he had no idea why it took so long, or why it even eventually worked, but years of sitting around and letting his mind go still finally paid off, and then he made the dumbest, and ultimately, the best decision of his life.

He joined the Imperial Army for what he thought would be an easy, steady paycheck.

The rest was history. He survived basic training, met Ravil, Pran, and Saluk, served under Rustram doing patrols and scouting missions, all while drawing decent wages which put Ma in a decent home and paid for his sisters’ dowries. Then, he went and lost his foot in his first real battle ever, and the bossman came along and changed Bulat’s life forever, leaving him a happily married man, the mayor of a bustling little district, and wealthy beyond measure. It still felt like a dream, selling the bossman’s generously gifted War Bond for almost eighty-thousand gold to some idiot fool who could easily afford it, but that was the best sort of grift in Bulat’s eyes, one in which both conman and mark walk away satisfied.

Of course, having a wife, a job, and plenty of coin brought with it a whole slew of new problems, because he’d forgotten how boring civilian life could be. Even though politicians were all cheats, Bulat had accepted this job as mayor with the hopes of being the first honest politician in history, except the damned townspeople weren’t making it easy. Running unscrupulous businessmen out of the District was simple enough, but he had to see the townspeople each and every day, and the farmers and labourers once or twice a week at a minimum, so he couldn’t be too harsh on them. They all knew he was a wealthy Martial Warrior and made all the important decisions in town, so they were constantly trying to make friends and ply him with wine, women, and other such gifts in hopes of future favours. Even the Bekkies weren’t above greasing a few palms, though civilians and Khishigs alike were quick to resort to the stick if they ever felt the carrot had failed them.

And the worst part was? There was nothing particularly important about Bulat’s duties. Things like land permits, crop prices, work contracts and anything of value, all of that was handled by the bossman’s office, those Minister of Finance clerks working day and night in a concentrated effort to drown Bulat in paperwork. A good thing all the Bekkies knew how to read, so it was a simple matter of hiring a couple kids to read the papers to him, but the jobs left to him were always in regards to the most mundane problems imaginable. This neighbour’s fence was a handspan off his property, that neighbours barn was blocking all the natural light, this path was too steep and needs to be evened out, or that ditch there was hard to see and a wagon might roll into it. One idiot merchant even came to him with complaints about how some drunkard ogled his wife and she had the ‘audacity’ to make eyes back. He had already ‘taught’ his wife a lesson on how to behave appropriately, but he wanted the drunkard lashed and shamed in public for his transgression.

What did any of this have to do with Old Bulat? That was the answer he usually gave, and what followed was usually a long and boring discourse on how he should fix things, made longer by the need to repeatedly mention how they weren’t trying to tell Bulat how to do his job, while doing just that. It was all so frustrating, mostly because he couldn’t just pick those fools up and toss them out his office, though he came close to doing so more than once. Luckily for him, Ma was always around to cool everyone’s tempers, because while Old Bulat was the man of the family, he could never bear to utter a harsh word to Ma.

The fool with the battered wife learned why first-hand. Ma threw him out on his ear and threatened to set her ‘Baby Bulat’ and ‘Hunky Husband’ on him if he ever dared lay a hand on his wife, which would be difficult considering said wife left him the next day, with a little help from Ma of course.

Such was life for Bulat these past few months, a boring, miserable experience in which the only two things to look forward to were his nights spent in the arms of his beautiful wife, and his mornings spent indulging in her delicious pastries, made with fresh beet sugar which came straight from the bossman’s farms and was deposited directly into Bulat’s belly. Overall, things were rather uneventful, aside from the handful of days it took to transform the district from an empty field to a bustling walled town, surrounded by hundreds of thriving farms all progressing towards the final harvest. Now, construction was ongoing each and every day, with more coin flowing through Bulat’s office than he’d ever seen before in his life. No wonder the bossman needed trustworthy, literate people to serve as mayor for his districts, because even loyal, wealthy, virtuous Bulat was tempted to filch a coin or three. He didn’t of course, especially since most of the coin was for things like construction costs and payments for goods and services to keep everyone safe and happy. The bossman was a kindhearted soul, and that didn’t change when he was raised to Minister of Finance.

Then the whole brouhaha with the Legate, the provisional Legate, and the Bristleboar Divinity went down, and Bulat’s respect for the bossman went up a few notches, which he hadn’t even thought was possible. Not because of how bossman stood up to a Divinity, which wasn’t even all that surprising, since he would probably criticize the Mother Herself if She ever deigned to make an appearance. Bulat could imagine it now. “Why so many trials and tribulations?” the bossman would ask, arms crossed with a scowl etched across his face, “And is it too much to ask for detailed instructions instead of vague Insights? For an omnipotent being, your communication skills are sorely lacking.”

No, the amazing thing was how the bossman didn’t even try to hide his shocking past. Oh how Bulat wished he’d been in the citadel to hear their exchange, for there was no way the tales could ever do it justice. “Yes,” everyone heard the bossman say, confirming the Bristleboar Divinity’s accusations were true. “I was that slave.” A simple admission, but one no one could have ever expected from even someone as humble and grounded as Falling Rain. Even Bulat himself rarely spoke of growing up in the slums, because he was a Martial Warrior now and people expected more of him, so he kept quiet about his past and pretended he knew how to read while everyone in the district gave face and played along with the ruse. It was just how polite society worked, where those with low status pretended not to notice the flaws of their betters, and most people of the outer provinces would have gladly forgotten what the Bristleboar Divinity revealed, for there were few people of higher status than Falling Rain.

