But instead, the bossman proudly acknowledged his past and claimed it was part and parcel of the trials and tribulations set out for him to overcome, and overcome it he did. A slave at twelve, a Martial Warrior by thirteen, accomplished duellist at fifteen, Warrant Officer by seventeen, Expert by eighteen, Number One Young Talent of the Empire by nineteen, and now, at twenty years old, Falling Rain was the Imperial Minister of Finance and Legate of the outer provinces, a man who could call the winds and summon the rains with a wave of his hand and had the last say in all military and economic decisions of all three provinces.

None of which would have happened if not for the harsh lessons he learned from his time as a slave, or so he claimed.

It was an unprecedented way of looking at life, for it was widely accepted that wealth and status were determined by the Heavens themselves. The majority of people born would be unable to form a Core and remain commoners for their entire lives, and while some effort was still required from those blessed chosen, no amount of hard work could ever change one’s fate. This was immutable fact, so there must be a reason those chosen few were granted the powers of Heaven, the same way others were born into wealth, power, or status. This reason was karma, a tally of good and evil carried out in past lives, so being born into slavery, poverty, hardship, or insignificance must therefore be a punishment in the same vein. This was what Bulat believed, same as countless other citizens of the Azure Empire, but on that day in the citadel, Falling Rain refuted their beliefs and said, “No. I suffered, I survived, and I wear this as a mark of pride.”

Not in so many words of course, but that was how Bulat saw it, as did many others. In his districts, he saw commoners turn out in droves to sign up for the bossman’s irregulars, and despite all his efforts to make certain everyone understood what they were agreeing to, there were still more than a million applicants vying for what was initially supposed to be a ten-thousand strong force. As Legate, the bossman expanded recruitment to a hundred thousand commoners, citing that while their courage was commendable, combat was not the only way to lend aid to the war effort. Farmers, blacksmiths, farriers, and even coolies were all crucial labourers which the Empire could not do without, and he was working hard to ensure they were appreciated by advocating for a minimum wage and Imperial standards regarding worker treatment. While wealthy nobles and merchants complained about a measly two-percent luxury tax, those taxes paid for crossbows and catapults which were swiftly delivered, assembled, and distributed throughout every district along the border. Every morning, Bulat led a class showing commoners how to load and aim their weapons, while Dagen taught their ‘militia’ how to use the catapults. Moats were being dug and the gates reinforced, while plans for higher walls and a clock-tower of all things were put into motion, and those commoners living along the Western border watched Falling Rain’s efforts bear fruit before their very eyes.

The Bristleboar Divinity had one thing right. Take away all their trappings, and there was nothing to differentiate nobles from commoners. Not only did the bossman wholeheartedly believe this, he also acted on his beliefs and treated commoners like valued people. This, more than anything else, won him the hearts of the people, though Bulat was the first to note that anyone living on the Western border already had no small measure of respect for the bossman, since they owed their new lives to his efforts. Difficult to say how the rest of the Empire would see their new Legate, especially if the stories they heard were distorted by meddling nobles and unhappy merchants seeking to twist the narrative in their favour.

But alas, as a mere mayor of a district, even the district housing most of the bossman’s fellow Bekkies, Bulat was no longer a part of the bossman’s inner circle, and could only look in from afar. He didn’t even know the bossman had left for the Central Citadel until a day after the fact, and several days later, he came awake in the night and discovered the Bekkies all bustling through the streets in the middle of the night. Grumbling as he rolled out of bed, he threw on his silken robes and set out in search of his absent wife, who he found firing up her ovens in the bakery kitchen, which he had built right into the manor. “What’s this all about?” he asked, looking around to see if there were still any sweet buns lying around, but unfortunately, he must have eaten them all before going to bed.

“The Legate beats the drums of war once more,” Dei An said, speaking in that stilted Common he so loved while feeding charcoal into the ovens, “And the Chief Provost herself leads her Khishigs alongside him.”

“The bossman’s riding to war?”

“Yes, dear husband.” Giving him a pointed look which said she had little time for his questions, she offered a small smile and fluttered her lovely amber eyes. “Which means there is much work to be done before the night is through. They set out two hours before first light, and I mean to see them off with as much fresh bread as they can carry.”

‘So stop bothering me and get out of my kitchen’ was the implied bit, but sweet Dei An was too kind to ever say it out loud. She was a magnificent woman and he loved her with all his heart, so calm, confident, and beautiful beyond measure. Most days, he woke up wondering what she ever saw in him, but he knew if he continued to stand around and ogle her even after her polite dismissal, then she’d give him a taste of her rolling pin delivered straight to the side of his head. Flashing her his best smile, he said, “Then I guess Old Bulat will get out of your way, dear wife.”

There was no point offering to help since she’d just run him out of her kitchen, so he set out into the night to see what he could do to help. The Bekkies were good enough people, but they were exceedingly blunt and aloof to the point where it could easily be misconstrued as haughty rudeness. This sort of behaviour rubbed some folk the wrong way, and many of Bulat’s problems stemmed from the Bekkies lack of social boundaries when it came to certain things, like their willingness to wake people up in the middle of the night to ask for help preparing for war. Luckily, upon learning the Legate was riding to war and the Bekkies were going with him, most folk were happy enough to do what they could, and Bulat made sure to loudly voice his appreciation for everyone to hear and smooth things over with those less than pleased about the Bekkies insistent requests.

Ma was there too, soothing tempers with a word and smile where Bulat would have needed to charm and cajole, as well she should. While he learned the tricks of the trade from his old band of grifters, he learned how to win people over from seeing Ma in everyday life. She was a wonderful woman, still handsome despite being a commoner who just crossed over into her forties, but it was still a marked difference when she stood next to her new husband, Dagen, who was older but could pass for Bulat’s brother rather than step-father. Technically, they’d been married for several years now, but Bulat couldn’t bring himself to think of Dagen as anything but the new husband, and it was even harder not to resent either of them for doing Da’s memory a disservice. That wasn’t fair to Ma, as she’d been faithful to him for almost two decades after his death, when she could have easily remarried as someone’s concubine and become a kept woman. Dagen seemed a good enough sort, and he made Ma smile something fierce, which was good enough for Bulat, but he still didn’t like the man much for no reason other than he wasn’t Da.

For this reason, he found their tender farewells difficult to watch a few hours later, but he kept his mouth shut and offered Dagen a polite nod farewell as he rode off with the rest of the Khishigs, leaving poor Ma to cry as she watched him go and prayed for his safe return. Despite his personal feelings for the man, Bulat prayed for the same, because at the end of the day, he would do anything to keep Ma happy, so long as it didn’t involve getting on his wife’s bad side.

Though she was no Martial Warrior, the Bekkies raised their children strong, because Dei An was as fierce and determined as any Warrior Bulat knew. After helping Ma back to her manor and consoling her for a bit, Bulat returned to find his sweet wife still awake and waiting for his return on the sitting room couch. Pouring her a small measure of rice wine and a larger cup for himself, he brought it over and joined her on the couch with a tired, but satisfied sigh. “Amazing work today, dear wife,” he said, after clinking their cups together. “Ye must’ve made enough to feed every Khishig three times over. Lucky them, getting a taste of the best bread in a hundred kilometres, if not the entire Empire itself. I always tell ye, yer prices are too low fer the quality ye make. That’s why there’s always a line up at yer door and disappointed customers left without.”

Smiling at his exaggerated praise, Dei An wrapped her arms around him and hugged tight, unable to touch hands around his barrel-chested frame. “My silly husband,” she said, her smile so beautiful it made his heart ache. “You also did well, lessening tensions between the Bekhai and the others. Their ways are strange and incomprehensible to the Bekhai, and your efforts do much to bridge the gap.” Tired from staying up all night, Dei An cocked her head and blinked lazily as she idly stroked his beard, her beautiful eyes brimming with love and affection. “You would make a great Speaker, if only you enjoyed it.”

As far as he knew, a Speaker was no different from a mayor except in name, but despite not knowing how to explain it, Dei An insisted it was different. Always happy to be praised, Bulat sipped his drink and said, “I enjoy it well enough. Little bothersome dealing with everyone’s problems and I learn more about them than I care to know, but end of the day, it’s decent work, which is more than I ever thought I’d have.”

“Liar.” Grabbing a fold of his flabby belly, Dei An playfully shook it and laughed. “This is not the stomach of man satisfied by his work, but one seeking to fill an emptiness left by it. You do your duty well, but it is both burden and obligation, with no joy to be found in it at all.”

It was true Bulat put on a fair bit of weight ever since he became mayor, but part of it was lack of time to Demonstrate the Forms, and the other part was due to Dei An’s delicious pastries and cooking. Bekkie cooking was a marvel he never knew he was missing out on, and though she claimed to be merely a passable cook, Bulat had paid good coin at fancy restaurants for food that tasted worse. Still, his obesity wasn’t the issue here, but rather his wife’s concerns, so he gently took her hand and moved it away from his belly. “Dear heart,” he said, kissing her sweet lips softly so as not to lose control. “Ye ain’t ever have to worry about me bein’ unhappy. Having you in my life is happiness enough.”

Kissing him far more passionately than he kissed her, Dei An broke off just before his mind blanked out and said, “Liar. Tell me for true, if your merry band of scoundrels were not busy fighting in the war, would you not be off with them drinking, gambling, and whoring every night away?”

“Dear heart, I would never go whoring. Old Bulat is a faithful husband, who loves ye more than life itself.”

“But yet you do not deny the drinking and gambling.” Eyes twinkling in merriment, Dei An shook her head and declared, “I do not understand you outlanders, always lying to yourselves as if that will change things. You are unhappy as mayor, and it does not hurt to acknowledge this, for only then can you take steps to better your life.” Pursing her lips, she added, “The Legate is the same, but he does not understand our ways as one of the Bekhai should, and still he refuses to ask for guidance.”

“Can’t say I unnerstand what ye mean.”

Rolling her eyes, Dei An leaned back to study his expression and see if he was taking the piss, but Bulat was serious as could be. Confused by his lack of understanding, Dei An struggled to come up with the words to explain it, since even though she spoke Common all the time now, she was still not entirely comfortable expressing herself in the language, not like she did in her native tongue. Another peculiarity about the Bekkies, how they had their own language, something which wasn’t exactly illegal, but highly frowned upon since language was one of the few constants across the Empire. Accents and colloquialisms differed across the provinces, but the written, formal language had not been changed in thousands of years except to add new characters.

After long seconds of deliberation, Dei An finally said, “You do not seek joy. Not only you, dear husband, but all outlanders fall so easily into complacency. You take the path before you without considering any other, because the path you see is safe and simple, and all other paths unknowns. Take your sisters and their husbands, who refused to even consider coming to start a farm here on the border, and even Mother-In-Law took much convincing before she agreed to come here with Dagen.”

“Well, I can’t say I really blame ‘em. This here is the battlefront, and ain’t many willing to risk what they have for what may be.”

“True.” Nuzzling in close to him once more, Dei An sighed and said, “But better to risk it all to be with family than to live safely without.”

