“You!” The avatar of light deflates like a balloon leaking air until it's back to its original size.

Stomping around, I curse the two in my head. They had all the answers I wanted, but I didn't have the time to sit and listen. Out of the corner of my eye, I watch my body kill the last ordinary soul horror and grit my teeth when it starts fighting the final one.

“Unless you two can take away Soul Devourer or have a way for me to escape, I don’t want to hear anything else from you!” The two avatars stare at me, dumbstruck; obviously, unused to having a mortal being so disrespectful to them.

Ilia’s avatar looks like it wants to crush me, but Ebeon’s just continues to stare at me with its featureless face. Then, after a tense moment of silence, Ebeon speaks, but it isn't to argue with me. “I would if I could, but even if we were connected to our hosts, neither Ilia nor I could take away a skill once it’s been obtained by someone. Especially not a skill created by another.”

“Ebeon!” Ilia shouts in shock.

"Wait, when I first met you guys, you said Soul Devourer fell under both your domains. So what's this about it not being yours? How does that make any sense?”

“Ebeon, don’t!” Ilia's fragment warns her sister's.

Ebeon’s avatar lets out a sigh. I've said too much. The only thing else I’ll say is that we are merely managing the skill and many other similar ones for another. It is your skill; you must be the one to control it.”

“I’m trying,” I plead. “I’ll take anything at his point.”

It's hard to read a face of shifting darkness, but it felt like Ebeon's avatar was staring at me with a sad look. She seemed to want to say something more but was hesitating to do so.

"Do I need to pledge myself to you?" I offer when I see she's on the cusp of helping me. "Help me save Tabitha, and I'll do anything you ask."

“That won’t work,” Ilia answers for her sister. “There are rules even we must follow, and one of them is that we can no longer freely give mortals our boons. You must earn everything yourself.”

“My sister speaks the truth.” Ebeon reluctantly nods.

“A hint; anything,” I continue to press.

The two avatars stare at me, unmoving, not saying a single word.

“Fine, I’ll do it myself,” I start frantically clawing at the ground.

“Not if you do that,” Ilia haughtily comments, but I ignore her and focus on trying to dig my way to my soul.

I was panicking but wasn't so distraught that I missed the clues the two had already given me. Of course, they were mixed in with all the arguing and back-and-forth, but they subtly hinted at what I needed to do.

The avatars told me they were disconnected from their hosts, meaning there were no moons to stare up at to escape. Similarly, they weren't there to pull me out of my memories if I somehow made my way to the ocean, so that was a no-go. So that left only one way I could get out of here; I needed to force my way out. And that's what I've been trying to do.

Usually, when I'm not forced out of my soul space, it's because I stopped and triggered a specific reaction between my soul and my conciseness; but with all this crap covering my soul, the two couldn't resonate as they should. So I needed to punch through and make my way to my actual soul that was hidden underneath, and I needed to do it fast. But that was easier said than done.

The ground didn’t just look like concrete; it was solid like it, too. I tried to use Soul Manipulation to shift the stuff aside, but because my skill wasn’t that high of a level, and technically the crap wasn't yet part of my soul, it resisted all my efforts to do so.

If only I had access to even a sliver of my soul; if I did, I could shape it into something to help me cut through the soul horror experience, but alas, I was alone.

Wait, was I alone? I glance up at the two avatars, silently watching me struggle. Could that work? "You two said you couldn't actively help me, right?"

“That is correct,” Ebeon quickly answers.

“But you can be forced to help me,” I counter.

“And how are you going to do that?” Ilia laughs at the notion but abruptly stops when she sees the crazed look in my eye.

“I’m just guessing, but I’m assuming the two of you were left in my soul after our last encounter.”

“That is correct,” Ebeon helpfully confirms my suspicions. “But we can in no way affect you, as it would go against the agreement. We fragments are merely here to better allow our patrons to observe you easier,” she adds.

Putting aside the fact the goddess of death just admitted to spying on me like I was some reality TV star, I move forward with my plan.

"Then the two of you are basically the same as foreign skills,” I look at the duo hopefully.

“In a word,” Ebeon starts, but Ilia takes offense to my reasoning.

“We are nothing like the pitiful skills you mortals use. On the contrary, as you can see, we are autonomous. How else would we be able to avoid this filth?" Ilia gestures to the ground I'm trying to break through.

She was right, of course; unlike other foreign skills I've interacted with, the two avatars were in a class all their own. There was no way I could use them without their consent, meaning it was entirely up to them if my plan worked or not.

“We will not help you,” Ilia continues to stress.

“I don’t need your help,” I snap back. Underneath me, my body was slowly overcoming the final soul horror. I only had a few precious minutes left. “I just need the two of you to stand there and not resist.”

Ebeon’s avatar reels back in shock, understanding what I was trying to get at, while her sister's avatar stares at me confused, though she refuses to admit as much. I don’t have time to explain my plan in detail, so I just jump into it. Reaching out with Sense Soul, I try to find the core of the two avatars I know they must have.

“You dare!” Ilia’s avatar exclaims, but Ebeon reaches over and places a placating hand on her sister’s avatar.

“Wait, Sister, let's see where this goes." Ilia’s avatar continues to grumble, but she doesn’t resist me.

Looking at the pair with Sense Soul was like looking into the core of a nuclear reactor. The avatars were bodies of pure power, the likes of which I'd never seen before, but I didn't need to understand the type of energy to use it.

My mind felt like it was splitting in half as I zeroed in on the core of their power. Their bodies were massive, but at the center of them was a single whisp of the goddess's true power.

Now for the hard part: if they resisted me at all, my plan would fail.

Reaching out with Soul Manipulation, I try to control the two whisps of energy. It's hard to do, much like controlling the soul horror experience; it wasn't my power I was trying to control, but someone else’s. But because they were projected into my soul like any other invasive skill, small parts of my soul had been mixed in with the whisps so they could anchor themselves properly, which meant I had something to grab ahold of.

“This crazy!” Ilia exclaims, but again, Ebeon holds her sister back.

“I think we should let this play out,” Ebeon suggests to her sister. “Neither of us gains anything from letting his skill corrupt her."

“But we aren’t supposed to interfere with mortals,” The avatar of light flickers unsurely.

“And we aren’t,” Ebeon assures her sister. “We told her she had to use her skills, and that is what she is doing."

“Our main conciseness’s aren’t going to like this,” Ilia says doubtfully.

“Maybe yours, but I don’t think mine will,” Ebeon’s avatar corrects her sister. “You gain divinity through their suffering; I only gain it through their death and subsequent rest. And I doubt my progenitor wants to lose access to either of the two individuals, especially one who was denied a proper rest after their last life. We should let her save herself.”

“I don’t like it,” the avatar of light grumbles oddly humanly.

“I’ll take responsibility if need be.”

“So be it,” Ilia reluctantly agrees.

As soon as the deities finish their little exchange, they drop their guard, and I can finally control the two whisps of power.

“Good luck,” Ebeon’s avatar wishes me well as her avatar starts to fade.

Oppositely, Ilia’s avatar is less joyful. "This is only a one-time thing," she stresses as her avatar disappears.

Soon, just two whisps of energy are floating in the air, both no bigger than a sewing needle, one pitch black, the other a blinding white light. I pull the two whisps into my hand with Soul Manipulation and look down. When the avatars disappeared, so did the portal, showing me what was happening outside my soul.

In my hand, the two whisps circle each other in perfect harmony. “Thank you,” I mumble to them. Despite all my misgivings, the two were helping me save Tabitha and myself, whether indirectly or not, and I was extremely grateful.

Shit, was I going to have to start praying to them?

Ignoring that train of thought, I direct my hand containing the two whisps toward the once-plain ground beneath me. The two whisps float downward, and the ground, which wasn't scratched by any of my previous attempts to escape, disintegrates when faced with the swirling energies.

The whisps don't even need to touch the ground to obliterate it, so I spin them faster and push harder. I had no idea what was happening outside my soul, but I knew I was cutting it close.

“I promise I won’t let you die,” I repeatedly tell myself as I dig toward my soul.

Toward freedom—Twoards Tabitha.
