Where the hell am I?

What am I doing here?

Wasn’t I just….

That's weird; I can't remember what I was doing.

I vaguely remember exploring the Endless Forest, but the details feel hazy. And whenever I try to recall any recent memories, I can't remember anything specific.

Looking around, I hoped to spot anything that could jog my failing memory, but there was nothing—absolutely nothing around me.

I was trapped in a dense fog with not even a single silhouette in the distance. The only thing I could see was the ground, and it was just as featureless as the fog around me, maybe even more so. It looked like I was standing on concrete, but there wasn't a single blemish, making it look unnatural and too uniform.

It didn’t matter what direction I moved; everything felt the same, to the point I considered the possibility I wasn’t actually moving. Was I trapped in some skill?

I try to scan my soul for anything out of place, only to freeze in place when I can't sense it at all. But that’s impossible, unless—

The fog slowly lifts as I finally realize where I am. “I’m in my soul. But what happened?” With the obstruction gone, I could finally see my surroundings, and it wasn't the scenery I was familiar with. There were no plants or rocky outcroppings; there wasn’t a body of water stretching into the distance, only a blank canvas stretching in every direction. It was a world utterly devoid of substance, and even with my memory problems, I knew this was wrong.

“Oh, so you finally noticed,” a powerful voice echoes through my soul, catching me off guard.

“Who's there?" I swing around to face the direction the voice originated from and immediately face two figures I wasn't expecting. "Not you two again," I can’t help but hiss in displeasure.

“Still disrespectful, I see,” a featureless ten-foot-tall being made of pure light hovers above me. “Maybe I should’ve destroyed you when I had the chance,” Goddess Ilia threatens me, but for some reason, I’m not as intimidated as the first time I ran into the pair.

"Is that necessary, Sister?" An equally tall being made of churning darkness lazily asks its glowing partner.

“The disrespect,” Ilia’s avatar howls with fury. “We give this mortal our time, and she has the gal to look down on us? Us! Look, she isn't even kneeling; the audacity!”

“True,” the avatar of death's featureless head turned toward me. Even without a face, it felt like she was looking at me worryingly. “Then again, the situation warrants a change in protocol.”

“What situation?” I ask without any hesitance. “Are you two the reason my soul is like this?” The words tumble out of my mouth as if I had no filter. I knew I was talking to two divine beings or at least their avatars, but for the life of me, I couldn’t muster up a reason to care.

Little has changed since the last time I spoke to them. Hell, I've only gained a few levels in Sense Soul since then, and yet they felt entirely different to me. Why is that? The first time I met them after unlocking Soul Devourer, it felt like either of them could crush me with a mere thought, but now I wasn't feeling any of that.

When I looked directly at them for too long, the two avatars still radiated power and evoked strong emotions, but nothing close to what I remember. It’s almost like, “You two aren’t really here,” I mumble.

"No, that's not right," I correct myself. Looking up, I notice a distinct lack of moons hovering overhead. “You two aren’t connected to your main bodies this time.”

Both avatars flinch at my accusation but quickly fix their posture. “How astute,” Ebeon notes in a cold voice.

Ilia’s avatar scoffs at me. “You can tell all that, and yet you’ve failed to realize what’s happening to you," she says almost smugly.

“You keep saying that, but I don’t understand,” I stare at the avatar of light until my eyeballs start to feel like they’re burning.

The ten-foot-tall creature of light floats down and leans over until her featureless face is mere inches from mine. “You’re dying,” I can feel the joy radiating off her as she gives me the grim news.

"You're lying," I take a hesitant step away from the angry avatar.

“And why would I need to do that?” Ilia's avatar floats back up next to her sister's and continues to look down on me, literally and figuratively.

I didn’t want to take the psychotic goddesses’ word on it, but she was right; she had little reason to lie to me. Of course, you would’ve expected grim news to come from the literal goddess of death. Though, from my previous experience with the duo, I learned the goddess of light took more joy in the suffering of the living beings compared to her sister. Ironic as it is.

"Am I really dying?" I ask the more level-headed of the two sisters, hoping this was all some sick joke on Ilia's part. Technically, mortals are constantly dying; we just usually do it slowly.

“Yes,” Ebeon's single-word answer hits me harder than any blow I’ve ever taken. But the sad part was I had no idea why I was dying or why I was in my soul in the first place.

I’m about to ask what happened, but Ebeon’s avatar holds up one of its hands in a waiting gesture. “Your soul is struggling to keep up with Soul Devourer. It’s the reason why you are here. Anybody else experiencing what you are now would’ve had their soul shatter from the shock, but your skills saved you.”

“I don’t understand." I struggled to follow along because I still had no idea what had caused this.

Ilia's avatar makes a scoffing noise despite not having a nose or mouth. “Like all mortals, you bit off more than you could chew, neophyte."

“I thought you enjoyed what she did, Sister?” Ebeon comments lazily.

“Oh, I did,” the avatar of light radiates even more joy. “Such dedication to your friend. Refusing to let her die,” Ilia's avatar brings its hand to its blank face and mimes, blowing a chef's kiss. “Such strife, absolutely delicious. However," the light coming off Ilia’s avatar dulls. “Your friend has already come to terms with what’s happening. I thought she would fight harder, but apparently, everyone has their breaking point.”

“You can’t blame her,” Ebeon defends whoever her sister is talking about, and I feel the need to do the same.

“Tabitha would never give up!” I shout angrily, and suddenly, part of my memory returns. I didn't enter the forest alone; my teacher Tabitha came with me. Clutching at my head, I groan as weeks’ worth of memories rapidly return to me. I remembered all our adventures, the ups and downs we faced together, and finally, our encounter with the winged serpent. However, there was a noticeable blank space after that.

“You’re just now remembering your companion; pathetic,” Ilia does not attempt to hide her contempt for me. "Though I suppose it is funny, you tried so hard to save her, and yet, in doing so, you've doomed her to a fate worse than death."

"I don't...." I stammer.

“Perhaps this can help,” Ebeon's avatar turns toward her sister's as if asking for her participation.

“Your generosity is wasted on her,” Ilia growls.

“But it is mine to give,” Ebeon replies in a collected voice.

“Fine,” Ilia reluctantly agrees with her sister, and both hold out their hands toward the surface of my soul.

I'm forced to turn away as a blinding light erupts from the ground. The light quickly fades, and when it does, I'm standing overlooking a dimly lit room. I could see Tabitha lying in the center of the room, and she wasn’t alone. Multiple silvery ghost-like creatures were trying to get to her, but Tabitha had someone protecting her, me. And like that, the last missing parts of my memory snapped into place, and I remembered everything.

I remember tearing apart the first couple of soul horrors, and then I was suddenly here, suffering from memory problems.

Reaching down, I tried to interact with what I was seeing, but the surface of my soul was still there— only invisible. Other me was in the middle of tearing apart one of the ghosts, but everything was moving in slow motion. Oh yeah, I almost forgot time moved slower when I was inside my soul. When I started fighting, there were dozens of soul horrors, but counting the one other me was fighting, and only four were left.

In slow motion, I watch myself use Soul Devourer to rip apart the ghost in my grasp as if it were made of smoke. "How is my body still moving if my consciousness is here?" I asked Goddess Ebeon, as she was the most likely to answer me.

“We already explained that,” Ilia's avatar crosses its arms in front of its nonexistent chest.

Thankfully, Ebeon doesn't share her sisters' disdain and answers me: “The best way I can explain it to you is this: Though the soul horrors you're absorbing don't have souls, the experience they’re made of contains high levels of emotions that simulate a soul. Your soul can’t process them fast enough, which is why your soul currently looks like it does.”

"All the experience you're absorbing is covering your soul and crushing it. Your soul used your skills to draw your consciousness in to save itself and prevent it from crumbling under the weight. With your consciousness and soul closer together, the two can better weather the storm," Ebeon explains.

“But that doesn’t explain how my body is moving,” I point out the obvious.

I expect Ebeon to berate me for interrupting, but her avatar just nods its head. "The answer is much simpler than you think; just like your soul used your skills to bring your consciousness here forcefully, it also used them to keep your body moving. Your body is moving on instinct using your many skills.”

“Mainly the one we warned you about,” Ilia adds in an 'I told you so' voice.

“Indeed,” Ebeon says remorsefully.

“Why is my body moving on its own a bad thing?" I ask, confused. "As long as I protect Tabitha, I don't care what happens."

“How short-sided of you,” Ilia's avatar chuckles in a way that worries me.

“Your body isn’t protecting your friend,” Ebeon clarifies. “It’s responding to all the threats around it. And once all the soul horrors are dealt with, it will turn its attention to her.”

“And once that happens, you know what will happen.” I never thought a being of light could sound so dark.

“No problem, I’ll just wake up," I close my eyes and focus on leaving my soul like I've done hundreds of times. Only this time, nothing happens.

“Oh, still here?” Ilia jokes as I crack one eye open, expecting to be back in the real world.

I quickly closed my eyes again and focused on leaving my soul, but I couldn't. No matter how hard I tried, I couldn’t leave.

“Fuck, why won’t it work,” I curse and stomp my feet in frustration. Underneath me, my body slays the third to last soul horror. Time was still moving slowly; my body was just killing them far too quickly. One of the remaining two was huge, but at the rate my body was going, I didn’t have much time before it killed the last of them and moved on to Tabitha.

"Help me get out of here," I fall to my knees and slam my head into the invisible ground, begging the two goddesses for help. I didn't care how I looked as long as they helped me stop myself from ripping Tabitha's soul out.

“This is how you should’ve been acting from the start, mortal,” Ilia patronizes me, but I never really expected her to help. It was Ebeon I was pleading to, and we all knew it.

“I’m sorry, but we can’t,” Ebeon’s remorseful reply makes me feel like I was dunked in a sea of ice.

“Why not?” I shout, trembling at the idea that in a few short minutes, I would kill Tabitha with my own hands and damn my soul to an eternity of suffering and eventual destruction.

“It is as you said,” Ebeon reminds me. “With the state of your soul, our connection to our realms is severed. We are, but fragments cut off from the whole. We can only show you what's happening outside— and even that is draining on us. And we aren’t as free as you might think.”

“Sister, I believe you’re saying too much,” Ilia cuts Ebeon off.

“Why does it matter?” Ilia's sister retorts. “You believe she will break the taboo and her soul will corrupted? So why does what I say matter?"

"Because our business is our own and not meant for mortal ears,” Ilia almost sounds like she’s threatening her sister.

"It didn't always use to be,” Ebeon responds in a composed manner, but her statement has a lot of bite to it.

Seeing two goddesses arguing before me was something else, but I had bigger things to worry about. So, while I half pay attention to the two, I continue trying to force myself out of my soul. But it isn't easy, with the two discussing something groundbreaking as if I weren't here.

“We used to bestow our powers to mortals all the time,” Ebeon reminisces.

“And they destroyed each other,” Ilia counters.

"Only because He spurred them on," Ebeon says darkly.

"He was destroyed, and his cities wiped from existence,” Ilia’s avatar glows with righteous fury.

“Obviously, not enough. Where do you think the mortals are now?” Ebeon's retort sends her sister's avatar reeling.

“Fuck!” I scream at the top of my lungs, grabbing the attention of both goddesses. “If the two of you aren’t going to help, can you piss off? I can't concentrate with the two of you distracting me.” I point an accusing finger at Ebeon, “Where were you days ago when I had a million questions about the ruins in the crater!”

"How dare you talk to us like that," Ilia's avatar expands to over thirty feet tall and looms over me threateningly, but I cut her off before she can finish.

“Shut up,” I stand my ground, a mere speck in front of a giant. "You're just a fragment; you said so yourself. You have no power here. I do.”

