"As trees and other plants grow, they accumulate mana. It strengthens them and enhances their properties," I explain. "If I cut down this tree now, it could still be used for firewood, but it wouldn't burn as well as if I had left it for another year. Do you understand?" I ask if she has any questions.

"Does every tree have special effects?" Aaliyah looks around at every tree like they're magical.

"A good question," I praise her curiosity. "These are all basic trees," I wave my hand at the plants around us. "I wouldn't call their natural properties special effects, though; they aren't magical. Mana is just a requirement, like sunshine or rain. Of course, I could chop down everything in sight, but that would be a waste. It's better to wait for a tree to mature and get the best use out of it before harvesting it."

"But there are magical plants?" Aaliyah's eyes sparkle.

"There are," I grin, happy to see my little girl taking an interest in my work. "Would you like to hear some stories my father told me?"

"Would I!?" Aaliyah happily jumps in place with boundless amounts of energy.

I'm more than happy to share my knowledge, so as we walk, I tell Aaliyah about all the magical trees my father told me about when I was a kid. Of course, most were just old wives' tales passed down from one logger to another, but some were true. And though they weren't common around these parts, there were a handful of magical trees around our village.

Unbeknownst to her, I was leading Aaliyah to one such tree today. The village's blacksmith preferred a special kind of wood, and though he was a recluse choosing to live outside the village proper, he was essential and was allowed to make such demands.

Personally, I didn't care about his oddities. The man sharpened my axes regularly and always prioritized my orders over others when our family needed something— So what if he wasn't human?

The point was that I couldn't wait to show Aaliyah the tree we were after, but I shouldn't rush things. She was doing surprisingly well keeping up with me, but the tree we were after wasn't exactly close. We'd already been walking for two hours, and at this pace, we still had another to go.

Maybe we should stop for a break?

Out of the corner of my eye, I spot a wild berry bush, the perfect reason to stop. "You hungry?" I pause and ask Aaliyah.

"Mom packed me some jerky, but should we be eating it now?" She asks, moving to reach for her bag.

"There's no need for that," I tell her before she can pull out and open the pack of jerky Silvia wrapped for us. I point at a nearby berry bush. "Why eat dried meat when the forest has something better?"

"Are they safe to eat?" Aaliyah asks me.

"I wouldn't be asking if they weren't," I smirk smugly at my daughter. What, did she think I only knew about trees?

Walking over to the bush, I pluck a handful of the bright red berries and casually toss them into my mouth. Aaliyah follows my example and positively beams at the sweat treat.

This was how my daughter was supposed to be, with a bright smile on her face, not discouraged by those assholes back in the village. I hope she wasn't still thinking about them. They didn't deserve her anyway.

Aaliyah deserved to know that, but how did I convey that without sounding biased because I'm her parent?

How do I tell her she shouldn't let others dictate her life? If Silvia had been here, I'm sure she would have known what to say. She'd probably talk about her childhood or how we met.

Wait! Why couldn't I do that?

"Hey, Aaliyah. Has your mother ever told you how the two of us met?" I ask her, flicking another berry into my mouth.

"Uh, no," Aaliyah pauses, eating, the seemingly random question catching her off guard.

"When I was seventeen," I tell her. "I worked outside the city of Aurorast. Aurorast is a large trade city nestled between the port city of Tillius and the country's capital. It was said to be the place for young people to find work and hone their skills."

"By then, I had already set off from the village I grew up in, searching for something new. What a fool I was back then," I shake my head, remembering those days fondly. "Point is, I left everything I knew behind to experience what it was like to live in a city for the first time in my life."

"I knew there wasn't as much work for a woodsman around a major city, but I figured with my levels and knowledge, I could make it as long as I worked hard enough. I didn't know what I was searching for, but you could say I found my treasure," I smile at Aaliyah. She was finished eating and was enthralled by my story.

I motion for her to follow me while I continue talking. "There was work to be found, but not what I was used to. They grew their trees in neat rows outside the city like crops. Everything was on a schedule, and it didn't matter if a specific tree had matured yet; everything was cut all the same. I was paid decently due to having a higher level than most young people brought in to chop the trees down, but not as much as I expected."

"I spent months earning just enough money to live comfortably in the city. Every day, I wondered if I should pack up and go home. Then, during one awful day, I was so caught up in my thoughts that I lost my way in the city. All the tall buildings looked the same, and merchants wouldn't give you the time of day unless you bought something from them."

"After hours of walking back and forth, I gave up and sat in an alleyway, totally defeated. It was then a red-haired angel took pity on a village boy out of his depth. 'Do you need some help?' Your sweat mother asked me. I'm a big person; any ordinary woman would've avoided me, but she saw me having trouble and stopped and offered her help without a thought."

"Your mother took time out of her day to lead me back to the part of the city I was staying in. She thought it was funny such a big man like myself could get lost like a child, but her teasing never felt malicious. Needless to say, I fell for her instantly."

"Every day, no matter how long I'd been working, I found time to meet your mother in her family's shop. Naturally, I came up with the stupidest reasons to talk with her," I couldn't help but chuckle. "She never said as much, but looking back, I'm sure your mom realized I liked her; sadly, her parents

had also noticed."

"Your mother's parents started interrupting our conversations and would purposely assign her extra work so she couldn't hang out with me. Eventually, they outright banned me from entering their store, but that wasn't enough to make me give up. Your mother and I used every chance we could get to meet up with one another, but it was taking our growing relationship."

"Finally, after a whole year of courting your mother, I decided enough was enough," I strike a heroic pose for Aaliyah. "I rushed into Silvia's parent's place of business and demanded her hand in marriage."

"What happened next?" Aaliyah eagerly asks me, enthralled by the story.

"What else," I smirk. "Your grandparents threw me out and threatened to kill me if I didn't leave their daughter alone."

"That's not very romantic," Aaliyah deadpans.

"The story's not over yet," I tell her, leading her closer to the tree we were after. "That night, your mom met me at the tavern where we liked to drink and meet up. You see, we had discussed my proposal earlier. If her parents had given up and agreed for me to marry her, we would've stayed in the city. But since they hadn't, we went with our backup plan."

"No," Aaliyah says dumbfoundingly.

"That's right," I boast. "Your mother and I ran away together. You see, Aaliyah, your mother and I decided together that we wouldn't let others decide our fate. If someone tells you, ‘You can't,' or ‘You’re not good enough,’ then prove them wrong. Whatever you decide to do, remember you have your family's support."

Aaliyah turns her head away from me so I can't see the tears forming in the corner of her eyes.

Before she can react, I reach over and pull her into a hug. Embarrassed, she tries to squirm out of it, but it will be a while before she's strong enough to get away from me.

Eventually, Aaliyah gave up resisting and let me shower her with love. As we near our destination, I don't say anything further, choosing to let her think over what I said. But when we do reach our destination, Aaliyah can't help but exclaim.

"What is that!?" She stares open-mouthed at the tree in front of us.

"That is called a blacksmith's tree," I answer. The tree stood out amongst its surroundings, so much so you'd be blind not to see it.

Blacksmith's trees stood relatively short, at only about twenty feet tall. Like most trees, they had brown bark, but instead of dull brown, the bark of blacksmith's trees had a silver sheen and caught the light.

"It's beautiful," Aaliayh exclaims.

"It sure is," I step forward and draw my axe. "I've been watching this tree for a while now. It's recently matured; good timing, too."

A tree this size will produce enough fuel for Del-Razen for the next five months.

Activating my skills, I swing my axe with all my Strength. Blacksmith's trees weren't your average plant; they were a tier above regular non-magic variants and were vastly sturdier.

Still, my axe was strong enough to punch through the strong bark.

It takes me twenty minutes, but eventually, all I need to do is swing my axe one more time, and the tree will fall.

"Watch out, Aaliyah." Technically, the tree wouldn't fall anywhere near her, but as a beginner, Aaliyah should treat every tree like it might land on her.

I wait for my daughter to take a few steps back before swinging my axe and severing the last bit of wood, keeping the tree up.

I hop back as the tree starts to groan and topple over.

"Timber!" Aaliyah shouts.

Why was she yelling? We're the only ones around. I give Aaliyah a questioning look, and she starts blushing.

"Sorry," she says meekly.

"You didn't do anything wrong," I tell her. "I'm just confused as to why you shouted?"

"I thought that's what you're supposed to do when you chop down a tree." Aaliyah's blush deepens, her face turning a crimson red.

"I suppose if more of us were around, maybe," I chuckle good-naturedly. "Now that it's down, do you want to come over and help me process it?" I wave her over.

"We want the pieces to be about this long," I say, raising my hands, indicating that she should cut the branches into two-foot sections.

Aaliyah nods in understanding.

"Good. First, help me remove all the leaves and twigs; our client doesn't need those," I instruct her.

"Client, are you selling these to the traveling merchant?" Aaliyah asks me as she gets to work.

"No, our blacksmith asked for them," I tell her.

Aaliyah gives me a confused stare. "Our village has a blacksmith? How could I have missed that?"

I laugh at that while I swing my axe and cut through a thick branch with a single swing. "Well, Del technically lives outside the village," I inform her. "He stays in a little clearing west of the village."

"And he needs this type of wood to do his job?" Aaliyah motions to the downed tree.

"Need might be stretching it. It's excellent for blacksmithing, hence the name, but it's not the only fuel you could use. The logs we use in the fireplace are enough for most metals. But wood from a blacksmith's tree lasts longer, burns hotter, and gives off better heat distribution. Or so I heard," I explain.

"It's funny," I note. "The wood is almost fireproof until it catches, but once it burns, it really burns. If you used it in our fireplace, there's a real possibility that it would melt the stone."

"But he doesn't necessarily need this wood," Aaliyah clarifies. "Sounds like he's just being difficult," she huffs on my behalf.

"Now, none of that," I tell her. "Del is the one who made me my custom axes, or did you think the axe you're using is normal?"

Aaliyah stops swinging and examines the axe I lent her, though there isn't much to see.

"Trust me; it's an excellent axe. Del also sharpens them every couple of months for me. And whenever I need anything made, he helps me out. Do you remember when you moved into your dining table chair?"

"Vaguely," Aaliyah replies.

"Well, Del is the one who made the nails and brackets I used to make it. If you see something metal in the village, chances are good Del made it."

"If he's so important, why doesn't he live in the village?" Aaliyah asks skeptically.

"He doesn't like dealing with people; I'm one of the few who ever talk to him."

"Why?" Aaliyah presses me for a more concrete answer.

How do I answer that? Sighing, I decided to be honest and just tell her. If Aaliyah has any questions, I'll do my best to answer them. "Del-Razen avoids people because he isn't human; he's what we call a stone kin."

"What!?" Aaliyah was more shocked than I expected her to be.

I can see she's about to launch a barrage of questions at me, so I tell her what I know before she can ask. "Stone kin are known for many things, such as their height and dark skin, but most of all, they're known for their crafting abilities."

"Are you talking about dwarves!?" Aaliyah shouts excitedly.

"Don't call them that," I warn her with a deep frown. "Dwarf is a derogatory term, and Del won't hesitate to hit you if you call him that to his face, even if you just turned 10."

"We're going to see him!?" Aaliyah is almost jumping up and down at this point.

Why is she so excited to see him? "Of course. Didn't I already tell you who the wood is for, or were you not listening?"

"I was listening," Aaliyah pouts, and a hint of a blush returns to her cheeks.

My little girl is so cute when she's embarrassed; I can't help but poke fun at her more. "If you say so," I reply sarcastically.

Aaliyah growls and swings her axe down with more force than necessary.

