Darrius' Point of View:

Silvia and I lie silently next to one another, neither of us being able to fall asleep. We were both waiting for the other to bring up what happened during dinner, but there was only silence between us.

Leaning over, I wrap my arm around my wife and pull her in close. I feel her warm breath against my bare chest, and for a brief second, everything is right with the world.

But my warm embrace doesn't stop her from staring silently at the wall separating Aaliyah’s and our rooms.

I couldn't stop thinking about Aaliyah's defeated look during the first half of dinner. Richard took a little while to find his passion in architecture, but he never experienced what Aaliyah went through. Or at least he never mentioned it before, and he seemed just as shocked as we were during her explanation.

Aaliyah has always been a bright child, and I figured everyone in the village would've been fighting over her, wishing she'd be their apprentice. But, instead, she faced nothing but rejection today.

Markus and Ezekiel didn't necessarily reject her, per se, but I'd sooner sacrifice my arms than suggest she work for them.

After Aaliyah told us what they said, I wanted nothing more than to march over to their houses, kick down their doors, and beat the crap out of them for saying such things about my family. The two should count themselves lucky my daughter is a better person than them and convinced me otherwise.

Typically, Silvia is the voice of reason in our house, but she was just as mad as I was. She was ready to charge out herself; only she had a third target in mind.

And I knew my wife; she may have smiled through the second half of dinner, but there was no way she wasn't still angry.

Case in point. "I can't believe those farm pigs and that two-bit healer talked to our daughter like that," Silvia growls quietly into my chest.

Tilting my head down, I kiss my wife on the forehead. Of course, a single kiss wouldn't do much, but it let her know I was there for support.

"Should we say something to the village headman?" I whisper in the dark.

Silvia silently thinks over my suggestion, but eventually, I feel her shake her head no. "Even if we say something, Markus, Ezekiel, and Anastasia are three of the most influential people in the village. The headman won't do anything to anger them, especially Anastasia," my wife angrily growls, her voice rising with every word.

"Shhh," I whisper, reminding her our daughter was trying to sleep on the other side of the wall. Aaliyah has not so subtly hinted multiple times that she can hear us quite clearly when we get 'loud.'

And while I would enjoy nothing more than to succumb to my lust for my beautiful wife, we both knew that wasn't happening tonight.

"So, you think it will just make things worse," I summarize my wife's stance, sighing at the end.

"Most likely," Silvia confirms darkly.

"Then what do we do?" I ask my beautifully intelligent wife.

"We support her choices. I thought that's what you were doing when you offered to take her out tomorrow?" I can hear the confusion in her voice.

Chuckling, I kiss Silvia’s forehead again. "I just thought she could use a break from the village."

"Really; that's all?" I'm sure if I could see Silvia's face right now, she'd be staring into my eyes, giving me an accusing look.

"What, I can't support our baby girl?" I feign being hurt, earning me a pinch in the side from Silvia. "Yeow," I pretend to feel pain. I don't think Silvia buys it because she goes in for another pinch, but I stop her by taking her hand into my own.

"Okay, maybe I might still be hoping that one of our children will want to follow in my footsteps," I sheepishly admit.

"I thought so," Silvia giggles in a way that leaves me hot and bothered. Maybe we could have a little fun tonight?

I sensually stroke Silvia's back like I know she loves.

"You're hopeless," I hear her huff in the dark.

"That isn't a refusal," I point out to her.

Silvia shifts in my arms until she's right next to my ear. "Then let me be clearer," she whispers seductively. I grin like a teenage boy when I'm suddenly reminded that I should never let my guard down around my wife.

A swift tap to my inner thigh right next to my groin has me sweating. "Not tonight, Darrius," she tells me firmly.

That could've been bad; that's one of the few areas where Silvia's measly 25 Strength could've actually hurt me.

"Message received," I pull my hands back before I lose them.

"Besides, you should get some sleep," Silvia warns me.

"You think I can't handle a day with our daughter?" I ask challengingly. Silvia laughs like I’m naive, "What?"

"Ask me in the morning after you try waking her up," Silvia leans in and kisses me deeply before rolling onto her side, facing away from me.

I can only smile to myself in the dark. Gods, I loved this woman. Some men like a subservient spouse, but what's the point of living with someone who doesn't challenge you, someone who doesn't make you want to better yourself?

Silvia's never been afraid to assert herself; I never want that to change.

I sleep better at night knowing she's lying next to me. Whatever challenges our family will face, I know we'll face them together.

"You ready to go," I ask over my shoulder as I open the kitchen window for the day. The sun wasn't high enough to shine over the trees, but the day started long ago.

"Noooo," I hear Aaliyah groan behind me, followed shortly by a snicker from Silvia.

"You have your pack; your axe?" I turn around and look my daughter up and down. Aaliyah was in the outfit she usually runs in, balancing my spare axe on one shoulder and a small bag on the other. She looked ready to fall asleep on her feet.

"Yes, Dad," Aaliyah rolls her eyes at me, eerily reminding me of her mother for a second.

Silvia was standing off to the side, enjoying watching the two of us go back and forth.

I always thought Silvia was exaggerating all those times she talked to me about how hard it was to get Aaliyah out of bed in the morning. But after today, I'll never doubt her again.

Aaliyah could sleep through almost anything, and it wasn't until I flipped her onto the floor that she finally got up, and even then, she did so reluctantly. Of course, I would've never tried such a thing before she unlocked her status page; it was the same as why I waited until now to take her outside the village. However, I could safely do both now that she had distributed her first points.

I didn't even need to ask her if she distributed her points into her physical stats, seeing how she could run for hours without stopping.

"Say goodbye to your mom," I instruct Aaliyah.

Aaliyah again rolls her eyes, but that doesn't stop her from hopping into Silvia's waiting arms and giving her a big hug. "Be good, young lady," Silvia tells Aaliyah, giving her a quick peck on the cheek. "And make sure you listen to everything he says."

"I will," Aaliyah responds in the lazy way kids do, but she straightens up when Silvia glares at her.

"Still want to take her with you?" My wife snickers while beckoning me to her with her arms wide open.

"I'm reconsidering it," I joke as I lean in and hug my beautiful wife.

"Keep her safe," Silvia whispers in my ear so Aaliyah can't hear her.

"Will do," I mumble back, reassuring my wife. Leaning down, I capture Silvia's lips with my own, and we kiss passionately.

"Eww, get a room, you two," Aaliyah fakes, throwing up. She was standing next to the front door, ready to leave.

"We would, but then I wouldn't get any work done," I smirk at Aaliyah, making her frown in disgust.

As we're leaving the house, I cast one last glance back at Silvia. She waves goodbye to me, and I blow her a kiss as the door closes behind us. The last thing I see is her mouthing the words 'good luck' to me.

Turning to my daughter, I see she's doing her weird leg stretches. "So, which way are we going?" Aaliyah excitedly asked me as she did the unique stretching poses she had created randomly one day when she was young. It was good that she was energetic. A part of me was worried she wouldn't like spending the day with me. I wasn't an expert on young girls, but I doubt they'd generally want to spend the day in the woods with their father.

"We're going north, past the fields," I point out to her.

With my daughter at my side, I stroll through the village with a massive smile on my face. More than one villager greets us as we pass by, and we wave back in return.

"Are there more people out than usual?" Aaliyah asks after the fourth group of villagers says high to us.

"Maybe you'd see more people if you got up on time," I poke fun at her.

"Pass," Aaliyah yawns.

Our village isn't very big, and it only takes a few minutes for us to walk from our house to the fields at the back of the village. There were already a considerable amount of people working, but there wasn't any sign of Markus or Ezekiel. It's a good thing, too, because I don't know what I would do if I ran into the duo right now.

After we walk past the fields, I pause at the forest's edge.

"Okay," I turn and make eye contact with Aaliyah. Then, squaring my shoulders, I project an air of confidence to ensure she listens carefully. "We're about to enter the forest. I'm going to need you to stay close to me and listen to everything I say."

I thought Aaliyah might not take me seriously, so it's good to see her nod along with a clearheaded look. "There are a few dangers we must watch for," I continue. "We may run into a group of goblins or solitary farkas, but the real danger lies with the karhu. They're getting ready for winter and can be territorial. So, if we hear any deep growling, we will back up slowly. But don't run. Remember, prey animals run away," I stress.

"I understand." My warning didn't diminish her excitement in the slightest; in fact, she looked more enthusiastic than ever.

"Let's go then," I motion for her to follow me into the forest. As a parent, I had no small amount of anxiety about bringing my little girl to work with me, but it was tempered by my pride and the words my father told me when he first took me out.

'Son, the forest can be dangerous, but only if you don't respect it. If you pay attention and remember what I teach you, you'll have nothing to worry about. And should the worst happen, I'll be here to protect you.'

It was my turn to pass on my knowledge, and like my father before me, I wouldn't let anything happen to my child.

Side by side, I lead my daughter into the forest.

I start slow to let her get used to the uneven terrain, but she keeps up with me surprisingly well. She runs every day, but there is a difference between running along the outskirts of the village and walking through the rugged forest.

As we walk, I wonder what level she is. Aaliyah always liked to be cryptic when her mother or I asked her about her status page, but my coin was on her being reasonably high level for her age.

Aaliyah was an extremely hard-working young girl; she might even be level 25 already.

She obviously put more than a few points into her physical skills, but the question was, how many? I needed to know how much I could push her without worrying about injuring her.

I want to ask her outright, but knowing Aaliyah, I won't get a straight answer. So, I can only do this the hard way. I'll slowly increase my pace until she complains, and in the meantime, I can teach her about the forest.

As we walk, I point out the various trees that grow around our village. Some make excellent firewood, while others must be avoided because they release toxic fumes when burned. I showed Aaliyah which trees we use to make our houses and which make the best furniture. It was common for people to confuse the two, and while they overlap, each has its specific uses.

I talk for what feels like an hour. Every so often, I glance at my daughter to see if she's still listening to me, and every time I confirm that she is, my smile can't help but grow. But just because she was listening to me talk didn't necessarily mean Aaliyah was paying attention.

Pausing for a second, I pat a nearby tree. "So, which type of wood do you think this is?" The lumpy black bark was a dead giveaway as to which type of tree it was, and if Aaliyah was paying attention, she should easily know what it was.

"It's the wood we burn, right?" Aaliyah didn't sound 100% confident in her answer, but she needn’t worry because she got it right.

"Excellent," I praise her. "This wood burns slowly and gives off enough heat to warm a house. The majority of my job is finding ready specimens to cut down, especially now, with us moving into winter."

"Then are you going to chop this one down?" Aaliyah asks me.

Chuckling, I shake my head. "Not this one, it’s not ready yet," I tell her.

Aaliyah looks at the tree confusingly. "It looks like any other tree to me." She scrutinizes every branch but doesn't know what to look for yet.

"To the untrained eye, it is," I smile and pat the tree. "But you see, the trunk is only a foot and a half thick. A fully grown tree will have a trunk diameter of at least two feet."

"And six inches matter?" She doesn't look convinced.

"You'd be surprised," I joke, but Aaliyah doesn't laugh. "What do you know about mana?"

My question visibly takes aback Aaliyah, but she quickly gathers herself and answers me. "Mom told me a few things about it. Mana is supposably everywhere, isn't it?"

I nod, "Even if few are talented enough to sense it, it's well-known mana is everywhere in our world. From the air we breathe to the tiniest rock deep underground, everything has mana in it. Animals, people, and even plants are no exception to that."

"And how does mana affect the tree?" To no surprise, Aaliyah quickly understands what I'm alluding to.

