As a father, I want to laugh and leave her to stew, but as a teacher, I can't let Aaliyah continue as she is. "Honey, stop," I order in a soft yet commanding voice. "Don't swing it like that. Take a firm stance. Bring the axe directly up over your head. Now, place one hand on the bottom of the axe and the other near the top. When you swing, bring your other hand down and let the sharp blade do its job. Don't swing it wildly."

I take my time instructing Aaliyah on proper axe technique. It's imperative not only to help her work more efficiently but also to keep her safe.

Of course, my little girl is a genius, and it doesn't take long to start swinging her axe correctly.

I swear, a tear comes to my eye when her axe beautifully arcs through the air and lands right where she intended it to. In my head, I can picture the two of us working together, side by side, father and daughter.

Aaliyah works on the thinner branches as the thicker ones are too strong for her to cut through without skills, while I handle the tree trunk and its thicker branches.

It doesn't take us long to cut the tree to size, and after all the wood is ready, I show Aaliyah how we will carry it. Using some simple leather straps, I show my daughter how to bind the wood together so it's easier to carry. I'm still going to have to carry most of it, but Aaliyah was willing to help however she could.

"So now we're going to meet the stone kin?" She happily asks.

Maybe I should've given her more to carry. She was handling 200 pounds easily and didn't look strained at all. How many points did she put into Strength?

"That's right," I tell her. Outwardly, I'm smiling, but on the inside, I'm trying to estimate Aaliyah's Strength value. If I had to guess, her Strength would be around 60, but that's way more than she would need if she wanted a typical crafting job.

Maybe Aaliyah was always planning on working with me? That couldn't be it, could it?

"Are you going to lead the way?" I joke as Aaliyah looks like she wants to leave me behind. "Del isn't going anywhere, trust me."

"I just really want to meet a stone kin," she smiles the way she does when she wants something from Silvia or myself.

A part of me feels like I should be concerned that my daughter is so excited to meet a man, but I'm sure her excitement will fade when she finally meets Del-Razen. He isn't exactly easy to get along with.

No, once she meets him, her curiosity will be sated, and I can get her to focus on learning more about what I do.

I have nothing to worry about.
