A few Liscorians recognized him, and one had to be held back from charging the door.
“Why is that bastard—I thought Erin Solstice hated him!”
“Nobles. I bet he threatened to attack her inn if she didn’t let him in.”
Lord Tyrion Veltras vanished as Garry looked around. Well, he would stay away from the [Lord]. But where were his…
“Comrei! Comrei, over here!”
The girl jumped as Garry waved at her. He was excited and waved all four arms.
“There you are! Let us go to the beach already! It is cold out here. And snowy.”
Comrei came forwards, but oddly slowly, and Garry saw a few more of his regulars, but they were hanging back. They looked…embarrassed, but he didn’t understand why. Not at first.
“Hallo, Mister Garry. Um. I don’t feel like going to the beach today. My mother’s busy. Can you—? You should go.”
“What? Me? But you were so excited this morning.”
Garry was surprised, and the Gnoll’s ears and tail were drooping. She looked about to cry and incredibly guilty. Garry saw Hisnis duck back.
“Hisnis? Are you ready to go?”
“I’m not going. Sorry.”
Hisnis wasn’t going? Garry grew confused, then spoke.
“Oh, if it is the beach apparel, I was told anything is fine, and I can buy you—‘
“I’m not going!”
He ran off, and Garry was shocked. Indeed, even Miss Biscale looked red as she came over.
“Garry, I think you had better go. Comrei, why don’t I treat you to something at a restaurant today? I—we—can’t join you.”
“But why not? You have the tickets. And they are only good for today, I think. Unless you want to go tomorrow?”
Perhaps he should ask for more tickets. But then Garry realized something was off, and his happy mind suddenly turned analytical.
Strange. None of them seemed to have the shiny tickets that Garry had seen them clutching. They all seemed guilty, and as Garry looked around, bewildered, he saw a familiar face.
The Drake tried to hide his face behind his collar when Garry turned—but he was in line, and Garry stopped.
“You. I know you. You were asking for my tickets, but you didn’t have one.”
“What? I don’t know you. Get lost, Antinium.”
The Drake hissed as people turned, and the door flickered back to Liska. She saw Garry and began to wave him to the head of the line, but stopped.
“Why do you have a ticket? That is not possible. And where is…Comrei, where are the two tickets I gave you?”
An unpleasant realization was trickling down the back of Garry’s shell, and the innocent [Baker] stared at the Gnoll as she turned away. The Drake sighed, loudly, as the jig was up.
“I bought them, idiot. See? My wife and kids and I are going to the beach.”
He indicated a group of five, and Garry stared at him.
“You bought…from…?”
He looked at his regulars, and none of them met his eyes.
“But they were tickets. We were going to the beach and I…”
“They’re worth gold. I’m sorry, Mister Garry. But I was offered two gold pieces and—”
Miss Biscale looked wretchedly sorry, and Garry knew that even though he gave her almost-free food, there were other things like rent and—but they had been a gift.
His pain about them selling the tickets was replaced by another feeling. Which was—when he turned and stared at the suspicious line of Liscorians who had tickets. None of whom knew Erin Solstice.
They all avoided Garry’s gaze and tried to hurry through the door. But Garry called out.
“Liska, do not let them through! They bought those tickets from my regulars.”
She halted the line with a Skill.
“They what? Aw, Erin won’t like that. She already threw a fit when she heard about the reselling—hey! Give them back!”
“What? Mister Garry, no!”
Comrei protested in horror, and the surly Drake whirled on Garry.
“You can’t do that!”
“Those are my tickets. They were not intended for you.”
“I bought them fairly from that girl! She decided to sell them, and if I can’t use them—I want my money back. And a refund for all the beach clothing we bought!”
The Drake pointed hotly at Comrei, and she turned pale. Garry turned to stare at her, and another Liscorian added.
“That’s right! It was a fair, legal transaction! Guardsman, help!”
She turned to Jeiss, and the Senior Guardsman looked completely unwilling to weigh in as a [Guard], a member of Liscor’s Council, or as a guest of Erin Solstice. The Drake sneered as he jabbed a claw at Garry.
“This was all fair, Antinium. Don’t try to take it out on us.”
“But you bought the tickets because Comrei does not have a lot of money and needs it.”
Garry felt bad about saying it loudly, but he was slowly piecing it together.
“So? I helped her out. It’s legally fair, isn’t it, Guardsman Jeiss?”
“—Legally. Garry, this isn’t going to be simple. Why don’t you bring it up with Erin…?”
The Drake was groaning over the complexities, but Garry just stared at the Drake.
“So you bought Comrei’s ticket because it was legal and you had money and she does not.”
“That’s how the economy works. Thank you for getting that. Can I go?”
The Drake was pointing at the door, and Garry stared at his regulars. He thought, in his head, that the simplest thing would be to go to Erin, let the regulars keep the coins they’d earned from selling them, and invite them in without tickets.
That was the simplest thing to do. But he was hurt.
Hurt because they’d sold his tickets.
Hurt because he understood why they’d sold those tickets, but other people were using that to get into the beach.
Hurt because they had to sell the tickets. And mostly hurt by the sad, guilty, ashamed look on his regulars’ faces and the contempt on the Drake’s.
The family of Drakes was about to enter into the inn and avoid the stares and attention they were not happy with when Garry moved. He reached into his bag of holding and brought out the basket that he used to carry some of his baking goods around.
Then he smashed the wicker basket into the back of the Drake who’d bought Comrei’s tickets.
“Wh—help! Help!”
A furious Worker began hitting the Drake with all four fists. Jeiss whirled and shouted.
“Garry! Get off of him! Get—”
The Drake punched at Garry, but the Worker kept attacking even as people tried to pull him off. Then someone shouted.
“Antinium attack! Aberration! Ab—”
And then a brawl started in the streets. Whether or not someone believed Garry was actually becoming Aberration, several people saw the Antinium attacking a Drake and jumped into the fight at once. A man ran at Garry with a builder’s hammer in hand, and a fist laid him flat before he could bash Garry’s brains in.
Even Lord Tyrion Veltras stared at his fist as the man went sprawling onto the frozen flagstones. Liska stared—and Tyrion punched someone else as they came at him. Then Garry was getting up, punching with all four arms, and Tyrion hesitated a long second—then kicked someone in the side who was running at Garry.
But how had they gotten here? 
 
——
 
That morning, Tyrion Veltras was sleep-deprived, a terrible thing. It could lay even a [Lord] low.
He’d been having bad dreams of late. Nightmares, almost. He told Ryoka Griffin about them.
She visited the inn in Invrisil where he and his sons were staying quite often. Every morning, Sammial and Hethon would at least go on a walk with her in the City of Adventurers, but half the time, Ryoka talked with Tyrion.
“I’ve been dreaming of the siege of Liscor.”
She stopped, half-swallowing the cereal she was eating.
“…Go on.”
Tyrion was staring at something he’d almost forgotten in the aftermath of the battle. He recalled it fairly well now. The frustration of such a long campaign, the anticipation of seeing the Goblin Lord almost pushed at Liscor, and envisioning fighting Antinium and Drakes alike—then the betrayal of Magnolia threatening his children.
That was how he remembered the battle. If he laid it out, it was the plan working, the Goblin Lord advancing in the mud, then the other Goblins fighting him. Attacking Liscor’s gates as well as the Goblin Lord—then seeing the Goblin Lord fall.
Disastrous—and deciding to charge the field and rout the Goblins completely if his plan had failed. He had failed even that—he’d taken most down, but a single Goblin had stood upon the slopes and refused to die.
Then, as he prepared to attack Liscor anyways, Magnolia had threatened his sons, and he had vowed vengeance.
They were old memories. Old and felt like a lifetime ago, before the Circle of Thorns had become his nemesis. He had not forgotten Magnolia’s threats, but perhaps it was his proximity to Liscor.
“I was remembering the start of the battle. There was…something before the Goblins began their final battle with each other. I almost forgot. It was such a silly thing that, back then, I didn’t know what to think. A girl. Seeing Lady Bethal and Lady Pryde reminded me of Maviola El. Which reminded me of her, because they both had the same thing.”
“What was that?”
Ryoka gave him a strange look. Tyrion murmured as he stirred his porridge and sipped at his tea.
“A white flag. She was waving it before the battle. A Human girl—I remember thinking it was a ploy. I keep remembering that.”
“You didn’t stop and parlay?”
Tyrion glanced up at Ryoka’s intent look.
“It was a war, or one in all but name. A Goblin Lord was moving ahead of us, Ryoka. Even if I intended to—that was no officer or high-ranking member of Liscor that I could tell. There are rules in war, but they are not dogmatically followed. If someone waved a single flag in an ongoing battle, I would not immediately order a cessation of hostilities.”
“But that was before the battle began.”
“Yes. Still. It wouldn’t have changed my mind. I just keep thinking of her. We’ve been talking about…Goblins. Antinium. You talk a lot about your world’s history, and we’ve even had dinner guests.”
He did not mean Goblins or Antinium. Absolutely not. But Jelaqua Ivirith, and even a Drake, Selys Shivertail, had all been guests of his.
Selys had been as cold as Cenidau to Tyrion, but the other guests had warmed to Sammial and Hethon. He knew what Ryoka was doing, or suspected, at least.
She was still a mystery to him, but he thought she was trying to endear him to members of other species. The dream of that girl with the white flag, though…
Perhaps Erin Solstice’s letter to him and being told he could actually enter the beach was what had caused it. Tyrion himself still felt a chill when he read and reread the letter.
 
You, Tyrion Veltras, are invited to The Wandering Inn. I will never forgive you, but I need even your help.
You are invited to the Winter Solstice at the end of this month. You are invited to the fight of your life, and your death. If you think this is a joke, come unprepared. The last Summer Solstice at Emperor Laken’s party?
It will be nothing compared to this one. Either come ready or stay away.
—Erin Solstice
 
He did not feel a rush of excitement at the invitation. Tyrion imagined part of him would have, a while ago. But today? Now? He felt concerned.
I’m not ready. I should take Sammial and Hethon far, far away before the date. But should I stay?
If Ryoka is there—I must. 
He had called for more [Soldiers], but Ryoka was actually taking time from the beach to plan for the event, too. She looked stressed—she had been stressed, and she was breathing hard, even for just eating breakfast in the morning.
“The dream you had. In that battle.”
“Hm? Oh, yes.”
Tyrion re-focused on his morning conversation. He looked at Ryoka, then sat back in his chair.
“I have a thought, Ryoka. I hope you won’t laugh at me for bringing it up.”
“I make no promises.”
She laughed at him, sometimes. Which he found hurtful when he was serious. But then, they were flirting.
Flirting, not dating, certainly not engaged, and perhaps never more than that. That was the clear, outlined area of their relationship. Ryoka had told Tyrion it was all she’d commit to. She didn’t want to just run away—again—but if you piled up her reservations, she could create the 7th Walled City.
He needed her. He needed someone to talk to, especially who’d tell him he was wrong—someone he could talk to without getting unreasonably mad, like Magnolia Reinhart. Someone who wasn’t a subordinate.
However, even Ryoka had limits, and she stared at Tyrion, twitching, even more sleep-deprived than he. She’d been practicing with her Faeblade, talking about preparations, and ‘freaking out’ for the last week despite his assurances he was bringing more soldiers.
Tyrion tried to be equitable. He lowered his voice in their private dining room where they were eating breakfast.
“I have a suspicion…that the girl with the white flag might have been Erin Solstice. What do you think, Ryoka?”
She stared at him as Tyrion raised his brows. It made a lot of sense now that he thought of it. He waited for her response.
 
——
 
Tyrion’s cheek still hurt two hours later. He hadn’t been slapped in a long time. Only Magnolia could tag him—at least before he’d lost his levels.
Ryoka had apologized for that. Sort of. She definitely reminded him of Salva right now, and he decided not to poke the hornet’s nest.
Then again, the proverbial hornets in question were drinking Potions of Growth and setting themselves on fire. Ryoka Griffin was not in a good mood, and the next person that had agreed to talk to her was getting the evil eye.
He was having a second breakfast. But the instant he saw Ryoka and Tyrion, Lord Xitegen Terland stood up and motioned his Golem servants to get the bill.
“Ah, Lord Tyrion and the Wind Runner. Or is it Courier Ryoka? I’m pleased we could meet. I rather thought civil talk was impossible.”
Ryoka Griffin gave Xitegen a weak smile. Tyrion rubbed at his cheek before bowing stiffly.
“Lord Xitegen. I’m pleased to see you hale after your encounter with the Raiders. I had heard you were winged in the battle.”
“That? Shrapnel. Barely made it past my Ring of Protection. Heirlooms.”
Xitegen waved it off as he stood. Ryoka gave Tyrion a look of warning, and he wondered if she was going to cause an incident.
 
——
 
Ryoka was afraid of the Winter Solstice. Nevermind Shaestrel telling her it was inevitable and she had better spend time preparing or doing something useful—Ryoka knew that.
But how could Erin face down those six, knowing their powers, and calmly go about her day when they would be at the zenith of their strength?
Each Solstice had been worse than the last. Ryoka had had another night of waking up half-screaming again, imagining she’d taken someone’s hand by accident, and so she’d lashed out at Tyrion for being stupid.
