The beach never ended.
Three days and the beach endured. Oh, there were challenges.
Late night beach sex.
Trash that people left around.
People banging on the door to be let in after-hours.
One person trying to invite thirty-six guests with them.
Erin Solstice dealt with these problems very simply. She put up a sign saying ‘no littering’, she kicked out anyone who interrupted the beach experience, and she started to ban people from her beach.
“I’m not dealing with it. If you act ‘smart’, then think your way out of a ban. All of you—banned!”
She shook a fist at the culprit, for once uncharitably annoyed.
“But Erin—”
“Shut it, Menolit. You’re banned! And you’re banned! And anyone else?”
Erin pointed at him, at one of her Drake regulars, Classie, who wore a stricken look, and aimed her banning finger around.
In truth, she got why Menolit had done it. First it had been people from Liscor Hunted, but then he’d begun parlaying her inn for social credit. Then just…money and favors.
She stomped off as he looked woebegone and didn’t tell him that he was only banned for a few days. As for the beach…
“Well now, pardner. Looks like you’re in a right state of mind. Reckon my crew should get back to work. We were just askin’ about draining the water out so we could clean the garden a spell.”
An amazingly accurate southern accent made Erin stop and close her eyes. But she turned and wondered how an Antinium had decided that every time he put on a silver mustache, he should wear a huge cowboy hat and put on the accent and moniker of Silverstache.
Was this racism? Erin smiled at Silveran’s alter ego anyways.
“Good idea, Silveran.”
“Silveran? I don’t know who that is. Silverstache is the name—”
“Right, right. I’ll drain the water since we need to clean it. Valeterisa’s generously said she’ll purify it. Because it’s gross, and people keep peeing in it.”
A number of children—and adults—avoided Erin’s gaze. She had the crazed look that all pool-owners inevitably developed. Erin had never understood it.
Crap in the water. Literal and figurative. You needed…chlorine. Something to keep it clean enough. You had to clean the sand. People kept littering! And the sand got tracked into her inn…
Silveran was happy. But Erin Solstice prowled around, actually growling at anyone who dared to annoy her, and those with dubious permits of entry because they weren’t actually her friends kept a low profile.
Here was the thing. Erin was different from Larracel the Haven. She had an oddly bad personality as an [Innkeeper]—which was her dislike of sharing her most private, magical experiences with anyone but her friends.
The beach had been meant for the Order of Solstice. It had been the definition of a private beach, and Erin resented sharing it to the public, despite the hefty business.
In that way, Kevin made the mistake of comparing her to Earth.
“Erin, you’re like those uptight people with their private beaches who want to close it off instead of sharing it. It’s public, chill.”
Her eyes flashed.
“Oh, really? Then you can be the one who cleans up the couples’ section of the beach from last night. Silverstache, give him a rake. No gloves.”
“No, wait, waitwait—”
He vanished through a door that opened under his feet with a shout, and several guests stared at that.
She was getting…very adept with her inn. Imagine how she could use that in a fight.
 
——
 
Imagine the fight. If Erin was behind Larracel for the ability to be, well, less personal and more commercial, to be a host regardless of how well she knew someone, she was ahead of even Larracel the Haven, a Named-rank adventurer, in one area.
And that was her ability to war. That was her ability to get one’s blood pumping and call forth the consequences.
She had a way with words. Not in the fancy way of Calanferian prose, but a directness that made blood race and spike.
‘You are invited to the fight of your life.’
It was the feeling like when she had ordered the Knights of Solstice to take on Elia Arcsinger. It was…a hum in the air. Like Zeladona unsheathing her sword. The feeling of distant thunder rolling, a storm brewing.
It was why some of her guests just couldn’t quit on her. Like Chaldion of Pallass.
He couldn’t sit still. He felt his age, in every line of his body, as he paced, because he wanted to be young.
Four decades younger! If only! He was panting from just walking around. But he was giving orders nonstop.
“6th to 8th Armies are no good. We’re out of position for all but three. My disposition is this: 1st Army will reinforce the city’s checkpoints. General Edellein’s 4th Army to hold ground outside of Pallass.”
“Two entire armies, Grand Strategist? It might alarm some members of the city.”
“So?”
The nervous subordinates tried to raise an objection, but the three [Generals] knew better. General Edellein was gnashing his teeth, Duln was holding his head under his arm, and the third [General], Shirka, was silent.
They were the ones closest to Pallass at any given hour, and the commanders of the 1st, 3rd, and 4th Army had been summoned to an emergency meeting by the Grand Strategist this morning.
“Grand Strategist. Are you certain this intelligence is accurate? And are we really going to—”
“Help Liscor? Those bastards that minced us up at the Trial of Blades?”
Edellein broke over Duln, his voice terse with anger. But Chaldion just glanced at him and snorted.
“You’re not going, and I cannot march an army to Liscor even if I wanted to. Erin Solstice will have to be satisfied with a fraction. General Shirka, you have roughly two weeks to get into position.”
That was all the time until the end of the month. Less, really, but Shirka gave him a lazy salute.
“Via door?”
“It’s four hundred miles. I still want to visit that beach, and I have no intention of alarming anyone—yet. March. Duln, Edellein, I want supplementary battalions. Contribute six thousand each to Shirka’s force. She will ‘appear’ with only a thousand, the rest to deploy in the High Passes.”
“This is insane.”
Edellein didn’t just mean how many [Soldiers] were coming. Camping in the High Passes was dangerous. Even if they just bunkered down close by to Liscor—the cost of this was high! And for what?
But Chaldion was still giving orders.
“Shirka will assess the inn today and deliver me a request for any supplies. We can adjust via the door. Now. Send a Class II order to Manus. They’re too far, so tell them I want [Wyvern Riders].”
He was going insane. His staff were looking at each other. All this because an [Innkeeper] gave him an invitation?
Chaldion knew they were asking themselves if he’d gone senile again. But he had looked Erin in the eyes, and if anything, he wondered if he was under preparing.
She had meant it. She had never asked him for his armies, not like this. Begged, yes, not asked. Never summoned, nay, invited like this. Challenged. All without thinking of the price? Erin had been famously uncooperative in owing him any favors.
And she had said the fight of his life. He hoped, in some twisted part of him, that she wasn’t exaggerating. He was not the only one she’d extended the invitation to either. The adventurers and individual warriors could make their choices. But Chaldion thought at least one far-flung friend could make a move.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon was just sighing at his table. He could sit still, but he looked so morose as he put his feet up that even the person he was talking to didn’t upbraid the sad Fraerling.
“I just can’t get there in time. Even if I abandoned the entire push across Baleros—I can throw Skills, but as we saw, someone can nullify that. Ideally, if I had months of prep—well, I’d like eight.”
“Eight. Pray tell, why eight?”
Fetohep of Khelt slowly took a drink from his cup. The Titan and King of Khelt had never really exchanged words before this. Right now? There was some civility to be had, and Foliana was dying to ask Fetohep about his favorite food. But the sad Fraerling just flicked his fingers up.
“One. I send a force to Liscor via my new [Castling] Skill. Then I swap them out to Khelt to reinforce—it’s a four-month cooldown on my Skill. We bury them, and then I’m ready for my own play.”
“Ah. Naturally. Though your Skill presumes command over my forces, Titan.”
Niers flashed Fetohep a smile, and his eyes were alight when he pushed his hat up. He was not sitting still, for all he was sitting…still.
“Perhaps not yours, Your Majesty. But if you were to sell the Forgotten Wing company a royal division of your finest warriors—”
“Hrmph. A ploy that would cost Eternal Khelt its finest undead. Very well. That may be an option, though I would trust to your company in this case. A rare failure of Khelt’s abilities.”
Fetohep acknowledged the idea with a nod, which surprised Niers. He would have assumed Fetohep would demand to do the trade anyways, on the basis that his forces were better.
Perhaps the lack of Skills was that telling. Niers pulled up a sheaf of paper.
“Here is my full kill-team roster. Depending on the situation, I would prefer to send only a hundred or so and hope my Skill doesn’t take long to come off cooldown. If need be—I will send a full army.”
“The laws of equivalent exchange demand there be as many soldiers there as you exchange. Which forces would you trade? I have but six [Spies] who have been ridding Erin Solstice of pests. At least one has indicated a willingness to do battle, but I have been vetting local mercenaries and adventurers.”
Fetohep was displeased at his inability, but Niers lifted a hand.
“Chaldion of Pallass has agreed to drag enough chaff close to Liscor and hide them in the mountain range. He’s happy enough to have a Drake force in Baleros if it comes to that.”
This could upset world politics, if an entire army of Drakes traded places with Balerosian mercenaries. Fetohep nodded as he consulted the document.
“—My understanding of the foe indicates ranged superiority is preferable to hand-to-hand combat. Superior artifacts. Fraerlings?”
“It answers both your requests, Your Majesty.”
“One shall hope that it is enough for the foe. I cannot speak to any…six. However, I have faced Seamwalkers. Let us discuss, then, the possibility of one emerging outside Liscor.”
A Seamwalker popping out of the air. Niers’ heart hurt as he imagined it. Oh, and the carnage, and he had to safeguard Mrsha and the others.
But it called to him. That day. He and Fetohep were distracting themselves, really. Wishing they could be there. Conceivably, they could if they dropped all their responsibilities, but—no. They were both too aware of their duties.
For a second, the Fraerling and Revenant locked gazes, and a golden flash and mortal eyes met.
Great war. Niers had to know what it was like. And he felt drawn to Erin Solstice more and more, like a fly to the sweetest honey. It was coming, but for the rest of this long month, all the people that Erin had warned had to just—wait.
Wait and prepare. She had given them advance notice. Niers tried so hard, but he couldn’t help it.
He was definitely smiling.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice didn’t smile when she thought of what was coming. She grew tired and sad and frightened.
The beach was the transient, the temporary relief from winter’s cold. It was here because the Winter Solstice was here, like a balancing act.
If she was stressed and taking it out on people as her beach was cleaned this morning, well—that was mostly because Erin was mad about the poo in the water. She knew that some of the people at the beach had brought actual babies.
But still.
Come on. 
“Maybe I should just restrict access to the beach to only friends, real friends of the inn. That’d solve everything. Even if Pelt brings over the smiths, we’d have plenty of room unless everyone is there.”
Erin was spitballing the idea to her staff. Yelroan coughed as he tapped Erin on the shoulder.
“We could do that, Erin. Let me present you with a number. And this is the other number.”
“Hubwab. Is…is that gold?”
The [Innkeeper] stared at the first underlined number. Yelroan gave her a smile. Then he tapped the other number, which had a negative sign next to it.
“That’s if we keep the door running and charge premium day-tickets and keep selling as we have. And this one is if we don’t.”
“Why’s it negative? Oh, all the free food to the [Knights] and stuff. Alright. Beach stays open!”
Erin Solstice swiveled around with a huge, fake smile on her face. Then she sighed again.
“…Is Lord Whatshisface coming?”
“Lord Veltras? No one’s seen him today. But his sons are here.”
“Well, I’ll look forwards to that.”
Erin grumped around her inn, then had a thought. She was most happy when her friends came to enjoy the inn, like Hexel, who had told her it reminded him of home, almost with tears in his eyes. Or his Lizardfolk assistants.
Or…Erin was thinking of all the people she knew who had attended. Most had come, even Grev, just upon hearing of what was happening.
“…I saw Pawn, I’m corresponding with Anand, and Olesm claims he’s busy, the beach-hating guy, Horns are in the Great Plains, even Halrac was there getting buried in the sand…I think that’s almost everyone. Even Captain Z herself is coming today.”
Captain Zevara jumped as Erin pointed over her shoulder without looking around. Several Drakes had made it today, and Desk-Sergeant Kel, Watch Captain Venim and his daughter, Zevara, and even Embria were waiting to be first into the beach.
Zevara was trying to play it very cool. She was just…inspecting the beach. Which was why she already had on a one-piece swimming suit she’d bought with her money and one of the Hedault beach tubes around her midsection. But she was watching out for rogue bicycles in this inn and keeping her tail well off the ground.
“That’s almost everyone, Erin?”
Lyonette herself looked ready for fun as she walked over, but perhaps that was because she was going to be with Pryde and Bethal, who had apparently been so taken with the sand castles of yesterday that their plan was to build a real castle. Grimalkin, Thomast, and all the [Knights] had been assigned to the project.
What the [Princess] and [Ladies] didn’t seem to realize was that their project was under threat. A scheming Nanette, Mrsha, Relc, and various anarchists were plotting their own project—building siege-ladders and sapping the walls when they went up. Even Tesy.
“See, if I paint some sand, here, and you all ‘help’ pack it into the wall, when I dissolve the Skill—the walls come down.”
Then we storm the gates!
“No, Mrsha, we storm the breach.”
Nanette corrected her, and Relc rubbed his claws together happily.
