Let it continue. Let this stay without changing, a moment of forever. Please. But he had no power to make it happen. Not even the [Innkeeper] could hold that precious moment on the beach.
 
——
 
Conflicted, torn, Tyrion had to leave his observation of the beach. Reality was still the same. He did not, would not change for watching someone nail Lady Pryde in the face with a mudball, however objectively hilarious that was.
He was still a [Lord] of House Veltras. He still was Tyrion Veltras. Salva was still dead.
But perhaps that was why he ended up pacing the hallway of The Wandering Inn, ignoring the passersby. That was doubtless why he saw the strange Antinium arguing about the tickets. Then Tyrion saw the miserable girl trying not to cry in the snow. And it occurred to him that that was unfair.
He was wavering about offering to pay for the girl’s tickets or not getting involved with an Antinium when Garry hit the Drake. Tyrion didn’t move for that, though part of him approved of the violence, if not the resulting brawl.
He moved when he saw someone running over with a hammer to bash the Antinium’s brains in. It was unconscious, a younger man’s leaping into action. It was just a thought of—not him.
The lone Antinium whose position that Tyrion could respect did not die from a blow to the back of the head. Unfortunately, the moment they saw Tyrion and Garry fighting, half of Liscor went for them. Tyrion, to his amazement, found himself punching and parrying wild swings as his [Guards] ran into the fighting, along with Jeiss and the Watch, and Garry was fighting left and right until a Watch Captain ran into it all and screamed.
“Everyone, halt!”
Then Lord Tyrion saw Garry turn, and the two, battered and disheveled, locked eyes. Garry stared at Tyrion with dislike and the [Lord], uncertainly.
“You are Lord Tyrion Veltras. Why did you help me?”
“I—just wanted to hit some fools.”
Garry hesitated.
“Oh. How oddly reasonable. I am Garry.”
“I am Lord Tyrion Velt—click.”
The handcuffs closed around Tyrion’s wrists, and he stared at them. Garry looked down as two went over both pairs of his hands. He and Tyrion stared down as Watch Captain Zevara and five squads of [Guards] surrounded them.
“Uh oh.”
 
——
 
The enraged Erin Solstice wanted Garry freed. He had done nothing wrong!
Zevara maintained that Garry had done something wrong by choosing violence, however understandable, and that he wasn’t going to be jailed overnight. In fact, Lord Veltras was so dangerous to arrest, they’d be out in hours, but they were arrested.
His people were in the jail, making sure no one tried anything, but there had to be crime and punishment or else people were above the law.
“Either you are above the law, in which case I am useless, or you will respect my judgement, Erin Solstice! Don’t make me arrest you, because if you break out of my jail—you will break Liscor’s Watch, and I will resign.”
She actually talked Erin down, and the enraged [Innkeeper] finally lowered the frying pan.
“…Did you say you arrested Tyrion Veltras?”
Her lips quirked at that as Ryoka poked her head out of the beach with a look of horror. Zevara?
Zevara looked very pleased with herself.
 
——
 
The bread was so hard and stale that Tyrion didn’t even try it, just knocked it against the wall of his cell. Garry tried his bread; they were in the top-level cells with magical walls and Skill-destroying containment.
“This is terrible bread.”
“Mm. I’ve seen worse.”
Garry stopped gnawing on the bread with his mandibles, an act that Tyrion couldn’t tear his eyes away from. He waved it indignantly.
“How could it be worse? It is just flour and water and mold.”
“It could have maggots. I’ve seen worse rations in war.”
Garry the [Baker], who was not the most fond of Tyrion, had begun speaking after their first twenty minutes in the boring cells. He had realized Tyrion had saved him, and there was nothing to do but talk. Jericha was sitting with her face in her hands as Ullim patted her on the shoulders down the hall.
“I believe you and I are very different people, Lord Veltras. Maggots are tasty.”
Tyrion shuddered and turned to one side.
“The Antinium truly are a different…people.”
“Thank you. I dislike you quite a lot for sieging Liscor, but thank you.”
Garry inexplicably brightened up. Tyrion turned.
“Thank you for what?”
“Saying we are a people. Not many people do.”
“Oh. Well.”
The two stood there for a while, then Tyrion spoke.
“That girl who wanted to go to the beach and sold her ticket.”
“Comrei? She will go to the beach. I will make it so.”
Garry was determined as he folded his arms. Tyrion turned and realized their two hours were almost up. It was a slap on the wrist, which was why he’d agreed.
“Good. So you bake food? I had no idea an Antinium could do that. Tell me. Do you cater…dinners? My sons and family need food. I would invite you to eat with us.”
Garry gave Tyrion a long, long look as Jericha and Ullim turned and stared.
“I shall think on it.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice watched as a nervous Comrei and Garry’s regulars entered the beach. She stared at Tyrion Veltras, but he was just standing in the water, knee-deep, staring at his sons, who regarded the shirtless [Lord] with the same strange look.
“Man, today’s weird. I’m just going to ignore him. Garry, why did you start a fight?”
“Because it was wrong that Comrei and the others had to sell their tickets, Miss Erin. I am sorry.”
Garry hung his head, then changed his mind.
“No, I am not sorry, I am mad!”
He stomped his foot, and Erin smiled at him.
“I woulda done the same thing, probably, Garry. But—okay, we’ll make sure they have access. And those jerks aren’t ‘out’ of the beach because they’ll bully your regulars, but they’ll pay.”
She cracked her knuckles, looking menacingly at the ignorant Liscorians on the beach. Erin might have been persuaded not to directly go after them, but she had put a bee in the ear of a few of the other beach-goers, and Lism had, for once, agreed to a team-up filled with petty vengeance that began with sending [Tax Collectors] to make sure all of their wealth was legitimately acquired.
However, Garry just stared at the wrath of Lism and Elirr, who was telling his cats where they lived and how much they were allowed to use that street as a litterbox, and shook his head.
“Erin. I do not want that. Well, I do want that, but it means nothing.”
“I dunno. Cat poop means a lot to me if I step in it.”
The [Baker] shook his head vehemently.
“No, Erin. Thank you for helping! And being nice. But that is not what I mean! Comrei will not be helped by making that one stupid Drake’s life poorer. Comrei needs more than my bread. I see it now. I see…I need something more. More than my shop. What you did for us. For me. For Pisces.”
Erin looked at Garry, and they both remembered an inn that was far less grand than this one. But no less magical. She sighed and put her arm around him, hugging him hard.
“Garry. You sweet thing. I feel like I’ve changed, but you never forgot how it all began. Can I help?”
She sniffed, and Garry hugged her back.
“Yes. I will need it. But first, I will enjoy myself, then I am invited to dinner with someone you will dislike, Erin. But change is good. Please do not forget, though, that there are a lot of Comreis. They are the ones who could be another Pisces. If someone just helped. Hopefully, though, with less sniffing.”
“I’ll try never to.”
Erin’s eyes were overfull, and the hugging two smiled. Then someone dashed over.
Forsooth! I have heard of the issue and come to help! Garry! If you need help—
Garry slapped the bag of coins out of Mrsha’s paws.
“Meh. Not that. That’s not how it works. I think. I will think on it.”
So he sat on the beach until someone banged on a pot, and Garry turned. Then someone threw something at him, and a poofy white hat struck him in the chest. He turned, wondering if he were going to have to drown someone—and a finger pointed at him.
“You. Is. Challenged!”
An angry, little grey Goblin with a poofy hat stood next to a huge cauldron on the beach and hit it with a ladle.
Clang, clang. And she began screaming.
“Rematch! Rematch!”
Tyrion Veltras turned as Garry slowly put on the hat. The champion stood up as Imani, Palt, Lasica, Calescent, and everyone else who styled themselves as a good cook slowly looked around. Erin shouted.
“That’s right! Roll on up! We’re having a cooking contest! And it’s a <Quest>! Aha. Ahahahahaha! But you have to make it with random ingredients, and you get a stupid non-cook partner!”
Drassi ran for a camera. Pebblesnatch ran for a partner. Erin cackled harder when she saw the Pebblesnatch-Mrsha combo. Imani and Palt ended up competing as he chose Bezale and she grabbed Montressa.
Valeterisa, who fancied that she knew recipes, teamed up with Relc. Lasica was banned from using Rufelt, so the Drake raised an eyebrow.
“If I have to choose an unskilled partner—I’ll take Erin. Alright, alright. Stop screaming. Ape, let’s do this.”
Erek ooked as Bethal and Thomast qualified on the basis that both probably sucked. Grimalkin and Pryde. Octavia and Numbtongue. Wailant and Viceria…
There were a lot of contestants. Garry ran around until he realized there was only one logical choice.
“Miss Erin has hidden some ingredients all over the garden. Doubtless, some are wet or others are hidden in trees or underground. I am the reigning champion, and I need a capable person who can get things. Can you cook?”
Tyrion Veltras turned as his sons and Ryoka goggled at him. He hesitated as the Antinium [Baker] faced him, and he shook his head.
“I can grill meat.”
“Perfect.”
And then—and then the contest began, and if only it could last. Yet nothing lasted forever, and some stories just couldn’t be told. But it went on and on.
That endless story of the beach.
