“Can’t you acknowledge their basic…humanity? That they can think, reason, and are a people?”
Xitegen stared upwards thoughtfully.
“I can…in the way I look at the Bloodfeast Raiders, or Ogres, and acknowledge they have society and will and intelligence. To do otherwise would make me undervalue their danger.”
“They’re not the same.”
The [Lord] leaned over the table earnestly and never looked away.
“Miss Griffin, they killed my entire family under siege and decimated the north. Have you ever met someone that you would see dead, truly, utterly, without remorse or hesitation? Their entire people are that to me. Lord Veltras has no less cause for Drakes. I can let individuals sail on by…if I must. But when a Goblin Lord or Goblin King appears, I will see it dead. A Terland’s word on it.”
He sat back, and Ryoka realized Tyrion was very quiet. The [Lord] was, in fact—thinking.
Xitegen was actually leaving out the fact that he had met a few Goblins and hadn’t tried to murder them straight off. Which was, to Erin and Ryoka, not good, but to Tyrion, it was rather like him having Selys over for dinner.
This was such a departure for us that it is more change than we are willing to admit. Xitegen was actually denying that he’d shifted at all, but Tyrion was wondering.
I do, truly, hate the Walled City of Manus for what they’ve done. But individual versus a whole…that argument makes me uncomfortable. If all of House Veltras is not defined by me, then Goblins…
But they’re Goblins.
Drakes are not all one people. Liscor is not the Walled Cities. Do I truly wish Liscor gone?
…Not particularly. They have not wronged me in any way I can think.
It occurred to him, then, as he sat and heard Ryoka growing increasingly loud as she argued.
“I nearly wiped them all out.”
He’d been thinking more of the Antinium as a threat and Liscor as a beachhead. And as he had told Lord Yitton, he had planned on sparing civilians. But a siege of a city was never without casualty.
Tyrion grew uncomfortable suddenly. He was at war with an entire species. It had ever been this way; they had sabotaged areas of the north, like in Riverfarm where they’d burnt people to death or killed Gralton’s dogs.
War made monsters out of everyone. But still—Tyrion was glad when Xitegen raised his voice.
“Not to mention the Antinium. Magnolia Reinhart is right about them, Miss Ryoka. I was shocked when I saw the Free Queen in Liscor and this Seventh Hive…am I to ally with them, too? If ‘something’, quote unquote, is coming at the Winter Solstice, by all means, seek my aid. But in Invrisil. The north shall rally if Veltras calls, but not Liscor. Why must we, enemies, join hands?”
He was entirely reasonable. Tyrion was entirely reasonable. Even if he felt guilt—it was acceptable, realistic, and justified. If he had taken Liscor, he would put the dead on his conscience and weigh pragmatism against morality in war. As he had ever done. It was just—
Ryoka Griffin snapped as Tyrion felt like he was at the dawn of something in his head. She slammed her hands down on the table, and Xitegen jerked and the Golem servants moved forwards—but halted as he raised a hand. She screamed at Xitegen, then Tyrion.
“Why do we have to kill each other? Why do you—why do you have to be so damn stubborn? Now? We’re all going to die even if we stand together, and you—and I—”
She turned dead white, started shaking, and, to Tyrion’s alarm, had tears in her eyes. Xitegen had recoiled, but now he looked alarmed.
“All going to—Miss Ryoka, what’s wrong?”
“Ryoka?”
The normally steady Courier was on the verge of—no, she was having a panic attack. Was it—honesty, the change in Ryoka, or just the coming Winter Solstice that let her show it?
A Ryoka explosion was usually within and came out in anger or something else. This time—it was like Ryoka throwing open the gasket before it blew, and it came out as tears and fear and…she looked Xitegen in the eyes, and at Tyrion.
“They’re coming for us. Pallass’ armies? The Free Antinium? You’re all mad. An army of the fae couldn’t stop them in the oldest of wars. Elves and Dwarves and Gnomes couldn’t stop them. And here we are, fighting? I don’t want Erin to die. I don’t want to see more friends die. I’m af—afraid of the Winter Solstice. Erin’s holding it together, but I can’t. Not anymore! Why can’t you just—”
She burst into tears. For the first time, Tyrion saw Ryoka just weep. He sat there, stunned.
It was Lord Xitegen who began patting her arm.
“There, there. Did you just say…hey, get her a handkerchief, and someone get something bracing. Mayhaps I was too harsh.”
“Shut up. You don’t get it. They tore apart the lands of the dead. They ate Zeladona, don’t you see? They’re coming on the Winter Solstice, and they’ve eaten your ancestors. What chance do we have?”
Then Tyrion and Xitegen felt a real chill, and Ryoka, quaking with fear, didn’t realize that she had said the one thing that struck a chord with the two men bound by tradition and heritage and…
“Would you kindly explain a bit more about what I’m invited to?”
Lord Xitegen slowly picked up Tyrion’s card, and now—he was focused. Ryoka gulped hard as, outside the private dining room, a figure stood and stared blankly at a wall.
He had never thought that Ryoka Griffin would break down in fear like that. But then—she had seen something. He had seen something, and that coil of fear…became something like embarrassment in his heart.
Grudges aside. Even his beloved dead companions aside. 
Rhissy muttered to himself as he slowly sank into the floorboards.
“They did it to Fithea. And to Dioname, in part. A good point. Why quibble over who to ally with? Kneecap your biggest enemies first. Then everyone else.”
He suddenly had a call to make.
 
——
 
So that was how Tyrion Veltras got to The Wandering Inn. He got a dirty look from the door-Gnoll, Liska, but didn’t celebrate his victory over her at last.
Ryoka was worn out from her admitting her great fears, and Xitegen had rushed off. He and Tyrion had taken her seriously, and Tyrion had told Ullim to pull a lot more [Soldiers] south.
Ryoka was right. He hated his foes, but if he considered protecting her or defeating a shared enemy—Tyrion could at least appreciate a good flanking maneuver.
He wished Pellmia were here to make sense of his feelings and talk to him. The old [Lord] had confessed that he thought Goblins had spared his son and that he himself was no longer the war hawk who had ridden onto the battlefield without more thought than victory.
Surely, his old friend would applaud Tyrion getting into the ‘flirting’ stage with Ryoka. This long war had turned into a swift engagement, and he’d nearly been pitted on the pikes when he’d brought up the long lances and risked a straight charge into them. In hindsight, he should have flanked with honesty from the start, but he’d won a bloody engagement that healing potions were mitigating.
…That was how Tyrion thought of romance, incidentally. But he had more thoughts spinning in his head as he looked into the beach.
Just looked. Erin Solstice was ignoring him very deliberately, and the [Chef] in the kitchen was glaring at him. Tyrion didn’t reach for his sword despite the Hob being at his back with a kitchen knife.
“Who do I hate more? Goblins, Antinium, or Drakes? Let’s see. Drakes.”
How surprising. Goblins had killed members of his family, friends, and rampaged across Izril’s north under their Goblin King. But Tyrion almost regarded them as a foreign army under their own leader. The madness of Goblin Kings was documented.
It was easier to say that the Drakes had taken the one woman he had ever loved with all his heart and married, Salva, away. They had done it with an assassin, and that…that had broken him more, delivered more hatred into his heart, than even the Goblins.
The Antinium were a distant third place to the other two. They were just an unknown group of quasi-monsters that Tyrion had actually been glad of, one that had done great damage to the Drakes.
A possible, inevitable enemy. His father had ridden against them, but Tyrion was surprised to realize that his hatred was not one level for all species.
Second, now. Could he tolerate a single member of the species? Tyrion thought of Selys Shivertail. She was the niece of Zel Shivertail, a Drake he had actually respected for his acumen in battle and apparent honor.
He…still did not like Drakes. He felt a rush of actual dislike when he so much as stared at them passing into the beach.
And they gave him similar looks. Another odd thing he had never noticed. Tyrion tried.
“Let’s see. One Drake in this entire world I could stand. Or one Goblin.”
…He didn’t know any Goblins. The [Chef], the one who had stopped his lance-charge—perhaps he could respect bravery, but he didn’t know them, so the road to any reconciliation that Ryoka wanted seemed far.
Same with Drakes. He knew them not. He disliked them all. He had seen Jasi perform on stage, so maybe that was it. Neutrality at best. A non-member of the species. There was none that had ever done him a favor, aside from a rare Courier or something. No one that he resp—
Saliss of Lights.
“Hmm.”
Tyrion paced back and forth. Saliss of Lights was the most dangerous [Alchemist] in the world. He was an agent of Pallass, a nudist, and—he had saved Tyrion’s sons.
He hadn’t had to do that.
Tyrion hated Drakes. But honor told him that Saliss had saved his children. Duty was gratitude. But for Saliss of Lights, Tyrion’s sons might be dead. In fact, he had mixed up their antidote.
“Is it possible—that I have been ungrateful?”
Ishkr stared at Tyrion as the Gnoll fetched more drinks from behind the bar. Tyrion went back to pacing, harder.
He did not want to be grateful. He absolutely had not been. That made one Drake in this entire world that he owed a rightful debt to, that he should be…
I’m being unreasonable. I am being inconsistent with my values, like a child. What’s wrong with me?
 
——
 
His head hurt after all the pacing, so Tyrion just stared into the beach-garden and felt another emotion assail him when he saw his sons.
They were playing in the garden, trying to dig away at a huge, just ginormous sand-castle defended by Lady Bethal, Lady Pryde, Princess Lyonette, and [Knights] as a determined group of anti-royalists was trying to bring it down.
It looked…like fun, actually. The shrieking [Ladies] were dumping buckets of water and sand on the attackers, and Sammial and Hethon were there.
Tyrion was worried the moment he heard Sammial’s voice, and he was prepared to hear his son insulting someone or using his aura or just—causing a fuss.
When he saw Sammial passing a mudball to Mrsha, who passed it to a Gnoll boy who tossed it at the [Ladies] and hit Lyonette in the face—he was amazed.
He was doubly amazed to see shy Hethon making the ammunition with a witch girl, arguing about whether or not seashells or rocks constituted a war crime. Then he heard a shout.
“Grimalkin! Use the final weapon!”
A sighing Sinew Magus pointed a claw over the side of the sand battlements.
“Reduce spell. [Sand Avalanche].”
An outpouring of sand rolled downwards, and the screaming children fell in disarray. Relc, raising his fists, punching at the gates, roared.
“Don’t give in! We’ve nearly got them! Don’t—oh, shit.”
A wave of sand washed him out to sea. The children immediately screamed the adults were cheating because they were using magic! The adults sneered back and never noticed Tesy sneaking around the back, having drawn a postern gate into the sand walls.
Saliss of Lights was going in—and he had stink bombs.
That wasn’t what Lord Tyrion was focused on. He was just…staring at Sammial.
Sammial, who was furious at being knocked into the surf, charged out. But a boy cried out to him.
“Help! Help! Don’t go, help me!”
Ekirra was buried up to his face, and Sammial turned and began tugging him out.
“Don’t give me orders! I’m a [Lord]!”
He snapped at Ekirra, flushed with adrenaline. Tyrion stirred. That was classic Sammy, and he almost stepped into the garden to say something—but the Gnoll just spat sand out of his mouth.
“Yeah? Well—I’m the Lead Striker on the Little Crab’s team! Ekirra!”
“Wh—what’s that? Does it out rank a [Lord]?”
Sammy was curious. Ekirra scratched at his head.
“I dunno, but I give the orders when we play soccer if the coach isn’t shouting them! So…I bet I outrank you! Wanna be friends? Let’s go stink-bomb them!”
Sammial Veltras hesitated, and then he screwed up his face, stared at the naked Drake waving at them as the adults celebrated, and smiled.
“Sure! I’ll let you do that.”
And he ran off. Lord Tyrion stood there, open-mouthed.
Had Sammial just made a friend? Or at least—had an interaction with another boy his age that didn’t end with one in tears?
Was this the power of the beach? Then he put a hand to his chest because he felt something, then. And it was called—fear.
 
——
 
Fear. It came in the instant Tyrion looked at his sons playing and wished for them to have another week here.
It came as he wondered how bad this Winter Solstice was going to be, and he suddenly understood Ryoka’s tears. Worse, it was not just a father’s fear for his sons. In a moment, Tyrion looked at the boy called Ekirra, who ran screaming out of the castle.
“You thought you had us? Take this!”
Bethal hurled a stinkbomb back at the screaming children, and the attackers looked up in horror.
“We were betrayed? Who gave the plan away?”
The castle-holders had turned the uprising against itself! Every war had a traitor, and one, the obvious one, really, appeared on the battlements as her companions screamed in wrath up at her. Mrsha shook a fist up at—Visma. But the Drake girl had a doll, and she was literally on top of a castle.
In that moment, Ekirra, in a last-ditch ploy, saw something Sammial had made. He took a breath—then kicked the mudball that Sammial had placed down.
The [Kicker]’s shot flew up, missed Bethal, hit Lady Pryde in the face, and took her down. Then the siege resumed.
In that moment, Tyrion felt, suddenly, a reasonable man’s desire that Sammial’s Gnoll friend, that boy, should not die. Not now, not ever. That little boy was laughing and high-fiving Sammial before fleeing the wrath of Pryde—and Tyrion looked at the other children.
Not this Winter Solstice. Nor war.
Would they have died when he rained boulders into Liscor? Would these coming days lead to destruction? Sammial and Hethon had been through enough.
