“Right. Can we storm both? Also, hot dogs for lunch? If we put in our order, we’ll get to the front of the queue, Calescent said.”
“I would prefer a more seafood-like dish. Some lobster would be better.”
“Lobster’s sit-down food, Klbkch.”
“Should we not be seated on our getaway raft at sea, dining upon the tears of our enemies? This is how it is done, Relc. According to the book on piracy I checked out yesterday. I have been doing my research. I recommend we skip the rapine, though.”
Klbkch was actually part of the silliness. If he had to be at the beach, and he definitely had to, he regarded this as good practice for the Walled Cities. He decided it was time to give everyone a speech.
“Actually, gathered associates, this reminds me of my own past, where the True Antinium and I once stormed a very similar structure underground. It was held by what I now know to be Golems, and the fortifications shot laser-beams at anything that moved. Sapping was ineffective on the rock, so we advanced under—”
“Boring! Let’s go prepare ammunition! Mudballs!”
Ekirra slammed his paws on the table, and Klbkch trailed off as everyone ran towards the beach, only to be told it was being cleaned for another half-hour.
 
——
 
Klb, Relc, kids…Erin counted, then she realized who was missing. She turned swiftly to Rosencrantz, her Antinium staff-leader.
“Wait a second. I know who’s missing! Rosencrantz, almost all the Painted Antinium and friends are here—but where’s Garry?”
The [Adjunct Manager] turned around as Peggy, the [Floor Boss], perked up her ears. Erin grew excited as she realized Garry hadn’t been here.
He’d love it! The food, the beach—maybe not the water.
“Has no one told him in his shop?”
“I believe he would have heard via the Hive, Miss Erin. But perhaps not. I could go and check on him?”
“Yeah, do that!”
Garry. Erin would give him the card and tell him…stay away. Her stomach hurt a second, and then she smiled. She’d have a day with him, Pebblesnatch—heck, maybe even the return of the cookoff!
It was a brilliant idea, and it lasted until midday when Erin, after a busy morning of letting people in and making sure everything was running, realized that Garry hadn’t yet arrived.
There’d been even more busybodies with her special tickets she used to differentiate who was admitted and who wasn’t. Lots of forgeries, and Mrsha was grumpily helping fabricate more ways to stay ahead of [Forgers].
“Hey, Rosencrantz, where’s Garry?”
She caught the Antinium as he scuttled by with a platter of drinks. Almost as if he were trying to avoid her. Rosencrantz gave Peggy a helpless look, then he lied.
“Garry? He is well. Very good. He is just too busy to attend.”
“What?”
Erin could tell Rosencrantz was lying. His antennae waved together wildly when he did, and he stared nervously at someone giving Erin a very worried look.
Namely—Watch Captain Zevara. She had stopped her beach escapades, and Erin felt the hair on her neck rising.
“Rosencrantz…where’s Garry? Don’t lie.”
The Worker hesitated. But faced with Zevara’s warning glare and Erin Solstice…he chose the less-scary option.
“U-um. Garry is in jail. Just for a day! He has paid off his fine, and he is not hurt. Just in trouble.”
Erin stared at Rosencrantz for a second. Then she exhaled, smiled, and patted him on the shoulder.
“Oh, okay. That’s fine.”
The Antinium flinched, but then Erin turned and walked off, whistling. Zevara stared at Erin’s back, tensed, and then at the Antinium, who looked just as bewildered. But Erin just walked into the kitchen.
“Hey, Calescent, we might not have that cookoff today. Can we bring out those skewers again?”
“Aw. Okay.”
Erin vanished without causing a scene for a few minutes. Zevara hesitated. Was she really—?
Erin kicked the door to the kitchen open with a shout. She emerged from the kitchen with a knife and frying pan in each hand. She waved them overhead.
“Zevara! Why is Garry in jail? Numbtongue, get your sword! Get the acid jars! Riot, riooooot—”
Peggy had to tackle Erin as she ran across the common room of the inn, shouting. Zevara leapt to her feet and began to bark explanations at Erin.
But how had they gotten here? That was the real question.
 
——
 
The morning had begun differently for other people. Far more placidly, really.
“She has a beach? I did not hear of this! But then, I slept in my store the last two days. So this is why everyone was asking if I had time off.”
Garry nearly dropped some raisin bread he was pulling out of the oven when Rosencrantz came by. He smiled hugely.
“This is good. I must go and join in! If everyone else is—I will just open my shop to serve my regulars, then go. Please tell Erin I am going. Lastly, Rosencrantz, what is a beach?”
The Antinium explained, and Garry nodded happily.
“Sand? Warm sun. Water. I understand that I have no idea what it is. But it is pleasant?”
“Very. Everyone is happy, except about the poo in the water. It will open in twenty minutes. Oh! Oh! You are allowed in, of course, Garry. But take these.”
Rosencrantz produced a sheaf of beautiful cards with delicate handwriting that Garry recognized was Mrsha’s, and they even had little pawprint stamps.
“They are very special—and slightly magical, so do not lose them.”
“This one says, ‘you are allowed into The Wandering Inn’s beach for a day’…and has rules. Oh, are they entry permits?”
“Yes. It is very hard to get them, but if you have any friends, you may give it to them. How many do you need?”
Garry was counting.
“…May I have fifteen, please?”
“Fifteen?”
Rosencrantz was surprised. Garry was worried.
“If it is too many, I can have less.”
“No, Erin does not care. But how many people are you bringing?”
“My regulars. Hello, Comrei! Look what I have! And your regular order!”
The hot raisin bread was being wrapped on the counter, and he waved excitedly at a little Gnoll who was racing over with a big smile on her face.
“Baker Garry, what is this? Are you sure?”
The instant the Gnoll girl saw the card, her eyes turned round. Garry, smiling hugely, put the card in a basket. Then put another one in as he remembered.
“Your mother will also need one. Here. The beach is open all day, and I am going to close my store after all my regular deliveries are done.”
That was all the people who relied on his bakery selling his cheap products. Garry’s ovens were happily piping away, and he turned to Rosencrantz.
“I will take fifteen—oh, can my assistants also have two?”
“They are the Flying Antinium, right?”
“Yes. Pisca and Runel. I am sure they would also like to attend, if that is acceptable?”
The Flying Antinium were—odd—even for regular Antinium. But Rosencrantz reasoned that Erin would absolutely let them come.
“They may need to wait a tiny bit if there are excitable Humans or other guests around, but Erin is sure to let them in. And there are quieter hours, especially at night.”
“That is very fine, Rosencrantz. They only get off work serving the Free Queen at night. Thank you for the cards. Should I bring some food? Is food a beach thing?”
Rosencrantz had to smile at that. His mandibles rose as he gestured excitedly.
“It is absolutely a beach thing. In fact, in fact! C-can you make some buns for us?”
“Buns?”
Garry was puzzled, but he was the only Antinium baker capable of rendering wheat into a product that other Antinium could eat without digestive problems. Rosencrantz was almost drooling as he nodded.
“Yes. There are hot-dogs and hamburgers, but we can only eat them without buns. But if you brought enough for the Antinium, you would be very popular.”
“I shall do this. It will only take me a little bit to make up the dough and bake it. I will see you soon!”
Excitedly, Garry hurried around his shop and chattered away to Comrei, who was hefting the basket and waiting for him to put little cookies shaped like Gnolls in there for her.
By now, Garry knew Comrei and her hardworking mother, Hisnis, the street-kid Drake, Miss Biscale, who had all kinds of traditional Liscorian recipes, and his other regulars.
The number of them was growing. Many people were not regulars—yet. They didn’t like Antinium, and told him so, or were wary of his bug-related foods, which he was really making less of.
But more and more had come by to buy the things Garry sold for a single copper. Word of mouth was spreading, and Garry should have been creating such a huge net-loss that even the Free Queen would object.
However, he wasn’t. Garry was a Level 36 [Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef] now, and the Free Queen was so happy at how fast he was levelling that she had doubled his budget.
But he was in the black these days because of his new Skill.
[My Pantry Overflowed With My Deeds].
Every morning, Garry would wake up and check the store’s inventory, and sometimes he would find things in there that he could buy in Liscor at a local [Butcher]’s, like a cured ham. Other times, he’d find a prickly fruit with semi-sour flesh inside that Imani called a ‘pineapple’. She’d shared recipes with him and then proceeded to dice up a number of pineapple slices onto a pizza, which she served Kevin.
That was, apparently, a prank and made Kevin very angry and happy.
Cornucopia Skills were exceptionally rare, but Garry’s class was arguably the rarest of all the Antinium aside from Pawn. Also! He was working on his latest Skill.
Not [A Magical Gift].
He only got one of those per week. Every week, Garry would think of someone who needed help, like Miss Biscale, and a gift would appear in his store with her name on it, wrapped in bright wrapping paper that vanished when the gift was torn open by its recipient.
Garry never knew what was inside. It was always a little gift, something the person wanted.
Like a cream that took away the pain in Miss Biscale’s side or a pair of shoes for Hisnis.
These were the things that made Garry happy. He had levelled twice already since the Santa-Christmas, and he still wore the red hat when he felt extra-happy or wanted to cheer someone up.
This felt right. His class and Skills all felt like what Garry should be doing. And Erin’s tickets were just the thing for the cold today.
“These tickets will let you into Miss Erin’s garden.”
Garry’s loud, cheerful voice made a Drake stomping past the Antinium street and the entrance to their Hive look over. Comrei’s eyes were round, and her tail was wagging.
“R-really? Can I have them, Mister Garry?”
“Yes, and I will see you later today, as soon as I bake up enough hot buns. Tell your mother it would be good to take the day off too. Oh, but do not lose them. I only have enough for the other regulars, and they are valuable, apparently.”
Comrei hugged Garry as he bent over, throwing her arms around his neck.
“Thank you, Mister Garry! You’re too nice!”
“No, I am not nice enough. There is no limit I have observed.”
She shook her head, sniffing, then ran off with the basket, clutching it tightly in the snow.
“Do not fall!”
Garry went back to work, humming, but stopped as someone rapped urgently on his counter.
“Excuse me. Did I hear you have tickets? To the beach?”
The Drake was unfamiliar to Garry, and the Antinium saw he was cold, miserable, but considerably more upscale in wealth than many of Garry’s clients. His boots were shiny with tar, and he had a heating stone glowing in his jacket’s lapel, an indulgence.
“That is right, sir, but they are not for sale. Can I interest you in some baked goods? I have cookies.”
That was his best normal product. The Drake glanced once at them and wrinkled his nose.
“People buy from this place?”
“That is right, sir. These are only one silver per bag. Very cheap compared to other places in the city.”
The Drake’s brows rose. A silver per bag of small sugar cookies was cheap. And Garry had just doubled its normal rate because he didn’t like the Drake and the potential customer could definitely buy them.
“I don’t—fine, one bag. And the ticket. I’ll pay you a gold coin for it.”
“I am sorry, sir. That is not for sale. I am keeping them for my clients.”
The Drake hissed.
“Come on! You have to queue for a chance at them in the inn! Fine, I’ll pay double the rate after the resellers. Four gold coins!”
“Four…? I am sorry, sir, but I would not have enough if I did that.”
Garry doubted Erin sold these tickets for even two gold coins. It seemed that her fairly private beach was so hard to get into, people were reselling the tickets? But he shook his head because he didn’t need it.
The Drake bothered him for the next half-hour as Garry handed out the tickets and his regulars their food. But he eventually stormed off, and Garry began packing up his hot dog buns and hamburger bread for the beach. He was happy, and once they were in his bag of holding, he closed his shop for the day.
He couldn’t wait to see this ‘beach’. Garry hurried up to the inn, but waited by the magical door that connected the inn to Liscor.
It was very snowy, and he, for one, didn’t fancy trudging through the wet snow. Plus, he had told all his regulars to come by and meet him so they could be introduced to Erin together.
It was just eleven o’clock when Garry saw a huge line of people gathered around the door in Shivertail Plaza. However, there was a distinction of three kinds between them.
The first group were travellers, going to other cities. The second were people headed for the beach, like Jeiss and his family. Garry waved at them as he looked around for his regulars—and noted the large, unhappy third group.
“Come on, let us in, Liska! We’re friends!”
A Drake was whining to the open door, and Liska’s voice snapped back.
“Shut it. I’m working. Only people with tickets go through! I’m not wasting mana turning you lot away! Thank you, thank you—that’s a forgery. Get out!”
A Drake got kicked out of line, and he cried out.
“But I’m a Councilmember!”
“Take it up with them, then! Next!”
Councilmember Tismel slunk off as Garry hopped up and down, looking around. There were a number of people for the beach, actually, and Liska grew surprised.
“That’s real, that’s real…huh. I guess Yelroan is selling more tickets after all. Okay, go on through. But read the rules! Erin can and will kick you out if you’re annoying, and you have to pay for food. Other than that, enjoy. Today’s all about sandcastles. If you don’t want to be part of the siege, there’s a quiet beach on the right.”
The excited Liscorians went through, and Garry saw The Wandering Inn was fairly crowded with people waiting for transit or just banned from the beach proper. Including a Human man, pacing down the long corridor.
