She was trying, very hard, not to do that now. Actually, Ryoka was trying not to do two things. Ryoka smiled weakly as Lord Xitegen strode through the streets briskly.
“I was minded to go to Celum, actually, but if I’ll cause another commotion at that inn, let’s exit the city and walk out there. It’s fair weather for it.”
It was snowing. And cold as shit! Ryoka herself was shivering a bit, but Xitegen had shorts on. His weight doubtless helped, but he got them up to a trot as he spoke.
She—eyed his thighs. Ryoka’s intuition about Xitegen’s physique had been proven right when the Raiders attacked.
The man could run. He gave her a quick look as well.
“I confess, I might wish to pace myself with you two. It’s not every day I get to even so much as jog with a Courier. Mihaela Godfrey humored me back in the day, and I never lost the feeling.”
“You run—um—well, Lord Xitegen.”
“For a fat man, you mean. I refuse to slim, and I refuse to stop running. My one joy in life aside from Golems is running down skinny men who think they can outrun someone just because they’re half my weight.”
Oh, dead gods, it’s already happening. Absolutely not! You cannot do this, Ryoka. This is worse than a pattern; it’s becoming a fetish.
The second thing Ryoka was trying to do was…her mind raced frantically.
He hates Goblins. He nearly wiped out the ones at Riverfarm. You will not befriend another monster. No! Absolutely not!
The problem was, Xitegen was completely unapologetic and said as much.
“I hope I can at least use that inn and you, personally, won’t hold anything against me, Miss Griffin. It was business; I lost my bet on Adventurer Arcsinger, and that has been a personal blow. I should hardly like to go against House Veltras’ main family either.”
“Why—would House Veltras get involved with my grudges?”
Xitegen stared at Ryoka—then Tyrion pointedly. He coughed.
“One cannot imagine. Lord Veltras, were you allergic to something at the restaurant? Your cheek is swelling up.”
“No. It was a slap.”
Ryoka added a sharp elbow to it, and Tyrion grunted. Xitegen gave them another look as they passed out the gates, close to his restaurant of choice.
“Well, just so long as you keep everything else in the bedroom, I shan’t comment. We’re abed with Drakes and Antinium and everything it seems these days. Myself, I liked the Gnolls most if we had to choose one bedfellow. They know how to run. Will I persuade you two to run with me?”
The snow was deep, but not too bad outside of Invrisil, and Ryoka had Nama’s magic footwraps on, so she shrugged. If this was what it took to talk…
“Sure.”
“Excellent! But give me a second, and if you want to laugh, kindly turn your head. Hwua! Ha! Hwua!”
With that, the man began doing something that made Ryoka’s eyes bulge.
He began doing squats. He would bend down, posterior extending, and execute a perfect squat, back straight, and do it again, quickly, as some of the nobles now in the Xitegen-camp—who had come to be hangers-on—gave him looks of horror.
Ryoka just stared, and Xitegen took it as disapproval.
“Don’t—mind—me. A Courier once told me that this was good for my legs, and I copied him! Lancrel the Leaper! Poor fellow.”
“No, I, uh—have you met Magus Grimalkin? Because he’d love to talk to you. You stretch?”
“Does a Terland kiss Golems?”
At this point, Tyrion spat out some water he’d been drinking to wash a faint taste of blood out of his mouth. Ryoka closed her eyes.
Don’t befriend him. Don’tbefriendhimdon’t—
“How about side-stretches with your leg? High-knees? You know, dynamic stretches are what these are called as opposed to…”
She and Xitegen began comparing leg warmups, because they were, in the end, running freaks. Tyrion Veltras, as a horse-guy, was less impressed, but he dutifully copied Ryoka as he was glad it seemed like Xitegen was business, not flirting.
Indeed, the [Lord] set such a fast jog after their warmup that the sycophants literally were left behind in their heavier, winter gear and poor form. Ryoka kept up easily, and Tyrion wished he were on horseback, but kept up as they ended up running and talking.
Hardly noble-like at all! But Xitegen was one of those men who had been born into the Five Families.
“If I cared what anyone thought of me, I’d be the model of some weak-jawed Terandrian [Prince]. Terland is in my blood. Therefore, everything I do is the de facto image of nobility. New-to-blood aristocracy is so self-conscious. But we are a reclusive lot. Expect to see more of us, Miss Griffin. That [Innkeeper] of yours had better brace if she dislikes me.”
“Erin? Why?”
Xitegen pointed north, then south to the High Passes in the distance.
“Because we are coming. The land rush, all the unrest—some for wealth, others because they’re conscious, like I am, that the south is unruly. Why else are Lord Tyrion, Bethal Walchaís, and the rest…? Well, Pryde and Magnolia’s famous circle are the ones who went south and made fortunes. I shan’t pretend she didn’t clear the way. But I will take Celum.”
Ryoka nearly tripped over a stone.
“You what?”
“It’s defensible. I thought Esthelm, but it’s too close and too friendly to Liscor and Goblins when I inquired. I plan on moving Golems to Celum. People, too. House Terland isn’t swarming with people, but I plan on inviting immigrants from as far as Illivere. Anyone who wants Golems.”
Xitegen was smiling. He was also open about his plans.
“The one thing about making Golems is power. Golem Hearts require expensive resources, and the non-permanent ones eat mana, which is why only House Terland has an abundance of them in any one concentration. But I’ll take Golem-manuals, too.”
“Can—can you just claim Celum? Magnolia has a mansion there.”
Xitegen nodded reasonably.
“And if she wants it, she may. But I plan on renovating the city, pouring security and gold into it. Their [Mayor] is very receptive to the idea, especially after all the attacks nearby.”
Certainly, having those dangerous Golems about would be a boon, but what might the Drakes do? A [Lord] like that…would be a bulwark against an invasion from the south.
Xitegen nodded at Tyrion, and the [Lord] agreed it was sensible. So, more noble families?
Joy?
Only the Golem servants and Tyrion’s [Guards] could keep up in the snow. Ryoka was gulping.
“Lord Xitegen, I—thank you for telling us your plans. But I’d rather, um, talk about the Winter Solstice, if you don’t mind. Would you consider a truce between yourself and the inn? Something’s going to happen then, and we need everyone to work together.”
Xitegen’s broad face didn’t exactly darken, but his eyes glittered with the same wrath that had shone in his eyes when he had stood against the Bloodfeast Raiders—and Laken’s Goblins.
“Join forces with Goblins? Only if Lord Tyrion joins with the Drakes first. Let me cut off a toe and think on it. But I’ll engage with the premise. Tyrion, if I may be informal, which I know isn’t your way, what are you doing flirting around with Liscor? Even for love, which moves mountains, yours was a mountain range of solidarity I could get behind.”
Tyrion jerked uncomfortably as Ryoka flushed and opened her mouth. He felt defensive.
“My position on Drakes hasn’t changed in large.”
“Tyrion!”
“But I am listening. That’s all.”
Xitegen glanced at Ryoka as they jogged around the city’s walls, watched by the bemused Watch, who shook their heads at the doings of Couriers and [Lords].
“Ah, and are you changing for the look of it or genuinely going to trust them? Trust the Antinium? Trust the Drakes who are such wonderful allies to the Gnolls? Come now, Tyrion. Magnolia Reinhart may be a bleeding peace-lover, but you’ve seen how willing their High Command is to come to the table. And how we are. Let’s just leave well enough alone and kill each other every year.”
His eyes glittered, and Tyrion saw in them a very similar attitude to his own. He did not even disagree with the other [Lord]; they knew the south. Xitegen was someone who regularly sent Golems to the yearly Bloodfields battles. Ryoka had to know how much of a wall she was arguing against, but credit to her—she did try.
“Can’t there be change, Lord Xitegen? What’s wrong with engaging with Magnolia’s idea?”
He chewed that over thoughtfully.
“None at all, Miss Ryoka. And I was not one to send around black flowers or get in her way. I was not part of the Circle of Thorns, and I kicked the idiot in my family who sent Lady Bethal a black flower. Shame on it. Let her try if she wants to risk wrath on both sides. But let us not be silly. If the Walled Cities, tomorrow, sued for peace, I would wonder ‘how long’ and ‘what are they planning’? We hate each other. Let us not downplay that. Let us not downplay how much losing a loved one hurts, and we have generations of it.”
Tyrion could name countless members of his family who had died in war with the Drakes. He avoided Ryoka’s gaze as she protested.
“But—damn it—it has to stop somewhere.”
“May it! May you succeed, but if you are asking me to genuinely smile at a Goblin, I would rather pull out my teeth. If you are asking me to trust them—heh. Gnolls have been ‘peaceful’ with the Drakes. Look at what happened. I wouldn’t put it past us to sap the Walled Cities if we got the chance. I’d think about it.”
Ryoka was getting mad, and Tyrion hoped she didn’t explode. Xitegen could be more stubborn and blunt than Tyrion was, and he was not afraid of cheerfully defending his position. Tyrion tried to help Ryoka out and put a sword in her back. Verbally.
“I will admit, Xitegen, my position has shifted mostly because Ryoka Griffin saved my sons and I am—affectionate towards her. Is this swaying my judgment? Of course, but I have to believe that I would not change unduly without good, true argument. And Ryoka does point out that my grudge is against the High Command, not civilians.”
“…Fair enough. I can’t imagine you being easily suborned. And I do quite like the Drakes on television. At least, that Ser Relz fellow seems highly funny and knowledgeable about economics. Drassi reminds me of my nieces, and I can’t help but laugh every time Noass comes on. What a name.”
Lord Xitegen was an uncritical Sir Relz enjoyer. Ryoka’s horror was such that she had to slow and let Xitegen lace up his boots. Tyrion murmured in her ear.
“You look a bit unwell, Ryoka. Are you sure you wish to do this? Xitegen is unlikely to be swayed by debate.”
“I’m fine. What do you mean, I’m swaying you with affection?”
“…That’s how it usually works. I’m just being truthful.”
He dodged away as she punched at his shoulder. Ryoka looked truly unwell with nerves as a sighing green blob flew around her. She glanced at ‘Shaestrel’, who buzzed in whatever language she and Ryoka communicated.
It was just another weirdness Tyrion was used to.
“I’m not panicking! I wish he were more of a bastard, but he’s honest and talks to me rather than, I dunno, threatens to melt me or locks me up in a dungeon with sock puppets.”
Part of why Tyrion liked Ryoka was because he was eternally entertained by her. He wrinkled his brows.
“He’s certainly a Courier’s type.”
Ryoka shot a glance at Xitegen.
“Oh, that? I’m amazed he runs. He is overweight, but—dead gods. Those thighs save lives.”
“Whose?”
Tyrion’s brow was now one huge wrinkle of confusion, and Ryoka and Shaestrel gave him a flat look.
“That—was a joke, Tyrion.”
“What part was?”
He really didn’t get jokes, and he felt bad whenever they were uttered in his presence. Ryoka gave Tyrion one of those ‘are you serious’ looks, and the Spring Faerie made a groaning sound in the air.
It wasn’t even a good joke. Ryoka tried to explain it, cringing harder with each passing moment.
“It’s just a joke about his thighs. Because they’re large. That…that’s the joke. Thighs save lives.”
“How are they being saved?”
“B—because they’re huge and people appreciate big thighs? Or I guess you could save someone’s life just by, like, using it as a flotation device or…I’ve never thought about it. It’s just funny to say. No, it’s no longer funny. Someone kill me.”
The Spring Fae was trying, but Tyrion stared at Xitegen’s impressive thigh muscles as he straightened from his boots and gave them an expectant look. Then he thought about it.
“Those thighs. Save lives. It rhymes a bit.”
Ryoka was covering her face, and even the [Guards] of House Veltras were trying not to laugh—at her. But Tyrion was thinking about it.
Xitegen’s thighs saved lives.
“Heh. That is—heh. Heheheh. Hah!”
He started laughing. He was so unused to it that it took him by surprise. Ryoka, Shaestrel, and the [Guards] turned as he began chuckling—then laughing. Ryoka’s face turned uncertain—and Tyrion laughed. Xitegen looked over.
“Dead gods. Stone can laugh! If I thought this was just some kind of amazing trick…anything funny, Lord Tyrion?”
Ryoka looked almost happy at Tyrion’s sudden reintroduction into the world of humor, but it turned to quick horror. Because Tyrion walked over, chuckling.
“Lord Xitegen, your thighs save lives.”
He saw the [Lord]’s face screw up in bemusement—then a laugh exploded out of Xitegen’s mouth, half-propelled by disbelief.
“Is that—Lord Veltras, have I heard you tell a joke? My thighs save—”
The two men began laughing harder, and Ryoka’s face was red. And it only grew worse, because Tyrion Veltras, after finishing their jog around the city, told the joke three more times to the people he met.
“Those thighs of Lord Xitegen’s—save lives.”
He even waggled his brows. The people who heard it, Ullim, Jericha, the [Innkeeper], either laughed out of sheer disbelief or stared at him as if wondering if they were in a fever dream.
 
——
 
Xitegen was an immovable rock of hatred towards Goblins. Tyrion was not the unstoppable force, but a second immovable rock that told horrible jokes.
Ryoka was the one who had to be the unstoppable force, and she got stopped by both men.
“I cannot and will not be party to joining forces with the Goblins.”
“Nor will I look Chaldion of Pallass in the eyes and join hands with him. I can agree on that, Lord Xitegen.”
“Wonderful! For me, not Miss Ryoka. Shall we have lunch too? I could do with some. You can tell Miss Solstice that, Ryoka. I can even be pleasant and a guest, if needs must, but I will eat nothing that Goblin of hers cooks. I hope she will never regret taking one in under her roof. But I believe she will.”
Ryoka Griffin was sitting at a table with Xitegen and Tyrion, the reasonable men.
