The doctor Agnes had brought was not, it turned out, super slow. By the time the two reincarnators made it up the stairs to the second floor, the rest of their little group had gathered in the hallway outside the store room. The doctor was just stepping out, wiping his hands with a cloth as he moved.

“Hey,” Pyre casually greeted the others, which caused everyone but Agnes to jump (though she was sure Lord Alardice would say he’d only barely flinched). The knight captain, who probably had some kind of advanced perception skill, turned to her and Llyr with a smile. Pyre figured this was a good sign.

“I see you’re done talking,” she commented. “I hope everything went well?”

“We didn’t try to kill each other, so I’d say so, yeah,” Pyre drawled.

Agnes’s eyes moved over to Llyr at that, perceptive and considering. The knight hummed to herself. It seemed like she’d noticed how tense the healer had been before this as well. While he still had his guard up, it was to a much more normal degree.

Pyre turned to Daphne and Callan next. “You done looking at the bodies?”

Daphne nodded. “You came back at just the right time. The doctor was telling us about his findings.”

“It’s not terribly much, I’m afraid,” the man in question muttered. He eyed both Pyre and Llyr warily. Clearly he was now more informed on the situation, though even if he wasn’t, seeing the dead bodies would’ve been more than enough reason for him to become cautious around the siren. Pyre vaguely wondered how much he’d actually been told, considering he wasn’t straight up running away, but she figured it didn’t really matter as long as he did his job.

The doctor cleared his throat and forced himself to tear his eyes away from the two new arrivals. He instead focused on Lord Alardice and Agnes.

“I wasn’t able to find much on the preservation spell’s origins, unfortunately,” he continued, “though I can confirm its existence and effects.”

His voice slowed. “I was able to identify the spell used to end these victims’ lives. It’s a quick, painless one, and based on the lingering mana signature, it was indeed placed long after their bodies had already been bled dry.”

Practically every pair of eyes in the hallway moved to Llyr at that.

“Anything else of note?” Lord Alardice asked, tone brisk. The doctor shook his head.

“Not that I could find, no. The bodies have minor puncture marks where I believe their blood was drawn from, and I can confirm that those were created close to when the preservation spell would’ve been cast. A few have minor cuts and contusions that I believe they suffered when they were thrown into the ocean. Based on the lingering healing magic around the wounds, I suspect they were once larger injuries that were later healed after their bodies were discovered.”

His gaze shifted over to Llyr, and his voice slowed. “The bodies seem to have been kept with great care. From what I can tell, everything aligns with what Llyr has said.” His fingers twisted uncomfortably around the cloth in his hands. “Of course, I may have missed something, but he does seem to have been telling the truth regarding these bodies.”

Callan’s shoulders relaxed, and the ghost breathed out a sigh of relief. Daphne looked satisfied, and while Henry was still frowning, his frequent glances at Llyr were more cautious than directly hostile now. Between this and whatever the doctor had said before they’d arrived, their previous suspicions seemed largely assuaged.

“Thank you,” Agnes told the doctor. “I believe there’s a washroom on the first floor where you can clean up. After that, you can ask Joseph to bring you back home. You should rest early tonight.”

“I’d like that, yes,” the doctor muttered. He looked exhausted—both mentally and physically. With a final nod at them and a bow to Lord Alardice and Daphne, the man turned and quickly descended the stairs, clearly eager to get as far away from the situation as possible.

The sound of the man’s footsteps soon faded, leaving only the remaining group of seven. No one spoke at first, everyone studying the other. Now that they’d confirmed that Llyr had been telling the truth, they could move forward with the main investigation, but a bit of caution naturally lingered. It probably wouldn’t ever go fully away.

In the end, Lord Alardice was the one to speak first, which wasn’t all that surprising. He seemed to always operate under the assumption that he was in charge.

What did surprise Pyre, though, was when he turned to face Llyr directly.

“May I speak to you for a moment?” His face was stoic and serious, completely unreadable. The demon raised an eyebrow.

“You’re not gonna ambush him again, right?” she drawled. The noble sniffed.

“Of course not. I simply wanted to speak in private.” He made a shooing gesture with his hand. “This won’t take long. The rest of you can wait for us in the dining room, and we’ll join you shortly.”

Daphne squinted at the man, and Callan sent Llyr a concerned look. On his part, the healer’s expression was flat. He didn’t look particularly impressed with the request. Unblinking blue eyes stared at the noble with obvious judgement.

“If there’s something you want to say to me,” he began, voice clipped, “you can say it here.” Pyre suspected it was taking the siren maximum effort to not tell the noble to fuck off. He’d certainly looked like he’d wanted to since the ambush had happened.

Lord Alardice opened his mouth, then closed it again. His jaw shifted, but instead of backing down or saying something snide, the man slowly leaned forward in a bow.

Pyre raised an eyebrow. Daphne and Callan were both actively gawking, and Henry didn’t look much better. He kept glancing at Agnes like his captain could magically make sense of the situation, but she just shook her head and indicated for him to stay quiet.

“I apologize,” Lord Alardice murmured, still facing Llyr and bent in a bow. Like this, his dark hair covered his face and made it impossible for the rest of them to see his expression. “You healed Marge and have helped Serindell in uncountable ways. While I do not regret being cautious and doing as necessary to protect this city, my actions were… perhaps unnecessarily rough.”

The noble slowly straightened, and Pyre caught his gaze focusing down on Llyr’s wrists where the shackles had previously sat. Huh, so he’d also noticed. Maybe she’d underestimated his perceptiveness.

Lord Alardice cleared his throat. “I understand if you are not able to forgive me, but I wanted you to know that I harbor no ill will towards you. I will do everything in my power to find this group and bring them to justice, and I hope my… former actions do not impede on our ability to work together for this investigation.”

At this point Callan’s eyes looked like they were about to bug out, and Daphne kept glancing between Lord Alardice and Llyr like she was trying to figure out if the former was lying or not.

Pyre was certainly no expert on “sincerity,” but from her current angle, the man’s expression was serious. It was certainly the most earnest she’d seen him since his brief interaction with that servant named Marge.

Llyr gave the noble a long look that was equal parts surprised and considering. No one spoke, Lord Alardice’s apology hanging heavy in the air as everyone waited for the healer to respond.

Finally, after nearly a full minute of silence had passed, Llyr opened his mouth.

“My previous threat still stands.” His voice was dry, and his blue eyes flashed with something vaguely resembling amusement. He cocked his head. “But apology accepted.”

Lord Alardice’s shoulders slumped with visible relief even as his expression remained stoic. He nodded at the siren and made to turn around, probably to head down the stairs, but he was stopped at the last second by Daphne stepping in front of him. He frowned.

“What?”

Daphne crossed her arms and raised an eyebrow. “Do the rest of us get an apology?”

“None of you were hurt in the ambush,” Lord Alardice said with a sniff. “You were simply witnesses.”

“The knights attacked Pyre!”

“They wouldn’t have if she hadn’t interfered,” the other noble countered. He glanced at the demon in question, who sent him a casual wave that only made his frown deepen. “And the knights left that encounter more injured than your guard.”

Henry sputtered at that, but before he could speak up to defend the honor of his fellow knights or whatever, Lord Alardice was already striding forward past Daphne. Daphne rolled her eyes, but she also didn’t seem particularly surprised at his total disregard for the rest of them. It was almost impressive how quickly he could return to his usual vaguely condescending demeanor after that rare display of sincerity.

“Not evil, still an asshole,” Daphne muttered under her breath. “Got it.”

She shook her head and began to step towards the stairs as well. With the two nobles now on the move, the rest of the group followed, weaving around the lingering debris to make their way back down to the first floor.

They ended up entering the dining room, which was completely unharmed from Pyre and Llyr’s fight save for a single long crack running along the ceiling. Callan eyed it warily as they took their seats around the table, but it was keeping stable. This building was pretty sturdy, all things considered.

Lord Alardice took a seat at the head of the table, which was apparently the only place he ever sat, while Agnes took up position standing to his left. Henry lingered by the room’s entrance “on guard,” though that was probably unnecessary considering the other people in the room.

Daphne sat down to Lord Alardice’s right, and Callan took a seat beside her. Pyre opted to sit across from Daphne, and Llyr was the last to sit down next to the demon. She studied the other reincarnator from the corner of her eye as he moved, and he did indeed seem much calmer than before. The cloudiness in his gaze had faded, and his shoulders were less tense. He wasn’t even glaring at Lord Alardice—it looked like the apology had quelled much of his anger. The demon hummed and returned her attention to the table.

At the head of the table, Lord Alardice cleared his throat. “Now then,” he began. “I believe we have some plans to discuss.”

Once they began talking, it was surprisingly easy to move into a steady flow of conversation. The lingering unease and general negative sentiments from the ambush gave way to the main issue at hand: namely, figuring out the best way to investigate Lord Rotham without broadcasting their plans to the entire city.

“Lord Rotham would likely give me a tour of his manor if I requested it,” Daphne was suggesting. “I could say I wanted to greet the nobles of Serindell, and Callan could search his mansion while we talked.” They needed to go through an open gate like they had with the Alardice estate; the Rotham manor would almost certainly have alarm wards and incorporeal-detection spells that’d go off if Callan tried to float straight through.

Lord Alardice glanced at the ghost in question, no doubt still wondering how the hell he’d searched through his office without anyone noticing. It looked like he was making good on his word to focus on finding the group, though, because he simply frowned and turned back to Daphne, letting the topic go for now.

“You haven’t visited any other noble families in the city yet,” he pointed out. “If Lord Rotham is involved, he would likely assume something is amiss. At that point it would no longer matter whether or not your… friend is able to search his home undetected.”

“He’d warn the group, and they’d either move bases or flee the city completely,” Callan muttered, finishing the thought.

That was the main concern they kept circling back to. Personally, Pyre wasn’t against just breaking in and interrogating the guy, but that would definitely send alarm bells to the cult even if he wasn’t actually involved. You couldn’t exactly keep something like that quiet, even if they killed him afterwards. Nobles were too connected, and word spread like wildfire in the city.

Llyr had asked Agnes if she could do something, but an official interrogation wouldn’t be any easier to hide. The knights also didn’t have enough justification to do something like that in the first place, she’d added apologetically. Technically Agnes wasn’t acting in an “official” capacity right now, and neither was Lord Alardice. There was enough at stake that both of them seemed willing to forgo their usual systems and laws.

“You got any meetings with the guy coming up?” Pyre asked. She’d stayed mostly silent while they planned, content to lean back and let them figure things out. “If you have something scheduled, Callan could always just tag along with you.”

“I avoid interacting with him when possible,” Lord Alardice muttered, which the demon took to mean “no.” He paused at the last second, however. One hand rose to his chin, and his brows furrowed in thought. Daphne immediately leaned forward.

“Did you think of something?”

“Lord Rotham is fairly private,” Lord Alardice replied slowly, “but he does hold an annual ball to celebrate his birthday each year at his mansion. It’s a rather grand affair—one of the most attended events in the Upper Ring. Frankly, it’s mostly an excuse for a ball. I can promise you that the vast majority of the Upper Ring does not care about the celebration’s intended purpose,” he added dryly.

Callan and Daphne exchanged looks, and Llyr’s eyes sharpened. He, Agnes, and Henry all seemed to recognize the event, so it was indeed well-known. Pyre mentally snorted. “Ostentatious birthday parties” being the noble’s possible downfall was funny to think about.

“…When is the next one?” Daphne asked slowly.

“Next week.” Lord Alardice’s face twisted like he’d swallowed a particularly sour lemon. “I receive an invitation every year. Purely for politeness. I doubt he’d wish to invite me otherwise, and I wouldn’t go if ignoring the invitation wouldn’t negatively affect my image.” He clicked his tongue. “Besides, I can’t have him gossiping about me when I’m not present.”

Callan nodded at this new information, green eyes sparkling as the gears in his head spun.

“If it’s such a big event for the Upper Ring, it wouldn’t look suspicious for Daphne to go,” the ghost began, thinking out loud. “There’s probably already a lot of people trying to get in every year.”

“And I shouldn’t have any issue securing an invitation,” Daphne continued the thought. A smile was already tugging at the corners of her lips. “He wouldn’t reject a direct request from a Bellhein, and a busy ball would provide the perfect cover to search his mansion.”

Around the table, everyone exchanged looks. They still had a lot of details to hash out, but this was the most promising idea so far. Daphne leaned forward, brown eyes gleaming in the light as she faced Lord Alardice.

“What else do you know about this ball?”