Erick tore into the prairie underneath his feet with [Stoneshape], riding the descending surge of stone and dirt into the ground like an escalator, quickly creating a space under the grassland surface for himself, Rats, Teressa, and Poi, to hide. Some dirt was simply pushed down and away, some was turned into solid stone, compacted and solidified into structural support. Erick didn’t go very deep; just far enough to not be seen on the surface and to have a roof overhead. When he got deep enough, he flashed the loose dirt outward, crushing it into solid stone, creating a solid five by five meter space under the surface with a dome roof and stone supports. He flashed a ring of wardlight into the dome overhead, colored to mimic the sun; illuminating the brown stone all around. One [Cleanse] into the space removed a pervasive, earthy smell, and also cleaned away the bad taste still inside Erick’s mouth.

Teressa followed down the stairs, saying, “Looks good.”

Poi followed right behind her, saying, “We got you, if you want to go back.”

Erick created four nice chairs with [Conjure Item] and promptly took one, Meditating for mana, as he asked Poi, “Is this normal warfare, Poi? I remember when Krakina tried to show me her [Nature’s Fury], but that got stopped before it really happened. I remember the green wind in the sky being very large, though. Super Large Size, actually.” Erick finally asked, “Where are the other archmages?”

Poi stepped next to one of the chairs, but did not sit, saying, “It all comes down to a matter of being able to either combine a spell correctly, or purchasing the Script version and having enough Stats to back up that spell. Most people don't bother.”

Rats came down the stairs, simplifying Erick’s problem by saying, “The other archmages are in hiding.”

“That is a factor, yes.” Poi added, “The world is large, and there are many places to hide from people who would use someone who could combine a useful high-tier spell; or create one, in your case.”

Teressa stood next to the largest chair Erick had made, saying, “The world is large and full of terrors. Sometimes those terrors are archmages who separate from civilization and lose their empathy in the wilderness. Sometimes those terrors are the monsters, and a friendly archmage will swoop in to save an adventuring party from an untimely end.” She said, “I hope you decide to stay in Spur, sir. You’re a good guy, and we need more people like you.”

Erick felt a beat of emotion pulse through his chest.

Rats added, “But damn, sir. You’re gonna get a lot of propositions after today.”

Poi sighed, saying, “Unfortunately true.”

Rats said, "And yeah. Who can make a good spell? Not me. I tried and gave up years ago. That [Pure Force Beam Bolt]? That shit's crazy."

"Oh?"

"Yeah!" Rats said, "Never seen anything like it."

Oh.

Erick realized the problem, and it was systemic. The most recent example Erick had seen of this problem was in his [Pure Force Beam Bolt] versus regular [Force Beam Bolt], and how the ‘pure’ version Erick had made was twice as good as the one in the Script. Another major example was that the [Scan] in the Script cost 5000 mana, as well as 6 points for the starter spells, more points for the intermediary spells, and then one more to purchase [Scan] itself. And [Scan], according to Zago, only [Scan]ned out to 10 kilometers.

And then there was all the trouble Jane had been having with making a good Handy Aura.

Erick’s Handy Aura looked like:

Flight of a Thousand Hands Aura, 1 MP per second, medium range

Gain complete, quick control over a large amount of air and a thousand arms of intent. Take flight, if you are able!

But the Handy Aura in the Script looked like the ones Jane had been able to make; absolutely awful:

Intentioned Flight Aura, 10 MP per second, short range

Grip yourself and the air with your mind. Fly at walking speed.

Erick said, “These spells in the Script are not good at all. I— I knew this, but I didn’t really understand what it meant.” He added, “Not really.”

Rats looked to Poi, smiling, asking, “Got a bad spell to show him, Poi?”

Poi frowned, saying, “Remaking a tier 2 is one day of rest. Tier 3 is 10 days of downtime. Tier 4 is 100. Tier 5 is a thousand.” He brought out a blue box, but held it close, not letting it go. His frown deepened. “It gets worse from there. To become an archmage usually takes a useful tier 8 and accreditation from an accredited arcanaeum, which means hundreds of proper spell combinations, or spending fifty points to get one spell that, while good, isn’t great.” He shoved the blue box at Erick, saying, “That bubble popping from Opal is only tier 5. This is the failed version. It’s almost a thousand mana more expensive than the Script version.”

Ward Destruction, medium range, 10921 mana

Dispel a [Ward] in medium range.

Erick read the box, and his face scrunched. “How is it that expensive!?”

Poi sighed. “[Dispel] multiplies costs significantly and for [Ward]s you have to be able to eat away at the entire amount of mana spent on that [Ward] in order to [Dispel] that [Ward]. This version is failed, yes, but it will still take down almost any [Ward], even 50,000 point [Absorption Ward]s.”

Erick was still waiting for mana. Poi obviously needed help, and Erick wasn’t ready to get back in the fight yet anyway, so he asked, “Have you tried to make any smaller spells with that harmonic suggestion I mentioned on the wyrm hunt?”

“Haven’t had the time to explore that possibility in depth.” Poi said, “But I did try it with [Force Crash] and Mana Altering for Fire. I got the standard [Fire Crash] you would find in the Script. I repeated this process with every Mana Altering I could, and all of the spells I created were almost exactly the version you’d find in the Script. So I think you’re doing something else that you’re not aware you’re doing. Have you considered formal mage training? Find out what it is you’re doing different? It’s not an arcanaeum, but there are classes at the Mage Guild in Spur.”

Erick asked, “Are you formally trained?”

“No, but I have completed all the training taught in Spur.” Poi added, “And studied under… An archmage.”

Rats smirked, adding, “The betting pool has seven names on it, but Opal is highest on the list.”

Poi frowned at Rats, then said to Erick, “Every great mage has their own method to magic because magic is nuanced and fickle; some would even call it alive.” Poi summed it up, saying, “Not everyone finds their calling, their way of magic that works for them. I’m still searching for mine.”

Erick sat back in his chair, considering… well. Everything.

And then Teressa brought him back to the moment, saying, “Because of their power and ability, many archmages turn to evil, become selfish, only caring about themselves or their work. Sometimes they get called ‘wizards’ and are hunted down for their actions. Sometimes they simply go into hiding. And sometimes, they go to Ar’Kendrithyst, and become a Shade. Almost every Shade can do something similar to what you did this morning.” Teressa added, “If the Shades ever decided to really attack Spur, we would have to defend against [Comet Swarm]s, [Psychic Terror]s, and [Grand Abomination]s, each of which is much worse than what you did to Odaali. We would fail. Spur would be a smoking ruin. History has proven this.”

Rats nodded. Poi stood still, his arms crossed.

Erick focused. He was in a war right now. He needed more mana. He needed more regeneration. He needed to leave the big questions out of his mind, for now.

And he had killed people who were not low level. He had gained power from those deaths, and though it sickened him to puking, he looked over those notifications. He saw the first one, and couldn’t bear to look at the rest; bile threatened at the back of his throat.

You have slain Incani A!

95% participation!

+3,471,623,313,529 exp

Erick looked at his Status, instead. He had gained six levels. He put those twelve points from those six levels evenly into Willpower and Focus.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 51, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 384,845,538,951/3,295,128,009,900

Class: 6/6

Points: 4

HP

1020/1020

1020 per day

MP

3017/4200

16,800 per day

Strength

20

+14

[34]

Vitality

20

+14

[34]

Willpower

56

+14

[70]

Focus

56

+14

[70]

Favored Spell waiting!

Erick felt balanced, but expanded, like driving fast over a hill and feeling slightly weightless on the downhill side. He floated for a moment, letting the feeling wash through and past. When it was gone, he started summoning small Ophiels to go with the few he already had, dropping back down to low mana. Soon, he would be ready. As mana flowed in, restoring his pool, he sent out [Scry] orbs to find out where he should go first.

- - - -

A grey castle floated in front of an iced over Kingdom City, the white walls barely containing the icebergs. The rain had stopped, but the Queen Vine had not. She raised her tendrils from the ice, deflecting against invisible pulses of air that rocked out of the floating grey castle. But she did not stop them all. Something thick and vicious ripped into the ice of the city, and into the Queen Vine.

The Queen Vine recoiled from the attack, ducking under the ice, but the grey castle did not advance.

The Queen’s retreat was a feint. Vines and tendrils, green and purple, ripped up from the ground outside of the white walls of the Kingdom City, racing into the air around the grey castle, grabbing hold of the invisible sphere that supported the floating structure. She wrapped around the castle—

An Ophiel popped into the air above Odaali and immediately loosed [Domain of the Withering Slime]. A white sphere surrounded the dozen-winged [Familiar], as thick, crashing air spilled down into the hollows in the iced city and out across the land under the grey castle, wrapping around the Queen Vine from all directions.

A great keening filled the sky and rumbled through the land. The Queen Vine shuddered, twitching in great spasms. Green tendrils and purple leaves shriveled and died, a hundred thousand rivulets of dark water springing forth from cracks and breaks in the thick flesh of the monstrous daydropper vine.

The grey castle tore loose from the vines ensnaring it; flying higher. Billowing grey clouds rocketed out of the castle’s bottom, striking the land where the Queen Vine had dared to reach skyward, drilling into the dirt, burrowing, doing somethi—

A flare ripped through the grey cloud, into the land, dancing out from under the dirt like auroras bursting from a rib cage, spewing boulders and stone and plant matter into the sky.

Ophiel had been watching for a counter attack, but it came too quick to avoid; a vine reached up from below and carved the [Familiar] in half.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself in the underground stone room.

A grey stone man stood by the staircase. Cylindrical legs, thick arms, he was a man carved from grey marble, wearing nothing at all. Erick only guessed it was a ‘he’ because of the general male humanness of the creature.

Teressa was standing between Erick and the stone man, while Rats and Poi flanked the creature.

After taking a single second to understand he was seeing, Erick yelled, “What the fuc—!”

The stone man interrupted Erick, speaking like a rich gentleman, saying, “Archmagister Tenebrae of the Wyrmridge Enclave sends his greetings. He desires for you to forgo attacking the Queen Vine. He is perfectly capable of killing it and likely would have killed it, had it maintained its grip on his Estate.”

Erick stood up from his chair, demanding, “How did you find me?”

Rats spoke up, “My fault. I made the mistake of accepting a telepathic connection.”

Poi deeply frowned at the stone man, saying, “Tenebrae faked a connection from Killzone.”

“You can fake a telepathic connection?” Erick asked, not sure if he was focusing on the correct problem or not.

The stone man spoke fast, and rough, “My Master says this: ‘I can, idiot; you’re lucky you’re able to put your own shoes on in the morning’. My Master also wishes me to inform you that, ‘You are out of your league, planar man. Go home and entertain your Shades.’ End quote.”

Everything was happening very fast. As Erick was trying to come up with a response to that—

The stone man switched to eloquence, saying, “Please accept this advice with the care it is being delivered, as we are in the middle of a battle, and not, perhaps, the subterfuge or apparent threat such a delivery might instill within your group.” He lamented, “My Master simply has no patience for people of any kind; but if he were to become your enemy, he would be very thorough in letting you know this fact, before he struck at you. It is the hope of us, his Stone Men, that he has not garnered undue hatred from his actions today, as he so often does.”

Erick asked, “You’re going to help with the second Queen Vine, too, then?”

The stone man paused, then said, “My Master wishes me to inform you that, ‘Fuck you. All I need is this one Queen, and I won’t allow its corpse to be desiccated.’ End quote.”

Erick stood straighter, saying, “No deal. I’ll desiccate that thing to woodchips if you don’t help with both. And do you have a plan to deal with the rad bombs in there? Or should I toss more [Wintry Sea]s down?”

The stone man lamented, saying, “Master Tenebrae says, ‘Keep your cold magic away, idiot! I’ve already disabled the bombs. I’ll kill the second Queen, too. Now stop bothering me, and go away.’ End quote.” The stone man bowed, then rose, saying, “Thank you for acquiescing to my Master’s requests.”

The stone man vanished in a grey blip.

After a second, Erick shouted, “What the fuck!”

Rats joked, “I thought archmage Opal was just mad at him! But nah? He actually is a pushy asshole?”

“We need to move,” Poi said. “I’m not willing to accept that wasn’t a threat.”

“Shit.” Erick asked, “How many ways are there to track people down like he did?”

Poi frowned. “None that are that easy; now that we’re officially on [Telepathic] lockdown and all communication is going through me. You might get some more communications, sir, but I’m capturing them first to quarantine and verify the connection and their senders.”

“Again!” Rats said, “Sorry!”

Poi looked to Erick, saying, “Please allow this to happen, sir.”

Erick began, “Allow wha—”

Something shifted in Erick’s perception of the world as a vague sense of Poi being nearby magnified and then faded into the background, but he was still there. If Erick focused he could feel Poi’s mental presence inside his mind.

“That,” Poi said.

