Yetta’s voice connected to Erick, halfway frantic but still controlled, ‘This is the next location. It’s teleport locked; we can’t get in the normal way. We need this barrier down. NOW.’  She sent along location data and imaging of the situation; a massive red dome dominated the hilly prairie, flickers of red lightning crackled around where the dome touched the land. ‘Kill the Necromancer Arrox Geller, before she can summon her husband back as demon.’

‘I don’t think I can kill—’

‘Then provide air support.’

Yetta cut off communication.

Erick spent three seconds hesitating, and then he remembered that hesitating got people killed.

He summoned one more Ophiel to fill out his squad. He was dangerously low on mana, but it was coming back quicker than ever. Ophiel could use his own spells for the coming fight, anyway. Erick sent five Ophiel to the red dome, keeping them high in the sky.

Erick wasted a hot seven seconds coming to grips with the size of the red dome barrier.

The red dome crackled with black light under a meter-thick clear red shell. The remains of crumbled stone towers dotted the land all around, while the dome itself spanned at least a dozen hills, rising half that height into the air.

Undead hordes and their necromantic masters raced into the dome, rushing through the apparently not-solid surface, disappearing once they passed the red edge, while the explosive and slicing spells of the human forces detonated on the red surface; unable to pierce. In one minute, the surrounding land was cleared of all Halls of the Dead forces; either defeated by Odaali-in-Exile or forced to retreat, either into the red sphere or vanished to some other unknown location.

Yetta connected to Erick, ‘FUCKING bring it DOWN, ERICK!’ Her voice turned frantic, ‘NOW!’

‘HOW!? Where’s Opal? She’s the one that brings down [Ward]s!’

Yetta seemed to screech a lament in Erick’s mind, before saying, ‘She says she can’t do anything! It's soul magic that absorbs the mana spent against it. We need sustained damage that does vastly more damage than it costs.’ She yelled, her voice taking on a desperation that Erick had never heard before, ‘It’s a Breach Barrier! They're summoning a Breach Demon! DON’T YOU UNDERSTAND?’

Erick almost said that he did not understand, but he didn’t really need to; Yetta’s tone told him more than enough. He sent, ‘Tell her to keep the [Weather Ward]s off of it—’

‘YES. Please gods just DO SOMETHING!’

Erick had all five Ophiels cast [Personal Weather Ward]s, then linked [Lightning Aura] into all five. He chose [Lightning Aura] because it seemed like the largest, cheapest of his spells.

Lightning Aura, 1 MP per second, super long range ~{Favored Spell}~

Prepare the air around you to strike for <damage>. One strike available every 50 MP.

Particle Mage Only

The Ophiel soared into the sky, each trailing mist, each cracking light into the air around them, each of them filled with anticipation, worry, and joy in equal, dizzying measure; piggybacking off of Erick’s own uncertain emotions, but adding their own joy at being able to summon so much lightning. They trilled with the sounds of violins as they spread out around the top of the red dome, each more than far enough to not be struck by the other’s auras; without Aurify's area of effect multiplier backing their spell, it was much smaller than Erick’s.

Erick cast [Call Lighting] into the sky, speeding up the gathering of power. Mist turned to clouds, turned to rain. Flashes of light blinked through the air over the red dome and for kilometers around. Erick called a bolt of electricity, linking the sky to the dome in a pillar of flashing brilliance. The dome glowed brighter, more solid.

But hairline cracks had appeared in the red surface. The cracks vanished almost as soon as they appeared, but they were there, for sure.

The Ophiels each unleashed a strike of their own. Lightning crashed across the red and black dome like a million skittering spiders, crackling against the Breach Barrier, turning it brighter and brighter, as white cracks raced across the spellwork. The darkened space under the dome briefly turned visible.

A vast pit of bone and blood the size of a few football fields stood exposed in the hills in the center of the Breach Barrier. A dozen thousand undead raced across the intervening land to throw themselves into the crimson pit, instantly liquefying as they touched the red surface.

A woman in red stood on the top of a spiraling stone spire in the center of the pit, her hands raised to the sky. Twenty or thirty necromancers stood on the spirals of that spire, guiding red light and blood from the pit ever upward, toward the woman. In turn, the woman took that offering, and gave it form: a man who had yet to become a man hovered in the air above the woman in red.

The red dome healed, darkness swept shut under the red barrier.

The Ophiels unleashed another blast of lightning, crackling across the dome with a million feelers of power. The dome broke, imperfectly. Huge chunks of meter-thick barrier dislodged from the rest, and began to rain down into the ritual space, but instead of crashing into the necromancers, they transformed into more power, into blood and bone, into useable mana flowing into the body atop the spire. The summoning suddenly doubled in speed, as more and more light and energy flowed into the nascent demon.

Lancing red light cascaded from several of the casters on the spire, aiming for the Ophiel. They dodged, [Blink]ed, and [Airshape]ed to get away, but the red light twisted and turned at right angles, or tighter.

Erick lost his connection; the Ophiels had been destroyed.

Erick summoned three more Ophiel and sent them to the battlefield.

The red dome was shattered as though it was thick glass, and not a construct of magic; the ragged edge near the ground was still there, still a meter thick and ten meters tall, a physical barrier preventing most of the soldiers from assaulting the necromantic ritual in the center. Ophiel had no such problem avoiding the ground barrier, flying over it, and as he looked, neither did at least fifty other people; each of them taking to the air, up and over the cracked edge of the red dome, to assault the ritual in the center.

A dense, echoing cackle as though from a hundred witches filled the sky.

A red light flashed across the heavens, pushing Erick’s [Call Lightning] storm aside like so much ambient mana.

An image of the pink moon of Hell appeared in the sky, as though through a two hundred meter wide [Gate] opened horizontally. A dot of blue light descended through that portal, even as beams and bolts and crashes of spellwork fought to disrupt the hole in the sky, but when the spells touched the portal, they simply passed through. When offensive magic struck the dot of light, the magic did nothing; the dot of light didn’t seem to actually be there. When the spells struck at the spire in the middle of the carrion lake, at the people casting the spell, the lake itself rose up to block the magic; blood and bone a thicker proof against enemy magic than the red dome had been.

[Call Lightning].

Each of the three Ophiel at the site switched over to [Call Lightning], each of them casting the spell on their own. The sky rapidly clouded over, blocking the sight of Hell, as Erick and three Ophiel each demanded electricity from the air. Four bolts attempted to wrap through the descending droplet of light, continuing on to the ritual below, but the lightning touched upon a [Weather Ward] that spread up from the bloody spire, up across everything, including the [Gate] to Hell above, protecting the necromancers, the waiting body, and the demonic soul summoned from Hell. Electricity flashed around red barriers, grounded onto the lake of blood; useless.

Erick nearly screamed.

Opal’s scratchy voice came to Erick, ‘Let me help you with that.’

The [Weather Ward] protecting the ritual popped like an old soap bubble.

Lightning from four different sources erupted across the ritual. The droplet of light exploded. The waiting body shattered. Smaller [Weather Ward]s went up across individual necromancers, but they popped again, and again. Lightning tore through the spire, carving down into the surprised necromancers, turning mass murderers into dead mass murderers.

Ophiel and Erick continued to call lightning through the ritual, making sure everything was actually dead, and would stay that way. After a second round of [Call Lightning]s and ten more bolts, Erick stopped.

Odaali-in-Exile had pulled back, away from the ritual, fully away from the gently dissolving red remains of the Breach Barrier.

The air cleared. The portal to Hell above was gone. Sunlight showed onto a spire of dead necromancers and their failed attempts to resurrect an enemy of the world as a demon.

Yetta’s voice came to Erick, ‘I think you got them.’

Erick came back to himself. He was safe in his stone room. Teressa was at the door, watching the way up. Poi stood nearby, arms folded, head down, several tendrils of thought coming off of his sapphire scaled head. Rats sat nearby, picking at his fingernails.

Erick croaked out, “Everyone okay?”

His three bodyguards turned to him.

Poi spoke first. “The Halls of the Dead would have summoned a Breach Demon if not for you.”

Rats paled, his red scales turning pink.

Teressa went still.

“Yetta said something— Something about a Breach Barrier?” Erick’s breath shook out of him, halting and stunted. “What’s a Breach Demon?”

“A demon able to summon more demons.” Rats said, “The summoning of a Breach Demon has always heralded a transformation of the Quiet War into open war. FUCK.” Rats asked Poi, “How the fuck?”

“Odaali had some relics, apparently,” Poi said, “I don’t know the whole story. I doubt we ever will.”

Yetta’s voice came back to Erick, slightly crazed, ‘They killed two thirds of my people. Again.’ She added, ‘Soldiers this time, but we’re all soldiers, really, when it comes to the Quiet War. Some more than most.'

She sounded unhinged.

Erick tried to change the topic, ‘Do you want to assault the other Queen Vine, now? Is Tenebrae done with the first one? I never got a notification for it. I made him promise to help with the second.’

A long moment passed. Yetta’s voice was a broken, sharp thing, ‘He has killed the Queen Vine in Odaali. He made sure only he would get full credit before he killed it, too. Yes. I mean. Yes. Kill the second one. Yes. I want to kill the second one.’ Her voice turned sharper. ‘I will lead you there. Where are you?’

Erick sent, ‘Just find one of my Ophiel and take it with you.’

‘… Yes. Of course. You’re—’ Yetta’s voice turned wild, ‘You’re not actually on the battlefield at all, are you! No danger to the archmages, no sir! Can’t have that. No! We gotta fight—’

‘Stay strong, Yetta. You killed two of the big bad guys today. You did that. Not me. I was just here to help you, because of what you’ve done to help others.’

Yetta’s voice came back calm, ordered. Detached. ‘Sure. We’ll go with that.’

Erick saw Yetta through Ophiel’s eyes. She grabbed one of them, probably harsher than necessary. Erick felt Ophiel whine at the rough treatment, but he consoled his [Familiar] and let him be [Teleport]ed twice in quick succession.

- - - -

A hundred white-capped mountains rose from horizon to horizon. Between the crags lay deep green valleys, while white clouds nestled the taller peaks. It was here, on a plain mountainside, in a hidden crack in the stone, that a research station had been created.

That research station was not as intact as it was two weeks ago; if the Queen Vine inside had not outgrown its confines, Erick doubted that anyone would have ever been able to find this place.

The mountains of Veird were a good place to go to get lost and forgotten.

… Erick pulled himself away from that thought.

Yetta retreated while Erick brought in several Ophiels. They flew in the turbulent winds of the Mondariska Mountains, reveling in the wind, as Erick studied the problem.

The research station currently had a river of greenery growing out of the crack in the mountain, spiraling down the high mountain valley sides, growing into what had once been a lush green valley below. Bright green leaves grew upon the vine, and all around the monstrous plant laid purple fragments of dead air, like a purple carpet it had rolled out for itself. The Queen Vine had reached the valley floor a while ago. From that fertile valley floor, the Queen Vine had sent up trees larger than all the rest, shedding purple fragments onto other greenery it did not care for, blocking out the sun for every other plant with its three-meter-wide leaves.

The non-daydropper trees had been completely covered by smaller daydropper vines, like kudzu in the mountains of North Carolina in the summer. Those trees were still green, but they were fading; they would soon be dead, choked out of sunlight and resources, if this continued.

And then Erick saw the deer and the birds, rotting on the valley floor, surrounded by purple fragments, half-covered by green and purple vines.

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

As Erick cast his own Domain from one of the seven flying Ophiel, the other six each activated their own version of the spell. Seven white orbs formed around seven winged familiars. Thick air crashed to the ground. A violent shudder rocked the land as dark liquids poured out of the Queen Vine, and every smaller daydropper in the valley.

The Queen Vine retaliated, briefly. Beams of coruscating light slashed across the flying formation of the Ophiel. But the exposed parts of the Queen in the valley withered to nothing faster than Erick thought possible. It could not counterattack when it was falling apart this fast.

She didn’t go down without a fight, but the fight was determined in those first few moments.

Slowly, but surely, the Ophiels and their Domains cleaned the valley of the Queen and its spreading progeny, their spells sending bursts of [Cleanse] up and out of the layer of dead air that blanketed the land. With some direction, seven Domains poured into the research station, into the depths of the mountain, desiccating the second Queen Vine where it grew, killing it with little fuss. This one had not fed upon a hundred thousand people; nor had the necromancers of the Halls of the Dead bonded it with more than a few souls. This Queen Vine likely only had a few extra souls joined to itself, just to make sure the procedure worked like the Halls of the Dead wanted it to work. Or at least that’s what Yetta’s sources were telling her, according to what they were seeing through their [Scry]s sent inside the research station.

And then it was over.

