“Ugh.” Denise covered her eyes with a hand, and Elise came over to her.

“It's okay, Denise.” Elise said and leaned in to put her mouth by her ear to whisper. “Just wait until you taste it.”

Denise's mouth fell open in shock. “I... ah... have to wash my hands!” She said and slid off the bed as Elise stood up straight.

“Ren, how do I look?” Elise asked as Denise practically ran to the bathroom.

“Like bacon.” Ren said. “So tasty that I just want to eat you all up.”

Elise laughed. “I think I'm going to stop asking you for your opinion.” She said. “I'm pretty sure I don't want to be compared to a well-cooked piece of greasy pig fat.”

“Are you sure?” Stella asked and came into the room with a tray of food, and Barbara was right behind her with another tray. “Being compared to one of his favorite foods is no small matter.”

“Really? What food are you?” Elise asked as Stella started putting the plates out on the table in the bedroom's small kitchen, and Denise came out of the bathroom.

“Strawberries and whipped cream.” Ren said, and everyone looked at him with wide eyes. He licked his lips to stop from drooling. “She tastes so good, it's almost sinful.”

“Ren.” Barbara said as she saw Stella's blush. “Sometimes being too honest isn't a good thing.”

“But...”

“Just get over here and eat.”

“What about Lisa?”

“What about me?” Lisa asked as she came into the room.

“I was wondering if you were going to join us for breakfast.” Ren said and moved over to the side of the bed, and Denise helped him sit in the wheelchair.

“I am.” Lisa said and sat down at the table.

“Are you still angry?” Elise asked her and sat down beside her.

“Not really.” Lisa said and everyone sat down to eat.

“I can't wait for the fight to be over.” Ren said and started to eat.

“Why?”

“I heard that make-up sex is supposed to be great.” Ren said, and everyone stopped eating to look at him. “What?”

“Yes, too much honesty might not be a good thing.” Barbara said in a stern voice, and that made everyone laugh. They finished eating, and Elise left for work after getting a goodbye kiss from Ren. Lisa left next, after she said she had things she needed to do in the game and kissed Ren as well. Barbara's shift was over, so she left after getting a hug, and the only ones in the room were Stella, Denise, and Ren.

“Well, I've got to restock the things in the house.” Stella said. “Toilet paper, checking the emergency kits in all the rooms and adding them where there's none, things like that.” She gathered up the dishes and picked up the trays. “I'll be back around lunchtime.”

Denise watched Stella walk across the room and leave the bedroom, and she kept looking at the closed door. She felt a hand on her arm, and she turned to look at Ren.

“Can you help me to the bathroom?” Ren asked. “I've got a couple of things to take care of, and then I'd like a shower.”

“O-of course.” Denise said.

She pushed the wheelchair over to the bathroom and Ren took care of the business she had helped him with earlier, then he slowly took off his clothes.

“How's the leg?” Denise asked.

“It's not as stiff, but it's more painful.” Ren said, and Denise checked it. She prodded it lightly in a few spots, and she felt the muscles twitch.

“The bruises will be gone in a few days, and you'll be able to start physical therapy again.” Denise said and helped him into the shower, and he sat down on the step stool to let her scrub him.

“I can't wait.” Ren said sarcastically, and she laughed.

“It's not that bad.” Denise said.

“No, but it's exhausting and I don't feel like doing anything afterwards.” Ren said and sighed. “I know I have to do it so I don't get worse than I already am, but...” He sighed again. “I just wish I was normal.”

Denise smiled. “Being normal is overrated.” She said and continued to scrub him.
