“Let’s make chocolate!”
That was the declaration Erin made on a sunny morning. Mrsha’s ears perked up from across the inn and she raced over. It had been one day since Erin had discovered the existence of the cacao tree in her garden. And she had been talking up chocolate all of last night.
Mrsha’s reaction was understandable; she liked tasty things. And sweets. But the rest of the inn’s denizens were a bit…blasé. Because they didn’t really know what chocolate was.
“It’s this dark stuff that’s like sugar, but not, right? Do we really need to make it a priority, Erin? Wailant is going to start planting, Octavia needs her shop, and…”
Lyonette had a list. The [Princess] was the effective day-to-day manager and Erin, despite being superior in rank, was like the trusted subordinate Lyonette sent out when Erin was needed. But in this case the [Innkeeper] was adamant.
“Chocolate is tasty. Chocolate is good. It’s not just sugar, Lyonette. You don’t even know.”
The [Princess] paused and leaned over with a scowl.
“Apparently not. And would you mind shutting up about things I don’t know? You have people watching you.”
Erin looked around. She noted Montressa and Beza here today; Palt was out. But the two Wistram [Mages] might soon be joined by Grimalkin, or Chaldion, or Saliss.
“Oh. Sorry. But it really is good, Lyonette. You can use chocolate with everything. Ice cream! Popcorn! Um—waffles? Cakes! Uh…chocolate milk!”
Her enthusiasm sold Lyonette on it. The [Princess] sighed.
“I suppose it’s alright. Do you need anything?”
“Um…no? But I might need your help. And…um…”
Lyonette paused. She stared at Erin.
“You don’t know how to make it.”
Erin Solstice paused.
“Well…I mean…if you want to be technical, no. But I’ve seen, like, shows. About chocolate and stuff. And I know what goes into it. Sort of. And I have [Advanced Cooking].”
Lyonette sighed. But Mrsha was happy. She leapt about! Chocolate! Chocolate! She was going to eat whatever it was!
“At least we have a fairly free day. Mrsha, remember? You’re going with Selys.”
Mrsha paused. And then she perked up. That was right! Selys was coming to the inn! The Drake had promised to look after Mrsha all morning since she had been so busy of late.
And indeed, it seemed like the world was conspiring for chocolate to occur. Because not only was Selys scheduled, but Numbtongue appeared in the kitchen as Erin and Lyonette set up what they’d probably need—butter, eggs—wait, chocolate didn’t have eggs—sugar, and pots and pans.
“Erin. We’re going out, all morning. Probably. Can you set the door for us to come back?”
The [Bard] saw the two young women look up. Erin blinked.
“Oh! Numbtongue! You’re going out mining? Wait—we?”
She did a double take as an Antinium hand waved past Numbtongue.
“It is me, Bird. I am going too.”
“Mining.”
Lyonette’s first thought was instant skepticism. She looked Bird up and down for a bow, but he wasn’t carrying one. He and Numbtongue did have shovels and picks, though, and a sack. Erin blinked.
“You’re going with Numbtongue, Bird?”
The Antinium nodded happily.
“I am going to hit rocks. Which Numbtongue has assured me is fun. Yay.”
“I’m going too. I want to see where all this gemstone stuff is coming from.”
Octavia sidled out from behind the other two. Numbtongue nodded.
“Good rocks higher up. I—Pyrite—thinks there are opals. Maybe. We’ll go. Probably be safe. I have potions, guitar, sword—and Pyrite.”
He tapped his chest. Erin looked at him. Then at Bird and Octavia. She blinked at the unlikely team, but then smiled.
“Sure! I’ll let the staff know to check in!”
Smooth as butter. Which again, chocolate probably contained. Erin wasn’t sure, but within twenty minutes Selys appeared.
“Mrsha! Where’s my favorite little Gnoll? Hi, Erin! Lyonette! What are you doing?”
“We’re making chocolate!”
Erin pointed to the pods of cacao fruits that they’d gathered from the tree. Lyonette was poking the rough, fairly unappetizing exteriors of the shells. But Erin had confidence. She knew chocolate existed; Lasica had said it did and Palt was sure about the name. She stepped out of the kitchen as Selys bent to greet Mrsha.
And stopped. Selys Shivertail had changed a bit. Her scales looked—glossy. And she was wearing a rather nice set of clothes. Not your plain cotton, but a smoother, more vibrant fabric. Not a dress; she was in casual, walk-around clothes.
But it was better than Erin’s normal clothes. The [Innkeeper] blinked.
“Wow, you’ve got new clothes. And jewelry?”
Selys smiled.
“Magical artifacts, actually. I have a small collection. It’s a bit haphazard, but I’m buying for quality. Speaking of which, how are you?”
“Oh, you know—”
The two sat for a brief chat as Mrsha leapt up to the table. Erin told Selys about the garden, her plans for the day—but the Drake [Heiress] was far more exciting. Because Erin’s big events had been witnessed by Selys. But Erin had no idea how Selys was doing herself.
“You remember I was telling you about how I’m getting into the landowning business? Well, with the money the Heartflame Breastplate is earning me, I’ve bought some of the new parts of the city. And hired [Builders] and people to start making apartments.”
“Whoa! So you’re going to be an actual [Landlady]?”
Selys waved a claw dismissively.
“I don’t know if I want that class. But maybe it’ll fold into my [Receptionist] class? It’s really just to put the gold to work. I mean, I can’t spend it all on myself. And renting space would be a good way to make money besides the breastplate.”
Erin had heard about the new construction of the city, but she hadn’t gone out to look with all that was going on. She made a note to do just that. But for now—she listened to Selys talking about her big plans.
“I’m going to own apartments for any species. But mainly Humans. The other [Landowners] don’t want to cater to Humans, although I bet they will. But I’ll make a better place. Your Players of Celum will be my first clients, the ones who don’t want to stay at your inn.”
“Hey, that’s great! Thanks so much for putting them up temporarily, Selys.”
The Drake waved a hand as if finding places for nearly forty people—[Actors] and families—was no big deal. She’d managed it in a single night, though. Selys had money and money talked and walked and also poked people in the head. So did Tekshia.
“It’s to my advantage, Erin. I’m going to give Humans an opportunity. Hire them along with Gnolls and Drakes. And I’m in a minority there. Speaking of which, the apartments should be profitable if I can fund it all with the money I have.”
“Really? But it’ll take a long time to earn all that money back, right?”
“With Antinium labor? Not that much. Besides, I can charge a fair price.”
“But I thought the rent was low.”
Selys smiled smugly.
“It is. Which the other [Landowners] are not happy about, and these new homes will drive prices down further. Well, that’s their problem. I’ll ask Krshia and Elirr and Raekea to do something about the rent pricing when the first buildings go up, though. Lism and the others on the Council will probably agree and if they don’t, they can get the other two Councilmembers to back them.”
“Wait, but I thought they were doing that for poor people. Selys, don’t you think low rent’s good?”
Erin had to object here. But Selys waved that away.
“Once we have enough space, rent won’t be as big of an issue. It is expensive to build and maintain apartments, Erin. And if there’s no rent, people won’t renovate. What we lacked was just—competition.”
“Huh. I didn’t think about it like that.”
“Trust me. I’ve learned a lot and I’m going to make nice places. I’ll have Human apartments, ones for Gnolls—”
“What makes those different?”
“Soundproofed walls.”
“Oh. Smart.”
“Come by later. No—let’s make a plan to get together, okay Erin? Just the two of us.”
Mrsha pounded the table indignantly. Selys smiled.
“And maybe Mrsha. But we’ll go around Liscor! Maybe Pallass too! I’m thinking of going there, like you said. For the armor, you know? It’s how I’m making money and I do want to see the Walled City after all. But I need to get the construction taken care of first. And Mrsha gets her day with me! Speaking of which, I have a present for you, Mrsha. Want to see it?”
Mrsha went round-eyed with excitement. The present was at Selys’ home and she was going to see her two best friends, Ekirra and Visma. Erin was thanking Selys when the Drake remembered something and stopped.
“Oh, that’s right. Erin, about the Sage’s Grass. Are you able to pay that [Farmer] his price?”
Erin’s face fell.
“I dunno. Between that and paying for the new inn, Lyonette says we’ll have to juggle some money. But we’re earning again. So…I hope this chocolate will also help with that.”
She saw Selys nodding. The Drake paused, and then looked a bit awkward. She coughed.
“I don’t know how to say this, so I’m just going to come out with it. Erin, if it’s just a few hundred gold, I can at least help pay for a bit. Did you say six hundred gold pieces? Half of that.”
Erin blinked. Selys was reaching into her personal bag of holding.
“Wait, what? Selys!”
“It’s nothing. Well, it’s not nothing, but I can help you out.”
“No, wait—Selys, thank you! I’ll talk it over with Lyonette, but that’s way too much!”
The young Human woman had to stop Selys for a moment as the Drake began fishing into her money pouch. The Drake paused.
“Erin, relax. I can afford that. Do you know how much I spent on dresses this month alone? Keldrass is paying me for the armor and he’s not the only one. Someone will pay a hundred gold to wear it for a week. The rich Drakes, that is. And that’s low compared to what I can get. I owe you a lot. If you need help—”
She was prepared to pay Erin there and then. The [Innkeeper] waved her hands.
“Let me see how much I need. I can’t take a loan—”
“Who said it was a loan?”
Selys smiled at Erin’s face. She waved a finger.
“Erin, I can afford it. Just give me free access to Pallass whenever I want. That would actually be worth three hundred gold. More than worth it. You need to monetize that door, Erin. Even if it’s only for travel to Pallass. Think about it. One silver coin to visit the Walled City or vice-versa. That’s a steal.”
Erin blinked. Selys was getting so—mercantile! But Erin had to smile.
“Thanks, Selys. I’ll ask Lyonette what we need.”
“Let me know. But I want to help. And, Ancestors, if I start earning money from rent, I’ll be able to do a lot more. By the way, I’m getting you new clothes. I had some made, but the [Clothier] thought it was for a Drake. So there’s a hole in the back. I’ll get it to you when it’s done!”
The [Innkeeper] blinked. But Selys was already taking Mrsha out of the door. She stared after Selys.
 
——
 
A few more visitors stopped by before Erin’s chocolate project could get underway. And they had a similar…theme to them. The first was Jelaqua, who came from Pallass. By herself; Moore had charged up the door, but since she was going back quickly, it made no sense for him to come with.
“Chocolate? Hey, send up a [Message] and I’ll be over! My taste buds are fresh. But I’m actually going on a mission.”
“Really? You found work?”
The Selphid laughed. She was in exceptional humor of late.
“That’s right! Just a minor mission. There’s a locust swarm and guess who gets to clear it out? Adventurers! It’s well-paying, even if it sounds like it’ll be a day or two of hard work.”
“Sounds difficult. Wouldn’t it be better to get someone to burn them?”
“Probably. But you need a bit of muscle for this and a lot of the Gold-ranks are in the dungeon. So we’re handling it.”
“But tiny bugs—”
Erin wasn’t sure how it was going to work. Jelaqua slapped her forehead.
“Ah, I didn’t say. Giant locusts. Anyways, it’s not that hard. We have tactics from fighting all those damned spiders and moths. But here I am, talking about boring work—Erin, I’m just here to pay for that field of Sage’s Grass.”
Erin nearly dropped the bag of sugar she was hauling to the kitchen. Jelaqua casually placed hers there—they were bringing it up from the cellar storage, now rat-free.
“What? Jelaqua!”
The Selphid forestalled Erin’s objections.
“We heard about the Sage’s Grass plan. And look—we owe our fortunes partly to you and the Redfangs. So let us cover the door. It’s not much as adventurers count coin, and you know we can pay for it.”
Erin blinked. But in a trice, Jelaqua was handing her a slip.
“The Merchant’s Guild in Liscor will give you the money. They have a system if you put in money to them—they’ll confirm it with me, but you’ll get the gold. That’s all. Gotta run! The locusts are eating farms and animals, apparently.”
She dashed off.
The next visitor was Teliv Witherscale, whom Erin had a special connection with due to the time they overthrew a burgeoning dictatorship in Esthelm. It was this entire thing, and the [Negotiator] poked his head into the inn and stared around for a long moment before making his way over to her. Erin suspected he was looking out for Crelers, Hobgoblins, monsters, or anything else that might kill him in the next few seconds.
“Good evening, Miss Solstice! I’m on official city business. The Council’s heard about your plan to upgrade your magical door with a…field of grass? Something like that.”
Teliv rubbed his claws together, smiling at Erin as she served him a cup of tea. She stared at him.
“Does everyone know what I’m doing?”
He coughed.
“It’s wise to keep abreast of things. Anyways, Miss Erin, I understand the price of this project is concerning? Well, I am here to make you an offer. Liscor’s Council and Pallass will subsidize the costs, for a bit of negotiation in regards to the door’s usage. I hear you’re planning on using it to let [Merchants] and [Farmers] sell their goods?”
“How do you know that?”
Erin began to glare at Teliv and around the inn. He smiled politely, and Erin felt him trying to soothe her. Unfortunately, it was something like an aura-effect and this was her inn. She just frowned.
“Well, Liscor sees this as a positive for the city, but since the inn has access directly to Liscor and Pallass—we may have to talk about shipment oversight. Just a [Guardsman] or two who can see it done! And if you’re charging a transportation fee, well, you are a citizen, so we can roll that into your annual taxes. Or…”
