Erin sighed at Teliv. She wanted to say ‘get out’, but instead, she just wanted to have a lie down. Teliv saw her expression and coughed again.
“Also, I’m coming on behalf of Liscor. Pallass says they’ll go over any transportation into their city at the checkpoint. Er…Miss Solstice?”
“Chocolate.”
“…What?”
 
——
 
A bit later, Erin Solstice stood in the kitchen over a seed pod. She had dealt with the obstacles lying between her and chocolate. Mainly by saying ‘chocolate’ until they went away.
“I’ll negotiate with Teliv. I’m used to it.”
“Chocolate.”
Erin saw Lyonette scowl at her. The [Innkeeper] turned.
“Thanks, Lyonette. Look, let’s just make the stuff. Huh?”
“Okay. What’s the first step?”
And the young woman from Earth smiled. This was what she liked. Cooking—for fun, hanging out with friends, none of this deal-making nonsense. She gestured at the dark pods lying on her table.
“Well, cacao is unprocessed chocolate, right? I know it’s a bean, so I bet you have to…get the beans from inside. Then squish them into chocolate. Probably…um…melt them?”
She faltered under Lyonette’s flat stare. Erin drew her special Pelt-made knife and hovered over the seed pod.
“First things first! We just cut open the pod, easy, and—ew!”
Erin recoiled. The inside of the pod was filled with a fleshy, white…fruit. Not a bunch of dark beans like she’d assumed! It was, in fact, like a bunch of misshapen…she stared at the white rind on the cacao fruits.
“What is this?”
“Cacao seeds. They don’t look good. I thought they were beans?”
“They are! They’re supposed to be—hang on.”
Erin was thrown for a loop. Clearly, in her memory of how chocolate was made, someone had skipped a few crucial steps. She stared at the fruity white things and closed her eyes.
“Hm. Hm.”
“You have no idea how to make them, do you.”
“Silence! I am at work, Lyonette! I’ve tackled bigger challenges before!”
“Like what?”
The [Innkeeper] tuned out the [Princess]’ voice. Her eyes snapped open and she pointed dramatically at the seeds in the pod.
“My [Advanced Cooking] instincts are telling me—they need to be dry first! Huh? Huh?”
She turned to Lyonette with a proud look on her face. The [Princess] stared back.
“And then?”
Erin paused. Her eyes narrowed as she thought for another minute and then it came to her. Intuition mixed with memory, her Skill at work.
“We’ll dry this stuff out! And then—well, I don’t know, but that’s probably where you—roast them.”
Yes. That sounded right. Roasting! Like coffee! Did this world have coffee? Erin’s mind was racing. She smiled at Lyonette—and the [Princess] looked up from writing a note on a bit of parchment.
“Yeah. Um, Erin—I’m going to go ask Lasica for advice. Drassi? Can you push this note through to Pallass? Just throw it through the door and shout at someone to pick it up.”
“What? But hold on! I can figure it out!”
Erin hurried after Lyonette. The [Princess] turned and looked at Erin.
“I’m sure you can, Erin. But we don’t have time to mess about all day. Lasica had chocolate, right? We’ll ask her. She’s a [Chef], anyways.”
“But—”
It made sense. But Erin didn’t like that it made sense. She deflated as Drassi took the note. Within twenty minutes, a reply came back that Lasica would ask one of her friends in Baleros and come over with the recipe. Lyonette, satisfied, walked off to confer with Teliv. And Erin sat in the kitchen, staring down at the open seed pod.
“This isn’t as fun anymore. What happened to everyone’s sense of adventure? Creativity? Figuring it out for themselves?”
Erin shook a fist in general anger at the efficiency and pragmatism of the world in general. Then, she had to pause and be real with herself.
“Well, it was never fun, trying to figure out how to make pasta. And breaking those preservation runes…and slicing my hand open…”
Erin paused. No, the bad old days of wondering how she’d find food tomorrow weren’t actually that great, except if you omitted details and put on rosy nostalgia-shades. Even so, she would have liked to try for herself.
“Still, chocolate.”
Erin comforted herself with that idea. Chocolate. It was really good. Actually, Erin wasn’t a huge fan of milk chocolate. Dark was where it was at. And white chocolate was good too. She didn’t know why people got down on it.
…Wait, was white chocolate even made with chocolate? Erin really wished Ryoka were here. She probably knew how to make chocolate.
 
——
 
As it turned out, chocolate was a hard thing to make. Not just ‘hard’ as in mayonnaise-hard, or even hard like hand-churning butter. But hard, hard. In fact—it was actually impossible for Erin to make in her inn. Lasica had come over, intrigued at the free garden she’d heard about. She had to stare at the garden and then at Erin. When she stopped muttering about strange [Innkeeper] Skills, she told Erin the flaw in Erin’s attempts.
“It’s an involved process, Erin. It takes weeks, apparently, if you do it normally. Listen. The first step is to let it all ferment. At least two days. Then you roast it, take off the shell which is apparently a pain, my friend told me, and press what’s left. And that’s a problem for you because you can’t even do step one.”
“Why not? I’ll just toss them in a tray and let them rot. Yuck.”
Erin made a face. Lasica pursed her lips.
“Right. And—Erin. Exactly when will they begin to rot?”
“Well, you said…oh.”
The [Field of Preservation]. For the first time, it was becoming an obstacle. Not just to chocolate.
“It’s a good Skill, Erin. But you need to turn it off or you won’t be able to make anything fermented.”
“I don’t need pickles or…stinking stuff. Kimchi? Well, I don’t know how to make that. I can put the seeds somewhere else! Um…like the Antinium Hive! Or Selys’ house!”
Erin folded her arms, annoyed. Lasica rolled her eyes.
“Why don’t you take all the pods that are ripe and come with me into Liscor, Erin.”
“Not Pallass?”
“No. Your door will run out of magic and I’m not paying for you to go back. Or having you at the bar overnight. Come on.”
With her chivvying them, the pods were collected and Erin, Lyonette, and Lasica went into the city. There, the Drake, with no prior knowledge of the city or having ever visited it properly, walked up to the nearest restaurant, and asked a question. Erin saw her conferring with the [Cook] and [Manager], and then she led them to another shop. Someone there pointed her in the right direction.
“Aha. This is the Gnoll who makes some of that delicious Liscorian fish paste I import. I can buy it directly.”
Twenty minutes later, Lasica pointed Erin to a rather large shop run by a single, fairly hermit-like Gnoll. He smelled. He sort of stank. And he was also a [Fermenter]. He shook Lasica’s claw gingerly and gave Erin a slightly bug-eyed look.
“The Human. How can I help you and Miss [Chef] here?”
He perched on his stool, listening as Lasica explained about chocolate.
“We’d like to purchase a space with your fastest Skills at work. Preferably anything that preserves the quality of the pods. Can you give us a quote and let us know how fast the process is?”
“Mm. Not too expensive. I have a three-to-one ratio of time in my average spaces. Eight-to-one in my special projects. I will give you the eight-to-one for gold, the others for silver.”
“Silver works for us. Now, it should take two to ten days regularly. So if you could let us know—”
“What am I looking for?”
The Gnoll listened as Lasica told him what the process should look like. Erin and Lyonette exchanged glances as she shook hands. Erin paid for the berth and the Gnoll let them see themselves out. Lasica had also bought eight jars of fish sauce. And she seemed content with the entire affair.
“Before we leave, I’ll help you find some [Millers], or someone in the city willing to shell your cacao seeds. Assuming it isn’t insanely tricky, they should be able to do the lot for silver.”
“What?”
Erin and Lyonette looked at Lasica. The [Princess] was approving, but Erin was confused.
“Pay someone else?”
“Of course. You don’t have to do it yourself, Erin. You can get good, reliable results. Mister—well, he never told me his name—Mister Sauce is a good example of that. I mean, you can brew your own alcohol, or make your own pickles, but why would you when you can hire a specialist?”
Erin opened and closed her mouth. She looked back into the shop; the Gnoll was carefully clearing a berth.
“But you don’t even know his name! What’s he like? Why does he make fish sauce and paste all the time? What’s a [Fermenter]?”
The Drake [Chef] gave Erin a strange look.
“Erin, I don’t have to know his life story to hire him. It’s a business deal. He probably prefers being left alone; I can’t imagine many Gnolls could stand the smell.”
“But…”
And that was when Erin realized this was Lasica, and Erin was Erin. And because Erin was Erin…
The Gnoll [Fermenter] in the shop was humming to himself as he checked his pots and different containers where the usually very salty liquids or substances were, well, fermenting at speed. His was a substantially more cleanly and upscale operation than Holdnose’s, but the two would have respected each other as fellow members of the craft.
The Gnoll, whose name was Ushel, turned back to his counter. He really had a good job, in his estimation. He just had to take care of his pots, move around substances, make sure nothing was eaten—and it was a rare rat or bug who immediately went for the salty substances—and then he had a lot of time off.
He jumped as he saw a young woman peeking around the door to his inner laboratory. Erin waved.
“Hi. I’m Erin. Erin Solstice. What’s your name?”
 
——
 
Across the city, Selys Shivertail opened the door to her new home. And Mrsha’s jaw dropped.
This was a bigger place than Selys’ small, almost cramped apartment had been. Selys had moved up in the world! Which meant she’d geographically actually moved down; she’d lived on the third floor of her old apartment.
But this new place was nice. And Selys had already begun buying everything she could want. Which was a sofa for lounging on, charms like the cooling charm that kept out the summer’s heat, clothing, snacks—
All of this was strewn about the apartment, by the way. Selys had many talents, and she was a good [Receptionist], but her clutter had built up faster than she could sort it. The Drake was a bit embarrassed and somewhat glad Erin and Lyonette hadn’t seen. She began tossing things into drawers and cupboards as Mrsha roamed around.
The Gnoll was just poking her nose into a drawer and finding bootleg, cheap copies of the cookies Erin had pioneered—the [Cooks] and [Bakers] of the city were trying to copy Erin with mixed success—when Selys called out.
“Aha! Found it, Mrsha! Here!”
Mrsha rushed over and found Selys holding…a ball.
It was a lovely ball. Mrsha had three of them now, to catch, or throw, or chew—and they were very different, thank you! Gifts from Krshia, Elirr, and Lyonette. But this ball—
Oh, this one was special. It was bright red, already special because red dyes were expensive, like purple, and it was the perfect size for throwing by small Gnoll paws. Bouncy—you could even see the way it squished slightly in Selys’ grip. It was made to be thrown and chased after. And it had a magical pattern stitched into the outside.
It looked fancy. Mrsha stared at it. She stared at Selys. Slowly, she pointed at her chest.
Is that for me?
Selys beamed at Mrsha’s expression.
“I got it from a travelling sales-Human. What do you think? Is it good?”
Mrsha nodded up and down rapidly and then ran over to hug Selys’ legs. The Drake laughed.
“Don’t thank me yet, Mrsha! Wait till you see what it can do!”
And with that, she pressed one of the sections on the ball and the magical stitching glowed. Mrsha gaped as Selys threw the ball. It hit the wooden floorboards—and then rolled off, shooting away from Mrsha.
The little Gnoll had seen many things in life. Many glorious things, terrible things. But she had never seen this. The ball shot away, and then stopped, quivering. And Mrsha realized it was magic.
It rolled…by itself. In awe, Mrsha stared up at Selys. The [Heiress] beamed.
“Well?”
Mrsha took one look at the ball. It seemed to be staring at her. Mrsha tensed. The ball wobbled. Mrsha charged and the ball shot off.
“Whoa! Careful! That’s a vase! Don’t run into that—watch out for—”
Selys instantly realized her mistake. Unlike Drake children, who could be hoarding, biting little demons, Gnoll children were more prone to race about and hit something. And Mrsha was on the chase. The little ball appealed to every instinct in her, and it had been enchanted to give a Gnoll child a fun time.
No one, not even grown up Gnolls, not even Bird or Numbtongue, could outrun a Gnoll child in a game of tag. They were all adults, and big and slow. And Apista refused to play since Mrsha might squash her accidentally. But this ball had speed. It dodged and wove, and Mrsha shot around Selys’ apartment, laughing and leaping at it.
It even grew tired, like a real quarry. Mrsha eventually snatched up the ball and Selys, panting with anxiety, stuffed the fragile objects she’d bought in her room and closed the door.
“Well! I think that was fun enough for now! Let’s—let’s go to the park instead, shall we? And wait—I think I hear two little friends coming!”
Indeed, Ekirra and Visma were both coming. Mrsha couldn’t smell them, but Selys had a spy-hole in her door and a magical stone you could activate for a brief look at whomever was outside. Mrsha held the little ball in her hands, delighted.
“Mrsha! Mrsha, we’re here!”
Ekirra shouted as soon as Selys opened the door. He and Visma had come with Visma’s older brother. He was a young Drake—around fourteen? And he’d walked them over, since he wasn’t working with the [Fletcher] he was apprenticing under today.
“Miss Shivertail.”
Visma’s older brother bowed low as Ekirra raced into the apartment. Visma stared about the apartment, and then raced after Ekirra as Mrsha waved a hand. The Drake tried sniffing Mrsha back, then she stared at a scrying orb Selys had left precariously near a table. Her eyes went wide.
Selys had everything from the five books that had been written this year, to a map of Izril. She couldn’t afford the big stuff yet, but everything within a normal family’s disposable budget Selys could buy, and more.
The little Drake girl instantly grabbed one of Selys’ silk dresses, put the scrying orb in it, and hugged it to her. Her brother tried to scold her.
