And like that, I realize why the central face scares me so, because it represents the barren void of surrender, the escape I so desperately desired and never could attain.

I don’t need to attack the Demon myself, as there are many other Peak Experts present and Divinities to keep their opposing counterparts in check. Still I hesitate to give the order to attack, my attention fixed on the massive canvas tent sat behind the Demonic Confessor, attention which does not go unnoticed. “The impatience of youth,” Zhen Shi retorts, his tone smug and unconcerned by my desire to do battle. “This Sovereign has said already that he has no time or attention to spare Little Worm. Too many other concerns to attend to now that the true conflict has come to a head, sooner than this Sovereign first anticipated, but preparations have long since been laid.”

The Demon moves and my guards form up to defend me, but no attack comes as the abomination retreats through the air, pulling back the canvas tent as it passes to reveal the grisly horrors hidden underneath. Wherever the sun shines in LuZhou, an atrocity is being depicted, and I am forced to retract my earlier criticism regarding Zhen Shi’s lacking imagination. The scene is so graphic and imaginative I am unable to comprehend it in its entirety as my mind refuses to interpret what my eyes are showing it. Murder, rape, cannibalism, and torture are the words to describe it, but they fall woefully short of matching the sheer dread and disgust this horrific spectacle presents, with no two scenes repeated through the thousands of details present. The children gutting their mother to feast on her warm flesh. The father holding down his daughter for another man to indulge his lust. The wife feasting on her husband’s entrails while their children watch in horror. The Warrior torn apart by the people he sought to defend. The beggars being torn apart in the streets while the crowd watches with glee. These are but a handful of the scenes I take in at first glance, and there are thousands of others hidden within this tapestry of death and emotion, ones that assault my mind and sensibilities and leave me screaming with anger and hatred both.

“Little Worm will find naught but death and suffering in every city and harbour you visit, your every step in this Sovereign’s domain paved with the blood of the meek and innocent.” Zhen Shi whispers, glee and exhilaration oozing out of his every word, drinking deep from the well of my suffering. “You seek to preserve the lives of the people of the West? Then return home to your Citadel and wait until this Sovereign has the time to spare, or see millions slaughtered to herald your arrival. What lands you take are yours to keep, but you will find no survivors to rescue, the sweet taste of victory tainted by the bitter draught of your own futile efforts.”

And then, the Demon is gone, and with it, Zhen Shi’s Sendings, leaving me alone with my screams of rage and frustration. Falling Rain, Legate of the Outer Provinces, helpless today as he was all those years ago when he first appeared in this world as a twelve year old slave.

I stop the playback of my memories and return to the beginning, studying every word, action, and nuance for clues on what to do next.

BEHOLD THE CONQUERING HERO, COME TO SAVE THE WEST.

The pain strikes me anew, fresh and agonizing as the first time, for I am doing more than merely remembering, but reliving my memories in the moment for the sole purposes of examining my every thought and action as well. Was I led to unleash my anger and despair on the army behind me, or was that merely a happy little accident for Zhen Shi? What of my thoughts and emotions in the moment? Did my fear and uncertainty originate from my own mind, or were they planted there to influence my actions and decision? Did my foe reveal anything of note which I overlooked? Is there something in my memories that can help me make sense of the multitude of questions I have burning in the back of my mind, or perhaps a better question to ask instead? For these reasons and more, I relive my memories of those few, short minutes over and over again, suspecting everything and taking nothing for granted until I am unsure of up or down, left from right, but each time, I uncover something new to consider or a different light to shine on the perspective.

The Demonic Confessor is fast and powerful, but it was ready to flee at my approach, a conclusion I arrived at after noticing a subtle change in its posture as I first stepped foot inside LuZhou. Is this out of concern for my Devouring abilities, or a feint to make me overconfident in future encounters?

My Spiritual Sense is more similar to sight than touch, in that I am not reaching out to explore with it, but rather am using it to interpret information that is already present. How? By gauging the changes in Heavenly Energy, like how one perceives temperature through the exchange of heat? Or am I reading the signs left behind in the flow of Heavenly Energy, like seeing ripples over the water? Maybe I’m wrong, and it’s the Mother Above speaking to me from on high, but if so, it’d be nice if She were a little more clear-cut and concise with Her advice.

Zhen Shi was surprised when I went on my spiel about his same, tired old arguments. He didn’t know I’d heard his hard sell before, because he wasn’t the one who tried to sell it to me. At least it confirms my theories about Gen Shi and proves that Zhen Shi is not omnipotent, as he doesn’t even know everything about what his puppets do and don’t do. Can I use this information? I don’t know, but know thy enemy and all that.

There were at least two Concealed Divinities present, both outside the walls of LuZhou, and I suspect there were even more lurking in the wings. I only found two because of the shadows they cast, not ones of light and darkness, but shadow in perception. Even though I kept my head on a swivel on the approach, I never once stopped to look east, nor did I take any time to study the south-west section of LuZhou while scanning the surroundings. Concealment convinced me to gloss over those two directions, and considering they were already settled in place before my ship even arrived in the harbour, then it could mean they were already lying here in wait, though I should ask the accompanying Divinities if it was any of them.

Time and time again, I relive those memories and find precious little information for all my efforts and suffering, but I endure and persist in hopes of uncovering something to ease my troubled conscience. I had nothing to do with all those deaths, and yet I feel responsible all the same, for they would not have died so terribly if not for my crusade against the West. Zhen Shi has made it clear that he will not fight, so even if I march in with this army at my back to retake vast swathes of the conquered West, what good will it do if there is no one left to live here? The cost of this campaign will be paid for in the blood of innocents, so how can I continue onwards knowing what I know now? Doing so would be as good as engaging a hostage taker who has bombs strapped to his prisoners, their deaths a direct result of my own actions and decisions, and so I must tread carefully from here on out.

And to do that, I need answers, but there are precious few to be found. What did Zhen Shi mean when he said the true conflict has come to a head? Who is he fighting against? The East? If so, why didn’t they loop me in on the attempt, or inform anyone in the outer provinces? What’s happening to make Zhen Shi slaughter not just innocents, but his own Defiled alongside them in order to create this hideous depiction of suffering and depravity? In fact, if he’s killing so many people just to deny me my victory, why even go to so much trouble to set the stage in the first place? Easier to just slaughter them en masse, or set his Defiled tribesmen loose on them, but neither one of those options could create a scene so meticulously detailed for me to study.

So he must have another reason to pose the dead in this manner, but I cannot for the life of me understand why. I need answers, but I will not find them here, hiding in the depths of my mind and soul, so I must look elsewhere if I am to be satisfied.

Breaking out of the cyclical repetition of memories, I sit up from my bed with the intent to leave my Natal Palace and return to the world of the waking, but my movements bring me over to Buddy, who sits vigilant atop my throne. Glancing back at me as I approach, he bares his fangs in a non-threatening manner, his rumbling growl deep and reassuring as he lets me know he has matters under control, though I know not what he is guarding against. Spectral intrusions I suppose, and possibly also Natal Soul invaders, but I can’t see Zhen Shi risking his own immortal soul to come contest me here in mine, not after seeing how he sent Gen Shi over to test the waters several times before and never followed through. The same can be said for Spectres, as entering my Natal Palace is all but gifting themselves over to be Cleansed and repurposed into usable Heavenly Energy, a resource which I am sorely lacking.

That’s neither here nor there though, as I did not come to Buddy for a report. Instead, I slide into the chair beside him and scratch his head while basking in the warmth of his comforting presence, finding solace in his company and existence even though I am not entirely certain if he is real or just another delusion of my own devising. Either way, he’s still my best friend and the greatest dog there ever was, because he was my dog, and greatness is all about perspective. “I have questions,” I declare, to which Buddy’s only response is a muted woof protesting how I’ve stopped giving scritches. “I’ve been trying to find answers, but I keep coming up short, and I doubt I’ll get anywhere going around in circles like this.” Another woof, this time more insistent and accompanied by a little dance of his front paws, alternating between left and right to tippy tap in anxious expectation. Giving in to his demands, I pat his head and scratch his neck until I hit the perfect spot that sets his back leg to twitching, a sight which does much to ease my doubts and apprehensions. Not because it provided any sort of answer to the troubles that plague me, but simply because it’s cute, and cute is soothing for the soul.

“Yea, you’re a good dog,” I declare, as if he’d actually said something of value, but not all dogs are working dogs. Some exist solely to be pampered, and Buddy is a bit of both. The declaration earns me a lick to the face before he presses his head against my chest, sinking in with a sigh after a long vigilant watch and happy just to be in my company. This is the kind of bliss I want, the ability to simply enjoy what I already have, but alas, my stupid human brain won’t shut up and let me be happy.

After spending far too much time delaying the inevitable and not enough time showering my dog with affection, I kiss his doggy head goodbye and emerge from my Natal Palace to return to the waking world. Gathered around me in a protective half circle are Lin-Lin, Yan, Mila, and Song, while my pets huddle in around us and Akanai and Grandpa Du loom overhead. The rest of my guards have made themselves scarce while I deliberated on answers to more questions than I care to list, but their consideration has all been for naught, as I’m nowhere close to a proper answer. “Sorry for making you all worry,” I say, clutching Lin-Lin close while squeezing Mila and Yan’s hands and offering Song a nod of thanks. Without them, I might well have lost myself to anger and despair, especially Song whose loving Aura helped not only pull me back from the brink, but also supported me emotionally until I could stand on my own two feet again. “I’m okay now, and I won’t lose myself like that again.”

“Good.” Though the declaration is terse and to the point, Akanai’s approving nod speaks volume to her relief, as she is rarely so free with her praise, but then she moves straight onto business. “The commanders have discussed the matter, and we are deadlocked in a decision. The pup, myself, and Gao Liang are of a mind to push forward, while Nian Zu, Zhang He, and Liu Xuande believe we should turn back.”

Though she’d never come out and say it, Akanai wants me to make the decision, because she is not entirely convinced her decision is the right one. I assume Nian Zu and the others are the same as well, else they’d still be arguing over what to do next instead of waiting for me to weigh in. Though I want nothing more than to spend the rest of the day in the company of my pets and loved ones, the burden of command is a heavy one which I cannot just set aside. Taking only a minute to reassure my spooked floofs, I step out to hold a meeting with my commanders. Dad, Akanai, and Gao Liang are in favour of pressing the attack for one reason only, because even if Zhen Shi slaughters swathes of Westerners as he retreats, any ground gained is worth it in the long run. Cold and calculating to the extreme, but not wrong if you consider the fact that even just holding the coastline is enough to restrict the Defiled from attacking the Northern section of the Wall. If the Enemy presses forward and overextends, we could just send ships filled with cavalry down the coastline to flank the Defiled army from behind, an aggressive defence that suits Dad and Akanai’s personalities perfectly. What’s more, now that the Central Citadel’s formidable defences are already in place, this would mean the most likely area to come under Enemy attack would be somewhere on the southern front, so we can just station more troops there in preparation.

