As for those in favour of withdrawing, they all have different reasons. Nian Zu wants to retreat because we’ve lost the initiative and should return to regroup and put together a smaller, more clandestine counter-attack, one that can strike before the Enemy slaughters all their prisoners in a most horrific manner. Liu Xuande’s argument is even simpler, because if the Enemy is willing to cut off its nose to spite its face, then there is nothing to be gained from continuing the attack, and everything to lose. A poor gamble if there ever was one, but a logical conclusion from my master tactician, and one I would be foolish to ignore. As for Zhang He, his decision is rooted in neither logic nor strategy, because having seen firsthand the horrors Zhen Shi has wrought upon his fellow countrymen, he now believes there is nothing worth saving in the west and has retired to his cabin to drink.

Technically, an offence punishable by death under military law, but instead, I set Gao Liang on him and let the two Westerners mourn in their own way, while asking Dad to keep an eye on our erstwhile Admiral. Cham died all those years ago because I couldn’t keep a handle on his vices and let him wander into battle drunk, so I’ll be damned if I do the same with Zhang He, not when the stakes are this high.

Regardless of their reasons, they all make good arguments which I must take into consideration, but my decision is to delay and keep searching for answers. Turning back accomplishes nothing, but the same could be said about pushing forward without rethinking our plan, so I put forth that we take a breather to plan our next step while reclaiming the harbour and building it up into something we can defend and resupply from. Also a place not so horrific to set foot in, because even though we’ve reduced the entire gruesome composition to nothing but bloodstains and ashes, the air is still rife with the stench of murder and suffering. This is similar to the dour atmosphere pervading the Central Citadel in the aftermath of Bai Qi’s siege, a lingering ambience of misery and despair that pervaded the thoughts of everyone living there. History shows that time will disperse these dark clouds overhead, but we cannot afford to wait, nor can we afford to abandon this pivotal harbour location. The terrain and coastline around LuZhou makes it easy to defend against attacks from land and by sea, meaning it is the perfect stepping stone from which to retake the West.

After conferring with my commanders, I visit the ships closest to the harbour and the horrors hidden within to bolster morale and check for Spectres or Defiled, but my efforts turn up nothing. That’s par for the course these past few months, and the absence of Spectres has been both reassuring and unnerving. I know they’re all hiding from me in the Void, but I’m not sure if this means they can’t influence Martial Warriors from there. They swarmed into my Natal Palace from the Void fairly easily, and while that turned out to be a blessing in disguise, one wrong step or moment of weakness could have led to disaster.

Which is why I cannot let my guard down just yet, as well as the minor fact that I cannot trust the Brotherhood to help me uncover Defiled traitors lurking within our midst. Putting aside the questions regarding Monk Happy’s presence at Shuai Jiao’s meeting, I doubt the Brotherhood would out any Defiled hiding in my ranks while knowing I plan to execute them. Though the Defiled can be saved, it requires a hell of a lot more effort on everyone’s part, and killing is just the quickest and easiest solution. Ideally, rehabilitation would be best, but I cannot afford to take on more risks than I already am, an outlook the Brotherhood does not agree with, considering they believe that this life is merely a test, and death is not the end nor the failure it appears to be.

I still have no proof that the Brotherhood attended Shuai Jiao’s meeting, much less that they took part with nefarious intent, but what bothers me more is that Monk Happy hasn’t come out to admit it. I’m ninety-nine percent sure that Monk Happy was sitting at the table before I burst into Shuai Jiao’s courtyard uninvited, alongside Shen ZhenWu or some other lofty Royal Imperial, and Monk Happy has to have noticed the loss of my complete trust, but he has yet to come ask me about it. If he did, I would give voice to my suspicions just to hear him confirm or deny them, but he’s acting like nothing has changed in the week or so since. I’d be a fool to think he really doesn’t know, which means he’s avoiding the topic for a reason, and what reason could there be if his presence at the meeting was to aid me in my cause?

He was there and not because he was following me, that much is clear even without any actual proof, but while I can no longer trust the Brotherhood entirely, I can at least trust them enough to discuss matters pertaining to the Dao, so long as I vet their answers with a clear mind.

Still seeking answers about what happened here, I head back to LuZhou where the monks have gathered to chant their Sutras after overseeing the mass cremations for the dead. The air is still heavy smoke even though the fires stopped burning several hours ago, and there’s an oily film over everything that I try my best to ignore and not think about, mostly for the sake of my sanity. Seeing me approach, Monk Bones steps in to keep the beat and free Monk Happy to speak with me. The usually cheery monk is more sombre today, and I cannot say I blame him, not when the ashes of the dead sit so thick that our boots leave footprints as we move through it. Monk Happy’s vibrant red ceremonial robes and yellow sash are both caked in ashes as well, and it’s a wonder his face is as clean as it is, so I offer him the respect he deserves after a hard day like today and greet him as an Initiate would. “This one is lost and comes seeking answers.”

“And this monk will endeavour to provide.” Gesturing for me to lead the way, we set out on a slow stroll around the ruined harbour as soldiers bustle about getting defences and latrines in place, but where there was a time when I would have felt at ease leaving him to obscure our discussion, I personally put up a shroud of Concealment and Sound Barrier myself.

Paranoid, I know, but even though I’m almost certain Monk Happy would never leave an opening for my enemies to use, I still feel better taking care of things myself.

This is what my life has come to, guarding not only against my enemies, but my allies as well. The Death Corps, the Brotherhood, Central, South, East, and god knows who else, I trust the Defiled more than I trust any of them, because at least the Enemy is openly trying to take my life, as opposed to harbouring hidden intents.

“This,” I begin, waving around us at the death and suffering that has all been cleared away and Sending because I’m just that paranoid. “I want to know why Zhen Shi bothered with all of this.”

“The killing? This one has no answer for this, Junior Brother, for the mind of a massed murderer is beyond my comprehension.”

“No, not why he kills, but why he did all this. More specifically, why stage the corpses in such a detailed and intricate display? What benefit does he gain from macabre decor?”

“Ah.” Nodding in comprehension, Monk Happy looks more tired and defeated than I’ve ever seen him, even during the funerals he held for his fellow brothers after Gen Shi’s attempt on the Abbot’s life. “This monk understands, but Junior Brother has all the knowledge and experience required to arrive at the answer himself.”

I have my guesses, but I’m not entirely sure. “I suspect he did it to elicit an emotional response from me and everyone else who sees it, but if that’s the case, there are easier ways to go about it.” At Monk Happy’s raised eyebrow, I shrug and Send, “He could’ve just strung their bodies out along the coastline or piled them up high in one giant mountain. Why go to all the trouble of posing each and every individual body?”

“I suspect,” Monk Happy stresses, heaving a defeated sigh, “This is because he seeks to elevate death to an art form.” Now it’s my turn to raise an eyebrow, and Monk Happy explains, “You have experienced firsthand the effect music has on soul and Heavenly Energy in general, but the same effect can be produced through any medium of art. Painting, calligraphy, carving, pottery, regardless of what medium the work takes, the grandest works of art can touch the human soul and in turn even affect how the Energy of the Heavens behaves, sometimes even in a predictable way.”

Though Luo-Luo’s music is the most obvious example, the mediums Monk Happy rattled off are curious considering he left out dance, poetry, and various other more comparable types of art, which leads me to believe he’s trying to guide me to a certain answer. Painting, calligraphy, carving, and pottery, all art forms heavily dependant on imagery, which seems to parallel what Zhen Shi was doing here, but what does that have to do with anything? How is a bunch of art supposed to affect the Energy of the Heavens in...

Oh. Runic Inscriptions.

“Zhen Shi went to all this effort to create... what? A Rune comprised of corpses?”

“Close.”

That is all I get from the weary monk, which isn’t all that unusual. No one in the Brotherhood likes to just give answers, because the truth hits harder when you stumble over it yourself. If Zhen Shi wasn’t trying to make a Rune, then what was he doing instead? Taking a step back, what are Runes to begin with? Yo Ling called them the language of Heavenly Energy, but they’re not a language that can be translated and read by all. A Rune is more of a concept in which the speaker, namely the Runic Craftsmen, attempts to bridge the gap between human intent and natural law by persuading the Energy of the Heavens to act in a certain way with reproducible results. So if Zhen Shi wasn’t trying to create a Rune with his creepy corpse artwork, then...

“He was attempting to commune with the Energy of the Heavens?”

“Very possible.” Unwilling to speak in certainties, Monk Happy explains, “It’s often seen in those caught in the spell of the Spectres, a compulsion to put together these grotesque creations for no discernible reason at all, but there is evidence that such works can bring about a certain sense of Insight or affect some change on the creator and sometimes even the spectators, though much is still unknown regarding the technical details behind the process.” Looking sidelong at my Spiritual Weapons, he adds, “Perhaps a more familiar example would be the manner in which a Divine Blacksmith will mutilate an animal’s corpse to create a weapon for the sole purpose of killing.”

Now there’s a spin I absolutely hate, but I can’t exactly argue against it. I’ve seen Mila in the throes of Inspiration, and it’s different enough that even Imperials use a different term for what’s more or less the same thing as Insight. Putting aside the morality of creating Spiritual Weapons, the long and short of it is that Inspiration is a phenomenon that we all know happens, but no one has any idea regarding the what, why, or how. Maybe that’s why the Brotherhood monks keep making so much art day in and day out, a sort of concentrated effort to study this subject in detail. “So Zhen Shi builds his corpse art in order to seek Insight from the Heavens above. Was his painting really so terrible?”

“You jest, but remember, the Energy of the Heavens is the power of Creation and Destruction both.” Gesturing at the ashes billowing about us, Monk Happy Sends, “There is power in life and beauty, but also power in death and morbidity, and it is the latter this ‘True Corpse’ has studied for nigh on eight centuries now.”

Well, at least his name makes more sense now. “I see... sort of.”

“Suffice it to say, there is power in art, for art is the means through which the human mind connects with the soul.” Raising one hand in prayer, Monk Happy utters, “OM MANI PADME HUM,” a short utterance which explodes behind my eardrums in a manner similar to how Zhen Shi’s Sendings injured me earlier today, and I do not appreciate the unexpected demonstration. Still, it’s useful information, because maybe now I can turn my broadcast Sendings into something more than a measly jump scare. “You see?” Monk Happy continues, gazing around in forlorn melancholy. “Art can move the soul and the Energy of the Heavens both, but just as it can move one to tears of joy or tears of sorrow, so too can it be used to create or destroy. This monk knows not what dark intent our foe had in mind here, but it is difficult not to see the harm his efforts have wrought. This is destruction on a level difficult for our mortal minds to comprehend, but we can sense the damage in the air around us, the lingering grudges of the dead leaving an invisible scar in the very fabric of the Heavens themselves which affects everyone who walks here.”

“A scar eh?” Shrugging, I pat Monk Happy on the shoulder to try and raise his spirits, because I’ve never seen him so down. “Well... I don’t know much about anything, but I know scars can be Healed. I believe the same phenomenon occurred at the Central Citadel, and that cleared up in a matter of weeks.”

“An accidental cut and a deliberate one can differ in more than intent, especially when the intent is malicious in nature.”

He’s got me there. That being said, if Zhen Shi is staging these macabre tableaus with a deliberate purpose in mind, then that means he needs time to plan, prepare, and put together whatever artistic vision he has in mind, and now I know what I must do. “Thank you for your guidance.”

“You have found the answers you seek?”

