BEHOLD THE CONQUERING HERO, COME TO SAVE THE WEST.

The booming declaration echoes through the inner walls of my mind, a pain unlike anything else I’ve ever experienced, but not so debilitating that I cannot simply grit my teeth and bear it. Standing before the sprawling canvas tent which covers the entirety of this sorry excuse for a fort is none other than the Demon once known as Goujian, the Bloody Confessor displayed in all his unholy glory. My eyes look past the obvious threat, scanning the surroundings for possible traps, but I see nothing besides loose stone and packed dirt in all directions save for whatever is hidden behind the tent. My other senses warn me of imminent danger however, so I choose to land a relatively safe distance away from both Demon and tent. Kuang Biao and three other Peak Expert Death Corps immediately move to position themselves between me and the Demon, upholding their duty the best their Oaths will allow. Naaran, Dad, and Binesi inform me that they are also Concealed and waiting nearby, guarding me from Death Corps and Demon alike. More Peak Experts spread out around me, securing the perimeter and making sure there’s no one hiding behind us, but I somehow already know that the Demonic Confessor is the only presence here.

Aside from the people I brought with me, there is not a single living soul in the vicinity of LuZhou, a fact I am assuredly convinced of by my obscure and esoteric Spiritual Sense, a certainty that brings me no relief or comfort at all.

No one else has reacted to the Demon’s sardonic quip, which leads me to conclude the Demon’s Sending was for me and me alone, but rather than answer immediately, I remain silent to consider my options while studying the horrific abomination before me. A massive, hulking monster which stands at least three metres tall from head to toe, the Demon stands even higher by propping itself up on the four oversized legs protruding out from its hips, blackened appendages which remotely resemble something one might find on a human, but wrong in almost every aspect. The same can be said for the four extra arms folded behind the Demon’s back, and at the time, that is all I note, but now I see what unsettled me so. The creature’s extraneous limbs are subtly misshapen, the joints bent out of shape, the underlying ‘bones’ hidden underneath all too jagged and protruding, all while the sinewy ‘flesh’ flows about in place like black molasses.

And in the darkness of those flowing, palpitating liquid movements, I sense great power lurking far beyond the limits of my comprehension, a secret hidden right in front of my eyes and me without the tools to uncover it.

This same flowing property is shared by the vivid scarlet flesh of Goujian’s ‘original’ body, giving off the impression that the Demon is more liquid than solid, or at the very least covered in a dense, blood-like liquid layer flowing over its true body underneath. A fact which reminds me of the circumstances of its creation, for the blackened limbs were shaped from the liquefied remains of dead Chosen and Wraiths, while the glistening scarlet ‘flesh’ is the result of the dead Confessor’s blood seeping out of his corpse as it was replaced by Demonic Ichor yet still put to good use as an outer layer of defence. There’s a hint somewhere in all this, a piece of the puzzle to help complete the picture, but I know not where it fits in the grand scheme of things and must put it aside for now. All I know is that the flesh of Warriors has power contained within, even moreso when factoring in that the Confessor’s body might well have been a Spiritual Heart in life, seeing how I had to Hone my Domain in addition to the edge of Peace’s blade just to cut through his nigh impenetrable flesh.

Another form of defence, different from that of the assassin Miss Ruo. Goujian’s body was still flesh in life, but more durable than any other living creature I’ve faced, even without his Domain defences in place to counter regular Honing. Miss Ruo on the other hand was seemingly armoured in an invisible suit of solid Chi, a difference which was most discernable when hitting them with my weapon. Flesh has a give to it, a supple strength that absorbs impact and disperses it throughout the human body, while the Chi armour was hard and rigid, and I suspect prone to shattering if hit the right way. How will the Demonic Confessor’s defences compare?

A mystery worth exploring when I have the time, but there are more pressing questions to consider.

Not even a second has passed since I set foot in LuZhou, yet already I am eager to leave, for there is an unsettling presence here which I yearn to be away from, one which makes my skin crawl and has nothing to do with the Bloody Confessor’s appearance. This is not to say the Demon isn’t disturbing to behold, poised in mid-air with its three heads bowed over its bloody hands pressed together in prayer, like some corrupted holy being here to herald our doom. The heads are the most human thing about the Demon, with each one bearing the Confessor’s likeness as it was in life, yet almost frozen and artificial in expression. The central head wears a mask of peaceful serenity, its eyes closed and features unnaturally slack, while the left face of Wrath and right face of Despair fix me sidelong with a glare and gaze of fury and horror both. Though the faces themselves are contrived and stilted, the emotions still translate well enough that I can almost believe this is simply another transformation of Goujian standing before me, but I know that the real Confessor is trapped inside. What I see is no man or transformation of one, but a twisted caricature of something that only barely resembles life, an unnatural creature of dark emotion that yearns to live almost as much as it yearns to destroy the living.

And in the moment, I realize that this means it cannot be Goujian speaking to me, nor the Demon itself, but someone else speaking through it.

“So you must be... the Uniter,” I utter, speaking out loud for everyone to hear as I remember I can’t call him Zhen Shi just yet, as that’s still something of a secret. Dad and the rest of my guards go on alert at the sound of our Enemy commander’s name, but I strive to appear more relaxed and nonchalant, though I’m not entirely sure if that will translate over to Zhen Shi. Is he controlling the Demon like a meat suit he wears, or did the Demon inform him that I’m here and is acting like a radio to transmit Zhen Shi’s Sending? It does not occur to me to think about it at the time, only knowing I am now speaking to an actual monster who gave up his humanity for reasons not entirely known. I play the part of calm, cool, and collected while focusing on my righteous determination to keep my wavering Aura in check. “How disappointing. Not only are you too scared to stand and fight, you don’t even dare show your face.”

YOU THINK THIS SOVEREIGN SCARED, LITTLE WORM? YOU ARE NOTHING AND NO ONE, A PAWN AND ANNOYANCE IN THE GRAND SCHEME OF THINGS. A WASTE OF THIS SOVEREIGN’S ATTENTIONS, THESE WHIMSICAL GAMES OF WAR AND CONQUEST, AND YET ATTENTION LITTLE WORM STILL DEMANDS.

Though bearable, it irks me how painful it is to speak with him, which I suppose is the point. Loud Sendings are boisterous and disorienting, but they don’t cause any actual pain, physical or otherwise. It’s just unpleasant and surprising if you aren’t expecting it. In contrast, Zhen Shi’s words grate on my nerves like pin-pricks of electrical shocks being set off all over my mind and body both. It scours away at my skin like swimming through a sea of broken glass and chips away my sanity like nails driven into my soul, a pain that is all too real and yet lacks any actual substance, and still somehow sets my body afire.

And yet, the moment I even consider defending against this overbearing presence, my Domain Deploys to insulate me from the worst of Zhen Shi’s ill-intent. There is more to it than putting up a Domain, for rather than radiating out in all directions like a bubble of Chi, it pulses once to wash away the pain and discomfort before adjusting itself to guard against further harm. Even though I am the one in control, I have no idea what I am doing even as I do it, not in a way that can be easily explained. The closest comparison I have is the process through which the human immune system adapts to remember foreign cells after coming across them once, as my Domain now recognizes the harmful effects of Zhen Shi’s Sendings and will filter them out in the future.

The ‘what’ occurs to me as I observe what has happened, but the ‘how’ is complex and ineffable. The knowledge of what to do just pops into my mind and I follow through, the same way I helped alleviate Mila’s nausea on the boat ride south through intent alone. I did not arrive at these answers through instinct or intuition, but Insight, which I now believe comes from Blobby’s nearby presence. Taduk once alluded to Elemental Spirits years ago and called them the source of Heavenly Energy in our world, but I’ve found that there’s more to it than just that. Blobby isn’t sentient, not in the way an animal or human might be, but he always responded to my thoughts and emotions in a very real way, and it seems as if he’s more eager than ever to communicate and assist me. I’d forgotten what it was like having him around, because even though I’ve always known there’s a part of him inside me, his ‘voice’ has been lessened and muted ever since I ‘lost’ him in Nan Ping Bay, likely because I had to give something up to do so.

But now he’s back, and with his help, I intend to take down this ancient monster and put an end to the united Defiled threat once and for all.

The Demon shows no sign of surprise in its facial expressions or posture, but the tone of Zhen Shi’s Sending gives his emotions away. “So Little Worm can learn and adapt, a promising a pawn as ever, yet still merely a pawn to be sacrificed.” Such a small and petty man, his irritation is evident now that his Sendings no longer cause me pain. The suffering caused is not incidental, but intentional, done solely for the sake of suffering, which is a far cry from the curious scholar he began his life as. A conclusion arrived at not through Insight, but intuition, for I have spent many a night poring over his notes, written over the course of several centuries if the contents are to be believed. The first half depicts a man dedicated to discovering the truth, one who refused to be held back by petty concerns like scruples or morality, but the second half of his notes which I received from Shuai Jiao painted a very different picture. Gone was the carefully neutral tone and the meticulous annotations, and in their place was the ramblings of a madman who’d slipped into depravity to become a monster cloaked in human flesh, one who needed no purpose or cause to inflict pain, for he derived pleasure from the act itself.

A scholar who was led astray by the Father’s foul minions and lost himself along the way? Or was Zhen Shi a sadistic torturer all along, one who would have found any excuse to commit the atrocities he carried out in the name of progress and experimentation? Did he notice himself slipping down the dangerous slope, and if he did, did he even care?

Difficult to say, but as I face the Demonic Confessor and conversed with Zhen Shi, all I felt was relief that his words could no longer hurt me, and pride in accomplishing such a feat on my own. “For someone who always complains about how busy he is, you sure do love to repeat yourself.” In hindsight, revealing that I’ve spoken to this monster before is not ideal, but pride made me flippant and overconfident. What’s done is done, but more interesting is how similar this conversation is to the ones I’ve had with him before, with many of the same tired phrases and tactics repeated here once again. I thought Gen Shi was easy to see through because Zhen Shi was limited by the need to keep Gen’s delusions from shattering, but the original is every bit as unimaginative as the puppet, using these power games to foster an abusive dynamic between us and allow him to more easily influence my actions. “Me Sovereign, you little worm, minor annoyance, grand schemes, hurr durr. Next comes more insults followed by backhanded compliments, only to conclude with honeyed promises laced with dire threats encouraging me to submit to your will, which I will inevitably reject and you can do absolutely nothing about it. I’m bored of this already, so perhaps I should just slaughter this Demon and be done with it."

Though I move to draw Unity, I don’t intend to lead the charge as I can sense I am outclassed. The Bloody Confessor exudes menace and power that is palpable in the air, and I cannot tell if the threatening atmosphere is lending strength to the Demon, or if the Demon itself is the source of said atmosphere. Even Bai Qi didn’t seem so daunting when I faced off against him, because regardless of his formidable strength, the Lord of Martial Peace was still human yet. Not so with this alien creature before me, one that looks just human enough to make the discrepancies that much more alarming. The left face of Wrath has a mouth full of shark-like fangs, while the right face of Despair’s eyes cry tears of blackened sludge, and the central face is so immobile it might as well be carved on.

There is no name for the central face, because I cannot quite put a name to its expression. It is not peace or serenity, not tranquility or composure, for there is nothing so warm or amicable present in its frozen aspect, only cold, empty desolation, a blank chasm of emotion so immense I fear to even look too deeply within.

