“No, a different answer to a question I didn’t think to ask.” Without bothering to explain, I Send word to my guards and head back to the ship to find Gao Liang, or rather Gao Changgong, Major General of the West and all-around bad-ass Warrior burning for vengeance. Though the grizzled veteran is deep in his cups from consoling our shaken Admiral, Martial Warriors have this nifty ability to purge alcohol from their system, and soon enough a sober Gao Changgong stands ready and waiting for orders. “Gather as many Peak Experts as you can, but only volunteers willing to put their lives at great risk.”

“There are a hundred and eighty three Peak Experts under this one’s command.” In response to the second part of my question, the stalwart Major General stands tall and proud as he declares, “The remaining sons and daughters of the West are all willing to die for the chance to free our countrymen from the Enemy.”

A formidable gathering of Peak Experts, but considering he coordinated the Western resistance for months, it makes sense that he gathered a fair number of survivors to his banner. Let’s call it a round three hundred in total, including my guards and whoever else Dad insists on bringing along. Not as many as I’d like, but I don’t know if I can spare any more, much less convince them to roll the dice with their lives alongside me. “Okay. Come with me. We’re heading out to attack the Enemy.”

“By your command, Legate.”

Gao Changgong doesn’t blink an eye at the quick reversal on my earlier decision to sit and recuperate, or even ask what sort of risk I’m asking his Peak Experts to take, which is good because of operational security, but I cannot resist sharing just a little. “So,” I Send, heading over towards Dad’s ship to discuss my hare-brained scheme, because even though Akanai will probably support my idea, she’s also likely to take over and tell me to stay out of the way. “You think we can take a fort with only three hundred Peak Experts?”

Damn it. Stupid question to ask, because even if his answer’s no, I’m still going to give it a try.

Chapter Meme
