“Interesting,” Laura said while polishing grime off the metal staff she used as both weapon and mobility aid. “I knew Nick Silver had visions, but I haven’t heard some of those details before.”

They discussed the issue for a while longer before Shaun switched topics. “Once we get out of here and the Simulation Dome is up and running, where do you want to go first?”

“An island vacation sounds nice,” Sarah added.

“Maybe skiing in the mountains.” Bret took off his boots to retie the laces. “Or a tropical ocean cruise.”

“All of those sound awesome,” Devin said. “I wouldn’t mind checking out the moon. I only caught a glimpse of the surface during the battle for Earth. That reminds me. I wonder what a branch of the Tower of Rizzen was doing up there to begin with. Do you think if we landed a rocket on the moon, there would be a door at the base of the tower and we could enter it again?”

That question led to a round of vigorous speculation. “Some of the aliens Team Earth talked to during our training and shopping rewards mentioned there were different difficulties of climbs,” Laura revealed, “and we were taking the easiest route.”

“Maybe one day we will merge our understanding of science or magic and come up with a way to discover the answer.” Sarah rubbed her chin. “I wouldn’t mind giving Rizzen a piece of my mind after the bullshit he put us through.”

Devin let his thoughts wander as the conversation went round and round. He’d been fantasizing about the Simulation Dome ever since going through the species-evaluation course on the third floor of Darkstone Tower and was thrilled to have a chance to make that dream come true.

Back then, the simulated environments were filled with creatures that were trying to tear him to pieces, but the possibilities of what the dome could provide were limitless.

While you could use it to create a wide variety of simulations that let people do everything from training their skills to practicing navigating rough terrain, it was also the ultimate entertainment device. He loved the idea of being able to visit any location he could imagine—everything from lost venues from Old Earth to winter wonderlands to alien vistas more exotic still.

He hadn’t expected that stealing the component from the tower would let him obtain a dome of his own in such a direct manner, but for once, the System was doing Devin a favor instead of trying to get him killed. And while obtaining the Unique magical building for Aurora was a fantastic opportunity, clearing the dungeon was also a good way to turbocharge his party’s advancement.

While everyone enjoyed a hot meal, his focus shifted to the brave women and men beside him.

It was wonderful to get a chance to travel with Veronica, who was far more than a friend by this point. Shaun had come a long way since they’d first met—to the point where the earnest young man was both good company and trustworthy enough to play a supportive role while he worked on boosting his damage.

Sarah and Bret were insanely powerful. While the shadow-and-light wielding siblings were a little odd, they were stalwart allies who knew how to throw down when shit hit the fan. He hadn’t spoken much with Laura until this mission, but the high-energy lightning mage was a top-tier elite, and Devin was happy to have her along for the ride.

He wasn’t sure what the dungeon had in store as they continued delving its depths, but he couldn’t ask for better allies at his side and was enjoying their adventure.

When everyone was done eating, Devin rose to his feet and said, “Let’s get some shuteye, then head out bright and early to take out those monsters we spotted earlier. We’re making great progress, but I have no doubts that exploring the temple and defeating the boss will make everything we’ve overcome thus far seem like child’s play.”
