Not wanting to leave all this organic material around for the mimics to feast, Ophiel dropped down to the ground, and began layering [Cleansing Flame] among the piles of corpses.

Soon, a four kilometer bonfire of clean burning monster lit the northern skies of Spur with a bright white glow. In minutes, all the evidence that there was ever a Blood Cloud at all were the small rads scattered across the land like diamonds on a beach, glittering in the moonlight.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself.

Poi stood from his chair, silently nodded at Erick, and walked toward the door to Erick’s room.

Erick stopped Poi before he could leave, saying, “Those kids didn’t have to die. What stopped Mog from calling sooner?” Erick felt a hole in his chest, as he asked, “Should I have stayed in Spur and searched for each and every one of these monsters before I left?”

Rats frowned, saying, “It’s our job to provide a home, not solve every damn problem out there.”

Before Erick could object—

Poi said, “Blood Clouds don’t happen unless the entire cloud is at least level 50. If those kids had managed to kill several, then they would have gained enough levels to gain a Class. They would have instantly become true adventurers.” He said, “It is not okay that those kids died, but they chose to attack the Blood Cloud, ahead of all planning and coordination. As Rats said, sir: The function of Spur’s Army is not to defend people from themselves, but to defend the homeland. While it is sad, those kids’ deaths are on them.”

Erick said, “Very well. Can you tell Mog I’m glad I could help? In the future, we now know that it will take about an hour for any response to happen, so plans should be made accordingly. I can’t change that. Not yet, anyway.”

Poi nodded as he stepped out of Erick’s room, saying, “Of course, sir. I will let her know. Good night.”

Rats saluted at the doorway, and closed the door.

Erick stared at the closed door for a minute.

He dismissed all of the Ophiel except the one in his room. That last one remained on the extra pillow on Erick’s bed. Ophiel trilled in tiny violin sounds, his eyes blinking open as Erick continued to remain upright. But when Erick laid down, back to his sleeping position, most all of Ophiel’s eyes shut.

Erick stared at the ceiling for a while before he managed to fall back asleep.

- - - -

Morning came, and so did breakfast, and classes.

- - - -

Erick sat near the top of the small, amphitheater-style classroom, with about twenty students in attendance. He had not sat down for long, before Professor Apell Calloway, a green wrought with the shape of a human woman, seemed to waltz in through the door near the professor’s stage. There were small murmurs and conversations happening all around the room, but at her entrance, the talking ceased. Some of the students smiled to see the professor. Professor Calloway returned those smiles with one of her own as she took the stage and turned to her students.

“Good morning, everyone!” Professor Calloway said, “Welcome back to Dungeoneering! Today we have a guest auditor near the back of the room, but I’m sure you’ve already all noticed, Archmage Erick Flatt. Planar Particle Mage.”

Erick plastered on a smile as the curious faces of the students all turned to him. They had finally been given permission by a higher authority to look upon the famous person sitting in the back of the room, and they were going to milk it for all it was worth. For his own part, Erick played along. He even waved a little.

Professor Calloway directly asked Erick, “Since this is a hands-on sort of course, I would like to delay my bargain of trade for another week. It won’t be a big deal, but I would like to share the results of my bargain with the class, if that’s alright with you?”

Erick spoke up, “Uh! Probably okay? Sure.”

“Good enough for me.” Professor Calloway said, “Now that the obvious distraction has been addressed, back to the lesson plan, students! Eyes front, eyes front!”

Erick had no idea what he had just agreed to, but what was the worst that could happen?

… Okay. A lot of bad things could be possible, but come on! She’s a professor who seems to be loved by her students, and she even wants to share her bargain with the class. It’s probably nothing that bad.

… Erick would not let paranoia get the best of him.

The students, and Erick, watched as Calloway began [Stoneshape]ing a jumble of rocks at the back of the stage into a complicated pillar. At the top of the pillar was an entrance that led to a series of floors and staircases, all done in miniature, that finally bottomed out in a vast cavern populated by tiny balls of rock that Erick guessed were supposed to represent slimes.

Calloway spoke as she carved her pillar of stone, saying, “We’re going to take a slight detour back toward the last few classes, before catching up on the assignments I gave each of you.” She pointed to the top of her sculpture, where a vent seemed to lead from the top directly to the bottom, saying, “This here is the inlet for the advanced dungeon I have modeled for you. The inlet is important, as it will govern the entire growth of your dungeon. It needs to be open toward the prevailing direction of the oncoming mana, and be a one-way plummet from the surface, to the end of your entire growth zone.

She pointed to the cavern at the bottom of the sculpture, saying, “The growth zone is way down here, and is the starting point for where the mana will begin to condense into slimes based upon the nature of your growth field. Now the best way to get these little critters to grow is to have some sort of non-magical plants and such that can live down in these depths, or some other constant influx of biological material.” She smiled as she said, “For all you fleshy types, the sewers of your cities are perfect for this, and if you take the time to actually visit them, you can learn a lot about how to create a proper dungeon.”

Calloway spoke of twists in the tunnels meant to keep slimes in the dungeon until harvest time, and elaborated on the importance of proper staircase design. You want people to be able to walk in, but for the slimes to stay put. As Calloway called herself a Dungeon Keeper and spoke of valuable types of slime to harvest, from metal slimes to gem slimes, and of how to get them started, Erick smiled, and wondered why Al never called himself a Dungeon Keeper.

Soon, the remedial lesson must have been over, because Calloway called the first student up to the front of the classroom, where that student then [Stoneshape]ed the pillar Calloway had carved, into something else. Mostly, the dungeon the student carved was smaller; cruder.

After the student gave a verbal defense of their work, Calloway called on other students to critique the dungeon. Flaws in design were pointed out, from the architecture of the walls that one student thought would collapse as soon as slimes were introduced, to another saying that the mana intake was too small to support the underground structure.

The lesson went on like that, through every student, but after it was all done, the twenty students voted on the dungeons they liked the best, while Calloway held herself in reserve until after the tally. When the votes all came in, Calloway announced the winner, the runner up, and then she announced that third place went to a ‘textbook’ dungeon that wasn’t even in the running.

In the next class, they would meet at the dig site, and create the first of the three dungeons.

And then class was over.
