Despite his snort of derision, Jorani could tell it worked as Old Du changed the subject. “Enough. Leave the past in the past and let us look to the future. Tell me about the boy. What sort of man is he? Be honest, for if I catch you lying, I’ll have you bound and dragged behind the carriage for the journey back.”

Unsure why Old Du wanted to know, Jorani merely shrugged laid out the truth as he saw it. “Ain’t no two ways about it. He’s the best person I know, which ain’t saying much, but he’s better than any man I could even imagine.”

“Yes, yes, you’re a loyal, devoted soldier who would die for him, but what of the man himself?” Elbows resting on the table, Old Du tented his fingers and awaited Jorani’s answer.

“Beggin’ your pardon,” Jorani began, scratching his head in discomfort. “But the Lieutenant General is wrong. I wouldn’t die for him.” Ignoring their puzzled expressions, Jorani pushed on. “See, the bossman ain’t like the rumours. Yea, he’s a little hot-blooded and ain’t afraid to step on toes or make enemies, but truth is, he ain’t a man in love with bloodshed. He’s damned good at it, true enough, but he’ll always try to solve his problems without killing anyone.” Chuckling, Jorani added, “Even though lot of the time, things’d go easier if he did.”

Taking a second to gather his thoughts, Jorani carefully chose his next words. “You know he lost a good half of his soldiers in Sanshu? It’s why he took me and mine in, but when he got home, he didn’t forget about his people. He saw to it their families were taken care of, fed and clothed, educated and employed, a damn sight more than the army does.” Shaking his head, Jorani’s voice dropped to a whisper. “The way I sees it, If I die, I’d be a burden to him, a debt owed. I won’t die for him, because he’d be happier if I lived and looked after me people meself, ye get me?”

Scowling, Old Du shook his head. “The boy shows weakness unbecoming of a commander. Death is unavoidable in war, and sometimes hard decisions must be made in the heat of battle. What good does it do to save a handful of soldiers if it dooms his entire retinue, or worse?”

Glancing at his rival, Old Zhang shrugged and asked, “Why are you so interested anyway? You’ve already poached one Bekhai talent, surely your skin isn’t thick enough to poach a second?”

“Never you mind why I’m interested,” Old Du snapped, before turning his attention to Siyar. “You done drawing the map? Good. Explain it in detail. Jorani, chime in if you see anything he missed.”

They spent the next few hours poring over the map and answering Old Du’s questions while Old Zhang sat and watched in silence. The thickness of the door, the density of the buildings, how many slaves and how many guards, Old Du was relentless in his quest for knowledge, full of scathing condemnations and blistering retorts each time Jorani failed to give a satisfactory answer. Luckily, Siyar had a sharp eye and a sharper memory, and while he couldn’t answer Old Du’s answers directly, he supplied enough information to silence the cantankerous bastard’s venomous tongue.

Truth be told, Jorani wasn’t sure what they were here to do. Even though the bossman seemed convinced the Canston Trading Group were Defiled traitors, he wasn’t exactly what you’d call an unbiased bystander. Then again, the reports spoke of stone walls crumbling to dust at dawn, and now they found the Canston Trading Group had a substance which ate stone in the light of day, but it was still a leap of logic to go straight to traitors of the Empire. For one, how were a bunch of merchants supposed to spread their black gunk over the fort walls without anyone noticing? Maybe Old Du was here to investigate, with Old Zhang to oversee everything?

When the carriage rolled to a stop, Jorani followed Old Du’s instructions and left his Spiritual Weapon in the carriage. Hiding his rat-ears under a metal helmet, he stepped out into the mid-afternoon sun and blinked in surprise at the familiar fort standing before him. A distance which took him three days to cover on foot only took the Legate’s super horses six hours, and they weren’t even breathing heavily. Granted, he’d been taking his time and had to live off the land, but still...

Hands clasped behind his back, Old Du strode towards the door with Old Zhang at his side, followed promptly by a fox-eared vagrant in dirty robes and a colourfully armoured southerner wearing a fearsome, metal mask. Around them, the Death Corps dismounted from their utilitarian wagons and spread out, surrounding the fort in short order as the Bristleboar guards watched on from the parapets, with their weapons at the ready and their steel-reinforced doors shut tight.

The moment the Death Corps finished encircling the fort, Old Du spoke in a quiet, yet commanding voice, using Chi to relay his words to every ear inside. “This one is Lieutenant General Du Min Gyu, here on orders from the Emperor. Lay down your arms, open the gates, and prepare to receive the Imperial Inspector.”

The Canston Trading Group’s reply was utter silence, the tension settling uncomfortably on Jorani’s shoulders. Dammit, how was he supposed to fight without a weapon? The only weapon he had was a dagger, though to be fair, it was almost as long as the bossman’s sword. Glancing around in search of a spare spear or bow, he prayed the bristleboars didn’t see fit to use their horrific gunk against them. Even with two living legends at his side, Jorani had no confidence to face the Canston Trading Group’s flesh-eating sludge in full daylight.

After five minutes without a response, Old Du turned and glanced at the half-fox vagrant. “It appears they do not mean to comply. Eccentric Gam, if you would be so kind as to open the gates?”

While Jorani reeled at meeting a third living legend, Eccentric Gam replied, “Hmph. How typical, send the half-beast in to do all the heavy lifting while the humans stand around with their thumbs in their asses. Perhaps you’d like me to curtsy too, and afterwards, I can have the honour of sucking your shrivelled cock.” Without uttering a word, the armoured southerner strode off and Eccentric Gam’s rant came to an early end as he asked, “Where’s he going?”

Picking up speed with every step, the armoured southerner sprinted towards the towering gates. Reaching back with both hands, he grabbed hold of his massive, long-handled scimitar and brought it over his shoulder in a powerful slash. The fort trembled at the impact and several bristleboar guards at the top lost their footing, but still the gates stood. Undeterred, the armoured southerner struck a second time, then raised his foot and kicked the gate with a resounding boom. With a tortured shriek metal, a triangular section fell to the ground, revealing an opening large enough for three men abreast to walk through. The armoured southerner disappeared into the opening and soon after, the sounds of slaughter drifted out.

“Hmph.” Mouth set in a pout, the Eccentric marched up to the broken gate, and Old Du, Zhang, Siyar, and Jorani all followed behind. Glaring at the opening made by the southerner, the strange half-fox moved to the other half of the gate and threw a half-hearted punch, more of a knocking gesture really. Although the execution was rather lacklustre, the results were anything but as the gate splintered and exploded inwards from the touch, leaving an opening twice the size of the southerner’s. Sniffing primly, Eccentric Gam strode through with his head held high, almost as if out on a stroll instead of wading through a battlefield. Any bristleboar who came too close received one of his half-hearted slaps and smashed into the ground, their bodies pulped beyond recognition by the Earth-blessed warrior’s prodigious strength.

Old Du and Old Zhang traded grins and shrugs before running off to join the fray, and Jorani watched as the four experts ran roughshod over the defenders, leaving little for the Death Corps to do but clean up the remains. Awed as he was by this display of overwhelming strength, he was curious to know: If this was their plan all along, why was he even here?

Chapter Meme
