"It's not that," Kaida said, "I'm just pondering how I can counter this flashy technique of yours with the least effort."

Astralis let out a grunted laugh. "Such confidence from a youngling."

"Age and experience don't win battles," Kaida said calmly. He then unleashed his Monarch Realm soul pressure that he had been restraining since Zephyrine said she would call Astralis. "Authority over this reality is what truly matters. Now, let's see how you survive against what I'm about to show you."

Astralis narrowed his eyes. "You've ascended into the realm of a Monarch. But even so, you shouldn't be able to prevent a falling star."

"We will see about that," Kaida said and snapped his fingers. "Primordial Calligraphy Domain."

In an instant, Kaida's body transformed into his true self. Like an iceberg rolling over and showing the world its true size, he took on his dragon form. He shadowed the entire mountain with his long, serpentine body made entirely from ink, as if the heavens themselves had crafted him from a brushstroke. Compared to Astralis, who was large and mighty, Kaida looked far more mythical, as if he shouldn't exist.

Kaida glanced upward at the looming attack and uttered a single word.

"Consume."

One of the many scales orbiting him shot upward to meet the descending star.

The dragon scale detonated the moment it made contact, imploding as it dragged the blazing mass inward and compressed the falling star into a single, blinding point.

For a single heartbeat, the world held its breath.

Then the light erupted outward, detonating in a supernova high above them. The explosion was deafening as Astralis's attack, which likely would have vaporized the mountain and anyone standing on it, was turned into a celestial firework show by a single one of Kaida's scales.

Kaida turned to gaze at Astralis. "Is that all you have?"

Astralis didn't answer with words and instead lunged at him, exploding the mountain beneath him. Perhaps he thought he could beat Kaida in a melee battle?

Ashlock felt bad for him.

"Bind," Kaida said, and another one of his scales rushed forward.

As with the previous scale, it seemed in his domain, his commands were absolute, as the massive dragon was suddenly bound by an unseen force and crashed headfirst into the peak below Kaida.

What followed wasn't going to be pretty.
