The frozen icicle that shot from her finger flew as straight as an arrow, but the difference in this one was that the head was blunt, rather than sharp. It struck Pisces squarely in the forehead as he leapt at her, and he staggered. Ksmvr shoulder-charged him to the ground and struck him with one hand. Pisces sagged, and he went limp.
“Dead gods.”
Ceria took one deep breath and then another. Ksmvr lowered Pisces to the ground as Ceria sat down hard—on a piece of bone. She yelped and tossed the yellowed thing across the room.
“Ceria Springwalker, are you well?”
“Me? I’m—fine.”
She could taste blood and her lower lip had a hole in it. Her right shoulder still burned and Pisces had drawn blood with that damn bone. She was not fine, but other things were more important.
“Where’s Yvlon?”
“Over there.”
Ksmvr pointed and Ceria saw Yvlon standing and staring blankly ahead. The woman’s blonde hair was matted with blood, and she had a deep cut down one cheek where Pisces must have struck her. But she didn’t appear to notice any of that. She looked over haughtily as Ceria and Ksmvr approached.
“Yvlon?”
“I am Yelen Byres—”
“Rot, she’s still under the spell.”
Ceria sighed. Ksmvr looked uncertainly at Yvlon.
“Should we knock her out?”
“I beg your pardon?”
“No. I don’t think that’s wise. Let’s just tie her hands and legs up so she can’t hurt us if her personality changes again.”
“That is wise.”
Ksmvr approached Yvlon. The armored woman backed away, raising her voice in outrage.
“I’m sure I’ve never been so offended—unhand me, you—!”
She clawed at Ksmvr, but her two hands were no match for his three. In a few minutes he had her trussed up and lying in a clear part of the pit. Yvlon shouted angrily at them until Ceria stuffed her blindfold into the woman’s mouth. Yvlon spat it out and she began gnawing at the ropes like an animal. It wasn’t ideal, but at least it kept her occupied.
That done, Ceria had to take a few seconds just to breathe. While she was doing that, she finally took a good look around the pit she’d found herself in. The dark room was lit by her green light and it made the lurid piles of remains all the more disturbing.
Swords, bones, rotted fabric. The pit was a huge tomb of bodies, corpses and yellowed bones, all that remained countless adventurers who’d been trapped here. Time had eaten away almost all the details of these fallen people, but Ceria could still see some clues as to how they’d died. A skull split by the worn shaft of an axe, a skeleton cut in two here, and one whose bones looked scorched—
“What a nightmare.”
Ceria shuddered as Ksmvr came to stand next to her. She looked at the Antinium and saw that he was holding his injured side, where a good section of his chitin had been picked away.
“Are you okay, Ksmvr?”
He nodded.
“I am only moderately inconvenienced, Captain. As soon as you covered the magical symbol I regained use of my mind.”
“Good. That’s…good.”
Ceria breathed in and out a few more times. She could still remember being insane, remember the sensation of losing all the structure in her head. She looked at Ksmvr, and then remembered she was still half-naked.
“Where are my pants? And my belt—did you see them, Ksmvr?”
He nodded.
“I removed them to construct your blindfold. My apologies. They are over here.”
The Antinium retrieved Ceria’s possessions and she put her pants back on with a sigh of relief. The Antinium had cut a large strip out from one of the legs, but some clothing was better than none. She sat on the ground and began attaching her belt.
More importantly, with Ceria’s belt came her water flask and the healing potion she’d brought. She greedily drank water from her flask while she offered the healing potion to Ksmvr. He applied half to his torn-up side and handed it back to Ceria. She hesitated, and then drank the potion rather than apply it to each of her wounds.
“Gah! That’s foul.”
Ceria tossed the empty bottle to one side and winced as it smashed. Ksmvr hesitated, and then sat next to her.
“That was a most dangerous trap we were caught in.”
“You think?”
“I do.”
The half-Elf shook her head.
“We nearly died. If it hadn’t been for my heritage and luck—how long were we under the spell?”
“I cannot say.”
Beside her, Ksmvr shifted to look at Ceria. His normally impassive voice changed slightly, grew a bit uncertain.
“Do you believe that spell will affect Pisces and Yvlon for much longer?”
“I don’t know.”
Ceria rubbed at her face.
“Maybe? It might wear off soon, but you never know. At least it wasn’t real insanity that hit us, just the spell.”
“Oh?”
Ksmvr looked at her. Ceria nodded tiredly, feeling the healing potion getting to work on the rest of her body.
“It’s just the magical effect. Real insanity—you’d have to be a better mage to really create madness in people. This is just…an approximation. The spell reaches into your head and messes up your world. It’s close, but not the same.”
“I see. That would explain my experience.”
The Antinium nodded a few times as he sat next to Ceria. He hesitated, and then cleared his throat awkwardly.
“If the spell had created true insanity in me, I would have become Aberration at once. And then I would have killed all three of you within seconds.”
Ceria just looked at him. How was she supposed to respond to that? But maybe that was Ksmvr’s way of saying he was glad things had worked out. She thought for a second, and then looked at the place where he’d sliced her pants apart.
“Ksmvr? You said you made the blindfold for me?”
He nodded. Cautiously.
“Yes. I was…unable to do more. I regret my failure to act, but—”
“Good job.”
“Oh. Thank you.”
 
—-
 
Ceria and Ksmvr sat in silence for over twenty minutes before Pisces woke up. He came to with a shout of surprise, which turned into a groan.
“My head…”
He didn’t appear to be insane, but Ceria and Ksmvr were ready for anything as he staggered upright. Pisces took one look around at them, at the bones, and the foul pit they were in, and then he asked if they had anything to eat. That reassured them he was back to normal.
Ceria had a thing about bones, in that she didn’t like seeing them, especially if they were her bones. Add that to the general unsanitary nature of the pit, with the black foreign substance crusting every part of the room, and she was feeling quite unhappy with their current predicament. But Pisces seemed to regard the dead bodies as mere furnishings, and he happily crammed some dried meat into his mouth.
“So you and Ksmvr eliminated the spell? Most efficacious. Allow me to congratulate the both of you. I was completely subsumed by the enchantment. What was my reaction to the [Insanity] spell, incidentally?”
“You thought you were your father.”
Pisces paused mid-chew.
“Ah.”
“And you tried to run both me and Yvlon through.”
“I apologize for that. I am relieved I was so ineffectual.”
He chewed the rest of his bite slowly, and swallowed, no longer looking quite as pleased. Pisces glanced over to Yvlon. She was still drooling on the bindings on her wrist, looking more than a little rabid.
“…Perhaps we should leave before your mud wears off. I would not like to repeat such a harrowing experience.”
Ceria nodded. That was her first thought too, but…
“How the hell are we going to get out?”
The pit was dark, and as far as she could see, the walls extended upwards at least thirty feet. If there was a ceiling, it wasn’t within her [Light] spell’s cone of illumination.
Pisces looked up. He frowned and conjured a ball of light himself and threw it upwards.
“Let’s find out.”
His orb glowed with pure white light. Ksmvr and Ceria both saw it fly upwards, and then break—splash, really, the light becoming fading motes—across a dirt ceiling. Ceria groaned and Pisces made a similar noise of displeasure.
“We’re trapped.”
Pisces nodded, looking unhappy.
“Who knows how deep we are? We could dig up for years and not reach the surface.”
“Not necessarily.”
Both mages looked at Ksmvr. The Antinium nodded as he stared upwards.
“There must be an entrance higher up. Companion Pisces, if you recast your spell, I believe we may be able to identify an opening.”
“What makes you assume that, Ksmvr?”
Ceria looked curiously at the Antinium. He looked back at her without a shred of doubt as he replied.
“If this room were truly a sealed chamber, we and those who have preceded us would have quickly used up the supply of air within the room. The fact that we did not suffocate instantly indicates an air source of some kind.”
“Oh.”
Pisces looked at Ceria and then both mages threw orbs of [Light] upwards again. After a minute of studying the ceiling, Ksmvr exclaimed and pointed.
“There.”
Pisces squinted upwards, frowning.
“Are you certain? I cannot see anything.”
“My eyes are used to the dark. There is an opening there. If we dig, we will most likely find some sort of passageway.”
“So now we just have to get to it. Any ideas?”
Ceria eyed the smooth walls doubtfully. Aside from the black coating, the stone looked unblemished. Pisces just smirked as he stroked his chin.
“This issue should be easily surmounted. Allow me to rectify my earlier deficiency.”
He clicked his fingers, and Ceria felt the room move. Not the ground or the walls, but everything else in it. The bones of the countless dead began to shift.
“Pisces?”
He just smiled as yellowed bones began flying into the air and upwards. Ksmvr stared at the shifting bones without comment, but on the ground Yvlon stopped biting at her robes and screamed.
“Necromancer! Kill him at once!”
“Oh hush.”
Pisces frowned and pointed at Yvlon. Two piles of bones stood up and became skeletons. They walked over to hold her down as she wriggled and tried to break free of her bindings.
“No! Don’t touch me! Stop!”
She wailed—Ceria had never heard Yvlon make any sound like that before—as the skeletons held her in place. Yvlon thrashed wildly, but she was unable to break free. The real Yvlon might have mustered the strength, but Yelen Byres, whoever she was, was a weak noblewoman who couldn’t do a thing.
And meanwhile, the other bones were floating in the air, rearranging themselves. They weren’t forming a creature—instead, Ceria saw with horrified fascination, they were forming a staircase. Small bones and big ones ordered themselves into smooth ledges, and, step-by-step, an ivory staircase built itself upwards, leading to the spot Ksmvr had indicated.
Pisces wiped some sweat off his forehead and exhaled a few times as the last bone flew into the horrific set of steps. He smiled cheerfully at Ceria and Ksmvr, both of whom were giving him the fisheye.
“There. We have a way up, and the means to dig as well.”
“I guess?”
Ceria looked uneasily at the staircase. She did not like Necromancy, but neither was she stupid enough to turn down a good solution. Ksmvr just stared at the bones and nodded.
“Efficient.”
Only Yvlon was upset. She screamed at the skeletons as they lifted her up, staggering under the weight of her armor. Pisces frowned—he waved his hand and several more skeletons stood up out of the collection of bones still littering the floor.
“It appears that this trap, however temporarily detrimental to our health, has one unexpected benefit. I can conjure as many skeletons as I need to from this supply.”
“And you won’t run out of mana? I know you’ve got to be tired, and we don’t exactly have any mana potions to spare.”
Ceria looked doubtfully at Pisces. He hesitated.
“I have used quite a bit. But it seems wiser to expend my resources in creating more undead to aid us, especially given our weakened states.”
“True. Okay, summon as many as you can.”
“These five will do for now. I shall begin digging upwards, unless Ksmvr thinks it will cause a collapse?”
Ksmvr studied the dirt roof and shook his head.
“It should be fine.”
“Very well then.”
Pisces pointed upwards, at the small dark crevice in the ceiling. Two skeletons ran up the staircase and began digging energetically at the spot, showering dirt into the pit below. They were holding rusted blades and pieces of metal—the remains of some of the adventurer’s gear.
“It should take them just a little while to clear the obstruction!”
Pisces shouted down cheerily as he walked up to supervise his skeletons. Ceria shook her head as she found a place to sit on the now-cleared floor of the pit. She wasn’t going up that staircase more than once; solid it may be, but Pisces had opted not to build guardrails, and the bones hovered in the air without any solid supports. It was an amazing piece of magic, but it still made her queasy to imagine climbing it.
She’d have to in the end, but that was later. To take her mind off of that, Ceria looked around. Now that the ground was clear, she saw something that had been buried under a pile of bones. Cautiously, Ceria walked over to it. It was dark and bulky, and at first she thought it was a part of an adventurer that had yet to rot. But this wasn’t meat. Instead, Ceria found dark, rough fabric. She cast another [Light] spell and saw what it was clearly.
It was an adventurer’s pack, still neatly secured to the skeleton of its owner. Ceria hesitated, and then shifted the bones aside and lifted the bag. It was quite heavy.
“Ksmvr, here’s something else. Can you take it?”
The Antinium walked over and hoisted the pack easily. Ceria nodded to him, and then heard a shout from above.
“I see light! We’re right below the tunnel we uncovered!”
Both adventurers below sighed in relief. Pisces grinned at them from above, and then shouted.
“Watch out!”
They saw a skeleton falling from above, brought down by a cascade of dirt. Pisces blew away the dirt around him with a barrier of air and Ceria and Ksmvr covered Yvlon, shielding their heads as the skeleton struck the floor of the pit and shattered.
“Are you okay?”
“Fine!”
Ksmvr shouted up as Ceria looked around. The flailing skeleton hadn’t done any damage to the staircase, but her blood ran cold when she saw something glinting on the side of the pit.
“Dead gods! Watch the sides!”
Pisces looked down and swore. The flailing skeleton had, in its fall, struck the black, encrusted wall of the pit. In doing so, he’d knocked some of the unnamed substance free, and glowing behind the covering was the unmistakable symbol of the [Insanity] spell.
Both Ceria and Pisces reacted with the speed of panic. She threw mud and he blew a cloud of dust in front of the spell before it could work on them. The partially visible runes disappeared as Ceria hurled more mud to cover it and stopped, panting heavily.
“That was quite dangerous.”
