It was odd. Ryoka was sure she hadn’t burned that many calories with her little light trick, but before she knew it, she’d downed a hunk of cheese, half a loaf of bread, and quite a bit of meat and an entire stick of butter.
Not separately, of course; these came in the form of sandwiches, but it was still disgusting to think that she’d somehow eaten that much food in one sitting.
Ceria downplayed Ryoka’s disgust. She explained being ravenous was normal for someone casting magic for the first time and mages in general.
“It’s why you don’t see many fat mages—well, at least among mages who actually use their spells in combat. You should meet one of the [Mages] in Wistram, Telim…anyways. After a really exhausting battle, I’ve eaten an entire ham by myself.”
Ryoka blinked at Ceria as the mage blushed. It didn’t even seem possible a ham would fit inside the half-Elf’s smaller body.
“Aren’t your…people vegetarian?”
Instantly, Ceria’s face turned wary.
“Not all of us. I don’t know what you’ve heard, but we eat all the food Humans eat.”
“Oh, of course. Sorry.”
Mentally, Ryoka kicked herself. She was really tired to be making mistakes like that. But at least she hadn’t started talking about Tolkien elves or any of the other stereotypes. Come to that, she didn’t know much about half-Elves either. She wasn’t a big fantasy fan.
Changing the subject, Ceria fiddled with her wand and pointed to Ryoka.
“You should probably get your first level in the [Mage] class as soon as you take a nap. Hopefully, it’ll come with a Skill or a spell, but don’t worry if it doesn’t. After that, you can start thinking about what field of magic you want to specialize in.”
“Oh. Levels.”
Another problem. Ryoka sighed.
“Is—is leveling necessary to learn magic? Couldn’t I learn magic without gaining a…a class?”
Ceria looked surprised and had to think about that question for a moment.
“Of course you don’t need levels to learn spells. I think? What a question. But it makes everything so much faster. For instance—when I reached Level 18 in my [Elementalist] class, I learned the spell [Fireball]. It would have taken me a month of study and the right scrolls to even begin casting that spell otherwise.”
She eyed Ryoka somewhat suspiciously.
“Why? You aren’t one of those types who believes in the Book of Levels, do you?”
“The what?”
Ceria waved her hands, grimacing.
“Oh, this famous book that was popular when my grandmother was a child. I thought it died out, but I run into people who swear by it now and then. It has all kinds of notions about how levelling works. Some people—they claim that we all have a set amount of levels in us. If we gain too many levels in a bunch of different classes, we’ll eventually run out. The Book of Levels. Never heard of it?”
Great, religion without the gods. Ryoka snorted derisively.
“No. And I don’t believe in that either. I just wanted to know if I could study by myself or if I had to—to wait until I leveled to learn more spells.”
“Oh. Well, that’s a common misconception. Mages level from casting spells, but we gain a lot of experience from studying magic. You can’t just go around throwing fireballs and expect to level up quickly.”
And there was another thing. As Ryoka kept talking with Ceria, lightly speculating about what magic she might like to learn, her mind was racing.
Level limits? That sounded like a game to her. But people were treating it like some kind of superstition. How much did they really know about levels anyways?
In Ryoka’s sleep-deprived state, parts of her mind were firing off with questions, but she deliberately did not ask Ceria any of them. She liked and even trusted the half-Elf, but some things were better left unasked. At least, for the moment.
“You look beat. I’d offer you my bed, but all the other adventurers are waking up. They’ll be thumping around soon enough.”
Ryoka was pretty sure she could sleep underneath a railroad at the moment, but she still declined Ceria’s offer. Mostly because a railroad track might have less of a mess under it. Besides…she didn’t want to waste the moment.
“I’d like to talk some more about magic and look around the Adventurer’s Guild if that’s okay.”
“Of course. I’m free until Calruz finishes meeting with the other Silver-rank leaders. And besides, it’s breakfast and everyone should be downstairs. We can meet them and eat at the same time.”
Ceria didn’t notice the brief look of distaste that flicked across Ryoka’s face. The other girl didn’t want to go down and socialize, but she had no choice. Reluctantly, she followed Ceria down the stairs.
 
——
 
Damn. I hate talking to people. No—that’s not exactly right. I hate talking to people in groups. Individuals are fine. Ceria’s fine, Garia’s fine…Sostrom is fine because he fixed my phone…
…That’s about it. I’d be absolutely happy to talk to any one of them, but everyone else can go to hell rather than bother me. But instead, I get to follow Ceria down and socialize.
I hate that. But I do owe Ceria, not least because she’s helped me learn magic. Me. Learn magic*.
 
*If I weren’t so tired, I think I’d be running around waving my arms and screaming in a high-pitched voice**.
 
**Probably not. But I’m really, really excited. It’s magic! Magic! I wonder what spells I can learn and—damnit, here come people.
 
I follow Ceria down into the main section of the Adventurer’s Guild. The ground floor has an open lobby for people to either submit requests for assistance to the guild or adventurers to turn in bounties and collect rewards like the Runner’s Guild, but it also has more sections designed to cater to the adventuring lifestyle.
A small shop staffed by employees of the city’s guild is the last stop in the small corridor before we reached what I can only describe as a cafeteria. It’s a mess hall, but the way it’s set up immediately screams school cafeteria to me. And this is not a pleasant association.
The cafeteria is essentially one far wall with a noisy kitchen partially exposed to the room and a long counter where adventurers can pay for food without having to make their way to an inn. The Adventurer’s Guild in Esthelm is even big enough to have quite a few rooms for rent like the one Ceria was staying in. I suppose it all makes sense—you can earn even more money feeding the people who kill monsters for you.
As soon as Ceria and I step into the room, people turn and look. I guess it’s an adventurer thing—and a Runner thing, come to think of it—not to want to be caught off-guard.
But the truth of it is that Ceria and I would probably attract attention anywhere we go. Ceria is Ceria—half immortal and beautiful. And I’m…me. I’ve got bare feet, and I’m taller than a lot of the guys here. Plus, I look Asian, and this is a very Anglo-Saxon type of place*.
 
*Seriously. What’s up with that? Is it just a rule that white people are always the colonists who screw over the indigenous groups? I know Humans aren’t native to this continent, but does that also mean white—excuse me—caucasian** groups are the dominant ethnic group in this world? Or…is it mirroring our world somehow? Hm.
 
**Technically speaking, caucasian is also not politically correct since it implies someone who’s descended from the Caucasus region, which isn’t necessarily true. Plus, the word literally means white people, just without saying the word white overtly. The correct term here would be European-American, except that it doesn’t apply to people here since there is no America or Europe, which means that white people is the best damn word there is and stop thinking about this—
 
“Ryoka Griffin!”
I’m cut off from my incoherent musings when I hear someone talking to me. It’s a familiar voice, but that doesn’t mean I’m too happy to hear it. Still, I’ve got to play nice. And I do owe these people, even if it seems like half of them are a bit too interested in me as a member of the opposite sex.
So I smile, turn, and clasp hands with Gerial, Sostrom, and the other Horns of Hammerad as they get up from their seats. There are several people I don’t recognize, and they nod to me as Ceria and Gerial introduce them.
‘Hey, Ryoka, this is blah blah or someone someone who’s here to hit things or shoot people with arrows.’ I really don’t care, especially since I’m still hungry, tired, and grumpy at having to meet people. But I do owe the Horns, so I shake hands and smile and pretend I like them, which is not my strong suit.
…What’s wrong with me? Remember all that gratitude I was feeling—what,  a week ago? I remember it. I remember it—but the feeling’s gone.
What’s left is this desire to kick something. It’s like I’m surrounded by Persuas, but these people have done nothing to harm me. Except Ceria, but the mana-potions thing was an accident, and she just taught me magic.
But suddenly I just—can’t. I can’t do the social thing. You know how it’s said introverts lose energy by being around people and extroverts gain it? I must be on zero battery because I feel like every second I spend around these people smiling at me I’m breathing bile.
I have to get out of here—but because I like these fucking assholes, I’m staying put. I inhale, exhale—I hate them. I hate Garia, who punched out that asshole adventurer I should have kicked in the skull—I hate all of this.
I just want to run. Run until I’m tired and away and…I try to shake off this feeling. It’s fine.
I feel like this now and then. My parents can bring it out in about five seconds.
Everyone has days like this, right? 
I’m just tired. It was a mistake to say I wanted to check out the Adventurer’s Guild to Ceria. What I really should have said is that I want to look around really quickly, talk with her for three more hours, and then go to sleep for the rest of the day before doing anything else.
Instead, I’m stuck. And guess what? I forgot that people still hadn’t heard about me going through the High Passes, which means suddenly a bunch of annoying people want me to tell them exactly what happened.
“I ran into a bunch of Goblins, some wolves, some goats, and then some gargoyles. I just kept running, and then I got to my destination.”
Gerial makes a polite sound of disbelief while Ceria eyes me as she brings us some more food. Cafeteria food for adventurers. Lovely.
To be fair, it’s sausage, barley bread, and some vegetable soup steaming in a bowl. And some weak, minty drink people around here love. And that’s great cooking by medieval standards. A far higher standard of living than what poor people would have eaten all the time*.
 
*Barley. Barley bread, barley pizza, barley pancakes, barley soup…yeah. They didn’t have many options back then.
 
I eat it while they pester me with questions. The Horns of Hammerad have their own table, but it seems like a bunch of adventurers just happen to be standing around listening too.
“There’s got to be more than that. What kind of wolves were they? Normal kinds or were they actual monsters?”
I glance up at Gerial. He’s still smiling and trying to be Mr. Nice Guy. Okay, maybe he genuinely is nice, but I still don’t like him as easily as I do Ceria. Probably because he’s a guy and even he can’t resist staring at my breasts once or twice*.
 
*My eyes are up here. Not that I really want people to stare into my eyes. Over my shoulder is nice, but I’m used to them looking at my feet, too. And at least Gerial doesn’t stare much and stops when he realizes he is. That’s the sign of a semi-decent guy, as opposed to the other guy sitting next to him who can’t stop looking at them.
 
Okay, I realize what the problem is. I uncross my arms and stop leaning back in my chair. If you’ve got it, don’t flaunt it unless you want people to think about touching it. Or something.
“I don’t know. They were a lot bigger than normal wolves. And they had red fur.”
And bodies like iron. Gerial looks around. One of the mages standing next to Sostrom nods.
“Carn Wolves.”
“Got to be.”
Several of the nearby adventurers whistle, and Ceria looks pained. Oh yeah, she was really guilty about giving me those mana potions by accident. I told her it all worked out, but—
“They were pretty bad. They ate up the Goblins that ambushed me and then got torn to shreds by the Gargoyles and goats.”
The adventurers murmur again and look at each other. Gerial shakes his head and leans forwards, this time meeting my eyes.
“See, Gargoyles I understand. They’re terrifying monsters when you find one holed up in a cave or terrorizing a village. But goats? What do you mean, ‘goats’?”
“Probably the flesh-eating goats, the kind with sharp teeth that can tear even Carn Wolves apart. Eater Goats, they’re called.”
This comes from a guy standing among the other adventurers. He’s got a scar over one side of his face, and he’s wearing a longsword at his belt. Which means he’s pretty sparsely equipped compared to the rest of the adventurers, who’re walking around in chainmail or wearing leather armor even while they eat.
He nods at me as Gerial and the other Horns turn in their seats.
“Rois, Silver-rank adventurer. You must be the famous barefoot Runner. Were those the kind of goats you saw?”
I eye him. Despite the crowd now forming around our table, this guy is getting a bit of space and he’s not being shoved. Clearly, he’s important.
“Yeah. I guess. They had sharp teeth. And they scream.”
The scarred guy nods grimly.
“That’s them alright. Those goats hunt in packs and can climb anything. They’re village killing monsters. Whenever they leave the High Passes, they eat everything edible in their wake for miles around. If you outran them, Miss Runner, consider yourself lucky.”
All of the adventurers seem impressed at this. The scarred man seems to have fought the damned goats more than once, and Gerial and the others start asking him questions about them.
I lean over to Ceria.
“Who’s he?”
She pauses, swallows, and glances at the scarred guy who’s busy talking about how to behead the goats properly.
“He’s Rois, captain of the Swordlock Dogs. A Silver-rank team, more known up north. He was supposed to be talking to Calruz and the others, but—”
“Okay, okay. You got through the monsters, but what was waiting for you at the other end?”
Ceria breaks off as one of the newer members of the Horns of Hammerad interrupts our conversation. Rude asshole. He’s also the youngest guy with scruffy, brownish hair. He stares at me and demands to know who I met.
“Who was he? Some rich hermit? A mage living in retirement? A shadowy figure?”
