After two hours of talking, the shouting began—and stopped almost as fast. Tempers had risen—and no sooner did a chair scrape back than they all caught each other and took a second to breathe.
The six people sat around a table and studied each other carefully. They were all warriors, and all but one of them was Human. And while some of them were friends with each other, they weren’t here to socialize. This was business, and right now, they were all arguing about one thing.
The first to break the silence was the Minotaur. Calruz, captain of the Horns of Hammerad, wasn’t one for waiting at the best of times, and his patience was already stretched thin. He hit the large table in the Adventurer’s Guild lightly—at least in the sense that his fist didn’t crack the wood. Two of the other adventurer captains jumped from the impact as everyone stared at him.
“Have you no spines? Here is the opportunity of a lifetime, and you all hesitate to step forwards! Grab your axes, and let’s enter these ruins already!”
The woman sitting next to him shook her head. She was a fair-skinned woman with blonde hair and polished silver armor, completely contrasting against Calruz’s bare chest and impatient nature. But he and she were in agreement.
“Most of us don’t use axes, Calruz. And while you have a point, recklessness is the exact reason everyone else is hesitating. We need to move carefully, and I’m saying it can be done. But—together. No running over people’s chances to speak.”
The Minotaur glared sideways at the woman, but he was wise enough not to attack his only ally in the room. He subsided back into his chair, grumbling.
“If we don’t get in there first, some Gold-rank team is going to organize an expedition and grab everything before we do!”
One of the captains sitting across the table shook his head. He was an archer, at least from the large longbow resting against the table next to him. He was tired—not only from organizing this meeting, but from riding all the way here from Liscor to meet everyone. Without Skills to aid his travel, it had been a day-long ride with little breaks. Even so—he was cautious and moderated his arguments. Because he had seen what Calruz was speaking so eagerly about with his own eyes.
“That’s what Charlez said. He took his entire group in right off, and they came back as zombies. Not a scratch on their weapons, but their armor was nearly ripped off. We all know what that means.”
“I don’t. Stop talking in riddles and spell it out for me.”
One of the adventurer captains leaned forwards. He was a burly man with an axe nearly as large as Calruz’s strapped to his back. He glowered at the archer-captain.
This time, it was the man in robes sitting next to him that answered the captain. Captain Menes was a spellcaster, a decent one, but Silver-rank. Not Wistram-trained but bookish, like most [Mages].
“What it means, Gregor, is that whatever Charlez and his group ran into, they didn’t even get a chance to fight back before it ripped them to pieces. And then something—it might have been another monster or the same one—reanimated them and sent them back out. That’s a serious threat.”
“And above our ability.”
That came from a scarred man who only wore a longsword at his side. Captain Rois. He wasn’t armored like the other adventurer captains, but then, he clearly didn’t feel the need while they were sitting in an Adventurer’s Guild talking. He folded his arms and shook his head at Calruz and the only female captain, Yvlon.
“We’ve all heard of how many Bronze-rank teams and individuals have been lost in those damned Ruins so far. True, most of them rushed in, but Charlez was different. He was experienced, and he went in prepared to retreat. Whatever got him was deadly. And you’re proposing we go in without knowing what the hell is down there?”
The woman in silver armor shook her head. She had the emblem of her noble house emblazoned on her armor, and so the others were slightly deferential—but only just. They were all adventurers, here.
“Silver and steel, Rois, haven’t you been listening this entire time? I’m not saying go in blind! The exact opposite! I’m proposing we join together and launch a six-team raid on those ruins. We stock up on supplies, pool our best warriors, and fortify along the way as we go as far as we can.” 
She glanced at Cervial, the [Archer Captain], for confirmation that she was on-track with his proposal and got a nod.
“We’ll have a far better chance if we work together, and the Ruins are practically untouched beyond the first level. I hear Liscor doesn’t want to investigate themselves and is leaving everything up to the adventurers. If we want to get to whatever treasures are buried in there, now’s our chance.”
Calruz nodded emphatically, but the others didn’t appear convinced. Cervial leaned forwards and addressed the table at large.
“Why not let the other adventurers go in first and wait for at least one or two to come back for more insight? I know I organized us to talk—but I’m still not sold myself. This isn’t like you, Yvlon. I could see Calruz wanting to go in, but how’d he manage to talk you into it?”
Yvlon, the woman in silver armor, smiled at the other captain.
“Impatience and daring, Cervial. I was excited as the rest of you when I heard about the ruins. But you’re right. I am moving fast, but not because Calruz managed to talk me into it. I heard there’s a team of Gold-rank adventurers who’ll be here in a week or less.”
That caused a stir at the table. The other captains muttered, and not happily too.
“Well that changes things.”
“Does it? Not in my opinion. The Ruins are still too dangerous.”
“But letting a bunch of Golds take all the treasure? That’s different. Are they bound from the City of Adventurers?”
“Almost definitely. But that’s not all I’ve heard. And my news is more disturbing.”
This time, it was the Menes who spoke up. He glanced around the table and raised a finger significantly. The tip of it sparked with magic. 
“There’s a Named-rank adventurer in the city right now. You might have heard of her. Gazi the Omniscient.”
All the captains fell silent. Gregor’s lips moved soundlessly with awe and trepidation. Gazi the—
Of course they knew her. That—that changed things.
Gold-rank was as high as most ranking systems allowed for in any continent. As a general rule of thumb, a Bronze-rank adventuring team wasn’t much better than a group of rookies, while a Silver-rank team was more than a match for a small city’s standing militia. The equipment and magic available to a group of adventurers like the Horns of Hammerad meant that they could take on challenges even a large garrison might not manage.
Beyond that, Gold-rank adventurers were experienced, highly-trained groups that could handle most monster threats with ease. At the top of that grouping, teams of adventurers were equivalent to small armies and could affect disputes between nations.
Some countries quibbled about the exact definitions of each rank and had different ways of grading the ranks—but in practice, they were all able to fit in these three categories to a certain degree of expectation. But once you surpassed a certain level of prowess, you got given a new title.
Named-rank Adventurer.
In practice, they were called that because their names were known throughout the part of the world where they travelled. They were living legends to adventurers with short careers like the Silver-rank captains in the room. There was no higher rank, no loftier expectation. One of them could do what teams of Gold-ranks could not.
They were famous, like Deniusth the Violinist, Saliss of Lights—and Gazi was famous enough to be known continents away.
Captain Rois broke the silence first. He checked his longsword and exhaled hard.
“Well, that’s different. Very different. If a Named adventurer is in the city, there’s probably only one real reason why she’s there: the ruins. But the real question is why hasn’t she gone in yet?”
Captain Menes lifted his hand.
“I’ll tell you why. It’s because she’s being cautious. And if a Named adventurer doesn’t want to go in just yet—”
Cervial hesitated.
“She might not have any idea what’s down there. It could be fine. They’re not all-knowing. I mean, despite her name.”
No one laughed at the joke. Gregor licked his lips nervously. Gazi had spooked him.
“Or there could be monsters that would make the High Passes look like a small bear cave by comparison! No! My group won’t take part.”
“You coward, Gregor. Where’s your sense of pride as a warrior?”
Calruz raised his voice and aimed it at the captain with the axe. The man flushed red and pushed his chair back angrily, but Menes put a hand on Gregor’s shoulder.
“None of us are cowards, and you’d do well to remember that before tossing around insults, Calruz. But this changes things.”
“Only if you’re taking the worst view of it.”
This came from Cervial. He was thinking, stroking the handle of his bow thoughtfully as he spoke.
“I might, might be willing to give this a try. I’ve wasted enough time in Liscor to see that the other teams aren’t organized. Charlez was brave—but he went in alone, with only his team for backup. The Horns of Hammerad and the Silver Spears together represent a large fighting force. If I throw in my team, we’d have a party big enough to challenge even the deeper parts of the Ruins of Albez.”
“Don’t be stupid, Cervial. You can’t expect these ruins to be the same.”
Cervial shook his head at Menes—the [Mage] was appalled, but the other captains were listening hard.
“I’m not suggesting they are. But between our three teams, we’re at least equal to one or two Gold-rank teams, and if the rest of you joined in it might work. Might.”
Calruz leaned forwards and addressed Cervial.
“If you’re with us, I’ll want your full commitment, not uncertain promises. My team has heard my decision, and they are with us. If you lack their spirit, we do not need you.”
Yvlon winced, and Menes shook his head, pushing himself back from the table. Calruz was no negotiator. But Cervial didn’t seem to have taken much offense. He studied Calruz and then asked a question.
“What does Ceria Springwalker think about the Ruins?”
That caused another pause in the room. All eyes turned to Calruz. The Minotaur’s nostrils flared, and he snorted angrily.
“Ceria does not lead the Horns of Hammerad. I do.”
Captain Rois had paused, his chair scraping on the floorboards. He sat down thoughtfully, and Menes joined him. Rois looked at Calruz.
“Yes, but she’s got more experience adventuring, and she’s older than any two of us in this room put together. If she thinks it’s worth the risk, I’ll throw in with this plan.”
Gregor the axe-captain stared incredulously from Calruz to Cervial. He stood up.
“You’re all crazy, and whatever’s down there is going to eat you alive. I’m out, and so is my party.”
Yvlon shook her head, distraught. She glanced at the mage captain hopefully.
“Menes? You with us? Listen. This is the kind of thing that puts a team on the map. My brother’s team, the Silver Swords? They didn’t become Gold-ranks turning down chances like this.”
Everyone glanced up, because Yvlon had invoked a famous name. The Silver Swords. Gold-ranks. Menes hesitated brushing at his robes and then shook his head reluctantly.
“I’m sorry, but Gregor’s right. It’s too risky, and my group needs more space to cast our spells. If we knew for certain what was below, I’d join you. Cervial, you should think this through as well.”
The archer-captain paused and then shrugged.
“I understand, but I’ll trust our resident half-Elf on this one. If she thinks it’s worth the risk, I’ll take my team in, cramped corridors or not. How often do you think we’ll get a chance like this?”
His words went unanswered. Gregor and Menes left the room, shaking their heads and talking to each other quietly. After a moment, the scarred captain stood up and followed after them, leaving the three captains behind.
“Well, that could have gone better.”
Yvlon leaned over the table despondently as Calruz glared at the closed door.
“We don’t need cowards. If they lack the courage to risk their lives, we were better off without them to begin with. Such weakness would only drag us down.”
“Yes, but now we have to fill their holes with Bronze-rank teams, and that is weakness. I guess it’ll come down to how many freelancers are hanging around the ruins. We’ll need more mages and more front-line fighters. At least we’ve got one team who can detect and disarm traps.”
Cervial raised one hand warningly.
“If—”
“Yes, if Ceria thinks it’s worthwhile. But I believe these Ruins might even be bigger than Albez, don’t you?”
“Then why didn’t Ceria join us and lend her support while we were all arguing? If she had—”
Calruz snorted.
“Bah. She wanted to stay in Celum. Now she’s pacing around the Runner’s Guild.”
“Why?”
“She was waiting for a Runner to come back. She made a mistake and gave her mana potions instead of healing potions right before she ran into the High Passes.”
The two other captains blanched. Cervial shook his head sadly, but Calruz was unaffected.
“I told her it would not matter. This Runner is no coward like the others. Mistake or not, she will survive the journey. And meanwhile, we have an expedition to prepare.”
“You seem awfully confident about that, Calruz. The High Passes are no joke. If it were there we were going to explore, I wouldn’t feel comfortable even with all three of our teams working together.”
“She will survive. She is a Human worthy of my admiration and respect. She will survive.”
Yvlon raised her eyebrows at Cervial. It was rare that anyone heard Calruz talking about any Human positively, let alone like this.
“This wouldn’t happen to be that barefoot Runner I’ve heard so much about, would it? Was that the one who bailed your group out when you were fighting that Lich?”
“The very same. Her name is Ryoka Griffin, and she is fearless.”
Cervial’s fingers snapped together lightly. The other two captains looked at him in surprise.
“I wondered where I’d seen her face. That girl—I believe I saw her last night. She ran straight into the city just before dawn. She’s here now, in fact. I saw her entering the guild.”
Calruz’s eyes widened. His mouth fell slightly open. The Minotaur’s long, tufted ears went very still. He blinked at Cervial and then turned his eyes upwards to the ceiling.
“Ryoka Griffin is here?”
 
——
 
