Like hell I’m going to tell him or anyone for that matter. The mystery, possibly-elf archmage Teriarch might annoy me, but he’s my mystery.
“No one special.”
While I may not like people, I am good at keeping a straight face while I tell lies*. And at least here I can play the Runner’s confidentiality card, so I don’t have to answer any more questions about him at least.
 
*Lies like ‘oh, I’m so sorry your stupid hamster died’, or ‘I just cannot believe your stupid, inbred boyfriend dumped you! How terrible!’ And so on.
 
“But Gargoyles? I’ve never seen one up close. What were they like?”
“Big. Stone. They spit rocks and try to eat you.”
What the hell do they want from me, a hand-drawn portrait with anatomical references? …Hell, I’d buy a monster bestiary if they had one around here. But all these adventurers want to know is how to kill one, and I’m definitely not the person to ask for that.
“I barely got out alive. It was sheer luck that I got away.”
“I happen to disagree with that. Anyone who can outrun a horde of Gargoyles is clearly not merely lucky.”
This time, the clear voice comes from behind the other adventurers. People turn and stand aside as they do as three adventurers walk forwards. That probably also has to do with one of them being Calruz. No one gets in his way.
Calruz, a guy holding a huge longbow as tall as he is, and a woman in silvery armor walk to the table I’m sitting at. Great. More people, and these ones also look like captains. The woman with long flowing blonde hair smiles down at me and offers a gauntleted hand.
“Yvlon Byres, Silver-rank adventurer. I’m Captain of the Silver Spears, and I wanted to make your acquaintance.”
My god does she look like something out of a movie. I stare up at her with crumbs on my face and then take her hand. One firm handshake later and somehow she and the other captains are sitting at the table.
Great. As if my trials weren’t enough. Now I’ve got Calruz sitting next to me, and a giant, hairy Minotaur is not my preferred seatmate. And now there are four Silver-rank adventuring captains sitting around me, nicely blocking me off from Ceria while a bunch of people stare at me like I’m some kind of amazingly interesting piece of crap*.
 
*Or something else. Honestly, I could be a golden poodle for all I care. I hate being stared at when I’m not running, and even then it’s not exactly a blast. But at least then I can outrun the eyes.
 
“Getting through the High Passes alive is something that hasn’t been done in years. Not that many Runners have tried it, but it takes a special kind of someone to do that.”
Calruz snorted, and the other adventurers nodded as Yvlon, the fabulously armored and beautiful captain, continues lavishing praise on me. It’s actually getting to be more annoying than the questions.
“It was a request. I got it done—half-done. I just need to finish my delivery, and it’ll be over.”
“Really?”
This time, everyone is interested. One of the adventurers tries to look casual.
“Where to? Whom to?”
“Confidential.”
Their faces fall. But I don’t think any of them were really expecting to get the truth out of me anyways. But at the mention of the delivery, the ring and letter I’ve been given burn in my mind. I left them in the pack in Ceria’s room. Damn. I should have been more careful with them. I’ve got to deliver—
I blink, unfocused for a second. The spell. For a moment, I was about to get up and start running. That stupid mage—
“Ryoka?”
I look up. Everyone’s staring at me. I must have not been paying attention. I try not to turn red, fail, and look at Yvlon.
“Sorry, what?”
This is why I hate talking to people. But she smiles as if nothing happened and asks me again.
“I was just wondering if you had any levels in a fighting class or whether you only had levels as a Runner. Did you enter into any other classes before this?”
Now that is a loaded question that I’m not prepared to answer. I scramble—give up.
“Why do you want to know?”
Yeah, that’s right. I’m about as blunt as a hammer to the face. But Yvlon only smiles.
“Simple curiosity. I’d like to see how well you’d do in a fight. I’m told you’re quite the pugilist despite being a Runner.”
Pugilist? Who the hell uses that term? Oh, right. ‘Boxer’ probably hasn’t been invented yet.
Gerial looks blank. He and the other adventurers at the table exchange a glance.
“What’s a ‘pugilist’?”
Ceria sighed and supplied the answer.
“Boxer.”
All the adventurers nod in sudden understanding. Okay, maybe boxing does exist in this world and Yvlon’s just a prat. Or someone who appreciates literature. I could respect that*.
 
*But I won’t. I’m too tired. And pugilist is a stupid word, anyways.
 
“Who’d you hear that from?”
Word can’t have spread about me laying the beat down on that stupid adventurer in Celum. No way. I literally outran rumor. So how does this woman know who I am and that I can fight?
“I heard it from my aunt twice-removed. She lets me know about interesting people, and she told me it would be worth seeking you out.”
All the adventurers seem to understand this and look at me curiously. But I’m still out of the loop.
“Who’s the aunt? Do I know her?”
Ceria coughed gently, as if I’m making a stupid mistake.
“Yvlon Byres is leader of the Silver Spears, but she’s also part of a noble family, Ryoka. House Byres. Up north. They deal in…silver I think?”
I look blank. Ceria sighs.
“The Byres family? Aristocracy?”
“Minor aristocracy.”
Yvlon corrects Ceria with a smile.
“We’re practically unheard of. My sister’s a [Merchant], and my brother’s a [Knight]. We have relatives, but it’s a small family. We trade in silver and have several large mines in the area. And we’re distantly related to the Reinharts.”
She says that as if it means something. The who…?
Oh. Ah, shit. Magnolia’s last name is Reinhart, isn’t it? That means—
That fucking woman. Even when I think I’ve outrun her she manages to find someone to bother me.
For a moment, my scowl flashes across my face, and Gerial closes his mouth and sits back. Yvlon eyes me, the smile still fixed on her face.
“I’m sorry if my aunt has bothered you, Ryoka, but she’s quite insistent. And she’s told all of my family—everyone, really, to keep an eye out for you.”
Gerial blinks at Yvlon. Not the quickest on the uptake, and nor are the other adventurers. But the archer-guy—Cervial I think his name was—and Ceria both stare intently at Yvlon. And so does Calruz. I guess he’s pretty quick too.
But if Ceria and Cervial say nothing, Calruz doesn’t have their subtlety. Or any, for that matter. He rests his arm on the table and leans forwards—which is only a little bit since he’s so massive already—to stare down at Yvlon.
“Her business is her own. If Magnolia Reinhart seeks Ryoka Griffin, she should either respect her privacy or seek her outright.”
Yvlon makes a pretty face and shrugs ruefully at Calruz.
“Sorry, Calruz, but no one in my family defies Lady Magnolia. And I wasn’t intending on doing anything to Ryoka. I just wanted to know if she really was good at fighting barehanded.”
“And I suppose you are?”
Again, maybe she’s well known, but everyone gives me a look like I’m a massive idiot. Yvlon smiles.
“I’ve got a bit of a reputation. The Silver Spears are known for fighting with any weapon that comes to hand and barehanded if need be.”
Sostrom nudges me on my right side and mutters loud enough for me to hear.
“She once defeated five bandits with only her bare hands after losing her sword.”
Wow. Wooooow. And am I supposed to be impressed by that? Beating five guys down with your bare hands isn’t exactly amazing in my book. And it’s less amazing because Yvlon Byres is wearing full-plate armor made out of expensive metal. If she was fighting ‘barehanded’ with those metal gauntlets on against five guys with bad weapons, I’d put money on her too.
Perhaps my lack of any amazement showed*, because Yvlon raised one perfect eyebrow, and the other adventurers looked—discontented. Why? Because I’m not impressed by a chump in armor smacking around a few idiots?
 
*It totally did. I was not impressed.
 
“I heard that you managed to defeat a low-level [Assassin] with your bare hands and fought a Carn Wolf without any weapons as well.”
This time, everyone goes silent. Okay, that’s it. Magnolia has been upgraded from a person I really don’t want to talk to into someone I can’t ignore. The assassin is one thing since I bet she hired him, but—how did she know about the wolf?
“I’d love to see your abilities myself. I know you’re tired, but if you have time for a quick match, I could give you a handicap.”
There’s no malice in Yvlon’s tone. In fact, she’s been pretty above-board with me about telling me she knows Magnolia and all. And it’s probably a fair offer, considering adventurer levels and all that. Certainly none of the other adventurers—Gerial, Sostrom, etcetera are frowning. Only Calruz looks displeased.
But—a handicap. A handicap for me from this woman who looks like a supermodel who got sent back in time? Or one of those Hollywood female knights?
Right, that’s it. I’m tired, cranky, and I ran over sixty miles last night to get here after fighting a mysterious assassin, getting in a bar fight, and managing to cast magic for the first time in my life.
First things first. I’m going to kick Yvlon’s face in, challenge Calruz to a fight, and then go to sleep.
Exactly in that order.
The potion bottle at my waist sloshes gently as I grin with all my teeth at Ms. Perfect Knight-Adventurer.
“Why, I’d love to have a sparring match. Tell me, have you ever heard the word MMA?”
She looks confused.
“MMA?”
