She had her reservations about picking Jorani to lead, she disliked the look of him. Hunched and wicked, his face displayed a constant sneer, unworthy of trust. Chey would have made a better leader, Rain's sexist outlook revealed. To make matters worse, Rain lent forty of his retinue to him, led by Bulat and Ravil. True, after exchanging their leather armor for bandit rags and quins for horses, Rain's soldiers looked the part, but they were growing far too familiar with the bandits for her liking. Rain should be surrounded by noble and heroic warriors, not scruffy, reprehensible thugs. What if they joined him after all this? Or worse, Rain joined them and became a bandit? He seemed to enjoy these devious schemes and cared little for honour or reputation, she could see him choosing the life of an outlaw, slipping deeper into their ways as time passed. What if he grew to be the shame of the People, a lusty and unstoppable gangster, raping and pillaging without mercy?

Auric padded over to her with a tiny purse in his mouth, butting her gently as he arrived. If only Rain would teach them something useful, he had a way with the animals. Taking the purse, she emptied the coins out and counted them, before showing them to Song who nodded and began brushing Auric, the 200 kilogram wildcat rumbling loudly with contentment. Seeing their brother receive Song's attentions, Jimu crawled out of a pile of lazing quins and the sole female leaped from her perch in the trees to stalk over.  Song still had yet to name the girl, but Mila didn't mind too much. It was a large decision for someone who was unused to making any decisions at all.

The tawny she-cat's instincts for the hunt were growing by the day while Jimu and Auric still behaved like juveniles, likely due to Rain's coddling. Stupid blockhead, he gave so much attention to these ugly cats and that fat quin. Why didn't he pamper her like that? She wouldn't mind being spoiled by him, although it would have to be in private. She had a reputation to maintain, after all.

His fur brushed, Auric made happy noises while rubbing against Mila's leg, begging for affection. Unable to resist, she crouched down and ran her fingers across his head, his eyes closed in contentment as he chuffed. He was far from beautiful, his legs too long and head too big, but he was endearing. Hopefully in a few years, he would grow into his body and look suitably majestic and fearsome.

Yuzhen's voice sounded from behind her, Auric's eyes snapping open to watch the stranger. “It amazes me how well-trained these animals are. The quins too, you don't even tie them up at night, it's incredible.”

Keeping her hand on Auric's neck, she turned to nod at the older woman. “The quins could chew through steel chains, there's no point tying them up. Come greet Auric, he's nervous around strangers but once he's accustomed to your scent and voice, he'll relax. Just this one here though, the others are more feral.”

Tentatively moving closer, Yuzhen extended her hand slowly, crouching down before Auric. She was so beautiful, even fully armored, Mila both envied and admired her greatly. An accomplished, talented, independent half-beast woman, fighting against chauvinism and injustice. An incredible talent, if she married one of the People then they would gain yet another powerful ally in the Empire. Gerel was the only unmarried man with sufficient renown, but he was so cold and indifferent, they were too similar to work well together.

While Auric sniffed at Yuzhen's hand, Mila struggled internally with her curiosity, not wanting to criticize or disrespect the heroic woman. Smiling, Yuzhen looked Mila in the eye and spoke. “So you're Lieutenant General Akanai's daughter? I must say I admire her greatly.”

Blushing, Mila lowered her head. “Thank you, Mama thinks highly of your administrative talents, and when we get back, I'll be sure to tell her about your military accomplishments too.”

“Ah, to be honest, this is my first military command. Ever. I earned my rank the way nobles do, in a duel overseen by neutral experts. This plan of Rain's has me in nervous fits, I wake up sweating and panting every night thinking about it.”

“Then why go through with this?” The words escaped her before she hold them back, and Mila's cheeks burned even hotter.

“Because I believe it will work. With 3,000 soldiers and the other nine Warrant Officers patrolling between Sanshu and Jiu Lang, that leaves us free to wander the Golden Highlands without worry.” Yuzhen smiled as Auric presented his flank for her to pet, and she sank her hand into his fur. “With the bandits under oath of secrecy, even if they're captured, nothing will come of it. I only wish we could communicate faster, I can't use any of my soldiers for this to work. That way, I can honestly swear that no one under my command is colluding with bandits, since Rain isn't technically under my command. Besides, I like the poetry of robbing Sanshu with the same thieves that they used to rob us.”

“You don't find it... distasteful? A warrior should be forthright and honourable, not... this.” Mila's momentum deflated when she realized she might insult Yuzhen, or worse, insult her betrothed in front of a stranger.

“I used to think the same way, reading stories about the righteous heroes fighting against dastardly villains. I loved them as a child, but as I grew older, the world became less black and white, with infinite shades of grey.” Her lips pursed, Yuzhen paused to think. “If I were to act honourably and guard the roads, then what will I accomplish? The supplies will reach the Bridge, but once we leave, the merchants of Sanshu will resume their exploits, so I would be stuck here indefinitely. I have five thousand troops, not many in the grand scheme of things, but every warrior counts when fighting the Defiled. These indolent, shortsighted merchants think of nothing but their pockets, so to be heard, I must strike there.”

“Aren't you worried about breaking the law?”

“That's the best part, I studied the matter thoroughly. Even if we're somehow miraculously tied to Jorani, technically, we're not breaking military law. Until those supplies reach Shen Yun, they're civilian property, a matter to be tried by the Magistrate of Sanshu, and he won't dare put a bounty on myself or any of the Officers, it would mean his death going against the Society. At best, he'll put a price on Jorani and we kill him and collect it, adding insult to injury before putting someone else in charge. It's flawless, the bandits steal and deliver the goods to an outpost north of Shen Yun, to be delivered to the Bridge, meaning the goods never enter the city. Therefore, our contract with the Council of Three is never fulfilled, for which I made sure the penalties were staggering. The other Warrant Officers never find out, and Rain holds enough renown to resist any pressure the Council of Three can bring to bear. In the end, they're only civilians. I want to see the look on their faces when they realize the pounding we've given them. Their ass-holes will be bruised and swoll-.” Coughing politely, Yuzhen composed herself as Mila looked on in shock. Yuzhen seemed so prim and proper, to hear her speak such foul language was scandalous.

Mila burst into a fit of giggles and Yuzhen smiled sheepishly. After catching her breath, Mila asked, “What about the real bandits? Why aren't we going after them?”

“We will. In fact, that's why I'm here, to find Rain and the others. Bandits aren't the type to prepare for the long haul and we've waited long enough. Their warehouses will soon be emptied and they'll grow hungry, setting out to plunder and pillage. We only need wait for them to come to us, and then their heads will roll.” A devilish smile crossed her lovely face and Mila smiled with her. “Any captured bandits will be sent to join Jorani, to better aid him in taking the shipments. It doesn't matter if they die, they'd hang in Sanshu regardless.”

She was wrong to doubt, Rain was more suited for command than she was for now, far thinking and merciless. “Major Yuzhen, would you be willing to take me as an aide? I'd love for the opportunity to learn at your side, and I promise you won't be disappointed.”

Surprised, Yuzhen tilted her head and shrugged, before putting an arm around Mila. “Of course. First order of business, Aide Sumila, help me find that rascal Rain and his brother Officers. We've work to do.”

Skipping off, Mila smiled as Auric hopped along beside her, thinking they were playing a game. A weight was lifted from her chest, her worries alleviated and soon her boredom as well. What's more, she'd found a counsellor in Yuzhen, a woman whose blood thirst and intelligence rivalled Mama's, along with a willingness to explain herself.

Ah, if only there were more single, heroic men among the People. Yuzhen was a terrific woman, and any man who earned her affection was blessed by the Mother, that was for sure.

Chapter Meme
