The spellforms were extensive in a way that mirrored the complexity of Tala’s own undertaking writ large—if for vastly different reasons.

Still, even without intimate familiarity, Tala was able to see the three command and control points laid into the floor, forged of copper. These three would ignite the city’s magics, and then they’d become self-sustaining, free of the influence of any save the City Stone holder, when Master Jevin arrived with the Makinaven stone in another thirty-five years.

Until then, the power would simply be used by the city, slowly building to the point it could nurture and meld with the Stone.

Not that he’ll stay around much.

-Yeah… Well, he’ll be here near the beginning of the cycle, once he arrives of course. Didn’t he say he likes roaming around near the edge of the forest during the Leshkin Wars?-

You know he did. I imagine being too far from the tree isn’t fun either, but he makes that sacrifice for the betterment of those living here.

-...Yeah.-

We’re still not taking up a City Stone.

-I know. I think we’d hate it… Rane and Enar aren’t interested either.-

…Yeah. I mean, if they really wanted to…

-But they don’t.-

Exactly.

At least, that’s how it had been explained to Tala. She didn’t truly understand the intricate mechanics of the process, but that was fine.

As the three Paragons took their places, Master Tingain stepped forward, clearing his throat and gaining everyone’s attention. “Greetings, Mistresses, Masters, ladies, and gentlemen. I won’t take but a moment of your time. I know you aren’t here to hear me speak.”

There was a ripple of a few chuckles through the room.

“Thank you all for coming to the celebration of our city’s true founding. With the ignition of these magics, our citizens will finally enjoy the safety of a full city, and the real work can begin.”

Cheers rose at that, many glasses rising in a salute to the idea.

“First, we want to thank the Felsen clan for all of their work in shoring up the bedrock beneath the city and creating the walls that will aid in keeping the citizens of this fair city safe. Without their aid, our foundations would be weaker, and our city lesser.”

That sent a larger wave of cheers through the room, which Tala thought was a bit backward. But that was fine. It was easier to applaud individuals than a concept. Scattered around the gathering, a large group of Mages and Archons—all sharing obviously familial features—waved, bowed, and otherwise showed humble acknowledgement of the gratitude.

“We also would like to extend a special thanks to the Sappherrous family and the good people of Ironhold for their delivery of goods and citizens as well as their partnership with us over these last weeks. We are eternally grateful for their assistance, and we will mourn their departure.”

Another round of cheering ensued, and she and the others bowed in acknowledgement and acceptance of the gratitude.

“Finally, I would like to thank all of you, whether newly arrived or among the first arrivals, for your work and dedication to get us to this moment. The journey is just beginning, and may the next centuries bring prosperity to all who settle in this city.”

The last wave of celebration was the largest yet, and it only calmed down when the trio began to work their magics.

Their gates were thrown wide, and the entire throughput was funneled down into the waiting scripts. Beyond that, their magical density was bent toward the working as well, their bodies beginning to slowly drain.

Beneath them—and stoneward—the wisps of power that had been gathering, and from which the anemic magical grid was already pulling, drew together, condensing and dropping further stoneward, deepening the magical well and increasing the pull on all the gated within the bounds of the city’s magics.

Even though it was disparate, the sheer quantity of more than twenty-five years of accumulation dwarfed the contributions of the three Paragons, as it all sank into the workings beneath the city.

With a resonant thrum, the inscriptions ignited, the magic flowing outward from the central point.

Pressure like the hand of a Sovereign briefly washed outward, and the magical defenses were triggered to strike in dozens of places all across new Makinaven.

Apparently, for all the Defenders’ diligence, there had been a good number of threats still within the bounds of the city, but that was to be expected.

For a brief moment, as the magics were sparking to life one after another, Tala felt the city draw together on a Reality level, all the uninscribed gated becoming—in a sense—one from the perspective of the magics, becoming a singular, collective gate at the heart of the city’s inscriptions.

Oh, oh! That’s how it fits?

-Fascinating.-

The being that was this city took a metaphorical breath, the various humans’ affiliation with the city giving them unity of purpose and opening them even further to the draw.

Then, the obscuring scripts received their power, and Tala’s view on the collective ‘being’ of the city faded, leaving her utterly awed at the scope and depth of what she had just witnessed.
