The [Blademaster] choked. Sprigaena gave the Gnoll a blank but concerned look. She peered up at the Human and shaded her eyes.
“I take it that is a sign of his power. He is…warping magic itself. I have seen greater magical power in one place only a few times. Even among the divine. That one could do such terrible devastation it might sunder an entire continent.”
“Or kill magic.”
The Gnoll muttered grimly. Sprigaena looked at him and had an idea.
“Not if he does it where reality begins to fray at the edges. Can he direct the devastation?”
“I doubt it—”
Sprigaena was already taking to the air. She flew at the [Mage], as did many ghosts, trying to stop him from destroying everything. Magic burned them from the skies; he was casting hundreds of spells at once. Sprigaena cut through spell after spell and reached the man.
“Mage of Magic’s End, you must not destroy the world!”
“Leave me be—Elf? An Elf?”
The Mage of Magic’s End did a double-take and that was enough. Sprigaena lifted her blade.
“Put your spell in my sword, and I will cut that Devourer down.”
“What? What? Let you swing a spell like some neophyte [Spellsword]? You can’t just—”
Both dodged as the Devourer of Time looked in their direction. Everything across the world froze and then vaporized in a cone of destruction. It was just as well they were high up. If it looked down—
The Mage of Magic’s End sighed as Sprigaena caught him.
“I never meant to. I was so close. Aim the spell?”
“Yes.”
Sprigaena held out her sword. The great mage hesitated, then closed his eyes. He drew on the fabric of reality to fuel that spell. The Grand Design had gifted him power beyond any Elf, Dragon, and even some of the divine. Even if he didn’t know how to use it…Sprigaena looked at him.
“…But why?”
The [Mage] looked up, confused.
“I just wanted to seek the heart of it. Magic. I…”
Then he twisted. Sprigaena swung her blade down with a cry, but it was too late.
Tamaroth, the God of Rulers, touched the Mage of Magic’s End. He reached for her and recoiled as a blade scored across one arm. He retreated as the soul quavered there a moment.
The ghost refused to go. His soul wavered there a moment. Fading—fighting—
“Damn you. I—”
Then it was gone. The God of Rulers exhaled and laughed.
“Stronger.”
A howling Dragon flew upwards and exhaled straight at Tamaroth. The God of Rulers shielded his face, but he did not scream as the golden flames licked at him. He had just eaten one of the greatest ghosts here.
“Tamaroth! I fight for reality’s sake, and you strike the people you swore to protect?”
Sprigaena called out as she fled the God of Rulers. He descended, and the ghosts scattered.
“I shall protect them all, Sprigaena. Take my hand and leave existence to me. That one will not stand long against us with even a fraction of our strength. You were loyal to the end.”
The God of Rulers smiled at Sprigaena. For answer, she lifted her sword.
“I was. Yet when we were poised on victory, even then you had no mercy. Afterwards, I walked among a world built on your Grand Design and saw the broken realms from the war close every gate. We have left nothing but destruction. How can you not weep for it?”
For answer, the bearded man simply shrugged, and his eyes were that gaze she had learned to despair and regret ever trusting. Open, almost innocent of guilt. Vast as forever.
“We are gods. This is our right. Come, Sprigaena.”
She dove with a cry, and her sword aimed at the only foe she could lift it against. Not him. Not even now. He had been her beloved friend, her inspiration and purpose.
He had been her god. Now, Sprigaena fled him, and the God of Rulers cursed her, cursed his fate, cursed…everything but himself.
“Damn the Gnomes. All these traitors to glory. Almost. I almost walked the world.”
Almost. What was happening with that body now? After all, there was one of the six who had not been seen. Emerrhain had…vanished, and that truth made Tamaroth nervous, for he feared the Gnomes had aught to do with it. But there was one more.
The Goddess of Youth and Last Stands. The Patron of Glorious Souls. First of the Hunt. The youngest of the six, who had ever been neutral, choosing sides as she willed. Daughter born of death and battle. Kasigna’s wayward rebel.
Cauwine.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five days before Fetohep of Khelt’s great ride, as the first Seamwalkers appeared over the world’s edge, an [Emperor] sat uneasily upon a throne. He received a [Message] as he held court. But he already knew something was wrong.
 
I dream of it, sometimes. Not the moment itself, but I have nightmares. All allegorical. I am walking through Riverfarm, tracing a path with the [Emperor] ‘sight’ I’ve been given.
A gift for a blind man. Then I realize—there’s nothing outside the path. The forest or the village is gone. There is only the road, and seeing only that is more unnerving than not seeing at all. For some reason—I step off the road.
Then I fall. I fall and fall and reach out until I touch that hand.
You see—allegorical. At other times, I’m in a box, and I have to take the hand or drown. My lips are gasping against the top wall when I take it. The box vanishes, and I am still drowning. Only, I’m not alone.
These are nightmares about what happened, but never the moment itself. Because that moment…doesn’t linger with me.
If I remember it—and my memory is already faded—it’s so simple. This stranger who’s found his way into my room and is talking about my class and the future offers me a hand up.
I take it.
It was a trick. A moment I’ve regretted and questioned for a long time. I wasn’t even sure it was real, though the advice was, until later. I don’t think I knew what I was accepting. There was certainly no contract, no signature.
It was…cheating. So why does that make sense to me? In all those stories where brave or cunning mortals deal with devils or faeries, they do so by trickery, playing with the rules. Perhaps because we all understand that if there were no rules, we’d never win.
One moment. Someone else’s trick and designs, and I’m now bound to it. It’s very fitting. It feels real to me.
That is the one thing I will not answer for. All of my other mistakes and failings—yes. But never that.
It is also why I sit here, while the world seems to be ending. While Gnolls are fighting…no. No.
I can tell something is going on. This is all a prelude. I know, through him.
The bearded man. It is not a solstice, nor any other event like a full moon, or two full moons. But—something is happening.
So I sit. The Unseen Empire is flourishing. Lady Rie has returned.
She’s different.
Yet Laken Godart sits here, because he does not know which move is playing into the other game. I sit here and…tell them to go away.
“Your Majesty?”
Gamel is reading out each missive I receive. He has gotten better at it. The husky voice that used to stammer and pause on hard words until Wiskeria or someone else helped him, a [Farmer] who was rudimentary on his letters, has changed.
He is a [Knight]; he actually got a Skill that makes his dictation excellent. Better than any app or automated voice. He also has hands and a sword.
“No. Put the letter down. I don’t want to hear it. Any of it, understand? Anything from…that source, ignore.”
My court is confused. I can sense them around me, Lady Rie, Wiskeria, Durene, Prost, Witch Hedag, and Eloise. That’s the inner circle; even the other representatives of villages, Master Helm, town councilors…
The [Witches] may pick up on my anxiety, but it’s so fast. They’re assuming I’m judging the sender—and I do, in part. But I am trying to stop something in a moment.
“Should I tell her that we are unwilling to help, then? With the—”
I press my hands to my ears. Trying to tune out the voice.
“Yes. Absolutely. I do not want to—know about it. Wiskeria. Nothing. Understand?”
My head turns to seek her, and the [Witch] starts. She’s Belavierr’s daughter; she has to understand something is wrong.
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
I exhale and sense that…presence unseen. Focusing on me for a moment.
He’s growing stronger. Now, I think he can listen in. Or…something is happening. The connection between us feels stronger. Or something else; the dividing line has grown thinner.
My stomach is churning and my heart pounding out of my chest, but I slash across my chest, and Gamel falls silent. The court murmurs as I speak, hoping they will understand.
“Next.”
We’re almost safe. I’ve almost done my part and averted what I believe may be a disaster—and then Durene, beloved Durene, speaks. With that fiery passion that is wrong here.
“Laken Godart! What are you doing? I thought you were trying to help Erin! They’re going to try the ritual—”
My hands clap over my ears, but it’s too late. I have never seen his face, but I imagine…a bearded man. Nothing else is visible to me. A single detail, kept over a thousand forms and faces, sitting in a cottage.
A man made of static, lips, cheeks, face ever-changing. And I do not know faces. When I imagine things, it is in sensation, feeling.
A beard moving slightly as he talks, not too long, but a growth of hair probably combed and attended to. A voice that commands and condescends and speaks like a starving man at times, others as if he owns everything and everyone. 
Tamaroth sits there. And he smiles. Those unseen lips spread wide and reveal what? Rotted teeth? The most perfect, artificially engineered smile? I don’t know.
But I hear him laughing and know. So I rise.
“No.”
Durene stops; Hedag has slapped a hand over her mouth. My court looks at me, and I whirl.
“Tell them—tell them to do it now, Gamel. Hurry.”
“Your Majesty? At once!”
That is how it happened. As I sit, raking my hands through my hair—that is my mistake. As my advisors ask for the thing I can’t speak of or explain—I can sense him moving. Hurrying from wherever he has been towards…
“Tell them to run, Gamel. Tell them to go as fast as they can. Or they’ll be too late.”
He does as I ask, and I ensure a warning is sent. Then it is out of my hands. It always was, and I regret that they trusted me. I tried to keep out of knowing, but too late. Even then, I hoped it would turn out for the best.
But I would learn soon enough that I had failed.
My fault.
I’m sorry, Erin.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That very same day, a Goblin stood, holding a scroll in one hand as she spoke to Fetohep of Khelt, who had heard no voices of ghosts. Four days before Fetohep of Khelt rode for the coast, Rags made her decision.
 
This is how it occurred. A little Goblin stood at the base of a volcano, looking out across the world. She determinedly ate some mushrooms that a [Witch] had told her would help her grow taller. They tasted like mush, which wasn’t bad for a Goblin.
But she was…waiting. Waiting and watching the Wyverns flying towards her. They were all wearing adapted masks to survive the poison fumes of this place, and Rags herself had a mask adapted for her face.
She was waiting. She had, in fact, waited for a long time. She had come so far, risked so much for her tribe. They were still hunting her. They might never stop, even if the shivering woman who was being prodded forwards by Goblins were returned to them.
This was not something a Chieftain should do. Not for no gain, although she could argue she had accidentally gained much. The friendship of another powerful tribe, knowledge, even several Goblins who had volunteered to follow her.
After all—she had witnessed a [Knight] rising. A Goblin [Knight], from her tribe, or at least, related, had ridden side-by-side with Humans from Terandria. He had bested the other species at their game.
He had been…glorious.
It was silly, it was definitely stupid, but it was the kind of thing she had learned to believe in. Often, such things failed.
But you could change the world.
A little Goblin could do more than live and die in the Floodplains of Liscor. She owed that to one person. To herself, to the Goblins and people she’d met, even to a silly skeleton.
To one person, though. All of this? It had always been so Rags could selfishly walk into an inn, sit down, order some subpar spaghetti and blue fruit juice, and play a game of chess. Thank that Human to her face.
She had been waiting a long time for all the pieces. She had, in fact, only acquired a few pieces herself. Rags had done all she could, and now she saw it.
“Mage with decent magic. Yes. Special antidote with mushrooms. At Liscor. Potion of Regeneration…check.”
She ticked off the components of the ritual that the strange [Doctor] had outlined. They were all there. She was only missing one element.
“Skill of a great leader…”
That would be important. Rags didn’t have it. No Goblin in ‘Anazuland’, or rather, the Molten Stone Tribe, the tribe of [Witches] and magic-users in this active volcano and poisonous region, had such Skills.
They were rare indeed, but Rags knew it to be the last part. Someone had that Skill and was ready—but she was wavering. Two voices spoke to her.
Not in her head. Two [Messages] warred on the scroll she read. Both were from strangers, though one she had met. The other…she frowned.
Strange undead king from Chandrar? She had seen him and understood he was powerful. Exactly how he fit in with Erin was a mystery, but Rags believed it. Witch Anazurhe had many speculations regarding her knowledge of the afterlife, but Rags just…believed.
And they said two things.
 
R: I am going to wake Erin up.
Lionette: Rags!?
R: No. Shut up. If the potion is done, I will go to Liscor. I just need the Skill, and it is coming.
Saliss of Lights: The antidote is done. You need a good—the best [Mage] and that Potion of Regeneration, assuming those idiots haven’t contaminated it. Do you have…any of that?
R: I have a [Mage].
Saliss: Oh, well that solves everything.
R: ಠ_ಠ. I am going. I cannot wait forever.
Fetohep of Khelt: I must insist you wait.
R: Why?
Fetohep of Khelt: I must consult with specialists on the matter. I have experienced—issues of late. Now may not be the hour.
R: When is? How much longer?
 
He didn’t know. Rags could not figure out why Fetohep of Khelt said that. She had gone over whether he was sabotaging her—but he had no reason to. Nor could she know how the Revenant King felt.
 
——
 
Fetohep of Khelt sat alone in Khelt. He looked up, and called out.
“Great Khelta. Queen Xierca? Erin Solstice? Are you here?”
He walked across his throne room, through the palace, to the chambers where frozen bodies had lain. He paced across his capital, ignoring his subjects.
He heard nothing.
The King of Khelt was worried. Khelta had left him with instructions if she vanished suddenly. She had told him to expect…the worst.
