“…Then my family and I must find another way. Or I must become that [Hero]. Perhaps…then perhaps it is time to pledge my sword to Khelt. If Khelt is even safe now.”
“(Wait, what? What about me?)”
Doubte turned away. He looked back over his shoulder only once.
“I do not care for you, Your Majesty of Reim. Perhaps we will meet again, but you make such terrible war. I will thank you for one thing. If you have ever known how to create [Heroes]…make no more. Even for your own ends. This class…is too much. I was not the first [Hero], but may I be the last. This class does not fit in the rest of the world.”
Then he left the two, to be alone with his own things. Flos folded his arms, frustrated—but he perked up as someone who had been eavesdropping gasped.
“His Majesty of Reim? The—the King of Destruction!?”
Hydra Knight Thuile pointed at Flos in horror, surprise, and—backed over the railing and went into the surf, headfirst. Flos Reimarch brightened up as every head turned and people whirled. They looked at him and cried out in surprise.
Well now. That was more like it.
 
——
 
“…Did someone just say that bandaged man was the King of Destruction?”
Pisces’ head slowly rose. He looked about. Then he turned to his left.
“Ksmvr, pinch me. Ow!”
Ksmvr pinched Pisces with all three hands.
“Is that suitably hard enough, Comrade Pisces? I have not perfected my pinching skills, only my cat-petting abilities. I am now capable of triple ear scratches. Would you like me to show you?”
“Stay away from my ears.”
The [Necromancer] slapped Ksmvr’s hands down, almost laughing, and it was true their comedy bit was practically guaranteed with Pisces and Ksmvr in the same room.
However, even that bit of humor, the sheer oddity of it and Ksmvr’s polite tone and mystified hurt as to why anyone would deny ear scratchies, was enough.
Raelt of Jecrass, drinking orange juice, sprayed it out of his nose and mouth. The fine mist hit his daughter, Alked, and everyone downwind.
“Father!”
“I’m sorry. I’m—this isn’t a dream.”
Raelt was coughing and wiping at his face, but he was laughing. He looked at Pisces, who eyed the gold-bell duelist and King of Jecrass that had been prisoner of Medain’s [High King] for months.
The [Necromancer] hesitated—then offered the man a handkerchief.
“Could I offer you this, sir? It’s very clean.”
Raelt accepted it, and Ksmvr saw Pisces watching Raelt’s every move. The [Necromancer] looked at Ksmvr, then at Flos—and then back at Raelt.
It was very, very rare for Ksmvr to see Pisces in awe of anyone. But this? This would be, if he went back to The Wandering Inn and Erin Solstice were there to provide helpful slang from her world—
Well, this would be Pisces fanboying for the King of Duels.
“Thank you…Pisces, was it? I apologize, Adventurer Fellbow.”
“Think nothing of it, Your Majesty. I’ve known far worse at parties.”
Raelt eyed Alked, some of his humor fading a bit as he returned the handkerchief to Pisces. The [Necromancer] accepted it with a slight bow, and Ksmvr saw his eyes were locked on the bell on Raelt’s rapier. It hadn’t chimed, not once, and it looked to be a very sensitive bell. But Raelt did move with a certain grace Ksmvr struggled to find many equals to. The King of Jecrass turned to Alked.
“Yes…you would. Hemp in Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
It was one of those statements that said a lot but made no sense unless you understood what it meant. Alked gazed at Raelt and nodded, one Chandrarian to another.
“You’re familiar with it, Your Majesty?”
“I’ve travelled to Nerrhavia’s Fallen. It’s amazing they don’t treat Named Adventurers—”
Raelt caught himself, glanced around, and then seemed to catch himself twice. He shook his head as he looked around the Kheltian ship far at sea.
“Well. I suppose here is safe enough, and you’re part of Khelt now? I’ve known—incidents with Stitch-folk. Entire clans expelled over issues with—cloth.”
Both Alked and Raelt looked uncomfortable, and the Named Adventurer nodded.
“That informed my decision to join Khelt, and His Majesty’s generosity. I hope you feel he has acted swiftly?”
Raelt shook his head, then shrugged.
“No—I mean to say, of course. I didn’t expect anyone would pry me out of Medain unless the King of Destruction took it or Perric got his way. That Khelt marched on them…and all because of you, Jecaina?”
He turned wondering eyes to his daughter, and the Arbiter Queen ducked her head, looking younger and tired. And relieved.
“I gave a third of Jecrass away to do it, Father.”
“A third—ah—under very strenuous circumstances, Your Majesty!”
Pisces interjected. He flushed and wavered.
“I’m sorry. I hesitate to interject, but I must add that from what I saw of the situation—it was a war that could only be lost without outside aid.”
Raelt paused only a second before nodding.
“It’s the soundest move. Aside from Herdmistress Geraeri joining Jecrass—which she never would have done…you sold her land to Fetohep?”
“I…she was inadvertently on it, Father.”
The King of Jecrass couldn’t hide the smile, and the look both rulers gave the Centauress nervously trotting around, slightly seasick, was not fond. Ksmvr nodded.
“I do not understand the entire nuance of these statements as I was not there, but I understand this Herdmistress is objectionable?”
“Ksmvr! Don’t interrupt!”
Pisces nudged his companion, but Ksmvr patted Pisces’ arm.
“Do not worry, Pisces. I am used to speaking with rulers.”
Raelt gave Ksmvr a blank look, but nodded.
“Herdmistress Geraeri is…difficult, Antinium Ksmvr. She is an uncontrollable force who can do much good or ill—a problem for any ruler. But she is a good woman—just as stubborn as a mule and inclined to support her own side. I don’t know how else to put it. It’s rare to have her in a nation.”
Both adventurers looked at each other.
“Like Erin?”
“Yes, exactly.”
Raelt and Jecaina raised their brows, wondering what an ‘Erin’ was. Alked Fellbow just frowned at Pisces and Ksmvr. They changed subjects in the short silence as Alked nodded at Ksmvr.
“So you’re the only Antinium to ever become an adventurer. Will there be more?”
Ksmvr looked struck.
“I do not know. I was exiled. Perhaps. My people could do very well as adventurers. Maybe some will come to Chandrar. Although we would have to go over…”
He trailed off. Then he began to scream.
“Aaaah! AAAAAH! Aaaaah! AAAAAAH!”
Everyone nearly jumped out of their skin. Alked had a hand on his bow when Ksmvr calmed down.
“I apologize. I remembered we were—we are surrounded by water! We are all going to drown! Aaaaaaah—I am better now, thank you.”
Pisces patted Ksmvr on the shoulder, and the Antinium shuddered. He stared at the deck. Raelt looked at his daughter, then cleared his throat.
“I—see. And you are a [Necromancer].”
Pisces braced, but Raelt just looked at him expectantly.
“I…yes, Your Majesty.”
“Hm. Well—it’s fascinating that you also were trained by a [Duelist]. I’ve never heard of the class aside from Az’kerash being viable, but that’s proof in itself, isn’t it? Are there any unique synergies between necromancy and dueling?”
Pisces blinked as Jecaina turned. Alked just scratched at his chin, interested.
“[Necromancers] don’t become adventurers in Chandrar often, though there are lots of bones under the sand. I sometimes partied with one just to send a zombie as bait. None of them were good at fencing at all.”
“I…I…I do practice a bit of the sword. But I am hardly competent. I never earned a silver bell, though my f—instructor was one, and I bested him in an actual duel. But I’m just, ah—a novice.”
Ksmvr felt at the back of Pisces’ neck as the [Necromancer] tried to swat his hands down.
“Comrade Pisces, are you sick? You appear to be. I have never heard you describe your abilities in less than stellar terms.”
“A silver-bell? At your age? My daughter has one…”
“Father.”
“The world knows about it, sure, Your Majesty! And your own duel was sublime—”
Raelt tried to wave this away, looking embarrassed.
“It was the most disgraceful performance. I would have had that gold bell taken away. I don’t know what I was thinking. No poison, and I kept getting trapped against that damn stone wall.”
“Not at all! Your Majesty, that was the most extraordinary—I hate to ask this of you, but I would be remiss not to ask for an autograph. And if you were ever so inclined to duel…although your captivity…”
Pisces looked actually enamored. Ksmvr began poking him, just to get him to stop looking like that. Raelt looked embarrassed and pleased by the attention.
“I wouldn’t actually say no. The things I have wanted to stab while I’ve been…and a rolling boat—ship—whatever this thing is isn’t a bad spot. There’s plenty of space. In fact, I confess I’d love to see a Named Adventurer and this [Silver Illusion] sword school.”
Pisces’ jaw dropped, and Ksmvr proudly stood upright.
“I would acquiesce to your duel, King Raelt—but I believe I must first rejoin my captain and other teammate, Miss Yvlon, and speak to them first. As any good adventurer must.”
“Ksmvr! He’s the King of Duels!”
“And I am Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad. Pisces, do not embarrass me, please. You do not know how to talk to royalty. I do.”
Ksmvr tried to cover Pisces’ mouth as Jecaina, Alked, and Raelt watched. Raelt lifted a finger.
“…Who is this royal person you’ve been speaking to, Adventurer Ksmvr?”
“Oh. Empress Nsiia of Tiqr. She and I are friends. Also, she is a dirty [Thief] who has stolen my sword. I wish to lodge that objection with her peerage.”
Pisces goggled at Ksmvr. Alked and Jecaina had seen the documentary, but Raelt rubbed at one ear.
“Clearly, a lot has changed since I left. I thought she was a [Prisoner]?”
Ksmvr brightly looked at Pisces’ expression.
“She was. But I landed in Illivere, and I freed—she accidentally escaped and we ended up on a journey together. Yes, that is what happened. Do not believe the lies. Also, there was Yinah, Domehead, and Spitty. I hate Spitty, but he saved my life, and I am motivated to mention this.”
Raelt just stood there, blinking at Ksmvr. Pisces looked horrified, confused, and more horrified by turns, but then the King of Duels threw back his head and laughed. And that…that felt good. It felt like healing.
 
——
 
Look at these meetings. The King of Destruction himself broke away from greeting his would-be foes and allies to watch Raelt of Jecrass take on his daughter and Pisces in a two-on-one duel.
“(Ah, Raelt of Jecrass. I am pleased he was freed. Orthenon, I wish to meet that Antinium adventurer. Who is the other one?)”
“A…[Necromancer]. Pisces Jealnet of the Horns of Hammerad.”
The [Steward] confirmed after a moment. Flos Reimarch tapped his chin and winced with each tap. Now how did he know that name?
He shrugged. Half the [Knights] were queuing up to beg a duel from that famous man, and Flos saw even Orthenon and Fetohep watching with mild interest. He frowned and cursed his damaged body.
It was then that the buzz of conversation faded. Amidst the duel, the swell of waves, and all the rest—everyone had quite forgotten the existence of the undead.
The ship’s crew were making the ship run, doing things with lines or ropes—sometimes just to look busy. As for Fetohep, he had been engrossed in conversation with all the other powers of the world.
It was Vizir Hecrelunn and Salui who had been aloof, watching. However, Flos’ eyes narrowed as Hecrelunn descended from above and Salui leapt from the prow of the ship.
“A fight! You? Are you reaaaaaaaaaal—”
He swung his sword and crashed into the deck, scattering the combatants like flies. Raelt turned—and found himself staring at the Revenant.
Flos Reimarch just looked up at Hecrelunn.
“Little king. We meet again.”
The King of Destruction’s teeth bared as he met Hecrelunn’s gaze and remembered the last time they had met. To his credit, or perhaps, not, the [Vizir] didn’t even bother to hide. Flos nodded.
“(Yes, indeed, Vizir Hecrelunn. Orthenon?)”
“Your Majesty?”
The [Steward]’s eyes narrowed as he looked up at Hecrelunn. Flos Reimarch lifted a hand.
“(Kill that Revenant, please.)”
 
——
 
A fight broke out on deck as Orthenon pursued Hecrelunn. The [Vizir] was shouting insults as the [Steward] leapt from masts and over rigging, slashing at him. Salui was chasing around Pisces and Ksmvr on the deck when Fetohep strode out of the cabin fit for a [King]—King Dolenm, to be precise—and roared.
“Enough!”
Everyone halted as Ceria drew a bead on Salui’s back. Literally…a bead of ice. He was resisting her magic so badly she couldn’t even freeze him.
“You wretched little—”
Hecrelunn spun with spells glowing off his fingertips, but Fetohep had his and Salui’s measure. The Revenant was still chasing Pisces and Ksmvr, so Fetohep snapped.
“Salui! His-Xe is in peril, and you waste your strength? By Khelta, silence Little Brother-King.”
Hecrelunn’s glowing red eyes faded, and he came to a stop. Orthenon halted as Fetohep turned from Salui, who had gone still, to Orthenon.
“I understand the Vizir Hecrelunn has offended The King of Destruction?”
“Yes, King Fetohep.”
“Then he shall pay for it. Afterwards. We have no time for petty disputes. Two issues have arisen. The first is that my Scourgeriders have begun their assault on A’ctelios Salash. If they fail—Chandrar will know devastation.”
The deck went silent as Fetohep walked across it. He turned his head towards Flos Reimarch, and even the King of Destruction was alert. Fetohep glanced ahead and shook his head.
“…The second is that petty fools are attempting to stymie our progress. Zeres has hired every ship on the sea to halt our fleet.”
“What? So we are sailing against the City of Waves after all? Why?”
Someone exclaimed in dismay. Fetohep pointed a finger at a [Knight].
“We sail to end the madness in the Meeting of Tribes. Not to make war on the City of Waves. These impertinent Drakes have nevertheless put a bounty upon Sand at Sea. They are also rallying their armadas to attempt to stop us.”
The passengers quieted. Almost none were seafaring experts. A battle at sea was dangerous. They might have an ancient warship on their side, but the other ships in the fleet had no specialist [Admirals] or other sea-classes, and Zeres—did.
“So what do we do?”
Fetohep’s eyes glinted.
“Were things otherwise, I would simply destroy Zeres’ fleets. However, it may be that we can avoid needless deaths on the Drakes’ side. They have sent their armadas, but it is the mercenary ships that concern me.”
“(How many do we face?)”
