“Why her? You bastards. Why her?”
There was no reason. Relc had walked so many battlefields since being a soldier of Liscor. Before he had been the Gecko…he had asked that question a thousand times.
“Why her? Why him? Why like that?”
There was no good answer. Relc had seen arrows miss bastards by a fraction of a hair’s width and the greatest of souls die for no reason.
That was why he knew. Knew it wasn’t going to work. If it did—what did that mean about all those other times? How was it fair?
Relc knew it wouldn’t be. He knew it wouldn’t work. Even so—he knelt in the soft grass and rested his head on his arm as he clutched at the soil.
“I know. But…please. Just this time?”
A single Drake lay there, waiting, listening with all his heart, wondering if he could sense the moment it happened. Like someone who had lain in the darkness far too long, eyes closed…waiting to sense the sun. A hundred times, Relc thought he heard something—felt something.
But he knew that when it happened he would feel it.
Hope, fear, despair, terror, and desperation. So many flames warring in his chest.
Maybe just this once. Maybe this time…
Relc Grasstongue lay there as all of Liscor waited. Waited, disbelieving, hoping out of the corner of their eyes.
Waiting…but the answer was already written in the future. Relc raised his head when he heard a voice through that cracked door.
“…not working. The Skill—”
“Keep going. Keep—”
They shouted her name. It was still failing. Even that Skill wasn’t enough. A body was lying on the bier in ice. No spark to kindle. The voices shouted in desperation, as if sound could reach her.
Then—something was there. A catalyst to hold onto. There was a great cry, and Relc whirled. He heard only silence. Saw the flash of light into the Garden of Sanctuary.
Nothing. Nothing but silence in his ears. Then he heard a single voice.
“Erin…?”
Relc stood—and then heard a terrible scream. A shout—and a whirlwind of noise and violence. He stood on that hill, staring down with wide eyes.
 
——
 
“Erin?”
When the Drake tore into the common room, that was all he heard. All he saw was…devastation.
Chairs and tables were overturned. People were collapsed against walls, knocked down—he saw Antinium lying stunned, one lying flat from where it had been kicked. He saw the body closest to the place where the ritual had taken place…trying to rise.
The smallest Goblin was lying on her back, staring up at the ceiling with a confused look in her eyes. Tears had run down her cheeks, but all that was in her gaze now was shock. Shock and…horror.
“What—what happened?”
Relc looked around. Then he focused on the bier of stone. It was still wet with melted ice. But the body was gone.
She was back. She was back! She was—
“That’s not Erin. Pawn? Pawn?”
A Drake was holding a Worker who had collapsed, weak with shock. Pawn was staring upwards, his mandibles open.
It had been seconds.
“Where—”
Redscar was getting up. Blood ran down one arm. He pointed.
“There.”
Relc turned and saw the door to the common room was open. Even so—he looked around another second.
The common room was destroyed. Like so many times before it…but this wasn’t the same. One person had done this. Workers were getting up, Soldiers staring in horror at—
“It wasn’t her. What was that?”
Selys was shouting, wild-eyed. A low moan was coming from the Antinium. Relc stood there, in the slivers of time cut out by horror. Realization. He turned.
“Relc! Don’t—”
He went after her. Selys heaved herself up, then looked around. Rags was just lying there, eyes staring at the ceiling and that moment of hope. Everything…everything…
 
We tried the ritual. Something went wrong. It’s not her. Relc went after her.
 
——
 
Relc knew something was terribly wrong. Did Liscor feel it? He could not hear Tamaroth’s howl of rage. He only knew what he saw.
And what he saw as he tore out of the inn…was the path she left. So fast.
He was the Gecko of Liscor. Even slow with shock, even when he took in time to see—Erin Solstice would never have been able to move that fast.
She was already in Liscor. He saw the eastern gates open; there was a commotion around it. Relc ran.
The Drake flashed down the hill, running over grass, shouting. His spear—he’d left it behind. The Drake didn’t care. He had no armor, no spear—he just ran.
He had to see. 
The gates were open when Relc got there. The [Guards] were staring down, charging down the steps after…one saw Relc skid to a halt.
“Relc! Was that—?”
“Which way?”
A Gnoll was babbling.
“That looked like her—but I’ve never seen her move like—it felt different, and she—”
Relc shook him.
“Which way did she go?”
“Teleport Plaza!”
The Drake recognized the name. The largest space, Shivertail’s Plaza, repurposed for the door. Where…his head snapped up.
The door. He charged after her, following the voices in the street, running—running—trying to catch a glimpse.
He was too late. He saw something…someone familiar vanishing into a door, the stunned attendants and people lined up all shouting, pointing. Relc saw a glowing yellow stone and realized where she was going.
Pallass.
 
——
 
Where might someone go? If you thought long and hard about it, and you knew…
Where might you go? Invrisil, perhaps. Or Pallass. Important places with valuable things.
Not just artifacts. Centers of power for information, gear. Even vehicles. Like Pegasi.
There was just one complication in Pallass over Invrisil. Even the checkpoint guard had heard today was important.
They were not ready for this. What they saw…what they looked at seemed to be a Human woman. Some even recognized her. The Drakes looked up.
“You…”
“Let me in, please. I’m in a hurry.”
It even sounded like her. Her face. Her voice. The Drakes looked at each other. A Gnoll reached for the switch uncertainly, and a claw captured his arm.
Sergeant Kel of Pallass looked up.
“You need to go through?”
“Yes.”
He locked eyes with…Erin Solstice, and the Drake’s claw trembled. His eyes were stinging. She waited, blinking at him innocently. The Drake saw the rest of his checkpoint looking at him. One of the [Guards] whispered.
“Sergeant Kel? What’s wrong?”
Slowly, deliberately, Kel, the Drake who had suffered so much at the hands of this damn Human, who had…heard she passed away, reached for something at his side. He triggered the stone and spoke calmly.
“That’s not her. She never says please when she’s in a hurry. And she knows my name. That’s not her. Sound the alarm. Sound the—”
 
——
 
Relc took thirty seconds to try to explain as the panicked door attendants got in his way, then forced his way through. He found the checkpoint gates open and the guards collapsed.
“She—she—we couldn’t stop her.”
An alarm was ringing through Pallass. Sergeant Kel was lying on the ground. He’d tried to block her. He looked up, dazed, head bloody.
“Who is that?”
Relc had no answer. He ran into the street as citizens of Pallass ran indoors, looking around, looking up. The entire 8th floor was on high-alert. Relc ran as the alarm spread.
Nothing was stopping her. She was moving so fast—he found a patrol of Pallass’ own slumped to the ground. Not even hurt—one had been knocked aside, a Dullahan, but the rest had just collapsed.
Where was she going? Where was…
Then he saw her. Relc came to a stop and saw a Human girl with brown hair, an apron even flapping behind her and stained with blood and six holes in the front. Casual clothes.
An [Innkeeper], maybe plain at first, until you looked at her and saw what she did. A young woman with a quick smile and a laugh that was infectious. Someone who could stand in a common room or at the head of an army and belong.
Erin Solstice. But that wasn’t her.
She was running, running so fast that Relc was barely faster than her, vaulting a staircase, leaping with the grace of a trained warrior.
Heading for the Grand Staircase. There was a wild smile on her face. A glow from her eyes of excitement. Relc knew it wasn’t her.
That smile was all wrong. Every way she moved, the way she bared her teeth in a feral grin—
He sprinted towards her. The hesitation wasn’t gone. That wasn’t her. The Gecko of Liscor forgot he was unarmed and unarmored.
“You! Who are you?”
He was screaming. The [Innkeeper] barely noticed him. An entire city was on the alert, but they were not prepared for one Human, even if they had encountered her before.
She looked around, and another group of Pallass’ Watch just…fell, their strings cut as they ran towards her, uncertain. Relc saw it, and his eyes went wide.
Aura? Or something else? He felt that. No wonder no one had been able to even stop her. They just…stopped, collapsed.
All but one. One person had been aware of this day. He had not expected this. But he had remained in Pallass because he had believed the same thing as Relc, deep down.
Now…now, Grimalkin of Pallass leapt up the stairs of the City of Inventions like a boulder hurled from a catapult, blurring towards Erin Solstice. The Sinew Magus’ eyes were locked on the young woman.
He reached Erin first. Cloaked in magic, the strongest mage in Pallass reached for her arm. The grinning Human turned. She saw one huge claw closing over her arm and…
Dodged. Like he was moving in slow motion, Grimalkin missed her as she slid around him. He turned, but even under a [Haste] spell…
He was not the fastest thing in the world. This wasn’t an [Innkeeper]. It was a warrior. She did not know him, and he did not know her.
He hesitated and then threw a punch as Relc vaulted a staircase and flew down a floor, landing so hard he heard his bones creaking. When he caught sight of them again—he saw they were fighting.
The Sinew Magus had studied martial arts. He was regarded as one of the best [Mages] in the world in hand-to-hand combat.
…He was losing. He threw up one arm to shield himself, and she struck him in the ribs so hard Relc swore he saw Grimalkin’s feet leave the ground. The body was Erin’s, but the force and speed—
Grimalkin was holding back. He jabbed, but his concentration, his killing intent—she grabbed the arm and threw him. The [Mage] caught himself and lifted a glowing claw.
She picked up a sword. Relc lost sight of them one second. He shoved aside staring people and saw Erin running. Grimalkin was bleeding.
Eight cuts, each one so deep he had to drink a healing potion or bleed out in less than a minute. The Sinew Magus turned as Relc ran by.
“Gecko! Stay back! She’ll kill you! The Assembly of Crafts! Guard the Assembly—she’s headed for—”
He was pointing at one of the largest buildings in Pallass. The Assembly of Crafts, where all the [Senators] and leaders of Pallass’ civilian government were. Relc saw the guards at the entrance collapsing.
But there she was. The young woman looked back once and saw the Gecko running after her. The only person who could catch her. She pointed at him, and he felt something pressing him down. Trying to sap his strength.
Relc—refused. Erin. He leapt at her as she whirled, blade in hand. That bright light behind her gaze.
One claw caught the sword-hand, the other grabbed Erin. The fastest Drake in all of Liscor saw her react—so quick. And those lips moved and he heard her voice.
So familiar. So foreign. Someone else spoke with her mouth. Relc looked into those eyes and asked for the last time.
“Who are you?”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprigaena, confronting the God of Rulers who had failed.
 
Tamaroth was howling in the lands of the dead as Sprigaena fell away from him. She arced downwards like a broken dream, her sword cutting across the Devourer of Time’s front. One cut from sky to land, trying to divide the world in half.
—Even the greatest skill with the blade wasn’t enough. Not to kill something on the threshold of godhood. The Devourer of Time reached out for Sprigaena as the Last Elf looked up at one fate.
Tamaroth. Reaching down for her. Then at the horror reaching for her through time itself. She tried to move and lifted her blade for one final cut.
A second blade cut across the horizon. A second slash, horizontally, drawing the blood of the Timewalker. A Skill without a Skill.
Grace, given to someone who had learned the art of the sword as well as every other weapon from the moment she had been conceived.
Sprigaena blinked upwards as someone leapt downwards and landed. As a hand reached for her, the God of Rulers recoiled. The Last Traitor looked up in confusion. She backed away.
“Twice now. Twice! Cauwine!”
The Goddess of Last Stands, the warrior among the six, stood there, drenched in the blood of Norechl’s kin. Her eyes were sparkling with excitement.
Tamaroth and Cauwine. Sprigaena was confused. She had been told one or the other…Laedonius Deviy, pursuing the ghosts of Drath, looked up suddenly.
“Impossible. Then—who is in her body?”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We tried the ritual. Something went wrong. It’s not her. Relc went after her.
 
Relc stared down into hazel eyes and that maddening grin. The force wearing Erin’s body, the thief…had such a terrible smile. Not fitting to the [Innkeeper]. Wide and full of teeth.
And that voice…his claws trembled as he tried to hold her, but she was so strong. The person in Erin spoke.
“My. Aren’t you a generous cup of amentus juice?”
Relc blinked. Then he felt a foot underneath him. The young woman kicked him into the air.
The Drake landed, cursing, and saw a sword aimed at his chest. The being standing there tilted her head, that smile never fading. She looked Relc up and down as he froze.
Could he kill her? But his mind was locked on that…saying. And that smile. Then ‘Erin’ snapped at him.
“Ugly as the underside of a boot and twice as tough. What’s a Drake like you doing in the Watch instead of the army?”
“Huh?”
The sword jabbed as ‘Erin’ stepped in, and Relc recoiled. The figure backed up, and more [Soldiers] and [Guards] were arriving.
They had to know they were dead. Grimalkin had nearly been killed, but the warrior had turned her blade before the last strike. Relc saw a Drake with a bow aiming—the figure whirled.
“No! Get out—”
Before he could shout or jump forwards, the sword had slashed the bow apart. The other [Guards] collapsed, one clutching at a cut across the wrist. ‘Erin’ held her sword casually.
“Get lost. You don’t want to die, do you?”
She addressed the Pallasians. A Drake reaching for her sword hilt gasped as Relc scooped up a spear. ‘Erin’ stomped the blade and claws flat, but the Drake just hissed up at her.
“Drakes don’t run. Do your worst.”
