“No. Just a while longer until I am arrested. You will have to go without me, Relc. I will follow you shortly.”
Relc looked at Klbkch, and the Slayer gazed back at him. Klbkch’s mandibles moved.
“…When she wakes up, I will see her. I am a bit ashamed. Go.”
Relc nodded. The Drake Guardsman stood straighter and eyed Todi.
“You got this?”
“With the…yes. Definitely.”
The Gold-rank Captain jumped and nodded. So Relc walked on. He lifted a hand, and Klbkch nodded to him.
It was Relc who walked across Liscor. Senior Guardsman Relc. Watch Sergeant Relc. The Gecko of Liscor, Relc the…
Just Relc.
He felt a bit bad about leaving Klbkch there. But they had flipped a coin, and Relc had won. So the Antinium stood there.
Klbkch looked so different from the friend that Relc had known. A tall, slim, intense Antinium who was the blade expert that had won great victories for the Antinium.
He had changed quite a bit. But then—so had Relc. The Drake felt different.
He was a [Watch Sergeant]. On the street, he spotted some Gnolls, who waved to him.
“Guardsman Relc! Guardsman Relc! I got a job!”
“Hey, great! I’ll talk to you later, alright, Vok?”
He nodded at the Gnoll with the spear and sauntered on, carrying his enchanted spear across his shoulders.
Something was happening in Liscor. Something familiar but which he’d never seen before at the same time. People were slowly drifting across the city. They pretended not to, but Workers looked up from carrying their burdens. A [Cleaner] swept out the front of a shop then hurried down the street, broom in hand, his silver antennae twitching.
Drakes, Gnolls, and even Humans were looking towards the eastern wall. A few were telling stories. Some…
“Mom? Can I have pizza tonight?”
“We’ll see, dear.”
A little Drake girl tugged at her mother’s claw, and Visma waved at Relc as he passed. Yet he didn’t slow, and they didn’t go to that inn.
Relc had won the coin toss. Which meant he’d sort of lost. He walked out of the gates and up towards that inn, staring at Bird’s empty tower. Watching as Antinium filed into it.
The Wyverns had landed. A green-skinned figure stared at the walls of Liscor and waved at the [Guards] before disappearing inside. Yellow Splatters had to discipline one of the Watch, an Antinium, for waving back to a monster.
They were all there. But so few walked up that hill. It was about…the right. The right to be there, to see it fail or succeed.
Relc Grasstongue stopped at the door and hesitated a long moment before he knocked. Then he laughed.
“Wait. No one’s gonna—”
Someone pulled the door open, and Relc leapt backwards. But he recognized the Gnoll.
“Uh…”
“Inn’s open. My brother’s inside. Read the sign—oh, hi, Senior Guardsman.”
Liska nodded at Relc, and Ishkr’s younger sister stood back. Relc walked into The Wandering Inn, down that long hallway that made his spines tingle. But when he heard that—he stopped and walked back outside.
There it was. A bit worn, but someone had refreshed the paint. Relc stared at the sign for a second and reminded himself of that. He closed his eyes…then nodded.
No Killing Goblins.
Into the inn, like a dreamer. Relc opened the doors, and people turned.
Drakes from Salazsar, staring at the Goblin in pure horror. Earthers, a Centaur smoking fit to burst as he trotted around a nigh-hysterical woman.
“I’m the Healer of Tenbault! I’ve been kidnapped—”
“Yes, yes. Tragedy. Are you sure you’re good to go on those ice spells? Need any backup?”
Palt inspected the runes being laid out on the floor. Relc even noticed a spider crawling by the window, but he decided it could wait.
“Hey. I’m here. Is…”
The Goblins turned, and one recoiled as she saw Relc. He looked past the sea of Antinium and then at a little Goblin he vaguely recognized.
Rags and Relc locked gazes for a moment, then Rags tore her head away as a warrior with a scar over his face and two magic swords sat up slightly.
“Chieftain?”
“No. Almost ready.”
Rags curtly spoke to the room, and Relc looked at her a long while before he heard a voice.
“And that is Relc. He was the first. Or second. The first to meet her, in the days when she first came to Liscor.”
“Ooh.”
“Aah.”
Antinium were sitting around as an [Acolyte] pointed at Relc. Not Pawn, but he carried a censer. The Antinium gazed at Relc in awe.
“He and Klbkchhezeim were there. Now he is here again. Let us pray.”
Relc opened and closed his mouth, but a Gnoll bustled up to him.
“Drink? Food?”
“Me? Uh—no, Ishkr. Not right now.”
The Gnoll nodded. Relc saw to his surprise that some people did have food. Kevin and Joseph were sitting together, chatting and watching everything. They could eat?
No…the food was purely ornamental. No one had so much as touched a morsel, even the Antinium. Relc could have used a drink. He—saw another door open.
Then there was sunlight. The morning’s air blew in with the scents of plants as Relc looked into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
He saw everyone’s heads turn, and they all went silent as someone walked into the room.
“We are almost ready. Who will help carry her into the inn? It must be in the inn?”
Pawn looked around, and Rags nodded.
“For magic. Right?”
The Healer of Tenbault stuttered as she stared at an Antinium and nearly collapsed, but Strategist Kiish just nodded, fiddling with her glasses.
“Excuse me. Should we have a scrying spell…? I am sure others would want to watch.”
“No. No outside magics.”
Palt objected instantly. Kiish nodded at once.
“Of course. Afterwards. Do we need to wait on anyone…?”
The others susurrated.
“Where’s Pelt? Hedault, where’s…?”
“I sent him an exact schedule. It appears he is not here, Kevin.”
“Neither’s Olesm. Relc—did you see Captain Todi? Did he…?”
“He and Klbkch are bullying a Named-rank adventurer. Don’t worry, Selys.”
The [Heiress] sat down as Relc saw Pawn glance at him. Belgrade was behind Pawn, and the [Priest] looked about.
“Should we then begin, or is there anything we are waiting for?”
No one had a reply. After a second, Palt coughed.
“…The—the bier. How are you going to move it?”
“We shall lift it. Though some magic to stabilize it may be acceptable? Who will carry her?”
Relc’s claw twitched, but then he kept it low. He watched as people stood. Pawn gazed about, and he and Belgrade were two of the six.
Pawn, Palt, Ishkr, Belgrade, Selys, and Rags herself walked into the [Garden of Sanctuary] slowly. Relc stood there.
“Relc? Do you want to…?”
Drassi had arrived, panting after running from Liscor. So was Silveran. No Grimalkin…no Chaldion. No Saliss or Lyonette or…Mrsha.
No Horns.
No Ryoka.
Relc tried not to count. He leaned against one wall, baring his teeth in what he hoped looked like a smile.
“I’m great, Drassi. What? Me? No—I’d just trip or do something stupid. I’m…is it happening now?”
No one answered that question. Relc stood there as Drassi walked forwards, and the first thing she did was address the Goblins.
“H-hello. Don’t I know you?”
Calescent and Redscar turned, and the Goblins blinked at Drassi. Then Calescent grinned, and she smiled back.
“Do you want anything to drink…?”
Relc listened, and it all sounded faraway. He was panting, he realized. The Gecko of Liscor looked up, and then the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] opened into the common room again. Before he was ready—he saw frost, mist rising. And—
 
——
 
Relc stood in the connecting hallway, panting, listening to the voices from the common room.
“—right there. Are you ready, Healer?”
“I think so. W-w-we just follow the instructions. Who has the…?”
“I will pray as well, if it is acceptable.”
“Pray…?”
The Drake’s claws trembled on the door to the common room. He cracked it back open and saw everyone gathered around a space in the center of the inn. Someone had drawn glowing runes on the floor, bright magic, and he felt the springtime in the air as the Potion of Regeneration was opened.
Ishkr had the antidote in his paws, and Strategist Kiish stood in the center as Palt ashed his cigar and stepped forwards. Even the damn spider looked like it was watching.
They were all here. People who deserved to be. Relc saw the ones who weren’t.
Fortress Beavers were clustered next to watching Antinium. Lism wasn’t here. Not Krshia or Mrsha or…
“Stop it. Go in there.”
Relc opened the door further and saw a figure, lying on a frozen piece of stone, hands folded over her chest. The broken pieces of wood still embedded in her skin, ice beginning to thaw, red staining the fabric of her apron—
The Drake stumbled away. Relc thrust open a different door and walked into a brighter room. He shaded his eyes and realized—he was in the [Garden of Sanctuary].
He stood there, trembling, and the door closed behind him. Relc stood there and thought of Ryoka Griffin. She would be there, with Lyonette holding Mrsha. Moore and Jelaqua and Seborn—Ceria would be doing the spells and…
It was all wrong. He fought with something, something he was afraid to say. Until someone spoke his name.
“Guardsman Relc?”
Relc jumped and saw who had come in after him. Noticed his absence. He saw an Antinium.
“Pawn…? No. Belgrade.”
The [Strategist] nodded. He had returned from the Hectval front for today. But Olesm wasn’t here. The Antinium looked at Relc curiously, then back at the door. Someone was beginning to chant behind him.
“Will you not be there to watch, Guardsman Relc? Olesm did not come. Nor did Calruz—although, he was not welcome within Liscor. But surely you will be there.”
Relc was panting. He put a claw over his chest. He looked at Belgrade, and the words finally burst out of his chest. The words surely Olesm and Palt and all the others had swallowed. They came out now, in the final minutes.
“I can’t. It’s not gonna work, Belgrade.”
The [Strategist] froze.
“It surely will, Guardsman Relc. Every component has been acquired, and everything is in place. It will work. It will…”
He was trembling. Relc saw the Antinium look backwards and then at him accusatorily.
“You must not say such things. Why are you saying such lies?”
Relc almost laughed. He wished he’d actually won that coin toss. He tried to explain, in a shaking voice. He still could not look behind him. Instead, Relc gazed at the domed ceiling letting in light. The hill with the mist.
“I don’t know how to…I’ll try. Belgrade. I want it to work. If I thought saying it would work—I’d say it until my tongue fell out of my head and keep doing it. Erin’s gone. I know it. You know it.”
“But she is not dead—”
Relc was shaking his head.
“I’ve seen too many good people die. When I heard about Erin…”
The Drake closed his eyes and gulped.
“…I believed there was a cure the instant my kid wrote to me about it. I believed it, and that was what got me through Cellidel. Asking what Erin would say when I came back and told her. I believed when I got that strange [Message] thing and Selys showed me everything. I believed when I heard that Goblin was coming. Now? Now I remember.”
His eyes were watering. The Gecko wiped at them, and a young Drake stood on a battlefield, in a [Healer]’s tent. In a hundred places, in a hundred times. He spoke to Belgrade.
“I’ve always believed they were gonna make it. Every buddy whose claw I held. Every time I poured a potion, I thought—they’re just a bit cold. They’ll pull through. They’re too tough to…”
He trailed off. The Antinium saw what he saw. He had already known what Relc was talking about. He was a [Soldier], and he had been there at the start. Relc closed his eyes.
“There’s always a chance. Right until I wake up and realize that was twenty years ago. And I’m still waiting for them to open their eyes.”
“Oh. Is that why they have not come? They are afraid.”
Belgrade looked past Relc, and the Drake nodded. Klbkch, Pelt, the others…
When she wakes, I will see her. He ran a claw down his neck spines. Maybe…maybe…he heard someone speaking behind him, making sure everyone knew their places. Relc took a breath
“If she wakes up, I almost won’t be surprised. If she wakes up—”
He couldn’t finish it. He couldn’t be there. Not to see that. He would rather face a hundred thousand Skinners, Crelers, and see every horror on the battlefield than see it fail. Belgrade understood.
That was the difference between the two. The Antinium believed. He hoped. Relc hung his head, ashamed.
“—Tell me when it’s over. Please.”
The [Strategist] looked at him a long time, then slowly nodded.
“I will be the first to do so.”
He walked back towards the door, and Relc heard the first words of magic. Belgrade peered into the inn—then back at Relc.
“…No. I will be the second.”
That alone almost made Relc go back. Almost…but he couldn’t. He knew the ending of this tale, so he walked deeper into the garden. Hiding from despair.
The Drake walked up the hill, wondering how long it would take. Counting seconds into minutes, losing track…he walked past the Sage’s Grass cultivated in neat rows. Saw the Faerie Flowers had bloomed well.
Relc reached down and picked one up. He stared at the precious, little flower and wondered if this could bring the dead back.
…No. There were some things that didn’t happen.
But maybe—
He had seen miracles. The Drake walked higher, wrestling with the very concepts taking place behind him. He walked up into that misty hill, past statues, and then stopped when he realized he was where she had been.
The body was gone. Relc exhaled—but then he saw the magic circle, still keeping the piled gifts and objects hidden. Tributes to the Innkeeper of Liscor.
One stood out to him, one of the first that had been placed with the other mourners so long ago. Relc had not been here. He imagined…how it must have been. Hundreds, maybe thousands of people filing up and down the hill. Relc bent down, seeing one of the things someone had put there to keep Erin company.
It was a doll, covered in ice.
It was stitched to look like a cute little Gnoll, with a mane of fur on the edges since fur everywhere just made it look like a hairball. Very artistically done, albeit all in brown. Cheap? Maybe, but hand-crafted by a good [Sewer] who cared enough to make it last. Worn down and restitched in the arm where it had torn—twice. With little, button-black eyes. A little Gnoll doll that Relc recognized.
Visma loved that little doll. Relc looked there, and it struck him again.
She really had died. He hadn’t been here to stop it. He hadn’t even known about it until a month or more afterwards. Even now—
How much had they all cried? Relc tried to summon some tears, but all he heard was the nervous beating of his heart. He tried anger instead.
