The first of which was that the living had worked so hard to come up with a way to make that frozen flesh live. To create a spark such that Erin Solstice could return to life.
To do that…they were going to have to take her out of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. An empty vessel.
The [Emperor] of Riverfarm had thought long and hard about stories. What…certain people might do with a body. That was why he had tried not to pay attention. That was why he had hidden it.
The God of Rulers, the bearded man, Tamaroth, learned of the ritual. He stood and thought a while. He was no Emerrhain, to chart every move precisely and analyze the magic and lay plans. Neither was he a purely instinctual creature like Norechl, who took risks and did things even other gods had called mad.
A body. He had an agent, a connection, but a body was so much more than that. Like the ghosts—like the others—his power was limited by death. Even Kasigna, here, was a starving, rotting corpse.
A body solved countless issues. A body was strength. A body was levels and warmth and…
A female Human was not ideal, yet Tamaroth didn’t care. He was himself. He could change anything else. He turned and strode for Liscor. Following the path of the Goblins, hurrying to overtake them, but he was far, far north, prowling around Terandria’s shores, watching Norechl’s kin rising.
Yet Tamaroth was confident. Erin Solstice’s ghost was too far south, on Chandrar. Izril was practically deserted; the ghosts had all fled, and this was his land, through his mortal agent. A few ghosts appeared, dying naturally, but they either fled, were consumed, or hid; scraps were all that remained. The land of the dead was empty.
Who, then, could stop him? The God of Rulers walked quickly, but confidently. Until he realized—someone else was headed for Liscor. Tamaroth turned and saw her.
“You.”
She walked with a spring in her step, like a young soldier returning home from every war. Auburn hair blew around her, and even long decayed, she was the youngest of all. The youngest god, the wild hunter. The rebel who took upon lost causes.
She had fought him, fought her parents and their pantheon, taken every side. An unpredictable force. A peer—but a reckless one.
Her eyes glimmered like the roots of fate, shining the brightest oak brown, scored with green at the edges, like the very trees themselves. She was a warrior among the six, a true one. They had all fought and knew mighty battles, but that was her aspect, and even the God of Rulers could not match her on the most equal of grounds.
Cauwine, the God of Glorious Souls, was headed across Izril. His ground. Tamaroth snarled at her.
“Begone, Cauwine! This is my land!”
“Then challenge me, oh God of Us All.”
Cauwine spoke lightly, throwing back her head as she strode forwards. Now—Tamaroth was hurrying, but they were trapped in Kasinga’s domain, unable to move faster after a certain point. And she…was ahead of him.
Slightly. Ever-so-slightly, and the way they travelled was such that the two would meet and come to blows. Tamaroth had the advantage here. But more than that…he had claimed this place. Kasigna might dare intrude a while, but the others were used to the wars over domain and stayed back.
Yet she…challenged him. It would be a battle she would lose if they fought to the end; the foothold he had here was a triumph. Cauwine, though—
“You hold to names and titles and meaning so far lost that the people of this world have not even myths for them. Tamaroth. We are all dead. This is an age of change. Will you return to flesh and life and be the same? You are twice more a fool, then.”
“You speak loudly for one who fought on either side.”
Cauwine just laughed derisively in his face.
“I regret only my death. You, who argued and pontificated long about the rightness of your cause—you who claim everything by right of divinity. Stop me, then.”
The God of Leaders seized Cauwine’s arm. The Goddess of the Hunt turned. Neither stopped moving, but they began to fight.
Fight as gods did. Only a few would have been able to see even a fraction of it. Ryoka Griffin might have seen it and understood why she could never hurt them with her Faeblade. Like the fae…they were larger than the mere man and woman who walked the deadlands. The ghosts had almost no substance to do more than outrage or hurt them temporarily.
The two struggling figures slowed as they crossed over Izril like a blaze of fire, each step carrying them countless miles. Time was different here, and so their struggle just…was. Two gods.
Then…three.
Laedonius Deviy came waltzing out of the sea and glided towards Liscor as the other two looked up. He had heard of the ritual as well. Tamaroth, by his very hurry, had given himself away. Cauwine and Tamaroth hesitated—then they abandoned their struggle to catch up.
“Laedonius Deviy! Cauwine! My wrath shall know no end!”
Tamaroth warned them, but the Dancing Man just stepped around mountains, through stone, hurrying, reaching out. Cauwine knocked Tamaroth aside, her very nature warring with him, and the three dead gods descended on a valley betwixt the High Passes.
A single inn where a body lay.
Waiting. Tamaroth howled with outrage as he and Cauwine threw the God of Dance back, and Laedonius Deviy retreated, cursing in frustration. Then there were only two. A body.
And what happened next…
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The morning of the day Fetohep received that terrible warning from Selys, the day before he left Khelt, the city of Liscor was quiet. A Lightning Dragon argued with a Watch Captain and lost. She headed north via the magic door to Celum, alone, making for the High Passes. No one noticed. They were watching the skies.
 
The Wyverns broke through clouds and flew down towards Liscor. A Goblin flew towards an inn as the [Guards] on the wall spotted the Wyverns and sounded the alarm.
The Watch Captain overruled it and issued a warning and advisory to Liscor’s citizens so they wouldn’t panic.
A group of Drakes from Salazsar marched to the inn. A group of Earthers gathered there, where Antinium sat and waited.
A single Gnoll [Head Server] changed the sign to show the inn was open and did a bit of sweeping in the kitchen. His paws were trembling.
That rumor ran through the city as a few people walked towards the inn.
Hey. Have you heard? She might be coming back today.
Who?
Her. The [Innkeeper]. That crazy Human…her.
No one laughed. They just looked up and pretended to go about their day. In the corner of their eyes, in the back of their heads…they were waiting.
Waiting and hoping. Perhaps even praying for one little miracle.
Monsters and good folk, and just average people. And…some people who had been waiting a long time for this news. Months and months.
They looked up from where they sat and heard the call. Oh…it was time? Well then. One nudged the other as they sat at an outdoor café because they had standards and it was morning—not bar time.
Some went to their rooms for their gear, but most were ready. A group of people gathered.
“It’s today?”
“Yep. Ready up.”
Who they were wasn’t exactly important right now. They belonged to an…organization. They armed themselves quietly. They checked wands in their holsters and lifted backup weapons as they assembled.
Crossbows. They had been waiting for this day as well. You see—more than just Erin’s friends were headed to the inn.
Those Goblins on Wyverns. There was no mistaking them. So a group headed to Liscor, and more went to intercept them. Crossbows carried in secret on the streets of Liscor. An armed group of elites. An old story.
An adventurer was headed for the inn, eyes locked on the sky. He was a huge, operatic man. Literally—his voice had the magnitude to shake a city to pieces contained in a single ribcage. He was followed by his Gold-rank team. But they halted as a group armed with crossbows sauntered into the street.
“Crowdcaller Merdon. I’m afraid I’ll have to ask you to stop here. Remember me? We’ve met a few times.”
A man holding a crossbow, a killer’s weapon, a very efficient tool, lifted it and aimed it at the Named Adventurer’s feet. Crowdcaller Merdon, who had been sitting in Liscor and Invrisil, waiting for news of Goblins, came to a halt. His team put their hands on their weapons and saw a dozen men and women standing there.
Holding those deadly weapons. A wand in the other hand. Merdon looked across the street, confused—then his eyes narrowed.
“Captain Todi. Get out of the way.”
Captain Todi of Todi’s Elites stood in the street. He put a pinkie into one ear and swiveled it around; the wax he’d put there was itching. But his Gold-rank team didn’t move.
Indeed…they had been waiting a long time. Todi smiled at Merdon. The proper, shit-eating grin of a man who knew he was holding all the cards and going to make someone else’s day worse.
“Can’t do that, Merdon. We’ve been hired to make sure those Goblins get to their destination.”
He nodded around, and the men and women with crossbows and wands sighed. It had been a long time. But they had been waiting, doing odd jobs for their employer, and Selys Shivertail knew how to employ Todi.
She knew…Liscor. And she had been waiting for this day. Certain that something would occur. Todi had been preparing too, and Merdon was on the top of his action-list.
“Someone’s hired you to—get out of the way! The Healer of Tenbault is being held captive by those Goblins!”
Todi lit up one of Palt’s puffers and blew a plume of smoke. He frowned; he’d wanted a smoke ring for effect, but he wasn’t good enough. He shrugged.
“And you’ll get her. Just not right now. Did you hear she’s supposed to save someone’s life? Proper [Healer] business, that. What comes after is up for negotiation. But if I were you, I’d save your revenge for another day. My employer’s assured me that the Healer of Tenbault will be returned safely once this is over.”
Merdon was shaking with anger. He looked at Todi, and his voice deepened ominously.
“You think you can stop me, Todi? You and your artifact-team? What happens if I ignore your ‘advice’?”
Todi sighed. Dead gods damn it. He tossed the puffer down and stomped on it. Then he lifted a wand in one hand and aimed the crossbow at Merdon’s gut.
“Then we throw down, Merdon. If it gets nasty? Well…I bet you can shout a [Fireball] out of existence, but my team and I all have Wands of [Fireball]. Don’t.”
It was about then that one of the Gold-rank adventurers nudged Merdon.
“Boss—they’ve got an angle on us.”
Merdon looked up, and if the crossbows had laser sights, he would have noticed now that not all were on his front. A figure was sitting on a roof, crossbow aimed down at Merdon. The Named Adventurer’s veins bulged, and one actually burst as Todi watched.
“Ah, shit. He’s losing his temper. Get ready.”
He muttered out of the corner of his mouth as a red stain spread over Merdon’s purpling face. He wished the man weren’t so clever; Merdon was a bit of a bull, but he was clever enough to realize that Invrisil was a good point to jump to various locations to find those Goblins thanks to the magic door. Once he heard about a certain Goblin tribe and an inn and a dead [Innkeeper]…
Well, he would never reach that inn. He might blow out every unenchanted window in Liscor, but the Watch wouldn’t take that, and Todi had promised Selys Shivertail. His finger tightened on the crossbow’s trigger.
“Merdon. I don’t feel like getting a name for team-killing today. Back off.”
Too many people had waited too long for this moment. The Named Adventurer would never make it to that inn. Todi waited as Merdon opened his mouth and braced himself. But Merdon never spoke a word.
He hesitated…and looked down at a reflection of his chin. He needed to shave, and he had a wart or something on the side of his neck. He could tell because a silver mirror was placed very handily there, showing him the underside of his jaw and that if the person holding that sword sneezed, Merdon’s throat would have a second exit.
His team recoiled; they hadn’t even seen the warrior sneaking up. But he was there, so fast that even the Named Adventurer had been caught off-guard. The voice that emanated from the insect’s mandibles was polite, precise…and intense.
“I would like you to note, Senior Guardsman Relc, that I am not part of the City Watch.”
“Really, Klb, old buddy? I thought you were.”
Klbkch shook his head as he held one of his swords at Merdon’s neck. The man inhaled, and blood ran from his neck as Klbkch pressed the sword a bit closer to his throat. With his other finger, he wagged it at the Drake, admonishing him.
“Incorrect. I resigned my commission for an extended leave of absence. Therefore, I am a citizen knowingly committing an illicit act in the City of Liscor. Feel free to arrest me, Guardsman Relc. Although, I would request you take in this Named Adventurer as well as a matter of public interest.”
Senior Guardsman Relc and Klbkch stood in the street as Relc leaned on his spear. The adventurers were transfixed; Todi was grinning widely, watching Klbkch. Relc checked the sky, squinted at the sun, and shrugged.
“…I’m off-duty, Klb, buddy. What do you take me for? I’m Relc. This seems like a matter for the next guard-patrol to sort out.”
“Indeed. Then my felonious actions will go unchecked a while longer. I will register a formal complaint later.”
They were bantering. Merdon’s jaw worked.
“You—don’t you dare stop me. The north will—”
“Do what, Adventurer Merdon? No, do not answer that question. I am aware of the issue. The Healer of Tenbault will be returned. But you will not go near that inn.”
“I will not—”
Merdon tried to move, but the sword cut deeper into his neck, and Relc winced. Klbkch’s voice was suddenly very, very serious.
“Move or speak and I will rid Izril of a Named Adventurer. I am Klbkch the Slayer of the Antinium. Do you think I will hesitate?”
A stream of red dripped from Merdon’s neck onto that silver mirror. The Named Adventurer did not bleed like that. Merdon was not supposed to bleed like that. He was a Named Adventurer. He had answered everything from Wyverns to armies with his voice! He opened his mouth and…froze as he looked at his opponent.
Klbkch the Slayer stood there, the quiet legend of Liscor. The genuine article, returned. He looked across Merdon’s team and smiled. The Centenium saw nothing but corpses. That insect’s head turned, and two blank bug eyes looked at Merdon, tilting left and right.
Merdon Crowdcaller said nothing. He held very still, eyes wide. Relc lifted his claws as Merdon looked at him.
“I think you’d better listen to what he says. He’s crazy. He even attacked me. Klb—are you going to stand here all day?”
