The eyes had moved. They were all staring…northwest. Towards Baleros. Towards the place where time was rippling.
It was looking at something.
The sky was dark, but the area around A’ctelios Salash blazed with light. Djinni from the Labyrinth City of Merreid—even from Roshal and other nations—had joined with soldiers, adventurers, not just Khelt. They were camped around A’ctelios Salash. None of them entered Tombhome through those eyes.
They feared to. Only sixty some Revenants had dared fly into those eyes. The Scourgeriders of Emrist were locked in battle within, and their speaking spells to Fetohep were the only line to knowing what occurred within.
But the view from outside was hardly silent. The flare of magic was blinding—bounding shapes raced out of Tombhome. Figures emerging to be cut down with arrows and spells and steel if they got close enough.
Yet it was hard to kill them. They refused to die. They got back up when they should be dead. An arrow blew part of a head off and…something…kept running.
The scrying orbs focused a few times on what the garrisons hacked down. But the images had to be removed. Wistram refused to show the audience what it was seeing.
The Djinni had lost two of their number already, breaking into one of the eyes to deliver a vessel from Germina itself. The Garuda of Qualvekkaras, Kingdom of the Winds, had also lost several of their number to support Khelt.
This was a matter for Shield Kingdoms. This was one of their own. A weapon meant to stop the advent of Dragons—which was twisting in Chandrar’s grip.
A’ctelios Salash was waking up. There were safeguards, measures that were always taken, and the Carven City was monitored.
But this was different. This was spontaneous, triggered by the Seamwalkers. This, more than anything, proved Fetohep was right.
The ground shook. Every so often, a tremor would run through the ground. Or two, in quick succession. It took the people outside a while to realize what it was.
Heartbeats. But spaced so far apart…and multiple heartbeats? The nerve of many broke simply by holding their ground outside A’ctelios Salash. Some ran.
But the Scourgeriders of Emrist had entered the Carven City. They were not in direct communication with Fetohep at all times. The fighting was so intense that their number could not speak and fight. And…the spell kept cutting out.
Vizir Hecrelunn, Archmage Amerys, and every other spellcasting expert including the Quarass, holding the Serkonian Lance, were trying to amplify their reception and keep it steady. Nevertheless…the reports came in every few minutes.
 
——
 
“…we have broken into the main city. It is as I remember it. Wider…they have gone mad. A’ctelios Salash has woken its inhabitants. Strike them down! Take the vessel to the weakening points! Keep high above them—they’re jumping from the rooftops!”
Scourgerider Yiraz was reporting. His voice was steady in the first area, and the listeners could hear the legendary force of Emrist’s time fighting behind him.
“[Fireball], [Fireball], [Fireball], [Fireball], [Fireball]—”
“[Locust Storm]!”
Ethereal, echoing voices from the Scourgeriders. Explosions and screams—they had entered Tombhome in wrath and ruin once A’ctelios Salash refused to admit them. They were from the age of Queen Emrist. They knew mercy and had delivered it at times.
This—
“Your Majesty. Tombhome is filled. What are your orders?”
Fetohep paused long and painfully.
“Eradicate them if you must, Yiraz. A’ctelios Salash cannot wake. I have heard testimony from Gazi of—from a Named Adventurer and the Quarass. The leadership of A’ctelios Salash is compromised.”
A beat followed, and Yiraz’s voice was grim.
“I knew the glorious Tombhome of old, who was a friend and offered a choice. Is this the same? It looks changed. The alleyways spiral, the streets are no longer straight. It is so dark here…”
Dark. Trey Atwood remembered how parts of the city—the true parts, not the bright, happy mercantile districts for travelers—had been so ominous. Fetohep replied softly.
“They offered no choice, Yiraz. Spare the travelers and visitors, but offer no quarter.”
He waited, with everyone listening. At last, Yiraz replied, and his voice was low.
“…I see no visitors. I would believe they fled. I do not believe it is so. Scourgeriders—deliver them damnation. [Plague of Filth]. Send them pestilence.”
The chanting of the flying Revenants changed, and the shrieking took on a different tone. The Scourgeriders were sending the one thing that A’ctelios Salash’s population had ever feared.
Plague. Disease. The Scourgeriders were swooping through the air, laying waste to A’ctelios Salash. For the first fifteen minutes.
Then—Yiraz broke in.
“—They are climbing the walls! Dodge! D—”
“Yiraz? Yiraz, report!”
Silence for three minutes, then the Scourgerider replied.
“Your Majesty, we are under attack. Six of our number are down.”
“Six? Already?”
“They are everywhere. Our [Blademasters] are fighting every angle…they are climbing. Quarass, we are searching for the entrance you described to deliver your poison. We cannot find it.”
“Look for the tunnels along the skull opposite where you enter. They lead down.”
The Quarass snapped back. Yiraz broke off. Someone else replied.
“I am Scourgerider Nivita. I am at the location you describe, Quarass. It is not here. It is gone.”
The Quarass looked around, and Vizir Hecrelunn floated over.
“Those tunnels which lead into Tombhome’s depths? I remember them as well. They have always been there. They have always…”
He looked uncertainly at the Quarass. Fetohep wavered only a moment.
“Then search. Search for a way down.”
“Down where?”
Ceria looked around. It was the Quarass who answered.
“To the heart. The root of A’ctelios Salash. The head has already been emptied; if it is waking, it is deeper. They must descend. But if not there…”
Gazi opened her mouth, and a young man broke in.
“The pits.”
Everyone turned to Trey Atwood. He was white-faced, listening to the Scourgeriders trying to deliver on the oath he had sworn.
“What?”
“There are pits in the center of—near their headquarters. Gazi, Quarass, do you remember?”
They looked at each other.
“Yes. Yes—there are other entrances. Go towards the old headquarters, search there.”
“We are moving. Something is…Pakeil. Pakeil!”
The voice went silent. Trey shouted.
“Kill them! Set them free! Set them—”
“Trey.”
Flos put a hand on his shoulder, and the trembling young man looked around. Nothing was heard for another minute. Then Yiraz broke in.
“Your Majesty, we have found the tunnels leading down. I am leaving a third of my number to hold the area against reinforcements. The other two-thirds descend.”
“Yiraz, you will be trapped down there.”
“We will be overrun above. They…I report this. The denizens of A’ctelios Salash have reached a second level of transformation. Some of them. Our spells are failing against their hides. We must fight with blades. We must deliver Germina’s poison.”
Fetohep exchanged a look with the Quarass.
“Scourgerider Nivita?”
“Still fighting. They have no fear. Would that we could turn them against Dragons—I am descending myself. Communication may grow…”
 
——
 
Incoherent.
The moment Yiraz and his forces entered the second levels of A’ctelios Salash, past the first city, the speaking spells grew fragmented. They were underground, now, diving past the head.
How far down? And where? He was trying to report.
“—all around us. Tunnels opening, closing on…cutting them down…lost. [Bladedancers], stand here.”
“Casualties.”
Fetohep of Khelt stood there, conferring with the leaders present and…the stars? He kept looking up and listening to something.
“Twenty…of our number. The…do not die easily. Neither do…”
They needed to know where to go. Fetohep called out.
“You seek the hearts. Explorers of old ventured down there, Yiraz. They say there are hearts. Any one will do.”
“How do you know that?”
The Quarass looked at Fetohep. He didn’t reply. His golden flames were searching the air. Listening to something being related to him.
“Yiraz. There are more than just A’ctelios Salash’s people down there.”
“Yes. I sense them.”
 
——
 
They found them in a single moment of screaming so loud that the speaking spell cut out. Then there was dead silence.
“That’s not a voice. What was that?”
Alked Fellbow had his bow drawn. Fetohep just raised the stone.
“Yiraz. Yiraz?”
“—Scourgerider Nivita. Yiraz is gone. We…fleeing.”
“What did you run into?”
“One of us can barely kill…deeper. Hold them back. Your Majesty, our success—”
…Was no longer guaranteed. The Scourgerider’s voices broke off. Arguing. They were headed deeper.
 
——
 
They were sacrificing their number. Somewhere in the depths of A’ctelios Salash, through winding corridors that only the inhabitants knew, Revenants, the legends of old, stopped and let their number hold the line.
Undead champions with magic and sword, eyes blazing in the darkness, turning to face their pursuers. Buying time for a dwindling force to carry a vessel from the Quarass’ kingdom downwards, downwards.
“Vessel is cracked. Two more of our number are dead. Can we deploy…?”
The Quarass spoke.
“No. Not even that can quiet A’ctelios Salash. It must run through Tombhome. A heart. If not a heart—an artery. But no blood flows there.”
“Understood. We…try.”
They were falling. Nivita was reporting them calmly. They had died long ago, but a kind of horror fell over the adventurers, the Horns.
They had heard this before. The Scourgeriders were just…regretful. They had flown in life, now they died. A’ctelios Salash closed in.
“Above—do not know. Eighteen of us now. Eighteen.”
The [Captain] of the ship looked rattled.
“Eighteen out of sixty? They tore across Chandrar in Emrist’s day.”
“Yes. They did. Scourgerider. Report. Can you find an artery? The heartbeats are intensifying. Scourgerider!”
No response. Fetohep lifted another stone to his chest.
“Every legion heading southwards is to prepare for an attack.”
“They won’t be able to fight their way in. Not in those narrow passages. You could send a million soldiers against A’ctelios Salash and break. The Vizir has seen it tried.”
Vizir Hecrelunn hissed at Fetohep. The King of Khelt just shook his head.
“They will prepare for an attack. And I will return you and every force I can spare to do battle. Inform Roshal, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and every power on Chandrar we must bring it down.”
“Emir Yazdil has already pledged Roshal’s armies to do battle.”
The Quarass murmured. Pisces twitched, but everyone was listening. Listening to the silent speaking stone. That shuddering sound from Chandrar that was now felt, tremors for miles and miles.
Thud. Thud. Thudthudthud……………thud.
An erratic beating from vast hearts. Irregular. Slow. Punctuated by minutes.
Wait…Ceria frowned. She looked around.
“Am I imagining that, anyone? Or am I hearing…?”
The others looked at the scrying orb. Fetohep checked it. He brought his head down and heard the faint heartbeat—the armies around A’ctelios Salash were falling back. More and more were coming out of the eyes. But that loud sound—
“…Fetohep. We found it.”
“Scourgerider Nivita?”
Fetohep snatched the stone up, and the Quarass looked up. But then they all realized.
“No. Yiraz. We found something. Nivita…heart. Goin…ry…”
“Have you delivered it?”
“…two with me. Must investigate it. It is not…they built it. Your Majesty? They built it.”
The Quarass opened her mouth, but then Fetohep held up a finger.
“What did you find, Yiraz?”
“They built it long ago. They’re following…goodbye.”
One of the Revenants turned and uttered an ancient challenge. Two more ran through a place deep, deep in A’ctelios Salash.
So deep they had no idea where it was. Another team was placing the poison in the heart. Already—the beating heart was slowing. The tremors subsiding. A’ctelios Salash’s denizens wailed and retreated, the madness leaving them, surrendering, begging insanity and mercy.
But one voice echoed from the darkness. They would not be coming back. Yet Yiraz had thought it so vital that he had left the others trying to break free of A’ctelios Salash. Climbing…they might make it.
“…all following us. They are wearing the same faces. What is this place?”
His voice grew stronger as the speaking spell stabilized. Hecrelunn’s eyes were flickering with the mana he was pouring into the link. The King of Destruction was gripping his hands together so hard they bled.
“What is it?”
Yiraz was alone, now, stumbling forwards. And he was shouting.
“…built it ten thousand years ago! Treachery! The corruption…ten thousand…down here! I see something. I see what they made. No. No…[Wall of S—”
He stood in the last room, in the final place he had found. Deep. Deep within.
“…sty…”
“What is it?”
A’ctelios Salash had gone silent. But Fetohep and his company listened to that trembling, fragmented voice. Yiraz whispered.
“…cannot go down…fear it. I fear it. I will not go down. I will not go down. I will not go…for me. Notformenotformenotforme—” 
“Yiraz? YIRAZ!”
The chanting stopped. Then his voice returned to normal, as if they had heard someone else…
“They made this room ten thousand…dark prophecy. I will try to destroy it. Never let…name…”
“Who? What do you see? Yiraz! Scourgerider!”
Fetohep pressed the speaking stone to his face. He waited—they all waited, but they heard nothing.
Nothing but a scraping sound. Then…a distant chorus which grew louder. Voices which echoed from the stone Fetohep thrust away from his face.
They were singing. Trey Atwood’s face drained of color as he recognized one of the voices.
Baosar. A song came through the speaking stone. An old song, changed.
 
“We met two folk who stopped on a lonesome path
One entered full of willing, the other did not stay,
A single soul found comfort in our ancient home
He is one of many, and the other slipped away.”
 
Fetohep’s grip trembled on the stone. He spoke coldly into it.
“The Scourgeriders of Emrist have fulfilled their duty. Their sacrifice will be answered, Carven City.”
A man spoke into the stone, a laughing voice, breathless. Baosar. Even the Quarass looked at Trey as Gazi put a hand on her sword.
“We are still waiting. Today is not our day.”
Then the stone died. Fetohep tossed it aside and looked back to Chandrar. A’ctelios Salash stopped waking. Tombhome went silent.
No one called it a victory.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
