It led into a garden where a beam of light shone down on a hill of red Sage’s Grass and yellow Faerie Flowers. It led across different biomes of the garden. And up…up towards a hill shrouded in mist, past statues, to that bier of ice.
There she was. This was it. It was going to happen. As they realized it, the inhabitants of the inn…suddenly felt it.
 
——
 
The Goblins on the Wyvern, Kiish, Rags, they all sensed it too, suddenly. As they were flying, talking, going over the ritual’s components again, each one stopped a second and blinked at the others, words unspoken in the backs of their throats.
Was this going to work? Was this…really happening? And if it was, was it actually going to succeed?
They were trying to do the impossible, after all. Erin was frozen, and even the Earthers had been taught to understand that cryogenics was just an idea, science fiction that no one had actually been even close to reversing.
That emotion that everyone had been suppressing so long with desperation, with need, with the conviction that this would work and this was the great quest crept in at last. It was a simple thing, sitting there, as large as the High Passes.
Doubt.
It would have been easier if it were a magical scroll. With every mile, with each wingbeat, with every second, it sounded less plausible. Especially for people who had only ever believed in the power of spells.
This was just…a bunch of components. A Potion of Regeneration, two-thirds empty. A random spellcaster of dubious ability. A potion brewed by a naked Drake. A few spells and a Skill borrowed from someone they had never met.
Was it going to work?
Who could return that little spark of life, captured for far too long in a frozen, damaged body? It seemed too easy, now.
It seemed…impossible.
Her friends wavered, and they sat there, unwilling to say the thing now on their minds because they didn’t want to voice it aloud. Because that was a betrayal of Erin and everything everyone had sacrificed and worked for. All of this, from the Horns to even Lyonette in Oteslia—
It had started from here. Yet now it seemed like they were waking up to cold reality. This wasn’t going to happen. This had been the desperate denial of people who had lost someone precious from the start.
Into that slipping confidence, as night fell and the Goblins flew on, dozing on the Wyverns, protesting sleepily, into the inn as Kevin slept in a familiar, unfamiliar bed and noted how quiet it was, how empty…
Into that uncertainty walked faith. When Ishkr opened the inn the next day, he nearly died of shock.
For inside the inn were Antinium. Outside too. They were sitting on the grass, kneeling, praying, motionless. Little humps of shells, all looking inwards. At a single thing.
A door.
“Pawn?”
The [Priest] lifted his hands as Kevin came downstairs.
“We have arrived. We will stay, if it is acceptable. We can pay. But we must be here. At last. She is returning to us.”
“I…yeah. The ritual’s going to start. But are you s…”
Are you sure? Kevin looked into Pawn’s multifaceted eyes, and the words died on his tongue. Pawn still answered him, all four hands clasped together.
“I have faith.”
The others might doubt, but Pawn’s Antinium had come to witness something at the core of their beliefs. They were free to doubt. Perhaps even Pawn did. But faith…faith was believing in something that might not be.
Not just the Antinium, either. It might be tenuous, it might not work—and many had never met Erin Solstice, nor cared for her.
…But they had sworn an oath.
 
——
 
The Necromancer of Izril was preparing each spell in order. He had tried it on forty dead bodies, and he was aiming for a hundred by the time the Goblin got there.
He knew, now, that it was the Healer of Tenbault that they had sequestered for the ritual. As picks went…Az’kerash was maneuvering agents into place. The little Shield Spider was having trouble securing a site with all the Antinium around, and Az’kerash worried the Small Queen would get there and detect the magic.
However—if at any time during the ritual he sensed the magic going awry, he would personally correct it. In the interim?
“Master, I’m using up so much mana—”
“Continue cloaking the Wyverns, Ijvani. That is an order.”
“Yes, Master.”
The sulking skeleton [Mage] was blocking Rags from view—and Az’kerash was personally teleporting the beacon spells that the Healer of Tenbault kept dropping every now and then into the sea.
He sensed other magics at work as well. Az’kerash could have warred with them, but he decided not to. He just kept his location hidden.
 
——
 
“There it goes again. Mother—someone’s grabbing those little [Beacon] spells.”
“Ignore it, Paxere.”
Azemith admonished her daughter as the Lucifen kept casting spells to make the Veltras trackers run in circles. The Humans were growing increasingly frustrated as they realized they were failing to follow the Goblins.
Paxere was frowning at the stump of a finger as she cast a spell to aid the magic.
“That’s [Witch] magic. And I think some of the weather magic is coming from Chandrar.”
“Khelt, perhaps. The Skill is almost certainly the Earl of Desonis’ [Strategist]. Do not interfere.”
The Lucifen were preparing for war. Only a few of them had devoted spells for this; the rest were arming themselves to crush the Dawn Concordat in the field.
And arguing with the Agelum, who wanted to do the same. Did they believe this was going to work? No—but they were doing it mainly because Visophecin had insisted, because Ryoka Griffin had done them a favor, and because it was amusing to annoy House Veltras.
“That Archmage is casting spells too. I would be surprised if anyone on Izril could track that Goblin.”
Igolze murmured. It prompted silence from the rest of the Lucifen. Azemith glared at her partner as Paxere’s eyes flashed. But then—they would meet Eldavin soon enough on the field of battle.
This? This was just a footnote.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One day before the Meeting of Tribes erupted into chaos and Fetohep left Khelt, a Dragon arrived at her destination as a Named Adventurer, Mivifa the Oldblood of Feathers, dropped her off and circled, heading back towards Oteslia. Rafaema on her lonely journey, ignorant of the Goblins flying this way.
 
Believe it. Desire it. Have faith or none—it didn’t matter. Rags flew towards Liscor, surprised at how fast they were going. And the city of Liscor was fairly ignorant of what was happening.
The Wandering Inn did not advertise this. In fact, the biggest news in Liscor—aside from watching the worldwide events—was celebrating some of the soldiers who had come in for a vacation. Watch Captain Zevara had still been informed of the attempt by Klbkch.
She felt like that was responsible for the churning in her stomach. She clung to the knowledge that if anyone could do it…
Tomorrow morning. To distract herself until then, she suppressed the flames and smoke in the back of her throat and the temptation to exhale it. She smiled with the most saccharine expression on her face.
“I am sorry…Wall Lady Rafaema, was it? I was just confirming the military codes.”
“Not at all, Watch Captain. How soon can you muster your forces?”
The rather incredible young Drake woman with azure scales and mismatched eyes, a perfect Oldblood of her kind from Manus, stood with military straightness, a hand on the sword hilt at her side. She had impressive, enchanted armor on, and she had marched into Zevara’s office after reciting top-level codes from the City of War to the [Guards] at the gate, the desk sergeant, and now Zevara.
The Watch Captain gave Rafaema a happy little smile. She checked her notes.
“You appear to have taken a Pegasus flight into Pallass. May I ask, Wall Lady Rafaema, if this has any connection to Magnolia Reinhart’s coach, which passed north of us this morning? And headed back south at once.”
Rafaema frowned briefly at Zevara.
“Not to my knowledge, no. Magnolia Reinhart is still in Oteslia, so that may be one of her servants. However, I will take this information under consideration as I carry out my duties. Thank you for your perspicacity, Watch Captain. I am not at liberty to disclose my errand, however.”
“Naturally. Naturally. And you would like to sequester eight Senior Guardsmen, preferably my highest-leveled, and a force of at least forty [Soldiers].”
“I can make do with that number. Two hundred would be most satisfactory, but I would not wish to take away from Liscor’s defenses.”
“And their location?”
“Classified, Watch Captain. How soon can you have them ready?”
Rafaema eyed Zevara severely; this was far too much chatting for a top-level request. Watch Captain Zevara certainly seemed pleasant enough, though. Chatty Watch Captains were to be endured sometimes.
She had probably never gotten a military code this high. Of course she knew it; Rafaema memorized all of the military commands that only someone of Spearmaster Lulv’s rank could utter. They allowed her to take charge of any Drake force, even another Walled City, if need be.
Naturally, she’d used it now because she was headed into the High Passes. Not Pallass; the Cyclops was a bit too inquisitive, but Liscor had sufficient forces. Rafaema was impatient to go—she’d intended to check out that inn, but everyone had told her it was closed and the [Innkeeper] was dead.
So—onwards to find that Dragon. She was waiting for Zevara to give her a timeline. Perhaps the Drake woman had problems with her Oldblood heritage? She kept coughing into one fist. Zevara looked up, and her polite, joyous expression never changed as she replied.
“I have reviewed your request and your military codes are completely authentic, Wall Lady Rafaema. However, given Liscor’s pressing need to have [Guards] on the streets, I must deny your muster request. Please, have a good day. Let the door hit you on the way out.”
Rafaema had never experienced this before, so the Lightning Dragon stood there uncertainly for a good few seconds.
“I don’t believe you heard me, Watch Captain. I just requested reinforcements from Liscor under Manus command—”
“I heard you, Wall Lady Rafaema. Request denied.”
“You…you can’t do that. Manus is requesting aid.”
Zevara checked her stack of reports and then looked up at Rafaema, putting her claws together.
“I am sure it is. Would you kindly tell me what this mission is?”
“That’s classified.”
“Ah, well, in that case—is it monsters? A dungeon investigation? Or are you going north to raid or investigate something? If you are negotiating with Master Pelt, I’ll warn you to bring a helmet and direct you to our magic door.”
That was it. Rafaema’s nervousness, impatience, and incredulity caused her to snap. She put her hands on Zevara’s desk.
“What part of classified don’t you understand? You are a Watch Captain of a Drake city! When you hear those codes, you render any aid needed!”
That was how it worked. The problem was…well, Lulv or Makhir or especially Luciva would have been able to use those codes and probably get what they wanted. Even Saliss. Rafaema? Rafaema had never actually seen how those codes were used to sequester aid from a ‘Drake city’. Nor had she ever considered how Drake cities felt about answering to Manus.
Nor did she know Liscor or Watch Captain Zevara. The Drake Watch Captain’s eyes narrowed, but her smile remained, which was uncanny.
“I am going to put Liscor’s Watch on an alert after this meeting, Wall Lady Rafaema. I would appreciate if you told me of any danger that my city might be under. If you do not and we suffer a monster attack any time this week, I will personally hold you accountable for it.”
“You cannot do that. This is a secret operation, and I demand your aid!”
Rafaema slammed a fist down. Zevara stood up.
“In that case, you will not mind if I confirm with Manus that a Wall Lady Rafaema is justified in using their military codes? Military codes that I would expect to get if the Antinium were about to slaughter us all, we were about to suffer a Human attack, or the dungeon were going to explode under my feet?”
Rafaema hesitated, and Zevara gave her a narrow look. She knew. She didn’t know what she knew, but Zevara had just called Rafaema’s bluff.
“You do not need to inform Manus—”
“Do not, for top-level clearance, or should not? If this is truly a secret operation, I will bear the full weight of the responsibility on my shoulders. But I am not sure this is. Why did Pallass not answer Manus’ request? They have countless high-level forces. Why are you asking me for forces without disclosing any danger that would require forty [Soldiers]? Where are they going?”
“Classified!”
“Then you can expect my reinforcements when you dig them up and grab a [Necromancer]. Hire some adventurers, Wall Lady. We even have a Named-rank one and a Gold-rank team in the city. But Liscor’s Watch will not muster without an explanation or official confirmation!”
Zevara sat back down, and Rafaema trembled with…indignation? Fury? Shock?
She was a Wall Lady of Manus! She was on the Security Council! She was a Dragon!
But she didn’t see what Zevara saw. Moreover…she had not known that the Watch Captain had been dealing with every superior from General Shivertail, to Wall Lord Ilvriss, to Chaldion, to an annoying Human this last year.
Rafaema turned the intensity of her glare up, and the air ionized around her. Zevara kicked her out of her office. Then she went back to staring at the inn out of her office window. She suspected that this Wall Lady was not here on Manus’ say-so and that she could inform the City of War and they would be very interested to know she was here. But Rafaema might well just go away, and Zevara had enough headaches.
She was right and wrong, and Rafaema stormed out of the Watch House, defeated by the Watch Captain of Liscor. Fine—fine! If she couldn’t get a force of Drakes, she’d go herself. It was the High Passes, but she was a Dragon.
Zevara paid no notice of Rafaema, other than noting she’d left the city in case Manus wanted to know later. She was waiting. They all were. But was it really going to…?
 
——
 
Not even the gods knew. The gods were dead—but they didn’t know. Yet they had information all but Fetohep lacked.
Erin Solstice was a ghost that was neither fully dead nor alive. She had a body. One of them had tried to reach it before, during that pivotal moment of the Summer Solstice.
Norechl had sensed a vessel, but it had failed to capture it, and the [Garden of Sanctuary] kept the others from entering, even Kasigna.
That was a frustration. However—a few salient facts changed things.
