Gazi peered up worriedly at Flos Reimarch, and then both saw Orthenon standing behind Flos as ever. A shadow. Trey’s eyes were round with wonder as he spied one of Serept’s loyal half-Giants, the floating [Vizir], and even Gazi was taken aback by the strange company above.
But they were all background to the call from above. The King of Destruction’s spread hands lowered, and everyone looked up.
In the dark night, the sandstorm and raging waters abated a moment. The thundering skies of clouds drew back, exposing a bright moon. Lightning crackled through the air—then flashed away.
A line in the sky opened up, and there she descended. Archmage Amerys, drifting downwards, as the King of Destruction stepped away from the others and reached up towards her.
Her eyes, like the very heart of a lightning bolt, met his, green like the very lands he had dreamed of riding across. Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, alighted on the deck, and the King of Destruction embraced her.
His greatest [Mage] looked at Flos Reimarch after so long. She had seen him slumbering for twenty years—and now, a year after he had awoken, returned to life, they finally met.
This—was the stuff of stories. Everyone watched as Chandrar’s famous [King] met one of his Seven.
For good or ill. The Terandrian [Knights] watched with a mix of anticipation, knowing they could say they had been here, worry for the future, and…satisfaction.
Satisfaction, because they could hear Flos laughing in relief. Laughing, knowing his friend was safe. His companion.
Amerys was laughing too, but quietly. Tiredly. She was looking Flos up and down. The first words from her mouth were…
“You stink, and you’re covered in injuries. Did you pick a fight with a Flame Elemental again?”
“(No, I was fighting a Djinni, actually—)”
“What? Can’t you speak? I am gone for a year and you’ve crippled yourself. A year? And you send Gazi to rescue me? What are you doing on this ship?”
Flos muttered something incomprehensible, and Amerys just stared at him as Orthenon approached.
“Amerys. It is good to see you.”
“Ah. Wonderful. A man with no tongue, and a man with no personality. Where is Mars? Gazi! Where are you?”
Amerys was quick, and her gaze flashed with mockery, but then she and Orthenon looked at each other, and the [Steward] touched her arm.
“You look thin. Tired. I will find you something to eat, and you will rest as long as you need. Then—we will avenge every wrong on Wistram’s head.”
Amerys tightened a weak grip on his shoulder.
“Ah, Orthenon. I will hold you to that. How has it been? You, who waited the longest with the King of Sloth.”
“(I’m right here.)”
Both his vassals ignored him a moment. Orthenon threw back his head and stared up. Then he smiled at Amerys, who grinned, as fast as a flash.
“Almost worth the wait. It is good to see you back, Calm Flower. Chandrar has need of your wisdom and grace.”
She was laughing at that when Gazi strode onto the deck. She caught sight of Flos but was too slow to avoid his bear hug as he swept her up.
“My lord—enough. This is a public moment—”
The embarrassed Gazer protested, but then there were three of them, all standing together as Orthenon nodded at Gazi.
“Well done.”
“Fair praise, coming from you.”
The two looked at each other as Amerys began to laugh louder.
“Ah, there is the Dour Couple. The worst match in Chandrar—or so I said until Orthenon began to send poetry and flowers and I learned Gazi could blush like anyone else!”
She put her arms around both of them to lean on their shoulders, and both promptly shrugged her off. Amerys almost fell down, but Flos held her, and his head turned.
“(Where is Trey?)”
“There.”
Every head turned, and the young man climbing onto the deck suddenly found himself at the center of attention. Trey Atwood froze, but then Flos was striding across the deck to him. Amerys sighed and looked around.
“Now this—this is something even we have not seen. I wish we were all here. Drevish is dead, Gazi told me, Orthenon.”
“Yes. He did not die of age or in battle, but of treachery.”
The [Steward] bowed his head. Amerys looked up.
“Takhatres and Mars live?”
“Yes.”
She exhaled.
“…Four out of the Seven, plus you. It will be enough. Tell me—why is Khelt sailing? Where are we bound? Then we shall go back and avenge Drevish. I am tired, Orthenon. But I feel myself growing stronger with each second. Let me lean on you a moment?”
For answer, he extended an arm, like they were going to some dance or occasion.
“You weigh less than His Majesty.”
Amerys chuckled again. It seemed like that was when everyone finally exhaled and realized they were part of this scene as well. The first person to move was Rasea Zecrew.
She had a tankard in hand, and she took the largest gulp in the world. Misty-eyed, she grabbed the nearest person by the waist and squeezed.
“This is what I came here to see. Stories. And who are you?”
Frieke stared at Rasea. Say it. You had to say it—she had a terrible sense of déjà-vu.
 
——
 
“Dead gods. Look at this. This is—amazing. Are we seeing this? Pinch me, Ksmv—ow!”
Ksmvr’s patented triple-pinching technique convinced Ceria this was real. Indeed, it was so real that one of Gazi’s eyes swiveled around from explaining what had happened to Flos with Trey as Fetohep strode over, and she caught sight of the Horns of Hammerad.
“Ah. Your Majesty.”
“(Hm? Begone, Fetohep. My loyal subject and I must have words.)”
Flos Reimarch was flapping a hand at Fetohep, and the King of Khelt was losing patience, but Gazi whispered to Flos.
“My eyes do not deceive me—those are the Horns of Hammerad. I fought with some of them, briefly. That is the [Necromancer] I mentioned.”
“(Oh?)”
Flos’ head turned. And then he was—Yvlon made a squeaking noise, and everyone stared at her.
“He’s looking at us, Ceria! What did you do?”
“Not me! Pisces! What have you done?”
“I have done nothing! I have been the exemplar of good conduct—”
“I shall introduce myself. I know how to talk to royalt—”
All of the Horns grabbed Ksmvr. Flos Reimarch was listening to Gazi, even as he looked at Amerys, but the Archmage of Chandrar had spotted a buffet. Like any good Wistram [Mage], she was pulling a Telim with the food.
“Mf mght’s myrlly—”
“Dead gods, enough!”
The mumbling King of Destruction had clearly aggravated everyone who wanted a clear understanding of what was going on. Even Fetohep of Khelt considered this had maybe lost its appeal.
However, it was the one, the only, the Vizir Hecrelunn who lost all patience at last. He pointed at Flos, and Orthenon and Amerys whirled.
“Enough, you mumbling king. [Tongue of the Sphinx: Clarity]!”
The King of Destruction blinked a few times. Then he tried his voice. A booming voice, his true voice, echoed from the bandages, perfectly restored.
“I can speak? At last! Gazi, my beloved servant, my wondrous Gazer—is that truly the [Necromancer] you told me about? The one you called the prodigy of his generation? I must meet him.”
His booming voice echoed around the ship. The Horns of Hammerad went still, and all of them looked at Pisces. The [Necromancer] went white—then red as a beet.
“Gazi the Omniscient said that about…?”
He squeaked. Then they realized—Flos was coming across the decks straight at them.
“He can make those…? Ah, I wondered if we could have one. What did I say before? Too dangerous? Khelt has all their Revenants. What about the [Innkeeper] and that City Runner? What was her name?”
“Erin Solstice, Your Majesty.”
Then the King of Destruction in bandages was looming over the Horns. Fetohep of Khelt’s head turned as he heard Gazi’s comment, and the people on the deck of the ship murmured. They had all heard that name.
Gazi met Ceria’s eyes, and the [Cryomancer] hid behind Yvlon. Pisces stared at Gazi, and they recalled when last they had met—Silver-ranks, children watching a Named Adventurer fight all of Liscor and win.
Until Erin poked her in the eye. Ceria had grown since then. She had leveled up—what, over ten times! She looked up, trying to straighten her back, and met the King of Destruction’s gaze.
“Tree rot. I’m going to faint.”
Flos, the King of Destruction, looked delighted at the reaction. He reached out and slapped Yvlon on the shoulder so hard she nearly fell down—and winced as it damaged his hands.
“A Gold-rank team from Izril! I have seen your exploits, Horns of Hammerad. I am Flos Reimarch, whom you may know!”
He threw his head back and laughed. Then he went nearly cross eyed as Ksmvr stuck out a hand.
“Hello, Your Majesty. I believe I have heard of you. I am Ksmvr, formerly of the Free Antinium of Liscor. Now proud member of the Horns of Hammerad. Empress Nsiia does not speak fondly of you.”
Flos did a double-take as Gazi regarded Ksmvr with clear confusion.
“Is this Klbkch the Slayer? No—Ksmv…Ksmvr? Of Chandrar! Aha! The one who knows the Loquea Dree and helped free Sottheim? And Nsiia? You, my friend, I owe a boon to!”
Then Flos grabbed Ksmvr and lifted him up in a hug. Yvlon’s mouth was open so wide one of the flying fish crashing across the deck hit her square in the mouth.
“What the—?”
Pisces ducked another object as Yvlon stumbled. Flos whirled, and the [Captain] bellowed.
“Dead gods damn it—we’ve hit a shoal! Food’s flying!”
Everyone took cover or knocked fish out of the way as an unlucky school of flying fish jumped straight into the warship. Ceria raised her hand at the same time as Gazi.
“[Ice Wall]!”
They both said it at once, then stared at each other as a wall of ice formed, two layers which shielded them from the squall of fish. Flos blinked.
“You’ve learned ice magic, Gazi! Now there is a change!”
“And you have improved in your magic markedly, half-Elf. Interesting circlet.”
Gazi’s eyes were on Ceria. The half-Elf blinked at Gazi.
“Th—thank you. You’re, uh, good at ice magic too. How did…?”
The conversations were all halted a moment as Sand at Sea activated a magical shield that took away wind, water, and flying fish. The people on the decks began to gather as the King of Destruction motioned to the Horns and stood, beaming behind his bandages.
“Now I can speak, no thanks to Fetohep the Miser, I have endless questions. Trey! Come here and meet this interesting team. Oh? Who have you there? More friends from…?”
Elena and the other Earthers stopped at this gathering as they broke away from blankets and food. Ceria exchanged a look with Pisces, and the Quarass lowered her speaking stone enough to see Flos.
“King of Destruction.”
“Quarass! You have my gratitude for—”
“Yes, yes.”
She waved him off. Miffed, the King of Destruction watched the Quarass hurry across the decks. Ksmvr pointed at her.
“That is a little girl. Is she the Quarass of Germina, a Shield Kingdom?”
The Quarass halted. She turned her head, even amidst her worries and the urgency of the moment, to regard Ksmvr with narrowed eyes.
“An Antinium. And…”
She eyed Ceria’s circlet and then did a double-take of her own.
“Doubte of Zethe?”
“Quarass. We meet again. I congratulate you on your rebirth. Your second body did not seem to suit you well.”
The [Hero] bowed to the Quarass, who blinked at him. Then at the others. Even she seemed taken aback. Especially because…
“Ah, Quarass. Finally, some intelligent company with age to it. Once again, you have the honor of meeting the Vizir Hecrelunn. He is sure you have not forgotten him.”
Vizir Hecrelunn floated over self-importantly. The other Revenants all knew the Quarass. She took one look at Hecrelunn and grimaced.
“…I have no time for this. Would that I did. Out of my way, Vizir. Chandrar needs me. By Ger and the Shield Kingdoms. Fetohep! Tell me what passes at A’ctelios Salash and the rest of the world that I cannot see. It is waking up.”
Like that, everyone fell silent, and that joyous occasion was broken as they were reminded of their task.
Yet they were sailing away from Chandrar and one of the greatest cataclysms ever. Fetohep of Khelt turned, and a single speaking stone floated across the deck, followed by the King of Khelt. Everyone gathered around, and Rasea grabbed a bowl of popped corn on a hunch. They listened as Fetohep met with the Quarass.
“A’ctelios Salash senses its kin. It is trying to wake up. I have sent two Jaws of Zeikhal and legions marching with the Giant of Ash’s corpse if it does rise.”
The Quarass was hunched over her own speaking stone, eyes ablaze with worry.
“They will be like toddlers trying to stop a ghoul if it wakes.”
“Yes. So I have called upon the Shield Kingdoms and every force. Your poison…”
“The Labyrinth City, Merreid, has sent Djinni to transport it. But the Djinni will never prevail. Not inside A’ctelios Salash. It will swallow them.”
Fetohep nodded gravely. He stood there, and his head rose to the speaking stone.
“Yes. That is why the Scourgeriders of Emrist strike A’ctelios Salash. They have pledged to return it to its empty dreams.”
The Quarass exhaled, and a look of relief entered her eyes, subsumed by worry again just as quickly.
“How do they fare?”
For answer, Fetohep of Khelt lifted a stone, and everyone heard a faint voice. Trey Atwood, standing next to the King of Destruction, saw Flos glance at him, and he shuddered as he heard a voice, and behind it, familiar, wild screams of a hundred thousand voices. An alien roar and the sounds of fighting.
“Your Majesty. I am Yiraz, First of the Scourge. We have entered A’ctelios Salash. What of Coutei?”
“He has left, Yiraz. Your kin fulfill their mission, and three fly to you now. Report what passes as you are able.”
“I shall, Your Majesty.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
That night, after the King of Khelt, Fetohep, shouted his warning, the world watched A’ctelios Salash. As the ghosts of Chandrar regained their Skills, the Scourgeriders of Emrist fell upon the Carven City.
 
A’ctelios Salash was waking up. Those listening to the reports could not see the fighting within.
Only what they saw from the outside. The scrying orbs flicking from the emergence of a Fraerling city in Talenqual, the return of the Titan, war in the Meeting of Tribes, Ailendamus, and Fetohep—
—Stopped here.
Many had never seen A’ctelios Salash. Never beheld Tombhome and understood what it was.
One of Chandrar’s many buried horrors.
A face…the top of a face buried in the sands. Swirling entrances, six, set into the earth, leading into the Carven City.
Eyes. The pupils hollowed out. A monstrosity felled so long ago that no one, not even the Quarass, had seen it die. Occupied and eaten, to make sure it stayed dead.
And it was waking up.
