Were they then trying to return Erin to her body? Was he obstructing them? He did not know.
So he returned to the [Message] scroll.
 
Fetohep of Khelt: Wait another day, ‘R’.
R: Everything is almost ready. I have a Skill.
Lionette: From whom?
Saliss: I think you mean, ‘from who’? I have to go. We’re entering the Great Plains, and I sense snobbish Drake [Mages]. Good luck.
R: I cannot wait. Why, Fetohep? Why wait?
Fetohep of Khelt: I cannot say.
 
He would not say, not to all of them. Not if the Witch of Webs could infiltrate that discussion. Or Wistram itself or…Ailendamus or any other force.
There were ways to ensnare ghosts. This was the power of Khelt. So he read.
 
R: I need another Skill, maybe. Does ‘Emperor’ have his Skill? I could use that. [Undying Loyalty]?
Ilvriss: What [Emperor]?
Lionette: Oh! Oh! Is he here?
Riverfarm: His Majesty, Laken Godart of the Unseen Empire, is not accepting direct [Message] spells at this moment. Is this…in regards to Erin Solstice? I will forward any missives for his consideration. A reply is not guaranteed, however.
R: Yes. Ask if he can use his Skill on Erin Solstice, in Liscor.
Fetohep of Khelt: Khelt shall repay His Majesty of Riverfarm any inconvenience.
Ilvriss: And Salazsar. Riverfarm is the capital of this Unseen Empire?
Riverfarm: Please hold. Your request will be forwarded to his Majesty when he next holds court.
R: No, now.
 
——
 
Waiting and waiting. Rags had been waiting for this, waiting for that. She had been communicating, and they had a Skill—the [Emperor] was to make sure they had the best one. She had heard tales from Goblins about that Skill.
Of all the allies Lyonette had gathered, all her friends—he had never participated in the messages. As if he had tried not to notice, even when Wistram contacted him.
So she waited a day. One day, and she had waited so long to taste that food and see that smiling face. Rags had waited and waited and gotten the other voice.
 
Emperor Laken Godart: I cannot journey to Liscor. ‘R’, can you perform the ritual?
R: Yes. We have one Skill, but two is better. Can you give it?
Emperor Laken Godart: No. Go now. Perform the ritual. Hurry. You have no time.
Fetohep of Khelt: You must clarify your statements, Emperor Godart. What do you know?
Emperor Laken Godart: I cannot say either. Hurry. Go to Liscor as fast as you can. Before it’s too late.
 
That was when Rags felt that resurgence of unease. That was when she made the call. She could wait another day, another month…but she had to try.
The Healer of Tenbault was being loaded on the wing of a Wyvern by Calescent and two Goblins as Rags watched. She turned to the Witch, Anazurhe.
“I go.”
“Yes, Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters Tribe. I will cast my magics on your flight to speed and hide you. I wish your tribe…luck. Are you certain?”
Rags was not, but she looked at the crimson glow behind Anazurhe’s half-mask and nodded as she removed her own mask. One of Anazurhe’s daughters was coming with Rags. The [Witch] gave Rags an exasperated look.
“Strange little Goblin. I could imagine you will become a Goblin Lord if you are lucky. You are a strange one.”
Rags just shrugged.
“I have to go. I have to try. Will…will it work? All the parts? Magic and [Doctor] and Skills?”
The [Witch] shook her head.
“I have seen great rituals and magic, but this is not just that. It is…ideas and a combination of things. I would tell you no, if I were a [Mage]. But I am not. Try. The King of Khelt believes her soul is speaking to him. That is proof.”
Her eyes glittered, and Rags felt a leap of hope in her chest. Death was not the end. She wondered if Pyrite, Garen…
No. She just nodded to Anazurhe. There was a lot more, like her talking to that [Rogue] who traded with Goblins, arranging more connections between tribes, blackmailing the Healer of Tenbault, Hekusha, and plotting her route to pick up that Skill.
Redscar was already on the move. He passed in a blur. Rags got on the back of a Frost Wyvern—then she was flying up. Anazurhe cloaked the Frost Wyverns, turning their scales grey then blue as the camouflaged fliers took off with a huge tailwind blowing them forwards.
It felt like a dream. Each minute passed by slowly, but each hour was as long as the blink of an eye to Rags.
They were going to wake her up. The Goblins who flew with Rags did not know Erin Solstice. But the people that knew—they waited.
Lyonette, Saliss, Fetohep, Ilvriss, Altestiel, Eldavin, Ryoka, and more. Everyone who had joined together to help, from people who had never met her like the GSNF, people who were longing for her to wake…they read that last message from Rags.
 
R: I am going. I will wake her, or fail. It won’t be long. We will take a day or two to fly.
 
She pushed them. The Frost Wyverns, her Goblins—she pushed them as hard as she dared, with the Witch’s magic at her back.
It could have been a running battle of chases and desperate deeds all the way back to Liscor. Rags was, after all, being hunted by the Five Families and Tenbault’s protectors. But no one found them.
The Wyverns were cloaked in a great [Witch]’s magic, and there were a lot of suspicious clouds on the way south. Their route also took them away from major cities. Rags, staring up at the sky, thought not all of it looked like [Witch] magic, which was largely incomprehensible to her.
But who could cast spells from that far away and at that magnitude?
Well. She had a list.
There was one thing that Rags needed if the [Emperor] would not help. She had worried about how to get it if he did not acquiesce—and she had felt silly when it was provided.
Everyone was trying. Everyone. So, as Rags stopped on the first leg of her journey, she saw the rider below her looking up and slowing. A brave Human, to abandon her escort like that and not run when she saw Wyverns bearing Goblins descending.
“H-help—”
Hekusha hesitated as she saw another Human, then seemed to realize that she was not going to be rescued. Like Valeterisa—this stranger was not about to slay every Goblin in sight.
She did hesitate. But she had come this far and already suspected whom she was going to rendezvous with. So the foreign woman with silver hair simply took off her glasses and wiped them with a bit of cloth. She frowned at the Goblins and sighed.
“Greetings. Are you…‘R’? I have been sent bearing the Skill to revive Erin Solstice. If you are not, please kill me and get it over with.”
Her reply was a bunch of toothy grins from the Goblins riding the Wyverns. Red light; crimson eyes. The smallest one nodded.
“I am.”
She regarded the strange woman with interest, and the glance was returned twofold. [Strategist] Kiish of Desonis looked up with narrowed eyes as the rain dripped from her silver hair and off her spectacles. However, her vision through the glasses was clear; one did not serve in Desonis without learning to waterproof everything.
“The Earl of the Rains has sent me. I am Strategist Kiish of Desonis. Well…met.”
“Excuse me. Excuse me, did you say Desonis? I’ve been kidnapped—”
Kiish glanced at the Healer of Tenbault.
“Desonis is not part of Izril, Healer Hekusha. My presence here is completely deniable. Her Majesty is not aware of any actions taken here.”
The Healer slumped on her Wyvern. Calescent patted her on the shoulder. Kiish strode for the first Wyvern with only a little hesitation; she had flown Griffin-back before.
“You have a Skill that works?”
Rags was curious. That Skill was exceptionally rare. Many leaders had decent Skills, but no Drake in Pallass had possessed the exact Skill that did what they needed.
Namely—empowering dead or nearly dead warriors to fight. Most leaders had Skills that prevented that or gave the living strength. The closest Pallass had was a Skill that used death to strengthen the living. Skills revolving around casualties, not returning them or giving them another moment.
It seemed incredible that a [Strategist] that had once met Erin Solstice just happened to have the right Skill. Kiish explained as she mounted up.
“I can use the required Skill. Once. Are we meeting an [Emperor]? I should be grateful for his help if he is inclined to give it.”
Rags bared her teeth in a grimace.
“No.”
“I see. Then again, [Undying Loyalty] sounds as if it would only work on those loyal to him…there are surely ways to finagle that Skill’s conditions, but the Earl has faith mine will work.”
Rags nodded. The Wyverns were flying as she and Kiish talked. The [Strategist] was remarkably well put together for someone talking with Goblins—until you noticed her shaking hands. But she had come here on request. Rags had to lean forwards and raise her voice to be heard over the rush of cold wind and rain.
“What Skill do you have?”
“[Rise, and Fight Another Minute With Me]. Will that not match your expectations?”
The Goblins in earshot oohed in appreciation. Fancy. Even they knew that the more you had to talk, the better a Skill was. Rags looked at Kiish, impressed.
“You have that Skill?”
The [Strategist] instantly shook her head.
“I am only able to use it once. Earl Altestiel prevailed upon a famous [Captain] from the Lantocracy of Bitorm known for this very Skill. He called upon every favor to expedite my journey there and to Izril. I have sailed by Courier upon the Earl of Rains’ coin to get here.”
Rags frowned.
“Then how will you use it?”
For answer, the [Strategist] gave Rags a smile, like a senior to a junior.
“Not everything is exceedingly difficult. [Copy Skill: Ten Levels]. A Level 42 [Captain of the Last Stand]’s Skill is the best I can offer. I hope it will serve.”
Rags sat back, eyes blinking a few times. She wanted that…she looked at Kiish and nodded.
“I hope so.”
 
——
 
So they kept flying southwards. The news spread to a few people. Not many. Not with the world in chaos, the deadlands shaking.
But it went to the right people. By spell, by word of mouth.
Kevin skidded into Solar Cycles, and his assistant nearly had a heart-attack.
“Mister Kevin! Where have you been? We have a backlog of months, and I’ve been answering everyone asking who—”
“No time. I just got dropped—I need to get to Liscor!”
“The door’s scheduled to open this evening…”
Kevin was panting, still shivering from Wyvernflight, and exhausted from running three miles to Esthelm from where the Goblins had dropped him off. He charged towards the door connecting Liscor to Esthelm.
…Then he caught himself, sent a [Message] to Selys asking if they could open the door to Esthelm, and confirmed it would be easier to wait, especially since Rags was still on her way. Kevin walked back to Solar Cycles and scarfed down two toasted baguettes as he answered a bunch of [Messages] and made calls to a number of people. He went to visit Pelt, and the Dwarf cursed him out for twenty minutes before listening to Kevin’s explanations.
Then Kevin caught the door to Liscor and stood in line for eight minutes before he was admitted. He walked to The Wandering Inn just in time for Relc to send him flying.
“They’re doing what?”
The Drake barged into the inn, looking around wildly. Kevin lay on his back, seeing stars. He could have probably gotten here earlier by causing a fuss, but he had realized there was no speeding up the Goblin on her way.
That was Kevin-logic for you.
Others found out when he returned, like Relc and Klbkch. They skidded into the inn, demanding to know what the others knew. Joseph, Troy—the actual Troy—Imani, Palt, Selys, Drassi, and of course Ishkr converged on the inn.
“Kevin! Where have you been?”
“Uh…with Goblins. Hiking.”
Kevin was gobbling more food after hiking up part of the High Passes until they could catch a Wyvern to Goblinhome and then figuring out whether Rags was safe. His return was almost overshadowed by the news.
“She’s coming? Rags?”
Ishkr was the only person not surprised by Rags’ announcement. He was setting out food as The Wandering Inn returned to something like the noise and confusion it had once known.
Selys’ claws were shaking as she clutched the [Message] that Rags had sent her, Lyonette, and everyone else.
“I—yes. Yes. Is everything here? We need to tell…Lyonette knows, but she and Mrsha and—”
She looked around at the small gathering and realized—this was it. Humans, the two [Guards], a few others like Palt…
Everyone else was far away. The Halfseekers had passed by Liscor so fast that Selys had only heard from Drassi she’d seen Jelaqua and Maughin talking before they were gone. The Horns were a continent away.
Griffon Hunt, the Silver Swords…Ryoka…this was it. Selys was also here too early. The Goblins were still flying towards them. She looked about, and Ishkr produced something.
A carefully wrapped vial, the glass specifically enchanted and opaque, lead mixed with something else. She stared at it.
“Is that…”
“Courier Salamani delivered it to me earlier this week. It comes from Saliss of Lights. The bottle is specially designed to prevent the contents from passing through. I’ve kept it stored. I have specific instructions on how to apply it. Here.”
“What about the Potion of Regeneration?”
Kevin was looking around. Selys knew that one.
“Ilvriss’ representative is staying at Peslas’ inn. The Tailless Thief. They still have it.”
“And the Skill?”
“Rags has it. And she said she had the [Mage] who can cast all the spells necessary. She ‘made them learn it’. So that means…that means…”
“Everything is in order, it would appear.”
Klbkch looked up from the copy of the [Doctor]’s instructions. Relc looked to him and then around.
“Wait—it’s all here? No mistakes?”
Palt was checking over the list of spells.
“I could cast some of them myself. Grimalkin could substitute them—the antidote is here. So long as no one breaks it or does something incredibly stupid like drop the Potion of Regeneration…”
Everyone had an image of someone—Troy—taking the antidote and falling, shattering it against the wall. They looked for the bottle, but Ishkr had already put it away. Plus, it was shatterproof.
“I…wait. So we’ve got the potion. We’ve got the antidote, and everything’s ready. Is this—happening?”
Relc looked around. No one quite dared say it. Kevin looked out the window.
“It’ll be a day or two before Rags gets here either way. Let’s…we’re early. We should relax and tell everyone and wait.”
Imani rubbed at one ear.
“Yeah. Kevin, where were you? With Goblins? Say that again?”
Kevin began to explain a longer version of what he’d been doing, censored for the Goblins’ safety, and Klbkch and Relc just stood there. Everyone looked to a door against the far wall, standing there, waiting to be opened.
