Yvlon muttered a bit too loudly as she stared at Ser Solton. Instantly, someone objected.
“I shall have you take that back, Dame Loudmouth! A [Knight] is a [Knight]! The Order of Haegris has saved thousands of lives each year with their charity! They are a model who have inspired even my own Kingdom of Ailendamus!”
Someone slapped Yvlon’s arm with a glove. Both adventurers turned and saw an indignant Knight of the Hydra.
“I’m sorry—who are you?”
“Dame Thuile, at your service! I apologize for my introduction, but I must protest. It does not behoove a fellow [Knight] to besmirch one of their own kind. Neither the Claiven Earth!”
The Hydra Knight had clearly gotten the wrong idea. She was looking from Ceria’s pointy ears to Yvlon’s metal arms and admittedly armored body and getting the wrong idea. Yvlon opened her mouth, but Ceria nudged her. The half-Elf had a twinkle in her eyes.
“I am so sorry, Dame Thuile. What is your Knight Order?”
“The Order of the Hydra from the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, Ailendamus! I understand your leadership may not have desired this alliance, but we are pledged to fight evil wherever we see it, and the horrors from beyond the edge of the world supercede even undeath.”
Ceria was bowing as the uppity Hydra Knight turned to Yvlon.
“And you would be…?”
Yvlon was glaring out of the corner of her eyes at Ceria. The half-Elf seemed so relaxed—even for her and a veteran of Erin shenanigans. She was still wearing the circlet that she’d stolen from The Putrid One, and she had a look of mischief in her gaze.
She clearly wanted to play a prank on this [Knight], and Yvlon…eyed the angry woman and smiled blandly. Ceria interjected for Yvlon.
“This is, uh, Dame Yvlon. Of the Order of…”
She hesitated only a moment.
“Solstice! The Order of Solstice. She’s a [Knight] of one, who just arrived in the crusade, and now we’re headed back. Terribly sorry; she’s new.”
Yvlon rolled her eyes, but the Hydra Knight only did a double-take for a second.
“The Order of Solstice? Ah, of course. Izrilians. Well, milady, your reputation precedes you. I bear no grudge, though we will be enemies on Terandria. Rather, I congratulate you. Is Ser Solstice…no, it must be an assumed title, eh? Is he your Order’s champion or some veteran knight?”
Yvlon felt her hand being pumped up and down as she and Ceria exchanged a sudden glance.
“Ser Solstice of Izril?”
“Oh, dear me. Haven’t you been keeping up with…? No, I suppose if you weren’t on a vessel with a scrying orb—the war in Terandria, you know.”
That was how Ceria and Yvlon, now grinning like the Revenant undead, were treated to a discussion of Ser Solstice’s valorous and sometimes unorthodox deeds on the battlefield and the tragedy of General Dionamella’s fall. Both half-Elf and Human kept staring at each other out of the corner of their eyes. They were having a silent argument bordering on the telepathic. Yvlon glared daggers into Ceria’s pale gaze.
 
You tell her.
No, you!
This is your fault! It’s got to be a coincidence, right?
Ser Solstice. Coincidence? Wanna bet?
 
They knew. But they didn’t know who it was—only that it was connected. And like silly lies…
“I had no idea the Order of Solstice had joined the Crusade. But then—your Order must be very new.”
Ceria smiled blandly as she sipped from a cup of colorless wine.
“Practically just invented.”
Yvlon stepped on Ceria’s toes hard, but the Hydra Knight didn’t notice. She peered at Yvlon.
“Are your arms part of your class, Dame Knight? Some…magical prosthesis from House Terland?”
“No, as a matter of fact, I’m an adv—”
“Adventurous, courageous warrior! Who gained her metal arms by valor in battle. Fighting, uh—Goblins. Gigantic Goblins. It’s actually part of her entire Order’s Skills.”
Dame Thuile’s gaze locked on Yvlon’s arms, then on Ceria’s face. A look of cunning realization passed over her expression, covered by a very poor bland face.
“Of course…of course. And the rest of your Order would have metal limbs. Goblin Slayer…will you excuse me a second? I find myself in pressing need of a privy.”
She hurried off to find a speaking stone as Yvlon whirled.
“Ceria! What the hell was that?”
“What? It’s not going to do any harm. And it’s hilarious.”
The half-Elf grinned, her eyes lighting up with humor. Yvlon just gave her an odd look. It was funny—and in another circumstance, Yvlon would have gone along with the prank. Silver-rank adventurers, maybe. But it was just a bit—off. And Ceria was still so relaxed. Yvlon took a deep breath.
“…I’m so glad you’re okay. I didn’t know where you were. Ksmvr I knew about, but when I heard Pisces was a [Slave]…”
Ceria’s gaze softened. She lowered the cup and patted Yvlon on the arm.
“I was worried too. I’m sorry I didn’t find you. I had—difficulties. You’ll never guess what I ran into when I landed. A certain monster decided to pay the village that rescued me a visit. Three guesses which?”
Yvlon hesitated.
“Some sand thing like one of the worms? A Manti…no. There isn’t any way.”
Ceria just smiled wryly.
“It turns out Crelers can detect if you’ve killed their kind. Adult ones, anyways.”
“You killed a—”
“I had help. Relax! Relax! And I had to put on the circlet, but good news—it’s not going to melt my brain. There’s a few interesting things, but what happened to you?”
The Hydra Knight was reporting the Order of the Solstice news to her [Grandmaster] while Yvlon and Ceria talked. Pisces and Ksmvr had been dragged off by Jecaina to meet King Raelt, and Bandages had followed. The two were so engrossed that they barely noticed another interested group approaching.
“Excuse me, may I interject? I couldn’t help but hear you were from the Claiven Earth. Sister.”
Ceria turned and…gulped…as she saw a detachment of half-Elves walking across the deck. Yvlon looked at the Herald of the Forests and stiffened at once. Ierwyn saw Ceria hesitate.
“Uh—well—that’s a lie.”
“Yes. Am I addressing the Horns of Hammerad?”
The two young women instantly bowed as Ierwyn and several senior half-Elves introduced themselves. One kept staring at Ceria’s circlet, but their greatest [Mage] had refused to jump on a ship. As for Ierwyn…
“Are you allies of Khelt, adventurers? Or merely participants to King Fetohep’s designs?”
Ceria and Yvlon exchanged looks. Yvlon answered for both.
“We have never met the…king, Lady Ierwyn. But one of our friends appears to have met him.”
“Somehow.”
The Herald’s brows rose.
“Indeed? Someone who has met the King of Khelt and gained his respect is no light name. May I ask it? Would it perchance be…Trey Atwood?”
She delivered the line like a blademaster drawing back her sword for the final thrust in a graceful dance. And—missed completely as the two adventurers gave her a blank stare.
“No…Erin Solstice.”
“Oh.”
The half-Elves all murmured; this sounded like the truth, but it threw a wrench in their intelligence. Ierwyn collected herself almost immediately.
“May I ask where she hails from? What she does? And I must confess, I would like to personally greet a fellow half-Elf. Excuse me for the rudeness, Adventurer Yvlon, but we are a far-flung species.”
“I—uh—I’m so embarrassed. And so sorry about the joke!”
Ceria turned beet red, much to Yvlon’s satisfaction, and stammered as she and Ierwyn held out hands and touched fingertips. It was a very half-Elven greeting, and Ceria performed an odd bow that Yvlon had never seen.
“Are you from one of the villages, rather than a city, then?”
“I—I—yes. The Village of the Spring. I’ve heard of the Claiven Earth, but I never thought I’d meet you…”
The half-Elves were smiling, and Yvlon took that moment to get a drink of water. On the way back, she heard Ceria exclaiming.
“…Left my village, actually. It’s—complicated.”
The half-Elves all nodded.
“Then we will not dig. We left our homes to create the Claiven Earth. Have you met more of our kind on your travels?”
“Uh—Falene Skystrall. Oh, and…”
Ceria hesitated for one visible second, then lowered her voice.
“…Alchemist Irurx. I was in Savere, and I met his ship at port and survived it. Shifthold.”
The effect on the half-Elves was dramatic. All but Ierwyn recoiled instantly in clear horror. Yvlon herself hesitated. That—did not sound like a good name.
“You have met the Writhing Alchemist? That monster? How? And how did you escape?”
Ceria had to relate a bit about Savere’s port laws and her encounters with the Siren as Yvlon listened in horror. She told the story matter-of-factly, economically, but also with a certain…detachment. She was clearly sparing everyone the horrific details, Yvlon realized. Even the Herald was shaking her head at the end of the tale.
“Then you are an adventurer in truth, sister, to have met one of our worst traitors and lived. And you journey in strange company.”
She meant Ksmvr and Pisces. Yvlon re-entered the conversation as Ceria waved it away.
“I would like my kin in the Claiven Earth to know that Antinium are people, Ierwyn. Some might be…obeying orders, but they are a people in service to their Queens. I would trust Ksmvr with my life—I have time and time again. He’s odd, but funny, loyal, and he would be an Elf-friend if I went home in good standing. I hope you’ll think on that.”
“I surely will. A people is different from a plague.”
Ierwyn met Ceria’s gaze as she turned to Yvlon.
“And you, Adventurer Byres, I thank for your forbearance. It has been a long time since even the Claiven Earth have met someone else with a Melded class. Did you gain it by injury or affinity? I apologize if it is a painful question.”
Yvlon’s mouth opened. Ceria’s ears perked up.
“A—I—what? A Melded class?”
Ierwyn blinked at Yvlon, and the [Silversteel Armsmistress] realized—
Half-Elf. She was very, very old.
“Your arms are metal. Some half-Elves have replaced limbs with root or even vine, though it is an exceedingly rare class. Beyond a simple prosthesis—metal has replaced skin. Has no one told you…? Your new class is the kind that made Men of Metal. Or Women of Metal…it may subsume or join with any class you have, be it [Knight] or otherwise. You must choose. Or else you will gain Skills that mean more than your arms will be metal. In time…”
Yvlon’s head spun. She lifted her reflective metal arms and stared at her face as they reflected moonlight and stars. In time—she would become entirely…?
 
——
 
With the little bit of Regeneration Potion, Flos Reimarch only healed enough to stop breaking scabs and flesh open with each move. His tongue was still damaged—but he had worked out a better system to communicate.
The spray of vomit coming from the woman with metal arms splattered him for a second time that night as he lifted a hand. Orthenon dodged it entirely.
“Your Majesty.”
He offered Flos a handkerchief, and the King of Destruction sighed. Then he turned back to the person he had sought out.
“Mey meeth again, mero mf mefe.”
The silent, somber man with a single sword at his side stared at the King of Destruction’s placid green eyes. Orthenon translated.
“My liege is injured. I shall translate for him. ‘We meet again, Hero of Zethe.’”
“Ah. King of Destruction.”
The Hero of Zethe, a farmer who had a family in the middle of nowhere, bowed very slowly. Flos Reimarch smiled.
“Meh mth—”
“(My mind returns to the time we fought. I thought you dead. Where have you been hiding?)”
The [Hero] waited for the translation. Indeed…many didn’t recognize him, but those that did, even [Knights], were in awe.
For here was a [Hero]. Not a famous [Knight]. Not a Named Adventurer.
A [Hero].
His legend was in the history books. But the man himself…he looked like he was a casual farmer, dressed in simple clothing. Simple clothing that never tore and had survived for decades, made of finest thread for when he wanted to be anonymous. The rich, regal clothing he had been adorned in when they cheered his name had long since rotted or been sold.
Indeed, anonymity suited him. Until the day he had seen Fetohep calling for aid.
“We battled only twice, King of Destruction. Your legend was on the rise, and I saw your armies marching—but I had no strength to fight you, even as invaders. You had a just enough cause.”
“(I had every cause and need.)”
The Hero of Zethe paused. He met Flos’ gaze and shook his head, straight to the King of Destruction’s face.
“…You had a just enough cause. I wearied of war. Just as I tired of being called Hero of Zethe. Only for Fetohep of Khelt did I take up a sword. Because what we are doing will avert disaster for the ones I love. I trust to that and hope you will let me rest in anonymity afterwards.”
Flos frowned mightily at the man.
“(…But your great abilities waste to nothing. Did the man who broke the Storm of Soldiers truly lose all fire? All passion? You…)”
Orthenon leaned over.
“What was that? I apologize, Your Majesty. Ah—‘you disappoint me, Doubte of Zethe.’”
The [Hero] just shook his head. He gave Flos a searching look.
“…I cannot understand it. You have been Chandrar’s legend, not I, for twenty years. Before that, you became the world’s most famous [King], or infamous, and you beheld no limits. You have conquered more than I. Lost more than I, perhaps. You have seen greater wars and greater loss. How can you still continue? Don’t you tire of it?”
He and Flos looked at each other, and the King of Destruction’s ardor faded slightly. They were very different men, but in this…Orthenon saw a shadow, a mirror of the same look he had seen for twenty years. Flos Reimarch wavered and then met the Doubte’s gaze.
“(Something else is coming, Hero Doubte. My dream was not enough, you are right. But I have found a new one, even larger. It is not just selfishness that impels me. In time, you will see it too. Perhaps it is all connected, Fetohep’s great battle, the secret I hold, and the rest. Will you not consider picking up your sword?)”
Doubte shook his head, yet he was rattled by Flos’ words. He strode down the deck a few paces—then strode back.
“If what you say is true—will you swear to it, [Steward]? I would ask Mars of Destruction, but I will ask you.”
The man who had once battled Mars to a standstill and gone on to face an army and force it back turned to Orthenon. The [Steward] just nodded.
“It is a great change that is coming, Hero. It may not realize itself immediately—but I now believe time is running out.”
Doubte closed his eyes.
