Fabian had nearly gone catatonic, and Matt had already fully decided on what he wanted to do with Soerilia. “I have the authority to execute you, right here and right now. Perhaps I should, as I have clearly been too soft with you. But, truly, you do not matter. Instead, I shall simply exile you. Fabian Lacor, you are henceforth barred from all public transportation, managed rifts, and Empire support programs. You are not barred from delving wild rifts, but given how you’ve ruined your foundation by being carried through Tier 3 rifts as a Tier 4, good luck.”

Seeing the once proud leader trembling, Matt almost felt a little cruel, but he crushed that sensation utterly. “If you want my suggestion, take up a fake name, use the wealth you squirreled away and live out the rest of your days knowing that nothing you did mattered in the slightest.”

Matt teleported Fabian next to the crater before stepping up into orbit.

They were only fifty miles from the nearest settlement, there was a road to follow, and it was late spring in this region of the planet, so there was no chance that Fabian would die on the way back. As a Tier 4, even one who had used lower-Tier essence, he could easily make it to civilization in under a day.

Matt, though, was done doing things slowly.

His Domain Meld was still active, blanketing a good chunk of the planet. A flex of will and that expanded to the entire planet. There was no contest to the action, as those few people who had so much as a Concept on this world sensed his Domain, full of fury, and wisely retreated into themselves.

Everyone felt his act, but Matt wasn’t done.

He stepped forward, leaving behind him a trail of [Afterimage]s, each a perfect replica of him as he was. Normally, they would fade almost instantly, but enhanced with [Cast Illusion], puppeteered by [Illusion Manipulation], and further empowered by his Domain in an almost-but-not-complete Domain clone, they lingered.

With a thought, he sent his illusions forth. One appeared in the sky above every major population center, casting a penetrating light upon those beneath him, the citizens of Soerellia awakened from their slumber and shaken out of their stupor. His [AI] churned with mana, coordinating with the planetary AI as he, brandishing his bifate pair-linker like a baton, built out an array for a truly massive scale. Hundreds of millions of mana, several talisman plates, and far more effort than he let show went into organizing a global formation array that would ensure every human on the planet, even those who were naturally deaf, heard his words in their native tongue.

He looked down, and spoke.

“People of Soerilia, hear me and listen.” Taking a deep breath, Matt continued, “Your world has changed, and it will continue to do so. Twenty years ago, your leaders were informed of a greater reality, and were tasked with sharing this revelation with you all. They have failed, attempting to hoard wealth, status, and power for themselves and their underlings. Now, I speak to you, to inform you that great power is within your grasp. From this day forward, you are all citizens of the Sophron Empire, and powers which you dismissed as impossible are yours to claim, should you be willing to brave the challenges they require.”

Matt took the opportunity to scan the planet and cataloged the reactions of the citizens. He was only Tier 26, and couldn’t get perfect scans of all of the people, but from what he could tell, the primary reactions were fear, confusion, disbelief, and a certain amount of anger.

That was about what he expected. “I am Ascender Titan, a duke of the Sophron Empire, and while those who previously controlled your planet desired to keep you all locked away, hiding the true nature and extent of reality, I and the Empire I represent believe that all individuals ought to receive magic. That it is their right to take their destiny into their own hands to do with what they will.”

After pausing for a few moments, both to give people time to digest what he said and to give him an opportunity to wrestle a portion of the translation array back into place, he continued. “No more shall you be subjected to the whims of those who attempt to control you through ignorance, who seek to divide you pointlessly for their own petty agendas. As of this moment, I am disbanding every military on the planet, and announcing the end of national divisions.”

As he spoke, he tracked down all weapons of war, anything larger than what a single person could easily carry and use on their own, and vaporized them each in turn.

“Your leaders had the opportunity, twenty years ago, to make this transition easy, to make this entirely painless. Yet they have failed, and in so doing, I am acting. Today is the day that Soerilia properly joins the Sophron Empire, not just in name but in reality. Over the coming days, you will learn far more as to what that entails, but for now, those of you who seek to harm others, to kill, to rape, to rob, to destroy, know that I am watching. If you do not seek to harm others, you have nothing to fear, and much to gain.”

Checking in, Matt found most people just fearfully watching the nearest projection, but there wasn’t much he could do about that.

Instead, he tried to give them a little hope. “Though you may be afraid, rest assured that, overall, little will change. Those who are sick will be healed, those who are ambitious may accrue great power by their own hands, the students shall continue to learn, farmers will continue to farm, cooks will cook. Your world will keep spinning just like it always has. I just ask that you remain calm and not do things you will regret. I will be persona—”

Matt felt Cato stretch out signaling he wanted to talk.

Raising his perception to Tier 26 speeds, Matt tried not to snap at Cato. “What?”

“My lord, unless you wish to cancel all of your next few years of plans, which let me remind you involve you settling a dozen new worlds, meetings with the preeminent dukes of the Realm, an official meeting with your nobles, and many things I don’t have the time to list, you do not have the time to personally oversee this, my lord. Give the command and I can rearrange things to fit that, but that would be an unwise decision by most metrics given your stated priorities.”

Matt growled. He’d made this mess, he should be the one to fix it. But if he threw everything else aside as he fixed this, what other messes would he be making? “How long do I have?”

“A week before other projects would need to be pushed aside. A month if you are willing to skip your scheduled time with your guild.”

“A month then. When is the earliest Baron Hastra can arrive?”

Yarklan Hastra was the noble who was slated to be the ruler of Soerilia, but Matt knew from their check ups that he was still at his mother’s barony, ruling in her stead until she returned from her latest delving cycle.

With the delays of Soerilia, Matt had previously given him leave to attend to his family's holdings for political and practical reasons, but all of that went out of the window now that he had unveiled Soerilia.

Cato paused for a moment before blinking. “We can get him here in a three weeks if you are willing to pay f—”

Matt cut Cato off. “Do it.”

He had already made the mistake and he could chalk up the extra expense as his own personal stupid tax.

Turning his attention back to Soerilia, Matt picked up where he left off. “—lly overseeing the integration for the next month, after which point, your new baron will officially take office and will guide you the rest of the way.”

Matt almost ended his speech with a ‘If you have any questions, please contact me.’ but there was no way he would be able to answer the amount of questions that would bring him.

“Please remain calm and look over the information. If you have a vital job, please continue to carry it out. More information will come shortly as things settle down.”

Turning to where Cato had been, Matt nodded at the administration team.

“Ok, we have our work cut out for us. Initiate unveiling protocol 8 variation Echo. That best suits this situation. Any suggestions?”

When he got head shakes in return Matt nodded. “Let's get to work then.”
