He wanted to do more, but the planetary AI was already warning him about overstepping the typical limits, and he needed to use his ducal overrides to shut it up. While Baron Lane was an idiot, he had tried to help the children who were most likely to slip through the cracks and remain in the lowest rungs of society, so Matt wasn’t going to be too harsh on him.

Doing something that helped people for the wrong reasons still helped those in need and mattered.

The children in question wouldn’t have starved or ended up homeless, the Empire wouldn’t allow that, but many of them might have been unable to join a guild or get a delving slot, which would have allowed them to improve their situations through their own efforts. There was always the white collar route of improving one's self, but without a Tier or two behind them, they wouldn’t be as desirable candidates as others who had money to spend on advancing themselves.

Just as he was finishing up dealing with a Baron who was failing to deal with an invasive species of fungi, Cato, who had just arrived, caught his attention.

“My lord, the latest report from Soerilia has just arrived.”

Matt looked up, finding Cato bowing in front of him, and he was bewildered that it had really been three days of paperwork already. He had to wonder just how the Emperor did this all the time.

Matt closed what he was doing and opened up the files that represented Soerilia, thinking a change of pace might do him good. The first few years’ reports from the overseeing administration team were disappointing, but not unexpected. Soerilia was, on all accounts, failing to meet expectations on their unveiling process.

He wanted to blame everything on pure incompetence or malice of the leaders he had met, but most of them had been replaced. Not because of anything he or the Empire had done, but because they had simply aged out. Even if they hadn’t been elected officials with limits to their term lengths and the need to win elections, it had been twenty years since they had originally integrated the world.

That time meant very little to Matt anymore, but it was a significant portion of a low-Tier mortal's life. It was a quarter of an average unawaked mortal's life span of eighty years.

It wasn’t all bad however. The first five years of reports showed there was progress happening. Most of the positive progress was in the Roland method: they had created a basecamp and it had taken off with numerous people flocking to the city, but that was to be expected.

A large part of the Roland method was using the economic wealth that cultivation brought, the plethora of monsters that granted essence, and untouched wilderness that contained valuable resources to drive people into the area where the secret would be impossible to keep. Mana and Tiered items were better than a goldmine on those planets, and the untapped Natural Treasures the Republic had seeded on Soerilia were extremely valuable both on and off planet.

The saying that a secret wasn’t a secret if two people knew about it might not be technically true, but it was accurate enough in these instances. That was helped along by a few well-placed encouragements for people to start openly using magic in small but noticeable ways. Slow, but ever increasing exposure was key.

If only the rest of the planet was progressing as well.

A number of countries were going through recessions, or in one instance, an outright economic depression thanks to a variety of circumstances Matt didn’t have the time or mental space to properly delve into. The administration team had done what they could within the bounds of the remnants of the veil, and while that had prevented absolute collapse, it hadn’t fixed the problem quite yet. Their estimates put the issue at needing another decade at least to right itself without more direct intervention.

Matt could accept all of that. Things happened, and with so many moving parts, it was difficult to ensure everything worked properly.

What he found harder to accept was the plethora of new leaders who just outright refused to accept the facts as they were, and were effectively burying their heads in the sand.

One of the elected leaders of a midsized country had even attacked the admin who was overseeing his awakening. He hadn’t been able to hurt the Tier 15, but the act spoke of a deep issue in Soerilia and Matt wasn’t sure exactly what needed to be done to fix that.

Then, not a year later, a group had nuked one of the portable awakening devices they had shipped over in the early years. They had at least been smart enough to move it into a desert and disguise it as a bomb test, but it was so incredibly pointless. They hadn’t done any damage to the Tier 25 materials the device was made out of, but the sheer stupidity boggled the mind.

Or so he thought, until he noticed the attached copy of a report they made after the test showing they were just stress testing Empire materials, after all, lesser tools failed to achieve any appreciable results. The notes in the margins suggested they were both disappointed at yet another lack of results, and quite excited at the possibilities materials like these would bring. There was some mention of the potential for orbital elevators, a concept he had to look up and found quite neat, if rather useless in the wider Empire's context. Anybody who has business in outer space was high Tier enough to reach it themselves, or had a ship to do the same. Even so, that they were thinking of the future even if with their limited understanding was definitely a good thing.

He—

Matt’s eyes snapped down a few reports to a line he couldn’t quite believe he was reading.

A planned assassination and coup of Soerilia by a native.

Assassinations weren’t a new thing, public leaders were always at risk of such actions but what Matt wasn’t expecting to see was that the target was himself and Liz.

That was almost adorable, in a ‘watching a dog chase a flying taxi’ sense. Even if it caught up, there would be nothing it could ever do.

What was less adorable was the next entry was about the same individual, who in their attempt to kill himself and Liz, had set up plans to cause dozens of rift breaks all across the world to distract the guards he felt they would have.

Rifts in cities were the main targets, wanting to cause maximum chaos and damage. And as a nice side benefit, soften up the militaries of the other nations, for when they would conquer them.

Matt’s already simmering anger flared into bright hot rage.

Matt didn’t bother to ask why Cato or Isabella hadn’t just taken care of this asshole. He needn't waste his breath. Cato had long made it clear that as a seneschal, his job was to guide Matt’s interests as Matt desired, but that he wasn’t there to run things for Matt. That meant until Matt or Liz countermanded their previous statement about a light hand in the integration, he wouldn’t change a thing until that happened, or possibly the local acted to cause the rift breaks.

Cato's words from when they had first arrived at the world echoed in Matt’s ears. “What is right or wrong matters little. All that matters is how you wish to handle it.”

Matt was seeing the results of such actions, and he was tired of it. He wasn't a heartless higher Tier who thought of himself as better than lower Tiers. He was and had been willing to let the people of Soerilia dictate their own fates, wanting to ease the planet into the wider Empire while keeping as much of their culture alive as possible, and causing as few societal issues as possible, but it seemed like that was a futile effort.

Matt could accept that he and Liz had clearly mishandled Soerilia and they should have done things differently, but he couldn't change the past. He could, however, change the present. Matt didn’t have to let things continue in this clearly flawed attempt at a gentle integration. It was time for a firmer hand.

Standing up, Matt [Portal]ed to the teleport platform linking Lilly and Soerilia.

Overriding the warnings, Matt activated the teleporter swap sequence, which he knew would activate some serious warning lights on the Soerilia end just as it was doing around him. Anyone on the other side had fifteen seconds to either get fully inside the dome or get outside. Anything between the planes was going to find itself in two places at once and no longer a single entity.

As he appeared in Soerilia, he cranked his perception to the max and found that while some machinery had been cut in half, no people had been hurt despite a few panicked workers who had been unloading a shipment of goods.

Taking a step forward, Matt appeared five thousand miles away in an instant.

Looking down, he let himself glower.

Just as the report said, the leader of one of the smaller countries, or rather former leader who had kept power via means of taking up a non-elected role, had set up a rather sophisticated, if still unfinished, ensnarement formation for a newly integrated planet, deep in the woods around a rift hidden inside a mansion. Underneath said mansion were a dozen high-yield warheads waiting to be triggered.

He didn’t even slow down.

Stepping down into the mansion, Matt deliberately let his presence be known and watched as Fabian Lacor was rushed from his bath to a command bunker as he received reports of his presence. Watching his face transition through a dozen emotions as he realized his plan was seen through was quite gratifying.

The game was up, and Fabian knew it.

Matt wanted to, was even going to, give him one chance, but it was in vain.

He watched as Fabian decided to detonate the bombs and as he gave the command to a nearby aid.

Once the order was sent and the bombs were primed and ready to detonate, Matt reached out, twisted space, and grabbed Fabian’s collar, lifting the man off his feet with an expression he knew would be unreadable to the low-Tier man.

Fabian didn’t even stumble, but his eyes went wide and his body went into overdrive as his new location started to dawn on him.

The bombs should have already detonated, were the situation to play out as it normally would have. But [Light Manipulation] could be modified to affect beyond just visible light, and so Matt held the pulse of radio waves still as they traveled from Fabian’s capital to this remote mansion, giving him plenty of time to speak with the terrified politician.

“Was I too nice? Was that it? Were we too hands-off? Should Liz and I have come in and ruled with an iron fist, made it exceptionally clear that there would be no challenges to our power? Did I need to blow up a mountain? A moon? Just to get it through your abnormally thick skulls? Was there anything that we could have done that would have kept you and your cohort of idiots from messing everything up? We tried to be gentle, to give you the opportunity to close out your reigns with an age of prosperity, a peaceful ride into the sunset. Yet every step of the way, you’ve been digging your heels into the sand. So what was it? W—”

Fabian interrupted him by shouting, “Bombs!”

Matt didn’t even blink. “I’ve read the reports, but I’m still stunned to see such suicidal idiocy coming from a man who prides himself on intelligence. I’m certainly going to have a very detailed after action report to determine exactly where we went wrong, because you have a fatal misunderstanding of the situation. There is nothing you can do to stop this. I understand you don’t want to lose your freedoms.”

Fabian reacted, and Matt rolled his eyes faster than the man would be able to perceive, “You don’t want to lose your power. That’s understandable. But what we clearly failed to get you to understand is that you never had any to begin with. Your life is, and always has been, a lie. The thin veneer of respectability based on nothing more than the decision some very foolish people made thousands of years ago, to give you a playground where you can fight and die and make pretend so that you all feel so very impressive. Where you can live, shut off from such terrible knowledge as your absolute helplessness before anyone with true power. The bombs you’ve buried here are useless.”

Matt almost smiled as he saw Fabian misunderstand him, but his mood was far too sour for that.

“Let them serve as an example of what you don’t understand.”

With that Matt released the signal and the world was awash with flame.

Left unchecked, the explosion would have flattened the surroundings and ruined the forest for miles, but Matt put a stop to that. His Domain Meld flashed into being, the eclipse decreeing his absolute control over the manor, the forest, the continent, and he allowed the explosion to go only a single way: straight up.

The barest mote of concentration was all that was needed to spare himself and Fabian from the bombs as everything around them turned into a raging inferno.

Meeting Fabian’s eyes, Matt said slowly and carefully so the overstimulated man could comprehend. “No, I didn’t disarm them. Your power simply means nothing to me. I stopped them from detonating, and now I’m stopping them from harming anything. If you unleashed every bomb in your arsenal, detonated every last one mere inches from me, you wouldn’t singe so much as a single hair on my head. This is what we clearly failed to convey. I want to say we shouldn’t have needed to but clearly it was as necessary as it was lacking.”

