Ali froze in place, holding her breath, desperately wishing she could silence her pounding heart as the weight of a thousand nightmares ground her into dust. Her throat thickened and her head spun as the crushing despair of his fearful presence broke over her like a mountainous wave. Her body trembled, nerveless and unable to move. Her mind quailed as her will abandoned her, scrambling to hide off in a dark corner at the back of her mind. The moment stretched out forever as the Lich remained suspended in place with an unnatural stillness.

After what seemed like an eternity had passed, the skeletally gaunt face turned, seemingly studying the dead Wight lying on the ground despite the blindfold, while the edges of his robes and the black mist below his waist began shifting and flapping as if reacting to a ghostly wind.

Then he turned, facing the shrine, and Ali slowly took another breath while Malika’s fingers eased their bruising grip.

The Lich floated up and touched the shrine with a bony hand, causing several rapid magical formations to appear and disappear. The vortex of mana accelerated dramatically, causing his robes to whip back and forth in a storm – being sucked into the dark glowing black prism, as best she could tell.

Abruptly, it all ceased, the shrine suddenly gone, leaving only the floating Lich in the silent darkness, all remaining traces of the bone and death domain mana vanished. With a second violent thunderclap and bolt of black lightning, the Lich vanished, and the withdrawal of the oppressive fear aura caused Ali to gasp and stumble, the sense of relief so painful, her chest felt as if it had been released from a monstrous clamp.

“What was that?” Malika asked, her voice filled with the same shakiness Ali felt.

“Nevyn Eld,” Ali whispered. “The same Lich that killed my parents and destroyed Dal’mohra.”

Her friends hissed in realization.

Ali had been horrified to see Nevyn Eld’s name on the book she and Ryn had discovered, but she had all but convinced herself that it was simply an artifact of the past – a leftover relic – and it was only her that connected the trauma of her experience in the past to the book in the current age. But she had failed to grasp the significance of Nevyn Eld’s mana signature on the shrine. Mana signatures did not survive the passing of their owners.

Now there could be no doubt in her mind. Nevyn Eld was alive and well – or at least, just as undead now as he had been three thousand years ago. Ali slowly sunk to the ground, wiping away the cold sweat of fear on her face.

“Are you ok?” Malika asked.

“Yes, I think so.” She knew the lie as soon as she spoke it. She was most certainly not ok, her body still shaking badly enough that she probably couldn’t get up. “That… that was my worst nightmare. Right –”

Her voice cracked. To her shock and embarrassment, Ali found herself sobbing – rough, wrenching gasps of horror that seemed to be torn from the depths of her own soul.

“I think he’s gone for good,” Calen said, scanning the battlefield, standing beside Mato who was ready in Bear Form, growling. “How did he not see us?”

Malika put a comforting arm around her shoulders, but Ali couldn’t quite tell which of them it was meant to comfort. She welcomed the simple closeness though, and her shaking began to subside. Ali had gained a class and many levels since her last encounter with the Lich, but it was only now that she appreciated how much her mother had been shielding her from his mind-influencing magic of dread and fear.

“I’m not sure how he missed us,” Ali admitted, wiping her eyes. Calen was right, if he had seen them, they would be dead right now. Or worse.

After some time, she clambered to her feet and studied the now-silent battlefield once more. “I was hoping to study that shrine,” she said, staring at the cracked stone below the empty space where the shrine had once hovered.

“I appraised it before he arrived,” Malika said. “Does this help?”

Ruins of Dal’mohraA crafted shrine artifact, providing domain propagation and support abilities.Owner: Twin WightsTeleportation Locus [Active]Mana Siphon [Active]Mana: Deconstruct an unresisting or inanimate target, imprinting its structure. Range: DomainMana: Summon an imprinted item or creatureMana: Apply a Domain EnhancementMana: Recharge the shrine’s mana reserve. 12,754/20,000Created by Nevyn Eld.Quality: RareValue: SoulboundShrine – Artifact

“That’s… why did I not see those abilities?” Ali asked.

Malika said, “Appraise lets me see the abilities only normally available to the owner. I can see your shrine’s mana reserve, for example.”

Deconstruct? Imprint? Domain Enhancement? Ali studied the abilities on the shrine – abilities entirely unlike the ones she had on hers, trying to figure out why the magic sounded so similar to her own Grimoire and Deconstruction, and yet so different. This has to mean something, she thought, but there was simply not enough information for her to unravel the mystery. I guess he must use something like my Grimoire? That would make the most sense. One thing might help…

“Perhaps I need to read more of Nevyn Eld’s book,” Ali said out loud. It was something she had been avoiding. While it was a book – and one of the few she had access to – her uncharacteristic reticence to study Nevyn Eld’s book had everything to do with who he was and her personal experience with his uncaring hatred and arrogance.

“At least the dungeon is definitely gone, there’s none of its domain mana remaining,” Ali said. Not able to figure out anything more about the uncanny familiarity of the magic on the stolen shrine, Ali got up and deconstructed the corpse of the Bone Wight that had become a merged hybrid monstrosity of four arms and bone and death magic.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Attribute Enhancement (Dexterity).

Ali puzzled over the obscure message, convinced she was missing something important while she deconstructed the fallen corpse of the Death Wight. Even as she finished reading the first notification, a new one popped up:

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Twin Binding.Domain Magic analyzed: Affinity Aura (Death).

It really seems to be an analysis of some of the magic they used in the fight. But this was a conclusion she had already decided, and she found herself no closer to understanding. What if I don’t want to know about Death affinity? Can I even forget, anymore?

Passing by, Calen squeezed her shoulder briefly. He said nothing, but she appreciated the simple gesture more than she could have said.

After a while, she asked, “Can we go home?” The sudden shock of seeing Nevyn Eld in person, experiencing his fearsome aura for the second time, and the relief of escaping undetected had taken an enormous toll on her energy and emotions. Ali wanted nothing more than to sleep, be in a familiar environment, and maybe forget about it all for a few moments.

Calen turned, nodding. “Yes. Come on, everyone. We’ve all had a long day. This place will still be here tomorrow, and the dungeon is definitely gone.”

He’s alive… She had been an insignificant bug under the pressure of his presence. No, worse, like a speck of dust. I hope he’s not after me. I’m too small for him to notice, right?
