“Yes,” Ekkihurst said smoothly, “mistake. We have the capability of making creations of cellular design to serve us in so many ways. The art is inherent to us—at all our fingertips. Yet so many of those through whose veins flows the blessed ichor are determined to cling to their mortal tastes and desires. But what good can come of demeaning another creature but the souring of one’s own ego? Slaves hold little purpose when servants can be shaped from the ground up. There was no point in enslaving you. There was no point in creating you to begin with, in my opinion, for the pain we inflicted on your kind in turn became an atrocity of degeneration upon ourselves.”

Uva’s Psychomancy strings were drawn taut with twitching disbelief. She didn’t know what to be outraged by—and struggled to process his worldview. “We are not a mistake.”

“Oh, yes, philosophically, I of course cannot possibly claim that,” Ekkihurst agreed immediately. “I just mean that mechanically, evolutionarily, and practically, there was no reason for your kind to be made. That is our mistake. Your continued existence, however, is a matter between you and the Composer.”

Feelings of untrammeled dissonance went off inside Uva like a chain of bombs. “You… you experimented on countless of my sisters and brothers. On the Honored Mothers.”

“Indeed,” Ekkihurst said, though he looked confused as to where she was going with this.

“You did all that, and you…”

“Well, I had need of subjects to further my art, and I have studied individuals of every race to be found in our world and many more. Worry not that you and the Composer’s children were singled out in any way. It was not a malicious thing, but one of learning and enlightenment.” Ekkihurst fell quiet. “I refused to go too deep into philosophy, for my current Master-Tier insights have proven grim. Do you know the statistical odds that you will live a life of unparalleled misery upon being born in Integration? Too high. Far too high! And to be Pathed as a Slave from birth or taken by my Kindred is an unkind fate indeed—one that might be inescapable for so many.”

Shiv's mouth was open again. “Your justification for torturing hundreds and thousands of people to death during your experiments is that you… stopped thinking about it philosophically after it made you uncomfortable?”

“Ah, no, you are misunderstanding again—and I elaborated poorly. I experiment on various organisms because it is convenient and I wish to learn. A vampire’s body is too resilient against permanent change to fully uncover the secrets of blood and flesh. The philosophy aspect is simply a matter of personal discomfort. It is the same reason why I sculpted my pre-frontal cortex to render my empathy conditional.”

Huh. The surprises just kept coming. Shiv didn’t have the words. This fucking guy isn’t even a natural psychopath. He just made himself like that so his feelings wouldn't bother his love for Biomancy. What the fuck?

“This is pathetic,” Helix interjected. All heads turned to him, and he gestured animatedly at the vampire. “What? It is! A true Biomancer would never need to alter their own brain to enhance their passion for the art; the passion would have always been there!”

“Ah, yes, I believe you are committing a fallacy, fellow student,” Ekkihurst said. “And you are also putting the mental before the material, when it is the brain that determines the shape of the mind.”

“You dare test me in biology?” Helix was a tea kettle on the verge of exploding.

Ekkihurst winced in discomfort at the orc’s emotional instability, but showed no fear otherwise. “I do not doubt your interest in the subject, but something has clearly compromised your judgment for you to make several outright fallacious statements. For one, using my art to reduce an operational deficiency is nothing if not itself an expression of how glorious Biomancy can be. Why, how many other individuals can use their magic to alleviate the emotional inflammation they suffer from performing necessary actions?”

“Necessary,” Roland breathed, aghast.

“You dare accuse me of being emotional! I’m not emotional! I’m not!” Helix’s gray face got impressively close to a cherry red as he began to physically tremble. “Insul! Throw him out! Reject his request for hospitality! He is clearly an amoral monster—a danger to this Gate and all those who dwell inside it. To let this psychopath inside is to put everyone at risk! Who knows what calamities his presence might bring—or who he might hurt!”

By the time Helix’ diatribe ended, all eyes and senses in the room were locked to him. Tulveg coughed, suffering increasing doses of secondhand embarrassment. Roland, already infuriated by what the Challenger had done to his son, glared at the orc like he was some kind of roach demanding the local termites be thrown out.

Ekkihurst, meanwhile, frowned. “I do not appreciate those words. They were very hurtful, and I do not think I deserved them. I was nothing but cordial to you.”

“You challenged me!” Helix screeched. “You, with your perfectly regenerating body and your lack of consequences! What do you think you know of Biomancy!”

“Not nearly enough, and if you are a proper student of the art, I know you would say the same.”

“I…” Helix’ anger came to an abrupt pause as he struggled to rebut that statement. “I feel it more than you do!”

“Well, that’s good, then.” Ekkihurst nodded once. “I am glad that you have such a lust to learn—that hunger to grow! My joy goes to you. But I still remain confused about where your animosity originates.”

Helix’ right eye was twitching as he struggled to articulate just how much he hated the Elder vampire and why.

Which gave Shiv an idea. A terrible, vicious, bastard of an idea. “Hey, Helix, new plan: You'll be in charge of assuring Ekkihurst’s moral behavior while he's in the Gate. Ekkihurst, you will make sure Helix doesn’t do anything bad, and he’s allowed back in too. Both of you are going to swear a skill-pact with me, and if either of you breaks this thing, then it’s bye-bye Biomancy.”

Scheming Bastard 24 > 25

“W-what!” Helix wailed.

“Most acceptable!” Ekkihurst declared without hesitation. “Although I would like some reassurances on your end as well—namely, that my research needs are supplied. Eh, I understand you have slaves here too?”

Several people drew in sharp breaths. Shiv held up a hand, holding their words and fury at bay. “No. Not slaves, but you can experiment on me.”

Suddenly, the Sculptor’s eyes came aglow. “Truly? You mean this? You would submit yourself to be my altar of knowledge and metamorphosis?”

“Yeah?” Shiv replied, unnerved by Ekkihurst’s enthusiasm.

“Then, all things are settled! You will have me here under whatever conditions you desire as host—within reasonable boundaries, of course. Ah, we will do great things together! Great and incredible things! The works we will make and the knowledge we will obtain from our trials will redefine the nature of Biomancy and our understanding of life and evolution. Perhaps we will return to the peak of the ancients—exceed it, even! So many exciting things lay ahead! Ah. But I must contain myself. Quick, quick, begin the skill-pacting ritual. I consent. I consent.”

Helix folded his arms as he stomped across the room, shouldering both Jessica and Roland aside. “Insul! This… this is an outrage! I am the one who will show you the ways of Biomancy, not some… demented bloodsucker!”

Ekkihurst’s eyes lit up—but from understanding rather than offense. “Ah! It is jealousy that has made you respond so viciously. I understand. I do not desire to steal the Deathless from you. After all, it is best that a student has multiple masters, so that he can pluck the ripeness of their virtues and avoid the rot of their flawed fruits.”

And the way Ekkihurst shrugged off Helix’ anger only needled the orc ever deeper. “He is clearly pursuing some manner of demented scheme. How else can he be so gleeful!”

“Helix,” Shiv said, patting him on the arm. “I know that you’re suspicious. And I know you hate vampires. Practically everyone in this room hates vampires—we get it.”

“Eh, I do not,” Ekkihurst noted. “To hate a culture for its ill developments is understandable, but racism and species-based prejudice are terrible qualities to develop. It is also redundant, for through targeted eugenics, everyone can be made better. Except for automata.” The Sculptor’s lip quivered in true sympathy. “There is nothing I can do for the inorganics. Such a horrid, horrid fate.”

“Didn't you just say racism is bad?” Jessica asked, confused.

“Yes. It is. I do not judge the poor mechanoids and unbiologicals. I feel sorry for them. I also wonder how sapient they truly are, for the functions of their consciousness clearly work differently from mine.” Ekkihurst squinted, as his thoughts led him to new and questionable territory.

“Holy fuck,” Jessica muttered as she pressed a hand to her face. “He’s one of those.”

“Shiv, I cannot believe these thoughts are leaving me, but I might be aligned with Helix,” Uva ground out over their link, gagging on her very emotions.

“And I sympathize,” Shiv replied. “But I also got a few questions: do we have anyone else that can help with Sullain's plague? Because from what we’ve seen, they don’t have much longer. He might also be able to help with Adam—I don’t think he would much give a shit about the Challenger’s wrath either, seeing how excited he gets about altering someone’s biology.”

“You would let him sink his mana into Adam? Into those with the plague?”

Uva’s discomfort, again, was understandable. But he didn't feel that there was a choice. “Yeah. Because the alternative is that they suffer and die anyway. We need options. More options. And besides, if we’re going to deal with the Sculptor, I’d want it to be after we used his expertise directly and thanked him lots, so we don’t break any hospitality rules. And it sounds like he’s on the outs with the other vampires too, so we might be able to leverage him against the First Blood. Maybe even goad him into giving us a cure for the sicknesses affecting the Weaveresses and weavers. End the feral and dementia problem for good.”

She saw his point, but where her mind was pulled toward him, her emotions remained pinned in place by a lifetime of conflict. A faint trail of enkindled fire formed around Uva’s mana threads, and she let out a gasp of discomfort.

“Ah, shit,” Shiv snarled. “Sorry. Sorry! Harbinger’s active again. I can’t—”

“I know,” she answered—and after a beat of hesitation, she let out a disgusted scoff. “You take charge of them. The orcs. Ekkihurst. You manage them—you make sure they are contained, constrained, and eliminated. Remember. For me to allow him in is an expression of my trust in you. Is an expression of how much the Order trusts you. Do not hurt us in this. Do not hurt me.”

A heaviness descended upon Shiv—a weight he didn’t much enjoy bearing, but needed to accept. “I promise. I won’t.”

She still didn’t want to agree, but his points stood: Who else were they going to throw at the plague victims? What else could they do for Adam right now? He felt her relent in silence, but knew she would be watching them carefully as well. Shiv didn’t blame her. Especially after what happened with the Challenger.

“Alright,” Shiv said aloud, facing the others. “I think we should call Still Water here, and if we get a final say-so from her, Valor, can you do the honors of doing the skill pact? Because I want Ekkihurst to take a swing at the plague as soon as he can.”

“Certainly,” Valor said, considerably less worried than anyone else in the room. That didn’t mean he was without tension. “Legend-Sculptor Ekkihurst.”

“Yes, Legend Valor?” he asked innocently.

“I want you to know that you will be on your finest behavior here. And that if any of your actions offend, I will see you split not of flesh, but of soul, and deprived of that which gives you joy. We know each other. I say no more. This is not a threat. This is simply how things are to be.”

And though Ekkihurst’s face remained cheerful, in Shiv's eyes, a very visible chain of fear extended out from him back to Valor—a chain made from corrosion. “My oath to you as well, Legend Valor. To all of you.” He then tilted his head and smiled brightly at Roland, displaying his fangs. “Now. While we are under the miseries of bureaucracy, describe the conditions of the sickened to me, Legend Arrow.”

“Master Arrow,” Roland corrected.

Again, no change came over Ekkihurst’s expression, but his heart churned with ire. “I have one request—one besides my need for subjects and a place to test them: Please don't lie to me. There's nothing I hate more than a liar. And we all know you are no mere Master. There is no room to play pretend among equals, Legend Arrow. Now. Describe the sick, so I might see about tearing them out of death’s embrace.”

***

A mana-warded circle, two skill-bindings, another rant from a furious orc about why vampires will never be true Biomancers, and two elite Umbral guards assigned to “service and monitor Ekkihurst’s every need” later, the Sculptor descended into the bowels of the Perch and took his first stop at Isabella’s bedside.

