There, he said nothing while Helix fumed at him, muttering ceaseless hisses of outrage and loathing under his breath. Instead of casting spells right away as Shiv had expected, Ekkihurst merely observed Isabella as she shivered and coughed, her lungs shriveling inside her chest, barely able to sustain her need for oxygen, her other organs faring no better. Her body temperature spiked to searing highs and frigid lows every other second.

The others in the room were no better off. All who were touched by the sickness seemed destined for ugly ends.

Time dragged on. Ekkihurst continued his silent examination while Roland and the two Umbral guards loomed over his shoulders—towering over the vampire’s almost imperceptibly, but still actively shrinking height more every few minutes.

“He is making himself smaller to put us at ease,” the Harbinger said.

Well, that’s just making me more worried about him, Shiv grunted. Threats without obvious flaws are greater dangers.

A sudden chortle broke the silence. Ekkihurst threw his smooth head back and laughed. “I cannot cure the entirety of this plague. Well done, Vicar Sullain.”

Roland let out a gasp of sheer misery.

“Yes! He shows his incompetence immediately!” Helix pumped his fist.

Outside the room, Shiv caught sight of Tulveg, who frowned slightly, clearly not expecting this.

“But I can keep them from dying,” Ekkihurst added.

Shiv felt as if he had been flung off his feet only to be picked back up and dusted off. “Sculptor, can you elaborate?”

“Oh, Sullain is a genius—this is beyond my ability to dispute now. His knowledge of the lores is substantial—”

“Was,” Shiv said. “He’s dead. Udraal made sure of that.”

Ekkihurst winced in pity. “Ah. What a terrible waste. I would have loved to sift through his brain and the knowledge within.”

“You would have never gotten the chance,” Roland said grimly. “If Udraal didn’t slay him, I would have.”

“So much hate, so much waste,” Ekkihurst mused. “Emotions are kindly servants but dangerous masters. Ah, but my opinions aside, though his mastery of the lores was potent, he was not dedicated to the art of the flesh. This plague is a shifting contagion of three main parts—it has aspects of all the lores, but it affects the victim’s flesh first before damaging their mind, while being rooted in their souls. With how layered Legend Sullain's spell-shaping was, I cannot break the working without causing a catastrophic result. But I can impose my own spell upon them. A plague to eat a plague, so to speak.”

“You’re going to hit them with another plague?” Shiv blinked in disbelief. “That’s your solution?”

“HE’S A QUACK!” Helix cheered.

“Ah, not quite a plague, more like an enhancive bio-virus that allows the body to counteract all the negative symptoms mid-stream. I am certain I can disrupt and reverse the physical damage Sullain has done to this child and all the other victims. Their bodies will function, and they will return to full health with the right nutrition and chemicals. However, there is little I can do for their souls and the expression of their minds beyond the purely neurological. My limits are of the flesh and the flesh alone.” Ekkihurst sighed. “Sullain is a tragedy. A mind so brilliant as a mage, it would take three average Legends of their respective lore to match him in each. But so ruined by his broken heart that he deprived others of life—and himself of eternity in the end. He should have committed to the art. He should have done what I did.”

Ekkihurst shook his head. “It is a wretched thing, being a slave to your own biology. A terrible thing indeed.” The awkward silence lasted a few heartbeats longer before Ekkihurst perked up, demeanor switching in an instant. “Deathless! Hero Helix! Tulveg! Would you like to assist me in the creation of this new spell?”

“Me?” Shiv grunted.

“Assist?” Helix said, on the verge of turning into the first orc tomato in Integration.

Tulveg just cringed. “If I am to recall, Master, you cast me out for my lacking commitment.”

“Ah. Yes. I recall. But now things can be different. Yesterday has passed.” Ekkihurst smiled even more broadly than any of the times before. “Today is a time to make something new! Of ourselves, and the situations that abound. So. Let us begin with this great work.”
