Ah, you ask me why I left my kin behind. The answer to that is very simple: They are deficient in ambition.

They have no interest in seeking the truly novel. We carry the divine ichor of the Great One within us, that which allows our body to be as if clay, and they have failed it.

We are supposed to be expression itself, and yet our philosophies and cultures have become so rigid. Each of the Bloodlines has calcified. It is saddening, sorrowful, and ridiculous. What is the purpose of being capable of shifting your form if you cannot shift your mind as well?

I have uttered these words to the other Elders many a time, but they simply offer me nods and give me gifts as bribes so that I leave their presence.

They are afraid of me. They are afraid of what I desire. It scares them that I am not diminished, that I care nothing for souring my own line, that I continue seeking that which they've lost sight of:

A Utopia!

They have killed each other's dreams! It's all just politics to them now! Meager and sad, like we are mortals, to suffer the decay of ages, and not the truest expressions of the Great One's creed! They play on with their slavery instead of using the craft to make proper homunculi! It is truly absurd. Think of having the power to scope your own creations, to set any purpose, but choosing to perpetuate slavery instead. What a droll, banal, miserable little people we have become.

The First Blood is a tragedy of the lowest order. I still think of my brothers and sisters fondly, but I cannot stand their presence anymore. Though I know it makes them happy and alleviates their fear, I will remain gone. I seek brighter, greener pastures, a field which I can sow toward better flower rings.

I will let them have their little internal scenes. I will let them fight amongst each other for things that don't matter. In time, they will understand that I am right, or, more likely, they will fade, for they will betray their immortality. Their foolishness will see them cut down. Meanwhile, my children, the truest children I can make, will inherit this world.

But! Until that point comes, I seek like-minded individuals wishing to further our knowledge to discover that final threshold that lets us design the truly novel.

—Ekkihurst the Sculptor

375

Hospitality [III]

“I beg your pardon, but might I ask if there is a reason why some among you are coated in excrement and the air reeks of raw sewage?” Ekkihurst’s question was innocent enough, and the vampire Legend was polite, if nothing else. From the glint in his glassy black eyes and the fullness of his mind and core, he already knew the answer.

The Greater Mana Leeches had been butchered, yet it had come at a cost. There was still a choking foulness in the air, and hundreds of slaves were dehydrated and in desperate need of medical attention. Worse yet, the surface district was completely drowned in a layer of excrement. A new sewer system needed to be installed as well, and the cleaning was going to be nightmarish.

Broken Moon, am I glad I didn't jump in to help them with that, Shiv thought.

“The geniuses in the Gate forgot to cast some anti-pest Biomancy spells.” Jessica’s scoff was one of casual annoyance. If she had no other virtues, he'd have respected her for her willingness to get dirty. Roland, meanwhile, was trying not to gag. He clearly appreciated both aesthetics and cleanliness by a whole standard deviation beyond Jessica. “They ended up pulling a rat king, and I ended up having to put them down.”

“With a sword?” Ekkihurst shuddered in sympathy. "I beg your forgiveness on the part of every Biomancer within this Gate. Truly, those who share my art have failed you deeply and entirely. And I would have come sooner if I had only known how dire the situation was.”

With every word Ekkihurst spoke, Helix' expression grew darker and darker. A primal rage was building inside the orc, one that started brewing when Shiv didn't simply order Ekkihurst to be cut down when he arrived.

It took Tulveg swearing an oath for Helix to let Ekkihurst through, but even then, he wasn't directed directly into the Gate. Instead, Shiv moved him to the Gate's oubliette and placed him in one of the rooms so that they could process him properly.

Ekkihurst submitted willingly to any measure of scan and search. He dropped his Magical Resistance so that Uva could slither into his mind. He allowed Shiv and the others to pat him down. He showed them his dimensional satchel in which he carried a series of surgical and experimental utensils. Then he did something surprising: he unfurled his body and revealed the vast, writhing dimension of flesh, bone, and meat within.

But it wasn't that his flesh magic was fused with Dimensionality or some other lore. Everything he possessed was created purely by Biomancy, and Shiv was awed by the Sculptor’s artistry. His mana field was of a bound variety, not unlike Shiv's Chronomancy. Yet it was a vibrant, ever-mutating thing infused with so much power that Shiv suspected he could spread and assimilate every bit of biomass within the Gate within seconds if he wanted—for Ekkihurst was far heavier than he looked. He had a few thousand tons to his body mass, and there was an entire realm of Biomancy hidden within him, swarms of strange and incomprehensible organisms swimming deep in his blood and marrow as an army of armies.

Ekkihurst called them his lesser children, the ones he created along the path toward the truly novel—a sort of hypothetical biological magnum opus. Though the Sculptor lamented how far he was from achieving such a goal, with thousands of Path-bearing monsters lying dormant inside his body, he was already realms beyond what even true geniuses of the craft were capable of.

As they spoke, a thing that resembled three wolf-heads attached to a basilisk’s body sprouted out from his shifting back to get a better look at Shiv.

“Ah, Cerbom! Cerbom, behave!” Ekkihurst’s chiding took effect immediately. The massive creature reeled back into his body and went dormant once more. “Forgive Cerbom; they are very excitable. They sensed your Aegis of Assimilation and thought you were a hydra. You look exactly like a person, but biologically, there are other aspects to you. Finer aspects. Not entirely human of design, I see. Hmm… An interesting enigma… Ah, wait, I understand now! You are one of Udraal’s works.”

Shiv's jaw dropped slightly. “You can guess all that just from taking a look at me?”

Ekkihurst laughed lightly. “Your creator has a very specific way of configuring genetic code, and on top of that, you have a skill that exclusively belongs to an awakened monster. And if you were a shape-shifter or a changeling of some kind, I would have sensed your nature. That leaves a narrow set of possibilities.”

The old man never raised his voice or revealed any hint of maliciousness through his explanation. Yet there was something about his mind and the coldness of his emotional core that told Shiv it was best to conduct this interview with proper backup present. And that was how Helix, Roland, Jessica, Tulveg, and Valor got wrangled into special immigration duties alongside Shiv and Uva.

“Valor!” Ekkihurst cheered as the lich entered the room as well. “It gladdens me to see that you are more yourself once again. It would have been a true tragedy for a peer of your caliber to be lost as a stone blade for the rest of time.”

Valor, meanwhile, was far less enthused by Ekkihurst’s presence. “I could offer the same reply to you. When we last encountered each other, you were a smoldering corpse skewered atop a rampart during the War of the Five. I saw Ser Ilona cleave your head from your body before crushing your skull underfoot.”

“A lamentable encounter,” Ekkihurst tutted. “But I hope you did not actually expect me to perish from so meager a setback, Valor.”

“I wouldn't exactly call getting my head cut off and then smashed on a pole a meager setback,” Shiv commented. The doubt he expressed made Ekkihurst's grin grow ever wider. His empathetic core glistened with anticipation. Though he was devoid of all things related to morality or shame, he did feel some semblance of appreciation and affability towards the others around him. If nothing else, Ekkihurst burned with a constant desire to befriend all those around him—which made Shiv ever more wary. “Most people don't really come back from that unless they're undying. Or me.”

“Or you indeed.” Ekkihurst chuckled. “Correct me if I'm wrong, but my understanding is that you do perish. You only return after death, and so we are not exactly aligned in terms, are we? You don’t escape death, you ignore it. There are borders between being blessed and skilled.”

The vampire’s tone was teasing, but Shiv was too practiced to miss the subtle arrogance that glowed within Ekkihurst. Where Longinus was bombastic in self-presentation and uncontrolled in his urge to declare his greatness, it was a quiet and insidious emotion in Ekkihurst. He wanted you to be aware of his mastery over Biomancy, but he never really pushed; he always just hinted, and his ego was so dense and unreachable that Shiv doubted that either insult or threats would shake his demeanor.

“Which makes him a stronghold of mind and will compared to Longinus or the Vicar,” the Harbinger earned. “There is no easy way for us to deal with Ekkihurst. No emotional imbalance we can sense. No psychological fault line we can turn into a fissure. If it is to be bloodshed between us, then our violence must be direct.”

But the prospect of a direct battle against the Sculptor caused Shiv’s instincts to coil. Where he thought he had even odds against the most brutish of the Dragon-Brokers, his battle-lust curled like a dying insect when it came to Ekkihurst. There was something about him that inspired the same kind of intuitive foreboding Shiv felt toward Hymn.

That was the miserable thing about facing someone who was built on a foundation of healthy arrogance: They never betrayed themselves or their capabilities, and ignorance before a dangerous foe was a terrible thing.

“Oh, do not be so severe, Deathless!” Ekkihurst laughed like an old and gentle man, much like how he portrayed himself. But Shiv knew better—even Master-Tier Biomancy allowed a skillful practitioner to nullify the physical symptoms of aging indefinitely. To Ekkihurst, the flesh was but a canvas. and thus everything about his physical form was by design. “I do not intend you violence. I come seeking to challenge the Vicar’s spite against our good man Roland Arrow.”

Roland’s eyes narrowed at the fang-filled grin Ekkihurst fixed him with. “I don’t think I have ever heard your like proclaim kinship with me.”

Ekkihurst sighed—and his mournfulness was genuine. “True and tragic. But we are kindred. Especially for what is to come.” He regarded Shiv once more and shook his head. “I heard it was a decade not many days ago, but now I see the Incursion is less than two years away. So much acceleration, caused by a single individual. I must offer Udraal my congratulations on what he has achieved with you.”

“Rather you didn’t,” Shiv grunted. “Rather you’d just try and kill him instead.”

“Ah. Neglect and poor relations.” Ekkihurst clicked his tongue. “Shameful, but expected. I suspect he has a great many more works like you—or made in your image, now that you have proven successful.”

The very thought filled Shiv’s stomach with wrathful fire. Imagining Udraal somewhere out in wider integration, creating more Deathless Pathbearers—ruining more lives to make Omenborns that would be hated and scorned by those around them—made Shiv want to butcher his creator with hateful slowness.

“But I reiterate: I am here to face the plague and see about acquiring potential students.” Ekkihurst locked eyes with Tulveg. “And since one of my greatest disappointments speaks so highly of your willingness to suffer any horror, to sculpt the body in any fashion for an advantage, I thought I simply had to see you with my own eyes.”

Shiv Psychomantically connected to Tulveg using his Harbinger. “You were boasting about me in your letter to Ekkihurst?” he asked.

“It was not a boast,” Tulveg muttered. “I simply described you as you are—including your flaws, like your terrible sapio-perceptiveness, your lacking education, your unrefined demeanor, your constant distractibility, your unkempt appearance, your barely-chained rage—”

“Yeah, yeah, okay, I get it,” Shiv cut him off. “But if you’re going to try and sell me as a student to someone, how about you at least godsdamned tell me about it beforehand?”

“Ah. I apologize. The thought that you would be offended didn’t even cross my mind.” Tulveg seemed genuinely regretful, and with each exchange, the Legendary vampire felt ever more like a kicked puppy to Shiv for some reason.

“It's fine, it's fine, just let me know about shit next time.”

Shiv pinched the bridge of his nose. “Alright, Ekkihurst—ah, would you like me to call you the Sculptor instead or something?”

“Whatever you prefer. Titles are superfluous for a student.”

“Okay. Great. A few things: One, this Gate is manned by the Arachnae Order and forces from Weave—”

“I will swear an oath to see my Biomancy sundered if that would fill them with reassurance,” Ekkihurst interrupted. “I understand that relations are foul between my kindred and our… mistake.”

“Mistake,” Uva’s voice echoed through the room, drowning the atmosphere with a psychic chill.

