Two kinds of nightmares, in fact. Where Venitra’s hood would have revealed a sculpted face of bone, something similar to a Golem but far more unsettling, Ijvani’s cloak concealed a different secret. An unsettling one. A thought—inspiration from the Necromancer’s mind given form.
Two burning golden eyes stared at Venitra. They were placed in the hollow, grinning skull of a skeleton. That was what Ijvani was. A skeleton mage. No ordinary mage, though. Her magic was on par with any Gold-rank adventurer. Yet even that did not set her apart. It was her body.
Bone, yes. Reanimated, yes. But her bones were not the pristine white of Venitra’s form, or the yellow of bones left to rot. Instead, Ijvani’s bones shone. They shone black.
Black iron. Ijvani was not as heavy as Venitra, but she weighed far more than she should.  Her entire body was a kind of armor, and carved into the metal were glowing runes, symbols of destruction. She and Venitra were made for battle, made to kill, each in their own way. They would find the Courier, find the Runner, find who she had told and slay them all.
“It is time, Ijvani.”
The skeleton mage nodded. Venitra strode towards the city of Liscor, preparing herself. To find their quarry, they would have to search. Hide themselves. The Drakes and Gnolls could be tricked. This would be the first city they searched through, for any trace of the Runner’s passing. After that, would they go north? Only time would tell. Would their master grow weary of waiting and contact them? Venitra longed to hear his voice. Perhaps—
“Ah, Venitra.”
Ijvani’s voice stopped Venitra. The bone-white woman looked back at her companion, annoyed.
“What is it? We are wasting time.”
The black skeleton was consulting a bloody map they’d found on the corpse of someone they’d horrifically slaughtered on the road here. She was peering at the city and at the mountains. She turned and stared south.
“Remember that mountain we climbed over?”
“Yes. What of it?”
“I think…we shouldn’t have done that. According to this map, we’re not at Liscor.”
“We’re not?”
Venitra stared at Ijvani. The skeleton nodded.
“This…is Esthelm. Liscor is that way.”
She pointed. Venitra stared. She stared at Ijvani, the map, and then towards Liscor. She sighed. Ijvani looked at her.
“You really should have brought Kerash. He knows this continent far better than I do.”
“I brought you because you and Oom are our best trackers.”
Venitra’s face contorted into a scowl as she looked accusingly at Ijvani. The skeleton mage nodded.
“At tracking. But I need a quarry to locate them by magic. Oom needs a scent. We have neither. I’m not good at reading maps on the other hand, or signs. You’re supposed to be our master’s most competent creation. Why can’t you ever find where we’re going?”
Venitra shook her head.
“Shut up. We’re leaving.”
She started walking towards Liscor, her heavy tread cracking the earth. She’d gone ten feet when Ijvani called out after her.
“I lied. Liscor is that way.”
She pointed in the other direction. Venitra stopped, stared at Ijvani. Her tone was thick with malice.
“If you were not our master’s creation, I would destroy you right now.”
“You can try. I am the greatest skeleton to ever walk the earth. So my master designed me.”
She couldn’t argue with that. Venitra stomped towards Liscor. When she found that accursed Runner, she was going to rip her toes off one by one. To start with.
