We both float forward, easily passing over the flattened battlefield.

There is an incredibly bright, warm light pouring into my mind, and its source is just out of sight.

When we first arrived, Ulgar said the ritual site was just past the settlement. This is exactly where this warm glow of energy is coming from now.

My Sacred Body glows bright white, and the only energy floating around its outside right now is bright red celestial flames. As we float closer, I have the urge to loosen the tight hold on my Demon's core, and let the newly refined corruption float around and meld with my fire naturally as well.

Maria's entire Arch Angel form glows bright blue, and it sparkles all over with refracting sparkles.

We're both still borrowing 5% of stats, and the increase in our Primordial Aura's strength now allows us to increase the output of our energy forms as well.

We could both easily grow to over a trillion kilometers tall. However, in this compact form just under 100 billion kilometers, we feel in our most natural state. I even want to compress down by a few multiples to have better control, but there are too many variables moving for me to dare to change anything right now. Despite such a rapid rise in power, everything seems fragile and at the turning point of a breakthrough.

I instinctually feel as though approaching this ritual domain in this current state will produce the most optimal outcome.

The actual structure starts to show itself at the edge of my mind.

I see white stone pillars.

They are incredibly smooth, and perfectly round; connected to a pristine white floor and rising up to the sky higher than Primordial Trees.

With my new massive boost in perception, I can see their tops that do not connect to anything in particular.

At first, it seems like there are two rows of these pillars, about a hundred trillion kilometers apart, but instead I watch the ones behind the first two set slightly inward. It looks like they're destined to meet each other at a single point to create a perfect circle.

When we float close enough to see the gap with my own eyes, I can see the back of this enormous ritual site as well. It is a perfect circle with an open entrance facing us, inviting us in.

The only energy that seeps out from the megastructure is potent, warm, high-quality ether.

I don't even sense any actual glyphs, nor is there any leftover primordial aura in the air. Yet, when we stop in front of the entrance, my instincts tell me there are a whole lot of both of these things despite not being able to see or sense them.

The Griffin, Mammoth, and Ogre all stop coming closer far away in the sky.

None of them want to disturb us, but their awe-inspired, hope-filled auras certainly add to the allure of what's in front of me.

It doesn't feel ominous or dangerous at all.

It just feels like pure potential. Every cell in my body knows it will be extremely beneficial if I move forward.

This is exactly what I do.

Maria lets go of her Sword, letting it fall back into her soul, then holds my hand as we float forward.

The High-Quality Ether mist is so pure that there is no Celestial Energy left in the air.

Only my corruption is able to devour it, and Maria's source resin; neither of us directly gain any increases to our ether pools or energy control.

There is absolute silence as we float past the white stone pillars that are trillions of kilometers wide each. Over a hundred of them line up in front of us, and when looking down, all there is to see is a flat white circular floor.

My instincts align with Maria's, and we both float deep into the center of this strange structure, and float down to touch the floor.

Our energy form's feet touching the solid stone saturated in high-quality ether echoes through the silence, and less than a second later is answered by the sound of heavy stone grinding against itself.

The entire structure is within my energy senses, so it is not necessary, but both of us turn around to look the way we came.

Half a dozen stone pillars rise from the flat ground and slowly close the entryway into this ritual site.

After a few long seconds pass, they release loud thuds and lock into place.

A perfect circle of pillars surrounds us.

The floor begins to vibrate ever so slightly, and the thin outlines of glyphs begin to touch the edges of my senses.

All over the floor, millions, then billions, and eventually trillions of white Dryad's Glyphs start floating to the surface from some unknown place below the stone.

Intertwined with them, purple glyphs and even white glyphs in the demonic language begin floating up with them.

None directly move toward us, they only rise to the surface of the stone.

All of the pillars in the surroundings begin to vibrate too, and from deep within their cores, glyphs begin floating to the surface too.

They're all supported and held together by a standard collection of Dryad's Glyphs, but the more that set into place, I can tell that is the basic structure of this ritual site's mechanism, and the Demonic Glyphs are the ones that are being prepared for some kind of transfer.

The vibrations in the ground and pillars around us get stronger and stronger while glyphs grow in number.

High-Quality ether starts pouring out as well, filling the area with an extremely thick layer of white mist tens of times more potent than the natural state it was in moments earlier. The bright auras from the glyphs shine through, forcing purple and white rays of light from all around, pointed directly down at us.

It looks incredible, but I feel nothing... only the increasing sensation in my gut that the time for an extremely fortunate encounter is near.

All of the moving glyphs stop all at once.

The vibrations halt, and even the surfaces stop pouring high-quality ether out.

If it were not for the moving mist in the air, making the rays of light flicker, I wouldn't be able to tell that time is moving forward at all.

All of a sudden, every single one of the Dryad's glyphs holding this ritual site in place all pulse, then disappear into thin air.

An extremely strong ripple of the warm, inviting pressure I've received from the domain barriers before surges into my psyche. When it does, I realize it knows what we are... and what's about to happen is no normal ritual for a random demon that would walk in here.

Despite the heads-up, I have no time to react any differently.

All of the remaining Demonic Glyphs, white and purple, left behind, meant for generations of Demons to use to awaken their imprints, all burst off the floor and pillars.

They all fall inward toward the single point on the floor where we stand.

There is no artistic ritual where the glyphs circle us, or the gentle layered approach to ease us into this inheritance ceremony.

Instead, faster than I can blink, every single glyph is forcefully shoved into our souls.

At the same exact instant, all of the Primordial Aura left behind by the evaporation of the Dryad's glyphs is released.

The air becomes thick with an overwhelming wave of pure, uncontrolled Primordial Aura pouring out.

It erupts upward to create an invisible pillar surging through us, and out into the rest of the domain.

The shock of having to digest hundreds of times more glyphs than I managed to drain off the First Blood completely shatters my soul.

Yet, the Dryad's Aura around us emits so much pressure that we're forced to stay still in place. A very recognizable healing aura pours through us as well; it sparkles with a white and yellow light, leaving aftertones of green. Its scent reminds me of the Restoration skill Abby used on me many times in the Lower Realm.

Walking into this ritual site, I was expecting something like the one Ulgar let us use in his domain... where a portion of our glyphs are stimulated by a calming, non-intrusive display, or best-case scenario I inherit more visions of the past.

Neither happens. Instead, for a moment in time, everything feels like it goes dark.

It's like all of reality around me disappears.

The system is gone.

All of my Glyphs go dark.

Even my grasp on divine energy, vibrations, and ether itself, they all are deleted for an instant.

The only thing I feel is Maria next to me in this darkness.

The outline of her being does not have a shape, but I know she's here too, experiencing this moment of nothingness.

We both stare down at darkness, but it isn't even that. It is just the logical mind trying to comprehend that there is absolutely nothing. However, at the edge of nothing, or possibly the center, or the beginning.... Whenever I try to understand what I'm looking at with the human mind, it does not make any sense. Whatever it is, it has no shape or form, but we both know it's here.

Behind it, or inside it, or above it... there is something. Or maybe, everything.

It manifests itself like a membrane, the outside of a bubble. Then, images of the strange place I saw glimpses of when we came in contact with that Void Creeper linked to the Creator's Legacy in the Ravine come to mind.

It was a place filled with hundreds of billions of stone tablets, with no sense of direction or time at all. There were only Void Creepers watching and waiting for something.

Whatever we are managing to catch a glimpse of right now, it is a very similar place.

The moment we both realize this, while floating outside everything we know, the visual explodes like the edges of a balloon inflated too far.

All connection to this place severs.

Reality flows back into our minds, and it is far more potent than it was the moment we left.

The dam in my soul has broken, and a bottleneck that was present before, constraining me, is completely gone. The high-quality ether that is floating around us quickly starts flowing inward toward us at a single point and flowing directly into our ether pools.

At the same moment, the extreme tension in our Royal Vibrations also snaps like a million rubber bands pulled at once. They erupt outward with a chaotic nature, flowing out through the cracks between the pillars in this site, and flow to the far corners of this entire ritual domain, over ten quadrillion kilometers away on every side.

It is like they need breathing room, acclimating to their new frequency, adjusting to the overwhelming strength of a High Royal.

Our Primordial Aura follows, flooding outward to tether to our vibrations, filling this entire domain.

I feel hundreds of thousands of stray ascended demons die instantly from the pressure of our auras.

Our Glyph imprints have increased in volume by many times over. They are brighter, stronger, and are rising to the surface of our souls just like the glyphs that were on these walls and pillars.

When I take a deep breath and look to my side to lock eyes with Maria's sparkling diamond blue gaze, I peer deep into her soul, and she does the same for mine.

Our bodies and souls are perfectly intact, like they never shattered...

The Dryad's Primordial Aura is gone as well, like it was never here, and when we look past each other, the pillars that surround us have turned jet black devoid of energy.

They begin to crack and crumble down all around us.
