Ranthia’s nightmares had been especially persistent for quite a while, so it wasn’t like she was surprised by the fact that her first peaceful, dreamless night of slumber was interrupted. No, the surprising part was everything else.

Ranthia opened her eyes to a world washed in brilliant light—bright enough that her inhuman eyes burned and watered, like a child that dared to glare at the sun. This was followed by the acrid scent of smoke and several loud pops, shortly before both Ranthia and Avyna launched out of their shared bed.

In opposite directions.

Avyna was (presumably) cursing up a storm in High Elvish as she rushed for her failing enchantments. Ranthia was too focused on the moment of crisis to try to parse her lover’s language; she seized her armor an instant before she began the process to shift into the fully equipped image she sent out.

“My love, no!” Avyna’s voice stopped Ranthia an instant before she left.

The light had largely receded, but their tent’s fabric walls were no longer wholly opaque. The shadows of their surrounding tents flickered in the light of distant (gods willing, intentional) fires.

But Ranthia had never heard Avyna take that tone. It wasn’t a plea or a request. It was an order, given out of desperation. Their perceptions were already accelerated to the limits of their stats; Avyna had no time to plan her words or control her tone.

“Your level is too low. Blast like that, as bright as it was, it had to be the work of a level 2560 [Mage]. At a small! You must not go!” The words were the sloppiest Ranthia had ever heard from Avyna, but she only had ears for the desperation and terror in her elf’s voice.

“…I have to, I have to know if that’s coming for us.” Ranthia’s reply wavered. Avyna’s fears were only escalating her own sense of dread.

“You would not stop such a [Mage].” The desperation lent the words an accusatory edge.

“Neither would Remera! Would your enchantments on this tent?!” Ranthia wasn’t entirely sure which answer she wanted to hear.

The few lighting crystals and remaining enchantments dimmed and faded. Avyna’s hand stayed on the support column that housed the bulk of the enchantments, shunting the mana away from them so she could repair the damage the far away blast caused.

“…No, my love.” Avyna admitted, her words rendered redundant by the fluke of timing.

“I’ll be careful.” Ranthia promised.

The terrified elf said nothing else, not even when Ranthia left their suddenly mundane tent.

“Sentinel Grace, stop!”

Godsdamnit, was there some sort of grand conspiracy trying to keep her from investigating? The gatekeeper [Mages] had refused to raise the gate for her, so Ranthia was forced to ascend the walls. Yet before she could jump…

The situation in Remera was grim. Most of the soldiers on wall duty had been blown off by the shockwave from the distant explosion. Stalwart [Warriors], knocked over as readily as children that dared to step out of the white lane and were struck by a wagon or a classer. The walls spared Remera itself from the blast, but there were fires being fought throughout the canvas-filled base. The cold snap was receding, but there were still fires set up across the walls that found themselves forcibly relocated—just as too many people were.

But in that heartbeat that Ranthia lingered to survey the damage, the base commander had caught sight of her. The man was visibly winded on the ground near the wall, but he was pointing right at her.

“We need you here, whatever that was—” The man began.

“Could destroy Remera in an instant. I have to scout the situation, or we might never know what killed us!” Ranthia snapped.

She hadn’t let Avyna’s fear stop her. She sure as chaos wasn’t going to let some puffed up idiot stop her. Had her head been in a better place, she would have waited for the man to give her permission—he had no real choice in the matter.

But she didn’t.

Ranthia leapt from the wall before the lower-level man could parse out her words—she had spoken too quickly for him to readily understand—and set off. The explosion had largely dissipated in the precious moments she had already lost, but the wall of billowing dust was all the landmark she required.

The moons were barely visible through the sand and smoke that filled the air, and Ranthia sorely wished she had something that would work to cover her mouth and nose. She moved fast enough that it was a struggle to keep her lips sealed. Her tongue was steadily coated with the never pleasing flavor of dusty rocks, to say nothing of what had to be happening inside her nose as she breathed.

Ranthia wasn’t worried though, she could always shift if her breathing became too impaired—and discomfort wasn’t worth the delay. She was trying to conserve her mana though; her arcanite hadn’t recovered to full capacity. She had most of it, but if the shimagu had a twin at the level tiers Avyna threatened…

Well, Ranthia just needed to keep her options open and find out the truth. She could worry about what-ifs when she had the luxury to workshop solutions to impossible quandaries; for the moment, she needed knowledge.

Ranthia felt numb as she ran. Her mind focused on mundane concerns—like the gross layer of chalky mud slowly building up in her mouth—and strategic plans that assumed a threat that she could actually respond to. It was probably better than a panic spiral about the reality that she was likely closing in—all too slowly—on a twin or monstrosity that could obliterate her before she ever even arrived. If Avyna was correct, there was nothing to be done.

So Ranthia, for the first time, chose to operate on the assumption that the woman she loved and trusted was wrong.

The ‘dust wall’ was less a wall and more a gargantuan dust storm that raged around the site of the explosion, spread over a massive area. Ranthia took a deep breath before she hit it and tried to hold out while she danced through the sediment. While she was obscured, she took her first safety measure—five images joined her.

Only four made it through the dust, but Ranthia emerged on the other side of the gradually fading storm. The most obvious thing she saw was a large, glowing crater—grander than anything she had witnessed a [Mage] leaving in the rocky terrain that the war was predominantly fought in—that shattered what had once been a ravine. Scattered rocks dotted the vicinity of the crater, often with gouges left in their paths.

But [Divine-Touched Identify] found nothing. If anyone or anything had been present—or survived that blast—there was no trace.

Ranthia moved forward slowly—mundane speeds with her perception at its upper limits—alongside her images, three ahead of her, one behind. All five of her kept their heads mobile, looking in every direction—including up—as they moved closer to the crater. The crater itself was still pouring out heat—as if some great Radiance strike had melted away the stone—but the moonlit air still carried its expected chill. Ranthia shivered at the incongruity of feeling both cold and uncomfortably hot at the same time, as she slowly calmed down from her fear of sudden death.

“What in Xaoc’s glory happened here?” Ranthia mused aloud as she slowed her perception.

It was hard to imagine an explanation. Sure, a classer—at least at the tier Avyna seemed to have expected—could have unleashed devastation and left in the time it took Ranthia to get there, but… Why the heck would a powerful classer feel obligated to erase a chunk of a wasteland? Had the shimagu managed to antagonize a dragon? Or was there—

“I had just started to find a measure of hope.”

Night was standing right beside her. Ranthia’s heart spasmed so hard she thought it was about to rip itself out of her breast—she had never even known he was there until he spoke! If her knives had been formed, she might have attacked him out of instinct. Instead, she scurried away from him in a fit of panic while she aborted the brief impulse to form them.

“Some warning?!” Ranthia not-entirely-coherently requested.

Night turned to face her. She had missed the all-too-familiar emotions that colored his words when he first spoke—she had been far too surprised—but as he continued to speak…

“Sentinel Hunting often operated in this area. I witnessed it myself, the blast was bright, but the description of the mushroom of fire was apt. Just as with Eboracum and Tencteri…” Night trailed off.

Grief. The emotion almost felt tactile; it was so overwhelmingly blatant. Night had always seemed poised and in control—almost outright indifferent—and yet… Under any other circumstances, Ranthia would have indulged in a moment of outrage: Hunting had operated at what was, for them, a short fucking jaunt from Remera and he had never bothered to visit or invite her out?! A tiny, tiny piece of her still seethed over it.

The bulk of her was too aware of her superior’s—co-worker’s, whatever—pain. The implication was unmistakable. The natural conclusion came to her mind. The possibility that she had denied so utterly that it hadn’t even taken root amongst the outlandish scenarios she had imagined.

“He can’t be…” Ranthia impotently protested.

Hunting couldn’t be dead. Just because he was a Void [Mage]… the gods couldn’t be so cruel as that! It was nonsensical. An element couldn’t possibly cause someone to just inevitably and inexplicably explode! It had to be some story, some outlandish bit of fiction that got misconstrued as the truth. Those strange words—names, no doubt—Night spoke of couldn’t possibly be evidence.

Honestly, a mushroom of fire? It was too ridiculous!

“Grace, explore this area, and be thorough. The terrain has changed substantially, but there should have been a rock formation within that mess that Hunting may have left word in. I shall check every other drop and cache he possessed. Remain in this area; I will return.” Night refused to engage in debating the truth of the obvious nearby reality, instead he assigned his orders and blurred into movement.

Ranthia accelerated her perception to watch him go. He was still faster than she was, but she had enough vitality to watch him move. Whether he ran or fought, Night was usually a model of efficiency—every movement that his body made required a specific purpose. It was antithetical to her own style of flourished rhythm, but even still, it had always impressed her. Someone that hadn’t fought side-by-side and back-to-back with the vampire might have never noticed the difference, but the efficient movements were absent.

He moved as if he was trying to burn his pain through physical exertion.

Ranthia sucked in her next breath and balled her fists, but she buried her pain beneath a rich layer of disbelief.

Hunting was still alive. He had to be. There was no way he would die in a wasteland to a fucking flaw in the System. There couldn’t even be such a thing, it was an absurdity predicated on an absurdity.

But orders were orders, even if they were meaningless. Honestly, Night probably even had the location wrong—they were a few days’ march from Remera, it was far too close. The crater just probably threw him off.

That made sense, Ranthia insisted to herself, even as she danced down a collapsed cliff face to reach the ravine, a distance from the cooling—definitely dragon-inflicted—crater. The certainty felt intoxicating and buoyant. Ranthia giggled to herself at the idea of Hunting showing up to investigate the explosion and the look that would appear on Night’s face when he found them together, safe and sound.

Seriously, the vampire was entirely too self-assured. He found a conclusion and assumed it had to be the truth because he came up with it.

Ranthia denied his truth, just as she denied the tears that fell from her own traitorous eyes.

Looking for a “rock formation” was an absurd notion. The terrain itself was a rocky wasteland and the explosion—er, the Radiance attack—had shattered and scattered all of it. No rock formation had survived for a long jaunt.

Ranthia found herself picking through broken chunks of stone and dust for hours. It was easy to imagine that the process could take days—possibly weeks—even at her speed. The cliff walls that surrounded the ravine had failed throughout the area. Ranthia was in a sea of shattered rock, and she was expected to find… something nonspecific within it.

She attacked the impossibility with the same degree of resolve she had assailed a goblin den with when she was a child that was desperate to finally find acceptance. For hours, Ranthia blurred through the ravine. A search grid or pattern would have been more efficient, but she had zero intention of spending weeks out there. She trusted her instincts and lunged between sites that, for whatever reason, felt promising and tore them apart until her momentum carried her elsewhere. Had anyone else been in the vicinity, she would have been a hazard, but she was alone.

Besides, if anyone else did show up, it would either be Night—who could dodge (though he could probably use a rock or eight bounced off his skull)—or a shimagu patrol sent to investigate the situation. Ranthia wouldn’t feel any trace of guilt at throwing rocks in either case, so she operated under the assumption that she was alone.

“Sentinel Grace.”

Night had the decency to call out before he made his descent into the ravine—the most direct way possible. The man landed with suspicious lightness and strolled over the difficult terrain as if it was a well-worn, time-smoothed road in Ariminum.

Ranthia looked up from where she knelt and beckoned the vampire closer. The timing was impeccable—she had just found something.

And she was doing her level best to protect the fragile fragment of parchment from annihilation.

Night crouched near her, but Ranthia, for once, ignored her revulsion at his close proximity. The parchment was blackened by heat, but one small segment had yet to crumble. The black dust that coated the sediment around it suggested there was once quite a bit more to the message. She had no idea if it was even a message—it was incredibly difficult to make out the charcoal symbols smudged atop the ash.

Silence reigned as they assessed the remnants that were once parchment. Twice, Night produced a gemstone, but he seemed to silently discard the possibilities the Skills imbued in the gems promised each time. Eventually, Night spoke and explained that the symbols were the shapes of Ranger hand signs, then the two of them started debating with one another about what the few precious symbols that were left meant.

