The Creler spoke to Yvlon. As the thousands poured across the landscape, as the giant adult crawled forwards, surrounded by its kin, she heard it speak.
Not in words. But she heard it nonetheless. It spoke in the same language as Skinner, when she had beheld the creature in Liscor’s crypt. When she had fled, and her team and her dreams had died in darkness. But this thing was beyond even Skinner. It was more than just mindless destruction. It thought. It gloated.
Yvlon turned her head as she ran. And she felt the Creler’s amusement at all that had come before it. The useless bloodshed and hatred. It exposed her flaws with its magnificent, terrible, simple evil. Everything paled beside it.
Look at me, it laughed. Look, and see how petty your squabbles are. How futile your hopes and dreams. I am the end of all things. I shall consume the world and leave naught behind. I am your death.
“The door.”
Someone panted. Yvlon turned her head and saw the Silver-rank teams. They were making for the door to Erin’s inn. Behind them, the tide of Crelers spread out, some pausing to devour plants, the Bloodfields, the rest coming on. And the adventurers, monster slayers, fled.
They ran. Adventurers. Men and women. Humans, Drakes, and Gnolls. Mortal souls, fleeing a real monster. She couldn’t blame them.
But they’d never make it. The door was closed. Yvlon saw the scrum around it, people desperately pounding on the door.
“[Message] spell! Tell Erin to open the door!”
Ceria screamed at Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] tried.
“The Mage’s Guild—there’s no one at the inn! I’m trying, but no one’s near the inn.”
Panting. Her breath caught in her lungs as her arms pumped. She was slowing, unconsciously. Yvlon turned her head again, measuring. The Crelers could outrun a horse over time. The smaller ones. And they were overtaking the slower adventurers. The door wasn’t open.
“We’ll never make it.”
Yvlon heard the distant voice. She saw Stan, looking back, seeing what she did. The Crelers would catch them before they got to the closed door.
In that moment, Yvlon saw both past and future. She remembered a horde of undead. She saw the Crelers advancing. She turned her head and saw the Silver Spears. Her team, falling, fleeing, fighting and running.
She saw Isceil stumble. His right arm was gone below the elbow. The adult Creler had torn it away. Spat something. Beza seized Isceil.
“Keep going. Keep—”
Yvlon slowed. She saw Stan look back at her. The old man wavered.
“Yvlon.”
“Go.”
The [Wounded Warrior] felt dreamy. Her head was light. But she was also focused. She drew her sword and turned. Around her, adventurers were slowing. They had the same thought.
“Horns of Hammerad! Stand and fight!”
Ceria turned. Ksmvr was already running backwards, his bow drawn, the Flamecoat Dagger in his off-hand. Montressa gazed backwards, eyes wide. Beza stumbled as her head turned and Isceil stopped. The Wistram [Mages] turned back, staring.
For a moment, Yvlon thought they were alone. Her pulse was drowning out voices, the sounds of the advancing Crelers.
“Pisces…?”
He was still running. His [Flash Steps] carried him across the ground, faster than anyone else. He saw his teammates stopping behind him. Yvlon turned her head and met his eyes.
“Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] hesitated. He looked at the distant door, then he whirled. He came back. And he wasn’t the only one.
“We’ll hold for one minute. Just a minute.”
Ceria whispered. The half-Elf met Yvlon’s eyes. They had a debt to pay, the two of them. It was fitting. But they couldn’t do it alone.
A running figure turned back. Captain Stan whirled. He shouted as he drew two crossbows and fired.
“Boltspitters, hold the line!”
His team slowed. Two ran on, but the rest came back. Alais’ team slowed as well. The [Aeromancer] raised her staff.
“Thunder’s Solace, to me!”
More adventurers were stopping. There was no wild bravery in it. They’d just made the simple calculation that Yvlon had. Someone had to stay.
The Crelers screamed as they came. Yvlon saw a rank of men wearing armor surge back towards her. Walt, his face white, his mace raised, raised his shield. He bellowed.
“The Ensoldier Shields stand here! We stand here!”
They came. All of them. Tommie, Belt—Yvlon saw their faces turn to hers and nodded. Someone roared.
More. The rest were still running. Captain Kam, horseless, turned. She cried out.
“Whistling Bows—”
Gone. They’d left her behind. So the [Bow Rider] advanced alone, standing shoulder-to-shoulder with the others. She drew an arrow and loosed it, drew another one, her hands moving in a blur. Yvlon saw a single Creler stumble, fall into the roiling mass coming towards her.
“They’re staying? Are they mad?”
Beza slowed. Palt, Ulinde, Montressa—they glanced back. The Centaur was incredulous. Montressa stared back at Pisces. But Isceil turned back.
“Isceil!”
The Drake shook off her hand as she grabbed at him. He stared down at the stump leaking blood. He gazed at her.
“Let go of me, Montressa. I have to stay. We have to stay.”
“Madness. There’s no stopping that.”
Beza looked at the adult. It was so big. And the other Crelers—the Minotauress wavered, glancing at the closed door. But Isceil walked forwards. He pointed his other claw and fire erupted in a line, burning towards the Crelers. Isceil shouted.
“Go, if you want. But Drakes do not run. Drakes do not run!”
He came forwards. The [Mages] stopped. Then they followed Isceil. It was that or run. Such an easy choice. And yet—
More teams turned. Yvlon didn’t even know their names. But the Drakes and Gnolls set themselves next to Humans. Yvlon saw a Drake with wildflower reds and yellows on her scales, aiming a crossbow.
A Gnoll with short-cropped fur, dyed black across half his head, lifting an axe. As Yvlon’s gaze passed over them in a fraction of a second, it felt like forever. She met a Gnoll captain’s eyes, and he lifted a paw. She nodded to him.
“Barriers, there and there! They’ll cover us! Break them up—stagger the lines! Enchanted armor and line-holders to the front!”
Stan pointed, bellowing. The adventurers moved. The line in the grass grew, spreading out, forming two ranks. It became a formation, a half-circle. Yvlon was on the outermost edge. She saw walls of ice rising around her, creating shields to her sides.
“[Shield Wall Formation]!”
Walt’s team formed a single line to her left, shields raised. Another adventurer planted a tower shield in the ground.
“[Tower Guard’s Bulwark].”
Adventurers in lighter armor took the second ranks. The third rank stood behind barriers. Seconds. They had seconds. The Crelers were making for the spot of defiance.
“Hold. Hold the lines. If they swarm you, you’re dead! Potions don’t work if they poison—”
Stan was shouting, but Yvlon didn’t hear anymore. She waited. Arrows and spells flew over her head, disappearing among the first wave of Crelers. It didn’t seem to make a difference.
One last look back. To her left, to her right. Adventurers met her gaze in that moment that dragged into eternity. Familiar faces and strange ones. She would remember them for the rest of her life. Yvlon saluted with her sword and raised it.
“Silver and steel.”
She tried to find her team. Pisces was standing next to Ceria. He raised a hand and she saw black magic strike a Creler. It collapsed, dead. Ceria was still pulling ice from the ground. She didn’t see Yvlon.
But an Antinium stood at her back. The Human woman saw Ksmvr. He had let go of his bow. Now, the Forceshield was in his hand, a shortsword and the dagger in the other. He spoke to her.
“You must not die. My team must not. Run away, Yvlon. Please?”
Yvlon wanted to tell him…but there was no time. The Crelers were sixty feet away. Fifty.
She hugged him and kissed him on his cold cheek once. Then they turned. Ksmvr fell back.
Yvlon turned. The larval shapes leapt. She swung her sword and the adventurers met the Crelers. Yvlon’s enchanted blade slashed through two Crelers. Dozens crashed into the ice walls surrounding her. More flooded past her, trying to surround her. They raced up her armor, biting, tearing—the enchanted metal held.
“Break them apart! Don’t let them swarm you! Hold the mage-barriers!”
The [Wounded Warrior] swung her sword, cleaving three in half. She shouted as the ground exploded around her. Arrows pierced the Crelers. Shards of ice struck Yvlon’s armor, blasting Crelers off them as they raced for her head. She saw a huge shape, swung.
The juvenile Creler charging at her recoiled as the magical blade shattered part of its carapace. It tried to rear up and cover Yvlon. Ksmvr leapt forwards. His Forceshield took the impact. The Antinium stabbed with his dagger and the huge Creler burst into flames. Yvlon swung her sword low, cutting Crelers down. She saw an [Ice Wall] rising, cutting off the wave. Yvlon charged left, towards another gap.
Magic and steel. The first wave of Crelers were funneled into gaps, and the adventurers cut them apart. Yvlon saw a Drake falling as she screamed, six Crelers digging into her leather armor. The Gnolls with her ran back as the Crelers poured through a gap. The [Wounded Warrior] ran towards it.
Fire and lightning. Yvlon saw a tempest of fire and electricity flash past her. The Crelers, the dead Drake, all vanished. A gap appeared in the wave of oncoming Crelers. Isceil exhaled. And Crelers died. He turned, and the magical breath swept the ranks of Crelers. Palt and Ulinde stood with him, linked.
“Burn! I’ll burn you all the way back to the blighted lands!”
The Drake screamed. The adventurers looked up. Ceria pointed.
“[Fireball].”
“[Lightning Bolt].”
The [Mages] were casting magic. Alais’ spell blasted Crelers back as the warriors cut Crelers apart, refusing to give. Yvlon saw Walt blocking a huge Creler tearing at his armor and shield. She lifted her sword and brought it down. The chitin covering the Creler cracked. Orange blood ran from its innards. Yvlon swung again and her heavy Sword of Weight crushed the thing’s head. It still tried to move, but Walt shoved it back.
“We can do it! Hold! Hold!”
He called at his team. Yvlon saw a glow of magic as Montressa raised her staff.
“[Five-fold Arcane Barrier].”
The [Aegiscaster] was blocking nearly fifty feet by herself. Her glowing shields kept back the black shapes, the glowing forms pressed up against her barrier. Her staff glowed as the brass orb spat lightning. Yvlon felt her heart surge. She turned—
And she felt it laughing.
The adult. It had stopped as the adventurers halted the first wave of Crelers. Now, the house-sized Creler opened its—mouth? The maw gaped, revealing orange light as tearing mandibles and incisors parted. It spat straight at the adventurers. At Isceil, burning the Crelers down by the dozens with each second.
The same thing that had taken his arm. Now, Yvlon saw what it was. Pieces of its own body. Shards, like Ceria’s [Ice Spike] spell, but dozens of them. Faster than an arrow. Shell or bone or—the barrier protecting Isceil shattered. Montressa screamed. She planted her staff, desperately reforming the spell. Stan shouted as he reloaded his crossbows.
“Hold that barrier! Hold it!”
He looked up. The adventurers dove. Isceil turned. He saw the adult opening its mouth wider, aiming—
The second volley tore him apart. Or it should have. The Drake vanished. Palt’s illusion disappeared, and Isceil appeared to the left. He roared, throwing a [Fireball] at the adult. The flames burst uselessly on the thing’s head.
“It’s useless! It can’t be hurt by pure magic! [Stone Spear]!”
Beza bellowed. The Minotauress raced forwards, and her hand found Caddin’s back. The [Spellscribe] read from the scrolls of parchment in her hand.
“[Stone Skin]. [Haste].”
Caddin glowed for a second. Then he parried a Creler leaping at him, knocking it down. Another tried to tear at his wooden armor. But his skin resisted the cuts! He became a blur and Beza ran past him. The Minotauress stomped a Creler flat. She touched the Ensoldier Shields as Yvlon and Ksmvr tore at the Crelers trying to cover them.
Walt’s armor was failing. The thick steel was being cut by claws. Beza placed a hand on his back.
“[Lion’s Strength]!”
Walt’s eyes went wide. He raised his mace and brought it down with a roar. A Creler turned to paste. Yvlon felt a touch on her arm.
“[Haste].”
The [Wounded Warrior] blurred. Her sword cut two Crelers apart mid-leap. Yvlon advanced, cutting everything apart in a whirlwind of steel. Ksmvr looked around hopefully, but Beza was running past him, towards another breach. The Minotauress’ scrolls, her fortune, spilled from her pouch.
Every coin. Every moment used to buy another second. By Isceil, Ulinde was casting with both wands. She was throwing [Fireballs] as fast as she could point her wands. The [Spellslinger]’s spells halted a section of the waves of Crelers for a second. Then two. Then five. Then she faltered and the rest charged through the burning ground, over the bodies of their comrades.
But they were stopping. Ceria shouted triumphantly. She and Pisces were throwing spells as a Bone Horror held one of the gaps. The Warbear tore at the Crelers, who bit at the bones, trying to get past it.
“[Deathbolt]. Ceria, there—”
Pisces pointed. Ceria saw adventurers falling back, overwhelmed. She pointed.
“[Ice Wall]!”
She froze a group of Crelers in place, the [Ice Wall] spell engulfing the smaller ones. But the Crelers began heating up, melting through the magical ice. But it slowed them.
“Hold! Boltspitters, there! [Volley Fire]!”
Stan’s crossbows shot as his team shot around another group of adventurers. They were falling. Ceria saw another Human go down, his chest laid open. A Junior Creler raced over him. Isceil blasted it with frost. He gasped, his breath rattling in his chest. Ceria shouted.
“Just another minute! We’re holding them back! We’re—”
The half-Elf looked over her shoulder. She froze.
The door still wasn’t open. More Crelers were advancing at the group of adventurers and workers around the door. Ceria saw them fighting there. She looked around.
“The door—Erin—”
Across the ground, the adult Creler charged. It surged for the adventurers. Montressa du Valeross gaped up. She raised her staff.
“[Fivefold—”
The adult hit the layered wards with an impact that tore the air. Adventurers gazed up. They saw the magic flicker. For a second, it held. Then two.
And then the magical barriers splintered. The adult tore through the lines, breaking Ceria’s [Ice Walls]. It was headed for one figure.
