“Even if I tried—I would fail. I can neither save my friends nor escape that creature. If I return, I shall most likely die. I have one thing left to try. And it is not enough. Logic dictates one action.”
Somewhere, unseen, Az’kerash nodded slowly. Montressa gazed at Pisces. He spoke the truth. If she were at Wistram, his words would have been lauded. He was right, of course. Logic dictated one course.
Pisces began to turn away. Montressa du Valeross, lying there, looked at his back. Slowly, she raised her staff. Aiming for his back. She glanced back at the fighting.
“She’s waiting for you.”
The young man turned. He looked and saw Ceria’s eyes on him. For a second, across the distance, their eyes met. And Pisces froze. He gazed over his shoulder. And then at Montressa. She waited.
And Pisces sighed. His shoulders slumped. He raked a hand through his hair and again he looked at the distant foothills. Then at the adult Creler. He laughed, once. Bitterly. With humor. And he relaxed.
With one hand, he pulled out a mana potion and drank it. Then another. And another. Montressa saw him gulping down the potions, sweating, struggling to down the mouthfuls. The [Necromancer] shook. And his eyes flickered, but he controlled himself. Pisces spoke slowly.
“The gods are dead. But I still see devils and demons. And heroes. Their company shamed and changed me. I think I’ve been happy.”
He drew his rapier slowly and walked forwards. Backwards. And Montressa saw him glow. She saw the lines of power shift. And she saw the bones shift.
They came out of the bag of holding, spiraling upwards from the battlefield. Ivory, floating upwards and around Pisces as he walked back. The [Necromancer] lifted his hand and pointed.
“I gave it all to necromancy. So if it is my end. Come, rise. For my dearest friends.”
Across the grasslands, the Crelers stopped. The adult turned, and the gleeful contempt in it faded for a second. It sensed the magic. So did Ceria. She looked up and saw the bones spiraling into the sky, floating down.
Assembling. Creating a gargantuan shape. A hulking giant, larger than any Bone Horror. It rose, assembling itself from the dead. Bones twisted and merged in the air as the towering figure reached ever higher. The adult Creler looked up and saw a massive shape, taller than even it, building, rising.
A behemoth.
“Dead gods.”
Montressa saw the undead rising. She wanted to scream, but she saw the Creler. And it was more terrible than any undead. She saw Pisces stumbling, collapsing as the magic left him. But he pointed. And the giant made of bones, a hulking shape, planted all fours on the ground. Pale, green flames appeared in its eye sockets as the adult Creler shrieked a challenge. The undead creation put one paw on the ground.
Then the Bone Behemoth charged. The adult Creler shot forwards, tearing the ground with its many limbs.
The two met in a shockwave of sound. Ceria stared—until she saw a glowing shape crawling towards her. She pointed, and an [Ice Spike] pierced the Creler through. But only partway. She was so tired—
The Creler’s organs exploded. It was leaking ichor, but it scuttled forwards. They didn’t die even when they were dead. Ceria drew her knife, slashing at it. She heard a voice, and a steel rapier ran the Creler through. Pisces appeared on the ice fortress. He stumbled, and Ceria caught him.
“Pisces?”
The adventurers turned. In the distance, the Bone Behemoth and Creler were fighting. It was taller than the Creler, but the huge adult was tearing into it. It had more limbs than the ape-like thing. The behemoth tore at the Creler, biting.
“Sorry. Montressa is over there.”
Pisces pointed. Ceria studied him.
“Your eyes.”
They were filled with blood. Pisces wiped at the red coming from his nose, spat.
“I overtaxed myself a bit. What do you think? It may be slightly inelegant, but it is rather impressive, isn’t it?”
He grinned, blood running down the side of his mouth. Ceria stared at the Bone Behemoth, battling the adult.
“It’s too much! You’re going to—”
“No. I’m afraid it is not enough.”
Pisces sighed. He looked backwards. And Ceria saw the adult tear the bones off the behemoth. Pisces smiled wetly at Ceria. He blinked as blood ran from his eyes.
“I’m sorry.”
 
——
 
“Fool.”
Az’kerash watched as the two giants collided. Ijvani was trembling.
“But you said he was Level 30, Master! This is—”
“He is talented. But he will kill himself. And it cannot bring the Creler down. He should have fled.”
The Necromancer rose. He stared at the battle. The Creler was moving around the giant made of bones. It was like an ape, a huge, fanged skull biting, heavy limbs smashing. But the Creler was closer to an insect—segmented. Its body was armor. And—it was far heavier than the construction of bone.
“The Bone Behemoth is too light. It is made of bone! Too weak! The Creler outweighs it many times over, and the construct cannot break its outer shell! But he made it. He learned it.”
Az’kerash’s voice was caught between emotions. He stared down as the behemoth smashed at the Creler, forcing the horror’s legs into the earth. The Creler slashed back with dozens of legs, cutting into the bone.
“See—it cannot break the shell. If it were heavier or there were two—but he can barely sustain one. He went back. He saved the girl who tried to kill him. Why?”
The Necromancer was clenching his hand so hard he would have drawn blood if he had any left to give. He stared down at Pisces as he stood with the Horns.
“They would not do the same for him. Nor will they. He is a fool. They will not—”
The Necromancer’s voice was trembling. Shaking with emotion and memory. Ijvani was afraid. She whispered.
“Master?”
“They will abandon him in turn. That is what they do. Watch.”
The skeleton hesitated. It seemed like they were seeing different truths. Different visions.
“Master, I don’t think—”
“Watch!”
 
——
 
“It’s going to lose. Dead gods. The—it—”
Ceria watched as more bones went flying. The Bone Behemoth was trying to pin the adult, but the Creler was heavier. Stronger. Part of the undead construct tore away as the adult Creler lunged, tearing the bones to pieces.
Pisces stared dully. He pointed and the Bone Behemoth tried to move around the Creler. But it was faster too. It fanned its wings, leaping back. Jumped. It struck the behemoth from above. The creation of bone cracked and Pisces sagged.
They sat in Ceria’s ice fortress, a weak copy of Illphres’ spell. Ceria forced a mana potion into Pisces’ mouth. Half of it dribbled away as he tried to swallow.
“Can it—can it do anything?”
The last of the adventurers stood with Ceria. Sat. Walt and the last four members of his team were bandaging poisoned wounds. Alais was lying still, as Thunder’s Solace stood around them.
No one tried going for the inn. No one moved. They wouldn’t make the five minute run before the behemoth fell. They were exhausted. Only Pisces could have made the distance.
And he came back. Ceria looked at him. She glanced up as Ksmvr appeared. The Antinium’s body was cut—there was no part of him left unscathed.
“Captain Ceria. Comrade Pisces. Yvlon is hurt. You must make her better.”
He was supporting Yvlon. The armored woman tugged at the bloody bandage around her arm. Pisces and Ceria looked up. Yvlon grinned bloodlessly at them.
“It got my arm. Fix it, please?”
Ceria stared at the perfect cut. At Yvlon’s…arm. Blood and flesh and bone and metal. The [Wounded Warrior] waved it at Pisces. The [Necromancer] stared at it.
The Bone Behemoth collapsed. The adult Creler began tearing it apart from the skull. The smaller Crelers advanced on the adventurers. Pisces stared at Yvlon.
“I can’t—”
“You have to. Fix the bone. You can do that.”
“Not the muscle. Yvlon—”
“Please? I can’t die like this. Not after all this. Let me try one last time. Let me—please?”
The woman’s voice broke. The [Necromancer] stared at her. Then at the adult Creler. It was destroying the bones of his creation. Slowly, he rose. He stumbled over to Yvlon, put a hand on her stump.
“Put it—place it here—”
She connected the arm to her shoulder. Pisces put a hand on the spot. Ceria saw him mumble. And the bone—fused. Yvlon made a sound as she let go. The severed limb dangled. She fumbled for a healing potion, poured it over the gap. Ceria waited.
Nothing happened. The bone had fused, but the cut flesh refused to do the same. Yvlon stared at her arm. Ceria looked at Pisces.
“Can you heal—”
“No. If it were right after. But no—”
“No. It has to heal.”
Yvlon grabbed at her arm. Ceria reached for her. Ksmvr was just staring. He looked back at the Crelers.
“They are coming. Please, Captain Ceria, sound the retreat.”
“To where, Ksmvr?”
“The door. I will cover you—”
“Work, damn it. You’re my arm!”
Yvlon shouted. Her left hand found the inside of her arm. She stared at the cut cords, the flesh in her arm. She grabbed the tendon and muscles and pulled, trying to connect the severed parts to her arm. Ceria made a sound.
“Pour.”
The [Wounded Warrior] looked at Ceria. The half-Elf took the healing potion. She poured. Yvlon held the two pieces together, pulling the part of her severed arm together as the potion dribbled over it—
The skin began to move. The muscle and tendons slowly fused. Ceria saw flesh closing, reluctantly. She stared as Yvlon gasped. In relief. Her severed arm was reconnecting. But—as Yvlon let go, as it healed—Pisces stared at Yvlon’s right arm. It was still limp. The [Wounded Warrior]’s face twisted.
“I can’t—can’t move it.”
She was trying. Trying to lift it. With her left hand, she lifted the enchanted blade. She tried to make her right hand grasp the hilt. She wrapped her fingers around the hilt. Lifted with both arms.
“Move. Move!”
Her right arm moved slowly. Awkwardly. There was no strength in it. But still, Yvlon swung the sword. She couldn’t change the grip of her fingers. And her arm wasn’t moving right. Not everything had connected. But the sword did move. Pisces whispered.
“Dead gods. Yvlon—”
“It’s fine. It’s enough. I knew it would be like this, someday. I just wish—”
The Crelers poured over the ice walls. The Horns turned. The adventurers rose. Yvlon cut one larval Creler apart. She saw a huge Creler smash through a wall.
“Silver Spears to me!”
For a second, Yvlon forgot where she was. Laughing, she reversed her grip on the sword, grabbing it with her right hand, then her left. Holding the blade in her gauntleted hands. She swung, the pommel and hilt striking, hammering at the giant Creler’s abdomen as it reared.
Murder-strike. Mordhau. A sword-fighter’s trick to attack opponents wearing armor. She’d used it once. This time, the blow cracked the Creler’s underbelly, exposing insides.
The juvenile Creler fell back, leaking gore. Jerkily—Yvlon pursued it. She swung her sword, breaking the thing’s chitin as Ksmvr slashed at it from the side. Then a shadow fell across her.
The adult Creler hit the fortress of ice and destroyed it. Yvlon saw huge chunks flying, felt herself crash onto the ground, shoulders first. She went over backwards, hearing parts of her back crack. She was sure something was wrong. But she rose.
“Didn’t feel it.”
She grinned. The adult Creler turned. It searched for the last adventurers. And it saw Yvlon. She struck it along the head. It was still whole. Nothing had torn its shell.
“Fall, damn you.”
Yvlon swung, performing the murder-strike once more. She hammered the same spot again and again, alongside the nightmare’s head. But the armor refused to give.
A limb like a sickle swung for Yvlon’s head. She ducked it, chuckling. But the second one tore into her chest. It went into a rib and withdrew as Yvlon danced back. She checked the blood, flecked with specks of discolored, foreign liquid. Poison, too.
“But I didn’t feel that either.”
The armored woman struck again. The adult Creler inspected her, confused more than anything. She wasn’t afraid. She didn’t feel the blood running down her armor.
“Yvlon!”
Ceria was desperately trying to freeze the huge Creler, immobilize it. Pisces gazed past the Creler, towards the broken Bone Behemoth. He pointed and the bones stirred—Pisces collapsed. He panted, staring up at the adult Creler. It was still toying with Yvlon, cutting her, trying to make her scream.
Arrogance. The adventurers saw the Creler opening its maw wide, wide. It disgorged more Crelers and paused. Gloating. They could not kill it.
Nothing could.
“If only it was stronger.”
Pisces whispered through bloodless lips. Beyond him, Yvlon hacked at the armor.
“Just break. Why won’t you—”
She stared down at the slim blade that had cut through her armor. She giggled.
“I didn’t feel a thing.”
Another blade cut her across the side, rebounding off part of her enchanted armor. But it still cut deep. Yvlon felt the impact, but no pain. She grabbed a potion and drank it. Some of her wounds healed. The adult Creler focused on her.
“No.”
Ksmvr saw it open its maw. He leapt, slashing at the Creler’s back. He landed, a tiny bug slashing, biting desperately, trying to distract the adult. It ignored him.
“Yvlon, dodge!”
The armored woman lurched to the side. The wall of ice exploded as the Creler loosed more spears from its mouth. Pisces pointed, swaying on his feet.
“[Deathbolt]. [Deathb—”
The death magic flickered out as he stumbled. Yvlon struck the adult as it turned towards Pisces. She knew it was watching her. It was laughing at her.
Yvlon was tired of the laughter. She was so weary. She spoke to her sword as she raised it to strike again.
“Give me something. Please?”
She swung, a perfect mordhau. Yvlon put all her strength, all her weight, behind the enchanted blade. The Sword of Weight swung, a heavier blow than a warhammer. It hit the adult Creler alongside the head.
The pommel cracked as the blade rebounded. Yvlon felt the enchantment break. The sword became heavy in her hands. So heavy she could barely lift it with her exhausted limbs, let alone swing. Thirty pounds of weight on top of the metal.
She stared down at the metal. And she sank to one knee. The adult Creler reared up as the woman knelt, too tired to stand. It fell on her.
“Yvlon! Run!”
Montressa du Valeross shouted. She threw up a magical barrier, and gold-violet energy blocked the adult. It landed on her ward and Yvlon looked up. Montressa held her staff, shaking. She expanded her spell, drawing on the last reserves. She turned around as the adventurers, the Horns, stopped and stared at her. The [Aegiscaster] smiled.
“Run.”
 
——
 
