Despair filled her tone. She sank as Pisces covered them. Palt dragged his friends back. He turned his head.
“We can’t hold out any longer. The poison—”
The Creler’s poison was eating away at the adventurers. They were drinking stamina potions and healing potions, but both were failing as the poison worked its way into their blood. Only a few were unharmed. The rest couldn’t heal.
“We’re going to die.”
Ulinde spoke quietly. Palt knelt next to her. He dragged her onto his back.
“No. No, we’ll live. We’ll—”
His head jerked up. He looked at something. From her position next to Ceria, Kam lowered her bow for a second. The [Bow Rider]’s bleeding fingers dropped an arrow, and she pointed.
“Look!”
Ceria turned. Her eyes went wide. The half-Elf gaped. Then she realized the huge, flying shapes coming at them weren’t flying Crelers. No—they were—
“Moths! Dead gods! Take cover!”
The half-Elf’s voice was filled with despair. But Stan was laughing. She didn’t understand why. Then she saw the moths descending. The red tide of Crelers turned as the moths flew down at them, biting, shrieking.
Face-Eater Moths. There must have been another colony in the foothills. They came at the Crelers in a mindless rage, and the Crelers were attacking them. The adult whirled and its wings fanned. It leapt and the adventurers ducked. The adult’s wings fanned the air and the wind blasted the adventurers flat like a spell as it flew, straight into the Face-Eater moth clouds.
The Face-Eater Moths darted at it. The adult Creler cut them apart, and the moths scattered. One shot past Ceria, and the [Cryomancer] raised her wand. But the moth just tore at a Creler, biting at it with its razor-mouth.
“How—”
“They hate Crelers! This is our chance!”
Stan was laughing in delight. He pointed and Ceria saw. The wave of Crelers that had gone after the adventurers was splintering, dividing. The Crelers were doubling back, tearing into the Bloodfields, eating the grass, the insects, the Blood Slimes—and everything else. They brought down a Watchertree, ignoring the stabbing roots that killed scores of them.
But everything was attacking the Crelers. Moths, the Bloodfields—everything. The things from Rhir were everything’s foe. Insect-beds in the Bloodfields erupted and the small, vicious insects were torn to shreds as they swarmed over the larger Crelers. Even the floods of insects were of this world. Part of it, destined to die and become food in time. But Crelers were not.
“We can do it. Regroup! Get to Montressa’s side! Around the door!”
The half-Elf was laughing. She pointed. As the press of Crelers cleared up, the Ensoldier Shields, Thunder’s Solace, the other adventurers broke from the icy fortress, making a dash for it. Ceria saw a shape amid the fighting.
“Ksmvr!”
He was supporting someone. Yvlon. The [Wounded Warrior] was holding her arm. Ksmvr let go of her, raising his shield, as Ceria slid down the ice walls, towards him. Stan shouted something.
“Ceria! Watch out, it’s coming back!”
“What? What is—”
Ceria looked up and saw the adult Creler flying at them. It was roaring. The half-Elf saw the remains of the Face-Eater moth swarm. She saw its maw open—a flash—
Ahead of her, Kam disappeared. The [Bow Rider] vanished in a plume of dirt. Ceria stared in blank shock.
“Kam? K—”
The adult Creler landed. It turned, aiming again.
A second spray. Ksmvr’s Forceshield caught part of it. Ice shattered around Ceria. She felt something tug at her side. Looked down and saw the ice shrapnel in her side, the torn robes. Saw the blood beginning to stain her clothing.
“Ow.”
“Bring it down! Kill it! Everyone, together!”
Stan bellowed desperately. The adult slashed towards him. Belt raised his shield—a leg went through it and his body like a spear. Walt howled, attacking the leg—it knocked him flying. The adult Creler bit an adventurer in half.
“Kill it!”
“Acid jar! Take cover!”
A Drake pulled out a glowing jar of green acid. Ceria fumbled for a potion, drinking it. The adult Creler turned as the Drake threw. It spat—everything above the Drake’s torso vanished. But the jar of acid flew.
The glowing green jar hit the Creler across the head. The burning acid covered the chitinous armor, and Ceria cheered as smoke rose—
The Creler shook itself, and the spray of acid flew, covering the ground, adventurers, other Crelers. It clawed at the place where it was struck, then paused. The acid smoked on its armor. And then the smoke stopped. Dully, Ceria stared at the adult.
“Even that?”
“There’s no way to kill it. We can’t get through its armor.”
Stan’s voice was shaking. The adventurers glanced at each other. Tommie spoke.
“From the inside, then. We get inside and hack its guts out. That’s the only way.”
The man lifted his sword. His shield-arm was torn to pieces, and his shield had been ripped apart by Crelers’ jaws. Ceria stared at him.
“Tommie, no! That’s insane!”
The Human man nodded to Ceria, then Yvlon and Ksmvr. His face was alight with something soft and determined.
“I owe you one. Belt, cover me.”
The [Warrior] swung around. His friend grabbed his axe. Walt shouted, but the two Ensoldier Shields charged. The adult was cutting down another Silver-rank team.
“Tommie!”
Ceria shouted. She raised her wand, and a wall of ice shot upwards, blocking Crelers swarming from the side. Belt raised his shield.
“[Target Shield]!”
The Creler’s head focused on him. It loosed another salvo. Belt vanished. Tommie ran on. He screamed, charging at the Creler. It reared up, and Ceria saw Tommie plant his feet.
“[Armored Leap]!”
He flew. Ksmvr jerked as Tommie jumped as high as Ksmvr did. The man was aiming at the adult’s mouth. Ceria stared. He was going to make it. He was going to do it!
The adult Creler’s mouth was open, preparing to loose more deadly projectiles. Tommie grabbed the edge, tried to drag himself in. The Creler had no teeth. But it had rows of—
Multiple incisors hacked at the man. Tommie screamed, but he had a potion bottle in his mouth. He pulled himself into the mouth as his armor was torn to shreds. Trying to get into the guts. He was screaming, his sword in one hand. The adult shook its head, trying to throw Tommie out. But he was climbing in. Someone whispered.
“Dead gods.”
An orange glow. Something moved in the adult’s mouth. Tommie looked up, and his snarling face went slack for a moment. And then Ceria saw them too.
Baby Crelers. They poured out of the adult’s mouth, climbing out of the thing’s stomach. Tommie never had a chance to let go. They covered him and the [Warrior] shouted once. A forlorn, lost sound.
If only. The adult shook the body off it, disgorging more Crelers from inside itself. Ceria saw the wriggling Crelers cover the motionless corpse as it fell.
Walt screamed. He charged the adult and his team bashed at the thing’s side. But the Creler just slashed out and Walt stumbled back, his armor and flesh torn to the bone. It turned to regard them and Ceria braced. But the adult just waited as the smaller Crelers swarmed over the adventurers.
It was enjoying this.
Crelers swarmed past the adult, larvae, hungry, tearing at the exhausted warriors. Caddin collapsed, trying to claw the Creler burrowing into his neck. Alais reached for him as she lifted her staff.
“Caddin!”
She lost her focus. The bolt of lightning caught the group of Crelers and Walt. The man screamed and dropped his shield. Alais paled.
“No. I didn’t—”
They were splintering. Ceria searched around wildly for help. Someone had to be coming. Seborn, Moore, Grimalkin—
Erin?
She heard a distant cry and her head jerked up in relief. At last! At last—
“The door’s open! It’s open at last!”
Ceria’s face went slack. She saw the crowd around the door pouring through. The Crelers surrounding them advanced wildly as the workers poured through. The Silver-rank teams fought, trying to get to the door. The adult Creler whirled, sensing its prey disappearing.
“It just opened now? But we’ve been fighting for—”
A lifetime. Ceria waited for someone to come charging out. But the waves of Crelers followed the adventurers and workers in. And—Crelers, all of them, all of them, began swarming for the door. Ceria saw Stan glancing at her. Across the ground, Montressa’s barriers winked out. Palt turned. Pisces, panting, looked at the door.
They began to flee. The adventurers closest to the door fought to get in, falling as the Crelers attacked from behind. It was so far from where Ceria was.
“Go! We’ll cover you!”
The [Ice Mage] pointed her wand. More walls of ice. Her body was freezing with too many ice spells. She whirled.
“Stan! Get out of here! You have children!”
The old adventurer gazed at her. Across the ground, Palt galloped forwards, out of the lines of Crelers, his entire body aflame. Crelers dropped off him and the Selphid. What remained of her.
“Montressa! Get on my back! Beza!”
The Minotauress wasn’t able to stand. The poison was dripping from her wounds. The Minotauress tried to argue. But Palt just yanked her onto his back. The Minotauress grabbed at her belt.
“Take—take—”
The scrolls tumbled out of her grip. Pisces couldn’t reach for them. He was conjuring more undead. He spoke, turning his head.
“Montressa?”
She hesitated. She studied Pisces. Palt grabbed at her.
“Come on!”
“I have to—you can’t get away without me.”
The [Aegiscaster] was holding her barrier, preventing the Crelers from getting past her. Palt was swaying, trying to carry Ulinde, himself, and Beza’s weight. He gritted his teeth, peering at Pisces.
“I can’t carry her too. Beza, [Lion’s Strength]! Where is your sc—”
One of Montressa’s barriers failed. Crelers poured forwards. Pisces pointed. The Warbear charged into the gap. He glanced back.
“Go!”
Palt met his eyes. The [Illusionist] turned.
“I’m sorry.”
He galloped away, Beza on his back, Ulinde clinging to him. The other adventurers around them fled, leaving only Pisces and Montressa. Her barriers flickered. Failing.
“Stan.”
Ceria saw Palt running, galloping as the Crelers flooded the doorway. She turned to Crossbow Stan. The Boltspitters were running. Ceria put all the magic she had into creating a wall of ice, shielding their escape.
She tried to think of something to say. But then the old adventurer turned without a word. She thought she heard his voice, but it was lost. The half-Elf whirled. Another wall of ice blocked a charging group of Crelers.
The other adventurers were abandoning their positions. Only those who couldn’t run remained. Ceria’s voice was desperate.
“They’re climbing over the ice walls! Get to the door!”
“My arm—where’s Pisces? He can fix—”
Yvlon was trying to pick up her severed arm. Ksmvr had drawn his blades. They couldn’t run. So Ceria watched as the last adventurers ran.
Palt made it. The Centaur fled through the doorway, through the Crelers, a magical shield knocking them aside. And the rest were pouring through the doorway. They turned, as the adventurers tried to make it to the doorway.
They failed.
The Crelers poured around them, cutting them off. They were inside the inn. Ceria screamed, shouting at them to come back. But the shards of ice couldn’t stop the Crelers. She saw Stan turning, firing his last loaded crossbow. He reached for another and found none. The other adventurers kept running.
Rhir’s nightmares cut them off. They poured into the open doorway, after the ones who’d fled. The rest surrounded the last adventurers. Ceria saw her friends forming a circle. Falling.
“Stan!”
He never heard her. The old man’s expression was grim, concentrating. He reached for a crossbow bolt and disappeared as a juvenile Creler struck him from the side. Ceria saw them cover him.
She closed her eyes. When she opened them, she heard Yvlon laughing. Bitterly. Slowly, Ceria stood and glanced around.
The Crelers were gone. Few remained where they stood. The last of the adventurers stood amid Ceria’s broken palace of ice, facing a fraction of the horde that had assailed them.
A hundred, instead of thousands. The rest were in Erin’s inn, or fighting the Bloodfields. But the adult remained. It turned, counting. Ceria watched it.
“Damn you back to hell.”
She raised her wand. Yvlon picked up her sword as Ksmvr held her, tying a tourniquet around her stump of an arm. Ceria counted.
The Ensoldier Shields, Thunder’s Solace, three other teams, a few adventurers. Yvlon, Ksmvr—herself—
She looked up. He was—there. Or he had been. Montressa’s barriers were gone. She searched the ground, saw him running. Away, towards the hills.
“Pisces?”
 
——
 
The [Necromancer] fled. The [Flash Step] spell carried him past Crelers who leapt and missed him. Pisces blurred across the battlefield, slowed. He ran.
Montressa was in his arms. The [Aegiscaster] was limp. The young woman was clutching her staff. The brass orb had fallen. Spent. She looked up at his face as he ran from the Crelers. Towards the foothills, away from the Bloodfields, away from the Crelers, the door.
His team.
Pisces halted on an incline. He stopped, wheezing, his lungs rattling as he tried to breathe. He dropped Montressa on the grass. He looked at her, choking on blood, spit. She tried to stand, but she was too exhausted. Pisces turned his head, but the nearest Crelers were too interested in the inn to pursue him.
The young man met Montressa’s eyes. He was bleeding from cuts that had torn open his robes, bites that had taken pieces out of his left leg. But he wasn’t hurt badly. He panted.
“Make for the doorway. You can survive with your barriers. No—hide in the hills. Use [Invisibility]. Split up.”
He pointed, his finger shaking, towards the rocky incline in the distance. Montressa stared at him, then at the distant adventurers. They were making their stand on the icy fortress. She saw the adult Creler. She knew it was death. But even so—she looked at Pisces.
“You’re leaving again.”
He didn’t reply. He was gazing back.
The Horns of Hammerad stood together. Ceria was drinking her last mana potion, blasting Crelers climbing the walls of ice off her. Ksmvr was leaping, landing on Crelers, cutting at them. Yvlon had her sword in her left hand. She was swinging the enchanted blade with her one arm, staggering, as Ksmvr fought around her.
“It is suicide to stay.”
Pisces spoke through pale lips. He didn’t meet Montressa’s eyes. He hesitated, looking at the distant foothills. Safety.
“You’re going to run away.”
Montressa’s voice was dreamy. She studied Pisces. She wasn’t scared of the bones any longer. They were just bones. She’d been so silly. But she was afraid. She saw the fear in his eyes. Pisces turned away from the adventurers.
