Dozens of notifications. Voices repeating themselves again and again as her mind finally registered them, as if once wasn’t enough. Telling her she’d changed. Telling her—
Yvlon’s eyes went wide. She jerked up. Ksmvr caught her, and Yvlon hesitated.
“My arms?”
He looked down. And the woman hesitated. Slowly, she raised her arms. She looked down. For a moment, Yvlon thought nothing had changed. She stared down at her arms and saw metal. Pure silver mixed with burnished steel.
Her armor? But then, Yvlon saw her skin. Muscle, the curve of her flesh. But—silvery. Shining as it caught the light. Her breath caught.
“My—”
Skin made of metal. Imitating the flesh she had once had. But—her arms were half armor too, flesh turning to angular armor. But it was all her. The armor made of her very body.
Her arms were silver and steel.
[Conditions Met: Wounded Warrior → Silversteel Armsmistress Class!]
Her new class screamed in her mind. [Silversteel Armsmistress]. Disbelieving, Yvlon raised one arm, saw the metal skin moving. She felt—she felt. She touched her chest, felt the soft bandages under her fingertips. But no pain, as she pinched her arms. Or—faint.
“I am afraid your sword is broken, Yvlon. But I found it for you. Caution. It is very heavy.”
Ksmvr offered her something. Yvlon saw it was her sword. The tip had snapped. And the pommel was cracked. The enchantment was still there, and the Antinium had to use two of his hands to hand it to her. Unconsciously, Yvlon took it in her right hand.
She lifted the broken, heavy, enchanted sword with one arm. It was light. Yvlon stared at her arm, as it flawlessly lifted the blade. Ksmvr blinked.
“Ooh.”
“I—my arms. I’m—”
She stuttered, staring at her arms. They shone. Ksmvr looked at Yvlon.
“They are beautiful. You did not leave me. I knew my team would not die. I knew you would not. But do not scare me like that again.”
He looked at her, and she saw him shaking a tiny bit. She heard it in his voice. And Yvlon forgot everything else. She hugged him, and he hugged her back fiercely. Yvlon felt the Antinium quivering.
“Yvlon.”
Someone called her name. Many people were, but this voice made Yvlon look up. She saw Ceria and paused.
She had changed too. Cold and frost lay on the table where Ceria was sitting. The half-Elf’s eyes were winter-pale and faint blue and grey. Something swirled in their depths.
Snowflakes fell out of the air around her, melting as she left her seat and walked towards Yvlon. The woman stared.
“Your eyes—”
“I leveled up. It’s nothing special. Nice arms.”
The half-Elf paused. Pisces limped over next to her, and Yvlon saw another depth of power in his eyes. She looked at him. At her. At Ksmvr.
“Thank you.”
She didn’t know to whom she said it. But she heard the word repeated.
Running feet. Yvlon turned as Erin flung herself at the Horns of Hammerad. She half-tackled Ceria and Pisces and the two adventurers nearly fell over. The [Innkeeper] was crying. The world opened up, and Yvlon realized it wasn’t just them.
The inn—The Wandering Inn was around them. Destroyed. Walls were torn open, and only a few spells were keeping the ceiling up. Despite that, it was filled. Adventurers, some wounded, others fresh, stood next to [Soldiers] from Liscor’s army. Liscor’s Watch. They stood, staring down at the Horns. Erin was hugging Ceria and Pisces.
“You’re alive! You’re alive, you’re alive, you’re—”
“I saw it dead. You brought it down.”
Someone spoke to the side. Yvlon turned her head and saw a Drake with crimson scales staring at her. Embria waved a hand towards the door.
“An adult Creler. You killed it. The four of you.”
Embria looked at the four adventurers, mystified. Yvlon blinked up at her.
“Oh. Well, we had help.”
“How did you—you’re alive.”
Erin buried her face in Ceria’s shoulder. Then she cried out; her tears were freezing! The half-Elf poked herself.
“I guess we are. Right, Yvlon?”
“Yes.”
Yvlon blinked. She opened her mouth and closed it a few times. Embria stared at her, but Yvlon just went back to hugging Ksmvr. She didn’t have anything else to say.
Erin turned and grabbed Yvlon and Ksmvr. Then another pair of arms encircled them. Bird. Yvlon felt Mrsha jump at her, sniffing her arms—
“Yvlon! Ceria! Pisces!”
Alais was making her way over to them. She was barely able to walk, but she was alive. So were Palt, Beza, the Minotauress staring in shock. Ulinde waved excitedly from her ruined body. Moore was limping up the hill as Jelaqua carried a protesting Seborn in her arms. They were staring. And someone began shouting.
“Hammerad! The Horns of Hammerad!”
“Crelerbane! Hell’s wardens!”
Someone else bellowed it. Walt. He was pointing at the Horns, laughing and sobbing. His three teammates stood around him. The last—Yvlon looked around as people took up the chant.
“Hammerad! Horns of Hammerad!”
“You did it.”
A flash of red hair. Not Lyonette—the [Princess] was hugging along with Mrsha. Pisces turned.
“Montressa.”
She bowed towards him, silently. There were too many words, not enough. Not in this moment. Grimalkin roared above the shouting.
“We have witnessed an extraordinary event! A feat that few in this world can boast of! The death that comes from Rhir has been slain by a team of adventurers! The Horns of Hammerad!”
Now the Watch and the [Soldiers] took up the chant. The adventurers were saluting them. Grimalkin looked at the Horns. He just nodded, folding his arms, approvingly. Yvlon didn’t know what to make of it all.
“But so many died. It wasn’t just us. It was—”
“You. And Ksmvr. With a little help.”
Pisces looked at Yvlon, smiling crookedly. He glanced at Ceria. The half-Elf smiled as snow fell around her. She stared at Yvlon’s arms. Erin sneezed.
“It’s cold! Can you turn that off?”
“I’ll figure it out.”
Ksmvr just remained still. He whispered so softly that Yvlon was the only one who could hear. And some of the Gnolls.
“You must not die. Promise?”
“I promise.”
That was all Yvlon said. Then she felt tears fill her eyes.
Enough. Say no more. In silence, she hugged her friends, as the cheers became a roar, applause. But Yvlon needed only this moment. That was all she wanted. No levels, no Skills. Let it be for a while. Silently, the Horns embraced each other. Then they rose and looked about.
The inn was broken. The dead unburied. Darkness had come again. And it still waited. It had torn and tried to bury the sparks of light. In the end, the world was still not perfect. Soon, they would count the fallen.
But for one moment. Right now—Erin Solstice clung to her friends. The Horns of Hammerad held each other and the crowd of [Guards], adventurers, [Soldiers], and civilians, [Barmaids], [Princess], [Waiters], [Mages], and the little Gnoll cheered. And the noise chased away the future.
From his seat, the Necromancer bowed. And a skeleton watched, seeing something else, something he didn’t quite understand. And he saw her face, laughing and smiling. But even that was later.
Ksmvr looked up from hugging Yvlon and felt her touch his arms. His spare one wiped away tears from her eyes for visual acuity. Ceria leaned on Pisces, and the [Necromancer] smiled, looking around with water in his eyes that he’d never admit was there. The half-Elf laughed, and the Horns remained there for a second. Savoring it, that moment in time. After travail and trial, before time moved, they were in it and remembered it for the rest of their lives.
For one moment, everything was alright.
