A Legendary-Unique. Onus of the Scarforged—What the fuck, kid? Jesus Christ resurrected and the New Apostles, it’s only been a week on your end. Shit. You needed to be at Chorus yesterday—Oh, come on, really? A new god? Wait, two new divine entities… and a new eldritch progenitor.

All that between three fucking kids in a Category 3 Gate.

I don’t even got the words anymore. We gotta turn around, Deathless. It’s not just you Chorus wants to pick up anymore. The other two have to take a trip beyond Integrated Earth as well.

—Farwalker Produrveral upon receiving [EMERGENCY EXPEDITION QUEST DEATHLESS]

396

Fun Times at Gate Piety

Acting 26 > 29

Scheming Bastard 25 > 28

Truth be told, Shiv wasn’t really traumatized by the Delve Jessicas. As she said, he tore his own genitals off as a distraction; pain and mental trauma dulled to passing recollections of discomfort that dulled within days.

“That being said, her anal fixation is still deeply disturbing,” the Harbinger mused. “Shaming her was a good choice. A bit of mental rehabilitation will be good for her.”

Yeah, and thank Cripple for not going along with her shit, Shiv grunted as he jumped back to the Perch via Chronomancy.

***

A few minutes ago…

“This is degeneracy,” Cripple grumbled, glaring at the collective Jessicas. “I refuse. The very fact you would ask this of me has inflicted offense beyond measure. Bear your weapons; I will only strike him when there are none of you left.”

“Wait, what the f—” And thus did Cripple drive a fist into the first of the Jessicas, sending her blasting through the others and threading gap after gap through the layered orichalcum walls.

“Yes!” Shiv cheered, laughing as the Jessicas turned to fight the invading Ascendant. “You’re the best Ascendant, Cripple! The best! My felling favorite! You’ve always been my favorite! Get her! Beat the shit out of her! Buy me a few more—” His words turned into a choked cry as a detachment of opportunistic Jessicas started bashing him with an arsenal of psionic weapons.

By the time Cripple reached him, Shiv struggled not to drool all over himself as he recovered from a Psychomancy-induced concussion. Even so, he still remembered to be polite when it mattered. “I—’ove you the most, Nipple.”

The Ascendant’s battered Avatar shuffled awkwardly, the stump that remained of its left arm spraying coolant and oil against the far wall. “I… am honored by your regard.”

“Nuh.” Shiv giggled. “Serious. You best. Starhawk has the stupid… He’s a bird. Bots are better than… than birds. Just how I feel. Not anything wrong with that, huh?”

Racism 1 > 3

Shiv gave a groan of pure outrage. “System, that’s horseshit. Didn’t mean it like that. Don’t make me a racist. I’m not racist, am I, Cripple?”

Cripple’s eye flickered. “I… do not think I would deem you as such from our interactions, but these things are always measured on a spectrum. And it is not uncommon to get a Racism Skill. Do not be disheartened.”

Cripple's pleasantries assuaged Shiv's inner turmoil, but from it came another question: “Cripple, how high is your Racism Skill?”

“I…”

“Adept? No… I can see your core—oh, Master, huh? Did you get that while you were in the Abyss being forced to fight bullshit by the… the… whoever used you as slave? That’s bullshit by the way; you tell me who did that to you and I’ll… I’ll felling cooking them. If they’re still alive or whatever.”

Being next to braindead wasn't without its benefits. In fact, Shiv thought he could read an automaton's body language better than ever—and Cripple's Avatar was utterly consumed by shame. “I would like this topic to end.”

Shiv nodded with understanding. “Yeah, maybe for the best. Don’t worry, though: You’re still the best Ascendant—even if you’re the most racist Ascendant.”

“I am not,” Cripple replied defensively. “That indignity goes to Harlock and his feelings about the First Blood.”

Shiv’s nodding intensified. “I mean, is that even racism? They’re vampires. You can kill one randomly and probably call it justified pre-pre-pre…”

“Pre-emptive?”

“Yeah. Pre-emptive self-defense.”

Silence followed. The final seconds of the Delve loomed. A hiss of steam spilled out around Cripple’s neck joints, and it sounded suspiciously like a sigh. “I have updated my judgement: You are potentially a slight bit prejudiced toward a specific group of people.”

“Well, my first… meeting with one of those people ended with them exploding the Umbrals and me I was with using blood magic, and almost all my other meetings had them throwing meat-monsters at me or fucking torturing entire towns to death. So. Bad impressions. And… all that.”

“Indeed,” Cripple replied, sounding more than done with this dialogue.

Racism 3 > 4

“Aw, hells,” Shiv said. “Maybe I need to apply a bit more… nuance? Is that the word? Yeah, nuance to things. World’s complicated. Makes my head hurt.”

“Indeed,” Cripple grumbled again, its empathetic core glistening with genuine sympathy. “Take care not to lose your way. Take care to garner wisdom to buffet against the corruption of power.”

Shiv tried to rise, but found himself too laden with damage and too spent of tides to even get on his hands and knees. “I know. I have to figure something out. Have to find a way to get around the System before it ruins us all. I have to.”

“We have to,” Cripple agreed.

A beat of shared regard followed, and Shiv smirked. “Hey, Cripple. Thanks for coming back. You’re not my favorite Ascendant just because of the brain damage; you're my favorite because you try—even if it hurts you.”

These Words of Truth and Adoration 89 > 91

The near-broken Avatar stood just a bit taller as Shiv reaped a bounty of affection through those words. “Sometimes, the act itself is reward enough. Sometimes, it must be done, reward or not. I will see you back in the Gate, Legend Shiv.”

“Yeah,” Shiv said, feeling the Delve start to collapse. The Quest completion notification appeared before him, and everything began to dissolve. “See you there, Strongest.”

***

A surge of hope and inspiration buffeted Shiv's heart as he arrived atop the Perch. There were still so many threats and dangers arrayed against them, but with an Ascendant on their side—truly on their side rather than weaving his own machinations—then they just might—

“Adam! Adam! Talk to me, son! Please! Please don’t—” Roland's anguished cries shredded Shiv's reverie. The room was shrouded in a faint layer of incandescent mist, and Shiv flinched as the moisture eroded his flesh.

“Ow, shit,” Shiv hissed, wincing in surprise as he felt his skin start to peel. For whatever reason, his Legendary Toughness didn’t activate, and—

WAR IS! WAR IS! WAR IS! PEACE CANNOT BE WHEN WAR IS! PEACE CANNOT BE! A deafening roar exploded out of the Red Rider's Hand and flooded Shiv, and his thoughts were scattered anew. It was only upon looking over his shoulder that he discovered a disturbing truth: It wasn't his skin that was sloughing off his flesh, but the Red Rider’s fist that was shedding itself, layer by layer. The strange mist staining the room ate away at the strife-wrought limb, and every bit of pain it felt crossed over into Shiv. PEACE CANNOT REIGN! PEACE CANNOT REIGN! PEACE CANNOT REIGN! ONLY ONE DREAM! ONLY ONE TYRANNY! ONLY ONE DREAM! ONLY ONE TYRANNY!

Shiv's disbelief only grew as chains of fear exploded out from the Red Rider's Hand. A sensation of second-hand dread took hold inside of him and speared out in all directions, connecting the hand of strife to the mists, which dissipated down to nothing as the last bit of incandescent moisture vanished. The melting sensation faded, and the hand suffered no more wounds, but the fear lingered—an existential terror that strife should have never felt.

“What in the fuck was that?” Shiv breathed.

“Adam!” Rose’s wail wrenched Shiv away from his stupor. The unnatural dread the Red Rider’s Hand suffered wasn’t even a secondary concern when measured against Adam.

Shiv exploded across the room in a reckless burst of speed that caused the ground to crack. The charcoal borders designating the boundaries of Adam’s garden sanctuary had been breached. Leaden smears stained the surface of reality, and Shiv deduced that the strife-scalding mists were the cause. Squeezing himself through the gap in the Educator’s borders, Shiv found the garden unblemished aside from a path of trampled greenery, with flowers and grass ground down into the mud beneath a stampede of feet trying to get to Adam.

The same couldn’t be said about Adam's bedframe. The reinforced steel that once held the mattress was so compressed it resembled a flat spring of steel. A blossom of fluff swelled out beneath Adam—a mess of bloodstained fabric that had once served as a mattress. His blankets and sheets were somewhere in that mangled mess of red-white material, and Shiv caught a glimpse of something truly unnerving: the imprint of a massive palm deforming the soil around Adam.

It looked like an invisible hand of pure force had hammered him down into the earth.

Not the Challenger. Not an act of strife! The Red Rider’s Hand trembled with every thundered syllable. Something opposite. Something older. Something the System cannot ape in totality.

“Quiet,” Shiv growled. He didn’t have time for the hand’s nonsense ramblings distracting him. If the Challenger had done this after all, then Shiv would see that debt squared after Adam was safe. The same went for Scorn, the First Blood, Compact, or anyone else trying to make an attempt on the Paragon’s life. Adam’s survival came first; if revenge was needed, Shiv would go about it with patience and precision.

No more flailing or distractions. Shiv forced calm on himself, channeling his trepidation and fury into pure focus. We solve our problems completely. We do this right.

A small mob of people was crowded around Adam. Next to him were Roland, Rose, and the Culturist. Standing at the destroyed bed’s feet were the Educator and Isabella, looking on with inverse expressions. Maia looked outraged and baffled, confused as to how someone had managed to breach her border sketch. Isabella, meanwhile, was pale with horror, shivering with each wet gurgle that left Adam’s throat, every violent spasm that ripped through his body.

Then there was Adam himself. His body was wreathed in a corona of incandescence. The godly mana that infused him burned brighter than Shiv could recall ever seeing it. But there was something else. A dense veil of mist swirled about him, making the Red Rider's Hand flinch back in fear as Shiv got closer to it. The chains that bound it to the surrounding vapors a moment ago returned—and all latched onto Adam concurrently.

But all that paled before the azure radiance flooding out from Adam’s orifices. Every single sensory organ Adam had was highlighted with a dense concentration of mana, and the overflowing power that leaked out from him was so dense it inflicted a tangible pressure on the surrounding atmosphere.

“Roland!” Shiv snapped, kneeling down beside the Culturist to examine Adam. “What’s wrong with him? Was this an attack? Is he hurt?”

All eyes snapped to Shiv in an instant. Both Roland and the Culturist did a double-take, as if they were unable to process his presence.

“You… You’re here…” Roland swallowed, his pupils dilating with astonishment. “You were Delving.”

Shiv rolled his eyes. “I finished that. Forget about me: Adam. Tell me about Adam.”

But even Shiv’s harried request wasn’t enough to break Roland’s disbelief. “In less than a day?”

“Could we expect anything less from a chosen disciple of Valor Thann?” The Culturist chuckled humorlessly. “And could we ever gauge one born of Udraal’s genius by the standards of lesser ken?”

“Stop kissing my ass and focus on Adam!” Shiv snarled, slamming his fist into the ground. Mud and plant matter splattered everywhere—with a particularly thick clump slamming down on Adam's face.

“That was a terribly calculated display of impatience,” the Harbinger cringed.

“Godsdammit, fuck me, shit,” Shiv seethed as Adam gagged and coughed. Before he could move to do anything, the Culturist shaped a Dynamancy spell and telekinetically yanked the mud-clump out from Adam’s open mouth.

He then cupped the clump in a hand and slapped Shiv over the back of the head with it–hard enough to trigger Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable. A faint blemish materialized on the back of Shiv’s skull; his platinum-crystal flesh began to harden and expand, transforming into a scab-shell of adaptive armor.

Yeah, I felling deserved that one.

“To answer your question,” the Culturist began, “we have no idea what ailed him.” The orc’s expression darkened, and his core and his mind trembled—the ignorance of his mind further inflaming the tension of his heart. “I reached into Adam’s soul using my connection to his Awareness. I tried to grant him a measure of relief; made an attempt to place him in a meditative state that helped me resist the worst of my withdrawals, but then I brushed against something. Or the act woke something. A notification appeared telling me my Devotion was accepted.”

“Your Devotion?” Shiv asked. “So, what, you worshipped Adam and then this mist spilled out everywhere?”

