“I don’t think it was Adam he worshipped,” Roland whispered, his eyes glistening as he regarded his son with something beyond worry. “Something spoke to us through the mist. Something held us utterly still. Something… something beyond power? I don’t know how to describe it. It was inside Adam. An echo, perhaps, but…” Roland’s clenched his jaw. “Starhawk! Starhawk! I am no longer begging for your presence; I demand it! What is it that festers inside my son! What have you done!”

While Roland raged and the Starhawk remained absent, the Culturist palmed his palm atop Adam’s head once more and let out a low rumble of unease. “The presence is gone now, but we face another matter: I believe Adam is Delving.”

Shiv blinked. “What? How? He was in a coma for—Broken Moon, did all those levels come from his mind getting ripped apart over and over?”

“It shouldn’t be,” Maia said. “He should be well past the point of insanity by now if his Awareness was allowed to expand without end. I created this garden for a reason—to contain how far his Omniscience could spread. The borders I sketched should have been unbreachable.” And Shiv saw how her core held the most fear of all. “Nothing could pass through my borders. Nothing…”

“Regardless, he has descended into a Delve now, and I believe his Awareness, Meditation, and Multitasking are merging into one.” Just as the Culturist finished his diagnosis, two things assailed Shiv at the same time.

The first saw Farwalker Produveral shaking the body Shiv had left with him, trying to have a conversation. They were… Well, Shiv wasn’t sure where they were. The last thing he could recall from the bodies he left in the Fairwoods was the restarting of a loop and his departure through one of the many dimensional gates. Now, they were caught in a sea of extremely unstable dimensional Mana, and Produveral was forcing said static sea to part and tear as he charted a new path, saying something about how the other two needed to take a trip beyond Integrated Earth too.

But he proved the lesser problem as, without warning, twin beams of Eldritch mana erupted upward into the sky not far away from his body in Piety. Shiv felt the Outsider magic before the shifting colors spilled over him, before Uva’s tainting mana caused slithering veins of invasive energy to spread across the Gate. All heads shifted away from Adam once more—Shiv’s included this time. As they stared out of the broken windows, they saw beams of unknowable colors rising like skybound rivers before they splashed into and infected Gate Piety’s Unique mana more.

“Shit,” Shiv gasped. “Uva!”

He didn’t even get a chance to gather his own thoughts before a clusterfuck of new problems hit him all at the same time.

The first thing that made Shiv groan was the notification.

Quest Gained: Stabilize Gate Piety’s mana core to prevent a total Ambient Mana Threshold collapse.

Rewards: The Gate gains 2 Unique-Tier Skills

Failure: The Outside consumes Gate Piety and all beings below a certain Magical Resistance threshold are converted into Outsiders.

“You’re just pouring salt down our asses by this point, System,” Shiv muttered.

Then, all the other problems arrived at once.

“Deathless!” Hymn cried as he stumbled out of a clench of spatial mana just outside the Educator’s garden, putting his sweat-drenched and lipstick-covered blouse on backward for some reason. “You need to come with me, no—”

Another, far more powerful presence blinked into existence behind him in a blast of divine mana. Shiv’s jaw dropped open as what he could only describe as an absurd amalgamation of Uva and what he'd personally always imagined in his head when he teased Adam about attending “Flaming Chicken Academy” manifested before him, wearing an exact replica of Georges’ clothes—which absolutely did not properly accommodate her far larger frame—and with a dazed expression on her face. “Shiv! Hi! Uh, I might have done a fuck! I mean, I might have fucking done a bad! I mean—things got fucked! Don’t know what to do!”

Hymn shuffled in place and gawked at the unfamiliar entity—just as Jessica teleported into the room, carrying a large, gleaming mirror that reflected an extremely unhappy Veronica Chandler on the other side.

“Deathless. If you do not wish for the Yellowstone forces to move and seize your Gate, you can either read and reply to my sync-letters or speak through that body you surrendered to the guard. You have two minutes to give an explanation as to why all of Longinus’ higher faithful are undergoing Eldritch mutations, and I pray that your explanation is enough to keep me from deciding to make my presence known, breaking your soul until there is nothing stopping us from fitting a leash around you, and making you watch as we reduce the rest of that Gate to blood and rubbl—what is that?”

Jessica stiffened as she angled the mirror to face the practically half-naked Uva with flame-colored feathers sprouting from her head and arms. “Oh, hey!” The divine entity smiled at Veronica, the meter-long puff of feathers extending from her head bouncing wildly. “Nice dress, girl. Oh, right, so, I, uh, did a fuck. I mean I fucked up. I need to… un-fuck it. Where is Seeker Uva?”

“Oh,” Hymn breathed. “So you’re what the Dreamtaker evolved into. How… beautiful. How—” The Headmaster frowned. “Wait, that means you’ve infested the Great One too. Oh, no. Oh, no, no, no…”

Just then, the sound of a mana platform locking in place drew Shiv’s attention, and the pattering of desperate feet was followed by the rustling of branches and leaves as Siggy of all people exploded through the shrubbery of the garden, covered in blood and other fluids. “Boss! S-Shiv! Master Arrow! Someone! I need someone! We need someone! We need everyone at the surface district! It’s gone fucked! Everything’s fucked! All the human men are pregnant! All the men at immigrations are pregnant! Some of them are already undergoing contraptions or whatever it is you humans do!”

“But men can’t give birth,” Isabella said, her shell-shocked expression growing by a magnitude.

“Not without changes to their finer biological architecture,” the Culturist specified. “Done via sufficiently advanced technology or a Biomancy spell.”

It was just too much for Shiv to deal with all at once; he wasn’t even overwhelmed anymore; he was just numb. “It’s godsdamned him isn’t it?”

“Most likely,” the Culturist answered without hesitation.

Then, from the outside, a deafening roar shook the entire Gate, causing half the ceiling to collapse outside Maia’s garden. “VALOR THANN! CUR, BUTCHER OF MY LOVE, SLAYER OF MY HEART, BETRAYER OF BROTHERHOOD AND FRIENDSHIP: BEAR YOUR BLADE! I WILL ENDURE THIS GRUDGE NO LONGER! TODAY, ONE OF US WILL DIE, AND THE OTHER WILL BE FREED OF THIS BLOOD DEBT! TODAY, I WILL STRIKE YOU DOWN!”

“I have reconsidered,” Veronica said, her mask of barely fettered rage overwhelmed by a secondhand exhaustion. “I’m ordering the Guard to refrain for now; present yourself in… Is four hours a reasonable allowance of time?”

Shiv just shrugged as a creeping pre-exhaustion washed through him. “No, that’s alright—I’ll be with you in a bit. While I’m dealing with everything else. I’ll just… fix everything at the same time.”

Veronica’s stern expression cracked into something nearing sympathy. “That’s not necessary—”

“No. I already wanna kill myself, so I might as well take all these swords up my ass at the same time and die.”

“Look, I’m planning to read those books,” Jessica mumbled behind the massive mirror she was holding. “I just—I just didn’t think it was a problem before, okay?”

Though Shiv’s body was now nigh-unbreakable, his willpower ached as if it had been ground down to dust and bombed again for good measure. He turned to Adam, his heart imbued now with jealousy rather than worry. “You have no idea how lucky you are, you piece of shit. No idea. I should have Delved longer.” He let out a breath—and found a hand reaching down for him.

Shiv lifted his head and looked up at Roland, who curled his fingers, beckoning Shiv to accept his grasp and rise. And the Town Lord looked different. His gaze was hardened. His expression was neutral. The father he was and the human weaknesses that assailed him retreated as the Dread Horizon took charge. “Get up, Deathless. The System has cast down the gauntlet. We win where we can. We save who we can. We do what we can. The time for kneeling is later; we solve the problems right now. Starting with the Quest.”

Shiv locked eyes with Roland, and gleaned a measure of judgment in his gaze.

“He’s taking our measure as well,” the Harbinger noted. “He wants to see our worth in all conflicts. Not just combat.”

Shiv began his showing by gasping Roland’s arm—for his hand alone was too small—and rising to tower over the man. “Starting with the Quest. Alright. Uh.” Shiv rubbed his head. “You know what: I’m going to skip ahead and do the stupid thing to see if that buys us some time.”

“The stupid thing?” Roland asked.

“Yeah, I’m going place one of my bodies in front of whatever is casting those eldritch beams into the sky—”

“That would be Seeker Uva,” Hymn answered.

“I know, godsdammit,” Shiv fumed. As if he didn’t have enough worries right now, he had to deal with Hymn’s emotionally illiterate ass. “I’m trying to build some barriers here so I can concentrate on the problem instead of worrying about her all the time.”

Hymn opened his mouth to reply something, but ultimately just settled on, “Ah.”

“You’ll buy me time and insight using raw power and death, and I’ll try to solve the problem at its root in the meantime?” Roland asked.

“Something like that,” Shiv said. “There’s always a chance that we run into some weirder bullshit and have to pull something out of our asses.”

“Closer to a certainty,” Roland agreed. But a hesitancy took hold in him. He narrowed his eyes at the Culturist, and then shot a glance at his son once more.

Shiv knew what troubled Roland in an instant—and that sparked a moment of inspiration within him. “Wait. I got an idea: Let’s go over the order of things before I do the stupid brute thing and discover if my new Toughness Evolution can handle all that Eldritch goop. Adam needs Valor, and I might need Marikos if I can’t block the mana pouring out from Uva alone—I’ll go snatch the Dragon-Knights; you try and—”

“No need; I am here,” Valor said from right beside him.

Shiv, Roland, and Jessica all flinched—barely restraining themselves from instinctive violence.

“One of these days, you’re going to find yourself half a head shorter, lich,” Jessica growled.

“It will still be wise to intercept Marikos before his anger unravels into a fit of truly destructive rage,” Valor began, ignoring her. He cast his gaze at Adam and let out a sigh. “One Delve after another. Madness. Absolute madness. To think that I thought my favor comparable or even greater to yours—any of yours. My struggle was but a candle. Perhaps not even that.” Valor’s hands were not idle as he griped—he projected a flow of Animancy directly into Adam and began sculpting spell-shapes of fine and immense detail at an absurd pace.

I can’t even follow what he’s doing, even with Legion of Self and Inertial Overdrive, Shiv realized.

“Our limitation remains a bottleneck of knowledge, not one of raw capability.” The Harbinger considered that, and a foul emotion boiled inside Shiv. “Increasingly, I wonder if that is by design. It might be more than just our deathlessness that causes strife to explode around us wherever we go. We can evolve Tarrasque Skills. The Endhounds are meant to pacify worlds, according to the Farwalker. If the System is unable to determine if we are human or Tarrasque, then…”

“Valor!” Marikos bellowed again. “You will not escape me! Come back here, coward! Come back and see this grudge given a right end!”

Shiv shook off his suspicions and prepared to jump across time again. “Alright. Roland—go for Uva first; see what you can do but don’t get blasted. I’m going to get Marikos to make sure he doesn’t vaporize the entire Gate, and maybe use him as an additional blockade.”

“Will the two of you be enough?” Roland asked, sounding dubious.

“Marikos shrugged off hits from the Tarrasque; I got an Eldritch thing all my own. Yeah. I think the two of us have decent odds. Maybe.”

The Dread Horizon questioned Shiv no longer. “Then make haste. Legend Valor—”

“Do not worry,” Valor said absently. His complete focus was devoted to Adam. “I have seen to the successful evolution of one disciple. This will just be another.”

Roland grunted—but his heart still quivered with reluctance.

“Wait,” Jessica called out, peeking out from behind the mirror. “What do you need me to do?”

Rose, Roland, and Shiv blinked at her.

“This isn’t some kind of plan to stab Roland in the back, is it?” Rose asked, squinting. “Because if it is—”

“No, you paranoid bitch—and when do I stab people in the back?”

“You stab people in the back all the time, you goblin-fuck,” Rose snapped. “I saw how you cut down—”

“I was being felling figurative! If I was going to try and kill Roland, I would just go for him.”

