“Ekkihurst and Helix,” Shiv said. “Find them. Get them to the surface district. And if you find another orc somewhere in the Gate, kill him. Kill him slow and nasty. Male Pregnancy… Now of all times… So tired of all this shit. Hymn! Go with Roland too. And bring… bring…” Shiv couldn’t even get himself to look at the Divinity-radiating thing currently violently shaking a branch of the tree next to Adam's bed for seemingly no reason. Gods, just looking at her is giving me mind damage. I need to get the hells out of here.

And then Shiv flung himself across time once more, his Harbinger reverting him back across his personal history to arrive over the Abyssal gateway as he left an imprint of gold in his wake. “Alright, Atlas, let’s see where—oh, right, never mind.” He located Marikos immediately. Not sure why I assumed I wouldn't just be able to see a gigantic dragon. Must be the mind damage.

The gigantic dragon in question was currently projecting an eruption of blazing mana out from his wings, blanketing an entire section of the Gate and choking the skies with Shiv-sized fireballs. “Godsdammit, Marikos, you don’t give a shit about collateral damage at all, do you?”

A disturbing realization occurred to Shiv. Wait, is he basically me if I never managed to develop out of my early sloppiness? He shuddered as he remembered everyone who died during his fight with 811 and imagined that collateral damage scaling with every increase of power he'd gained. Okay, no time for this. Figure out his psychological problems later, Shiv. Get him to stop trying to burn everything down first.

Roland and Shiv shot up into the air, and to his surprise, he found the other Descenders trying to talk Marikos down.

“Sir Marikos, that’s enough!” Tall Ben cried, his necks stretching hundreds of meters up into the air as he tried to catch and drag his fellow knight down. “You are ne’ar over that line of hospitality! Remember your oaths! You're shamin’ yourself. You're shamin’ us! You’re shamin’ the Union!”

But Marikos’ wrath far surpassed his reason, and he battered his comrade aside, striking Tall Ben’s heads with his shield. Thankfully, Tall Ben stopped himself from swinging violently in any direction, sparing the architecture and people below from harm.

A good thing too, since the temporary settlements for the Blackedge refugees were nearby.

“Sir Marikos!” Tallowine called. She was the size of a kitten next to Marikos, and her voice held a quiver, but she was drawing her greatbow nonetheless. She had a psy-arrow nocked in place and in line with the unruly Dragon-Knight that seemed more like a flying volcano than a creature of flesh and blood. As his flames grew brighter, his scales darkened until they were devoid of color, just slabs of purest black behind a full set of heavy armor. “Sir Marikos, if you do not master yourself, we will have to ensure our honor is retained and the laws of hospitality are upheld!”

And it wasn’t just her; the Descender Scribes radiated with fatalistic sorrow, but they shaped spells all the same, preparing to strike one of their own down.

“Go charm him, Deathless!” Yellowbelly called from somewhere behind Shiv. The Dragon-Brokers were still sipping tea nonchalantly, unwilling to uproot themselves from their treasure hoards. Shiv regarded them briefly and noted how their empathic cores were bright with amusement and interest.

Didn’t know why I expected heroism from crime lords, Shiv thought.

“Sir Marikos, please!” Tallowine called out again.

“Let me speak to him,” Shiv declared telepathically, arriving on scene. He hovered just past Tallowine, slowly sliding himself alongside the aerial formation the Descender Lance held so as not to make them think he was approaching with the intent to perform violence.

As Tallowine and the Scribes sensed Shiv’s presence, a terrible shame came over them, and they struggled not to bow their heads or avert their eyes. Valor had said something about the Dragon-Knights being extreme in their commitment to traditions, and well, hospitality was practically a universal law for most cultures and civilizations across Integrated Earth, and Marikos had more than broken a few fundamental taboos with this rampage of his.

“Deathless,” Tall Ben called out with another head from below. He extended his neck until he was keeping pace with Shiv, and briefed him on the situation. Compared to the rest of the knights, he was far calmer—and carried no shame. Instead, his mind and heart churned with interest as he waited to see what Shiv would do. “We apologize for this great and terrible humiliation we brought. Sir-Legend Marikos encountered an old rival, he did. Valor Thann. A terrible deed scarred their past, and—”

“I know,” Shiv interrupted gently. He regarded Marikos, who was swinging his mace and shield around, howling for Valor to show himself or see this place burned. To Shiv’s growing fascination, it seemed Marikos’ rage was more than just a personality defect—it was also Skill-empowered. His emotional and intellectual bluntness were drastically exaggerated, even compared to how they were before.

Shiv’s instincts took hold.

“Logic and reasoning will be wasted on him,” the Harbinger declared.

Yeah. He’s pretty much deaf to his comrades, so I doubt he’s going to give much of a shit about us if we come in trying to tell him to calm down. Shiv frowned. He doesn’t want to calm down; he wants to kill Valor—that’s the only thing he wants. And judging from the turbulence in his mind, it’s the only thing he can think about. But we can use that.

“Yes. In his current state, and knowing what he wants, he might just be immensely easy to emotionally manipulate. And maybe he can be distracted from his mental breakdown by holding back that torrent of Eldritch mana.”

“Alright: I’m going lie to Marikos,” Shiv said honestly to the Dragon-Knights so they didn’t misunderstand his actions and this didn’t become an issue later.

“Lie to him?” One of the Scribes muttered, confused.

“Yeah, I need to give him a bit of emotional bait to distract him from whatever this is. Just wanted you all to know that: I’m not using my Social Skills on him for something nefarious. But I am going to need him to come with me and help block that mana beam over there before it fully infects the core and causes this Gate to get swallowed by the Outside.”

“What?” Tallowine whimpered.

And at that moment, the first forking tendrils representing Uva’s mana came creeping forward, fracturing the clouds in the sky.

Shiv sighed. “Weird story, I'll explain everything later. Anyway, I’ll forgive your breach in hospitality if you’ll forgive this deceit and try to help me keep this Gate alive.”

And before any of them could fully grant him permission, Shiv pointed his tides up and rose to greet Marikos.

There were four hundred meters between them. The air undulated with mirages caused by searing heat, and Marikos swept his right wing wildly. A solid wall of flame gushed toward Shiv and slammed into him like an avalanche. He didn’t even bother sacrificing Shapeless Tides to resist; he let his Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable serve as a bulwark instead.

Pyromancy once hot enough to melt through a mountain and disintegrate Shiv outright from kilometers away simply splashed apart against his now Legendary resilience like warm water. However, Marikos’ flames never seemed to go out; the heat clung to Shiv, and continued to feed and build, even as he tried to extinguish the flames.

“Huh,” Shiv hummed. “Guess that’s part of his Pyromancy.”

“Deathless!” Tall Ben cried, sounding slightly concerned. “You alright? You’re burnin’ pretty good.”

Shiv gave a thumbs up without bothering to turn. “Doing fine. Just give me a second.” Though he couldn’t put the flames out the direct way, Shiv decided to fight fire with fire, and summoned his scintillating flame to eat away at Marikos’ Pyromancy—and immediately felt the intensity of the gnawing flames weaken, if not die down.

“Marikos!” Shiv bellowed, making full use of his Legendary vocal cords. “I need your help! I need you to help me stop Valor!”

The maddened Dragon-Knight was mid-swing when he froze. “VALOR!”

Holy shit, that’s the only word he’s going to respond to, isn’t it?

“Yes!” Shiv shouted. “Valor! Come with me! He’s over there! But we can only get to him if we stop those beams!”

“Beams?” Marikos asked, confused. And then he turned, seeing the twin streams of Eldritch mana in an instant. “Ah! There! With me, knights! Semper fidelis! VALOR! YOUR LIFE IS MINE!”

And with an aftershock of pure destruction, Marikos tore across the air and accelerated toward the twin streams of eldritch mana at a speed Shiv couldn’t hope to match. The wave of fire and force he left in his wake fell straight down like a guillotine, threatening to smash down upon the other Dragon-Knights and cleave into the refugee settlement.

Shiv scoffed. “Marikos, you sloppy—” He intercepted the blow with his Last Morsel. Its edge came aglow with Vitae as he cleaved into the blast-wave’s direction vector and inverted its path by spending a minor fraction of his tides. His Return to Sender Skill activated; the fires unleashed by Marikos painted burn-scars on Shiv’s unbreakable shell, but never got anywhere close to harming him. In fact, he didn’t even suffer any more damage-debt from the fires as his Scarforged Toughness adapted.

“Yeah, I think I’m gonna love this skill.” Shiv chuckled as he tore off after Marikos. “I think I’ll miss getting injured, though. Ah, well, there’s always ripping myself apart with Biomancy.”

Return to Sender 162 > 165

***

“Did he just… let Marikos burn him?” Tallowine asked, her voice choked with disbelief. The Deathless was a fading comet now, chasing after Marikos as they both went to block off the spires of Eldritch mana infesting the Gate’s mana core in the far distance. “I didn’t see his Magical Resistance trigger. The flames washed through him—broke against him. No one can endure Sir Marikos’ flames without wounds. No one but the Semper Paragon.”

“But the boy did,” Tall Ben called out from below. “If that’s a boy at all. Sir Tallowine, my eyes might be blurred and my mind real slow somedays, but I do think that shell around him is the kind a Tarrasque might grow.”

“A Tarrasque Skill?” Legend-Scribe Juvens sputtered. “I-impossible. He’s human! Only human!”

Tall Ben’s many heads all scoffed at one. “Nay. Deathless might be a boy in truth—but I think the human bit’s just a look. Them flames didn’t even sting ‘em. Didn’t use his Magical Resistance at all. But that’s not the part that got me worryin’; that is how he’s just showing all that to us—not even bothering to keep the fact that he got two Legendary Skills and more than a few Uniques a secret. Not afraid. Not even a little.”

A shudder went through Tallowine as she let her bowstring go slack. She'd thought this diplomatic expedition to be a duty born of burden; to wipe away her shame of surviving where her last Lance perished in noble sacrifice. But instead of boredom and politics, she found herself in a Gate consumed by crisis, having her honor preserved by the so-called Deathless as he mastered the mercurial Marikos in a way she didn’t believe was possible.

“Well. Nothin’ for it,” Tall Ben said as he began to move. “Come, fellow Sirs. Come. Let’s go about seeing how we can make our hands and heads less idle to repay the dignity our host has provided. Semper fidelis.”

“Semper fidelis,” Tallowine and the other Knights repeated. Yet, as she saw the Deathless and Marikos place themselves in front of the surging pillars of impossible colors, watching how both Marikos and the Deathless endured, causing the magic to splash around them, a shiver slid down her spine.

She was a Dragon-Knight—the Deathless was smaller than her hand; little more than a larger insect when it came to size. But just from observing his prowess alone, she could tell the opposite was true.

Compared to what she sensed in him, she didn’t feel like much of a Legend at all.
