Aaliyah’s Point of View:

That wasn’t exactly how I thought that conversation would go, I think to myself.

I'm almost back to the village, but I'm still puzzled over why Giovanni didn't sound happier after his man agreed with me that Grey was probably already dead. If anything, he just sounded out of it. And I certainly didn’t expect our conversation to switch towards the order I promised Grey.

I’m all for talking business, especially since I could use some more kaglese, but I was expecting to be grilled on why I thought Grey was dead, not asked how my work was going.

It might have just been me, but it almost felt like Giovanni was disappointed I killed Grey. Well, I helped kill him if Giovanni's bodyguard was correct. That's probably it; Giovanni wanted his own revenge for what Grey did to his people only to find out he's already dead. To Giovanni, it might feel like he was denied closure.

I can't help but let out a small sigh. I might feel bad for Giovanni, but I won't feel bad about killing Grey; he was a conniving monster, and now that he's dead, my family and I are a lot safer.

I won’t let Giovanni’s response ruin my day. Yesterday was very productive, and I want to keep the ball rolling. Up ahead, I see a break in the trees.

After last night, I feel like I've learned a lot about my skills and overcame some of my fear I have towards my tier 6 skill. I'll still have to be incredibly careful when using it, but like all power, it's how you use it that matters.

Walking out of the forest and seeing my house, I stop and close my eyes, letting the spring sunshine wash over me. The weather is simply perfect. A slight breeze catches my hair, and I take a moment to appreciate the serenity of the moment.

"You're back." And like that, Tabitha's approaching voice pulls me out of my little piece of heaven. Opening my eyes, I see Tabitha strolling over to me, wearing her usual armor. "I didn't see you running with your mom.”

The way Tabitha can say that with a blank stare really throws me off. Is she trying to accuse me of running away? Is she trying to make small talk? I just don't know. The only time I can accurately read Tabitha is when we're sparring or when she's asking me to spar.

“I had something else to take care of,” I simply tell her. Tabitha doesn’t physically react to my answer, choosing to keep the blank look on her face. “Aren’t you a little early to be looking for me?” I ask in an accusing voice. I left the house earlier than usual this morning to contact Giovanni as soon as possible. Mom is probably still doing her laps around the village, meaning Tabitha shouldn’t be showing up at my house for at least another twenty minutes or so.

"I asked your mom where you were, and she told me you took a trip into the forest again."

Damn it, Mom, you couldn't have covered for me! I bet she told Tabitha where I was at just to mess with me. I've explained to Mom and Dad a dozen times about how clingy Tabitha is and how much it annoys me. I bet Mom is laughing herself silly right now.

“So, you decided to wait for me,” I interpret Tabitha’s answer.

Tabitha nods, confirming my suspicions, before looking me over. She grins, seeing that I'm already in my armor, but her eyes narrow judgingly when her gaze falls to the scimitar strapped to my side.

“I know, I know,” I step in before she can say anything. “I’m just wearing it because it’s easier to move through the forest with a sword rather than a big ass hammer.”

“You should still be bringing your hammer with you,” Tabitha berates me, finally showing some emotion. “You won’t get any better without practicing with it.”

I want to roll my eyes, but I know she's right. It's just so difficult lugging my hammer around everywhere. I can take my war hammer to work with me because I can set it down after arriving, but when I’m constantly on the move, there’s no way. It would be best if I could figure out a way to secure my hammer to my back, but any strap I attach to it would get in the way during practice, or gods forbid a battle.

Anime and games always made it look so easy to carry weapons on your back, but drawing from that position is tricky, and that's without armor on. I need to come up with an easier way to carry my war hammer without it inconveniencing me—just something else I'll need to work on.

“Give me a minute to run into my house and switch out my gear,” I tell Tabitha, walking past her towards my front door.

I move inside and drop off my sword, stashing the communication magic tool under the loose floorboard directly underneath my bed. It's not the most original hiding place, but thieves aren't exactly a problem in a village as small as this. Everyone knows each other, and it's hard to pass off something as yours when everyone clearly knows it isn't.

Even though it doesn't take long to drop off my stuff and grab my hammer, I take my time moving around the house. Tabitha is early, so it isn't my problem if she waits for a bit. A trained soldier like Tabitha could probably stand in place for hours if she had to. Besides, I’m mostly just trying to kill some time until Sandra arrives. She should be here soon if she’s as excited as I am to check on the engraving ink.

After getting a drink of water and filling up my waterskin, I decide I’ve kept Tabitha waiting long enough. Hoisting my war hammer onto my shoulder, I open the front door.

And just as I expected, as soon as I step outside my house, I come face to face with a patiently waiting Tabitha. Sandra isn't here yet, but I suppose we can walk towards her house and meet her there. I start walking, and Tabitha silently follows next to me.

I expected us to run into Sandra on the way to her house, but there is no sign of her even as we approach her home. Is she staying home today?

I knock on the solid wooden door three times until I hear Sandra's voice come from the other side, "One moment!" A minute later, Sandra answers the door with disheveled clothes and hair. "Oh, Aaliyah! Are you done with your morning run already?" Sandra leans out the door and looks at the position of the sun.

"I had something else to do this morning, and I finished early," I explain to my friend. "What's with your new look?" I poke fun at her appearance. It looks like she threw her clothes on in a hurry.

“Just getting ready,” Sandra hurriedly tells me before trying to straighten out her clothes.

Glancing behind Sandra, I see Brother resting against their kitchen table without a shirt on with equally messy hair matching Sandra's.

I stare at Richard for a full minute before it finally clicks what they were doing. I start awkwardly coughing up a lung as my face turns bright red. “I’m sorry for interrupting you,” I squeak to Sandra.

Sandra realizes what I’m referring to and starts to turn red as well. “We live together, we’re allowed to...”

Sandra starts to justify herself like they were doing something wrong, but it only makes the situation more awkward. "I don't need an explanation," I quickly interrupt Sandra before she scars me for life. I already had to block out moments from when I was a baby involving my parents; I'd rather not add to that by discussing what my Brother and best friend do in their spare time. "Don't you have work?" I cast an accusing glare at Richard, who's chucking at our antics.

“I’m taking the day off,” Richard matter-of-factly tells me. "Sandra and I have been busy since we came back to the village, and I thought we could spend the day together,” he says, with a widening grin.

“Oh… that sounds… nice,” I awkwardly reply. Coughing into my hand, I try to regain my composure. “Does that mean you don’t want to check on the engraving ink with me?” I ask Sandra.

“I still want to check on the engraving ink with you,” Sandra reassures me. “I just wasn’t planning to stay and watch Tabitha beat you up again.”

"What a friend," I say sarcastically.

“And don’t you forget it,” Sandra winks at me. “Give us a few minutes to properly get ready.”

“Sure, sure,” I wave her off. ‘Take your time, please.”

Sandra walks to her bedroom, followed by Richard. But before he turns the corner, Richard sends me one last cocky grin.

He better not think I won’t get him back for this.

**********

Tabitha and I wait outside for ten minutes before Sandra and Richard come out in each other’s arms. The two of them stay glued to each other the whole way to Master's clearing. Sandra and Richard are so sickeningly sweet together that I think I'm starting to get a stomach ache. I wonder if Tabitha will accept that as an excuse if I tell her I don’t want to practice today? Probably not.

No, I’m not going to try and get out of our sparring session today; I'm actually looking forward to it. Last night, after thinking about it, I decided I would wait to distribute my status points until we’re sparring; that way, I might surprise Tabitha and finally score a good hit on her.

“Morning, Master,” I call out as our group walks into the clearing.

"Morning," he responds without looking at us; he's too busy putting on his armor to notice the extra person in our group.

“I take it this means you’re actually going to spar with Tabitha,” I remark as we near Master.

“Stone kin don’t go back on their word,” Master huffs as he puts on his helmet.

I briefly consider pointing out to Master that he didn’t actually agree to fight Tabitha yesterday, buuuut…

If I did that, I wouldn’t have someone to distract Tabitha later.

So, Master.

For the good of everyone.

Sacrifice yourself.

I offer a quick prayer for Master’s wellbeing.

“There’s one more of you,” Master remarks when he turns and sees Brother standing next to Sandra.

"Sandra and I are just stopping by," Brother offers Master a polite smile.

"Is that so?" Master doesn't sound interested in Richard's explanation.

"Let's get going," Tabitha steps forward with her battle-hungry expression. Seeing Master in his armor must have pushed her over the edge. All of us sigh together as Tabitha starts walking towards the quarry. Whether I manage to surprise Tabitha with my new Strength or not, I have a feeling today's sparring session is going to be more intense than the others.

It doesn’t take long for us to walk to the quarry. And as soon as we arrive, Tabitha happily hops into the pit, brandishing her shield and sword. "Who wants to go first?" She shouts up to us.

This woman.

"We're not starting yet," I groan in annoyance. She heard us talking about the engraving ink; hell, she even gave us advice. If she’s playing with us, she’s doing a damn good job at it.

Tabitha frowns in disappointment as Sandra and I make our way down into the quarry. The two of us ignore her sour expression and walk straight into the mine. We leave Richard behind with Master and Tabitha, he’s never been to an area as magical dense as the bottom of the mine before, and there wasn’t really a reason for him to chance getting mana poisoning on his one day off.

“You’re going to regret that later,” Sandra smirks at me after conjuring a ball of light.

“I’m well aware,” I suppress a shiver from running up my spine. If I anger Tabitha any more than I already have, she might increase the difficulty of our sparring session right off the bat, and a few status points won’t make up for that. I need her to underestimate me up until I’m ready to strike.

Sandra continues to poke fun at me until we reach the deepest part of the mine.

“So, what’s there mana level at now?” Sandra asks me as I pick up and examine the bottle of engraving ink that holds our first batch.

“800.24,” I tell her.

“Is that good?” Sandra cocks her head to the side.

"We'll have to do some math. The solution started with 157.38 mana; it then gained .13 mana two hours after we made it. I pumped 627 mana into the solution to bring it up to 784.51. If we subtract the 784.51 from the 800.24, we arrive at 15.73 mana gained since we left the engraving ink down here. The engraving ink has been charging here for almost eleven hours, meaning the solution absorbed 1.43 mana an hour."

“Doesn’t that mean the engraving ink absorbed mana twenty-two times faster down here?!” Sandra exclaims.

"Yep," I feel a smile creeping across my face. It would be nicer if the absorption rate were higher, but it's still leagues better than what it was outside the mine. But I still need to see how much total mana the ink needs to absorb.

Sandra remains quiet while I use Inject Mana on the engraving ink. I start slow and slowly build up the amount of mana I force into the solution.

I need to be cautious with my mana; unlike yesterday, I need my mana to train with Tabitha. If I try sparring with her without Mana Skin activated, I’ll get the shit beat out of me in no time at all.

10 mana, 25 mana, 45, 70, I slowly channel my mana until I feel the engraving ink stop willingly absorb it.

“Another 122.39 mana," I inform Sandra. At least it wasn't too much. "There might be a slight difference in the amount of mana each batch of engraving ink needs, but it should be around 922 mana. If we subtract the mana the ink started with, that leaves us with 765.25 mana the ink needed to absorb."

I do some long division in my head and tell Sandra my results. "If we left the engraving ink outside, it would take 490.5 days for the ink to mature, but here in the mine, it only takes 22.3 days.”

“That’s amazing,” Sandra jumps with joy. If it takes less than a month for the engraving ink to mature down here, she won’t need to worry about it after I leave.

