She's right; this is good news. I hold up the bottle of charged engraving ink to better see its contents under Sandra's light spell. The purple in the mixture has become much more dominant than the black, and if you look closely enough, you can see flashes of silver light glinting inside.

I want nothing more than to run out of this mine and try enchanting something, but I can't let myself get caught up in the hype of success. If I do, I'll spend all my time enchanting, and my smithing and sparring will suffer.

I can practice with the ink on my next day off, but I should wait until next week before really trying to enchant anything. The day we would've spent continuing our research will turn into our enchanting day. I'm sure Sandra will want to watch everything I do and take notes for when she tries herself. In a few weeks, Kervin should return to the village, and Sandra can order the materials Master needs to make her an engraving pen.

Then again, Sandra did mention she’s close to figuring out Inject Mana. If she can unlock that skill, she’ll be able to use my engraving pen even though it doesn’t have the runes usually required to work.

“Twenty-two days isn’t that long to wait,” Sandra continues to dance with joy. “With this, the engraving ink is officially done!” Sandra skips across the rocky cavern and pulls me into a celebratory hug.

After months of testing and dozens of failures, we’re finally finished. Looking back, it almost feels like a miracle that we made it this far. I’m tempted to ask Giovanni who he got the instructions from because whoever they were, they certainly left out a lot of crucial details. If it weren't for my background in working with magic metals or my overpowered Sense Mana skill, the first few steps would've taken us years to decipher.

Then there were the fourth and fifth steps, both of which couldn't have been completed if you didn't have prior knowledge of making engraving ink. This must be how alchemists have kept their trade from being practiced by any fool who manages to get their hands on a recipe.

How could an average person possibly tell when the engraving ink has absorbed enough mana? If someone didn't know the engraving ink needed to cure in a high mana environment, it would take a little over sixteen months for the ink to mature in normal conditions.

I also find it funny how you need enchantments to craft engraving ink and use it properly. You need a mana gathering array to cure the ink because not everyone has a magicite mine to throw their problems in. Then an average mage needs their engraving pen enchanted before they can enchant other things. It's a complicated system that requires someone who already knows what they're doing.

The fact that Sandra and I completed what we have is nothing short of amazing. Wrapping my arms around Sandra, I return her hug. We stay like that for a minute, enjoying our success.

But we can’t stay down here all day, and all this jumping around is draining Sandra’s Stamina. When we separate, Sandra has to stop and catch her breath from all the excitement.

I patiently wait for my friend to recover before we make our way out of the mine.

"So, you're not sticking around?" I ask Sandra as we walk out of the mine and into the quarry.

"Sorry, but I'm looking forward to spending the day with Richard."

I fake a gagging noise, making Sandra chuckle.

“Jealous, she wants to hang out with me instead?” Richard confidently strolls up to us before leaning in and locking lips with Sandra.

“Now I really am going to barf,” I turn away from the passionate couple. “Can’t you guys do that somewhere else?”

“That’s the plan,” Richard tells me when he pulls back for air.

I roll my eyes at Brother and turn to Sandra. "Can you drop this off on the workbench on your way to the village?" I ask, holding out the bottle of engraving ink.

“Sure, not a problem,” Sandra takes the glass bottle with a smile. Richard scoots up next to her and wraps his arm around Sandra’s waist. Wrapped around one another, the couple makes their way towards the ramp leading out of the quarry.

“I’m surprised you don’t want to stay and watch me get my butt kicked,” I shout at Richard’s retreating figure.

"Sandra's told me all about it," he yells over his shoulder. "Let me know when you can actually put up a fight, so I can come and root for Tabitha." Even though I can only see the side of Richard's face, I can tell he's grinning ear to ear.

I want to shout something witty in response, but Tabitha chooses this time to step forward. "Ready to start!?" The crazed look in her eye suggests the answer 'no' wasn’t an option. "I've been waiting patiently."

I glance over at an exasperated Master, who's sending angry looks at Tabitha. Waiting patiently, my ass, I bet she was hounding Master for a quick spar the whole time we were gone. But considering Master's armor isn't dented, it looks like he refused her request.

It’s no wonder she looks ready to pounce at me.

I grit my teeth; I don't want to jump straight into fighting. "Ok, I'm ready. But could we start with the Dancing practice first?"

Tabitha starts to grin in excitement, but her smile catches when she hears I want to start off slow. She looks disappointed for a moment before she gets a resigned look on her face. “I suppose that’s ok.”

Tabitha and I set aside our weapons and square off two feet away from each other. Out of the corner of my eye, I watch Sandra and Richard disappear from sight. I was hoping Sandra would be here when I try and catch Tabitha off guard, but I can’t fault her for wanting to spend time with Richard. That’s what Richard is for.

"Ready," Tabitha shouts. That's her way of telling me to prepare myself.

Oh well, I guess if Sandra isn’t here, I don’t have to worry about her making fun of me should I fail. “Ready,” I echo.

Tabitha steps forward with her right foot at the same time I step back with my left.

While it’s Tabitha’s goal to position herself to trip me, it’s my job to mirror her movements. As long as I can directly match her movements, I’ll remain upright. If I don’t… well, it isn’t like I haven’t fallen a hundred times already.

That said, it's more complicated than it sounds.

If a random person started watching us right now, they would probably wouldn't call what we're doing dancing. They'd most likely call it a game of cat and mouse, with Tabitha chasing after me while I dodge her feet. But not me.

The only reason our movements look like Tabitha is chasing me down is that I've yet to reach her level of skill. If I could move better and try to trip Tabitha in return, our training would look a lot more like dancing.

But sadly, I'm not at Tabitha's level yet.

Sure, I dodge Tabitha’s first few leg sweeps, but the woman is relentless. She keeps the pressure up until I make a mistake and land on my ass.

Three minutes and twenty-seven seconds, not a bad starting point for the day. Tabitha always starts strong, and it takes me a bit to get ahold of her rhythm. It's one of the reasons I prefer to start with dancing.

Hopping to my feet, I get back into position.

Part of me wants to distribute my points now, but I know I only have one chance to surprise her, and I can’t waste it on this.

So, I endure; that's what I do.

Get up.

Dodge.

Get knocked on my ass.

Repeat.

Tabitha and I do this for two grueling hours before she calls out for us to stop. "I think that's enough of a warmup." Tabitha wipes a single bead of sweat away from her cheek while I'm panting like a dog and rubbing my sore hind corners. “Time for the real fun!”

I have to keep myself from groaning. Just remember, it will all be worth it later.

Tabitha picks up her shield and draws her sword while I'm a little bit slower in grabbing my hammer. Once we both have our weapons, we take up similar positions to when we're dancing, but this time there's fifteen feet between us. You would think that's a reasonable distance to start from, but people at our level can move fifteen feet in a split second.

There's a tense moment where the two of us are staring each other down. I roll my shoulders, adjust my grip on my weapon, and double-check Mana Skin, all without taking my eyes off Tabitha.

Unlike the dancing, Tabitha won't say when we're starting. She's stricter when we're using weapons and less forgiving. “That’s how it is on the battlefield,” she always says.

I, of course, could rush forward to start us off, but I gave up that strategy after our second sparring session. Charging Tabitha in the beginning never works.

No, I wait for Tabitha to make the first move. And like a beast watching an injured animal, it doesn’t take long for Tabitha to pounce.

Her feet glide across the ground, and in a second, she's right in front of me. Tabitha slashes at me with her sword, but I'm not as weak as I once was. Only using Double Step, I manage to move out of the way of her sword's trajectory. I used to have to use Flash step to dodge Tabitha’s strikes , but now I can radially do it with only using Double Step.

Using Mana Threads, I switch my grip on my hammer and anchor myself in place. I swing with all my might, aiming for Tabitha’s shield.

Tabitha smiles at my counterstrike, happy as can be. She adjusts her arm a fraction of an inch, just enough so that my hammer won't find much purchase on her shield. Tabitha still needs to step back when my weapon collides with her shield, but that's it; I can't send her flying unless I score a direct hit.

Instead of pushing forward with another attack, I take the opportunity to jump back and regain some distance.

I don’t like taking such a passive approach to fighting, but it’s the only way I can deal with Tabitha. She’s just too good at counterattacking. Every time I initiate an attack, it always ends with me getting my armor cut to ribbons.

Tabitha switches her stance and once again presses the attack.

A slash from the left, step back with my right foot.

She swings from the right; I step back to the left.

Compared to the first time I fought Tabitha, the difference in my movements is almost like night and day. Should I distribute my points now?

As soon as that thought crosses my mind, I lose focus for a split second, and Tabitha gets me with a horizontal slash.

That was a stupid mistake; I berate myself as I activate Flash Step to gain some distance. If I don't immediately put some distance between us, Tabitha will undoubtedly score a few more hits. As if to prove my point, Tabitha's sword arcs through the air, slicing where I was a moment ago.

“You’re getting better,” Tabitha grins at me. “We’re going to have so much fun.”

Now, while she’s distracted!

I mentally pull up my status page and quickly distribute my status points. Two points go into Vitality, bringing it up to 245. Three points go into Strength, raising it to 155. Then I pour the last five points into Dexterity, also bringing it to 155.

A warmth washes over my body, chasing away my fatigue as my soul erupts in vibrant colors. It's been a while since I've last leveled; I forgot how good it feels. The feeling of getting stronger!

Using Flash Step again, I attack before Tabitha has a chance to notice the change in my stats.

Her eyes widen in surprise as I cover the distance between us faster than usual. Raising my hammer over my head, I aim for Tabitha’s head.

I’m under no delusions that I could actually hurt her, but I’ll try.

As I'm bringing my hammer down, I see a manic smile form on Tabitha's face that sends a shiver down my spine. Her feet blur underneath her as they instantly take up a defensive stance.

Tabitha raises her shield in front of her as if intending to take my strike head-on.

Without hesitation, I active Weighted Strike to add even more force behind my swing. No holding back now!

Time feels as if it’s slowing down as my hammer slams into Tabitha’s shield. That’s it, a clean hit!

Tabitha tries to reduce the force of my blow by taking a step back, but I won’t let that happen. By stepping further into my strike, I keep the pressure on Tabitha. “I’m not letting you shrug this off!” I madly shout.

Tabitha just grins behind her shield, “Fine then.”

Just then, Tabitha does something unexpected. She lets her stance crumble, choosing to let her shield bear the full force of my attack.

Tabitha is sent rolling across the quarry floor before springing up without a single injury to show for my attack. "That attack had some oomph behind it," Tabitha remarks as she shakes out her shield arm. "You leveled up, didn't you?"

Damn, it only took her a moment to figure out why I was stronger.

“Then this must be your new level of strength,” Tabitha looks me over with a discerning eye. "That's good, very good," she starts walking towards me. "The more you level, the harder I can push you."

Of course, she would be happy that I’m stronger.

“Let’s see what your new limits are,” Tabitha maniacally smiles at me.

Oh, fuck!

Tabitha disappears from my sight.

It's only thanks to Sense Mana that I know she just flash-stepped behind me to the left, right out of my peripheral vision.

I immediately try to use my own Flash Step to escape, but as soon as I switch spots, I sense that Tabitha has followed me, maintaining the exact same position.

I can't keep using Flash Step like this, or I'll burn out my Stamina. Double Step helps me turn in place just in time to raise my war hammer in defense, but this time Tabitha isn't holding back. She slashes at me three times in quick succession, of which I only block the first one. The other two cuts smoothly slice through Mana Skin and my chest piece before drawing blood underneath.

Activating Intimidating Shout, I swing my hammer, hoping to push her back or make her retreat, but Tabitha easily dodges my frenzied strike.

