A brief flash of metal in front of me, and I feel another cut open over my left ribs.

She's no longer content with just cutting my armor; Tabitha is out for blood. I might have poked the farkas one too many times.

Tabitha then slams her shield into me before I can react, sending me flying backward. If it weren't for the Mana Threads out of my hands, I'd probably would've dropped my weapon as I skid across the hard floor.

I try to scramble to my feet, but the next thing I know, Tabitha is standing next to me, prepared to stab me with her sword.

Giving up on standing up, I roll and swing my hammer at Tabitha’s feet, forcing her to back off. However, I’m still stuck on the ground, and Tabitha isn’t going to just let me stand back up this time. No, she tries to slash at me again, forcing me to roll to avoid her attacks.

I can’t even get up!

“Are you an insect?! Stop crawling around and fight me!” Tabitha taunts me.

This isn’t how this was supposed to go!

I was supposed to catch Tabitha off guard and prove to myself and her that I’m not just a punching bag.

I knew she was holding back against me, but I had no idea it was by this much. Just using Flash Step, Tabitha has proven she can dodge anything I throw at her. Should I forfeit? I ask myself as I continue to roll across the quarry floor, chased by a sword-swinging Tabitha.

This was supposed to be my moment; I grit my teeth. I won't let it end like this. Think! What can I do?

First, I need to get back to my feet, which is easier said than done. At least I haven’t lost my weapon yet. My Mana Threads are holding up nicely as I twist across the ground.

That's it, Mana Threads! That's how I'll get myself up. I have to time it right though, or Tabitha will just knock me to the ground again.

I continue to barely avoid Tabitha’s swings as I look for an opening. And then my moment arrives.

During one of Tabitha's attacks, she extends her arm slightly too far and stabs her sword into the stone floor. It will only take her a second to pull it out, but that's all the time that I need.

Instead of continuing to roll away, I crunch up my legs, so my feet are flat on the ground. Using Mana Threads, I secure myself in place. Pushing off with my butt, I use my leg and core strength to stand up. This all happens in the time it takes for Tabitha to pull her sword out of the ground, but my weird movements at least caught her off guard again.

After being made to roll all over the quarry, I’m not in the best of moods. Drawing back my hammer, I prepare to strike.

Tabitha is excited to see me on my feet again, and ready's her shield to block me, but this time I'm quicker.

Still stuck to the ground with Mana Threads, I balance on one leg, still in striking position, and kick with my other foot.

Tabitha wasn't expecting me to attack with my leg and a smile crosses my face when I feel my boot slam into her fancy armor. I even activate Double Step to kick twice essentially. My kicks don't do much damage, but they succeed in pushing Tabitha back.

Now replanting my foot, I switch my stance and swing my hammer.

The combo strike works and my hammer lands squarely across Tabitha's chest, sending her into the air.

I did it; I got her!

Tabitha lands on her feet like a cat, but I can hear her gasping for breath. I must have knocked the wind out of her. Good, finally. I would be happier if she were coughing up blood, but I'll take what I can get. Her armor must have stopped most of the force of my swing. Now I'm even more curious to know what it's made of.

What am I doing!? I need to press my attack, not compliment her armor!

I flash step to close the distance, but I still haven't fully incorporated dancing into my skill, so my movement is still pretty linear. Tabitha is already prepared for me by the time I appear next to her. She parries my hammer with her sword before activating a sword skill that causes her sword to blur out of sight.

I feel a cut open up on my cheek before I even realize Tabitha has her sword up against my throat.

“It’s my win,” she proclaims with a radiant smile.

I slowly lower my hammer in defeat. At least this is the first time I'm not ending a sparring match on my back.

Tabitha sheaths her sword. “That was the first time you managed to hit me, and you did it when I was using most of my skills too.”

Most of her skills?! So, that means even after all that, she wasn't taking me seriously. That's another blow to my pride, but at least I'm improving.

"You did good," Tabitha honestly praises me, leaving me dumbfounded. "But remember, you won't always have extra status points in every battle. It's better to improve your skills rather than relying on a momentary burst of power."

“I understand,” I nod my head, taking Tabitha’s words to heart.

"Though at least you put some points in Vitality." I'm confused by Tabitha's remark until she points at my chest, and I look down.

One, Three, Seven, Thirteen, Sixteen cuts total. I didn't even feel some of them. Is Tabitha bragging about her handiwork?

It takes me a moment to see it, but I finally notice what she meant about raising my Vitality. Though her cuts drew blood, none of them were very deep, and the oldest of cuts have already started scabbing over. Oh yeah, I forgot when you put status points in Magic and Vitality, it helps you recover those faster.

Just like how my Stamina is nearly bottomed out, but I can feel it regenerating faster than it normally would be. We just finished fighting, and I usually would need to rest for thirty minutes before my Stamina would start refilling this fast.

“We’ll be able to go again soon,” Tabitha happily proclaims.

“Uhhhh, I think it’s master’s turn,” I try to divert Tabitha’s attention to somebody else. Sure, this was my best sparring session yet, but that doesn’t mean I’m ready to try again so soon.

I turn to where Master was sitting, only to not see him there. Where did?

I spot Master standing on the edge of the quarry. Why is he up there? "It's your turn," I shout up to him.

Master takes one look at Tabitha and flinches back. “I forgot something back at home. I’ll be back in a little bit.”

“You’re running away! What about Stone kin not going back on their word?!” I angrily shout as Master turns away from the quarry’s edge.

“I’ll be back as soon as I can,” Master shamelessly yells down to us before walking towards his house.

“Let us go again while we’re waiting for him,” Tabitha suggests with a smile that gives me goosebumps.

Why did you betray me, Master?

I struggle to hold back my tears.

Here I go again. It’s a good thing Sandra chose not to stick around.
