“I know.” The first one said. “The more I'm around him, the less clothes I want to wear.”

Ren came out of the tunnel and dropped off the next woman, then went back for the next.

“His grip never faltered.” The third one said and sighed. “He was both firm and gentle as he held me.”

“What are we going to do?” The first one asked.

“There's nothing we can do. He owns our contracts now.”

“Not about leaving, about getting him to sleep with us.”

“I think just being a little forceful will...” She stopped talking when her friend waved her quiet.

Ren came out of the tunnel, and dropped off the fourth female dwarf. She waited for him to go back into the tunnel before she spoke.

“Can you imagine how strong his children will be?” The fourth one said and put a hand on her belly. “I can almost feel it kicking already.”

The other three laughed.

“Keep dreaming.” One of them said. “You heard him. He doesn't have time to see another woman.”

“Who cares about that?” The fourth one said. “I just want sex.”

“Me, too.”

“I am so horny right now...”

“Me, too.”

*

“You've got to listen to these women talk, Ren.” Teepo chittered in laughter. “It's hilarious.”

Ren smiled as he walked up the angled floor to the tunnel. I am listening. I can hear them just fine. He thought in amusement. I'm a little surprised they aren't discussing it right in front of me, though.

“Do you want them to talk right in front of you about their plans to seduce you?” Teepo asked. “How would they surprise you if you knew?”

Ren brought the last female dwarf out into the fresh air, and stood her next to her friends. I'm pretty sure their seduction attempts will consist of less clothing and lots of groping. He thought to his friend. They haven't even been outside in a year.

“When was the last time you had something to eat?” Ren asked them.

“Not since yesterday.” One of them said. “It was strict rations of one meal a day.”

Ren shook his head. “I don't know how people can be so stupid as to mistreat people in their care.” He said and took out a table. He fixed the broken leg, since it was part of the furniture of the room and was damaged when the place was wrecked. He took out the chairs he had stored from inside and placed them around the table, then took out his icebox.

“Please, have a seat.” Ren said and took out an end table. He enchanted a glyph of Fire and Wind runes on it's gold surface, and opened the icebox. He took out a plate of food and held it over the enchantment on the end table. He used his Fire Manipulation ability to warm the food and looked at the table.

“Um, is there a set order that you eat from?” Ren asked them. “Who gets served first? Is it seniority based or what?”

“We're just women.” One of them said. “We don't belong to a House or anything.”

“You can serve whoever you like.” Another one said and smiled slyly.

Ren shook his head. “That was a loaded statement if I've ever heard one.” He said. “How about I pass the plates to whoever is closest, and you can distribute the food yourselves.”

“You're hard to trick.” One of them said. “Now I want you even more.”

Ren chuckled and passed the plate of food to the closest female dwarf, and she handed it down the table. He warmed up 4 more plates, deactivated the enchantment, then stored the icebox and end table.

“You're not joining us?” One of them asked, surprised.

“I can't.” Ren said. “I have a couple of very important calls to make.”

“Calls?” The female dwarves exchanged glances. “There's no one around to call to.”

They must think I'm crazy. Ren chuckled and took out the steel square connected to the one he gave the dwarf that had helped him with the rescue.

“Hi, there. This Sending Square works a lot better than a Sending Stone.” Ren said, and the female dwarves gasped.

*

Ren's voice came out of the dwarf's pocket, and everyone froze. The dwarf scrambled to take it out, and dropped it. Princess brayed loudly at him for being so careless.

“I'm sorry.” He said to her, and picked up the Sending Square.

“Is anyone there?” Ren said. “You can talk multiple times with these things, by the way.”

The dwarf was reminded of what was happening and stared at the Sending Square. “You're alive!”

“You shouldn't sound so surprised.” Ren chuckled. “The rumours of my untimely demise have been greatly exaggerated.”

“But... but I saw... we all saw you get buried.”

“Oh, I was.” Ren said. “It just took me a while to dig out.” He said. “How's Princess?”

“She's fine.” The dwarf said. “She's not even tired, and we've been walking for miles.” He said. “I'm exhausted, though.”

Ren laughed. “I'm sorry to have worried you, Princess.” He said. “Thank you for saving the girls.”

Princess brayed and huffed a few times.

“I think she's saying she's going to kick your butt for sending her away.” The dwarf said. “She looks pretty mad.”

“I'll make it up to you, somehow.” Ren said. “I'm not sure how right now, but I'll think of something.”

Princess huffed.

“She says okay.” The dwarf said. “Do you want us to come back?”

“No.” Ren said. “That would both waste time and make you and the girls go twice as far as you have to.” He said. “Where are you taking them?”

“My place.” The dwarf said. “It's not much further from where we are now.”

“Do you have a cart at your place?”

“Yes.”

“Then when you get there, unhook the small one from Princess, and attach yours.” Ren said. “Princess can come back to get me and a few passengers after that.”

“Passengers?” The dwarf asked. “Didn't you kill them all?”

“I removed all of the guild members that were here.” Ren said. “I just found some other people that were being held.”

“Oh, that's great!” The dwarf said. “A double rescue!”

“It's still technically the same rescue.” Ren chuckled. “I'll pop over on my way home.”

“See you in a little while.” The dwarf said, and the Sending Stone stopped glowing. “Did you hear that, girls? He's fine!”

“Yay!” The girls said, even though some of them had tears in their eyes.

“Let's get you to my place quickly, so we can send Princess back for him.”

*

Ren tucked the Sending Square away, and saw the female dwarves weren't eating the food he had warmed up for them.

“Eat, eat!” Ren said, and waved to the plates. “I've got another call to make.” He said and walked away about 30 feet. He looked down at his hand at the Sending Ring. What am I going to tell her? Ren thought.

“The truth.” Teepo said. “She'll understand.”

Ren glanced back at the table to see the 5 female dwarves as they sat around it. I hope so. He thought, then concentrated on Nathalia to make the Sending Ring glow. I certainly hope so.

*

The female dwarves all leaned in close over the table.

“He has a repeating Sending Stone!” One of them whispered. “That's worth a fortune!”

“He's also an Enchanter.” One of them said. “I wonder what else he can do?”

“That doesn't matter.” One of them said, and started to eat. “Do we really need any more reasons to stay with him?”

“You don't think he'll try and give us away or anything, do you?” The last one said. “I was so happy that we couldn't destroy the contracts.”

“I don't think he can give us, or the contracts, away.” The first one said. “I think he's stuck with us.”

“And we're stuck with him.” The one eating said. “I'm okay with that, though.” She swallowed the food. “This is really good.”

The other female dwarves tried the food, and couldn't believe how much better it was than the food they had been fed every day.
