It was a panicked shout from a street over. Halrac heard other voices raised in panic and broke into a run. Behind him, Revi and Typhenous jerked. They both took a step in the same direction, ran into each other, and fell. Halrac raced down the street. He was no [Guardsman], no hero or citizen of the city. But he was an adventurer, and adventurers are bound to help those in need.
 
——
 
“Help! Monster attack! Ancestors, help me!”
The voice was loud and high-pitched. It came from a Drake, a male one, running for his life and screaming at the top of his lungs. He fled down the rain-soaked street as something lurched after him, a huge bulbous mass of liquid, sliding towards him, mouth agape. It was dark green and brown and oozed as the rain pelted it. A Sewer Slime, engorged and massive. It had oozed out of the drainage system and set on the first prey it could find. The Drake ran, calling out for help.
And it was adventurers who found him. Liscor was rife with adventurers, due to the new dungeon. True, many were low-level, local adventurers who had come here to brave the dungeon but reconsidered when they heard stories of the dangers lurking within. But there were some, a chosen few, who had come from further abroad. They were the only groups to enjoy any kind of success in the dungeon, the elite among their kind.
Some might call them heroes. The team of Thunder’s Kiss would never refer to themselves by such a title, of course, but they weren’t about to stop anyone from saying so. They raced down the street. Their leader, a big Drake with a warhammer, shouted triumphantly as they saw a Drake running towards them.
“Don’t worry, help has arriv—”
He broke off as he saw two other groups of adventurers turn towards him. The team of Thunder’s Kiss skidded to a stop, two of their number slipping and falling with a crash onto the street. There were a lot of adventurers in Liscor. Fifteen of them now stood in the street, answering the call for help. They exclaimed as they saw the slime following the Drake.
“Dead gods, it’s massive!”
Thunder’s Kiss stopped as they saw the Sewer Slime chasing the Drake. It was lurching along, extending a small part of itself to grab at the Drake and then rolling forwards. It wasn’t quick, but it had a good momentum going on the slick cobblestones, and the Drake was having trouble both avoiding it and running on the wet paving stones.
“Help me!”
He called out to the adventurers desperately. They looked at each other. They were the third team to arrive, but the other adventurers in the street looked just as confused as to how to tackle the huge slime.
“Spread out. Let’s get ready to engage!”
The team leader called out uncertainly to his companions, and the four Humans and three Drakes hesitantly spread out across the street. All of them were nervous. They were a Bronze-rank team, and while they’d killed slimes before, they’d never seen one this big.
“How are we supposed to kill it?”
Thunder’s Kiss was a melee-focused team with no ranged support. They saw the other two teams attacking the slime from afar, one [Mage] pelting it with small orbs of fire that sizzled out on contact, and some loosing arrows futilely into the slime’s side. The Sewer Slime seemed to enjoy the attention, and it rolled towards the adventurers, who backed up.
“You kill a slime by removing the mana core, right? Or crushing it?”
One of the Humans stared at the slime. Normally it was easy to pull out a slime’s core, but in this one? The Sewer Slime had come from the sewers and as such it was comprised of waste. Specifically, fecal matter, urine, dead rat corpses…the adventurers shuddered at the idea of putting a hand into that thing, let alone stepping into it as they’d have to do.
“Uh, let’s cut at it. Thotiss, Remar, take the left. We’ll attack and fall back, got it?”
The adventurers were hesitantly moving down the street, shouting in confusion at each other as the Sewer Slime rolled forwards. It looked completely unconcerned by the adventurers in front of it, and the leader of Thunder’s Kiss realized with a sinking heart that all three teams were Bronze-rank.
He gulped as the Sewer Slime rolled forwards and then heard pounding boots. He turned and saw a man running down the street. He had a bow in hand and his face was instantly recognizable to some of the adventurers. One of the Bronze-rank adventurers cried out and pointed.
“It’s him!”
“Who?”
“That’s Halrac! Halrac the Grim!”
Instantly, the Bronze-rank teams sagged in relief. They turned to look at Halrac as the [Scout] took in the scene in a moment. He stared at the Sewer Slime with narrowed eyes. The adventurers waited for him to kill the slime, but to everyone’s surprise, he turned to the leader of Thunder’s Kiss.
“Are you the team leader of this group?”
“Me? I, uh, yes, I am!”
The Drake faltered. Halrac nodded to the warhammer in his hands.
“Can your team kill the slime? The mana core is in the upper left hand side. If your team charges it, you can probably scatter it enough to remove the core. If you can’t do that, stall it long enough for my companions to arrive.”
“Us? But you’re a Gold-rank adventurer!”
The Drake looked at Halrac with wide eyes. The [Scout] frowned at him.
“I’m an [Archer]. That’s a slime. You can destroy its body. Send your team in.”
It was an order, not a question. The leader of Thunder’s Kiss looked at the slime and shuddered as he saw its foul body. The ‘water’ that made up its round body was practically opaque with filth. He tried to argue with Halrac as the slime broke off from the adventurers and turned towards a house, looking inquisitive.
“Look, Mister Halrac, we’re a team of our own. Thunder’s Kiss? We can help you fight the slime, but telling us to charge into it is a bit—”
Halrac ignored the Drake, keeping his eyes on the Sewer Slime. He cursed as it stopped rolling forwards and turned to one side. It pressed itself against a doorway, and, to the horror of the Bronze-rank adventurers, they heard a scream as the Sewer Slime began leaking into a house, going through both the cracks in the closed shutters and windows.
“Oh no! We’ve got to stop it!”
“Move around the back! Let’s go! We’ll hit it from behind!”
The leader of Thunder’s Kiss ordered his group, and they started towards the slime. Halrac shook his head.
“Too late. Back up.”
So saying he produced a glowing arrow that crackled as he set it to his bow. The Bronze-rank adventurers, seeing it, backed up at once. Halrac drew the arrow to the bow and calmly sighted down the shaft as the Sewer Slime continued to leak into the house. He aimed directly at the small glowing stone floating in the mess of the Sewer Slime’s body.
“[Piercing Shot].”
The arrow sped into the slime’s body, directly towards the mana core. It penetrated deep as the slime’s body consumed it, and then detonated in a flash of lightning. The team of Thunder’s Kiss averted their eyes as the slime’s entire body lit up. They saw it shudder, and then saw the mana stone had cracked. The slime slowly collapsed, its body turning into a tidal wave of foul liquid that splashed the nearest adventurers, to their horror. Inside the house, the screams of terror had turned to screams of deep offense.
“It’s dead!”
The other adventurers stared at Halrac in awe. The [Scout] was scowling and shaking his head. The leader of Thunder’s Kiss stared at him.
“If you could do that, why didn’t you do that earlier?”
Halrac just glared at him. He turned his head as someone shouted behind him.
“Halrac!”
Revi and Typhenous, drenched and muddy, ran up. They were winded and scraped from their fall. Revi looked about.
“What happened? Was there a monster?”
“Big sewer slime. Had to shoot it with an arrow of shocking.”
“What?”
Revi shouted in outrage. She looked at the adventurers. More were still arriving in the street, as had four members of the City Watch. They milled about, asking what had happened and what that smell was. Revi listened to a scrambled account of what had happened—and then rounded on the leader of Thunder’s Kiss.
“You! What were you lot doing, just standing around? Halrac told you to attack the Sewer Slime, and you lot just argued with him?”
“He told us to charge into that thing!”
The burly Drake protested as Revi glared at him. He was twice as large as she was, but she was a Gold-rank adventurer and he was Bronze. He quailed as Revi’s eyes flashed with fury.
“He told you to charge the slime because arrows are practically useless against it! Dead gods, are you rookies all idiots? All you had to do was splatter the slime so you could reach the core! Instead, you made Halrac deal with it, and to kill the slime, he had to use a magic arrow!”
She pointed accusingly at Halrac’s bow.
“Do you know how much an enchanted arrow of shocking costs? It’s better to have a warrior attack slimes, or mages! But no, you lot had to make Halrac go and waste an arrow! A cracked mana stone is barely worth the cost of an enchanted arrow, and that’s without the hassle of having to sell it!”
Her ranting had silenced the street. The Bronze-rank adventurers shuffled their feet, not daring to look Revi in the eye. Typhenous sighed and felt at his sore back. Halrac ignored Revi as he squatted over the cracked mana stone, eying it with distaste. He pulled out a canteen and washed the mana stone before putting the pieces of it into a bag of holding. Revi stormed away from the team of Thunder’s Kiss as the City Watch began taking notes on the damage and assisting the female Gnoll whose house had been partially flooded.
“Amateurs! Sands save me from greenhorns without an idea of how to fight the most basic of monsters!”
Revi groused to Halrac and Typhenous, not bothering to lower her voice. The Bronze-rank adventurers were crimson with humiliation, and most of them left in a hurry before people could connect their faces with her words. Typhenous shook his head as he surveyed the Sewer Slime’s remains with a wrinkled nose. He waved his staff as the liquid and…other remains began flowing out of the house and into the street, much to the relief of the Gnolls and [Guardsmen] inside.
“Help me with shifting this, would you, Revi? Don’t be too hard on the adventurers. Fighting a giant slime is dangerous.”
The Stitch-Woman grumpily complied with her wand. Together, they forced the liquid out of the house and back into the sewers where it hopefully wouldn’t reform into another slime.
“I’m not saying they had to beat it by themselves, but when a Gold-rank adventurer gives them an order they should obey it! If this had been more serious—”
“It’s not. The slime’s dead. Drop it, Revi.”
Halrac cut her off shortly. Revi sighed but closed her mouth. She was aware that her words carried a lot of weight in the adventuring community. Gold-rank adventurers were celebrities to low-level adventurers just starting out. It wasn’t good form to badmouth them too harshly, but it was a bit insulting to see how incompetent some of them were! Revi eyed her befouled boots and sighed.
“Let’s go wash up. I want a bath, and we have to arrange for someone to look at the treasure we found. Halrac, how about we—oh, what now?”
She turned and scowled at the team of five adventurers who were standing behind her. They smiled nervously. Typhenous nudged Revi, and she sighed.
“Hello? Can we help you?”
This team was a group of five adventurers. A tall Jackal [Mage], a short woman with Dwarvish blood, a Drake with black scales, a Gnoll, and a woman with a curved sword. Revi felt like she’d seen them about before, but they were clearly not Gold-rank. Silver, probably. The Jackal Beastkin cleared his throat.
“Excuse me, Miss Revi? We’re a team of Silver-rank adventurers, Vuliel Drae. Could we trouble you for a word about the dungeon?”
Revi ground her teeth together. The last thing she wanted was to talk. She wanted a bath and to replace the stitches around her right arm. They felt like they were coming loose. But it was a courtesy to exchange information.
“Yeah, we can do that. Are you planning on going in? I’d advise against it. Silver-rank teams shouldn’t enter that dungeon.”
She was aware of Halrac and Typhenous appraising the other group. Both Griffon Hunt and Vuliel Drae were at the center of attention, and Revi could see other groups pointing to both teams. She heard whispers. Was this Vuliel Drae a big deal or something?
“We appreciate that, but we can handle ourselves, Miss Revi. We’ve been in the dungeon once before. We were hoping to compare notes, ask what direction you’ve gone in. We’re hoping to find another artifact today.”
The black-scaled Drake raised his voice as he replied to Revi. His leader, the Jackal, frowned at him, but the other three members of the group seemed to enjoy the murmurs that remark caused. Typhenous raised an eyebrow.
“That’s quite ambitious of you.”
He didn’t remark that it was also rude to assume that Griffon Hunt would just hand over the maps they’d worked on. Adventuring was a competition, after all. The Jackal seemed to sense that and spoke in a placating tone.
“I think my teammate is being presumptuous. My apologies. We are a Silver-rank team, but we have faith in our abilities, and we’d of course be willing to pay for information. We just don’t want to tread through used tunnels. If you’re willing, we’ll pool our knowledge and return the favor when we return—”
“No deal.”
Halrac interrupted the Jackal. He shook his head at the astonished team of Vuliel Drae. He nodded to Revi and Typhenous as he addressed them and the crowd.
“We’re not helping Silver-ranks kill themselves. Go find another request to do. This dungeon will be classified as Gold-rank or higher.”
“Gold-rank?”
“Is he serious?”
Halrac’s words provoked a stir in the adventurers around him. It was customary for Adventurer’s Guilds to rank a dungeon, to tell adventurers what the minimum rank should be to enter. It was very common to rank a dungeon as Silver or Bronze. But Gold? The team of Vuliel Drae looked dismayed by Halrac’s words, but then the short Dwarf-woman thrust her way forwards. She thrust her bearded chin out at Halrac.
“You might think we’re your run-of-the-mill Silver-ranks, but we’ve handled ourselves in the dungeon before, tall-legs! Haven’t you heard? We were the first group to find treasure in the dungeon!”
There were nods at that, and Revi saw the other adventurers eying the five as they held themselves proudly. She frowned skeptically.
“You lot? What did you say your group’s name was?”
Her question dismayed the five adventurers. The Drake with black scales coughed.
