Revi’s voice was a shout now, as whatever was on the ceiling dropped to the ground. Halrac heard her and Typhenous running forwards. His hands were already moving towards his quiver.
“Bagrhaven!”
He shouted the word and put an arrow to his bowstring, drew, and loosed in one movement. This arrow was plain wood, though tipped with steel, and it sped towards the giant raven woman. The Bagrhaven, a deformed Human woman with long arms and razor sharp talons and teeth, stumbled as the second arrow struck her in the chest.
She regained her footing and charged as Halrac sent another arrow into her stomach. Bagrhavens were very tough and didn’t register pain or damage until after a battle was over. Undeterred, Halrac loosed another arrow and another as the Bagrhaven charged him down the narrow tunnel. He could hear more screams behind her.
“There’s a nest!”
“I hear it! Give us a second!”
Halrac did just that. His hands were a blur as he plucked more arrows out of the quiver and loosed them, keeping two in his fingers as he did. Three, two, one, grab more arrows. Three, two, one…
The Bagrhaven screamed as she pelted down the tunnel. The noise was terrific in the enclosed space, and magical, designed to spread fear into the hearts of her opponents. Halrac’s heart jumped wildly, but he overrode the trembling that threatened to affect his aim.
The fear effect must have struck Revi and Typhenous too, but they were seasoned adventurers and had their own ways of coping with lesser fear effects. Halrac saw Typhenous come to a halt next to him. The mage’s robes swirled about him as he raised his staff and aimed it at the other Bagrhavens coming out of the shadows.
“[Sticky Webs]. [Barrier of Air].”
A sticky thread shot across the gap, tangling the Bagrhavens’ claws, and at the same time a whirling barrier of air appeared behind the Bagrhavens. They fought to get free of the webs, turning and realizing they were trapped as Halrac’s arrows finally downed the first Bagrhaven. She staggered and fell, her chest scorched by his arrow of shocking, the rest of her body pincushioned by his other arrows. Halrac switched targets, and his next arrow struck one of the Bagrhavens in the eye, eliciting a scream.
As Typhenous webbed more Bagrhavens, Revi completed her preparations. She had in her hands a bit of calcified horn, and both it and her hands glowed as she raised them into the air.
“Burn them to ash and dust! Corusdeer, heed my call!”
Revi pointed, and a flaming apparition cantered into life. Halrac felt the incredible heat as the Corusdeer charged the other Bagrhavens. Caught between Typhenous’ barriers and Halrac’s arrows, the raven women fell to the Corusdeer’s blazing horns as it impaled one and trampled the other.
It was over. Halrac put several arrows into each corpse and saw one twitch as Revi’s flaming Corusdeer disappeared. Still, he was the only one to go over, at first. Halrac knelt, stabbed each Bagrhaven around their throat, and then got to work.
 
——
 
It was a grisly task, dismembering corpses. Bagrhavens resembled Humans enough to look like naked feathered women under a certain light. Halrac ignored their filthy, scorched bodies as he sawed at their arms and plucked feathers. Revi, wrinkling her nose at the smell, did likewise. She had put on gloves for the task. Typhenous, who had not, stood back, his staff glowing, keeping an eye out in both directions.
“See, it was good we were here, wasn’t it, Halrac? If you’d had to tackle that nest by yourself, what would you have done?”
“Poison arrows.”
Halrac grunted as he put the feathers into a bag. The Bagrhaven’s talons he stowed in the same spot. His personal bag of holding couldn’t hold much, but the only valuable parts of a Bagrhaven were their claws and feathers. Revi scowled at him as she dropped a pile of feathers in front of him.
“Ass. You’d waste more money using enchanted arrows—or good poisons—hunting Bagrhavens than you’d earn.”
“Not the point. They were guarding something. Up ahead.”
Halrac stood, pushing the rest of the feathers into his bag of holding. Revi glared.
“You can’t keep going down here solo! Halrac, you need to talk to us!”
The [Scout]’s silence was a reply in itself. Revi stomped back to Typhenous as Halrac cautiously entered the room at the far end of the hall. He was wary, expecting a nest and eggs perhaps, but what he found was far better. A glittering mound of jewelry was piled up around a feathery nest, the hoard of the greedy Bagrhavens.
For a few seconds, Halrac just stared at the glittering gems in the darkness. He didn’t feel happy to see the treasure. A month ago he might have been excited. Wary, of course. He would have signaled his group, and Ulrien would have cautioned everyone not to touch the rings and brooches and necklaces until they’d been analyzed. Needlessly, of course, but the warning would have been reassuring. He would have given Halrac a nod and a slow smile—
The [Scout] closed his eyes, taking just a moment to think of his friend. Ulrien. He had died weeks ago, in an inn, battling a traitorous Named Adventurer, Regrika Blackpaw. He had died and Halrac had lived. That was all there was to it. Ulrien had died and his team had broken, just as Halrac’s heart had broken as he sent his friend off.
Now Halrac was alive and that was all. Nothing mattered anymore. He raised his voice and called back towards Revi and Typhenous.
“Come on in.”
He didn’t mention the treasure, but Revi’s gasp and Typhenous’ murmur proved they could see. Neither [Mage] took a step towards the nest, though. They scrutinized the room warily. Revi looked at Typhenous and Halrac.
“Traps?”
“None that I can see.”
“Nor I. What are the chances the rings are cursed, though?”
“Certain. Look.”
Halrac pointed with an arrow at one ring. He’d spotted a bit of rotten flesh still stuck to the inside of the ring. Revi wrinkled her nose.
“Great. The Bagrhavens probably plundered some other part of the dungeon. Okay, who wants to pick it up? I’ve got an empty bag of holding—”
“Give it to me.”
Halrac took the bag and approached the treasure pile. He didn’t touch any of the jewelry but carefully shifted it into the bag, using an arrow to pick up the items one at a time. He was ready to jump back, but nothing happened. Halrac closed the bag and handed it back to Revi.
“Any good [Enchanters] in Liscor?”
“None worth mentioning. We’ll have to send this to Invrisil by Runner to get it analyzed, I bet. There’d better be at least one good ring in there, or I’m going to be upset.”
Revi shook her head as the adventurers retraced their steps. She eyed Halrac as they came back to the corridor with the one remaining unexplored passageway.
“Going to continue?”
“Are you?”
He looked at her. Revi folded her arms.
“If you stay, we stay.”
Halrac stared at her, grunted, and then walked back the way they had come. Revi sighed but followed.
It was a quiet walk back to the chasm where they’d come in. Halrac stared up towards the sky, noting how the layer of water between sky and dungeon had grown since he’d passed through via rope. This wasn’t the official entrance to the dungeon—that way led through a maze of trapped rooms. It had yet to be cleared, and though Griffon Hunt had been working with the Halfseekers to go through the more cautious way, of late Halrac had been coming into the dungeon through the rift in the ground. It was far more dangerous because the escape route was perilous, a long climb back upwards, but Halrac didn’t care.
“Dead gods, I hate climbing back up. Revi, my dear, would you be so kind as to lend me one of your spirits?”
Revi sighed as she summoned two spectral warriors.
“Fine. Just wait until they climb up. You can hold onto the rope, can’t you?”
Halrac grunted impatiently as Typhenous nodded. The summoned warriors reached the top, climbing swiftly through the water barrier and up to the surface. They grabbed the long ropes that hung down, and both Revi and Typhenous hung on as they began to pull the [Mages] up.
“Coming, Halrac?”
“Yes.”
The [Scout] gave the [Mages] a head start and then climbed up his rope himself. He paused as he got to the barrier of water over the dungeon’s ‘roof’. It was just water, prevented from entering the dungeon by some kind of barrier. He took a breath and climbed rapidly into the water.
Instantly he was wet and felt the water swirling around him. Doggedly, Halrac climbed up through it. Two feet, five feet, eight…he broke through and felt rain pouring down on top of him.
“Gah! I forgot it’s still raining!”
It was another world above. Revi’s sour voice came from overhead as she and Typhenous were hoisted up by the summoned spirits. Halrac shook water out of his eyes and kept climbing. When he reached the top, Revi offered him a hand. Halrac didn’t take it. He clambered onto the wet grass and began hauling the rope up behind him.
“Halrac! Just let the summoned warriors do it!”
Revi was impatient as Typhenous cast a shield of air above them to keep the rain away. Halrac let a shining warrior that looked like a long-dead soldier haul up the sodden rope and deposit it into his bag of holding. It was a practice all good adventurers followed—don’t leave an exit for monsters to use. Many could climb, and a hanging rope was an invitation for disaster.
“Back to Liscor?”
Typhenous looked inquiringly at Halrac. The man nodded, and they began their slow walk across the Floodplains to Liscor in the distance. It was a wet, slippery walk in silence. Halrac eyed the pools of water forming in the valleys as he, Revi, and Typhenous stuck to higher ground. How long until the water rose to the point where it would become impossible to walk anywhere? By that time, both entrances to the dungeon would be flooded. What then?
Revi must have been thinking the same thing. She looked hesitantly at Halrac, scowled, and spoke.
“Okay, I know I’ve been bothering you all day. But you have to talk eventually, Halrac.”
“About what?”
The [Scout] looked at her. Revi glared back.
“About? About anything, you flax-headed idiot! You’ve been going into the dungeon at the crack of dawn each day, not talking to us, your teammates! We have to follow you everywhere, since you won’t tell us what you’re doing! This is not how a Gold-rank team should act!”
That was true. Halrac paused a second, feeling guilty. Ulrien would have been ashamed. But he was dead.
“Ulrien’s gone. We’re a team without a leader. Understrength.”
“The Halfseekers have only three members.”
“The Halfseekers have a [Warrior], a [Rogue], and a [Mage]. We have two [Mages] and a [Scout].”
The Stitch-Woman pursed her lips sourly, but Halrac had a point. Smaller groups of adventurers demanded at least one front-line fighter, or risked being overwhelmed by numbers.
“Then why are you trying to solo a dungeon?”
“That’s my choice. I didn’t ask you to join me. In fact, I told you not to come.”
“And leave you behind? What kind of team would we be if we did that? But I’m telling you Halrac, if we keep doing this, one day the Bagrhavens will get the drop on us, and we’ll all be—”
“Then quit.”
Halrac turned on Revi, his patience exhausted. She stopped, eyes wide, and Typhenous halted as well. The [Scout]’s voice was curt.
“Quit. I’m not asking you to stay. Ulrien held us together, and he’s gone. We’re not a team any longer. So leave and find a better team.”
He meant that sincerely. Revi was young, and a gifted [Summoner]. She could find another group easily, as could Typhenous. [Mages] were in high demand with most groups. To his surprise, Revi glared. The Stitch-Woman had changed her hairstyle for the wet season to short-cropped hair. But she tossed her head as if she still had her long ponytail.
“Are you an idiot? Us? Quit? Do you think we’re the kind of adventurers who run off the instant our teammates die? What would other people think if we did? Typhenous and I would be blacklisted in an instant!”
That was true. Halrac grunted.
“Then stay and let me do my work.”
“Oh, and let you die I suppose? And how would that look? First we lose our team leader, then we let our [Scout] wander off and get himself killed?”
Revi snorted. Halrac glared at her, but she was right on both counts. He knew what he’d do if he had a teammate going rogue. Typhenous’ voice was diplomatic, but his tone was no less firm as he stepped up besides Revi.
“We are a team, Halrac. I know we are new, compared to Ulrien and the former members of Griffon Hunt, but we are a team nonetheless. And a team looks after their own.”
“Precisely. If you keep running off, I’ll summon my warriors to hold you down and Typhenous will web you to your bed.”
The [Summoner] glared at Halrac, her eyes bright as he met them, no emotion showing on his face. Revi blinked, and then blinked again. Her voice was loud and angry, but tinged with more than just anger.
“It’s not fair that you shut us out! It’s not like we weren’t there! It’s not like we don’t miss him. Ulrien—don’t you think I think about how I could have stopped it? I would have summoned all my warriors if I’d known—it was too quick. I—”
She broke off, turning her gaze away. Halrac felt a pang. He saw Typhenous rest a hand on Revi’s shoulder, her shrugging the hand away. Typhenous’ voice was soft.
“The fault is not yours alone, Revi. I was completely caught off-guard by Regrika Blackpaw as well. Her abilities, that of her companion—we underestimated her far too badly. Had I a second chance, I would have fought differently. But there is no way to turn back time. Ulrien was our leader. He was first into battle, first to fall. Defending us.”
“And we failed him.”
Revi’s back was turned. Her voice was thick. Halrac looked at her and nodded as the rain soaked his back.
“We did.”
The Stitch-Woman looked up, and Typhenous glanced at him, brows furrowed. Halrac stared distantly towards a hilltop next to Liscor, at an inn sitting darkly on the hilltop. He spoke quietly.
“We did fail him.”
That was all. He looked at Revi and Typhenous, his teammates. They stared back somberly, wet with the rain, quiet. Halrac averted his gaze, began to walk towards Liscor. He did not walk towards the inn, did not say anything more. Revi and Typhenous followed after a minute. Not much had changed, and yet, Halrac had said it.
We failed him. We. The group walked quietly towards the city, passing through the gates, dispirited, quiet. Halrac walked down the empty streets until he heard a scream.
“Help!”
