“Vuliel Drae? We’re, uh, the team that went into the dungeon and found a Gold-rank weapon?”
Typhenous, Revi, and Halrac exchanged glances. Halrac scowled and shook his head, remembering. Revi frowned until Typhenous whispered in her ear. She snapped her fingers.
“Oh, you’re that stupid team that got lucky? Good work, thanks to you, eight other parties have gone into that dungeon and gotten slaughtered.”
She glared at the other team. Vuliel Drae was shocked. The woman with the katana looked offended.
“It’s not our failing if the other teams died.”
“No, you just made it seem like it would be easy to find treasure. You just had to wave about that mace you found and brag about how easy it was, didn’t you? Good job.”
Revi’s voice dripped acid as she turned away. Halrac was already walking down the street, Typhenous following. Dismayed, Vuliel Drae watched them go. Revi had a few cutting words before she too left.
“I heard you only survived because you had help! Don’t count on it a second time, and don’t bother us about collaborating! Getting lucky is not the same as skill!”
With that she stormed off. The adventurers could hear her shouting at her two companions.
“Dead gods, what is it with newbies these days? At least the Horns of Hammerad actually treated us with respect. Hey, Halrac, slow down! Hey! Slow down!”
 
——
 
There was a nasty silence after the team of Griffon Hunt had gone. Vuliel Drae, the five Silver-rank adventurers who had become famous for entering Liscor’s dungeon and emerging with a mace worth thousands of gold coins, stared at each other in embarrassment and anger afterwards, as the adventurers dispersed around them. It was Dasha, the part-Dwarf woman, who broke the silence.
“What a load of arrogant jerks! Those Gold-rank adventurers, hah, I don’t care for them! Especially the Stitch-Woman. Too full of herself, that [Mage].”
She stroked her beard, looking offended. The rest of her team nodded hesitantly, but their leader, the Jackal named Anith, looked disapproving.
“I can’t say I enjoyed being lectured, but they are Gold-rank adventurers, Dasha. They seemed to be acting in our best interests, and we were quite rude to put ourselves on their level. Insill.”
He stared pointedly at the black-scaled Drake, and Insill shifted his feet. It was the Gnoll, the fifth member of their group, who hadn’t spoken until now, who came to Insill’s defense.
“They might be Gold-rank, but they are still wrong, yes? We’re going into the dungeon, their words or not.”
He looked around and got nods from his teammates, even Anith. Vuliel Drae, the Silver-rank team, weren’t famous like Griffon Hunt or the Halfseekers, but they had successfully entered the dungeon and come back with treasure, making them local heroes. There were five of them.
Anith, their Jackal leader and [Mage]; Dasha, a Human [Warrior] with Dwarven ancestry and a full chestnut beard; Insill, a Drake [Rogue] with black scales; Larr, their [Archer]; and Pekona, a rare foreigner with a curved sword, who was an uncommon type of warrior known as a [Blade Dancer]. They had adventured together for two years now, and they were confident in their abilities, even if their ego had just taken a blow.
“Let’s go to the dungeon.”
Pekona was the one who took charge. The silent woman usually didn’t say much, mainly because her command of the common tongue was weaker than the others. She truly was unique, in that her people, who lived on the Drath Archipelago, spoke a different language than the rest of the world. Vuliel Drae left Liscor, talking, carrying along full packs. Dasha grumbled as she splashed through the grasslands, her armor sodden with rain.
“Stupid String-folk. Snooty Gold-rank adventurers. Griffon Hunt? Hah, as if they’re something special! The Silver Swords, now that’s a real team. They’ve got a proper Dwarf and everything. One of my people! After we get back from the dungeon, let’s see if we can meet them. I wouldn’t mind tangling my beard with his, if you get my drift!”
Her other teammates groaned aloud, but Insill just grinned at Dasha. She was more bluff than talk and often referred to ‘her people’ as Dwarves, despite having more Human blood than Dwarvish.
“You liar. You just want to meet their leader, Ylawes Byres. I saw you waxing your beard and trying to introduce yourself when he was in the Adventurer’s Guild.”
“You scaley rat!”
Dasha turned red and roared at Insill. She chased him for a few steps, but the [Rogue] was nimble on his feet and dashed away. The other adventurers looked amused until Anith, frowning, called a stop to it.
“Dasha, Insill, there are monsters out here. Please control yourselves.”
The Drake and part-Dwarf woman did, grumbling. Anith led them to the chasm, and Insill groaned as he saw the ropes were gone.
“Where’d they go? Don’t tell me that Griffon Hunt removed them? It’s a pain having to anchor them again and again!”
“We’ve got our own, and it’s not hard. Hey, is that water at the bottom? We’ll have to swim down the last few feet!”
Dasha looked down apprehensively. Anith stared at the water and shook his head.
“There must be an enchantment over the dungeon. We might not get another chance if the water keeps filling up—we would have to swim down hundreds of feet to get to the dungeon if the rain fills the entire hole.”
“Oh, it will. I’ve lived here all my life. This entire place will be underwater soon. Guess we’ll have to dive off a boat or find another way in, soon.”
Insill assured the others. Dasha shook her head, grumbling.
“No proper Dwarf likes water.”
“You’re not a proper Dwarf, Dasha. You’re not even half-Dwarf.”
“I have Dwarvish blood in me! My heritage strikes true!”
“Yeah, the Human half.”
“Hrr. Yes. I agree. You would not have to buy hair growth tonics if you were truly Dwarfish at heart.”
“Shut up, shut up! You’re all just tall-legged bastards!”
The adventurers joked as they readied the ropes and then descended into the chasm. They were a good team, easy in each other’s company, able to laugh in the face of the dungeon. They reached the dry bottom of the dungeon, passing through the water barrier, joking and keeping calm. It was a miracle they weren’t eaten in the first five minutes, as they tethered the ropes to rocks, still making far too much noise to be safe.
Where Griffon Hunt was barely more than a few angry whispers at their loudest, Vuliel Drae broke the silence with loud arguments and laughter. But then, that was why Toren liked them. They were silly, and stupid, and maybe that was what would keep them alive. They reminded her a bit of Erin.
“It’s you!”
Vuliel Drae reacted as they saw Toren step out of the darkness. To them, it was as if the masked swordswoman had been waiting for their return, which, indeed, she had. Actually, a group of Raskghar had been waiting too, with poisoned arrows, but Toren had already finished them off. The masked skeleton bowed slightly, and Insill’s tail began to wag slightly.
“Um, hello.”
Shyly, the Drake went over to the masked woman, smiling. The dark mask stared at him, but he ignored the impartiality of the mask. He’d dreamed about what might lay under the mask.
“I thought we wouldn’t see you again. I thought—have you gone above at all? We just met Gold-rank adventurers who said they’d been down here. Griffon Hunt. Do you—did you see them?”
The mysterious swordswoman shrugged, then shook her head. She spread her arms wide, indicating the scope of the dungeon. Insill nodded as Anith bowed slightly and the other adventurers formed up.
“We were actually hoping to meet you. Would you care to explore the dungeon with us? We’d pay you, of course—we actually owe you for last time! That mace you gave us was worth a fortune, so we bought this in case we met you again.”
He looked at Pekona, and the [Blade Dancer] produced a longsword from her right side. It was a gleaming steel blade with a long forked rune etched onto the metal. The swordswoman stared at it as Insill offered it to her.
“It’s a cheap blade—barely enchanted, really. It’s got a tiny durability and cutting enchantment on it. I know it isn’t much, but I noticed your sword was really old and—”
He broke off as the masked woman dropped her old sword and raised the magic blade. She stared at it reverentially and cut the air—perilously close to Insill. He flinched, but then the masked woman turned to him. She hesitated, then drew a happy smile across her mask.
“You like it?”
He grinned, and she nodded. Vuliel Drae smiled too, and Anith spoke.
“Miss Swordswoman, I regret that we don’t know your name. Please tell us, why do you stay below? We did not know any adventurer lived down here, but if you haven’t returned to the surface yet—why do you stay?”
For a second it seemed like the masked woman froze, but then she turned to Anith and gravely shook her head. She didn’t speak—it was clear she was unable or unwilling to, but she raised one finger and carefully tapped her chest. The adventurers stared at her as she drew a line down the side of her mask, under one eye socket. Then she pointed up towards the surface. Insill frowned, trying to make sense of it.
“Sorrow? Going up is—sad? Can you go up?”
A shake of the head.
“Are you cursed?”
Hesitation. A shake of the head.
“Something else?”
Nod, nod.
“What?”
A shrug. She was unwilling to say, if she knew. The adventurers looked at each other and conferred.
“What do you think? Is she saying she just doesn’t want to go up?”
“That makes no sense!”
“Hm. Some adventurers are loners, yes. But why else not?”
“Maybe she’s on a mission. Maybe she’s decided to challenge the dungeon—or die.”
Anith nodded.
“A [Doomseeker], perhaps. It is not for us to ask.”
He bowed to the swordswoman, who bowed back slightly.
“Forgive us for asking, but we are curious. We would be delighted to journey with you nonetheless. Shall we?”
The swordswoman nodded. She motioned with one hand, pointing in the direction that she judged to be safest, for a given value of safe. The team of Vuliel Drae followed, Insill in front, Dasha and Pekona next, Anith behind, and Larr bringing up the rear. It was strange. For all she had been agonizing, and for all he had proclaimed to hate other people, there was something about this that Toren had missed. She had missed other people, seeing Insill’s happily wagging tail, hearing him chatter and then realize he should be silent and looking for traps. It was…fun.
Toren walked into the darkness of the dungeon, the adventurers following. She would do her best to keep them alive. After all, she knew the dungeon well, and they had given her an enchanted sword. An enchanted sword! She couldn’t wait to lord it over him when they were alone. And they would survive the dungeon. After all, how would the adventurers bring her more wonderful weapons if they died here?
This was the dungeon as it was. Alluring yet deadly, it was a crisis for Liscor, a talking point for adventurers in the area, but hardly a matter of worldwide or continental concern. The Drake and Human cities had far more pressing issues to deal with, and the dungeon was not yet rated by the Adventurer’s Guilds and thus it was regarded by many as a minor dungeon. After all, new ruins and abandoned fortresses were found quite often. They usually contained very little of worth.
To Griffon Hunt and the Halfseekers, the dungeon was a gamble, a place for untold treasures or death. To the other adventurers, it was a place of opportunity, and only the terrors within kept them from flooding the dungeon. To Watch Captain Zevara, it was a disaster waiting to happen. But to many in Liscor and elsewhere, the dungeon had lost much of its interest. It was a thing for adventurers and did not concern anyone else. It was safe, for a given value of safe.
Until now. It was a simple thing that triggered the change. A simple conversation between a group of inexperienced adventurers and a skeleton. It happened as they stumbled across a hitherto unexplored corridor, and it began with Insill’s disgusted exclamation.
“Hey, are those eggs? Gross!”
He shone his lantern across the tunnel. The other adventurers reacted with revulsion. Dasaha growled as she kicked at one of them.
“Disgusting. Look, there’s tunnels filled with them! We should burn the entire mess.”
Insill felt at his belt pouch as he looked around uncertainly.
“Got enough kindling for all of that? How about poison?”
Ansill hesitated.
“I do not believe it would be safe. Something laid these eggs. We should pull back.”
“Hrr. Yes. They look familiar to me. What if we took one and—”
Crunch. It was such a faint sound. The team of Vuliel Drae looked around. Toren, in her disguise as the masked swordswoman, happily crunched one of the bulbous eggs underfoot, then, another, and another. She was having such a good time that she only realized everyone was staring at her after the eighth egg. She stopped and looked at them, wiping her foot on the ground. Insill opened his mouth, and then Pekona raised a finger to her lips. She tilted her head.
“…What’s that sound?”
Vuliel Drae and Toren listened. Then they saw what was coming down the tunnels and fled. They survived, of course, hiding in a room Toren had found that had a door and a tunnel too narrow for most of the things to follow. But that was only the precursor. Something moved in the dungeon, joining the swarm, leading it. It pressed against the walls, seeking a way out. The wall of water and rain deterred it only for a single day until, well—
They came out.
