“We may have to split up the group setting. I think our [Receptionist], Seik, made a mistake. It’s not for everyone, yes? And you, Miss? Would you like to share a drink?”
He looked right at Umina. She stared at him and stammered.
“I—no—we—we’re just with her. And I’m not here to do anything else!”
She flushed violently. Herrsk looked at Foliana. The Squirrel-woman was staring at another one of the escorts and absently shaking her head.
“Oh, yes. Lady Stalker herself. But don’t worry, Miss…?”
“Umina.”
“Ah, a good name! We’re not to do anything you don’t care for. If you’d like conversation, we provide that. Anything else is fine too. But I prefer to talk. Are you one of the Titan’s students? Do you play chess?”
Umina’s jaw dropped. Feshi and Marian both looked up.
“You play chess?”
“I play chess, I keep up with politics—I dance too. I take interests. And I can talk. If you’d like to make this a conversation, we can by all means sit together. I’d like to imagine I can hold my own, even with a student of the Titan of Baleros. But I don’t think all of your classmates will do that. So, a drink? Or would you like to meet my coworkers?”
The Gnoll grinned at Umina. She stammered.
“I—uh—well, I wouldn’t mind. But I’m definitely staying here! With Marian!”
“Oh? Well, that’s fine too.”
The Gnoll arched an eyebrow, and Umina was so flustered she took the first drink he poured for her and downed half of it. Which turned out to be interesting indeed.
 
——
 
An hour later. Foliana sat on the couch, munching on Wil’s crackers. She was alone. Everyone else in the group of students had either gone off with one of the very charming, very beautiful people alone or in smaller groups. Umina had been clinging to a very embarrassed Marian, insisting they go with Herrsk together, a proposition only the Centauress seemed bothered by. Kissilt was long gone with the Lizardwoman, and that was the least scandalous pairing.
But Foliana just sat there. Staring. The thirty-third of the brothel’s [Prostitutes]—although that was a lower-level class than whatever this Naga had—came forwards without a word. His scales shone, and his smile was wicked and enticing.
He gyrated, his snake-like abdomen and tail moving in slow, hypnotic trails.
“Do I meet with any approval, Miss?”
He looked at Foliana, grinning around sharp teeth. This Naga had on a vest. And little else. There was also a veil. The veil inched downwards, revealing, enticing. Foliana’s expression never changed.
“Hmm. No.”
The Naga’s face fell. He un-gyrated and backed away. Foliana kept staring. Then she hopped off the couch and picked up a pillow. She lounged on it. Peeking in on her from a one-way mirror, the [Receptionist] turned to the Naga as he slithered back in.
“What do we do? She’s refused everyone! Male, female—we’ve put every species in front of her!”
“All but female Nagas. I did my best, but my [Seduction Dance] doesn’t work on her. Which is good, frankly. I don’t think I’d perform well without a tonic. She scares me.”
The male Naga grumbled. The Lizardman groaned.
“But she’s Three-Color Stalker! We can’t turn her away! Are her companions happy, at least?”
“Happy as can be. Three of them are still around here. The rest are occupied.”
The Lizardman nodded distractedly. He stared at Foliana. She was ignoring a female Dullahan who’d placed her head on the table, and a male Human who was trying to slide in next to her. The [Rogue] appeared to be trying to count how many dates were within a bowl.
“Is—maybe it’s a test? We have three female Nagas.”
“She said she doesn’t want any Nagas. Policy is we don’t give them to her. Who’ve we got?”
“Miss Slendasia, Eshilx, and the new one.”
The male Naga grimaced.
“Eugh. The new girl’s charming, but Slendasia will get herself knifed if she goes out. Besides, I think she means it when she says no Nagas. We have a history with Squirrel Beastkin. Snakes and rodents, you know?”
The Lizardman [Receptionist] nodded, eyeing the Naga. He gestured hopelessly at the Squirrel-woman.
“Well—what do we do? She doesn’t want any of our best.”
“Send out for help?”
The Lizardman [Receptionist] hesitated. Then he shook his head.
“No—no, this is private. That’s our watchword. Just get everyone who’s not working and find out who has the best [Host] Skills. If she’s not interested, entertain her!”
 
——
 
“Would you like me to comb your fur, Miss Foliana?”
Fifteen minutes later, a Centauress sat next to Foliana. She lifted a comb. Foliana peered at a mirror as another [Harpist] played a lilting melody. She paused, then shook her head.
“No.”
The Centauress’ smile wavered, and she looked to her left. A Drake with azure-emerald scales in a skyburst pattern leaned forwards. His tail snaked along the couch.
“Then, may I feed you some dates? Or shall we play chess?”
Foliana slapped the tail before it could curl around her side. The Drake yelped, and the Squirrel-woman stared at him. And her stare made even the seasoned [Consort] falter. She swept her gaze left, and the Centauress shuddered.
“No. Naughty.”
She leaned back and kept tossing dates into the air and trying to catch them with her mouth. The Centauress looked hopelessly at the Drake. They were two of the best escorts in The Scaleless Sight, probably all of Elvallian. But the Squirrel-woman wasn’t reacting to any gender or species. At last, the Centauress threw caution to the wind.
“Lady Foliana, may I ask if you’re here for your…companions? Because the students are well in hand. We’d hate to think we were boring you. Or wasting your time.”
Foliana looked up. The Squirrel Beastkin focused on the Centauress, and a date bounced off her forehead. The [Rogue] paused. She took a nibble from her jam biscuit that she’d been eating along with the other snacks—none of the [Escorts] had dared point out it wasn’t exactly fitting with the rich, sumptuous setting—and paused.
“I’m not bored. See?”
She threw a date up and absently opened her mouth. It bounced off the couch cushion instead. The Centauress hesitated, and the Drake leaned over.
“But can we do anything for you, Lady Foliana? It is an honor to be in the presence of…of Three-Color Stalker herself.”
Foliana stopped, a date in her furry paw. She looked at the Drake. And again, her gaze cut through his charm-Skills, his ability to act. She stared at him, and the Drake shivered. Because he thought he saw his death in her eyes.
“Is it really? You seem afraid to me.”
“No, of course not! We’re just—”
The Centauress fell silent as Foliana stared at her. Slowly, the Squirrel-woman put down the bowl of dates. She glanced around. Then she stared at one of the one-way mirrors.
“People are afraid of me. Mm. It’s not bad to tell the truth. Because of what I do. Fair. It’s fine. I do what I like. I like what I like. And I like this.”
She gestured around vaguely. The two [Escorts] looked at each other.
“What, Lady Stalker?”
The Squirrel-woman smiled.
“Watching. Peace. This is mine. And this is mine. And this.”
She poked the Drake, the cushion, and then pointed around the room. Uncertainly, the Drake looked at her, but the [Rogue] wasn’t finished.
“Not as a [Slave]. Mm. And not my cushion. But this is mine. Peace. My city. My company. It is good to see.”
She paused, and they waited. But that was it. Foliana nibbled at another date. And she had grey in her fur. In fact—the Centauress stared at her. Foliana was older than her two companions, as old as Niers. She sat, pleasantly nibbling, looking around the room. Watching the Centauress and the Drake.
And it occurred to the Centauress, at last, that she was doing this the entirely wrong way. She was a [Seductress]. An expert in her class. But sometimes there wasn’t much to seduce. So she sat up out of her languorous sprawl. And gestured for her companion to do the same. The Centauress smiled and took a breath.
“Well, Miss Foliana. May I call you Foliana? I think we have nothing to offer you.”
“Mm. Not right now.”
The Squirrel-woman smiled. The Centauress nodded.
“Then if we can oblige you, let us know. But what can we do for you? Anything at all?”
Foliana paused. She looked at the Centauress, and for once her gaze didn’t provoke that moment of fear, that flutter of uncertainty as it did in so many people. The Squirrel-woman smiled slightly.
“Maybe. Do you have a bucket of water?”
The Centauress eyed Foliana. Then she listened to the Squirrel-woman speak. The Drake was aghast.
“We can’t do that!”
“Oh yes we can. For Lady Stalker? Anything at all.”
 
——
 
Later, the The Scaleless Sight was filled with screams. It came from various rooms as Foliana, aided by the Centauress and Drake, opened the door catching people in flagrante delicto. No, wait—just having sex. They then tossed the buckets inside, and ran for it.
Foliana was smiling as outraged and dripping duos—trios—and in one case a group of eight charged out into the hallways. She hopped out of the brothel as the angry guests milled about—realized that their anonymity was being threatened—and instantly fled back into their rooms. She laughed, a soft chuckle. The Centauress smiled down at her.
“Lady Foliana, was that at least worth the visit?”
“Mm.”
The Squirrel-woman smiled. She turned as the [Manager], finally aware of the situation, charged down the corridor, apologizing profusely to the naked guests still in the hallway.
“Yes. I think so. Now, I have to go. Mm. Thank you. This was fun.”
She pulled out the jam biscuit, mostly-eaten, and inspected it. Then she lifted it to her mouth and ate it.
 
——
 
That evening, Foliana dined with Niers. He eyed her over the table as she consumed her regular dinner. It wasn’t a jam biscuit, at least. He cleared his throat.
“I hear you’ve been causing trouble. First my class, then my students. At a brothel.”
“Mm. They had fun. Probably. You should visit one.”
“I’m a Fraerling.”
“Do something about that first. They’re very nice. They cooked me an egg later. Mm. I probably owe them money. For the mess.”
“I’ll handle it.”
The Titan sighed. He rested his head on one hand and looked at Foliana. She glanced up at him.
“Did you enjoy yourself today?”
Foliana paused. She chewed on her plate of muffins, spaghetti, piled on top of one another and shrugged. It was not a classy meal. It had been made by a master, but Foliana insisted on mixing the two together. She shrugged, and slurped up a noodle.
“I enjoyed myself. Watching. Saw a baby. Did what you wanted. Had an egg.”
“Bothered my students. Do you ever want to quit?”
“That’s your job.”
The [Rogue] smiled at the [Strategist]. He smiled back ruefully.
“But do you ever dream about it? Having children? A different life? You’re unnoticed by so many. Which is how you prefer it, I suppose. But do you want something else?”
It was a question he’d asked her in different ways over the years. Foliana paused. And she looked around speculatively. But at last, she shook her head.
“No. Because this is mine. This. And this. And this.”
She poked the new tablecloth, her food, and at Niers. He knew what she meant. Few people saw Three-Color Stalker. She was a myth, a dark shadow cast by the Titan. But that was fine. Foliana didn’t want any of it. Because she wanted all of it. This citadel, this city—the Forgotten Wing Company—it was all hers. In a way, the Squirrel Beastkin was far greedier than Niers could ever be. She had claimed this, her world. And that was what made her happy.
He smiled to think about it. And then his eyes narrowed. He looked down at his plate, checked both sides of it. Then he scowled up at Foliana.
“Give me my fork.”
“No.”
