Niers kicked a small bell on the podium, and the ding of noise made all his students look up. The Titan smiled.
“Take note. Here are my teams. Sillk! You, Peki, and Yerranola will be our first group.”
“Yes, Professor!”
A Lizardboy, still too young to be fully grown, sat up in his seat. He looked across the room, and his face fell as Peki stared at him. Yerranola groaned, but good-naturedly.
“Aw. I wanted to team up with Wil! Peki? Well, she’s cool.”
She waved at the Garuda. Niers went on.
“Sillk, Peki, Yerranola. I know, you’ve been assigned to this team before, but no complaints! This is about advanced teamwork, not managing personalities. I also want Kissilt as our resident Drake to partner with…yes, Illial. And Leondir; two Humans in one team, but different continents. And—put Laiz in your team as well.”
Yerranola blinked. Venaz opened his mouth, but Wil and Kissilt both nudged him. The Drake growled.
“Don’t be an ass, Venaz. And don’t interrupt or we’ll waste time! Ancestors, I’m stuck with two Humans?”
Wil was writing down the names, frowning up at Sillk. Venaz growled back, distractedly looking at Wil.
“If he’s wrong, he’s wrong. Wil, why are you writing names down?”
“Tactical advantage. We’re competing, remember?”
The Drake and Minotaur paused, then scrambled for their quills. Kissilt muttered as he frantically wrote down the teams Niers was listing out. He hissed sideways.
“Good point. Damn. Yerranola, you’re in trouble. You have two [Commanders].”
“Better than two junior [Tacticians] and a [Strategist]! Peki and Sillk actually know their way around a battlefield! You think your written orders will translate into a victory?”
“Hah! Want to put money on it?”
“I will. I’ll win.”
“You don’t even know your team, Venaz!”
Behind him, Foliana nodded and stuck a grape on the end of Venaz’s left horn. The Minotaur snorted.
“I know we’ll win.”
“Attention! Stop chattering up there!”
Niers roared. The students jumped. Foliana wandered off, investigating Kissilt’s bags next. The Drake raised one claw.
“Professor, why is one team made up of four students and one made up of three? Isn’t that unfair?”
Niers sighed.
“Of course, Kissilt! I’m not making up the teams to be fair. Take notes of your opponents, students! This is a game about triumph by any means necessary. It’s not meant to be fair. Everything goes. Romin, Umina, you two partner up with Nishelt. Two officers and one [Strategist] sounds balanced. But for our fourth team—how about we create an unfair advantage?”
In her seat, Umina looked up sharply. She glanced at Marian and nudged her. The Centauress blinked as Umina showed her something. Romin, three rows up, was smiling good-naturedly.
“Looks like we get the practice-battle champion on our team. Tough luck, you all!”
Merrik paused as he stared down at his notes. Slowly, he nudged Peki and underlined something. She blinked down at his papers.
“Aw, Professor!”
Some of the students were calling out. At their seats, Wil, Venaz, and Yerranola were intent, staring down at Niers. The Minotaur’s eyes flicked to his two friends, and then to Kissilt—the Drake was still grumbling about Humans. Yerranola nodded and Wil kicked Venaz once under the table. The Minotaur kicked him back. Not hard. Wil repeated the process with Yerranola.
“Unfair is fair! And we’ll even change the points-buy system. Team four will have fifteen thousand points! And they’ll be made up of five members! Stop screaming at me! Now, who shall they be made up of? Let’s try…”
Niers looked amused as he waved his arms. He looked around, and his eyes narrowed.
“Hm. Angelica from Terandria, Lishelle of Chandrar—I want no infighting, you two! Miss Angelica, your stated issues with other species do not carry you far here.”
“What? Professor—”
The young [Princess] from Terandria turned pale. She was new to the academy, having come too late in spring to be a regular student. Instead, she was slated for a summer course of personal instruction to catch her up to the fall classes. She might have protested more, but she bit her lip on the reply. Niers looked at her sternly.
“I will brook no objections, Princess Angelica. Now, since your team is full of two first-year students, how about a senior student? Alvaik, you are a second-year student, but your [Mage] classes provide interesting synergy. But we want this to be an unfairly advantaged team! So let’s make them a team of five. Who should I add? Who indeed…”
Marian looked down at her friends. Feshi was writing on a scroll, her quill urgently flicking down the parchment as she sniffed a few times. Foliana was across the room, but she turned her head at the flare of magic. She chewed on another grape. Marian hesitated, then raised her hand.
“What about Reniz and I, Professor?”
“Excellent suggestion, Marian. I’ll allow it.”
The Titan smiled at her and Marian smiled back tightly. One student, a Dullahan sitting next to Cameral, couldn’t bear it any longer. She raised her head and hand in protest.
“Professor, I must object. Two advanced students and three juniors and a three-thousand point buy lead? How are the other teams supposed to compete?”
Niers pointed at her, smiling cheerfully.
“That’s the exact question [Strategists] must be asking themselves when they face the King of Destruction, Elicia. And the answer is: you have to be better, luckier, or more cunning. We’re here to level, not to be balanced! So why don’t we give your team eight thousand points and four members?”
The Dullahan girl paled as some of the other students looked sympathetic or laughed. Venaz stood up abruptly.
“Professor, please excuse me. I have to use the restroom.”
“If you want to, Venaz. Now, for Elicia’s team—Feshi first, then Lellint. From Professor Perorn’s class, why not? Then Elicia and…”
Niers waved a hand absently. Venaz got up, and Foliana followed him down the rows as he walked down the amphitheater towards the door. She was nearing the door, looking at Venaz’s tense back and preparing to poke, when Niers called out. He pointed at Venaz and raised his voice.
“Alright, that’s enough. Venaz, back to your seat.”
“Professor?”
The Minotaur turned. The rest of the class glanced up. Wil, Marian, Yerranola, and Umina tensed, as did half the officer classes. Feshi just looked up, saw Niers’ smile, and groaned into her paws.
Niers Astoragon was smiling. As Foliana eyed Venaz and put another grape on his second horn, the Titan spoke.
“Venaz, while I admire your straightforward approach, I would have left raising the alarm to a more covert classmate. Some points deducted since no one asks to use the toilet.”
The Minotaur’s jaw dropped. He stared at Niers and relaxed suddenly. Wil sat back, exhaling hard. Kissilt looked blank.
“What is he talking about? The Professor? Will? Yerranola?”
The Selphid shook her head, pointing down as Niers went on.
“Points to Marian for adding to my warning! Points off to Umina, sadly. And you too, Merrik! Our invisible spy could have been standing behind you. Unless you wrote the warning in code? And congratulations to Miss Feshi! An excellent use of a [Message] scroll. But we’ll need to cancel the alarm. One moment, class—Foliana, stop putting grapes on Venaz’ horns!”
He roared at the Squirrel-woman. She looked up. Venaz jumped, leapt backwards when she appeared, and felt at his horns with an oath. The class of students all jerked backwards as Foliana suddenly became visible. She stared up at Niers. He glared at her.
“Do you have to bother my class too? Give back Kissilt’s lunch. And Feshi’s grapes, and in the name of reason, stop stealing my students’ inkpots!”
Foliana blinked up at Niers. She looked around at the room full of students staring wide-eyed at the infamous [Rogue] and grudgingly pulled out an inkpot. Kissilt, at his desk, swore as he realized his was missing again.
 
——
 
It took Niers ten full minutes to return to the classroom. He had to step outside to quell the alarm Feshi had raised, and she had well and truly done so. Prompted by her [Message] spell, the entire citadel was now convinced there was an [Assassin] or other intruders in the Titan’s classroom and converging on the spot.
And not with one or two [Guards] either. The Forgotten Wing Company did not play games. Perorn herself was leading a squad of the company’s elite Selphids down the corridor and Peclir Im was waiting on the other side with a group of [Mages]. They stared and cursed when Niers, carried by Venaz, informed them it was Foliana.
The Squirrel-woman was eating the rest of Feshi’s grapes as Perorn, Niers and Peclir all converged around her. She didn’t look concerned at the fuss. She stared at Venaz as the Minotaur eyed her, wide-eyed. He tried to return her stare, but after three minutes he had to blink and glance away. Niers was growling.
“You can’t just bother my students all the time! First the comb, now this—”
“So we may cancel the alarm, Lord Astoragon?”
Peclir Im, the [Chamberlain] to the citadel, looked resigned. Perorn, also known as Perorn Sadiluc, Fleethoof, and one of the best [Strategists] in the company outside of Niers himself, was furious. She glared at both leaders of the company, but her ire was reserved for one of them alone.
“Lady Foliana—no, Niers. Why did you decide to make Lady Foliana’s presence an issue? Much less call in a full alarm? There are dozens of alerts spreading at this moment! Peclir—”
“I will issue an immediate explanation. However, some of the officers may insist on personally ensuring the all-clear is not a ruse…”
“What? Why is it my fault? Foliana has been harassing my students all throughout my lesson—”
Niers blinked as Perorn poked a finger at him. The Centauress bent and glared at the Titan balanced on Venaz’s palm.
“You knew full well that Lady Foliana would remain hidden. Instead, you decided to alarm your students and issue a full alert!”
The Titan spluttered indignantly.
“That was Feshi! Which, let’s be fair, was excellent work from her! I decided to turn Foliana into an exercise! And we can observe how fast our company reacts to alarms—”
“Don’t make excuses! I don’t care what silly issues you have with Lady Foliana. This is unacceptable, Niers.”
“She stole my comb! Which—I grant you isn’t proportional to this—er—”
The Titan wore a rare look of chagrin as Perorn chewed him out for five minutes. Foliana had vanished again. Venaz kept feeling at his horns with his other hand warily and looking around. Both Perorn and Niers were watching Foliana, though, as she nibbled on some grapes in more or less the same spot. At last, Perorn turned to her.
“Lady Foliana.”
Foliana appeared next to Perorn. The Squirrel-woman paused and waved slightly at the Centauress.
“Perorn. Mm. Hello.”
The Centauress smiled slightly. She inclined her head to Foliana.
“I apologize on behalf of Lord Astoragon’s behavior.”
“Me? But she’s the one lurking around in my class!”
Perorn shot Niers a look. Then she hesitated and turned to Foliana.
“Which she’s done before now. Although—Lady Foliana, may I request that our students study uninterrupted?”
The Squirrel-woman hesitated. Foliana grudgingly nibbled on a grape.
“Maybe. How’d they know I was there?”
She blinked at Venaz. Niers rolled his eyes.
“I alerted them, of course.”
“How?”
“Secretly.”
Foliana paused.
“Makes sense. How?”
Perorn sighed. She rubbed at her forehead and turned around.
“Enough. I’m going to reassure half our [Commanders] that we’re not under attack. Lady Foliana, a good morning to you. Lord Astoragon.”
She trotted off. Niers glowered after Perorn. Foliana smiled and addressed Venaz, who was watching her warily.
“She likes me more than him. Mm. Grape?”
“No thank you, er, Lady Stalker.”
The Minotaur bowed stiffly. He was very ill-at-ease around Foliana. Most people were. Niers sighed.
“Well, back inside. Let’s explain what happened, shall we? Foliana, please don’t vanish until after I finish my explanation. Then stay out of my classroom and you can keep the comb. Deal?”
“Deal.”
Foliana followed Niers and Venaz back inside the classroom. The students stared at her with wide-eyes. And not like they looked at Niers. He was famous, but he was also a renowned figure, known, celebrated. But Foliana was the shadow of the Titan’s legend. Few of them had seen her, even after years of staying at the academy.
And they knew what she did. Every eye focused on the grapes Foliana was holding. Niers sighed as he took his place on the lectern.
“My apologies, class! I had intended this only to be a short lesson, but it has become something of an incident. May I present Foliana of the Squirrel Beastkin tribes? Also known as Three-Color Stalker, our company’s illustrious leader. She was indeed lurking around the classroom, hence our little exercise.”
The students stared at Foliana. She waved absently. Feshi stood up, looking deeply embarrassed.
“Professor, I apologize for sending the [Message].”
“Not at all, Feshi. It was my fault for prompting the lesson.”
Niers’ cheeks were a bit flushed. He looked around and shook his head. Some of the students still didn’t understand what was happening. Niers rapped the podium, cutting short the whispers.
“I am certain some of my new students are confused at what just happened. Well, to be brief, I noticed Foliana’s presence in my classroom and decided to covertly warn you all there was someone lurking amongst us. That was how they raised the alarm, Foliana. I began to use a code and some of my students figured it out. May I have a show of hands as to who picked up on the clues?”
About half the class raised their hands obediently. Foliana blinked around. She turned transparent, then reappeared as Niers glared at her. She looked blankly at him.
“Mm. I don’t get it.”
“It was quite simple. I used a code as I assigned team names. And I referenced events that hadn’t ever happened, like Miss Yerranola partnering with Peki and Sillk. And accused other students of transgressions, like Miss Angelica. I do apologize.”
The [Princess] nodded, her eyes wide. Niers picked up his wand and began writing in the air, spelling out the four teams he’d listed.
Sillk, Peki, and Yerranola.
Kissilt, Illial, Leondir, and Laiz.
Romin, Umina, and Nishelt.
Angelica, Lishelle, Alvaik, Reniz, and Marian.
Foliana watched, chewing the last grapes. She tiled her head, confused. The students in the lecture hall were nodding, and now the students who hadn’t gotten the coded message were groaning. Kissilt covered his face.
“Ancestors. How’d I miss—”
Foliana just scratched her side.
“Still don’t get it. Is it clever?”
