“Babies. Mm. Let’s go find babies.”
The students stared at her. Umina’s jaw worked.
“You mean—find some babies, Lady Foliana? We—we can do that.”
“Yes. Let’s go. Find babies.”
“We can do that. I know a mother down Spicesel Street that—”
Marian babbled, turning around. But then Foliana’s paw pointed.
“No. That way.”
“That way?”
The three female students blinked. Foliana was pointing away from the citadel, into the heart of the city. The Squirrel-woman nodded sagely.
“I know where to find babies. Go that way.”
Marian looked at her friends. But then she began trotting forwards, obediently turning as Foliana instructed her. It wasn’t what she’d had in mind for her day. But she was far too nervous to say no.
 
——
 
“Here we are.”
Foliana gestured up at the fancy frontage of the…shop they’d come to. Umina’s mouth opened. Feshi blinked up at the sign. Marian just stared.
“This is a brothel.”
“Mhm. Babies come from here. Sometimes.”
“Uh—but they won’t be here right now, Lady Foliana. And this—this is a rather—”
Umina trailed off. She was staring around. It wasn’t that this was a seedy part of Elvallian. Far from it. It was rather upscale. And this brothel—because it most certainly was not a daycare—was elaborately decorated. Umina stared up at the frontage. By her side, Wil mouthed the name of the establishment.
“The Scaleless Sight. What does that mean?”
He looked around. Venaz blinked at the sign. Cameral’s face was bright-red, and he kept looking around to see if anyone he knew was in sight. Yerranola was just grinning, and so was Kissilt. The Selphid leaned over.
“It means, Wil—”
She whispered in his ear. Venaz bent to listen and jerked back, grunting. Wil turned bright red.
“What? Reall—Yerranola!”
He jerked backwards, flushing. Yerranola just laughed in delight.
“Wil, you’re a treasure! Haven’t you ever been to a proper brothel?”
“No! They’re banned in my kingdom!”
“What?”
“And you’ve never visited one before?”
Even Marian looked incredulous. But Umina, Cameral, and Wil were all turning various shades of red. Venaz glanced over at Marian and Feshi. The Gnoll shook her head too.
“I never wanted to, yes?”
“I’m surprised. Not at you, Feshi, but certainly at Cameral and Umina. You’re all of Baleros.”
“Why does that mean we should be familiar with brothels? Marian, you’ve been to one?”
“Not so loud, Umina. And it’s not strange! Dullahans are the ones who’re strange about sex. It’s perfectly natural! Don’t look at me like that!”
The Centauress turned red. Yerranola nodded.
“That’s right. Everyone else has been there. Right, Venaz?”
She nudged the Minotaur. He paused.
“Well, I’ve never needed to myself. Minos doesn’t have them either.”
“What? You hypocrite! Is it just Marian, Kissilt, and me? Then this is a great opportunity!”
The Centauress looked very uncomfortable as Yerranola slung an arm around her shoulder. Venaz tried to clarify as the others looked uncomfortably at each other.
“It’s simply that I haven’t had the need to. I find ample company on my own. Paying for it is demeaning. If you can’t find a suitable partner, then what are you?”
Wil turned even redder, and Yerranola smacked Venaz’s arm.
“Don’t be a lout.”
“Wait, you mean—”
The Minotaur looked incredulous. He opened his mouth, and Foliana poked him. She was still riding Marian.
“He’s never had sex. [Lords] don’t. Mm. Dullahans wait too. And that one.”
She pointed at Umina. Cameral and Wil both looked like they wanted to sink into the ground. There was an explosive laugh from the side. Kissilt clutched at his sides, guffawing loudly.
“Hah! Really?”
“Damn it, Kissilt! Don’t be a Drake!”
Marian scowled at him. Venaz opened his mouth to retort as well, glanced at Foliana, and hesitated. After a moment, with all the tact he had, he turned away from his classmates and bowed to her.
“Lady Foliana. This is—not a place where babies will be found.”
“They come from here. Sometimes.”
The students looked at each other. Cameral scratched his head. None of them could quite follow Foliana’s logic, but she’d dragged Umina, Marian, and Feshi there. And Yerranola, Venaz, Kissilt, and Cameral had all been walking down the street when Foliana’s group had come across them. They’d followed her and she’d led them here.
To a brothel. It was…very inviting. There was the smell of strawberries in the air, and but for the name, Umina could have imagined this was some high-class bar or other establishment. But…she knew it was a brothel. Feshi kept sniffing the air, and she looked almost as embarrassed.
“This is not exactly where babies may be found, Lady Stalker.”
“There might be. Go in. Mm.”
The Squirrel-woman was insistent. The students looked at each other. At this point, Marian felt compelled to put her hoof down. She turned her torso to address Foliana politely.
“Lady Foliana, not to disagree, but there won’t be any babies inside this…brothel. It’s not a place for that. As I’m sure you’re aware?”
That last was a question. It was impossible to read Foliana’s face. She stared at Marian, and the tri-colored gaze made the Centauress shiver.
“Odds of babies being within are low. True. But go in anyways. Mm.”
“Why not? If you three haven’t ever gotten your scales wet, it’s beyond time!”
Kissilt was enjoying the moment. He put an arm around Wil and Cameral, and both Dullahan and Human edged away. Venaz frowned.
“Surely it would be better for them to find their own company, Kissilt. After all, what can one expect from a…place like this?”
Yerranola rolled her eyes.
“Quality, Venaz? Don’t be so dismissive! What we have here are experts in the field of sex. With levels! And Skills! Dead gods, you’ve never heard [Sailors] sing about going to brothels?”
Venaz folded his arms.
“Minotaur crews don’t sing bawdy songs. But I suppose we could go inside.”
He looked around. Marian shifted her hooves, but Foliana was urging her forwards. Umina’s mouth was dry.
“I—I don’t know. This is sudden! Why are we here? And Wil and Cameral shouldn’t go in if they don’t want to! Dullahans wait until they’re married. Right, Cameral?”
“Traditionally. But if everyone else is going…”
The Dullahan shifted his feet. He wasn’t saying ‘no’. Umina looked at Wil.
“Do you have to…?”
“Well, it’s not like there’s an actual rule. And I’m not going to run away.”
The [Lord] turned his head, coughing as he flushed further. Umina realized both he and Cameral were waiting. Kissilt grinned.
“See? We should have gone here ages ago! They need someone to take them in first. You too, Venaz. We’ll all go in—”
“With Lady Foliana?”
Marian glared at Kissilt. The Drake paused. Everyone stared at the Squirrel-woman. She hadn’t gotten off Marian’s back.
“You want to go in here, Lady Foliana?”
“Mm. Yup.”
The students hesitated. Then, carefully, Venaz cleared his throat.
“The Professor always has us expanding our worldview. Very well. It’s not as if we have to do anything. After me.”
He marched up to the doors and swung them open. Umina groaned, jumping from foot to foot as Kissilt dragged Wil and Cameral forwards, chortling. Yerranola looked at her.
“You don’t have to come, Umina.”
“No—I—I want to take a look, I guess. But I’m not a Lizardboy!”
“They have services for females too, Umina.”
“Yeah, but—well, are they good?”
Yerranola and Marian exchanged a glance. Feshi sneezed and grinned.
“Probably very good, yes? Let’s go inside at least.”
“Go.”
Foliana patted Marian’s back. The Centauress sighed.
“Lady Foliana wants us to go. Is everyone…? Alright, then.”
The party entered the brothel. It was not, as Umina expected, a covert place with all kinds of veils and drapes and secrets. A [Receptionist] was at the desk, a Lizardman dressed in a very smart suit.
“I’m afraid this is reservation-only, sirs. Unless you have a prior one, I can only schedule you for…”
He was speaking to Venaz, but he dropped his quill when he saw Foliana.
“Is—ah—Three-Color—Lady Foliana?”
He stuttered, backing up. Foliana put a paw to her lips as she hopped off Marian’s back.
“Secret. Mm. No one knows I’m here.”
She glanced up at the corridor behind the [Receptionist]. They led into a number of side corridors. There was also a second floor. Umina heard nothing, which meant the walls were soundproof. Everyone watched as Foliana pulled something out of her bag of holding.
A jam biscuit. She nibbled it, paused, and nodded. She looked at the Lizardman at the desk.
“No one knows I’m here. So. Shh.”
“Y—of course! Lady Stalker, it is an honor to have you here. I’ll inform the manager at once—”
The [Receptionist] stuttered. He froze as Foliana held up another paw.
“No.”
“No?”
“No. We want a room. So they can all have sex. Or something. Mm. Maybe have sex. Witness professionals.”
The Lizardman’s mouth moved. He opened his neck-frills slightly, glancing at Venaz. The Minotaur shrugged.
“As Lady Stalker says.”
“W-well, we can open a room. For Lady Stalker, anything! A…private setting? With males and females for…”
He counted.
“Eight? I’ll see to it.”
“Mm. Good.”
Foliana nodded. She was fishing in Wil’s bag of holding. The young [Lord] jerked back when he realized, but Foliana already had a few salted crackers. She began munching on them as the [Receptionist] consulted his ledger.
“I—I’ll see to it at once. It won’t be a moment! If the illustrious company will wait?”
He looked around. The students stared back; Kissilt was nodding, grinning, and Yerranola was chortling with amusement. Foliana stopped the Lizardman as he tried to back away towards one of the rooms. He froze as she fixed him with a stare, reappearing next to him.
“Shh. No telling. Just guests. Seven students. And no female Nagas. Mm. Jiggle too much.”
The Lizardman’s mouth worked. Marian’s jaw dropped. The [Receptionist] actually looked relieved, though.
“Of course. We have all manner of employees, if Lady Stalker had any other preferences in gender, species…?”
“No. Female. Nagas.”
She poked him, emphasizing each word. The [Receptionist] nodded and hurried off. The students stared as Foliana sat down on the rich hardwood floor and kept nibbling her crackers. At last, Marian snapped her fingers. She leaned down to Umina and Feshi and whispered.
“Do you think Lady Foliana just wants to visit a brothel and dragged us along?”
“I don’t know why I’m here.”
Umina groaned. Feshi shrugged. She was watching Foliana.
“Merrik, he would love this, yes? Let’s just go along, Umina. It will be a story to tell.”
The other students agreed. They looked at each other, most apprehensively. Yerranola was rubbing her hands together.
“This is going to be hilarious.”
Kissilt clearly agreed. But then he nodded at the [Receptionist], who was hurrying back and gesturing towards them.
“I’m just glad there aren’t female Nagas. I’m not interested, thanks.”
The [Receptionist] and Umina glared at Kissilt. He smirked at them and tripped on Foliana’s extended foot.
 
——
 
Another thing Umina learned in her time in the brothel was that there were all kinds of…brothels. Some were simple and to the point. You went in, you paid for sex, and you went out. There were all kinds of reasons why you’d do that—and why you wouldn’t. Venaz was listing them off as the party waited in a very pleasant room for their escorts to arrive.
“It can spread diseases. It promotes crime. It’s not an honorable profession—”
“Oh, get stuffed, Venaz. Don’t be a prude.”
Yerranola threw a pillow at him. Half the group was reclining on couches. The room was…plush. Kissilt was investigating a set of alcohol, snacks—anything one might want set upon the tables. There were curtains too, to cordon off the area, but Umina had noticed the doors that led to private rooms. She felt flushed, uncertain—but Marian was next to her and kept patting her on the shoulders.
“You don’t have to do anything, Umina. You can just…look.”
“Will there be anything to see?”
“Definitely. It’s, uh—well, I’ve never been anywhere as nice as this, but I know we’re getting a show.”
Yerranola grinned at Umina. And she was right. The magical lighting in the room dimmed, and Umina caught a whiff of perfume. She froze, and the other students looked up. And then? Well, the first person to walk in was a Gnoll. He was bare-chested. Bare-legged. And an earthy smell hung about him. But he was far from unkempt. In fact, he looked like the most attractive Gnoll Umina had ever met. He grinned, his eyes alighting on the company.
He was professional, too. Unlike the [Receptionist], the Gnoll took no notice of Foliana individually. He just bowed.
“Ladies. Gentlemen. I’m delighted to make your acquaintance. My companions and I were told we had some significant guests. And beautiful ones too. My name is Herrsk. I’d like to get to know you, yes?”
He looked around. The Squirrel-woman was sitting up on a couch. She blinked at him.
“Mm. Hello.”
“Would you care for a drink, Lady Foliana? Or may we address you more…casually?”
The word casually rolled off his tongue, suggesting all kinds of things. Foliana blinked at him.
“Mm. No drinks. Casual is good.”
The Gnoll nodded. He turned and smiled her way. A second person entered the room from behind the drapes. A female Lizardwoman. She had fiery red scales and tossed her head.
“And me?”
She presented herself to Foliana. The Squirrel-woman gave her a long look. So long that the Lizardwoman’s fiery façade wavered under the stare.
“Mm. No.”
Meanwhile, the Gnoll, Herrsk, was approaching the other females in the group. He bent, growling a greeting towards Feshi.
“Greetings, sister. It’s rare to see another Gnoll so far from home. What tribe are you from?”
“Weatherfur. I’m not interested, thank you.”
Feshi grinned warily at Herrsk. He nodded. Umina realized this was a choice being made. She jumped; her heart thudding even louder. Kissilt was fending off the female Lizardwoman, but with difficulty.
“I’m not interested in lizards.”
“Oh? And here I thought Drakes were more than talk. But I suppose if I scare you, I can find another friend.”
The Lizardwoman poked Kissilt in the chest. He flushed with outrage as Venaz laughed.
“I never said—”
“Ladies. Would you mind me keeping you company?”
Herrsk slid into a seat next to Umina and Marian. The two students looked at each other. Marian, clearly embarrassed, shook her head. Herrsk chuckled.
