The dragon let out another sigh. “Don’t worry, I’m not here for revenge. I’m just sad it had to come to this. Yrelstromoz always had problems and was a difficult whelp from birth, but her parents tried to keep her under control. After their death and she became a fully grown True Dragon… I want to say that was when she lost her way, but I fear it only allowed her to express her true nature. In some ways, what happened today was inevitable.”

Jake wasn’t quite sure what to say, and while it felt a bit insensitive, he still let out a sigh himself. “This may sound weird, but I’m sorry for your loss.”

“Don’t be,” the dragon said with a small smile. “She went too far. She killed someone she shouldn’t have, and if it hadn’t been you, it would have been someone else. If she had to die… I’m happy someone like you killed her. At least then her Legacy will be more than just that of another dragon too drunk on arrogance getting themselves killed.”

“If it’s any consolation, I think it was a good fight,” Jake said. He couldn’t quite say if it lived up to the unrealistic expectations he’d built up in his mind, but overall, he did believe it was a good fight. It was just an odd one.

Yrelstromoz had been incredibly weak yet also powerful at the same time. If she had fought seriously right from the beginning, it would have been far harder, but even with her change in demeanor coming a smidge too late, she had still proven why the True Dragons were an apex race in the multiverse.

“I’m glad to hear that,” the dragon said, sounding sincere. She looked at Jake for a few moments before turning from sad to a more severe look. “Now, this may be presumptuous of me, but she is still family. If the Chosen allows it, I would like to put her to rest with her parents… to at least allow her in the ancestral graveyard.”

Jake raised an eyebrow at the request as the dragon continued.

“In return, I’ll make sure you don’t suffer any losses from it. I’m fully aware the body of a True Dragon holds immense value, but if you allow me to take her, I’ll at least help you extract and empower her heart with all the useful Records in the corpse before leaving,” the aunt of Yrelstromoz offered.

“Alright,” Jake said, not needing to think about the matter much. Even if she didn’t offer to empower the heart, Jake would feel weird about telling the aunt he wanted to keep the corpse to peel off the scales, drain it of blood, cut out all useful organs, and finally extract the bones.

“I thank the Chosen for his magnanimity,” the dragon bowed. “The Lumenflight owes you for your kindness.”

She raised her hand towards the corpse and spoke some words Jake couldn’t even hear. Jake saw the entire corpse of Yrelstromoz light up for a second, and a moment later, a heart was phased out of the dead dragon’s chest. It floated out toward the aunt, who quickly directed it toward Jake.

He didn’t take the time to inspect it yet, but merely accepted the heart. Looking at the corpse, he saw that it looked even worse for wear now, and it no longer gave off the same aura as before.

The aunt also looked at it one final time before waving her hand, depositing the corpse in her spatial storage. She closed her eyes for a moment, let out her last sigh, and turned to Jake.

“Once more, thank you. I shall leave you now… Dragonslayer,” she said, and true to her words, she was gone the very next moment, leaving Jake alone.

Feeling she was no longer watching him either, Jake fell back on his ass, also finally letting go of Arcane Awakening, allowing weakness to flood his beaten and battered body.

“Fuck me,” Jake muttered as the pain came back with full force now that he relaxed a little. His body was a royal mess, and even breathing hurt, but he focused his mind and closed his eyes as he entered meditation to recover.

He still felt lingering energy from the Dragon’s Breath in his body, and it would take a bit before he was back to full power, but hey, at least he had a nice stack of system messages to go through and keep him distracted.

But more than that, as he sat there relaxing, full realization kicked in, and he couldn’t help but smile.

Finally killed a True Dragon…
