Ren still had his hand out through the bars of the cage to be shaken, and he felt a thin delicate hand take it. He felt a deluge of emotions from the Night Hag, almost too many to sort through in the brief moment that she touched his hand. At the forefront was a grudging respect for him, and he held her hand tenderly and shook it.

“Does this satisfy you?” She asked.

“Yes.” Ren said, and the decision popup to deal with the Night Hag disappeared. “May I look upon you now?”

“That was the agreement.” She said.

Ren lifted his head from Tiatha's chest and looked at the Night Hag. She was about 7 feet tall and had a distinct look of a Dark Elf, with dark grey skin and elfin features and long ears. She had long black hair that went down to her waist, and unlike Dark Elves, she had two distorted and twisted horns sticking out of the sides of her forehead. They almost intertwined in her hair, and the point of one was broken off.

“REN!” Tiatha, Artemis, and Small Princess yelled.

“What?”

“Oh! You can hear us now?” Tiatha asked.

Ren nodded and smiled at the Night Hag. “That was sneaky.” He said. “I didn't even notice that you hid their voices.” He chuckled. “I thought they were just keeping quiet while we talked.”

The Night Hag smiled and bared her teeth.

“We were so worried!” Tiatha said and kissed his cheek, and he felt her worry. “You weren't saying anything at all, and then your hand went out through the bars of the cage.” She said and looked where his hand had been. “Where's the cage?”

“I've reached an agreement with her.” Ren said. “One soul for our continued freedom.”

“NO!” Tiatha yelled. “You can't do this!” She said and held on tightly. “I can't let you...”

“Hush.” The Night Hag said and Tiatha stopped talking. “Now, Adventurer.” She said. “Fulfill your part of the bargain.”

Teepo, do you trust me? Ren thought to his friend.

Always. Teepo thought back.

Thank you. Ren thought and picked up Teepo from his shoulder. “Here is the soul you need.”

“That is just a beetle.” The Night Hag said. “I need-”

“I'm a lot more than that!” Teepo said and cut off her words, and the Night Hag froze.

“Wh-what?”

“I've been Ren's friend for years!” Teepo said. “If anyone is going to sacrifice themselves for him, it's going to be me!”
