“Hey! She thought I’d be more impressive and less—you know. Warty? Plus, I’m a City Runner these days. See?”
Alevica showed the two her Runner’s Seal, and Califor considered all of this and gave Alevica a tight nod.
“We shall see who else attends. I have hopes Agratha can make it. Shall we?”
Then the two were walking, and Alevica, wincing slightly, flew alongside the other two, chatting as Nanette listened in, wonderingly staring at Alevica’s broom. She hoped she’d be allowed a ride this time.
“Er, Agratha might not make it, Witch Califor. There was a dead [Witch]—and she lost her schoolhouse.”
“Dead gods. Why?”
“Oh, you know, idiots. The poor [Witch] was being hunted. Same cause. Um—uh—where have you two been? Ah! Witch Oliyaya sends her regards, and the Glokhen Coven has some gifts…”
Califor answered calmly as they rode ahead. When she accepted Oliyaya’s letter and a wrapped parcel, Alevica exhaled and flew back a step, clearly relieved. Then she twisted and, far more casually, gave Nanette a smile and wink.
Nanette, who of course knew Alevica by name if not face, and reputation, hurriedly tipped her hat and bowed in the saddle. Alevica tipped hers with a grin that made the girl blush, and Califor clicked her tongue. Her mare walked forwards.
In the distance, Beniar turned, and his Darksky Riders began to ride back. He, of course, had a lot of questions, but the [Witches] were already nearing Riverfarm.
“Dismount. These things should be done properly.”
At Califor’s words, the two [Witches] dismounted, and the animals walked alongside the three without the need for reins. Califor glanced at Alevica.
“How was your journey, Witch Alevica? The sixteen [Bandits] you killed—was it poverty or the summer’s heat that drove them to their terrible end? Next time, you would do well to at least burn the bodies.”
Alevica blinked; she hadn’t brought up the [Bandits]. She stuttered.
“Er—I don’t know why they were here. And I was in a hurry to make it, so… I…”
They headed into Riverfarm down the main street. Beniar, chasing after them, drew up when he realized they had no intention of waiting for him. He returned to the Darksky Riders, who were checking the [Bandits]. One of the [Riders] looked up.
“What’s with the flying woman, Beniar? The two travellers safe?”
The young man grunted sourly.
“I think so. I’ll head back once we’re sure we got all the [Bandits]. Do a sweep nearby; I’ll take four that way. Then I’ll ask about those three. Some people have no manners.”
He scratched at his chin as he turned his horse. Then again…what was the oldest woman’s name? Califor? She’d been very composed despite nearly getting killed by [Bandits]. Califor…
Why did that name ring a bell?
 
 
Day 56 – Prost
 
Mister Prost was not a happy man. He was a [Steward], a class that was, by and large, not generally happy. He accepted that. And Prost had found he was often content if not happy. But right now he was neither content nor happy. He stood in the middle of a square in front of a pair of pillories. There was a man in said pillory.
Master Elmmet. The man didn’t look as pompous as he normally did, strutting about and sneering at Riverfarm’s people. But, incredibly, he still managed to look down on Prost with both hands and head sticking out of the pillory and his ass facing the world. And quite a lot of world was watching.
“This is a sham, Mister Prost. I’m innocent. Framed! I may have been caught by that adventurer, Beniar, but only as I was attempting to catch the [Thief] myself! This is an indignity!”
Elmmet shouted at the crowd of people who’d gathered around the pillories to listen to the trial. At his words, there was a chorus of boos and shouts of outrage, but the people of Lancrel shouted at the villagers and non-Lancrel folk. Prost stared down at Elmmet and tried to contain his temper. The man in the pillory had the gall to return his look with an outraged one of his own.
“I don’t have time for lies, Master Elmmet. I’m only asking you one question. With all to see. Are you the [Thief] who’s been stealing from Riverfarm all this time?”
“I’d love to give you a straight answer, but I’m afraid to be denounced by that false truth stone you’re holding.”
The man sneered back, and with one hand, he pointed at the white quartz in Prost’s hand. The [Steward] grimaced as the stone flickered from red to blue too rapidly for anyone to see. It was a truth stone, but a cheap one. And it had two settings: red for false, blue for truth. The problem was getting Master Elmmet to speak something that wasn’t a half-lie. If he didn’t say anything that could be a ‘yes or no answer’, the truth stone wouldn’t work entirely properly, and both he and Prost knew it.
“This is a genuine truth stone, Mister Elmmet. Anyone who wants can test it out, and we have.”
“Such things can be faked! People of Lancrel, listen to me! I was framed! Do I look like a young man or the woman that people were calling a [Thief] in the street? I was set up as I pursued that very [Thief], and Mister Prost—along with his hired adventurers—decided to frame me!”
Elmmet protested, wide-eyed and innocent, to the crowd. Even Prost had to admit he didn’t look like either description. Elmmet had white hair, and he was hardly spry. But Prost knew Beniar was telling the truth.
“Any [Thief] can gain a Skill which allows him to change his face. Apparently, there’s one called [Master of Faces]. Do you have that Skill?”
The stone flickered from red to mostly blue as Prost held it closer to Elmmet. The man was sweating, for all his bravado. He licked his lips and replied hoarsely.
“If I were to answer, I believe the stone would lie.”
Red, then a flicker of blue. The stone couldn’t process the statement. Elmmet sighed, and Prost ground his teeth. He raised his voice, speaking to the crowd.
“You see your man Elmmet. He refuses to answer one question! Is he the [Thief]? He could free himself from the pillory this moment if he answered. If he continues to refuse, I will find him guilty for the dozens of thefts that have plagued Riverfarm. All of them.”
Lancrel’s folk stared back uncertainly. Many looked at Elmmet with distrust, and Prost was relieved to see some were clear thinkers. But too many listened to the [Thief] as he hoarsely shouted.
“Don’t believe this man! This is a conspiracy! He can control the truth stone! I demand a proper trial! An impartial judge!”
“I am the [Steward] of Riverfarm. This is your one trial, Elmmet!”
Prost lost his temper and bellowed at the man. The [Thief] flinched, but he still had that desperate confidence in his eyes. As if he thought he was really going to get out of this. Prost had already decided he was not. No matter what anyone said—if Prost couldn’t get the man to admit his crimes, it didn’t matter. He was a [Thief], and Prost would make sure he was jailed. Laken could deal with him. Prost was sure driving out Elmmet would just see him reappear as the [Thief] and cause more trouble, and as for anything else—
“Mister Prost, I have to object on my Councilman’s behalf. Can we be sure that this truth stone is really as valid as you claim? Is there no possibility that Elmmet was wrongly accused?”
A polite voice called out behind Prost. The former-[Farmer] gritted his teeth as he turned. If he could, he would have thrown the smiling woman addressing him into the pillory next to Elmmet.
“Councilwoman Beatica. This truth stone is accurate. Or are you claiming that this is all a conspiracy as Mister Elmmet says? I warn you, that is a lie I will not have repeated. Beniar has sworn on a truth stone his account is accurate, and his report is backed up by Durene, the Darksky Riders, and a dozen other witnesses. Are you suggesting everyone who claims to have seen Master Elmmet is lying?”
If she was, she was claiming there was no real authority that could be trusted in Riverfarm except her own. Prost held the woman’s gaze and saw Beatica hesitate. She smiled and spread her arms, turning to address the crowd of city folk behind her. Not the villagers.
“Of course not! I believe everyone present saw exactly what they claimed. But magic—Skills—they can fake a man’s face, can’t they? What if the [Thief] used his [Master of Faces] Skill to impersonate Elmmet? Mister Prost, can we be certain beyond any shadow of a doubt that this is our [Thief] and not a wrongly accused man?”
The Lancrel crowd nodded. Prost stared at Beatica’s smile and then noticed the flickering truth stone in his hand. And he realized that if he answered her, the stone might turn red.
“No one can be certain of anything, Councilwoman. Which is why your question has no answer.”
Beatica’s lips pursed for a second, and Prost sensed her disappointment in not luring him into her trap. She kept going, though. She probably didn’t even care for Elmmet, Prost suspected, but if the damn [Thief] was found guilty, it would throw her authority into question. Beatica spoke like a [Town Crier] and with the eloquence of a [Bard], gently persuading those undecided in the crowd.
“But doesn’t that mean that the same logic applies to Councilman Elmmet’s situation? If we cannot be certain of his guilt—”
“Are you mad, woman?”
A barking voice interrupted Beatica at last. Prost had been trying, but the woman’s [Uninterrupted Monologue] Skill had been silencing him. Not Mister Helm, though. The [Blacksmith] roared behind Beatica, slamming one fist into his palm.
“Don’t you dare try to spin it like that bastard’s innocent! He’s been weaseling out of an honest reply, and there’s only one answer to why that is! Why deliberate? Why bother to ask? He’s only told lies—but me and everyone else saw him stealing with our own two eyes! We saw him get nabbed, and there wasn’t any conspiracy or someone switching faces! Isn’t that good enough? If you want the truth, use that stone on me!”
He pointed at Prost’s stone, which had stayed mostly blue during Helm’s speech. The crowd murmured agreement, and Beatica’s eyes flashed. But that damn smile—
“Mister Helm, I realize you’re upset, but eyes can be tricked—”
“Shut up!”
The [Blacksmith] bellowed straight at Beatica. The [Councilwoman] froze, unprepared for that. Prost grinned. She might be a [Politician], but she wasn’t used to someone like Helm, who was used to saying what needed saying over the roar of a forge. The man strode forwards, pointing a finger.
“Stop twisting your words, woman! That man’s a [Thief], and he deserves exile, a noose, or just a few broken bones! He’s guilty, and you Lancrel lot are just protecting him because he’s your big [Councilman]! As corrupt as all of you city-dwelling—”
A roar of outrage swallowed the rest of what Helm was shouting as the crowd, most of whom were city people or townsfolk, yelled at Helm. The villagers present bellowed back, and Prost’s heart sank. He saw Beatica stumbling back, looking wounded—and noticed the sly, foxlike smile too late. Of course, she wanted this. He shouted and then used a Skill.
“Silence!”
[Crowd Control]. Prost had to push to force everyone silent, but they fell quiet. Beatica looked uncertain as she noticed Prost using the Skill; the [Steward] was breathing hard with the effort. He looked around and wished Laken were here. But he was trusting Prost, so the man straightened his back and did what he could.
“Master Elmmet. Swear on this truth stone you aren’t the [Thief]. Or I will consider you as such. If you believe the truth stone to be a lie, say it anyways, and we’ll test this stone for all to see. But swear on it!”
He thrust the stone at the man’s face. Elmmet’s eyes darted left and right as he opened his mouth. There was silence, and into it, he croaked.
“I—I—ask my wife and daughter! They’ll vouch that I’m no [Thief]! Ask them!”
Prost made a sound of disgust and lowered the stone. But Elmmet’s words provoked more shouting, and a woman and daughter were thrust forwards. The woman, Elmmet’s wife, looked as untrustworthy as he did. And the girl? Terrified as she stared at the crowd. And her father.
Prost had seen families like that before. Maybe he and the wife deserved each other, but what daughter stared at her father like that? He looked over his shoulder and saw Elmmet smiling desperately. Prost ached to bash the man’s teeth in. But one wrong move and Lancrel’s people might turn on him. Where was Rie? Then again, what could she do? Prost turned, thinking desperately. If he passed judgment now—
Councilwoman Beatica was drawing breath for another plea to her masses. Helm was about to make things worse, and Prost saw someone—a city person or villager, he wasn’t sure—draw back a fist. In that moment, he saw the future, and the future was a fight where the situation would be muddled, explode with all the wrong things, and engulf Elmmet’s actual crime with too much drama to make sentencing him easy.
It was a trap. But before it was sprung, a woman pushed her way through the crowd, and her voice boomed like a falling tree.
“What’s all this fuss about? If the man’s guilty, let’s find out the easiest way!”
Her voice cut off Beatica’s speech. It interrupted the fight. It drew every eye, including Prost’s. He stared at the woman, and he was sure he’d never seen her before. You’d remember a woman like this.
Long ago, Humans had been hardier folk. Before they’d built cities, they lived in villages, hunted, provided for themselves with tools and techniques and sinew rather than buying it with gold. The early Humans, men and women, had been strong, tough enough to face monsters on the edge of civilization.
It was from their cloth this woman had been cut, and what cloth! She was a giant of a figure, her hair full and brown, her arms as thick as Helm’s. She was tall, bold—and she had a voice that would have made her a star among opera singers in another world. But in this one, she was dressed in travelling clothes, stained but clean. And her wide, brown hat was perfect for travelling.
She also had a presence, different from Prost’s or Beatica’s. She stepped forwards, and Prost only now realized she carried an axe. Was she a new arrival? One of the [Woodcutters]?
No. The woman gestured around at the crowd, and her voice reached every ear. There was no Skill in it, just volume.
“I see a lot of bother over a simple matter! You say this man’s a [Thief]? You want to know what crime he deserves? Well, I say, call on a [Guardsman]! Or failing that, call on me! I’ve seen the bad and good sort long enough. And I’ve a Skill to put all questions to rest.”
So saying, she strode forwards. Beatica opened her mouth, but Prost beat her to it.
