Day 56 – Beniar
 
This was how they came. A woman and a girl rode down towards the village in the distance. The woman was tall, thin, and her hat and dress were black. Properly so. Not midnight black or as black as sin, just black. She rode a horse. It wasn’t a racer or a brilliant stallion. It was, in fact, a mare and perfect for travel. Her voice was slightly snappish, but efficiently so.
“Keep up, Nanette. And sit properly; you’re riding the horse, not letting it bear you to market. Don’t make a poor impression. First ones are the only ones you get.”
“Yes, Miss Califor.”
The meek response didn’t appease the woman. She glanced to one side and eyed her companion.
“Remember your manners. It goes without saying that this is important business, or else we would not be here. Some of the others will expect proper courtesy.”
“I know, Miss Califor. I’ll do my best not to embarrass you.”
The woman pursed her lips.
“Embarrassment lasts as long as I care to remember it, Nanette. That isn’t what you should be concerned about. Some of the others are older. Which means proper courtesy is required. Eloise would consider it mannerly. And the others would be offended without.”
“L-like who?”
The chatter in the young voice made the woman named Califor pause. The fear wasn’t born of nothing, nor was the seriousness with which she gave the matter thought. Her mare plodded forwards as the woman thought, then nodded to herself and replied sharply.
“Mavika above all others. The rest wouldn’t stand on it, but Mavika would. Mavika and…we shall see who else attends. Be polite to Witch Mavika, Nanette. She is the old ways.”
The girl nodded rapidly, and her pony, snorting, decided its rider wasn’t in control. It stopped to nibble at a weed growing by the road. Miss Califor, noticing the pause, glared at the pony. The pony looked up, noticed the glare, and quickly trotted forwards so the two were side-by-side again. The girl blushed and gripped the reins more tightly; Miss Califor just sighed again.
“Don’t be worried, Nanette. You are accompanying me. Just remember your manners.”
She waited for the nod from the girl at her side. The slight smile the older woman gave reassured the girl. If she minded her manners, all would be well. That was all Nanette had to do; and all Miss Califor had to do was be…Miss Califor.
So the two rode. The landscape was lush, fed on rainwater, and full of growth. Wild grass and wheat escaped from farms bordered by forestland not yet cleared by Humans. The woman and girl watched as they rode, seeing how far some of the tree lines stretched. You could still find places like this out here. Riverfarm was rural, but there were parts of the continent yet desolate, where Humans—or people of any kind—had yet to leave any memory of their passing.
The woman’s back was straight, her posture correct. The girl tried to emulate her, but she was young. The girl also had a hat, but it was dark blue, fresh while the woman’s was worn. And she was timid where the woman was—not so much bold, but decisive. She decided what was done, and that was that.
It was thus something of a surprise when the [Bandits] poured out of a forest not fifteen miles from Riverfarm and surrounded the two. They were a rough lot, desperados as hungry as they were greedy. Their leader had an axe and a large horse, and he pointed it at the two, bellowing as they stopped at the unexpected hitch near the end of their journey.
“Don’t move! You move and you’re dead! Get out your coin and jewelry! Now!”
The woman looked affronted; the girl squeaked in horror and scrabbled for a wand at her side. She’d just managed to raise it when the woman slapped her arm down.
“Don’t point your wand if you don’t intend to use it, Nanette.”
“Smart.”
The [Bandit Leader] growled. He’d tensed with the others when the wand came out, never mind that it was held by a girl. He held out one hand.
“Let’s make this quick, alright? Hand over your money pouches and don’t delay! And off the horses or you’ll be two corpses.”
He might have actually been more civilized compared to the [Bandits] whom Ryoka had seen outright killing travellers on the road. Then again, the close proximity to Riverfarm and the now-infamous Darksky Riders had the [Bandits] sweating. But there was money to be made if you were quick! They spread out around the woman and girl.
The older woman with the black hat pursed her lips, looking more annoyed than anything. She glanced around at the group of armed men and women, then up for a second, and her frown intensified. The others watched her warily but confidently; she might be a [Mage], but they had the drop on her, and if she so much as twitched her hands or uttered the beginning of a spell, they’d cut her to pieces. They’d killed [Mages] before.
Slowly, Miss Califor got off her horse and shoved past a rough man with a sword. He blinked, and the [Bandit Leader] looked down at her as she stood on his left. The woman turned her head and called at her ward.
“Don’t get off that horse, Nanette. This doesn’t require any great spell. Just consideration. Now, you. Just what do you think you’re doing? I advise you to leave us be.”
So saying, she pointed a finger up at the [Bandit Leader]. He blinked at the tone in the woman’s voice.
“What? Give us the money, old woman, or die. One second. Otherwise I swing.”
The woman folded her arms and adjusted her hat, not impressed. One of the [Bandits], looking to his right at her, was impressed. She wasn’t flinching, and the axe was ready to fall. He shuffled left, and the woman did likewise.
“Don’t move!”
The [Bandit Leader] looked left. The group tensed—was this woman about to fight? You never knew—but the woman just shook her head.
“I don’t intend to fight, and I don’t intend to be robbed. I am offering you a choice. You have had many choices in your life that carried you here. Tell me. Did they make you happy? This one is clearly marked. Choose wisely.”
One could say much of Witch Califor. Her worn riding cloak sometimes swirled like a moving shadow, and the walking staff she carried might leave behind patches of vibrant grass. Her eyes, when wrathful, could flash like a bolt of lightning no matter how clear the skies.
But it was her voice that could not be escaped. She did not sound like an old grandmother, nor a stern lecturer. When she spoke, the [Bandits] stopped a second. Califor’s voice was…urgent. Almost worried without being explicitly so.
Not for her. For them. She spoke as if watching someone about to make a terrible mistake, and even the [Bandit Leader] hesitated. As if to reassure himself, he looked the woman up and down. Tall, gaunt, and not visibly dangerous. So he raised his axe and tried to growl as if to drown out her warning.
“You want to die? Money and horse. The girl too. Or I’ll cut you down and take it myself. Think I won’t?”
Miss Califor sighed. She gazed up at the [Bandit Leader] and shook her head. The note of concern vanished, and her voice became quiet.
“I think you will. More’s the pity. They money and the girl? Swing hard, man. Or else—”
The axe buried itself in her skull. She jerked, and the [Bandit Leader] roared as he yanked the bloody axe blade away. It came up, dripping with blood and brains. Nanette screamed.
“Miss Calif—”
The [Bandit Leader] bellowed at the [Bandits] on his right.
“Fucking woman! Get the girl—”
Then he paused. And the [Bandits] stared in horror. Because it wasn’t an old woman’s body lying on the ground, her head and hat cleaved in two. It was one of their own. The [Bandit] the woman had bumped into, who’d been on the [Bandit Leader]’s left—
Silently, the big man with the axe stared at the corpse. A woman with a bow lowered it, looking in horror at her leader.
“Jek! You killed Tobil!”
“I didn’t mean—I was aiming at the woman!”
“She was on your right! You were looking right at her! But you swung at Tobil!”
“No! I—”
The [Bandit Leader] stared around at his group. Then his head snapped up. The woman with the black hat stared at him from horseback. She addressed the pale-faced girl next to her.
“You see, Nanette? A small spell works better than obvious magic. What we see and show is more important. You are not a [Mage]. Remember that.”
“Yes, Miss Califor.”
The girl replied a touch breathlessly. Jek, the [Bandit Leader], stared at them as the woman nodded. She lifted her travelling cloak and whirled it across the air, blocking the two from sight. Her voice snapped.
“Good. Now—ride.”
The two on horseback wavered and then vanished. Jek and the [Bandits] spun. They saw two distant figures on horseback racing towards Riverfarm and only now heard the hoofbeats. Jek pointed, trembling with fury.
“Get them!”
The [Bandits] stormed after the pair, those without horses running to catch up. Ahead of them, Miss Califor considered their lead and the approaching village with narrowed eyes. Her apprentice, Nanette, clutched her horse’s reins, white-faced.
“Miss Califor, they’re catching up!”
“Stay calm, Nanette.”
Califor rode low to her horse, hair whipping behind her. She was gazing ahead, then she glanced back, eying the first [Bandits] catching up to them. The arrows that landed close enough for Nanette’s horse to flinch were meant for the two [Witches].
—But no matter how hard the [Archers] tried, they couldn’t seem to land a shot. However, the other riders were closing in, and Nanette’s voice rose in terror.
“Miss Califor!”
The [Bandit Leader], Jek, had a Skill. He was riding twice as fast at the two [Witches]. And his axe was dripping blood. Miss Califor turned in her saddle. She eyed Jek balefully and looked ahead. And up. As he drew level with her, the man raised his axe. Califor said only this:
“I warned you.”
Jek hesitated. And that was enough. He glanced to the side and spotted the armored figure riding towards him too late. He turned and swung. To be fair, he hit the armored rider. But his steel axe bounced off the armor. And the [Cataphract] swung his sword and cut across Jek’s face.
The [Bandits] halted. They saw Beniar ride past Jek and watched the man fall. Then they heard the shouts. The Darksky Riders charged, riding down on the [Bandits] with roars of fury. The [Bandits] scattered, screaming.
“The Darksky Riders!”
“That’s right! You bastards thought you could hide this close to Riverfarm!?”
Beniar roared as he galloped after another [Bandit], sword drawn. Nanette, shaking, let her horse slow, and Miss Califor, lips pursed, regarded the [Bandits] and [Riders].
She sheltered the shaking girl, her apprentice, with her cloak, head swiveling. Only when it was clear the [Bandits] were routed did she lower her arm.
“Remember, Nanette. Keep your head even in the worst moments. If you panic, you cannot help yourself.”
“Y-yes, Miss Califor.”
The girl was pale beneath her hat. She focused on the woman, the [Witch]. Califor shook her head briskly.
“Breathe in and out, Nanette. Deep breaths. You survived your first [Bandits] well. Remember, in moments like this, you may trust me, but you must rely on yourself.”
The girl was still shaking. She was round-cheeked and young, twelve, but at Califor’s words, she tried to collect herself. Fear made words spill out.
“I knew you could do it, Miss Califor! B-but what if I’d been too slow? Or if they’d seen through your illusion? Or if the adventurers hadn’t caught up—or if—”
“Breathe, Nanette.”
The [Witch] sighed. She adjusted her hat and looked up sternly.
“We were never in any danger. Even if we had been, calmness allows us to choose the best course of action. I knew Riverfarm had adventurers, and I would not have left you behind.”
“But if they were too slow—”
“We would have been fine. Tell me, what is my eighth rule, Nanette?”
The girl gulped. She hesitated and then, as her lips moved and her brow scrunched up, she recalled it.
“Rule eight. A smart woman looks up now and then—”
She looked up at last. Then, overhead, she saw her. Alevica, her broom high above, swooped down. Nanette nearly fell out of her saddle. Alevica tipped her hat to Califor, and the older [Witch] touched her brim.
“Wotcha, Nanette! And Califor! There’s [Bandits] all about today!”
The young woman grinned at the suddenly star-struck Nanette. Califor just sighed.
“Evidently. Thank you for your assistance, Witch Alevica, although I would have preferred a more direct approach.”
“You were fine. And that patrol was nearby. I didn’t want to waste more crossbow bolts or potions. Anyways, we’re all fine. Am I late?”
Califor considered the question as Alevica hopped onto the ground, and the broom returned to the laws of gravity. Alevica tossed it over her shoulder. She looked at Nanette, who was still staring, wide-eyed.
“Didn’t see me, Nanette? How long’s it been? Two years? Three?”
“Three. Nanette, your manners.”
The girl started, and her still-round cheeks went red again.
“Oh! I—I greet you, Witch Alevica! I tip my hat—”
She fumbled, and Alevica laughed. The young woman strode next to Califor’s horse and Nanette’s mare and waved a lazy hand.
“You don’t have to do that with me, Nanette. I don’t stand on the old ways. Do that to Mavika. Sorry about the scare!”
Califor’s silence was pointed, and Alevica shuffled her feet a bit.
“Er…I could have shot a few [Bandits]. You won’t tell Oliyaya about that, will you? I just wanted to see you take those bandits apart, Witch Califor! How’d you swerve all those arrows?”
Then Nanette was staring wide-eyed at Califor, who gave Alevica a peeved look. She handed something to Alevica, who stared at…a handful of twigs.
“Toss them left and right with a bit of sympathy attached. It is something Oliyaya knows quite well. Even if I had the situation in hand, Nanette’s fright was unnecessary, Witch Alevica. Where is your mentor? I did not expect to see you without her.”
The rebuke made Alevica stop and flush. The younger woman pursed her lips, but uncharacteristically, especially from what Nanette knew and had heard of her, she did stop and tip her hat grudgingly to Califor and then Nanette.
“I tip my hat to you and I apologize, Miss Califor. And to you, Nanette. No harm done, though, eh?”
She looked hopeful—and nervous—until Miss Califor sighed and inclined her head and tipped her hat gently.
“I tip my hat to you, Alevica. And I suppose not. Oliyaya?”
“Oh—she can’t make it. That’s why she sent me. She’s busy cleaning up messes in her domain. You know, witches getting attacked?”
Califor’s brows drew together.
“So she sent you. I attended this meeting in person.”
