“This trial needs to be just. If you have a Skill, can you swear it’ll bring justice? And who are you, Miss?”
The huge woman smiled down at Prost. She adjusted her hat and the axe propped carefully on one shoulder. It was iron, huge, and nicked, not exactly a woodcutter’s axe. She grabbed Prost’s arm and raised it for all to see.
“They call me Hedag, Mister [Steward]! And I solve problems of this sort! You can rest assured; my Skill only reveals the truth of criminals.”
The stone turned blue as she held it up. Incredibly, it didn’t flicker red once, even with an unintentional lie. Miss Hedag let go of Prost; he stared at her. She had a grip like Helm’s!
“What say you, Steward? Shall I use it? We’ll see this man’s crimes, right enough. If he’s innocent, he’s little to fear. Then again, I’ve yet to meet an innocent man!”
She pointed down at Elmmet, who’d broken into a colder sweat than before. The crowd murmured. Hedag’s words had persuaded them. Beatica broke in nervously.
“Hold on, Steward Prost. You’re not seriously considering letting an outsider—”
“Shut up!”
Helm shouted in Beatica’s ear, silencing and deafening her. He stared past her at Hedag. And his eyes narrowed.
“Hedag. I’ve heard the name.”
So had Prost, but he couldn’t recall it for some reason. It was an old name, or one he’d heard…he realized the woman was looking at him and came to a quick decision.
“If you’ll show us the truth, I see no reason to object, Miss Hedag. But you have to understand, we must see the truth of it for ourselves.”
“A right answer! That’s the way we’ve always done it in villages and lonely places! We have to see to believe! And so the truth you’ll see! All will see!”
Hedag laughed merrily. Without further ado, she reached out and grasped Elmmet’s head in the pillory. The man shouted, but Hedag held him for only a second. She bellowed across the crowd.
“[Revelation of Sin]!”
Then she pulled something out of Elmmet. Prost recoiled as Hedag yanked out something black, a shadowy thing, and hurled it on the ground. The crowd leapt back uncertainly, but Hedag just stepped back.
“What did you—”
“Watch.”
Hedag’s one word caught Prost’s eye and turned them on the shadow. Everyone stared as, slowly, the black thing she’d pulled out of Elmmet rose upwards. A black mass rose and formed…into a man. Elmmet. Prost stared at the man in the pillory, then at the shadow.
It had no contrast. It was one color. But the shadow was, unmistakably, undeniably, Elmmet. You could see his face, even his smirking expression. The shadow turned and, with a careless jaunt, strolled ahead.
Prost stared. Another shadow appeared, and Prost saw a woman standing with her back to Elmmet. Real—he could see the lines in her face as she turned—and yet a shadow. The shadow Elmmet strolled up to her and, without hesitation, reached out and plucked the money pouch from her hip. Then he strolled past her, smiling, without a care in the world.
“Ah.”
The strangled noise Prost made was the only sound in the world. Elmmet, white-faced, stared at his shadow as it turned a corner. Now the shadow’s face was different. A woman’s face, the very one he’d stolen from. He snuck up to another man, yanked his purse away, and as the man turned and shouted, soundlessly, bounded away. The crowd backed up as the Elmmet disguised as the woman ran at them.
Only when he was far away did Elmmet’s face change back to normal. And it was a gleeful face as he poured shadowy coins into one palm and pocketed them. Prost stared. But then the man was changing faces, this time to deceive a fellow and rob him as he slept—
“Lies. That’s—these are lies. A false magic.”
From his pillory, Elmmet croaked weakly. Prost and some others looked at him, but the rest were focused on the shadow. It was…undeniable. Perhaps it was the Skill or just the woman, Hedag, but Prost believed that Elmmet had done the very crimes he was reenacting. Stealing from a sleeping man, breaking into a house, and then the image blurred and he was slapping his wife, drunk, snarling. Prost turned his head. Elmmet’s wife had gone pale.
“Miss Hedag. What is this?”
Prost spoke quietly into the silence. The woman adjusted her hat and spoke loudly, watching the shadows shift from crime to crime.
“Why, it’s the man’s sins, Mister Steward. All laid out for us to see. Every crime he’s done. From back to front. It marks him as [Thief] and wife beater. And more, I’ll wager. Can’t you feel the truth of it? Will anyone say it’s not so? I dare you, for my Skill tells all truths, and it cannot be swayed by magic nor lies!”
She looked around, spreading her arms. Behind her, Beatica choked, but even she couldn’t figure out a way to use words to reclaim the situation. Hedag had pulled truth out from Elmmet, and the hypnotized crowd watched him. Stealing from a [Merchant]. Stealing from a traveller. Changing faces. And then—
“All crimes?”
Prost heard a whisper. He glanced over and saw Elmmet had suddenly gone white. The [Steward] looked back sharply and saw the shadow Elmmet and his new victim had changed. A girl shrank down, screaming silently, and the man reached out with an open hand. The man was Elmmet. And the girl—
Every head turned to the girl standing by Elmmet’s wife. The child stared with wide eyes at herself as the shadows told a story. A snarling figure reached out and beat at a shadow of a girl. On the real girl, if you looked closely, you could see, around her neck and shoulder—
“How long ago was this?”
Prost’s hands were itching. He didn’t look at Elmmet. Hedag did. She shook her head.
“Every crime, Steward. Each one in order. Incredibly, this man has done more sinning in a day than some manage in a year. This might’ve been a week ago. Or but a few days. But the truth of it is there to see.”
She pointed. The shadowy man was still hitting the girl, curled up. Prost thought of Chimmy, and he had to force himself to hold still. Elmmet was very still as the men and women—and children—looked at him. They had seen the truth.
Into that silence, Hedag spoke. Her voice was jovial, booming. And as cold as stone.
“A poor man steals from honest folk. Poorer still beats his own child and wife.”
She pointed at Elmmet’s wife. The woman started, and her face was as pale as her husband’s, but her eyes were locked on Hedag. She opened her mouth, but no words came out. Hedag nodded.
“Both deserve a Hedag’s presence to come when they call. Not blame nor guilt. But what of the one who raised the hand and downed the blow?”
“Death.”
Someone muttered that behind Prost. A hard line, and it came from Beycalt, a [Forewoman] who stared at the [Thief] with disgust. Elmmet’s head jerked up, and some of Lancrel’s folk paled. Hedag only sighed.
“Some’d say so, Miss. But it’s harder to say. The old laws change from village to village. Some would string up a man who beat his daughter half as hard. Others look the other way. But a [Thief]? There’s a penalty for a [Thief], sure enough. And it’s this.”
She strolled over to Elmmet in the pillory. Prost saw her lift the axe. Everyone saw it. And they knew, with the clairvoyance everyone shared, what she was about to do. But the stupid parts of their minds, the parts that lied and thought reality should be a certain way, convinced them it wasn’t going to happen. She wasn’t really going to—
The axe came down and flashed past the wooden pillory with a thunk of sound. Prost stared down at the hand as it landed on the ground. A long-fingered hand with no hair on it. Good for a [Thief]. But not so much severed. Elmmet stared at his stump of a hand in shock. Blood pooled and then ran from the stump, dribbling down the pillory. The man stared at the stump, pulled it out of the pillory, put it back in. Only then did he scream.
“Potion! Get a potion!”
Prost shouted as the crowd erupted into screams. More than half of the city folk were panicking. Even the villagers, used to beheading chickens and killing animals, stared. The violence was so sudden, so quick. But Hedag just swung her axe up and bellowed.
“Quiet!”
And it was. The woman with the hat and terrible axe reached down and grabbed the stump of Elmmet’s arm. The man flailed, screaming as tendons appeared in his neck. Hedag squeezed, and suddenly, the bleeding stopped. That didn’t stop the screaming, though. A blow from one hammer of a hand did that.
Elmmet’s head lolled back in the pillory, and his entire body jerked. Prost sucked in his breath; he’d felt that punch! The crowd flinched, but Hedag just let the man’s arm drop.
“So that’s for a child beaten. The hand’s for a [Thief].”
“You can’t do that!”
The scream came from Beatica. The [Councilwoman] pointed a shaking finger at Hedag, and there was genuine fear and hysteria in her voice.
“You—cut off his hand!”
“And? It’s a punishment as old as time. Drakes do it in their cities. And in some cities around here it’s done. A hand for a [Thief]. A blow for a child-beater.”
Hedag replied as calmly as could be. Beatica just screamed at her. Elmmet was waking up, flailing around, disoriented, as Beatica kept shouting.
“He was a [Councilman]! You cannot do that! You had no right! You’re no [Watchman]! There are laws—”
“Right? I have every right!”
Hedag’s voice cut Beatica’s shriek off. The woman turned and raised her brown hat. The axe dripped blood onto her shoulder as she raised it. The crowd, horrified and silent, watched as Hedag turned. And she was in charge. The woman spoke to Beatica, to Prost, to Elmmet, and to everyone.
“This is no city, for all you folk have come here. This is a village, and what wrong’s been done is plain to see. No one appointed me, Miss Councilwoman, it’s true. But there are times, bad times, when no one’ll do what’s needed. When folk have need of me and the truth I bring. A harsh truth, and with laws far older than I am. But it is justice, as just as any law you could name. And I will not be stopped, by you or anyone else. You called for proper justice, and here it is. The oldest kind.”
She swung her axe down, and some blood struck the ground, Prost’s leg, and the pillory. Prost stared at Hedag. Then he saw her head turn.
“And what’s been said and done is only part of it yet. Look.”
She pointed. The crowd turned. The shadowy Elmmet wasn’t done. Not by far. He had been a poor man, Elmmet. Prost had suspected it of him. But now, for all to see, his sins revealed themselves one at a time. And they were worse than just striking a helpless child, incredible as that was. Oh, far worse.
“Every sin comes to life. Every misdeed, small or large. It’s a harsh thing. And I judge with such mercy as I might. But I do judge.”
Hedag’s voice was quiet in the silence as she stared at the shadows. They were enacting something far worse now. The beginning of it, at least. Prost looked around at the women, the men—the children should not see this. Least of all the girl he saw reflected twice.
Prost tried to look away, but the truth burned him, forced him to see. Perhaps that was the nature of the Skill. The crowd tried to move, to avoid it, but it was a revelation. Inescapable. Only Hedag stared with an unmoving gaze. She looked down at Elmmet. The man was struggling, weeping, trying to say something as his sins played out.
“If I were you, Mister Elmmet, I’d hope that this were the worst of it. The worst by far. But I don’t think a man like you deserves hope. Show me what you’ve done.”
And he did. Prost felt his stomach roil, and the shadows danced. Elmmet’s dancing shadow began to chase another. A younger female silhouette who fled—and he chased and chased until—
There was no mercy in the retelling, no way to hide what came next. It played out without sound or color, but without the mercy to hide any detail either.
Someone in the crowd made a terrible, groaning sound, and a man gagged, vomited. It was appropriate. Hedag watched as Prost turned away. She watched with eyes as old as she was, but made older by what she’d seen. And Prost remembered her name at last. A woman who travelled the further villages, who performed that oldest task where there was no jail, no watchman, no law in sight but her.
Hedag the [Executioner]. The woman nodded at last as the shadows stopped for one moment. Her eyes were opened wide, and the pupils sat like vast monoliths. Her voice sounded like old rules set forth before paper and ink had writ them down. And now, without mercy or regrets, Hedag spoke two words.
“I see.”
The axe swung down, gleaming dully in the midmorning light.
 
 
Day 56 – Lady Rie
 
Lady Rie took a long time dressing, as was her wont. In fact, it was one of her only wants and vices. In Riverfarm, few amenities were available to her, and the comforts of fashion were a luxury Rie couldn’t do without.
Even then, it was a concession. She didn’t have half as many of her cosmetics, and many of her dresses and fine clothing had been carefully, discreetly sold to finance Riverfarm’s needs. Most of her jewelry had gone that way, and Rie feared her current wardrobe would be worn, not to mention outdated, in less than a month.
“And yet, it is necessary.”
The woman sighed to herself. She stared in the hand-mirror she carried and carefully applied a lipstick. Red, traditionally so, to fit her mood. She was not looking forwards to this morning. She suspected Prost’s trial with Master Elmmet would not be as smooth as she wanted, and she would gladly have given up all her dresses to see that man and Beatica and half of Lancrel’s elite banished for good.
“We should not have allowed things to reach this point.”
Rie sighed as she inspected her face for flaws her makeup had missed. But what could they have done? She had to admit it; Beatica might have been a poor leader in the sense of keeping her city free from Goblin attacks, but she was a magnificent manipulator. She’d turned Lancrel’s people against Riverfarm, exacerbated the already-deep rifts between urban and rural peoples. And the tensions of refugees fleeing their city and coming to live in, admittedly, close to poverty.
“And yet, Riverfarm is more than that fool of a woman can understand. Riverfarm is a jewel, uncut. Or—a potato. Made of gold. Growing in the earth.”
Rie sighed. Even her metaphors were becoming farmer-like. Which was appropriate. Perhaps, if she stayed here long enough, she’d even be fine with her less-than-perfect appearance. And what did it matter? The man she wanted to impress couldn’t see her face. He could see any number of things, but physical appearance was beyond him. It was just one of the reasons why Laken Godart fascinated and attracted Rie.
