Wiskeria’s lips were bloodless. Mavika was the one she turned to first and then, slowly, to Belavierr. Only her mother’s face hadn’t changed as the hats were placed on the ground. Alevica had bitten her lip hard enough to draw blood, and Califor had drawn a shaking Nanette to her. The other [Witches] waited as Califor spoke.
“A fortnight past, the Marshlands Coven was called upon by strangers. Without Witch Mavika, they met and were made an offer. They refused. And they died. Witch Mavika found those responsible and delivered vengeance on those who bloodied their blades. Not the ones who made the offer. Witches are being hunted once again.”
For some reason, Califor’s eyes swung to Belavierr, but the tall [Witch] ignored her. Wiskeria’s eyes narrowed as she met her mother’s gaze, but she turned to Califor. Califor indicated Mavika, whose head was bowed.
“Each hat of the dead coven was taken and a ritual cast. To six [Witches] a hat was sent by wind or person, by chance or fate. Six—to form a new coven here that the plight of [Witches] be addressed.”
Eloise took over. The shortest [Witch] save Nanette raised her voice, speaking in an official tone.
“We call upon Witch Wiskeria to join us in a coven. And we claim the rights of travellers to stay in Riverfarm. We claim sanctuary. We shall remain here until His Majesty, Emperor Laken, may meet with us. We have matters of importance to discuss. An offer. A bargain to be made. While we wait, we shall offer our services.”
At her words, Belavierr smiled, as if something had occurred to her suddenly. She raised one hand, and a needle appeared. It was made of bone, polished and worn, and Ryoka shuddered to see it. The other [Witches] nodded, Hedag with her axe, Mavika holding a bird on one arm. Miss Califor and Nanette stood together. Eloise sighed and adjusted her hat filled with flowers. Alevica winked at Ryoka in the crowd.
And Wiskeria, holding the hat, looked around, lost, and then at her mother. Ryoka saw a familiar look on Wiskeria’s face too, though she had never met the [Witch] before. But Ryoka understood the look on the daughter’s face as she gazed up at her mother. Dislike, confusion, anger—
Ah, family. Hedag boomed as she looked down at Wiskeria.
“Will you offer us your greeting, Witch Wiskeria? We would not have come if we were not needed. We call for you, witch.”
Mavika nodded.
“A witch you are. A witch we need.”
Wiskeria was lost for words. The bloody hats swayed her, shocked her, and yet—her eyes swung upwards. To the woman claiming to be her mother. She stood there, in silence, as Nanette held onto Califor’s hand, and Alevica looked around, hunching her shoulders. At last, Wiskeria exhaled.
“I greet you, sisters. I apologize. And I do tip my hat to you all. Welcome. I accept this dire coven and join you.”
She touched the brim of her hat, tipping it up, and the other [Witches] relaxed. As if something tense had suddenly been relieved. Hedag smiled, Mavika nodded, and Eloise gave Wiskeria a nod. Califor’s features didn’t change. She watched as Wiskeria turned two bright eyes upwards, and her features contorted into a scowl.
“—to all but you.”
She looked Belavierr in the eyes, and the [Witch] spoke.
“I claim right of hospitality, Daughter. I must.”
Wiskeria jabbed a finger at the taller woman.
“I can’t stop you. But you are unwelcome, Mother. Unwelcome, unwanted, and unloved. Know that—the rest of you, welcome to Riverfarm.”
She turned away. Alevica began to whistle, fell silent, and Nanette looked shocked by this response. So did Durene and everyone else who knew the mild-mannered Wiskeria. The Coven stood there, clearly not having received the greetings they expected.
And the unexpected witch? The one rejected by her very daughter?
Belavierr’s eyes slowly drifted away from her daughter’s stare as Wiskeria stormed away. She straightened and stood there, like a statue. Slowly, her head rotated, taking in the village, the people, and everyone waited for the witch known as Belavierr to do something. Say something.
When the [Witch] spoke, her lips moved upwards and she held them there, as if that was all a smile was. She said:
“A fair morning to you all.”
