“I, uh—you have business in Riverfarm? Would you like to travel together, Mis—Belavierr?”
“I do not believe that would be wise. My mount does not tolerate strangers.”
“Mount?”
Ryoka stared at Belavierr. The woman nodded once. Her voice dropped, and she stood there again, wistfully, raising one hand towards the sun itself, as if in regret.
“Though I had no cause to ride him for an age.”
She turned and gestured. Only then did Ryoka notice the horse. It was standing in the forest, pawing the ground and snorting quietly. It was a giant of an animal. Ryoka gaped. How had she missed it? Belavierr turned and walked towards it. The animal had no saddle, but she hoisted herself up without missing a beat.
The stallion was black and huge, a beast of an animal that could put a warhorse to shame for sheer size. But the woman was tall enough herself, and with that hat, she cut a dramatic figure riding on it.
“I thank thee for your help, friend of winds.”
Belavierr looked flatly at Ryoka and spoke without emotion or inflection. So saying, she turned, and the horse began to walk ahead down the road towards Riverfarm. Ryoka thought that was it. But the woman remained turned in her seat.
Staring at Ryoka. Her ringed eyes never left Ryoka’s face. And the young woman was held by the gaze. The horse walked forwards, but Belavierr kept staring. For a minute, three, seven—until she was a distant shape heading towards Riverfarm. Only then, far, far in the distance, did she turn.
Ryoka felt the moment the woman’s eyes left her. She shuddered, and only then did the wind return, blowing against her back. She heard a buzzing sound, dodged backwards reflexively, and saw a large insect with too many legs flying towards the bodies. She smelled the scent of iron in the air and death. Ryoka gagged, then peered down the road.
A distant horse and rider were heading towards the village. Ryoka stared at Belavierr’s back. At the dead people. Then she looked down the road. She could run. She could leave. But—Charlay was in Riverfarm. She’d taken the request. And Belavierr wasn’t the three strangers in the forest. She wasn’t Az’kerash. Or Teriarch. Or Ivolethe.
But she was something. Ryoka didn’t know what, but she had a guess. She fixed on her hands. Blood ran from where the caltrop had dug into her palm.
“‘By the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes.’ Fuck. Laken, what have you done?”
Then she ran towards Riverfarm. When she arrived, it was in time to see Belavierr walking down the main street. As Ryoka drew close to the scene, she felt the same presence. The same feeling that the shadows were moving around her.
 
Rehanna, lying on the ground, her burnt flesh on the doorknob. The blood of Elmmet running down the main square of Riverfarm. A crowd staring at the overturned cauldron. Prost, Rie, Durene, and Wiskeria confronting the woman as crows circled overhead. This was the tableau. Only, it wasn’t a quiet stage. The people were beginning to scream at the [Witch], Mavika. Some were calling for Beniar, and he was riding forwards, escorting a giant of a woman. Multiple events coming into confluence.
But it was Mavika’s pointing finger that drew the attention to her. The lone figure on horseback. She walked down the street calmly, sedately. But her presence drew all that had followed before her into silence.
Clop. Clip. Clop. She rode into the center of Riverfarm, down the street in the center of all of it. Belavierr rode straight for the crowd, and the people parted nervously. But the woman, against expectations, stopped. She dismounted from her horse and patted it. With everyone watching, the woman whispered in the horse’s ear, and it trotted back the way it had come to graze on some grass outside the village. Then, she turned and looked around.
Her eyes glowed beneath the hat. The people shuddered. But Belavierr took no notice. She stared through them, and her gaze focused on only one person.
Wiskeria. The young woman stood in the crowd, and her face went pale. She turned away from Mavika. Durene, standing next to her, heard her whisper.
“It can’t be. Why is she here?”
“Who?”
Durene, bewildered, looked at Wiskeria. But the [Witch] didn’t answer. Mavika, however, did.
“So that is the seventh.”
The bird-like woman seemed to hesitate, but then she strode forwards as the raven landed on her shoulder. Mavika walked past Wiskeria, past Rie and Prost and the crowd. They sprang away from her as the crows flew low, following their mistress. Belavierr paused. And then another person stepped out of the frozen world.
Hedag walked past Beniar and Geram. A young woman strolled down the street. She joined the three, making them four.
Witch Alevica was glancing from face to face, first at Mavika, paling and touching her hat in awe, then Hedag, whispering to a little girl who was staring at Mavika in terror, Eloise who Alevica seemed least impressed by, the tall woman, Califor, with a look of incredulity…
Hedag, Alevica accorded vague respect, and Belavierr she stared at without any comprehension at all. Alevica’s voice was loud enough to hear.
“By my hat! That’s Witch Mavika herself. Be polite, Nanette. And the Hedag? The Eloise is here, and the Califor herself? I mean, that’s your master, but mine should be here, not me! Wait. Who’s…?”
She didn’t know the tallest of the lot, Belavierr. But when she saw the others walking together, Alevica hurried forwards.
A pair followed them. An older woman and a child, who raised her pointed hat to Mavika and received the same. But they stopped when they saw the tall woman.
“Of course.”
Califor sighed, and Nanette tipped her hat to the tall woman, who had not acknowledged the others. Hedag winked at Nanette, but her eyes, Mavika’s, and Califor’s fixed on the woman called Belavierr.
“Should we call an end to this here and now? Good to see you, Califor. I tip my hat to thee.”
Hedag’s voice was merry, and the blood on her axe was still wet. Califor pursed her lips.
“Too late to stop. Who else?”
Her head turned, and an old woman approached, greeting the other six with a warm smile. Eloise tipped her hat to the others. Then her eyes stole to the tall woman.
“So that is why Agratha claimed she was not invited. We might have expected this—”
Whatever she might have said was cut short by Mavika’s harsh voice.
“Silence. There are words for after. Now matters, no matter who and why we came.”
At this, Eloise ducked her head, and the women were silent. Then, all of them looked back down the street.
When they walked, it was together.
A young woman—no, a girl who might have been twelve wearing a dark blue hat with a wrinkle near the tip. Leading her, a stern-faced woman, her hat properly black, but a lighter shade of it, as were her robes, made for riding and travel, walking forwards without regard to whoever was in the way.
The short, smiling, elderly woman who’d been sipping at tea. Her hat appeared on her grey locks, decorated with still-fresh sunflower heads, a friendly grey hat bestrewn with color. She strolled along, her face wrinkled, pleasant, her gait quicker to keep up with the others.
The hunched figure who’d cast a curse. A flock of black birds circled overhead as she walked. Her hat was as black as shade, bearing a crow that cawed as it fluttered its wings, dislodging a feather.
A young woman with pale, pink eyes strode forwards. She wore a purple, professionally tailored hat, narrower and sloped to prevent it leaving her head at speed. She carried a broom on one shoulder, and her steps were light.
Next to her strode a giant of a woman, nearly as tall as Durene, and with arms heavy with muscle. Her smile was like sunshine, warm and glowing, but with harsh brilliance hidden beneath. Her hat was brown and worn, a travelling companion. Stained with dark liquid in places.
In the middle of them, the woman who did not belong, who made the shadows twitch. Her hat was wide, blue as the depths of the ocean, so unfathomably dark as to be close to black, and as old as she was. Her face was expressionless, but her eyes never left Wiskeria’s.
Seven of them. They walked down the street, small and tall, old and young, smiling and silent. Shoulder-to-shoulder. And their pointed hats marked them.
Witches.
They stopped in the street, ignoring the folk of Riverfarm, Rie, Prost, even Durene. It was Wiskeria who they looked at. Each [Witch] stepped forwards, one after another from…youngest to oldest? The girl was first.
Nanette. She trembled, aware of the eyes on her as she raised her hat and bowed at the same time.
“W-Witch Wiskeria? I tip my hat to thee.”
Alevica winked and simply raised her hat an inch, grinning with amusement at Wiskeria.
“Heya, Wis, I tip my hat to you.”
Next, Miss Califor, whose delivery was as smooth and precise as Nanette’s had been stuttering.
“Witch Wiskeria, I tip my hat to thee.”
After her, Hedag. The woman boomed as she swept her hat off, revealing her hair.
“Young Wiskeria! I tip my hat.”
Eloise was next. The old woman bowed as she tipped her hat, her voice kind.
“Wiskeria, a pleasure. I tip my hat to you, child.”
Second-last was Mavika. Her gaze was familiar, and she raised her hat silently, dislodging the crow.
“Wiskeria, to thee my hat I tip.”
Then it was Belavierr’s turn. She stepped forwards, and all but Wiskeria stepped back. Her face was expressionless. It had not changed one whit this entire time, not in greeting the others or before. But Ryoka, panting, standing next to Charlay in the back, saw something happen as Belavierr raised her hat. Her features changed ever so slightly. She—smiled.
“Daughter, I tip my hat to thee.”
Ryoka thought it was a smile. It was awkward on her face and gone in a flash. But she had seen it. So had Wiskeria. The [Witch] faced the seven as Belavierr stepped back. And she hesitated. Her hand rose to her hat. Then it stopped.
“What are you all doing here?”
The [Witches] paused. Mavika frowned darkly, and Eloise looked rueful. Hedag just shook her head. Miss Califor’s disapproval was written on hers. Nanette was terrified. Alevica just grinned wider. Wiskeria looked from face to face. Belavierr’s was the last she focused on.
“Mavika? Why are you here? Let alone Witch Eloise and Hedag! How far did you come? You—you must be Califor. And you!”
Her head swung from face to face as the older women, Mavika, Eloise, Hedag, and Califor, regarded her. But it was the oldest woman that Wiskeria pointed at angrily, aggressively. Even Mavika seemed shocked as Wiskeria raised her voice.
“This is not your ground, Mother. And this isn’t your coven! This is my land—begone!”
It did nothing to Belavierr’s blank expression. The tallest [Witch]’s voice was calm.
“I claim hospitality, Daughter. My home is but embers. My great work has been ruined by song and flame. Will you not smile for me?”
Belavierr answered Wiskeria, and the [Witch] just stared at her. Her eyes flashed.
“I don’t care. We have parted ways, and I deny you. I am not your daughter any longer, but a [Witch] in my own right. By my craft and on my hat, I claim this place. Leave or be a witch who honors no tradition or vow among our kind!”
Belavierr did not move. Mavika hissed.
“She is here by invitation. By pact and promise. A coven was convened. Seven—Nanette is the apprentice. You are the last.”
Wiskeria turned red. She raised her voice to the point of shouting, glaring at each [Witch] in turn.
“A coven? Who convened it? Not me! I wasn’t consulted, and you, Mavika? You attacked a member of Riverfarm! And Hedag—! Where’s Oliyaya? Why would she allow this?”
Eloise exchanged a glance with Mavika, and the bird-[Witch]’s expression was dark. It was Miss Califor who spoke in a clear, carrying tone.
“Witch Wiskeria. I greet you twice. I hear your objections, but we are [Witches] from across this continent and, indeed, world. We have travelled far and at inconvenience to be here. Your shock I well understand. Your ties with your mother I shall not interfere in.”
Belavierr’s eyes flicked sideways to Califor, and Wiskeria turned to the other [Witch], hesitating. Califor went on.
“As to the rest, I regret to say it is here we must stay, your greeting or not. Witch Oliyaya could not attend, but seven witches were called for, and seven have arrived. No matter who—”
She glanced at Belavierr, then at Alevica, who clearly felt like she was the odd one out, staring wide-eyed at the others—
“We must stay. I ask for your blessing and friendship. I would hate to quarrel amongst our own.”
“What? Why?”
For answer, all the [Witches] present looked to Belavierr. Alevica’s grin faded. Hedag lowered the axe on her shoulder to the ground and leaned on it. Eloise lowered her hat’s brim.
And Belavierr? She lifted something up. She had not been holding it a second before, but now her hands were full. What she held was a hat.
It was pointed. Green, forest green. A smaller hat than the one she wore, classically pointed, tied with a yellow ribbon around the base. Wiskeria’s eyes widened when she saw it.
“That’s—Witch Mamie’s—”
She looked up, her face suddenly pale. Belavierr met her daughter’s eyes. Slowly, she turned the hat. And Wiskeria saw the hole around the brim of the hat. The faded, dried blood.
The street was still. Ryoka, staring at the hat in Belavierr’s hands, understood what it meant. Everyone did. A [Witch]’s hat. Wiskeria took it as her mother offered it to her, her hands shaking. She stared at the hole, then at Mavika.
“How—why wasn’t I told? When did it happen? Who did this?”
Her voice broke on the last words. The bird-[Witch] didn’t reply. Slowly, Mavika looked up. A crow swooped down. And dropped something into her hands.
The second hat fell slowly, and it was small. A red hat, too vibrant and stylish to be immediately a [Witch]’s—save for the pointed tip. Red, fancy. Torn across the brim twice. Mavika caught it and held it out. Wiskeria stared at it, face now completely bloodless.
“Witch Tillica?”
She jerked as Hedag reached into the pack she carried and brought something out. A yellow hat, or at least, it had been, stained by many years and time. And at the end, blood. By her side, Alevica reached into her bag of holding and brought out another hat. Eloise, Califor, even Nanette, her hands shaking. It wasn’t just one. Belavierr lifted a second hat. And then a third. She placed them on the ground; Wiskeria was frozen.
Hat after hat. Pointed, rounded, old and new. Twenty of them in the end. They sat on the ground, torn, broken, bloody. Some were in pieces, barely recognizable. Others could have been store-bought. A bit further away, Ryoka stared at the line of hats neatly lined up, and small bumps raced up her arms.
“What happened?”
