Magnolia Reinhart would not sit idly forever. This trade war was only the smallest of things in her arsenal. She might be a beneficent ruler today, but Rie had seen what the Reinharts could do. And they would drag the bodies of their foes through the streets and feed them to the dogs before yielding in anything.
She’d lost time talking to Eloise. Not just fifteen minutes either. Thirty? Rie didn’t know, but somehow she’d completely missed an event around the main gates of Riverfarm. Like everything else, they were a work in progress, not least because they had to keep being rebuilt further and further out. But the village or town or even city would need walls, and the blood-stained [Riders] trotting back down the street proved just that.
“Beniar!”
Rie’s pulse quickened in alarm as she saw the blood, but the [Cataphract] and former adventurer rode up to her with a smile on his face. He saluted her and dismounted in one move. Rie stared at the Darksky Riders, who were tending to their horses, and then the three women with hats, one old, one young, and one still a child, who were looking around the village, oblivious to the crowd, the riders, or Rie.
“What happened?”
Beniar chuckled as he jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“What happened? Lady Rie, we got that [Bandit] group we thought was waylaying people nearby! At least one of them. They were waylaying travellers on the road—those two on horses. We wouldn’t have known or gotten to them in time, but that other one—she flew to Riverfarm and told us what was happening! On a broom!”
“A broom?”
Rie stared at the young woman that Beniar was pointing to. That jogged her memory, but before she could fix on that, the three were striding towards her. The old woman, who was wearing all black, adjusted her pointed hat and looked around.
“Excuse me. Are you the woman in charge around here?”
The question took Rie aback. It suggested that the answer was ‘no’ and that the woman asking it knew that fact, but she was asking for formality’s sake. Frowning, Rie regarded her and the young girl following close behind.
“I am Lady Rie Valerund, in service to His Majesty, Laken Godart. I understand you were attacked on the road, Miss. I hope you haven’t come to any harm?”
The woman frowned at ‘His Majesty’ and narrowed her eyes, but only slightly. She turned to look at Beniar, who gave her a charming grin.
“Pleasure to be of service, Miss.”
So the woman touched her hat, lifted it a fraction, and nodded to Beniar and Lady Rie. Just that; no bow for the [Lady], nothing else.
“Witch Califor. Thank you, Rider. Your response was truly quick. Though I had heard Riverfarm was safe from [Bandits] of any kind. I suppose that was too much to hope for?”
Her question took the wind right out of Beniar’s sails. Rie hesitated, but responded quickly.
“We are—normally. However, the, ah—ah—method we have to detect them isn’t working as it usually does, and this group had been avoiding Beniar and his [Riders] for weeks. I do regret the close call!”
“I see. I thought I felt a roving eye, but it is just one eye, then. Now, may I ask if your [Emperor] is present? I should like to meet him at his earliest convenience.”
Now, Lady Rie was annoyed at this imperious stranger, and she realized she was correcting her posture, trying to seem her best. Who was this woman? She reminded Rie of the formidable Lady Zanthia, but she was certainly no noblewoman!
“What? Emperor Godart is absent. And if he was here—if you have business in Riverfarm, I suggest you present it to me. May I ask who your companions are?”
Instead of being embarrassed by the rebuke, Miss Califor only raised one eyebrow.
“You may. This is Nanette, my student. And this is Witch Alevica.”
“Nice to meet you! I’m Witch Alevica. You might have heard of me.”
The young woman next to Califor waved a lazy hand. She looked friendly, but she was far too informal! The girl named Nanette started, stared at Lady Rie with proper awe, and began to curtsey. Right up until Miss Califor stopped her with one hand.
“Witches do not curtsey, Nanette.”
So the little girl shyly touched the brim of her hat and tipped it up. She almost tried to bow, but after a peek at Califor, who touched her hat as well, the two did nothing else.
This brief encounter was quickly reversing all the goodwill and calm of Rie’s encounter with Eloise. The [Lady]’s eyes flashed, and she drew herself up, glaring at Califor as Beniar snuck past Geram.
“Excuse me, Miss Califor. I remind you that I am a [Lady], and you are in my presence.”
“Yes. These are the facts. So you know, it is considered polite to address me as Witch Califor, Lady Valerund.”
Rie’s mouth dropped open. She saw the girl, Nanette, cover her mouth and try not to giggle, and Geram bristled—but Califor walked past her without a second word and beckoned to the girl.
“Come along, Nanette. Let’s find a place for the horses and the others. There are at least two more here. One yet to come.”
“What? How dare—come back here!”
Rie spluttered as the two walked past her with the horses, yet even Nanette didn’t turn, but hurried after Miss Califor. Rie stared at their backs until the last of the new arrivals, the young woman named Alevica, coughed.
“Hey, is there a pub around here? Or a Runner’s Guild?”
Rie, Geram, and Beniar stared at her. Alevica looked around, her smile not bothering at all to hide her amusement.
“No? I’ll be on my way then. See you in a bit.”
“Hold on.”
At last, Rie caught herself and looked at Geram. The man moved to block Alevica’s path, and the young woman stopped. Not warily, just with a frown. And her pale pink eyes narrowed as they flicked from Geram to Rie.
“Something you want?”
“Just introductions. Did Beniar say you flew into Riverfarm? You wouldn’t happen to be Alevica, the Witch Runner?”
Beniar started at the name. Alevica just grimaced.
“I prefer, ‘the only damn Runner who can fly north of Pallass.’ But sure. That’s me. I warned your militia here that there were [Bandits] attacking Miss Califor and her apprentice. No need to thank me.”
With that, she began to walk around Geram. He tried to block her a second time, but when Alevica paused, she put a hand on a knife in her belt.
“I don’t appreciate being stopped, bald man.”
Rie paused. She’d heard about Alevica, and she dearly wished she was near a city where she could pay for information about Alevica to refresh her memory. Geram looked down warily at Alevica and stepped back after glancing at Rie for confirmation. The [Lady] chose her words carefully.
“That is Geram. My bodyguard. I apologize for his insistence, but I would greatly like to speak with you, Miss Alevica.”
Laken could use a good Runner, even one with her reputation. But Alevica just grinned.
“I’m sure. But you have to wait. Don’t worry, we’ll see each other. Soon, I think.”
Her eyes flicked down the way Califor had gone, and then she turned her head over her shoulder. Rie stared. Alevica turned back to look at her, then nodded.
“See ya.”
She strolled off past Geram. The [Fist Fighter] hesitated and walked over to Rie.
“Lady Rie, should I stop…?”
“No. No, let her go.”
Rie quietly fumed as she watched Alevica strolling down the street, a hand in one pocket, scratching at windblown hair. Now she understood some of the tales about Alevica. The Witch Runner indeed. And that Califor! Rie turned balefully to Beniar, but he was already back with his Darksky Riders, regaling the crowd with exploits of what had just happened.
“I’m rather peeved at the moment, Geram. But I think I’d better find Prost and make sure the trial is going well.”
After a moment, Rie decided that was her only course of action. Geram nodded, and Rie swept down the street. Just in time to hear the screaming begin. She paused, stared down the street towards the public square and pillories, and broke into a run. Behind her, Geram swore and pounded past her.
“Lady Valerund! Let me—”
He shouted, but Rie didn’t stop. If something had gone wrong, if a riot had broken out, they’d need Beniar and his [Riders]. What had happened? Had Elmmet tricked the truth stone somehow? That shouldn’t be possible at his level. Or had that Beatica managed to stir up the crowd—
A rush of people came down the street, mainly Lancrel’s people, but villagers and townsfolk as well. Most of the ones in front were women, mothers, holding white-faced children. But families, single men, townsfolk, all of them were pouring away from the square in a rush. Rie halted, and Geram moved to block the crowd.
“Stop! What is going on?”
Rie shouted at the crowd, but she didn’t have a Skill to halt a crowd. And she hadn’t learned an aura Skill. She had other Skills, but for situations like this, all she had was her presence. And it wasn’t enough to halt the crush of people fighting to get away from—something.
Geram was, though. The big man halted those closest to him with his body alone, and when they noticed Rie through their panic, she was instantly surrounded by frightened people and screaming children.
“What is going on? Is someone hurt?”
Rie looked around, bewildered. There weren’t any marks of violence, but then a woman from Lancrel screamed out.
“He’s dead! Master Elmmet’s dead!”
Rie’s blood froze. Elmmet? Dead? Prost hadn’t lost his temper, had he? Or—what if he’d been lynched? But the crowd would have turned. These ones just looked horrified.
“How? What happened?”
“She just murdered a man in the street! Cut off his head just like that! With children to see!”
A man shouted, his face white. Rie recoiled. A public execution? She hadn’t ever seen one. But—
“Who? A woman? Not Prost?”
The crowd nodded. One of them pointed shakily.
“She called herself Hedag! And she had an axe! And she used a Skill—”
“It wasn’t real. It couldn’t be real.”
One of the women who looked like she was from Lancrel murmured through pale lips. Another man just shook his head. He looked like he’d been sick.
“It was real. Dead gods, but it was. He deserved a hundred times worse.”
Many of the people nodded. But the woman shook her head repeatedly, and her eyes were wide, wild.
“No! I knew him! He can’t have—it was a lie. It cannot be true! Cannot! It was murder all the same!”
“What we saw—”
A man began, and then there was silence. A child started screaming. Someone had to sit down, shaking. Rie realized that no one was going to make sense in the hubbub. She looked at Geram.
“I need Prost. Clear me a path. Please! Let me through!”
Geram nodded, and with Rie’s calls, he forced a path through the crowd of people all rushing away from the square. Rie stepped quickly, ignoring the people trying to get her attention.
To her relief, she found Prost at the back of the crowd, shouting and restoring order. The man had a grim look in his eyes, but he wasn’t harmed either. He was shouting at the crowd, ordering them not to shove—he turned as Rie rushed towards him.
“Prost! What happened?”
The [Steward] turned to Lady Rie, and he paused. His face was pale, sweaty, but not nearly as bad as the city folk, some of whom looked like they were close to fainting.
“Elmmet’s dead, Rie.”
“How?”
Prost inhaled slowly, grimacing. Rie stared at him, her heart beating wildly, but the [Steward] was slow to reply. Prost spoke quietly, half-turning back towards the square.
“It was a woman. Hedag the [Executioner]. She appeared in the trial when Beatica and Elmmet were stirring up trouble, claiming the truth stone was false. She—she used a Skill. Revealed Elmmet’s crimes. Then she cut off his head.”
“She murdered him?”
Rie was horrified. The [Steward] shook his head.
“That wasn’t murder. That was justice.”
He spat twice to get rid of the taste in his mouth. Rie stared at him uncomprehendingly. Her eyes shifted to the blood on Prost’s pant leg, then past him towards the square. She couldn’t see the body, which was just as well; Prost knew the axe flashing down would haunt his dreams for weeks to come.
“Tell me what happened. From the start.”
Prost nodded. He and Rie turned, and with Geram’s help, they managed to calm the crowd, who really had just wanted to get away from the grisly sight. Everyone was shocked, and the children? Sick or incoherent with panic.
Again, it was the difference between city folk and villagers; the children who’d seen a butchering or lived on a farm had seen that level of blood. Just not on a Human body.
“An [Executioner]? They’re exceptionally rare! Even most cities prefer to hire someone to do it. It hardly requires someone for that one job! And she just turned up? You’re sure she wasn’t planted by Beatica?”
Prost shook his head.
“She most definitely was not. And her Skill—”
“You’re sure it revealed Elmmet’s crimes?”
“I saw the shadow him doing all of it. It was him. I’m certain. And even Beatica would say it was the truth. What that man did deserved the axe. It was just that Hedag did it then and there, after the hand.”
The [Steward] was shaking as he remembered what he had seen. Rie stared at him, uncomprehending.
“Where is she now? Did you arrest her?”
“Arrest her? For what?”
“Killing a man in—”
The [Lady] had to stop and take a breath. Prost was clearly shaken himself. He shook his head.
“The crowd bolted, and I had to keep them from trampling each other. I’ve no idea where she is. I think she might be in the square still.”
“In that case, we need to arrest her.”
“For what? Show me a man or woman there who’ll say it was wrong. His wife won’t. His daughter?”
Prost spat again.
“If Hedag hadn’t done it, he wouldn’t have left that square alive after what I saw.”
“That’s not the point. People are panicking, and rumors will spread. Beatica will twist this, no matter what the people there saw. There must be a proper inquiry and an announcement—Geram, find Beniar.”
“I can arrest this woman myself.”
The [Fist Fighter] looked back down the street. Rie shook her head.
“Absolutely not. She has an axe; get Beniar and some of his [Riders] to back you up. Bring her to—to the throne room. And then we’ll call an assembly of everyone we can and—”
She was fumbling, looking around, trying to figure out what they’d do exactly when the second shriek split the air. Prost’s head jerked up. He and Rie looked at each other. This time, neither one wasted time asking questions. They just ran in the direction of the sound.
