This was how they gathered, staring at the cauldron of ruined soup on the ground. With a murder of crows spiraling in the air. With a woman, Rehanna, lying on the ground, clutching her ruined hand as Nesor tried to heal her. Rie and Prost burst out of the crowd, which had doubled in size, and took in the moment at once. They looked at Durene, Wiskeria, Rehanna, and then up.
A…woman perched on the neatly thatched roof of the house. She had to be a woman. She had the right figure. The correct face, thin and angular, but still with its own beauty. And dark skin.
She perched like a raven. Or one of the crows circling the street overhead. And she just smiled as she looked down at Rehanna, who was screaming and clutching at her hand. Lady Rie looked at the bleeding, charred mess of her hand and then at the doorknob with blackened flesh hanging on the knob. Her stomach turned, but she kept control of it.
“It was a curse! She did it!”
One of the women pointed unsteadily up at the woman on the roof. The crowd, already uneasy, turned to panic as news of what had happened in the trial spread. And then the panic turned to fear. Hostility. Rie felt it gathering around her. She stared up at the woman and stepped forwards.
“Enough!”
Rie’s shout calmed everyone for a second. They looked at her, Riverfarm folk, Lancrel’s refugees, Prost, Durene, Wiskeria, and the woman on the rooftop. Rehanna had mercifully fainted as the potion healed her hand. In the silence, Rie pointed a finger.
“Who are you? How dare you attack one of Riverfarm’s people? This village is under the protection of Emperor Laken Godart—”
“I know.”
The woman stared down at Lady Rie. Rie hesitated.
“Why did you attack Rehanna?”
“‘Twas a rudeness done. An ill for goodwill. I just repaid her in kind.”
The woman answered as naturally as if Rie had asked why the sky was blue. She leapt down onto the street, landing lightly, and the crowd backed up. But it was to Wiskeria the woman turned. She nodded and reached up to her hat.
“Wiskeria. I greet thee.”
“Mavika. Why are you here? I told you I wasn’t coming.”
Wiskeria stared at Mavika, her face pale. Rie turned to stare at her.
“You know her? Wiskeria?”
“She’s a [Witch].”
The word repeated itself through the crowd, from person to person. [Witch]? [Witch]!
Witch. And Rie focused on the pointed hat on both womens’ heads. Then she had a terrible premonition. A thought. But it was nothing to the look on Wiskeria’s face. Slowly, the young woman looked around. She met Durene’s gaze, then Mavika’s.
“Mavika. Did the coven come with you? This is my ground. You weren’t invited! Why are you here?”
The bird-like [Witch] smiled. Bitterly, knowingly. With a crow’s mocking laughter hidden in her eyes. And a raven flew down among the crows and landed on her arm. Mavika reached up to stroke its head. She said only this:
“It is not my coven, Wiskeria. There are six. The seventh is coming.”
She pointed, and every head turned. Silently, the folk of Riverfarm looked down the streets towards the gates. And the last [Witch] arrived silently and without fuss. She was the most terrifying of them all.
 
 
Day 56 – Ryoka
 
After three days of running, Ryoka was relieved to see Riverfarm in the distance. She assumed it was the same village; it looked nothing like she remembered. Far too large and…but it was the right place, she was sure.
It had been a taxing run. So Ryoka smiled as she saw the village. Charlay was even more ecstatic. The Centauress let out a whoop of pleasure as she pointed at Riverfarm in the distance.
“Hah! We made it at last! I’ll race you to the gates! Last one there’s a stinky Selphid!”
She took off, racing ahead at full-speed. Ryoka blinked at her and then cursed.
“Hey! Charlay, damn it, wait—”
She charged after Charlay, but the Centauress was a horse. Ryoka couldn’t catch up with her! The City Runner slowed. She wasn’t going to charge into the village huffing and panting. She needed a plan.
She’d come here to help Laken. And to find out what he’d done with Riverfarm and who he’d become since she’d parted ways with him. Apparently, he was a ways from the village, but Ryoka had to deliver the potions to a ‘Lady Rie’. Who was a real noble, apparently. Failing that, a Mister Prost. Ryoka remembered Prost’s name, but a [Lady]? She had to tread carefully. Figure out how she could introduce herself and help. If help was what she should do.
“I have to play it cool. Charlay will help with that. I’m just a Runner—unless they’re expecting me. What did Laken tell them?”
Ryoka murmured as she ran past a forest encroaching towards the road. She hadn’t thought this through enough. She couldn’t be old Ryoka. Then again, what was new Ryoka’s game? What could she do?
Suddenly, Ryoka stopped in the road. She didn’t know why. Only that the wind at her back had gone still. It had been blowing gently behind her. But all of a sudden it died. And the young woman felt a cold chill run down her spine.
There was no reason for it. One moment she was running, the next, her legs had stopped on her. Ryoka reached for the wind, but it was gone. Not rebellious, not refusing to listen to her.
Gone.
And the Runner girl realized she was no longer alone. It was a prickling of her thumbs, a tingling on the back of her neck. As she turned, she saw them.
Dead bodies. Lying in the shadows of the trees. Men and women, hacked to pieces. Blood had run and dried, but the ground was still wet in places. And the forest held them.
It was a lovely, blue, clear, dry day. Ryoka stared at the dead bodies. A dozen had died, at least. She took a step back. She’d missed them, but there they lay. Bandits? Travellers? She looked around and felt it again.
Something was out there. The young woman reached for her belt and stopped. Her head turned. The dirt road was blank. Riverfarm seemed very far away in the distance. There was no one here.
But there was. The shadows seemed longer across the ground. The forest grew in the distance, and the branches of nearby trees reached for Ryoka. She looked around, and her skin crawled, and the hairs on her body rose. Something was watching her.
Her missing fingers ached. Slowly, carefully, Ryoka let go of her belt knife and reached for something in her bag of holding. Her fingers came out holding a caltrop. Pure, cold iron. Ryoka tossed it to her other hand and reached back into her bag of holding. She came out with a cross, the tip sharpened like a stake.
It didn’t make her feel better. Something was out there, and Ryoka felt terribly, terribly cold. Too late, she remembered the run on the Winter Solstice. Not when she’d come to Riverfarm, but when she’d left it.
She had been in a forest then. Ryoka’s head slowly turned. The dead faces lying amongst the trees stared at her. She backed away, her heart pounding. She shouldn’t have come here. It was a trap.
Ryoka turned to run. Then she saw her. She was standing on the road in front of Ryoka, not a dozen paces away. She was so obvious that Ryoka didn’t know how she had missed her.
A tall woman straightened from one of the bodies. Blue, but so dark in color as to appear black. Long and draping; a robe tattered by a hundred thousand cuts and frays in it. Rich cloth torn to shreds.
No—wait—Ryoka blinked, and the cloth was whole and plain. It was so long as to almost pool behind the woman and simple. A traveller’s robes—
Blink.
—Ancient fabric covered with delicate ornamentation. Tiny skulls and fields of wheat blending and melding together into the seam of her robes. So tiny Ryoka shouldn’t have seen them from here, but perfectly magnified. A sweeping march of the crests of kingdoms, and a thousand banners, each bearing a different crest, rising up over old fabric that shone like magic itself.
Then the robes were just robes, and Ryoka saw the woman’s head turn. She had black hair, which ran down to her waist, and she was tall. Seven feet tall? She cast a vast shadow that stretched before her. Not just from her mere height; the hat on her head was wide enough to cast her entire body into shade. Its wide brim was ungainly but for how she wore it. And it was pointed.
Ryoka took a step back. Her hands were shaking. This was no specter or dream. This woman was real. But Ryoka felt it. The same feeling she sometimes got from Ivolethe. The feeling of the Solstice. From Teriarch. Her fingers hurt.
The woman hadn’t seen her. She had been inspecting the dead, her fingers touching the red stains on the ground. When she stood—
Her robes rustled, and she cast her eyes towards the horizon. The air rustled around the woman. Fled, carrying cobwebs off around her.
Strands of thread, like a storm. Filaments of gossamer web that became a sea of vanishing particles. The woman opened her hand, as if to catch them, and for a second—her eyes followed the webs as they vanished.
Then she was utterly still. Eyes fixed on something Ryoka couldn’t see; Ryoka could not take her eyes away from the stranger. Only after a second did those eyes roll—following the wind as it gusted away, whirling around the frozen City Runner. Then they focused on Ryoka.
The woman had seen her.
She walked beneath the shade, abandoning the stain of red. Her stride was slow, unhurried. As she approached, Ryoka saw her face beneath the hat.
There was no expression on the woman’s face. Neither surprise nor curiosity. Nor anger, not sadness. Just a blank stare. And her eyes—her eyes! Ryoka stared into them. They weren’t a normal person’s eyes.
The woman’s pupils were all wrong. She had not one, but multiple irises, each one smaller and smaller, disappearing into the center of her eyes. And in each iris, the color of her eyes was orange. A pumpkin’s color, the color of fire, carrots. Tiger’s stripes, rust. Black rings dividing her eyes into ever-smaller irises.
Orange glowing beneath the hat with more light than the sun had to offer. It seemed as if Ryoka could fall into those eyes.
Ryoka felt her breath coming in quick bursts. The caltrop was digging into her hand, the points drawing blood. The stake was slippery in her other hand. The woman stopped in front of her, and Ryoka realized the woman was taller than her. Not thin, not wide. But she seemed to block out the sun. She looked down at Ryoka. And then she bent forwards.
Down—Ryoka had never met a woman who had to stoop to get eye to eye with her. The head tilted left. Right. Then the woman sniffed.
At this, Ryoka did flinch backwards. The woman inhaled—narrowed her eyes, then stared at Ryoka. The Wind Runner, reflexively, jogged back a few steps. The woman remained still, stooped in that odd posture, staring. Her eyes followed Ryoka as the Wind Runner edged back.
She didn't move. Ryoka edged back another step, saw those eyes shift slightly—then stare ahead. They flicked from Ryoka to Riverfarm, as if noticing something. Then to Ryoka—then there was that sniffing again.
What was she staring at—? Ryoka looked around, wondering if it was—
The woman was right in front of her. There was no way she could have moved, but she was right there, the same posture, but she had bridged the distance until she and Ryoka were almost nose-to-nose.
“Gah!”
Ryoka leapt back in terror, now, well and true fright. But the woman just tilted her head one last time. Then she straightened.
Tall, face impassive, she stood there for…minutes. How long, Ryoka couldn’t say, but like someone cornered by a strange beast, she just stood there. The City’s Runner’s legs were shaking until the woman’s eyes boring into her head blinked. She blinked—spoke.
“Hello. A fine day it is, traveller.”
Her voice was deep. Quiet. And it had a reverberation, a subtle echo to it. But the words were normal. Ryoka started. She felt sweat running down her back. The woman stared down at her. After a moment, she looked up and gestured at the sky. She wore black gloves. No—black wrappings, a thin cloth wrapped around each finger and hand. Only the skin on her face was visible. The woman went on, staring up at the sky.
“A fine day to travel upon any road. Dry. Although it should be raining. Thundering. But the skies are clear. It bodes ill.”
She looked down at Ryoka. Her tone was trying to be conversational, but there was nothing normal about her. Behind her, the bodies lay in death. The shadows seemed to slowly be moving. The woman stared at Ryoka. She glanced once at the caltrop and stake-cross. Then at Ryoka’s face as if they didn’t exist.
“I seek sanctuary. I have been invited and name myself Great Witch of Terandria. By my hat, I claim entry to these lands and the hospitality of the realm. Allow it me, I pray you.”
“Wha—who—?”
Nothing about this made sense. But the words snapped Ryoka out of her paralysis. Uncertainly, she lowered her hands. She let go of neither weapon, though. The woman was asking for sanctuary? Ryoka glanced past the woman at the dead people on the road.
“The bodies—”
The woman blinked slowly. Then her head turned. She regarded the bodies as if she’d forgotten they existed. She turned back to Ryoka and nodded.
“Yes. Death.”
Her tone was completely disinterested. As if the dead were leaves or branches. Ryoka licked her lips.
“Did you cause that? I mean—did you see what happened?”
It seemed to her that if the woman had done it, she would seem guilty or at least—invested. For answer, the woman thought about the question, then replied slowly.
“I saw neither murder nor ghost. I am seeking Riverfarm. Do you know where it lies?”
The woman looked at Ryoka. The City Runner hesitated.
“It’s behind you. Down the road.”
The woman’s head turned again. She regarded the village in the distance.
“I see. It was not here the last time I visited.”
That was all she said. There was no embarrassment, no pointing out it was in plain view. The woman turned to Ryoka.
“I thank you for your help, messenger. I must continue my journey. I am late. A fair morning to you. A pleasure to meet someone on the road.”
Normal words. But those eyes. The feeling in her bones—Ryoka shuddered. The woman was just staring at her after saying her goodbyes. And Ryoka was sure she was something beyond just Human. Something like—Az’kerash?
Part of her wanted to run. But the rest had to ask. Ryoka took a shaky breath.
“I—uh—no problem. I’m—my name is—Ryoka Griffin. What’s yours?”
She wondered if that was a mistake. But the woman didn’t react to Ryoka’s name. She just waited and then replied.
“I am called Belavierr.”
“Nice to meet you.”
A pause.
“A fair day’s greetings, yes.”
The two regarded each other. Ryoka warily, Belavierr as if…Ryoka were a perplexing obstacle. She didn’t seem to need to blink except when she chose. Ryoka took another breath.
