Hailey chuckled. “I've known you for a long time now, and I can tell when you're scared.” She said. “Really scared, as in 'my whole body is shaking' scared, and not that temporary 'oh, that's horrible' kind of scared, either. Real, serious, life-altering scared.”

Elerlyth clamped her mouth shut and didn't respond, and Hailey finished the healing. She closed Elerlyth's top and leaned over a bit further to touch Elerlyth on the cheek.

“You love him and you told him, and that's that.” Hailey said. “I remember that time he gave you those wands and you let it slip out then.” She chuckled. “You were an emotional wreck for a week afterwards.”

“It... it wasn't that bad.” Elerlyth said and sat up.

“You couldn't even hold your sword straight, because he had given it to you, and it reminded you of him.” Hailey said and laughed. Elerlyth looked down at her outfit and how damaged it was, equipped her armor bodysuit, then equipped her armor. Or rather, the armor that Ren had retrieved and then discarded. She sighed and stood up.

“Thanks for healing me.” Elerlyth said and walked over to the door.

“Elerlyth.” Hailey said, and she turned to look at her friend. “Would he really have come to my rescue because of you?”

“He said he would... and before you doubt him, he never lies.” Elerlyth said. “When he tries, he sucks so badly at it that it's funny.”

Hailey smiled and nodded, and Elerlyth left the hideout.

“Okay, you stubborn horse!” Elerlyth said when she was outside. “Look! Look at me!”

Etheria, the Phantom Steed, looked at her and she turned around so he could see everything.

“Are you happy now? I'm all healed, and I'm even wearing the armor he left for me.” Elerlyth said. “Now will you take me to him?”

Etheria nodded, and Elerlyth climbed up into the saddle. The steed reared back on his hind legs and took off, and flew up into the sky at full speed. Hailey came out of the hideout to wave goodbye, and she sighed when Elerlyth flew away.

“If she hadn't been so stubborn, Ren could have been the one to fight for me in the ring instead of her.” Hailey said wistfully. “That would have been interesting to see, with him so short and everyone else a foot and a half taller.” She said and walked back inside and shut the door.

Elerlyth flew Etheria all the way back to Ren's county, and landed in front of the Main House. She hopped off the steed and ran to the front door, and then stopped when two identical men suddenly appeared in front of the door and stood there with their swords across the doorway.

“What the...?” Elerlyth looked at them, and they looked back at her. “Let me in, please.”

“You are not authorized to enter the premises.” One of them said without moving their mouth.

“How do I get authorization?” Elerlyth asked. That's a little creepy.

“Our Lord must say you are approved.” He said.

“Well, then.” Elerlyth said. “Go and get him.”

“My Lord isn't here.” The man said. “He is out on Adventurer's business.”

Elerlyth sighed. “Can I leave a message for him?”

“We are not messengers.” The disguised skeleton knight said.

“Ugh!” Elerlyth grunted. “What is wrong with everyone?” She asked. “You are all stopping me from doing what I want!”

He didn't respond; so, Elerlyth walked back over to her Phantom Steed and climbed up to sit on the saddle. After one long look at the upstairs of the Main House, she flicked the reins once, and Etheria flew away with a disgruntled dark elf on his back.
