“If only it were that easy!” Barbara said. “Hold on, let me call my sister.” She said, and picked up the cell phone. After some quick banter, Barbara told her about the foreclosure house and that Ren wanted to make an offer on it. Barbara had to hold the cell phone away from her ear for a minute, while her sister screamed with joy.

“She's going to get a huge commission, apparently.” Barbara said.

Ren and Elise exchanged smiles, because they knew what getting a nice commission can do to someone. Barbara waited for the screaming to stop, then put the phone back to her ear.

“Yes.” “No.” “If you can low-ball it, sure.” “Uh huh.” “Yes.” “Really?” “Okay.” “We'll wait for the call.” “Bye.”

“She's on it right now.” Barbara said, and looked at Elise. “The foreclosure is at Ren's new bank.”

“No way!” Elise took out her own cell phone. “Call your sister back!” She said to Barbara, and dialed a number quickly.

*

Janice always worked late nights, and tonight wasn't any different; until her phone rang.

“Vice President of Accounts, Janice speaking.” She said when she picked up her office phone. I'm never going to get tired of hearing that. She thought, and grinned as she heard her friend's voice on the phone.

“Hi, Janice.”

“Elise! To what do I owe the pleasure?”

“I've got another favor to ask.”

“Really, now.” Janice said, with a slightly evil taint to her voice. “What can I do for you now?”

Elise laughed, and gave her a rundown of the house, the foreclosure, and the listing.

“You want me to broker the sale?”

“Only if you want to make the bank a ton of money right away.” Elise said, and Janice grinned.

“I've already brought them 2 multi-million dollar accounts. The least I can do is give them a repayment on a defaulted loan worth hundreds of thousands.”

“That's my girl!” Elise said, and Janice laughed. “What do we need to do?”

“Tomorrow's Saturday, so nothing official is going to happen until Monday.” Janice said. “Do you have a Realtor?”

“Ren's nurse is on the phone with her right now.” Elise said. “Just a second.”

The phone went quiet for a minute, and then Elise got back on with Barbara's sister's name and phone number.

“This usually takes months to go through, you know.” Janice said. “But this is going to go much faster than that. You're lucky no one's actually lived in the house.”

“What?”

“It was part of a huge purchase, but the client bailed at the last minute and took off with a good chunk of the collateral.”

“That's horrible.”

“Yes, it is.” Janice said. “The president of the bank is going to fall in love with me, when I tell him that I'm getting a good amount of that back.”

Elise laughed again. “I think your expectations are a little high. If he didn't fall in love with you over a few million dollars...”

Janice laughed, too. “All right, I'll call the Realtor right now.”

“Thanks, Janice.”

“Hey, that's two you owe me now.”

“I'm sure I'll be able to do something nice for you soon.” Elise said. “Bye, Janice.”

“Bye, Elise.”

Janice hung up the phone and grinned. She just keeps handing me money on a silver platter, and she thinks I'm the one doing her a favor! She thought and dialed the phone to call the Realtor. If I can convince her to come over tonight, we can file the paperwork right away and get this money ball rolling!

*

Elise hung up the phone and looked at Barbara. “Janice is calling her now.”

“She's calling you now.” “Yes.” “Bye.”

“Well, that's that.” Elise said and looked at Ren. “We'll know more on Monday.”

“Or later tonight if my sister can't keep it to herself.” Barbara said, and they all laughed.
