The Seeker ignored Minaga as he looked at Jake. “Even if you could see inside with your Bloodline, the number displayed isn’t generated before the cup is lifted, yet you claim you can intuitively know anyway?”

“I never claimed anything; that’s what Minaga claimed,” Jake shrugged. “I’m just playing along because he bribed me to.”

“Right, I forgot,” the god nodded. “Understandable, and I shall not dig further.”

Jake just smiled and shook his head, having decided not to question anything. If he did, he would spend all day asking questions such as “why does the Seeker have a true random die,” which would inevitably lead him to ask “why the hell would anyone ask for a true random die from winning a system event?”

The answer to which still wouldn’t make a lot of sense, hence why Jake didn’t ask... except he had asked that one, which had been a teaching moment for him not to ask further.

“Hey, wanna bet when the Shimmershroud Planeswarper escapes?” Minaga asked after a bit.

“That sounds like a wonderful idea,” the Seeker instantly agreed.

“I’m in too.” Jake raised a hand. “If I’m allowed to.”

“The more the merrier,” Minaga grinned.

“In that case, I’ll also join in on the insanity,” the King said in a surprising turn of events.

The Seeker seemed to notice the King for the first time as he raised an eyebrow and looked at the Unique Lifeform up and down before speaking. “If I win, could I have one of your arms?”

“You wish to have a limb of mine?” the King asked with confusion.

“Yes,” the Seeker said, being dead-serious.

“Sure, I’ll gamble one of his arms,” Jake agreed with a grin.

“Me too,” Minaga raised a hand.

The King floated there for a few seconds before just shaking his head. “Fine.”

“So, all in agreement that the winner gets one of his arms?” Jake asked with a grin. “Great. Now, Jasper has been in there for a bit under five hours, and the Seeker said the time limit is a week... with that in mind, let me be first and bet that he’ll be out in-“

“Less than five hours!” the Seeker quickly jumped, loudly exclaiming his guess.

Jake barely had time to look at the god before the cube on the table started shaking violently, and a second later, it released a flash of light as a familiar-looking B-grade Planeswarper appeared sitting on the coffee table.

Without a single hint of shame, the Seeker looked toward the King. “I want the left one.”
