His daughter saw him coming, and she knew exactly what he had in his top pocket. It was a bit scrunched up, but it was there. A contract for Zara, and a contract for herself. Eppie’s contracts were all unique; it was one of Sony’s best-kept secrets. If a rival could get their hands on one, they would be bewildered by the sheer number of terms and conditions that ensured Eppie received little in the way of personal wealth. Compared to a traditional contract, the thick stack of legalism looked more like a charitable tax write-off.

At the threshold, like an old cowboy stylishly drawing a revolver, he produced the contracts—a little scrunched, but reasonably visible to the stunned faces of the Division heads, VPs and Head Scouts.

“Good luck with your meetings,” he said with feeling, then slickly slid through the open door, his slightly yellow teeth adding insult to smug injury.

Before entering, he made sure that Lucia had also left. The girl had a commercial to shoot, and it was already too late. Someone somewhere was, at this moment, very upset.

Inside, in the green room lounge, his girls were recuperating.

“Yo!” Eppie raised a hand. Curon high-fived it. “Nice spectacle.”

“My girls, my girls…” Curon hummed a song that would soon cruise the charts. Pines wouldn’t reach the height of Umbrella, or match the song he had planned for Christmas, but it would linger for long enough to become an evergreen. “Here’s your contracts for tonight—”

The Zara girl looked at the crumpled papers. Miss Arriaga was still living somewhere south of the moment Lucia Lancet had put flowers in her arms and given her a hug about the shoulders. What remained of the girl reached out like an automaton to take the contract and pen Curon offered.

“Zara.” Eppie took the contract instead. “Lesson One. In this business, never sign anything without reading through everything.”

“What?” Zara’s eyes refocused, seeing Curon for the first time. “Oh my god! Are you Director Curon? Frederick Curon? It’s an honour, Sir.”

Curon stared at his daughter. Are you seeing this respect? His eyes said to her. Where’s mine? Where’s my hug? What’s this distrust? You think I would rip your friend off?

Eppie stared back. I know what you are… Her baby-blue eyes seemed to say. Let’s not kid ourselves here… Dad.

Curon found himself a seat. Instead of tearful celebrations and kisses on the cheek, his Eppie was now going through the contract line by line like some legal eagle fishing for trout. He watched her makeup-smeared face focus with immense concentration, and found it strangely enticing. She had a young face, but she looked older. Her eyes were older, Curon realised, and the juxtaposition gave Eppie an air of reliability.

It also made Eppie a little terrifying. Her howl at the William lad was evidence of that. In that moment, if she had leapt down and crashed the guitar over the guy, using the body like a hammer, Curon would have believed it.

Eppie was underlining the contract; it was such a familiar sight that Curon felt strangely nostalgic for August. Holy shit. He felt his brain tremble. I met her in August? It felt like he had known her for years, since she was a child. Had he hallucinated his familiarity?

“18 per cent?” She looked up. “3 per cent above standard,” Curon fired back.

“Co-writing floor is at 40%?” “That’s regardless of how many other collaborators there are. You wanted Antonio on the bass, right? For the studio recording.”

Eppie nodded in approval and read on.

“50% retainment?” Eppie looked up again. “That’s a bit generous.” “That’s a one-time offer,” Curon said. “Don’t expect the same for anything hereafter.”

“Net receipt for Streaming?” Eppie whistled. “You’re sparing no expense, Dad.”

Curon’s heart melted. Finally, his wayward child had come home to roost.

Zara’s eyes, which were very pretty, nearly popped out of her head. She looked at them with an expression of realisation, then recognition, then epiphany.

Curon coughed. “That was a joke…”

“Am I a joke to you, Dad?” Eppie pouted. She was cute enough already, but in that damned school uniform, and with that deliberate makeup, Curon could only curse Trent Davis for ruining the moment forever. “Are you ashamed of—”

“ALRIGHT—” he redirected their attention back to the contract. “Look here, no cross-collaterals. And that’s slitting my own throat.”

No cross-collateral meant that Zara’s earnings from their guaranteed hit were without strings. There wouldn’t be a situation where her subsequent albums’ losses, assuming they underperformed, would eat into the payments of Pines as an evergreen hit.

Eppie read the rest of the contract with a speed that would have made Eric’s eyes water. “It’s a very generous contract.” “I know,” Curon said. “Just for this one song, though. Trent will have my ass otherwise.”

Eppie slid the papers back to Zara. “As your legal counsel, I can safely say this is safe to sign.”Still suspicious, Zara signed on the dotted line.

“Mr Curon… er…” Zara hesitated, her Basque sensibilities taking a hold of her tongue. If Curon was Eppie’s Godfather, then… “Uncle Curon?”

“Oh, I like that.” Curon watched Eppie scan through the second contract. The terms were mostly charity-focused. Her cut of the song was pretty much in the single digits. “Yes, call me Uncle Curon.”

“Her actual Uncle can tear a cow carcass apart with his bare hands,” Eppie’s warning was earnest. “For asado, I mean.” His daughter signed with a flourish. At the Belmont Building, Davis called them “Eppie Standard” contracts, or ESCs. The first few were a pain to draft. Now, legal had several standard templates to modify on the fly.

“Ahaha…” Curon recovered the contracts and signed as the witness. “Just Fredrick is fine, Miss Arriaga. Where will you go now?”

“We have dinner at the El Cid,” Eppie said. “You want to come? I am sure the Arriagas won’t mind.”

“Pass,” Curon did not refuse because of the ethnic food. He had the contracts, and he needed them processed before he could book Mueller and send him down to Culver City. Eppie’s, or rather “Mio’s” new song had a digital release on the 17th, with physicals shipping on the 22nd, all ready for Christmas. He wondered if that had been in Eppie’s plans for the unfortunate Mr Chen.

Considering what she had shown the William boy tonight, a second song hitting the charts would pour salt onto his open wound. Curon tried for a moment to imagine himself in the kid’s shoes, trying to survive Christmas. At the same time, Pines and Cries cycled on the radio, in people’s cars, on the street, in online advertisements and in Social Media, singing about his unforgivable crime, while implying nothing.

Such… saturation might just inspire a sinner to search for a tall roof.

Feeling ambivalent, he looked over at the girls sitting on the couch, one tall and one tiny, one hugging the other, dreaming of tomorrow. He felt an inexplicable anxiety for his wayward songbird.

“Eppie,” Curon tried to summon both courage and authenticity. Still, for a veteran Producer in an inherently exploitive industry, any emotions divorced from performance came sparingly and with a dose of self-conscious hypocrisy. “Are you okay? Truly okay?”

Eppie looked up, her eyes were witness to something in the middle distance before her pupils focused on his face.

She smiled beautifully, yet with her theatrical makeup, it was also tragic.

“I am fine, Dad,” his girl said in a voice made for television. “In truth, I feel better than ever.”
