"A goddess wouldn't be worried about children usurping her domain, I should think," Cale said. "And frankly, if a child did manage to usurp her domain, she probably didn't deserve to have it in the first place."

Astiviya narrowed her eyes and gritted her teeth. "Enough. Who is your second?"

An armored form lumbered up behind Cale, gleaming red. Its presence was entirely magically silent—it had concealed itself completely, until now.

"This guy," Cale said brightly. "Old friend of mine. How about yours?"

Astiviya raised a hand toward the heavens, and divine magic swelled. A moment later, the clouds parted, and a slender, pale figure descended to land by her side.

An explosion of clashing divine intent followed, rippling out throughout the arena. Just like the first time Akkau had summoned the gods, the presence of more than one clashing domain could easily disrupt the mages in the vicinity as it laid havoc upon all the mana in its range. The first time this had happened, it had been an accident, and Cale's entire plainroot Divine Studies had nearly collapsed.

This time, she was doing it deliberately. As some sort of statement, Cale suspected. But the ripple of clashing divine power reached the arena's barriers and just... stopped. Astiviya seemed nonplussed; she narrowed her eyes at the barriers. "What is this?" she demanded. "Did you believe such barriers were necessary for a simple duel? I will not cause such destruction."

Cale was too busy staring at whoever it was Astiviya had summoned. "I have a better question," he said. "Who's this guy? Why'd you summon a naked twink to be your second? Is this an exhibitionism thing? Because I didn't consent to this."

Astiviya gritted her teeth. "This is the Prince of Peace," she said. "My consort. A god in his own right."

"And he's naked because..."

"Peace does not come with weapons," the Prince said, his voice quiet but strong. "I show that I am unarmed in all ways."

"All ways except one," Cale muttered. "That thing's basically a sword. Put on a sock or something."

"Your challenges," Astiviya demanded.

Cale sighed, then stared up at Astiviya. "You know, if you had shown even the slightest bit of regret for forcing a child to live with a curse, I would have gone with my original plan," he said. "Something lighthearted so we can put on a bit of a show for the kids. Maybe a bit of minion chess. Have you ever played minion chess? I miss that game."

"What are you talking about?" Astiviya asked, exasperated, though Cale noted that the Prince of Peace beside her looked intrigued. He did seem like the sort that would be into minion chess. Cale made a quick note of that for later.

"Nothing important," Cale said. "I think I'm abandoning that plan now. I need you to understand why this matters and how much you made my friend lose with your little curse. So I'd like to issue a second challenge."

The goddess stared at him for a moment. "And what challenge is that, little plainroot?"

Cale decided not to disavow her of that notion for now. "We're going to win all three of our challenges," he said. "If I lose even one of them, the victory goes to you. But if I win, you apologize to my friend personally."

Astiviya's grip on her swords tightened, trembling with rage; beside her, the Prince placed a hand on one of her elbows, as if to urge calm. She took a deep breath before she spoke.

"If you are able to do such a thing, I will not only apologize, but bestow a Blessing upon the Graystalk child," she said. "And upon his parents, to make up for the time they have lost."

Cale blinked. "That's surprisingly generous of you."

"You will not win two challenges against a goddess, let alone three," Astiviya said. "I lose nothing by being generous."

That wasn't strictly true, but Cale said nothing to deny it. He could afford the divine a bit of grace. Many of them were bound to act in ways that would expand the reach of their domains. It was no true surprise that Astiviya would play the part of someone stubborn and ignorant, willing to start what might be a decades-long feud for the simple reason that she was offended.

But it said something interesting, too, that her consort was someone known as the Prince of Peace. It spoke of one who fought against their chains. Not well, perhaps, but ever since his time in the Bitter Path, Cale had begun to wonder.

Gods and goddesses acted differently around him. For the longest time, he had chalked this up to nothing more than his attitude and approach, yet the more time they spent around him the more human they seemed to be.

And if he was right about that, then this duel could serve as what she needed to become more than just her domain. Best to take it seriously.

"My challenges are mana quantity and magical combat," he said.

Astiviya seemed like she had been expecting some sort of trick. She frowned at the suggestion. "Foolish," she said. "You believe you will defeat a goddess of war in matters of mana and spellwork?"

"Obviously," Cale said. "Your challenge, please."

Astiviya narrowed her eyes, and something inscrutable passed through her expression. The Prince seemed to sense something and reached out for her again, but before he could calm her, she took a step forward.

"I choose trial by mundane battle," she said, all trace of self-contemplation vanishing; in its place was an ugly sneer. "You will fight me without your magic."

Cale froze, allowing the first hint of uncertainty to slip into his expression. "...I thought the whole point of this was to prove we have the magic we need to participate in the tournament."

"It was," Astiviya said. "But now you wish for me to apologize personally to a mortal you claim I have wronged; the stakes have changed. Do you wish to withdraw?"

Seconds passed, and the whole stadium seemed to hold its breath. Eventually, Cale sighed once more.

"I do not," he said. "I accept your terms."
