I can’t. I literally can’t. I’m working my ass off out here killing more Defiled with fewer losses than anyone else, yet no one will accept the real reason for my success. I say “Crossbows,” and they all think I’m holding out. It’s gotta be hidden Experts in my ranks (which is admittedly true), or the higher quality of my troops (again, also true, but it only goes so far), or some other asinine theory like the Divine Turtle racking up all the kills (which I wish was true, but neither Ping Ping nor Pong Pong have contributed to the war effort and instead spend their days in the lap of luxury devouring inordinate amounts of shrimp). This means I’ve yet to sell a single crossbow to the military, and even Fung, BoShui, and Zian won’t buy them. In their eyes, ranged weapons are for peasant hunters and nothing more, an Empire-wide symbol of weakness and poverty. How am I supposed to overcome prejudice when even cold hard facts and incredible results fail to sway their minds?

Sometimes, I feel like the Empire deserves to die, but the Defiled are far, far worse, so it’s not much of a choice.

Why bother? I should let everything burn to clear out the choking undergrowth, reset the world, and be there to plant the seeds of renewal in the aftermath.

...

Tch. Fucking Spectres. They’re real tricky bastards and only get trickier with time and numbers, but I’ve no choice but to leave them to stew in the void. I ran out of Spiritual Water three days into this patrol, so I have to wait until my next bath at Sinuji to make more. I’m also collecting more Spectres with every patrol, not just because I’m getting better at it, but also because more Spectres are showing up and bringing more Defiled, more Champions, more twisted Spiritual Weapons, and more duels. I don’t know how much longer I can keep at it, but such is life.

Hongji, I thought we were cool man. Why won’t you give me a break? Do you think I enjoy this? Okay, I kinda do and the Heavenly Energy is great, but still. I need a vacation.

And from the looks of things, I’m not the only one. There are no cheers or celebrations for our overwhelming victory, and instead my people go about their business with cold indifference and weary disregard. Piles of burning corpses which would have once inspired and uplifted are now part and parcel of their daily routine, retreating away from the oily smoke to eat, drink, and rest while they can. Overall, morale is more ragged than our uniforms, which says a lot considering Guan Suo hasn’t changed his clothes in weeks and is still one of the better dressed individuals of my retinue.

I can see why the Protectorate dress so shabbily now. No point wearing nice things if it all gets torn to shit, and with armour in short supply, getting replacement gear isn’t merely a matter of doling out coin.

Tattered gear, lost comrades, and extended battles all take a toll on morale, but the Spectres’ influence is the greatest contributing factor to the retinue’s poor mood. Though I’m here to vacuum all the bad ghosts away, once the Spectres place a thought in someone’s mind, I’m powerless to remove it. Their influence is easy to spot once you know what to look for, most common of which is the thousand-kilometre stare. The afflicted sit there amidst their squads and units, a part of the group yet mentally alone, gazing off into the distance with wide, unblinking eyes as they contemplate whatever lies the Spectre told them. Lang Er is the worst off, almost wholly reliant on his brother to do anything outside of battle including eat and drink. Left alone, I’m pretty sure he’d soil himself and starve to death, but maybe I’m being overly dramatic.

The other signs are less obvious, but still difficult to deal with. It’s mostly minor issues like A-Gui purposely inciting jealousy amongst her many suitors, Jinoe’s increasingly macabre humour, Awdar’s growing drug problem, and Ravil’s fetish for punishing infractions. Then there’s the more-serious-but-also-not-so-obvious signs of Spectres, like Dastan’s wild desperation to prove himself, Ulfsaar’s barely restrained rage, and Neera’s growing gloominess at being unable to help him. Even without the Spectres constantly reinforcing these behaviours, my people still embark down the self-destructive paths laid out before them and there’s little I can do to stop it.

That’s the trickiest thing about Spectres. All they do is provide the rope and leave us to hang ourselves with it.

It takes two hours to tally the dead, clear the battlefield, cremate our fallen comrades, and gather enough strength to get back underway. There are still many hours of travel before we’re done for the day, but we’re close to the finish line. By this time tomorrow, we’ll be back in Sinuji for a week of rest and relaxation, aside from the odd Defiled war-band or two. I’ll give Hongji a day or two to redeem himself, but if Colonel Braid-Beard doesn’t schedule my people for a break, then rank be damned, because I’m gonna march into his tent and make him eat his stupid poems.

Assuming I can convince Gang Shu to come with. Still not sure how strong the Colonel is, but considering he outranks Lei Gong, I doubt he’s a pushover.

A few blessedly uneventful hours later, Chey rides back from scouting duty and offers a military salute, which does wonderful things to her voluptuous bosom. She’s one of my best and most resilient officers, so I should probably stop treating her like eye candy, but it’s difficult being celibate again. Nose wrinkled in a fetching scowl, she pats her quin and reports, “Spotted a herd of cattle east of here, least three hundred heads total. Looks to be a mix o’ domestic and wild types, all gathered fer protection. They sittin’ real purdy between us and Sinuji, grazin’ and lazin’ about.”

Fun. I’ve always thought cows were cute, but they’re too delicious to make friends with. “Alright then. Carry on Scout Leader.” I wonder what’s the bounty on three-hundred cows? We’ve brought back sheep, pigs, chickens, and horses, but no cows. Seems weird though. We’re only a day away from Sinuji, so how have so many cattle gone unnoticed for so long?

“Er, boss?” Still riding alongside Zabu and I, Chey appears reluctant to speak. “You want us to keep on keepin’? Head right on up without so much as a how d’ya do?”

Charming as her lovely appearance and folksy vernacular might be, I’m a little confused by her hesitation, not to mention why she thought this information important enough to deliver it herself. Having learned from my (many) mistakes, I ask, “Is there something I’m missing here? Speak freely.”

My request is met with a fetching smile as the tension melts from Chey’s shoulders, which somehow makes her bosom all the more appealing. “Two pieces of advice?” Chey waits for my nod before continuing. “First off, ye keep starin’ at me tits and yer eyes are liable to pop out.” Her grin as wide as my cheeks are red, Chey winks and continues, “Now, I don’t mind ye givin’ the girls a gander now and then, but I ain’t about to be responsible fer blindin’ the number one talent in the Empire.”

A chorus of chuckles sound out and I can already hear my retinue spreading the story, but there’s nothing I can do besides accept it and move on. “Noted. Intermittent ganders to preserve eyesight. Good advice. Next?”

Brightening at how well I took her teasing, Chey’s tail wags at a mile a minute. “See,” she drawls, “Back in Sanshu, there was an order to things, a hierarchy of sorts. The easiest and safest meal ticket was to visit the fisherfolk. They lived close to the waters and the lake leaves no tracks fer guards to follow. Real safe.”

I don’t understand what robbing hardworking peasants has to do with anything, but whatever. “Okay?”

“Next on the list was farmers, fer rice, wheat, cabbage and whatnot. Couldn’t take much with us when we left, but they was easy pickings.”

“Is there a point to all this?”

“I’m getting there.” Straightening her back in an overt invitation to gander, Chey resumes her lesson on soft targets for bandits. “Now, times were we’d hit a caravan or two and slink off into the wilderness, but after the Council started buying bandits, those became off limits. So, the Freebooters turned to raidin’ further inland, hittin’ sheep herders, pig wranglers, and even horse ranchers, but ye know who we always left alone?” Without waiting for an answer, Chey supplies it for me, which is good because I wasn’t sure which colloquialism to use. “The cattle-hands. You don’t ever mess with a herd of cattle on their own territory, ‘less you lookin’ to get yer skull caved in.”

“Hm... I see.” The pieces fall into place and I ask, “Is that why these cows are still around? Everyone’s avoiding them?”

“Can’t say fer certain, but I’d wager sweet Squishy here on it.” It takes a moment to realize she’s talking about her quin and not, as I’d first assumed, one of her boobs.

After thinking things through, I nod and say, “Bring us around the herd, Scout Leader Chey. I’ll approach the cattle when you’re all safely away and see if they’re willing to follow us home.” Frowning in disapproval, Chey shrugs, salutes, and rides off while I ponder how best to approach the herd. Truth is, even with Chey’s long-winded warning, I’m not too worried about dealing with cattle. I mean, they’re cows. Giant, walking steaks with horns and hooves. I’ve tamed bears, wildcats, a flock of Laughing Birds, and two Divine Turtles, so I think I can handle a couple cud-chewing cattle.

Then again... If things do go wrong, do I really want to be the Number One Talent in the Empire who died to a cow?

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter 420

With his head held high and banner fluttering behind him, Mitsue Hideo rode into camp at the head of his retinue. Ten days ago, he set out with a hundred armoured cavalrymen bearing no less than thirty one Spiritual Weapons. Today, he returned with seventy-three and twenty-eight after securing nine-hundred and thirty-three Defiled kills. A magnificent accomplishment, one soon to be discussed in taverns across the Empire, with his name spoken by every tongue in the land.

As it should be.

Damn the cursed moron who came up with the idea to use a floating stage for the Imperial Grand Conference. Were it not for this glaring disadvantage, he would’ve never lost to that smug, northern hick Dastan. Defeated by a lowly slave, this shame would follow Hideo for years to come, but what burned the most was seeing his rightful rewards go to the savage, Falling Rain. The beautiful Zheng Luo, the Imperial Peerage, and title of Number One Talent in the Empire belonged to Mitsu Hideo, Great Nephew and Disciple of Mitsue Juichi. With his exemplary skills, he would have made short work of his opponents on solid ground, whether it be slave Dastan, those half-breed mongrels Wu Gam and Du Min Yan, or even Falling Rain himself.

So what if they had Awakenings? So what if that bitch could use Chi externally? So what if the savages had Divine Blacksmiths and Runic Craftsmen? All this paled before Hideo’s Mountain Collapsing Stomp.

Things wouldn’t be so bad if he had won the Legate’s Contest, but sadly Hideo came in second to a damned peasant, Yong-Jin. With his twin-maces in hand, none of Hideo’s remaining opponents were a match for him, but sadly strength of arms was merely one aspect of the Contest, the others being intelligence, acuity, and leadership abilities. Even then, Hideo defeated his opponents time and time again in each successive challenge, but they were all too feeble-minded and dull-witted for him to display his true skills, which led to the damned street-urchin scoring higher. Preposterous is what it was, absolutely preposterous.

Thus, Hideo had no choice but to prove to the Empire what he already knew, that he was superior to those serfs and mongrels, starting with Falling Rain. Defeat him, and all his achievements would bolster Hideo’s own reputation, so he set forth to surpass the piss-eyed savage’s accomplishments. The task was proving more difficult than expected considering he only had command of a hundred soldiers to Rain’s thousand, but he was confident he would soon succeed.

Upon arriving at his campground, Hideo discovered his reinforcements were nowhere to be found with Father waiting in their place. Rather than speak, Father handed him a missive which Hideo recognized as a copied letter addressed to Falling Rain. They’d been monitoring the savage’s communications hoping to uncover his secrets, martial or mercantile alike, but the tribesman was a wily one. The brightest scholars under Father’s employ couldn’t crack his code and had no idea what he was talking about when he mentioned ‘Pong Pong’ or ‘Shrimp’ or a myriad of other confusing terms. Some thought it was a request for armour or reinforcements, but weeks passed and still the Bekhai sent nothing. Father’s people then theorized the words themselves had no meaning, and the true message was hidden within the barely legible scrawls, but it was all outside of Hideo’s purview.

Though he didn’t expect much, Hideo opened the missive wishing it were the original instead, so he might see the letters written by Zheng Luo’s beautiful hand and smell her scent upon it. Her charm, her grace, her beauty, it was a travesty for such a woman to be wasted on an undeserving primitive, but Hideo would defeat the savage runt and rescue Zheng Luo from her terrible plight. How wonderful it would be to hold her in his arms and gaze into her eyes, to hear her lyrical poetry or soothing melodies, to taste her lips and more beneath the moonlit Central skies...

