After reading through the letter twice, Hideo raised in head and said, “I don’t understand Father. What’s so important about this?”

“We’ve misjudged him,” Father said with regret in his eyes. “He is not the man we thought him to be.”

“What do you mean?”

“The answer lies before you, you only need open your eyes and accept it.”

“...Preposterous.” Hideo tossed the letter away in disgust, unsure how Father could believe these childish lies. “So his ‘wives’ know he can return any time he likes. What does it matter? He’ll come up with another lie to stay behind. He’s already spent sixty consecutive days on the front lines and gone on three patrols, a formidable feat but not without cost.” Oh the cost. After four weeks of nonstop fighting, Hideo knew all too well the horrors of war. “The Bekhai can not or will not reinforce him and his retinue dwindles with each passing week, but still he remains, because he knows I am this close to surpassing his accomplishments.”

With a tired sigh, Father reached out and cupped Hideo’s cheek, and despite his best efforts, he almost collapsed into his father’s arms. The last four weeks had been difficult, but it would be worth it once he trampled over that damned savage. “Son,” Father said, his hand warm and voice consoling, “Falling Rain brought his retinue away on indefinite leave two hours ago.” Shaking his head, he added, “The little savage even tamed the massive cattle herd giving our patrols so much trouble. Had the entire camp in a panic thinking they were coming to stampede through the lines. Worse, there weren’t any cattle-hands capable enough to handle them, so Colonel Hongji gifted the entire herd to the savage. Good riddance I say. Let the peasant play with his cows and turtles.”

“...Preposterous!” Retrieving the letter from the ground, Hideo scanned through it once more, searching for hidden meaning within. “This is merely an excuse. The arrogant bastard couldn’t handle it anymore and is running home. It must be a trick. He means to make me lower my guard and play me for the fool.”

“Son...” Gently taking the letter away, Father embraced Hideo in a rare show of affection. “Your plan to eclipse his achievements was a good one, except the savage cares nothing for honour or glory. Think back to his other letters and you will see him for what he truly is, an idiot with more luck than good sense. There is no benefit to continuing here, and Father fears the cost too high for you to bear. We’ll speak with Uncle Juichi and find another way, but for now, come home and rest. Your mother yearns to see your face again.”

“No, I can’t leave now, not when I’m so close.” Pushing Father away, Hideo set to pacing about in thought. “The savage is gone now, so I will over-take him. Six weeks? Eight, ten, I’ll stay until every citizen in the Empire knows Mistue Hideo stands above all others, the true Number One Talent in the Empire.”

And if he can’t, then he would slaughter the Bekhai to the last.

“Son –”

“Time is of the essence. I must strike while the iron is hot.” Speaking over Father’s protests, Hideo demanded, “Bring me a fresh retinue. I’ll speak with Colonel Hongji and secure a place on the coming patrol. It’s perfect, even if the soldiers are different, the commander remains the same, and no one has ever gone on two consecutive patrols. I’ll –”

“No.” Father’s refusal stopped Hideo in his tracks, for he could hardly believe his ears. “This obsession has consumed you,” Father said, shaking his head in stern disapproval. “I’ve let this go on too long. Come home son, else you risk losing Balance or worse.”

And thus, Father’s true fears became apparent. “You think me inferior to a tribal savage?” Hideo asked, disbelief turning to anger as Father kept silent. “You think I, Mitsu Hideo, cannot match a mere Falling Rain? Preposterous!” Neck throbbing and spittle flying, Hideo stomped his foot to vent his anger and set the world around them to shaking. Horses screamed and soldiers shouted, but Hideo ignored the fuss and advanced on Father, screaming, “I will defeat him and prove my superiority! You cannot stop me!” Raising his foot for a second stomp, Hideo intended to show Father how strong he’d become.

Kill him and you inherit everything. No one but Mentor to tell you what to do, and he’s always supported your decisions.

The thought made Hideo hesitate for the briefest of moments, but he steeled his resolve and followed through. Time slowed as his foot crashed down, his Chi pulsing and ready to sunder earth and flesh alike.

“I’m sorry Son.” With those words, Father disappeared from Hideo’s sight and the world went dark as he collapsed into quiet slumber.

So many mistakes, so many failures. How was Hideo ever to recover what was rightfully his?

If only he were stronger. Stronger than Father, stronger than Mentor, stronger than the Emperor Himself.

Only then would he recoup his losses and redeem his failures.

He would trade anything for this strength.

Anything.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With two sharp pats on her rough, wrinkly skin, Dienne requested Ehani lift her foot for inspection and the large girl happily complied. Though he found no injuries, he noted her toenails were too long and at risk of cracking, a dire injury for a creature as large and heavy as she. Placing a sturdy footstool beneath the ponderous pad, he respectfully presented his nail file to Ehani so she knew what to expect. In a mischievous mood, her long, serpentine nose snatched the file out of Dienne’s hand and held it up high so he couldn’t retrieve it. Though he’d happily play along if they were at home or in a secluded area, privacy was lacking here on the front lines of Sinuji. “Please, little ancestor,” he implored, scratching Ehani’s chin to appease her. “Small one cannot play here, for appearances must be kept.”

As the Number One Talent of the South, he could hardly allow himself to be seen leaping about and being played for a fool by an elephant, no matter how much he enjoyed their games.

Trumpeting what he interpreted as a snort, Ehani returned the file with a huff and refused his offering of dried mangoes, quite literally turning her nose up at the sweet treat. Resisting the urge to bow and scrape to appease the dramatic beast, he set to filing her nails and hoped her anger would soon pass. The old girl was senior even to Dienne’s great grandfather, so should he lose her support, then Father’s tenuous hold over the clan would slip even further. A loyal creature which had formed a Spiritual Heart was not unheard of, but few were as powerful and capable as Ehani. Strong, intelligent, and an Expert in her own right, the Queyen clan called her their little ancestor because every rider she bonded with had gone on to become Patriarch.

Keeping his voice low, Dienne said, “Little ancestor, small one knows these past weeks have been difficult and you desire rest, but he still requires your aid. Small one lacks the prodigious talents of his peers and his fighting style is not suitable for duels, so warfare is the only area where his expertise might shine. If small one cannot make great accomplishments here and now, then he will forever be stuck in Falling Rain’s shadow.”

Though Ehani didn’t understand everything he said, she read his tone well enough. Flapping her large, leathery ears, she glanced at him as if to say, “Hmph. A mere runt with a giant turtle thinks he can outdo us on the battlefield? A frog stuck in a well.”

Or perhaps she regretted turning down the dried mango. Even after twenty plus years, Dienne still wasn’t entirely sure what went on in Ehani’s mind.

Just as Dienne finished filing Ehani’s last toenail, Akopa returned from his task. “Blood Ward, it has been confirmed. Falling Rain marches for SuiHua.” Needing time to think things through, Dienne offered Ehani the dried mangoes again and she accepted them with grace and aplomb, eating one piece at a time and chewing thoroughly to enjoy the taste.

Still uncertain after considering all the information at hand, Dienne fed Ehani the last piece of dried mango before addressing Akopa. “Your thoughts?”

“Falling Rain has proven himself unworthy of consideration.” Never one to mince words, Akopa launched into a scathing condemnation. “What we believed to be a lie has now been proven truth. The beardless runt fought for sixty days because he was unaware of proper procedure. A child playing games of war while adults who should know better leave him to run free.” His voice heavy with scorn, Akopa continued, “His exploits speak for themselves and his low casualty rate is admirable, but to recklessly persist without understanding the consequences... He is no leader of men. A true leader would have seen his soldiers’ plight and known he risked losing them to madness. How many soldiers will Falling Rain be forced to cull, driven mad with anger and hatred thanks to their extended excursions? Or worse, what if some Tainted go unnoticed and they escape to spread the Enemy’s infection? If such a calamity were to occur, then Falling Rain would have brought disaster to the Bekhai, and perhaps even to the Empire itself.”

“Enough,” Dienne said, inwardly rolling his eyes. “A little heavy handed with the rhetoric, but I understand your meaning. You think me overly ambitious to remain here?”

“Small one dare not criticize,” Akopa replied, though his tone was far from deferential and almost a little mocking in its monotone. “Though now that Blood Ward mentions it, small one notes many parallels. Truly, Blood Ward is brilliant to have seen so.”

A tad flippant, but the man had earned the right to it. First among a thousand of his peers, Akopa was Dienne’s Khadga, a sword to be wielded in the battle against the Defiled and his most trusted confidante. They both knew he was the stronger and more talented warrior, but Akopa forfeited so Dienne could advance, surrendering before he could order the Oath-sworn warrior to do his best. A distressing state of affairs, for perhaps Akopa could have defeated Falling Rain on stage and won great glory for the South, but sadly, there was no cure for regret.

Still unconvinced, Dienne sighed once more. “A strange matter comes to mind, one I cannot comprehend for the life of me. Falling Rain fought the Defiled at Sanshu, but before, he took part in a Purge. He experienced the hidden dangers of the Enemy firsthand and saw the extreme consequences which go with them, so how could he be ignorant of the ramifications of his actions here?” Shaking his head, Dienne muttered, “Contradictions within contradictions. Though a woman and half-beast, surely Akanai is competent enough to see the inherent danger, yet she sends no support or reinforcements, not even advice or a request for updates. Such freedom is unheard of for a talent such as he, yet Nian Zu and Baatar also leave Falling Rain to his own devices, while I’ve already ignored three of Father’s letters. Either all three highly-ranked Northern officers are gravely incompetent or there is a factor in play which we do not understand.”

Dienne had no proof, but he suspected it had something to do with Sanshu. More than a year had passed since the Defiled rebellion, yet there was still no sign of a resurgence of Enemy influence. How could it be possible? Most of the Empire expected Sanshu would have been razed to the ground, and for good reason. The Father’s Taint was dark and insidious, a malignant disease lurking in the hearts of humanity, yet against all odds, Sanshu emerged uninfected after the most disastrous Defiled outbreak in recent history. As ridiculous as the thought might be, could this also have something to do with Falling Rain?

Goujian certainly seemed to think so.

Depending on who you asked, Goujian was the Mother’s Sanguinary Priest or the Emperor’s Mad Dog, but whatever his reputation, few would have doubted the Confessor’s loyalty. Then, five weeks ago, the deranged lunatic dispatched countless missives to the nobles of the Empire declaring Falling Rain, the Legate, and the Emperor himself were the true Enemy and that he’d joined forces with the ‘Chosen’ to overthrow the ‘dog Emperor’ and his ‘unholy heathen lackeys’. Madness is what it was, but for Goujian to turn against the Empire... well, these were dark times indeed.

Dienne put no stock in the turn-coat torturer’s claims, though he disagreed with the Legate’s response. By issuing an Imperial Edict commanding the letters be destroyed and never spoken of again, the Legate lent credence to the rumours, laughable though they might be. Falling Rain was no Defiled in disguise, for if he were, he would not have the allegiance of so many creatures. Most wild beasts of the Empire harboured a natural aversion to the Enemy and all its agents, an instinctive hostility borne of self-preservation, especially more powerful creatures like the Divine Turtle. That’s what made the Arid Wastes so impenetrable to the Defiled, for even if they could withstand the difficult terrain and inhospitable clime, those deadly beasts lurking within would not react kindly to Enemy intrusion. It’s also how the Queyen Clan dealt with their suspected Tainted, by giving them a choice: either banishment to the Arid Wastes or be brought before Ehani and judged. How accurate she might be was up for debate, but history proved few Defiled willingly allowed themselves to be brought before the little ancestor, while none ever survived the Arid Wastes.

Then again, in all her years, Ehani had only ever spared one life, a child not even three years of age, so perhaps the innocent would be right to refuse her judgment and test their luck.

