Just like that, Mila’s duel was over, and she could not help but sag in relief and exhaustion as the soldiers of the Empire chanted her name and redoubled their efforts to drive the Defiled from their shores. A second ago, her Core had been full to the point of overflowing, but now it was wholly emptied unlike ever before. That’s how much the attack cost her, and it left her feeling drained and weakened, but it was nothing compared to the heady rush of accomplishment and victory. Already, her mind was turning and reviewing what she’d just done, noting several things to keep in mind when she tried to replicate her efforts, as well improvements she could make. There was no need to spend all her Chi in one go, as it was clearly overkill against most foes. As for the issue of control, she recognized that the shape of her shield contributed greatly to the effect, as it would be all but impossible to replicate these efforts through sheer Will alone. Balance was the key to this skill, Balance in all things, speed, compression, flow, and so much more, but the lessons she needed to learn were all engraved in her Natal Palace somewhere, scattered amongst the tower bamboo shoots and hidden within the flowing rivers, embedded in the packed soil and carved into the smooth stone. That being said, she was lucky the Demon hadn’t deployed any Elemental Chi to counter her, or perhaps it had and she simply overwhelmed it with sheer volume and speed of delivery, given how the attack was created and deployed in a moment so brief Mila lacked the words to even describe it.

The Radiant Spear, that was what she would call this, a beam of pure light to pierce through her foes. There was still plenty of fighting left to be done, but Mila knew her limits well and whistled for Zabu to come guard her as she meditated to refill her Core. The quin trotted up and gave her a friendly sniff before presenting his side for her to mount, which already was more than she ever expected, but it seemed like her actions in battle had won his respect. That alone was a cause worthy of celebration, to say nothing of the cheers and recognition of the soldiers around her, but as wonderful as all this was, Mila’s eyes were drawn to the docks where her husband lay resting.

There was still work to be done, and she wasn’t even sure if he was wholly awake or simply contacting her from his Natal Palace, but at the very least, she knew that he was aware and at least semi-conscious again, which was more than enough for her.

Well… not entirely true, but it would have to do for now. They could make up for lost time later, when he was fully conscious and after the Defiled Army sitting on their doorstep was dealt with. An inevitability now that he’d taken the field, a fact Mila only just now realized she’d taken for granted, because if ever there were a man beloved by the Mother Above, it was her husband, Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme
