All this passed through Mila’s mind in the blink of an eye, and time resumed once more as the Demon’s raised arm came crashing down with a bone-shaking crack. The screech of tortured metal threatened to shatter her ears as its bladed talons raked across her rounded metal shield and pushed her back an entire metre through the sand. This was the way the battle had unfolded thus far, with Mila struggling to hold her ground as it advanced upon her with ill-intent, and its plan had yet to change. Leaving her no time to recover her wits, the Demon’s left arm was already raised high to deal another blow. Its talons glowed with a wicked light to match the hue of the rising sun, an orange-red glow that eerily reminded her of blood as it blazed with the heat of a steel forge. Leaving a trail of light and smoke as they passed through the air, Mila traced its arc and raised her shield once more to catch the second blow. It hammered home with a clang and a screech, every bit as powerful as the attacks which came before, but this time she refused to shrink back. Instead, she advanced upon her foe without fear or hesitation, gritting her teeth as she endured the full brunt of the Demon’s might and the piercing heat of its incandescent talons. Her bones ground together and muscles shrieked in pain as the impact shook her to the core, her skin searing and blood burning from the heat billowing off of its talons, but this time, she refused to yield or be pushed aside.

For her only hope of victory lay in front of her, so long as she had the courage to seize it.

A single step, that was all the ground she gained, but what a difference this single step made. Having expected her to fall back like before, the Demon’s own body was now blocking its avenue of attack, as she was too close for it to execute a proper swing. Circling around to its left, she raised and rotated her shield to fend off its grasping talons and prevent it from grabbing hold of the rim, only to bring her shield down on the Demon’s gnarled kneecap with all her might. An easy target, one poking out from between the Runic leg-guard and knee-guard, as the plate armour was fitted for Gen’s body, rather than the skeletal abomination he’d become. Almost all his muscle, fat, skin, and tendons had melted off during his transformation from human to Demon, and Li-Li’s impassionate description of how his frozen, woeful expression came to be still haunted Mila’s nightmares. That being said, despite its burnt and fragile appearance, the Demon’s bones were still protected by its external Domain, so her shield did no damage as it glanced off the knobby protrusion without so much as leaving a mark.

Hardly unexpected, but Mila’s goal had never been to damage the Demon with this blow. All she wanted was to shift its weight onto its left leg so that her spear could sweep its right foot out from underneath it. With a bit of added direction from a none-too-gentle shove of her shield and her boot planted behind its left ankle, Mila sent the Demon crashing to the ground with a hefty metallic clang. It dropped like a sack of bricks without grace or aplomb, and Mila inwardly grinned in celebration of her success, for she finally knew how to fight it. Much like her, the spindly Demon was deceptively heavy, which explained why its attacks were so simple and straightforward, because that was the best way to bring all its weight to bear. Had the Demon mixed it up with a few deadly thrusts or probing slashes interspersed between its heavy, hammering blows, then Mila would have long since taken injury, but the creature had underestimated her strength and endurance.

That being said, even though the Demon was down, the battle was far from over. Shooting back to its feet in the blink of an eye, it glared at her with seemingly sightless eyes, molten, metallic orbs with the same colour and texture as the rest of its dark, semi-fluid form. Given how its half-melted facial features were frozen in an agonizing scream of despair, complete with two trails of tears streaming down its sunken cheeks, Mila wouldn’t have thought it was capable of expressing such rage and hatred, but clearly she was wrong. Much like its host, this Demon possessed an overabundance of pride, and now she would feel its wrath.

Or so it believed, but she had other plans in mind.

Even as her opponent shot forward to express the full extent of its rage, Mila’s hands and feet were already moving in accordance to her will. The Demon was fast yes, but only in quick bursts, a limitation she only recognized because she knew the downsides of being dense and heavy all too well. No amount of Lightening could make turning at a moment’s notice easy, which was why she continued to circle around it. Even if there was something else at work powering its movements other than muscle, Mila knew there was no way the Demon’s burnt, bony ankles could support its full weight without straining. As Rain so loved to point out, no matter how wonderous and mysterious the Energy of the Heavens might be, the known laws of physics still applied.

As the Demon pivoted about in an effort to turn and face her, Mila waited for the opportune moment to strike. She sensed it long before she saw it, the Demon’s shoulders tilting as it lifted one foot off the ground, and she lashed out with all her might. Not at its ankle again, for it was prepared for her this time, its hips lowered and knees bent to receive the attack, which was why she aimed at its head instead. She was reminded of the steel striking posts back home, and how rigid and unyielding they’d seemed in her youth, until one day they just started snapping every time she hit them. Though the Demon didn’t quite snap, it was every bit as unyielding as those metal posts, for the full weight of her thrust caught it clean in the eye and sent its entire rigid body toppling back down to the sands below.

Another advantage she was keen to exploit, the lack of stable footing underneath. On hard rock or packed dirt, there was no way the Demon would be so easily knocked down, but the shifting sands offered little support and purchase to even the lightest of Warriors, to say nothing of this compact and ponderous Demon. Again, it shot back up with ease, but Mila’s spear was ready and waiting with a low pass that caught both its feet before they touched the sand and swept them out from underneath it. Flailing about in the air, the Demon blindly lashed out in its rage, but the attacks glanced off Mila’s shield and she barely shifted in place. The Demon’s strength largely came from its Blessing of Metal, drawing power from the earth itself, so an errant strike delivered in mid-air was nothing worth noting.

Thrice now, the Demon had fallen, all in a handful of seconds, and while it might seem comical from an outsider’s perspective, Mila’s arms were straining to keep up. This entire time, the Demon’s glowing talons continued emitting a dry, fiery heat, one which failed to pierce through her Radiant Chi to injure her in any way, but was still unpleasant and uncomfortable to deal with all the same. It wasn’t like the blazing heat of a lit forge which sank into your bones and set your sweat to running in rivulets, but a sweltering, suffocating heat that set Mila’s skin to blistering and her lips to cracking. Any Warrior without a Blessing of their own would find it difficult to even stand in the Demon’s presence, which was why commander Min Jun had yet to dispatch another Demon Slayer to assist her, but aside from Tenjin and Lord of Thunder Lei Gong, she didn’t know of any other Peak Expert with a Blessing who could hold their own against this Demon, and they were obviously both busy with other matters.

No, this was the wrong way to go about it. Mama didn’t train Mila to endure and wait for help, she trained her to fight, and fight she would.

Unable to contain the Demon any longer, Mila put some distance between them and guarded herself against the obvious blazing pillar of flame, one which burst out of the ground from where the Demon was pointing. Truth be told, dealing with its fiery attacks was easier than engaging it in close combat, seeing how her Radiant Chi neutralized the flames with ease and the heat faded quickly without a conflagration to sustain it. More to the point was the fact that her Core was bursting with Chi, filled to the brim no matter how much she drew from it and expanding with every second that passed. Rain’s doing perhaps, similar to what he did to the Stormguard in JiangHu, but Mila trusted him with her life and put her curiosity aside to focus on the Demon before her.

She hadn’t seen it before, so overwhelmed by its might, but the Demon was unable to use its Blessing without waving its talons about, the same limitation Gen had in life. Why this might be, Mila couldn’t say, but perhaps it had something to do with the fact that Gen wasn’t actually dead, but merely a prisoner in his own mind and soul. Maybe that’s why most Demons grew more formidable over time, because newborn Demons were still struggling for control against their imprisoned hosts. This likely limited their strength as they ground away at their host’s will and identity through all manner of torture and torment, and seeing how the Demon’s personality was still so similar to Gen’s, it meant the coward was still putting up a fight. Mila had no sympathy for the traitor, but this was information she could use, for one must know the Enemy to defeat the Enemy. A paraphrased excerpt from Liu Xuande’s Art of War, and it came in handy here, because now she knew the Demon was not as formidable as she previously envisioned. Aside from heating up its talons and bestowing strength to its physique, there seemed to be nothing else the Demon could do with its Blessing of Metal, meaning that fighting the Demon was like fighting a different version of herself, one that was stronger, faster, and tougher in every measurable metric, while clad in Runic Armour and wielding bladed gloves instead of spear and shield.

A good thing then, because aside from Mama and Papa, no one knew Mila’s weaknesses better than Mila herself.

The Demon’s silent rage set her skin to prickling as it arched its back in an inaudible roar of fury. Pouncing forward like beast, it lunged with talons extended in no discernable Movement of the Forms. Her first instinct was to meet the blow head on, but she knew better now than to try and match its strength. Sidestepping the charge, she lashed out with her shield and hopped into the air, pushing herself out and away from danger using the Demon’s own strength. For a moment, she wondered if it would go charging at the nearby Imperial soldiers, but its lifeless molten eyes fixated upon her as it circled around for another attack. Step and slide, step and slide, it slinked closer and watched her with wary, raged filled eyes. Though still humanoid in form, its movements reminded Mila of a wild beast, its back hunched and shoulders slouched as it stalked its way over towards her. The dagger-like talons glowed even hotter than before, only for four of them to shrink on each hand, while its index finger elongated until it was the size of a proper sword.

Hardly ideal that, since she was already having issues keeping the Demon at bay, and now its range was longer than ever. Stomping forward in a rush of violence and fury, it wielded its sword-like talons with an almost laughable lack of skill, delivering wide, exaggerated swings like the novice swordsman Gen would have been. Powerful though the Demon might be, Mila found it simple enough to parry its blows using leverage afforded to her by its wild, inept swings, though she found it more difficult to predict just where its strikes would land. Rain was better at this than she was, and the same could be said of Li-Li, as both had used it against her during their many spars. A frustrating tactic to be on the receiving end of, but Mila found it exhilarating to be on the other side of it all. A single blow from the Demon could end her life, meaning she had to execute her blocks, parries, and Deflections without fail, a thrilling and enlivening experience that sent chills running down her spine. When was the last time she faced a foe like this, someone stronger and faster than she was, yet less skilled? Not since she faced the Water-Blessed behemoth Rain liked to call Pudge, another formidable Demon currently plaguing Meng Sha, though it kept well back from the walls and the sea to launch its watery attacks from afar. This was a fresh and uncommon experience for Mila, because it was one thing to run roughshod over your foes, but this death-defying match was on an entirely different level, a trial and tribulation that was both terrifying and intoxicating at the same time.

Perhaps this was why Mila found it so exhilarating to be chained down by her husband, because it left her vulnerable and defenseless in a way she’d never before experienced…

