Blushing at the wild and inappropriate thoughts which overcame her in the midst of battle, Mila cleared her mind of errant thoughts and gave herself over to this deadly exchange. Seconds passed, then minutes as she relished every moment of this novel experience and committed it all to memory within her Natal Palace. Enjoyable as it might be however, she realized she was only delaying the inevitable, seeing how she would eventually slow from exertion and dehydration both, while the Demon’s stamina was nigh inexhaustible. Eventually, its berserk rage would wear her down and she would succumb to one of its wild swings, meaning she needed to find some way to hurt it. Easier said than done considering she had yet to Develop a Domain, a necessary tool in order to pierce through a Demon’s physical defenses. The only good news was that Mila’s Core was still overflowing with Chi, but what use was it if she didn’t have any grand Chi skills to spend it on? She was Blessed by the Sun, so theoretically, she should be able to form some sort of attack using her Elemental Chi, but the only use she’d found for her Radiant Chi was to defend herself against other Elemental attacks.

No… that wasn’t entirely true…

The Demon’s sword-like talon scythed through the air, faster than Mila’s eyes could follow, but then time froze for all of a moment as a memory flashed through her mind in the blink of an eye. “You know, light behaves in a similar fashion,” Rain said, flashing his handsome grin as he snaked his hand around her waist, their bathrobes clinging loosely to their wet skin. They had just finished taking a bath, among other things, and their conversation had turned towards discussing the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, so Rain had tried to explain the concept using ripples of water in the bath. To this day, Mila still didn’t entirely understand it, which was why she couldn’t use it against the Demon standing before her, but it wasn’t because Rain’s explanation was lacking. In fact, he explained it even better than Mama and Grandpa Du, but Mila simply couldn’t wrap her mind around it, but this unexpected declaration had resonated with her in a way she’d never experienced before.

“Imagine a steady source of light, one suspended in the void with nothing around it. No candle, no torch, no lantern, just light itself, and no other objects whatsoever. From that source, light emanates outward in all directions, moving at the same speed without variation until it can illuminate no further, creating a perfect sphere of light.”

“Now imagine a shuttered lantern encompassing that source of light. Inside, the light still travels outwards in all directions, but now it also bounces off the sides of the lantern, and thus the luminosity within the lantern is much brighter than it would be outside of it. This is also why the light travels farther when you open the shutter, because the lantern aims more light in one direction.”

One could not ask for a more simple or straightforward explanation, but Mila had complained about how she couldn’t translate it into anything of practical use. An unappreciative response, she saw this now, but Rain merely hugged her tight and kissed her forehead with a silent chuckle. Though he advised her to focus on something else and come back to this later, she could tell his mind was still focused on finding a way to help her understand, and not just because his boundless curiosity drove him to question everything in existence. No, he wanted to help her in any way he could, and rather than accept that her comprehension was lacking, he blamed himself for failing to explain the concept properly.

What came next was an experience that defied explanations, one she still couldn’t quite put into words. She remembered it as a haze clouding her thoughts until she couldn’t think straight, except her mind was clear as a summer sky as she focused on the present. Her eyes turned to her shield, laying off to the side, propped against the wall and well within reach. She didn’t remember breaking off from Rain’s embrace, but she somehow had her shield in her lap, running her hands over the smooth surface as she gazed at her own reflection and reminisced of how she’d forged it in her youth. For her twelfth birthday, Mama brought her out hunting to secure the Spiritual Heart needed for her second Weapon, and the battle against the armoured lizard had been fierce and dramatic to the extreme, but that was merely the first step. When they returned home, Papa took her to his forge and made her study the Spiritual Heart for days until she could have carved a life-like replica out of wood from memory alone, with every crease and scale of the armoured lizard’s hide still clear in her mind to this day.

Normally, one would treat a hide before turning it into a shield, but a Spiritual Heart would not take well to tanning solutions. Nor did it need it, for even in death, the hide was supple and durable as it was in life, but even then, Mila was adamant to merge it with steel. There were some Spiritual Weapons that eschewed this step, because it wasn’t easy getting leather to take to molten metal, but Papa was the best Divine Blacksmith around and Mila loved working with metal, to the point where she would rather have traded the lizard hide for a metallic Spiritual Heart if pressed to skip this bothersome step. She remembered the long, painstaking hours spent crafting mundane models of the shield she envisioned, because even though she had all the proper measurements and calculations in hand, steel was not always so pliant and biddable. Six months she spent practicing her skills, six, long, arduous months until she was confident enough to craft her Spiritual Weapon in truth, and in her eyes, the end result was without flaw in every way, shape, and form.

A perfect circular rim had been the first order of business, because Mila could not stand the thought of anything less, and while some might think making a perfect circle was easy, those people had never tried their hand at it. Next was the shield’s convex surface, which was also similarly perfectly proportioned, smooth and rounded in all ways, without a single dip or divot across the entire face. The dark burnished steel seemed to drink in the light, distorting the image reflected within, but there were times when Mila swore she could see the world perfectly from its reflection, though no one else ever could. This had been the case then, when she sat in the bathhouse and stared at her reflection, with her bright red curls and freckled features prominently displayed within. She remembered ruminating over her memories of creating the shield, of how adamant she’d been about the type of steel and shape of the weapon, for it had to be perfectly smooth and circular with just the right amount of curvature to its surface and no flaws whatsoever, else it just wouldn’t be right.

Why was that the case? Yes, a rounded shield was better suited at turning aside blows when compared to a flat one, but the curvature hardly had to be perfect. A scaled shield would have been even better, as Papa suggested, using the natural ridges of the interlocking plates embedded in the lizard hide as a guideline, but Mila had rejected the idea without even thinking. Not for the sake of aesthetics, but because she thought it felt wrong, and Papa just went along with her because it was easier than arguing. Since then, Mila had chalked it up as a childish flight of fancy, unwilling to compromise on her initial vision of her Spiritual Weapon, but now, she wasn’t so sure.

Perhaps the Mother Above had guided Mila’s hand even then, bestowing upon her the Weapon she would need to best utilize her Blessing of the Sun, one she’d Awoken to before even binding her first Spiritual Weapon.

Returning to the present, Mila envisioned a wave of Chi emanating out from the exact centre of her shield, a wave which radiated out in all directions at a constant speed. It travelled faster than any human eye could hope to follow, but constant nonetheless. Why this might be, Mila wasn’t entirely sure, but Rain said it was constant and it just felt right. Upon reaching the rim of her shield, the Chi bounced back, travelling in the exact opposite direction from whence it came at the exact same speed as before. Were it not for the flawless curvature of her shield and its perfectly circular dimensions, her Chi would have immediately fallen into disorder rather than continue moving uniformly in all directions, much like how the circular ripples of water became muddled and chaotic after crashing on the sides of the square bathtub. Instead, her Chi uniformly pulsed throughout her shield more times in a blink of an eye than she had numbers to count with, but that was all it would do until she exerted her Will.

Just like that time in the bathhouse, the information flowed through Mila’s mind unbidden. Rather than Insight, wherein she took control of her actions and carried them out from start to finish, this was something more akin to Inspiration, in that she felt like a vessel for some Divine being guiding her movements, the Energy of the Heavens come alive from within. Mila had felt it before, when forging complex Spiritual Weapons like Unity and Paragon, but this time, she recognized the familiar presence intertwined within the Inspiration. This was a gift from her beloved husband, something the Brotherhood called Divine Impartation of Heavenly Energy, and though Mila didn’t entirely understand what was happening, she paid close attention to every detail and aspect. This gift had cost Rain greatly, as last time, he fell asleep for twelve hours and might well have slept for twelve more if left to his own devices, waking only when Mila shook him out of his stupor and emerging with a splitting headache that was so bad he even admitted he ‘wasn’t feeling great’.

Which in Rain’s terms was far more dire than it sounded, since a normal day for him involved getting beaten by steel paddles until all his bones were ‘mildly’ fractured. Mila would make it up to him later, and maybe even fracture some of his bones herself, but for now, she needed to focus.

The crux of this skill lay not in Amplification, but almost the reverse, condensing the Chi in her shield and gathering it all in one place until there was enough power to work with. Easier said than done, for she realized that even as she compressed her Chi towards the centre of her shield, it would continue to pulse back and forth without fail. This meant she had to compress it equally on all sides, a feat she performed with superlative ease thanks to her bout of Inspiration, but one she had no idea how to replicate on her own. What’s more, a single pulse was far from enough, for once the first pulse was condensed down into a dot smaller than the point of a needle, she set about unleashing a second pulse, then a third, fourth, and fifth. Like a torrent of water, she continued unleashing these pulses of Chi, thousands upon thousands such concentric rings discharged in the blink of an eye, only for them to be compressed and condensed overtop of the first even faster than she could follow.

All the while, the Demon’s extended talon hung frozen in the air before Mila’s eyes, for time was still fixed in place from her perspective, until all the Chi she collected within her shield could no longer be contained.

A beam of blinding light shot out at the Demon, the power of the Sun unleashed, piercing through its chest and the innate defenses protecting it to continue out into the horizon. Though light was formless and without any physical presence, the impact struck the Demon like a hammer and sent it flying back into the sea, its ponderous body catapulted away like a tree in a hurricane before crashing into the Defiled filled waters. Long seconds passed in shocked silence as Imperial and Defiled alike paused to take in the sight, unsure of what just transpired until the Demon’s transfixed expression appeared above the waves again. Glaring at her for all of a moment, it quickly retreated back to the safety of the Enemy back lines, but not before revealing a hole the size of a human head where its heart and lungs would have been. The beam of light had pierced through its armour and torso in one go, but alas, Demons were not so easily killed.

