“Well, he was a complete gentleman, even though he... and then when his fingers...” Gretchen climbed off of the bed and sighed when she saw how angry her friend was. “It was just a peek.”

Dana crossed her arms and huffed. “Just a peek!”

“I can make it up to you.” Gretchen said.

“Oh, yeah? How?” Dana asked. “Can you make him forget about seeing your nipples?!?”

Teepo and Teela chittered in laughter together. “Nipples!”

Artemis snorted a laugh and Ren tried to cover his smile with a hand.

“It's not funny.” Dana said.

“I'll make it up like this.” Gretchen said and took Ren's hand. “I know you've already completed the quest, so our business with that is done.” She said. “Thank you for doing this for me.”

“How is this...” Dana started to ask.

“Please, Ren! Go out with my friend!” Gretchen said and knelt on one knee, and everyone looked at her in surprise.

“Wh-what?” Ren blinked his eyes for a moment. “You want me to what?”

“Go out with my friend.” Gretchen said. “We know you have women all over the place and usually take a pile of them with you wherever you go; but, she likes you a lot and wants to go on a date with you.”

“You want to go on a date? With me?” Ren asked and looked at Dana, who's face was beet red and her emotions were all over the place. He couldn't make heads or tails of them and didn't know if that was what she actually wanted or not. “I'm sorry, I have a girlfriend.”

“In here or in real life?” Gretchen asked.

“Technically, both.” Ren said. “Although, I do have permission to do what I wanted in the game.” He said. “I don't think she meant dating another Adventurer, though.”

“Hold on.” Gretchen said and stood up. “Your girlfriend gave you permission to do whatever you want in the game?”

“Yeah.”

“Is she crazy?” Gretchen asked, and Ren chuckled.

“Probably no more than I am.” Ren said.

“You said the same thing to that guy.” Dana said. “Are you... I mean...”

“I've been called crazy by a lot of people and for a long time.” Ren said. “I honestly don't consider it an insult.”

“That might actually be crazy talk.” Gretchen said, and Ren laughed at her honesty.

“I don't think I can agree to a date.” Ren said and felt Dana's sadness. “I'm pretty sure it would be okay to just hang out for a while, assuming your friend can come along.”

“M-me?” Gretchen asked, surprised.

“Sure. It's not really a date if there's more than one girl, right?” Ren asked. “Plus, Artemis has to stay by my side, or at least within my Aura. Teepo also stays with me, as I believe Teela will now stay with Dana.”

“Darn right!” Teela said. “I'll be your constant companion!” She said to Dana.

“So, what do you say?” Ren asked. “Want to go hang out for a while?”

“I don't know.” Dana said. “My friend and I just finished this wicked hard quest and we're pretty tired...”

Gretchen laughed. “Now is not the time to play hard to get, Dana.”

“Hey, don't mess up my groove!” Dana said and Ren and Artemis chuckled. “Oh, all right. I guess we can hang out for a while.”

“Great!” Ren said and held a hand out to her. “Let's start by taking a walk over to the new human starter city and see if we can find people to staff all these rides and vendor booths.”

Dana reached out and took his hand, and let a smile spread across her face.
