“Yes. Very complicated systems. Margleknot has the best efficiency, though. Most people just donate straight to him. Margleknot is about a 10 mana to 1 reson system. The most efficient magics a person can cast are at a 50 to 1 basis, and that’s not even taking into account when a person uses actual resons for actual magic. That sort of creation is an instant instantiation of resons that have already collected within a person’s everything, only to come out and be used in the moment of activation. That’s where the name ‘resons’ comes from, you know; as in ‘Margleknot’s resin’, or the ‘sap of a world tree’. Thick and slow but powerful stuff.”

Erick nodded, and then he changed his words slightly as he asked again, “Do you have a stable magic, in a contained space, that uses a well of power to make resons?”

And the very fact that Lionshard didn’t seem to know what Erick was getting at told him a lot. Maybe Yggdrasil hadn’t written about [Renew] in the ‘Book of Erick’ that Lionshard had handed him?

Lionshard raised an eyebrow, saying, “Sure? I can try one of those magics— Let’s step into the hallway out there… Unless we should go further?”

Erick said, “The hallway should be fine. Maybe a bit further would be good.”

Lionshard led the way to a side room, far down the hallway and with several bookshelves and a nice reading nook by the window. He lifted a hand and cast a spell into the air, making a platinum sphere of power that slowly turned gold at the bottom.

Lionshard said, “I threw a good thousand mana at this. It takes about an hour for the Fate inside to turn to amber— Ah. Amber is what I used to call resons…” He looked at the spell, and said, “I haven’t cast this in a very long time.” He looked at it for a moment longer, then gestured toward it. “Your go.”

Erick flooded the thing with [Renew], Benevolence slipping into the Fate Magic and transforming from silver to gold, becoming like thick honey, to fall off the bottom of the platinum sphere like tiny crystals—

“Oh! It’s that [Renew] spell.” Lionshard said, “Yes, we have that here. I thought you were going to do something else.”

Erick had a moment.

Then he laughed. “Bah!” Erick stopped the [Renew]. “I thought I had a trick there!”

“Oh, it's a good trick. Don’t get that wrong.” Lionshard said, “But you’re using my base spell to make the resons and the efficiency there is still around 50 to 1. Fate Magic is decent for this sort of conversion. Fate can do a whole lot, after all. Benevolence, however, seems great for this sort of conversion. If you studied this magic you might be able to get down to Margleknot-levels of conversion; 10-to-1... 20-to-1 might be more realistic.”

“I suppose I didn’t just break the reson-economy, then.”

“Not yet, anyway.” Lionshard smirked. “You know? It is rather hard to read your future. I find it rather delightful— On you, that is. Not being able to read the future of good people is fun. On others I would be appalled.”

“Ha! I never really got into the future-reading thing for similar reasons— Say. I have a wild question, since you read my biography. Do you know what would happen if I were to shoot backward in time to where I fell to Veird with my daughter?”

Lionshard nodded. “In a non-god-world, you could simply do that, but you would be creating another infinity and that infinity would be the one you would live within. For a god-world like Veird, you would end up in your original slice of reality and change everything from then on; gods make the reality solid, after all. In that case a lesser version of you might simply cease to exist, because of paradoxes, and the gods don’t like paradoxes, so you would erase yourself, or the gods would erase you first. However, as an ascended you’re immune to that sort of godly control, so your old self would still exist and the gods will complain and fight you, but you would likely… Well. Likely be forced to either abandon that world or make some pacts with those gods, or fight them to the death. Could go any sort of way.

“If you actively chose to slide into a different slice of infinity at the beginning, then you’d leave the gods behind.” Lionshard said, “That’s for your specific world of Veird, here in this cosmology— Ah! ‘Universe’. I meant ‘universe’... Or multiverse, if you want to call it that. Everyone has so many different names for these things, I swear.”

Erick smiled. “That’s really good news.”

Erick had known the God Pact world was special.

Lionshard nodded. “As for getting to Veird, you have a few different ways. Yggdrasil will get you there in a flash, if I understand the situation right. Otherwise, crossing through layers is how you get from one part of the universe to another without needing to cross the intervening distance; it’s like using your Benevolence gate space, but easier and everyone can do it if you know how.

“It takes about a hundred resons to cross through layers, if you understand my meaning.”

… All of that was incredible news, for sure, but Erick wasn’t sure he did understand what Lionshard was getting at, exactly.

A backdoor to Veird? Reachable under his own power? One that didn’t go through Yggdrasil?

Ah.

A path that Yggdrasil could say that he had no knowledge of Erick doing.

That was it.

Erick wasn’t going back yet, though. Not without an army behind him and the weight of law or power, whichever one worked better.

Lionshard saw when Erick realized what he was saying, so he moved on, “It only takes one reson to flicker through the individual infinities of a layer, or to bring something from a different part of the individual infinity to your person. Less than one, really. Resons really are the best form of mana out there.”

“Do you have a book on resons conversions?”

“I do, but you should look up more examples than my own. Yggdrasil would be a better teacher than I for that, by far.” Lionshard said, “You’ve already got the gist of it; prismatic mana with a bit more oomph would qualify as a reson.” He stood tall, and asked, “Now, would you like to discuss the problem of Nothanganathor?”

Erick steeled himself, turning more serious by fractions. “I would like to discuss him, but I get the distinct impression that you can’t interfere with that.”

“This is true; I cannot interfere with him. Nothanganathor is on the list of approved evils.”

“… Excuse me what?”

- - - -

Erick stood upon the surface of an asteroid-sized white sphere that was Yggdrasil’s designation of Erick’s Benevolence Tower space. The sphere was maybe 30 meters in diameter, and it floated somewhere high in the skies of Margleknot, maybe multiple planets away from every other thing in the sky. Probably further than that, though. Distance in Margleknot was a funky thing, because while imagery was allowed to reach across an infinite gulf of space, there was still an infinite gulf of space between this floating land and all the other lands out there.

A simple rock floating in the escher-drawing that was Margleknot might actually be the size of a sun.

Erick came here to start on his Benevolence Dungeon, with plants and slimes and water and all that shit.

But now he sat down on the white sphere, and simply looked across the lands of Margleknot.

‘List of approved evils’ was really getting to him.

Erick probably should have stayed with Lionshard for a much longer conversation, to understand everything about Nothanganathor and ‘the list’, but after hearing just a little bit about how Nothanganathor was ‘approved’, Erick had to leave. He tried to be polite. He might have actually been polite. But he had been sparking blackening Benevolence on the floor of Lionshard’s house and burning up the carpet.

Lionshard had excused Erick’s anger. He had already seen that coming, of course; Fate Magic and all that.

And so, Erick left Lionshard’s house without knowing much more about Nothanganathor at all.

Erick sighed out, “I should send him an apology gift and a thank you gift.”

Erick laid down on the surface of the white sphere, floating in the skies of Margleknot, and thought.

He had pretty much known, before meeting Lionshard, that there were acceptable evils within Margleknot. Yggdrasil had told him that much. This entire land was a land of balance. Raise up a strong Good, and here came an Evil to stop it. Raise up a strong Evil, and soon some Good would come to disrupt all of that Evil.

Erick imagined he was the solution to Nothanganathor’s Evil.

Was he the ‘hero’ in this shit?

Maybe.

“Balance fucking sucks,” Erick said to the world.

Yggdrasil sat down beside him. “Sometimes, yes.”

Erick sighed, and then he sat up. He looked at his son. “There are other problems to address, too. I want to never ascend to godhood unless I absolutely need to.”

Yggdrasil held out a hand. “All that takes is a handshake.”

Erick shook his son’s hand—

The world flickered gold and then faded inward, falling into the space between their hands, Erick feeling weaker in some unknown way. He let go, and Yggdrasil held a glowing dot of gold power. Like playing a coin trick, Yggdrasil twisted his hand and the gold dot vanished.

Yggdrasil twisted his hand again and handed over a small book, saying, “This is the theory behind some Power-to-Reson spellwork that you will find useful.”

Erick took the book and held it to his chest. He didn’t read it right now.

He laid down on the surface of his asteroid. He stared at the sky, which was currently the crisscrossing Fae Enclave ice crystal and the cylindrical silver Quantum Nexus Hub. He breathed.

He asked, “Why are there so many places named ‘nexus’?”

Yggdrasil chuckled. He laid down beside his father to stare at the sky, too. “Because everyone thinks they’re the center of the universe, or whatever thing they wish to be at the center of. The Quantum Nexus Hub is the only one that actually counts as ‘actually central’, though, and only marginally, because they managed to pierce the Fae Enclave a very, very long time ago, and the Fae Enclave liked it, because the crossing makes an actual center at that hub. Before that piercing everyone used to argue if the top of the crystal was the center, or if the other top of the crystal was the center, or if the center was the center. A lot of wars were fought over that.”

“… You have wars here?”

“Yes.”

“I suppose that makes sense.” Erick thought for a second. He asked, “Could I get some people from House Benevolence up here? I think I want to make this Benevolence Tower an actual place; not just a dungeon.”

“Sure. Five people. It’s a bad idea, though.”

Erick looked over at Yggdrasil. “… Really? You can do that?”

“I can. But people will try to kill them and they’re not powerful enough to live here… Maybe Destiny could. But not even her. Who were you thinking of?”

“Ah. Forget it, then.” Erick said, “Everyone is beholden to someone in power here, and they’re locked to those people, which threatens them and otherwise… and all that.”

Yggdrasil laughed. “That’s one of the least coherent things I’ve heard you say.”

“I made myself unable to get really tired, but the scale of it all is getting to me.” Erick thought for a moment, then said, “Aisha, because wrought would be strong, I think. Destiny could come, unless she’s busy. I’d love to get Zolan up here for a hundred different reasons. Mox, of course. Poi because yes. Teressa would be lovely, but she’s a new mom, or at least she should be. The girls and Evan are probably busy… Everyone is probably busy a lot, actually… Ophiel is too young. Gods. I miss them all.”

Yggdrasil asked, “Want me to tell you all about all of them?”

“Can you?”

Yggdrasil said, “We made a pact for your continued divinity gains. I can do a lot more now than I could earlier.”

Erick huffed a laugh.

Yggdrasil smiled, and then he lost his smile, saying, “One month after the Sealing of Veird, which is just one name for it, that’s when the Nothor Beasts started to fall to the First Surface and crawl out of the lands below. It was a very small infection at first. Barely noticeable. They’re that red beast you discovered in your soul. When uncontained, Nothor Beasts are like Moon Reachers but worse. People were disappearing and no one knew why, and no one recognized most of those disappearances, but meanwhile your Benevolence dragons were going on rampages that no one quite understood, because they could see them. The Nothor Beasts stayed away from me and Ophiel, so we couldn’t see them either. The world at large didn’t even understand they were there till several months ago…”

Erick listened to problems 789 layers away and wished to be able to help more than he already was.

Home was doing well, though, and Erick was doing good here.

Or at least he would be, soon enough.

- - - -

Yggdrasil departed with a hug.

And then Erick stood upon the surface of the base of his Benevolence tower, hanging in the sky of Margleknot.

With a tap of his shoe, Erick brought forth a bit of dirt under his feet that hadn’t been under his feet at all. With a breath, Erick made air, filling the atmosphere of this empty space with some wind. It had been a complete vacuum while Yggdrasil had spoken with Erick, but they were both Ascended, so ‘lack of atmosphere’ didn’t really matter at all, for any reason. With a flick of a finger, some red blood appeared on the ground, spilled from a wound that did not exist. The blood rapidly turned black in the lack of air. Some froze into ice for the lack of warmth, hitting the ground and then casting off into the air above, for lack of gravity. Erick caught what he felt like catching.

Breath, road dust, and some sort of liquid that contained water. Those were the ingredients for Erick’s next creation.

With a twist of Benevolence and aura, Erick flowed [Duplicate] over the components of life. Black blood boiled out of itself, frozen blood shattering out across the spherical surface of the solid Benevolence that was the start of this land. Erick turned up the heat with some Particle Magic, turning black ice and dirt to black liquid that washed across the white surface of the sphere. Dust and dirt became mud and mess. The air whipped out and away, like a grasshopper’s fart in a hurricane of void.

The sky of Margleknot was far, far overhead, but the sky of this particular land was about 2,500 kilometers up there. That was the space that Erick had to fill… Or at least half of it. Maybe a 2,000-kilometer radius of it? A 500-kilometer-tall sky on both sides of the future ‘Moon Benevolence’ was enough sky.

