Erick stepped onto the wash of black blood and dirt. When the white core had vanished behind ten meters of black mud, Erick threw his improved [Cleanse] down at the mess.

White fog blasted out of the black, all the black mud shooting away as though Erick had detonated dynamite. But the core was fine. Black blood stayed in the air, for gravity was still pretty weak.

Erick layered some [Gravity Ward]s that would eventually dissipate with time; they wouldn’t be necessary when Erick filled the space enough.

Blood and mud rained back down as water and mud, and a whole lot less of it. There was more air in the atmosphere, but the level of air inside this space was at ‘grasshopper farting in space’-levels. Erick repeated this copying and [Cleanse]ing process several times, rapidly creating a 50 meter ball of dirt with another 15 meters of water on top of that dirt.

Erick stepped into the air and opened his [Duplication Aura] wide. There wasn’t much air around him, since he was in the middle of a very open space and air filled its container. But as moments stretched and small bits of air became two bits of air, and then four, a small nothing became a breeze which became a flow. Wind whipped at the waters below, making a very weak sky.

Erick lowered down toward the waters, and to the dirt.

Water rushed up to meet him, flowing away, piling atop itself and then out into the rest of the space, fountaining high and fast and dropping down when it hit [Gravity Ward]s. Dirt below became a volcano of wet mud. Slowly, and surely, Erick flew away from the surface, dragging out a very small world behind him. Mud spilled around and to the sides. Wind crashed. Waves pounded.

[Cleanse] erased half of his work here and there, but soon that white wind stopped flowing, and all Erick was left with was deep, clean water and a thin atmosphere.

Erick stepped below the waters’ surface and focused on pulling the mud upward, making it deeper. The mud was a collection of fine sand and not much else, so that would not do. You couldn’t build a world on dust, after all. So Erick grabbed some mud and twisted it with Wizardry, creating a pile of various stones, most of them simple quartz sand, but also a few bits of aluminum, iron, nickel, copper, gold, silver; the list went on and on, and it would form the good basis for a stable particle-based foundation, with all the essential minerals for life and a whole lot extra, just because. Erick concentrated on that pile of proper soil, with a bit of clay and loam, and began copying that.

Floating above the waters of his mini-world, Erick became a very tiny beacon of creation, spilling out dirt and wind and some water, when needed. He had literally never done anything like this ever before, except as a mental exercise, but he made it work. Eventually, he didn’t need to make any more [Gravity Ward]s, because gravity was starting to work on its own.

That’s when Erick smiled, knowing this was going to work, eventually.

- - - -

It was maybe a day or five later when Erick floated above a 6,000-kilometer diameter moon made of dirt, water, and air. Yggdrasil had increased the size of Erick’s allowed space long before Erick reached his original goals.

Clouds rolled across the sky, held within the edge of this miniworld by a hexagonal grid of a node network. That grid touched down upon several different ‘continents’, where the land was layered and ready for things to grow and thrive. There was no tectonic activity in this land, so Erick had needed to create some upways for water to flow and make rivers to keep those continents watered. Lakes abounded, and a winding ocean tied everything together.

Right now, Erick’s mana was supporting the whole place, and he still had a lot of mana to spare, but the node networks extended their tendrils into all of the land and water awaiting other donors to the cause. The drain on the life to come wouldn’t be too much, and it was capped at enough to keep the whole place stable, so as long as life thrived, making mana, then this would work fine.

Erick wasn’t quite sure if his [Terraforming] would make slimes that made mana, though, since it was an imbuement of Darkness that made mana, but since he had made slimes on FENRIR, where Darkness did not exist, this would probably work.

Erick cast a [Terraforming] into the skies of his mini-world.

Storms gathered. White lightning crashed to water and to stone. Water plants sprouted while grasses and flowers spread. A massive slam of lightning struck the coast of a continent, flash-[Grow]ing a tree into something large, white, and of a slightly glowing-green of canopy. Erick chuckled at that, as he watched with his Authority as that entire tree worked a root all the way to the center of the planet, where it touched the core and the core touched back—

Yggdrasil stepped out from the side of the tree, waving, and then he vanished again.

Erick smiled at that.

And then he went to other parts of his mini planet and cast more [Terraforming]s.

Platinum rains fell upon a brand new world. Plants tried to grow, and while most survived the churn, some could not. They died, and formed the basis for other life to grow. Gradually, rapidly, plant matter joined the barren stone and water, while the wind turned to something more conducive to life.

Erick contented himself to sit upon a spit of land that was a beach, near the white tree of Yggdrasil at the edge of a new forest, and watch. Erick wasn’t sure when the fish appeared in the waters, but he was pretty sure Yggdrasil had done that.

A day later the first slimes crawled out of shallow pools that were filled with muck and dead initial plant life. They gorged on the dead things. They grew. They multiplied.

And soon, glowing balls of Benevolence slimes tumbled across the mini-world.

This was good. This was great, actually.

- - - -

Shadow sipped her beer, watching the sky for the tenth day in a row. When she stopped sipping her beer, it automatically refilled. The Black Crystal Tavern was good like that. When day 10 turned to day 11 of watching the sky, Shadow mumbled to herself.

“That fucker decided to build a planet before coming to talk to me.”

- - - -

Erick happily watched as slimes generated from low pools of soupy, plant-choked waters and started eating the dead stuff. Trees grew tall in new forests, making dark spaces for glowing mushrooms to consume and grow on fallen trees that had grown too fast, and then faltered hard. Platinum rainstorms followed glowing lines in the sky on clockwork schedules, breaking the weak old life and leaving behind new, hopefully stronger growth. [Terraforming]-and-more storms would eventually trace across the entire planet over the course of a year, and then start again, bringing their transformative, creative bounty to every part of the world.

It was a larger world than it had been a few days ago. Erick had pumped it up from 6,000 kilometers in diameter to roughly 7,000 kilometers in diameter. It was more like a small planet, now, than a large moon. It was a bit larger than Mars, actually, but a whole lot smaller than Earth; it had about a third of the gravity of Earth now. It had needed that extra gravity.

Erick had canceled the gravity magics and the water cycling magics once the planet got big enough to sustain itself and have its own water cycles, which was pretty great.

It had six towers on its surface, now, each of them simple eternal stonewood things that were wide at the bottom and tapered at the top, each reaching 150 kilometers into the sky. Each was a copy of the other. A tower stuck up from each of the northern and southern poles. Four stuck up from the equator, equidistant from each other and the poles. Three were located in the ocean, while three were on land.

And slimes were everywhere.

The whole planet was making Benevolence mana, all of it siphoning off into the [Terraforming] storms, which had [Undertow Star]s and [Benevolence Cleanse]s attached to them, now. It was a self-sustaining cycle that filled the air with mana of all types, making the manasphere of the little world rather thick.

It was still mostly Benevolence mana, though, because [Benevolence Cleanse] balanced all types of mana and left Benevolence alone.

The whole planet was still way too fragile and it needed proper upkeep from people who could truly maintain the systems, but Erick had done enough to get it settled. He needed to actually turn it into a powerhouse for reson collection, now.

And for that, he needed to do some Wizardry.

Atop the northern tower, in a room open to all directions and with a [Benevolent Storm] lashing the coasts a hundred kilometers to the south, Erick stood upon white eternal stonewood. He prepared his mind, collecting and organizing the lessons of the mana-to-resons book that Yggdrasil had given him, while adding in his own thoughts on the subject that he had collected over the last few days. Finally, he took the form of the old poem that he had used to make [Renew] in the core of Veird, and made it into something different.

Erick focused inward, looking at his crystallized soul, preparing to form Benevolence into a shape of power like all the other tools that the Script had given him long before today. Erick was doing Wizardry, yes, but he was also making that Wizardry into a button he could push in his soul to do more Wizardry later.

Erick opened his eyes.

He spoke with Authority to his little planet, and to his Self,

“A dot of power, sky-gathered true

“flows with purpose; a saving breakthrough.

“A longed-for gift of healing heavens.

“A transposed version of my Renew.

“Benevolent, prismatic resons.”

The air flickered.

Something gathered in the air of the tower, at the very top, the entire eternal stonewood tower turning brighter white for a moment before that whiteness faded—

Erick captured the flow of everything that was happening with his absolute Authority over the space, and then copied it into his soul, like taking notes from a professor that was writing as fast as lightning and then erasing the notes right after. It worked. He would look at that later.

—The air flexed in the uppermost room in the northern tower of Benevolence and power twisted into a glowing white ring with a broken top. It was the glowing white symbol for [Renew]; an arrow with a pointed front and a sweeping back, curled in on itself. That symbol slowly rotated, and the air around it turned darker, as though it was sucking up the very light around itself in order to reach a saturation point.

Erick cast an extension of the node network hanging out above the tower, dropping down a connection of the planetary node network to the symbol, drawing a line of light that faded into the spreading darkness of the—

Erick’s status flickered at him.

Congrats! I managed to make a new spell! How long did it take us? Weeks? Days? Whatever the case, amazing accomplishment, Erick! Hope you’re still yourself. I sure hope this message doesn’t repeat every single time we make a new spell, but it might be nice?

Reson Gathering, instant, close range, ?????

Make a reson gatherer. 9 mana to 1 reson.

Erick smiled at that.

He hadn’t managed to fix that part of himself that gave him that ‘congrats’, and he wasn’t sure he wanted to.

He had actually made a [Force Sword] the other day along with a bunch of other, much simpler spells than the [Reson Gathering] he had just made, just to see if he could do the soul-spell-imbuing on his own. One doesn’t go into the big magics without testing things first, after all. Erick had succeeded in creating a [Reson Gathering] through normal mana shaping and altering, too, but this one was the one that truly worked, the one that he was proud to have accomplished, and the one that he put into his soul—

Erick stepped back, because this version seemed to be… Maybe doing more than expected.

The brilliant Renew symbol was an indelible white most-of-a-circle upon the darkness of the rest of the world. It spun lazily, implacably, under a line of light that went right to the empty space at the top of the circle. That line became less of a line, and more of a bolt of lightning, jagged and splitting, as it reached down into the golden space between the ends of the Renew—

Something connected to something else within the existence of the entire planet.

The darkness faded, the symbol remained, and a root of Yggdrasil now hung down from the roof, twisting geometrically around a node network straight-line connection, both of them attached to the [Reson Gathering]. The [Reson Gathering] would be powered by the node network of the planet, and Yggdrasil would be taking that gathering.

“Good. It worked.”

Yggdrasil stepped out from the walls of the tower, saying, “Wow, father. That's some really good conversion rates.” He chuckled. “You did better than me.”

Erick laughed. “It makes me glad that I still have some tricks I can show you.”

Yggdrasil smiled as he stared at the [Reson Gathering], his eyes peering deep. He blinked, then said, “You made Benevolence split itself into Light, Shadow, Fire, Water, Stone, Air, Illusion, Sand, and Steam, and then you combined them all using a central tenet of Benevolence Itself; to help people.” He looked to Erick, impressed. “An evergreen desire. You’ll never run out of resons doing that. Benevolence itself would stop existing long before it stopped trying to give assistance.”

Erick grinned. “I’m glad it worked. I considered going smaller with the elemental-pseudo-shifts, leaving out the confluences of the Big 6, but those confluences would get everything closer to the idea of prismatic mana, and so I went for it.” He breathed in, then out, and said, “And now I’m pooped! Just gotta cast the spell 5 more times, and hope that I made the spell correctly in my soul so it won’t blow up like that [Force Feather Bed] spell I tried. That one was just sloppy.”

Yggdrasil looked to Erick, and said, “I think you understand some of what you’re doing here in Margleknot but not completely. You really should start trying to recruit some people. Get out there. See the city, Father.”

“Ehhhh! I’ll get to it, I’ll get to it.” Erick stepped to the southern tower and Yggdrasil joined him. Erick cast [Reson Gathering] into the tower and connected it to the node network. The spell didn’t explode! Success! The world turned dark, and then another connection passed, revealing Yggdrasil to have dropped another geometric root into the top of the [Renew] symbol. Erick smiled. “Ah! It works. Amazing!” He asked, “How long do you think it will take for this to help with that Abarial situation? That dying nexus world?”

