“Now that someone is caring enough to actually pay for it, then not too long at all. Two or three years to reconnect to the hub world that broke. Shorter after that to connect to Abarial. It’ll be a slow connection, though. That’s what you get when you go through Lionshard's and my slow, background-ways. It’ll be stronger for that slowness, though. Once we connect to Abarial, the people there will likely do some magics of their own to widen the connection and we’ll likely get refugees, but ideally, they could stay there and grow there. They probably will. People tend to like where they grew up. Benevolence will take to that land very well, I think, because Benevolence is the one making the connection, and I bet it will be making itself known in the solving of many small systemic problems. People will see that. They will start to accrete it, and produce it themselves… probably.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “Is that what will happen? I thought they’d just get a connection. Not that they’d get Benevolence… I find myself happy knowing that they’ll get Benevolence.”

Yggdrasil said, “The injection of new mana types into other world systems is a very large topic. I expect whatever mana systems they have will be rejuvenated by Benevolence and a small subset of people will switch to Benevolence entirely, since it can replace practically everything else. Our last records of Abarial have them as a reson-using society, with very little mana. Now, they’ll get Benevolence, which is way easier to use than resons.” He said to Erick, “If you want to make their connection happen faster, then you have to make a House Benevolence here, or recruit help that can connect to these worlds faster than I can. That’s just one solution, though.”

Erick thought…

And then he stepped over to another tower and cast [Reson Gathering]. Yggdrasil dropped a root down into this one, too. Erick repeated the process with the three remaining towers.

And then he sat down before he crashed down.

“Holy crap,” Erick said, feeling lightheaded. “I didn’t think I could feel lightheaded again.”

Yggdrasil smiled softly and sat down with him. “You need to make a reson pool in your status or simply hook up that reson creator spell you made to your status so you don’t have to make a reson pool; you can make resons on demand. They’ll come out slower if you make them on demand, but not much slower.”

Erick grinned, then said, “I think I’ll meld the reson pool with my existing pools, like how it’s supposed to be. That’s how you do it, right? You just have resons as the blood among all the rest of yourself? Like how people have it in the Space Between.”

“It’s my preferred way of using resons, yes. It’s the natural way, too, so it’s easier to enhance that system that is already there.”

Erick relaxed for a moment.

And then he half-glanced inward, at the spot of Darkness at the center of his soul. “Is Melemizargo’s Darkness a reson generator? Or a mana generator, based on resons transforming influence into mana?”

Yggdrasil smiled, saying, “I have theories, and you hit the big one right fast, but that theory is provably false if you want to get into it. The truth is that every universe has their own powers, and they’re all rather unknowable. You could ask Shadow if you wanted to know about Darkness, but even so, she didn’t make that ‘Old Cosmology’; she found pieces of Other and made something New out of them.”

Erick thought for a moment, watching the stormy sky, asking, “Should I find some gods and invite them here? Would that be a good idea? … Rozeta?”

“They’re still part of the Enclave lock on the Painted Cosmology.” Yggdrasil said, “Every single person you desire to bring from there, to here, I can make that happen, but they can never go back until you solve the Nothanganathor problem. Gods are not part of the offer; not happening. There are, however, some gods in this land who you might get along with. I think I put a few in the guidebook.”

“… Huh. Yeah. Cascadio, the Radiant Sun. Veird needs a new Sun God anyway. I suppose I can see why you included him in the guidebook.” Erick smirked at his very largest son, asking, “You’re pretty crafty and sneaky with your influences, aren’t you.”

“I’m sure I don’t know what you’re talking about, Father,” Yggdrasil said, though his facial expression told a different tale.

Erick smiled and looked away, across his mini-world. “Can you look over this place for a little while? Or at least until I can talk to some people to take over maintenance… Maybe the Celestial Observatory for some good hires? How rich does this land make me, exactly?”

“It’s still growing right now and your half of the benefits of this land are being funneled into the Abarial situation, while half are going to me, to Margleknot, as per normal agreements. My half is already being used to noticeably clean up smaller issues here and there, and so I have a vested interest in keeping this land solid and usable, so I’ll be looking after it for the foreseeable future. You can still certainly hire people to live here and work the land and make it more productive, but you don’t have to do that.” Yggdrasil said, “So you’re not actually richer at all; it’s all going off into the void of infinity.”

Erick laughed.

Yggdrasil nodded, and then dropped a bomb, “In fact, I would suggest you simply leave this land alone, and let me put it behind a time displacement and speed up the whole place by a good century or seven. Right now, since there’s no intelligent life here, I can do that. You’ll have enough resons and Benevolence to solve the Abarial situation in a few days.” He added, “As soon as intelligent life is here then I cannot do that sort of thing.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. And then he huffed a laugh. “Every time I think you’ve told me the extent of your powers you pull out another one and solve an issue I was working to solve myself, and a lot faster.”

“I could tell you everything right away, but it’s better if you discover it on your own.” Yggdrasil smiled. “You got most of the way here on your own, which is great, but I’ve been at this for a very long time.”

“I suppose you have.” Erick sighed, and looked out across the world. Clouds rolled across blue waters and green continents. The edge of the sky held hexagons and curved lines of node network light. Mountains collapsed under shifting weights. Magma boiled in small spots around the core as things heated up from pressure. Water eroded river banks that Erick thought were fine. Storms killed forests that looked sturdy, but were all hollow strength, breaking at the first heavy winds. Slimes spawned in stagnant pools and died on dry sands that should not have been dry. One of the ocean towers looked like it was tilting a little. Erick frowned at that last one. Erick said, “I haven’t been at this for very long at all.”

“You’ll get better. Don’t worry about that ocean tower. I’ll keep it from falling. I might make the planet a bit bigger, too, to help with gravity, and alter some of the timings of things.” Yggdrasil said, “When I gather enough resons and Benevolence to solve some long standing issues you’ll have a much better world to come back to, and then you can populate it with people you wish to hire to make it better. By that time, though, you’ll likely have a whole slew of other issues you wish to solve with this mana battery, and I can keep the Time going for those issues as they pile up.”

“… Ah. I see the shape of this whole thing here now. I won’t get to have a little planet at all, will I? Not that I’m complaining, mind you, but infinity has a lot of problems to fix.”

Yggdrasil nodded. “Yup. This has happened in some form or another tens of times before. When you get back to your house in the Old Dragon District, you’ll understand a lot more.”

“… Huh. Well then.” Erick looked around again. “Shouldn’t we import some, like, lizards and bees and cats and dogs and other basic animals? Or will slimes really be enough?”

“Slimes and elementals and plants are more than enough.”

“Sounds like you have experience with that.”

Yggdrasil laughed. “With how varied and powerful Benevolence is, I doubt I’ll get more than a few million subjective years of use out of this place before actual intelligent life develops and I have to release it into Margleknot.”

Erick was stuck looking around at his little planet. He had only been here for a week and he hadn’t done anything except build, but it already seemed like some sort of home.

Yggdrasil hurried him along, “When you get home check the rest of your messages and line up whatever problems you want me to solve behind the scenes. Lionshard will probably have some requests for you as well, once everyone sees what you’re going to see. He already knows what is about to happen, though.”

“Right right right right.” Erick went over and hugged Yggdrasil, asking, “And no gate networks of my own?”

“Nope. I’m the only one allowed to have one of those here. Sorry, father.”

“It’s fine. I understand. Love you.”

Yggdrasil hugged him back and a portal opened to the side, leading to Erick’s house.

Erick hugged his son tighter for a moment, then he let go, took one more look around, and nodded.

He walked through the portal—

- - - -

— And stepped onto the balcony of his house in the Old Dragon District.

As the portal closed, Erick waved to Yggdrasil and Yggdrasil waved back.

And Erick looked up.

The cityscape sky of Margleknot was the same as before, with the great icicle of the Fae Enclave piercing through the center, the silver cylinder of the Quantum Nexus Hub piercing the Fae Enclave, and all the layered lands of other places stretched out in every direction, like this entire land was inside of a heavily-layered dyson sphere / escher painting.

A few lands floated around the space in the center, looking like planets, or free-floating spires, or diamonds, or water worlds.

‘Benevolence Tower’ was one of those floating lands. It was spherical and blue and green all underneath a hexagonal net of node network, a few hundred kilometers into its sky. [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] and other light sources held on every joint of that node network, making the planet rather brilliant. Spires poked out from the north and south poles and equidistant on the equator, their tops barely reaching the glowing network, but they did reach. A trail of a curving node network spiraled from the southern pole, around and up the southern hemisphere, to the tops of the equatorial towers, up and up the sides of the planet to the northern tower, forming a year-long track that the [Terraforming]-[Benevolence Cleanse]-[Undertow Star] storms followed.

Even from here, the brightest lights of the new planet were those storms, and the tiny dots at the top of every tower, where [Reson Gathering] pulled excess mana from the life of the planet, transforming it into resons.

It was beautiful.

And then time sped up.

Erick saw the change of time in the turn of the hexagonal grid, and in the rotation of the planet. He had set the world to rotate slowly, to give it natural weather, and now it spun. The node network and the movement of the planet underneath showed the whole thing spinning. And then Erick saw the storms moving. Instead of moving slow and plodding and predictable, the storms moved as though they were hunters who had spotted prey. They began jogging, almost. And then they started running up that spiraling track—

Erick could make out every facet of the speed of the planet, as one month passed over the course of an hour, and as a year passed in the course of the next hour. But when a year passed in ten minutes, there was a shift. The sky darkened around the planet, the node network growing stronger, more brilliant, and less visible beyond the stretch of time. The lights of the equatorial towers began to meld into each other, looking like a line of solid white lightning, while the lights of the poles were stock still.

The twisting node network that spiraled up from the south to the north was still there, still visible, as one year passed in one minute, making the whole planet look like a spiraling top about to spiral too fast to see.

And then there was light.

The planet sparked and washed out the entire rest of Margleknot’s city sky in a brilliant white flash that spread like the shockwave of an explosion. That light crashed against previously-invisible spheres in the sky that Erick had turned off in order to see the city. As that light passed those spheres, those spheres revealed themselves.

They glowed.

And then they shone.

“Ah,” Erick said, as he saw.

The multi-sun sky of Margleknot had gained a new sun, joining with all the other colors above, with the great big black hole sun in the center, upon which all the other suns orbited. Erick’s Benevolent sun was brilliant, iridescent white, and it sparked at the top and the bottom. The other suns each had little nuances to them that Erick only now recognized as shapes spinning below the surface too fast to truly see, and poles that held relatively still among all the other light. Each one was a mana battery of a different, probably balanced source.

Erick wondered about the big black sun with its white corona.

… And then Erick looked down to the little messages gathered near his gate like tiny stars, waiting.

“Yup. Knew that was coming.”

The number of messages suddenly grew, like fireworks exploding.

Erick said to himself, “I really ought to get a better idea of how this economy actually works before I do more of anything like this.”
