Min Gyu’s students were all waiting outside in the Ryo family courtyard, gathered there by Kyung’s own command. The boy had finally learned to show initiative, though he only exercised this freedom when it came to matters of Min Gyu’s safety. With the Enemy putting all their forces into play, Ryo Dae Jung was likely to become the focus of the Enemy Peak Experts’ attentions, meaning Min Gyu himself would need his students’ support to help keep the Colonel General alive. No man was an island in the Imperial Army, not even lofty figures like himself, for it was not the spear of the most formidable Warrior that proved most dangerous, but rather the dagger you did not see.

Casting his gaze over his gathered students, Min Gyu made eye contact with each and every one of them and wordlessly expressed his gratitude to these mere twenty-eight Warriors of varying skills. Though others looked down on them for serving as his loyal guards in exchange for guidance and instruction, if Min Gyu were to gather a retinue as befitting his rank, these students would form the backbone of his command cadre, with someone capable to serve at every available rank from his second-in-command to a lowly hundred-man commander. It was important to keep in touch with one’s officers, especially those serving at the bottom, for the Imperial Army was built upon a foundation of hundred-man commanders ensuring their superior’s orders were carried out without fail. The Colonel General gave orders, but it fell to the hundred-man commander to make those orders happen, which was why Min Gyu insisted Yan serve as a Third-Grade Warrant Officer on the front lines.

Those days were long past though, as Yan was now a First Grade Warrant Officer, one field promoted by Brigadier Chen Hongji himself, who had then taken her under his personal command. According to Kyung, the Brigadier’s forces were stationed at the Inner Fortress by Shuai Jiao himself, which spoke volumes to his confidence in this ‘mere’ Brigadier. Not that Chen Hongji was not deserving of such trust, for few could claim superiority when it came to matters of siege defence, and having been privy to a host of significant military meetings over these past few weeks, even Min Gyu had to admit that this promising rising dragon would go far if given time to develop. Add in his sublime mastery of Domain and Chen Hongji might well be a future Colonel General in the making, one Dae Jung wasted no effort in winning over to his side. Of course, Min Gyu was less than thrilled to have inadvertently been a part of the courting process, with the canny Sword King using their relationship and implied ties to Rain to get closer with Hongji, but it was a small matter that changed little in the grand scheme of things. Clever man that he was, Hongji had thus far refrained from throwing his lot in with anyone and instead stood firmly at young Rain’s side, even now during his lengthy convalescence and extended absence.

A loyal, upright, honourable man, this Chen Hongji, and under different circumstances, this might well have been the death of him, for politics cared not for quality of character, only calculated gains and losses.

Knowing Yan was as safe as could be under present circumstances, Min Gyu was both upset and relieved by sweet Kishi’s absence. The quin pup was still too young to be separated from her parents for long, and since young Mila was partnered with the unsociable Zabu while her own mount Atir was busy rearing her newly hatched pups, this led Yan to leave Shana and Kishi behind at the Northern Citadel. Add in Rain’s absence alongside the rest of his pets and Min Gyu was starved for animal affection, yearning to run his fingers through the soft fur of a warm and adorable creature and perhaps sneak in a snuggle if no one was looking. No quins, wildcats, bears, or rabbits to cuddle, and not even a grumpy red panda to poke and tease, this was simply no way for man to live, but alas, Min Gyu lacked the personal funds required to secure an exotic pet for himself.

It all came down to money yet again, but even if he worked out the matter of his wages, he had far too many debts to be paid before spending anything on himself. Top of the list was wages for his students, who were only being paid in room, board, and lessons, a pitifully lacking compensation compared to what they could earn by pledging themselves to a noble family or faction, any of which would welcome them with open arms just to forge a relationship with Min Gyu. Yes, that would be the best way to bring the matter up with Luo-Luo, seeking fair wages for his loyal students rather than fine leaves for his teapot...

Given the severity of the situation, there was no time for tea or snacks before Dae Jung arrived, clad in full armour and accompanied by six guards like always, two visible and four Concealed. Even though he was preparing to wade into battle and perhaps even trade blows with Bai Qi himself, the Sword King refused to expand his guard detail, a decision that would either win him accolades after he won or criticisms after he died, neither of which were any solace to Min Gyu.

“Sorry to trouble you again so soon, Comrade Du,” Dae Jung began, greeting Min Gyu and silently asking for a status update at the same time. “If only we could ever meet under less dire circumstances.”

“Nothing to fret about,” Min Gyu replied, his answer to both verbal and non-verbal statements. With his Wind Chi sweeping the premises, he had yet to uncover any unknown Concealed entities within a hundred metres. “And what dire circumstances? After such a sumptuous feast in pleasant company, there’s nothing the Enemy can do to spoil my mood.” It wasn’t even that much of an exaggeration, for their dinner had been sublime as per usual. While Rain and Charok were phenomenal cooks, they both favoured simple and pleasant fare, the sort of meals that were delicious and filling, but all too commonplace. Neither one could be called adventurous and Min Gyu did so enjoy trying new and exotic things every now and then. Urchin roe, raw tuna, fermented soy beans, bitter melon and more, the Bekhai were missing out on a whole world of delicacies they simply refused to even try, and Min Gyu lacked the funds to treat them to these exotic delights.

“I’m glad to hear you enjoyed it.” The familiar voice caught him by surprise as he recognized Dae Jung’s wife, Jeong Hyo-Lynn, dressed like a Ryo family Guard and filling in as one of her husband’s two visible escorts, with nothing to differentiate her from any other guard save for the three Spiritual Swords upon her belt. “We had the chef brought in from your hometown especially for you, but circumstances delayed his arrival until yesterday morning.”

“How kind of you to do so.” Unable to resist her charming smile, Min Gyu grinned in spite of himself, adding, “Had I known you brought in a local, I would’ve asked to speak with him in person, if only to hear the familiar accent of my home town.”

Wasting no time as they chatted, they boarded a carriage and set out for the battlefield, saving every last bit of energy they could before the upcoming battle. Using this time to settle his nerves and get into the right frame of mind, Min Gyu let his thoughts idly wander and found them fixated on the Sword King’s mysterious wife. Though there were rumours abound of her personal prowess, few were privy to the fact that she was in part responsible for Dae Jung’s meteoric rise to power. Not just by urging her husband to greatness, but also by guiding him along his Path as well, for she possessed a talent for teaching that few could ever match. With but a few simple words, she was able to cut to the heart of a question, simplifying matters in a way few others could and helping guide someone to Insight without providing too much information as to overly affect their Path, a trait Yan benefited most from in recent days. After living in close quarters with the woman these past few weeks, Min Gyu had garnered a healthy admiration for this modest and unassuming woman, one who commanded respect in her household the same way her husband commanded respect from his soldiers. There were many clues scattered about hinting at Hyo-Lynn’s place in the family hierarchy, but the most telling hint of all was how her three talented children always sought her out first for help with their Martial Path, valuing her guidance over that of their world-renowned father.

And now, her presence here at her husband’s side lent credence to the rumours of her own personal skills, which Min Gyu had previously believed were too far-fetched to be real. After all, if Jeong Hyo-Lynn were truly her husband’s match in Martial Skill, then why had she not publicly revealed her prowess to support his military career? Such a pairing would’ve made the Ryo family’s rise to prominence all but inevitable, especially in light of how talented their children had proven to be. That being said, having seen just how much the Sword King loved his queen, Min Gyu found it difficult to believe he would bring her to the battlefield if he was not confident in her ability to protect herself. In fact, it appeared like he was relying on her to protect him, which meant he was either an overconfident fool who was far too in love with his wife, or more likely, had married a formidable woman who stood alongside him at the peak of Martial Strength.

Either way, regardless of Hyo-Lynn’s level of skill or the Sword King’s state of mind, Min Gyu’s job remained the same, to guard against and give warning of Concealed assassins. It was amazing how quickly one could adapt to new circumstances, as he was now so accustomed to sweeping for Concealed individuals that he could do it without even thinking. If he had to describe it, it was a little like remembering to blink or breathe, something he never really thought about unless unable to do so. Back and forth his Wind Chi swept, revealing the familiar nooks and crannies of the Central Citadel to Min Gyu’s mind’s eye as he scanned for Concealed assassins. It didn’t take much Chi either, and he could do this all day if he had to, although he would suffer the consequences of a mild headache the next day after if he did so for more than fifteen or so hours. A small price to pay to ensure the safety a Colonel General, one of only three currently serving following Shuai Jiao’s promotion to Commander General and Mitsue Juichi’s decision to step down, though rumours abound whispered of a new Colonel General would soon be appointed, namely Akanai of the Bekhai who’d more than proven herself worthy of the rank.

Rumours were all they were though, as the Emperor had yet to issue any statement on the subject, or any other subject for that matter. While shipments of coin continued to arrive for Luo-Luo to dole out, there was no word of Shen ZhenWu’s health, mention of Commander General Shuai Jiao’s new title, or really any sort of communication at all. Not the most heartening prospect considering the odds arranged against them, but Min Gyu was confident that even without help from the Imperial Clan, the outer provinces would emerge from this calamity intact.

At which point it might become prudent to rethink their relationship with the Emperor, given his absentee status during this time of greatest need. A matter for another time, and perhaps not even one for Min Gyu to ponder, for a coordinated rebellion would take years, if not decades to put together, and he had less than a single decade left to him, at most.

It wasn’t long before their carriage came to a stop, unable to proceed any further along the barricaded roads. This was where the battle was being fought, with nothing but braziers and torches to hold back the darkness of night. The clamour was deafening even here on the outskirts of battle, with tens of thousands of warriors trading blows within earshot and tens of thousands more beyond, the sight of which took Min Gyu’s breath away. This made every battle that came before seem like nothing but a prelude to this momentous event as the Enemy poured everything they had into taking the Citadel proper. The outermost walls had long since fallen, seized in the opening move of Bai Qi’s attack, but not without first paying a hefty price. The entire Citadel had been caught off guard by the sudden appearance of a massive Defiled army outside the gates, but the Imperial defenders fought tooth and nail to keep the Enemy at bay. Alas, mere courage and determination was not enough to slow the indomitable tide of flesh, and after two hours of bloody conflict, Shuai Jiao gave the orders to withdraw from the outer walls. When Min Gyu first heard the news, his stomach threatened to empty itself onto the fine rug lining his borrowed room, but thankfully, he was able to keep his lunch down and avoid the embarrassment of scrambling to find a replacement rug. Morale struck rock bottom inside the Citadel, as soldier and civilian alike foresaw an Imperial defeat, but then, after seeing the Enemy troops were firmly ensconced within the outer wall, Commander General Shuai Jiao gave the order and the walls collapsed beneath their feet in a daring accomplishment of foresight and engineering.

