After an entire month of early mornings, late nights, and a multitude of untimely disruptions to his slumber, Min Gyu wholeheartedly regretted accepting the offer to become Ryo Dae Jung’s bodyguard.

It wasn’t all bad. Living in the Ryo family manor meant he was well provided for, afforded all the minor luxuries he’d grown accustomed to during his lengthy convalescence, but had to make do without after losing his life’s savings to an embarrassing family squabble. It wasn’t as if he were sorely deprived of life’s necessities, but he missed the little treats he used to indulge in. Savoury fish-cakes imported from his home-town of Yan Tai, scented bath oils to soothe his old, drying skin, or even top-quality tea to enjoy with the delectable snacks young Rain and Charok cooked up day after day, these were things most could do without, but Min Gyu craved them all the same. This wasn’t to say Yan and her husband mistreated him or weren’t willing to spend coin on him, but rather that he lacked skin thick enough to ask for an allowance after they’d already welcomed him into their marital home. He also lacked the gall to bring up the matter of his military wages, which he had stopped the day after they took his title of Exarch and gave him a promotion to Lieutenant General out of pity. Anyone with eyes could see his rank was given without responsibility, and he would not let it be said that the crippled Du Min Gyu also needed charity. While he was most certainly earning his pay now, he didn’t know how to bring it up, since matters of coin were outside the purview of the military and firmly in the hands of Central’s Marshal’s office. A quiet word with Luo-Luo would most certainly see things quietly sorted out, but it was too embarrassing to admit to his impoverished circumstances, and he could never muster the courage to do anything about it.

More importantly than minor luxuries were the facilities he now had access to, including the Ryo family’s training grounds where they cultivated some of the finest swordsmen in the Empire, all of whom were loyal to the Ryo family first. As a sabre-wielding fanatic, Min Gyu’s Path paralleled much of what the Ryo family instructors taught, so not only did he benefit from seeing how they guided their recruits along the Martial Path, his students also benefited from exchanging moves with the Ryo family guards. Min Gyu took great pride in seeing his students match blades with many great names and improve by leaps and bounds, especially Kyung who proved more than a match for young Da’in once she finally thought to request an exchange. Even though Min Gyu loved his grandson so, the truth of the matter was that the world still saw Kyung as a slave first, so even asking his filial goddaughter to spar with him might well be seen as an insult given the vast disparity in their perceived statuses.

That being said, after suffering an overwhelming defeat at Kyung’s hands, Da’in sought him out to spar each and every day since, with both of them benefiting much from the arrangement. Given how he cared nothing for face, Kyung showed Da’in no mercy and defeated her ninety-nine times out of a hundred exchanges, and drew even on their last match, at which point the proud girl was finally willing to call it a day. Where a lesser Warrior would’ve long since stomped off in a fury, Da’in instead pushed herself even harder and spent the next few weeks familiarizing herself with Kyung’s vast repertoire of attacks and defences, unravelling his secrets only to find herself outmatched yet again as he repeatedly pushed her beyond the limits of her considerable natural talent. This forced her to rely on more than just her natural power, speed, and skill to secure victory, which thus far was all she needed to progress along the Martial Path, but the gap between Expert and Peak Expert was extensive and not so easily surmounted, especially by one who had never known defeat. Such was the danger of inborn genius, to never know struggle until it was too late, but now Kyung was able to show Da’in just how lacking she really was when it came to battling a Peak Expert.

As for Kyung, he benefited from these spars because he rarely had a chance to match blades with an opponent like Da’in outside of a life and death battle, someone skilled enough to present a challenge, but not so skilled that a single mistake spelled defeat. Thus, he could afford to test out the Movements and Forms he was less than comfortable with, those skills he hesitated to try in real battle, and Da’in was adept enough to punish him for any flaws or mistakes. What’s more, seeing their family princess struggle so fruitlessly against the ‘bully’ of a Du Scion, the various teachers and retainers of the Ryo family were lining up to teach Kyung a lesson, affording him even more opponents to test himself against. It was all in good fun, without any real enmity to the proceedings at all, just a healthy rivalry between men and women of similar age and station, a sight which warmed Min Gyu’s heart. It gave him hope that things might not unravel and fall apart for his grandson once he passed away, because while Yan had her marriage to Rain keeping her status afloat, Kyung would have nothing and no one to support him besides his sister, making him an obvious target for Min Gyu’s enemies seeking to even long forgotten grudges. Were it not for the ongoing war efforts, he might well have gone on a cleansing trip around Central to eliminate those he deemed a threat to his precious grandson, but now, Kyung would have allies and comrades to support him even after Min Gyu passed away, which was more than he had ever dreamed possible.

Despite all the benefits, he still would have been much happier if he’d turned down Dae Jung’s offer to become his bodyguard and gone about his own merry way, but Min Gyu’s conscience would never have allowed it. The only thing that kept him going was knowing that while his lot was a miserable one indeed, the Colonel General’s circumstances were not much better. At least Min Gyu could take time off to rest and recuperate every now and then after fobbing off his Wraith detection duties to Eccentric Gam, but with the Enemy stepping up pressure on the Central Citadel, Dae Jung’s life was under constant threat, leaving him nowhere to go to unwind and relax. The bedroom, dining room, bathhouse, and even the outhouse, the Colonel General had come under attack in each and every one of these locations over the past three weeks, and while Min Gyu had been able to uncover the Wraiths before the attacks began, the waves of suicidal assassins still managed to come uncomfortably close to achieving their goals.

It was easy to see where Da’in got her stubborn streak from, for where lesser men might cower in fear, Ryo Dae Jung seemed to welcome the attacks and refused to step up his personal defences. Though he increased the number of guards protecting his home, he still went about his business with the bare minimum of six Peak Expert escorts, two visible to stand at his flanks and four more lurking nearby in Concealment. Add in Min Gyu or Eccentric Gam, as well as an alarmingly undernourished taste tester checking every morsel and cup for poison, and most days, this was all that stood between the Enemy assassins and the Colonel General’s life. A most tempting target indeed, but it wasn’t until after the first two days of gruelling, non-stop Defiled attacks, that Min Gyu realized why Dae Jung stubbornly refused to increase his guard detail even after so many close brushes with death.

Though the Empire was largely focused on Shuai Jiao and his advancement to Commander General of the Outer Provinces, a self-proclaimed title not even the Emperor cared to contest, the focus of Central’s soldiers and civilians largely shifted to young Dae Jung instead. This was because Shuai Jiao was now responsible for the safety of all the outer provinces and could no longer favour Central over the others lest he lose support from North and South. Not that the honourable and impartial ascetic would, but even maintaining the mere illusion of favouritism was no longer possible, and with Mitsue Juichi’s fall from grace, Dae Jung became the face of Central’s military endeavours. Therefore, in order to prove he could shoulder this heavy responsibility, he took on the role of lightning rod for the Enemy assassins and presented himself as a target too tempting to pass up in order to alleviate the pressure on the soldiers serving under him.

Such was the style of the youngest appointed Colonel General in the last thousand years, the supremely talented and phenomenally charismatic Sword King, Ryo Dae Jung, a man who led by example and demanded nothing short of excellence, even from himself.

As for Min Gyu, he had long since left his prime years behind and was no longer able to keep up, but his stubborn pride would not allow him to admit inferiority. Every day, he dragged himself out of bed long before the sun had risen and went to bed long after it set, only to be roused from slumber before his bladder had time to interrupt his pleasant, peaceful dreams, ones which prominently featured a certain Ancestral Fox. It wasn’t any sort of youthful infatuation or melancholic pining, it’s just that working in close concert with Eccentric Gam meant his gorgeous mother was always close to mind. Restless dreams were a small price to pay however, because without Eccentric Gam to help bear the burden, Min Gyu feared he would have long since come apart at the seams.

Tonight was no different, as no sooner than he’d laid his head down to rest, Kyung roused him with word from Dae Jung’s Guard Captain. “The Defiled are attacking again,” Kyung began, his tone almost as tired as Min Gyu felt, for nary a day had passed in the last week without seeing Enemy action. “The Colonel General intends to oversee the defences from the third wall.”

“That bad, hmm?” Min Gyu muttered, while Kyung all but dragged him out of bed. “How many Defiled this time?”

“Best estimates put their numbers at close to half a million Enemy combatants assaulting the walls at this very moment, a mix of tribals and Chosen alike.” Hastily helping Min Gyu get dressed for battle, Kyung rattled off a list of details outlining the current state of affairs, news which shook the last vestiges of lethargy from Min Gyu’s mind, for circumstances were dire indeed. The canny enemy general was none other than the infamous Bai Qi himself, and his tactical acumen proved equal to his dominating Martial prowess, if not superior. Three days ago, the traitor general appeared at the head of a massive Defiled army to threaten the Central Citadel itself, ostensibly to secure a decisive victory after twenty plus days of largely ineffective raids. Although there’d been no indication a large scale attack was underway, Shuai Jiao was not caught off-guard and the Citadel rallied a valiant defence in what was quickly shaping up to be the hottest conflict of the war thus far. Two of this generation’s greatest military minds traded blows through proxy in the grandest game of human chess ever played, with tens of thousands of lives lost already and millions more at stake. Both sides brought out every trick and gambit available and added their own flair to the proceedings, which led to probing feints, lightning-fast raids, Concealed breaching actions, and more as the hours stretched into days without either side emerging with the upper hand. One day, the siege of the Central Citadel would one day be used as a textbook example for both offensive and defensive actions when teaching the military minds of tomorrow, and even Min Gyu struggled to keep up with the dynamic back and forth conflict emerging all around them.

Thus, it took a moment for Min Gyu to grasp just how dire their situation truly was and why Dae Jung would risk appearing on the battlefield in person. “The Defiled numbers make no sense,” he began, lifting his arms so Kyung could more easily secure his sash. “They are attacking five different fronts along the Western Wall, with even more forces in play to intercept possible reinforcements moving by ship or caravan, but in order to deploy so many troops at once, that would mean they’ve committed every last unit they have available in the field to this attack.” There would be no more fancy maneuvers or rearrangement of formations, for all that was left was to cycle units into the fray and let the battle play out as is.

“It appears they have, Grandfather,” Kyung replied, smoothing out Min Gyu’s collar and tucking an errant wisp of grey hair behind an ear. “Bai Qi means to stake it all on one throw, and the Commander General is readied to respond in kind. All available forces have been called in to man the Citadel defences and the Districts placed on high alert, while armies have already sallied forth from North and South and are moving into place.”

Not to support the Central Citadel against this attack, seeing how they would never make it in time to affect the outcome, but rather to retake the fortress if the Defiled were to emerge victorious. The Commander General was preparing for the worst case scenario, and the realization chilled Min Gyu to the bone, for until this very moment, he believed they still had the advantage in this all-out war, but apparently Shuai Jiao thought differently. At best, this meant even odds to the victor, a fifty-fifty split, which in essence amounted to a coin-flip to determine the fate of the outer provinces. Such a dire state of affairs was an unwelcome surprise indeed, but there was nothing to be done except put forth his best effort and hope it would be enough to sway the odds in their favour.

