It was estimated that more enemy combatants had died during this first exchange than in the next two days combined, all thanks to this dastardly trap, a secret so well kept even Dae Jung had been caught by surprise. Only Marshal Yo had been privy to all the details, which he chose to share with the Commander General, and while there was now a clear breach in the Western Wall, the Citadel was still largely intact even after evacuating and demolishing every precinct west of the second wall. Following Dae Jung as he made his way up to the command centre on the third wall, Min Gyu headed out to the overlooking balcony where they had an eagle-eyed view of the battle taking place within the Citadel, a pulsating, chaotic melee that shifted forward and back with an almost hypnotic sway all along the second wall. Whenever one section faltered beneath the Defiled offensive, reinforcements surged forward to support them, only for the Defiled to fall back and press their advantage along a different section of wall, leading to a game of cat and mouse as the Imperial forces struggled to hold back the Enemy tide. The fighting was fierce and relentless, with soldiers barely having room to breathe as tribesmen and Chosen alike spent their lives like water in an effort to secure a foothold atop the packed battlements.

Having fought his fair share of siege battles as both defender and aggressor, Min Gyu did not envy the unfortunate soldiers stuck in the thick of things, for in a conflict of this scale, Martial skill was worth far less than luck and happenstance. Though he had no desire to get stuck in again, the Heavens were not on his side this night. “Ready your weapons,” Dae Jung commanded, speaking to the elite soldiers gathered within the command room, including Min Gyu and his students. “And follow me to bolster our comrades upon the wall.”

Though Min Gyu wanted to interject and caution the Sword King against this bold action, Dae Jung wasted no time before leaping off the command centre balcony. Landing upon the second wall with his wife hot on his heels, Dae Jung’s sword flashed in the firelight and cleaved a hole through the Defiled lines, clearing an entire ten-metre section of wall with but a single swipe. Impressive as this feat was, the fearless Defiled pressed onward and filled the void left by the Sword King’s attack, only to encounter stiff resistance in the form of the Sword King’s wife. Where Dae Jung’s attack was fierce and indomitable, wielding a single sword against the world, Hyo-Lynn utilized her three swords with subtle coordination and unfathomable poise. Though she only held two weapons at any given time, she glided back and forth along the battlements in a deadly dance of death, freely exchanging one sword for another only to later recover it with effortless grace. To an outside observer, it appeared as if her swords possessed minds of their own and fought their foes without her direction, but only because she delivered each blow so quickly there was no need to even follow through, confusing the opponents around her as they struck at the shadows she left behind in her wake. By the time any given sword dealt a killing blow, the woman had already moved on to her next sword and target, her first victim yet to fall to the ground before the third was already dead, at which point she returned to reclaim her weapon from the first victim’s flesh and use it to deliver another killing blow, all of which transpired in the blink of an eye.

With such phenomenal skill and speed, to call Jeong Hyo-Lynn the ‘Sword Queen’ almost seemed like an insult to Min Gyu’s ears, for only a Sword Empress could command her weapons so, a lofty existence one could barely comprehend much less hope to compare.

As soon as he picked his jaw up off the ground, Min Gyu leaped into the fray, only a half step behind the formidable duo and somehow even further behind Kyung, yet there were still plenty of enemies to pick and choose from when he arrived. Though his skills were unworthy to be matched alongside the Sword Empress and her King, Min Gyu’s talents were far more suited to massed killing than the formidable husband and wife pair as he delivered a mighty Wind Blade with every sweep of his sabre, gales of Honed Air Chi that ignored armour to scythe through flesh and bone. That was the difference between sword and sabre, the former suited for one on one combat and the latter optimized for one against many, though he suspected he would be sorely outmatched in both categories if Dae Jung and Hyo-Lynn were to go all out. In retrospect, he felt a little foolish for not noticing the Sword Empress’s strength earlier, for it was clear their talented children had all chosen to mirror her path, given how they each carried more than one sword. Young Da’in in particular had three Spiritual Swords just like her mother, though Min Gyu had never seen her use them all in combat. At most, she would throw one before engaging with the other two, which before had seemed like a colossal waste of a Spiritual Weapon, but not anymore.

If Da’in could muster even a tenth of her mother’s skill, then she would be unmatched by anyone under the age of fifty, and that was a conservative estimate.

It took less than a minute for Min Gyu and his allies to clear a hundred-metre section of the wall, this gathering of Peak Experts and supporters too strong to be contested by mere rank and file troops. Only then did he have a chance to look around and discover that this was the area commanded by none other than young Da’in herself, though Kyung had long since noticed her presence. Her bloody hand pressed against a grievous abdominal wound, the girl bore an atypically meek expression as she leaned heavily against Kyung at her side, the half-cat standing with fangs bared and sabre bloodied over a ring of corpses lying at his feet. Piecing the puzzle together after the fact, Min Gyu realized that Dae Jung had jumped in to save his daughter, but it was Kyung who pulled her out of the fire, moving before even the Sword King himself to go to Da’in’s aid. It was good to see the boy making friends and taking the initiative to save them, though the girl seemed conflicted about having been rescued, her pride suffering wounds from which she would struggle to recover from. Ambling over to clap Kyung on the shoulder, Dae Jung offered him a small nod of approval, but said nothing, not even to his daughter who was having a silent, sheepish exchange with her smiling mother, and instead turned and Cloud-Stepped over to another section of the wall.

“Come Comrade Du,” the Sword King Sent. “Since my daughter is safe in your grandson’s hands, and my safety assured with my wife here by my side, there’s no need for you to hold back on anyone’s account. Go forth and remind the Empire and the Enemy alike why the Sanguine Tempest has remained a household name for nigh on six decades and counting.”

Blood singing with glee, Min Gyu signalled Kyung and his students to remain behind before Cloud-Stepping into the fray, unleashing yet another devastating Wind Blade as he landed next to the idle Sword King. Aside from the constant clashes against Concealed Wraiths and other assassins, this was Min Gyu’s first taste of proper battle here at the Central Citadel, and he had to admit that it was refreshing to cut loose and give it his all. Tribesman and Chosen alike died with every swing of his sabre, and when the Enemy dispatched Peak Expert Champions and Chieftains to match him, he drew his Battle-Fan and unleashed two Wind Chakrams to cut them down as they arrived. Utilizing his improved mastery to control the deadly rings with little more than a thought, this left him free to continue wreaking havoc atop the battlements as he cleared swathes of Defiled with laughable ease. Of course, none of this would be possible without the support of the Warriors around him, the Sword King’s presence alone enough to deter all but the most courageous or foolhardy of Defiled. Meter after meter, Min Gyu moved along the battlements, leaving naught but Defiled corpses and cheering Imperials in his wake, until it seemed as if all the Citadel was cheering him on, with nigh on a million voices chanting ‘The Sanguine Tempest’ as one.

So caught up in the heat of battle, Min Gyu sensed more than saw his formidable foe approaching, a commanding presence that demanded his immediate attention. A blur was all he saw, but he swung his sabre on instinct, executing a downwards movement that combined attack and parry into one. Despite putting his full strength into the strike, his sabre was blown away upon impact, and only Hyo-Lynn’s soft, steady hand between his shoulder blades kept him from crashing into the soldiers behind him and sailing off of the battlements.

Suppressing the urge to groan in pain, he grit his teeth and brought his sabre to bear, unable to still his trembling hands which were still stinging from the impact. Positioned on top of a crenellation so as to look down on him from above, Min Gyu’s foe was a younger man with a dark complexion and an ageless expression which belied his forty-eight years of age. With his namesake resting lightly over one shoulder, YuChun of Ten Thousand Spears curled his lip into a sneer before imbuing his voice with Chi for all to hear. “So this is the Sanguine Tempest? A decrepit old man unable to block even a single blow without assistance, how disappointing. Your time has passed, senior, so let this junior send you on your way while you still have some dignity left to you.”

“Brave words coming from a coward whose sneak attack just failed.” Stepping out to meet his foe, Ryo Dae Jung flourished his sword with a smirk. “You sacrificed so many lives and waited so long for Comrade Du to tire, and even then you were unable to leave a mark on his skin. Run home to your master, traitorous dog, and tell Bai Qi to wash his neck before coming out to meet me. The Sword King has no interest in fighting a cowardly mongrel.”

“Tiger Slayer or Sword King, there is no difference in my eyes.” Settling into a stance, YuChun pointed his spear at Dae Jung and said, “You will be the second Colonel General I kill, and when I am finished with you, Shuai Jiao will be next.”

“Hmph. Since the master does not see fit to discipline his dog, I don’t mind doing it for him.” And with that, the time for talk was over as the Sword King strode out to exchange blows with the Ten Thousand Spears, and Min Gyu resolved not to blink until it was over lest he miss out on the deciding exchange. What a fool he’d been, believing Hyo-Lynn to be the stronger of the two just because she had more swords. One sword or ten-thousand, it made no difference to Ryo Dae Jung, whose Domain came to life in a storm of swords, countless blades of luminescent Chi encircling him in a deadly ring of death. A single exchange sent YuChun fleeing for his dog life, but the Sword King, nay, the Sword Saint would not allow his foe to depart so easily as he dispatched a stream of glimmering Sword Chi to hunt down his foe from afar.

A spray of blood ensued, and the Ten-Thousand Spears lost an arm, but managed to keep his life intact, showcasing just how far above his peers Ryo Dae Jung truly was.

“Be on your guard,” Hyo-Lynn Sent, reminding Min Gyu he was standing on a battlefield, not in the seats of a duelling stage. “The Enemy has committed more than just a single YuChun to this attack.”

Stifling a gasp as Min Gyu took in his surroundings, he readied his sabre and battle-fan for bloody combat as countless Demons of all shapes and sizes threw themselves into the fray. Whatever their reasons, the Enemy was determined to bring down the Citadel tonight and even committed a sizable portion of their Demonic forces to battle, as if they were in a rush to end the war before it dragged out any longer. Why would this be? Did Bai Qi know something Min Gyu did not?

Most certainly, but no matter. Raising his battle-fan with a wordless cry, he summoned four Wind Chakrams and set them to hunting Demons and Peak Experts alike, taking advantage of their distraction to raise the Sanguine Tempest once more. The clash would be difficult and bloody, but he would not flinch or falter, for so long as he still drew breath, Du Min Gyu would make the Enemy pay dearly for every centimetre of ground they took. All around him, the children of Central rose up to fight alongside him, their courage and Aura joined with his as they rose to drive the Enemy from their beloved homeland, their blades and spears singing a song of battle as they fought for more than just mere survival. This was a war unlike any other before, and Min Gyu was proud to fight, and possibly die alongside these noble sons and daughters of Central.

His only hope was that Kyung, Da’in, and Yan were not counted among those who were sacrificed for the cause. A selfish request perhaps, but one he made of the Heavens nonetheless, for there was nothing Min Gyu cherished more than the strange little family he’d found in the twilight of his life.

Chapter Meme
