It was confusing, and in theory, the Empire could just create a lot of the four basic elemental aura rifts and call it good enough, but that wasn't good enough for Matt. That would be doing the job halfway, and he refused to just stop there.

Telling people to just accept an ill fitting Concept and reach Tier 15, where they were immortal and could break their Concept to create a new more fitting one, was an absolute last resort.

That meant they needed to create as many basetypes of aura as possible to help fulfill most people's needs.

Which was why the four of them aimed for creating aura types of the common Level 2 mana types, and things like sharpness aura, which could work for all types of sharp weapons more so than something like longsword aura. Not that they’d found longsword aura, but Matt half-expected it to just be a matter of time and testing.

If their theory was correct, the holy grail was a neutral aura that could be converted into anything, but as far as all of the academics in the realm were aware, there had never been such a thing. Matt had asked Ciceron, who knew a little of everything, to look into it, but there were no references of a neutral aura going back even five cycles of Great Powers rise and falls. It should be possible, if Minkalla and his testing inside were to be believed, but theoretical existence was quite different from actually knowing how to make it.

Matt was confident that eventually he and his guild would figure it out, but that was very much a project for another day. Better to work on what they had in front of them. That left Matt and his people working on going the other way and trying to create specific aura types, but they weren’t making any significant progress.

Sadly, those first months were their only uninterrupted month.

Duty came for Matt whether he liked it or not.

First was the vice guild leader he had hired for the job arriving with the new staff for the island.

Kees Denarend the third was an imposing man, despite being all of five foot three, and his aura radiated a no nonsense air. But his feathered hair reminded Matt of a lot of his favorite people, and he felt close to him through that.

Matt’s new vice guild leader was actually a recommendation from King Frederic, who called in a favor to pull the man out of retirement.

Kees was a third generation hereditary noble who had earned his mother’s favor by taking over a failing guild and turning it around, showcasing his administrative abilities.

Despite the man being a champion of hereditary noble rights, he was, from all accounts, the best example of a hereditary noble. His reign as Marquess had been successful and without major controversy before he eventually handed the title off to his daughter. Since then, he had been slowly advancing his way to Tier 45 where he intended to ascend.

Frederic had said they were something like political allies with Kees in his, or rather, Frederic’s father’s camp, in trying to slow the rapid reforms of Georgios.

That inherently made Matt leery, but by all accounts he treated his people well, and so Matt had taken the favor from Frederic. He needed someone to run the guild, especially in the early days, and Kees was one of the better options.

He was also free.

Matt couldn’t have afforded the Tier 42 without Frederic’s favor for the full thousand year contract otherwise, without tapping into his and Liz’s personal accounts.

Good administrators were expensive.

Kees looked around the island littered with rifts with slitted eyes crackling with storm mana before turning to Matt.

He bowed the perfect amount that a retired Marquees should bow to an active duke, and while Matt was tempted to disregard formality and wave him up, he suspected this was a test.

After completing the typical greeting between nobles, Matt asked, “Was that necessary? You are going to be my vice guild leader.”

Kees just blinked at him. “Formality is always necessary. It gives people a guide on how to act in any social situation. As I have not officially accepted your offer as vice guild leader, that was the proper introduction. My daughter told me about your announcement, but I honestly didn’t believe it. I’ve heard a thousand and one propositions which promised the moon, but few could ever deliver a plan, let alone a product. I—”

His eyes slitted as his gaze went to the massive mana stone in the hall's foyer. “I hope that is a decoy mana stone, My Lord.”

Matt shook his head. “I thought it made a good statement piece. It also makes it easy to access the mana.”

“That is the problem, My Lord.”

Matt shrugged. “If anyone is dumb enough to skim off the top, they deserve to get what is coming to them.”

Kees seemed to consider that for a moment before nodding slowly. “I can accept that, but it's still not a good idea. Even honest people can be tempted by that much wealth just sitting in the open, and I could not fault them for it.”

“Is that something you would care about? Sounds more like a vice guild leader thing.”

Kees grinned at Matt’s rebuke. “Well played Duke Moore. I’ll take this job, but only for a thousand years. After that, I’ve been promised the rift slots I need to reach Tier 45 and ascend.”

That was news to Matt, and he said so. “I thought you took the job to repay a favor?”

“The favor wasn’t this big. If even a quarter of King Frederic’s comments about your ambitions are true, then I’ll have more than my fair share of work as the vice guild leader.” Kees scanned the rest of the island before nodding. “I’m at your disposal if you’ll have me, My Lord.”

Matt proffered a hand. “Done. At least so long as you cut the My Lord stuff out. Officially, I’m just your guild leader now. Call me Matt.”

Matt could feel that Kees wanted to say something, but he held his tongue and simply nodded.

Matt didn’t push his new vice guild leader and changed the subject. “I see you brought the rest of our people?”

Kees waved them forward, and the people floating a few dozen miles away arrayed themselves in three orderly formations and one gaggle, just a few dozen feet away from where the two of them floated.

“The administration team, the supply and logistic team, and finally the security team. The rest of the people are the scientists you hired.” Kees didn’t bother to hide his distaste for the scientists who refused to fall into regimented lines, and Matt could hear the weight of his experience in wrangling scientists in his tone.

Matt made a show of scanning the groups. It both let him inspect them and let them inspect him in return. The Ascender worship was clear in most of their eyes and Matt had to brace himself for what was to come, but he had been through worse, and he could do this.

Smiling, he flew over and introduced himself to the closest security guild member, their captain, asking polite small talk questions trying to set the man at ease before moving onto the next one.

These were the people who would form the core of his guild going forward, and Matt wanted them bound to the guild with loyalty and honor more so than contracts and legalese. They were the best and brightest freelancers Cato had been able to find and hire, and would make a good core of the guild.

Eventually, they would follow him to the moon guild base that would orbit their eventual ducal holding, so Matt wanted to ensure that they knew who he was, and that he was someone they could talk to if they had to, without fear of being crushed by an Ascender.

Even moving at the max speed his or the person's cultivation allowed, it took almost an hour to get through everyone. But no one complained, and all seemed eager to get to work.

The scientists and researchers were almost comically eager to get to work, and Matt felt their spiritual perceptions sweeping over and around the mana stone or the workshops that had been prepared for them.

As part of Matt’s efforts to help lower Tiers, he had hired a number of professionals from every craft he could get his hands on. They went beyond the basic three of enchanting, alchemy, and smithing, as Matt had cast his net far and wide.

Anyone who was willing to work on low Tier projects and had an applicable skill set had been hired, but there was one group Matt paid special attention to.

There were fifteen enchanters who specialized in low Tier engines. The other specialties were mostly about improving what already existed, but the engine crafters had a unique opportunity if they were just fast enough.

With the release of Zack’s Travel mana, there would no doubt be a race for making engines with it. Matt only really cared about the lowest Tier market, but as he had beaten into him with his and Aisha’s aperology enchanting work, lower Tier rarely meant easier.

Simple usually meant anything but easy, in fact, and he could only hope the researchers could come out on top.

Matt had given them three main categories of engines he’d like to see, and while all three were similar, the actual construction would probably vary greatly.

First and foremost was the Empire's preferred method of moving large amounts of people: Trains.

If they could ensure that the train travel mana engine was free for people to iterate off without having to worry about patents for the next few centuries, Matt would be more than happy, even if the other two outright failed.

The second was personal vehicles like cars, trucks, and taxis. Empire policy may discourage the use of such vehicles, but they still had their place, and lowering the operation cost for them would be a great boon for the mortals who needed them and those who lived outside the cities.

Finally: flying devices.

It was a bit of a stretch goal, as Matt was sure the million and one companies which were dedicated to flying swords would be creating their own versions of the flying items relying on travel mana, but if they created something first, he’d be happy.

Ultimately, it was a luxury. And even if he loved his flying sword before he learned how to fly with his Concept, the average civilian never needed or could afford a flying device.

It wasn’t like Matt hated the idea of companies making money, after all. He just wanted to help those who needed it the most.

As he finished up, Kees looked at him oddly before he said, “I’m surprised. You are surprisingly personable on a small scale. From everything I’ve seen since the end of the war, I expected you to be more taciturn. You’d have made a good Captain level commander if you weren’t an Ascender.”

It was a little awkward to get called out like that, but Matt felt he needed to explain. “I like people—” Seeing Kees’ disbelieving look, Matt grinned. “Really, I do. Just on a small scale. Intimate parties with a few dozen people are fine. Thousands, however, is just too much. It's all too fake at that scale.”

Kees thankfully changed the subject to matters about how Matt wanted to handle specific guild procedures and things like estimated expenses. Raw mana wasn’t how most people wanted to be paid, but with Manny’s help, Matt’s guild’s coffers were currently full.

Eventually, Matt was able to escape back to his beloved aperology fields, which one of the grounds keepers had already converted to a nice grassy field. But just as he was going to head down into testing, he was interrupted again.

He wanted to ignore it as he felt the tickling of an idea at the back of his mind, but the people to arrive were important.

Possibly more important than the guild members.

It was the team of administrators he had hired to oversee and assist Soerilia’s unveiling. Normally, they would coordinate with the baron in charge of the planet, but as Matt and Liz had directly started the process and hadn’t assigned a baron yet, they were linking up with Matt.

As much as he didn’t want to stop, Soerilia deserved his best efforts, and so Matt stopped his aperology and went with them to the neighboring planet, where he introduced the six of them to the local Arbitration Convention and the various countries' leaders who were available.

Things had only been progressing for five months, but Matt was disheartened to see that one of the countries had tried to set up an amphibious landing expedition onto the cordoned off portion of the continent, and had failed.

Eighty two were minorly wounded, but nothing that required anything beyond an undirected healing spell or a few months of recovery. Eleven were seriously wounded and in need of a dedicated healer to regrow limbs, and worst of all, three were dead.

Weirdly enough, the country had listed all of the wounded as dead, but Matt didn’t follow the logic behind that action. He thought they might be trying to use the failed landing as a way to ensure those who followed up the attempt were properly prepared for the danger, but his quick scan of the EmpireNet didn’t come up with anything conclusive. Not that he cared all that much.

Even three deaths for such a dumb reason irritated him, and he was sure the administrative team could tell, even if he tried to hide it.

He made a note that the order of healing wands was increased, but items that unawakened mortals could use were rare, as integrations were the only time they were needed. It meant they were expensive and slow to get, but he changed his order to come with one of Aiden’s express couriers.

He also sent a note asking for a healer or two from Lily to come over and assist in the initial process of the Roland Method until the various countries could get some healers trained up.

It would be easy enough to push the healers through a healing crash course on Lily once he got them the proper spells, [Directed Healing] and [Healing Touch] being the main two that proper healers would need.

