Thankfully, from all reports anyone who could become a doctor on a veil world like Soerilia, with its rigorous standards for the profession, would easily be able to make the jump to effective magical healing with just a few months of training. It was similar to the Empire’s doctor to healer pipeline, but without some of the prep work on the magic side.

Healing spells were typically bought up by the Empire itself, and it did allocate a number of the spells to new worlds like Soerilia. But even with the number being population based, Matt felt the need to buy a few thousand more, which ballooned the cost. He couldn’t help wincing at the final price tag. He really couldn’t make a habit of that sort of thing, unless he wanted to majorly cut back on his aura research.

Matt was just happy Soerilia had a mostly competent doctor community, as that existing infrastructure would be adequate to handle the majority of cases with formations, talismans, and potions dealing with most of the rest, with dedicated healers able to take just the worst of the worst cases. If they didn’t have that, he wouldn’t know what to do, but he sure wouldn’t be willing to let them go through with something as dangerous as the Roland Method otherwise.

Matt sent the president in question a message that they needed to be more careful on further expeditions, but he kept his intervention limited to that.

These weren’t children, and they were capable of making their own choices, even if they led to mistakes and losses. He needed to remember that.

What he wouldn’t stand for was corruption, and he had to visit a few people who had attempted to embezzle money and supplies for either their own use or their people. There wasn’t as much as he’d feared, given the number of schemers he’d overheard when he’d first introduced the planet to cultivation, but he made it very clear that next time he wouldn’t be nearly as lenient.

After settling the administrator team, Matt returned to Lily and his island just to get a surprise.

Theodore had managed to create mud aura in a Tier 6 rift.

It was the first success they’d had in intentionally creating a level two mana type, and while it wasn’t properly mud aligned- it was currently being called ‘sludge’ aura- it was still an enormous step forward in their research.

Sadly, that was the end of the good news. The entire aperology department spent a full two weeks recreating Theodore’s exact methods of making the rift, but were never able to get another aura rift even using the sludge aura as a base.

It seemed like a lucky fluke, which while interesting, wasn’t conducive to hammering out the rules around rifts, and they eventually turned their attention to more methodical testing.

The incident just went to prove that aperology was difficult, which was why it was a relatively untouched science. As they had found out the hard way, having an existing mana type didn’t guarantee they could recreate the aura in question. And failure meant thousands of mana, and valuables like rift created weapons, thrown into the void, which few others could afford.

Despite that false start, Matt was exhilarated. Even a failed attempt was progress, and they were learning, which was the most important part.

With ten years left, the possibilities felt… endless.
