She watched Theron touch another wall. She watched him find another guild mark and trace it with his fingertips and say a name she could not hear. She watched his south-east glance come and go three times, and she realized, sitting there with the Eye’s borrowed clarity, that he was not looking south-east. He was looking *here*. The settlement was south-east of the camp. The direction he had been glancing for four days -- for longer than four days, she suspected, for years, for decades -- was this direction. He had always known where it was. He had never come.

*Three generations of knowing and none of us looked.*

She understood. Not because she had felt the same thing -- she hadn’t, not exactly -- but because the Eye’s [Reflective] trait was doing what reflections did: showing her something she would not have seen on her own. Theron had not avoided the ruins out of ignorance. He had avoided them because knowing they existed and not seeing them was easier than seeing them and knowing they were lost. The ruins were the physical proof of everything the Rimfolk had been and stopped being, and visiting them would make the stopping real.

And now a sixteen-year-old girl had walked into his forest and found them in four days, and the stopping was real, and the stone was warm under his hands, and the guild marks spelled his family’s name.

Wren sat still and let Theron have this. She owed him that much. She owed him more.

---

When he came back, he was carrying something.

A stone. Small -- smaller than his palm, flat and smooth, with a groove on one face that was different from the guild marks. Finer. More deliberate. Not a mason’s signature but something decorative, a carved pattern that Wren’s [Wayfinder’s Eye] registered as significant without telling her why.

“From the hearthstone,” Theron said. He held it in both hands. His voice had returned to its normal register -- level, compressed, the field-note delivery that was his natural mode. But his eyes were red-rimmed in a way that had nothing to do with smoke. “The gathering hall. The main hearth. It’s still there. Fire-blackened. The soot hasn’t faded.”

He looked at Wren. “Survey it.”

“Theron --”

“You came here to map. My grandmother would have wanted it mapped. She would have wanted someone with your eyes to see what’s here and name it and remember it.” He turned the stone in his hands. “I am not that person. I don’t have that skill. You do.”

Not generous, not grudging. True.

“We’ll survey together,” Wren said. “You can tell me what things are. What they were.”

Theron looked at the settlement -- at the foundations rising from the undergrowth like bones surfacing from sand, the terraces climbing the rise behind, the ghost-elm canopy framing it all in pale translucent light. He nodded once.

“The well first,” he said. “The well is the heart.”

---

The well was limestone-lined, round, and clean.

That was the wrong word for it. Clean suggested effort, maintenance, the result of someone’s attention. This was something else. The well was *clear* -- the water inside it visible from the rim, bright and still, reflecting the canopy above with a resolution that reminded Wren of the Eye’s mirror-surface at night. She leaned over the edge and looked down. The water was perhaps three meters below the rim, its surface unbroken, and the limestone walls below the waterline were smooth and pale and faintly luminous in a way that made no sense unless you understood ghost-elm resonance, which Wren was beginning to.

The well sat at the center of the settlement. The foundations radiated outward from it like the spokes of a wheel -- not perfectly, not geometrically, but with the organic regularity of a place that had been built around a resource rather than imposed upon a landscape. The gathering hall’s foundation was the closest structure, its entrance oriented toward the well, and the residential ring curved around both.

“Groundwater,” Wren said. She could feel the bond-potential rising from the well like steam -- not the shimmering of [Wayfinder’s Eye] but a deeper signal, the kind she had learned to distinguish from the surface noise. The well’s potential was clean and strong and entirely uncorrupted. “The corruption can’t reach it. The water is coming from below the corruption’s depth.”

“My grandmother said the same,” Theron said. “Different words. She said the well remembered what the forest forgot.”

Hadley was already at the rim, peering in, his restlessness finally given permission to move. “The water level is high for this time of year. The last good rain was -- what, ten days ago? The aquifer must be substantial.” He looked at Wren. “What does it feel like? The bond-potential.”

“Clean,” Wren said. “The cleanest thing I’ve felt since the Shelf.” She put her hand on the well’s rim. The stone was warm -- warmer than the air, warmer than the surrounding foundations, as if the well drew heat from below as well as water. The warmth traveled through her palm and into the bond-network’s thread, and the Shelf and the Eye both registered it: a new data point, a new node, a place that could be connected.

She pulled her hand back. Not yet. Not today.

Hadley looked at her. “You’re not going to bond it.”

“No.”

“Why not?”

She looked at the settlement. At the foundations rising from the green. At Theron, who was standing at the gathering hall’s hearthstone with the carved stone still in his hands, his back to them, his shoulders carrying a weight that had been there for longer than Wren had been alive.

“Because I don’t understand it yet,” she said. “And because understanding matters more than speed.”

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Unnamed Settlement — Central Well
  Type: Location (Significant Feature — Unbonded)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Limestone-lined well at settlement center. Water
  table: ~3m below rim. Water quality: uncorrupted.
  Source: deep aquifer below corruption penetration
  depth.

  Structural role: central resource node. Settlement
  foundations radiate from well position.

  Bond potential: HIGH
  [Wayfinder’s Eye] detects strong latent resonance.
  No corruption signature detected.

  +45 XP (significant location, bond potential)
  Surveying: +3 proficiency
  Environmental Reading: +2 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Forty-five experience points. She was close to something -- she could feel the accumulation in the same way she felt the bonds, a gathering pressure that meant a threshold was approaching. The system did not tell her how close. It never told her how close. But the gathering pressure was there, and it was building with each discovery, each notation, each thing she stopped long enough to properly see.

---

They surveyed for three hours.

Theron led. He moved between foundations with the inherited map -- here was a home, here was a workshop, here was the building his grandmother described as having a doorway worn smooth on one side from leaning. They found the doorway. The stone was smooth. Wren put her hand against it and felt the warmth and the wearing and the specific pattern of a body’s weight, repeated daily over years, polishing the stone through persistence, not force.

Hadley documented. His notebook filled with sketches -- guild marks copied in his quick, cramped hand, annotated with Theron’s identifications. Six family marks confirmed.

The terraces behind the gathering hall were remarkable. Stone-walled garden beds climbing a gentle rise, each terrace perhaps a meter wide, the soil inside them darker and richer than the surrounding earth. Ghost-elm saplings had colonized the upper terraces, their translucent bark catching the morning light, but the stonework held. Wren crouched beside a lower terrace and put her fingers in the soil. It was different. Finer, darker, with a mineral sweetness she could smell before she touched it -- not the corruption’s sweetness but something organic, earned, the result of centuries of cultivation concentrated into a depth of earth.

“These were gardens,” she said.

“They were more than gardens.” Theron was behind her, looking at the terraces with an expression she could not entirely read. “My grandmother said the Roothold had gardens that fruited in every season. She said the earth there was -- alive. That it wanted to grow things.”

*The Roothold.* The word landed in Wren’s awareness with a resonance that was almost physical. She looked at Theron. “Roothold?”

“The old name. For the settlement in the deep basin. Not this one -- the one further in, the big one. The one the corruption took.” He paused. The south-east glance again. “But my grandmother said the upper families built the same way. They learned from the Roothold. Same terraces. Same well design. Same guild marks.”

Wren’s mind was working fast -- the Eye’s [Reflective] trait channeling the connections, lining up pieces. The Roothold -- the settlement in the deep basin, the one the corruption had consumed. This settlement was an outer ring -- a satellite, a daughter-community, built by the same families using the same techniques. The garden terraces here were a smaller echo of whatever the Roothold had built at its center.

*Building from ruins,* she thought. Not the grand version -- not the idea of it, not the word. The small, specific, dirt-under-fingernails version. These terraces had been built by people who understood that the land wanted to grow things, and the land was still here, still rich, still waiting, underneath the decades of wild overgrowth.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Unnamed Settlement — Garden Terraces
  Type: Ecological/Architectural (Constructed Feature)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Stone-walled garden terraces on settlement rise.
  Construction: Rimfolk masonry (consistent with
  settlement-wide guild mark tradition).

  Soil analysis: enriched, mineral-dense, darker than
  surrounding earth. Ghost-elm saplings colonizing
  upper terraces — stonework resisting root
  displacement.

  Historical context: terracing technique consistent
  with Roothold agricultural tradition per Rimfolk
  oral history.

  +35 XP (architectural feature, historical context)
  Surveying: +3 proficiency
  Identification: +2 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Eighty experience points total from the two survey discoveries. The pressure was building.

She was standing at the entrance to the gathering hall when the warmth arrived.

Not the bond-potential warmth she had been feeling all morning -- the general shimmer of a place dense with discoverable features. This was specific. Localized. The threshold stone beneath her left boot -- the large, flat slab at the hall's entrance, worn smooth by decades of foot traffic before the forest reclaimed it -- was radiating a heat that climbed through the leather of her sole and into the arch of her foot and settled there with the same quality of recognition she had felt at the Warden's Shelf.

She had been standing on this stone for forty minutes. She had not noticed because she had not been paying attention to her feet. She had been paying attention to everything else -- the well, the terraces, the guild marks, the stonework, the moss patterns on the walls, the way the light moved through the settlement's disrupted canopy. She had been paying distributed attention, the wide-aperture presence that the Wayfinder class ran on, and the threshold stone had been receiving it the entire time.

[Lay the Path] opened.

She recognized it instantly -- the same internal prompt she had felt at the Warden's Shelf, that quiet certainty that the system was ready and the place was ready and the only thing remaining was for her to say yes. But this was different from the Shelf in one critical way. At the Shelf, she had reached. She had pressed her palms to the stone and extended herself toward it, actively, deliberately, the way you extend a hand in greeting. Here, she had not reached at all. She had simply been present, for long enough and with enough genuine attention, and the bond had come to her.

She closed her eyes. She felt the threshold stone's density beneath her -- old, dense limestone, warmer than it should have been, holding heat the way some stones held water: not on the surface but deep, in the grain, in the molecular structure of the mineral itself. The stone had been the first thing every person in Varethen touched when they entered the gathering hall. Every morning for however many years, feet had crossed this surface, and the stone had received them, and the receiving had become a quality of the stone itself. Not memory -- stone did not remember. But a kind of readiness. A permanent welcome worn into the mineral.

The bond formed.

It was not like the Shelf's cool, steady settling. Not like the Eye's handshake. It was deeper and slower and less like a connection made than a connection acknowledged -- as if the bond had existed in potential since the first Rimfolk mason had set this stone, and Wren's forty minutes of standing on it had simply been the final necessary act in a three-hundred-year process of preparation.

She felt it seat in her chest -- not beside the Shelf and the Eye but below them. Deeper. A foundation. The warmth spread from her sternum downward, grounding her, and for a moment she felt as if she had roots of her own, threading down through her boots and into the stone and through the stone into the bedrock beneath.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  SYMPATHETIC BOND FORMED
  Location: Varethen — Threshold Stone
  Bond Depth: Glimpsed
  Trait Active: [Dormant] — Elemental family
  Signature: [???]
  Bond Type: Cluster Anchor (Node 1)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  [Dormant]: This location holds deep reserves that are
  not yet accessible. The trait's benefits are dormant at
  Glimpsed depth. At Known depth, the sleeper wakes.

  Note: As Cluster Anchor, this bond serves as the
  foundation node for all future bonds within this
  location cluster. The anchor occupies an Imprint Slot.
  Subsequent cluster nodes do not.

  ---- SLOT 2 UNLOCKED ----
  Achievement: Form bonds with 3 distinct locations.
  Slot 2: FILLED (Varethen — Threshold Stone)

  Discoveries at bond: 4
  Active Bonds: 3/? [Warden's Shelf, Warden's Eye,
                      Varethen — Threshold Stone]

  Network connections: 3 (geometric, 3 nodes)

