An ore not of this world has been forged into a digging tool that can cut through the earth like a hot knife through butter. A highly durable cloth has been wrapped around the handle to provide a suitable grip.

Innate Ability: Mana Absorption - will automatically absorb mana from any source to repair itself.

Strong Grip: 50% Bonus to hold on if handle starts to slip.

Durability: N/A

Ren smiled and put the pickaxe away. Ren took out his hammerpick and did the same process again. Ren didn't get another popup, though. I guess doing it twice doesn't deserve another Intelligence point. Ren put away the hammerpick, the tailor's kit, and the strips of cloth that were left. Ren sat there for a moment and looked through his inventory.

INVENTORY

Money

Superb Spider Silk Coin Vault

Copper: 25Silver: 20Gold: 40Platinum: 12

Items

Water SkinCrude Iron DaggerTravelling Clothes (HQ)High Elven Uniform (E)

Tailor KitAlchemy KitDye StationCraft Station

Blacksmith BeltLibrary CardBedrollLantern

Rations: 5 DaysLongsword (2)Short Sword (2)Medium Shields (2)

Battle Axe (2)Gauntlets (4)Rings (9)Rings-Modified (3)

Book of RunesSunflowers (20)PickaxeShield (M-Gold)

Spider Fang: 78Spider Silk: 22Poison Gland: 48Rat Claws: 95

Rat Teeth: 120Rat Tails: 150Wooden Shields: 19Iron Daggers: 28

Pet RockBat Wing (I): 100Bat Leather: 70

Supurb Spider Silk Cloth (1 Bolt)Spider Silk Thread: 1/3 Spool

Spider Silk String: 1 SpoolSpider Silk Cloth (sewn strips):3

Spider Silk Cloth (scraps)Cloth (scraps)

Specialty Items

Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak (equipped)Crown of the Beetle King (equipped)

Legendary Pickaxe of UnearthingGreat Earthshaking Hammerpick of Reaping

Leather Armor (equipped)

Potions:

Health: 10Mana: 3Poison (weak): 1Paralysis: 2

Health (weak): 0Mana (weak): 0Fake Poison: 1Antidote (weak): 0

Health Herbs: 120Mana Herbs: 150Poison Herbs: 50Antidote Herbs: 50

Potency Berry: 300

Vials

Poison: 1EX Pain: 1Antidote: 2Moth Dust: 3

Ren chuckled at everything that he had. And this is after giving back all those tools I was holding for Aimus. Ren saw the gold rings and took one out, along with the Book of Runes. Ren flipped through the pages to the Dark rune. After everything Ren had done in the last few game months, he hadn't gotten one bit stronger. It was time to change that. Ren enchanted the 4 rune glyph on the ring and saw it etch itself into the surface of the ring. It immediately felt heavy in Ren's hand and Ren smiled when he examined it.

Golden Ring of Encumberance (Uncommon)

This ring will increase the pull of gravity on you by 16%

Ren put it on and took out 5 more rings. Ren enchanted each with the same glyph and put them on after using Identify on them. They were all 'uncommon' and had similar names; Difficulty, Weight, Unmoving, Resistance, and Hinderance... and gave the same 'bonus'. In total, 'Gravity' now pulled Ren down at 96%... making him almost twice his normal weight. Ren tried to stand and fell back against the wall. A loud crack came from the wall, but Ren regained his balance before anything else happened. Ren closed his fists and stood up straight. Ren didn't dare try to take a step. It was taking all he had trying not to collapse to the ground.

A little too much to start, I think. Ren thought and absorbed two of the enchantments. Ren felt the pull lessen enough and took a deep breath. That's better. 4 rings at 16% is... 64%. Ren took a step and his body remembered it clearly. No way! Ren thought. It feels like my real body!

Ren took another step, and then another. Ren eventually walked all the way down the street to the closest east gate and came back to the spot beside Lucy. Ren was tired just from that small amount, but he wasn't giving up.

Notice!

Your hard work has allowed you to overcome a small amount of your burden.

Strength +1

Ren grinned. It's working! For the next hour, Ren walked up and down the street. Once the hour had passed, Ren could walk the whole way to the gate and back at an almost normal pace. Ren also added a point to Endurance and another to Strength. This... is going to take a while. Ren thought. Ren walked past Donan's door again and Donan hollered.

“Ren! Get in here!”

Ren went inside and Donan stared at him. “Is everything alright? You look like you're having trouble standing up.”

Ren smiled. “Everything's fine. I just enchanted a couple of rings and was testing them out.” Ren said and held up his hands to show off the rings.

Donan shook his head. “You can play on your own time. I just got another big order.”

Ren's eyes widened. “What is it? Longswords? Pikes?” Ren said, excited.

“Shields.” Donan said. “500 by the end of the week.”

“Are we casting or forging?” Ren asked.

“They want forged.” Donan said and sighed. “They said the casts were too brittle and didn't last long, even with repairing.”

“Is it your brother's order?”

“No... so I can at least charge full price.” Donan said.

Ren thought it out. “If you charge the full 10 gold per shield, half of the cost is for materials and delivery, with 1% for your mentor leaves 1,500. 25% for me... you're only getting 1,125 gold to keep.” Ren said. “If we're forging, that's going to be at least triple the time for folding and hammering.” Ren sighed. “Donan, you're almost losing money that way.”

Donan nodded.

“Well, the job's not going to do itself while we just stand here.” Ren said and smiled.

Donan slapped Ren on the shoulder and Ren went down onto one knee. “Ren!”

“It's okay, Donan.” Ren said and stood up. “I just wasn't ready for that.”

Donan squinted his eyes at Ren and Ren nodded.

“I've already sent an order to the mine. They said that it'll take 2 days to get the ore here.”

“2 days?” Ren stared at Donan. “That's no good. We won't have enough time left to smelt the ore and forge the shields... not even if we just cast them!”

Donan nodded. Ren stared at his hands and saw the 6 rings he still wore, 4 of which still had Dark enchantments... and a wickedly neat idea formed in his head.

“Donan I need a piece of parchment, preferably a thin one.” Ren said.

Donan went and got a small piece and handed it to Ren. Ren took it to the bench by the wall and brought out his Book of Runes. Ren flipped to the Dark rune and very carefully drew it on the paper. After several comparisons and slight corrections, Ren had accurately drawn it. Ren put the book away and flipped the parchment over. Unfortunately, the rune couldn't be seen.

“Damn... the paper is too thick.” Ren held it up and could slightly see through it but that wasn't good enough. Ren looked around the shop and thought. A grin spread across Ren's face as his gaze found the oil quenching barrels. Ren went to the barrel and dipped the tips of his fingers in it. Ren went back to the bench and put the parchment face down and starting from the center, gently rubbed a small amount of oil on the paper with his index finger. The oil soaked in and a few seconds later, Ren could see the middle of the rune. Ren kept gently rubbing outwards from the spot, careful not to tear the paper. Ren had to go back and get a little more oil, but eventually the rune could clearly be seen.

Notice!

You have found an ingenious way of seeing through thick parchment.

Intelligence +1

Wisdom +1

Ren dried his hands on a cloth and then imprinted the rune into his mind. Ren took out his Book of Runes and flipped to the page for the Dark rune. Ren took a breath, flipped the next page... and there it was.

Notice!

You have discovered a new rune!

Ren read what it was.

Rune of Antidark

This rune will help lift things out of the Dark.

Gravity: -4%

Ren concentrated on the page and made a double, triple, and quadruple glyph appear. Ren turned to Donan and grinned.

“I'll have that ore here as fast as I can.” Ren said and put the Book of Runes away.

Donan shook his head. “I don't know what you did there... but you can't possibly get to the mines and back here with enough ore to make any difference.”

Ren crumpled the parchment up and tossed it into the trash. “Donan, if I can't deliver all the ore by tomorrow, it won't matter if I make it back in time or not.”

Donan sighed. “Ren, it's a 2 hour cart ride... and that's if it's empty.”

Ren reached up and put a hand on Donan's shoulder. “I won't let you down.”

“Alright, then. Go.” Donan said. “I'll start working with the blanks I have left.”

Ren turned to leave and looked back at Donan. “About that. I had an idea.”

“Another one?” Donan chuckled. “Let's hear it.”

“Use the big forge and smelt as many blanks as you can fit in the thing. Let it simmer for a while... maybe 4 hours or so... but only skim off some of the impurities, not all of them. Stir it up a lot, too. Once that's done, pour some into the shield mold.” Ren said quickly.

“But Ren-” Donan's eyes widened as Ren cut him off.

“Let it sit for 10 to 15 seconds to only get hard enough to pick up, grab it with tongs and fold it in half, then half again. You'll have a wedge shape that will be easy to stick into the forge to heat up and then you can hammer it into a shield shape. If you heat that shield up and fold it again, it should be really strong and durable.” Ren said.

“What made you...” Donan tried to say.

“It doesn't matter how I came up with it. It should cut the forging time in half if we cheat and partially cast them first. Just try it once and see how it comes out. If it doesn't work, you can always do it the old way.” Ren said. “I gotta go. See you tomorrow.” Ren walked over to the door. “Oh, just in case Lucy comes in, tell her I'll be right back.”

“Lucy?” Donan said. “You mean that girl you had in here before.”

Ren nodded.

Donan waved and Ren left the shop. Ren equipped his leather armor and Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak. Ren walked faster and pushed himself harder to get to the North Gate. Once Ren reached the gate, he was exhausted. Ren stopped to rest and then remembered something.

Teepo... I'm heading out of the city and to the mines to get some ore. Want to come along?

“Of course I do!” Teepo said excitedly.

“Summon Teepo!” Ren said and tapped the ring. Teepo appeared at Ren's feet and Ren picked him up. Teepo hopped out of Ren's hand and into the hood of his cloak. Ren felt a little better, but figured that the extra weight from the ring enchantments would slow him down too much. Ren sighed and enchanted the 2 blank rings still on his fingers with the new quadruple antidark glyphs.

Golden Ring of Assistance (Uncommon)

This ring will assist you in your travels and reduce the pull of gravity by 16%

Golden Ring of Unburden (Uncommon)

This ring will assist you in your travels and reduce the pull of gravity by 16%

Ren's encumberance dropped down to only 32% and Ren started to run. The heavy training would have to wait. Teepo chittered in delight because it was always fun when Ren ran.
