Kaelor let his dagger sink into the flesh of all the animated bodies who came his way. It would’ve normally been easy to trip and fall since the entire ground was made of bodies, but Kaelor used wind magic to hover slightly in the air, eliminating that possibility.

Meriel and I stuck together, casting our spells before they could get too close. She was able to cast her spells with twice the speed and power that I could because of her awakening. It was impressive, to say the least, but there were so many living bodies sprinting in our direction that it was inevitable for a few to slip by.

I handled them with Dawn Sunderer and Starcaller at the same time. I jabbed at their bodies, decapitated them, and blasted away the ones jumping at me with fire. Killing a dozen or so was simple enough, but ensuring we didn’t get overwhelmed by their sheer number was an entirely different story. At least my [MONSTER SLAYER] ability made it much easier to handle them.

[SKILL: MONSTER SLAYER]

Type: Passive

Effect:

- Previously defeated enemies take increased damage

Honestly speaking, it felt a bit strange to wield both a sword and a staff at the same time, but I was starting to see how useful it was. Starcaller took care of dozens of enemies at once. But if I didn’t have Dawn Sunderer with me, I would’ve had much more trouble handling the living bodies who managed to quickly close the gap. Of course, swinging Dawn Sunderer would’ve been a lot easier if I wasn’t also holding a staff in my other hand, but it was a good compromise.

Soon, Kaelor came back to our side, helping us hold off the animated bodies.

“Nothing will happen at this rate,” he said. “We’re just exhausting ourselves. Each time we kill someone, the soul inhabiting that body simply leaves and enters another body. And with the seemingly endless number of bodies in this realm, it doesn’t look like this cycle will stop anytime soon.”

“Then what do you suggest?” Meriel asked, casting a huge fireball that killed a dozen of them at once with its explosion. Now that I was paying attention to it, I realized that our spells never damaged the bodies below our feet. The bodies would only be affected by our spells once they became inhabited and rose from the ground.

I pointed far ahead, where Gal’Meth stood.

“We’ll need to confront him directly,” I said.

He hadn’t moved or spoken a single word since the bodies started attacking us. He simply observed our fight, stalking us to get a better feel for our abilities.

“I can quickly close the gap and reach him,” Kaelor said. “What about the two of you?”

“Allene and I will fly into the air,” Meriel said. “We’ll attack Gal’Meth from above, which should be easier since the living bodies wouldn’t be able to reach us up there.”

“Unless they randomly grow wings,” I warned.

She glared at me. “That’s not going to happen.”

“Then let’s do it,” Kaelor said.

The three of us moved at the same time. I flew into the air with my wings, while Meriel trailed behind me with wind magic. Kaelor shot through the realm below us, heading straight toward Gal’Meth and avoiding the living bodies lunging at him.

Kaelor was just inches away from Gal’Meth. His dagger was a split second away from reaching the demon.

But Gal’Meth dodged the attack.

Not just once. Not twice. Dozens of times.

Each time Kaelor jabbed, the demon dodged it without a lick of effort. Kaelor tried mixing up his attacks and threw several blasts of wind to throw the demon off, but those attacks were avoided just as easily.

Realizing he couldn’t land a hit, Kaelor retreated.

“Meriel! Allene!” he yelled, looking up at us.

Meriel cast her spells right away, sending dozens of them hurtling toward Gal’Meth. Smoke covered the area. I attacked him with Dawn Sunderer from afar, sending arcs of light toward him. Just as the divine weapon was effective against Aurelius, it should’ve been just as effective against Gal’Meth—an actual demon.

It took a while for the smoke to settle, but when it did…

“He’s… gone?” I muttered.

“No,” Meriel said. “He’s right in front of Kaelor.”

Down below, Gal’Meth suddenly reappeared with a finger pointed at Kaelor. He traced the air, making the shape of a slash.

“An attack,” Meriel muttered. She thrust her hand in Kaelor’s direction, casting a barrier around him.

But it didn’t work. Gal’Meth’s attack completely ignored it.

Kaelor fell to his knees, holding a hand over his left leg.

“AGH!” he cried.

I dove toward him from above. Gal’Meth looked up, making another gesture with his hands.

Another attack.

It wasn’t anything physical. Nothing shot out from him. Nothing I could see and dodge.

I felt a barrier forming around me. Meriel’s barrier. But just as it had with Kaelor, it did nothing.

I felt my entire body become heavy. Before I knew it, I was no longer diving but plunging to the ground below. Just before I crashed into the ground of bodies, Meriel cast a wind spell on me, softening my landing. She descended and landed beside Kaelor and me.

Now, we were surrounded by the animated bodies that had been attacking us before. But now, they weren’t sprinting or lunging at us. They simply formed a circle around us, closing us in with Gal’Meth.

“What did you do to me?!” Kaelor yelled. “And even Allene… how did you?”

“The soul is a vulnerable thing,” the demon said, staring at each of us. “One slash, and a limb goes numb. One squeeze, and the heart stops. Apply weight, and it becomes impossible to stay in the air. Everything the body does begins with the soul.”

He pointed a finger at us again. We braced for another attack, but it never came.

“Do you now see the difference in strength between us?” Gal’Meth continued. “I brought the three of you here because you’re the strongest ones in your party. And yet…”

He smiled. “It appears the outcome is obvious. A part of me feels awful. Yet, this was a deal that we made. Nothing could be fairer than a deal you proposed yourself, isn’t that right, Kaelor?”

Before any of us could say a word, Gal’Meth made another slash with his fingers. Another attack.

How could we dodge it if we couldn’t even see it or block it with barrier magic? How…?

But I couldn’t just let him attack us without doing anything. I had to try something. Anything.

And so I stepped in front of Kaelor and Meriel, standing in front of the attack we couldn’t even see. I gripped Dawn Sunderer tightly, using it as a shield.

CLANG!

The sword briefly glowed brightly with divinity before returning to its normal colors. Gal’Meth looked at me, his eyes widening.

“You… deflected the attack?” Meriel said from behind.

I smiled. “Hah… I had a feeling something like this would work. Dawn Sunderer sure works well against demons.”

Visibly upset, Gal’Meth slashed the air several times with his fingers, aiming each attack at me. I defended against each one with Dawn Sunderer.

He stopped, chuckling to himself. “Impressive.”

He snapped his fingers. The living bodies that were surrounding us began lunging toward us. Kaelor got to his feet to defend against them with Meriel.

Seeing that I was the only one able to deal with Gal’Meth’s attacks, I rushed toward him with Dawn Sunderer. When I got close enough, I took my first swing.

He dodged it just as easily as he dodged Kaelor’s earlier attacks. I kept swinging. He kept dodging.

Something wasn’t right. It shouldn’t be possible for someone to dodge every attack so perfectly. Was he somehow reading me? Was I making my attacks too obvious? Was I swinging too wide?

In the middle of one of his dodges, Gal’Meth gently tapped my forehead. I jumped back, unsure whether that was one of his attacks or just some accident.

But it wasn’t.

Because something was left behind after he touched my forehead.

A light…?

No… it was a soul. I was able to instinctively recognize my own soul, but I could tell something was off with it. It hovered just in front of Gal’Meth.

How was that even possible?

“This,” he began with a smile, “is a clone of your soul. An echo.”

He gently tapped it, and my heart dropped as I realized what was happening.

Even if it was a clone of my soul, it was still connected to me. I felt his touch. I felt everything.

He made a slash with his fingers, but it wasn’t toward me since he knew I could just block it with Dawn Sunderer. It was aimed at the clone of my soul.

The slash connected. My cloned soul briefly flashed with light.

I let out a scream, feeling pain not in my body, but in my soul itself.

“Allene!” Meriel shouted from behind.

She ran up to me. I was still standing, but I was hurt. Kaelor moved next to us, defending us from the living bodies trying to attack us.

“My soul,” I said, gritting my teeth as I pushed through the pain. “That’s my soul… a copy of it…!”

Gal’Meth made another gesture with his hand, aiming it at the clone once more. He was squeezing his fist.

“So you’re the first to fall in this battle,” he said.