She kept only her bugout bag, which was her preferred way to fly. In her old life, Emily would have arranged for… everything else. In this life, she had Maddy, her own salaried fairy godmother, and she intended to be a far nicer boss.

She looked at her apartment a final time, this small, modest apartment with a room that had no window, which may have skirted local codes about fire hazards, and gave it a wave goodbye.

Josefina would be heartbroken when she returned.As would Halle, but Eppie preferred leaving unannounced to hugs, tears, and the sound of Josefina’s Spanish at telenovela volumes.

Eric was waiting for her below, in the same truck she had arrived in nine months ago.

She watched the dorms fade in the sideview mirror and asked herself what she should be feeling. LAPA looked smaller now that she was done with the place.

Eric pulled out past the gates and onto Fairfax, then cut west, the Hollywood Hills sliding by gold-brown in the morning haze, and neither of them said anything for a while.

Casually, her Newfoundland mentioned that he might be moving to New York.

“You don’t have to…” Eppie regarded her lawyer, her very first Newfoundland upon transmigrating into this world. “Don’t you have a life here?”

“You think I am moving because of you?” Eric scoffed, reached out, and ruffled her fringe. “You’re dreaming, kiddo.”

“Why are you moving then?”

“Oh, you know,” Eric looked smug, “A new title, Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs, Sony BMG…”That’s… that’s just middle management…

“... Base salary of about 200k…”

That’s just… after federal income, social security, state tax, NYC resident tax… about 125k? Minus 40k for a two-bedroom rental.

“I got target bonuses, 25%... 401k, 6% match…”

That’s pending performance…

“And I got PPO with family coverage, dental, vision, life at twice the salary…”

This one… okay, this one’s legit.

“And then, I guess I’ll be stuck with you…”

“You got a mortgage?”

“Yeah, just the two-bedder in LA. I’ll rent it out.”

Eppie winced. It was now almost June. Come September…But then again, between herself and Curon, there was no way Eric would lose his job. Emily, who was in sales, enjoyed no such protection.

Eric burst out laughing. “What are you, my financial advisor?”

The fact that you’re still using a BlackBerry… Eppie had no hope that Eric could help himself.

“Pull your VGT ETFs in September,” she said matter-of-factly. “Buy again later. You’ll know when.”

“Eh?” Eric looked at her strangely. “You’re serious?”

“If you don’t want to lose your LA apartment and still have a roof in NYC, then yes,” she said without mirth. How many people would lose their jobs? How many artists? The GFC was a bloodbath. Relief for the arts? That’s assuming there’s even an Obama Presidency. If Gore bailed out the banks, which he probably would… Eppie winced. Probably, the relief isn't coming.

It was time, she felt, to inadvertently nudge Juliana Vaughan. The [System] wouldn’t allow personal profits, but the purpose of making a fund to support artists via a proxy for the aftermath of the GFC… should be fine. Right?

“Wow. You are serious…” Eric kept his hands on the wheel. “I’ll talk to Emily about it.”

“Does Emily want to move?”

“Neutral, but if you’re on board…” Eric smiled. They merged onto La Cienega, unhurried, so they could keep talking for longer.

“It’s not a surprise. After the Grammys, Director Fielding's been emailing me for months, asking if I want to move to New York and work the corporate side of things up there instead of babysitting one very famous teenager full-time while doing legal legwork.”

“That’s a rare favour,” Eppie said.

"Don't sound so surprised. I work hard.”

She reached out and patted his knee like she was stroking the neck of a dog. It was kind of insane how far they’d both come since leaving the hospital.

And as for the hospital…

“You got the gifts?”

“In the boot. Signed albums and all.”

“Good job.”

“Thank Maddy when you see her at headquarters.”

The 105 opened up, and Eppie watched the Los Angeles highway slide into the urban landscape.

“Next stop, St Marten’s,” Eric said. “Then after that… New York.”
