“Why is the sun warm and ice cold? What makes wind blow or water flow downhill? I can’t explain those either, but that won’t stop me from using sails to drive a ship or a waterwheel to power a sawmill. Chi and Heavenly Energy are the same. I don’t know how they work, I just know it works.” Granted, the not knowing bothers me more than anything, but I’m sure there’s a plausible, scientific reason behind Honing, Healing, and whatnot. It’s not like Martial Warriors can break the laws of physics or anything, they just sorta... bend them a bit using forces I don’t wholly understand. “Who knows what the future has in store? Maybe someday, humanity will harness the power of sunlight to do things we can’t even imagine are possible.”

In fact, I know they will, though I kinda wish I also knew how.

Still refusing to let the matter drop, Gerel presses on with his futile attempts to make me a believer. “The Mother has given you so much, yet still you spurn Her.” Switching to Sending, he asks, “Is it because you blame Her for your suffering? Your trials and tribulations have been harsh, but She never gives us more than we can handle. Did She not guide you out of those mines and to safety in the arms of the People? Did She not Bless you with the Awakening of Water and gift you a Heavenly Tear to cleanse away your grudges? Let go of your anger lest it consume you again, for it is the anger of a petulant child throwing a tantrum because his medicine was too bitter.”

...It annoys me that Gerel of all people understands me so well.

Choking back my angry retort, I allow myself a heated stare instead, my eyes narrowed and voice cold. “I have sweat and bled to get where I am today, endured and suffered more than I care to remember. Perhaps the Mother has guided me here, but if so, then that is by Her choice, not mine. In Her power and wisdom, I am sure She is willing to overlook my lack of piety, but if not, that is a matter to be dealt with in the afterlife. As I said before, from start to finish, faith has never been a part of my Martial Path, so this avenue of discussion is meaningless.” And annoying. And aggravating.

Long seconds pass in awkward silence before it’s broken by Du Min Gyu, his eyes all but disappearing into his wrinkles as he cackles in laughter. Pointing at Dad, the old man grins and says, “You were worried our careless remarks might lead him astray and affect his Path, but I fear his words are more likely to influence ours. A stubborn and wilful child, but perhaps that is what he needs to walk his unique Path.” As his laughter dies down, he strokes his beard and gives me a knowing look before continuing. “You’ve overlooked a minor detail though, boy. It is wrong to say faith has no part in your Martial Path, because in your own words, you don’t know how Chi works, only that it does. Is this not a sort of faith?”

“...No, it isn’t. Faith is accepting something at face value. Chi working is a fact. I can’t explain why things fall, but I know that if I jump off a cliff, I’ll plummet to my death.”

“Is that so?” Smiling at having caught me in his trap, Du Min Gyu steeples his fingers and says, “Then please, demonstrate the facts for us. Use Chi, here and now. Take someone’s hand and Send them a message, or slice your palm open and Heal the injury. You’ve done these things before, and you are capable of much more as evidenced by your recent performance in Sinuji, so what is keeping you from doing it again?”

“You’re twisting the facts to suit your narrative. I did those things before my Core shattered, and afterwards I only ever used Chi while in an unconscious state of Balance.”

“Or perhaps the facts are not what you presume they are.” Gesturing towards Ghurda and Nian Zu, Du Min Gyu explains, “We spoke with young Dastan yesterday, and he mentioned the discussion you all had on the outer wall, before the incident with your supposed ‘unconscious state of Balance’ which I notice you so conveniently ignored.” Because I can’t explain it. “What were the boy’s words again?”

“Chi is bound through emotion,” Ghurda supplies, “And utilized through intent.”

“Yes, thank you.” Opening his mouth to continue, he pauses and fixes me with a patient look. “First, I should ask if you have any issues with young Dastan’s statement.” I shake my head. “Good. Then, I must point out that it is a gross oversimplification of a complex matter, but accurate enough for our current purposes. Now, I ask you: what is Intent?”

Though Common lacks capital letters, the emphasis is clear. More word games, but this time, there lacks a clear distinction between Common and English, with no weird translation issues I can spot. “Intent is just that, intent. Resolve or determination to do something, I guess.”

“Good. Now I will offer yet another overly simplistic statement, but again good enough for our current purposes.” Making a chopping motion with his hand, Du Min Gyu says, “I intend to cut, I visualize my Intent, and then my weapon is Honed. Would you say this is an accurate portrayal of the Honing process?”

“...I suppose.”

“You hesitate to agree.” A statement more than a question, and one made as if he expected it all along. “Why?”

“...Because there’s more to it than just visualization and intent.”

“Indeed there is,” he says, nodding sagely. “So explain. What more is there?”

Except I can’t explain, because I lack the words. First off, Using Chi is more of a feeling, an experience, a perception that touches upon senses I can’t really quantify. I might as well try to explain music to the deaf or colours to the blind. I mean, it might be possible to do those things, but not without extensive knowledge on the subject which goes beyond ‘it sounds nice’ or ‘ROYGBIV’. Even then, the end result won’t measure up to hearing a song or seeing a rainbow. Some things need to be experienced firsthand, and using Chi is one of them.

Only... Du Min Gyu already knows all this, so I doubt he actually expects an explanation, which means he’s just bringing it to my attention. “I could talk about how you feel the flow of Chi,” I begin, mostly thinking out loud, “Or I could make mention of the different ways one can go about Honing, but neither of those things comes close to a proper explanation. It just... happens, like picking up a cup of tea and bringing it to my lips, all done without planning or thought. Chi flows out into my weapon and the edge is Honed, but there’s more to it that I cannot explain.”

“And in that ineffable experience,” Du Min Gyu says, his voice quiet and reverent, “I see the Divine hand of the Mother at work, shaping my Intent into reality.” Seeing my frown, he smiles and continues, “The future might prove me wrong, but who can say for certain? Until such a time, however, I must agree with young Gerel here, and ask that you at least take his assessment into account.”

It takes a long time to parse through his needlessly enigmatic conclusion, but even though I get there eventually, I’m still not entirely certain I have it right. “You really think I can’t use Chi... because I lack faith?”

“What is Intent without conviction?” Du Min Gyu counters. “And what is conviction if not faith? You say you’ve never had faith in the Mother above, but you must have had faith in something, even if it was merely faith in your sword or yourself.”

Now that I think about it, like really think about it, there might be something to all this. I mean, every living person in the Azure Empire can regrow their adult teeth because they don’t know any better, but somehow, I feel like comparing devout faith to widespread ignorance will put everyone’s loincloth in a twist.

“Yes, of course! This explains everything with Brother –” Almost forgetting himself in his excitement, Monk Happy just barely stops himself from revealing my shameful history of mental illness to everyone in the room before switching to Sending. “With Brother and Baledagh,” he Sends, his eyes lighting up in excitement even as I breathe a sigh of relief. “You said Baledagh was the one who believed, and he had no issue accepting Insights and such, whereas Brother, the skeptic, relied solely on mundane practice to progress along the Martial Path. Perhaps this itself was an Insight from the Heavens, a way to circumvent your distrust and disbelief and bestow Heavenly guidance upon you.”

Why does everything sound so fucking crazy, but also doesn’t? I mean, it makes a twisted sort of sense, but I can’t tell if I’ve got a screw loose or it’s the rest of the world that’s insane. No, it doesn’t make sense. “If faith is the issue,” I ask, directing the question at Dad and Akanai, “Then how come you guys can’t Hone your Auras?” Ignoring the hubbub from those who didn’t know about it, I speak over them and continue, “I’ve shown you it’s possible, so shouldn’t you guys be able to replicate it? It wasn’t an Awakening or Insight, it was just...” Just Blobby showing me it could be done. Sorta. Unless Blobby was another manifestation of my twisted psyche. No we’ve been over this, GangShu was chasing Blobby, which means that stupid droplet totally exists. Then again, I might’ve anthropomorphized the droplet and given it a personality when it in fact never had one, because that totally sounds like something I’d do. Fuck, this is complicated.

“Knowing something is possible does not mean it can be done,” Dad says, patting my head to console me. “In Sinuji, you watched Nian Zu unleash the Shooting Star, but can you replicate it? Many have tried, including myself, but until now, none have succeeded.”

“...That makes sense.” Wish it didn’t. I need to poke holes in this faith theory, because... well because if the Mother exists, I should totally bitch slap Her right across the Divine face for what She put me through. The Father too, He deserves a boot to the ass and many stomps to the back of His neck just for being a real bastard.

No, hang on. It doesn’t have to be faith in the Mother and Father, Du Min Gyu even said as much. Confidence, that’s the problem. I just need to believe. I think, therefore I am awesome. Maybe. Or not. I don’t fucking know. Gah.

Stop. Go over what you know. “Let’s take a step back for a second. I use emotion to bind Heavenly Energy, which turns it into Chi. Having been changed by my emotions, Chi is now able to understand my intent, which I convey through visualization. Then, all I need to do is have faith that it will work, and it will. Does that sound right to anyone?”

“It does not matter if it sounds right to us,” Dad replies, squeezing my shoulder for support. “Only if it sounds right to you.”

“You know,” I say, rubbing my temples to take the edge off my newfangled headache. “I’m starting to understand why we don’t talk about the Martial Path. None of this shit makes any sense.”

“Or it makes perfect sense,” Akanai retorts, “And we merely lack the capacity to truly understand.”

Right. Like the blind man and colours. “So where am I supposed to go from here?”

“Wherever your Path leads you,” Monk Happy replies, pressing his palms together and following it up with, “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

How utterly unhelpful, but then again, that seems to be the theme for today’s meeting.

“Right now, I think my Path wants me to find the closest toilet,” I quip, smiling at the room of stony faces. No one appreciates my jokes. “Afterwards, I suppose it’d be a good time for lunch, so... would anyone care to join us? My treat.”

All in all, I think I’ve had enough discussion regarding the Martial Path to last me an entire lifetime. Is it weird that I find reading a psychopathic torturer’s research notes more palatable than talking to some of the greatest Martial minds in the Azure Empire? Definitely weird. I should probably stop, but know thyself and know thy enemy and what not, and since my Martial Path is just a giant mess, I might as well focus on something I can sort of understand.

...Then again, I could just say fuck it and drink the Brotherhood’s kool aid. I mean, finding religion worked for BoShui and it kinda worked for Jorani too, so where’s the harm in trying? Worst comes to worst, I could always ask Taduk to grow my dick back. That’ll be a fun conversation. ‘Hello, future father-in-law? Could you regenerate my penis, which I will later use to violate your sweet daughter and my three other wives?’

Just another day in the totally normal life of Falling Rain. Fun, fun, fun, fun, funnn...

Chapter Meme
