It’s been almost eight years since I came to this world, and I like to think I’ve accomplished quite a bit in my time here.

Those who know my history would probably agree. I mean, I started off as a frail, helpless slave, and in less than a decade, rose up to become the publicly acknowledged Number One Talent in the Empire. That’s not half bad, even if I never really deserved the title, and it’s not like my exploits are limited solely to the Martial Path. Putting aside my ability to identify plants and concoct various herbal remedies for a wide variety of ailments, I can also cook delicious meals, ride a quin, tan a hide, gut a fish, and dozens, if not hundreds, of other miscellaneous, everyday tasks which need doing in a pre-industrial society like this one. I can patch a roof, milk a goat, mend a fence, and still have a piping hot breakfast for five ready before eight in the morning, which I think is pretty awesome.

Hooray for basic life skills. Whooooo.

Don’t get me wrong, nothing in my aforementioned list of skills is particularly difficult to learn, not even combat or health care. I’m no battle genius or medical saint; most of my achievements in the former are due to dumb luck while my skills in the latter make me little more than a qualified battle-field medic rather than actual physician. I won’t be dazzling people with my consummate sword skills or diagnosing and curing peculiar and inexplicable ailments, but I can hold my own in a fight and whip up something to soothe a rash or settle a cough. I’m no authority figure, but I’d say I qualify as ‘competent’ in both fields, without ever having struggled too too much with learning either skill.

Granted, I put a lot of hours and effort into learning over the last eight years and probably stunted my growth with the lack of sleep, but in my defence, my insomnia wouldn't have let me sleep anyways so at least I put the time to good use. I’m not saying all this to toot my own horn. I learn things quickly, or at least quicker than most, it’s just how I am. Does this make me intelligent? Hell no. I know a lot of things because of hard work and my past life’s memories, but for all my talk of science and reasoning, I can sometimes be dumber than a bag of bricks. All I really have going for me is a good memory, a sturdy foundation of higher knowledge, and a keen mind that’s quick to pick things up.

Why is this relevant? Because even after all these years, Common Script, the written language I see and use every single day, still sometimes seems like a bunch of indecipherable moon runes to me.

There’s a good reason for this, and it’s not just because I’m stupid. It’s because the written Common is stupid, and I hate it. Unlike English, where each individual letter represents a sound or an array of sounds, each Common character represents a word, phrase, or concept, which means there are as many characters as there are words. Forget twenty-six letters, I wouldn’t be surprised if someone told me there are twenty-six thousand unique characters used in Common Script, which is a pain in the ass to memorize even with the perfect recall granted by a Natal Palace.

Not that mine works anymore. Stupid broken Core.

Now, this isn’t to say I can’t read Common, because I totally can, even without perfect recall since I learned long before I even heard of a Natal Palace. Only two or three thousand characters are used on a regular basis, while unfamiliar characters can usually be identified using contextual clues, and sometimes can even be guessed at because they’re made up of more common characters. For example, wood is written (木), so when you see three ‘wood’ characters stacked in a pyramid like (森), it’s safe to say this particular character has something to do with a lot of wood. It’s still not all that cut and dry, since (森) means ‘forest’ and not ‘wood-pile’ like I first guessed. To make matters more confusing, the written character has no bearing on pronunciation; wood (木) is pronounced ‘Mu’, while forest (森) is pronounced ‘Sen’, so I feel I am right to say Common is stupid and everyone should learn English instead.

“So...” I drawl, inwardly floundering in ignorance, “Cultivation is written Xiu Zhen (修真), which means ‘nurture truth’.” Nodding mindlessly just to burn off a little nervous energy, I follow up my inner rant and outward concise summary of Akanai’s explanation with, “...I still don’t get it.”

I’m not stupid. Fucking moon runes are stupid.

Judging by the chorus of sighs induced by my admission of ignorance, I’m probably the only person in the room who thinks so. Considering they’re all older and therefore wiser than I am, it probably means they’re right and I’m wrong, but what sort of person would I be if I let facts and information sway my opinions?

Wishing I’d lied to Song and kept Blackjack hidden in my pouch, I suffer in the absence of a comforting floof and squirm beneath the collective gazes of every person in the room. Peak Experts one and all, these gathered individuals stand at the pinnacle of the human race, whether it be Hero of the North Nian Zu and his right-hand man Han BoHai, or Great Teacher Du Min Gyu and thirty-seven year old Eastern genius Kuang Biao. As for Monk Happy, he isn’t exactly a world renowned warrior, but he is an educated and scholarly ascetic whose in-depth explanations and general philosophies have been widely accepted by the others. Sadly, even his cheery smile has melted away in the presence of my overwhelming ignorance, seated off to one side and mopping his shiny bald head with a handkerchief while he struggles to come up with an explanation I might actually understand. Mom, Ghurda, and Yaruq are also here, and for some strange reason Gerel too, but there are a few people who are conspicuously absent, like Taduk who ran off to tend to his garden or Dastan, BoShui, and Jorani whose respective Paths share many similarities with my own. My Teacher has always been notoriously indifferent towards the Martial Path, but I would’ve liked to have a few friends around to bounce ideas off of and maybe take some of the pressure off me and my utter stupidity.

Then there’s my Mentor and Grand-Mentor themselves, Dad and Akanai, two people who stand shoulder to shoulder with these famous or respected names and are also jointly responsible for my meteoric rise to glory. More dour than usual, they’ve lost much face today in front of their peers, for my ignorance reflects poorly on their teachings, but I’m not exactly going to lose sleep over it. I don’t know things because they never properly explained them to me, though a small part of my mind notes that I’ve also never really asked about the nature of cultivation or any other esoteric, mystical, or even downright religious aspects of the Martial Path.

Because really, who cares? It hardly matters in the grand scheme of things if I know that cultivation means to ‘nurture truth’. Seriously, what changes? How does one even nurture truth? It doesn’t make sense. Besides, I don’t cultivate, I train to fight. A rose by any other name and whatnot. Also, does it really matter that humanity views the Martial Path as the only viable Path to Divinity because the Mother handed down the Eight Forms? It’s not like we’d stop fighting and only settle our differences through musical competition if She had passed down the Eight Symphonies instead. Hell, things would probably be easier if She had. I could be the Azure Empire’s first and only conductor, taking the world by storm with the overwhelming power of a concert orchestra, one complete with strings, brass, reeds, and percussion. Or, better yet, I could channel my past life’s memories and become a freestyle rapper, one able to convert Defiled jazz aficionados and drive back the disgusting Enemy with my sick beats and dope lyrics.

...Now that I think about it, that would be pretty fun. Get on it, Mum on High. Turn my life into a high school musical please.

Clearing my throat in a misguided need to fill the empty silence, I immediately regret my actions as I once again become the sole focus of attention, but it’s too late to turn back now. “This morning,” I begin, doing everything in my power to sound patient, respectful, and not the least bit snarky or frustrated, “When Dad told me he set up a meeting with the greatest Martial Warriors in the Citadel to help clear things up regarding my Martial Path, I figured I’d have the chance to ask a question or two, not sit through an interrogation regarding every decision I’ve ever made, followed by a lecture answering questions I would’ve never thought to ask.” Questions which have zero bearing on my current situation, I might add, but with a herculean effort of will, I don’t. “It’s not that I don’t appreciate your time and efforts, but how is etymology or philosophy supposed to help me figure out why my conscious mind can’t use Chi when my unconscious mind can?”

Despite my efforts to be as respectful and considerate as possible, the gathered geriatrics react poorly to my polite observation. Mom, Dad, and Akanai all purse their lips in disapproval while Han BoHai and Du Min Gyu erupt with similar snorts of derision. Even Monk Happy and Nian Zu frown at my words, but no one cares to explain why they’ve chosen to instruct me in such a roundabout manner. After yet another round of silent Sendings, Gerel opens his mouth for the first time this entire discussion and says, “The mere fact that you are so dismissive of the vital information presented here today is indicative how inadequate your comprehension truly is.” Continuing before I respond with a snarky rejoinder I’ll no doubt regret, Gerel asks, “What is the Martial Path to you? Come, answer without thinking, as you so often do.”

Smart-ass. “The Martial Path is the process through which I gain Martial Strength and an understanding of how to utilize Chi.”

“And this impersonal, utilitarian view towards the Divine is why we feel the need to educate you in matters of etymology and philosophy.” Without giving me time to retort, Gerel explains, “You take the words ‘Martial Path’ at face value. Written Wu Dao (武道), the Wu is self explanatory, for Martial references the combative and warlike nature of the subject, but Dao (道) is the more important of the two and not so easily explained.”

“Yea, I know.” Doing my best not to roll my eyes, I set out to prove Gerel wrong, even though I hate these stupid word lessons. “Dao (道) can literally mean a route taken or direction in which something moves, but it can also mean doctrine or principle. In general, when Martial Warriors reference the Martial Path (Wu Dao), they mean the latter and are using Dao as a catch all phrase for the underlying essence which makes up reality as we know it, the rules by which the world, both physical and metaphysical, abide by.”

“Yes, but it is more than just rules and laws to abide by, more than a track to power and strength.” Evidently having trouble expressing himself, Gerel pauses to consider his words before continuing. “The Dao is everything, and Wu Dao is merely the means through which we explore it. The Martial Path is also a calling, one bestowed upon us by the Mother Above. We are Her Chosen, Her conscripts, Her appointed defenders of humanity. With Her blessing, we wield the Energy of the Heavens, the power of Divinity itself, against the Father and His minions most foul. These are our trials and tribulations, given to us so that some day, one amongst us might rise above mortality and soar into the Heavens to join hands with the Mother Above, where together, they will topple the Father once and for all.”

It almost sounds like Gerel wants to join the Brotherhood. No wonder he’s bald. In a rare show of tact, I refrain from calling religion stupid and simply reply with, “Maybe. Maybe not. Maybe the Energy of the Heavens is simply a natural force at work, like how sunlight fuels plant growth or gravity keeps our feet on the ground. We have yet to understand it, but that doesn’t mean it’s utterly incomprehensible.”

“And therein lies the problem.” His amber eyes filled with pity and sympathy, Gerel shakes his head and sighs. “You lack faith.”

This is why I hate arguing with religion. “Would you say you find my lack of faith disturbing?” Chuckling at my joke since no one else will, I hold my hands up to forestall an argument and say, “Look, I’ve had this discussion with Grand-Mentor already, and it went nowhere. I understand faith is the linchpin upon which your Martial Path is built, and that without faith, you would lose everything, but that’s never been the case with me. Believe me, faith has never entered the equation, not since day one. That’s definitely not the issue here, so why don’t we skip over the theological debate and just agree to disagree?”

“This one is curious,” Monk Happy begins, studying me with wide-eyed fascination, “How do you rationalize what you’ve experienced without faith? When you find Balance, do you not feel Her warm embrace? While meditating, have you not heard Her gentle whispers offering you Insight? With this and more, how can you still deny the existence of the Divine?”

