Nu pondered that as he vanished.Fera was wondering when the beings that controlled her very existence had become so… emotional. It was a good look for Ma. Not so much for Nu.---The pools of honey around the Bee spire hive were… quickly becoming like a pond of a hundred flavours. With every new flower or herb that Delta grew, the bees seemed to figure out a way to convert them into sweet honey.Watching bees snoozing like giant puppies was like a balm for Delta’s soul. Watching other giant bees zoom past on energy root infusion was worrying. She looked around but didn’t find a honey pool of Delta Blooms.Her bees were quite enough without extra stingers or heads! Delta slowed and bit her lip.She was very tempted to give a bee some Fabio hair… the sight would be worth the potential World-Destroying Bee she might create.Really, one little super bee was no big deal right? If the world could have a Ruli and Quiss, surely Delta was allowed some scary things as well!She giggled at the thought and floated to the hotsprings where a happy Rale and Giant were soaking in the steamy waters.“Truly this has been a great day for frog-kind! Your strength is a pleasure to test!” Rale said cheerfully. Giant nodded slowly.“I will win next time,” was all he said.Luna moved about with her robes and delicate gestures. She offered drinks to the frogs and smiled as Giant submerged himself in shyness.They all looked up at once as Delta approached. Rale stood merrily and Delta closed her eyes. Rale was humanoid enough that there were things she didn’t want to see. There was a smacking noise and a splash.“Have some decency or be banned,” Luna chided the submerged Rale as he flailed before bowing her head to Delta.“Heyo, Mumo!” She greeted, her ‘hostess’ attitude dropped to reveal the punk underneath.“How goes it, froggos?” Delta waved back as she settled on the edge of the female side, her feet just maybe feeling some warmth.“The mighty Giant and the Lord of the River, Rale, have clashed in a most wonderful tale-” her epic monster began before Luna cut him off.“They hit each other until one of them fell down. It went on for ages,” she summed up.Delta could see that happening.“I think the roots and herbs I’ve been growing should be the things you need for your key duty,” Delta told the elegantly dressed frog. This got her a huge gasp of excitement and some hopping from the female frog.“Oh! Is it death bloom? Petal of a thousand bites? Devil’s kiss?! Oh! Is it the essence of suffocating moon?!” Luna demanded with unnaturally bright eyes.Delta’s long looked made her chuckle nervously.“Root of nice hugs?” She tried.“Nu must have had a hand in your creation,” Delta sighed good naturedly. She brought up the Hot Springs Menu to see what was available.

Delta gave the list a long stare.“Some of those are- you know what? I’m just going to roll with it,” Delta said aloud and her frogs all stared in silence.

Nu’s confused box appeared.Delta purchased all of the things.She had DP for days and Luna deserved… bubble jets and… body lotions, and just maybe some personal assassins, but Delta wasn’t quite sure on that last one. There was a slight rumble as a stand with various lotions and herbal mixes appeared and even some bath bombs.Orange Tingle, Bee’s Knees, Maestro’s Lullaby and Fran’s Courage were but a few of the named products. A little door was carved out of a nearby boulder with a sign above it that said ‘employees only.’ It was only big enough for insects and Pygmies to use.Delta was sure this had been a good idea. Most of her ideas were good.---Quee moved along the ceiling as more bundles of paper appeared. He sniffed it and it smelled… nice. Aunty Muffet told him he had a job now and she expected grandchildren within the next 100 years.He flipped his growing hair out of his eyes and grunted.Muffet gave sharp samba spins to him that translated to ‘don’t sass me, young man!’.He gave a grunge shuffle which he knew came off as rude, but he still went back to his nest and slammed the webbing shut.He put down the tickets and hoped he could sell some soon. Having a job besides guarding would be fun. He looked up at the rough sketch of a dancing skeleton with a mushroom cap. Something he had drawn himself!It was signed by his hero.Maestro. Quee was going to become a star just like him!He hugged his webbed pillow close and rolled around on his bed at the idea of them dueting for Mum Delta to see. He giggled quietly and his face lit up in joy.It would be… a dream come true!---They came with the setting of the sun.Six shapes that descended into the bowels of the Dungeon.Grim took the lead with a… grim expression.“Remember, death or glory,” he said to his group. Poppy yawned.“I gotta get back before curfew,” she disagreed. Amanstar held a bone staff and frowned behind his rimmed glasses.“I have agreed to no such silly deal. It will be ‘success or go home’,” he corrected. Kemy looked around before she glanced back up at the tunnel where her guild waved cheerfully, promising to camp outside for her.“SUCCESS AND/OR FRIENDSHIP! DEO IS HERE TO RULE WITH A GOLDEN HEART!” The air rippled and Grim’s eye twitched.He turned to the last member.“Vas, any remarks?” He asked through gritted teeth.“I do not have a soul per se, so death is mostly temporary until my Master puts me back together. So I see no issue in your words,” Vas said camly.Grim turned to the dark tunnel ahead.“Glory or… friendship,” he said with no energy.Team Holy Pot Hero, or whatever, was here.Grim supposed if nothing else… he had a ranger to settle the score with. He licked his lips and his tongue tingled.
