Slowly, everyone turned back to what they were doing, ignoring the gold on the ground. The Goblin was still there. Still watching. But so what? He’d give up and go away. In a few minutes. When he saw no one was going to pick it up. In an hour, even. They could wait hours to prove him wrong. They were people. And he was just…a talented miner. That was a useful Skill, wasn’t it? Did he have a class? Did he have more gold in that bag of his? No, no. That would be theft. From a monster?
He’d go away. When he did…‘accidents’ could happen, and no one would have to own up to it. Everyone was sure on that point. Completely sure. They’d just sit there and talk…one of the Drakes looked over at his companion, a Dullahan.
“So…how’s that pizza?”
The Dullahan quickly turned his head on his shoulders.
“Fine. It is good pizza.”
“Right, right.”
The inn murmured agreement. No one was watching the nugget. They were talking about proper people-things. And the Goblin was going to get bored. They relaxed, realizing everyone was on the same wavelength. Then everyone saw it.
A complication. She was small, furry, and white. She was also a Gnoll. Mrsha was padding along the edge of the room, having borne witness to Pyrite’s speech and his offer of free gold nuggets to anyone who picked it up. She was the one person moving in the tableau of a room. And suddenly, everyone was staring at her.
They all stared at Mrsha. The white Gnoll was innocently slinking from table to person to chair towards the lovely, shiny, and most of all, round nugget lying on the floor. She had an innocent look on her face that fooled no one, not even Pawn, Yellow Splatters, or Ksmvr. Mrsha had a target. She was a Gnoll of the Stone Spears tribe, and she knew the worth of a good mineral.
The future was open to the crowded room. They could all see it, as if they’d all become Gazers. If no one acted, Mrsha was going to grab the gold nugget and run off. It would be hers. And well…what a waste.
“That’s solid gold. Pure too, if I’m any guess. Might be worth ten gold pieces. More?”
The person to break the thoughtful silence was a Human. Earlia, captain of Gemhammer. She was a former [Miner], and she knew gold. She eyed the nugget, and everyone considered that number. It wasn’t a small amount. Okay, some in the room were rich. Others were not. Adventurers could always use more money. So could poor, hardworking [Senators]. And [Shopkeepers]. And a [Bartender] could buy a nice stool with ten gold pieces.
The gold had a luster of its own. The adventurer nodded slowly.
“It’d be a shame not to pick it up. Hey. Blaik, you go for it.”
Earlia turned to one of her team. The brawny Human adventurer hesitated.
“What, me? I’m not a pet.”
“No, you’re my subordinate. Go pick it up.”
“Why don’t you, Captain?”
“Well…”
Earlia hesitated. Some people in the inn were clearly less preoccupied with Numbtongue’s taunt than, say, the attraction of free gold. Pisces for one. He was slowly sliding towards the gold at roughly Mrsha’s pace. But now Earlia and the others saw the problem. Well, if they went for it, then the others would too. She casually took a sip from her empty mug.
“Maybe I might.”
Errif, not to be confused with Elirr, who was having a drink at the bar, gulped. The Head of Pallass’ [Merchant]’s guild spoke slowly.
“You know, I would wager that’s eight gold pieces’ worth of pure gold in that nugget…fourteen if you find a [Mage] or [Alchemist] in need of gold as a component. Just so we’re clear, yes?”
He looked around the room. Speculative eyes stared at the nugget. Mrsha, who’d been creeping up on it all this time, noticed the stares. She looked up, hesitated, and with uncanny intuition and restraint decided this was not, in fact, worth it. She slunk back to Erin. The [Innkeeper], laughing quietly, scooped her up. Erin looked around and then shouted.
“My precious!”
Fourteen Gnolls, half the Drakes in the room, Pisces, Ceria, Relc, and Lyonette all went for the nugget. The scramble was so intense that Erin ducked back as tables and chairs went flying. She hollered as she carried Mrsha to safety.
“I’m gonna have to test my new Skill now! Hey! No magic! I said, no magic!”
In the end, it was Earlia who emerged, panting, from the mess. She’d been fastest and was nursing a swollen lip and two bruises. She plonked the nugget on the table in front of the other adventurers. Jelaqua, who’d been too busy sitting with Maughin and Bevussa, who weren’t that desperate, looked up. The former [Miner] grinned.
“Woof.”
She sat down with the Gold-ranks. Across the inn, Numbtongue was happily sitting with Yellow Splatters and Mrsha and Erin and Octavia, his back straight and proud. He might not be allowed in Liscor or Celum, but he’d won something, and all the adventurers sensed it. Keldrass stomped over to the table and sat down. No one said a word. Earlia tapped the gold nugget with a spoon and listened to the sound it made. Then she looked up.
“Have you ever heard of it? The Golden Goblin?”
“What?”
The Pallassian adventurers sitting around the table gave her a blank look. Jelaqua, on the other hand, frowned. Earlia nodded to her.
“Maybe it’s only in the north. Come to think of it…well, just listen. It was an old urban legend around the Adventurer’s Guilds where I came from. North of Celum a ways, but all over, really. One of those myths adventurers tell, like seeing a Unicorn, you know? Or finding a Dragon’s scale? Anyways. There was a saying that there was a Goblin whose tribe was insanely rich somewhere around the High Passes. People thought the Goblin had uncovered a treasure hoard or maybe looted a bunch of caravans. Either way, that Numbtongue Goblin made me think of it.”
“The Golden Goblin?”
Keldrass snorted dismissively, but every eye flicked towards Numbtongue. Earlia nodded, resting her hand on her chin.
“Yeah. I thought it was a load too. But then…I’m a [Miner], or I was until my group ran into monsters in our shaft. We decided killing monsters was actually safer and more fun than mining. You can run into some nasty stuff down there. But with that said, we only mined in safe spots. Near towns. I hear that if you wander the High Passes, you can find hundreds, thousands of veins as rich as anything in Salazsar.”
“So you’re saying a Goblin could mine? And this Golden Goblin—why didn’t anyone catch him? It? If it had so much wealth.”
Earlia smiled around the table.
“Well, there’s the thing. All the teams who swore they’d met the Golden Goblin said they ‘nearly’ got him. They’d find him mining or catch his tribe’s trail. But here’s where it becomes a legend, right? Each time they’d nearly catch him, but the Goblin and his tribe would always get away. Rumor was he was loaded with treasure, so a lot of adventurers went after his tribe. But that stopped when they kept dying.”
“How?”
The other teams frowned around the table. Earlia shook her head. She tossed the nugget up and down, as Pyrite had done, eying it thoughtfully.
“He’d always drop some treasure and run off. And the adventurers would scramble to get it and miss the Goblin and his tribe. Sometimes it would be gemstones. Or rare ores, like gold. Always polished, right? And I mean, who wants to tangle with a Hob when you could pick up a gem? Sometimes, though, that would lead to adventurers fighting over the treasure. Even killing each other. Other times it led into traps.”
“Like what?”
Bevussa looked at Numbtongue. Earlia shrugged.
“One time I heard they found a bunch of treasure right below a cliff. It looked like a Goblin had fallen and dropped a ton of gemstones and gold nuggets. The two teams rushed to grab it. And guess what happened?”
“Avalanche?”
“Avalanche, pitfalls, even a bunch of diamonds at the bottom of a Creler’s nest. And it’s not like it happened often enough for people to say it was definitely one Goblin or even that it wasn’t just a team making up rumors. The Golden Goblin tale would pop up sixty miles north of Celum one day and then two hundred miles west in nine months. Eventually, the Golden Goblin rumors died out. Plenty of tribes get wiped each year. But no one ever found a hoard.”
The adventurers were silent. Earlia looked around and smiled. Her eyes locked on Numbtongue’s back. The Goblin was explaining something to Erin, who seemed amazed. And sad. And Mrsha seemed wondering.
“I’m just repeating a rumor. Anyways, this is good gold. Wonder where he found it. If our team had been this good at mining, we’d never have become adventurers.”
“It’s nothing special. He probably stole it from a monster’s nest.”
Keldrass muttered, slumped in his seat. Bevussa reached out and smacked his shoulder with one wing. She shook her wing arm, grimacing as the magical enchantment on the armor flared to life.
“Oh really? You want to fight Rockmites, Keldrass? Have a thousand of them crawling down your beak? Wander in caves looking for veins? Even with [Dangersense] and [Rock Scent], or some other Skill, that’s a brave Goblin.”
“It changes nothing.”
The Drake sulkily reached for his mug. Jelaqua sighed at last and raised her voice. The oldest adventurer present fixed Keldrass with one eye as all the adventurers looked at her and remembered who one of the Halfseekers had been.
“Keldrass. Whatever may have passed or not, you just met a Hobgoblin and had a conversation with him. In an inn, with dozens of people watching. Doesn’t that strike you as the least bit odd?”
The Drake hesitated. In the end, he said nothing. But it didn’t matter. The story wasn’t about him. As the night wore on, Numbtongue, who’d been smiling and looking happier than anyone could remember seeing him in a long time, stood up. He wandered to the stage in the back of the inn where the Players of Celum, exhausted after repeat performances, had vacated it. There he pulled up a chair and sat. And the inn watched as the [Bard] got his guitar out and slowly began to tune it.
Numbtongue sat on the stage and looked down at his crowd. They weren’t here for him. Some glared at him. Others shouted for him to get off until Erin threw stuff at them.
It was an unwilling audience. One that hated him, that watched out of morbid curiosity or fear. But so what? He wasn’t going anywhere. The Hobgoblin sat on the stage and searched for the right tune. The right words. They came to him. Despite him not liking singing, the urge rose.
So he began to play.
 
“Have you heard of the greatest Goblin warriors, the Redfang Tribe,
Who lived in the High Passes and ate Eater Goats and Gargoyles just to survive?”
 
Across the inn, guests looked up. That was the thing about music. Like it, hate it, it was hard to ignore. Numbtongue strummed and raised his voice.
 
“Our leader was Garen of the Redfang blade,
Who was an adventurer and his team betrayed
He made us and saved us and taught us how to fight,
A traitor maybe, but he did things that were right.”
 
Sitting at their table, Moore and Seborn looked up. Jelaqua drank from her mug and watched. Numbtongue went on, improvising, putting words together.
 
“This is the story of thirteen Redfangs he chose,
Who walked and travelled on no Goblin’s road
He sent us thirteen to kill an innkeeper,
But lost and confused, we didn’t know where to seek her!”
 
Erin spat out her drink onto Mrsha’s head. She gawped at Numbtongue. The Goblin stared off into the distance.
 
“This is the tale of the Goblins who roamed
The Goblins who fought and died until they found home.”
 
It was a ballad of rhymes. Rhymes were easy. Numbtongue barely had to think. All he had to do was remember. At first, there had been Esthelm. Quietly, he told the story of a chance encounter. A fight with the Silver Swords. And a girl. A skeleton.
 
“A [Florist] who was more Human than monster (who had impeccable taste)!
And so as not to let her sacrifice go to waste,
Thirteen Goblins fought at Esthelm that day
And only six walked away.”
 
No one knew that story here. No one had heard it told. But they had to hear it. Someone—anyone had to listen. Numbtongue recounted it, the deaths, the names. Grunter, Bitefly, Leftstep…
And on. Of Liscor. Of Bugear, who’d died before meeting Erin, but had died fighting for his brothers. Of the battles there. Face-Eater Moths. Raskghar. Face Stealer. And then the end. Not everyone was listening. But that one [Innkeeper] was, a few Drakes, a Gnoll child—and more listening with one ear, frowning, denying—it didn’t matter. They were listening.
Numbtongue shouted the last refrain.
“They are gone, but I remain!”
And he stood up. He didn’t expect applause. But he got it, scattered, a few hand claps. That was all, but that wasn’t the point. The point was the story. Their story. He sat down next to Erin, and she wiped her eyes. Pisces, who had been listening, cracked one eye open and looked at Ceria and Yvlon. The two female adventurers were quiet, introspective. He coughed.
“You couldn’t make a play about that.”
“Be quiet.”
Yvlon kicked him hard. He went silent. At their table, Erin turned to Numbtongue.
“What will you call it?”
The Hobgoblin shrugged.
“Needs work.”
And it did, but he had a title already in his head. A song.
The Ballad of the Redfangs.
Erin blew her nose.
“It’s good. But you know…”
“Yes?”
“You don’t have to surrender the stage after one song, Numbtongue. They can’t chase you off. And you don’t have to go. What if you played a song for us? Something we can sing to?”
The Hobgoblin looked at Erin. She smiled at him. And he looked over at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium had been staring at the [Bard]. The [Sergeant] spoke softly.
“The Antinium have no music. Bird sings. But that is all. If you have a song, I would like to hear it. And…sing?”
Numbtongue’s heart leapt. He stood up and walked back to the stage. Some of the audience groaned. Others shouted that they didn’t want to hear it. And a few looked at Numbtongue and turned their bodies and heads to listen. Only a few. The Goblin had never expected it to be easy.
But he’d remembered why he wanted to be a [Bard]. So he played. At first, a song Erin knew and could teach everyone the words to. Then a song he’d created. A riff, with lightning and thunderous chords. And then another song. And another.
Soon it wasn’t that a Goblin was singing a Goblin’s song, but just that he was there. A Goblin [Bard], reminding everyone of the past. Pyrite was in Numbtongue’s head. Not forgotten. And Headscratcher, Shorthilt, all the others, lived on in Numbtongue’s music. They wouldn’t be forgotten. Not yet.
