Relc pointed to the open door as he restrained the struggling Drake. Erin nodded as Lyonette rushed over to change the setting. Relc didn’t budge as the Drake tried to elbow him and stomp on one foot. He had the drunk in a headlock. But the Drake could still shout. He cast one eye at Numbtongue.
“Go on! Kick me out! But everyone knows I’m right! Maybe Goblins can be safe! One or two. But no one’ll ever let a tribe stay around Liscor in peace! You know why? Because of the Goblin King! And it doesn’t matter how many of you die. Because Goblins—Goblins are animals. Get it? We’re Drakes. And Gnolls. And even damned Humans. We’re not animals, so we count. You don’t. Get it?”
Numbtongue opened his mouth. But he didn’t know what to say. He clenched his fists, and Erin grabbed him. The Drake just laughed at the Hobgoblin’s expression.
“I’m right! See? It can’t even respond. See? I—”
Relc adjusted his hold, and the Drake’s supply of wind cut off abruptly. He choked, and Lyonette raised her head as the portal in the magic door changed.
“Door’s open!”
“Finally.”
Relc grunted and heaved. The Drake flew through the door, scattering a crowd of potential guests. They stared into the inn as Relc glanced over his shoulder. Numbtongue was shaking. His mouth was still open, but he didn’t know what to say. He’d never had to argue like that before. And he’d—
“It’s just a drunk guy. I guess Goblins did kill his family. But he’s wrong.”
Erin looked around in the silence. She met everyone’s eye, but few were looking straight at her. A Gnoll from Liscor murmured as Lyonette silently let people into the inn.
“He might be. But he came to the inn peacefully, Miss Solstice. Didn’t do more than complain. Which he has a right to, no? He lost his sister and friend. That he came here, knowing a Goblin was present, shows he was on your side. And Krshia’s.”
“So he has the right to say that to Numbtongue?”
Erin snapped back. The Gnoll didn’t reply. He turned away from her. And he didn’t leave, but the silence in the room grew more pronounced. Numbtongue looked around. He stared at the faces, some calm, some judging. Others, like Grimalkin, weighing him on some imaginary scale. And he hated it. Most of all, though, he hated the ones standing at the back, in a group of their own.
Bevussa, Keldrass, Earlia of Gemhammer, and Nailren of Kelia’s Pride. More—the Horns of Hammerad. A few other Silver-rank teams. Adventurers. They said nothing. But their expressions told Numbtongue what they thought. Here was a ‘safe’ Goblin. One they wouldn’t kill.
One, and only one.
It was the same as yesterday. The same as the one time he’d gone to Liscor. Numbtongue clenched his fists, aware of every person who drew back when they saw that and his bared teeth. He searched for the right words. But he didn’t have them. He wished he could tell that Drake how wrong he was. Tell him of the Goblins he called animals. Numbtongue wished he could show him. But the others were dead and gone. And he…
The Hobgoblin moved. People jumped out of his way as Numbtongue stormed towards the stairs. Up them, towards his room. Erin ran after him, but no one else moved. They watched as he disappeared upstairs. And then Erin. And then the big Soldier got up and followed both. After a few more moments, someone told a joke, the inn laughed, and it got back to normal.
The Goblin was gone. But upstairs, the Goblin was always there. And he was always a Goblin.
 
——
 
Yellow Splatters stood behind Erin, listening. Just listening to Numbtongue and her talk. She was standing in the hallway outside his room. Numbtongue was standing in the doorway, Yellow Splatters closer to the stairs. The sounds of the merry common room drifted up. But above, the air was colder. More painful.
Numbtongue was upset as he stood in the doorway. He had just stood there when Erin and Yellow Splatters found him. He hadn’t slammed the door or hid in his room. That was a thing for Human children. A door couldn’t stop an adventurer with a crossbow or a spell. You had to stand and fight or run far away. And he had lost that fight. Yellow Splatters had seen his face.
Intriguing. The Soldier had never considered a fight could be won with words. But these ones had left invisible wounds. Erin was trying to mend them now, but it wasn’t working.
“It was just one Drake, Numbtongue. He won’t come back. I’ll make sure of it.”
“They all think that way.”
“Not all. Relc’s trying. You didn’t have to…I know what he did. But I think he’d even apologize if—”
“For Garen? He can say sorry to Garen, not me. If sorry brings back dead Goblins.”
Numbtongue sneered, his fists clenched. Erin fell silent. She looked at him helplessly, angry and upset for him. Yellow Splatters saw that too. That was what drove the Antinium to Erin. The fact that she would be angry or sad or happy with them. For them. But now it wasn’t helping.
“You don’t have to—no. I mean—I know it’s hard. If there’s anything I can…what can I do to help, Numbtongue?”
“Let me go to Liscor.”
The Goblin’s head rose with burning eyes. Erin wavered.
“You can’t. I’m sorry. I talked it over with Zevara, Numbtongue. You’ll be in danger.”
“Don’t care.”
“You can’t fight them. Any one of them could hit you with a stone or cast a spell or stab you—”
“I don’t care. I want to go.”
“Why? What’s Liscor got? I can get you anything, Numbtongue! What do you want?”
“I don’t know. I want to go there and find out.”
The Goblin turned his head and stared out his window at the city in the distance. Erin bit her lip hard. She didn’t know what to say. Numbtongue turned back and gazed past her at Yellow Splatters. The Soldier raised a hand.
“If I am intruding, I will remove myself.”
Erin jumped. She hadn’t realized he was here. Numbtongue just laughed, and a flicker of envy entered his eyes.
“You can go into Liscor. Do they stare at you there? Do they say things? Like…”
He gestured to the stairs. The Painted Soldier paused, his arms folded.
“They stare. But they stare everywhere. I have not been addressed like you are. I understand that you are banned from Liscor.”
“Yes. They close the gates before I can get in.”
The Hobgoblin clenched his fists, staring blackly ahead. Erin’s face fell.
“You went again? Why does it matter?”
“They died for Liscor. I can’t go in.”
Numbtongue’s claws dug into his flesh. Erin opened her mouth, but it was Yellow Splatters who tilted his head. The Soldier had been enjoying his conversation with Numbtongue. He felt a kinship to the Goblin. But this line of thought confused him.
“Why does it matter? Is the worth of Goblins—and their deaths—truly linked to your right to be in Liscor? Is that what they all died for?”
Erin gasped. Numbtongue’s eyes narrowed, and he tensed. But then he focused on Yellow Splatters and, slowly, relaxed. From anyone else, the question might have stung. But Yellow Splatters returned the gaze calmly. After a moment, Numbtongue blinked. The Hobgoblin exhaled and shook his head.
“It’s not about Liscor. We—the Redfangs, the Flooded Waters tribe didn’t fight for Liscor. We fought because the Goblin Lord was bad. Bad Goblin. And for you.”
He looked at Erin. Her face went pale. Numbtongue turned from her to Yellow Splatters. The Soldier nodded.
“We fought and died for Erin Solstice as well. As Pawn requested. This is a fact and what I understood of Goblins. So why does access to Liscor matter?”
The young woman looked from Goblin to Antinium. Suddenly she was unsteady on her feet. Numbtongue shook his head. He pointed at Liscor.
“So they do not forget. So they cannot forget.”
And the pieces clicked. For Yellow Splatters, they fit together in a moment. It took Erin longer.
“Oh.”
She softly uttered the word. Numbtongue looked at her.
“They say Drakes saved the city. Or…they fought off the Humans. They forget. But I am here. We were here! They stop talking about Goblins! About the Redfangs, the Flooded Waters tribe. They forget. The ones in the city, who never come here. They forget. Why can I not remind them? Why can I not go there when we all died—”
His voice trailed off. That was it. It wasn’t that he needed to be there. He probably didn’t even want to go. But it was that he couldn’t. To Yellow Splatters, it was like knowing there was sky. And never being able to go above again.
The [Sergeant] considered the Hobgoblin standing across from him. He didn’t know what to say. Numbtongue’s pain wasn’t his own. His cause wasn’t Yellow Splatters'. He did not matter to the Free Antinium. And still—the Soldier slowly uncrossed his arms.
“The Antinium fought the Goblin Lord for Liscor. So did the Goblins. To not say that is a lie. We died. And we were there.”
He touched his chest with one hand and pointed two. At Numbtongue and at Erin. Her face was white, but the Goblin only nodded. He met Yellow Splatters' gaze.
“They died. All of them. You. And me. My Chieftain. Headscratcher. Shorthilt. Spiderslicer. Noears. Reiss. Pyrite.”
“Glorious Sun. Grassleaves. Six and Five. Red and White Flowers. Cold Blue.”
Yellow Splatters nodded. The Soldiers’ colors, their symbols, flashed in his mind. Numbtongue looked at him. And the Hobgoblin’s wide eyes conveyed a message without words.
You were there. You understand. You remember. Yellow Splatters nodded. He reached out, and Numbtongue clasped his hand gently. Both of them heard a small sound and turned.
Erin was crying. She wiped at her eyes as water flowed from them. It was another strange sight. Yellow Splatters stared at Erin’s face. And—strangely—he felt uncomfortable. Pained. As if the tears were hurting him. It was like looking at a wounded Soldier or Worker. He touched his chest, averted his gaze. But the pain in his chest didn’t clear. And Erin kept crying.
“I’m sorry. I know I asked you, but I—I thought—I’m sorry—”
She hiccupped and then began crying and hiccupping. Numbtongue looked at her helplessly. He shook his head as Erin turned to him.
“That’s not—”
Numbtongue looked at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium saw his mouth working, and the words came into his mind first. He looked at Erin.
“It is not grief we seek, Erin Solstice. The cost was paid. Antinium and Goblins died. But if we were faced with the same choice, we would do it again. We won.”
Numbtongue closed his mouth. A flicker of something—a smile—tugged at his expression. He nodded. Erin shook her head. She was still crying.
“I—no. No. It was—”
She broke off and kept sobbing. But the tears didn’t last. Numbtongue awkwardly patted Erin on the back. She hugged him. Yellow Splatters looked at the Goblin’s face and gently copied Numbtongue, patting her on the back. And he met Numbtongue’s eyes.
That was what they couldn’t explain to Erin. The tears matched. But he and Numbtongue had something she didn’t understand. Pride. The dead had not died in vain. All of what followed—Yellow Splatters' resolve, Numbtongue’s desire for the dead to be remembered, to enter Liscor—stemmed from that.
They had not died in vain.
Yellow Splatters kept patting Erin until she let go of Numbtongue. The young woman dried her face. She looked helplessly at them and sniffed.
“I’m sorry. I’m sorry, Numbtongue. I wasn’t thinking of how you felt.”
“It’s fine. Go lie down. Sleep.”
Numbtongue pointed to Erin’s room across from him. She wavered.
“No. I should get downstairs. Although—”
She noticed her wet apron and shirt. Numbtongue eyed her.
“Lyonette will be upset if you go down. Mrsha will howl.”
“Probably. And I guess everyone else will want to—maybe I’ll lie down. You’re sure you don’t want to talk?”
“Sure.”
The Hobgoblin smiled. Erin wavered, but he ushered her gently and insistently into the room. She eventually went, promising she’d be out in a little bit. The door closed, and Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters looked at each other. And again, they felt at ease. Yellow Splatters stepped into Numbtongue’s room, and the Goblin closed the door so they wouldn’t bother Erin.
“They can’t forget. Ever.”
He meant Liscor in the distance. It was different from Yellow Splatters. He shook his head.
“Memory matters little to the Antinium. We desire the expansion of our Hive. Revalantor Klbkch has a plan, and I am helping to carry that out. I deem it worthy. But that is not what concerns me. The Painted Soldiers. My unit. We were weak. We are weak, still. But I was given a chance to strive again. So I will—I must become stronger.”
He held Numbtongue’s gaze. The Hobgoblin clenched a fist, understanding at once.
“Strong enough for all to not die next time?”
Yellow Splatters nodded.
“Yes. That is it exactly. I have more to protect. My…people need me to be strong. So I must be strong.”
The Goblin [Bard] smiled for a second. A trace of bitterness flickered in his eyes.
“Good plan. Doesn’t work for me. Mine are dead. Or gone.”
“Then why do you stay? What keeps you moving? What reason do you have to be alive?”
The question had no rancor; it was just a question from one warrior to another. Numbtongue smiled. He pointed at the door.
“Someone has to stay. To protect…”
“Ah.”
That was the beauty. He didn’t have to explain why Erin had to live. Why her life could justify the countless dead. Yellow Splatters understood. He reached out and made a fist. Numbtongue stared at it, gently perplexed. The Soldier spoke calmly.
“It is good you remain here. You are strong. I have a strong body, gifted to me by the Free Queen. Thus, I am stronger than when I died. But I must level. That is what I intend to do. I lost all but six levels when I died. I have regained five already; I intend to reach Level 20 within the month.”
“To be strong. To be the strongest.”
Another nod. The Soldier kept his fist extended towards Numbtongue’s chest.
“I must be the strongest of them all. And make them stronger. But do it with…kindness. I failed once before. It will not happen again.”
“Good. Be strong.”
Numbtongue reached out. His own fist extended, and Yellow Splatters nodded. They bumped fists gently. Yellow Splatters regarded Numbtongue, his head tilting slightly back and forth.
“I understand now why you are here. But what will you do? Train? Level? If you wish it, it would be possible for you to fight against local threats and patrol with the Painted Antinium. Your company would be enjoyable.”
Numbtongue wavered. He was pleased at the offer, but he shook his head in the end.
“No good.”
“Why?”
