Someone whispered it. The Soldier nodded. He looked at the weapons the street gang held. They were deadly in Celum. A club with spikes, a sword, a few daggers—they were good against Humans. Drakes. Gnolls and Goblins even. But the Antinium had been built for war.
“Come or flee. It makes no difference to me.”
He raised his fists and advanced. The others pulled back. Numbtongue, seeing Yellow Splatters advance slowly, shouted a warning.
“Dodge!”
The Soldier glanced at him. Then he twisted. Too late—the vial exploded, and half of Yellow Splatters' body was aflame! The Soldier made no sound, but instantly dropped and rolled. But the vial had been sticky oil. The flames refused to go out, and the Humans swarmed the Antinium, kicking and beating at him.
“Off!”
Numbtongue leapt at the nearest one. The man turned and screamed as Numbtongue grabbed his arm, ready to break it. The Hobgoblin twisted and then felt an arm descend around his throat. He twisted—but too late. The man tightened his arm in a chokehold. Numbtongue gasped, staggering forwards, and the man shouted.
“I’ve got it! Stab it—stab—”
He shrieked, clutching at his arm and letting go of the chokehold. His friends stared at the huge chunk of flesh missing, gushing blood. Numbtongue spat the flesh and grinned with bloody teeth. He turned, head butted the man, and heard a nose break again. Then he punched.
One rib. Three. The man gurgled and fell down. Numbtongue looked around as he grabbed Yellow Splatters and hauled him to his feet. The Soldier came up, wiping at the liquid. He clicked, and Numbtongue grabbed for his other potion.
“Drink!”
The Antinium grabbed at the vial. Numbtongue whirled. There were…seven Humans left. They backed away as he bared his bloody teeth at them. They had wide eyes, and they were panting despite only having fought for—what, a minute? Less?
They could do this. Yellow Splatters and Numbtongue. Despite the numbers. The Humans weren’t ready for this fight! They might have killed once or twice, but they hadn’t fought in the battles Numbtongue had. They weren’t prepared for his ferocity or his willingness to do anything to win. Or Yellow Splatters’ strength, for that matter.
But they did outnumber the two. Only six or seven now, maybe, but Numbtongue knew how this fight worked—he’d been on the other side of it countless times before. One high-level adventurer versus dozens of Goblins. He might cut them down, but if one managed to land a blow, or if he fell, he was dead. He raised his fists, looking around. If they could retreat into Octavia’s shop—grab some more potions—
Then ten more masked Humans ran around the street corner. And they were holding bared blades and clubs. One stopped when he saw Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters, but the man who’d run to grab them screamed.
“That’s them! Get them! Backup’s on the way!”
Seventeen Humans advanced. Nervously, but in concert. Numbtongue growled, and Yellow Splatters, the flames on his carapace still burning, looked about.
“The alchemist’s fire—”
“Back. Backs to the shop.”
The Hobgoblin and Soldier backed up. The Humans chased them. Only two had what looked like throwing weapons. Numbtongue ducked, and Yellow Splatters blocked a throwing knife with one arm. It glanced off his armor, and another Human heaved a brick. It shattered on the Antinium’s other arm.
No more alchemist weapons. But some of the Humans were tending to their friends with potions! Numbtongue cursed.
“Them!”
He pointed. Yellow Splatters didn’t ask questions. The two charged, scattering the Humans before they could revive their friends. Numbtongue grabbed at a potion, twisted an arm out of its socket. Took a fist to the face. He snarled, kicked out, and hit a Human in the groin. It was a woman, so she didn’t fall down from that alone. A second kick to the same spot dislocated her hip.
Numbtongue whirled, dodging another knife. He grabbed the arm and swung his elbow as hard as he could into the face that followed when he yanked. He cursed as he looked for Yellow Splatters, twisting out of the way of another Human and throwing him into his friends. This wasn’t how Redfangs fought! They outnumbered their enemies! And Numbtongue hadn’t brought his sword or his guitar.
He felt two—three pairs of hands grab him from behind. Cursing, the Hobgoblin struck backwards, but they were holding him still. In front of him, a Human with a crossbow was aiming it. Real weapons. Numbtongue struggled as the man sighted, ignoring the peril to his comrades. He aimed at Numbtongue’s stomach—and a Human man standing next to him lifted the bolt out of the bow. The [Crossbowman] gaped—and the [Enforcer] stabbed the tip of the bolt into the [Crossbowman]’s chest and twisted.
The hands holding Numbtongue slackened for a moment in surprise. Numbtongue twisted, saw the first Human, leaned over, and bit. The screaming woman clutched at her shoulder. The other Humans started back too late. Numbtongue yanked a head down into his knee and turned around. The man who’d stabbed the [Crossbowman] stepped past the downed archer; the crossbow was busted, having been slammed into the man’s chest until both bones and frame broke. He tipped his cap to Numbtongue and smiled.
“Pardon me, sirs. Saw you were in a bit of a scrap. And I’m afraid my fellows wouldn’t forgive me letting this rude lot go.”
So saying, he drew the object at his side and turned. An outraged [Footpad] with a garroting wire staggered back, and Numbtongue saw his nose was broken. The [Enforcer] adjusted his cap and then stepped forwards smartly.
He was quick. And as ruthless as any Goblin. The man stomped, broke the screaming [Footpad]’s foot, and knocked him flat with a blow from the leather sap he carried. Numbtongue stared as the [Enforcer] turned around.
“Back.”
Numbtongue whirled, and his elbow caught a woman across the head. She went down in a moment. Absently, the Hob grabbed a man and put him in a chokehold, keeping him in front of the man’s buddies while he watched the mysterious Human set to the people around him. What was he carrying?
A sap. It was a bit of leather filled with something heavy, extending the [Enforcer]’s reach by only a hand’s length. It wasn’t a tool any Goblin would use. But here? On these streets? The [Enforcer]’s hands were almost too quick to see! He was striking people with the sap multiple times each second, elbow, arm, fingers, jaw—he stepped back as a burly man swung past him with a cleaver. The Brother raised his sap and stepped into the man with the cleaver’s guard.
“[Shatter Blows].”
His sap struck the helpless [Rogue] across the chest, the arm, the face. Numbtongue could hear bones breaking with each strike. The [Rogue] fell down. Numbtongue realized the Human he was holding was unconscious. He let go, ducked a swing, grabbed a leg, yanked up. It was easy to kick the Human on the ground.
Someone came at Numbtongue from behind, but they disappeared. Numbtongue whirled. And Yellow Splatters tossed the Human aside. Numbtongue looked up at the Soldier. He saw Yellow Splatters turn.
“Cover me.”
And Numbtongue did. The moments blurred together. He stood with his back to Yellow Splatters, shouting.
“Redfang!”
Then it was like how he remembered fighting. The Humans were everywhere. But his friend was at his back. Numbtongue spun, kicking, grabbing for a weapon. A club—he swung it, and the wooden club locked with a sword trying to take his chest.
More Humans! Numbtongue didn’t know where they’d come from. Suddenly, there were twenty around him! Yellow Splatters guarded with two arms, swinging with blows that lifted men and women off their feet and put them on the ground. But he was too big a target. Someone threw a bag, and vines showered him and Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin fought clear, and a mace caught him on the side of the head.
Reeling, he nearly tipped over. The [Brigand] tried to finish him off, and a potion exploded in his face. He clutched at his eyes as a Pepperspray potion detonated. More Humans scrambled clear, but there were even more of them as Numbtongue got up. Yellow Splatters moved back, guarding the shop as Octavia hurled potions out of her window. Numbtongue swung his club and hit something.
But they were losing? No. Yes. The [Enforcer] spun past him, dodging four people at once, his hat clean. But he’d taken a knife to the side. Numbtongue glanced around.
So many Humans. Where did they keep coming from? He looked down at the club in his hands and realized he was bleeding. He felt at his side. An arrow stood out.
“Ow.”
The [Bard] grinned weakly. The Humans were closing in. He looked back at the shop.
“Numbtongue!”
Yellow Splatters roared as he threw another Human. But he was cornered, his carapace bleeding. Three versus twenty had been done. Three versus thirty was possible. But forty?
Numbtongue was surrounded. A [Warrior] with a sword advanced, and Numbtongue saw four more Humans closing around from each side. The Redfang Warrior bared his teeth.
“It’s just one Hob. Kill it.”
Shakily, one of the Humans breathed. Numbtongue stared at him. But it was true. Numbtongue was just a Hob. Not Headscratcher. Not Shorthilt. If either had been wielding this club—Numbtongue blocked a slash from the [Warrior]. He staggered, slipping. Someone jumped in, stabbed Numbtongue along the shoulder, darted out. The Hobgoblin twisted his head, took a punch from a pair of brass knuckles.
If only I was Headscratcher. If only he were Pyrite. The other Goblin’s memories surged in his head. He’d fought Eater of Spears. He’d hurt Reiss! He’d stopped Tyrion Veltras. He could have won this fight. With fat. With strength. With skill. He would have seen them coming. The sword flashed at Numbtongue’s face.
Pyrite would have ducked forwards.
Numbtongue knew it. He ducked forwards, and the blade flashed over his head. But because he was moving, the Human [Warrior] actually ran into him. He tried to bring the sword down, but Numbtongue was under his arms. The Hobgoblin rose, staring at the sword.
Good sword. Pyrite would have taken it. How? Oh—
Another bite. This time down to the bone. Numbtongue felt a wrench as the [Warrior] yanked his arm free, screaming. But he’d loosened his grip on his sword. Numbtongue seized it. He eyed the blade.
Iron. Not too sharp. But decent. What would Pyrite say? Not good. But okay. The [Warrior] grabbed at a dagger. Someone charged Numbtongue. A dagger for his back. And Pyrite—
In the street, a Goblin turned. With one hand, he swung the iron sword in an arc. He brought it down, and the hand stabbing towards his back fell to the ground. The Human stared at his stump. Then he clutched at his arm and screamed.
In a dream, Numbtongue gazed with interest at the Human. He looked at the sword, impressed. That was a good cut. As good as any Shorthilt could have made. He didn’t know how to do that.
And yet—he did. The Hobgoblin turned, and both of his claws grasped the sword’s hilt. He took a stance. A proper one, not like the self-taught [Warrior]’s fighting style he’d learned as a Redfang. The [Warrior] with the dagger backed up too slow. The Hob slashed his chest, leapt back, twisted, and cut. A second Human lost her hand, this time at the elbow.
The street—slowed. The gang of Humans backed up. Yellow Splatters, shielding his face, bleeding from a dozen injuries as Octavia tried to heal him, saw a Goblin turn. Numbtongue’s face was dreamy. But his sword swung in patterns and arcs, measured, warding his back and sides. And fingers flew. Hands cut down to the bone. Iron sheared through arm. Until the Humans were running.
Numbtongue cast aside the ruined iron blade. The edge was deformed from the last sword strike. A final Human charged him, not realizing her friends were running. She had blood in her eyes—literally. But his memories, both his and Pyrite’s, told him she was a high-level [Fighter]. Her brass knuckles had spikes on them—she’d gotten the [Enforcer]. The Hobgoblin looked down at his torn left arm, exposing sinew. And him.
The [Bard] might have hesitated, grabbed at the sword. But part of him said look. Numbtongue looked. He saw the woman’s muscles moving along her arm and saw where she’d punch. Numbtongue stepped back, and the tips of the knuckles struck the side of his face. Then he stepped in.
His punch went through the gap in the woman’s guard. She stumbled back, and Numbtongue followed it with a left hook. Stumbling, the woman retreated. He advanced, swinging, kicking.
Don’t give her a second! Left hook, kick, elbow, punch, head butt, kick to the chest, punch, punch, punch—he swung a fist and missed. The Human was lying on the ground, her eyes rolled up in her head.
“Dead gods.”
Someone breathed it behind him. Numbtongue turned. The street was filled with bodies. The [Ruffian] dropped his shiv as Numbtongue looked at him. The Hobgoblin’s eyes burned. The man screamed and ran. Numbtongue caught him halfway down the street.
“Let me go! Let me go!”
The man was screaming, calling to his friends. Numbtongue turned the man to face him. The man grabbed at his side for something—he stopped when Numbtongue made a fist.
“Who sent them?”
He pointed down the street. The last of the gang was running as the [Enforcer] drank a potion. The [Ruffian]’s eyes were wide, the unkempt man’s face white.
“You can speak?”
Numbtongue shook the man so hard his bones rattled. The Hobgoblin spoke again impatiently.
“Who. Sent. You?”
“A-Alchemist Quelm! He sent us! He hired us! Go after him!”
“No.”
The [Ruffian] blinked, uncertain. Numbtongue made a fist.
“Tell him if he tries again, we will hurt him. That is a Goblin threat. Understand? See this?”
He waved the fist under the [Ruffian]’s nose. The man was nodding, relieved.
“I’ll tell him. I’ll t—”
Numbtongue aimed at the man’s jaw. He punched the man in the teeth and felt them cut into his fist—and felt six of them break. He shook out his clawed hand, grimacing. Then he picked up the man screaming into what remained of his teeth.
“Goblins don’t make threats. Run.”
He let go, and the man ran. Numbtongue looked around the street. Amazingly, no Humans had died in the fight. Some were dying thanks to the blood leaving their body from the stumps of their arms and hands, but no one was dead. Yet. There was a remarkable amount of screaming. Numbtongue wandered back to the shop. Yellow Splatters looked up at Numbtongue as the Hobgoblin walked over.
“Potion.”
“Who—oh, dead gods!”
Octavia poked her head out of the shop. She ran back inside and grabbed a bottle, threw it at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin caught it, opened it vaguely, and drank.
“Thanks.”
