Octavia stared at her potions. Then she stared out the boarded-up window of her shop. There were slits in the imperfect covering, but the pane of glass in her door also gave her a view of the street. She could see them out there. They were watching her.
The [Alchemist]’s eyes flicked to her shelves. To the door. Then to another door set in the back of her shop. It was a magic door. Or at least, the mana stone glittering in the doorframe was magic. But if Octavia opened the door, it would just reveal a wall. It wasn’t connected to Liscor at the moment. So she couldn’t just run through with all her gold and potions.
Even if she could, then what? Octavia shook her head. Assume she could get her gold, her equipment, and all her ingredients and wares through. She was still out the cost of her shop. Not to mention she’d have to set up in Liscor. If they even accepted String-people. And would Erin let Octavia stay? Or—if Octavia opened the door and asked, begged for help…
No. Octavia shook her head and slowly got up. She went over to her shop sign and slowly changed it. Erin wasn’t going to come to her rescue. She, Octavia, had given up on the thought. Why ask? Octavia hadn’t gotten anyone she knew to slow down and hear her out. Bad pitches, bad timing…it didn’t matter. She knew all the Gold-rank teams had left Erin’s inn anyways. And who would answer her call if she did ask? Erin? That small Gnoll, Mrsha? Lyonette? The Horns?
“Say they did take care of…”
Octavia peeked out her door again and counted. Then she shook her head. Even if they got all of them, Quelm had, what, two times that many lurking about. He’d gone mad. And it was Octavia’s fault. Well, he’d started it by stealing her designs. But…
“Can’t wriggle out of it this time, Octavia Cotton. It was a bad deal, and you knew it. You should have just let it lie. Now you’ve got to pay up. It’s just twelve silver. Every day.”
Octavia stared blankly at her shop.
“I have to move. To Remendia. Ocre. Or Esthelm. Yeah. Esthelm doesn’t have an [Alchemist], right? Or if they do, how good can they be? City gets sacked by the Goblin Lord—there’s bound to be plenty of business opportunities! I hold on, make a few preparations…Quelm’s not watching the gates, right?”
Her eyes flicked to the window, then to the magic door again. If only—
“Erin. Ten gold? I could manage that.”
It was all her savings. But if Erin swung it for her…Octavia hesitated. Ten gold wouldn’t buy enough Silver-rank teams for a fight with that many thugs. Not to mention the City Watch wasn’t getting involved. They were bought-off. Or something. Quelm had Octavia’s gold. And his sales from the matches. And…
She was sitting behind her counter. Octavia buried her head in her hands.
“I thought she liked me. A bit? I know I’m a bit pushy. But I thought Krshia—or the Horns—we have a business relationship. I’m still selling to Krshia. Surely—”
She stared down at her counter. It was swimming a bit.
“Did they all hate me that much?”
Nothing in her shop answered her. After a moment though, Octavia heard a jingle. She looked up. At least she had this. She put a smile on her face.
“Welcome to Stitchworks, friend! Can I interest you in my potions? Four silver off any first purchase and—ulp!”
She stared at the rough figure that had pushed open the door. Octavia slowly closed her mouth and sat down. The [Thug] grinned at her. He was rough-shaven and smelled of sweat.
“Morning, Miss Octavia.”
“Ah. H-hello. How’re things? Checking in on the shop? I paid today, you know. Promptly and on time! There’s no need for…”
Octavia could normally out-talk anyone she met. But the words dried up as the man looked around her shop. She could see the long knife at his belt. But that wasn’t what terrified her. String-people didn’t fear knives. It was fire she feared. Fire and those who caused it.
“Looks like you haven’t got much business. Alchemist Quelm’s concerned.”
“Is—is he? Well, you can assure him that I’ll get him his money.”
Esthelm. She could move tonight if she found a good [Wagon Driver]. And if they weren’t watching her shop. The [Thug] looked around and shrugged.
“So you say. But he’s concerned. And since he’s so worried, he sent me and some of the guys around to help you sell.”
For a second, Octavia was confused. Was Quelm mad? Did he think this would be a good [Shop Assistant]? She stared as the [Thug] went over to one of her shelves of potions.
“Help me sell? He really doesn’t need to—hey! Wait! What are you doing?”
The [Thug] was grabbing bottles off the shelf. Octavia rushed around her counter.
“No! Those are mine! Here, you want the next payment? I can make it! Tell Quelm—”
She grabbed at her money drawer and realized it was locked. The [Thug] just shook his head. He grinned at her, exposing bright, well-kept teeth. Octavia felt they should have been rotten or replaced by gold.
“Alchemist Quelm has decided there’s a new deal. You’ll be selling your potions through his store. You’ll get your cut—but everything goes through him, got it?”
He grabbed an armful of bottles. Octavia couldn’t take it.
“No! That’s my merchandise! If he takes that—”
Her income was liquid. Literally; more money was in the potions waiting to be sold than anywhere in her shop, even her safe. The [Thug] raised a fist as Octavia grabbed at him, and she flinched.
“Don’t. We’re taking all of these today. Damn, we’ll need a wheelbarrow or something. I’m not carrying them. You’ll get two-thirds—Alchemist Quelm gets a third. And he won’t even charge you a daily fee anymore. Isn’t that fair?”
“He—that—”
Octavia gulped for air. The world was swimming. If Quelm did that, she’d lose far more than twelve silver every day. A third of her profits? He’d be the only [Alchemist] selling in the city, and she’d be unable to run. Both she and Quelm and the [Thug] knew it. He gave her another pearly smile.
“You can’t do this. This is too far. Quelm—I know we had our grudges, but this is robbery. I’ll go to the City Watch if you take my potions. I’ll testify under truth spell! I have friends in Liscor too. I go through that door—”
Octavia’s voice shook. The [Thug] turned to her. His eyes narrowed. Suddenly, deliberately, he dropped his armful of potions.
“No—”
Too late. Octavia grabbed one bottle, but the rest smashed on the floor. Horrified, she stared as four stamina potions and three healing potions mixed on the floor. That was—at least three gold’s worth of—she looked up as a boot smashed the glass shards flat. The [Thug] drew his knife with a snarl.
“And what? You tell the Watch or you go through that door and your store won’t last till morning. Neither will you. We’re in charge now, not some [Guardsmen]. Or didn’t you hear what happened to Jeffil?”
Octavia froze, the last potion in her hands. She backed up.
“I heard. But—but—”
The [Thug] grinned unpleasantly.
“Too bad String-people can just replace their arms, right? Don’t make us make an example of you. Be smart. Mabel the ‘Magnificent’ is smart. She’s working for Alchemist Quelm. You’ve got one chance to make the right move. Either you agree right now or—”
He broke off. Octavia heard a sudden roar of sound and jumped. A familiar voice rang out in her shop!
“Okay! Ten minutes! Remember, stay inside!”
The [Thug] swore and ducked back. Octavia turned. The door to Erin’s inn was open! Her heart leapt, but the warning growl behind her made her tense up. And the door was closing as soon as it opened. Octavia opened her mouth—and then choked when she saw who was coming through the door. A Hobgoblin and—
“What the hell is that?”
The [Thug] hissed at Octavia. Frozen, the [Alchemist] stared at Yellow Splatters and then looked around.
“An Antinium Soldier. And that’s…Numbtongue.”
“That’s a Hob! A flipping Hobgoblin!”
The man seemed afraid, which pleased Octavia. She hesitated, looking at Numbtongue. He glanced at her and waved.
“We want to look at things.”
“Uh, okay! I mean, great! Pleased to have you here! And your friend! I’ll be over in a second!”
Octavia smiled nervously. Her eyes flicked to the [Thug]. He glared at her. Slowly, he edged back to her door and caught himself. He leaned over to Octavia and hissed.
“We’ll finish this later. Get them to go away.”
The Stitch-girl hesitated. The [Thug] caught her arm, squeezing it tight.
“Say anything and we’ve got fourteen people outside your shop. Don’t be stupid. I’ll be right here.”
He bared his teeth. Octavia’s heart sank. She saw him go to the door and wave his hand urgently. Damn. If there weren’t more—she hurried over to Numbtongue.
“Hey, Numbtongue, right? Good to see you!”
The Hobgoblin eyed the [Alchemist]’s smile warily. He sniffed the air and frowned. Then he leaned around her and spotted the puddle of potions. His eyes widened. Octavia glanced at him and then the [Thug].
“Oh, that? Don’t worry about it. Minor spill. What can I do for you? Is, uh, Erin—”
“In her inn. She’ll come later. We want to buy a potion. We have…money.”
Numbtongue waved vaguely at the Antinium Soldier. Octavia backed up a step as she saw the Soldier towering over her. Was it her or was this fellow big even for an Antinium?
“Uh—well, uh—a Soldier? I’m happy to sell to all customers, but how do I know what he wants? What you want? Does he have a name?”
Too late, Octavia remembered. You weren’t supposed to ask Antinium their names! She froze, but the Soldier nodded and opened his mandibles.
“Yellow Splatters. I was reborn and given a voice. I am looking to purchase as many potions as possible for this amount of money.”
He opened his money pouch. Octavia’s jaw dropped at the gold and silver glittering there. She could sell—her eyes darted to the [Thug].
“Great! I mean, wonderful! I—I can definitely sell you whatever you need. And hey, did you say Erin’s coming through?”
“In a bit. What’s this?”
Numbtongue replied absently. Octavia glanced at the potion he was indicating.
“Pepperspray Potion. Uh—listen, Numbtongue—”
“Miss Octavia! You’re gonna close up shop soon, right?”
The [Thug] called out from where he was standing. Octavia’s heart sank. He was eying her as he pretended to browse the shelves. And fingering the dagger on his belt. She looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin had a frown on his face as he looked at the [Thug]. Octavia inhaled.
She could tell him. But what if he said no? If it was Ceria or Pisces or Yvlon—not Ksmvr—she might have risked it. But she could see more people slowly advancing down the street. And Numbtongue? The Hobgoblin? Weakly, Octavia realized that the [Thug] was going to make her chase out Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters. And Erin too.
Erin. Oh no. If she came by and started a fight, he’d knife her. This wasn’t any tough. They’d crippled Jeffil. And they were going to take her potions. How many did he say there were? Fifteen? Octavia looked at Numbtongue. The Soldier. Then she thought of Erin. If Erin got into a fight and they drew their weapons—
The sigh that escaped the [Alchemist]’s mouth was slow and long. She wiped her eyes across her stained sleeve once. That was all. Then she gave Numbtongue a big smile.
“Actually, you came here just in time, Numbtongue. I’m doing a clearance sale. Reorganizing my stock. Whatever you want—it’s half-off. Tell me what you need, and I’ll get it to you.”
The Hobgoblin did a double-take. So did the Soldier. Numbtongue looked at her suspiciously.
“Really? Is this a…trick?”
Octavia had to admit that she’d never done a sale like that without some kind of trick. But today she just spread her hands wide.
“Nope! Let me get you your potions. I think Erin’ll have to wait on coming through; let’s do business before she gets here. Okay?”
“Are you sure?”
The Hobgoblin’s response was so normal that Octavia wavered. She looked over her shoulder. And she tried to think of a code, something he could relay to Erin. But she was sure that the [Thug] would pick up on anything obvious like that.
“Just grand, Numbtongue. Just grand. What can I do for you?”
The Hobgoblin exchanged a glance with the Soldier. Octavia could have sworn she saw the Soldier’s antennae do some weird twitching. But it didn’t matter. She’d sell them everything she could just to spite Quelm. And then let the gang take her goods. Then leave Celum or…she looked at Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters. They looked strong. Stronger than the [Thug]. But there were a lot of thugs outside.
And she didn’t have anything to offer them. Even if she could warn them. It wasn’t a good deal for them. So Octavia bit her lip and smiled.
“Come on. Time’s money. What do you want?”
 
——
 
There was someone else watching Stitchworks. The [Enforcer]. The [Nightstalker], and her [Blackguard] escort. They sat in the little bakery café. It had been a few hours, but they’d bought enough snacks and drinks to keep the [Baker]’s assistant quite happy to let them stay as long as they wanted.
They’d been good for gossip too. The polite, well-mannered man with the hat who’d tipped well had asked any number of questions about Liscor and the magic door that the [Baker]-in-training had been only too happy to talk about.
Now they were watching the door as she reluctantly helped her master, who was actually a mistress, prepare dough in the kitchen. At the table, the [Nightstalker], who’d been sitting and slowly drinking the hours by while gnashing her teeth, suddenly swore and sat up.
“Fucking rotted Ghoul dicks. What the hell is that?”
Even surprised, she was too professional to point at the [Alchemist]’s shop. Nor did she need to. The [Enforcer] and the [Blackguard] had seen the same thing. The [Blackguard] checked his blades. The [Enforcer] just tipped up his cap and sat up.
“Well, that’s not something you see every day.”
“It’s fucking insanity. What the hell’s going on in Liscor? No—where does that damn door lead?”
The [Enforcer] winced at the [Nightstalker]’s language. But he didn’t take his eyes off the strange pair who’d entered the [Alchemist]’s shop. He stared at the green Goblin and the insect-man as they wandered about the shop.
“I believe it’s a Hobgoblin. And that other one is…an Antinium Soldier.”
The [Nightstalker] settled back in her chair, but only slightly. She was gripping the stilettos concealed in her dress.
“They came at the wrong time. That [Thug] was just about to wrap up that shop with his gang.”
