“Everybody’s at fault. Maybe us more than anyone because we didn’t listen. Then again…Ceria says she’d have been in trouble with the Horns if they fought forty guys. How’d you survive that, Numbtongue?”
“Potions. Yellow Splatters. Good memories.”
And a dangerous man. But Numbtongue didn’t say that out loud. Erin nodded.
“We’ll make it right, Octavia. I promise. We’ve…I’ve been bad to you. Even if you do try to sell a lot. To make it up, Ksmvr’s volunteered to stand guard in the shop tonight with the door open. If anyone comes to make trouble from that old gang, he’ll call us. And you’ll sleep in the inn. Okay? Our third floor’s rebuilt.”
She pointed upstairs. Everyone else looked up. Numbtongue blinked.
“It is?”
“Yup! So, Octavia, sit down. Have a drink.”
Erin gently ushered Octavia to a seat. The [Alchemist] girl sat, and soon Erin was fussing over her as Lyonette, Mrsha, and Numbtongue watched.
“I feel awful. Octavia didn’t deserve that. Or rather, most of it. I think they really did threaten her. Maybe with fire. Stitch-people are terrified of burning.”
Lyonette confided in Numbtongue. He nodded, his eyes on the [Alchemist]. He understood the gang wanting to steal from her, at least. Her shop was so valuable. The potions Octavia had made had saved him and Yellow Splatters. He thought about how hard it was for a Goblin to get even a single potion.
Then Numbtongue heard a voice in the milling crowd. Mainly because it mentioned his name. He looked around and saw Keldrass, one of the Drakes, speaking to the adventurers around him. The Pallassian adventurer looked disgruntled as he argued with Bevussa, Jelaqua, and some of the others.
“I’m not saying it was wrong to destroy a gang. But how can Celum—or any city, Liscor or Celum or Pallass—allow a single Human to throw laws out the window as it pleases her?”
“You’re telling me you object to Erin storming in there and helping arrest that crooked [Alchemist], Keldrass? Really? It’s idiots like him that create monopolies on potions and make adventurers like us pay twice or three times what we have to along with everyone else! Or have you not been to any city besides Pallass?”
Jelaqua was arguing with Keldrass in a Raskghar’s body, much to the displeasure of most of the Gnolls in the room. She folded her arms below her breasts and looked down at Keldrass, much to his displeasure. The Drake hissed in frustration, his tail lashing.
“I’m not saying that. I’m saying the way she went about it was wrong. Or don’t you think she did that just to protect her pet Goblin and Antinium Soldier?”
Numbtongue’s eyed locked on Keldrass. The Drake glared around. Jelaqua opened her mouth to respond, and Bevussa saw Numbtongue incoming. The Hobgoblin walked towards the adventurers, and the Garuda groaned.
“Oh, Ancestors.”
The Hobgoblin strode towards Keldrass, and the adventurers went quiet. In accordance with silence-theory, so did a good portion of the inn. Erin turned around from Octavia and swore. She stood up, but Numbtongue was already confronting the Drake.
As before, now again. Keldrass shifted, one claw moving to his side, and Numbtongue saw the mace hanging there. Keldrass was wearing the armor one of the Raskghar had been using—a powerful magical set. And he could breathe fire. But it was words he spat at Numbtongue, sharp and cruel.
“What, Goblin? I’m speaking the truth. You walked into a sovereign city, a Human one, true, and massacred two dozen Humans with an Antinium Soldier. Explain to me why that’s acceptable.”
“I didn’t kill any of them. And they were criminals. If adventurers did it—”
Keldrass snorted a plume of fire.
“If adventurers did it, my team or a Human one, we’d be arrested! You were only spared thanks to one Human. Her. I’m not saying destroying organized crime was wrong. But I am against one Human subverting the rule of law! That is not how government works!”
He pointed angrily at Erin. She stuck her tongue out at him as she joined the standoff. Numbtongue clenched his fists, searching for the right words. It was hard! He didn’t know what to say. He was barely six years old. He was a warrior; he didn’t know how to talk to Keldrass or even understand the nuance of the Drake’s arguments for all he understood the words!
But perhaps someone did. In his head, Numbtongue reached for a second voice as he had in battle. It was not him. But it was. And the memories had been given for him to use. While he feared, resented, and was confused by them, a dead Goblin’s memories—he could do what Numbtongue could not.
Maybe only Erin, Lyonette, and Mrsha noticed the change. And Yellow Splatters. It was slight. A shift of posture. The difference in the intonation of voice. Numbtongue had always been erudite, if reluctant to show it. And he was no less so now. But the inflection was off. Still, you had to know him to recognize the difference. The [Bard] rumbled in his chest.
“Hm. And it works very well already? You have [Thugs]. Gangs. It’s good to have them because the law is there? Better to have laws than justice?”
Keldrass blinked, then flushed. Jelaqua looked delighted and gave Numbtongue a thumbs-up.
“That’s not what I meant. I’m just saying that Erin—she rescued you because you were connected to her! She cannot interfere and command other people above her rank just because of personal…attachments!”
Numbtongue folded his arms. He set himself with a wider stance, as if he’d suddenly gained weight and needed to brace himself.
“I see. Like the Gnolls and Raskghar? Terrible for her to interfere.”
A ripple of motion ran around the room. Bevussa smiled. Keldrass’ scales turned even redder.
“Don’t twist my words. Those were monsters!”
Numbtongue nodded heavily. He grunted.
“And those Humans were monsters. Your point?”
Erin looked up at the [Bard] in awe. Keldrass opened his mouth, saw Bevussa shaking her head at him, and turned around.
“I refuse to argue with a Goblin. I’m stating my opinion. I’m trying to support the system that keeps Drake society running!”
He appealed to his fellow Drakes, who nodded. Numbtongue eyed the room and waggled an ear. His cadence became even more broken up.
“Don’t want to argue with Goblins. Mm. Because Goblins are stupid? Smelly? Monsters? Animals? Or because you’ll lose?”
Keldrass whirled around. He took a deep breath and noticed Erin staring at him. Erin, who sold acid jars. And who controlled the door that connected his home city to hers. And Lasica and Rufelt, the famed duo who ran the very popular inn he might want to visit with his team. And Xif, the best [Alchemist] who sold potions in the city. And Maughin. He hesitated, and everyone could see him choosing his words carefully.
“Some Goblins are…friendly. I’ll grant you that. Even intelligent. But that Drake earlier wasn’t wrong. Goblins killed his family. Why shouldn’t he be wary? Goblins as a whole can’t be reasoned with. The Goblin King—I’ll grant you that you’re safe. Beneficial even. Yes, you were right to defend an [Alchemist]. Happy?”
He exhaled hard, his eye twitching as he glared at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin just shook his head.
“I’m fine.”
“That’s right. I said you’re not a threat to people. What more do you want?”
Numbtongue fixed Keldrass with an old look. A deep one.
“To be treated like a person. Not an animal.”
The Drake opened his mouth. Numbtongue rolled on, his voice deeper, contemplative. With the words of a Goblin who used them seldom. But had thought over this argument the many years he’d been alive.
“You. Keldrass. You say this Goblin is good. This Goblin is safe. Because Erin Solstice…tamed him? Because this Goblin learned? But other Goblins, wild Goblins, you can’t trust them. You have to find good ones. Train them. Like animals. Like a pet.”
“I didn’t say that.”
“Not directly. But you said it to my face. So did the last Drake. What makes you a person and me an animal? Red eyes? Teeth?”
Numbtongue smiled, and his teeth were sharp, pointed. But Keldrass’ scowl hid teeth no less sharp. Numbtongue looked around the inn. He turned. And a dead Goblin’s words came to life.
“What makes a Goblin a monster? That they kill? Gnolls kill Drakes. Drakes kill Gnolls. Humans kill both. That we make war? Drakes make war. That our King destroys? The King of Destruction destroys. What is the thing that makes Goblins monsters?”
“The fact that you have no civility. No laws! No order! You build nothing—you copy and destroy! That’s all Goblins have ever done! All they do!”
Keldrass snapped at Numbtongue. Pyrite stared at him, and the Gold-rank adventurer hesitated. There was a look in the crimson depths. Slowly, Pyrite reached into the satchel by his side. He felt around in it, speaking as he did.
“You say we are not civil. I say, good evening. Good night. Hello, Adventurer Keldrass. I am Pyr—Numbtongue. How do you do? By sword and bell, I raise my blade. By the walls, I salute you! On this grass I walk, I offer peace-bound friendship!”
Behind the Goblin, Pisces sat up in his chair. The Drakes from Pallass looked up, and jaws dropped. The Plains Gnolls’ eyes bulged. And the Hob went on. The bag clinked as he found what he was looking for and smiled.
“Goblins have no laws? We have the ones that matter. The Chieftain leads. Goblins should not kill Goblins. We have no books. And we have no [Guards]. We guard ourselves. Perhaps that is silly. But it works. We have order. It goes like this. One Goblin leads, and the others follow. As [Kings] rule, Goblins do too. But no one watches Goblins, so how would you know? And as for building…”
He paused and looked around. The inn was silent, watching, unsure. Pyrite shrugged.
“I do not build. But I find. I mine. Once, there was a Goblin who loved treasures. And he taught himself to find them in the mountain. For fun.”
Slowly, he withdrew the object he’d grasped. Keldrass gasped along with everyone around him. A gold nugget rested in Pyrite’s palm. He regarded it idly and glanced around. The glitter of the metal caught every eye. Gold. But Pyrite tossed it up and down. Jelaqua’s voice was strangled.
“Hold on. Numbtongue, where’d you get—”
“He—I—found it. Mined it from a mountain. From Rockmites and stone. Do you like it?”
“Um…yes?”
The Goblin smiled.
“Want it?”
He held the nugget out. Keldrass stared, and his claws twitched. So did Jelaqua’s; Pyrite had held it out between her, Bevussa, and the Drake. All three adventurers reached for it at once, and Pyrite pulled the nugget back. He spoke again, tossing the heavy orb up and down. Hypnotizing the crowd.
“Once. There was a Goblin. He liked shiny things. Gold. Gems. Mana stones. They glittered, and he found a way to mine them. They were his. He went into caves with monsters and got them. He mined them. If he was a Drake, they would say ‘that is his treasure’. But adventurers did not think so. They saw he had treasure, and they tried to kill him for it.”
He looked around.
“Was that fair? They did not mine it. They did not earn it. They tried to kill him for it. And they killed his tribe. They hunted him. They built nothing. They only destroyed. That was all they ever did.”
“That’s—different. They—we’re adventurers. We hunt monsters. If you had a hoard, they would target you.”
Keldrass sounded as though he wasn’t certain of himself. He stared at the gold as Pyrite tossed it up and down. The Hobgoblin shrugged.
“And if I was a person, I would call them [Thieves]. But a Goblin is a Goblin. A Goblin is a monster. An animal. It can be tamed. But it is still an animal. Right?”
He looked around the room. Some didn’t meet his eyes. Others did. Like Erin. She mouthed at Numbtongue.
Who are you?
The Goblin winked at her. Just for a moment. Then he offered the nugget again to Keldrass. The gold glinted in the fading light.
“Want it?”
The Drake hesitated. He looked around the room, warring with himself. But the gold was gold. And Drakes were the children of Dragons.
“Yes. Why? Is it a bribe? A gift? Proof you’re a person?”
His expression said he might say anything to have it and to be out of the spotlight. Pyrite just grinned a Goblin’s grin.
“Nothing. It’s yours. If you pick it up.”
He tossed the nugget on the floor. It was a decent toss; the nugget rolled a bit, but it was so heavy it actually dented the floorboards. Keldrass started. He looked at Pyrite and then around. Everyone watched him. The Drake considered how much it would cost his image to bend over and pick up the nugget. Then he stiffly walked over. Pyrite waited until the Drake was moving. Then, as Keldrass bent, he spoke one word.
“Fetch.”
The Drake—froze. And so did the room. Slowly, Keldrass turned. His face was flushed under his scales. He glared at Pyrite, but with a hint of triumph.
“Never.”
The Hobgoblin eyed him silently, then he smiled and shrugged. He looked around the room.
“It’s just gold. Worthless to a Goblin. But anyone who wants it may fetch.”
With that, he walked away. He sat down with a grunt and a sigh, reaching for a hamburger. He lifted it to his lips and bit once. He smiled with satisfaction—
And then Numbtongue was there. The [Bard] chewed, swallowed, and looked around the room. He indicated the nugget as Pyrite had done. And there was only silence.
No one moved. The adventurers were frozen. Keldrass, his arms folded, was flushed. He was deliberately not looking at the nugget of gold. Most people weren’t.
Of course, no one else was going to ‘fetch’ it. Pick it up and prove the Goblin’s point? Hah! Okay, he’d mined it. But he was giving it away. And if you thought about what he’d said about thieves…no. No, this was just about the gold. Every eye darted to it. It was definitely gold. If you knew anything about how heavy gold was and if you’d seen the real stuff…gold. But no one would pick it up. That was out of the question.
Maybe, if no one was looking, someone might stroll over to it and, by pure accident, nudge it with a shoe. And why not pick it up then? That damn Goblin wasn’t ordering them. It was just money, and who didn’t like that? If no one was watching. But Numbtongue was staring at all of them, with a sneer for a smile. Pisces would have been hard pressed to outdo him at this moment.
