Yellow Splatters was honestly confused. Numbtongue struggled to explain. The best he could do was talking about the images in his head. The inferiority he felt when he picked up a sword.
“I know a strong Goblin. The strongest. He fought the…Human. Lord Tyrion. He stopped him. He was stronger than me. And he died. How can I be that strong? I am a [Bard].”
Pyrite. Shorthilt. Headscratcher. Each had been stronger than Numbtongue. And each was dead. He wasn’t as gifted as they had been in combat. And his class…Numbtongue closed his eyes and shook his head. Yellow Splatters regarded him.
“But they are dead. You could surpass their levels in time. Does a [Bard] not become strong?”
“Not like a [Sergeant]. Or…[Warrior].”
“Really. What does your class do?”
The Hobgoblin shrugged.
“Lightning from the skies. But mostly—makes music. It helps a bit. Makes animals not bite. But it isn’t like…[Warmaster]. [Chieftain]. Or even [Savage Warrior]. Those are strong classes.”
“Really. They are not ones I am familiar with. But I do not know many classes.”
That surprised Numbtongue. He shook his head.
“I know lots. What do you have? [Sergeant]? Not a Goblin class. But could have…[Spear Soldier]. [First Sergeant]. [Captain]. At…Level 20? If you can upgrade. But [Warrior] classes are good. Sometimes better. [Sergeant] is officer. Good for leading, but sometimes weaker. Sometimes strong.”
“You know a lot about classes.”
“We had many. I was just a [Warrior]. But Garen knew many classes, and there were many in my tribe. The Redfangs wer—are strong.”
“Stronger than the Antinium. At least, individually.”
Another nod. It came from both sides. Yellow Splatters was under no illusions. He sat on Numbtongue’s chair while the Hobgoblin sat on the bed, cross-legged.
“The power of the Antinium lies in our numbers. We die by the hundreds to kill a single high-level foe. This tactic…works. But it is not acceptable. The Painted Antinium—no, all Antinium must live. And yet, how do we overcome this difficulty? The Antinium have no [Mages]. No capacity for fighting at range. At least, the Free Antinium do not. I envy your levels, Numbtongue. The Antinium are too low-level, too focused in one area. We have [Archers] now. But magic is…if we fight the Goblin Lord a second time, we will die by the hundreds or thousands to bring him down.”
That was the [Sergeant]’s nightmare. Even if they tunneled, the Goblin Lord might collapse their tunnels, use the same spells to blast apart their ranks. It terrified him. The Hobgoblin sat on his bed quietly, listening to Yellow Splatters' fears. At last, he shrugged slightly. Not out of indifference, though. He looked at Yellow Splatters.
“Do you have sneaky Antinium?”
“Sneaky Antinium?”
The [Bard] nodded.
“It’s how the Redfangs fought. We lost our [Shaman]. So we just used traps. Gold-rank Adventurers love teams with [Mages]. So we learn to attack them from one side. Ambush them—use big rocks or artifacts or sneaky Goblins to break their barriers. Then it’s easy. One arrow and—”
He mimed being struck in the chest. Yellow Splatters paused.
“I understand the Silent Antinium are a…Hive specializing in sneak attacks. But their forces are not part of the Free Antinium, or so Klbkch has explained to me. But you use traps? Belgrade makes traps. Tell me more. You are much more experienced than I.”
“Oh?”
Numbtongue was surprised. And pleased. He shrugged again, and then looked around. He went over to his desk. Erin had given him any number of things to occupy himself with. Snacks, a jar of cookies, parchment, ink, quills, a nail file—he grabbed the parchment and a quill and ink and brought it over. It was largely unused, although Yellow Splatters saw some lyrics on one sheet. Numbtongue unrolled the parchment and dipped his quill in the inkpot.
“Hm. This is how Redfangs attack [Mages]. Very easy? See? Pit trap here, archers here with cover, boulders here with slope, oh. Poison arrows. And Carn Wolf [Riders] here—and sometimes angry beehives. Or exploding things like Tripvine bags. Simple. Anyone can do. What do you want to know?”
Yellow Splatters stared at the trap. He hesitated, and then he raised three hands.
“Please explain everything.”
 
——
 
Life had its ups and downs. You didn’t win every fight. And sometimes you cried. But the trick was to keep moving. To pick yourself up again. That was why, after about forty minutes, Erin Solstice was able to leave her room and go downstairs with a smile on her face and reassure her friends. She’d had a few more tears, a handkerchief to blow her nose, and a nap. And really, it wasn’t her that she was worried about. It was Numbtongue.
She’d expected the Hobgoblin to be somewhere else. But to her surprise, he was in his room. He hadn’t even gone downstairs. Erin cautiously poked her head into the room, holding a tray with two mugs of tea.
“Heeeey, guys. How’s it going? Um—everyone okay? Sorry for going off like that. Anyone want a drink?”
Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters looked up. Erin blinked as she saw them sitting on his bed and chair. They’d dragged the table over and were gathered around it. The young woman smiled.
“Oh wow! You two are really getting along!”
“Hi.”
Numbtongue gave Erin a smile and accepted the tea. He seemed to be over his earlier frustration, and he’d clearly been absorbed by some kind of discussion with Yellow Splatters. Erin peered at the parchment as Yellow Splatters took a mug.
“Whatcha working on? Ooh, are those maps?”
“Tactics.”
Numbtongue tugged at one bit of parchment, looking slightly put upon as Erin peered around the table. She was clearly intruding. Erin made out a list of what looked like classes and Skills. And then she identified some of the drawings. Numbtongue wasn’t exactly an [Artist], and he was no [Tactician], so his picture of a Goblin stabbing an adventurer in the back was crude. But it got the point across.
Erin’s face fell a bit. She glanced up at the Goblin and Antinium.
“…You’re discussing fighting? Really? Nothing else?”
They looked at her blankly. What else would they talk about? Erin sighed, but she smiled.
“I’m glad. Hey, you could go downstairs. If you want! Or I can get you a snack.”
“I ate.”
“And I have imbibed adequate sustenance.”
“Right. Okay! Well, glad to see you two are making friends. Don’t let me bother you!”
Erin stepped back. Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters turned to look at her. After a second, Numbtongue coughed. Erin blinked.
“Oh my god. I’m my mom.”
Numbtongue blinked.
“What?”
“I have to go. Sorry. I’m cramping your style! Oh no…I’m a mom. Wait, does that mean Lyonette’s the dad? Or the bossy older sister? Am I the dad?”
Erin groaned and slapped her forehead. Completely lost, Yellow Splatters and Numbtongue exchanged a glance. But they were relieved when she was gone. It wasn’t that Erin wasn’t welcome—it was just that both were well aware of how distracting she could be. And this was serious business. They leaned over the table again. Yellow Splatters nodded.
“Back to our discussion. Survival rates among the Soldiers is typically low when encountering powerful monsters. Belgrade’s traps do work well—I will suggest the ones you use to him. We also have magical items, but I am certain Revalantor Klbkch will not allow their use.”
Numbtongue nodded.
“Can make slings, though. Slings are good.”
“Indeed. I am not sure if a Worker can swing four slings at once, but that is a viable experiment.”
Numbtongue laughed, trying to imagine that. Yellow Splatters politely smiled. They’d been discussing how to fight, and to Numbtongue’s surprise, it was actually…fun. Talking about Redfang tactics and survival strategies with someone who appreciated them. Right up until you realized they might all die in one of the scenarios they were laying out.
The Painted Antinium were certainly unlike any tribe Numbtongue had met. They could overwhelm a foe just like Goblins, but their Workers and Soldiers were all a lot stronger than the average Goblin. By the same token, though, they didn’t have strong Hobs or Chieftains, with the exception of Yellow Splatters. That complicated things, especially if your goal was to keep as many alive as possible.
Something occurred to Numbtongue as he looked at Yellow Splatters' description of the Painted Antinium’s forces. Bow unit, low-level [Soldiers]…he looked up sharply, realizing there was an obvious discrepancy besides a lack of magic users and more sneaky and ranged types.
“You know what you need?”
“What?”
Yellow Splatters leaned forwards again. He was more decisive than the Workers, but when he listened to Numbtongue, he was a very attentive student who asked a lot of questions. Numbtongue grinned and tapped his belt. Next to the small satchel holding his mined treasures was a vial. He pulled it out and showed Yellow Splatters.
“Potions. Potions are good. All your Soldiers should have potions. Redfangs use potions.”
“I am intrigued. Tell me more.”
Numbtongue gave him a blank look.
“Potions. You use them. You heal. Or get effects. Like…spitting fire. Potions are good.”
Yellow Splatters hesitated.
“The Antinium do not use potions. Ever.”
“Really? What if you get hurt?”
“We have a healing gel. That we seldom use. Soldiers have a recovery area. There they live or die.”
Numbtongue shook his head. That sounded like a poor Goblin tribe.
“Potions heal everything fast.”
“So I understand. And the Hive has a supply. A very…large supply, in fact. But Revalantor Klbkch has designated such stores off-limits except in case of war or emergency.”
“Okay. So get more.”
“How?”
“Steal? Kill adventurers? Or…buy?”
“Buy?”
The Hobgoblin nodded uncertainly. He wasn’t completely in on this concept either. But since the first two options weren’t viable around Liscor—
“Potions cost money. You have money, right?”
“I have a stipend allocated to me by Klbkch, yes.”
“Can you buy a potion with it?”
Yellow Splatters opened his mandibles slowly.
“…I have never purchased anything except for food from Miss Erin. Have you?”
“No…”
They stared at each other. Antinium and Goblins didn’t buy anything. But the thought was beguiling. And Numbtongue had seen Lyonette coming in with food that she’d bought with the shiny coins Erin gave to him. Yellow Splatters had seen the same while marching through the city.
“You have coins.”
“Yup. See?”
Numbtongue found some silver and two gold coins stuffed in his desk. Erin had paid him for guarding the inn along with the other Redfangs. They’d been keepsakes. Useless. Until now. Yellow Splatters produced his own money pouch. He poured the coins onto the table. Numbtongue stared at the bronze, silver, and gold. Yellow Splatters stared at the pile and him.
“…Is that enough for a potion?”
“Maybe? Maybe one.”
The Hobgoblin had no idea. He thought about asking Erin. Did she know how much a potion was worth? Maybe Ceria? Yellow Splatters opened his mandibles and clicked, clearing his throat.
“I could…attempt to look at some in Liscor. However, I do not know if the [Alchemists] there would allow me into their stores. Obtaining potions…that would be very useful. Very.”
Numbtongue nodded. Potions were every Goblin’s dream. You could save your life with one. Even the Redfangs, who were rich, had coveted every bottle they found. Speaking of which…Numbtongue frowned at his belt. He had two healing potions. And another stashed under his pillow. Erin had given them to him, but she’d gotten hers from—his eyes widened.
“Want to look at some? I know a place.”
“In Liscor? You are banned from the city.”
Numbtongue scowled and then suppressed it.
“No. But I think—we can go there. Follow me.”
Casually, he left his room and went downstairs. Yellow Splatters swept his and Numbtongue’s money into his pouch and followed. Erin was downstairs, serving guests. They looked at Numbtongue when he came down, but no one caused a scene this time.
“Erin. Can we go somewhere? With the door?”
Numbtongue innocently walked over to Erin. She looked around suspiciously, but when she heard what he wanted, she nodded after a moment.
“Sure. I mean, if you’re just visiting her. Don’t let her rip you off! Tell you what—the Pallass crowd’ll riot if I don’t keep the door open there. But I can let you two through and…check on you in ten minutes? Just tell Octavia that if she scams you, I’ll rip off her arm or something. Got it?”
Numbtongue nodded eagerly. He beckoned to Yellow Splatters, and Erin pushed her way towards the magic door. Lyonette looked anxious as Erin changed the door, let the Hobgoblin and Antinium through, and then came back.
“You’re sure that’s fine, Erin? Shouldn’t one of us go with them? Or at least one of the Horns?”
“It’s fine. It’s just Octavia. Numbtongue promised to stay in her shop. And I’ll head over as soon as I finish setting up the fondue. Relc’s gonna love this. Hey, Relc!”
Erin waved and turned. It was just five minutes. Ten or fifteen at most. She’d be over as soon as she finished melting the cheese in the big pot. Pisces was providing the flame, and Erin had already equipped Mrsha, Ceria, Yvlon, and Ksmvr with some long forks to dip sausage into the cheesy goodness. Relc was beaming as he rushed over with Embria following, and Erin was smiling too. She’d introduce the wonders of fondue to the inn, then pop over to Stitchworks and…deal with Octavia for a bit.
It never occurred to her to worry. Right up until her [Dangersense] started going off, that was.
 
——
 
It was past lunch in Celum. And Stitchworks, the [Alchemist]’s shop owned by Octavia Cotton, was not open. It was still closed despite the [Alchemist] being awake. She sat in her shop, and for once, she was too tired to make a sale.
She knew she had to. The day’s payment had been twelve silver. More than half a gold coin! For an [Alchemist], it was doable. But Octavia had to sell and sell well to get ahead of that. Let alone make money.
“But what’s the point? I might as well pack up rather than keep on here.”
Dully, Octavia stared at her racks of potions. The magical glow they gave off was usually enough to cheer her up. But today the colors just looked pale. Fake. Octavia was an [Alchemist]. She could see the low quality of her own potions.
She used to think she made up for quality with quantity, an affordable margin for both her customers and herself. She’d liked to imagine she was making her mark in Izril, despite the competition. Today? She wished she’d never left Chandrar.
