“We are not friends. We have not established any grounds for friendship as I understand the concept. Nor have we formally declared it. I am also unprepared for such a relationship. I have not studied the subject under Revalantor Klbkch. Thus, we cannot be friends. I apologize if this offends you, Numbtongue.”
The Goblin considered this for only a moment before waving a claw idly.
“I don’t care. I don’t have friends. Except for Erin?”
He and the Antinium considered the [Innkeeper]. Yellow Splatters frowned, which, on the Antinium’s face, was represented by his antennae drooping and mandibles drawing together and lowering.
“Would she qualify as a friend? By that standard, then, all of the Painted Soldiers….”
“Maybe? Maybe she’s not a ‘friend’. Maybe…Lyonette? No. She’s not my friend. Mrsha?”
The two looked around for the Gnoll. Yellow Splatters scratched at one antenna gently.
“I was informed by Revalantor Klbkch that making friends with members of the Antinium not considered fully grown was something of a social fault.”
“Hm. Maybe?”
Yellow Splatters leaned over the table.
“How does one become a friend, anyways? I have heard they exchange blood.”
“Um…Redfangs do that.”
“Really? Are you all friends, then?”
“…No. Wait. Let me think.”
The Hobgoblin sat back, thinking. There it was again. He was chatting with Yellow Splatters. Not talking about something huge and momentous or deeply personal like with Erin. Just…talking about mundane things. Unimportant things, like friendship or favorite foods. It was so novel.
Of course, Numbtongue had done the same with Headscratcher, with Badarrow and Rabbiteater and Shorthilt and the others. But they hadn’t done this. They’d been a team; they didn’t often waste time talking when they could read each other so well. That was why this was so novel.
“Redfangs aren’t friends. Garen would have said so. We’re brothers. Comrades. Warriors. F-family?”
Numbtongue pronounced the word awkwardly. It was one of the first times he’d used it. But Erin had taught him the meaning, and it was true of his old tribe. He looked down into his mug. Yellow Splatters gazed at him, and Numbtongue waited. But all the Antinium did was nod and drink from his own mug.
“Friends. Family. What…refreshing words.”
Numbtongue glanced up sharply.
“Yes. They are.”
The two regarded each other a second time. And there it was. Numbtongue had waited for Yellow Splatters to ask a question. Any question. About the Redfangs. About Numbtongue’s past. About what he was…feeling. And he hadn’t. He didn’t need to ask. What was amazing, what was special, was the way the two knew each other. More than just acquaintances who’d met once before.
They’d fought on the same battlefield. And more—their lives mirrored each other’s. They both understood something Numbtongue could never have explained to Erin or Lyonette. That mattered.
“I have thanked you for saving Falling Snow. I feel I should do so again, and for accompanying me while fulfilling my duties. And for sharing your food.”
Yellow Splatters was getting up from his table. Numbtongue felt a pang. He looked up as the Painted Soldiers noticed and immediately stood with their [Sergeant].
“You’re going?”
“I have no reason to stay. And my absence will allow a Painted Soldier to take my place. They will rotate into the inn so that all may enjoy the experience.”
“Oh.”
The Hobgoblin stared at the [Sergeant]. Yellow Splatters visibly hesitated and glanced around the inn. Back at Numbtongue.
“I could sit longer. I…would not wish to deprive another Soldier of their time above. But…”
He hesitated and looked over. The forty-nine other Soldiers gazed back, and Numbtongue saw them communicating, invisibly, as the Redfangs might. As any Goblins would. He envied them and hurt at the same time. Yellow Splatters turned back to Numbtongue after a moment.
“I will stay. To acquire more information. If you would agree to keep me company?”
He watched Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin smiled. And as Yellow Splatters sat back down and leaned over the table, Numbtongue realized something. He wasn’t feeling unhappy. It still hurt, but he wasn’t dissatisfied. He was…he lifted his mug and sipped it, then noticed it was empty. Numbtongue absently waved at Drassi for a refill. For him and Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] accepted a mug with a free hand.
“So. What have you been doing since the battle against the Goblin Lord? I was dead.”
 
——
 
At first, it was just a continuation to the thirty minutes they’d sat and talked. Then an hour. And then two. By two and a half hours, Numbtongue had to pee. He got up, wandered out of The Wandering Inn, and joined the queue for the outhouses. There were five now; apparently, two had just been dug. Even so, Gnolls and Drakes were standing in line, and Numbtongue was grateful for the distance between each outhouse. It made the sounds a bit less…pronounced.
One of the outhouses had been built to accommodate a half-Giant. It was that one Numbtongue was in line for; he liked the space. The door opened, and Maughin stepped out. Or rather, his body did. His head was still chatting with Jelaqua in the inn.
Numbtongue and the Drakes and Gnolls stepped out of the way, but the Dullahan’s body had some kind of instinctual awareness because he walked calmly back to the inn without any uncertainty.
“Ancestors, that’s creepy.”
One of the Drakes in line muttered. A Gnoll in front of him nodded and sniffed, then made a face.
“Ergh. That was a mistake.”
“You Gnolls have it rough around here, huh?”
The Drake seemed sympathetic. The Gnoll just grimaced.
“Well, we grow up smelling everything. This is hardly worse. But whatever that Dullahan ate—”
“Don’t talk to me about it. I just had lunch. I’ll tell you one thing, though, those forges Pallass has. If those Dullahans can work steel everyday like I saw them doing this morning—makes you think.”
“That Lism’s right? Or Krshia?”
“I don’t know! It just makes you think.”
The Drake grimaced. He glanced across another line at a nodding Drake and then turned his head.
“It’s weird. I know it’s because it’s the crazy Human doing it, but she is our crazy Human. What do you th—”
He stared at Numbtongue and froze. He must not have seen the Hobgoblin, or mistaken green skin for scales. The Gnoll jumped when he spotted Numbtongue as well. The [Bard] looked at them as they edged closer to the big outhouse and closed his mouth. He said nothing, and the line moved a lot faster. And no one got into line behind Numbtongue until he was done with his business and walking back to the inn.
That soured Numbtongue’s mood. It was still the same. So, when he sat down across from Yellow Splatters, he didn’t immediately speak. Which was fine; the Antinium was waxing eloquent after two hours of speaking.
“There you are. I was waiting for your return. Did you know that Erin Solstice is considering selling the Hive’s supply of Rxlvn?”
“What?”
“Our alcohol. It is…potent. I believe it is technically classified as a poison, but Miss Solstice has expressed interest in it. I was saying that I believed it would leave an impact.”
Numbtongue nodded restlessly.
“Maybe.”
He glanced at Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] was in a good mood, but Numbtongue was suddenly miserable again. Restlessly, the Goblin carved into the table with his claws, scratching the softer wood. He could feel eyes on him again. Of course, they’d been staring all this time. But his visit to the bathroom had refocused them on him and Yellow Splatters. The Antinium was getting looks, of course, but it was on Numbtongue, the Goblin, that they were harshest.
Some of the Drakes by the door to Pallass had seen Numbtongue pass by on his way in and out. They were speaking to the people on the other side, explaining. Justifying. Numbtongue could catch fragments of the conversation.
“…well, yes, but—you know, about the battle…?”
“—not saying that I would personally—not allowed in the city, of course not! There was an incident—”
“Never in Pallass. Well, it’s just one. There were others, an entire damn tribe. Thankfully—”
The Hobgoblin’s grip tightened on the table. Yellow Splatters noticed, and both turned to the doors and the speakers there. They shut up.
Drakes and Gnolls gazed across the inn at the duo. Some were just talking, enjoying themselves, watching the play. But too many went silent and still as they noticed the Goblin and Antinium looking. And silence was a plague. It spread.
As she circulated the room, Erin heard the sound die down. She frowned around and saw the source. She might not have known what had caused Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters to go silent, but she could see the tenseness. She began to push her way through the crowd. Too slowly; a Drake made uncomfortable by the staring Hobgoblin decided to make his voice heard. He stood up a touch unsteadily, and the alcohol slurred his tongue a bit.
“Hey! What’re you looking at, Goblin? And you—Antinium!”
The rest of the room fell silent. Temile, on stage with his cast, paused, and every head turned to the source of the shout. Numbtongue shrugged, a Goblin’s catch-all answer.
“Just looking.”
“Oh yeah? Look somewhere else. I can’t enjoy my drinks with a Goblin watching me.”
The Drake glared and tried to make a rude gesture. Erin pushed her way past a group of Gnolls.
“Hey! If you have a problem with Numbtongue, you can get out! Other people can take your place!”
“I’m not killing him. I read the sign. Just because I’m tolerating his presence doesn’t mean I have to put up with him staring. See? He’s still doing it!”
The Drake pointed angrily at Numbtongue. To be fair, the Hobgoblin was glaring. Erin hesitated. She looked at the Drake. He was drunk, and he had faded green scales mixed a bit with blue. Erin folded her arms.
“Well, maybe you shouldn’t say mean things. I bet that’s why he’s glaring.”
“Mean things? What, like the fact that it’s good that Goblins are banned from the city? Good. Pallass doesn’t let Goblins in. Why should Liscor? I’m fine with Dullahans and those bird-people, but Goblins? No. Never.”
The Drake took another drink, ignoring Erin’s glare. Worse, his words had a lot of silent support. Numbtongue looked around. He was tense. Erin just got mad. She thrust a finger at the Drake’s snout, and he recoiled.
“Hey, I’m drinking here!”
“Hey yourself, buddy! You say that one more time, and you’re out! In fact, I should kick you out! Numbtongue fought for Liscor! His friends died because he helped stop the Goblin Lord! Goblins attacked Liscor and—”
“Shut up!”
The Drake hurled his glass onto the ground. It smashed, and Erin leapt back. She opened her mouth furiously, and at another table, Relc stood up with a groan. He abandoned Grimalkin and Embria and stepped forwards at the same time as Ishkr.
“Alright, buddy. You’re drunk. Why don’t you pay up for the cup and liquid and leave?”
He raised his claws placatingly. The drunk Drake wavered. He might have gone without more than a fuss, but Erin was eying the broken glass and looking back at Numbtongue. She turned back and raised her voice.
“Yeah! Get out! We don’t need racist jerks here. Goblins aren’t all bad, you know!”
The Drake stopped as he fumbled for his coin pouch, swearing. Slowly, he gazed up at Erin. His drunk anger faded and became something soberer. Darker. He pointed at Erin as Relc barred his way.
“Not all bad? Goblins killed my sister.”
The room went silent. Erin’s furious mouth closed slowly. Relc hesitated. The drunk Drake glanced around.
“I’m being unreasonable? Me? I’m sitting in the same inn as that thing because I wanted to talk to my brother.”
He pointed unsteadily through the door.
“I didn’t come here to cause a fight. But that thing’s here. Staring at me. You know what Goblins did, Miss Human? They killed my sister. My best friend. They were just travelling from our village to the city. It was a two hour walk! You could see them from the walls. But a bunch of Goblins killed them. Stabbed them to death and tried to eat them. You monsters.”
He directed that last at Numbtongue, spitting in his general direction. All eyes fastened on the Goblin. Relc, looking around, made a judgment call.
“Alright, pal. We get it. That’s terrible. Really. But you’re drunk—”
“Get your claws off me!”
The Drake shoved at Relc but failed to make the [Guardsman] fall back. He swore as Relc manhandled him towards the door.
“You didn’t save her! The City Watch saw everything, and they didn’t stop it!”
“We can’t be everywhere. Keep walking.”
“Are Goblins supposed to be safe? Huh? I’m letting this one stay! Aren’t I the reasonable one? I’m not seeking vengeance. But why do I have to pretend that this thing isn’t dangerous? Goblins killed my sister! What do you have to say to that, Hob, huh?”
“Don’t answer that.”
Relc snapped at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin ignored Relc. He stared at the struggling Drake and around at the silent room. The judging eyes. Slowly, Numbtongue stood up. He called across the room at the Drake.
“Humans killed my parents.”
The Drake paused. Relc swore under his breath. Now the conversation had two sides. The drunk Drake shouted at Numbtongue.
“Oh yeah? Join the club! I’m not a Human, though. So if you think that—”
“Drakes killed my tribe.”
Numbtongue interrupted the Drake. He slowly pointed at Relc. The [Guardsman] paused.
“That one killed my Chieftain.”
Numbtongue’s finger pointed right, towards Embria.
“That one killed thousands of my people. Because you didn’t open the gates after we stopped the Goblin Lord.”
Embria looked up. Unlike Relc, there was little guilt in her eyes. Numbtongue gazed around the room and then back at the angry Drake.
“I didn’t kill your…sister. Or friend. I didn’t know the Goblins who did. I’m not them. And your—people—killed more Goblins. Why should I tolerate you?”
He folded his arms almost triumphantly. Daring the Drake to come up with a response. He couldn’t, Numbtongue was sure. But that surety—after a second of hesitation, a sneer crossed the Drake’s face.
“It doesn’t matter. You’re monsters. You can pretend you’re not. You can even speak. But everyone knows what Goblin Kings and Goblin Lords do. A few of you can be tamed. But that’s all.”
Numbtongue’s eyes widened. He took a step forwards, and Erin blocked his way. She glared at the Drake and then around uneasily.
“Alright! That’s it! Relc, toss this guy out!”
“I need the magic door. He’ll just roll down the hill and come back up.”
