He looked down and saw a dozen injuries on his body closing. It occurred to him he might have been close to dying of blood-loss. Looking at Yellow Splatters, the Hobgoblin saw the Soldier was in better shape. Well, sort of. Yellow Splatters had been burned, and it seemed like something had melted through his right shoulder’s armor. He was healing too; the cuts hadn’t gone through his carapace, and it was mostly cracked. The Soldier looked at Numbtongue.
“I called you back to the shop. You did not hear me.”
“Sorry. I got a sword.”
The Hobgoblin pointed vaguely at the iron sword laying in the street. The Soldier nodded.
“So I saw. You were impressive with it. A [Bard] is dangerous.”
“Not me. It was—”
The Hobgoblin wavered. He turned his head. Belatedly, nearly fifteen minutes after the fight had begun, he heard a shrill whistle and the marching of boots. Dozens of [Guardsmen] flooded the street, covered in chainmail and leather armor, shields raised, clearly apprehensive. They stopped in horror when they saw the bodies and the Antinium and Hobgoblin.
“Dead gods, it’s a massacre!”
One of the women cried out in horror. A flurry of [Guardsmen] aimed at Yellow Splatters and Numbtongue.
“Don’t move!”
One of the men with a plumed helmet screamed at Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters. The Antinium and Goblin looked at each other. Neither one moved.
It didn’t seem to reassure the [Guards]. They advanced slowly, screaming at the two. One of them took a look at some of the Humans lying on the ground clutching at their limbs and called for healing potions.
“A-arrest the two of them—”
The [Guardsman] with the helmet began uncertainly. Another one stared at Numbtongue and swore.
“Hell to that! Shoot them!”
The arrows tensed as the bowstrings drew back. The Watch Captain inhaled, and Numbtongue, seeing Yellow Splatters stiffen, reached for his belt. He said one word.
“Stop.”
No one did. They never did. The arrows aimed at Numbtongue, and the Watch Captain roared.
“Don’t shoot! Don’t shoot! There’s an Antinium, and by the Five Families, if there’s war—”
He froze as Numbtongue pulled a scroll out of his belt pouch. The Goblin unfurled it, muttering to himself, and tossed it at the Watch Captain. A bow twanged; an arrow flew, and Numbtongue ducked under it. He straightened, and the [Archer] went white as the Hobgoblin glared at him. Then Numbtongue turned to the Watch Captain.
“Read it.”
He waited, arms folded, as the Watch Captain shakily picked up the parchment and read it, keeping one eye on Numbtongue. Then he blinked, did a double-take, and began to read again. He looked up.
“That’s impossible.”
The Hobgoblin grinned toothily at him. He raised his voice so all the Humans on the street could hear.
“My name is Numbtongue. A member of the Redfang Goblins. I am a Bronze-rank adventurer. The Humans threatened me and attacked. I defended myself.”
The Humans stared at Numbtongue for a long second. Someone breathed out.
“Bullshit.”
Numbtongue shrugged.
“They hit my friend. In there.”
He pointed into Octavia’s shop vaguely. All eyes turned to Yellow Splatters. Octavia, breathless, poked her head out the window.
“Oh, stitches. Now you show up?”
The Watch Captain blinked around at her and the Humans on the ground, most of whom had passed out.
“I—this is—”
“Quelm did this! He sent his gang to attack the shop! Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters, er, defended me!”
The [Guardswoman]’s voice rose higher.
“Defended? That monster killed—there are limbs everywhere!”
“Only six.”
Numbtongue blinked at the [Guardswoman]. She gaped at him and pointed a trembling finger.
“Watch Captain! That thing speaks! It’s a Hobgoblin—a Goblin monster! Just shoot it and—”
Her eyes went to Yellow Splatters, and her throat worked soundlessly. The Watch Captain was made of sterner stuff though, if only just. He pointed at Numbtongue.
“You—Goblin. You’re a monster. In our city.”
Numbtongue folded his arms.
“I have a paper proving I’m a person. Where’s yours?”
The Watch Captain stared down at the scroll and hesitated.
“Wall Lord…Guildmistress…Gold-rank…Pisces?”
He looked at Numbtongue. Then, nervously, at Yellow Splatters.
“That thing’s an Antinium Soldier, though. It’s—this is war! Isn’t it? It’s under arrest.”
The [Guards] around the Watch Captain looked uneasy. One of them sidled over and whispered.
“Can we do that?”
“How’ll we cuff it?”
Yellow Splatters didn’t give them time to try it. He copied Numbtongue and folded all four arms.
“I am the Prognugator of the Free Antinium’s Hive. Will you try to arrest me?”
He loomed over the Watch Captain. And that was Yellow Splatters' skill, or Skill. He was able to loom in multiple dimensions, not just vertically, but horizontally as well. The Human [Guards] edged back as they stared up at him. The Watch Captain went white.
“Another Prognugator…?”
He glanced from Numbtongue to Yellow Splatters. Octavia had disappeared inside her shop. The Watch Captain hesitated, then looked at the bloody street. His expression firmed at last.
“You two. I don’t care if you’re Antinium Prognugators or backed by every Walled City in the world! You just attacked dozens of Celum’s citizens. You are under arrest. Come with us quietly or…we’ll be forced to take you down.”
The City Watch raised their weapons behind him. Numbtongue bared his teeth. He knew they’d die if they fought. Human criminals were one thing, but these ones had proper weapons, even if they looked like half of them would run away screaming. He looked at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium gazed at him. Slowly, the [Sergeant] uncrossed his arms and made four fists.
“You may try.”
Celum’s City Watch shuddered. But that was the thing about bluffs, even great ones. Sometimes they didn’t work. The Captain of the City Watch inhaled, his face going dead white. The arrows nocked on the strings—and Erin Solstice walked out of Stitchworks in front of a very nervous Octavia.
“Hey, Numbtongue! I’m here! Sorry it took so—oh my god, what happened?”
She stopped in the doorway. She looked at the blood on the cobblestones, the severed hand lying at Numbtongue’s feet, the City Watch, whose bows were now aimed at her chest. Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters moved to block them. The Captain of the Watch pointed at her.
“You—that Goblin—the Antinium, and Octavia Cotton are all under arrest.”
“Numbtongue. What happened?”
Erin ignored the man. She turned to Numbtongue, then narrowed her eyes. The Hobgoblin tried to look innocent. But while his injuries were healed, Erin could hardly miss the blood staining his clothing or the tears in said clothing. Erin inhaled and then bellowed.
“Alright! Who’s bullying Numbtongue?”
She glared around the Hobgoblin at the Captain. He bellowed back, face crimson.
“Your Goblin just killed two dozen of Celum’s citizens!”
At that, Octavia danced around Erin nervously. She shouted at the [Guardsmen]—and the people watching from down the street and the windows.
“They were thugs! Sent to destroy my shop by Quelm! A bunch of criminals! And the Watch didn’t do a thing to stop them!”
“What? No—we didn’t—be quiet!”
The Captain of the Guard roared at Octavia, his face turning from red to pale pink with horror. The [Alchemist] pointed a trembling finger at him.
“He’s taking money from Quelm! The City Watch is being bought out! They didn’t do a thing when those [Rogues] set fire to part of my shop! Or extorted me for money!”
“Be quiet! You’re under arrest! And you’re under arrest! You’re all under arrest!”
The Captain of the City Watch pointed from Numbtongue to Yellow Splatters to Octavia. He pointed a fourth time, looking for Erin. But she was missing. The Captain stared around, then heard Erin’s voice from the inn.
“Hey, Relc? Grimalkin? Uh—Maughin and Jelaqua? How do you feel about [Thugs]? Someone mind giving me some backup? I’ll take you too, Keldrass. Not you, Moore. There are a lot of arrows out there. But you’ll do, Senator Errif! Come on!”
The Captain of the Guard might not have known who most of those names were. But he knew trouble when he heard it. He quailed, and Numbtongue, looking at Yellow Splatters, saw Octavia sag in relief. The Hobgoblin looked around at the wounded Humans, the staring city, and grinned. It wasn’t Liscor. But it was a city. He looked back over his shoulder as Erin, protective mother with an army of friends, stomped back through the door. And the rest was her story.
 
 
——
 
Celum was in turmoil. The City Watch was under fire. Erin Solstice, Grimalkin, a [Senator] from Pallass—it was enough to drag Celum’s own [Mayor] out of his bed. While he would have loved to order his Captain of the Watch to arrest everyone present, especially since a Goblin and Antinium had incapacitated nearly twenty of Celum’s people, there were complications to giving that order.
Firstly, it was apparent that all those injured were some variety of [Thug], [Thief], [Brigand], or so on. Celum’s criminal underbelly, although it hadn’t had much of one until recently. Unfortunately, it had grown substantially bigger thanks to a certain [Alchemist] Quelm, who had, in fact, been threatening his rivals and using the gang to extort money from them.
That was bad. But what was worse was the fact that Celum’s own City Watch had clearly been ignoring or unaware of the gang’s activities, both of which did not look good. And there was no chance of sweeping this under the rug, because a very vocal [Alchemist] was shouting it from the rooftop of her shop.
And the last thing stopping the [Mayor] from arresting everyone was a [Innkeeper] who was leading Pallass’ most important [Blacksmith], a Drake [Mage] capable of wiping out Celum’s entire City Watch, a [Senator] from Pallass, a Gold-rank adventurer, and one of Liscor’s own [Guardsman]. The [Mayor] and Erin were having a screaming match in the street.
“You can’t bring Drake [Guardsmen] and adventurers into this city and start arresting our citizens!”
“Oh yeah? Oh yeah? Watch me! Your City Watch let these guys threaten Octavia, steal money—hey, Relc, if you find all that gang and this Quelm guy, I’ll give you free food for a week!”
“Awesome!”
The [Mayor] clutched at his hair.
“You can’t do this! There will be consequences!”
“I am the consequences!”
The rule of law in Celum was breaking down. But that was another story. For the Goblin and the Antinium Soldier relaxing in the street outside of Stitchworks, their role had ended. Numbtongue was checking himself for more injuries as Yellow Splatters pulled broken bits of metal out of his carapace.
“I will most likely level from this. But this encounter proves how weak I am.”
“Yeah?”
Numbtongue looked up. By his count, Yellow Splatters had downed at least twelve of the Humans here and injured a score more. The Soldier nodded.
“We were overwhelmed by low-level Humans. It is proof we are weak. We are all weak. I am told even Revalantor Klbkch died when fighting a score of small Goblins.”
Numbtongue shrugged. A knife in the belly was a knife in the belly.
“Not enough armor. Too slow. Redscar or Garen could beat all of the Humans. Or maybe Headscratcher with his enchanted axe. Actually, even Headscratcher would probably die alone. Fighting lots of anything is hard.”
“Yes. But we must improve.”
“You’ll level up.”
The Hobgoblin winced as he pulled a bit of wood out of his side. His flesh had healed around the splinter. He looked up as the [Mayor] stormed off, having lost the shouting match with Erin. Yellow Splatters looked too.
“It appears that Erin Solstice is attempting to resolve the situation on our behalf. That is very convenient.”
“She’s…family.”
The [Bard] looked at Erin. He shook his head. There would be consequences. There always were. But for a moment, with Erin shouting, she could turn a city on its head. He looked at Yellow Splatters after a moment.
“Are you really the Prognugator? Of the…Hive?”
The Soldier paused.
“That was a convenient fact.”
The [Bard] smiled.
“A lie.”
“Perhaps.”
They waited as Erin stomped back towards the shop. Octavia clambered down from her roof to look at the young woman. Erin seemed angry, upset—and frightened. She’d looked at Numbtongue with real fear when he’d been covered in blood. Now she rounded on Octavia.
“Thugs? This Quelm dude threatening you? Octavia, why didn’t you tell me this was happening?”
The Stitch-girl looked down at her hands. She tugged at a string and muttered.
“I—well, I tried, Erin. Remember when I tried to talk to you? But you were busy, and I thought the City Watch might handle it, but it all got out of hand too fast. I went to you, Lyonette, Krshia, Ceria at the start, but no one would listen. And after Ksmvr said no, one of those Humans came by and said that if I went through to your inn again or I tried to inform the Watch again, they’d burn down the shop. With me inside.”
“Oh.”
Erin stared at Octavia. The [Alchemist] grinned weakly.
“Don’t worry. I knew you’d do something if you found out, but those guys—they’re dangerous. There was another [Alchemist] who didn’t listen. Jeffil. They…broke his arms. Stabbed the [Watchman] he hired. I thought if I went to you and they got you…it all worked out, right?”
“Sure. I mean—yeah. I’ll make this right, Octavia. Those guys and this Quelm dude are going to pay. Relc’s on the case! He can beat them all up. I think Embria’s followed him. And Grimalkin.”
Erin waved at the street vaguely. Numbtongue exchanged a glance with Yellow Splatters. One against thirty? The Soldier whispered.
“Weak.”
Numbtongue just watched Erin. She was talking to Octavia, frustrated, angry—but there was another emotion running underneath it all. It was guilt. She turned to him after a moment.
“Hey, Numbtongue, I’m going to fix this. You stay here, okay?”
“Sure.”
The Hobgoblin nodded. The [Innkeeper] smiled at him and then turned and stomped back towards the [Mayor] for round two. He watched her for a second, then stood up. Yellow Splatters was already on his feet.
“Hey. That’s the Human.”
Numbtongue pointed. Yellow Splatters turned his head, and the Soldier started.
“Ah. The ally.”
The Goblin and Soldier walked over to the man standing down the street. He had cleaned the blood from the place he’d been stabbed, and he seemed in better condition than Numbtongue or Yellow Splatters. The [Enforcer], who to Numbtongue was just another Human with a hat, tipped his cap as they approached.
“Good scrap, sirs. Pardon the abrupt introduction. I hope I was of some help? I can’t abide uncivilized sorts. That young lady in the shop doing well?”
