They died. They left us. And we are alone. But we are not gone. Here we are. The guitar sang as Numbtongue stood alone, alone in front of a crowd. But he refused to run. He refused to hide. Here I am. Here we are. We made it. We remain. And we will never let you forget. Here we are. Look at us. See us.
Here we are.
 
——
 
Then it was done. Numbtongue sat in his room, dozing off with the sun. His claws hurt, and his throat was sore. But he wasn’t unhappy. He was tired. Oh, so tired. And the sun, usually a good incentive, couldn’t keep him awake. The Goblin nodded as he slowly put his guitar away, and then lay down on his bed. He’d probably wake up after nine hours. Six? Four if he needed to.
It might be hard when he woke up. Hard and unforgiving. But Numbtongue had something now. A friend. A reason to keep going, to stay at the inn. Memories. Today, they had helped him. Given him words he couldn’t have come up with himself. The skill to fight—they’d saved his life.
He would have traded all of it to have the Goblin who they belonged to sitting across from him, grunting and chewing on something as he always did. Numbtongue knew Pyrite now, though they had never spoken. He wished Pyrite had been alive to see him on that stage. To meet Erin. Him, Headscratcher, Shorthilt, and all the others. Numbtongue wished, and that was all. But he wasn’t unhappy. Just tired.
He closed his eyes.
 
[Conditions Met: Bard → Goblin Soulbard Class!]
[Goblin Soulbard Level 30!]
[Memory – Pyrite, Flooded Waters Tribe obtained!]
[Skill – A Minute, Reborn obtained!]
[Skill – Ballad of Bravery obtained!]
 
Slowly, Numbtongue opened his eyes.
 
——
 
A minute later, a Goblin sat in Numbtongue’s room. He felt tired. Physically, his body, at any rate. Intellectually, his mind was racing. And fresh! The Goblin looked around experimentally, blinking, and then felt at his body. He knew the body’s name. Its owner. That was Numbtongue. But he? He was different.
‘Pyrite’ scratched his stomach. He stopped, poked it experimentally, and wondered if a flat stomach and nimble body was better than fat in combat. Then he thought of who he was.
He could remember everything. He was Pyrite. And he was Numbtongue. The gaps between their personalities had disappeared, but also reformed. This wasn’t the confused jumble that Numbtongue had been forced to sort through when Pyrite had died.
This was different. Pyrite felt like himself, although that might be an illusion. More importantly, Pyrite could remember Numbtongue’s memories, but he was sure, in this moment, he was Pyrite. Only, one inclined to help Numbtongue. Well, that was fine. He would have done it anyways.
Wasn’t this confusing? Pyrite frowned and blew out his cheeks. He knew he didn’t have time to waste on puzzling out who was who, though. The Skill’s name had sounded explicit. [A Minute, Reborn]. Well, that was a time limit. And an inconvenient one, too.
One minute, so now probably thirty seconds. Pyrite hesitated, then decided he needed notes. He bent and, with Numbtongue’s finger, scribbled fast on the floorboards, cutting into them with his nail. Numbtongue didn’t know how to write because he’d never bothered, but he could read this note in case he forgot. There were so many thoughts bouncing around in Pyrite’s head, but he jotted down the most pressing ones as he spoke aloud.
“This class. Is it only for [Bards]? Why did you get it? Because of memory? Was that because so many Goblins died or because I tried? Is this memory here to stay, or does it fade?”
He paused, not too concerned by that. This was fascinating. Experimentally, he flexed one clawed hand and went back to writing.
“Do I remember this, or does Numbtongue remembering take over and I am new Pyrite with Numbtongue’s memories any time? Will I make him level up? Can I level up?”
Probably not. But Pyrite wrote it down just in case. He frowned. So many questions!
“Hm. Hmm. Greydath would know. Do I have Skills when I am reborn? Is it possible to make this longer? An hour? A day? Test me in the mountains or elsewhere. I have [Power Strike]—can’t use here. Lastly…”
Ten seconds. Pyrite could feel something tugging him. Yes. His time was coming to a close. And perhaps he could leave if need be. But he could also be called. When he was needed…his mind flashed from thought to thought, and then Pyrite’s eyes widened. With the last seconds, he wrote, scratching deep into the wooden floorboards.
Then he was gone. One second he was there, and then Numbtongue was staring down at his old thumb. He could sense what Pyrite had wanted to write, so he finished it. Then…Pyrite’s perspective, his intentions, faded away in Numbtongue’s mind like an old dream. The Hobgoblin shook. He could remember what Pyrite had done, even the vague intentions, but the exact reasoning and…personality were beyond him.
But the writing was clear. Numbtongue stared at it. Particularly the last lines. They burned so hot in him that his exhaustion disappeared in a moment. He stared down and read slowly, his voice shaking.
“The class is not new. The class is meant for you. Goblins have always had this power. When did we lose it? How?”
We have had this class. It is ours. [Goblin Soulbard]. Goblin. If Goblins have a class, do Humans? Do Drakes? What does it mean? Is it just memories? Is it a thing of [Chieftains]?
Those were Pyrite’s thoughts. But the words below them struck a chord deeper. They rocked Numbtongue to his core. Because they changed his purpose. The reason he was here. Trembling, he touched the scratches in the wood.
“Find the others if they remain. Find our King.”
He looked up. The inn was silent above him as a new day dawned. And the Goblin sat by himself. But he was no longer alone.
Slowly, the pieces of the world began to fall closer into place.
