“Ah, it looks like I missed one,” said the girl in a voice that matched her body, not her presence. “But no matter. I can always find him later. I’m glad the rest of you gathered in one place for me!”

“You!” shouted Quel’Khulan, drawing his sword. “How are you here?”

“You really thought we would let you live in those boxes without any kind of failsafe?” said the girl. “I knew the moment the first of you was freed, and I’ve been waiting for this moment ever since.”

“You should have ascended long ago,” said Quel’Tyral, nocking an arrow.

“And yet I haven’t,” said the girl. “How curious. Do you want to know why? Or should we just skip the discussion and–?”

“I wouldn’t do that if I were you.”

Elise immediately recognized the voice, and with an immense effort, she lifted her head to see the speaker. Right behind the little girl, Irylax was casually leaning against the wall, picking dirt out of her fingernails.

“…It seems I’ve miscalculated,” said the little girl. “Why don’t we call a truce?”

“I’ll do you one better,” said Irylax. “Kill yourself and spare me the effort. That way, it will be painless.”

“That’s no way to negotiate.”

“You’re not in much of a position to bargain.”

“I think I am. You can certainly kill me, but can you kill me before I kill them?”

“Why should I care about the lives of weak mortals?”

“You can’t bluff me. I sense the mark you put on the changeling.”

She marked me?

“…Hmmm, I forgot about that,” said Irylax.

“Then why don’t you let me go?” suggested the girl. “I’ll leave and we can pretend this whole thing never happened.”

“No, I don’t think so,” said Irylax. “Kill yourself. I won’t ask again.”

“That’s a pretty tough request,” said the girl. “If I die, I’m taking them down with me. Either let me live, or they die.”

There was a tense silence where neither spoke. Elise felt the pressure lessen, allowing her to breathe, but she couldn’t shake the sense of foreboding. The sealed ancients were powerful enough to kill dragons, according to Erin, but the little girl was strong enough to put them on edge, and Irylax was strong enough to completely subdue the little girl.

How strong is she?

She had thought she had a good handle on how Irylax stacked up against the rest of the world, but this was making her re-evaluate things. She knew that Irylax was stronger than an ordinary 9th Tier, but had thought that was just due to her being a dragon on the verge of divine ascension. But was this much of a power gap just the result of being near divinity?

“I have another proposal,” said Irylax finally. “I don’t have time to waste on you. Just die.”

And then all hell broke loose.
