“Shit,” he cursed through his teeth. He’d needed those. While hunger had receded thanks to the waves of nausea propagated by the pain in his hand, his throat had grown parched from the exertion, and he’d just let three potential sources of sustenance disappear before his eyes.

He grunted, venting his frustration in the sharp, low-pitched noise as he evaluated his options. He couldn’t afford to wait around too long—the longer he went without water the weaker he’d become, but he similarly couldn’t charge forth immediately, not with his hand in its current state.

Edmund resolved he’d wait until his hand recovered enough that he could use it, painfully or otherwise. In the meantime, he explored his platform as much as he could.

It wasn’t much.

The landing consisted of a roughly twenty foot circle of the same uneven hexagons, devoid of features. Edmund prodded at each of them with the base of his spear on the off chance some compartment lay hidden beneath, but found nothing. Over the edge he found his current platform supported by other hexagonal pillars that didn’t reach as high, but each sat too low for him to have any hope of climbing back up should he attempt to jump down to them.

He noticed then, as he looked out across the chasm ahead of him, that that was true of each of the pillars except the last landing. The third of the larger stopping points between the loose steps had a more gradual slope between the platform itself and the lower pillars around it. Edmund resolved to explore them when he made it there.

An hour later, he stopped to flex the muscles of his left hand, wincing at the spike of agony but swallowing the pain down his parched throat as he nodded with approval at the motion. It hurt like shit, but he could use it.

Taking the remains of his rope belt, Edmund tied a tight loop around his right thigh and slid Rat’s Fang through it. It was an uncomfortable and precarious-at-best arrangement, but it held enough for Edmund. He couldn’t wield his spear properly with Rat’s Fang in his hand, and he dared not leave either weapon behind.

Prepared as he could be, Edmund walked to the far end of his landing, turned to face the next series of pillars, and took off at a run.

He paid little attention to the crossing itself. He didn’t look down to see where his feet landed on the small hexes. He didn’t pause or hesitate or allow himself to imagine what would happen if he slipped.

He kept his mind focused on the fight to come.

When he first set foot on the second landing, Edmund didn’t come to a halt. He didn’t stop to appraise his situation or search for the danger. He knew where they hid.

He ran directly across the landing for the far edge, meeting the first mantis before it could even climb onto the platform. With a single swipe of his spear, he sent it tumbling into the darkness. He dispatched the second mantis in similar fashion, whirling to meet the third just as it finished its ascent. Alone, it proved little match for him.

Edmund didn’t stop to catch his breath this time, falling to his knees before the downed mantis and catching as much of the green fluid they had in place of blood in cupped hands. He drank as much of the foul liquid as he could stomach, the nausea rolling through him not the result of pain for once.

He stopped short of cutting into the creature for its meat, knowing if nothing else there would be more to fight on the next landing. His stomach couldn’t handle food at the moment either way.

By the time he’d done his due diligence searching for secrets on the second landing, Edmund’s left hand had all but recovered. Even so, he spared another thirty minutes to allow his stomach to recover. The last thing he needed was to cramp up at the wrong moment.

Only when he was good and ready did he set his sights on the third landing.

The crossing came as easily as those before, and again he raced to the other side of the larger pillar to stop the mantises in their tracks.

But none appeared.

He circled the landing twice, his gaze constantly flicking about in search of a sneak attack, but nothing came. No traps, no ambushes, no monsters at all moved to attack him. He scowled.

For lack of a reason to sit around waiting for something to attack him, Edmund turned his attention to the shorter pillars surrounding the landing. To the left side he found the tallest of them some four feet shorter than the platform itself, a distance he could readily climb up and down. Next to it was one yet three feet shorter.

The path was precarious, the hexagonal pillars no more than a foot wide. He shimmied along them sideways, his chest pressed to the side of the landing in front of him.

He’d made just over half a revolution when he found the opening.

Two of the pillars that made up the larger platform suddenly stopped, forming a two-foot opening through which torchlight glowed. Edmund squeezed in.

He found himself in a hidden chamber, enclosed on all sides other than the hole through which he’d entered. A single smokeless torch hung on the wall, illuminating the packed-earth floor littered with twigs and dried bones. It was a nest, a nest absent whatever had built it.

Instead, an azure fox feasted on a dead mantis.

It looked up at Edmund as he approached, green blood dripping from its jaw and matting the fur of its snout. At first it bared its bloody teeth at him, but with a twitch of its nose, recognition flashed through the creature’s mind.

Out of nowhere it burst into motion, leaping unnaturally high through the air. It sailed right over Edmund’s confused form, its left hind paw planting firmly on the top of Edmund’s head and pressing off to continue its movement.

Edmund whirled around just in time to watch its white-tipped tail disappear through the chamber’s exit.

His mind reeled as he watched the dungeon reclaim the mantis on which the fox had been feeding, his keen eyes taking note of the various scuffs and patterns in the dirt. There had to have been at least four of the things, four of the things that the fox had killed on its own.

He gulped.

“Now this is interesting.” Liam appeared leaning against the back wall. “Looks like our rogue mob is on a delve of its own.”

Edmund blinked. “What does that mean?”

Liam shrugged. “Thrax if I know. Like I said, it’s more fun not to look into things like this. Peeking behind the curtain and all that.”

“What?”

“Nevermind.” Liam waved him off. “Get anything interesting?”

The question struck Edmund as strange until he realized he could still feel the spot where the fox’s paw had landed on his head. With a thought he brought up his constellation, finding the image of the baby fox no longer lay curled up, but now sat upright.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Novice

The second step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants a single windstep.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

“What’s a windstep?”

“Ooh, that’s a good one,” Liam said. “It’s a resource, one that generally replenishes from spending time with both feet on the ground, and one you can spend to take steps on empty air. How many do you have?”

“One.”

“Oh, thank Thrax,” Liam exhaled. “Any more than that and I’d have to intervene. There are rules about how powerful rewards are allowed to be for given difficulty levels.”

Edmund’s eyes narrowed. “What kind of intervention?”

“Anyway, even just one is incredibly powerful, especially on a floor like this one.”

“Alright, don’t tell me,” Edmund said, kneeling down and unbuckling his pauldrons and cuirass. Azure fox aside, the mantis nest itself was a huge boon if for a single reason—it was built on dirt.

The moment he lay back and his exposed skin touched the packed earth, his rootmother’s sigil went to work. He glanced over at Liam. “Why didn’t you tell me there was dirt down here?”

“And miss watching you drink mantis goo? No way.”

Edmund groaned. “I hate you.”

Liam smiled wide. “I know.”

Edmund took his time resting and siphoning moisture and nutrition from the soil. He let his health regeneration do its work and fully close the wound on his hand and his various minor scrapes. Only after the mantises respawned in their nest—unable to attack unprovoked thanks to the accords—did he eventually rise and leave the hidden room behind.

The climb back up to the platform proper proved more precarious than the descent, but Edmund’s agility was more than up to the task, especially with the extra confidence courtesy of having a windstep as a safety net. He didn’t need it.

With three crossings under his belt already, Edmund faced down the last series of basalt steps without fear. This final crossing would be the longest, twenty lone pillars standing between him and the end of the level. With determination on his face, he took off at a run.

But he couldn’t leap.

Just as he bent his front leg to push off the edge of the platform, his rear foot refused to pull away from the floor.

Edmund stopped short, his center of mass leaning over the abyss as something held his back foot in place. He yanked at it, and it pulled him back over the relative safety of the landing.

Just as he did, a mantis swept down from the ceiling on clear wings, its sawlike legs swiping right through the air above the closest pillar. Had he jumped, he’d have had no way to dodge the attack without falling to his death.

His heart pounding, Edmund pulled back and looked down at his rear foot just in time to watch tendrils of ethereal smoke withdraw from it and dissipate into the air.

Madness had saved him.

Edmund cursed as he watched the mantis fly back up and disappear into the darkness that enshrouded the ceiling, his mind racing to parse through what had just happened.

The smoke hadn’t warned him. It hadn’t alerted him to the threat and stayed resigned to giving him information he had no right to. It had stopped him, held him physically in place at just the right moment. At once, the newest addition to his Aspect’s description flashed through his mind.

Touch the unreal.

His Madness had progressed beyond seeing things that weren’t there. He could touch them now, and more disturbing still, they could touch him too. Edmund could only hope the things that weren’t there would remain on his side. It would be trivially easy for them to kill him if they wanted.

Forcing away his worry about the strange and unpredictable yet clearly powerful effects of his Madness, Edmund stepped back to the far end of the platform and readied himself for another go.

This time, the illusory smoke didn’t stop him.

The mantis swept down.

Edmund swung his spear.

His reach advantage won the exchange, the tip of his spear Rending the airborne insect in two before it could even swing at him. It plummeted into the darkness in pieces.

But that was all it took. The force of the blow, the transfer of momentum from one being to the other, knocked Edmund’s leap off course.

Until it didn’t.

With a thought he flexed his newest muscle, and the air beneath his left foot solidified for the briefest of moments. It was enough.

The motion was clumsy and unpredictable, and rather than cleanly leaping to the top of the closest pillar, Edmund’s stomach slammed into the top corner, his body doubling over its top. For an instant he worried the force of the collision would break the stone, but the basalt pillar held.

Edmund hung there for a moment, the top of the pillar digging into his abdomen as he wrapped his arms around it for dear life. He caught his breath, allowed his heart rate to slow as he forced his thoughts away from the dark abyss at which he stared.

The first step of his climb was to tug at the handle on his spear to bend the tip into a hook, something he could loop around his neck to free up his hands. With that complete, he pushed himself up, his boots pressing against the side of the pillar to provide every bit of lift they could.

His heart fluttered in his chest as he finally stood upright on the foot-wide hexagon, nothing but empty air around him for two yards in every direction.

On the one hand, no second mantis descended from above to knock him off. On the other, without a running start he had little hope of leaping the distance to the next pillar, nor back to the landing.

But he didn’t have to.

As luck would have it, with the right bit of maneuvering, Edmund could fit both of his feet in their entirety on the top of the small pillar. It was a tiny bit of ground, but it was ground. A quick check to his constellation confirmed a cooldown ticking away below his azure novice’s sigil.

For over five minutes he stood there, an eternity to spend so precariously perched above certain death. The abyss seemed to reach for him. His heart pounded, his breath quickened, his mind fought back an onslaught of dizziness the emptiness around him imparted.

But Edmund didn’t fall.

Once the cooldown ended, he didn’t hesitate to jump, stepping once on solid air halfway between the first and second pillars to build up speed before his foot landed on hard basalt. He leapt again, not allowing his momentum to fail him again.

When at last he reached the ledge on the far wall, Edmund collapsed to his hands and knees as the familiar chime of a cleared floor echoed the air. He breathed in deep and clenched his sweaty palms and let the fear he’d so staved back wash over him and came away clean. He’d done it.

With the flat expression that was the closest to a grin Edmund managed these days, he pushed himself to his feet, collected his spear from where he’d let it fall, and turned to face the silver chest.

“Tell me there’s a new belt in there.”

Liam appeared leaning against the wall, a smirk on his face and a single eyebrow raised. “Do you want there to be?”

Edmund growled, “Please put a belt in the chest.”

Liam winked.

With a sigh, Edmund flipped open the lid to find a short chain, its links wrought of the same dark gray chitin as the cave mantises.

“Ask and you shall receive,” Liam said. “It’s a bit ugly, but thematically, this floor doesn’t really mesh with most belt-making materials so…” He shrugged. “You get a weird chain-belt-thing.”

Chain of the Lesser Cave Mantis

Lightweight but strong. Provides protection against physical damage. Highly vulnerable to blunt-force damage. Good for catching and tangling things in its loops.

Edmund wasn’t sure what the difference between ‘vulnerable’ and ‘highly vulnerable’ meant, but it didn’t stop him from fastening the chain around his waist. He could imagine a blunt object smashing one of the loops fairly easily, so he figured that’s what the description meant.

He slipped Rat’s Fang through his new belt, discarding the old rope in the process.

