Loot collected, his thoughts turned towards his next Aspect. Having made all the combinations his constellation would allow, only the base Aspects remained open to him.

Aspects

As per usual, Divine, Infernal, and Eldritch were off limits until he made a pact with a celestial being. While not strictly unavailable, Edmund also dismissed any of the Aspects in opposition to his current build. Serenity especially, as the counter to Madness, repelled him.

Wrath and War both lay in close proximity to Madness, with Chaos as a close third. Alternatively, given that the boots and vambraces he’d earned on the previous floor melded with darkness, Shadows presented itself as an interesting option. Blades might’ve synergized well with Rend, while Endurance might’ve proved useful given how often he got hit.

But Edmund had another thought.

His encounter with the flying mantis gave him pause, the realization that there’d be flying opponents on later floors striking him hard.

He needed a ranged attack, and there was only one Aspect he knew of that would give him that immediately. Edmund selected it.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Flame Dart spell.

Just as Rend had manifested as a muscle he’d never known he’d had, Flame Dart lingered at the back of his mind, a channel into which he could pour his focus. On a whim he lowered his hand to the abyss and allowed his attention to slide down that spillway.

A small flame, sharp and quick, launched from his palm into the depths, disappearing into the unnatural darkness.

At once the channel in Edmund’s brain slammed shut, and most of his focus returned. Most, but not all. He hadn’t lost enough to set his mind spinning or thoughts meandering, but some clarity of thought had noticeably left him. The channel reopened two minutes later. His thoughts returned to normal after ten.

Pleased with his decision and already excited to see what would happen when he combined it with Madness, Edmund dismissed his constellation and went to plan his next steps. It was only then that he noticed the small stone statue and offering dish that blended in so well with the back wall. Edmund approached it.

The two-foot-tall figure seemed to depict some sort of demon. The offering dish stood empty. Edmund shut his eyes and reached for Madness to try and summon some sort of explanation, but Liam’s voice pulled him away.

“Don’t touch that!” he barked, an unfamiliar urgency coloring his voice.

Edmund blinked. “What? Why not?”

“Step away,” Liam commanded. “That’s not supposed to be there.”

Already Edmund wanted to disobey the order, but he knew better than anyone the value in taking the time to gather more information. He stepped back and turned to face Liam. “What do you mean?”

“I mean, that’s a shrine to Xe’orinoth, one of the greater demons, and he absolutely does not have permission to present you an offer right now.”

Edmund glared at him. “What are you talking about?”

Liam shook his head. “I’ll be right back. While I’m gone, do not touch the shrine.”

With that he vanished.

Edmund knew, of course, that the dungeon had likely just dissolved its avatar to redirect its attention to some other part of its ineffable self, but for some reason the image of Liam yelling at some poor goblin trapped behind a desk covered in paperwork wouldn’t leave his mind. Again, he resisted the urge to touch the shrine.

“Okay,” Liam said the moment he reappeared in the exact same spot. “I figured out what’s going on.”

Edmund prompted the explanation with his silence.

“So basically—” Liam clapped his hands together. “—and this is a big oversimplification—most delvers—not all, but a statistically significant percentage—will accept the first pact offer given to them. They see a shrine, they accept the offer, they make the pact. Because of this, when two or more celestial beings want to make a pact with the same delver, they enter a bidding process for the chance to be the first shrine that delver sees.”

Edmund blinked. “But this… Xe’orinoth didn’t go through the bidding process?”

Liam snapped his fingers. “That’s where it gets interesting. He did. He outbid two other demons and an eldritch icon for the right to place this shrine here, he just shouldn’t have been able to because your bidding process is ongoing.”

“People are bidding over me?”

“Not people, but yes,” Liam said. “But that’s not important right now. There are all sorts of rules in place for this process, a number of which had to be broken for you to be seeing this shrine right now. I took a look at it, and I think I know what’s going on: broken rules leading to more broken rules.”

Edmund exhaled. “Just tell me what’s going on.”

“The shrine isn’t here for you. It’s here for that fucking fox.”

Edmund froze. “You’re telling me the azure fox made a pact with a demon?”

“With Xe’orinoth the Fury, Devourer of Hordes and Ender of Hope.”

Edmund gaped.

“Shrines are only allowed to appear on instanced floors, which normally stops delvers from finding shrines that aren’t meant for them or their party members. But this fox of yours has already broken a dozen rules, and being on the same instanced floor as you is one of them.” Liam smiled and shook his head. “I swear, you just keep getting more interesting.”

“So the fox has a pact,” Edmund breathed. “When do I get one?”

“No idea,” Liam said. “Like I mentioned, bidding is ongoing. These things take time, and they take even more time when half the celestials have thrown their hat into the ring.”

“Half?!”

“Yeah, yeah, you’re very popular,” Liam waved him off. “No need to brag. On my end it makes for a massive administrative headache, but I’ll reap a tidy profit from it all once it ends.”

Edmund groaned.

“See? There’s so much to be excited for! It’s enough to make you want to just leap right through to the next challenge!”

Edmund didn’t bother replying, simply turning away from the exit and the annoying avatar alike to turn his focus back to the basalt steps. For the first time in far too long, he had an opportunity to train, and by Thrax he was going to take it.

Liam left him to it the moment he crossed back to the third landing, thankfully unmolested by any flying mantises. From there he descended back down into the nest to face the four insects within.

He practiced against them for some time, taking them on again and again until he could do so without injury. He fought them one-handed. He fought without his spear. He fought them disarmed, grabbing one by the leg and using it as a makeshift weapon to Rend apart the others. He peppered them with Flame Darts, forcing himself to fight through the mind fog that came with overuse of the spell.

He practiced his aim. He practiced his economy of movement. He practiced his brutality. He slept on the floor with his armor off, bare skin drawing sustenance from the hard dirt. Only once he’d killed the lesser cave mantises in every way a lesser cave mantis could be killed did he vacate the nest.

He crossed back and forth between the third landing and the exit a dozen times. He launched Flame Darts at the ceiling in the hopes of provoking any mantises that hid in the darkness. None came.

Long accustomed, by then, to the lack of sunlight or any concept of day or night, Edmund truthfully didn’t care how long he spent there. He took everything the floor had to offer, every secret, every battle, every lesson. It wasn’t until he’d learned his fill that Edmund even looked towards the exit.

So it was with eager anticipation and steel determination on his face, a spear in his hand and a dagger on his belt, and a collage of dull green dried mantis blood coating his figure, that Edmund approached the end of the dungeon’s seventh floor and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab

Aspects Unlocked: 8

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Flame Dart spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 4 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 4 - Gain minor health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 4 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 2 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while alone.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Novice

The second step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants a single windstep.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.
