And oh man, I hated those rabbits. They swam in the entrails of other monsters. To my credit, I didn't kill the less aggressive eldritch, and I even got one of the ice foxes to play with me for a bit. Those rabbits? The entire time I hunted them, they squirted blood from their eyes, and they all chanted in harmony.

The blood was an aphrodisiac, and the howling was a psionic attack that put desires in my head. What desire? The desire for rabbits to swim in my stomach. Yeesh. Horrifying. I expunged them from existence down to the last entrail-sucking baby. That debacle aside, I left the land far less inhabited and more peaceful.

Considering what some of these creatures did, I considered it a service to the universe. I mean, those rabbits would haunt my dreams for years to come, and yeah, it was a good thing I didn't sleep. Ah, the blessings of the system.

While purging the land of creepy critters, I harvested a few of the passing leylines. Each one carried more power than the last, but I only took a few of the lighter ones. I also grabbed them in an incremental order. Why? Well, I wanted as many of these leylines as I could find while in different stages of development. It gave me a better understanding of their natural evolution as they gained power and potency.

Whenever I went to make my own in the future, each version would be a useful case study. Well, at least I hoped so. At that point, I couldn't tell what my gains would be from this Arctic analysis. It wasn't a difficult task to get the leylines in a specific order either. As I traveled North, the leylines grew in size, scope, and protection.

Each horde of eldritch steadily rose in power, eventually exceeding level 30,000. The gradual increase in level was perfect for someone who actually wanted to level the normal way. It was something I devoted more time to thinking about these days. Leveling was essential to a guild, from what Opal said, and, well, duh.

While my own system experience had diverged from the norm long ago, I could still study and understand a normal person's experience. Besides, Opal mentioned dungeoneering being essential to any empire's long-term existence. Otherwise, the populace would lack dungeon-clearing ability or military strength, and I'd be left handling the shortfall.

While I didn't mind doing some heavy lifting, I wanted people to pull as much weight as they could. Anytime a guild member handled a threat, it saved me some effort. In that regard, their strength was effectively my time. The more potent my people, the more free time I'd have for adventures like this.

And I couldn't lie - this was fun. Really, really fun.

I needed more of this, so if my guild were competent, I wouldn't need to douse fires all the time. My other reasons for research were more personal in nature. Even more than the freedom, I wanted to understand how Schema's worlds worked. This place had long lost its inhabitants, and that left it uninhabited by any sentient races from what I could tell.

However, the eldritch still hadn't spiralled into a Spatial Fortress. Why? I had no clue, and uncovering that secret could be vital for many of my goals. At the very least, it would help sate my curiosity. The levels I kept gaining only spurred me on as I fought against a growing sensation that pooled in my stomach, and it wasn't dread.

It was excitement. I hadn't fought a normal eldritch in a normal dungeon for a long time. While this wasn't exactly mundane, this was close enough to an average dungeon that I was elated. The best part was the lack of the Old One's influence here. Unlike on Earth, this place didn't harbor the same insidious phenomena.

No matter where I looked or explored, the eldritch took on contained, stable, and overall benign forms. Of course, a few exceptions like the rabbits showed up from time to time, but they were nothing compared to nearly all eldritch on Earth. The more land I passed, the more certain I was of that phenomenon and its supposed cause.

The leylines.

The leylines kept filtering the influence of the Old Ones, and despite having explored quite a vast swath of territory, I'd never really seen these leylines aside from a few sparse, meager ones on Blegara. The presence of these filters raised quite a few pressing questions.

For starters, why didn't Schema use them everywhere? Even from a few cursory glances, I found system-made leylines that harmonized with the other naturally occuring leylines. If anything, it almost looked like Schema went out of its way to get rid of leylines on newer worlds like Earth. That sentiment only became more concrete the more I traveled.

Their density was insane, one of them siphoning mana every few miles. So then, why? Why in the world would Schema stop something like this and effectively neuter the eldritch's influence? This felt like the most obvious and elegant solution I'd ever seen, and I'd be damned if I wasn't going to incorporate these leylines on Earth.

I didn't care if I had to scour this planet down to its bones to get the ones I wanted. I would obtain them, and I'd kill anything that got in my way. Speaking of, I stood over the corpses of pale, shimmering bats. Their rancid breath and chalky skin gave me flashbacks to BloodHollow.

Unlike those pale bats on Earth, these bats could see, warp reality, were the size of buses, and could siphon mana with their gaze. That last ability was particularly nasty. A normal person at my level would've been left utterly helpless if they even locked eyes with one, since each bat stole millions of mana a minute.

To me, it was a drop in the bucket, but for a normal leveler? It would leave them crippled and unable to move. I made sure to write those kinds of situations down in my status while keeping an extensive log of the creatures, their abilities, and dangerous situations here. After all, I intended on colonizing this planet, and so far, it seemed like a nice pitstop between Earth and L-7 for ambitious dungeoneers.

It would be a part of a long-term project to create a dungeoneering advancement program. From one planet to the next, I'd have a fast track with a smooth leveling experience. Well, as smooth as killing eldritch could be, at least. Inevitably, there would be deaths here, on Earth, and on L-7. I couldn't stop that, but I could at least let people come here prepared. My time with Joshua, Jamal, Nissa, and Jasmine taught me that.

All of the research left a lot of unanswered questions, and more kept cropping up. For instance, the closer to the Northern Pole of the planet I traveled, the more signs of leadership and organization I found. Whatever leyline they protected, the eldritch worked together to harvest its resources.

See, the leylines kept building in strength, and with that power came a palpable warping of the environment. As an example, that far North, the ambient cold of the environment exceeded the chill of being surrounded by ice cores. In that perpetual frost, ice mana crystallized, and it would no longer effuse the air.

Eldritch would gather the stones that accumulated beneath each leyline, and their harvested supply would be shuttled to their supposed leader. Even from a cursory glance, I could tell that the workers took a portion of the stones, but they left enough to keep the ruling monster happy. In the same vein, the leader of these enclaves would then take a portion of these crystals before shipping the rest further out.

As with all roads in The Frostlands, they led to the Northernmost tip of the territory. I left a few of these towns emptied of residents and ice mana stones before reaching what would be the first of the great world wonders I found on Rebirth.

The glacial walls of the far North.

Here, the walls of ice reached for kilometers into the sky. Flat Earthers would've jumped for joy at the sight, and the sheer scale of the cliffs left me mesmerized. In many ways, they defied physics, though many things did here on Rebirth. I scaled those immense walls by flying near their surface.

I faced miles of frost as I did, and lost in the endless ice, the eldritch of eons past had tried to feed on the ice mana hidden deep within. The ice froze over the monsters and feasted on them in turn. In a twist of fate, the hunter became the prey. The monsters' fear, their pain, and even their despair scarred their faces even after centuries had passed.

The ice carved itself into them as well. Needles of the hungry substance dug into their bodies and siphoned their life away. A few of the monsters followed my flight with their eyes, and they wished for a death that would never come. I could hardly fathom the sheer volume of suffering, and the enormity of the structure and its consolidation had me wondering what was at the end of all this.

Either way, I would destroy it. As I passed well over a thousand kilometers of ice, I found another wall that went up for kilometers once more. After another hour of travel, another endless barricade stood tall. There were seven of these walls, and they reached up past any sky I imagined this world could have.

It defied all reason, yet it also felt so very right. The mana flowed here from the entire region. It fed on everything, creating some colossus of ice that hadn't yet awakened, but its presence was an undeniable certainty. It left me excited at the prospect of battle, yet resolved to end this horror.

In many ways, these eldritch were pitiable. Their existence had devolved into nothing more than mana batteries for the starving ice. They had survived for centuries in excruciating torture, and I would be the one to end it. So, I prepared myself for a war as I flew over the last ice wall.

The atmosphere here thinned, and all sounds were muted. My sense of taste faded, and my feelings numbed. At this apex, hundreds of leylines clustered together like veins surrounding a heart. They acted as the life force for this sleeping goliath, and it, in turn, fed on the ice energy the leylines created.

This careful harmony was maintained by eldritch from many far-off realms. They all congregated here in varying states of stupor. Most lacked any awareness, their bodies and minds hollowing out in service of the ice. The other eldritch had their minds warped by this tundral king and its control of worldly principles.

The monsters enacted the will of their master, making the other eldritch carry mounds of ice crystals to the living glacier. I passed camps that bred eldritch and placed their children over leylines. They would grow before being implanted into the ice, their lives forfeited to serve the eternal cold. It left me solemn, and my mission took on a different endpoint. Instead of trying to understand this realm, I aimed to obliterate it.

Nearing its endpoint, I found an endless blizzard. I dove into the icy wind, the sky itself spiraling under the strain of energy. Blinded in sight but not from my sense of mana, I passed through winds that could scrape steel from stone. In the end, I reached the eye of this Arctic hurricane. Beyond a wall that enacted stasis on all that touched it, a lone figure stood.

I passed the veil with my dimensional wake, my condensed aura staving off the endless cold. A being with no face held its hands and feet embedded in the ice. Mana coursed into its being from the glacier below, and it fed an unparalleled body. It was the embodiment of stillness, a silencing cold that left nothing in its wake but a haunting serenity.

As I neared it, the being peered at me. It was a color human eyes could not see, but its shape was familiar. It kept bending its form until its body was made of purified void ice, and chilled plasma pulsed through its heart and veins. It ended its reformations once shaped like a wooden ent, one with bent legs and wooden horns like a majestic elk.

Its eyes glowed with a blue deeper than oceans or worlds. My breath seized in my chest as it reached out a hand, and it drew from my memories. It peeled back my mental defenses and found something. It spoke aloud.

"Ah, it's you again, Harbinger. We meet once more, but now upon a plane of ice instead of on the branches of a dying Yggdrasil."

My voice was but a whisper.

"Yawm?"

It smiled.

"In the flesh."
