Chrona smiled at me.

"We'll see how long you can keep up that physical dominance."

She flapped her wings, flying away. I put my hands on my hips.

"Oh, we will."

Peering around, the city came back together quickly. It would be good as new within a few hours at most, and that gave me plenty of time to try and work out where to go next. After all, we were here to uncover the secrets of Amara's past. To do that, we had to scope out the planet and figure out some of its secrets, so I flew up and out of the city's barrier.

It was time to tread paths unseen and explore an unknown world.

Chapter Begin

I bolted out of the city, a gravity well flinging me forward. It was always such a weird sensation to fly by falling forward, and sometimes, I'd contain the gravity well in my body. It would let me feel the wind, and that feedback made the process far more natural. Unlike those leisurely tumbles, this flight held a purpose, one driven by a desire to explore,

It wasn't a rapid transport either. Whenever I turned into a thin needle, I could fly much faster by concentrating my gravity well and building my momentum. I'd then fall into that tiny gravity well, and my body would follow like a train on tracks. While in that needle form, I could control where I went because the system didn't require eyes to see its screens. I could close my eyes and still see my status as an example.

In my case, I'd have my minimap open in my mind's eye, and I would follow that to my destination. For my current mission, my senses were essential. I kept my eyes peeled, scouting out the nearby territories for opportunities. Not long after my aerial ascension, I found some. Around my city, lots of elemental hotbeds brewed on the surface.

Certain spots carried panels of ice that stretched for hundreds of kilometers. Other patches had the unmistakable glistening of rare ores and sparkling gemstones. A piece of that soil-aligned section had diamonds that lined the ground for miles. As I flew above them, the glints of the stones followed me. At first, I thought it was a matter of perspective. Landing down, they erupted from the dirt, colossal elementals of stone writhing out.

They had skeletons made of rare ores, and they dangled the gemstones as bait for anyone foolish enough to come nearby. At level 20,000, they carried the heft and might of mountains. I sparred against them, regaining a sense for physical combat against foes that could rival me. If anything, it freed me to leave the fragility of Earth and come to this absurd place.

I was far more at home amongst these creatures than in my fragile home.

After a few minutes, I walked out of the piles of gemstones, keeping a few for Hod and to sell to the luminari. They'd value the dynamic reflections and mana-tinted hues. From a few of the strongest ones, I found their bodies were hiding dense cores made of condensed mana.

From what I could tell, these elementally charged centers guided their evolutionary paths as monsters. As I tore them apart by hand, my skin and bones exceeded theirs. I cracked them like eggs and robbed them of their cores, finding a feast amidst the feral.

Somehow, they psionically howled in agony as I smashed them. It could've been a ploy to play on an enemy's empathy. Well, it worked, and after an hour, it really bothered me. Killing was one thing, but prolonged bouts of torture were another. That's why I developed a different strategy to save them some suffering.

As I passed by, I snatched their cores from their bodies. Once I was gone, I smashed their lingering mind to bits using Event Horizon, leaving a desolate graveyard of these creatures behind me. After killing a few thousand, I allocated my skillpoints from gained levels and moved on. I found many other elementally imbued eldritch that nestled into their various domains.

As expected, they reflected the manas imbibing their territories. By taking cores and a few corpses for study, I hoped to better understand how they developed, evolved, and changed over time. After all, Amara still wanted to find a way to help the eldritch. While I wanted her to diversify her efforts, that didn't mean she had to abandon all her previous dreams.

After tearing through the nearby territories, I gained a far better understanding of the nearby regions. We had landed in the middle of an intersection point between vast swaths of imbued territory. To the North, the Frostlands stretched for tens of thousands of kilometers. The South held a magma pit that opened up to the bowels of the planet, and it matched the North's staggering scope.

The East was a land of fluctuating gravitation, and the West was the flickering lands of lost time. It left me with plenty to explore and uncover, so I did. Passing through the outskirts of these lands, I actually tried to use my heightened stats instead of letting them waste away. It was a faucet to my system usage that I needed to get in check.

After all, I wielded my physical stats well. In my opinion, at least. Over time, I also took better and better advantage of my mental stats. A Manifold Mind was the start of that process, and Infinity was its end. My cipheric runes, general study, and runic research were a lot to do for anyone. However, other stats existed outside of those.

What about my luck? My perception? I'd let those stats go to waste for a long time. That would be the case no longer. As I traversed through the southern tip of the Frostlands with that intention, a message popped up.

Quest: The Death of The Frostland's Ruler | Rank: S- | Description: There exists a solar-tier threat that has ruled over this area of [Rebirth] for millennia. Showcase the courage and bravery of a Sovereign by slaying the ruler of the Frostlands. In doing so, you will be awarded!

Honestly, the quest didn't change much of what I planned to do here, but it was something to keep in mind. Pulling my thoughts back to the task at hand, I soaked in all the sensations I could. Instead of trying to block the cold and its biting chill, I allowed it to soak into my steel skin and silver blood.

It came with far more than a mere temperature. Like with the ice primevals, a deeper chill manifested, one conceptual in nature. It was a shift in the laws of this region, and it bit down to the bones of existence. I mean, if I thought about it, cold wasn't something as skin-deep as a feeling. Well, I guess it was considering humanity based the concept on our own perspective.

What caused coldness was actually based on how quickly atoms moved. In essence, the slower they shifted, the more chilled something became. To feel that cold, someone's atoms would come in contact with the slower atoms within an object. They then stole the movement of those atoms, resulting in the chill someone experiences.

Here, the conceptual cold was something that bled beyond the atomic level. It affected thoughts, mana, and even gravity. Instead of relegating itself to the speed of just matter, cold seemed to slow everything down. It was kind of like I entered a stasis field, and I bet that some of Schema's own stasis technology was based on this effect.

While flying through the slowing field, I immersed myself in it. It acted as an amazing catalyst for understanding the strange sensation. After all, if it could be made, then it could be wielded. Preferably, by me, so I leaned into the effect. I spent a few hours killing the icy eldritch on the outskirts of this land.

After taking out an army of basic ice elementals, I sat surrounded by their ice cores and in the coldest spot I could find. At the peak of a glacier, I gazed at my surroundings, letting the frigidity leak into my mind. I could accelerate time to counteract the sensation, but I didn't. I let it flow deep into my soul, bones, and blood.

Within that arctic purgatory, I sought out whatever the hell caused this shift in principles. After all, it made no scientific sense. From what I understood, mana manifested as a kind of physical corruption. It molded reality to whatever you thought up, but at the same time, it was limited by that reality.

No matter how much mana someone used, they couldn't bend existence to their liking. I thought that until I got off of L-7 and saw the primevals do it. Despite lacking my level of mana production, the primevals warped the rules of reality around them. It was a power I tasted whenever I helped Torix, but even in my ignorance, I understood how flawed my approach had been. I wasn't bending or changing the rules of nature. I was scrubbing them from a patch of this dimension.

In a way, it was likely a much more difficult feat than simply altering the rules of the world. However, this other approach carried a finesse that I was hopelessly lacking in. It was like a hulking giant slamming a club versus a master fencer swinging their rapier. Sure, the giant got the job done, but it required much more effort than the fencer.

If the giant wielded their weapon as the fencer did, the colossus would always win in a fight between the two. In that way, someone's technique could bridge a gap in ability, and the primevals' reality-bending was a prime example of that. The primevals and, to a lesser extent, this ambient energy were influencing the universe.

I wanted that power as well, so I ravaged myself in it. The discomfort coursed through me in pulsing waves as my mind, soul, and body slowed. In taking in this energy, I exposed myself to anything that'd find me. An eldritch could shatter me to dust, but the risk was well worth it. I wouldn't die, after all.

Even after hours of soaking in the cold, replicating the effect was still well beyond me. I didn't find the basic laws of this place. However, I did uncover their movements. The shifting forces led to different hotspots, so to speak. From those clusters, enormous amounts of this coldness radiated. Finally gaining some semblance of their source, I pocketed the ice cores around me and headed towards one of these clusters.

I reached one within a few minutes. Surrounding a strange shard in the ice, a herd of icy walruses bathed in frigid energy. Perhaps walrus wasn't quite right. They held the rough shape of one, but tusks lined their backs and sides. These teeth glowed a bright white, each shard imbued with the energy of their ice cores.

Their skin solidified into ice until they moved. Like a simultaneous liquid and solid, their bodies crunched about on the ice. Their fins held patches of shifting mana, and they accelerated themselves with those flippers. Lines of runes covered the oldest of them, ancient scars littering their forms. Sitting at around level 25,000, they were immensely powerful and could easily ravage a continent on Earth.

I snuck toward them, keeping my body small and hidden within my held subspaces. As a set of several dark dots, I left a tiny vantage point for my eyes. Watching on, the leader walrus rested over the cluster of shifting laws and leylines. I encroached within a few kilometers, trying to get as close as I could to inspect with more detail. The moment I got within two kilometers of them, they gazed right where I floated in.

And all hell broke loose.

A blizzard encircled them. The structure of reality bent as the group controlled space and time. They funneled that energy to me while I scrambled out of my floating dimensions. Their attack blasted my metal body with a palpable force. My blood ceased its flow, and my mana quit moving.

The antimagical property piqued my interest as they shot into the air, their bodies turning into coursing patches of icy liquid. Bolting my way, their tusks left their sides and became shards of destruction. The glowing shards darted at me, several of the tusks snapping against my skin. A few hit at just the right angle, and they pierced several inches deep.

Their cold was like a poison, and it infested me down to my core as the bombardment continued. I opened my pocket dimension, and I unleashed a devastating wave of force. Not towards them, mind you, but at myself. I shattered, dispersing the collected cold in my body. From the ether, I returned, and my mana flowed like normal once more.

I heated my entire being until I shone a bright blue. Time compressed, my runes glowed, and my armor smiled. I was born anew, my body a destroyer and my mind its master. I jolted to them, crashing through their leader. They tried to splatter in all directions as a liquid, but I was ready. I condensed them with a crushing wave of gravity.

The pressure solidified their body, and my collision reduced them to less than powder. In an instant, their leader died. I pursued the others, tearing them apart with a similar strategy. I sent out a series of jabs and straights. The jabs condensed a gravity well over them, and the straight launched telekinetic bullets their way. As a hailstorm of shattered bodies flooded over the terrain, their blizzard faded, as did they.

Able to see, I leaped towards their resting spot and found one of the many leylines marking the land. It was the source of the manifested principles. It held a resonance like the others, but unlike the ones near my city, this leyline connected deep underground to other leylines. Energy pulsed through this primordial object, and it held the secrets of these shifting spatial laws.

I wanted that knowledge, and so, I listened. Its pulses coursed underground, each of the outbursts heading towards some point far in the distant North. I sent a message to the others to update them before following the coursing pulse. This was going to take a while, and I didn't want them to worry about what I was doing.

I mean, wow, I was so thoughtful. It brought a frozen tear to my eye.

Sarcasm aside, I ended up finding many herds of icy creatures along the way to the pulse's source. From elegant foxes that wrestled amidst frozen realities to rabbits that sacrificed weaker monsters like cattle or said foxes, the Frostlands had it all.

