The war against the Dawn Concordat, as mentioned, was a gripping affair concerning the fate of now five nations, given Pheislant’s involvement, and continental repercussions in the short term at the least.
It got little billing abroad. Yes, updates were shared daily by Wistram News Network and the other burgeoning magic-television networks to fill air time—a problem that they were all realizing they’d face—but by and large, no battles or speeches or singular events were shown.
For instance, an ordinary conversation abroad might be…
“What’s new about that Ailendamus thing?”
“Uhm…still at war, I think.”
“Ah. Pass the fried oats, will you?”
The average cosmopolitan Centaur household did not care about the war or find it that interesting, especially in Baleros. Mind you, the average household did not fry oats. Some Centaurs were just weird.
When the Wind Runner of Reizmelt tried to kill the Archmage of Memory and then a [Princess] and [Lord] were exploded on-screen, that was when the war returned to the forefront of the news. The greatest betrayal ever—or possibly a sign she was mind-controlled? Corrupted? Or just an asshole?
It was fascinating—but even someone like Lyonette du Marquin, who had been watching from the start as she prepared to go after her daughter, in her own center of attention in a worldwide event—even she could not see what lay behind the scenes.
Everyone knew what Ryoka had done, but the why, the investigations into the attack on her life?
That—was ongoing.
 
——
 
The room was dark. Well, not just ‘dark’. It was a literal void into which magic, sound, and other sensations vanished.
The only things allowed in here were what the interrogators wanted. And that was the very essence of fire and darkness—but melded together.
The odor of the Lucifen was not brimstone, which smelled like bad eggs, but oil and metal. Like a nation which ran smoothly on crimson liquid as thick as blood. When they smiled, it was sharply. Like the swing of a headman’s axe.
“Someone tried to kill Ryoka Griffin. You may be aware of this fact.”
The suspect said nothing but shook like a leaf as Viscount Visophecin himself sat down. There was a way to interrogate with kindness, guile, and whatnot.
He didn’t bother. He placed a dagger, point-first, into the wooden desk to which the suspect was shackled, driving it into the wood. Two eyes followed the dark dagger—then met the Lucifen’s gaze. He was angry. Two pinpoints of searing crimson stared back.
“You are a suspect. No verdict has been rendered. If you speak, you will be judged fairly—and treated far better than any other…conspirators…for honesty. If you have nothing to say—we will let you go and continue our investigation.”
Fair—even if this was not exactly a pleasant conversation. Almost, the suspect relaxed until Visophecin, turning away to one of the Lucifen, looked back.
“If it is you, or we find you were involved in any way and do not inform us—you will suffer for eighteen years. In the interest of honesty, I will tell you what will occur over all eighteen years. Rest assured…you will survive till the end.”
Two eyes went wide, and the suspect struggled to get free. Visophecin began to speak, conjuring a rather vivid image from memory. It was rare that the Lucifen employed all of their knowledge in cruelty. But they did for the right crimes. He waited for a confession or clue—
But all he got was panicked bleating. The Sariant Lamb claimed it knew nothing.
The other Lucifen watched as Visophecin tormented the lamb. Was it on the top of the suspect list?
“…Gadrea is going to object if she hears of this.”
Igolze was recording the moment for posterity and the rest of the family. Azemith and Paxere, who was still adjusting to one less finger, both nodded. Azemith turned to her partner.
“Are you suggesting we not interrogate all of the Sariant Lambs, Igolze?”
“Not at all.”
He smiled. In truth, the Lucifen expected almost nothing out of this particular interrogation. They were hunting for the truth—but this was more akin to stress relief. Still…
“It is not an outside chance they know something, you know. They are intelligent. And they once poisoned a [Regent] to death.”
Paxere and Azemith stopped eating popcorn and turned to Igolze. Paxere hesitated.
“They actually did?”
“Yes.”
The Lucifen turned back to watching the Sariant Lambs under interrogation. What was notable was that Visophecin was actually, genuinely, angry. He was one of the most controlled Lucifen, and that was saying a lot.
Did that mean he was truly searching for Ryoka’s assassin? Or pretending? Igolze carefully watched. He had his own opinion, but he glanced at his wife and got nothing but a smile in her stare. They were probably thinking the same thing, so Igolze smiled back.
Who had tried to kill Ryoka Griffin? Mortal? Immortal?
And…why? For rescuing Paxere alone, Igolze would give some good faith effort to the task. Besides which, this sudden suspicion among even the ranks of immortals? Sedition, the possibility of treason or a powerful actor that had eluded even Ailendamus’ security?
The Lucifen man smiled.
This was so much fun.
 
——
 
There were less fun things to watch, and thus less well-broadcasted, despite them being hugely topical to an anxious [Princess] watching the pivotal moment in the war. But all people could talk about was Ryoka, interviewing people who knew her, speculating on the assassination, what had happened.
All the while, the Great General of Ages was holding Krawlnmak’s Pass against the Dawn Concordat. No—not just them.
House Veltras, the Dawn Concordat’s armies, Archmage Eldavin, and his Terras faction were all engaging the greatest army Ailendamus had sent yet. Lest you think it was a boring battle…it was not.
Mind you, it was not pleasant to watch. Nor did Rabbiteater, viewing it from the fortress of Kaliv in which they were besieged, get to see all of it. From the battlements, he had a view of Ailendamus’ rear forces.
Their main army had actually marched down the pass and left a smaller force encircling the keep. By far, enough to keep the defenders from dreaming of sallying forth. The Great General of Ailendamus had been far too cunning to waste time on a mere fort.
Krawlnmak’s Pass, the Archmage’s Pass, was a famous place in Calanfer’s history. The Dawn Concordat had held off massive armies, and it was a symbolic place to win the war. It was also, frankly, a strategically sound location for a defensive army to hold.
The land sloped upwards after descending through a tiny valley, up to a much wider place to fight in. Any army had to climb to the very place where Perril Chandler had once stood and then descend once more. Then the pass narrowed, such that you could fight on open ground, push reinforcements downhill, or retreat and choke the opposition.
The pass itself was also tall but unhelpful, in that it didn’t have high, flat spaces for the enemy to take. It was the most naturally annoying place for an attacker to fight in. As a Redfang, Rabbiteater understood all of this.
Which was why it was really regrettable that the Great General, Dionamella, had already taken the flat center of the pass. There, she camped her forces and dared the Dawn Concordat to advance.
Behind her lay three [Princesses] of Calanfer, who would be captives very shortly. If the Dawn Concordat still retreated—she had the pass and could start rampaging into Calanfer, which had been hither-to free from conflict. And Calanfer was not Kaliv, who kept fighting as the lowlands were held. The Eternal Throne was no fortress-city. This was the pass to win or hold at all costs.
Oh—and one more thing. The defenders could not wait in the narrower pass to hold the enemy and bleed their advance. They tried, and General Dionamella fired the Greatbows of Ailendamus and the famed Lance-Arrows into shield walls and unleashed spells from above.
Faced with only two real options, retreat or advance, the Lightherald, Calanfer’s great champion, elected to attack. House Veltras, wavering on retreat if their demands were met, joined them. As did the furious Archmage of Memory and every other warrior who could be spared.
Rabbiteater watched the fighting with the rest of the Order of Seasons. He saw Talia Kallinad, Markus, Meisa, Ilm, and the others standing on the battlements and coming to a conclusion the Goblin had long ago realized:
They were ants in this war.
It actually rattled the Humans, the Hobgoblin was amused to note. The [Knights] had never seen a foe like this, that was so overwhelming that there was no hope of them swaying the odds. That was because they had been raised as the Humans’ protectors and champions.
Rabbiteater had been raised as a Goblin. He looked at the battlefield and didn’t have the wherewithal to talk about numbers or exact strategy. He didn’t think it actually mattered, really.
The Great General didn’t have that kind of weakness. He saw exactly four things that kept her from just rolling the Dawn Concordat on the first day.
In order of magnitude:
Eldavin, the Archmage of Memory.
Tyrion Veltras and three of the Five Families.
The Lightherald of Calanfer.
And…the Griffin Prince of Kaliv.
The Order of Seasons was not present on this front, and even if Talia, Rabbiteater, and everyone else in the keep had been right in front of Dionamella, they would not have mattered.
Three thousand fresh [Soldiers] wouldn’t have mattered. Rabbiteater saw Dionamella stop Kaliv’s army cold when they annoyed her. A charging wing of Kaliv’s tough infantry stopped, and then three volleys of arrows cut them down.
Time. However, the brave Level 30 [Shield Captain] leading a group immune to arrows—!
—Ate a beam of light that turned into a searing blast and engulfed hundreds of [Soldiers], sending them into oblivion.
Hence, four things were opposing the Great General. Rabbiteater watched.
 
——
 
First, the Archmage of Memory. He alone could match her, spell-for-spell. In fact, he did the most damage to Ailendamus’ massive army, such that they had to split apart.
He could not kill Dionamella. He tried on the first day, and that firefight was so blinding that Rabbiteater only saw him flying away. After that—he was cautious. The Lance-Arrows and the army could still possibly harm him, but he flew, using the Terras faction for long-range spells and as a second mana battery.
Pillars of light exploded, summoned warriors fought Ailendamus at no cost to Eldavin, and he rained down magic on Ailendamus’ forces. The Great General had to keep maneuvering her people to stop him from simply erasing entire battalions—but he couldn’t kill her. Nor she him, but if she broke the Dawn Concordat, he would be one man versus an army.
The second problem, though, was Tyrion Veltras. He was no Eldavin, capable of vast spellcasting, but Dionamella struggled to kill him, too. The [Lord] dodged one of her railgun spells with ease; he rode like lightning across the battlefield, erasing his opponents in a single charge before peeling off. And he had [Lords] and [Ladies] and artifacts to boot.
The Banner of House Veltras was a relic-class artifact that one of his people carried. Rabbiteater saw a woman planting it just once as he glowered at Tyrion.
“Get hit. Get hit—damn.”
Talia gave Rabbiteater an odd look as the Goblin cheered for Ailendamus, just for a second. Just in this case! But no, that stupid [Lord] was quick.
Worse, he might be counter-levelling. It was rare that Tyrion would face a foe beyond him, but the Great General of Ailendamus was just that. And his stupid banner…
…Conjured two Earth Elementals.
Not big ones, not nearly like the ones Rabbiteater had seen on the scrying orb of Gaarh Marsh and the Gnolls. But they appeared and began fighting around the banner—before the Great General blew one to bits.
It seemed like it took two days for them to recharge.
“Stupid banner.”
Goblins didn’t have banners. They didn’t get shiny armor unless they looted it. All of this stank to Rabbiteater, but he had to admit the most surprising third element in the resistance to the Great General was…
The Lightherald of Calanfer.
Rabbiteater had heard, throughout the entire war, the Order of Seasons ragging on the Thronebearers. Indeed, from what he saw, the [Knights] weren’t great. They lost to the Order of the Hydra. They lost to the few Drell Knights. They lost to the Order of the Thirsting Veil and to some regular [Soldier] groups en masse.
Yet the Lightherald fought.
“To me, sons and daughters of Calanfer! By the Eternal Throne, give them not one inch!”
His voice was so loud that Rabbiteater heard it from the fortress. He stood, sword and shield raised, his ancient armor shining like a second dawn, even by night. He did not ride upon any mount; the poor animal would have been dead from the light and probably the weight of that armor.
“‘Tis the armor of no less than Queen Marquin herself. I have heard it is an entire relic-class set bequeathed to the champions of Calanfer.”
Ser Ilm was familiar with the armor. Rabbiteater grunted as the [Knights] watched, fairly in awe of the most knightly, chivalrous sight in the world.
A single man, the Lightherald, standing in the fore of battle, daring any warrior, even Dionamella, to down him, day after day. It was the most glorious, most stupid thing ever, and Rabbiteater…admired it.
He also had a thought.
“Marquin was a big lady.”
Ilm hesitated, and Talia, Markus, and the other [Knights] all turned to him. Rabbiteater just looked back blankly.
What? It was true. That armor was huge.
Still, even a relic-class suit of armor was only armor. The man inside counted, and what surprised Rabbiteater, and probably everyone else, was that the Lightherald…refused to die.
The Great General sent [Knights] against him, and he battered them down. She threw spells which his armor absorbed. He took Lance-Arrows to the shield and was surrounded by the enemy, and he refused to die.
His aura was bright and blinded Ailendamus’ forces. But more than his contributions as a warrior—which were somewhat lacking compared to Tyrion—where he stood, the Dawn Concordat held the line.
Elsewhere, they broke and fled Ailendamus’ forces, but they fought like lions around the Lightherald, from Thronebearers to common folk. The Great General’s frustration was evident as she tried to fight all three fronts, Archmage, Tyrion, and Lightherald at once.
