“Me neither. What can I do?”
“White flag.”
Erin offered it to him, and the Goblin laughed. But yes…that was it.
He would not die without a reason. He had told Seraphel he would die in that corner—but only if it mattered.
Only if I can matter. Was there any way to do that?
For some reason—Rabbiteater thought there was. He checked his artifacts and wished he had the Bell of Really Painful Ringing. But he didn’t. He had his brother’s cloak and his other brother’s axe and some armor. It would have to do.
But how did he stop all those damned fighters? Maybe if it was a no-[Mage], no-[Knight] situation, Rabbiteater would take these odds. They could win that, definitely.
But the [Knights] were tough. Stupid—but tough.
“Unlike that [General], they’ll fight you with everything they have. The Order of Seasons underestimated them, but you know better. Commonfolk. The Order of the Hydra are still true [Knights].”
Zel was analyzing them. Rabbiteater nodded. As brave and good as Redfangs; there could be no higher compliment.
“Yep. Their only weakness is they have stupid rules.”
They were like Talia. Painfully good and straightforward and, perhaps, incapable of change. He hoped she would. But the idea stirred something in his head.
“Hey, you want this flag or not? It’s getting heavy. How did I carry it all battle?”
Imaginary-Erin waved it at him. The Goblin’s head rose. Erin saw he had an idea and smiled, trusting him to run away if it got too bad.
Have an adventure. She turned the flag and offered the plain wooden haft to him, like a sword. Rabbiteater rose. He looked at her, her smile—and wished and hoped they’d see each other again.
Then he walked through her without taking the flag. Imaginary Erin vanished with a sigh.
“Aw. Rude.”
But she sounded proud.
 
——
 
Ailendamus was coming, and Rabbiteater was nowhere to be found. Seraphel heard Talia, who was standing with them for their decision before heading to the fighting, discussing the issue.
She wondered if Ser Solstice had decided there was nothing for him here.
That was a cruel thought, but she was still upset by their conversation. And thinking. But as they watched the advance of Ailendamus, she knew that they weren’t going to last thirty minutes.
“So many [Knights]. How can one nation field so many?”
Aielef was pale as she saw the glittering forms in armor advancing. Seraphel resisted the urge to tell her that it was all about the size of the nation. But Aielef had a point; the Great General could send six hundred [Knights] to take this keep like Calanfer could spare…six…casually. Her escort into Noelictus—for a [Princess]—had been two dozen.
The Greatbows of Ailendamus volleyed—once. Soldiers trying to take the battlements to loose arrows fled or died.
Thunder. Seraphel saw the last fight drain out of the [Fortress Keeper] with that. He had a Skill, a good one.
[Defenders: Resistance to Arrows]. It would have made them difficult to fell from any ordinary army. It did almost nothing to the giant Lance-Arrows.
“[Princesses]. We will fight as long as we can. I will…let you know when there is no more time. I hope you will make the best decision. By the Eternal Throne and Kaliv. To arms!”
The man turned to them, and Seraphel was the only one of the three who nodded. Talia also moved to leave and fight with her people. Ailendamus’ war drums were sounding, growing louder as they cheered, as if they had already won. Only silence in the keep.
Then Seraphel saw Ser Solstice. He walked out of wherever he had been waiting, and that mysterious [Knight] who had met Lyonette appeared.
Like a figure from stories, he passed through the lines of the infantry in the courtyard, braced for the first push. They parted, and Seraphel saw them exclaiming. When some saw what he was doing, they almost tried to stop him.
“Is he taking his place at the vanguard?”
Vernoue was confused. But Seraphel’s eyes widened.
He had changed nothing about his armor. A cloak of red billowed behind him, blood. He had said it was the blood of his brother.
He carried a single, golden axe with jade-green edges, and the shield that Vernoue had enchanted. The armor of a [Champion] gleamed on his body. Not all one color and scratched in places.
The Goblin Slayer of Izril.
Even Ailendamus knew his name. He had defeated three [Generals], or so Seraphel heard.
But was the man mad? Surely he was, because he did not stop at the head of the courtyard. He walked through the shattered gates still steaming with the heat of the magic that had ripped them aside, over broken stone, and out of the gates.
There was only one thing he could be doing. Seraphel’s lips moved. Aielef got there first.
“He’s surrendering. Of course! An Izrilian [Knight] can do it without loss of honor! I could kiss him.”
She put a hand over her breast and sighed in relief. Seraphel looked at her older sister. Then she stomped on Aielef’s toes.
“You idiot.”
There was only one thing any reasonable person could think he was doing. The Goblin Slayer stood in the broken gate as Ailendamus caught sight of him. He had even put a feather on his helmet. He raised the axe high overhead—and then cast it down. He planted the blade in the ground, lifted his shield, and faced the army of Ailendamus.
Then he gave them the middle finger.
The advancing warriors of Ailendamus saw the Goblin [Knight] standing in the open gates. The [General of the Line] calmly spotted the officer-killer and identified the threat. He halted the advance of Ailendamus forces’ a second and raised a hand.
“Greatbow One. Loose.”
A Greatbow fired like thunder.
 
——
 
“Rabbiteater!”
Meisa shouted, and Markus’ voice joined hers. The rest of the Order of Seasons had been fighting to get to him, but the Dawn Concordat and Pheislant’s forces were stopping them from dying with him.
The Greatbow of Ailendamus loosed a bolt, a solid chunk of metal possibly only…what? Fifteen pounds?
At a velocity sufficient to punch a hole in plate armor with [Unerring Aim]. A low-level Skill. Even an [Innkeeper] had that kind of Skill.
It flew towards the gates and the open figure as [Soldiers] stood aside from the opening even as they readied for attackers. It could punch through six of them lined up, and it would knock even more flat if they didn’t evade it.
The [Knight] never moved. He saw the flash and the dark iron bolt flying at him.
It’s slower than I th—
Then it hit him. The impact was the heaviest thing that Rabbiteater had ever felt. He had never, truly, felt Greydath hit him. But it was the only thing that Rabbiteater could imagine that was—
The [Knight] reeled. His friends screamed his name, and the [Princesses] covered their mouths. Vernoue covered her eyes—then peeked.
The gore as the bolt went through his body and pinned him to the ground like a metal butterfly, red viscera seeping from—
“Huh? He’s not dead?”
What they had expected to see didn’t happen. The [Knight] went stumbling backwards, slamming into one gate. But he was not dead.
He was swearing as loud as they had ever heard. In a mix of regular language and that strange, chittering tongue as the Lance-Arrow, bent, dropped from his shield and he kicked it away.
“Did he just…block a Lance-Arrow?”
Seraphel couldn’t believe her eyes. She hadn’t considered that was possible. Or, even if she thought you could gain the Skills for that—who would try it?
But yes, Vernoue squeaked as her shield and a [Champion]’s Skills revealed a dent.
Just a single pockmark in the center. Rabbiteater was waving his arm around so it wasn’t broken—but he’d possibly cracked the bone? Yet he hadn’t died.
The sight of anyone standing after taking a Lance-Arrow was one thing. Everyone expected him to retreat—but the [Knight] didn’t. He set himself.
And another Greatbow fired.
The [General of the Line] might have been as surprised as anyone by the [Knight] surviving, but if you couldn’t kill him with one, try again. Everyone knew that.
Another arrow flew at the [Knight], and he reacted.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater was really regretting his life choices. He hadn’t expected that to hurt so badly. And he was convinced he wasn’t going to survive more than a few more shots.
So he changed tactics.
He had walked out there trusting to a few Skills. [Reinforced Armor (Steel)]. [Champion’s Gear]. [Improved Block]. Vernoue’s magic.
But most importantly—the one Skill that he could activate.
[Aspect of the Champion: Greater Endurance].
It had let him take the impact. But after feeling it once—Rabbiteater wasn’t going to do it again. So he did the only thing he could. Defense? Gone.
[Aspect of the Champion: Greater Speed].
The world slowed. Rabbiteater saw the bolt coming at him fast. So he raised his shield, but didn’t move to block. He surged, throwing his weight, angling his body. He threw his entire force behind the shield—
And parried the Lance-Arrow.
Okay, he deflected it. He hit the tip mid-trajectory with all of his weight and sent it glancing into the wall. The explosion and ringing impact in his arm and shield made everyone duck.
When they looked up, there he was. Rabbiteater checked himself.
That feels a lot better. He swung his left arm, shaking out the tingling, raised his shield—
Then he heard the cheering.
It came up from behind him. [Soldiers] shouting, as much to give awe at the mad display as anything. Mixed with it were other voices, telling him to come back.
But Rabbiteater didn’t move. He looked up. The mad cheering kept going before they realized what was happening.
You see—the Hobgoblin was not an idiot. He was a veteran warrior and, unlike Ryoka Griffin, knew the value of stabbing an apparent corpse. Because he knew that, he saw the other two Greatbows fire simultaneously.
Two Lance-Arrows, targeting him. Rabbiteater didn’t blink. He pivoted, stepped left—
Knocked one aside. The other plowed through the open gates as it missed him and nearly took Markus out at the legs. He leapt back as the Goblin turned, setting himself. A third Lance-Arrow missed him by inches. He leaned out of the way.
 
——
 
“Rabbiteater! They’re not stopping! Get back!”
Princess Seraphel heard Talia’s shout and started. What did they call him? Rabbiteater? What kind of Gnollish name was that?
Everyone knew he was a Gnoll. He had survived four shots, but the fifth came from the same four Greatbows. Because…they could reload. And fast—probably with a Skill.
He dodged it! But he—
“He can’t keep doing that forever! What is he trying to do, exhaust their ammunition?”
No one understood Ser Solstice’s apparent madness. No one could follow the logic at first, but he stayed there.
Again, he knocked a Lance-Arrow aside, but this time staggered. He nearly lost his arm and clutched at it as he misjudged the timing.
He could not do it forever. He drank a potion with one hand, diving left and coming upright. The fact that he was facing the Greatbows was saving his life; he could see the arrows coming and dodge them. They were, after all, arrows; if you dodged them you were safe.
It was just insane anyone would try.
Even the Goblins watching the [Knight] weren’t sure what the hell he was doing. They sat on the tops of the pass, and more watched from the scrying orb, knowing who he was. Wondering what he was doing.
Because—of course you knew the scrying orbs were showing this. Roses were red, violets were blue, and Drassi would take Octavia’s club and bash in Noass’s and Sir Relz’s heads if they didn’t show this.
They’d do it themselves if they missed it. This was television.
But what. Was. He. Up. To? The [Commentators] jabbering away, Rabbiteater’s friends and people and Lyonette—had no clue.
Perhaps it was his companions of the Order of Seasons, who knew Rabbiteater’s view on the class he had. Perhaps they had the first inkling.
 
——
 
The Goblin staggered upright. The figure-in-armor’s cloak swished as he raised one fist to the sky. The other held the shield at the ready. Then he whirled and dodged the eighth shot.
The Greatbows were firing, but now the [General] ordered them to synchronize their shots. Four at once. Enchanted munitions.
They nearly killed him. The [Knight] saw the bolts coming, saw the glowing tips, and dove. He came up in a roll, and the explosion as all four hit the ground nearly kicked him off his feet.
But he caught himself, and his head rose. This time—he lifted two arms.
Battered metal gleaming to the sky. The [Knight] looked like he was celebrating. The [General] wondered if he was taunting them. Did he know the Greatbows had, each, two hundred and thirteen shots left?
“[Instantaneous Reload]. Greatbows One and Two, fire, one second delay, then the other two.”
The [General] spoke crisply through his speaking stone. But he hesitated on giving the order to fire as something happened within his ranks. What the mysterious [Knight] of Izril had been waiting for.
A…riot?
Of all the things that the [General] was ready for, a mutiny in the ranks was not it. Yet that was what happened. The neat lines of warriors ready to charge devolved. He hesitated, saw arguing, fighting—
“[General] Rel, what is taking so long?”
Great General Dionamella was impatient. Somehow, in the midst of commanding, she had noticed them slow.
“Possibly confusion spells. Or airborne alchemy. I am seeing—fighting?”
At first, General Rel did not know what he was seeing. The front ranks were turning, and he wondered if it were an [Insanity] spell by the Archmage. But no—it wasn’t bloody. Yet even as he watched, a group of riders broke for him.
“Halt!”
His bodyguard raised their weapons, but the [Knights] dismounted.
“General! Please halt your advance!”
Three [Knights] all advanced past their comrades. All six hundred had suddenly turned. A representative of the Order of the Hydra, the Order of the Thirsting Veil, and the Order of Drell all strode to the [General].
“Explain.”
“It is a disgrace, sir! One [Knight] stands at the gates and takes on our Greatbows! He is challenging us.”
The Order of the Drell’s representative gave the most coherent answer. The [General] looked at the [Knight] and now saw the mysterious Ser Solstice gesticulating again.
He was slamming his bare hand against the shield as he waited for another volley. He hadn’t picked up the axe he had dropped; there was no point. The meaning was as obvious as could be.
Come on. Hit me!
Now the [General] saw what he was doing and gritted his teeth. The [Knights] were riding down on the confused Greatbow archers, blocking the way.
