The Griffin Prince was there too. He and his small wing of Griffin Riders couldn’t do nearly as much, but the [Prince] himself was immortal. He literally dropped on a Greatbow, severing the siege weapon, and Dionamella cut him in half with a scythe of metal. Rabbiteater watched the [Prince]’s body knit itself back together and leap back up, catching a Griffin, which dragged him to the next front.
“A cursed [Prince] fights on our side. I cannot believe it—that chills my soul just to see it.”
Markus remarked. Rabbiteater thought it was pretty cool as well. An invincible [Prince]? Kaliv had neat things.
That was the war Rabbiteater saw. For four days, the battle raged, and he watched it. Under siege, in the castle with three [Princesses].
Mind you, he didn’t spend all that time watching and doing nothing. As the Great General considered her next moves, he got to know the inhabitants of the castle.
Including the [Princesses] of Calanfer. Rabbiteater had met a [Princess] of Calanfer, though he didn’t realize it. But his conclusion after four days was…
They were all weird.
 
——
 
In the first, panicked hour after their gallop away from the massive army into the keep, Rabbiteater just sat down and breathed.
That was a big damn army. He had never seen the like! Even Tyrion Veltras had not brought so many. And that aura!
It filled the world. Time, shifting, stopping…he saw the waxy faces on the Order of Seasons and knew they had seen the true power of the Great General, just like he had.
“She has an aura greater than the Knight-Commander himself. Ser Ilm—send word. No less than two of the Seasons’ leaders must stand against her. If they could even reach her amidst that army!”
Talia Kallinad was giving orders as the [Knights], Pheislant’s leader, Marshal Huges, and the others all broke out into a babble. The [Fortress Keeper] pushed forwards, sweat on his face.
“Honored [Knights]! Do I have the honor of addressing the Order of Seasons?”
“Sir Commander! We are grateful for you lowering the drawbridge! We might have perished or been taken captive, else. I am Dame Talia Kallinad of Summer, pledged to fight with the Dawn Concordat.”
Talia instantly crossed the room to him and bowed. The [Fortress Keeper] wiped at his forehead under his helmet.
“You are most well met, Dame Kallinad. A famous name! I fear that army will be upon us within the hour. We must discuss preparations immediately. Our gates and walls are strong and reinforced, but that army—”
“Yes, Commander. We’re at your disposal. Ser Ilm—to me! We have a list of our forces…”
Rabbiteater’s head rose, and he picked up Headscratcher’s axe. Shorthilt’s blood ran in the Cloak of Plenty around his shoulders.
Of course. A fight in the keep. Good, no arrows. They could last a long time there, before they died.
Dame Meisa and Markus, as less-senior [Knights], were free to talk with him. Meisa put her hand on Rabbiteater’s shoulder.
“That army is the largest I’ve ever seen. Rabbit…we might make a stand here. But if it comes to it, we might surrender. You, though…”
“I know.”
If his helmet came off, he died. Markus clapped Rabbiteater on the shoulder.
“On my honor, Ser Solstice, I will not let anyone remove it. The Order of the Hydra seems honorable; they’ll not pry. But it may be a stand to the last, either way.”
“Yep.”
Both Spring Knights waited for more, but Rabbiteater just rolled his shoulders. He was ready. He watched Talia for a hint of where he’d be fighting. Battlements? His axe could do a lot of damage if they were coming up on the ladders.
Amid the babble of discussion, people greeting each other, panting, requesting news of where Calanfer’s forces were, and how the Order of Seasons and Pheislant had got there, a sudden bubble of silence emerged and swept the room. Rabbiteater saw everyone stop talking, turn, then kneel.
Meisa and Markus did likewise, and Markus tried to pull Rabbiteater down. The Goblin shook off his hand, and so he was the only one not kneeling as three figures entered the room.
Princess Aielef, Princess Vernoue, and Princess Seraphel of House Marquin, daughters of the Eternal Throne of Calanfer, looked around the room, saw Rabbiteater, and hesitated. But Princess Aielef, chin raised slightly, voice imperious, addressed Talia as the [Knight] rose.
“Dame Knight of the Order of Seasons. Whom do I have the pleasure of addressing? I am Princess Aielef of Calanfer. 3rd Princess to the Eternal Throne. I regret that we have not met under more auspicious circumstances, but I offer the safety and friendship of my keep to your forces.”
“Rabbiteater, kneel! They’re [Princesses]!”
Markus hissed up at Rabbiteater. The Goblin just folded his arms.
“Don’t want to.”
His legs hurt from running alongside his horse. He saw all three [Princesses] eying him—and Calanfer’s people with considerable anger—but he was busy scrutinizing the three.
The [Princesses] were interesting. Each one different. They all had red hair…but the shades were slightly different on each.
Princess Aielef had bright, brilliantly fiery red hair. Vernoue’s was far darker with strands of purple, and Seraphel’s a mix in between. Red hair was interesting to Rabbiteater because no Goblins had it, obviously, and he had only seen a few people with hair like that.
They sort of looked like Lyonette? Well, all were older, but Vernoue was the youngest by far. Aielef and Seraphel were in their thirties, but late, and early thirties respectively.
You could also probably categorize them by height. Seraphel was second-tallest to Aielef, who was close-ish to what Markus would have probably called ‘willowy’, and Rabbiteater, ‘underfed’. Vernoue was bookish, like Olesm, and Seraphel looked just sort of middle ground. None had much fat, which Rabbiteater put down to the [Princess] thing.
They looked rather like the picture book stories of a [Princess]; each one had a dress, albeit more practical, like a riding dress on Seraphel and a comfortable one on Vernoue you could lounge around in.
Indeed, the youngest [Princess] had a book under one arm. Aielef definitely seemed in charge though, and the most aggressively royal by far. She gave Rabbiteater another look, but was busy speaking.
“I trust you will fight in defense of these walls, Dame Talia? We took a risk, but we could not let brave [Knights] and our own people die outside these walls like dogs.”
The Dawn Concordat and Pheislant’s people looked up with deep gratitude at that. However, Princess Seraphel gave Aielef a look of deep incredulity. The [Fortress Keeper] himself hesitated. Rabbiteater instantly suspected that Aielef had not been the one to raise those gates.
However, Talia’s face was the image of respect as she bowed again to Aielef and kissed the proffered hand.
“It would be our honor, Your Highness. I must beg forgiveness; there may be but minutes until Ailendamus attacks.”
“M-minutes?”
Aielef’s confident facade wavered noticeably. She glanced at the [Fortress Keeper].
“But they’re quite far off…we are [Princesses] of Calanfer. They are no doubt here to take us prisoner for the war. I trust you all know we must be defended?”
“Absolutely, Your Highness. However—their Lance-Arrows might reach the walls even at this range.”
“They’ll fire on us? But we could be killed!”
Aielef’s voice squeaked. However, the other [Princess], Seraphel, just made an impatient sound.
“They are not about to hand out flowers and come knocking at our gates, Aielef. We have protections. Let’s get out of the way of our defenders—unless you want to stand on the battlements? I’d wager your tiara could take one shot from a Lance-Arrow. Care to try?”
The glare Seraphel got from Aielef was intense, but Rabbiteater grinned under his helmet. He knew which [Princess] he liked already.
Talia bowed until the three had retreated. Vernoue had not said much, but she had nodded to Ilm, who had bowed slightly; she must have been a spellcaster.
The rest of the hour was a blur of getting into position. Rabbiteater scarfed down some potage and wished he could have savored it, but it was just there to fill his stomach in case of battle.
For an hour, he sat as [Soldiers] filled the inner keep, hallways, and took up positions on the battlements. He was not in the courtyard open to the air; Ailendamus might hit it with spells.
He was inside, in the inner keep, ready to fight in close-quarters with Meisa, Markus, and Ilm. They waited as Ailendamus encircled the keep…and waited…
And then the first offer of surrender came. Rabbiteater got word of it; a runner came down the halls.
“Ailendamus’ Great General has offered surrender and repatriation to our countries without harm or ransom for all if we surrender, save for the [Princesses]!”
The others stirred. Rabbiteater’s head rose.
“Ooh. Good offer.”
Markus elbowed him, but even Rabbiteater wasn’t inclined to actually take it. The young man panted.
“The [Fortress Keeper] replied that we will hold these walls until our deaths!”
“Ah. Less fun.”
“Rabbiteater! This is serious!”
Meisa scolded him, but the Hobgoblin just grinned. What was wrong with joking in the face of death? Ilm was covering his visor to stifle his chuckles.
The runner went off, and Rabbiteater waited. He expected battering rams, those Lance-Arrows, siege spells, or just people warning about ladders incoming. He hadn’t seen any siege towers, but maybe they could go in bags of holding?
Trebuchets?
He got nothing. No shouting, just periodic updates to say that the army was moving past the walls—that the [Princesses] had praised the courage of the defenders—that His Majesty of Calanfer and the Griffin Queen were aware of their siege by now—
Rabbiteater realized there was no attack coming an hour and a half after arriving at the fortress. He tossed down his axe and lay down, pulling out a ragged pillow.
“Rabbit! We’re on guard!”
“They’re not coming. It’s getting dark. They’d come already if they were. Or started shooting arrows.”
The Goblin’s words turned out to be prophetic. Indeed, Markus and Meisa decided to relax, and so did Ilm and the others. He was the most experienced warrior, they all realized, and Talia gave the order to relax thirty minutes after that.
Ailendamus had encircled the fort, but declined to attack. A token force was going to keep them boxed in while the rest of the army marched down the pass. Rabbiteater was relieved not to face death, in a sense, but he groaned as he realized something.
“We’re stuck here. Going to be really boring.”
He supposed he’d have plenty of time to work on his new auras. At least Hearth—Bravery wasn’t going to be used much unless he had to start eating bugs. In fact, after some debate, Talia and the Order of Seasons, Huges, and the [Fortress Keeper] came to the same conclusion.
Sallying out of the walls was idiotic; the enemy had their crossbows and a few Greatbows trained on the keep. They were effectively shut out until this Great General forced the issue or retreated, so they might as well settle in. Everyone resigned themselves to a protracted siege; at least there was lots of food in Aielef’s personal keep.
Rabbiteater expected the days would drag, filled with aura training and maybe special time with Meisa. But he had made one miscalculation:
The Goblin Knight was not prepared for the shenanigans of [Princesses].
 
——
 
[Princesses] could not stop being [Princesses] even in a siege. And with three of them, their instincts made them do what they always did.
Which was squabble, vie for attention, and generally demand some kind of drama.
At least, that was how Talia put it.
“They are still [Princesses] of Calanfer. Treat them with utmost respect…and, ah, heed their invitations.”
“Invitations?”
Rabbiteater was in her company, and she glanced at him. They had that wary not-quite-friendship that had lasted since she had come to his aid, but the road to reconciliation was long, and Rabbiteater was doing no jogging here.
Indeed, there was little training, just a bit of morning practice, even for the [Knights]. They devoted their time to watching scrying orbs, debating the war, and refining their auras—or memorizing spells, in Ilm’s case. Apparently, there were some high-level spells he’d just been sent from the Fall’s Sentinel.
Rabbiteater had practiced making aura-pizza until his head felt like it was splitting. Any practice was good practice, although the Order of Seasons had a lot of training and tricks. Markus was still a bit upset that Rabbiteater could manifest his aura already…and that it was a pizza slice.
While he waited for his head to stop hurting, the Hobgoblin talked with Talia, and she was going around lecturing the Order of Seasons on how to behave.
“I have already received a dining invitation from Princess Aielef and her closest circle. Ser Ilm, you are representing the Autumn.”
“Ah…is this crucial, Dame Talia? I may well learn a Tier 5 spell.”
Ser Ilm didn’t seem happy about the invitation. Talia glowered at him.
“You are representing your Season, Ser Ilm. And this is Calanfer. They would remember the slight; it’s a dinner with the 3rd Princess.”
“Argh. Oh, very well.”
The Fall Knight threw up his hands, and Rabbiteater leaned over. They were having a rather fine meal of eggs. Not just eggs—some kind of weird but delightfully hot and tasty baked eggs recipe. It was using a lot of the most perishable ingredients, and Rabbiteater had almost done a backflip when he realized that was what they’d be eating.
Unlike other sieges, it was the fortress that changed how the siege went. Aielef’s fortress had a lot of faults that Rabbiteater would soon learn—but a lack of food was not one of them. The 3rd Princess had cuisine and ingredients from around the world, and because this was her home, it was preserved by magic.
The defenders would not be starved out of the keep any time soon, and Aielef’s own [Chef] was making food for the [Knights].
Still, the prospect of good food in Aielef’s company did not appeal to Ilm. Talia just turned to the others.
“They are bored, cooped up—and once this war ends, they will still be royalty, so it behooves us all to act on our best manners. I know you do not know…etiquette, Rabbiteater. But try to listen to whatever Markus says.”
Meisa bristled at Talia’s tone.
“He’s not an idiot, Talia.”
“He didn’t bow to the [Princesses]. You must understand, Rabbiteater, this is not—Izril. Ignoring manners has its consequences.”
Only Ilm didn’t understand Talia’s meaning since he didn’t know Rabbiteater’s nature. The Goblin just shrugged.
“I don’t kneel. I’ll be nice.”
Talia sighed audibly.
