Forty minutes later, Markus saw a side of Aielef he never would have dreamed of. They had not lasted long in the parlor, but moved to her most private rooms that even Seraphel and Vernoue had not seen.
As for intimacy—he and Rabbiteater were so intimate that neither one would ever look at Aielef the same again. Markus’ body trembled in repose with some actual physical effort.
Rabbiteater just stood there. Watching.
“…And turn your head just a bit to the side. Perfect. Your arm is a little down again, Ser Markus.”
The [Spring Knight] lifted it, and Aielef du Marquin industriously kept sketching his form with her brush. Then she made him change positions as she eyed her canvas.
She was painting him. And Rabbiteater, but Markus had a more involved pose. Rabbiteater just stood, arms folded, a grim sentinel with perhaps that flash of red in his eyes. A cloak of red blood spilling around him, and the enchanted axe leaning against one leg.
He was a look unto himself. Markus, helmetless, was trying out poses so Aielef could capture them on canvas.
Not, as it happened, lure them into an intimate encounter of the slippery kind. Rabbiteater kept staring at Markus and he knew that if the Hobgoblin told Talia or Meisa, he would never hear the end of it.
It was a young man’s ego that made him assume that any clandestine meeting was about one part of him. Aielef was a [Princess]. If she wanted something, she could get it without much fuss.
But what she had wanted was…well, this.
The two [Knights] stood in her personal observatory at the top of the keep. The strategic weakness of the ceiling lay above them, but Markus understood now—it was a definite flaw, yet it was not just vanity that had made Aielef du Marquin overrule any objections to have it installed.
It was a pure, beautiful view of the stars. Twinkling lights of every color lay above them, and Aielef retired here to paint. She had painted every way the constellations changed as the year slowly turned.
They hung around the room, dark swirls of black and blue mixed with the delicate colors of stars, how the sun fell or rose on Kaliv.
Aielef painted the landscape—and people. In fact, she had one of those classic ‘apple’ paintings, an apple as a bird pecked at it.
It was so real that Rabbiteater kept staring at it. He was no art expert, and, in fact, Aielef was the first [Painter] that Rabbiteater had ever met and talked to. He was fairly certain he’d once raided a caravan and bonked a [Paint Merchant] over the head, but that didn’t count.
Aielef was a style of painter that veered away from abstract or surreal and refused to leave the area of lifelike. In that sense, some might disparage her art since it was only what you saw, and a spell could do that.
Rabbiteater, if hearing that opinion now, would give the speaker a damn good kick to the shin. Because Aielef’s ability to capture the world she saw was extraordinary.
And she was fairly quick!
“This will be a far rougher painting, I’m afraid. I shan’t keep you two overlong. But how…is this?”
She showed them the canvas, and both [Knights] saw Ser Markus, holding a sword and cloth, polishing it as he stood next to the silent Ser Solstice, covered in his champion’s gear and artifacts.
It was a good portrait! Rabbiteater loved it.
“I look good. You too, Markus.”
“Extraordinary, Your Highness!”
Aielef smiled at Markus, who hadn’t stopped looking embarrassed ever since he figured out what was going on. She offered them the olives and snacks she’d provided. Much to her disappointment, Rabbiteater had refused to take off his helmet, but she was happy enough to paint them.
“A memento from the war. I fear that’s all; I’m a low-level [Painter].”
“You do good art. It looks real.”
Aielef blushed slightly and nodded to Rabbiteater. But then she turned and gestured around the room.
“It is overly kind of you to say, Ser Solstice, but if I had many levels—my paintings offer you little. They cannot shift with time or capture some vitality or aid those who view them. It is just…the world I see. I have one little Skill, and I will add it now. But what…detail? If this is over, I will gladly send the canvas to you, that we might remember this moment. Elsewise—it will be a fitting memory.”
Of your deaths. But Aielef clearly painted this for them. So as not to forget. Markus thought it was thoughtful. Rabbiteater?
He smiled. That was what every Goblin would treasure. They, the Redfangs, would have all wanted such a painting.
“That is the best gift of all. Thanks. What is the special detail?”
Aielef fussed around the painting.
“I have…[One True Detail]. What would capture your essences? Some quality?”
Markus hesitated. Rabbiteater shrugged, rolling his shoulders, and Markus smiled.
“I fear, Your Highness—”
“That’s it! Wait!”
The two looked at each other, and Aielef worked in silence for a few minutes. When she was done, she brushed at some paint on a finger and showed them.
[One True Detail] was her only capstone Skill at Level 10. It allowed her to create a moving painting.
But not true movement, and only one true detail. And that was that as the two [Knights] beheld themselves, they saw Ser Markus’ lips move upwards slightly, in a quick, genuine smile. The same man who could befriend a Goblin.
And if you watched, Ser Solstice would roll his shoulders, a practiced movement, as if ready to leap into action.
Just two little details. It took a while, and you had to watch the painting.
That was all Aielef could do, and it was all she had. She gestured to the food as the [Knights] complimented her on the work.
“I will touch it up—but do help yourselves. Please. [A Refreshing Repast]. I have…two Skills I can employ. Little else in this siege and in general. But I thank you for your time.”
Markus cleared his throat.
“I thank you, Your Highness. It was an unexpected joy to see you at your passions. May I ask—do you illustrate other pieces? The quality is so fine, you might well create something for a book or whatnot. If I am not being too forward in presuming on your time.”
The 3rd Princess of Calanfer stopped and looked at Markus and Rabbiteater. Aielef brushed at her hair and left a tiny smear of paint there. But then—she dyed her hair already.
“I…do not paint outside of what I can see, Ser Markus. I used to, in my youth, but I find that the real world is all I care to bring to the canvas.”
“May I ask why?”
Markus’ talent was that he was truly genuine. Naive, sometimes to the point of being a fool, but he got out of Aielef a brief confession as Rabbiteater listened. He, who did not care for the 3rd Princess’ way of speaking or behaving or designing fortresses, saw a [Painter], still royalty, and still very much a [Princess]…hesitate. When she did speak, it was in a pained voice, which she covered as best she could.
“If one dwells on…what might be, what could be, or fiction, things grow terribly difficult. I only look at what is—the rest is a painful exercise in futility, and my sisters, save dear Shardele, fail to understand that. Daydreams are wonderful, but if you keep pursuing them, you will only hurt yourself. I stick to what is real and I can touch.”
Ser Markus looked at her, struck, and then with a sudden, painful sympathy. Rabbiteater said nothing as Aielef realized what she’d admitted, then politely dismissed them.
“She’s sad.”
He said that outside of her rooms, with surprising tact. Ser Markus turned to Rabbiteater.
“A [Princess] must sometimes feel trapped, I suppose. I have a sudden respect for her, Rabbiteater.”
“Me too. And you thought she wanted sex. Shame on you.”
Markus turned red, but Rabbiteater punched his shoulder, then went to tell everyone that he could find about Markus’ misunderstanding. Because that was fun.
But he did understand something about Aielef, then.
 
——
 
Rumors of Ser Markus the Indiscreetly Sexual were probably not the reason why he recieved no invitation to Princess Vernoue’s tea party the next day.
Probably.
The 5th Princess of Calanfer, Vernoue, was also far more direct and less mannered than her older sister.
“Do you have a weapon or shield not enchanted? Ah, I see the shield’s not. Give it here.”
She had Rabbiteater’s shield in her hands and was producing a wand within moments of his arrival. Rabbiteater, Ser Ilm, and one more Knight of the Autumn were the only invitees. Rabbiteater because he was ‘Ser Solstice’.
The other two because they practiced magic. Her gift to the [Knights] was not art, but a spell.
“[Royal Casting: Reinforcement of Steel]. It won’t last more than a week, but that will be fine for now. That’s my spell for the day.”
Vernoue handed the shield back to Rabbiteater, and he longed to test it out. But he just thanked her, and she shrugged.
“I have access to a royal spell via my class, but it’s not the same as superior spellcasting. I find it analogous to a higher-level Skill to enhance magic, but broad. Ser Ilm, what did you think of my form? The Skill?”
The Autumn Knight looked at the [Princess] with some respect, spellcaster to spellcaster, and they began to jabber about the difference between how a [Knight] cast magic in the Order of Seasons compared to Vernoue’s training.
Rabbiteater liked Vernoue less than Aielef on his internal princess-ranking system. The [Mage]-[Princess] was more straightforwards, but after asking him to take off his helmet and making a few guesses about his identity—to which he refused to give her any clues—she left him alone and talked magic with the Autumn Knights.
She was a passionate scholar more than a [Princess], and while she had the other’s etiquette and manners, she forgot it for love of talking magic. She wanted to try out Rabbiteater’s Cloak of Plenty with her tea, which he refused, and studied his axe.
Oh, and she was keenly aware that she was not a great [Mage], and that her position meant her self-studies and tutors limited her from true magic.
How did Rabbiteater know?
“…I would have joined the Centrists I think, not the Revivalists, but Wistram seems all about the Terras faction. Have you been to the Walled City of Magic in Fissival, Ser Solstice?”
“Nope.”
“Ah, well, I correspond to a number of [Mages], even Archmage Viltach in Wistram. Have you heard about the breakout of Archmage Amerys? Obviously, Wistram’s Council must have had their reasons for imprisoning her, but politically…”
In the first ten minutes, she said ‘Wistram’ thirty-four times. Rabbiteater counted. Vernoue was obsessed with magic, from Archmage Valeterisa’s reappearance to the Gnoll’s book on magic and their suppression as a species.
If she knew Rabbiteater’s connections with other [Mages], she might have included him in the conversation, but she didn’t and he wasn’t talkative like Numbtongue could be, so he stayed silent.
Rabbiteater was far from bored after a while, though, because he soon found that if Ser Markus had impugned Aielef’s character based on broad assumptions—it was really Vernoue he should have been watching out for.
“Ser Ilm. I thank you for your notes on how the Season of Autumn casts magic. Tell me—the Fall’s Sentinel is practically equivalent to an Archmage in magic, isn’t he?”
Ilm was a far smoother courtier than Markus, at least with Vernoue. He bowed slightly as he drank some tea infused with a mild magical restorative.
“A broad exaggeration, Your Highness. I believe you are referring to an old quote? That would assume the Fall’s Sentinel, in armor and with all his martial capabilities, faced an Archmage. He is one of the most magically knowledgeable men on the continent, however.”
“How old is he?”
“Sixty…two?”
Ilm and the female [Autumn Knight] conferred. Around there. Vernoue nodded.
“And is he married? Does he have children?”
“Not to my knowledge, Your Highness. The Fall’s Sentinel, Lord Venoriat, is married to his Season as most leaders are.”
Vernoue smiled as Rabbiteater ate a fifteenth slice of the lovely cut sausage and drained his cup again. He poured himself another drink. It was good eating.
“Wonderful. In that case, do you believe if Calanfer were to offer…my hand in marriage, the Order of Seasons would consider an alliance?”
Some tea sprayed out of the female [Autumn Knight]’s mouth, and Ser Ilm blinked. Rabbiteater chortled.
This was getting good.
“To the Fall’s Sentinel?”
“Yes. It might be the perfect match—especially after the Order of Seasons’ valorous contributions to the war. I could suggest it to my father and mother? If not the Fall’s Sentinel, perhaps someone else in the Order of Seasons? You do have a famous library.”
Ser Ilm had to regroup for a second, and Rabbiteater leaned forwards.
“You want to marry the Fall’s Sentinel?”
Vernoue hesitated.
“I…am open to an alliance. It is inevitable, and I must do my part for Calanfer. I am hardly like my younger sister.”
“Who?”
Vernoue gave Rabbiteater a suspicious look, but waved it off.
“My younger, impetuous, dare I say, bratty sister. She actually ran off—though that is strictly private. I must be wed, so why not to someone to whom I could fulfill my passions for magic? I am sure the Fall’s Sentinel is a most elegant man. Not all are.”
“He is…pardon me, Your Highness. Knight Hiyev seems to be taking ill.”
Ilm hurried his comrade away. Vernoue turned a bright…and desperate smile onto Rabbiteater.
“Of course, if the war goes south, perhaps that choice is false, but do you know anyone who might suit? A powerful [Mage]?”
Rabbiteater grunted.
“Only…Xrn. The Small Queen.”
Vernoue’s mouth fell open.
“You’ve met the Small Queen?”
“Eh.”
She had visited the inn sometimes with Zel Shivertail. Not together, but Rabbiteater shrugged.
“You could marry her.”
“You are so…delightfully witty, Ser Solstice.”
Vernoue laughed, and Rabbiteater decided to pretend it was a joke.
“Hah, hah. I am funny. Other [Mages]…other [Mages]…”
“You must have been in or near Liscor, then. Have you seen the magic door? I hear the greatest [Mage] is Grimalkin of Pallass. He certainly seemed imposing from the scrying orb. Is he unwed?”
Vernoue was quick. Rabbiteater blinked.
“I don’t know. I’ve never met him. The other only ones are, uh. Falene Skystrall.”
“Who?”
“A half-Elf [Battlemage]. Gold-rank adventurer.”
“Oh! Is he eligible?”
“She’s unmarried.”
Princess Vernoue gave Rabbiteater a long look. And yes, this time he was doing it on purpose.
“Also Moore, a half-Giant. Or Typhenous. Old man.”
