“I’d hoped they wouldn’t notice you, but it seems they’ve seen you on the scrying orb. Ser Solstice’s charge of Ailendamus is public knowledge. So—Markus, Meisa. I will hold you two responsible for any slights. Just—keep him out of trouble.”
Even Meisa eyed the Hobgoblin as Rabbiteater scratched at his arm.
Did that mean the [Princesses] were interested in him? He didn’t know if he liked them that much.
For one thing—they had terrible taste in fortresses.
 
——
 
Dame Talia did an inspection of the keep to see just how well they’d hold if Ailendamus did attack. She’d done the obvious at the start, but she and Rabbiteater got some nasty surprises later that day as he joined her on a tour.
The keep was placed with its back to the very same pass; a nice, sturdy bastion of stone. It had decent, thirty-foot walls. Nearly Liscor’s height, and they were enchanted.
It was a better-than-average fort, Rabbiteater understood, and it was full-up since the peasants had been admitted inside the walls. The outer keep had a courtyard open to the sun, and the gates were not the greatest.
A portcullis as opposed to solid gates, and no moat. The approach was no winding path for archers to pick attackers off either; it was just a nice, gentle road.
Still, that was not the flaw. The inner keep was spacious and even had a catacomb, albeit tiny. There was a lot of richness inside, from carpets to Aielef’s personal touches.
…Among them being the central tower and higher floors, which were her personal rooms and living space. She had taken over the entire top of the keep where she and her husband, the absent noble of Kaliv, stayed.
All fine. Totally understandable, right? [Princesses] needed their own space, and Aielef was free to remodel! She had her own rooms, including some balconies no one was going to use, obviously, but it was in the center of the keep, so it wouldn’t be a huge strategic threat until the enemy took the walls, and even then, they could just seal the top floor off and retreat deeper.
The…flaw…was probably—as Rabbiteater, a non-[Strategist] saw it—the giant glass ceiling with a view of the sky.
“The 3rd Princess removed the roof and installed a glass ceiling. In a fortress.”
The [Fortress Keeper] looked embarrassed as he defended it to Talia. Which wasn’t that fair; Aielef had ordered it.
“Her Highness insisted, Dame Talia. It is enchanted glass. Possibly as strong as stone! Ser Ilm, could you ratify the strength of the magic?”
“Why did she—she knows this is a key fortress, surely?”
“Her Highness insisted, Dame Talia. I have naturally told her that if Ailendamus attacks, she cannot reside there, but she refuses to leave her quarters.”
Talia pulled at her hair, and Rabbiteater got his second impression of Aielef. She was, uh…
Stupid.
 
——
 
“Not stupid, Rabbiteater. Don’t say it in front of Calanfer’s people or they’ll fight you.”
“Huh. Good idea. I could use a fight.”
Meisa dragged Rabbiteater back and scolded him. Markus, Meisa, and Rabbiteater were talking about the [Princesses].
Why not? They were interesting, and Rabbiteater was curious. He had never met a [Princess]. He had expected more of someone who ruled a nation, honestly.
“Each one is different, Rabbiteater. There are no less than …How many are there now, Meisa?”
“I think—seven? Three [Princes]? I don’t know, I’m no Thronebearer, but it’s common enough knowledge, Rabbit. Calanfer is fairly well-known, and their royal family is all unique. At least, I’ve heard enough [Bards] extolling their virtues.”
“Ten children? All from the same father and mother?”
Rabbiteater was impressed. Markus nodded.
“The King of Calanfer hasn’t remarried. And it would be scandalous to have a bastard in the family. Not that it doesn’t happen…”
Politics and the intrigue of nations weren’t something Rabbiteater understood yet. But he did understand this. He whistled.
“Lots of sex. Calanfer’s royal family sounds good.”
“Rabbit!”
A Goblin’s perspective was…straightforward. Meisa and Markus were scandalized, but Rabbiteater thought they were the odd ones. You didn’t get ten kids without a lot of tries. Even Goblins would have respected that!
“Let’s just—get back to the [Princesses]. There are seven. Unless Her Majesty’s expecting?”
Markus coughed, red-eared. Meisa glowered at him as he turned to her.
“I’m not a Thronebearer, Markus. Let’s find Ilm!”
Ser Ilm was still reading his new spell, but he put it aside to talk. He rubbed at his head, and Rabbiteater suspected he too had study-headaches.
“Let me see. You want them all in order? And their titles?”
“They have titles?”
Rabbiteater was interested. Thus, he was introduced to the nicknames and virtues of each [Princess] and some of their personalities by Ilm, who did know what he was talking about.
“Let me see. Shardele the Radiant. First in line—married to a Calanferian noble. Radiant is a standard title for the 1st Princess, after Queen Marquin herself. She is a rather inspiring person, I’ve heard. Echoes the Eternal Throne and can even grant wondrous visions.”
“I believe I once met the woman when she was on tour. She seemed rather removed from the rest of the court. Not aloof—visionary.”
Markus offered. He had been in Pheislant at the time. Ilm shrugged. Neither [Knight] had the real context on Shardele, who was often aloof, and higher than the clouds overhead.
“She may well rule after Their Majesties if no issue emerges. Next is…Menisi the Watchful. Seldom seen and married to another nation. I’m blanking on which one, but she is somewhat scandalous. I don’t know much, but that is her reputation to me.”
Rabbiteater didn’t really care about the [Princesses] not here and said so. Ilm smiled.
“Fair enough. Of the three here, Princess Aielef is 3rd in line, hence her marriage to a historical ally in Kaliv. Aielef the Fierce.”
“About as fierce as angry little dogs.”
All three [Knights] slapped Rabbiteater on the shoulder, but Ilm just sighed as he rubbed his hand.
“Kaliv’s reputation and their nicknames…do not always align, Rabbiteater. I do know—and this is scandalous, but might be important—that she, ah, has had trysts that are somewhat public. Then again, so has her husband. Her two daughters are of royal lineage, though.”
Rabbiteater hadn’t met either one, but he knew Aielef’s daughters were here. His lips moved.
“What’s tryst?”
Meisa whispered, and this time Markus waited for Rabbiteater’s take. He was starting to privately enjoy them, and sure enough, the Goblin brightened up.
“Oh, sex with other people. Isn’t that bad if married?”
Ilm sighed.
“…Yes. Not to be spoken of, understand?”
Rabbiteater dutifully nodded. Ilm went on.
“Aielef is rather social, returning to the capital often; of the three here, she’s the most outgoing. The most conventional. By contrast, her sister, Vernoue the Enchanting, is a [Mage]. She never attended Wistram, but I am told she is a competent spellcaster, and I think she sent me a request to meet. I have not checked my rooms.”
They had been allotted rooms, and it surprised Rabbiteater that Ilm had gotten a written invitation. But it seemed one did not just walk up to ask someone to hang out as royalty. Ilm coughed and eyed Rabbiteater.
“Is it, ah, that foreign to hear of nobility in the tribes, Rabbiteater?”
“Ilm!”
The Autumn Knight looked slightly guilty as Meisa glared at him, but Rabbiteater’s reply was bland.
“Maybe. So Vernoue knows magic. [Fireball]?”
“Not combat magic, no. And she isn’t married—her engagement is likely to be soon, but her, ah, magical penchant has made it more difficult. I believe three [Princesses] are unwed. The youngest, Ellet, is far too young for anything but a later engagement. The other one, the 6th Princess, has been quite subdued. Now she is fairly interesting in the scandals she’s produced—”
“Wait. What about Seraphel?”
Rabbiteater held up a hand, and Ilm blinked.
“Oh, Seraphel. I’m sorry, I got out of order. Princess Vernoue is a scholar, so she is by way of being somewhat ‘normal’ like Aielef. But Princess Seraphel…it doesn’t do well to gossip, but everyone knows. She is Seraphel the Dutiful. Or, as some would have it, Seraphel the Cursed.”
That was when Rabbiteater heard of Seraphel’s reputation and marriages.
“First it was that old [Lord] who died in bed. Then the failed marriage to a [Baron]—did he die?”
“No, the woman he ran off with. Then there was someone else…and now Noelictus. That’s, uh, three if you count the poor girl.”
“It could be coincidence.”
The [Knights] gossiped, but lightly since they were mindful of where they were and of Seraphel’s reputation. Rabbiteater was intrigued. If Seraphel did have the ability to kill people with sex, or just in secret, she was far more interesting.
Ilm ended his lecture there.
“I don’t believe any will cause issues…aside from the remodeling of the fortress. But they will likely invite many of the Order of Seasons to meals or conversation. Tea, at the least.”
“Why?”
Ilm raised his brows.
“They’re bored, Ser Solstice. And a bond made, even in siege and war, might endure. Calanfer’s [Princesses] play politics from the cradle, or so it’s said. Just take care not to get entangled; but they aren’t the worst sorts of individuals for a [Knight] to meet and make a good impression on.”
Sure enough, the [Princesses] began to send invitations by the second day of the siege. It might not be a long siege, but they had nothing to do but talk and wait. And [Princesses] did what they did best, especially together, and especially because all three didn’t like the others that much.
They vied for attention, favor, and whatever influence or entertainment they could get. And since the Order of Seasons was here, the most interesting people were the knights of Pheislant.
And the mysterious Ser Solstice. Rabbiteater got an invitation from all three over the next three days. He would have ignored them, but Meisa told him ‘no sex’ unless he went.
 
——
 
Ser Markus was a common-born [Knight]. Because he was in the Order of Seasons, he had been able to rise to the class, and he was profoundly grateful for that.
He had learned politics—but he was no Thronebearer. Still, Markus might have been obtuse in some ways, but he was canny enough, a good enough fighter, and not an idiot.
All of that meant that he was incredibly stressed-out on the evening of the second night. He’d wormed and tried to refuse, but Princess Aielef had insisted. She had requested his presence in a ‘personal encounter’ and perhaps repast.
And yes, that was the exact wording. Markus had heard from Ilm about Aielef, and he was nervous.
Clandestine affairs were regular even among royalty and they could be denied or laughed off as lies, of course. But Markus did not want to get entangled in Calanferian politics.
Then again—refusing a [Princess] to her face if she bared all would also be a terrible move.
“Excuse myself as fast as possible.”
He kept muttering to himself. Maybe if he spilled wine or whatnot? He had gone in armor, lacking any kind of other clothing, and he had considered locking the pieces into place.
Ser Markus of the Season of Spring was nervous as he ascended the stairs and waited, a few minutes early, to meet with Princess Aielef in her personal, very private top floor of the keep. He wished he was imagining this, but the wording of the invitation had been unlike any regular teatime social or whatnot. She had not mentioned guests, and the hour was…late.
Past dinner. Markus, then, was a man really considering his future. Aielef was not unattractive, which was the hard part. However, the consequences…
The problem was he was no Winter Knight, or even Knight of Autumn. Spring was vibrancy and youth. Markus was worried—until he saw the second figure come up the stairs.
Rabbiteater stopped when he saw Markus.
“Oh. Are you here too? I got a message. Said to come alone.”
Markus wavered. For a second he was relieved—then he got more worried. Rabbiteater just bounced on his heels, clearly bored, but Markus hurried over.
“You got an invitation? Let me see, Rabbit. Dead gods. Does Meisa know?”
“She told me to go to any invitations.”
The Goblin sulked, but if Meisa had seen this invitation…Markus sniffed it. Yep, definitely perfume.
“This is not good, Rabbiteater. ‘I hope to gaze upon your face if you may be so willing…’. Rabbit! We might be in a lot of trouble here!”
The Goblin looked blankly at Markus until the Spring Knight said it plainly enough for him to get. Then the Goblin chortled.
“Oh. Oooh. Interesting. I wonder how many [Knights] are coming. Maybe Talia too?”
“Rabbiteater!”
Scandalized, Markus leapt back. Rabbiteater just shrugged.
“Ah, right. [Knights] are weird about sex. Not creative.”
“Are you considering doing…anything?”
Rabbiteater shook his head.
“Nope. I have Meisa. Plus, she isn’t nice.”
That relieved Markus. Right up until Rabbiteater turned to him.
“But it’s bad to offend her, right?”
“Yes. Hence my dilemma. If you’re right—”
“—I sacrifice you. Have lots of fun.”
Rabbiteater clapped Markus on the shoulder. The [Spring Knight] looked at Rabbiteater, aghast. The Hobgoblin gave him a huge thumbs-up.
“I have your back. Not really—but I’ll be supportive.”
“I do not want support in this engagement!”
The two bickering [Knights] were, by now, loud enough that their whispered argument was echoing down the hallway. But no one was here, and then—the door opened.
“Ah, Ser Knights. Gentlemen, thank you for being so prompt.”
Markus and Rabbiteater turned and saw Princess Aielef, in a retiring evening dress, somewhat starry, sequins sewn onto dark fabric, standing in the doorway leading to her personal venue. It was a rather fetching dress, and Markus could see it at a more intimate ball setting.
His mind raced. A few facts were obvious—Aielef had not had a [Servant] open the door. Ergo, no [Servant] was present. This was definitely not a mixup in invitations.
Rabbiteater bowed, helmet still on, and Markus, helmetless, bowed too. Aielef looked keenly at Rabbiteater, then smiled.
“Shall we adjourn to my parlor to begin with? And do I have the fascinating privilege of meeting—the renowned and mysterious Ser Solstice?”
“Maybe.”
She laughed at that and then beckoned them in.
Uh oh, she’s being informal. Markus tried to catch Rabbiteater’s attention, but the Hobgoblin happily dragged Markus in, and he was strong.
The doors shut behind Markus, and he realized one last thing. They were definitely soundproofed.
 
——
 
