“I doubt Gold-rank adventurers are appropriate, Ser Solstice. A Named Adventurer willing to pledge their lives for Calanfer…perhaps. But as you can see, my options are limited. I had considered Archmage Viltach until I learned he was already wed, and Archmage Feor does not intend marriage. Archmage Eldavin on the other hand…well. Again, I must wed, so I hope I can persuade my parents to choose a match I am fond of. I would not like to be Seraphel.”
There was something sad about her, too, and Rabbiteater didn’t like it. He gazed at Vernoue’s auburn hair and decided to change subjects.
“Who’s your sister who ran away?”
“Oh, she is a fool. Her name is—”
“Ser Solstice, would you help me for one moment? I beg your pardon, Your Highness.”
Ilm reappeared, and Rabbiteater had to leave the [Princess]. He found himself in a huddle with the two Fall Knights as they whispered.
“Is she mad? Ser Venoriat is over sixty! Do we decline on his behalf or let her propose this? If it comes to an actual offer…”
Ser Ilm and Dame Hiyev were taking Vernoue far more seriously than Rabbiteater. He thought all this was hilarious, but they saw the actual political implications.
“What’s the problem? She wants to marry Venoriat? Fall’s Sentinel is a man. He probably has sex.”
The two Autumn Knights gave Rabbiteater horrified looks of scandal, and he started to get annoyed. Venoriat was a man in his sixties in great shape for his age.
Why did Humans assume that they stopped having sex? He felt it was ageist.
“…Even assuming the match were possible, and I grant you, there might be some truly diplomatic reasons for it, Venoriat is three times Princess Vernoue’s age, Rabbiteater. It would be untoward.”
Ah, that Rabbiteater got. He nodded very reasonably.
“Okay. So he marries her.”
Ilm opened his mouth, and Rabbiteater went on.
“Doesn’t have sex.”
“A marriage of convenience? Why would the Fall’s Sentinel entertain that?”
Rabbiteater rolled his eyes and nodded to Vernoue.
“So she can be happy, read books all day, and do magic. Duh. Venoriat would do that.”
When Ser Ilm looked at Rabbiteater, it was with genuine respect.
“…Yes. Yes, that would align with his notions, wouldn’t it? It is still a dramatic request, but you have some of Fall’s wisdom, Ser Solstice.”
“Yep.”
They headed back to the discussion, and Ilm promised to forward the idea to Venoriat, much to Vernoue’s clear delight. It was obvious she didn’t often get much progress on that idea.
Rabbiteater felt pleased with himself and liked Vernoue like any other [Mage]. She was weird about magic. But not that bad. Besides, it was a good idea.
Vernoue started with a ‘V’. So did Venoriat. You had to look for that kind of thing.
 
——
 
Still, both 3rd and 5th Princesses were sort of sad. So Rabbiteater was prepared for the [Princess of Depression] herself, the Cursed Princess Seraphel, not to disappoint.
Markus, Meisa, Talia, and Ilm met with Seraphel. In fact, she entertained more [Knights] than the other two [Princesses] for short gatherings. It seemed that Seraphel didn’t have as much of a selfish reason other than politely filling their time, and she had written as much. The [Knights] were free to occupy their time with any pressing matters, but curiosity seemed to motivate even Ser Ilm to attend.
Princess Seraphel du Marquin was the most interesting [Princess] by far for a few reasons. Firstly, she was the first [Princess] who didn’t ask Rabbiteater to remove his helmet because she’d heard about his vow. Second?
She looked far more at ease than the other two [Princesses]. Still under duress, but the pressure of the siege and fear had loosened the tongues of the other two. Seraphel?
She’d done this before.
“I have had the misfortune of surviving two sieges last year. In quick order. It rather gets old. Although I prefer this genteel siege to the other two. The first one had undead clawing at the walls day and night. The smell of it was dire enough.”
“You survived an undead siege, Your Highness? I heard of that. A rogue [Necromancer]?”
Seraphel’s face fell. She ran a hand around her cup, then kept pouring tea for the small company.
“Afiele, yes. A terrible time. I thank you all for your bravery in fighting this war. I only regret that Aielef, Vernoue, and I can do so very little. If it were a battle, I could at least distract the enemy—but I believe we’ll surrender if they get to us.”
“Interesting. You have a battle-Skill? What is it?”
Rabbiteater leaned forwards, but Talia pulled him back subtly. Meisa glared at Talia, and Seraphel’s expression was wan. Which meant sad.
“Nothing to boast of, Ser Solstice. Just a few levels gained during the siege. I was not pivotal. Others…made the true difference. And the one Skill I do have that could change the odds—cannot work on you.”
All the [Knights] blinked at this. She had a Skill that could actually move the battlefield?
“May I ask what its nature is, Princess du Marquin? Perhaps it can be used.”
Seraphel waved this off, looking flustered. She gazed at Ser Ilm, then sighed.
“I suppose I’ve put my foot in it. Believe me, Ser Ilm, I would have volunteered it if I thought it were applicable. It is not. I could strengthen your company, [Knights] or [Soldiers]—but only if you were dead.”
“Ooh. Tricky.”
Rabbiteater was the only person who spoke into the silence with an understanding nod. Everyone else exchanged glances.
“…Noelictus no doubt…”
Talia murmured to Meisa. The conversation changed fast, as if this were scandalous. Which Rabbiteater felt was too bad, because he just bet there was a reason a [Princess] had a Skill that worked on the undead.
But no, everyone else had manners. Seraphel was indeed depressing. They did not go into her marriages, but it was all over her. A kind of resigned frustration.
“I quite admire you, Ser Solstice. I have been the observer three times now to others risking their lives and doing great deeds. That is a [Princess]’ lot. I can hardly wield a sword.”
“Want to learn how? You have to get hit, but you can practice.”
Again, Talia elbowed him, but Seraphel just laughed.
“I think I’ve passed my prime already. Twenty eight, and a [Princess] is a bit too specialized to take up arms. Forgive me, I’m maudlin. I realize now that I have—let opportunity pass me by. But I did everything because I was expected to. In that sense, my sister might have a better idea—if she weren’t running away. That’s hardly better.”
Rabbiteater frowned as Seraphel spoke. He was really starting to wonder who this legendary runaway was, but he couldn’t drop what she’d said.
“You want to be strong and fight? Even Ailendamus? Risk your life?”
“I’m sure Ser Solstice doesn’t mean to impugn your honor, Your Highness.”
Talia interrupted him, trying to step on his toes. In reply, he kicked her so hard her eyes watered. Stop doing that. Seraphel just waved a hand.
“I’m quite aware of the difference. Call it bravado, but I have been in danger before, Ser Solstice. In that time, I wished I could fight like my champion, Ser Dalimont, did. He himself wished he had more strength. If I could do something…I would. But a [Princess] is not exactly a class meant for war. [Battle Princesses] are rare.”
“Ah. But you can get strong. Strong as a Gold-rank. Want to know how?”
Every [Knight] turned to Rabbiteater. Even Talia stopped trying to clutch at her leg and looked at him. Seraphel blinked.
“Really? Strong as that. How?”
Ser Solstice leaned forwards, and his blank visor seemed to conceal great secrets. Everyone else leaned in, and he spoke, confidentially, imparting to them a great secret.
“Every day…do one hundred situps. This keep is small. Maybe do two hundred laps in the courtyard. If you go outside? Twenty laps around entire keep. Pushups, fifty at least. Also, you need to get some wood and pull up and down. And then—”
He had an entire training regime, and his audience listened to him try to describe how to do half of them before Talia interrupted.
“Ser Solstice. What are you talking about?”
Rabbiteater saw Seraphel smiling uncertainly, as if she thought he was mocking her.
“I don’t believe sheer fitness is the way to reach Gold-rank, if you don’t mind me saying so, Ser Solstice.”
“Why not?”
He looked around, a bit hurt by their skepticism. Rabbiteater touched his chest.
“I did that. That’s how you start. Then you do more. Every day. You practice. When I was small, I did that. Until I could beat Gold-ranks with my brothers. Now? I can beat them myself.”
There was no lie in what he’d said. If you worked hard, you would gain more than others, levels or not. That was what Garen Redfang had taught them, and it was true. That was Rabbiteater’s very ethos.
Yet Seraphel just shook her head.
“I…do take your point, Ser Solstice. But a [Princess] has duties. I have married and done all for my nation. For the Eternal Throne.”
“Why? If you hate it, why not just leave? Or do what you want?”
Rabbiteater countered. Talia tried to interrupt, and so did Markus, so he kicked both of them so hard they doubled-over. Seraphel gazed at him. But not certainly. Her eyes flickered to his visor and then around the room.
“Duty, Ser Solstice. I have had the same thoughts, but I did what I did…for my family and crown. We must do these things.”
“No, we don’t.”
Rabbiteater emptied his teacup into his visor, sucking it down a straw. Meisa winced at the loud sound, then he put the cup down.
Something interesting was happening. Of all the [Princesses]…Seraphel was making him the most irritated by far. And he suspected the feeling was mutual. Rabbiteater tapped his breast.
“I have done what I wanted. Many things I was told to do, but I did them because I believed I should. When I was young, my father told me I would die a warrior and never grow old. But he taught me to be proud and strong.”
Garen Redfang, a father to all his warriors. Talia glared at Rabbiteater, and he saw the familiar distrust. A dislike—purely of who he was.
Goblin.
“That is a terrible destiny to give a child, Ser Solstice. That father of yours…can you claim he was a good man?”
Rabbiteater looked straight at her.
“I don’t know. Was your father good?”
He ignored her and looked back at Seraphel.
“I followed his orders until the day I didn’t, because I believed it. But I never did anything I didn’t want to do. Sometimes I didn’t know, so I followed my brothers. But I would never get married if I didn’t want to. Maybe I would if I thought it helped. You want to get strong? Pick up a sword and practice. Everything else is a stupid excuse.”
The other [Knights] were caught in a terrible, awkward silence, but Seraphel’s eyes flashed.
“You are painfully blunt, Ser Solstice. Thank you for teaching me how to bear arrow wounds. I am sure Ailendamus’ archers will be a pleasant break from this conversation.”
He grinned at her. Yet it was Talia who burst out. She turned to face him, and Rabbiteater realized that what they had never truly discussed was coming out now.
Maybe it was his words. The way he spoke down to a [Princess] and a [Knight] with royal blood.
Maybe it was kicking her twice in the shins, but Talia Kallinad was a [Summer Knight] and lost her temper.
“You speak surely of duty and freedom, Ser Solstice, for someone who followed us to war. You told me yourself you had no purpose, but it is duty which impelled me to race back to fight in defense of my home. I would not dare question a [Princess]’ resolve for her country, or even a [Knight]’s, as you lack either.”
“Dame Talia, retract your words or I will have you retract them at the point of a sword!”
Meisa rose, and Ilm and Markus grabbed her.
“You are in the presence of a [Princess], both of you. Princess Seraphel, we withdraw with greatest apologies—”
Ilm tried to pull them away, but Rabbiteater had been thinking of what to tell Talia. Now, hearing her words, he just faced her.
Her and Seraphel and the Goblin [Champion]. The [Knight]’s voice rasped under his helmet.
“I had no purpose because my brothers died, and my people died. Because they died, and I could not save them, and I wandered around. Until I met you.”
Talia Kallinad paused and saw Ser Solstice, first the mysterious Goblin Slayer, next, the enigma, a man with honor. Then…a Goblin.
A Goblin who had bested a [General] with his bare hands and rescued them all. Markus wondered how Talia could see him otherwise. Meisa was glaring, restrained by Ilm, but she let Rabbiteater speak.
He was not eloquent, but he had still learned enough. Rabbiteater pointed at Talia, for once, angrily. And not for the reasons she thought.
“You say I followed you. As if it were light. Into war. Now—now we see a Great General destroying armies. And you think this is a terrible thing and face death. You waver; I see it. I? I knew I might die when I stepped on that boat in Izril.”
She blinked at him, and Rabbiteater slapped his chest.
“Do you think I didn’t? I came across the sea to fight in your stupid war. Not because I was without purpose. Because…I liked you all. I knew I might die. But I went.”
He looked at Markus, Meisa, and Talia.
“I know death. More than any one of you can dream. I knew it, but I came because I wanted you alive. If I could keep you. Do not tell me I do not know duty. I know duty—it is you who do not understand death. You are not ready for it. You have no resolve.”
He lectured the [Knights] and the [Princess], sneering at them. Seraphel’s eyes were wide with outrage, but Rabbiteater just turned and pointed.
“There. That corner.”
Everyone stared at a corner of Seraphel’s guest room. It had a patch of carpet that was slightly peeling, which had annoyed the hell out of Seraphel the instant she saw it. Trust Aielef to give her a bad room.
“Er…what about it, Rabbit?”
Rabbit? Ilm and Seraphel blinked, but the Goblin just looked at the others.
“Will you die there? Will you fight with sword and spell and bleed and die with your stomach in your hands—there?”
What, there? Everyone was confused. Rabbiteater pointed.
“I will. I will fight and die in that corner for someone I met. A second ago. If I believe they should live. I am ready. You are not. That is what it means to be a [Knight]. Any battle, any fight may be my last—but I do not need big words or reasons. I went to this war for you, Talia. You and all the others.”
He pointed at Talia, and she went pale. Ser Markus exhaled, just once. He saw it.
A Goblin [Knight]’s honor. He saw Meisa and Ilm were similarly struck. But perhaps Meisa had seen it all along.
It was Princess Seraphel who interjected into the silence, and everyone turned, almost forgetting she was there.
