“I begin to understand you, Ser Solstice. But tell me—if we all have one chance, why do you keep risking yours? You, who have seen and done so much?”
The curious gaze of the 4th Princess of Calanfer met the [Champion]’s. Rabbiteater spoke shortly.
“Because someone must. And we did. I survived. So I’m still doing it. Why did you not run, after the second marriage? The third? Why are you still doing it?”
Seraphel flinched from the glare and looked at Rabbiteater. Distantly, as if looking at someone else, wearing armor, standing there, she murmured.
“I suppose because I was afraid to do anything else after wasting so much in service of my family. Then—I thought I could be happy. That my journey to Noelictus was for the best. But even hope like that died in the Kingdom of Shade. I wonder. If I had been like my sister, would I be happier? She ran. But I will only know when Dalimont reports back what became of her.”
“Who?”
Rabbiteater wearied of this. He felt tired, no longer angry. Disappointed in Talia, and—he looked at Seraphel, and she shrugged, blandly surprised he didn’t know.
“Lyonette du Marquin.”
The 4th Princess waited—then saw him slap the side of his helmet.
“…What?”
“Lyonette du Marquin. Lyonette the…oh, what’s the name? Lyonette the Fiery. She’s run off and still vanished, though that’s probably a secret.”
Seraphel was too annoyed and distracted to keep the secret. She reflected this was at least an entertaining conversation, but to her surprise, Ser Solstice didn’t move.
He was no Dalimont, or Ser Dalius. He was rather rude, seemed to think she should have arms as wide as kegs, and she was angry, nettled by how he viewed the world.
Yet when he heard that name, he hesitated.
“…Is Lyonette…female?”
Everyone just stared at him, but Rabbiteater went on.
“Does she look like you? Red hair…bright skin…walks stupid?”
“I beg your—yes. Yes, my younger sister has royal red hair—she doesn’t dye it like Aielef! She also has a waspish tongue, no sense of when to shut up, struts around calling people peons, and she is the rudest person I have ever met. Present company excepted!”
Seraphel snapped, finally at an end to her patience. She had met a lot of varied people over the last year, but she was still a [Princess]! Yet Rabbiteater, Ser Solstice, just looked Seraphel dead in the eye and shrugged.
“She never called me a peon. You forgot the pet bee.”
Seraphel gazed at Rabbiteater, then stuck a pinkie finger in her ear and wiggled it for a second.
“…Excuse me?”
“The pet bee. And she serves drinks. And has a Mrsha.”
“A…what did you say?”
“She works at an inn.”
The Goblin was being helpful, adding salient details. The [Knights] of the Order of Seasons swung their heads between him and Seraphel like they were watching a ping pong rally—which had yet to be invented. Seraphel hesitated.
“No, you’re quite wrong. It must be an unbelievable coincidence. This other Lyonette might have red hair—”
“And blue eyes. And once blew up a shop with a [Fireball] ring.”
“…that airheaded, dung-sniffing…she’s in Oteslia. My champion has informed me of that. He mentioned a d…no. What’s a Mrsha?”
Seraphel’s voice was very uncertain. Rabbiteater gave her a mysterious shrug.
“I don’t know where she is. But she was at Liscor, in an inn. Serving drinks. She had a pet bee called Apista, and she was nice to me.”
“To you. With—without a helmet?”
Talia had to interject. Rabbiteater rolled his eyes at her.
“Without a helmet, stupid. Me and my brothers. She served acid flies to Antinium.”
Seraphel looked like she was in mortal fear that this was all some elaborate prank. Yet Rabbiteater was confident. It had to be Lyonette.
Why?
Because it had been The Wandering Inn, and these coincidences…he closed his eyes.
How to prove it? How to tell her—ah. It was so simple.
Seraphel du Marquin and the Order of Seasons, all experts in auras, felt something engulf them. Seraphel began to push back with her own presence, instinctively—but this was not an aura clash.
She heard laughter and abruptly found herself sitting on a harder chair. The table in front of her was higher and had scars on the wood. Someone had dropped something sticky on one side. She looked around and stared at a mug.
Markus found himself smelling inviting cooking smells from a warm…he turned his head, and the illusion faded, but if he sat still—
Meisa looked down at a white face staring up at her, which darted away, scampering around like the biggest squirrel she’d ever seen. Seraphel looked around and saw laughing figures, indistinct, seen only out of the corner of your eye.
Drakes and Gnolls. An inn, bustling as someone performed on stage, a giant room. Then she saw a familiar face, weaving through the crowd, balancing a platter on one hand with practiced ease, calling for Mrsha.
For a second—Seraphel saw her sister, clear as day, but unlike the Lyonette she knew.
Then the Aura of the Hearth faded, and Rabbiteater was left panting. He looked at Seraphel as she and the Order of Seasons sat there. The Goblin pointed at the [Princess], jabbing his finger so aggressively he would have caused a minor incident in a royal court.
“She may have run away from home. She might be young. And she’s probably stupid. But I look at you three [Princesses]. You’re…Meisa. What’s the word for…”
He turned to Meisa and rattled something off in a screeching tongue. Meisa hesitated, because she wasn’t learning Goblin fast, and Rabbiteater snapped his fingers.
“Depressing. You. And Aielef. And Vernoue. Lyonette ran from duty. She may be a bad [Princess], but I think she was high-level. And guess what?”
He leaned forwards, and Seraphel leaned back. She thought she saw the hint of…a face? Was that a flash of red? Rabbiteater spoke right to her.
“When she smiled, I believed her.”
Then he turned, furious, stalked over to the door, and hesitated. Everyone saw him turn back, kick the chair he’d been sitting in across the room, then storm over to the door and slam it on the way out.
In the dead silence, after about fifteen seconds, Rabbiteater opened the door.
“Do something with your life, stupid!”
He pointed at Seraphel—then slammed the door again.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater was so uncharacteristically mad at Seraphel—more than Talia, more than almost anyone he’d ever met—that he forgot the war was going on for a bit.
Even Tyrion Veltras hadn’t infuriated him as much. Because he looked at Seraphel and saw a brave person hidden behind a wretched [Princess]. All of them, Aielef, Vernoue, Seraphel—
They would have made for happier, better Goblins.
Rabbiteater wished they had met Erin, because he felt like she would have hit them with a frying pan and helped them.
He could not. Among other reasons—on the fourth day, Ailendamus’ Great General remembered the keep.
Four days of bitter fighting and she must have come to a decision that having three bottled [Princesses] in theory wasn’t worth much as three in hand.
In short, she decided that they’d make good captives and perhaps force the Lightherald out of the battle. Or force him to try and rescue them.
Only Eldavin could have interceded in the battle, or the Griffin Prince, and neither one seemed to think the three [Princesses] mattered that much. Everyone else would have to cut through Ailendamus’ entire army and the token rearguard that outnumbered the defenders.
To take down the keep, which was still a proper fortress of Kaliv, and steal the [Princesses], General Dionamella entrusted the [General] holding this spot with an elite guard of [Knights]—including three hundred Knights of the Hydra from the capital—with four Greatbows.
Four.
She had already insulted the worthless honor of the Order of Seasons with the bare thousand soldiers holding them in check. They would have sallied forth…if not for the fact that there were three hundred Order of the Hydra [Knights], unmounted, two dozen Order of the Thirsting Veil [Knights], and three Drell Knights.
Talia Kallinad was aware that if they tried, the Order of Seasons would get kicked just like last time.
The four Greatbows she added to the thousand-some [Soldiers] were insulting. Unless you’d seen them in action. Rabbiteater eyed the crossed bows, an ‘x’ shape made up of two bows joined at the center. They were metal, sleek, and so huge that a team had to crank them back to fire the Lance-Arrows, which were giant metal arrows that could kill a low-level [Knight] in a single hit.
When Ailendamus’ creators had planned for their battles, they had spent a lot of time trying to figure out what the most economical way to create a fighting force was. One of the things they’d settled on was the Order of the Hydra—a superior class given to common folk that would outnumber any other Knight Order on the continent in time.
They had waffled between magic and conventional weapons, but decided that [Mages] took a long time to train.
Whereas with proper industry…you could create a weapon capable of killing a high-level foe that even an idiot could use.
Hence, the Greatbows and crossbows that Ailendamus’ forges could churn out. Four were sent on the fourth day.
They took down the gate in three hours.
 
——
 
“They’re going to attack! Man the battlements!”
Of all the stupid things for the [Fortress Keeper] to say…that was one of them. Rabbiteater had seen the Greatbows moving and braced himself. For three hours, everyone heard the terrible thwoom of impact as giant, enchanted bolts slammed into the stone of the castle.
“Destroy those bows! They are going to break our walls!”
Aielef could see the stone shuddering from the terrible impacts. Enchanted munitions. Ailendamus was using very high-level ones, and the impregnable walls of the fortress…were getting pretty pregnable.
But the worst part was that the [Fortress Keeper] was unable to oblige her. They had a grand total of six archers capable of even hitting the Greatbows. When they tried to man the battlements?
“Evacuate! Evacuate—get off the walls!”
The first dead of the siege were the defenders on the walls. Rabbiteater saw one being hauled down, limp—and he had been knocked flat by the blast radius of an arrow.
“We cannot even put soldiers on the walls?”
Talia looked at the other [Knights] as they realized—anyone on those walls would be hit by the arrows. Even hunkering behind the battlements, the explosive projectiles would kill you. They could keep sending soldiers up there and hope Ailendamus ran out of ammunition, Rabbiteater supposed.
They needed a Badarrow. Or to sally out and destroy the bows.
Or…just wait for the enemy to come to them. Since they had no Badarrow, and sallying out meant charging at a bunch of Greatbows and at Ailendamus, who could reinforce the few thousand with a ten-thousand strong army the instant they wanted, everyone just waited.
The mood was grim. Rabbiteater hummed as he watched the Greatbows firing from an arrow crenellation. So this was it.
He looked at the odds. Bad. The Greatbows were targeting the gates, blowing the outer portcullis to bits. They stopped firing, and he heard a report.
“They’ve smashed the enchanted gate. We’ll have to hold it—but Ailendamus looks to be making ready for an attack. Ladders are being drawn up.”
“But we can’t even shoot them. They’ll have walls and gate.”
Markus groaned. Rabbiteater was no [Architect], but he guessed that if the Dawn Concordat won this war, they’d be changing their fortresses to something less prone to this scenario.
Someone interrupted the discussion. Dame Talia strode over. She hesitated, glanced at Rabbiteater, but addressed everyone with a grim face.
“They won’t need the ladders. I just took a look at their invasion force. Please—Ser Ilm, where are the [Princesses]?”
“With the [Fortress Keeper]. Why?”
Talia Kallinad hesitated, then bowed her head.
“I am going to suggest to the [Princesses] that we surrender after thirty minutes of fighting. Or earlier, at their discretion. Ailendamus has just detached another six thousand troops. I counted over sixty [Battle Mages], and the [Knights] now number over five hundred.”
There were less than a fifth that many of the Order of Seasons. Everyone went silent, and Rabbiteater stopped humming.
“Ah.”
He decided to look himself. No one stopped him; if he went onto the battlements or through the gates, he died. Some unlucky [Soldiers] had already gotten shots taken at them, and the Greatbows were manned by marksmen.
However—Rabbiteater could see well enough.
“Yep. Two thousand riders. Four thousand soldiers.”
They didn’t need much to take this fortress. Those [Riders] would storm the gates. Probably crash through the first wave. And so many?
Oh, I get it. They’ll use [Light Bridge] to get to the walls. Clever.
Rabbiteater was adjusting to a new way of using tactics. All he had to do was imagine what he’d do if he had unlimited funds or magic. It would be an equal fight, defenders and attackers by number.
Not equal by classes or quality. Regular footsoldiers would be squaring up against the Order of the Hydra, one-to-one.
We can hold them in the passageways for a while. Unless the [Mages] gas us. Or use acid. It’s what I’d do.
Rabbiteater calculated that they’d have surrendered or be dead by nightfall. He eyed the setting sun and sat there.
Now. Now came the moment where he saw the Lightherald fighting in the distance. The champion of Calanfer probably saw the danger, but no one could intervene. The Archmage of Memory was furiously battling the Great General. The Griffin Prince…
Could not stop six thousand on his own.
Neither could Rabbiteater. But he saw this moment as pivotal. A small battle. But the one he was at. So he asked himself one question.
What would Erin do?
No. More like—what would she tell him to do? These were different things. Firstly, what would she say? What would that great [General] say?
 
——
 
The Goblin had no boon. He had no magic to bring that moment back and make it immortal. His aura was not that powerful and, perhaps, never would be.
All he could do was remember and guess. So he did. He could do anything. He might not be good at anything, but he could try to do anything.
Erin Solstice and Zel Shivertail sat at a table. This was not a fight with a single [General].
But it mattered.
“This is not your war.”
“I know. But I have fought and killed. So it is mine. I can walk away, but what about the dignity of people I’ve killed?”
The Tidebreaker nodded. Or would he shrug? Rabbiteater was also more eloquent in his imagination. And he was more handsome.
“I don’t want you to die.”
Erin Solstice offered him a cookie. Even in his imagination, it was only vanilla. Rabbiteater munched on it anyways.
