The idea was that they’d do what had saved them last time: find a job escorting or guarding someone and make money, or better yet, gain supplies and wait until this situation with the Merchant’s Guild was dealt with.
Falene was optimistic they’d sort it out within the month between everyone. Still a long time, but they had provisions for at least a few weeks if they rationed, and they weren’t starving.
They’d do this right. Plus, with these other groups, it would be easy to find work, right?
The first group they ran into were a bunch of Drakes who politely asked them to keep clear—they’d had [Thieves] and didn’t want to be followed—but they were nice enough.
The sixth group were Gnolls who saw the packs from Plain’s Eye and told Larr that if he came closer they’d shoot him for being a traitor. Ylawes had to ride Larr away from a twenty-minute long howling match where he shouted at them he was on the right side of history.
On group twelve, Ylawes was getting worried; most of the caravaners took one look at his group of sixty-some people and said they were way too numerous to hire or feed. But he was discouraged when he was riding back from a rather haughty group of nobles who’d refused to introduce themselves, just telling Ylawes that they had enough ‘hired help’. Then Insill waved him over.
“Captain! Anith’s found a potential hire! This way!”
The thirteenth group of mostly Humans were riding caravan-style, and Ylawes slowed when he saw the man with that familiar floppy cap and wet clothing emblazoned with the Merchant’s Guild sigil. He told himself that this was just his imagination—especially because the man seemed rather eager to hire them.
“Ah, is this your Captain? Trader Tilfem! My good man, this, er, fine Gnoll was telling me you had a party for hire! We could indeed use more hands!”
“Really, Trader? I’m Captain…Byres.”
Ylawes had the thought to not use his real name, but he panicked and just said his last name. The [Trader] nodded, smiling.
“We’re hoping to set up a fine spot inland. Tilfem’s Tea Expedition, that’s the name. So, you’re a mix of adventurers and trade skills, eh? What brought you out here searching for work?”
So that was what Anith had said? The ‘Gnoll’ glanced at Ylawes as the [Knight] fumbled for an explanation.
“Well, we…are coming for the bounty of the New Lands, sir. But we figured we might as well earn coin while we’re travelling.”
“Absolutely, absolutely! Well, er, consider yourselves hired! I’ll pay five copper per head per day. How’s that?”
Five copper a head? Ylawes’ mouth opened.
“I think for my team, which is Gold-rank—”
“Oh, of course! For your team, ah, would five silver per day work? I know you are Gold-rank, but given the daily expenses and the coin I have…”
The man hurried to clarify, and Ylawes wondered if he should haggle for Vuliel Drae, but he didn’t want to bring their exact names up. He nodded, feeling something was off a bit. But the man appeared honest, and he was a [Trader].
A [Trader].
“We can move our group with yours, Trader Tilfem. Let me just get them.”
They’d stopped to rest up while he rode out to see if anyone wanted work. The man was only too eager to agree, and Ylawes rode back to tell them the good news.
Dawil was sitting next to a fire as it rained, looking as miserable as Ylawes had ever seen him. The fact that they had fire at all was only thanks to Falene and her new Skill. She had conjured a very small magical fire and a tiny umbrella spell. Everyone was fighting to get warm, and adventurers or not, the colonists were just as desperate.
Homle was shoving Dawil for space as Falene snapped.
“No, I can’t make the umbrella spell bigger. Be grateful I can even cast that! I’m gaining more mana thanks to upgrades to my Mana Well, but—oh, Ylawes, are we moving on?”
“Actually…we’ve found work.”
Ylawes tried to smile, but when Falene turned, he beckoned to her.
“It’s Tilfem, a [Trader] and a caravan just down the way. They’re equal in number to our group, maybe a dozen bigger?”
“A [Trader]? What if he recognizes us?”
Falene was alarmed. Dawil got up.
“They’re not going to know every team, Pointy, and he’s been in the mana drain as long as we have. Lad, you seem uncertain. What’s wrong?”
“Nothing…his group didn’t look threatening.”
But something felt off. Falene glanced at Ylawes.
“I could muster some mana for a [Long Ear] spell? Listen in as we move over carefully?”
“Yes, that’s a good idea.”
They packed up and rode towards Tilfem, who was waiting with a genuine-looking smile. Ylawes didn’t see any signs of hostility from the men and women packed into the covered wagons, either. If anything, they seemed heartened by the newcomers.
“There we are! We may have room for your people to ride out of the rain! [Rainproof Coverings], ha-hah! You ride with my Skills, Captain Byres! Shall we?”
“Of course, Trader.”
No matter how hard Ylawes searched, he didn’t see an issue. Not a hidden threat, not signs of an ambush, and Tilfem was even finding his coin box to pay them the first day. He was speaking to Pekona as Ylawes gave Falene and Dawil an embarrassed glance, and she tapped one ear to show she was still listening in. She kept wincing; the rain must be as loud as thunder with her spell.
But Ylawes’ less-keen ears clearly heard Tilfem talking to Pekona.
“I’ll have your team running security around my caravan, of course. Miss…Pe-coe-nah, is it?”
“Yes, Trader.”
“Good, good. Well, we’ll have work soon enough. We’ve got plenty of stock, and none’s spoiled. Plenty to, um…well, we’ll see how bad this ground is, eh?”
She and Ylawes paused, and the name of the expedition struck Ylawes again. Pekona bobbed a bow, timid.
“You sell tea, Merchant Tilfem?”
“Do I? Of course! Everyone needs tea. It’s a luxury in the New Lands; I was doing a [Trade Route Calculation], you see, and I calculated tea would be in short supply here! Well, it only takes some thought to think that it’s not the most kept resource. We have bags and bags of it. And tea bushes, you know. Saplings…they’re doing splendidly in their pots. We’ll find a good spot for them.”
He had come here trying to grow tea? Ylawes’ mind flashed to the Consortium, and then he had a second thought. He glanced at the wagons and noted how packed they were.
All full of people. But for this many, you’d need twice as many wagons for the food. Unless, of course, you were a typical [Trader], in which case you’d save on extra wagons with—
A Chest of Holding. Only, here—Tilfem was counting coins into Pekona’s hand fast.
“This should take care of it for the first day. Now, provisions. I take it your team is well-stocked? We may just share what we have. Let’s break out a meal and—”
“Pekona!”
Ylawes shouted, and she jumped and dropped the coins just as Falene whirled.
“Ylawes, a word—”
They converged on Trader Tilfem as the copper coins dropped—literally—to the ground. Tilfem started, then smiled.
“Ah, Captain. I was just saying we—”
“We have to go. Deepest apologies, Trader, but I don’t think we can honor this contract after all. Pekona, give the man his coins back. Anith! Mount up!”
Anith had heard too, and he was already calling the colonists back. Farmer Petia hopped out of a wagon, face pale; she clearly had found out what they had. Tilfem was blustering.
“What? This is highly—why would you do this, Captain? We had a deal, and I am a man of deep integrity! I-I demand an explanation.”
He licked his lips, and Ylawes motioned his team away. Now he thought about it, Tilfem hadn’t even blinked at Rasktooth and Infinitypear.
“Silver Swords, let’s go—”
“Hold on! You must hold!”
Tilfem shouted, and now his [Guards] were getting out of the wagons. They were hesitant, and Tilfem was still trying.
“On what grounds? I’ll lodge a complaint! Why—”
“They have no food!”
Ylawes shouted, and it dawned on the rest of Vuliel Drae, the colonists. Their hands flew to their horses, and several of Tilfem’s people who’d been approaching the packed horses hesitated.
“Dead gods damn it, it’s the Expedition all over again! Back! Back!”
Homle roared, seizing a saddlebag from one of Tilfem’s people. Ylawes saw some flour spilling onto the ground.
“No! You can’t leave! I insist! We had a deal!”
Now, Tilfem’s people were all coming out, and a [Guard] tried to knock Homle down. He got a shove instead that took him into the muck. Another man drew a sword on Homle and froze as a click-click made everyone hesitate.
Rasktooth aimed both crossbows straight at the man’s face and groin, and Larr had an arrow drawn. Ylawes panted.
“Back up. Silver Swords, check your packs. We’re going.”
“We have a deal—”
One of the [Guards] was trying to count numbers, but he flinched when Ylawes drew his sword. The Graveblade felt cold in Ylawes’ hands. Cold as the day he cut Salamander.
“We’re Gold-ranks. We don’t have food to spare. Turn around, now. You won’t survive without it.”
Tilfem stood there as Ylawes backed up, having to jog after the animals and his team.
“Cheat! Rogue! We can make a deal! We can still do this!”
“Turn around! You’ll die and kill everyone!”
Ylawes roared as the rain pounded harder, and water slid down his back, like his stomach. He was shouting at the [Guards], the people in wagons.
“I’m sorry, I can’t help! For the love of Izril, turn around!”
They didn’t. Even when his group was marching away, he saw those wagons with their lanterns moving onwards, a flickering light headed into the New Lands.
 
——
 
That, more than anything, was the final blow to Ylawes’ morale. He’d nearly walked his team into another trap.
They’d had a debriefing afterwards, of course, with Anith, Dawil, Falene, Homle, and Petia. No one had come outright and said how stupid Ylawes was, but they had politely laid some ground rules.
“From now on, let’s all talk before we commit to any decisions, especially ones regarding employment, right, lad? I’m not saying it’s not your decision as leader, but…”
…But that’s almost two strikes. Ylawes had of course agreed, and he’d been shamefaced afterwards. Everyone had been insistent that no harm, no foul, they hadn’t lost much—but he felt the most rattled and ashamed out of everyone.
After that, Ylawes mostly gave up on asking other groups they met for work—not that they could see many after the second day when the rains got worse and the press of groups let up.
Then they were navigating rocky Coral Lands, cursing when they stepped on the too-hard, stone-like plants, trudging forwards, and Ylawes was thinking.
He didn’t know Tilfem was out of food. He didn’t know the caravan would starve.
Could you eat tea? Was it…edible? Ylawes would have eaten it when he was starving. He’d have eaten anything. How many groups were in this strait?
How much food did they have? They’d lost some, despite him noticing the trap, and he cursed every bag of spilled flour or sack that they’d handed over before he’d figured it out.
His fault. What if they ran out of food again?
Stress, wet, and this sensation they were walking back into hell left the [Knight] so visibly out-of-sorts that Falene thought he was sick.
“Are you sure you don’t have a fever? You’re deathly pale, Ylawes. Let me check your temperature.”
“I will.”
Pekona put her hand on Ylawes’ forehead, and Falene drew up, blinking, then wore a resigned expression as she waited. Pekona shrugged.
“He doesn’t feel hot.”
“How about clammy?”
Since Pekona didn’t know what that meant, Falene felt at Ylawes’ forehead. She checked his vitals, then her hand jumped away. She cleared her throat.
“I…think you’re just under the weather. If you get worse, tell us at once. In a group like this, out here, sickness will be all our deaths. If this rain doesn’t do worse. Argh! Is it my turn to ride yet?”
She stomped away. Ylawes stood there with Pekona.
Pekona.
It wasn’t like he and Pekona had forgotten their tryst in Goisedall. Far from it; Ylawes had wondered if they might say no more of it, pretend the affair was just that, and do as some adventurers did to avoid a longer relationship.
The second night with the Plain’s Eye Gnolls when he’d caught her lingering around his yurt had sort of made that question pointless. And then—well—
No one brought it up in the Silver Swords. Ylawes ate with Pekona, talked with her more, and they would have shared a bedroll except for three things:
One, his bedroll wasn’t big enough for two people. It was wet and cold, and everyone needed to be bundled up in as much waterproof cloth as they had to stay dry overnight. They crammed together to sleep as well, especially since they’d cannibalized two tents for weapon parts.
Two, they slept close enough to everyone else that noise of…activities…would be a consideration.
Three, they were so tired from marching all day that they didn’t really feel like it.
Kissing. Kissing was nice. Holding each other’s hands was nice. Snuggling was nice. Ylawes hadn’t known snuggling was such a fine invention of the romantic genre, but he wondered why everyone was sleeping on it.
Now, this was not to say that Ylawes was not not interested in other things. In fact, as a man who had not pursued any serious romantic relationships his entire life thus far until the age of twenty-eight—because he’d been waiting for marriage and such—he was now highly concerned with the things that other adventurers talked about.
The wide and many things Todi had talked about—Ylawes’ head spun to imagine it, and it was one of the only things that kept him warm in the miserable downpour. He’d even broached the subject with Pekona about it, and she was down to try…things.
Even that one? And he wasn’t pressuring her, and she actually wanted to—?
Wow. Like a [Novice Mage] entering Wistram’s libraries for the first time, Ylawes was interested in learning, but he felt Pekona was just as shy about starting anything as he was. They’d meet after dinner and hug, then sit together, which evolved naturally into a bit of snuggling, and then a kiss, and then—
Well, it was time to sleep or stand sentry, and Ylawes felt like he really should have tried something earlier, but he was too nervous to say something she wouldn’t want to do. And she kept playing with his hands in a very distracting manner—
But if there was a fourth reason he was uncertain, it was Falene.
Falene, the [Pursuant Battlemage of Magic’s Romance]. Which, Ylawes felt, was a bit too close and—and—
“Do you think it’s because of us?”
