Rasktooth was shouting encouragement as Infinitypear and Ylawes locked themselves into the ropes. Infinitypear was whispering.
“I am an adventurer, I am an adventurer—”
He went still when Ylawes put his hand on his shoulder.
“I will not run, Captain. I must go with everyone, and there is nowhere to go.”
“Not that, Infinitypear. If you need a moment…you’re going to make it, understand?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You’re being brave, Infinitypear. Braver than I’d be if I couldn’t swim. I’m going to be right there with you, and I’ll help you keep your head above water, got it?”
The Antinium looked at him with such trust that Ylawes felt his stomach tightening.
They entered the water. Infinitypear began thrashing, trying to swim, and Ylawes?
Sank.
 
——
 
Under the water, pushing up as he kicked as hard as he could, keeping the Antinium bobbing, and he was trying not to sink! Being pulled along as something hit his face—a root? Lungs straining, feeling the Antinium dipping, kicking harder—wanting to breathe, unable to see—
Ylawes gasped for air as they finally made it. Infinitypear coughed out water and rolled onto the ground as everyone shouted and cheered. Dawil yelled.
“Lad, you idiot! You had us scared!”
“I had…to keep his head…up. Okay. We made it. See, Infinitypear?”
“Yes. I only panic-excreted a bit, Captain.”
Ylawes lay on his back until he remembered two things:
First, they were only halfway across.
Second, he’d forgotten to yank the tent pole up and get the rope.
 
——
 
The crossing of the river took all day, and Ylawes was so dog-tired from hauling the horses across and helping Homle, Pekona, and securing the packs that he just lay there as Falene and Infinitypear made the final trip. She cast some spell that had him bobbing like a piece of driftwood, and when they made it, Insill jumped the river with the tent pole and ropes.
Everyone sat there in the rain, too exhausted to rise, until Petia spoke.
“Alright. We lost two saddlebags in the river. I think provisions and something else. Where do we camp?”
Ylawes swore he heard someone sob. Dasha? He wanted to cry too.
I hate this damn place. Curse the rain, curse the Merchant’s Guild, curse everything—
They were lost, not having any idea where they were on the other side of the river, and so wet and tired that Ylawes didn’t know if they’d make it to a campsite for the night. He lay there a second, then something split the sound of the rushing river.
“Strke! Ná! Strke! Strke!”
“What’s that?”
His head rose, and Dawil, panting and wringing out his beard, glanced up.
“It’s coming from upriver. Sounds like…shouting?”
“Or a monster. I can’t tell. I’m out of mana.”
“Everyone up—up! Saddle those horses, and get them loaded!”
Ylawes hauled himself to his feet. His body hurt from using different muscles, but he got everyone on their feet. The unknown danger was getting louder, and he tapped into his adventurer’s reserves.
It was getting even louder.
“Strke! Strke!”
It was definitely voices. But…from where? Ylawes gazed along both banks. The Silver Swords had backed away from the riverbank, but they saw nothing in the driving rain—until Insill pointed.
“Captain! Look! On the river! Are those—half-Giants?”
Ylawes whirled, and the last thing he expected to see was a light on the river coming up the current. But that’s exactly what was happening. There were huge, hunched figures glowing in the storm.
“They’re giant.”
“Back up—back up—Homle, get everyone mounted! Ready to move!”
Larr was tracking the strange apparitions with a nocked Mithril arrow. He squinted and then growled.
“Those’re no damn half-Giants. That’s a boat. But I’ve never seen the like—”
Ylawes squinted too, and the apparitions that seemed to loom unnaturally tall resolved themselves as he realized it was an optical trick.
A boat was coming up the river, indeed. It was long and narrow, and a lantern was illuminating the water ahead. It was the backlight which cast the figures paddling uphill into the air and made them appear so huge.
But even when they drew closer, he didn’t understand quite what he was seeing. Falene lifted her staff, cast a spell, and the odd shouting of words he didn’t recognize stopped. There was a call of surprise, and he saw the strangers at the same time as they saw him.
The first thought Ylawes had was that they might be [Knights]. They had enough metal on them for all but a [Knight], but none of them had plate armor. Instead, it was scaled armor, and he saw the glint of steel by their sides. But it was the helmets which threw him.
That’s not an Izrilian design. Nor one I know from Chandrar.
It was a long noseguard with no visor to raise or lower, and a guard that encircled the eyes. The helmets were largely conical, but—he glanced at two of the figures he’d taken for Minotaurs next.
Horns on the helmets? They resembled a Minotaur’s horns, but were clearly fake. Between that and the odd chanting, he was stumped until Dawil breathed.
“Grandfathers. That has to be—lower your weapons, everyone! Hey! Heeeey! Are you from Cenidau?”
There was a pause as the narrow boat heading down the river slowed, then Ylawes saw long oars rising and dipping, and the boat heaved itself up another pace in the river. Dawil kept shouting.
“[Shieldsons]? [Shieldmaidens]? I’m from Deríthal-Vel!”
Pekona started.
“Cenidau? I know them!”
Ylawes had almost no idea who they were talking about. Even Falene blinked.
“Cenidau? It’s the most northern kingdom in Terandria! You barely see them in the south, let alone—! How far did they come? And are they mad? They’re sailing up the river in a storm!”
“Yah, look pretty fast. Not tipping one bit.”
Rasktooth observed. It was true; the long canoe, or whatever the craft was, was advancing with each stroke of the oars. It was because the prow was so narrow; the river mostly slipped by, and now there was a voice.
“Dwarves?”
“Just one! Adventurers!”
“Hah. We’re headed south. Make way!”
They were halfway past the Silver Swords, and Ylawes saw the helmeted warriors straining with the oars, heaving as one to haul their boat past them.
“They’ve got to be mad. What’re they going to do with their boat when they’re done? The river runs only one way; how’d they even get it north?”
Larr was incredulous. Ylawes didn’t know, but these strangers had clearly taken the river south and were benefitting from the rains in no uncertain terms.
They were almost past the Silver Swords when Pekona cupped her hand to her mouth and shouted.
“Ey! 向北方问好!”
That elicited a response. There was a surprised shout, and the armored figures’ heads turned. One shouted.
“…Drath?”
“Yes! Greetings to the North!”
Pekona wanted to make a gesture with her hands, but she could only do half of it. She bowed, and the strange warriors of Cenidau slowed. Ylawes heard muffled voices, then another shout.
“We wish to speak! Will you allow us landing?”
Dawil and Pekona turned to him with everyone else, and Ylawes didn’t know what to say.
“Er, go ahead!”
At his words, the boat turned. It moved swiftly for the banks where the Silver Swords stood, and he saw it run onto the shore. Armored boots splashed into the water, and figures grunted. He saw the first two warriors dragging the longboat or whatever it was further onto shore, then looping something over their shoulders.
Ropes? No, straps. Then the others leapt out, and they were hauling the boat up—
They walked with it straight onto land, then dropped their craft onto the ground and strode forwards. It was such a practiced maneuver that they were ashore before the Silver Swords could blink. Another voice called out, female instead of male this time.
“We sail from Cenidau’s north! Curiosity takes us—how does a Dwarf of Deríthal-vel and a Drathian come to the same place? Some expedition for the New Lands?”
“Adventurers.”
Dawil stepped forwards, and Ylawes saw fourteen figures of varying heights, armored and carrying weapons.
Lots of weapons. Long, one-side axes he’d never seen before, throwing hatchets, a short spear on one warrior’s back, and shields. They were painted wood rimmed with metal and seemed flimsy to Ylawes, but aside from that, he’d have called this group well-armed [Mercenaries] but for their strangeness.
Which is what they were, right? Falene was whispering to Ylawes.
“Cenidau are northfolk, Ylawes. They’re usually warriors for hire or fishers if they go anywhere. Cenidau’s no peaceful kingdom; they fight and war. Taimaguros is one of the big empires up north, and Cenidau’ve lost two wars against the Dominion, but they’re prideful and used to frozen terrain. They have very picky cultures—”
“Falene. Shut up.”
Dawil growled at her, and she fell silent. Ylawes strode forward, hand outstretched.
“I’m Captain Ylawes of the Silver Swords. We are adventurers. Gold-rankers. We’ve been exploring the New Lands and just crossed the river. We apologize if we’ve interrupted you.”
A huge man as tall as Ylawes strode forwards and clasped Ylawes’ hand before drawing his grip upwards until it was vertical. He bumped into Ylawes’ chest, hard, but it didn’t feel like an attack.
“No apologies. The river’s fast. We’ll be forty leagues south before night takes us. Gold-rankers. How’d you cross the river?”
“Ropes.”
“Ropes? You swam that?”
A female voice as one of the Cenidau warriors jerked a thumb over her shoulder. She laughed when Dasha nodded, which made the Dwarf flush.
“Hey, not all of us have fancy ships!”
The female warrior barked back, mouth grinning from below that odd helmet.
“Don’t take offense, Dwarf. Respect. It’s a stupid idea to cross a river in a storm.”
“Thanks? Is she insulting us or complimenting us?”
Dasha turned to her team, and the woman grinned.
“Both. So. Are we talking, trading, or dying?”
Ylawes felt his neck prickle as the man who’d stepped back regarded him. The warriors didn’t seem to be reaching for their blades, but they stared at him. He coughed.
“…Talking?”
“Good. Just checking. Hah! It’s a threat here!”
One of the other warriors buffeted the woman across the shoulder.
“One day your tongue’ll get us all killed, Styrvi.”
“Not today. So, let’s talk. What of? It’s wet, and I’m hungry.”
Styrvi folded her arms, impatient. Ylawes felt like he was completely on the wrong foot. He glanced at Dawil, and the Dwarf tugged at his beard, appearing mystified. He hadn’t claimed to travel much in Terandria, and clearly, he only knew Cenidau vaguely.
“Er, what’s good to talk, friends? The weather? The river’s halted all traffic. What’ve you seen?”
The Cenidau folk rumbled, and one of them spat.
“I’m waiting in the boat. Wake me when we’re done.”
He stomped over to the boat and threw himself into it, putting his feet up on the seats. Dawil bit his lip, but Pekona burst in breathlessly.
“Warriors, have you slain a Landshark? We’ve killed one and seen a migration of glowing bugs. And giant snails!”
The warriors turned to her, and the tall one grinned.
“The shark-things? Not yet. Too many to fight, eh? Snails? We have seen their like crossing the river. Strangest sights. We hauled eight nets of fish one night on the river. Such a gathering—each net filled with fish at least this long!”
He held out a hand to his other elbow. Larr made an incredulous noise, and the man grinned wider.
“Levels leave me if I lie. A northman’s vow on it, Gnoll. What else?”
“Well…we saw the Plain’s Eye tribe entering the New Lands a few days east of here.”
Ylawes faltered, but Pekona was peering at him, and there was a weird cadence to how they were talking. The warriors glanced at each other. Another man called out.
“Some interest. We met a strange group of Drakes in the hills north of here. Singing. Friendliest of this land so far.”
“Singing Drakes? Those have to be Yoldenites.”
Dawil snorted, then tilted his head.
“Aye, let me try, then. Sounds like we’re doing some kind of custom we don’t know, friends. Would you say that seeing the moon crack is worth the talk?”
The Cenidau warriors looked at each other, and one of the warriors yanked off her helmet and revealed blond braids and a scowl.
“Do you think we’ve all lost our eyes, Dwarf? How’s that your news to share? What should I say? It’s raining?”
Laughter from the group, and Dawil threw up his hands.
“Argh, I’m trying!”
“Hold on.”
Falene thrust a hand up and tapped her lips. She seemed interested by this intellectual diversion, probably since it was the first she’d had in a month. She pointed up, and Ylawes couldn’t see the cracked green moon, but the half-Elf’s eyes glittered.
“Dawil’s right. That’s our news to share. Because the moon cracked when the Goblin King emerged. Did you know of that? And even if you did—it’s still our news, because the Goblin King emerged in a place we know. The Wandering Inn, Liscor. The moon cracking might have something to do with our friends too.”
The warriors recoiled when she mentioned the Goblin King with cries of alarm, which told Ylawes they hadn’t any news he’d emerged. Then they began scoffing.
“I’ll fill my helmet with your drinks for those lies, half-Elf!”
“Not lies, truth! We were with the Plain’s Eye tribe, where we had access to scrying spells. We were all at The Wandering Inn for months; we know the [Innkeeper]. That’s where the Goblin King emerged.”
There were barks of disbelief, questions, and their leader held out a hand. He gazed at Falene.
“Is he gathering an army?”
“He’s dead. There was Goblin Lord—also dead—some kind of Draconic Titan, and Dragons. It’s a story longer than we can tell, friends, and I’m damn wet. But we’d be happy to furnish you with the tale.”
Dawil offered. The Cenidau warriors glanced at each other, and the one resting in their boat sat up.
“We’re getting no drier, and there’s nothing else to be seen this far. Camp, Thker?”
The tall man mulled it over.
“So be it. Silver Swords, we’ll camp with you and share our fires and stocks a night if you’ll tell us what you know. Have we a deal?”
He held out his hand again, and Ylawes hesitated.
They didn’t even know this group. Then again, Pekona and Dawil didn’t seem to regard their nation as dangerous—but it was a large nation. Then again then again—
“Do you know anywhere dry around here?”
“No.”
Ylawes’ face fell, but the man called Thker pointed westwards.
“We saw some hills that way. Evor.”
“[Locate Shelter]. Aye, that way. Three miles. Good fortune. Let’s march. You coming?”
