Ylawes had never known that modern Beastkin were a product of a single person, a single class’ power. He listened to Anith’s tale of the [Beast Master] who had been so high-level that cats, dogs, every animal that had flocked to him had been given intelligence, even the power to change their forms. Restoring a dead species to prominence in Baleros.
Then of the struggles that had come after as their protector had died and they had been forced to band together, not infight, and survive. The Beastkin of the present era had established protective clans in Baleros’ northwest, having learned from their follies of old. After that, Thker told the story of his grandmother again, fully, and how she had ended up sleeping in the ice with a polar bear snoring in her ear.
It was too late to tell any more stories that night, so Ylawes slept, lying next to the fire and drifting off, dreaming of a Giant wielding an axe and teaching Cenidau’s people how to fight as he stood long vigil against Seamwalkers.
For that was what Pekona said Cenidau and Drath shared in common. They guarded the world from the horrors that came over the edge. A sacred mission both peoples had accepted.
Seamwalkers.
Where did they come from? Ylawes had never seen one. The world was so vast and bigger than he thought…and he only realized it now. He slept.
 
——
 
The Silver Dragon roared, each scale flashing with purifying light. A painful light, even; each scale seemed to reflect Ylawes’ sins, his wrath, envy, greed, and burn it away. He flinched, hands outstretched to shield his face, reaching for a sword, and the Dragon roared again.
“To me! To me! Hear me, you craven cowards who claim rulership over our kind! To me! The [Dancer] is dead, and the world trembles! They have overrun Rhir, and we must fly or die! To me, Dragonlords! If you have any honor, Terrium Archelis Dorishe, Khetieve-Xool, Aitendenske—fly! They’re…”
His voice trailed off, and he seemed to stare past Ylawes, and there was a chittering like a storm. The very world seemed to scuttle forwards. The Silver Dragon’s mouth opened as he rasped.
“They’re unending.”
Then he drew a breath, and Ylawes threw up his arms as the Silver Dragon blew a breath brighter than any light Ylawes had known. He screamed as it burned—
 
“—Ylawes, Ylawes!”
Someone shook him awake. Ylawes woke up, and Pekona was there—he wasn’t burning. He turned, and everyone was sitting up, staring at him.
“What—what?”
“Lad, you were screaming like someone plucked your eyes out.”
“I told you Pekona had cold feet.”
Insill muttered. Pekona threw a shoe at him.
“I do not!”
“I—I’m sorry. I had a dream. There was a Dragon and…”
And it was so real. Ylawes was panting, drenched in sweat. Falene peered at him.
“You’ve had that dream before, haven’t you? Is something wrong, Ylawes? What’s over there?”
“Over wh—”
Then Ylawes realized his finger was pointing. He stared at it; he was pointing at the wall of a cave, but Evor, Rigalde, all the warriors from Cenidau, were eying him. And Ylawes remembered.
[Knight-Seeker of the Silver Dragon]. His class. And his Skill…
[Legacy: Find the Dragon’s Grave].
The dreams had come again. Ylawes glanced around and knew, then, that they had truly returned to the New Lands. He was pointing north and slightly west. Towards the very same hills he had first gone to.
 
——
 
They did not head north. Mostly because west was where they were bound and because Ylawes didn’t feel ready to find any kind of Dragon, living or dead.
However, night terrors aside, both groups found themselves enjoying each other’s company more and more the next day and the day after that. Neither group spontaneously burst into song; it was something that Evor only used when they were truly tired.
“Or else it loses all meaning. So, when you are tired, do the same, eh?”
“I don’t know. That word you shout—what is it?”
Ylawes couldn’t imagine he’d do the same. Evor grinned.
“‘Strength’. That’s all. The word does not matter, just how loud you shout, eh? Ah, and here’s a change!”
They’d come to a river after a half day’s worth of marching. It seemed that this volcanic section was split by another river, and Ylawes was mightily glad to have persuaded Cenidau’s folk to join them, because this river…was long.
Not necessarily deep, though. It seemed to have tons of rocks and debris in it; rapids that led to whitewater. However, it’d still probably be too deep to walk across normally, and even if it was possible to find spots where you weren’t underwater…a boat was just the thing, eh?
“No help for it. We’ll have to ferry everyone across. Many trips. Let’s get started, eh?”
Cenidau’s people were only too willing to ford the river rather than march for days to find a better spot, and they split up, organizing so that they’d take as few as they needed to paddle the longboat across the river and the maximum amount of passengers.
It was still a very, very slow process. Especially because the horses, again, did not do boats or water well. However, Falene had been thinking of this issue and had come up with a rather ingenious solution.
“Floating bags. We tie them around the horses, and they swim for it. I can help secure them, but the flotation devices can just be waterskins or anything else that we can lash to them.”
It made the horses look sort of silly, but they could indeed float and swim on their own. Ylawes watched the first group set out across the river at a relatively calm point and realized it was no easy crossing, for all Evor was composed.
“Damn, that current’s strong, lad.”
The rain was letting up a bit, but the river was still strong enough that it sent the boat and horse downriver over three thousand paces. Evor just grunted.
“We’ll haul it back up the river. It’ll get tiring. You’ll need to row yourself!”
He clapped Ylawes on the shoulder, and the [Knight] nodded.
“We can do that. Just show us how not to capsize the boat.”
 
——
 
There was some challenge to it. The narrow longboat was pretty sturdy, but inexperienced passengers—which was everyone but the fourteen warriors—could still make it precarious, and Ylawes was quickly assigned to Styrvi and Thker, who had him and Dasha rowing.
He managed three trips across the river and back, hauling the boat up the river each time, before he got a break, and he sat with Thker, waiting for their turn to come again.
Ylawes’ arms burned, but Styrvi was the one who seemed thoroughly winded. She sat, panting, and he saw Thker’s eyes on her.
“Is she alright? We could trade off—”
“She won’t accept it. Best you not bring it up or you’ll lose your nose. There’s been blood shed on it, in Cenidau. And noses.”
Thker whispered back. Ylawes glanced over and saw Rigalde getting off the boat. She seemed visibly exhausted too, and Evor called out.
“Dawil, Larr, trade places!”
Rigalde appeared ready to argue, then came over to where they were and sat. She was panting, and when she saw Ylawes gazing at her—he tried to glance away, but she just grunted.
“Noticed…we’re not holding our own…Captain Ylawes?”
“I didn’t think that at all, Rigalde.”
She shook her head. Styrvi tried to get up.
“I can row. I was born for this, not some Dwarf and Gnoll—”
“Sit down, Styrvi. You don’t have the strength…neither do I. They were right. Right and wrong, back home.”
The younger woman lowered her head and seemed thoroughly miserable. Ylawes had to ask.
“Er, is it…is it a difference in classes, maybe? Do they get more endurance Skills and you all have different skillsets?”
He hadn’t seen Rigalde or Styrvi using as many Skills as Thker or Evor. At this, Styrvi barked a hollow laugh and turned away. Rigalde wore a pained smile.
“It is different classes, but it wasn’t always like this, Ylawes Byres. It’s a secret of sorts in Cenidau, but it won’t hurt to tell you; the nation knows, and if the world does not, it’s because few have our class.”
“No one else cares. We’re the ones cursed. Why us?”
Styrvi burst out. Thker began rebraiding his beard, and Ylawes blinked.
“What happened?”
Rigalde took another drink of water.
“The Winter Solstice. Something happened, then. We don’t know what. Only that every single [Shieldmaiden] in Cenidau, the world over—Styrvi, myself—young and old, highest to lowest-level, we all lost our class. It was turned into something else. [Shield Maid].”
“A joke.”
Styrvi moaned, and Thker studied his boots. Ylawes felt like someone had kicked him.
Briganda.
Winter Solstice.
Halrac.
It always went back to The Wandering Inn. He didn’t even know how, not fully. Only that he knew, when Rigalde told him of the woes that had countless warriors in Cenidau reconsidering their futures, it was all tied up with the inn. The battle at the Floodplains.
An entire class changed. Just like how Oswen had vanished.
Casualties of someone else’s war.
 
——
 
“Some think it’s a sign. I’ve read the Book of Levels; I barely thought of it, and now there are some who say women were never meant to war. [Shield Maid] should mean we go back to our homes.”
“After we finished breaking bones, we started arguing. Our class…[Shieldmaiden] was strong. It let us fight and voyage. [Shield Maid] is worse. It has some defensive Skills. But it is not as close to [Warrior] as before. Cleaning Skills, utility-Skills—we’re weaker.”
Rigalde and Styrvi told Ylawes of their problems as they sat and watched the boat crossing in the rain. He rested there, unsure of what to say. He didn’t know it was the inn’s doing, only that his instincts screamed it was how this had happened. More importantly, he didn’t know what had caused this.
“Why did you come to the New Lands, if there were such worries? I imagine some people might have tried to…dissuade you from going.”
Rigalde nodded, and her eyes slid to Evor.
“We didn’t ask. We went. It’s why we took longships and didn’t go with the others. This is for us as much as to see the New Lands. We want to prove we can continue. Or find a way our classes can.”
So they were challenging the New Lands with classes not meant for this kind of thing. Ylawes swallowed. Small wonder they couldn’t make the same speed as before.
“Surely you have Skills that make up for what you lost?”
“Oh, some. But not the ones I bled for. For instance, see how shiny our armor is?”
Rigalde slapped her armor, and Ylawes realized it was very bright, especially for people who’d been in the rain and mud for days. He’d put it down to the animal fat and good maintenance, but Rigalde snorted.
“[Unit: Tailor-Fresh Attire]. We’ll be rustless and our armor polished when we’re all gutted by the next monster. Styrvi, tell him one of your best Skills.”
She nudged Styrvi, and the [Shield Maid] was silent until she snapped.
“[Steelcloth Sheets], alright!? I can make a tablecloth so damn hard it blocks arrows—and it’s why I wear this!”
She pointed to her cloak, which, Ylawes realized, was just a simple cotton sheet stolen from, well, a bed. It became a cloak as hard as any Gold-rank adventurer’s gear, but it wasn’t…Styrvi stared at the ground.
“I used to have [Lesser Strength]. [Greater Endurance]. [Marrowstrike]. [Longpull Oars]. Now what am I good for?”
Thker drained his water flask.
“I’d trust you with my back over any southerner any day, Styrvi. Even if you lost every single Skill.”
“Some days, I wish that had happened. Then I’d be able to start again. I can’t even level the same.”
Rigalde nodded. She turned to Ylawes.
“I’ve taken [Drummer] as a class, and I’m levelling that. We’ve done well enough, but that’s why we didn’t fight the Landsharks. We would have, but…Evor can’t count on us the same way. We don’t know our Skills, and we don’t have the training to be [Maids].”
She shrugged as the boat came back. Ylawes didn’t know what to say. ‘Sorry’ sounded wholly inconsequential to what they were going through.
In silence, the group got into the boat for one of the last trips across. Thker was playing with his things, not sure what to say to his companions. Rigalde had clearly been a famous [Shieldmaiden] until losing her class. Now…
Thker was mixing up some flour dough with that yeast, shielding the precious stuff from the rain with his own cloak, when a rush of water struck the boat. He cinched both dough bag and yeast bag fast, but when he went to tuck them away, he smacked the bag of yeast instead.
“Giant’s blood—”
It went into the water, and Thker swore. He stood up as the boat rocked, and Ylawes saw the little bag floating, bobbing in the river.
“My yeast!”
“Thker, don’t be a fool. Just let it go—”
Rigalde warned him, but the [Shieldson] hesitated, then swore.
“It’s my treasure, hold on—”
He leapt into the water with a splash, and Styrvi swore.
“You idiot! Wait, it’s not cold.”
“He jumped in, armor and all!”
Styrvi and Rigalde chorused.
“He can swim. But he’s still a fool. Thker, get back here!”
He was paddling after the bobbling bag of yeast as people on the other side shouted at him. Evor was roaring at Thker, and Ylawes was trying to get the boat to go after the man as Rigalde and he heaved. Then he heard a shout.
“I’ve got it!”
Falene yanked the bag of yeast out of the water as Thker tried to pursue it; it had been going far faster than he could swim. She pulled it over to her, and he relaxed as a cheer went up, then turned his head sheepishly.
Rigalde rolled her eyes.
“Fool! Get over here, now!”
He was paddling back, protesting that how was he supposed to know Falene could do that, when Dasha leaned over the side of the boat.
“Uh, Ylawes? Something’s in the water. Something big—”
Styrvi turned, and Ylawes saw a long shape moving towards Thker. Something was indeed in the water, and the horses, if not the boat, had attracted—
“Thker! Monster!”
“What? Where? Wh—”
The gigantic reptile burst out of the water, and its long snout opened and bit down on Thker’s shoulder. The alligator and man vanished in the depths, and the river became a churning mess as Styrvi shouted.
“Thker!”
Rigalde had a throwing axe drawn, but she was staring into the water.
“I can’t see. Get me closer! Don’t get in there, there could be m—”
She was shouting at the others, and Ylawes heard that last bit a second too late. Because he was already leaping into the water. He saw Rigalde’s alarmed expression—then it was cold, silent, and deep.
No matter what Styrvi thought, it was freezing to Ylawes, and the water filled his armor at once. He was leaden, and he could barely see in the churning, but he saw the crocodile thrashing around as it tried to drag Thker under.
