“That could work. So if we just head west…”
“Maybe a bit south? But you should see them.”
“Thank you, stranger. Er…”
“Nailren.”
The Gnoll nodded to them, got a belated shake of the claw from Lancet, and was riding onwards when the Drake shouted at him.
“You didn’t see anything valuable, did you?”
“Only everything!”
Nailren shouted back with a laugh, and the Drake stood there, confused.
 
——
 
The other camps were not the same level of wary, but they were all wary in different ways, if that made sense. The next group Nailren ran into was half-Human, half-Gnoll, funnily enough.
“Team effort! I’m Trader Mahawl from Reizmelt! Home of the Wind Runner, don’t you know! We teamed up with these Gnolls, and we’ve been making fine, fine progress. Please excuse our vigilance.”
The Gnolls were waving at Nailren, but they had an eye on the horizon and other groups of expeditioners moving west. Nailren saw Mahawl glancing at him, around, and guessed.
“Have you had a bad run-in with other travellers?”
“Is it obvious? [Thieves]. They haven’t made off with much, but we’ve had a few incidents. People coming to our camp to talk and things missing…not that we don’t want to be friendly! But I think we’d better head away from the others. Not enough opportunity together, anyways.”
“Very fair. I won’t trouble you; I’m heading north, not west for the moment. Have you heard of a waystation west of here? Or an inn?”
“Someone’s already got a waystation up? And there’s an inn?”
There it was again. Nailren savored being the deliverer of news to the groups he ran into. Because there were no [Message] spells here, his news of Plain’s Eye behind the caravaners, or these two mysterious buildings, were the first they heard of it.
Then again—he got to get the same experience when a trio of half-Elves riding east ran into him. They raised their bows so fast he had his in his paws and called out.
“Peace, peace!”
He saw a glaring half-Elf aiming an arrow at him and two more bows pointed past him when their leader shouted.
“Lower your bow! Down, everyone—he’s not with the [Bandits]. Don’t raise your bow, stranger! Apologies, but there’s been trouble.”
Nailren shouted at the trio as they drew slightly closer, eying them.
“I’m on my way north to find an inn of some kind!”
“The Explorer’s Haven? You’re heading the right way!”
They relaxed a bit, and he blinked.
“You’ve been there?”
“Been there? It’s the only building with fresh food and supplies until you get out of the New Lands! But I warn you—no trouble there. We have had enough, and if you’re representing a larger group, we are all armed.”
The half-Elf woman who was leading this trio frowned at him, and Nailren lifted his paws again.
“I’m just by myself, mapping this area. What kind of trouble?”
She sighed.
“Other colonies, adventurers playing [Bandit], some kind of monster that wiped out two colonies—if we’re jumpy, I apologize. This is not necessarily the experience I expected. It almost makes me think we should have joined the colony in the west.”
“Bah. If I have to hear ‘sister’ one more time, I’ll find one of their trees to hang myself off of. We’re from the north. House of El, I suppose, though we’re not affiliated.”
The half-Elves grew a bit more cordial when Nailren was clearly not with anyone, and he warmed them further when he produced a bag of salt.
“Do you have anything to trade?”
Meeting half-Elves from Izril’s north tickled his fur, and the leader immediately grabbed something from her belt.
“How’s a permanently-warm skin of a salamander sound? They’re a bit rough, but we have six. If we had [Tailors], I’d make a cap or cloak of it if we can get enough.”
“Fast things. We’re both hunting and scavenging. There’s some value to those coral-trees we see everywhere. They might not burn well, but the corals are huge and last for up to eighteen hours without needing replacement.”
Nailren frowned as he came forwards to inspect the black, scaly skin of some creature they’d been hunting.
“Oh, that is warm!”
Not very warm, but enough to be noticeable. The hide was thicker than he’d want, but if he lined a cloak with that, he doubted he’d ever get cold. Then again, unless he was wet, his fur did well enough.
“How about it?”
They wanted the salt. Nailren pulled a face.
“Salt’s dear enough, and I only have two bags.”
He had four, but he pretended to waver until the half-Elves conferred, and one pulled out another trophy.
“Corusdeer horn?”
“I can’t carry it, though that’s a fine antler. Did you take down a buck?”
“We did. Alright, then…how about some gold?”
“I don’t need g—”
Nailren began before they produced a solid lump of it. He blinked as one handed over a nugget that filled his paw. It was heavy, and their leader nodded to it.
“Turns out the minerals clump up like that. It’s worth far more than the salt, to be honest, but we’ve no way of trading it except with other colonies and the inn. How about it?”
“Salt for skins and the nugget?”
“Are you mad?”
“Alright, alright. I’ve got some oil here. Cooking quality. How about both?”
In the end, Nailren turned over the bag of salt, a pot of oil, and five arrowshafts for the nugget and Warm Salamander skins. He thought it a good deal, and they clearly agreed.
“Profitable. You might get the best deal we’ll ever trade for.”
“Well, I’ll take it with gratitude. I’ll head to the inn—should I expect trouble?”
The half-Elf shook her head.
“The name’s Velinda. Apologies for the scare, but I think you’re fine. We ran the [Bandits] off, and they’re after food more than coin at the moment. As for the monster? If you see it, warn anyone. It’s fast and apparently looks a bit like a Ghoul, but that’s the only rumor we have. It’s so fast you’d barely outrun it on horseback. Allegedly. As for other trouble, well, you’re only one person. As long as you don’t flash your supplies around…we had other colonies trying to extort goods. Watch who you trust.”
Hmm. So it had already begun. Nailren nodded thoughtfully.
“Any culprits?”
“We were extorted by Drakes, but we have just as many groups who’re good neighbors. And we, ah, can’t tell which group threatened us. I’d hate to cast aspersions at the other groups, but they are the most notable for now.”
“Good to know, either way. If you have any other landmarks or warnings, I’d love them. For the map?”
“Can we buy a copy?”
The half-Elves were interested, but Nailren assured them it contained nothing of value. When he told them about the Plain’s Eye tribe, the entire group groaned instead of being happy.
“Great. No offense, Explorer Nailren, but that’s a lot of competition.”
“They don’t intend on heading far into the New Lands.”
Velinda leaned on her horse’s back.
“No…but they’ll enable more people to push inwards and settle. We’d better decide if this is a permanent camp or we want to keep moving. The Haven’s attractive, but I’d rather use it to push further inland. If we don’t keep moving, we’ll fall to inertia, and there’s far more to see.”
He liked her pragmatism. Velinda appeared older than Falene, which spoke to a lot of decades of experience. Nailren thanked the half-Elves and then kept riding, hiding the gold nugget in his packs. He didn’t know what to do about the Warm Salamander skins, but they were a treasure in and of themselves.
Boot linings maybe. Always keep your boots warm even if it rains. No, wait, they’ll just give me sweaty feet. If only I could get them hotter they’d dry things. A warming hip flask for tea?
Why was the name The Explorer’s Haven so familiar? Then Nailren found the inn and realized the answer.
 
——
 
The Explorer’s Haven was a promising spot. Good access to the river, nice sight lines, the beginnings of a wall, and the inn itself was sturdy. Nailren liked it.
He wasn’t sure, though, if it was too unguarded. They didn’t have more than a single tower up, and while he saw someone was in there, it felt…exposed. He wasn’t sure if he should be going around saying ‘hey, I might decide to attack this place if I were a [Bandit]’, though, and the [Innkeeper] seemed sharp enough.
The Explorer’s Haven was packed. So many people coming through it—but the staff were alert, if besieged. More importantly, Nailren’s nose picked up fried oil, fresh bread, and he realized they had supplies.
How in the world…? Then he saw Barnethei striding around, and it clicked.
The Explorer’s Haven.
The Adventurer’s Haven.
“I’m an idiot.”
One question to a flashily-dressed [Server] and she confirmed that yes, this was an offshoot of the famous inn. In fact, when he mentioned he was an adventurer, the woman’s eyes lit up.
“Oh really? Which team?”
He grinned at her as she put some fresh bread and soup in front of him.
“The Pride of Kelia. I doubt you’d have heard of it; we’re mostly southern.”
The brown-skinned Human woman’s eyes rolled up in her head, and she put her hands on her hips as she thought.
“The Pride…the Pride…Silver-rank team, all Gnolls. Travels a lot. You were in Liscor! Captain Nailren, correct?”
He blinked in pure surprise, but she was a member of the Haven. They knew adventurers. And his name had brought over no less than Barnethei himself. The [Innkeeper] clasped hands with Nailren.
“An adventurer and an [Explorer]? This is exactly the place you should come to, sir! Can I get you a drink, on the house? It’ll have to be a small one—we’re rather pressed for everything.”
The server frowned, and he added.
“Just a small one, Navien. He’s from Liscor!”
The glass of whiskey was very small indeed, and Barnethei seemed embarrassed, but Nailren accepted it with a huge grin and toasted them.
“I fully understand that supplies are scarce, Innkeeper Barnethei. Clean water is a gift enough out here! How do you stay afloat? I can see you’re doing amazing trade, but the cost—”
Barnethei chuckled hugely.
“I suspect the margins aren’t what Larracel wants, but we are pulling in coin. People are buying nonstop, so it is a bit of a press—but that’s a good place to be in.”
So long as you can keep supplied. Nailren didn’t say that, he just repaid the drink by talking about what he’d seen, to Barnethei and Navien’s clear fascination. When he showed them his map, Barnethei’s eyes lit up.
“Just the thing we need for business!”
“Barnethei, we can barely hold on as it is! But yes, it would be good to know who else we can trade with. Plain’s Eye Gnolls southeast of here? Larracel will love that.”
“I’ll mention the inn to them, and I’m after this waystation I’ve heard of.”
Barnethei gnawed on his lip as he adjusted his coat.
“A waystation? Mostly, we’re getting people entering the New Lands. Someone’s beaten us that badly to the spot? If you do find them, we’d love to know. I’ll have a free meal and a handsome drink for you on the way back, and I’ll buy your maps if you double back this way.”
Nailren grinned.
“It’s nice to be important, yes? You have yourself a deal, Innkeeper. Just before I go, is there any trouble about? I heard some talk of it…”
Barnethei frowned.
“No more than the usual for us. Maybe a bit of rowdiness with the mana loss and food issues—you know about both? Of course, but we’ve been fine. This is an offshoot of the Haven. We can handle ourselves.”
Navien produced a wand and flipped it around before catching it, and Nailren chuckled before wondering if that was a bit of overconfidence.
He’s high-level, he’ll be fine especially if Larracel herself is giving them magic and support. Nailren finished his meal and wished they had guest rooms. He didn’t mind roughing it, but sleeping in a proper bed would be heavenly.
“We’ll work on those amenities after the basics. Best of luck, [Explorer].”
He doubted he left that much of an impression, but Nailren still grinned as he went west from there. He passed by numerous camps, including the half-Elven one, and came to the river.
“Hrr. Right.”
Nailren’s journey north hadn’t taken him west at all, which meant that he’d forgotten the river that came out of the foothills. Easy enough for him to judge a spot to ford; he was a fine swimmer, and the rainfall had slackened enough so it wasn’t treacherously deep. Plus, his horse was also good at swimming. He’d bought the animal for its ability to traverse the wilds.
Nailren wondered how other groups were dealing with the river. Then he kept riding and riding, mapping the varied lands, until he came to the place known as Woll’s Waystation, the first major settlement in the New Lands of any kind.
To Nailren, it was quite a pleasant trip. If he sensed danger, he rolled up in his bedroll, hid his horse, and he knew enough bushcraft that twice, a group of riders rode within fifty feet of him at night and never saw nor smelled him. His new Skill let him pluck foragables out of the ground, and he had a merry time hunting and testing what was actually edible or useful.
He was, after all, rather good at this. And more than good at this, he was well-prepared.
The same could not be said of other groups.
 
——
 
Ylawes cursed the rain as he had never cursed anything before in his life. He had surely lived through worse rain. He’d seen magical storms, been on adventures during hurricanes—
But this felt personal. It was as if there were Spring Faeries or something, and the mischievous little bastards had armed the very clouds and sharpened each raindrop to make it extra-cold and piercing, then hurled them down by the thousands on him.
It soaked his armor, which no longer fit him properly and thus let water seep in through the places where the metal normally connected securely together. Instead, the cloth padding and underarmor had begun fraying, and then the water was stuck against his skin.
Clothing chafing his skin raw, and his boots were soaked. He’d gotten his socks wet on the first day, and that meant they’d never dry. He developed blisters, and the ground turned muddy, and they were sloshing through it.
The rains didn’t stop. The Plain’s Eye tribe’s bags were waterproofed and solid, but even then, bags had to be opened and there was little shelter. After a few days, all the food was wet and sopping, and they had to be careful because their new stores might rot, and they were in the New Lands, and he hated it.
The exuberance over the new Mithril gear turned into a kind of excitement and hope as they marched and saw other groups. But then the rains began to fall, and it just—got—
Bad.
 
——
 
