Pekona avoided meeting Ylawes’ eyes, which told him it was absolutely about them. But to his surprise, she whispered at him.
“Falene is a…big girl. Adult. She knows who she is. I respect her.”
When had this come about? Actually, Ylawes had noticed Dasha walking with Falene more, and Pekona and Falene were cordial, but he pressed her.
“But her class—it just sounds like—”
“I think you should let it be, Ylawes Byres.”
She frowned at him firmly. Ylawes hesitated, then dropped it because she’d never spoken to him in that tone before. After a moment, she linked arms with him and towed him over to stare at a giant, ugly frog munching on bugs in the rain. But Ylawes couldn’t let it be.
He didn’t know if he wanted to know. Because…Ylawes felt guilty. He didn’t know if his suspicion was reality, and for once, no one wanted to help.
 
——
 
“Rasktooth, Infinitypear. About Falene. Has she seemed down since I, uh, since I and Pekona—? I was just wondering because of her new class, and you two have a good instinct for—”
For the first time, the two Bronze-rank adventurers did not want to talk to Ylawes. In fact, when they heard his question, Infinitypear went sprinting forwards.
“We are going to check for monsters!”
“That right, we know nothing!”
Ylawes felt like that meant they knew something and jogged after them.
“I just need to know if you think—”
“Lalalalala, we not hear you Captain! You take hint please!”
Highly concerning. None of Vuliel Drae wanted to bring the topic up either. Dasha tried to out-jog Ylawes when he went to have a word.
“Look, uh, Captain. Why don’t you think about something else? Always works for me. Like squirrels. Ever notice how many of ‘em are around? With fins? Do they taste like tuna? Let’s drop it, huh?”
“What squirrels?”
Ylawes turned his head, and she dashed off. When he turned to Anith and Insill, the [Rogue] cartwheeled behind one of the packhorses, and Anith engaged Petia in conversation.
 
——
 
There was only one person that Ylawes could turn to. His rock, his friend, his guidance and older figure—
“Lad, I appreciate you leaning into the joke, but I do not want to do this.”
Dawil’s face was set as he stumped along in the rain, and Ylawes hissed at him. Falene was riding ahead, arguing with Homle.
“No, I won’t cast more drying spells. I know it’s wet, but I need some mana for danger.”
“Miss Falene, we’ll die happier. I’ll throw myself in front of the monsters or arrows if you’re out of mana! Think on it! Dry socks.”
“…Well, even if I did use all the mana for the day, how would I dry everyone’s socks? The spell is too much mana.”
“Let me tell you what the lads and I thought. Pot, fire, all warded and the like. Little drying area to put your boots on. You cover that up with those umbrellas, and we toss all the socks in a pot, give ‘em a wash, let them dry…and we put our boots there.”
“…go on…”
The allure of fresh socks called to Ylawes too, but he turned to Dawil.
“Dawil, I have to know. I’ve been thinking it over, and I think Falene’s class relates to, you know, Pekona and me?”
“Now why…would you think that, Lad?”
Dawil breathed, staring ahead fixedly. Ylawes hesitated.
“Well, I didn’t until—I saw her face. In Goisedall. I mean, I have thought about it. But you know the rules. Never sleep inside the team. Don’t be a Todi.”
“Absolutely.”
“It’s not that I don’t like Falene. I’d have absolutely dated her but for that rule—”
Dawil stumbled, nearly fell on the ground. He glanced up sharply.
“But you’re with Pekona.”
“Yes…that was—it wasn’t what I’d call a lapse in judgement, and I hope she doesn’t feel that way, even if I’m the Captain. More of a—a confluence of events where I realized I wanted to take a risk and try. I know it’s embarrassing.”
Dawil’s eyes flicked to Falene, and he slowed further.
“But you like Pekona.”
“Yes.”
“You didn’t make her feel like she had to do this? You two weren’t drunk? You made her no promises?”
“No! Dawil, I was entirely honest, I swear. It’s just Falene—”
Dawil stared at Ylawes, and his normally-genial face was strained.
“Let’s play a game, Ylawes.”
“I don’t think now is—”
“It’s a damn hypothetical, Ylawes. Let’s pretend Pekona didn’t exist. Never met her. Let’s say it was you and Falene in Goisedall and she said, oh, I don’t know, ‘I know we’re teammates but I’d like to try’. Would you have given it a shot?”
Ylawes grew exceptionally uncomfortable and turned to Pekona.
“I don’t think that’s an answer I want to give, Dawil. With Pekona—”
“Pretend she doesn’t exist. Pretend it’s another Ylawes in, I don’t know, some make-believe world! Would that Ylawes do it?”
Ylawes didn’t truck with all these hypothetical realities, but he had to answer.
“I…yes. That Ylawes would have.”
“I see.”
Dawil walked on, head bowed, tugging at his beard. Ylawes went on.
“I just didn’t—”
“Falene’s liked you since the day we met, lad. If not romantically, then by the end of the first year, I’d say that she would have tried asking you if she didn’t know the rules. She’s thrown enough hints down. Now, you tell me you’d have chanced it. What am I supposed to do with that? Dead gods, I didn’t want to know that. Damn Pointy. I feel sorrier for her.”
Dawil stomped along, moving away from the group, and Ylawes stopped dead in his tracks. Poke your head into the cave and you’ll get an answer. Captain Todi, the Sage of Adventuring Love, whispered in his ears.
“I…I didn’t know.”
“I know. That’s the only reason I didn’t slap your ankle with my hammer.”
“So her class is—”
“Yep. I hope it means she’s moving on. Pursuing love and magic rather than following after you. If she’s pining, she’s doing a good job. Frankly, I think seeing how your parents treated Pekona swung it. Falene Skystrall is many things. Haughty, arrogant, pigheaded, too full of herself, but she’s not unkind. We know that.”
Dawil still didn’t peek at Ylawes. The [Knight] turned.
“I have to apologize to her—”
Dawil grabbed his arm, and Ylawes jerked to a halt.
“Ylawes Byres, if you mention this to her, I will hit you with my hammer. Leave it be. Never say a word to Falene about this, you understand? You were dumb as a rock, and you’re going to stay that way or you will split this team.”
He growled, anger flashing in his eyes, and Ylawes faltered.
“But I—”
“Who are you going to make happy by apologizing? You? Pekona? Falene? What’s she supposed to say when you walk up and say, ‘sorry I missed you and fell head-over-heels with an adventurer I’ve been on two missions with’?”
Ylawes hesitated, and Dawil went on.
“Listen to me, Ylawes. I tease you that I’m older than you, but that doesn’t mean much—except for stuff like this. Ask yourself a question: what’s the best case scenario from talking to Falene about what happened?”
“I…don’t know.”
Dawil rolled his eyes.
“The best case…let’s go for it. Best case is Falene forgives you, throws her arms around you, and confesses her love, and Pekona’s so won over you three enter a relationship together.”
A three-way romance? Which meant a three…some? Ylawes tried to imagine it. His helmet nearly exploded. Then Dawil went on.
“Now, let’s do worst case. Worst case is Falene hears you out and blames herself for not doing anything and quits because it’s too awkward. Or she forgives you, but that means Pekona wonders if she’s the second-rate option and breaks it off with you. Then Falene’s left wondering forever if she’s the pity-vote. Worst case: neither one can handle it, and they either split the teams with people choosing sides or one offs the other in the night. Or leaves.”
“That wouldn’t happen. I—”
“Do you want to risk it, Ylawes? Say the worst outcomes don’t happen—that’s a lot of downsides, and except for that one outcome, I don’t see any upside. Drop it.”
They stood in silence until Larr called out, asking if they had seen something. They began to walk after the others, and Ylawes felt the rain battering him like the guilty thoughts in his stomach.
“I feel so bad—”
“Yep.”
“And talking isn’t the answer?”
“Sometimes, it’s not.”
“I was raised all my life to be honest.”
“Sometimes, that means not talking, Ylawes. Sometimes, you live with your guilt.”
This was not a lesson Ylawes would have accepted in the Silver Swords a year ago. Today? He thought of the Consortium, of Trader Tilfem, and, well, of Falene. His head bowed. Dawil walked along, and neither one said a word.
“For what it’s worth, Ylawes, I’ve been prouder of you than not. This? This wasn’t even a huge misstep. Falene’s a big girl, and she can be an adult. We’re older. Don’t make it worse, I’m begging you. You do like Pekona, don’t you?”
“Oh, yes. Absolutely.”
“What about her? I can sort of see it, but I haven’t talked to her much.”
He sensed Dawil watching him, and Ylawes wondered if the Dwarf were testing him.
“Well…it’s how different she is. I don’t mean—foreign, I mean how she thinks and sometimes corrects me. I can talk to her because sometimes it feels like we’re both outsiders. And she’s good with a sword. I understand that. She’s honest and brave and—”
It sounds like Falene in many ways. Ylawes trailed off before he added.
“—I think in Pekona’s case, she understands making huge mistakes. Not that hers were her fault. She’s paid for her errors. I haven’t.”
He walked on until Dawil patted him on the back.
“Good. I’m happy for you, Ylawes. Mind what I said, alright?”
“Okay.”
 
——
 
Ylawes tried just once.
Just once, over dinner. He knew Dawil was watching him, and Pekona was worried, and he had a moment when Falene was checking his temperature.
“Hmm. You still are pale, but you’re more decent. Show me your eyes.”
She peered into his gaze and felt at his neck.
“Falene, what is this about?”
“It’s your vitals. I’m measuring how much your heart beats.”
“Why?”
She hesitated and wiped at her rain-covered spectacles. Homle was working his sock-drying pot, and both glanced at it longingly; everyone was in line.
“Well…I heard the Last Light of Baleros talking about it. I wanted to read more about, er, survival. Apparently, heartbeats, fluid in lungs, all indicate sickness.”
“Do you…know which signs indicate which?”
“Well, I’m certain I could intuit it! I am a Wistram [Mage], Ylawes, and I have a sharp, analytical mind—”
She blustered, avoiding his gaze, and the [Knight] grinned. That was Falene alright, and she caught his eye, reddened, then laughed. She put her head up and stared at the sky.
“Damn rain. Alright, fine. I’m doing my best. I suppose I can’t do much, but we must try.”
“Yeah. We must. Thank you, Falene. Truly.”
She smiled at him as she sat wearily on some stone coral. The rain pounded on, and Ylawes stared westward.
Something’s out there. Something worth all this. She spoke absently.
“Neither Dawil nor I blame you for this. If anything, I want to commend you for doing what you did, Ylawes. I know it matters greatly to you, House Byres’ reputation. We’ve been through worse. I can’t remember when, exactly. Facestealer or that time with the Armored Crawler. Remember when it was digging up our camp?”
“And we couldn’t break its armor. I remember.”
Hiding in their camp, trying to fight it off as it dug around them--Falene smiled.
“We didn’t have rookies back then. Now we’re the senior adventurers. We should act the part. That’s why I’d appreciate it if you didn’t reveal my deficiencies.”
He smiled.
“I’ll try. Falene, about your class—”
He glanced up and saw her stiffen slightly. Her eyes slid to Pekona, and Ylawes saw her glance at him. Just once, with such an expression of hurt in her eyes—then her spectacles flashed, and she rubbed at them with the hem of her robes.
“What about it?”
“—I just wondered what kind of mana Skills you had for your [Mana Well]. I know yours is a generic [Arcane Mana Well], isn’t it? Can you do more magic than when we first came here? How much, or is Homle’s sock-drying going to tire you each night?”
Ylawes saw Falene blink and relax ever-so-slightly. Then she scowled.
“Generic? I have a highly adaptive, highly universal—you must have been misremembering my lectures, Ylawes! For your information, I have [Mana Well: Weathertight Walls]. Quite odd how it sounds as if it’s an architectural Skill for magic…but I assure you it means my mana-drain is far lower! I’d like to generate more mana, but I’ve held onto far more mana than before! I’m just not inclined to use more!”
“Wait, you have more mana saved?”
Ylawes blinked at her, and Falene threw up her hands.
“Keeping you all dry is not a good use of magic! When I need to fire a [Lightning Bolt], you will thank me! And speaking of which, Master Homle, the fee for my magic is my socks will all be dried! All of them!”
 
——
 
He didn’t have the courage to say it. Dawil’s warning had sounded in his ears, and he’d seen how much it might hurt Falene and…
Ylawes confessed it to Pekona that night, and she sat there as water dripped on their heads from the tarp they’d spread out between coral rocks. It was still accumulating on the ground, and they had managed to put their tarp on a slope so mostly it didn’t run into their camp, but…
It was a better day in that they could set up the tents at all. But Pekona just folded her one arm as he sat there.
“I have done terrible things to Falene. And you.”
She kicked him. He deserved that. But her glower indicated that Pekona didn’t feel this apology was holding water. Unlike their tent, sadly.
“I told you to drop it. Falene made her peace; you can’t. You’re like…Larr.”
“Me? How?”
He was astonished, and she glowered.
“You can’t drop anything. You get obsessed. Just respect her and leave it alone! We talked.”
“You did? When?”
“The bathhouse. My feet hurt.”
That sounded like a segue, but it was really an invitation for him to help massage them. He did, and she tried, once more, to keep less water from running into the tent. Ylawes went on after a moment, and he heard her sigh, vexed.
“Pekona. I was genuinely enamored with you in Goisedall, and the fact that neither you nor I knew about Falene is—bad luck. Like how the Horns found the map to Albez.”
“…Are you talking about adventuring?”
She squinted at him, and his voice was plaintive.
