Homle was down to gamble, and Ylawes groaned as he saw other items going into the pot. A jar of strawberry jam, a pair of metal tweezers from one of Petia’s people, a trio of gold coins—
It was all relative worth, but the gold was the least appealing option in the pot and actually ejected after some debate. Tweezers to pull out a thorn in one’s foot?
Valuable beyond belief. Ylawes was glad most of his people weren’t rushing to gamble their things. But that was, again, Petia.
“No one’s gambling food or anything that belongs to the group. And on your head be it if you lose something important! This lot might have gambling Skills and rook all of us!”
She warned everyone, loudly, and Evor laughed as he rattled some bone dice in a cup.
“Not us. Nor d’we like such Skills. We can [Sniff a Rogue], right, Albraad?”
He nudged the fellow who wanted Homle’s belt buckle, and the warrior made a show of sniffing, then jerked a finger at Insill.
“Besides that one, they’re clear. Right, here’s how the game works before we play. Can’t take a man’s belt buckle without winning it nice and honest. See these dice?”
They had five. Evor showed people the sides as he tossed them out of the cup onto the stone floor.
“You toss them like so. Toss it too far and out of sight and no one trusts it—no rerolls. It’s just gone. Each face means something. The best face to roll’s a kraken. See? Roll the kraken and you take another player out, unless they roll a sailor on their turn. One in six chances of each.”
“Ah, gotcha, and so the last one standing takes the pot?”
All the northfolk shook their heads instantly, and Albraad held a hand out.
“The last one standing takes one item out of the pot. Game ends too quick with too much bad blood, otherwise. This way, it’s interesting. Someone else is going t’win and you’re not? Maybe throw the game if you know they’re after what you don’t want, and they might help you next round.”
“Help you? Are there sides?”
Insill was very curious despite being the dirty [Rogue], and Albraad grinned at him.
“Only the ones you make. It’s a free game. Help someone, hurt someone—you see, roll a kraken and you can take someone out. But roll a wolf? And then whomever has the most wolves on them at the end of the round is also gone. Each player can toss a wolf at someone, and you’re like to roll wolves far more than a kraken or sailor.”
More than one face of the die had a wolf. Insill protested.
“Wait, it’s like a group vote? So you can take sides and team up? That’s not fair.”
“Spoken like a Drake!”
All the Cenidau folk chorused and fell over each other laughing. Insill wilted as Evor shot them a warning glance and explained.
“Ignore them. They’re giddy to meet real Drakes after so long at sea. Antinium too.”
“You’re rather calm for people who’ve met Antinium for the first time. Goblins as well. I’m in this game, though I’ll want a practice round as well as explanations.”
Homle seemed like he was used to such games, and Ylawes stood on the outside as the [Miner] sat, and they chatted. Albraad had everyone roll dice, and the person with the most wolves got to choose if they went first or last; there was also a value to that, too, given that they’d go in a circle.
It was not so much a game of hard numbers and the best roll, more one of being social, Ylawes realized. Falene said as much as she came over, nursing her drink.
“Wistram hates these kinds of games.”
“Why, not enough magic dice that explode in your face, Falene?”
Dawil grinned, and she rolled her eyes.
“No, because they’re social games that you can’t win by being the best at through learning the system’s mechanics or manipulating the odds, Dawil. Half of my peers don’t have the charisma to buy a drink at a bar.”
“Ah, well, you are above-average for a Wistram [Mage].”
“Thank you, Dawil. I’m glad you noticed.”
The Dwarf turned his head and made faces at Ylawes and Pekona, and they had to fight to avoid laughing as Falene watched, oblivious. Homle was chatting as he played with five others.
“How’d you make it across the sea this far on those little boats?”
“These’re not the ones we used! We have a longship. It’s like this, but, well, bigger. Sails and all. Still a dangerous journey, but it was worth the risk.”
All the Cenidau folk nodded, sombering a bit.
“We lost five on the trip here to the storms and monsters. But it’s the journey of a lifetime. We’d have had larger ships and gone with far more, but—well—we wanted to be first.”
For some reason, Albraad glanced at Styrvi, and there was a slight pause before he hurried on.
“Right, now you go. Ah, you’ve thrown a shield.”
“So?”
“So you can pull a wolf off of someone. Fancy making a friend?”
Homle obligingly saved Albraad from one of his wolves, and the man slapped him on the shoulder and laughed.
“So how’s a [Miner] end up with Gold-rank adventurers?”
Homle gladly launched into the story of the Silver Swords, and Ylawes’ stomach tightened, but the [Miner] did a reasonably fair job of presenting the Consortium’s point of view, and his, which had been to stick it out until things were too dire. The northfolk shook their heads again. Half turned to spit into the fire.
“Madness, not to take enough to hunt with. We grow so little in the north we didn’t think to try. Izril truly is a strange place, but worth the travel. Few, few Drakes or Gnolls ever come as far north as Cenidau. After seeing so much of the world on television—we had to come. Meeting an Antinium’s been a dream of mine.”
Albraad’s eyes lit on Infinitypear, and Homle blinked.
“What about Rasktooth?”
“What about him? He’s a Goblin, isn’t he? We saw a few of those, too. The one playing the guitar at the inn…”
Numbtongue. Ylawes had to interject here.
“You don’t see Goblins as monsters, Warrior Albraad?”
The man had a thick orange beard he scratched, thinking about it.
“If I saw one on the tundras, perhaps—but like as not we’d pass each other by. Too risky to fight out there. One wound and we’d both freeze if a True Frost were to blow through. I’ve seen a few Goblins. Fought a few. One’s not more dangerous than any of you.”
“Hey, I plenty dangerous!”
Rasktooth objected, and the [Tundra Warrior] grinned at him. So, it was a mix of pragmatism and experience then.
“You want to play, Goblin? I’ll wager you for one of those crossbows. Even my second-best axe.”
He proffered a steel blade, and Rasktooth hesitated before shaking his head warily. As it turned out, he was carrying something the Cenidau folk prized the most: machinery.
“Metal can still freeze, but it’s more reliable than magic. It’s why we did well enough, here. Speaking of—another drink for those brave enough to dice!”
More of the precious mead was in the cups that Homle accepted with a huge chuckle before frowning.
“Hold it. How can you have so much of that? Did you carry fifty kegs on your ships or are we drinking you out of everything?”
Albraad lifted the wineskin he’d been pouring into cups and grinned.
“This? [Wineskin of Barrels]. Three, if I’m a judge.”
“You’ve got a wineskin of holding?”
Homle exclaimed, and another [Hearthguard] laughed and produced something else.
“You don’t? You’re like southern kingdoms, then. No Skills for travel. See this? [Bag of Slow Rot]. How do you manage here without Skills? Practice finding caves?”
“We don’t find caves, mostly.”
“What? Do you sleep out in the open?”
More genuine horror. Thker slapped his chest.
“I have [Locate Shelter], but every party that leaves one of the Warm Cities has someone like me. You don’t have anyone like that…? What about [Sense Resources]? That’s how we found the firewood.”
No and no. Ylawes was patently embarrassed as Homle glanced at him, but Dawil just shook his head.
“That’s not part of our classes, friends. Me and the lad—Ylawes—we’re fighters to the core. Adventurers.”
“You’d think adventure meant being better at finding things. I suppose you don’t have that class, then.”
Styrvi commented, and Infinitypear waved his hands.
“I have the class! Perhaps I will gain a very useful bag-Skill!”
In any other circumstance, Ylawes would have called Albraad’s Skill a useful novelty, but a waste of a potential ability. Here—he was patently envious of their abilities, which allowed them to do everything they were already capable of.
These people are the kind who’ll thrive in the New Lands. That was it, he realized. They reminded him of Nailren. And, he knew, he wasn’t the only person who thought the same way.
“Captain Byres, a word?”
Petia was watching Homle losing his belt buckle, and the [Miner] was laughing good-naturedly with Albraad as she motioned Ylawes aside. Pekona, Dawil, and Falene casually stepped back, and Petia spoke.
“I don’t want to sound like I’m trying to tell you what to do, sir—”
“No, go on, Petia. Did you have a thought? Something we should gamble for?”
Ylawes hadn’t seen much that they didn’t need, though he wished he could get some of that animal fat. But Petia was glancing at Evor.
“No, rather, Captain…do you think we could join these folk for a bit? Between their Skills and all they seem to have packed, it’d be far more reassuring.”
More than crossing a river without any experience, she meant. Ylawes rubbed at his chin.
“That’s not a bad idea…but I’m sure they’re exploring, and I don’t know what their goals are.”
“Let me figure it out, lad. Pointy, got anything to trade?”
“Argh…a haircomb. Don’t you have anything?”
“Yeah, but I don’t want to lose it. Thanks!”
Dawil strode over to the game, and Falene would have hit him with a spell if she had any mana left. But Pekona strolled over too, and the two sat down. Dawil wagered the hair comb and drew in more players for the next round, and Pekona put one of her whetstones into the pot, and a dozen warriors queued up. So many that they had to split Dawil and Pekona off into separate games.
“That’s a Drathian whetstone. We trade with Drath, far as they are. Most things from there are worth any coin. And you…d’you know the Drathian [Swordsmaster] who fought Zeladona of blades? Or the one who fought that undead Drake at the Village of the Dead?”
The northfolk knew television, and when Pekona turned red and ducked her head, everyone wanted to win her whetstones off her. Her being the [Sword Dancer] from both events had the northfolk with eyes round as gold coins for once.
Dawil was laughing and telling stories as Ylawes hesitated, watching.
“Aye, we know the Horns of Hammerad. You’ll never guess it, but one of us is related to the Horns! Any guesses? Why are you all looking at Ylawes and Falene? Damn it, I could have been Pisces’ uncle or second-relative…question while I have you all. What’re you here for? The Silver Swords are mostly searching for employment, but what brings Cenidau’s folk so far?”
He put the question to Evor, who sat back on his haunches and glanced, again, at another woman in his group. She spoke, and Ylawes realized she had grey in her hair. Just a touch, but it made her older than the rest.
“What else but to see what these lands hold, Adventurer Dawil? I’m Rigalde.”
“Pleased. Then you’re exploring. I think you didn’t find anything of note, or did we do our introductions wrong?”
She chuckled.
“You did them fairly enough. We like our customs, and we’re wary because not every group’s been hospitable to us. Even the other Terandrian kingdoms treat us like savages. We’ve seen delights, but no wonders. Not yet. Save for a strange bird made of ice, but we kept our heads low when it flew. It seemed far too dangerous for us to take on.”
“Huh, you’re more cautious than I’d thought. The stories of Cenidau warriors we get, and the ones who visit Deríthal-Vel for gear, play into that wildness. Brave, hardy folk ready for a drink and a scrap.”
Dawil was being his most charming and rolled his dice out, cursing when he got nothing of value, but Rigalde just grimaced.
“You met [Hearthlords], then. Or maybe a Wisdom or some merchants who play into the image. We’re common warriors, even if we’re not [Linewomen] who just fight for pay. We have neither the riches nor the levels to slay monsters like adventurers. Killing walruses and selling their meat, hides, and tusks is pay enough for us. There are other ways to make coin, but monsters in Cenidau are seldom easy to slay.”
“Fair enough. Say, did I hear there was a drink for anyone betting out here?”
The game went on, and Ylawes saw how even if you weren’t a good player and able to count wolves or guess who might roll a Kraken and what that would do to the game balance, being well-liked was value enough.
Dawil lost a round, and Rigalde took the whetstone from Pekona, but Dawil was able to bow out and return the haircomb to Falene after another round. Pekona, surprisingly, stayed in.
She lost a small whetstone after the second round, and only luck itself let her win the third round—she plucked the jar of animal fat and dashed out of the group, clutching her remaining whetstone to her chest.
“Ylawes, here.”
She showed him the jar of animal fat, and he took it.
“Wait, for me? Pekona—thank you.”
Falene rolled her eyes, but she had been watching the games themselves. She left and came back with Evor, who glanced at Ylawes.
“I should have known better than to doubt Mage Falene’s words. We owe her all these drinks. To think you are all so related to the stories that drew us south…you could bet your autograph or your dagger in those games, Miss Pekona. But I was told you had an offer for me, Captain? Let’s hear it, though I’m only first among equals. My group and I decide as one.”
His voice was loud enough that Thker, Styrvi, and Rigalde all glanced up. Ylawes stopped hugging Pekona, red-cheeked.
“What? Oh, yes. I was simply wondering if you’d care to journey together as long as we’re headed the same way, Leader Evor. Your group is pleasant company, and we’re simply roaming in search of work. We’d share food and resources, of course!”
Homle perked up where he sat, and so did most of the colonists not sleeping, but Evor visibly hesitated. He glanced at Thker, who shrugged, Styrvi, who held an instant thumbs down, Rigalde…
Her slight shake of the head and mixed, mostly negative gestures from Evor’s group told Ylawes the answer. Evor glanced back at him and shrugged.
“It’s not personal. Don’t take it like a Taimaguros fool or Kaazian, Captain. I was starting to like you all.”
“What? Of course not. I completely respect your decision. But may I ask why?”
