A wagon was floating over the river! It was swept downriver fast, but the team hauling it got it to the other side, pulled it onto the bank, and rolled it up as far as they could, preparing to do it again.
What a risky maneuver! However, one of the two figures ashore seemed confident they could repeat it. They spun, and a lantern illuminated Ylawes.
“Who goes there!”
A deep, echoing voice—Ylawes raised his hand.
“Friends! We’re looking to cross! I’m a [Knight]!”
“A knight? Bah, landfolk. Means nothing to us. If you want trouble, we’ll have none here! We’re crossing. Into the water, lass.”
Someone dove into the water and swam. Ylawes cried out.
“No, it’s too fast—”
He saw the figure move downriver, then halt and begin swimming across the river without being swept away. The man standing there grinned.
“She’s got [Feel No Current]. This river’s naught a hazard to her that way. Roots or the like moving through the river, or monsters—aye. Fording here? Smarter than the others.”
“Are you a Drowned Man?”
“What gave it away, the voice?”
The figure was sardonic, but he relaxed as he saw Dawil riding over. He pushed back a hood, revealing a fin for an ear and scales. He was half-fish! His teeth were pointed as he raised an arm with fins on it.
“Aye. I’m with Joass’ Stalwart Explorers over yonder.”
“A Drowned group?”
“No, Drake. We hired at Zeres. Not all of us went to Nombernaught or hold it high in our esteems. Lucky for Joass’ city they took us; no one else has a whit of watercraft. They’d have never gotten across but for me insistin’ on good wagons!”
They’d caulked and floated the wagon, which meant sealing it so it was watertight, removed the wheels, and hauled it across the river after some of them had forded. The Drowned Folk could swim the river and had reckoned it was doable. The Drowned Man nodded.
“Name’s Brithine. I could talk to our leader for you, but I doubt he’ll want to stay and put the ropes back unless you can pay well. I think it’s not wise to linger; storms attract big water monsters coming up river at times, and a flash flood if the rain gets worse…still, this is the spot.”
“Why is it the spot, sir?”
The Drowned Man gave him a look.
“Because it’s a braid in the river. Crossing’s always easier here. Look, if you’ve no experience, don’t try to cross the river alone. I’d stay, but they’ll drown themselves without me.”
“We might manage it. Thank you, sir.”
The Drowned Man nodded and leapt in the water. He practically glided to the other side, and Ylawes saw the figures turned with one of their wagons all facing him. They had lanterns that were apparently waterproof, and they had been shining at him and Dawil, he realized.
“Probably wondering if we were holding him up. Damn, but they have good gear! Comes of working with water-specialists.”
Dawil tugged at his sopping wet beard, then turned to Ylawes.
“Reckon we should try?”
“I don’t want to sit here if we’ve got pursuers, and we’re wasting food if we camp for days, Dawil. We have to try.”
Thus began the ugliest battle with nature of Ylawes’ life.
 
——
 
It wasn’t so much the fording of the river, it was the preparations to do so. No one would enter the water without a way back out; that was the adventurer’s ethos. Seeing another body and bits of a wagon being torn down the far split in the river made them aware of the risks.
Their goal was just to reach the island in the middle of the river first, the place where the river began to split. In the harsh rains and torrent of waters, it resembled a muddy spear of land that Ylawes was amazed hadn’t been washed away in minutes. But the ground was backed by a thick piece of stone that split the waters, and he could see that yellow grass, sodden and glistening in the rain, but sturdy enough. A twenty-foot span across; wide enough to make it to the other side from.
If, of course, you got to the island in the first place. The Silver Swords were shouting, trying to figure out the attempt.
“The horses have to swim. But what I think is they’ll manage it. The trick is getting our packs and us across! Half go, half stay! We use ropes and secure each person going—even the horses!”
“Can we haul a horse?”
Dawil flexed his arms and turned to Ylawes.
“Between you, me, Dasha, and Homle’s folk, I reckon we can.”
“We’re not weak either, Master Dawil! But the ropes had better be sturdy!”
“We’ve got the ones for the tents—we can braid them through the horse’s saddle!”
“But how do we get across?”
They were all shouting as the rain pelted them. Rasktooth was meditating under a tarp with Infinitypear, and for once, Ylawes begrudged the damn Cave Goblin. Falene was pointing at the water.
“I might not be able to do what Leireit did, but I might be able to enchant us against the water! [Resist Water] on one person will let them mitigate the drag—let me consult my spells!”
“No hope of freezing or blocking the water, Pointy?”
Dawil bit his beard, and she shot him a glance.
“What do you think? There has to be a thousand tonnes of water flowing a minute! Blocking a river is the kind of thing only legends can do, like the Mage of Rivers himself! And even he’d find a more elegant solution…getting the ropes across. Hm! Let me try to levitate them!”
That was a good idea. Falene tried to use her basic telekinesis to bring a rope over to the other side, but she’d forgotten her physics class.
The rope might not be that heavy, but the further it went from her, the harder it got to control.
The river was only twenty feet across. But twenty feet of sopping wet rope? Still doable, but it was the wind and rain that kept ‘hitting’ the rope and breaking her grip on the telekinesis spell.
She failed three times before Larr, who’d been watching, snarled.
“Argh, I’m an idiot! That Nailren’s not the only Gnoll with a brain! Here!”
He strung his bow, drew an arrow, cursing his wet bowstring and bow, and fired. The arrow hit the middle riverbank, and the rope it was attached to went taut. Ylawes turned to Larr, and the Gnoll gave him a grin. Then frowned.
“It won’t hold any weight I’d trust, though, Captain.”
“My turn! [Arrow of Gravity]!”
Falene pointed her staff and missed the arrow with the magic one she’d conjured. On her second attempt, she grunted.
“There. I think it worked. How does Ceria hit things so well?”
Larr heaved on the rope.
“Eh…I don’t like it. It moves a bit, but it’d support someone light.”
“I’ll do—”
“I’ll do it! I can swim, and I’m lightest!”
Insill was up next. He tied himself to the rope by hooking into it with a little loop on his belt after handing his gear off, then dove into the water. Everyone watched as his head bobbed up, and Larr and Dasha held the rope taut.
“Whoa, it’s strong!”
“Hurry, Insill! I think the rope’s slipping!”
Falene cast [Arrow of Gravity] again, and Insill struggled across the current. He finally heaved himself across the riverbank and lay there, panting.
“Okay…! It’s hard, but we can do it! We can pull people across!”
Then Ylawes realized they should have sent Insill with another rope so the Drake could do just that. He groaned before Dasha shouted.
“Insill! We’re going to get a tent pole across with some more rope! I want you to pound it into the ground—then we’ll prop this line up! Like laundry! The second rope we’ll use to pull people, got it?”
“…What? I can’t hear you!”
However, once Dasha got her idea across, it worked! The anchoring post on both sides meant someone could cling to the rope while having another pulling them. Ylawes was quite impressed.
“That’s a great idea, Dasha!”
“Thanks! I used to have to do laundry all the time back home, and I thought, eh, it’s sturdier than holding the rope like idiots, right? Must be my Dwarven architectural heritage, Captain!”
She puffed out her chest, and even Dawil let that one go. They began transferring people across as Ylawes tied the packs to the suspended rope so they could be slid across if one side lifted their end of the rope higher.
A primitive zipline. Actually, that made Ylawes think they could just use it to go across like he’d heard of Pallass, but the tent poles were far too weak to take that much weight. Swimming it was.
It was hard at first. Dasha was next to test her idea, and she went underwater six times before Insill managed to haul her onto the grass. The more bodies they transferred, the easier; Anith swam well, and Larr went across fast with three hands pulling.
It was the non-swimmers who worried Ylawes, like Homle and Infinitypear. And the horses. With their supplies halfway across, he saw the group on the middle bank split again; Vuliel Drae was setting up another rope-chain to the far bank, while Petia hauled on the ropes.
“Horses. I’ll go with them. They’ll swim, and we’ll lock them into the ropes with their saddle. Unless they panic, they’ll go across.”
“What if we tried calming them using blinders?”
Ylawes was familiar with the practice to calm horses when they were under stress, but Petia, a [Farmer], was also familiar, and she gestured at the water.
“I reckon that’d work if it were a road, but with blinders on, all they get to focus on is the water, Captain. We could cover their eyes fully, but they might panic all the worse, and d’you want them less aware in the water?”
“Fair point, Petia. I just hope they can get through the river at all.”
She shrugged, wiping water from her face.
“We have to try. Let’s test it.”
The first horse was not happy about being driven into the water, and Falene had to cast [Calm] on it. But when it did enter the water, Ylawes was relieved to see it could swim—Dawil went in with it, paddling and shoving it along, panting.
They got six horses across like that as the Dwarf pulled himself back and forth, using his arms and the suspended ropes to avoid swimming. But on the sixth horse, an eddy or something in the water had it panic. It went underwater, and the cursing Dwarf hauled on it.
“I’ve got it! I’ve g—”
He went under too, and Ylawes shouted.
“Dawil!”
He nearly charged into the river before Falene screamed.
“Ylawes, the ropes!”
The pole was nearly being yanked out of the ground from the horse. He had to seize it, and he saw Dawil’s head appear in the water—downstream. He looked dizzy and slipped back under.
“Dawil! Someone get—”
“[Incredible Leap]!”
Insill jumped into the water after Dawil and dove into the depths. Ylawes saw him come up, and Dawil flailed as the two managed to get onto the shore at last—fifty feet downriver. The horse was finally pulled to the riverbank, and Falene wiped at her brows.
“Is Dawil alright?”
He was. The Dwarf shouted at them.
“Damn horse kicked me in the head! I’ll just—sit a moment.”
Ylawes thought he was okay. But that meant the horses needed another guide.
Insill offered to do it. He jumped twenty feet straight across the river, and when everyone stared at him, he blushed.
“I forgot I had the Skill. Turns out I can clear twenty feet. Like—ulp!”
He forgot his Skill had a cooldown and landed in the water, then had to be hauled out, but it meant securing the other side of the river would be easier.
Once they got there.
“I’ll take the horses, Ylawes. We need you on this side.”
“But if they panic—”
“I’ll hit them with [Calm]. [Lion’s Strength]. This will take most of my mana reserves, so let’s get it done.”
Falene gritted her teeth. She hauled herself into the water and gasped, but she began escorting horses over fast. Possibly, her death-glare had the animals moving as fast as her [Calm] spells. That left Ylawes with the last of his problems.
Infinitypear, Rasktooth, Homle, and Pekona.
Each one needed help, and he was worried about Homle and Infinitypear the most; you had to tread water even if you were being pulled ashore. It wouldn’t be that hard, but there were things in the muddy water, and so keeping your head up and together was crucial.
“I’m going to go with each of you across the river, understand? We’ll swim together. If you’re going under, shout and I’ll help you, but you have to swim.”
“I shall drown. I shall drown. I shall drown—”
Infinitypear was quaking with terror, and Homle was dead white.
“I can’t swim a foot, sir!”
“We’ll pull you, Homle! Just kick your feet and—”
Ylawes had to show the man how to tread water, and he went in with Pekona to demonstrate to Homle how it was done.
It was colder than Ylawes thought. And even with his armor taken off and having been shipped to the other side—he forced his body to swim as he felt ropes dragging at the little rope harness they’d made. Pekona was kicking and swimming with her one good arm next to him.
It felt like way longer than a minute to get to the other side, and Ylawes stumbled out onto the riverbank.
“There. See? No problem. Pekona?”
“Good. I used to swim all the time. Bit harder.”
She gasped, and Ylawes turned.
“How did you do six horses, Dawil? Falene?”
Both Gold-rankers gave him a thumbs up as Ylawes realized they were doing all they could. Gold-rankers. He steadied himself.
“Three more trips then I’ll do the horses.”
It got harder after that. Not with Rasktooth; the Cave Goblin had been eying the water and elected to do what no one else could: he shimmied across the wet ropes and just crawled along the entire river’s length, hanging upside-down and using just his arms while his legs draped on the rope for support.
He was light enough to do that. Homle and Infinitypear certainly weren’t.
The [Miner] was bad.
He thrashed the moment he hit the water, and Ylawes had to half-drag, half shove Homle around. Twice, Homle’s head went under, and he panicked. The second time, he uppercut Ylawes so hard the [Knight]’s head rang.
That did make Homle stop, and they got him ashore where he apologized and curled up on the ground. Ylawes rubbed at his jaw.
“Infinitypear.”
“I will die, Captain. I cannot swim. Antinium cannot swim. We sink.”
“I—what?”
Infinitypear pointed at his body.
“We do not have enough skin and fat, Captain. We are too dense. We sink to the bottom even if we try to tread water.”
Ylawes hadn’t known that. He cursed.
“It won’t be long, Infinitypear. We’ll have Falene cast [Globe of Air]—that’s an adventurer’s spell. And we’ll have you across in a minute or less. You can hold your breath for a minute, right?”
“I will try.”
However, Falene just shouted back at Ylawes.
“[Globe of Air] is too complex, Ylawes!”
“What?”
“It’s Tier 3! I can’t amend it lower—it’s meant for long underwater expeditions! Can you keep his head up?”
“Brother, we pull you fast!”
