Ylawes spoke innocently as Dasha sat up with a gasp of delight. The [Hearthguard Leader] just snorted.
“Westwards! We’ll share a fire at least four days or unless we see something worth splitting over. Now, rest!”
He threw himself into his bedrolls as a chatter rose, then died down. Ylawes walked back to his bedrolls, and Dawil threw his comb at him.
“Lad, you’re practically a Reinhart with all this deviousness!”
“Ylawes, did you just trade a Mithril blade for—?”
“For guidance and friendship, Falene. I did. We have more pieces than we need. Or do you think it was a bad idea?”
She hesitated and glanced at the Cenidau warriors. Then she lay back.
“Well, no. I would have just given him an axehead. They love those. Very traditional.”
Ylawes grinned as he lay in his bedroll. Pekona stared at him, then sat down. They whispered.
“Very smart, Ylawes.”
“Thank you. I just thought, well…other cultures. Honor means a lot. I’ve met Calruz. Cenidau’s like that.”
“Mhm. It’s very smart. Like trapping someone with their own honor. Back home, it would work sort of like that. Good job.”
He felt excellent. Ylawes turned, and they kissed. They were just warming up as the fire died and the rain poured on when someone threw a boot and nailed Ylawes and Pekona from across the room.
“Hey. None of that when we’re sleeping together.”
The two jumped, and Dawil and Falene sighed in relief as she took her fingers out of her ears and he yanked his helmet off his head. Ylawes and Pekona apologized to the laughter and jeers, then lay there very chastely until everyone went to sleep.
 
——
 
Ylawes thought he’d not stop blushing the next day, but thankfully, everyone wanted to try Evor’s new blade, and they’d realized the Silver Swords had more such weapons.
Traveller’s Pact indeed. It saved the Silver Swords from worrying about losing a blade, and more than one of the other groups tried to lure the Silver Swords into a dice game to win another piece, but it was all business that morning.
Some of the remaining bread and soup was breakfast, with a porridge of water and lump of sugar or taste, or just dried meat. The boats were being taken down and each of the three groups of Cenidau warriors was heading off, again.
“We’re bound westwards. Don’t stray too far. We’ll meet at that bluff of rocks where the river splits around it if we hear nothing from each other for two weeks, agreed?”
Evor conferred with the other two leaders, and a woman with huge scars on her arms from fighting a ‘polar bear’, whatever that was, nodded.
“Safe travels. We’ll visit these Gnolls, if only to sing with them. Silver Swords, may we meet again as friends! Follow the Giants!”
The other two groups departed the cave as Evor’s team turned to the Silver Swords. He grinned as they packed up their gear, then gestured. It was still raining, though there was a lot more visibility with the daylight.
“Well then. Shall we?”
Thus began the Silver Swords’ time with Cenidau’s warriors. The rain did not let up for four more days, and the terrain grew more rocky as vegetation disappeared and the landscape resembled some kind of stone-blasted world of odd, tall columns of rock and black sand. It was not easier on the feet nor any drier from above.
But somehow, it was so much better for the company.
 
——
 
It was a mentality thing. Ylawes was used to mostly silence in the long treks each day—it had been so exhausting first escaping from the New Lands that they had needed every breath of air to keep going.
Even afterwards, the rain meant conversing was hard. Evor’s people joined the Silver Swords, but unless they were walking right next to each other and half-yelling, no one could carry on a conversation.
“Thker will locate us a shelter in the evening! Until then, we march! This ground is hard—not fit for life! Best to pass it if we can!”
Ylawes nodded.
“I agree, Evor! Have you ever seen the like?”
To his surprise, it was Rigalde who nodded.
“A few times! It reminds me of lands around a volcano! All stone like this. I wonder…if this came from the sea’s floor, if it were the same! It makes for unpleasant footing, but we’ll fear less monsters unless one hides amongst the gravel!”
That was a boon; Evor’s group were not ignorant of the dangers. They marched, carrying their longboat with those odd straps, upside-down so water would not collect in the hull. It looked heavy, but between fourteen, they seemed able to move fast enough.
The straps on the ship confused Ylawes until he saw how they worked. Each warrior could cinch it up to their shoulders, adjusting the length of the fabric. That way, they could all carry it at an even level; otherwise, their disparate heights would have meant shorter members like Styrvi would have to strain and bear more weight or they’d be carrying it unevenly the entire time.
It was just one of those things that spoke to the Cenidau group’s experience, and so, Ylawes gladly let them take lead. Evor set a brisk march, not beyond reason, especially if the Silver Swords could trade off, and they set across the long, flat terrain. There was nothing for as far as the eye could see; just black gravel and, sometimes, distantly the hills that stood out, mounds of rock not yet ground into tiny pieces.
Bleak, unforgiving, but Ylawes’ spirits rose slightly at such an odd landscape.
I cannot imagine living here, but dead gods—I will never see the like again, perhaps. Places so few had ever witnessed. He walked with a will.
 
——
 
Four hours later, Ylawes’ feet hurt. The gravel was not pleasant, and the landscape had lost some of its appeal.
Fair enough. The Silver Swords looked a bit footsore and tired too, despite their fine night. Well, staying up so late had probably taken a bit of a toll as well, as had the drinks…but Ylawes’ main worry was falling behind Evor too much.
To his surprise, this wasn’t the case. Evor and his party set a dogged pace that was a nice clip, but they called breaks with good regularity. Ylawes supposed that the literal boat they were carrying along had to tax even seasoned warriors.
…Or was there something else in it? Larr was plucking rocks from his sandals and grousing, loudly, at their third rest stop.
“Damn stones! I hate this part of the New Lands! Unless all the stones are filled with gold, no one’s going to live here!”
He had a poor choice of footwear, and Anith, who was bare-pawed, seemed just as sick of it. Falene came over to enchant both’s feet with a minor [Tough Skin] spell to their relief.
“It might be a day of walking. Pace yourselves. Are the horses doing okay?”
“They might turn a hoof given the terrain, lad, but they’re good animals the Gnolls sold us. If they start to flag, we’ll rest. That alright, Evor? I know it’s not the pace you want.”
The [Hearthguard Leader] turned.
“Hm? That’s fine, Dawil. We’re moving quick enough. Ready to go? Styrvi?”
He nudged her with a boot; she was sitting down, and when he kicked her again, she growled.
“I’m ready, damn it! Go bother Thyke! When’s lunch?”
Lunch would be welcome. They did in fact stop for it after only two more hours, but Ylawes thought he saw another odd thing when they paused to break out travel rations—no fancy cooking.
Styrvi, Rigalde, and two other of the warriors were distinctly more tired than their counterparts. Thyke offered Styrvi his water flask, and she gulped it before tearing into some dried jerky—and she was sitting while Evor and two others strode ahead, hunting for game or anything else in this odd place.
“Lad, the stones here are very strange. Times like these, I wish I was actually as good with metal and stone as everyone thinks I am. Not much in the way of interesting things, but we’re checking out those stone columns. Want to come?”
Dawil jogged over, not looking much worse for the weather. Ylawes waved a hand.
“I’ll stay under shelter, Dawil.”
‘Shelter’ being a very small umbrella spell that Falene had cast to keep people out of the rain. Dawil ran off, and Pekona eyed him.
“How is he so energetic?”
“Level 30 [Warrior]. You’re not doing so badly yourself, surely.”
She glowered.
“Not…badly, no. But not as good as that.”
Ylawes himself didn’t feel like running after Dawil, and Infinitypear and Rasktooth had an endless bounty of energy, but there were advantages to being a [Warrior]. He was only footsore and fine despite the trekking with armor on. But as time wore on, the effects grew more noticeable on the civilians. And—some of the Cenidau warriors.
 
——
 
It was only the women. At first, it wasn’t that noticeable; just maybe a few more complaints when they went to rest, more sitting than standing, but by the time they were halfway through the day, it was clear to Ylawes that Evor, Thyke, and the men were doing well, but Styrvi and the other women were not.
Why on earth was that? Their classes sounded almost identical. [Shieldson], [Shieldmaiden]. However, Styrvi was so visibly tired by the sixth stop that Ylawes saw Thyke try to take her strap from her so she could walk without dragging the boat. When she snarled at him, he let her have it, but Evor’s team was tiring, if not at the same rate.
What was even more apparent was that Evor, Thyke, and the other warriors would rather keep trekking on without acknowledging it, even when it was obvious. In fact, they seemed grateful every time Homle or Petia requested a stop for the civilians.
“Dawil, you see that, right?”
“Sure do, lad. Looks like they don’t want to talk about it. But it is odd. Remember Briganda? She was as tough as any Gold-ranker. Her class is the same as theirs, isn’t it?”
“I think so. [Shieldmaiden]. Or [Shield Maiden]? I’m not sure, but it’s a kind of [Fighter] class that uses…a shield. That’s all I’ve got.”
Why were they flagging? Whatever the case, as the sun was beginning to set, it was abundantly clear that everyone was tired, and Evor called out.
“Thker! Shelter, I think! How far?”
The man obligingly cast around and grimaced when he got an answer.
“…Twenty-one miles, Evor. Due west.”
“What?”
Styrvi snapped, and Ylawes groaned with the others. Evor just sighed.
“His Skill finds the nearest thing that qualifies as shelter for us. Sometimes with trouble in it…but it must mean this place is as flat as it comes. We might have gone north or south to get around it. We march. Up, everyone, up! If we’re caught in the night, it will not be pleasant!”
True enough. Ylawes heaved himself up, and they began to march harder, now. In that respect, it was no more fun than the other days, was it? Except that as they began the hardest part of the day’s toil yet, Evor looked at his crew, then glanced at Ylawes and called out.
“Argh. Captain Ylawes, it’s no good.”
“What is?”
Was this already too much for their relationship? Friendship over, go find someone else to bother? Ylawes turned, a bit apprehensive, but Evor just grunted.
“We’ve been trying to put on a tougher face than we have. But you march well enough—we may have taken you and this land for granted. We need to raise our spirits and move faster. We’ll do what our people know; don’t think it’s an attack, eh?”
“Er, whatever you need to do, Evor. Of course.”
What did they intend? Ylawes watched as the Cenidau warriors nodded at each other. Rigalde produced something as they slowed just a step, and he saw a little object nestled in the crook of her arm.
A…drum? It was very compact, but when she slapped it with the palm of her hand, it made a deep enough tong. She began to strike the drums, setting a beat just a bit faster than their current pace. Accordingly, the fourteen warriors sped up.
That one’s going to be hard to copy. Ylawes was glancing at his teammates; even Infinitypear seemed tired by now, especially carrying Rasktooth. He was about to tell Evor to continue to the camp if they flagged when the man opened his mouth and bellowed a single word.
“Strke!”
It was no word that Ylawes knew. It was more of an exclamation than anything. The [Knight] jumped, and then he saw the rest of the thirteen explorers from Cenidau thrust their fists into the air.
“Strke!”
They marched faster, and Evor glanced over his shoulder. He raised his fist again as Rigalde struck the drums.
“Strke! Ná! Strke!”
It was some kind of chant. His crew echoed him, shouting every fourth step. They advanced another yard ahead of the Silver Swords, and Ylawes turned to blink at Dawil.
The Dwarf raised his brows, but then they were following Evor’s group, drawn into the pace of those drums. And the Cenidau warriors were marching faster.
“Strke. Strke. Strke!”
Now, Ylawes remembered when he’d met them for the first time yesterday—that’s what he’d been hearing on the water! They were marching and chanting, heedless of the sound they were making.
But it wasn’t…a Skill. Was it? It didn’t sound like one. Nor did it really look like they were gaining in stamina or going that much faster. They were just…
Ylawes felt like shouting a word at the top of your lungs every four steps should make it harder to carry a heavy wooden boat, and maybe it did. But something else made up for it, and that was just…morale.
Nor was it something only Cenidau was allowed to have. Ylawes only realized there were more than just the fourteen voices when he heard a familiar pair of voices shouting behind him.
“Strke! Yah! Strke!”
Rasktooth was punching a fist into the air and shouting in time with Evor’s people. So was Infinitypear. Ylawes almost told them to knock it off when he saw Thyke grinning. The warriors from Cenidau clearly didn’t mind the two little [Adventurers] singing with them. Quite the opposite.
And then Ylawes heard a breathless voice shouting behind him.
“Strike! Hey! Strike!”
Dasha didn’t quite get the wording right, but she was shouting with the others. And—Ylawes saw some of the colonists hesitate. As if embarrassed. Then Homle thrust a fist into the air as he hefted his pack.
“It’s a damn mining chant! Hear that, lads? Strke! Strke!”
His people took up the call, and then—
 
——
 
The Silver Swords and Cenidau warriors were marching across the black sand that mixed amidst the gravel of the same color. Volcanic stone inhospitable to almost all life.
Almost all life. Camouflaged creatures hunted the sands for prey that only lived here, and they sensed the new life and quested through the ground towards the two parties. But the strange sounds made the potential predators halt.
It was a shout in the air, from dozens of lungs, and the thump of massed steps. Like some multi-legged beast weighing a thousand pounds and with fifty pairs of lungs.
