Evor relaxed a bit. Possibly, he had been worried Ylawes would be insistent. He scratched at his neck.
“To be honest as a Giant, it’s not to our favor. Your group will march slower than ours, horses or not. Binding our paths together means we’re on foot, not able to use rivers. And also, it seems to me we stand less to gain by sharing what we have.”
He meant the food. Ylawes protested.
“We wouldn’t ask for this hospitality twice—”
Styrvi broke in loudly.
“But we would. D’you think we’d want to eat better than you in plain sight? We share like brothers and sisters or not at all. We can’t haul dead weight, especially in dangerous lands, [Knight].”
“Styrvi, enough.”
A slightly unpleasant silence fell as Evor snapped, but Ylawes just nodded.
“All this is quite fair, Evor. Thank you for your honesty, and we understand. In truth, we are rather unprepared for the New Lands. This was boon enough.”
The [Leader] eyed him, then snatched up Albraad’s drinking skin and emptied it into a cup. He took a swig and then shoved it at Ylawes.
“Argh! Another toast to friends, however short we meet! You’re far more pleasant than [Knights] I’ve met!”
“Oh, I’m hardly—thank you. Actually, we met the Thousand Lances of Kaaz, so you’re the second Terandrian group we’ve seen!”
Ylawes drank, embarrassed, and Evor stopped. His lips twisted, and he spat into the fire, which was now dying a bit, a bed of coals. Rigalde muttered.
“Far more pleasant indeed. Was any of our kin there? We have one or two in them, I think.”
She didn’t know? It was a huge point of national honor—when Ylawes shook his head, she shrugged.
“Best to stay away, then. We’re but northfolk to them. It’s more amusing to be just another group of Terandrians in the New Lands than to be Northfolk in other kingdoms back home.”
That soured the mood enough to have some warriors turning in to sleep, but a core of both sides kept dicing away, not always for items, just for fun. Ylawes wasn’t actually that sleepy anymore, despite his full belly; this conversation and the light of the fire, whose smoke was swept out of the cave into the rain, was so enjoyable he didn’t want it to end.
“[Smoke-led Fire]. Damn. We could have really used their company.”
Dawil was sighing as they made up their bedrolls. Pekona helped clean Ylawes’ rusty armor—the sections that hadn’t been made of good enough silversteel—as Falene muttered.
“There has to be a way to change their minds. In the morning, I’ll cast some magic. That might persuade them we’re worth it.”
“We can manage without them. Cenidau is tough and cold and…but we did fine.”
Pekona was trying to be a voice of optimism, but Dawil and Falene just glanced at her. They didn’t give her the cold shoulder. Rather, Dawil rolled over so he was facing her.
“Pekona, I admire that perspective, but we’ve been drowning on land these last few days, and the storm’s not letting up. Even for someone who can sense a place to sleep, I’d trade anything but my broken axe. We know when we need experts, and right now, they’re the people to convince. Do you know anything that might help?”
Pekona sat down, picked up a length of her black hair, and stuck it into her mouth. She began to chew on it.
“Um…um…back home, they sometimes come to the islands. Selling Everfrozen Ice, horn and hides, things of cold. They like our pills and elixirs and magic. As Leader Evor said, they want—what’s the word? Well-made things more than even magic.”
“Quality. Yep. You don’t have anything they’d want?”
Falene was muttering to herself.
“Cenidau. Cenidau. I vaguely recall something about their hospitality customs. It’s clear they value them quite a lot. They treat friends like boon companions, hate being in debt…the Taimaguros Dominion’s won two wars against them, but it’s hard to take the north and hold it. Maybe if we offered gold…?”
“No Merchant’s Guilds around, Falene. How’d we get them to trust that?”
The Silver Swords were sleepy, and Pekona was wiggling into the bedroll as Ylawes stood there, yawning. It would be so helpful to receive their aid…he glanced back to the dicers and saw Infinitypear and Rasktooth playing.
But the two were far too cautious to bet anything of value; they were playing for shiny stones and a bug that Infinitypear had caught with a few warriors who wanted to chat. That was good.
“No one bet anything important, did they?”
“Homle’s pants aren’t going to thank him, but no. I don’t think so. The man was born to lose at dice, but he never bet his axe. Nor did the Cenidau folk take second glance at anyone’s weapons. I heard one of ‘em even telling Petia to sharpen her spear more.”
Dawil grunted, and Ylawes glanced at Homle’s axe. Then at Petia’s spear.
Mithril. He began to strip off his now-oiled armor, putting it in a pile, as he stared into the rain past the barricade of boats.
So clever to use them as a literal wall. Cenidau understood how to survive. If only…
He wished Erin would summon him to her [Pavilion of Secrets] right now, or Mrsha would appear out of the air and impress Evor and his crew so much they decided to join with the Silver Swords for a few days.
Erin could get people to do anything. It was that endless charisma he lacked. Oh, he tried to be good, and sometimes people did his team favors, but Ylawes couldn’t turn to someone, change their lives, and have them fight side-by-side with him with no questions asked. Erin could, but that’s because she offered people something Ylawes could not.
Meaning.
Hope.
Redemption…
A bit of wonder. He couldn’t give Evor and his people anything but a bunch of less-experienced people to drag along. Ylawes tossed, turned, nearly rolled over Pekona, and she jabbed him with an elbow.
“Ylawes. Stop rolling. It’s too hot.”
He rolled over to the left, apologizing, then sat up. This time, Pekona’s sleepy, messy head of hair revealed a baleful glower.
“Ylawes…”
She tried to snatch back the bedroll he had pulled off her, but the [Knight] was getting back out, dressing himself. He fumbled with their things, then stood there.
I could get Dawil to…one look at the Dwarf, who was combing his beard out with his personal comb before he slept, then a glance at the dicers and Ylawes hesitated. Then he strolled on over.
“Er…hello. Could I play a game?”
Thker glanced up as Rasktooth lost one of the shiny little riverstones. He motioned Ylawes to sit.
“Sure enough. Got anything to wager? Naw, naw, just a joke. First you play, then we take your valuables.”
There was laughter, and Ylawes realized Styrvi was sitting around the dying fire as well. Evor was watching, drying his boots by the fire, and Rasktooth grinned.
“You feeling lucky, Captain?”
“Not of late, but I, uh, I’ve never gambled before. I’d like to try.”
It was a very guilty feeling Ylawes had, but he’d watched the game so many times that he thought he knew how to do it. Playing was far more nerve-wracking than he thought, and the other players laughed at his nerves as he had to give someone his wolves the first time he rolled.
After that, he found out that he was not a very good gambler. Ylawes didn’t have a good sense for the game, and he was far too honest. The second time Styrvi asked him to support her in ousting another player, then turned around and stabbed him in the back the next round, Evor got up and came over.
“We rise at dawn, so this will be the last game. Turn out your pockets and put something good in. We play until the pot’s empty.”
He caught Ylawes’ eye and added.
“It doesn’t need to be anything valuable. It’s traditional.”
“Oh. Oh, we must put something in that is good, Brother.”
Infinitypear and Rasktooth conferred, then solemnly put in a huge, red feather they had gotten from some bird around Liscor and a hand-carved dagger made out of one of the Landshark’s teeth from Rasktooth. It was good enough for Styrvi to yank out a boot-dagger and Thker to add in a half-jar of cane sugar. Evor himself tossed in a spare buckler as one of Petia’s farmers, a Wolbrin, put in a bottle of Velrusk’s Claw he’d bought from Plain’s Eye. The last [Arctic Fighter] put in a lantern with a long lens. When Evor frowned at him, the man protested.
“I’ve got a spare. It’s a fine tool to see far with. Glass and iron, forged in Cenidau’s own smithies.”
It seemed Poke Duo had won enough friendship to make this pot one to actually matter. Ylawes himself dithered for a while before tossing in a long, thin piece of battered metal. Styrvi scoffed, but Ylawes gestured at it.
“It’s good metal. Trust me.”
“Fair enough.”
Evor swept the dice up, kicking Styrvi before she could sneer, and among the Northfolk, perhaps only Thker was sober enough to notice Poke Duo and Wolbrin all turn to Ylawes for a second before they bent their heads to play.
The final game was quick because they were tired, but it didn’t end with the first victor. Thker hesitated before he swept up Rasktooth’s knife.
“So I can say it was from a Goblin and a shark that walks, combined.”
He grinned as he flashed it at Rasktooth, then bowed out of the game. However, Evor picked up the cup and handed it to Wolbrin, who was second-last.
“We roll again until the pot’s empty. That’s how the game’s played. Northern Fates, with a change of possessions for all.”
Ah. Ylawes relaxed, and the second round played on. It was Infinitypear who won. The Antinium made a show of inspecting the various items, and he peered for a long time at the bull’s-eye lantern which he had taken a shine to. But then he reached for the long sword blade that Ylawes had put in.
“Infinitypear, you should take the lantern. I can see you want it.”
Ylawes forestalled the Antinium before he grabbed the blade. Infinitypear eyed Ylawes, and Evor nodded.
“Bad luck to take something you don’t want.”
“Oh, well, if you say so, Captain…yay! Yay! Brother, look!”
Infinitypear claimed the lantern and ran around with it excitedly. Rasktooth cursed.
“Damn. Okay, I want that dagger, then. Or sugar.”
On they played. The items began to vanish one-by-one as Wolbrim hesitantly claimed the buckler, and Rasktooth decided to take Thker’s sugar for cooking. Then it was just Evor and Ylawes going for Styrvi’s dagger and his unpolished, tarnished sword blade.
Ylawes rolled his dice out, hoping for more Krakens than Sailors—or more Wolves than Evor’s Shields, the only way to win at this final stage when it was one-versus-one. Evor grinned as he rolled three Krakens and the group groaned good-naturedly. Ylawes rolled a single Sailor and one Kraken and stood.
“I think that’s game.”
“Aye. And I think…I’d rather not smell Styrvi’s boots the rest of my days! This will do with some sharpening.”
Evor hesitated, then bent down and snatched the odd sword blade that Ylawes had added. He blinked as he flipped it up in his hand, and it rotated past his head. He had to snatch it out of the air with an oath.
“Giant’s—this is light!”
He frowned as he swished the sword blade around, then inspected it. Ylawes took the dagger and thrust it into his belt, trying to sound casual as his heart hammered in his chest.
He could be very, very wrong, in which case he’d own his mistakes, but—he glanced at Evor as Thker and Styrvi turned.
“That? Well, yes, it is. Take care of it, Evor. We didn’t have time in Goisedall to buy hilts nor sharpen it properly. We might have to lend you a blade; not even Pekona’s best whetstones will give it an edge.”
He was conscious of some of the Silver Swords sitting up, and the other Northfolk were waiting for the fire to be extinguished. Some of them sat up as Evor tested the blade, trying to flex it.
“This…isn’t steel. What metal is it?”
“Mithril.”
It was Rasktooth who breathed the word, and that one name, the magical metal, filled the warm cave with something else. More figures sat up, and Evor froze, the blade in his hands.
“Impossible. Mithril’s brighter than the moon on snow. And lighter than…”
Styrvi snatched the sword blade and recoiled as she felt how light it was. Like holding a feather. And she could not flex it with all her strength. Evor barely could when he tried so hard his biceps stood out on both his arms. Even then, the flex was so subtle…
It’d never break. It’d take a year of swinging to even dull. Ylawes thought of the Thousand Lances. A blade fit for the greatest living [Knights] of the modern era.
“You put that in the pot?”
Evor demanded, incredulous. Ylawes shrugged again.
“I was told it mattered. Call it fairly won, Evor. A gift between friends. I’ll treasure Styrvi’s boot knife. It might keep away as many foes as that Mithril blade will.”
She choked, and Evor saw Ylawes hold out a hand. The [Knight] stood there, unarmored, blond hair a mess, blue eyes shining with all the naïve earnestness of a golden retriever. The [Hearthguard Leader] blinked at the leader of the Silver Swords, then he threw his head back and laughed. He held the Mithril blade, gazed down at it, and laughed harder.
Thker joined in, and he leaned against Styrvi, pointing at Ylawes.
“Look—look at that idiot—what kind of a fool gambles Mithril on a final game of Winter’s Fates?”
She was working her jaw, incredulous, but then a look of hilarity stole over her expression as well. Ruefully, she began to chuckle. Then the other [Arctic Fighter] started snorting.
“That blade lying there when we nearly kicked him out for not filling the pot! And here I took the feather!”
Then they were all laughing. At Ylawes, as other warriors cursed and sat up or demanded to know what was so damn funny at this hour. When they saw the blade, they began to laugh as well.
“Ylawes?”
Pekona was worried as she got out of her bedroll, and Falene was groaning, trying to smile. However—Dawil was stroking his beard and hiding a smile, and Anith was grinning. Ylawes Byres, that silly doofus, stood there, hand stretched out until Evor seized it.
“Argh. And here’s me thinking that there was nothing more to you than another [Knight]! When they bring stories back home, I’ll tell them to speak of you, Ylawes Byres! An Izrilian’s cunning! Friends. We must be friends, or you’ll have to kill me for a [Robber]!”
He bumped shoulders against Ylawes, who remembered to do the same. Evor turned and tossed the sword at another member of his band.
“Let’s get a hilt on that in the morning. In the morning! Or else we’ll not sleep a wink! We set out at dawn, mark me!”
He spun and pointed at the Silver Swords. Evor’s teeth flashed ruefully.
“Suddenly, I don’t think it’s too much of an inconvenience to share Thker’s bread, eh?”
“If you’re sure, Evor…”
