“It’s the only thing I know! Listen, it’s not about thinking about what might have been because neither of us knew. It’s how fate played out, and…that’s that, Pekona. I don’t want to make this a….a rift between any of us. I realized Dawil’s right. I can’t bring this up with Falene. I want to talk to you about it, and if it changes things…but I was very happy when you and I found we liked each other. I’m just sorry for being a fool.”
She sat there, water pattering onto her head, and then smiled faintly. Not un-exasperatedly, but like someone who’d figured something out.
“You do a lot of being sorry. You’re the sorriest non-Drathian I’ve ever met. Even Dullahans don’t feel so guilty.”
He opened his mouth, and she shushed him with a finger.
“This is…funny, learning this relationship. I am going to be honest, Ylawes. I was happy, too, when we had our night. I was worried because Falene was upset. We talked. Now, it’s done. I’m happy. Content. I want to try this. But if you have regrets—”
He shook his head instantly.
“No, no, Dawil was right.”
She eyed him.
“Are you going to talk to Falene again? Because next time I’ll hit you with my sword. Sheathed.”
He bowed his head.
“I won’t, I swear. Dawil was right. We can agree on that, can’t we, Pekona? He was right, and we do not want to go down this dungeon. It’s a death-zone, and we’ll die.”
She blinked, then nodded.
“Dawil was right.”
“Dawil’s very right.”
“We can talk about it after, maybe. Just not…I understand why I need to drop it.”
“Yes.”
Not here, with misery so close for company, when it was so damn fresh and it could tear things apart. Not yet. Ylawes closed his eyes and hung his head.
Fool.
He was allowed to feel bad about it, though. Pekona saw him sitting there, a miserable [Knight] out of his armor, and she adjusted the tarp—and spilled a bunch of collected water onto them. They spluttered, and she grimaced, and glared down at her undershirt and muttered Drathian curses.
Ylawes stared at Pekona’s undershirt, which was suddenly semi-transparent. He hesitated, and she eyed him. He put his hands behind his back innocently.
“It’s pretty cold. And wet. And noisy, Pekona. I doubt either of us is getting to sleep easily tonight. What if…what if we try something else tonight?”
Her eyes flicked to him, then to their tentflaps.
“Something else? But we’re so close to the others—”
She bit her lip as he suggested something he’d heard of in the tales of yore and myth from Sage Todi. He thought it sounded fun. She asked what she was going to get out of it, and he floundered until she laughed and said they’d try her thing after that. Which sounded very exciting.
 
——
 
In the world of the many deep—and squishy—levels of sexual prowess, Ylawes and Pekona weren’t even Bronze-rank. But a single step into that domain was progress for the two…or would have been.
Because Pekona’s idea to cheer Ylawes up was an advanced technique that he assumed came from Drath until she dumped more water on his head. Said technique was not something she had experience with, but the concept, as Ylawes understood it, was her using her hands in the Man’s Shame.
“…Wait, that’s what you call it?”
“The Man’s Shame? Of course. That’s—er—well, yes. My father sat me down and told me about it. Sometimes a necessity, but—”
It was probably the most embarrassing talk he’d ever had in his life. Sometimes a man needed to relieve himself, and a hand—but Pekona doing it was a scandalous idea.
Titillating, even. A fascinating act of carnal intercourse that would have led the two to many conclusions about House Byres’ culture except that it never got that far.
Ylawes didn’t have a euphemistic name for his penis. It just sat there, rather small and shriveled up from the cold no matter what Pekona tried, and then he remembered another word in his lexicon he had not often thought of.
Impotence. He just kept thinking of Falene, his mistakes, or his father’s stark writing on the [Message] scroll, and after a few more minutes, Pekona hugged him, and he tried to apologize, and she told him it was fine and—
Well.
Somehow that did make him feel even worse that night.
And the rain continued.
 
——
 
Then they came to the river. Ylawes had forgotten all about the river.
The same body of water that could be tinged purple or swirl with interesting colors thanks to the dirt that ran through the New Lands and came off the northern foothills should have narrowed the further it was from its origin point.
But the rainwater had bloated it like a slug, and now it overflowed its banks, transforming from a useful resource and marker into an obstacle and a hazard.
“We have to cross it!”
“How, lad?”
Ylawes and Dawil had to shout over the torrent of water cascading down a waterfall that would have washed them all away if they stood in the center. Muddy, dark purple water swirled for what might have been fifty feet, and Ylawes could not tell how deep it ran.
“It’s suicide to cross it! We’re going to die!”
Infinitypear began to freak out. The Antinium had done well enough before due to the privation, and he’d forded the river when it was shallow enough to only go up to his knees while blindfolded and with Rasktooth encouraging him, but this—
Ylawes was inclined to agree with the Antinium. He turned his head.
“Does anyone know rivers well? Who here can swim?”
The answer was not encouraging. Every adventurer but Infinitypear and Rasktooth could swim, but Homle and a number of his [Miners] were just as freaked out by the river as Infinitypear.
“I’ve never even gone chest-deep in the water, Captain, and that was in a bath!”
He protested, and Farmer Petia snorted.
“You didn’t have a lake, Homle? I swam them plenty up north. I grew up near enough to Oswen, and you have to swim there. But I wouldn’t risk this river, Captain Ylawes. It’ll sweep us aside in a heartbeat!”
“There must be a way to ford it. We cannot stay here, Petia!”
They’d lose who knew how many days if they had to wait for the rains to subside and the river to go back to normal. Thus, the Silver Swords began to comb the river, north and south, trying to find a place to cross.
They were not the only ones. Ylawes saw no less than five caravans had halted, and people were trying everything to cross, from throwing stones attached to ropes and trying to anchor them to the other side to having a swimmer cross and help the others.
Futile. Ylawes had had the same thought, but Dawil pointed out the obvious.
“Even if we cross, Ylawes, the horses won’t! We have to find a shallow section—dead gods! Look at the current.”
It had just ripped a Drake through the waters. The swimmer was fifty feet downriver, and his entire caravan was hauling on the rope to get him out. Ylawes and Dawil charged over to heave the Drake out, and she was screaming.
“The rope nearly sawed me in half! I’ve lost all the scales on my stomach—this is insanity!”
No good that way. When Ylawes and Dawil rode north, they found Petia minding the camp. She was stabbing the air with her spear, practicing even tired as she was. Ylawes saw her put the spear up.
“Anith’s still up north, Captain. No good?”
“We just saw someone nearly get swept away downstream, Petia. I don’t think having you swim would work.”
Her face was grave, and she jerked her head at the silent members of the group.
“I agree, Captain. We just saw someone else go past.”
“Someone else? Can we get—”
He hadn’t seen anyone in the thrashing torrent, but she shook her head.
“No rope, Captain. And they were face-down. Drowned.”
Falene’s voice was quiet.
“Floating.”
Everyone looked at her, and she clarified.
“Bodies do not always float. I sensed a [Buoyancy] spell, but cast poorly. It kept them upright, but it might have led to them drowning because the balancing was off.”
A chill ran down Ylawes spine, and the bloated river took on a sinister cast. However, when Anith came riding back hard, he had good news.
“Captain! There’s a route across the river, only we have to hurry, and it’ll cost the earth! How much gold do we have?”
“Gold?”
 
——
 
Someone had created a bridge. It was such an obvious idea and good way to make money that Ylawes was surprised no one else had done it—until he supposed it wasn’t necessary outside of the rain.
What was more impressive? It wasn’t made of wood or stone, but magic.
Falene halted dead in her tracks when she saw it, eyes wide.
“Impossible. The amount of mana that must cost—!”
There had to be over two dozen caravans queued up to cross it already, and more were coming and lining up. Horses had to be guided up the ramp and across the bridge—which was only wide enough for two horses abreast—and over the raging waters.
Not for the faint-of-heart, especially because the bridge was slippery, light magic or not. Ylawes heard shouting from the front, and Anith hollered in his ear.
“This is where the drowned person came from! They fell!”
“The bridge is collecting water and slippery? Just add a friction spell!”
That outraged Falene again, and she began haranguing the construction of the bridge, which still looked good to Ylawes. It had railings, was a gentle slope; most [Light Bridges] were just a vertical sheet of magic or stairs at best. Even Falene couldn’t do better, and she blustered.
“Well, if I were making one like this, I could do better! Not having basic texturing to the light spell—argh!”
Someone had hit her with a staff. No, wait—a fishing rod? Falene whirled, and Ylawes heard a loud, outraged voice.
“Hah! Spoken like a [Mage]! Let’s see you make a damn [Light Bridge]! No? No!? That’s what I thought! You ponces from Wistram strutting about [Abacaxem’s Anal Retentive Friction Light Bridge] when you can’t even cast [Light]! We made this bridge, and if you don’t like it, you can make another or damn well sit here!”
The furious man raised his fishing pole for another blow, and Ylawes interposed himself between the man in a dripping, floppy hat and Falene.
“My friend didn’t mean any offense. Did you make this, sir?”
“I mean all the offense! Especially to a [Sorcerer], you brute!”
Falene screamed back, and the man drew himself up.
“That’s Sorcerer Leireit to you—oh, wait, you identified my class. Well…hah! Take that!”
He jabbed a finger at Falene, and Ylawes recognized the name.
“Sorcerer Leireit of First Landing?”
“Yes, and expeditioner to this damn magicless hellhole! Also, fisherman. I’ve had a haul in this weather! Want to cross the bridge? It’s a gold per person.”
“A gold per—”
“Hey, you don’t want to, be my guest. Enough people are lining up, and the damn wagons take forever to load and unload. Some fools are deconstructing them.”
Indeed, Leireit’s company had apparently set up the bridge days ago and were now collecting money by the bagful. Despite her outrage, Falene was intensely curious.
“How did you make the [Light Bridge] without mana, Sorcerer Leireit? I’m Falene, a Gold-rank mage. I gained a class due to the mana drain in part, and I couldn’t fathom making this!”
“Hm? What’s that? Water in my ears. Can’t hear a thing from a noisy [Mage].”
Falene took a breath.
“Sorcerer Leireit, sir—”
“Oh, that’s who was talking to me! Well, it comes from having two other [Sorcerers] and magic-users in my party. My apprentice, a buddy of mine—damn mana drain!”
Leireit was waving his pole across the river, and he had a bucket of fish. He jerked his thumb at the [Light Bridge].
“The rest? [Sorcerer] magic. I gave myself the worst nosebleed of my life forcing the magic to get it up. Nearly put myself in bed two whole days, but I’m awake now. The rest are sleeping.”
“You…forced it?”
“Sure. [Force Magic]. Concentrate hard enough and you’ll get it done.”
“That’s—not how—”
“Sure it’s not, for you. I’ve heard it all my life. ‘Magic doesn’t work like this, magic only does this.’ Well, this is a good proving ground to see whose magic works, Miss. No offense, but I still have a headache!”
Leireit was glaring, and Ylawes was blinking in astonishment. He couldn’t help but think—now there’s a real magic-user. Without disparaging his teammate…
But Falene just ducked her head.
“I am extremely humbled, Sorcerer! Truly! I don’t think even a [Grand Magus] of Wistram could do this! How are you upkeeping the mana?”
Leireit was slightly mollified. He handed her a wiggling fish.
“Here, have a catfish. You’re not so bad after all. Most [Mages] who come by, hah, well, it’s insults and ‘please let me use your bridge, inferior magic-man!’ Upkeep of mana? No such thing. We just slapped the spell down. We’re making sure it doesn’t collapse, but it’ll hold another day before it gets dicey.”
Falene’s jaw dropped.
“You aren’t even upkeeping—?”
He winked at her.
“[Place And Forget Magic]. Now, look. We’re not lowering prices unless you can sell us either fishing supplies or charcoal or coal—we’re trying to save mana on fires, and we didn’t think to bring any supplies. You’ve got a day and a half before we’ll cross and I’ll take down this spell, if the rain doesn’t let up first. That’s called [Absorb Mana], Miss Falene. They don’t teach you that at Wistram either? Well, well.”
 
——
 
To be fair, Leireit was one of Izril’s finest spellcasters. He was known to be over Level 40.
And the catfish tasted great. Ylawes got a piece of it as they tried to work out what to do.
“Even if we could afford the bridge, it’s too packed. I say we keep heading south and cross from there if we see anything. The river has to narrow.”
“Unless it gets bigger as it reaches the sea. Doesn’t it get small where it starts?”
The argument between the Silver Swords made them realize no one knew if a river got wider or smaller at its start or end. Ylawes finally broke the tie by flipping a coin into the river. Everyone watched it sink, and Ylawes rubbed at his face.
“Infinitypear? You’re an [Adventurer]. If there’s any class with luck, it’s yours. Mine seems to be not working. Flip a coin and tell us which way.”
The Antinium flipped a coin, whispered with Rasktooth, and announced.
“South, Captain!”
South they went.
 
——
 
There was a point where the river seemed to narrow after splitting in twain. Both sections of the river picked up more water and became mightily torrential, only doubled, but for one brief section, it seemed to Ylawes like the split in the river was the narrowest.
Others clearly agreed; he saw an object floating across the river as he dismounted from his horse.
“What the—”
