They trooped back to their boat and heaved it up with those curious straps. It hung between them as they turned and began to march. Ylawes eyed his team. They had no notion of where to go, and the word ‘shelter’ had Ylawes imagining somewhere they could hang a tarp to be dry without Falene’s magic.
She didn’t even have enough mana for a fire spell, he bet. So after a second, he motioned to his party.
“Let’s go.”
 
——
 
The company of Cenidau’s warriors was at first more novelty that kept one’s mind from the harsh trekking than anything else.
After all, this was no fit moment for conversing. The rain was coming down so hard that no one could hear a thing.
If they’d had to go more than an hour in this, Ylawes thought his group might revolt because it was a miserable trek in the rain, and they were exhausted.
However, three miles? That was doable.
Shelter pushed them on, and the sight of the odd northfolk carrying a literal boat between them made one’s burdens seem a bit less arduous. Certainly, Ylawes was watching the armored men and women out of the corner of his eye and paying more attention to that than his aches and pains.
He didn’t know if he could trust them, and perhaps the same was true of them. He heard low murmurs from them as the two groups moved towards said hills, which were not the largest…but to Ylawes’ gratification, were stony! Tall bluffs the size of Invrisil’s buildings, thick and squat, overlooking a flooded lake that might be fed from tributaries that led from the river. However, the gravelly rocks leading up to the hills were well above the water line and also clearly the product of erosion as the hill fell to pieces. Hollowed out by the sea currents long ago. Which meant a cave; Ylawes saw the huge hollow opening, and his spirits lifted at once.
The moment Evor saw it, he grunted.
“Large enough for two hundred with ease.”
“Windy. Open as a Giant’s asshole.”
One of the women put in. Ylawes stared at her as chuckles arose, and Evor nodded.
“Better than searching elsewhere. Here we camp. With guests, ‘twill be good enough.”
So saying, he produced something from his hip: a warhorn, then blew it. The long, echoing note had Ylawes reaching for his sword hilt. He saw a glint of eyes from one of the shorter warriors’ helmets.
“Twitchy, [Knight]. Think we’ll gut you in your sleep?”
“I apologize. We’ve had some danger on the road. If we’re all people of honor, I have nothing to fear.”
Ylawes let go of his sword hilt, and she tilted her head.
“Aye. Fair enough. [Knights] sound like that the world over, it seems. Well, let’s set the camp up. You take that side of the cave, we this?”
The Cenidau folk were wildly outnumbered by Ylawes’ group, but he didn’t argue. Half the cave would do.
“Everyone, get inside. We’ll need firewood…damn. Let’s figure it out. Dry off, first, and we’ll break out rations.”
They didn’t have anything to burn aside from the tent poles, which were a bit beat up from their river-crossing, but that would mean wasting their last tents…at least it wasn’t an issue tonight. The problem was that this particular area wasn’t the most lush in trees; the New Lands weren’t in general, and aside from the coral-wood, Ylawes couldn’t make out any forests in the dark.
The rest of his party were as tired as he was, and Farmer Petia had to kick people up as they trooped in and tried to just sit. Some of the colonists moaned at her.
“Hey, move it.”
Some of the colonists moaned at her.
“Petia, dead gods damn it—”
“We need to organize. Sleep along the walls, unless you want everyone to step on you?”
There was a gust, and the rain sleeted inwards into the cave, and everyone groaned; it was not so deep you’d avoid the rain if the winds came against the cave wrong.
“The far wall. We might need to set up tents after all, just to keep dry. Someone help me put a tarp over there.”
“For what?”
“Changing clothes, Yellat-brains.”
“Oh.”
Ylawes was grateful for her help; he was investigating their food stocks, but their saddlebags were a jumble, and fire was his big concern. However, one look at Falene told him it was going to be flint and tinder.
Her face was waxy, and Dawil had strapped her to his pony as he helped her slide off.
“Our half-Elf’s all tapped, lad. Let’s get some food in her before she turns into a leaf or some such.”
“I’ll turn your beard into leaves, Dawil. Just you wait. Some food wouldn’t go amiss, though.”
Everyone turned to Rasktooth, who was one of the better [Cooks]. He scratched at his belly, dubious.
“Eh…we get fire? I not see much food. So…rations. Where our bags? There some nice bread that not getting any drier.”
It was only a bit stale, and the rain would turn it moldy in another day if it wasn’t already. Ylawes’ stomach rumbled only for Petia to call out.
“Lost it in the river.”
A groan. Larr looked like a wet furball, but he gestured unwillingly to the cave entrance.
“I could see if there’s anything in the lakes worth shooting, Captain.”
“Don’t do that.”
All three Gold-rankers replied instantly. Ylawes rubbed at his face.
“When it’s raining, water monsters are in their element and often hunting. We don’t know what’s down there, Larr. Let’s just have rations. Rasktooth, start portioning things out. And, uh, we should talk to our new friends after a meal…”
He’d almost forgotten the Cenidau warriors, hungry as he was. The fourteen warriors were, to his surprise, not even in the cave yet. They’d dumped their boat at the cave’s entrance, where it was actually an obstacle to entering or exiting. And as he turned his head, they came back in, arms full of…
Rocks. They dumped them in the center of the cave and began kicking them around. Fourteen arms of rocks made a rather large circle they built up—a firepit.
“Huh. We could share a fire. Er, excuse me—”
Evor glanced over as more warriors trooped in, this time bearing a second load of resources. Wood, now.
Proper wood, clearly from trees. And wet.
Sopping, really. Ylawes’ heart sank. He might not have the most bushcraft experience, but the rains meant, without firewood, they’d have a hell of a time lighting the fire. And it’d be far too wet to burn properly. Even so, he trudged over.
“We can help chop some wood, though our [Mage] is out of mana.”
Evor glanced at him and nodded as Thker squatted around the fire, tossing a sack of something heavy down. He had a smaller bag at his side—some treated hide, glossy and neatly-stitched up. Evor jerked a thumb.
“There’s a copse that way. Follow the others. We’ll see to the fire.”
“Sure. Dawil, Dasha, Larr—Homle, some of your [Miners], let’s get some wood. We might need a lot.”
Wet wood did not burn well, and Ylawes reckoned they’d be fine if everyone got a big armful, but the groaning group strode out of the cave and into the rain. Ylawes could barely see anything, even the lake below.
“Where’s the trees?”
He shouted, and one of the warriors struck Ylawes’ shoulder as she passed.
“There. Follow.”
Styrvi, the shorter woman, strode off, and Ylawes followed. He quickly found the trees she was talking about; they were odd, thick-branched trees that reminded Ylawes of oaks if you refused to let them grow half as tall as regular oakwoods. It gave them a very dense, very wide canopy that meant underneath the trees it was almost dry despite the deluge.
Cutting the branches seemed the most expedient; the Cenidau warriors were hacking at the limbs with their axes, and here, at least, the Silver Swords contributed. Styrvi was cursing at a tree limb she was chopping at when Ylawes’ Gravesword bit deep into one branch. Two swings and he was through.
“Giant’s blood, is that mithril?”
“Enchanted.”
“Here? Chop it up if it’s that sharp!”
He did, and she snapped off branches with her foot as he hacked logs apart. Styrvi seemed ready to get him to do all the chopping when there were more exclamations and a crash of wood.
Dawil had just cut through six branches and was hewing them to pieces. A glint of metal in his fingers: his axe fragments. This time, Styrvi stopped dead in her tracks.
“Real Dwarf steel. That a knife?”
“No. Broken axe.”
“Broken?”
She turned to him, then bent down and began to grab pieces of wood.
“Tell it later; we’re wet, and I’m hungry.”
He was glad to know he wasn’t the only one, as confident as they seemed. That was the word for it, Ylawes realized. Confident. The Cenidau warriors trooped back to the cave, and by the time they were back, shedding water—
There was a fire.
“How in the world…?”
Ylawes was astonished to see a bright, glowing fire burning as Thker sat next to it, pushing the wet wood as close as possible to dry out. Rasktooth was sitting across from it, very impressed.
“He have magic stones, Captain! He put down, add a bit of oil, and fwoosh! They burn well.”
It looked like embers were already burning in the fire. Ylawes stared down at the black briquettes turning grey and thought he knew what it was…
“Coal?”
A grin from Thker. He was adding more wood to the little coal pile he’d set ablaze.
“Aye, that’s right. Nothing else burns so hot so easy once you get it going. Light enough too. Compared to damn firewood. D’they mine it here? Not many fancy Terandrian nations do. All magic furnaces.”
He spat into the fire, eliciting a crackle, and Ylawes sat, edging close to the warm flames. His stomach rumbled loudly.
“House Byres, my home, mines. Coal’s not worth that much except as cheap fuel. No value in it, as you said. Isn’t Cenidau cold? I’d imagine you’d have warming spells and fire magic.”
Thker was mixing something up. A lot of something; he dumped powder into a large hide bag, added a sprinkle of whatever it was from the small, waterproof one, then took a long swig from his drinking flask before pouring it in too. Then he closed the bag and began to scrunch it all up as he talked.
“Sure, there’s magic. Until it’s so cold it extinguishes flame spells. Ever seen that?”
“Can that happen?”
“Giants step on me if I lie. When it’s at its coldest, it becomes pure magic. Kills fire spells and fancy [Mage] enchantments. The only thing that saves you in those freezes is a good place with thick walls. Or to dig down into the snow. Coal fire. Saved my life more than once. It gets cold enough, you’ll have every creature not born of ice with you. My grandma, she once was caught in a true freeze. Dug herself down twenty feet because the wind was so freezing it took skin off each time it blew. Lost four fingers on her right hand before she got the fire going. Just her, a little hole in the snow as she was digging out a place to sleep—and then all the animals started coming in. Arctic foxes, a damn seal—even a polar bear and her cubs. So cold they all came for the fire.”
It sounded like a tall tale, but the fire was growing as Thker added more wood, and now he had a pot that one of his people had lugged over and filled with water from outside. Thker had built a little stand to hold it over the fire, but he’d also found a flat rock and positioned it close to the heart of the roaring flames. Now, he opened the bag and revealed a not-too-wet mass of…
Dough? Ylawes blinked as Thker tasted a bit of it, hmming.
“Not fully risen; I forgot to mix it this morning. But I’m hungry.”
So saying, he flattened a bit of dough into a circle, pressing it flat, then tossed it onto the stone. It began to smoke at once, and Ylawes’ stomach rumbled harder.
His stomach had been a poor, mostly deprived thing these last few weeks. Ylawes had thought he and his stomach were hardy, enduring sorts, but he hadn’t realized that he tended to eat fairly good no matter where he went. Bags of Holding…
His stomach had taken to the New Lands poorly, but after starving, even the tuber-worms had been edible, if not welcome. It had resigned itself, again, to sustenance with less emphasis on taste, but the first scent of cooking bread made Ylawes’ stomach sit up.
Wait a second, fresh bread? We can get that even in the wilds? Thker grinned at Ylawes’ expression. He had tossed more pucks of dough onto the little baking stone, and now he turned one over; it was already crisping, a few parts blackened, and he squirted something onto the stone.
A bit of oil—and he had a pot of gold.
Butter. He spread it on the first piece of bread he yanked off the stone, then took a bite. It crunched, and he chewed.
“Aye, that’s good enough.”
“Thker, you bastard! Stop filling your face! We’re hungry!”
Styrvi had seen him and stormed over; he swatted at her as he began adding more pieces of bread to a plate—his round buckler.
“You want to eat, you cook, Styrvi. Make me some fancy nobleman’s dinner while you’re at it.”
“I’ll feed you your own liver—”
“Styrvi! No fighting around the food!”
Evor roared, and she backed off, but Thker was moving faster anyways. Someone had been dumping objects into the cauldron now bubbling on the fire. Ylawes peeked at that, and it wasn’t a thin stew, but a dark, rich brown color. Rasktooth was adding handfuls of their stocks, and he nodded at Ylawes.
“Is good soup, Captain.”
“Why’s it brown? That’s not dirt, is it?”
“Nah, nah. Is these little cubes the Gnolls gave us. All dry, uh…stuff.”
“Stock. Chicken bouillon. Too strong t’ taste on its own.”
One of the warriors advised Rasktooth, who had nibbled on a cube. He made a face.
“Very salty. Very clever. You is add water and hublab.”
He waved his hands to indicate flavor and such. Ylawes cleared his throat.
“I hope you don’t mind us sharing the pot? We have supplies, and I trust you’re being generous, Rasktooth.”
“Oh yah. I put in all the good stuffs.”
It seemed like they were sharing plates, and the soup was getting very appealing. Evor clearly agreed.
“Let’s eat, damnit!”
He reached for a pot only to get a kick.
“Not yet, fool. The soup takes time, and Thker’s not got enough bread mixed. Where’s the Eir Kelp lines?”
“Here.”
Someone tossed a long, well-used cord of odd, purple stuff over, and another warrior grabbed it and began tying knots around the final piece of the meal that had Ylawes’ stomach finally sit up and start begging.
Fish. They had fish! The fish were slit open and covered in a light sprinkling of…dust? He smelled spices, but instead of frying them in a pan, the woman just threw them over a little spit and had them dangling over the roaring flames.
Bread, soup, and fish all cooking at the same time. The crackle and scents of the meal had the Silver Swords’ party all clustered around, giving the cooks’ space, but mouths watering. And, at some point, the howling rain had stopped coming in.
