Ylawes drew his sword and tried to shout.
[Knight’s Challenge]! He had no breath in the water, and his sword was so slow as he swished it at Thker. The man was struggling, trying to slam his axe against the jaws over his shoulder, which were in turn scraping at his armor. They were thrashing around so much Ylawes couldn’t get close—so he grabbed the tail of the huge crocodile, which had to be at least twelve feet long, and began to stab!
His sword, again, was leaden as the water made every motion slow, dreamlike. However, the crocodile did not like being grabbed and began to thrash harder. His sword tip struck its thick hide, and Ylawes heaved, trying to pierce the scales.
Was it working? He thought was stabbing a bit, but he couldn’t see blood. His lungs were burning, Thker was thrashing slower, and it was so damn cold…
So cold.
Beyond the river’s cold, in fact. Ylawes stared as the crocodile’s thrashing slowed, and he saw something in the water.
Was that…frost running up his blade? His Gravesword was piercing the crocodile’s hide, and when Ylawes stabbed again, the animal stopped thrashing. Its jaws didn’t loosen, but it hung in the water as Ylawes thrust the blade deeper into its side. Thker was trying to kick his legs, but the animal was on him. Ylawes let go of his sword.
We’re drowning down here. We have to get up.
He began kicking for the surface, trying to haul both animal and man up. But it was a lot deeper than he thought. The river was sweeping him away, and he—
He needed to take a breath. The drowning [Knight] felt his jaws begin to open as he convulsed. And then—
Evor splashed down next to him in a shower of bubbles, along with Insill, another warrior, and Dawil. They had weapons drawn, but when he saw the dead crocodile, Dawil just slow-motion ran over and heaved Thker up, standing on the riverbed. Insill grabbed one arm of Thker, kicking, and Evor seized the crocodile’s body and Ylawes—
They burst out of the water, and Ylawes gasped for air. Sound resumed, and he heard shouting.
“There they are! Ylawes, get to shore!”
“Is Thker there?”
“Get to shore! More of the things are coming!”
Ylawes’ head spun, and he saw everyone on the bank and the boat coming their way. He began kicking; there was [Light], he realized. Falene had fired a [Light] spell right above them all, and it let him see into the water.
Thker was gasping in the group fighting to get to shore, face pale, blood running from his arm, and Insill was sawing at the croc’s teeth.
“Damn, it’s too tight—”
“Just drag them ashore! Hurry!”
Evor pointed, and more crocodiles were moving at alarming speed their way. However, this time, the [Hearthguard Leader] barked.
“[Intimidating Shout].”
He put his head under the water, and the exclamation that reverberated in the water made the animals flinch back. That bought them time; Ylawes had just found the riverbank’s edge when he sensed another crocodile coming up. He spun—and a throwing hatchet thunked into the crocodile’s head as it tried to open its mouth.
Rigalde leapt onto the shore and joined the crowd hauling everyone ashore. Ylawes stumbled onto the ground, then lay on his back as he panted for air. After a moment, he croaked.
“My sword. Did I lose my—”
“Here!”
Pekona had grabbed it. Ylawes saw Thker puking water out, Dawil cursing as he sloshed ashore, Evor telling everyone to get back from the water if those things came on land—and then Thker rasped.
“Did you get my yeast?”
Falene had the bag of yeast. Thker smiled right before Styrvi stomped on his stomach, and he threw up more water. Ylawes Byres sat there a second, then had a thought.
“I remember where I’ve heard of it before; I think Erin eats yeast on popcorn.”
Thker’s head rose, and he gave Ylawes a bug-eyed look.
“Yeast? On popcorn? That’s disgusting.”
 
——
 
The end result of that little adventure was the salvation of Thker’s good bread, a waterlogged, sheepish, but fine [Shieldson], and a dead crocodile.
Thker was mostly just bruised; the crocodile hadn’t managed to bite through his armor, and the few dents it had caused vanished as Styrvi fixed him up.
“[Restore Apparel]. Paugh. Hold still. [Quick Stitching]!”
“Aurgh, less quick, less pain!”
Evor had decided to make camp after that incident, and he’d gone riding off on a horse to find a good site. He announced it was not far; a forest, actually, not caves this time.
“We’ll need to secure it. At least we have food this time.”
“What f—oh.”
The dead crocodile was very dead and very cold, apparently. Rasktooth was poking it.
“It all frozen up. Probably tasty. Probably. Your sword do good job killing things, Captain.”
“Yes. I can see why your team follows you, Captain Ylawes. On behalf of my people, I thank you.”
Rigalde had not managed to recover her hatchet from the waters, but she sat, smiling in relief—and guilt. She gestured at Thker.
“I was too slow to jump in. I wondered if without my levels…bah. It was a brave thing you did.”
“And stupid!”
Falene was furious at Ylawes for taking that risk, especially because he might have drowned in his armor, but Rigalde just smiled.
“We have a saying in the north. Better to be a brave idiot than a clever coward. You can be highborn, cunning, and all the rest, but no warrior will follow someone like that into battle if they won’t go first. I’ve seen idiots with not a lick of sense in their heads lead armies because they’ll run in first. You can’t buy that. Your fool’s not bad.”
Falene sniffed.
“Well, your fool seems quite capable. Sometimes, I’d trade a bit of bravery for a bit less fool.”
Ylawes flushed as he sat there, and Rasktooth grinned. It was Insill who piped up, slapping Ylawes on the back with a squelching sound.
“That’s why we like Captain Ylawes, alright! If we’re all drowning in the water, I know he’ll be drowning right next to us!”
As ringing endorsements went, it wasn’t exactly what Ylawes wanted, but he just held his tongue and privately tried to suggest to Rasktooth that he was fine with just bread. Thker had plenty for him for saving his life. Unfortunately, Rasktooth had decided to give Ylawes the prime cut of crocodile.
It was…alright. Very gamey and tasted like fish and chicken combined. The freezing effect hadn’t done it much good. On the plus side, there was so much of it everyone got a big portion.
Yum.
 
——
 
Then the rains stopped. And six rainbows split the sky, shimmering into wide arcs that had no ending on the ground, but crisscrossed the horizon for all of a day.
Ylawes Byres stopped and stared upwards until a buzzing cloud of midges arose—and Falene promptly hit them with a cloud spell. They continued.
Cenidau’s warriors, singing, marching with the Silver Swords as they crossed from the river into the grasslands once more and, at last, began to see signs of life. A bounding gazelle with bright blue markings that leapt out of the way of Larr’s arrow and a thrown spear.
A flock of little birds who burst into the air and scolded like a cloud of upset mosquitos until Rasktooth winged one, and the entire flock burst into chaos, fleeing in every direction.
The stars under a vibrant, deep blue sky, and fireflies flitting around their fire, dancing under the moons.
Stories. Rasktooth had been a bit sad when he asked Pekona, wistfully, about Drath. The place that had so many with his class that he would never go to.
“I guess them young masters is all over, hey? Arrogant people with big nose lifted, throwing their money around? Is I gonna be like that? Is that what Drath like?”
Pekona had looked astonished and sat him on her lap, shaking her head. Infinitypear had instantly tried to sit on Pekona’s lap, but being far too big for that, had been upset.
That was how Ylawes found the Antinium perching on his lap as they listened to Pekona’s story, Cenidau warriors as fascinated as everyone else.
“That? That’s not Drath, Rasktooth. I just…complain like that, because it’s my home. There are many beautiful things about Drath. Sometimes, I forget myself.”
“Oh, like how I talk about Raskghar and the dungeon having evil worms and Facestealer and not about the good parts.”
“Um. Yes?”
“There no good parts. You go on.”
Pekona laughed, and then stared past Rasktooth, at a place only she could see. She was massaging his scalp with her hand, and he lay back, meditating or just listening.
“Drath has many beautiful things. They have trees that blow pink cherry petals in the spring and fall. They’re…very annoying to sweep up.”
“You not doing a good job of this.”
“Shh. They’re annoying until you go up to the cliffs where there are thousands of them and sit beneath them. Then it’s like a snowstorm without snow. They drift across the world until it’s all pink and white. And there are koi fish.”
“Oh. I know them. They in Erin’s—”
“Shh, brother. You are interrupting the story!”
Infinitypear hopped up and down, then turned to Ylawes.
“Captain, your lap is very much less pleasant than Pekona’s.”
“I know.”
“Are you going to fix this issue?”
Infinitypear stared at Ylawes’ face, then swivelled around as Pekona giggled.
“Koi fish, yes. But big ones. They were fed too much by one of our [Emperors], so there are koi fish so big they can eat ships. They circle one of the harbors, but they never eat anyone…or they spit them out if they do. Because Drath was once bigger, there are wonders there. Even among cultivators.”
Her voice grew low.
“There is a place in the cities where everyone walks a strange way. It looks like some long, vast maze. Only, they all flow towards a center, each person walking the path that forms a pattern you can only see from above. To disrupt the pattern is a crime. They channel their very energy, the flow of things, into a hanging needle at the center of the pattern. Each day, it drops a single drop down. A hundred drops will condense until it makes a single pill that the [Emperor] himself awards to a chosen subject.”
“What it taste like?”
She pulled at one ear.
“I don’t know, silly. But there are feasts in the palace, and if you were rich enough to go to the cities, you could eat a thousand thousand new things, each day, and never run out. Little blue shrimp, invisible octopi that you stain with sauce to see, spicy red…what’s the leaf thing Dasha hates?”
“Cabbage.”
“That. On crackling, oil beds of pork, and if you’re lucky, you’ll find a woman with fox ears who begs for your tofu.”
“…Do I have to give her my tofus?”
“Yes, it’s very good luck. Or so they say. I think they just want tofu. They’re older than half-Elves and can cast great magic.”
“Hah! I’ve heard of these ‘ki-tsu-ne’, and personally, I think they’re just a Beastkin tribe that—”
Someone shoved a piece of crocodile into Falene’s mouth to shut her up, and Pekona went on, painting an image of Drath, full of great mythical objects and broken dreams from the dawn of time. A vast, vast place now reduced to islands. Resplendent in beauty until a Seamwalker arises and it becomes blood and determination.
“Someday, I’ll take you there.”
“And pay for my tofus?”
“Yes, and them.”
“I’d like to visit that myself.”
Ylawes murmured, and he realized he wanted to with all his heart. To see this land Pekona described, even if it was not always so beautiful as that, and he had to deal with a young master doing…whatever they did. He wanted to see a world beyond Izril’s shores.
How short his journeys seemed when he regarded Evor and the Cenidau folk who’d come a continent away for the New Lands. Ylawes stared up at the sky and sat as Evor began to tell the story of his uncle, who’d gone to Drath with a bag of gold and come away without his bag of gold, or his sword, but a son.
For a while, as it happened, again and again, the misery ended. Ylawes found he once again was enjoying the New Lands.
This time…
The feeling didn’t vanish at once. So the Silver Swords stayed in the company of the Cenidau warriors until they reached a place in the grasslands that other caravans were headed to. A gathering spot that just popped out when Rasktooth used a spyglass.
The first settlement in the New Lands that Ylawes had ever seen. A place called Woll’s Waystation. Who should he meet there but a Gnoll, riding west after visiting an inn. And there came a Goblin that Ylawes knew—another one, rather, flying south after witnessing miracles and tragedy alike.
Last of all, bringing along his own sorry company, eyes fixed on the horizon and adventure, just like all of them, came the [Gunslinger].
