Nailren had a pleasant first week of riding across the New Lands after leaving Plain’s Eye and the Silver Swords.
True, it rained nonstop. He rode through endless showers of it, and his horse actually balked after the third straight day of it, but Nailren was equal to the challenge.
“Alright, alright. Let’s see what we can do. This isn’t going to last more than an hour or two, but…[Create Totem]!”
He pulled out a little, pre-carved piece of wood from his packs, a long and slim marker with a point you could hammer into the ground, and tied it to the horse’s bridle. The magic activated, and the horse, unhappily shaking its head in the rain, paused and then saw the rain was bouncing off its fur and mane without wetting the animal. It shook itself like a dog, and Nailren, who was still wet, sighed.
“Well, at least it works.”
He was a [Clandestine Chieftain of the Arrow] after all. He had no tribe, which meant he had to often do things without any members, and his Skills were a product of that.
[Create Totem] was a basic [Shaman] ability. It let him enchant a totem with the powers of, say…a Level 15 [Shaman]. So nothing great. In the New Lands, it was obviously rather useless; [Shaman] magic drained like everything else, except for his second Skill unique to his class:
[Tribe of One: Lesser Manacharge].
It gave his [Create Totem] ability just enough mana to function, as if he had a tribe of fifty, maybe. Nailren had been interested in trying it out; he’d been carving said totems to deal with the ghosts, but he hadn’t known the spells to make a Ghostward Totem.
This? This was just a little Rainsward Totem, very light on mana-cost. By tying it to the horse’s bridle, it gave the horse and even Nailren a break from the downpour…for four hours.
Nailren ended up re-using his Skill nine more times over the week and burning through all his pre-made totems; once you used it, they became brittle and fell apart. He spent most of the time in the saddle carving, jotting down what he could of the landscape, and riding hard for the Pride of Kelia’s camps.
[Faster to Untamed Lands] helped there too. [Wildlands Rider]—Nailren made excellent time on horseback, and his Skills had him riding up to their camp by the lake fast enough.
The Pride was glad to see him. Kelthe howled at him as he leapt off his horse.
“Captain! Here! Get out of the damn rain!”
They’d set up a more permanent yurt, and he hurried inside and saw a second yurt—all the horses were squeezed inside.
“If your animal kicks, it goes into the rain and cold. Amazingly, that lot’s playing nice—none of ‘em want out in this weather. Couldn’t you have rested in Goisedall? What happened to that group you were sent to find?”
He grunted as he squeezed in and discovered all the Gnolls were there. They were eating clam chowder and some rather ugly crabs with way too long antennae.
“That’s gross.”
“Hey, Captain, don’t be squeamish. It’s from the lake. Some kinda shrimp-stuff. Tastes good, and the water’s fine if you boil it. Don’t worry, we’ve followed protocols. You smell like other Gnolls.”
Nailren tossed his wet cloak down next to the fire, where it began to steam, and groaned as he sat.
“I feel bad for the Silver Swords. They got caught in the rains, and I doubt Falene’s got the mana to shield the lot. First things first—I got everyone to safety, but there were complications in Goisedall. The city’s way more overrun than when you all went, Kelthe. Cuska, you’ll want to take whatever’s good here back east. I know you wanted steady trade. Well, you’ve got it. Plain’s Eye has arrived.”
Cuska looked up from preparing a pelt for drying, flicking shreds of meat into a pot.
“No. Plain’s Eye?”
“Those bastards?”
Another Gnoll, Morr, leapt up, outraged, but Nailren growled at him.
“Don’t start, Morr. They’re not the ones who fought your tribe. Well, some are, but they’re Doombearers now. Chieftain Merish is leading them. He’s got a level head on his shoulders. Oh, and I ran into some of the Thousand Lances.”
“The who?”
His team was agog at all he’d seen in his short trip, and especially at the levels of the Thousand Lances. The Silver Swords’ tale had them shaking their heads.
“If they want to stay with us, we could use help laying a claim here, Captain. I think this lake is worth gold.”
He nodded at Cuska.
“If you want to put down roots, I’ll treat this like a base and contribute, but I’m not staying. My feet are itching; I’m drawing a map up.”
She exhaled.
“You can’t sit still, can you? Well, most of the team’s agreed this is worth a lot. We’re going to make it our base. Maybe a few will want to ride out with you, but…”
She trailed off awkwardly, and Nailren finished the sentence.
“This is how the Pride halts. Or rather, I think it’d be good if the next time we got close to an Adventurer’s Guild, I transferred the team to you, Cuska. That carries some weight, even if you’re only Silver-rankers on the books.”
Her face clouded.
“You sure?”
“Sure as an arrow flies, Cuska. Don’t worry, I don’t take it lightly, but I meant what I said to Merish and you all: I’m done being an adventurer. At least, the kind I used to be. Take it, build something here. You might get Plain’s Eye Gnolls coming this way. Not all seemed keen on Merish’s leadership. But let’s talk defenses. There are a lot of people coming, and after seeing how Ylawes’ team was treated…I don’t want you taken off-guard.”
He distracted them with practicality, and only after they’d eaten and he’d passed around wine he’d bought from Merish’s camps did Cuska get up and sit with him just inside the yurt’s opening. Everyone else was sleeping; they’d get more yurts up later. Kelthe also sat with them.
“You still got a ghost, Captain?”
“Sure do.”
“Weird. No offense, Nailren, but you’ve always been the oddest kind of leader. I thought you’d be all cloak-and-dagger or some veteran like Az’muzarre, barking orders. Instead, I feel like you’d be a [Scholar] or something.”
He grinned.
“I’ll take it as a compliment, Kelthe. Cuska, stop looking guilty.”
“I just feel like I’ve taken something from you.”
He stretched, patting his warm stomach. The weird super shrimp-crabs had been very tasty, and Bekr had apparently gained a class. [Seafood Lover]. Who knew? The world was changing, and so were they. He liked that.
“Taken a weight off my shoulders, you mean? The Pride’s a tool in my paws. A useful one, but I’m sick of wielding it. Neither of you ever had to go on a quiet mission, did you? The kind no one talks about?”
They shook their heads, and Nailren stared out into the New Lands.
“This is the only place I could even talk about it. Even in the Great Plains, there are ears. What else is there to say? When I thought I was having Warsights…I don’t have that many regrets over what I did. Mistakes, sure, but that’s not how I want to live. Besides, if I did too much more I’d end up with a dagger in my back courtesy of Salazsar’s Assassin’s Guild.”
“So you’re bowing out just like us. I get it. That makes it easier, Nailren.”
Cuska was relieved as she stretched her legs out. Then she pointed.
“Okay, it’s too damn rainy and windy here at times. So maybe not a watch tower. But a camp. Walls.”
“Where are you getting the wood from?”
“Wood? I’m talking dirt, Captain. Dirt and stone. Earthenworks. Oh, sure, it’ll suck to build, but instead of someone high up, you get a Gnoll with a bow on the hill. A hill, here, even bigger than this one. For a little while, that’s the camp. Small, snug, defensible. We fish from the lake, and those clam fields are excellent. Keep the lake, keep the clams, and we have food all year.”
“Until someone else gets hungry or comes for it.”
She shoved him.
“You’re such a downer. Yes, until then. But we’re hunting, trading with Plain’s Eye and anyone else who settles. And in time?”
Maybe this becomes a village or a town. Even a trading outpost. He glanced at her.
“Angling for a new class?”
She flushed as Kelthe chuckled because Cuska had talked about this.
“I’d like to build something. Somewhere people would know was mine—and everyone else’s, of course! But maybe a nice building. Cuska’s Den. And then they’d hear about it, and maybe if this place survives, it’d become somewhere important. So yeah. I’m…staying.”
He fished out another skin of liquids, this one Velrusk Claw.
“Here, to your dreams. And to Cuska’s name!”
He took a swig, passed it to Kelthe, then Cuska drank. Then, of course, all three sighed, because all the other Gnolls had woken up.
“Oi, Captain Cuska, former-Captain Nailren, I’ll drink to that.”
“Go back to sleep, Bekr, the adults are talking!”
They growled at him, but everyone wanted a drink, and the skin of Velrusk Claw vanished, but it kept them warm. Nailren grinned and sat back as a ghostly hand wistfully tugged on the empty skin. He lay there, head spinning.
“Shame I can’t give you a drink. What keeps you around?”
Nothing to eat, drink, and he didn’t know how his ghost-friend Spoony saw or heard. But maybe, like him, it was just curiosity even death couldn’t quench. Nailren said goodbye to his team as he drifted off, and it was not bitter at all.
Free. Freer. He slept, dreaming of where he’d go next to map.
 
[Explorer class Obtained!]
[Explorer Level 3!]
[Skill – Forager’s Senses Obtained!]
[Skill – Burst Gallop Obtained!]
[Skill – Test Water Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Cartography Obtained!]
 
——
 
Excellent. Nailren sat up and realized his determination had provided him with a bounty to put a smile on his face. But if he was happy—Cuska leapt up with a shout that morning.
“[Founder], Level 4! [Evaluate Foundation]! We’ve got work to do!”
She danced around, excited, as Bekr groaned.
“Wait, does this mean you’re going to be even more annoying about how we set up things?”
Nailren just grinned as he packed up his things.
“I’m off. Got a direction for me, Kelthe? I’ll be back this way if I can, but I promised to try and make a proper map—just the points of interest around the border of the New Lands.”
“Everyone’s gone north, Captain. There’s almost a trail—of trash if nothing else! I heard something from a Drowned Man I met that claimed there were actually some buildings. I’ll point them out to you.”
Kelthe actually rode an hour with Nailren as she described hearing about two things.
“The first is a waystation where people’re trading. That’s going to be a good ride westwards. But if you head a bit north, not as far as those foothills, you’ll come across another building I’ve heard tell of. An inn, no less.”
“An inn?”
Who’d set up one of those already? Nailren’s ears perked up, and she shrugged.
“It’s all rumors from people on the road. Frankly, I’ve been keeping my head down and not letting them know I’m here unless they’re too close to the camp. I am worried about trouble, but we’ll get that sentry post up, and Cuska’s no fool. If there is an inn, we’ll be visiting for all the drinks we can buy!”
“Just you hold onto that salt and remember: gold’s not the most valuable thing here. Food and vital necessities like that are.”
He tossed her another bag and checked his supplies. Plenty to trade, and light enough to keep going. He’d left enough with the Pride to come back and draw from if he needed credit, and he bet he had a lot if he needed a favor. Which reminded him. He pulled out his first map, and he was pleased at how his paw filled in details and made a decent-looking lake.
[Basic Cartography]. How handy. He marked the first place on his map with a flourish.
Cuska’s Den. Then Nailren set off.
What he found along his journey was that there was indeed an inn north of him. And as Kelthe had warned him, a bit of trouble on the roads.
 
——
 
Or rather, camps. Nailren began running into them as soon as he got a day north of Cuska’s Den. Easy to mark by the fires now that the rains had slackened. He rode towards them naturally, often howling to announce himself.
He didn’t carry his bow, though he had strung it, and he made sure they saw and heard him right off. The first one didn’t even have sentries, but the Drakes were all on their feet the moment they saw him.
“Hey, we don’t want trouble! Ride on!”
“I’m just on my way north. To the inn! You wouldn’t have directions, would you?”
Nailren shouted back, and his trick worked. The Drakes, who had bows and were aiming just at the ground in front of him, hesitated. He saw they were muddy, exhausted, and guessed they were returners, not expeditioners.
“A damn inn? Are you crazy?”
He dismounted and approached as a few came out from their camp. Nailren stuck out a paw.
“Nailren, [Explorer]. Are you coming back from an expedition?”
“We’re coming back for a resupply, and we’ll be damned if we give up our camp. Are you alone? It’s dangerous out here. We were robbed!”
To his surprise, the Drakes weren’t as jingoistic as he’d thought. They were jittery, and only three out of the forty-some group would leave their camp.
“We did well enough. Damn mana drain…but we found a full clam field and stripped it. Between that and hunting it was going well until we were hit by [Bandits]! They swooped in while we were trying to hunt. Held both groups up, took our food, and left. Adventurers. Human bastards—you see any that claim to be Silver-rankers, you watch out.”
“Hmm. I’ve not run into them. Any descriptions?”
“Muddy? One of them uses a warhammer—they’re Humans; I can’t say any had more than a few nasty scars. I’d recognize them if I saw them again, but we’re headed back to Goisedall. We’ll get more food, maybe see if anyone else wants to run with us for security, and get back out there.”
The Drake doing all the talking was named Lancet, and he seemed ready to go. Nailren frowned.
“You’ll need a lot of coin in Goisedall. I was just there; prices are insane.”
“What? How bad?”
Nailren quoted a few prices, and the Drakes groaned. Another came over.
“You’re sure that’s not just a rush?”
“Believe me, everyone’s out there. Have you anything to trade?”
“Maybe.”
They grew suspicious again, and Nailren lifted his paws, smiling easily.
“All I ask is because there’s also the Plain’s Eye tribe. They’re actually before the New Lands—I’m working on a map.”
He showed them it, covering Cuska’s Den with a paw as he held it against his horse’s side. Lancet blinked.
“Plain’s Eye? Weren’t they wiped out or something?”
“Not all. They’ve got herd-animals. If you’re wanting to make a camp, I’d buy some for milk.”
