Uneasily, a twenty-foot eel slithered deep into the sand, avoiding a clash with this strange beast. Its kin followed suit.
Another beast of the gravel, whose body resembled the very rocks with a huge, round head of rough boulders and teeth of grinding stones, was wary, but still hung around. But then, when the continuous chant stopped and they began to sing, it backed up.
Whatever they were, they were big enough and seemed to move and act like one thing. Safer to eat the eels, not risk a new threat.
So onwards, the Silver Swords marched.
 
——
 
Singing. Chanting that word from Cenidau had a strange power that had to last at least an hour. By the end of the hour, Ylawes was shouting it with Pekona—and they’d been some of the last to join in, including Falene. It had been embarrassing, at first, but then Ylawes had found himself swept into the rhythm.
There was a strange exhilaration in just shouting that word en-masse with everyone else. Especially into the vast emptiness around them. But even that had to fade in efficacity, so what came next?
Well…
Songs. The first to sing was Evor, and he had a baritone voice and sang a song in the common tongue that Ylawes had never heard before.
The saga of a woman who went searching for the last Giant of Frost and sailed across the world to find him. Only to realize he was slumbering, the very mountain under which she’d lived all her life. He was joined by Styrvi, Thker, and Rigalde played her drum softer.
Then—
Ylawes didn’t know how to answer the silence after that first song, but two members of his party did. Rasktooth answered with a high-pitched lullaby that only he knew. A Cave Goblin’s song. Then Larr sang, embarrassed, but bringing a song from the tradition he recognized as similar to Cenidau’s.
Songs. Ylawes wished he had any to answer with after Styrvi led a reply-song from Cenidau, again. He knew House Byres’ anthem of course, but Dawil and Falene had told him it was the most embarrassing song in creation and he knew it didn’t fit here.
House Byres didn’t…have a great history of songs. Not songs you could sing without accompaniment. He would have called these drinking songs, but they weren’t quite. They were something else.
And there were no songs that the two groups had in common. Dawil knew some songs, and so did Falene, but the two were singing at each other until everyone seemed to recall that one song they surely would all know.
The only one that fit.
Great Plains Sing.
 
“So when my fur calls 
Me to seek the heart of stories.
To brave the world’s danger 
And lay eyes on sights unseen
 
Chasing long lost trails
Of our trials and our glories
To find the heart of stories sang to me.”
 
—The song drank up his exhaustion and turned this bleak, unending wasteland into an adventure. Ylawes’ ill-used imagination conjured a flying Gnoll and visions of grand vistas. Ramparts and ancient palaces rising out of the ground like he’d imagined as a boy, reading Tales of Adventure and Woe.
He forgot his tiredness, the weariness of his journey, and the circumstances that had forced him here. In fact, when they finally stopped, he was shocked to see another hill, this one studded with grassy patches and circling, gull-like birds, rising out of the ground just ahead of him.
The sun was almost set on the horizon. Ylawes stopped singing and coughed, and only then did his feet protest and he felt his legs grow leaden. He blinked at Pekona and realized they had sung the hours away.
“Was—was that a Skill?”
Rigalde was stowing her drums as Evor strode ahead, and Thker groaned as they put their boat down. She grinned at him.
“What self-respecting warrior of Cenidau would accept a Skill for that? If we need it to make music fit to take our exhaustion away, we’d as well hang up our weapons and retire. Not even a [Bard] could do finer than a thousand warriors of the north on the march. Barelle the Bard himself said he has no reason to play when our voices rise as one.”
Ylawes blinked at her, then ducked his head as she rubbed at her shoulders.
“I’m getting too old for this. But one last time…let’s get that food ready, eh? You southernfolk have the spirit to march with us after all.”
Coming from her, Ylawes thought it was the best compliment he might receive.
He was not wrong.
 
——
 
That night, Thker made his bread again as Ylawes helped with the fire. It was a smaller one, coal, since there was no fuel about save for the grass up top.
“What about the firewood we chopped? We couldn’t have used it all up.”
Ylawes was surprised, and Thker glanced at him.
“That? We left what was finished to dry in the cave.”
“Why?”
“For other travellers, of course. Is it not the way in the south to stock such places for those who come next?”
It was not, and that simple kindness embarrassed Ylawes, but Thker shook his head.
“The kingdoms of the south are rich, they say. I never went further beyond the Dominion, and what little I saw of it was fair indeed. It must be nice not to worry about such things.”
“Well, in this moment and in this place, I envy your knowledge, Thker. I never thought to make bread. It seems simple, but it’s so compelling…”
That pleased the man greatly, and he brushed at his braided beard before motioning Ylawes over.
“It’s not much, in truth. Just water, flour, and my secret—I paid dearly for this back home, and taking it across the sea was trouble enough.”
The bread was literally just flour from a bag he carried with him, a pinch of salt, some milk from a jug he sealed, and butter.
“It’ll work even without the milk. Flour ‘n water will do, but this is my pride. See?”
He showed Ylawes something, and the man wrinkled his nose at the weird…powder? It smelled odd and reminded him of a [Bakery].
“What is it?”
“Yeast. I bought it from a [Baker] whose bread I love; each kind’s different, and this is precious indeed. I put it in the bread to rise it each morning—unless we’re too busy.”
Yeast? Ylawes had no idea how bread worked, so Thker had to explain that it was this very stuff that gave it the ability to rise. The [Knight] frowned.
“I heard Octavia—an [Alchemist] I know—had made something that did the job, and the [Bakers] were in an uproar. So it’s valuable?”
“As much as gold, to me. Is her bread as fine as mine?”
Ylawes sniffed the bread baking on another flat stone, and his stomach rumbled.
“Honestly, I think this is the finest bread I’ve ever tasted, Thker.”
Another answer that pleased the man. He nodded.
“Then you remind yourself—yeast as well as flour, water, salt. You can carry it around and make it each night since it’s already ready, so long as your container’s sealed. You could do it yourself.”
Him? Ylawes protested he had no cooking Skills, and Thker rolled his eyes.
“Aye, that’s southerner talk. Nothing to be done unless you’ve the right Skills. I never got a single one for bread or cooking, but no one will have any but mine.”
He tossed more dough on the stone, and Ylawes sat there, thinking.
“Could I…try to fry some bread?”
That elicited a response, then instructions.
“Toss it on, then. Nice and flat after rolling it. Don’t hit the fire or everyone’ll kick your legs bloody. That’s a bite lost each time. It cooks so fast that once the stone is hot, less than a minute per side will do. Ach, don’t reach into the fire—”
 
——
 
A few burnt fingers later, Ylawes was very proud of himself as he showed his team the bread he’d helped fry up. They had a bounty as well.
“Birds! Looks like they eat worms or such around here. Don’t, uh, look at their guts. But we’ve skinned and gutted the lot. Rasktooth’s a damn good shot.”
“Is easy. You point, you shoot. None of this skill stuff.”
Rasktooth grinned as Larr held out a bundle of plucked and gutted birds for the cooks at the fire. The birds were so delicious-looking that everyone agreed it would be a waste to turn it into a soup.
So, fried they were. Ylawes listened to the crackle of the birds cooking with a bit of flour on them over pans, and while they weren’t much per-portion, there were enough of the birds nesting here to make a feast.
Somehow, it was even better than last night’s meal, and again, Evor insisted on bringing out the wineflask and giving everyone a dollop in their cups. Just a bit. Then they sat and began to tell stories.
What else was one to do as the rains kept hammering down? Ylawes went to pee in the pouring rain and stared at a wriggling worm with way too many legs feasting on the bird guts. He shuddered, stepped inside, and heard Rigalde’s voice as he moved over to the warm fire.
“Cenidau is one of the Hundred Kingdoms, it is true. But we are not the ones people think of when they think of Terandria. We’re the Northfolk, the barbaric folks like the Talgrit tribes. Other nations laugh at us, with their [Knights] and grand cities, and wonder why we still live like this, us, in the safest and richest continent of the world.”
“Some might argue that claim.”
Anith murmured, and she grinned at him.
“So would we, in the north! The Warm Cities are well enough; one can mine Everfrozen Ice for a living in the deep mines that run into the glaciers and be well enough, even if it’s so cold you’ll lose fingers if there’s but a gap in your gear. But others live on the very ice, which never melts. And there is nothing to farm, only fish and snow and the True Frost that kills everything.”
“Who’d want to live there? Uh, no offense.”
Dasha blushed as her team kicked her, and Rigalde chuckled. She had braided hair and sat, nursing her drink, as she spoke.
“In the days when Terandria was first founded by mortals, nowhere was safe. The Hundred Heroes had to fight for every inch of land, and Cenidau…yes, Cenidau was settled by one of them. In fact, our hero founded two kingdoms. Cenidau being one of them. But we don’t claim him, like the other kingdoms.”
“Hmm? Claim him? I do not understand, Miss Rigalde? Please explain, Comrade…like a Pisces would!”
Infinitypear was slightly drunk. Not on the tiny amounts of alcohol but the moment itself, and there was a chuckle. Rigalde nodded and pursed her lips.
“How to say it? One of the Hundred Heroes created our lands, protected our peoples, yes and yes. For that, we remember him. Cendayne the Archmage, whose magic created the Warm Cities. However, we do not venerate him. We do not claim his legacy, like other nations do. They still honor the Bow of Avel in the Kingdom of Bows; we do not. Oh, the Frost Courts and the Queen of Frost still act like other kingdoms, but away from them, we practice these traditions. Even our own language, though no one truly remembers more than a few words.”
She let the two of Poke Duo hold her helmet, which had beautiful curved horns on it. Rigalde nodded to that.
“Those come from wendigos I hunted myself. Their teeth.”
“These are teeth?”
Rasktooth exclaimed in dismay, and the warriors laughed. Evor murmured.
“Rigalde is a famous warrior in the north who’s led more hunts than I have. She’d be leading us if not for—”
She silenced him with a glance, and Rigalde took the helmet back, turning it over in her hands.
“No longer. I’m old, and besides…the tradition is to adorn your helmet with trophies of monsters slain. That way, your enemy knows who comes at them. This? My shield, our longships, these things do not come from Cendayne.”
“Who, then?”
For answer, all the Northfolk pointed a finger up. Rasktooth stared at the ceiling of the cave until Rigalde spoke.
“Giants.”
Like the word ‘Mithril’ of yesterday, the single explanation had Ylawes shivering, but with a kind of great joy. Rigalde smiled as her voice grew.
“We were huddled in the cities that Cendayne built when the first Giants looked down and saw us running in their lands. Most ignored us. Some made war against the Hundred Heroes and their descendants. Some took our sides for their own reasons. But a few decided to give us more. The first Giants to create Cenidau as it is now taught us our culture. How to swing an axe, how to survive the cold. Our words, our culture come from them.”
“Giants? Their people?”
Even Falene was incredulous; she might have heard the tale, but Rigalde had a way with words. The woman hesitated, then.
“No. The first Giant who taught us said it was not their ways, but something else. They taught us in honor of a people we would never meet. Old ways that only they remembered. Such is Cenidau, then. Scorned by the southern lands for honoring Giants over [Heroes].”
“Scorned until they invade us and freeze in the summer.”
Styrvi commented, and there was laughter from the rest. Ylawes sat there until he realized it was their turn. So, up rose Anith, walking forwards to speak.
“I am a Beastkin of Baleros, as you see me. A Jackal, of a small tribe whose numbers are less than a thousand. We are a dying species, for each group of us has waned. Beastkin come in all shapes and sizes, from Owl to Bear, from Dog to Cat—and we are reclusive indeed. For we have known war, slavery, and we are not vast enough to create our own Great Company, you see.”
He raised his staff overhead, spreading his arms to declaim boldly, with practice, Ylawes realized.
“Unlike the young species such as Selphids, Stitch-folk, we were here from the beginning. Hundreds of our species with cat faces, pig snouts, feathered wings and manes and scales—so vast we filled Baleros. But we made the mistake of so many species that have passed from this world. We fought each other, made petty wars, while our enemies bided their time and sharpened their fangs. Then our species began dying, and those that were yet vast thought themselves the winners, only to realize in turn, they too would fade and die. And when they howled for help, who came to their defense? Not the dead Beastkin. Only Gnolls. And then we were dozens. Dying…”
Well, this tale was getting dark fast. Insill nibbled at his claws and Rasktooth sat with a kind of weary familiarity—until Anith swept around and caught Ylawes’ eyes. Like a great storyteller, his eyes gleamed.
“As our species lay dying, all but a dozen extinct, there came salvation. A single man, a Dullahan, who restored dead species to life and who gave us a second age, a second chance. The greatest [Beast Master] to ever live. He was Level 85 when he died. His name was Sirriol, the Giver of Thoughts. This is the story we tell of him.”
 
——
 
