When had that happened? Ylawes had been sitting with Thker, and he’d thought the storm had let up, but when he glanced outside, it was howling worse than ever! But the three boats stacked up in front of the cave were forming a literal wall that only let someone edge out if they needed to pee—
Wait. There were three times as many Cenidau warriors here! They were gathered around the fire, stripping off armor, removing helmets, and adding more ingredients to the pots—the fish had, in fact, come from one group who had brought it.
“How did they—?”
“They started showing up just after we got the firewood, lad. Remember that horn blast? That fellow, Evor, must have told them to come this way.”
They’d been split up, but been able to find each other—and if the Silver Swords had been dangerous, the other two groups would have quickly come to the first’s aid.
Clever. Evor was standing with his group, and now it was Ylawes who wondered if they might be in danger. However, Cenidau’s folk had given them no signs of threat, and Evor strode over with something in hand.
“Captain of the Silver Swords. Time to eat. We share this fire as friends. We call it, in Cenidau, the Traveller’s Pact. If we kill each other tomorrow, so be it. But no one breaks the pact once we’ve taken the first bite of food and the first drink. Here.”
He had a piece of Thker’s bread in hand, and he thrust it and a tankard of all things at Ylawes. An extravagance, but when Ylawes sniffed what was in it, his jaw dropped.
It was liquor! Some kind of mead or ale—Ylawes blinked.
“Are you sure? We don’t have any stocks of drink—”
Evor grabbed his arm, and Ylawes was conscious of everyone watching them.
“Drink with me, Captain. We’re hungry, and neither side’s safe until we do. When we sit as friends, we share what we have, eh? Or are we all Drakes?”
“Hey! Okay, he’s right.”
Insill’s voice filled the silence, and Ylawes listened to the voice of wisdom: his stomach. He took one bite of the bread, and it was hot, chewy, and so delicious he felt tears springing to his eyes. Then he took a gulp of the drink which turned out to be a mead, almost sweet.
Sugar. After so long—he realized Evor was standing there and handed the man his mead, embarrassed because he’d had almost half! The warrior took down the rest of the tankard, then laughed and took a bite from the bread.
“To the New Lands of Izril!”
There was a clash, and Ylawes jumped, but it was Cenidau’s warriors striking their helmets and shields. Then Styrvi leapt up and charged the fire to be first in line for food. She nearly ran slam-bang into Falene, who already had a bowl and was licking her lips. Everyone began pushing forwards, then, and Evor casually took another bite of his bread.
“Now we’re friends—there won’t be much more of this, so just a dram since we have to wait.”
He produced a small pot, winking at Ylawes, before pouring a bit of it over his flatbread. Then he added it to Ylawes’ bread.
Honey.
The two men ate very slowly as the press of hungry bodies around the fire began to ease, and Ylawes finally got a half of a fish, a bowl loaded up with steaming soup, and another piece of bread. From Pekona. She brought it over; he insisted on feeding her his meal, and she did the same for him. They were giggling like children, and Dasha and Rasktooth, who’d joined them, eventually left, rolling their eyes at the silliness.
Thker worked at the fire, eating and chatting as people sat down, and more soup was added. Buckets of water sloshed into the soup, and then the [Knight] saw Insill waving at him with delight, chewing nonstop, and he thought to himself—
Cenidau. Who knew the northernmost kingdom in the world was so good at surviving?
In hindsight—it was a bit obvious.
 
——
 
When the frenzy of eating had slowed down, they got to talking. Because, as promised, Cenidau was fascinated by The Wandering Inn and any information on the Goblin King that the Silver Swords had. The Silver Swords, accordingly, found themselves swapping for information the Cenidau warriors had in a very odd trade.
One side would ask questions, direct the flow of conversation from the other side, and then it would be the other’s turn to ask. The teller was the one expected to be honest, clear, and to elaborate when needed.
Of course, they didn’t believe all of what the Silver Swords said about The Wandering Inn. When Ylawes tried to describe Erin’s exploits or how she connected to so many major Izrilian events, they laughed at him.
“You’re trying to charm Giants out of the mountains, as many tall tales as you’re telling, [Knight]!”
One jeered at him. Pekona raised her sword, and there was a tensing—but she just held it up.
“It is not a tale! On the honor of Drath, I swear I was at Zeladona’s trial. I have her Skill. Who here would face me and bear my blade’s cuts?”
That silenced them. A few of the northfolk shifted, but a hand from Evor made them quiet. He stared at Pekona.
“You’re from that moment. Aye. And though it chilled my bones to see those two in the rain and storm, like a nightgast had wandered amongst the living and pretended to be a person—”
Everyone shuddered, but he gestured to Poke Duo.
“…That’s no lie either. Antinium fellow. What’s that spear you carry?”
“Hello, I am Infinitypear. This? This is the Spear of Pear Stabbings. It used to be Spearmaster Lulv’s. Is it a good bona fide?”
People had to get up to stare at Infinitypear’s spear and test the Adamantium head. Fifteen warriors nicked themselves on the blade and swore as they felt the magic before they were convinced. It also broke some of the tension they had; no one had exactly gotten near Rasktooth or Infinitypear.
But that was the power of the inn. The inn, Ylawes realized, which had gone from a no-name building on Liscor’s outskirts to a worldwide name.
“So that young woman was the same one who fought the Wyverns and had that Antinium on Pallass’ walls? Bird the Hunter? The same one, I said, that fought those moths that eat faces?”
Thker was excited and surprisingly knowledgeable about Erin. When Dawil confirmed it was the same person, he elbowed Styrvi hard.
“Told you.”
She punched him back, and Anith raised his brows.
“The fact that you know so many moments is extraordinary to me. Cenidau is the northern-most kingdom of Terandria, but you’re so…aware of Izrilian affairs.”
They laughed at him, not without a trace of bitterness. Evor took a gulp of water and spat into the fire.
“Izril had all the television; what else is there to watch? Wistram, they covered none of our moments. Not our fights with Taimaguros, nor our great moments or tragic—”
For some reason, he glanced at one of the older female warriors, but the woman just called out as the room went silent.
“It sounds like a Giant’s tale, but sometimes, they’re true. Sometimes, the mountain does speak, and only a fool claps their hands to their ears and claims it was an earthquake. So let’s listen.  Tell us more about what you know of this Goblin King, Adventurer.”
She gazed at him, and they listened. Ylawes told them all he knew, which was not much. A Goblin King had lived and died, and his beloved inn was part of it. This was the moment where they should be rightfully skeptical, and he was prepared for it as he saw a frown on every face, dissatisfied with a legend of destruction being wrapped up so neatly. But then Ylawes added the last bit.
“I don’t know what happened, truly. But when I am finished here, I will go back to that inn and ask what happened. What I missed. Whatever they tell me, I will believe. I was not there; I wish I had been, but I believe the Goblin King appeared and died. When I return, I’ll ask them to explain it all to me, even if they tell me the sky fell when I wasn’t watching. It’s just that kind of place.”
The northfolk regarded each other, and Ylawes was conscious of Dawil, Falene, his team, all glancing at him, and he feared he’d said something wrong or offensive. But his half-Elven friend smiled with genuine approval, and Pekona leaned over.
“Sometimes, Ylawes, you say very stupid things. Sometimes, you say things just right. It must be House Byres luck. Which is sometimes better than Doombearer luck, even.”
He coughed, redfaced. It was just a Skill. But then they kept talking, and the northfolk were warming as rapidly as the cave as they began to tell the curious Silver Swords about themselves.
 
——
 
The north was not all empty tundras, but if you wanted to get from any settlement to another, you had to be prepared. Over the dinner and long night in the cave, as they sat, warm and dry and bellies filled with food for once, Cenidau’s people got to talking with the Silver Swords.
They were far more gregarious when they were camped, probably because they’d struck the Traveller’s Pact. But also, it seemed, because this was a good time for talking.
“This land’s nowhere near as bad as the far north. We came ready for anything—losing our magic hurt, but we knew the dangers. Food, fire, shelter—if we have that, we have a future. You Izrilians didn’t bring any of it, truly?”
“We had some of it. Just not the, ah, nuances.”
Homle was defending himself to the warriors, who were all apparently of similar classes. A mix between [Warrior] and [Traveller]: [Shieldmaiden], [Hearthguard], [Tundra Fighter], [Shoremen]—completely unique classes to Ylawes.
No, hadn’t he met Briganda…? But this was an entire culture where she had only had the class. Much like him, actually.
“Nuance. Like what?”
Evor sat around the fire, legs stretched out. He was wearing his armor, scale and chainmail, and looked ready to sleep in it; they all had fur sleeping bags, and some were rolling into them, those that didn’t want to chat. Homle took another sip from his mug.
The northfolk had given everyone a mug of drink. Not a full one, but it made everything far, far more pleasant. Ylawes had no idea how they could give out so much, but friendship and hospitality were very important to their traditions. Homle gestured at Evor’s gear.
“Well…I suppose we were all ready to set up farms and such, but we didn’t have more than firewood. And we had plenty to build with. Just not…”
Homle waved a hand at the setup the [Hearthguard Leader] had on him. Knives for skinning and hunting, waterproofed satchels for carrying, water skins, a gear kit to repair and maintain his boots and armor.
Waterproof hide—waterproof objects were very handy. Jars of spice mixes. A bag for pre-mixed dough for bread. Coal, a dousing rod, even a jar of animal blubber?
“What’s that for? It stinks! That better not have been in our food.”
Larr was protesting as the northfolk showed off their equipment, laughing at the tools that the Silver Swords were carrying. Not with pure scorn; one of them gave Pekona’s whetstones a double take, and the sight of Infinitypear’s spear had everyone begging to try stabbing something with it.
“This? Just animal fat. I’d not eat it unless I was desperate—and there’re times you are if you’re becalmed at sea. But I use it for keeping my armor clear of rust. Lasts for ages unless it’s damned rainy, as it is today, or you go rolling in the muck.”
Ylawes had been scratching at a bunch of spots on his own armor, and he sighed longingly. Evor noticed his look and held the jar out.
“We’re all travellers sharing a fire here. Need some?”
Ylawes hesitated, because there was sharing a fire, taking a man’s drink, and then there was using someone else’s armor polish.
“Well, I wouldn’t turn any down, but I couldn’t impose that much without a fair trade, Evor.”
A grin, and Ylawes saw the men and women turn, and their faces filled with the same smile. He shifted as Evor produced a final trinket from his packs.
“Fair, fair. I’ll dice you for it, aye. How about…that dagger of yours? Silver n’ steel, is it? It’d look mighty fine in my collection.”
There was a pause, then Styrvi poked Pekona and gestured to her whetstones. She judiciously put down a pot that turned out to contain raspberry jams. And then Ylawes was introduced to another custom of Cenidau.
 
——
 
“Gambling is a sin, you know. It’s one of the things I never thought I’d do before I turned thirty, or forty, even! That and sex.”
Ylawes was horrified by the dice game that had occupied a space just away from the fire. He confided his worries to Pekona and Dawil, and the Dwarf muffled a snort.
A passing [Shieldlad] had taken a drink of his mead, and he choked on it before laughing so hard he stumbled and nearly fell into the fire. Even Pekona was mildly aghast.
“But it’s just dice, Ylawes.”
“It’s a virtueless act that breeds vice. My father always…”
Ylawes hesitated.
“He has played cards before, and that sort of thing is acceptable between other men, but not excessive sums. I’ve stayed away from it, right, Dawil?”
“Like a reformed [Drunkard] avoids bars, yes, lad. You have. But the Cenidau crowd’s been nothing but generous to us, and so long as no one’s wagering anything important, why not let it ride, eh?”
Dawil rested a hand on Ylawes’ shoulder, and the [Knight] hesitated. He was of a mind to put a stop to it, but he hadn’t been quite able to say ‘enough’. And his two friends didn’t hate it. It was just…
Gambling.
“Well, it is their custom. So long as it’s just trinkets…maybe we should watch. How does it work?”
He had a vague notion of someone rolling a pair of sixes or ones and that being good or bad, or laying down a full hand of cards in a bar and someone else pulling a knife in outrage, but Ylawes was a bit curious. Dawil stroked his beard.
“Looks like it’s a non-magic dice set. Makes sense. Some variant of Dragon’s Gambit? I don’t know; it’s been years since I had a good game with actual stakes. I know that stresses you out, lad. Let’s see and, uh, make sure no one’s betting anything after all. Those northfolk want our best stuff.”
Indeed, the purpose of sharing their gear earlier had clearly been to check out what was worth having, and now both sides were wagering for the other’s possessions.
The problem was that Cenidau’s warriors had a lot to trade. They didn’t want to give up their weapons, or even throwing weapons. Rather, they were betting real valuables.
“This is a wrapped wheel of cheese. We bought it off some [Traders] on a ship we passed heading south. The seal of freshness’ gone, but I reckon it’s as good as it’ll be until unwrapped. I’ll wager it for that belt buckle you’ve got; mine’s no good. I’ll even throw in the buckle if you lose.”
“Hm. Let’s see it…deal!”
