The crowd also showed signs of boredom, slowly trickling out over the course of a few hours. The proposals grew more detailed as Colborn progressed in his talks, with some reasonable suggestions for introducing new mechanics without the Endings. But it wasn’t enough to stop the jeering as the Heirs failed to take the stage, and multiple Questors called out towards them, pointing towards the center of the arena.

“They want to see one of us fight again,” Nathan commented after one particularly long duel where two armored swordfighters beat on each other for the better part of fifteen minutes before one had managed to find the chink in another’s armor. “Bloodthirsty, but I worry that we’re losing their attention. Should one of us challenge their next fighter?”

“No,” Khachi answered, before Sarya had a chance to respond. “I will speak. It is time for me to challenge them to face the light of justice.”

Nathan wanted to object, and it looked like the rest of the Heirs were right there along with him. One of them speaking like this was the most dangerous thing they could do, since it meant the other side would be able to pick the ideal opponents. This is what everybody had been waiting for.

But they’d decided that Khachi would be well-suited to go first. It didn’t make sense to change the plan at this late hour just because the rest of them were worried.

Sarya nodded jerkily, showing her own nerves. “If it is your desire.”

“It is,” the wolfman replied with an ironclad calm.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 7

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 6

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 7

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 6

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
