“Oh boy... I haven’t felt that deeply invaded since the grog fest of Orkansaw!” Jack said in a higher voice as he shook off the threads of power.His ragged kilt, made of a reddish leather, was repaired and fell to his knees.. His odd tunic and cloak looked freshly cleaned and had been embroidered with little Delta symbols in various places. The cloak itself was pinned to the tunic by a golden Delta brooch. Lots of things clinked and rattled under that cloak.Jack gave himself a once over. His claws trailed softly down the tunic and cloak.“Oh, new threads! I haven’t felt this material before. I shall call it Deltiem!” he pointed as if discovering some important element.Delta beamed as she felt the Kobold appear in her Dungeon senses, a new cog on the fringes of it all.She was pleased to have contracted a mad bomber...Her smile faltered. Was... that a good thing to be pleased about? Delta had to sit there for long moments to just mourn how her sense of ‘normal’ had died, unheard and unseen by Delta herself.She eyed the ale with a longing.That only grew when Cois stormed in, spotted the glowing orbs on Jack’s chest and began to... smile slowly. The Kobold turned and also froze.“Is that the scent of burned… everything?” Jack asked in delight.“Is that contained fire?” Cois repeated in the same tone.They moved closer and Delta wondered if this was what folks back home felt when they saw atoms smashing together in a fusion reaction?Meltdowns and disasters everywhere.She stood and decided to point the new brothers of the school for ‘No boom is too big’ at the undead before she had to explain a crater to Durence.She stood before the Third Floor Stairs after a few seconds.What’s the plan?Nu’s ever watchful box asked.“Why Nu? It’s the most common theme in all of adventuring!” Delta announced. She turned and let her voice be felt through the entire Dungeon.“You have to gather your party to venture forth!” she said and her words touched some monsters deeper and they answered the call with joy in their hearts.Delta looked down the dark stairs.“You know things are messed up when a Dungeon has to clear another Dungeon to get anywhere,” she mused aloud.Is that where you think things got messed up? How nice...Delta ignored the jab and remembered the children with no eyes.“Watch out, you creepy corn-child rip-offs, Momma Delta is coming to hand out ass-kickings,” she called.The stairs seemed to pause for a moment in their spooky atmosphere.Then they grew dense and heavy in challenge.“Nu, get me my buff lifeguard frog, my pyromaniac, my monk, the goth ranger, my voodoo frog, and the mad bomber I found in my basement,” she said seriously.Nu didn’t bother responding.Wise box.
