He shot a significant look at the other Heirs. The absence of mages and illusions suggested that the ambushers knew at least some of Nathan’s powers. They’d made a mistake with the bomb, but it looked like it was supposed to be camouflaged into the enchantments that kept the road clean and increased its sliding friction. The disguise just hadn’t fooled him in the slightest.

“A fight against assassins!” Vira sounded thrilled, and a bloodthirsty smile spread across her face. She reached for her daggers. “Let’s get some levels!”

“Nope,” Nathan answered, pointing to a side street. They weren’t in the crack yet, and there was more than one path to get to it. “Let’s just go around.”

“Oh,” Vira said, deflating slightly. “But they are enemies, and they need to be punished for starting a fight in the city?” She seemed to be trying the argument out for size.

Nathan shook his head again. “They haven’t started it yet. They might not even be supposed to kill us, just cause an incident that delays us. The term meeting is this evening, so if we get in a fight now, it might prevent us from getting to it. There's no good reason to fight them, so we go around.”

“Warn me if they decide to bait the castlebear,” Stella said, holding an incomplete shielding spell low by her side. It would take her just an instant to cast and would protect the entire carriage with a triple layer of crystallized force.

Liren gaped at the spell. “How - that’s - you’re just holding it like that?”

She snickered. “This isn’t our first time doing this.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 4

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 4

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 4

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 4
