“No. Since they would be your lands.” Yuwen said. “If I get married, since I am a younger sibling, no lands change hands.” She smiled. “If he is also a middle child, none of it matters. We can find our own lands or stay with either family to help.”

“I hope I haven't ruined your marriage prospects.” Ren said and touched her hand.

Yuwen chuckled. “Mires took care of that, Ren.”

“You mean the rumors of your infidelity.” Ren said, and she nodded. “I'll take care of that.”

Yuwen laughed. “Yes, My King. Go into everyone's hearts and minds and change their biased opinion of me.”

Ren laughed, too. “I won't be as nefarious as that, First Mistress.”

“Then what will you do?”

“I'll set up a series of displays in all the towns and cities like I did in the Human Kingdom.” Ren said and stored the dirty dishes to clean them. “You don't have to worry about that for a while, though.”

“I doubt you will get approval for that.” Dilseffa said.

“Why would I need approval?” Ren asked.

“You can't just... wait, you did that on your own in the Human Kingdom?” Dilseffa asked, shocked. “No permits or permission?”

“I did it for free, and no one seemed to object.” Ren said with a smile. “I didn't need permission to set up the Portal Gate Network, either. Town Squares are public and can be used by anyone.”

The three Pervarians caught their breath as they realized he was right.

“Once again, no one seemed to object, especially since everyone could go anywhere they wanted, and didn't have to spend all of their time travelling.”

“You're saying we could have used them?” Dilseffa asked.

“Not with your giant boars and massive carriages.” Ren said. “Only a horse and normal-sized cart can fit through the archway.”

“That would quadruple our caravan size.” Yuwen said as she thought about it. “It also stops us from moving large numbers of troops and siege machines through them.”

“There you go.” Ren nodded to her and gave her Respect. “Normal trade can go through easily; but, military strength is bottle-necked.”

“Wow.” Dilseffa said. “You've thought of everything.”

“Not everything, since there are still ways to abuse the gates.” Ren chuckled. “No, I'm not mentioning them.”

“I think that's wise.” Yuwen said. “Saying something like that usually gives it power.”

Ren tapped the tip of his nose and she smiled.

Artemis stood up and stretched. “Well, I think this was a long day for all of us.” She said. “We should head to bed.”

“We haven't heard much about Dilseffa's home life yet.” Ren said, and he felt her become uncomfortable. “I wasn't trying to pry.” He said and took her hand. “I'm just curious about your family and what brought you to become a part of the caravan.”

“I think... yes, it's better to show you.” Dilseffa said. “During the last stop near the capital where we drop off the carriages and the supplies as we disband the caravan, I can take you home.”

“I would like that very much.” Ren said with a big smile, and she felt that he really did. “Since our talk is over, I agree with Artemis. We should head to bed and get some sleep.”

The five of them went up the stairs and climbed onto the bed, and Yuwen let Tiyaphi and Dilseffa cuddle into Ren's chest and she took up the spot between his legs and used his thigh as a pillow. Artemis laid on the side and took Ren's hand and intertwined her fingers with his.

“Goodnight.” Ren said to everyone. A chorus of 'goodnight' responded, and they all relaxed in each other's embraces and drifted off to sleep.
