Then Fairy Moon turned to face the sky full of souls, once again, and Erick stood there with her, Meditating on the moment. For a long while the two of them just stood there, with Fairy Moon’s thoughts a million miles away, and the enormity of the Sundering staring Erick in the face, yet again. The night was peaceful, and a bit cold, and that was good.

In the stillness, Fairy Moon spoke, “You have the right temperament to touch upon a Truth of Benevolence. Do you want to try for it tonight?”

“No. It’s not the right timing.”

Fairy Moon simply nodded.

Erick said, “Maybe Redflame should make Elemental Benevolence. I don’t have the breadth of experience with how a ‘cosmology’ should work, or deep enough magical knowledge to understand and then forge something new like an entire Element that is…” The weight of the world seemed to fall upon Erick’s shoulders, as his own fears came out. “I’m just one person, Fairy Moon. The world is larger than me, and my decisions. I should not be the only one to have a say in how to prevent another Sundering. No one person should ever have that much power.”

Fairy Moon raised an eyebrow at him, and then she looked away again. “Power in the right hands is pure and right. You should not back away from accepting your own Benevolence, Erick.”

Erick didn’t know what to say about that. So he said nothing.

Fairy Moon stayed silent, too.

The night sky held above, full of planets and planes of existence that no longer existed except in memory. It was a beautiful sight. And yet, it had to end eventually, as it already had, long ago. Fairy Moon bowed out while looking at a white gem of a planet, her eyes clouding over with the shadows of tears. Erick stayed out on the balcony for a little bit longer than that.

But his bed called to him, and he answered.

- - - -

In the morning the balcony was still there, beyond a pair of doors that had been a window just yesterday. As the sun rose across the contained world of Ar’Cosmos, Erick fully woke to the gentle squawking of Ophiel, who was out there on that balcony and trilling in happy violins at the coming of a new day.

Erick got up, did his morning ritual, and then got to making some magic. Meditation had happened last night, so that was one down of many more to go, but mainly just the first of two other Elemental Mystical Skills that needed to be Remade as soon as possible. Now that Erick knew how they worked, their recreation was as easy as humming some Elemental Mystical through Ophiel and then spreading out that magic through a cascading measure of insight.

But since this was Ar’Cosmos, Erick had likely Remade Clarity, but it didn’t feel like it. He had to manually Mystical-ify his magic in order to get the spell costs down to size. He had to manually Mystical-ify for Meditation, too.

All of that was as easy as humming his soul in a specific way, and then following through with the magic. It was a chore, but Erick felt that it would get easier with time, as most things did. He still wrote down what the Skills would look like once he got back to Veird, though, just to keep his records straight. He wasn’t wearing his accretion amulet anymore for that thing was gaudy and not his best work, so he didn’t include those Stats in his new ‘Status’. Making a better All Stats amulet would come soon enough.

Such an amulet wasn’t truly necessary, though, not with his x3 Skills, as those pulled a lot of weight. They might not have been full powered yet, but they would soon enough, so Erick counted them as full powered.

… Even if ‘Health’ didn’t technically exist inside Ar’Cosmos.

He did wear Fairy Moon’s necklace, though. He wasn’t about to out himself as a Wizard to any casual observer just yet.

- -

Meditation X

Always Resting

Requirements: 10 Willpower

- -

Clarity X

Reduces spell costs by 50%

Requirements: 10 Focus

- -

Precision X

Reduces HP costs by 50%

Requirements: 10 Vitality

- -

- -

Strength: 89

Vitality: 89

Dexterity: 90

Constitution: 89

Perception: 94

Willpower: 109

Focus: 109

Intelligence: 95

- -

‘Health’ (x3 Strong) = 2670

Mana (x3 Discipline) = 3270

Mana Regen ((Vit x3 Enduring) + (Foc x3 Concentration)): 5940

- -

Erick had a few more thoughts about Elemental Mystical before he went down to have breakfast with Fairy Moon and Maria.

Thinking back, Erick recalled how he had used Elemental Mystical to create frozen carbon dioxide without creating any nasty particulate side effects, and to make Yggdrasil’s Eternal Stonetree full-sized in a split second. He was already using this magic long before last night’s revelations. Erick had even planned to use Elemental Mystical to make all of his Particle Magic in the future, so that he wouldn’t have to care about side effects, or constantly running [Cleanse].

Erick had even —sorta— planned on Elemental Mystical becoming a part of the Particle Magic revolution.

How strange.

How odd.

How funny was it that Melemizargo was both rather right, and very wrong, about all of Veird being an illusion.
