Accretion and spellwork were safe topics, too, just like food and culture.

Spell creation got a whole half hour dedicated to it.

The whole idea of manual spell-in-soul creation (what the Script did automatically) was basically about shaping a spell in one’s aura, ‘freezing’ that spell into a pseudo-solid ‘soul crystal’, and then absorbing that Soul Magic into one’s core without causing any cascading complications. It was, quite honestly, one of the most dangerous Soul Magics out there, for it wasn’t a simple Blessing that affected the whole, or a Curse that did the same. It was the creation of an individual, separate soul-bit, that could cast a magic all on its own, producing desired outcomes with proper inputs.

It was messy. It was detailed and convoluted to the point of math, and in that math, Erick saw some of what they taught at Oceanside, but only in the broadest of strokes. Soul-spell creation was Soul Magic of the highest order, and perhaps one of the riskiest Soul Magics that one could ever attempt. It was on the level of self-summoning Necromancy, also known as lichdom.

And the Script did this all the time, automatically, for everyone Matriculated into the system.

At the end of it all, Erick decided, “I certainly won’t be messing with that right now.”

Illustrious laughed lightly. “This is why most people with cores manually make their magic using their auras. Much simpler.”

“I can see that.” Erick closed the book on soul-spell creation, and said, “Let’s move on to ritual casting. How does one cast spells larger than a 500 mana per second limit?”

“A much easier topic, to be sure.” Illustrious picked up a different manual, saying, “Everything about that is in here, but with us broaching that topic I must first tell you of mana maximums and cores, and the risks with holding too much mana inside oneself.”

“Ah. Yeah. That was a concern, too.” Erick said, “I was told by Rozeta that I would have no maximum, eventually. I do still seem to have a maximum, though, which is based on my Stats.”

Illustrious nodded. “Now that you’re at Second Foundation, all the mana you purposefully accrete into your core will be able to do one of three things; either heal your core from damage, increase your Stats, or over-charge you with mana. For the purposes of ritual casting, we’re mostly concerned with the last option; overcharging your core with mana, and thus building up a larger mana pool than you would otherwise have. Generally, ten times your current max, as listed on your Status, is a safe amount to overcharge without risking loss of the Script. If you want even more mana than that, you should increase your Willpower and raise your new cap. Raising your Willpower will be a lot tougher now that you’re at your natural spirit saturation, though… There’s some math involved but we can skip over that.

“You mentioned Redflame’s million mana fortune back at breakfast, and this is how he got that mana. He’s been forcefully packing himself with mana and then holding onto that mana for a long time. He’s been off the Script for a long while due to that fortune.”

“Okay. That’s… Likely a lot more complicated than you say it is, but it’s easy enough to understand.”

Illustrious smiled. “Most things are easier to explain than to do; yes.”

Erick asked, “So ritual casting, for a ten-thousand mana cost spell? How would you do this?”

“Every ritual spell is different, but they all follow one of two guidelines; there are rules for soul spells, and rules for manual casting.

“Manual casting is perhaps the easiest to understand so we can start there. For that, all you must do is manually fill your aura with your magic and hold it all there, primed to go, until the spell matrix is filled and ready to go. That is the entirety of understanding manual ritual casting. But! There are a lot of caveats to that.

“Manual spellcasting on Veird is limited to tier 1, normally, or tier 2 for bloodline-aspect spellwork, but even those tier 2 bloodline spells rarely get above 500 mana cost. Therefore there is no real worry about the 500 MPS limitation, except to limit yourself to 500 mana cast per second.

“This tier limitation is heavily enforced by the Script itself, but this fact is less true here in Ar’Cosmos. Tier 2 is possible in this land, or tier 3 for bloodline spellwork.

“But here’s the thing: You can ritually cast ten 500 mana [Fireball]s if you wish, making a [Grand Fireball] equivalent spell, even using the limitations of the Script and personal mana limitations. With ritual magic, you can cast practically anything you wish to cast as long as you know what you’re doing.” Illustrious smiled a little, then began, “Now... Ritually casting a soulbound spell, already inside your core and put there by the Script, with mana costs in the thousands, is a much more complicated thing. Using the spells the Script puts inside of you allows you to effectively ‘bypass’ the tier limitations, but you still have all the other limitations of 500 mana per second through your core.

“Ritual magic is an entire branch of magic and it gets complicated, but a lot of it is in the books I gave you. And so! To start, you...”

- - - -

Erick sat on his accretion pillow, breathing in and out as he accreted.

He had seen Illustrious off hours ago, thanking her for her help without actually ‘thanking’ her. Erick was acutely aware of how words like ‘thank you’ were dangerous around here, and no one said those words, but ‘thank you’ was still on the tip of his tongue every time someone did something nice for him. ‘I appreciate that/what you did’ was an unexpectedly large mental switch, but he coped.

Anyway. Illustrious had helped him a lot, and he was thankful. He hoped that her intentions were true; that she wanted actual cooperation between him and Ar’Cosmos. Everything she had done after that initial meeting had been good for future relations. She was even friendly, and it didn’t seem like an act. He hoped that they could become actual friends in the future...

He hoped the same for Redflame and maybe even Inferno Maw—

Ah. Less distractions, Erick.

Focus on the accretion.

Accreting for maximum mana was different from accreting for Stat gains. It was more of a… ‘thickening’ of the core, than the enlarging/faceting that he had become accustomed to. One book called it a ‘densening’, which was a strange word for it, but that book had some really good hints at Remaking the various times-3 Skills, so Erick accepted the odd wordings as par for the course of making soul magic. Language was just an approximation for ideas and concepts, anywa—

Focus, Erick.

Erick layered dense mana into his core like the thickening of a soup that could always be thicker.

His mana did not ‘bottom out’ at all, for when one accreted for maximum mana, they stuffed themselves full from their Regeneration, not from their Mana, and they had to do it manually, which meant focusing all the time on containing the mana within, stuffing oneself way past what was natural.

And so, Erick had been focusing for the last few hours on getting this ri—

His concentration unraveled, his white aura flexing and vanishing as a rupture in his mana containment ripped across the surface of his core. Mana vented outward from his body like the spurting of a high-pressure water valve. He winced and regained his concentration, focusing on the break, forcing his aura to stitch together to stop the blowout.

It was too late, though.

His core was fine, but his extra mana was gone, vanished into the air like whitewater from a hose.

And he was done. Erick gave up the ghost and collapsed backward on his accretion pillow. That was his fifth failure and it wasn’t getting any easier. Ophiel twittered overhead, while Yggdrasil’s eye stared down at him, questioningly.

“I’m fine. Just another mana blowout.” A glance inward showed that his core was perfectly intact. “Mana without intent passes through everything without truly touching. It might have looked bad, but it wasn’t.” He looked to Ophiel. “I’ll make more of you when I can, Ophiel, but I’ll need to Remake some times-3 Skills first… Probably should do that anyway… Stuffing myself with mana wasn’t exactly helpful, but it was a bit, I guess.”

He sat back up, and collected himself. Straight back, calm breathing.

Eyes relaxed.

Hands forward. Palms up.

The idea here was to increase the capacity of one’s mana pool. Simple, in theory, but in practice it was a lot harder, as Erick had just found out. How does one make a set space of area hold more area? The trick then was compression. The books Tasar had given Erick on the subject of Remaking the minor blessing of Concentration, and the like, were filled with information on the subject. Erick probably could have Remade these triplicate-Skills using just that information. But it wasn’t till now, with Erick attempting to cram more mana into his core, to raise his maximum mana, that he finally understood the whole process. He understood what the actual goal was, with a blessing like Discipline, which increased one’s Mana pool 3 times over. Illustrious’s books laid out the process to create these blessings, fully, and using much better language than Tasar’s books had used.

For these blessings had been the same even way back in the Old Cosmology, back when every competent mage used these blessings to increase their capacity.

Reading the old magics and learning how they worked was like filling in half of a puzzle that had been missing from Tasar’s books.

This was not that surprising, though, since the Script ironed out small fluctuations and individuality when casting known magics. If Erick had even 40% of the puzzle of the Skill, Discipline, then the Script would provide the other 60%. Remaking these Skills would be like when Erick was learning Healing Magic back in Songli. All he had to do was mutate his initial healing spell in most of the correct direction and the Script filled in the rest, granting him the spell [Treat Wounds]. A bit more mutation aimed toward the goal of [Greater Treat Wounds], the Script granted Erick that spell, too, overwriting the original [Treat Wounds] with the Greater version.

Of course, such ‘mutation’ took a great deal of finesse and mana sense and knowledge, but the Script did most of the heavy lifting.

But…

With the Script not here in Ar’Cosmos, then… Well. Erick was pretty sure he was going to get this right, anyway. Healing Magic still worked here. Heck! Even [Cleanse] still worked here, though not that well, and [Cleanse] was a lot more dangerous than a bit of soul blessing.

Erick breathed in, then out. His thoughts were collected. His power rose, then concentrated, as he held within himself a bit of extra mana. Holding a little extra was easy, maybe only ten Mana worth, and would provide a good format for the resulting blessing to recognize and magnify.

With an airy, thick voice, Erick spoke, and the sound echoed in his soul,

“A bit of blessing to the core.

“A Discipline, made to grow.

“Holding onto something more

“a thicker, denser status quo.”

His soul rippled inside his core, as the little bit of extra mana he was holding onto suddenly sunk inward, like a balloon deflating, without actually deflating at all. Before the blessing, Erick had seen that his core was bright white and full of mana, but afterward, it was a bit less bright, but only because it wasn’t full anymore. He had only used up about 275-ish mana to Remake this Skill, out of his full capacity of about 1000 mana, but his capacity itself had been increased. Just about doubled, actually.

Eventually, that ‘doubling’ would become a tripling, as this Skill grew to full power.

Erick smiled. No blue boxes had appeared, but what he was seeing was exactly in line with what the books described as a success. One down, three left to go. With a quick hand, Erick wrote down his success to the side.

- -

Discipline

Multiply your base MP by 2

Requirements: 20 Willpower

- -

Erick asked his [Familiar]s, “You know why the Stat is called Willpower? Why the Skill is called Discipline?”

Ophiel shook his head as he cooed in questioning flutes. Yggdrasil just watched, like he always did.

Erick answered, “The Stat is called Willpower because it takes basic willpower to gather mana in the first place. The Skill is called Discipline because it takes a lot of discipline to forcefully hold onto extra mana.”

Ophiel cooed in triumphant violins, probably more happy that Erick was happy, than actually realizing what was happening. Still, though! That was an improvement. Yggdrasil tumbled his eye a bit, trying to comprehend.

Erick softly smiled at all the progress everywhere, and then he moved on to the next Skill, saying, “And now I know why Concentration, for 2, and then eventually 3 times Mana Regen, is called ‘Concentration’, as well as why Focus is called ‘Focus’. It’s because you have to Focus on the flow to forcefully increase the flow. I was already doing this a bit with my amulets, but now I have to turn that into the Skill, Concentration.”

Ophiel twittered in violins.

Yggdrasil went still, and then nodded—

Erick smiled wide at that. Yggdrasil had just completely understood him. Usually he only grasped the largest, most basic concepts when dealing with magic, but Erick got the distinct impression that he fully picked up what Erick had just put down.

Still smiling, and since he had 600-ish mana left in the now-larger tank, Erick went on to Remaking Concentration.

- -

Concentration

Multiply your base MP regen by 2

Requirements: 20 Focus

- -

The times-3 Health Regen Skill for Vitality came next; Enduring.

Erick had never been good at combining Health Cost skills with one another, or doing much with warrior-type stuff at all. But knowing what he now knew, and experiencing body-accretion himself, had helped to cement a lot of stray ideas about what ‘Health Cost’ actually meant; it meant ‘using up’ the ‘mana’ in the body in order to cause an effect.

In some of the advanced manuals from Illustrious they explained how in the Old Cosmology that the mana accreted into one’s body was useless for everything except making one physically stronger/tougher. But under the Script, in this New Cosmology, this sort of power was turned into a well of resources for the average person to use how they saw fit, which allowed the rise of true ‘archwarriors’.

