Fairy Moon suddenly regained her lost joy, though such joy was not nearly as bright as before. She happily stuck her fork into the pile of toppings, and said, “Potatoes are pretty perfect. Thanks for creating them, Erick Flatt.”

Maria’s entire body seemed to whip around as she suddenly stared at Fairy Moon.

Erick’s reaction to the ‘thanks’ was less severe, but it was still there. “Uh… You’re welcome. They’re quite the nice food. I wouldn’t have made them without my daughter harping on me to make them, but I’m glad she did. They’re a big hit.”

Fairy Moon kept smiling, though she said nothing. She did glance to Maria, though.

Because Maria looked torn between blurting out her favorite topic, or holding back due to the current severity of the conversation. At Fairy Moon’s glance, though, she burst, saying, “Potatoes are wonderful! They’re like whiteroot but so much easier to work with, and with countless varieties.” And then she pulled back, suddenly. She didn’t know if it was actually okay to continue speaking, though she desperately wanted to talk more about food.

In that moment, Erick realized a cascade of various facts about his current circumstances.

The first was that his loss of Stats, combined with the circumstances of his capture, and then the mind fuckery, had caused him to mentally tag Fairy Moon as ‘too alien to understand’. Like, yes, she was very alien in her mannerisms and she was beyond ancient. But she lived among people and she knew how people worked, and she had a physical body that might have had the usual sorts of physiological responses and brain chemicals that most people shared, thanks to the Grand Translation at Veird’s instantiation into this New Cosmology. So perhaps Erick had judged her as ‘too alien to understand’ simply because of his own trauma and paranoia at that moment. It was easier to label her as an enemy if she was ‘alien’, after all, because she certainly seemed like an enemy at that time. At the time, he had thought he would have needed to kill her, too.

It was only now that he knew that killing her was never an option, and not just because she was impossible to kill.

Erick still didn’t fully trust Fairy Moon at all, but seeing how she interacted with Maria, like a friend and not like a servant at all, except for when other people were watching, and how she had thousands upon thousands of meals from previous maids in her pantry, made Erick reconsider the old fae. Fairy Moon cared about people. Obviously she did. She was a fae of ‘justice’ or something like that, after all.

Erick also reconsidered Maria. Who was this ‘maid’ who sat at the same table as Fairy Moon? Why was she so familiar with the old fae? Why was she scared of absolutely everyone except for Fairy Moon, who was arguably the one to fear the most? And then there was how she spoke out about how she didn’t want Redflame to ‘waste his fortune in mana’ the other day. Maria was clearly a half-dragon of the Carnage variety, so maybe there was some sort of connection there that was more than Elemental Carnage deep.

Whatever the case, Maria was very much a foodie who wasn’t sure how to actually speak about such a thing to Erick, not after the conversation that had just happened, though she very much wanted to. They had already talked about food a bit the other day, but today was different.

So Erick started with, “Have you tried the corn? If you let it dry out to where the kernels are hard and then you fry those kernels in a shallow layer of oil, they’ll pop open, turning light and fluffy. They’re not that great on their own, but much like potatoes they make good vectors for toppings. Powdered cheese is my own preferred topping on popcorn. You can make powdered cheese rather easily with the [Dehydrate] spell.”

And just like that, Maria brightened again, and she began, “I haven’t found any good ways to use corn, but it was one of the first items to make it all the way here to Ar’Cosmos! People have been putting it into soups a lot, and…”

Maria and Erick spoke of different foods while Fairy Moon ate her very-loaded baked potato, before moving on to the fries, and then the chips. Maria had made a wonderfully spicy beef dip to go along with the chips, which Erick asked about, and Maria provided the recipe. There was no more talk of magic.

There was no more talk of how Clarity and Precision had directly contributed to Melemizargo thinking that Veird was a lie. But Erick didn’t forget that little revelation just because he had moved on to talking about food. There was time to digest that bit of horror later, for there was no fixing that particular problem. Practically everyone who was able to get Clarity bought Clarity. 50% reduced mana costs was a no-brainer of a Skill.

Thinking about it more, Erick realized that Clarity was likely one of the major contributors to all the illusions of monsters inside the manasphere back on Veird. There was no Clarity here in Ar’Cosmos, and there were no people casting magic all the time in the Core of Veird, after all, and that's why the Core and Ar’Cosmos had clear manaspheres. But on Veird? There were monsters and fractions of magic everywhere inside the manasphere.

Another mystery solved without intending to even look for an answer.

… And the reason the Skill was called ‘Clarity’ was probably because it caused mana to realize with perfect understanding the intent of the casting mage; it caused ‘Clarity’ in the mana. Similarly, the Skill Precision was named as such because it was a precise use of Health which demanded that the mana follow suit and enact whatever Health Cost Skill the warrior was using.

The rest of dinner passed uneventfully, with talk of food and not much else at all.

Erick eventually bid Maria and Fairy Moon good night, then headed back to his room, feeling full… And a little bit better about everything. Answers had been answered. Problems had been thought through. And even Fairy Moon and Maria seemed nicer—

And then Erick remembered that Redflame’s [Renew] attempt was the day after tomorrow. Erick would need to make a decision, and soon; whether he was going to let Redflame keep his million mana ‘minor fortune’ or let him waste it all, and thus weaken Ar’Cosmos’s defenses.

… Erick decided to sleep on it.

For the first time in a week, Erick only stayed up long enough to get some minor reading in, and then he went to bed at a normal time. As he gazed out the nearby window, watching the sliver of a green moon hang in the sky, Erick closed his eyes.

Sleep came easy.

- - - -

Erick opened his eyes.

The room was dark.

The moon outside was full, but it was not a simple green sliver. It was bright pink and green and white, all at once. Multicolored, pale white light filled the room like a dream. It was then that Erick noticed that the window was not a window, but an open set of double doors that led out onto a balcony.

Fairy Moon stood on that balcony, under the moonlight, her back turned to Erick as she stared out at the night sky, with her arms crossed upon the railing.

Ophiel twittered on Erick’s headboard, blinking all of his eyes as he looked to Erick, and also to Fairy Moon just a short distance away. Yggdrasil hovered off of his own space on that headboard, to float in front of Erick.

And Erick got up, out of bed, to go see what was happening. He stepped outside, onto a balcony that had not been there when he went to bed.

The moonlight was a cold, comfortable thing, while Erick’s nightclothes were barely any protection at all against the chill in the air. It was not a harsh night by any means, but it was night. Fairy Moon’s own diaphanous dress was made of muted colors, and the whole thing fluttered in the gentle wind like smoke on water. Erick stepped to her side, to join her at the railing.

Fairy Moon finally acknowledged him with a casual glance, then she turned her eyes back toward the full moon, saying, “Do you know the meaning of my current name?”

“Nope.” Erick spoke in a casual way that was incongruous with the setting, and with the obvious seriousness of the moment, “It wasn’t in the folders that Stratagold sent with their letter, which now that you mention it is kind of surprising. Maybe they simply never wanted to acknowledge your name?” Or that information had been censored by Fairy Moon, or Illustrious. Erick gave her the benefit of the doubt, saying, “You seem to be able to use such acknowledgment to get to people.”

“I can, and have; this is true.” Fairy Moon nodded. She was silent for a moment, staring at the sky.

Erick waited.

“My name is an epitaph,” Fairy Moon said. “My people are all gathered into that soul in the sky. Usually they’re a sliver of their usual selves, so I don’t deign to notice the night too often. Though… When you asked for a proper passing of day into night… They were still a sliver. And now. Now. They are not. Fate reaches for reality, to feel something sane again, and we are here to witness that wallowing.”

Erick looked up at the moon.

Bright, is what it was. It was nothing like the moons of Veird, though; like Hell, or the Silver Star, or Celes. Those moons were all filled with souls; with afterlives. One couldn’t see those afterlives without Meditation, though—

Erick realized something.

And then Fairy Moon spoke his thoughts, like she was waiting for him to make the connection himself.

“You cannot capture it mentally without Meditation.” Fairy Moon said, “Without that other Skill shaved out of Mystical, which you did not mention at dinner, but which digs into your mind right now. So many things… So many things they made out of Mystical at the Start of the Script. Afterlives. Easy magic. The Script itself is more than Mystical, to be sure, but it is a plentiful part of the plenary.” She said, “Try to make that Skill, now that you know the secret. I want you to see, Erick. I need you to see.”

And he did.

It was like a clicking. Or a flipping. A switch turned on. A sight made sensible.

The mana itself seemed to mold to his making, and within his core, he felt a minor creation. A flow made febrile, and then stilled, and solidified. Without uttered words, Erick adjusted his senses through a secret laid bare. He asked the mana to show him itself, and the mana came alive with an answer.

He saw.

The sky was a million, trillion worlds, far past the Edge of Ar’Cosmos’s domain. Lands locked inside oceans. Waterways turned into worlds. Mountains of floating fire and whirling tornadoes of houses that were somehow just fine being up there in a whirlwind. But there were also thousands of normal worlds. Blue marbles crowded with white clouds. Green spheres. Brown spheres. White and black spheres. Purple stars. Red oceans. Orange lights and blue depths. But they weren’t real.

They were past the Edge of Ar’Cosmos, and yet, the Edge still existed. Erick knew that what he was looking at was only real in the sense that it had been real, once. It was no longer. This, then, was a hologram; a 3D space beyond a 2D Edge.

A sky made of gravestones.

Fairy Moon spoke, and it was like all the magic had gone out of her because all that magic was up in the heavens, on display, “They’re dead. They could be real again. But not under the Script. Not the way it was made. This is the past, but it could also be the future, though not with Fate and other fortunes locked into little blue boxes”

Erick thought he knew the answer, but he had to ask, “Why can’t they be real under the Script?”

“Because the Script crushed our civilization down to numbers and needless runes.” Fairy Moon raised her head and regained some of her regal stature, but then she slumped again. “I’ve tried to work with Melemizargo multiple times before, to make magics that could create everything all over again. I failed because he failed me, multiple times over and over and over. I’ve tried working with Wizards, too. That’s why I initially helped the dragons to drag Wizards into my world. I wanted… I want so much to see my people repopulate reality. And now you are near to my needs. A Wizard, come once again to see the sights and guide the gates open! But I am afraid, Erick. You frighten me.” Fairy Moon said, “Wizards are frightening.”

Erick said nothing, even though she was waiting for him to respond. He had no idea what to say to her concerns, and he didn’t feel that his true thoughts would be valued at all. He just wanted to make things better for everyone, and right now, Fairy Moon would not want to hear such simple naivete.

After three moments of silence, Fairy Moon spoke again, “You frighten me, but you are the best hope I have had in an age. If you manage to open up whole new worlds then I will owe you everything. I will owe you Eternity.” She stood tall as she could as she turned to him, and though she was still a head shorter, in that moment she seemed as large as the worlds in the sky. “When you spoke to Illustrious of dragon devotion you should have spoken to me.

“On my Name, this I vow, in this life and the next, and the next and the next and the next, for as long as you yearn for my magic and my might, you can count me friend, Erick Flatt, as long as you remain as beneficent as you have shown yourself to be, and as long as you save my people from undesired death.”

The wind blew.

A moment passed.

Erick whispered, “A covenant, then.”

“A covenant for all continuance, my immortal Erick Flatt.”

It shouldn’t have surprised him that she knew, but it did. Erick’s mind seemed to leave him in that moment, as too many thoughts crowded his soul, demanding answers and finding none. Fairy Moon meant every word she said.

Three moments later, Erick’s mind finally came back to the present with an answer.

“… I will not accept this covenant at this moment. Later, when I know who you are, I will reconsider.”

Fairy Moon let loose a breath she had been holding tight. She gave a slight smile. “Ahh… This is probably a better proposition. Later is lovely.” She breathed deep again, then seemed to regain a fraction of her previous height. “The offer is open so long as you remain yourself, but you will likely never learn the truth of my entire existence while we remain on Veird. My True Names have been silenced ever since the Script.”

“That’s just as well.” Erick said, “Actions speak louder than names, no matter how True they might be.”

Fairy Moon nodded, as though Erick had told her the sky was blue, but she already knew that.

Erick regarded her.

