Illustrious Moon sat in Maid Maria’s usual spot, while Fairy Moon sat at the head of the table. Both of them had been talking about the spell-based economy of Ar’Cosmos, where trained fae-aligned casters kept the city at a good size through cooperative casting, but they went silent as Erick stepped into the room. Both of them looked to him.

Erick’s seat was open for him, so he moved toward it, speaking into the sudden silence, “Good morning, Fairy Moon. Illustrious Moon.”

Illustrious did a minor double-take, her violet eyes blinking brightly in the morning light. “You seem… different today. Good things?”

Fairy Moon raised an eyebrow, also wondering what was going on with him, but she remained silent. Maybe he did feel a bit too good? Maybe he was showing off his newfound comfort, too much? Well, whatever.

Erick took his seat, saying, “There are many things to be happy about, Illustrious. I just hit Second Foundation, and I think I smell coffee in the air.” Erick smiled at Maid Maria, who was setting out breakfast onto plates. “Do I smell that right?”

Illustrious’s eyes went wide to hear ‘Second Foundation’.

Fairy Moon smirked at him, saying, “A welcome revelation, indeed.”

Maid Maria silently grabbed the jug of coffee and poured Erick a cup, before returning to the breakfast foods, to prepare the plates for everyone.

Erick inhaled deep the warm scent of coffee. And then he added some milk and sugar to it, smiling gently, as he said, “Second Foundation is accompanied by a spherical core, while body saturation ends when it is no longer capable of easily absorbing mana, which happened first, several hours ago. The spherical core happened only an hour ago. Everything sort of tingled when it happened, too, like a plateau had been reached, or the chiming of a gong.”

Illustrious reorganized some thoughts and stances in her mind, for she had envisioned that this meeting would be about theory of what happened after reaching Second Foundation. Now, she was readying herself to actually teach of what came after... But she still had some theory she wished to expound upon. “A spiritual echo is commonplace when the core matures at the end of spirit saturation, so it would make sense for you to feel this sensation. This echo is theorized to happen because of the rapid transition from having a set amount of facets on the core, to what is effectively infinity.”

The coffee tasted great. Erick savored the flavor as he listened to Illustrious. “I like that theory. Makes sense.” He set down his cup and let Maid Maria set his plate down in front of him. “Appreciated, Maria.” Maria acted as though she wasn’t there, which Erick supposed was normal for servants. He turned back to Illustrious. “Not to change the subject too much, but as you know, I’ve already made [Renew]. I want to tell Redflame that his current goal has already been achieved, and I want to explore the possibilities of solving, slowly, the Dragon Curse, through [Renew]. But if I am not able to do this without raising a threat against myself that I cannot contend with, then I will not do so at this time. I will let him waste his million mana fortune, and simultaneously out myself as a Wizard in what will likely be the worst possible circumstances, for I have no doubt that Redflame will instantly realize what has happened. But by that time it will already be too late. The loss of his mana fortune will cause a weakening of Ar’Cosmos, and open you all up to war with the outside. My letters stopped the war that was brewing, but it might happen anyway if I don’t come out of here with glowing recommendations against actual war.”

Maid Maria almost dropped the plate she was serving Illustrious, but Fairy Moon put her hand under the tray, preventing that minor disaster without really trying, for Fairy Moon’s eyes were locked on Illustrious, awaiting her response.

Illustrious heard and understood everything Erick had laid down at her feet. She sat straight, her amethyst horns seeming to rise in the air as she stared at Erick. She asked, “How do you envision us dragons emerging from Ar’Cosmos once we gain this [Renew]-based Wizardry you speak of?”

“I am glad that you see the full breadth of my prepared stance, Illustrious. It bodes well for working with you in the future.” Erick wanted to tell them that he was immortal, too, but he had no idea how the conversation would go if he let loose that particular bit of information. So, in that case, it was better to let them find out later who they were dealing with. “I plan to return to Spur, and to assist with Candlepoint’s growth, but my next largest goal is to terraform the Crystal Forest back into an actual forest. Livable land. Rains and grasses and trees. Rivers and lakes; how it used to be before the crystal mimics came along.

“I want help doing this.

“In time, in my perfect future, I envision all of Veird being habitable once again. Maybe not every corner. Maybe only 50%. But the Crystal Forest will absolutely be a green forest full of cities and waterways and people.” Erick summed it up, “Your people need places to live once they are relieved of their curse. I need powerful people to prevent belligerents from bringing war against me and mine. If you desire, you can decide to become a part of ‘mine’. It will be mutually-assured protection, as long as both sides decide that the other side is worth continued protection.”

Illustrious gained a sharp edge to her eyes as she gazed upon Erick, weighing her possible future paths. “Would you assist us against the wrought, and Kirginatharp?”

“The wrought are going to take back Ar’Kendrithyst. That is going to happen, and I am going to help them do that, too. You can learn to live beside them.” Erick said, “It is my hope that there will be less need for violence and more opportunity to talk openly, now that the main problem of the Shades is gone. But, I imagine you have many Forgotten magics tucked away in this land, so that will likely be an issue to deal with, but it will be an issue dealt with through words, and not through violence.” Erick said, “In regards to Kirginatharp, unless I am mistaken, then the Dragon Curse doesn’t work on those who are transformed, so the Headmaster will have no innate reason to pursue you outside of revenge and other vendettas. Please inform me now, if I am wrong about this.”

“… You are not wrong about Kirginatharp’s motivations, but you underestimate the severity of his vendettas. So putting that aside, as it could… We, theoretically, could talk out our differences, in some theoretical framework of… Something.” Illustrious breathed deep, then said, “I don’t believe that such a reconciliation is possible for that man has directly murdered thousands of our people, and directly murdered fourteen members of my immediate family. But putting that aside, since it is, as you say, a conflict born of hate, instead of from magical compulsion… The wrought are a much more severe threat. The wrought are very thorough with regards to ripping out Forgotten Magic from this world, and if you know any of those magics, then they will use their Mind Mages to rip that knowledge out of your head, and you will never know it was done. If that doesn’t work, they kill you.” Illustrious wrestled with some inner turmoil for a moment, then said, “I did not want to bring this up with you, Erick, but with this line of questioning, I must.

“There is absolutely no way that you have not been negatively affected by the Mind Mages working for the wrought. A subtle twisting. A minor forgetting. Their power is insidious and omnipresent. The originals adhere to their code as they should, and so we might be able to deal with them. But I would never walk into a Mind Mage meeting of wrought or otherwise without an active bulwark of mental and spiritual defenses.”

Erick said, “I am glad that you are willing to entertain the idea of solving the vendettas between Ar’Cosmos and Kirginatharp— In some theoretical world where the underlying problem of the Dragon Curse has been solved, of course.” Erick went on to say, “In regard to your concerns about the wrought and the Mind Mages, though: I have learned quite recently, and first hand, that I need to have better mental protections, so your worries are not unfounded. But with House Fae’s over willingness to bewitch people with Fae Magic, could it be that you are seeing your own faults laid bare, and not an actual fault of the Mind Mages?”

Illustrious, thankfully, did not get mad at the aspersions Erick cast upon her character, probably because Erick had thrown his own experiences with House Fae’s nature in her face at the same time. She just went silent, her emotions twisting from fury to hope to terror and deep, deep embarrassment that Erick had somehow discovered what they did to people to enact justice in this land. And yet, there was a vast shade of acceptance that what she did was right and necessary for the good of… Ar’Cosmos or else specific people, Erick supposed.

He had guessed about all of that, but apparently he had been on the mark.

He moved past it, since he, himself, had Blessed people as a form of ‘justice’. Who was he to judge, except a victim of what he had done to other people? Now that was a ball of problems to work through some other day; not right now.

Erick continued, “I do not know of the exact nature of all the Forgotten Campaigns that the wrought have committed since Veird’s conception, but I do feel that you are overly conflating the Mind Mages with the wrought. I have recently learned that Kromolok and his second in command have merely adopted the powers of the Mind Mages, and are not beholden to their rules. Uchena claimed that they are the ones that keep the Mind Mages in check, and that they are not part of that culture at all. And in addition to this: I am almost 100% positive that the Mind Mages have a very strict culture that is exactly what it appears to be. You likely already know all this, though.”

Illustrious instantly found her footing. “That is what they want you to believe, and so you believe what they tell you.”

Erick asked, “Could your actual problems with the Mind Mages be that they live and function under the auspices of Kirginatharp, and the wrought?”

According to Illustrious’s face, Erick had hit the mark again.

“… There are some deep diplomatic concerns due to their current allegiances, and the fact that they will and have gone out on Forgotten Campaigns with the wrought, and Kirginatharp, and with all the churches of all the gods.” Illustrious felt as though she was talking to a child with the power to change the world, and she wasn’t quite sure how to handle Erick. She tried, “I feel you are grasping at pieces of the problem and failing to understand the whole. There can be no real peace in this ongoing war, between any of our sides.”

Erick countered, “An odd thing to say, considering that Inferno Maw has already expressed his wishes to end the Dragon Curse and also the war with Kirginatharp. Rozeta just wants the world to be stable and for there to be a lot of mana production, and the wrought follow her example. If Ar’Cosmos fell into line and—” Erick stopped himself and reconsidered his goals this morning. He wasn’t ready for this large of a conversation right now, but he had felt the need to see where Illustrious was at, and he had done that. Erick went on, saying, “Anyway. This breakfast smells divine, and peace talks are a large topic. I just bring up the subject because I want you to know that I want peace and prosperity, and to get away from all these wars I am finding myself drawn into, and yet I don’t want to solve any of these problems with more violence than strictly necessary. That’s my stance.” He added, “Also, all of that goes out the window if I am ever mind controlled by anyone here ever again. And so, with that warning now out there, and with all my own goals currently listed, we come to this question: How will Ar’Cosmos react to my proposals of entering into official alliances to defend ourselves against the wrought and Kirginatharp, when the time comes? What does such an alliance look like?”

Yes, Erick had just gone around in circles, going from talking of peace to talking of ‘what does war look like if we are on the same side’.

Illustrious didn’t seem to appreciate the circling of the conversation, though. She accused, “You’re trying to play all sides against each other.”

“… That is an unkind way to label my attempt at trying to create a lasting peace, for a lasting peace is also achieved through mutual defense, though, I admit, that too much defense might lead to a world war, which is another thing I do not want.”

Illustrious just stared at him, considering.

Erick continued, “Perhaps you fear that the sides are so uneven that nothing can be done to protect Ar’Cosmos from everyone else, so here’s a smaller scenario that leads to the larger: I create a [Renew] amulet that gradually transforms the half-dragon wearing it into a Paradoxed dragon of Carnage, or Fae, or Death, or maybe even Elemental Benevolence if I manage such a thing. There are likely not many such amulets, and your three houses control the only stock. Let’s say 15 amulets, total, evenly split. Each one can transform one person over the course of a month. I am pulling these numbers out of thick air, of course, but they are based on Redflame’s predictions on how such a [Renew] amulet would function, based on his ideas of how such a thing would work. What happens in ten years, in twenty?”

Illustrious stuck her fork into her omelet, distracting herself from the sudden need that welled up within her very soul. She lightly said, “I will have to think on this.”

Erick nodded, then he refilled his coffee, saying, “It’s a big thought.”

Fairy Moon hadn’t spoken a single word. All she did was eat breakfast and watch the show.

It was a lovely breakfast.

Erick stayed to lighter topics, like food and popular culture, and soon enough, Illustrious’s mood lightened considerably. Both of them knew what he was doing, but Illustrious played along because it was necessary for her own sanity, and for the good of Ar’Cosmos.

Afterward, Erick and Illustrious moved to the accretion room, down the hallway.

Now that Erick was at Second Foundation, they could actually discuss things such as spell-in-soul creation. That specific topic was accompanied by the temporary loan of four accretion manuals. Over the course of two hours, Illustrious’s falsely-good mood turned true. She relaxed, for she spoke of things she could easily handle, instead of about worldly politics which she wasn’t comfortable touching right now, and not with Erick as he was.

