There used to be archwarriors in the Old Cosmology, too, but they were weaklings compared to the archwarriors of the current day, mostly because the older version had to ‘use up’ their body-accretion in order to do anything worth mentioning. These days, one’s ‘body-accretion’ did not get used up, and a true warrior could go up against an archmage and actually win most of the time.

This was one of the purpose-built tenets of the Script, in order to ensure that powerful mages and Wizards never again threatened all of the universe with their unbridled power, and to give warriors a strength they never had before. Warriors were still needed, after all, because warriors were always the best forces to send against the monsters. Under the Script, and even long before that, the innate Strength of one’s arms did not get used up nearly as fast as the discrete amount of mana a mage could bring to bear.

Anyway.

‘Health’ was not a real thing like mana was real, except that Health was a Real thing, made Real through the Script.

Knowing all that, Remaking Enduring was easy enough, since the power to recover lost Health shared similarities with the power to recover lost Mana. In this case, it was less about focusing on a flow, and more about ensuring that the Health inside the body came back quicker.

Erick did a little rhyme, and suddenly, his body felt energized. No blue box this time, either, but Erick remembered what Enduring should have looked like.

- -

Enduring

Multiply your base HP regen by 2

Requirements: 20 Vitality

- -

‘Health’ didn’t really exist inside Ar’Cosmos, like it did on Veird, but the energy pumping through his veins felt just like Health usually did. Eventually, when Erick gained enough experience through the use of this Skill it would level up to 10, and become a real times-3 Skill in the process, just like the other two he had already Remade.

The Skill for times-3 Max Health was called Strong.

It was pretty easy to understand the meaning of that one, too.

Strong, for Maximum Health, like Discipline, for Maximum Mana, was all about putting more of that resource into a limited container.

One rhyme later, Erick felt his body seem to dim, as all of his body-accretion seemed to diminish. It hadn’t though. All of the mana in his body had just concentrated, leaving more room for more Health. Erick wrote down what that Skill should look like too.

- -

Strong

Multiply your base HP by 2

Requirements: 20 Strength

- -

Erick sat back in his beanbag chair and breathed deep.

Those were the four basic boosting Skills; done and secured. It was good to finally do that. The journey to get to this basic point had taken Erick a long time, and the path had been unforeseen, but he had finally learned the actual meaning behind Health, along with how Mana and Health related to the spirit and the body, and how the Script organized it all in the background. Anyone with the necessary Stats could pick up Strong or Enduring or Concentration or Discipline for a single Point, but the number of people who actually knew what those Skills did had to be in the single digit percentile.

And now Erick was one of those people.

Doing this had revealed something else to Erick, that he hadn’t expected to realize.

He turned to Ophiel and Yggdrasil, and said, “I don’t think that the New Stats will ever have a boosting Skill. They’re just too abstract. Like, Willpower is the amount of Mana a person can naturally contain, while Discipline is forcing oneself to contain more. But Intelligence? What could that possibly be doing, except for the work of Clarity, but turned into a Stat...” Erick paused. “You know what? I bet that’s exactly what Melemizargo did; he took Clarity and elevated it to a Stat.”

Ophiel twittered. Yggdrasil looked lost.

Erick suddenly found himself on a roll. “Charisma was some sort of Mind Magic Ability or spell turned into a Stat, for sure, because all the Mind Mages instantly decried that as Mind Magic. That’s another mystery solved. Now... Perception has to be… [Ultrasight]?— Ah. No. Perception is Mana sense. Yup. That’s what that correlates to... But. Perhaps multiple sensory abilities? Mana sense is not actually covered in the Script, though, and that is by design… A design which Melemizargo broke, obviously. I got my mana sense almost instantly after getting Perception.

“And then we have Dexterity, which is the ability for the body to have more resources than otherwise… Or rather. It is the body’s ability to do more with less. This correlates with Intelligence, which is the ability for the spirit to do more with the same resources than otherwise. And since Intelligence is Clarity, but in a Stat, that means Dexterity is Precision, but in a Stat.

“… Maybe. I need to Remake Clarity next, but I’m pretty sure that how Clarity works is just straight-up Wizardry. Precision is likely much the same.

“But going back to the New Stats, we have Constitution, which is a flat percentage reduction to damage taken— Ah! It’s that Class Ability that Jane once told me about. Sturdy. Reduces damage taken from all sources by 25%… Or maybe Constitution is more like [Defend]? Maybe both, actually— No. Not [Defend]. [Defend] requires a tenth of one’s Health Max to use, and that use only recovers through natural regeneration.

“… All that could be wrong, but I feel like it’s correct. It’s a lot easier to make something new, like the New Stats, out of something old, like Clarity, or whatever, than it is to make something completely new.” Erick said, “Inventing a new Element takes something special, but taking an Element and shifting it into a new use takes ingenuity.”

Erick paused in thought, and then he smiled a little. Maybe he was correct, or maybe he was wrong, but he felt about 75% correct.

But there was a problem.

Remaking Clarity, for 50% reduced Mana costs, and its sister Skill, Precision, for 50% reduced Health costs, had to be pure Wizardry. None of Illustrious’s books had detailed a requirement of Wizardry, but they had gone deeply into what it meant to Remake those two Skills.

And those guidelines called upon what looked like Wizardry, to Erick. Small Wizardries, for sure, but Wizardry all the same. Everyone was capable of Wizardry, after all, if they used their own mana. Only Wizards made personal mana in any sort of large quantity, but if all it took was 10,000 mana… It’d take an average person a thousand days to get that much mana, but they could still do it.

With enough stored personal mana, anyone could do small Wizardry.

… And thinking about personal mana, Erick hoped that the blessings he had given himself were the normal ones, propped up by the Script, and not some oddities that he had never intended. This was Ar’Cosmos, after all; the Script was pretty far away.

Erick decided he would broach the topic of Clarity and his new Skills with Fairy Moon, actually. Probably over dinner. That was still hours away, though, so Erick went over to the advanced accretion manuals to research more about what Clarity actually did.

Because, according to what Erick was seeing, Clarity didn’t ‘reduce mana costs by 50%’, at all.

- - - -

“So the blessings I made were completely normal,” Erick said, almost in disbelief.

“Aye.” Fairy Moon said, adding copious amounts of butter to her baked potato.

The potatoes last night were a hit, and so practically everything on the table tonight had potatoes included in it, somehow. It sort of reminded Erick of back when he made potatoes for the movers and shakers of Spur, to try and get them all interested in his newest vegetable. Fairy Moon seemed to like practically everything she had tasted so far, which was good, in Erick’s opinion.

Erick could tell that Maid Maria loved the fries, most of all. She dipped them in some ranch dressing she had made herself, too, probably using the recipe that Erick had gifted to the world when he gifted Veird potatoes.

Fairy Moon added, “You will no doubt have a number of boxes waiting for you when you return to your reality.”

Erick stuck his spoon in his mashed potatoes. They were quite good, but he was concerned with how quickly Fairy Moon had dismissed his magic. He hadn’t been sure which of his two questions would be the more difficult one, so he had asked about his Skill Remaking first, just because, and Fairy Moon had dismissed his worries as unfounded. So the outcome of his Skills was… Good? Yeah.

Like… He could already tell that he had Remade Strong, Enduring, Concentration, and Discipline mostly correctly. Thanks to them, his spirit and his body seemed much, much more resilient and regenerative than it had yesterday. If Erick’s calculations were correct, his Status would show something like 1750 Health, 2000 Mana, and around 4000 Regen per day for both Health and Mana. He still had to Remake Meditation to turn that ‘per day’ into ‘per hour’ at will, but the results of his next question would likely influence and inform how he went about that little spellwork, too.

Erick asked, “I appreciate the clear answer. I have another question: the Skill Clarity. Is that full Wizardry, just handed out to everyone? Or am I not understanding how to Remake that Skill?”

Fairy Moon smirked as she sprinkled more and more bacon bits on her baked potato. She glanced his way, asking, “Why do you think Clarity is ‘Full Wizardry’?”

“Because the books all say that to Remake that Skill one must turn one’s own mana into partial Illusion, which causes other nearby mana to change in a cascading effect, which then ‘fills in’ the rest of the spell you are trying to create. In effect, you are packing extra information into half as much mana in order to produce twice as much effect, but it’s way more complicated than that.” Erick said, “The books all call it Elemental-Illusion-based magic, but it is very clearly Wizardry. How else could a small amount of magic create a larger amount of magic? And how is that not Propagation Ban inhibited?”

Maid Maria scrunched her face, as though Erick had gotten something really, really wrong.

… Which was monumentally surprising. Had he gotten it that wrong?

Also, how good of a mage was Maid Maria? A really good mage? She would have to be, to be able to work in tandem with Fairy Moon, right? Erick was suddenly struck by so many questions about Maid Maria that he temporarily glanced away from Fairy Moon.

“Oh?” came Fairy Moon’s voice, to the side.

Erick’s eyes flicked back toward the old fae, and he got the sudden impression that asking Fairy Moon about Elemental Illusion was like a drug dealer asking a cop about where to score the best drugs. Her pink and green eyes were uncomfortably sharp, yet she continued to spoon sour cream onto her baked potato.

That potato was getting mightily overloaded.

In a light tone that was not light at all, Fairy Moon asked, “Are we commencing the conversation about [Gate]?”

Erick was suddenly fully invested. “I want to know of [Gate], yes, but I also want to know of Clarity.” He added, “And Precision, for 50% Health costs, too, while we’re at it.”

Fairy Moon began adding chopped green onions to her baked potato, smiling as she said, “The perception of possibilities in the myriad mana goes a long way toward gaining all wishes.”

“Yes.” Erick said, “Mana is full of possibilities, but it is up to the caster to mold those possibilities from personalized Reality into physical reality.”

Fairy Moon’s eyes went a bit wide. She had purposefully made her speech as confounding and as basic as she could, because she didn’t want to make this easy for him, and yet Erick had understood perfectly…

And realizing that he had understood that, Erick was a bit surprised at himself, too. Was he understanding her, now? When did that happen?

Fairy Moon began adding cheese to her potato. “You mark my meaning well, which so few fellows ever do. So do keep up with this telling of truth:” Fairy Moon set down the cheese, and then she set down her hands to the side of her plate. She calmed. She closed her eyes. And then she looked to Erick. “Elemental Fae is Illusion thought true. Elemental Illusion is lies laid about for all to tell the falseness from the factual. No one imagines Illusion to be true. Everyone knows Fae is real reality. This is the marking of the margins of those magics.

“But now we need look at the one outside of bounds, at the beastly magics that make this world what it is. We must discuss the Mystical.

“Clarity is not cause for celebration. Clarity is a confounding of mana into more. It is a mysticism that manhandles mana into molds. It is marshaling minds to destinations undeserved. Take one mana and make it manage a friend into something founded in falsity that still works because mana is possibility.

“Illusion is a lie, while Fae is a Truth, while Mystical is a mage telling lies that the mana believes to be true.” And then Fairy Moon dropped a bomb, saying, “Clarity and Precision are Elemental Mystical, and that Mystical makes Melemizargo continue to call this realm unreal.” She backtracked a bit, saying, “Though your Particular presence seems to have pulled him out of some of his senselessness.”

Erick’s mind whirred with thoughts. He left the implications for [Gate] for another time, as that all was much larger than Clarity and Precision. Immediately, Erick tried for some clarification. “So you’re saying that Clarity and Precision are not Wizardry, but just Elemental Mystical, and that what makes that Element different from Illusion and Fae is a matter of perspective. Elemental Fae is real and views the world through the lens of the mana as real, and the physical world I call ‘real’ is the illusion. While Elemental Illusion is an attempt to deceive people in the physical world with illusions. And Elemental Mystical has a component which automatically draws other mana in, like a conman drawing in a crowd and playing them for gains.”

Maid Maria’s eyes went a bit wide; surprised for a whole mess of reasons that she wasn’t quite sure of herself. But she had already understood everything Fairy Moon was saying, so perhaps she was just surprised that Erick had actually managed to pick out the truth from the old fae’s winding words.

Fairy Moon stared for a long moment, and Erick wondered what she could possibly be thinking, and then she laughed, lightly and happily. All the danger of the previous moments vanished under her illuminated joy. And then she sighed, and an endless age passed across her features like the realization of an apocalypse come and gone, and then come again. She stared down at her very, very loaded baked potato—

