Wren woke before the dawn vibration.

She had simply opened her eyes in the grey light and known, with the same body-certainty that told her the bond was running, that the threshold stone was about to speak.

She dressed. She walked to the threshold stone. The carried stone sat at its base, palm-shaped concavity upward, where Maret had placed it. The air was cool -- cooler than yesterday, the first morning that had felt like the season remembered it was supposed to change.

She placed her palm on the east face. The stone was cold. Not the cold of absence -- the cold of a thing that had been radiating heat all night and was now waiting for the sun to give it back.

The vibration came.

Thirty seconds. The same duration as every morning since the second pulse. The stone's greeting, traveling upward through four thousand years of limestone, emerging as a hum that Wren felt in her palm, in her feet, in the bond's full Known-depth resonance. The [Foundation Stone] signature ran through the triad -- threshold stone, prayer-notch, healer's house -- and the settlement's substrate carried it outward to the ghost-elm perimeter and beyond.

At the fifteenth second, Wren said the word.

"Vael."

She said it the way Maret had said it -- carefully, the syllable deliberate. But the word felt different in her mouth than it had sounded in Maret's. Younger. Less worn. A name borrowed, not inherited. She did not shout it. She did not whisper it. She spoke it at the volume of conversation, into the air between her mouth and the stone, and the word entered the vibration the way a stone enters water.

The vibration did not change.

For five seconds, nothing happened. The dawn greeting continued. The word dissipated. Wren stood with her palm on the stone and felt the same thirty-second pulse she had felt every morning for five weeks, and she thought: *Maret said she did not know if it was true.*

Then the vibration ended. The thirty seconds expired. The stone fell silent.

And the silence answered.

Not from the threshold stone. Not from the triad. From below. From the bedrock itself -- the limestone formation that the settlement sat on, the geological substrate that connected the threshold stone to the ridge to the escarpment to the basin floor. Something in the bedrock responded to the silence after the vibration the way an echo responds to the end of a shout: not during the sound, but in the space the sound left behind.

It was not a vibration. It was a resonance. A low, sustained tone that Wren felt not through her palm but through her feet, through the soles of her boots, through the dressed stone of the settlement floor. The tone rose through the substrate like groundwater finding a seam. It was warm. It was patient. It had the quality of something that had been waiting to be called by name.

The bond read it. The signal had been there. The name was the key that made it audible.

The tone lasted twelve seconds. Then it faded -- not into silence but into the substrate's baseline, joining the [Foundation Stone] hum the way a river joins a lake. Present. Distributed. No longer a separate signal but part of the whole.

Wren stood with her hand on the stone. The dawn light was reaching the east face now, warming the limestone, and the stone's temperature was rising under her palm. She could feel the [Foundation Stone] signature running through the settlement's network, and within it, beneath it, threaded through the limestone's three-layer formation: the Vael's resonance. The land's voice. Not loud. Not dramatic. A hum beneath the hum. A song beneath the greeting.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  The Vael Resonance
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Geological / Resonant: Speaking the pre-corruption
  name "Vael" during the threshold stone's dawn
  vibration activated a dormant resonance in the
  limestone substrate. The signal originates below
  the settlement's foundation layer -- in the
  geological bedrock itself. The Vael resonance is
  the land's original voice, predating the builders'
  stone-work by an unknown margin.

  This resonance was always present. The name made
  it audible.

  +100 XP
  +3 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 2211 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 74 (Journeyman)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Wren opened her journal and wrote the word again. *Vael.* Underneath it she wrote: *The land answered. Twelve seconds. Through the bedrock, not the stone. The voice was always there. The name let me hear it.*

She looked at the threshold stone. The carried stone at its base. The east face warming in the light. Four thousand years of builders' intention sitting on top of something older that had its own name and its own voice and had been singing into silence until someone remembered what to call it.

---

Brecca was at the gathering hall's north wall when Wren found her.

Not the overwhelmed Brecca of yesterday. Not the rigid-shouldered woman holding on against the weight of three hundred years. This Brecca had her palm flat and her eyes closed and her breathing steady. She was listening through the density the way a diver hears through water -- not fighting the medium, using it.

"You felt that," Wren said.

Brecca opened her eyes. "Through the wall. Something under the builders' layer. Under everything. Like the stone remembered a sound it used to make." She looked at her palm. "What did you do?"

Wren told her about the name. About Maret's instruction. About saying "Vael" during the vibration and the silence that answered.

Brecca was quiet for a while. Her hand stayed on the wall.

"The builders heard that," she said. "Every day. That is why their work is so certain. They were pressing stone while the land sang to them." She moved her palm along the wall, feeling the joints. "My work does not have that. My joints have my heat but they do not have the singing."

"Your joints are three weeks old. The builders' joints are three hundred years old."

"That is not what I mean." Brecca pressed her thumb into a joint she had laid on Day 20 -- early work, before the System named what she was doing. "This one is fading. The intention. It was honest work but it was not -- held. The clay is fine. The structure is fine. But the warmth I pressed into it is thinning."

Wren placed her fingertips beside Brecca's thumb and engaged Detail Notation. The joint's signature was there but attenuated -- a layer of intention that had been pressed without System mediation, without [Pressed Intention] to give it durability. Like a footprint in soft ground: true, fading.

"The ones I pressed after manifestation hold," Brecca said. She moved her hand to a joint from Day 37. "This one is warm. The heat stays. The System gives it a kind of -- permanence the earlier work does not have."

"Do you want to re-press the early ones?"

Brecca looked at the wall. A long look. The look of someone deciding what a wall should remember.

"No," she said. "They are honest. Three weeks of learning before I knew what I was doing. If I press them again they will be my current work, and the record of my earliest work disappears." She traced the line of joints from south to north -- Day 18, Day 20, Day 22, through manifestation at Day 37, to now. "The wall is a timeline. I will not edit it."

Wren looked at the wall. She could see what Brecca meant. The joints progressed north along the stonework -- the earliest ones pale and thinning, the later ones warm with the particular heat of [Pressed Intention]. A gradient. The record of a woman learning to hear what her hands were doing.

---

Theron was at the eastern channel.

He had the counting rod in his belt, the way a carpenter carries a pencil. Wren found him clearing debris from the cistern cap, working the compacted soil away from the thumb-width hole with a brush he had made from dried ghost-elm bark.

"Air needs to move," he said. "A cistern that cannot breathe is a cistern that grows things you do not want."

Wren knelt beside him and activated [Keen Survey].

The ten minutes passed in focused stillness. The 200-meter radius resolved: the cistern's water table (four meters, seasonal, slightly higher than yesterday -- moisture accumulating in the retreated strip), the limestone formation beneath the channel, and at the edge of the radius, the second cistern. Still in corrupted ground. Still unreachable.

But the hidden feature this activation revealed was the soil.

In the retreated strip -- the three-meter band where the corruption had pulled back after the second pulse -- the substrate's chemistry was changing. Not visibly. Not in any way that human eyes could detect. But through [Keen Survey]'s resolution, Wren could see the beginning of biological recovery. Mycorrhizal filaments from the healthy side extending into the strip like roots feeling for water. Moisture channels reopening in the substrate where the corruption's signal had held them closed. The soil was not healed. It was no longer held.

"The strip is recovering," Wren said.

Theron looked up from the cistern cap.

"The soil?"

"The soil. The corruption held it -- compressed it, kept the moisture channels closed. Now that it has pulled back, the healthy side is reaching in. It is slow. But it is happening."

Theron stood and looked south, toward the retreated strip, toward the ground that was darkening fractionally as organic chemistry resumed. He held the brush in one hand and the counting rod shifted against his hip.

"My grandmother would have counted this," he said. "The rod would have a notch for the first day the strip changed color."

He looked at the counting rod. Maret's rod. The fresh notches from the second Holding pale against the darker wood. The older notches -- from Holdings before, from counts Theron had never been taught to read -- running in patterns he was still learning to decipher.

He did not cut a notch. Not yet. He turned the rod in his hands, feeling the worn places where Maret's fingers had gripped, the smooth patches where her palm had held. Reading the rod the way he read stone -- through touch, through accumulated contact, through the language of hands that had held this wood for decades.

"She counted everything," he said. "The notches go back further than the Holding. There are patterns I cannot read. Groups of three, then groups of five, then a long mark. I think the long marks are seasons."

"We can ask her," Wren said. "When Hadley goes back."

Theron shook his head. "She left the rod so I would learn to read it myself." He put the brush down and picked up his trowel. "The channel still needs clearing."

---

Hadley came through the ghost-elm perimeter in the late afternoon.

Wren heard him before she saw him. Not his footsteps -- the shift in the insect chorus. The settlement's insects had learned the rhythm of three people. A fourth set of footfalls changed the pattern, and the chorus adjusted, and Wren registered the adjustment through the bond's ambient awareness before she registered the man walking through the tree line with his pack lighter and his stride longer than when he had left.

"Day 39," he said. "Ridgeline was clear. The basin cache is stocked -- someone restocked it in the last week. Not Rimfolk stores. Merchant provisions." He set his pack down at the fire pit and began unpacking with the methodical precision of a man who had cataloged every item before he carried it. "Dried fruit. Salt. Three kinds of tea. Someone is provisioning the southern routes."

"Did you see anyone?"

"Traces. Boot prints at the cache, two days old. Pack straps had been adjusted on the storage hooks -- someone shorter than the usual Rimfolk runners." He paused. "And a message. Scratched into the supply log at the cache. *Thorngate inquiry re: southern settlement. Contact S. if able.*"

Wren felt the words settle. Thorngate. The academic outpost on the northern rim of the basin, where the cartographer's office maintained its records and the scholars argued about the Thornwild's boundaries.

"S," she said.

"The supply log is anonymous. The handwriting was precise. Whoever wrote it expected the message to reach us through Rimfolk networks." Hadley looked at the threshold stone. "I wrote our route and our supply needs beneath it. I did not write the settlement's name."

"Why not?"

"Because a settlement named Varethen does not need to advertise. If Thorngate is asking, they already know." He smiled, and the smile had the particular quality of a man who had been counting things on a two-day walk and had arrived at a number that pleased him. "Also: the shimmer. On the way out, the perimeter extended twenty meters past the second ridge marker. On the way back -- same trail, same markers -- thirty-two meters. In two days the ghost-elm perimeter grew twelve meters."

Twelve meters in two days. The Holding's resonance was still expanding. Not just defending the settlement's margin but pushing outward through the substrate, extending the living boundary of what the settlement protected. The ghost-elms were not growing. They were reaching.

"And the letter?"

"Basin cache post. The runner should take it to the Millhaven relay within the week. Your mother will have it before the season turns." Hadley sat down at the fire pit. "I counted the insects on the escarpment trail. Fourteen species on the way up. Seventeen on the way down. Three new species in two days. The basin's ecology is responding to the expanded shimmer."

Seventeen species. The basin's ecology expanding as the settlement's influence grew.

---

Four.

The fire that evening had a different sound. Four people. Hadley narrating the silence that had been simply silent, Brecca at the wall with her palms flat, Theron with the counting rod in his hand and the day's first notch -- the one he had cut after the strip's recovery was confirmed, three small marks and a long one, his own notation beginning where Maret's left off.

Wren opened her journal.

*Day 39. The Vael answered. I said the name during the dawn vibration and the bedrock responded -- twelve seconds, a resonance from below the foundation layer. The land's original voice. It was always there. The name made it audible. +100 XP.*

*Brecca's early joints are fading -- the classless work losing its warmth. She will not re-press them. "The wall is a timeline." She is right.*

*Retreated strip showing first biological recovery. Mycorrhizal extension from healthy side. The soil is no longer held. Keen Survey confirmed.*

*Hadley returned. Basin cache restocked with merchant provisions. Thorngate inquiry scratched into the supply log -- "Contact S. if able." The letter is on its way.*

*Ghost-elm shimmer: 32 meters past second ridge marker, up from 20 two days ago. The settlement is growing faster than I expected.*

She paused. The insect chorus -- seventeen species now, Hadley's count -- ran its full voice. The ghost-elms hummed. And beneath the hum, for the first time, Wren could hear the Vael's resonance. Not as a separate signal. As part of the whole. The land's voice, folded into the stone's greeting, the way a bass note supports a melody without being heard as a separate instrument.

*Day 39. Original cycle: 17. Current: 18. The drift is one day. Fifteen days to the third pulse.*

*Four again.*

She closed the journal. The margin column counted up. The fire burned steady. Four people held the settlement, and beneath them the land sang the song it had been waiting to sing since before the corruption stole its name.
