And then Shiv was through the broken shield. He deactivated his Minor Illusion and spiked himself right into the center of a magi column. He slammed boot-first down on the neck of an automaton, and the bot's body groaned as bolts and screws burst free. Shiv swept his mana hydras wide, expanding them as far as he could, making them spiral around him. At the same time, he detonated his inertial sheathe and created a pocket of blood and writhing bodies where a few dozen magi once stood. They ruptured into welters of ruined flesh inside their folding armors, and Shiv drank them in using his Biomancy. He assimilated their biomass to forge a new flail, charging through the other magi at the same time as he tried to find where Sijik was.

Magical Resistances held against his mana hydras. Shiv’s fields recoiled. He slammed into the magically-hardened Pathbearers and lashed their flesh with his Skysplitter. At the same time, a new cancer flail extended from his field, and a wrecking ball of mangled biomass whipped out low.

Shiv's new cancer flail was a nightmarish implement. A mess of human limbs, elven faces, jagged teeth, and more sprouted out as clumps along the sides of the weapon. Ankles and knees shattered. Pathbearers screamed. The Inquisition laid eyes on Shiv for the first time, and rivers of fear flowed from their beings to nourish his. He felt himself grow stronger, faster, felt his mana surge with increased might. Magical Resistances shattered against his amplified Biomancy, and then his Vitae joined the frenzy as well, drinking vitality while gouging eyes and crushing skulls.

Shape of Monstrosity 103 > 106.

Whip Proficiency 9 > 10

"Enemy at the center!" an enemy Psychomancer screamed. "Close ranks! Close ranks! Rapid response!"

And Shiv saw the drill-headed automaton pushing through the formations, coming right at him. The Deathless grinned in anticipation. His dance with the automaton was interrupted by the dragon rider earlier. Now they could get properly—

A blade broke against Shiv’s spine. Shiv felt his armor lose two centimeters of material, just to heal immediately thereafter. Behind him, an Assassin tumbled, spasming on the ground as their face was covered by a spray of basilisk venom. White foam erupted from the paralyzed Assassin—then it was joined by a spray of red as Shiv swiped his blade through her body. Shiv's armor was spewing vile, hissing green fluid from the veins threading its crenulations. Inspiration seized Shiv. He promptly used his Biomancy to direct jets of basilisk venom at the organics all around him as well.

Awareness 34 > 35

Multi-Tasking 18 > 19

More fear flooded into him. A lance of gravity struck Shiv, but he slapped it aside with his Magebreaker—sending it blasting through a group of Pathbearers to his left. The drill-headed bot descended from the air, his skull roaring. Shiv launched a corpse at the automaton in response as he unleashed a brief splash of Creeping Void.

The Creeping Void 112 > 113

The enemy Pathbearer immediately tore into the corpse’s flesh without realizing it wasn’t Shiv. The automaton drove its skull against Shiv’s decoy body. Sparks flew free from Shiv’s corpse. And more sparks burst out from the automaton as Shiv swung a size-magnified Skysplitter against the bot’s back.

Deepest Edge 65 > 66

Deception 20 > 21

Shiv spiked himself over thirty times as he cleaved deeper and deeper into the bot’s midsection. A mechanical scream sounded from the machine. It reached down to stop the blade—only for Shiv to discharge his Inertial Overdrive. The bot’s head snapped back at an awkward angle as it was flung limply through the air. Shiv frowned. Well, you were a disappointment.

But before he could capitalize and finish his foe off, waves of cascading Dynamancy drove his inertial discharge back. Shiv's eyes widened, and just then he felt a crushing mass press down on his body as well. Shiv spiked his field upward as the Dynamancers pressed down. Even so, he was slowed dramatically, and spells and attacks began to smash into him from all sides. Godsdamn Dynamancers. Shiv grimaced, but he was strangely impressed by the Inquisition's resilience and how fast they adapted to the conflict.

A series of arrows crashed into his armor; most of them bounced off, breaking without inflicting any damage. However, an adamantine ballista punched deep through his chest piece, but didn't quite manage to break his skin. As Shiv ripped it out, a burst of Psychomancy caught him by surprise, but Uva’s strands wove around his head, and a clash of translucent mana exploded away from him, sparing his mind. A forest of Psychomancy strings erupted out from Shiv's cape, and it was also joined by two dozen drones that shot up into the air, screeching pitched frequencies.

Automata around Shiv went rigid, briefly stunned by whatever noise the drones were making, and Shiv took advantage of that. He cast himself three seconds back in time with his Chronomancy, and the Inquisition lost track of him. The Dynamancers lost their hold on his body for the second time, and Shiv detonated his Inertial Overdrive. As a new blast spread out, it killed a few dozen more soldiers before the Dynamancers responded, keeping the shockwave contained.

Strider of the Unbending Path 136 > 137

“Chronomancer! Chronomancer in our midst!”

“WHERE THE FUCK ARE OUR WARDS—AGHHHH!”

“CHRONOMANCERS! RESPOND! WE NEED—FELLING FUCK! THEY’RE ALL—”

Several telepathic broadcasts followed, and each ended with a building weight of panic and terror. Shiv learned why as harrowing screams drew closer to him again. The orcs were back, and pushing in from the outside. And with Shiv at the center of their formation, the Inquisitors were caught in a brutal pincer they needed to adapt to.

“Rally!” A rasping voice bellowed. “Stand and fight! The Ascendants demand it! Stand, you cowards!”
