The first was the Pale itself—it bit into her, grew out from her in a risen crown defined by spikes of pale rim and fragments harvested from the fallen moon of her now absorbed homeworld. Then, there was the placenta that spread out from her desiccated torso—a sign that she was literally spending all her biomass and vigor and giving it unto the Warrior and the Child. But with the way her sinew-thin limbs clung tight to the Warrior’s neck and caressed the Child’s cheek, it was clear that this was not a thing of pain on her part or great loss, but a willing sacrifice.

The act of a great mother giving life to everyone that followed.

Aesthetics and symbolism were critical parts of a god, more so than individual Pathbearers who could choose how to equip themselves or could change their style and attire on a whim. It seemed that the divinities were shaped and remained shaped in specific forms that were governed by their Scripture and nature.

Adam was still a Demigod, but even he suffered certain fates. His eye was not returned, though it never affected his Awareness or left him impaired. The deprivation of one of his organs was presented as a significant, even canonical, event in his lore, and so his physical manifestation responded in kind. More than just the missing eye, however, it was his nature as a Changeling. He transformed, a mirror of those he worshipped, becoming orc-like, then robotic, and back to humanoid depending on the presence of people he was in and the shift in mindset he assumed.

The Child, the Warrior, and the Crone, then, further along in their Divinity, were even more constrained, but that constraint also revealed certain things to Shiv: it hinted at what Domain they possessed, what personalities each might have, and how to approach them.

They loomed a kilometer away, a towering presence standing as if a great tree, but still a paltry thing compared to the Tarrasque. Judging from the faintness of their Divinity, Shiv felt more certain about one of his prior theories. The Republic liked keeping the beasts up North and gave them a reliable foreign enemy to shape their citizenry with fear and focus their ire outward. Nothing was more unifying than an invader, after all.

He suspected the trio he beheld was only a partial vessel of the full divine power possessed by their gods, but even so, he suspected that the pantheon of the Shattered Moon was far lesser than that of the Ascendancy and might just be closer in terms of power to the Composer. Such a thing would make sense as well—they'd lost the last Incursion, their world was ruined, and they were confined to the North of Integrated Earth.

If they truly possessed a means to resist and overcome their rivals—namely the Yellowstone Republic—then they would have. And right now, with their innermost territory invaded by the Deathless, what reason would they have to keep power in reserve if power needed to be projected?

Sometimes aesthetics were more than symbolism. Sometimes aesthetics hinted at scarcity and necessity.

“This is an act of war, Deathless,” the Court of the Shattered Moon’s gods spoke as one. The Warrior was the loudest, his voice a thundering baritone, the Child highest as the alto, and the Crone spoke through the wailing of a passing wind. She communicated in tandem with the Pale; her power, her magic, her knowledge, and Domain were lent to the essence of that which resided in all Frost Giants and painted the land whiter than the snow itself.

In that, the trio was actually a quadruple. Yet, the closeness in cooperation between the Crone and the Pale had Shiv guessing some of the Republic's intelligence. This wasn't the behavior of a civilization that had been infiltrated. This was the behavior of comfort and thoughtlessness that came after living and accepting another entity as a practical, critical extension of yourself for eons.

The Pale could still be a parasite or a memetic deceiver, but Shiv felt his intuition solidify and suspected that he'd been sold another bill of lies from the Republic. Or maybe Veronica's agents didn't know nearly as much as they presented. After all, considering the bestiary and everything they said about the Abyss below, information was a premium in the Republic, and deception was second nature. The control of symbolism and stories was to shape faith itself.

“Is it?” Shiv said, not even playing at nonchalance. “Then what’s trying to move a Tarrasque across dimensions to unleash it on a neutral Gate?”

The winds howled louder; the air grew even colder. “Neutral? What a jest. What a debased lie.”

“But it isn’t,” Shiv shot back immediately. “Let's not bullshit each other here. You have Social Skills, and so do I. I'm not lying to you. If you're going to accuse me of being the Republic's lapdog or something stupid like that, I want you to know something: I haven't killed any of your children in my Gate. I haven't even killed one of your Legendary Prophetesses—though I was well within my rights to do so. I had her at my mercy, and I let her live. Your people are inside my gate as guests, and I've upheld the laws of hospitality.” Shiv paused as he remembered the Male Pregnancy incident. “Mostly. The only reason why I'm here and the only reason why a bunch of your people are dead and I am standing with the Republic is that you have my Tarrasque and you were planning to give it over to Lord Scorn for some cockamamie attempt at a preemptive strike.”

Writing 29 > 32

Yes! Thank you, Snapshot! I’m going to memorize more words from the dictionary!

“And a preemptive strike didn't even work, no?” Shiv looked behind and glanced at the dimensional barriers separating one of his vessels from the other. Behind—within that magical enclosure, his other self was now mixing and meshing different slabs of cooked mana fields. He even sacrificed a sprinkle of Chronomancy and Psychomancy from his Harbinger, though it hurt him to do so. It pleased the Tarrasque to no end, and the creature was almost entirely pacified. Shiv suspected he could keep it in this state for as long as the food kept coming.

The Pale and its gods kept to their silence as he spoke on, declaring things from his perspective. “Let’s not even get into the philosophies and the worldviews between us: the Tarrasque won’t work. Even if I let you shuttle it over to Lord Scorn’s dimension, it won’t work. Because it’s tainted by me. And you probably had a feeling about that for a while, didn’t you? Maybe that’s why you were trying to hand it over: so some other god could try and handle it for you. Well, I got bad news for you: Lord Scorn’s kind of a fucking moron. Giving the Tarrasque to him will probably just end with us unleashing it on his world—which would make this the third slight we performed against him. But let’s say we all do nothing. Let’s say I let you drop this inside my Gate. You wanna know what’s going to follow? Because I can tell you. I have an entire district dedicated to cooking. I feed thousands of people a day. Humans, elves, goblins, dragons, orcs…”

“Your enchantment over the beast will not last,” the Child sang in denial. “Its nature is—”

“It’s my nature too,” Shiv countered. “What do you think my mind is based off of? Why do you think I can shrug so many things off? Things that would have driven other people insane? How much conflict can a single mortal take before they lose their mind?” He gave the Pale a moment to think on that. “It’s part of the reason why I kind of get the Tarrasque. The larger reason, though, is because my soul is imprinted on it. It’s more like me than I’m like it. So, yeah, I guess you can get it to smash some things, but it’s already pre-shaped by my legend. Tarrasques shouldn't develop non-martial skills. But it did. And this thing’s motivations are simple: it wants to eat, and it wants to cook. So, your weapon isn’t that good of a weapon anymore. Which, again, is why we should just cut through this bullshit, and settle things.”

“Settle things,” the Warrior grumbled, clenching his colossal halberd tighter.

“Yeah. Give the Tarrasque to me, and I’ll consider all this a service on your part. I’ll even invite one of your representatives into the Gate Piety council. You can have a place there. There doesn’t need to be war between us. There doesn’t need to be anything. You acted the way you did before out of fear? Fine. I get that. I’m afraid of the Republic too. I know what the Ascendants can do. But I’m not them. And I’m not their dog, though I have to play fetch so they don’t do to me what they inflicted on you.”

The faintest of fractures spread across not only the gods of the Shattered Moon but the Pale's side. Everyone felt the weight of Shiv's Harbinger, and he couldn't hide his smirk of triumph, for he felt their vulnerability. His theory was confirmed. The Republic had their heel on the North, and he dug into that pain.

But then he pulled away before he gouged them too deep.

This body of his was sequestered away from sight—only Uva likely knew what was unfolding right now, but she likely blocked this from her psionic broadcast in the chamber. Veronica was playing her games, and he could play with his.

Besides, if he did things right, then everyone would come out of this happy anyway—or at least mutually unsatisfied.

“There’s no easy way out of this,” Shiv said. “Not for you and not for me. But we can make things easier for each other. We can both choose when we want to play fetch and with whom. You don't want the Republic to break you, and I don’t want to be broken by the Republic either. But if it’s a choice between you and them, I’m going to choose them. It’s simple. But. I have a say in this. I come back with each death, so let me lay out what’s going to happen if you stay your current path, yeah? You try to drop the Tarrasque on us—you refuse to return it to me—and things are going to get worse and stay that way for you.”

He snorted. “And it isn’t a threat. I’m going to do that because you are committed to being an enemy. I can’t have that. Now. To convince you to do something else, I’m going to spend life after life ruining things for you. I will launch body after body to damage your walls and set your homes on fire; I’ll do it willingly with joy because you’re slavers—let’s not play with subtext here; I despise your kind. I despise the fact that you’re all degenerates. But I can live with you. For now. And you can live with me. For now. We can mutually coexist in dissatisfaction if you don’t give me a reason to come for you.”

“And you think this honesty serves you,” the Crone drawled, the winter winds surrounding him speeding up.

“I know it does—I can fucking feel the pull I have on you. But it doesn’t matter because it’s true. You can lie to yourself, but you can’t lie to the world or the System. The next Incursion is coming too anyway. And you’re here in this world now. You stay this course, and I want you to think real hard about what’s going to be the case in a year. Just imagine. Do you think you can reliably finish me off in a year? Never mind that: do you think that you can survive a year if I convince the Republic to march against you?”

The Pale stopped singing its whistling song. The gods were utterly still. They were considering his words, trying to think of a counter.

He didn’t give them a chance to think themselves into extinction. “There isn’t a good way out of this, guys. This isn’t a theoretical problem: you got two bowls of shit in front of you, and one’s less filled with shit. Time to choose. You’re going to have to deal with the Southerners, but you don’t need to keep dealing with these specific Southerners and Gate Piety. We have enough problems ourselves. And though we can’t deal with all our problems, I can be a fatal issue for you. And no, before you ask if I’m just going to throw the Tarrasque back at you, I could have done that just now. Between me and it, we could have ripped the dimensional mana open and declared an invasion. Maybe if you concentrate your power, you can kill it and me—but we’ll resurrect, and then the Republic will move in to smash through your walls.”

Well, they probably won’t because they want you around, but I don’t need you to know that, Shiv thought to himself.

Scheming Bastard 44 > 47

“So, here’s the deal I have for you: you get representation in Gate Piety as well as our ensured neutrality, with caveats, obviously. Hells, I will even cook for you guys—if it keeps the peace. However, I’m collecting the Vicar’s mistake. You will give the Tarrasque back to me. Because it belongs to me, and it’s never been yours. This isn’t a threat, but a service; a felling bargain. If you say yes, you remove two apocalypses from the table, and make both of them into potential allies. Fragile, tentative allies, but allies still. And before you ask if you can trust me, the answer is yes and no. We all have our interests, but along some lines, we have the same interests, and we can run those rails for as long as we can. So. Choose. Decide. And make this easy for all of us. I’m begging you right now: don’t fuck yourself. You already suffered one Endhound. Don’t turn me into another for you.”

Gardener of Doubt 82 > 85

These Words of Truth and Adoration 98 > 102 (Skill Evolution Reached)
