The first thing you need to consider when it comes to feeding your monster is its diet. Now, I'm cheating in this exercise because a Tarrasque eats damn near everything, and almost nothing gets it sick. Almost nothing. You're going to find out about what makes a Tarrasque spill and go berserk by the end of this chapter. They're pretty happy eaters. They'll eat anything: stones, shit, people, trees, mountains. They'll drink up entire lakes. They're pretty ravenous, but they do have a very, very sensitive tongue and olfactory system that allows them to track people but also gives them a finer appreciation of layered and subtle flavoring that most people miss.

Now, when you're thinking about layered flavoring, you need to consider how they go together and in what sequence they trigger. If you have something extremely salty, for instance, having a tang of sweetness might be nice for some people, but let me tell you, the Tarrasque hates it. It despises the sheer heaviness of the sweet because it drowns out the salt that comes before. That isn't universal for all monsters, but rather something you need to consider when it comes to their personalities.

Now, the basilisks I have usually like things that are a little bit plainer. It's the substance and texture that do things for them. Smooth things are best, especially eggs. They aren't really built for chewing, so avoid hard things, but also especially spicy food.

A Tarrasque, on the other hand, more than appreciates spices.

A Court Leviathan can grow tongues and olfactory sensors; however, being a mostly lobotomized creature, it doesn't have specific preferences of its own, and that takes part of the joy out of cooking.

Anyway, the entire point of this is that you can train yourself by cooking for monsters. They're not cruel like people can be. They're usually very honest, and they teach you to zero in and focus on delivering a culinary experience. Start playing, build up. Don't just go for the most extreme condiments.

—Draft of “How to Feed Your Monster” by the Deathless

437

Unexpected [II]

“Another? You want another? Do you?”

“Yes, yes, yes, want another!” The Tarrasque was seated on its hind legs now, loudly clapping its humanoid hands together to create shockwaves in an expression of unbridled joy. Its forehands sprouting out from its shoulders clapped first; its forelegs followed thereafter like twin trunks of crystallized tissue ringing in cataclysmic impacts. Anyone without High-Tier Toughness would have gone deaf or, more likely, been turned to bloodied mist in an instant.

Back in Farnest, in the Farwalker observation post hidden in the Stranger's Garden, and doubtlessly wherever the Pale resided, strange, uncanny, and above all, unbelievable scenes were being taken in by various Pathbearers with rapt attention. They all watched as the Deathless tamed the world-cleansing creature grown from his own soul-stuff using something they shared. Yet that thing wasn't a skill or an urge toward violence, but simply love for an art.

A little hate went a long way, but sometimes, a measure of love bridged impossible gaps.

Though the Tarrasque's love for cooking was simple and instinctive, it was pure, and Shiv managed to lead it along by feeding it slices of his mana fields. Right now, Shiv was burning away chunks from his Aegis of Assimilation in the form of fried scales pried off the mana hydra, giving the Tarrasque a taste of raw Biomancy. With how fast Shiv's Aegis regenerated from mana strain, he could provide piece after piece as he continued explaining basic things about cooking.

The Tarrasque wasn't really listening, of course, but the noises he made and certain words he said appealed to it greatly. If he had to gauge its intelligence level, it was like an extremely obsessed toddler fixated on a specific thing. The words that caught its attention were spatula, frying pan, taste, food, and eat. Anything else was more like background noise or, in worst cases, the buzzing of an annoying fly. He tried to talk it into speaking back to him at the start, but it replied with a loud rumble of dissatisfaction and nearly defaulted to violence again. So he continued speaking to it on its level, as one might a child who desired the fires of a kitchen, and it was in the purity of that desire that Shiv felt a rush of enthusiasm and happiness, unlike anything else he'd experienced in quite some time, returning to himself as well. For joy begat joy, even if that joy came from the most strange of sources, even if that joy was somewhat sourced in atrocity.

He hadn't forgotten the slaves sacrificed to the Tarrasque, but it wasn't like he could judge the beast. It wasn't a full person, at least not yet. It only offered the very narrowest hint of emotions, and before it could gain a measure of higher thought and morality, what point was there in casting it as a creature of sin? It didn't even ignite much in the presence of Adam's evangelizing temple. Shiv could see it simmering slightly now, but Adam's Heroism was either too weak to properly infect it without him being here in person, or his Domain saw the Tarrasque as more akin to a natural disaster than a true sinner.

Whatever the case, he found himself appreciative of the Tarrasque's company, for it listened and ate without any apprehension. It had no complaints about ingredients or specific requests to deform or ruin a meal—like that idiot who asked for a set of vegetarian beef ribs three days ago.

That demand nearly gave Shiv an aneurysm.

Such a thing never came from the Tarrasque. It was simply happy to savor and sample.

The few times the Jotun tried to intrude on the scene, they were rebuffed by the Tarrasque's constant clapping. When mages strong enough to weather the blasts appeared, they attacked Shiv with stronger spells than before—clearly cast in concert to overwhelm his Shapeless Tides. He countered this by staying close to the Tarrasque, which usually caused them to hesitate. After all, if they struck the Endhound, it would soon become their problem as well, and between him and the Tarrasque, he could easily see this place ripped open and the Endhound set free upon the land.

Not that Shiv was interested in doing that, but the Pale didn't know his intentions. In actuality, he wanted to lure it away somehow, and he was actively scheming on how he could make that possible.

But at some point, his schemes came to a halt as a simpler solution arrived. While he was negotiating and entertaining the Tarrasque with food, he might as well negotiate with the one in charge and see if he could get them to relinquish it into Shiv's charge. After all, the Jotun were trying to get rid of the Tarrasque as soon as possible, and with his presence, the transfer over to Lord Scorn was now impossible; the invasion they desired was already ruined.

Through his merciful acquisition, they might still be granted a measure of peace. And thus, as Shiv continued cooking chunks of his mana while trying to explain how the Tarrasque could make a stronger pan by assembling pieces from its shell, he quickly sent his Harbinger over to snatch another one of his bodies before bringing it across into the enclosure as well. The sudden manifestation of a new vessel briefly confused the Tarrasque, but Shiv waved his Last Morsel before it could act up. Immediately, the Tarrasque lost interest in the second Deathless and was lured toward the nihilist's flame lighting the Last Morsel's glowing edges instead.

“Hey, Pale, Shattered Court, whatever you guys call yourselves, I wanna talk business. Specifically, you giving me the Tarrasque.” He made his intentions known immediately, and the Harbinger solidified around him as he felt a flow state come into play. It was more than just cooking. It was him playing his schemes, using his skills not to destroy but to control. And with how apprehensive his enemies were to strike at him again, he knew that he possessed the initiative.

Time to see if he could prevent an invasion before the bloodshed properly began.

A few seconds after he finished his declaration, a small gap opened in the dimensional enclosure, and Shiv's primary negotiating vessel drifted out, slipping through the crack to face a series of cylindrical wards layered on the outside. There was nowhere for him to escape to, and he could feel the oppressive presence of temporal stalling mana. If he tried to jump, he would shred his Harbinger apart.

That was just as well. He shifted the Harbinger to another one of his bodies, surrendering that vessel to loss. Even if they trapped that version of him, he would simply jump Backstage and deny them their prize. He had plenty of bodies to spare, and just losing one was a trifling thing.

Shiv embraced the light and suffered the cold willingly. He held his arms out and faced his enemies, prepared to be struck down at any moment. When nothing came, he raised his voice to speak, their hesitation becoming his moment of initiative. “I think I should start this by thanking all of you. I wasn't sure what to do with my Tarrasque, but here you are, giving it a nice place. You even kept it happy. You really did me a service here.”

Before him was a swirling canvas of bone-chilling white. The Pale was the breath of harshest winter, but it didn't dare encroach upon him—even as he exposed himself, even as he stood alone, unguarded and surrounded by enemies. He still sensed his adversaries; between his Atlas and his ability to sense vitality, he saw through the layered wards and the blank, cold canvas to glimpse a constellation of life-force, some spots brighter than others but all of them Pathbearers, all of them assembling, with more teleporting in every passing second to further seal him within this hastily made quarantine.

A few thousand unseen Jotunn became ten thousand and then more in a scant few heartbeats. Then there was the flare of incandescence: Three presences ignited amidst the frost, pressing against Shiv as waves of pressure washed over him and an ambient field of divine mana crashed upon his Magical Resistance, sparking off his armored soul. The three Divinities drew closer, but they still lingered behind the wards. Part of that flattered him.

He, too, was a walking calamity, much like the Tarrasque spawned from his essence. The biggest difference between them, however, was how reasonable he could be. And how his words might prove a greater threat than his might.

“Let me guess. The Crone, the Child, and the Warrior have come to greet me.” Shiv did a bow, and he tried to keep his mockery out of it. He succeeded. Mostly. The frost ahead of him thinned just enough for him to see through, and at first they appeared in the vagueness of their contours. Instead of being three standing apart, the trio of gods was fused into a single body—an individual colossus that was stacked over itself. The Child then was at its center, a malformed fetus with its head too large for its body, its flesh caked and meshed into the torso of the Warrior.

The Child of the Shattered Moon was hollow of eyes, yet sported a scar at the center of its head. From that wound gleamed a gem of violet radiance, an expression of Divination further fueled by divinity.

It looked upon him, and Shiv felt the faintest tinge of fear fester in its stare, for the air around him was stained with motes and furrows of dreaded nothingness. Shiv furthered the effects of his intimidation and stealth by activating his Dread-Tainted Feat and granting them insight into what a far weaker version of him was capable of.

From that, the darkness around him grew, and Shiv let fly his plague flies as well. Twin capes spilled out of him, one of plague and flesh, the other of darkness and dread. He stood a counterpoint to the resplendence of the Jotun gods, for if they were divinity, then he was something sunken, something baser.

But the gods of the Jotun were a tripartite thing, and though the Child was afraid, the Warrior stood a bulwark. He reminded Shiv of the Endbreaker in certain ways. His beard was constructed in stalagmites of pointed frost, and his face was more scar than skin, ridged with dull blue chasms and crevices, while his body was covered in bones derived from fallen foes and his shoulders were adorned with furs harvested from colossal beasts.

The weapon the Warrior bore was a masterpiece of exquisite detail and blinding aesthetic. It was more than a wicked maul on one end and a ridged battle-axe head on the other. Its flat surface was inscribed in lines of vivid detail, tracing more than just spell patterns; there were artistic illustrations of the Jotun struggling alongside the cold, the triangulations gliding with the substance of the Pale, surging and circulating, as entwined with their history as it was nested inside their Pathbearers. In this, Shiv didn't see something that presented itself as a parasite, but more like a symbiotic guide—a kin race for an entire species.

And then, crowned above the Warrior and the Child, was the Crone, the eldest of the three, sprouting from the back of the Warrior. At first, Shiv imagined her as a cancer, but as the seconds went on, he understood he was viewing her symbolism wrong.

Cancers developed when cells went immortal. They refused to die and spread into surrounding tissues—a sort of plague of life collapsing the harmony of the greater architecture. The Crone was not that. She was not misshapen, though she did look grotesque; but there was a naturalistic disgust she inspired. Her head was shrunken compared to the Child, and her body was barely there when measured against the scarred mass of the Warrior, but her nature was defined by two things.

