“Doing what?”

“Threats. They only work if you can pull off the murder.”

A silence passed between them. Then, she turned away with a huff. “Take those off."

Shiv blinked. He looked down and realized she was gesturing at the uniform he wore.

"Do it quickly. Harlock won't be distracted for long." From behind her, she pulled out a massive veil of static blackness. The Dimensionality radiating from the large blanket made Shiv wary.

"What's that?" he said.

"Mass Swapper," she replied. "You're going to strip down, and you're going to fall into it. As you do that, the decoy body we left in the morgue will be swapped out with you. Your presence will displace it. After that, I will disable the cloak, and you will be left in the morgue. Then, I will be gone, and we will forget we ever saw each other.”

Shiv was practically speechless. The operatives of the Neath might be questionable and criminal, but they most definitely were prepared, and they were quick about setting things up too. As he stripped away his school uniform, his Perfect Semblance was left nude while he himself remained clad in his armor. He pulled the bracelet Adam gave him off and threw it into his cape. “Alright. Got it. So. Just fall in?”

"Is my understanding that you have the means to induce a specific type of venom upon yourself?" she said.

Ah, right. Irons’s suggestion—shit, the crafters are informants too.

"Yeah, I got it," Shiv said, not wanting to explain too much about what he and Helix intended to do. “Don’t need that service from you.”

The young woman hesitated a while longer and stepped aside. She gestured for him to descend into the dimensional sheet, and Shiv fell face-first into the blanket without any other words exchanged.

As soon as he did, he felt something slide past him. Another weight, another presence, another body. Before he could turn and catch sight of it slipping through him, he slammed hard against a steel surface and dented it. Shiv grunted as he felt himself jammed tight in a space too small for him. Just then, he found himself lying upon a tray. The air was cold, and it glided upon his flesh in unceasing waves.

Shiv looked over his shoulder and saw another such blanket residing beneath him, but a second later, it flashed a final time as its static dissipated, and it finally went dormant. Everything unfolded just as the young woman had said.

And so, in the span of a half-hour, he went from being in a coliseum to being a reawakened corpse in a morgue.

Shiv let out a disbelieving laugh. Well, I've done a lot of weird godsdamn shit, but this was something special. He gave himself a moment and laughed.

"Hey, Helix," he called out.

"Insul." The orc's voice was thin and nasally, ridged with annoyance. "Am I finally needed now?"

"Yeah, hit me with that toxic thing Irons told you to do."

"That 'toxic thing' ‘Irons told me to do’?" Helix said, his voice scornful. "Do you not remember the affliction I'm supposed to inflict upon you at all?"

"Can't quite think about it, can't quite remember right now, no," Shiv said flatly. "Just dose me up so that we have a bullshit excuse for why we’re just waking up. I got some poor attendant to scare shitless.”
