I can’t spend all my time coddling the rank and file, I need time to myself. Not only for personal training, there are a thousand and one tasks I’ve yet to finish. I need to figure out the finances and decide who’s getting Spiritual Weapons first. I also need to decide if I want to buy horses, since there’s no way we’ll have enough quins for everyone. Then there’s the ideas I have for my next Spiritual Weapon, but I haven’t had the time to talk with Mila and Husolt about it. I still haven’t finished checking all the soldiers for Defiled or Tainted, though I’ve found none of the former and remarkably few of the latter. Normally, this would be great news, but after learning what those sweet Spectral remains are, I’ve been hungering for more of that sweet, Heavenly Energy. Unfortunately, I barely have enough to fill the gaps between my teeth, gathering a negligible amount in the past few days.

I was hoping to channel some pure Heavenly Energy into Sarnai and see if Taduk can do anything with it, but at the rate I’m going, she’ll die of old age before I gather enough. It feels shitty to think it, but hopefully, the slaves I asked Lin to buy will be more Tainted than the soldiers. Soldiers are trained to seek Balance, offsetting the effectiveness of the Spectres, but untrained slaves should be vulnerable and defenceless. Honestly, knowing what they know, the Empire should treat their slaves better seeing as how any random mook like Gen can turn into a face-melting, claw-wielding maniac.

I am not jealous of his claws. Not even a little.

...Fine, I’m super jealous, but anything he can do, I can do too. Better, in fact. I’ll have my bear claws even if I have to graft them on myself.

The setting sun finds us well behind schedule and I’ve no choice but send everyone home. The ‘train high, live low’ spiel is complete bullshit, but these pukes need to toughen up. Running is mostly willpower, of which my trainees are sorely lacking. Dastan’s bunch should be fine but even Ulfsaar and his intimidating cutthroats could barely keep up. Even if we cut the running time to four hours one way, we’re still wasting a third of the day on travelling to and from camp. Thirty kilometres in two hours, that’s the goal. As long as I give them an hour of rest before and after running and feed them well, they’ll be fine, right?

The moon hangs high overhead when we step foot into the tent-infested city. Utterly exhausted, the trainees crawl back to their sleeping quarters while I remind them of tomorrow’s meeting time, pretending not to hear their mumbled profanities. I don’t want to actually hang anyone, but I will cut them from the training program if need be. Can’t waste time and resources training people who don’t want to be trained. Ugh, there’s still Jester Wang and a hundred of his people back on the Island. I left Pran, Saluk, Viyan and Birca there to keep an eye on him, and Jochi and Argat volunteered to stay behind to supervise, so hopefully they won’t slack off and can get those bandits into shape. Maybe I should send Ravil or Bulat back too, but I need them here. Dammit, so much to do with so little time, and with winter on its way the days are only getting shorter.

At least the housing problem is more or less solved, the leather yurts coming in clutch. One small victory under my belt, though credit mostly goes to Chakha for parsing my shabby description together. With a small spring in my step, I notice the city is surprisingly active for the late hour, with people still moving around in the streets. Guess I’m not the only busy one with everyone scrambling to get the defences in place.

Outside my tent, Alsantset and Charok sit side by side, apparently awaiting my return. Keeping my voice low so as not to wake the twins, I whisper, “Good to see you both, but you shouldn’t have waited up. You both look exhausted.”

“Have a seat, little brother.” Charok’s grim tone makes my heart skip a beat, and I obey without question. Wrapping his arm around me, he sighs and whispers, “Grave news arrived while you were out. The Defiled have broken through the Western Wall, with millions of their warriors pouring into the province. The missive is weeks old and already three cities have fallen. Who knows how far the destruction has spread.”

Cold dread grips my stomach as I swallow my fear, knowing just how close the North was in sharing their fate. “So what’s the game plan? Gather an army and fight back?” Guess I had less time than expected. Off to join the crusade and reclaim the west.

Shaking his head, Charok can’t speak through his rage so Alsantset answers for him. “The borders have been ordered closed with no refugees allowed to pass,” she says, a tear falling from her eye. “Those poor souls have been abandoned. Henceforth, the Empire no longer has a Western Province.”

...

With a single order from one man, hundreds of millions of lives have been consigned to death.

What use is an Emperor who cannot protect his people?

Chapter Meme
