“Don’t be silly, Garry! I haven’t seen you in ages! Come on in! How’s my favorite Worker doing? Pawn didn’t say you were coming! Where’d you get that hat? Pebblesnatch has one just like it, you know.”
“Well…”
Garry found himself swept into the inn. He sat at a table as Erin sat with him, calling for food. In short order, he had a bowl of borscht in front of him, a mug of cider, and Erin was giving him her undivided attention. She laughed as he told her how he’d gotten here.
“Oh, Garry! You don’t have to win a competition! That was just Pebblesnatch and the other Goblins being…well, I’d have wanted to watch that! Not judge it, though. I don’t eat caterpillars. But you did a great job by the sounds of it!”
The Worker shook his head.
“I am not nearly as good as you, Miss Erin—”
“Erin. Say it with me, Garry.”
“…Erin. I actually came to see if you would teach me your recipes. If you are willing. I have so much to learn.”
Erin looked shocked.
“Of course! I always have time for you! Any time! In fact, how about now? I can show you how to make some of my dishes—I’m running out of pre-prepared food anyways. You and me, Garry! Master [Chef] and apprentice!”
She rose and beckoned Garry to the kitchen. He rose in a daze and followed her. All of his dreams were coming true! He was so happy he didn’t even notice Pawn sitting at a table across from them. The Worker looked around as Ceria rattled some dice in a cup and Pisces bet three silver coins. Pawn looked at Purple Smile.
“Her favorite Worker?”
 
——
 
“So, you say you’re a bad cook.”
“Yes. I am quite inferior to you. I know I may never catch up, but I hope you will share with me your recipes and much experience.”
“Right. I, uh, well, the thing is, Garry—I’m an [Innkeeper]. And you’re a [Cook]. My abilities are sorta in cooking, but I do a lot of other things.”
“Yes, you play chess too. You have many Skills.”
“Uh huh. But that means I’m not as—as focused as you, Garry. I don’t have as many Skills in the same area. And maybe I’m actually not that good.”
“Surely not!”
“No—I think I just realized that now. I was never much of a cook back home. I microwaved a lot and boiled water, mostly. And, uh—you just reminded me why I’m not actually that good.”
“I did?”
Garry looked incredulously at Erin. She nodded. Their entire conversation had been punctuated by a single, repetitive sound. That of pure, unadulterated skill.
Chopchopchopchopchopchopchop—Erin stared as Garry’s knife flashed across the board, dicing the onions in moments. His other two hands weren’t idle either; they were busy peeling another onion, then sprinkling the chopped onions on the sauce-covered pizza. He sprinkled the toppings around in a perfect pattern, added cheese, and inserted the pizza into the little oven in a flash. Garry looked at Erin, and she blinked.
“I taught you how to make a pizza a minute ago. Verbally. And you just made one.”
“I am sure it is not as good as yours, Erin.”
“No—I am. Garry, I think you’re better than I am. Really, I do.”
The [Cook] was shocked.
“I cannot be! Otherwise, who else would I look up to?”
Erin scratched her head.
“Someone else? Garry, you’re better than you think you are! No wonder you won the competition single—I mean, four-handedly. I want to hire you! I would if your Queen wouldn’t tear my head off.”
Garry held very still.
“Really?”
“Really, really.”
Erin smiled at Garry, and the Worker’s heart and mind lit up. She leaned against the counter and shook her head.
“You know, you’re so good, I should ask you for help. Tell you what. Instead of me teaching you, why don’t we cook together? We haven’t talked in…forever. And I can tell you about all the things I can’t make while we make the things I can. Okay?”
“I would like nothing more in the world.”
Garry spoke truthfully. Erin smiled. She stood up, took a spot next to Garry, and began making another pizza. He helped her, cutting, offering ingredients, and listening as Erin began to ramble. To chat.
“So, there’s this pasta soup called ramen, but it doesn’t actually taste like regular pastas. I used to have instant ramen, which is really unhealthy, but I tried the real stuff once, and let me tell you, it’s good. Still probably unhealthy, though. I was trying to make it, but I have no idea what the ingredients could be, aside from pork cutlet which is one of the toppings. Say, have you had a hamburger? It’s great, but there is this bread component that makes it hard to serve to Antinium.”
“What if we replaced the bread with another substitute? There is a sweet potato that I can make a type of bread out of.”
“Garry, I could kiss you! Hold on—don’t run away! You have to show me right now. Drassi! I need potatoes! Sweet ones! Now, where was I?”
“You were talking about other foods.”
“Right! Hey, if you can fix hamburgers, then I need to get you on Asian cooking! There’s ramen, sushi…a lot of these dishes involve rice, which isn’t sold around here. Heck, it might not even exist! But anyways, I was also trying to make pumpkin pie, but while I know pumpkins and I know pie, putting the two together isn’t something I ever saw someone do. And I’ve also been working on recreating the turducken for Relc…”
Erin chattered as Garry listened, his four hands moving constantly. He cooked and she cooked, and it was the same as usual. The same, but different. Because he wasn’t alone. The Drake called Drassi came by to shout at Erin that she had no idea where she could get sweet potatoes at this hour. A few Carn Wolves came by to beg for food, which Erin and Garry fed them. Pawn appeared to seek assurance that Erin did not, in fact, have favorites. Dawil came by and passed out in the kitchen, drunk as a skunk. Erin assured Garry skunks could get quite inebriated.
And the night passed too fast. The Goblins ate happily in the inn and outside. The adventurers laughed and talked, and the Goblins spoke as equals briefly. Embria and Relc stood and talked on the battlements of Liscor. But such stories do not revolve around cooking. And in the end, it was cooking that mattered in this moment.
Pebblesnatch stood outside the inn, by her huge shell-pot of Rock Crab soup. She was humbled. Goblins were eating Garry’s dish and the other ones presented. Hers too, but only because they were hungry and it was there. She had let her arrogance get ahead of her, became a critic before learning how to cook well herself.
She glumly sipped from her bowl of Rock Crab blood stew and then brightened. You know, it really wasn’t that bad. All it needed was a pinch more salt. And maybe some pig lard. And pig. And an egg?
 
——
 
And then Garry went home. He arrived in the Queen’s chamber of the Hive, delirious with happiness, tired, and pulling a small cart behind him. Bird tried to sit up as he and his Queen turned.
“Garry, you promised to bring me back food. And the Queen. Was it a lie?”
He looked at Garry, betrayed since he couldn’t see the cart from where he was propped up. Garry shook his head.
“I did not lie, Bird. My Queen, as promised, here is your food. I have pizza, sweet potato hamburgers, and cake!”
“Well done, Garry.”
The Queen rumbled approvingly, her mandibles opening as she regarded the prizes Garry had brought back for her. Bird looked at the frosted cake and clicked his mandibles together happily.
“Ah. The cake is not a lie. And it is cake. And very tasty. Even though it makes my stomach hurt.”
“You must not have the cake, Bird. It is filled with gluten, which you cannot eat. So Erin has told me.”
Garry spoke sharply to Bird. The Worker looked hurt.
“But I wish to! And I want to. I will cry if I cannot have any. And if I cannot, the Queen cannot.”
“I can.”
The Free Queen bent to peer at the sugary treat. She regarded it, wondering if they came in bigger portions as she addressed Bird and Garry.
“Chemical imbalances were allowed to exist in the recreation and modification of Galuc’s form as a necessity. Such imperfections do not extend to Queens. Give me the cake.”
Garry gave her the cake. The Queen lifted it up until she heard Bird make a small wailing sound. She hesitated and then broke off a tiny bit of the cake.
“He may have one small piece. You will share it. Here.”
She lowered the piece. Garry caught it and fished a fork out from the cart. The Queen needed no forks, but it was enough for Bird. He opened his mandibles, and Garry fed him a piece.
“Aah. Mm. Sweet. Give me another.”
“Very well.”
Garry looked up as the Queen discovered sugar in its concentrated form for the first time. He looked around the chamber and realized he was back. He had left the inn. Erin was far away again. All too soon. But somehow, he felt better, as if he’d carried the warm food and happy moment out of the inn and into the Hive. So he sat, feeding Bird and himself morsels of cake while the Queen gobbled down her food.
And everyone was happy. Until tomorrow, that was. But for one night—
They were happy.
