Anabelle pointed to Ren. “It's all his idea.” She said. “This is his store.”

The woman turned around and looked at Ren. She walked over to him and shook his hand vigorously.

“Thank you so much!”

Ren chuckled. “You're welcome.”

“How long will they last?” She asked him.

“That depends on what you put them through.” Ren said. “We can repair them, though. If they wear out or get damaged, bring them back. I'll repair them for a small fee.”

“That's wonderful!” She said and let his hand go. “I better get going.” She said and walked towards the door. “I've got a quest that I need to do before supper.”

“Good luck!” Anabelle said, and the woman waved to her, then left the store.

“I did it!” Anabelle exclaimed. “My first sale!”

“You handled it well.” Ren said. “I think you'll do just fine.” He smiled. “I have to run an errand or two. I'll be back in a few minutes.” He walked over to the door and held it open for two women he had seen through the window.

“We saw someone running down the street and waving something in her hands.” One of them said.

“She said we had to come in here and see what you had.” The other woman said.

Anabelle came out from behind the counter. “Right this way, ladies.” She said, and ushered them into the partitioned-off area. Ren heard several gasps, and he chuckled as he left the building. He ran over to Donan's Shop to visit his blacksmith mentor.

“Hi, Donan.”

“Ren.” Donan said, and didn't turn around from hammering something on his anvil.

“I came over to apologize.” Ren said.

“For what?” Donan asked. “Not coming to visit, or sleeping with my sister?”

“The first.” Ren said. “I didn't know you knew about the second.”

“Well, I do.” Donan said. “She's been talking about you non-stop, ever since you promised to come and see her...” He shook his head. “...and dressed in a dwarf recruit uniform to boot.”

Ren smiled. “I have overall command of the Garrison now.”

Donan dropped the hammer and it clattered to the floor. “You WHAT?!?”

Ren explained about what happened, and Donan shook his head again.

“You aren't going to keep it, are you?” He asked, and it was Ren's turn to shake his head.

“I've got to get rid of it before the payments and taxes are due.”

Donan laughed as he picked up his hammer. “I can only imagine the cost of running something like that.”

“I can afford it easily.” Ren said. “For a while, anyways.” He smiled. “But the only real benefit I get from it is Donna's enthusiasm.”

Donan quickly put down his hammer and covered his ears. “I didn't want to know that!”

“Sorry.” Ren said.

“That's not the apology that I think I deserve.” Donan said as he let his ears go.

“I know that.” Ren said. “I got this for you instead.” He took out the second anvil that he'd bought at the Convent, and Donan ran across the shop to him.

“You DIDN'T!” He shouted, and tried to pick Ren up. Donan grunted, stopped trying, and gave Ren a tight hug instead.

Wow. Ren thought. Donna had no trouble picking me up.

“Ren, my boy.” Donan said as he let Ren go. “I've always wanted one of the best anvils that exist.” He looked at Ren sternly. “You better treat her right, or your head will be on this anvil before you know it.”

Ren nodded. “Don't worry.” He said. “I only visit with her every few weeks, and she knows it can't go on forever.”

“Then I accept your apology.” Donan clapped Ren on the shoulder. “And your outrageously generous gift.” He picked it up and carried it over to his workstation. “Now, what am I going to do with this old thing?”

“I'll take it.” Ren said. “Just to get it out of the way.”

Donan smiled. “Help yourself.”

Ren stored the old anvil, and Donan put the new anvil in it's place. He knelt in front of it, gave it as tight of a hug as he had given Ren, then rested his head on it.

“Every blacksmith's dream.”

“I'll leave you two alone to get acquainted.” Ren said, and Donan waved to him without looking up. Ren left the shop, and laughed as Teepo spoke.

“I think you found Donan's soul mate.” Teepo chittered in delight. “He wouldn't even look at you after he saw that thing.”

Ren nodded. “I'm glad he likes it.” He said, and ran down the street to Sally's shop. He went in through the door, and Sally was sewing something while sitting at her workbench.

“Hi, Sally.”

“Hi, Ren.” Sally said. Her face flushed a little red as she crossed her legs, the dress she wore rode up a little, and exposed her ankle.

I'm nearly 65 years old. Sally thought. I really shouldn't tease the poor boy like this.

“Wow.” Ren said, as he noticed the superb shoes Sally wore. Her face flushed completely red as Ren knelt in front of her and examined them.

He's staring at my ankle! Sally thought, and felt very naughty; as only her husband had ever seen her ankle up that close.

Ren got the pattern for the shoes a moment later. “Thank you, Sally.” He stood up and smiled at her. “They're really nice.”

“You don't have to thank me.” Sally said, and waved his thanks away. “I'm just glad you liked them.”

“I do.” Ren nodded. “I've never seen anything like them before.”

He... he really liked seeing them! Sally thought, then missed her next stitch and poked her finger with the needle. “Ow!”

“Sally!” Ren nearly shouted, then took a hold of her hand. The finger started to bleed, and he stuck it in his mouth to suck on it.

“Wh-wh-what are you doing?!?” Sally asked, surprised beyond belief, as her face burned a bright red color. Ren didn't try to talk this time, like he did when Ereka burned her fingers, and he took out a Minor Healing wand. He stopped sucking on Sally's finger, and used the Minor Healing wand on it.

“There. All better.” Ren said, and grinned as Sally looked at her finger, then at Ren, then at her finger, then back at Ren. “You would have gotten blood on that nice fabric, if I hadn't done that.”

“But... but...”

“I'm sorry I distracted you, and made you hurt yourself.” Ren said. “And with a needle.” He shivered.

Sally put a hand on his arm. “Thank you.”

“It was nothing.” Ren said. “I just came by to show you some more of Lord Neram's patterns, and to let you know that I finally opened my shop.”

“That's great!” Sally smiled. “You must be very happy to get a steady income.”

“I hope it'll be a steady income.” Ren said. “I've got a lot of different things there for sale. Some of it should sell well.”

Sally nodded. “I'll stop by tomorrow.” She said. “It's getting late, and we'll be closing soon.”

Ren's mouth dropped open. “I'm sorry, Sally. I forgot I have to go!” He stepped close and gave her a kiss on the cheek. “I should be back in a week when I get another day off from serving my sentence.”

“Serving your sentence?!?” Sally exclaimed.

“I'll explain later!” Ren said, and ran to the door. “Bye, Sally!”

“Good-” Sally started to say, but Ren was already gone and the door shut behind him.

Nathalia is going to kill me!  Ren thought and ran around Sally's shop to go to his own. He slowed down at the door as he saw several people inside. He went in and helped Anabelle deal with the customers. She filled out orders and he sold items for the next half an hour, until he got a popup stating that the store hours were over.

“Thank you for coming by.” Anabelle said to the customers, as they filed out through the door, both happy and satisfied. Ren closed the door behind them, and locked it.

“I think we might need to hire another worker.” Ren said. “Or two.”

Anabelle laughed. “If it gets to be too much for me, then yes. We can hire someone to help.”

“We were only open for an hour, and we've already sold half of the chairs, a couch, 3 of the swords, a shield, and... I don't know how many bras and underwear.” Ren said, then shook his head. “At this rate, I'll probably have to come back tomorrow night with another delivery.”

“If what you said before is true, that there's going to be a lot of customers tomorrow...” Anabelle smiled. “...then you'll need to make a lot of things to keep them in stock.”Ren sighed. “I haven't even looked at the orders yet.”

Anabelle handed him a piece of parchment with a short list.

“That's not too bad.” Ren said. “I should be able to make them during lunch tomorrow.”

“That's the back.” Anabelle said.

Ren turned the piece of parchment over, and saw that the front of it was covered in orders.

“Crap.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“It's okay.” Anabelle said. “I told them it would be a couple of days.”

“Great! I'll do what I can.” Ren said. “I'll try my best to make it back here by tomorrow night.” He started to run up the stairs, then stopped at her shout.

“Wait!” Anabelle shouted, then walked up the stairs to where he stood. “You should cover the inside of the windows with dark fabric, so the light won't show out into the street.”

“Right! Good thinking.” Ren said and ran over to the windows, took out enough fabric to make window coverings, and added cloth ties after hanging the improvised curtains in place. He went over to the forge, dumped out the molten steel, and turned it off. He made several blanks that he could reheat and forge later, then stored about half of the iron ingots that he had under the workbench. Ren ran back to the stairs and met Anabelle at the door to the apartment.

“I added ties, so in the morning when you open for business, just tie the curtains back.” He said.

Anabelle nodded and opened the apartment door and went inside. Ren went into the living room and looked at the couch. He picked it up and moved it to the side of the room, then made a bed for Anabelle to sleep in. She watched him work as she took off her business suit and put on the same thin nightgown that she'd worn after the party.

“I'm tempted to put this in the small room off to the side there; but, that wasn't it's intended use.” Ren said. “I hope the living room is okay for now.”

“I was happy with the couch.” Anabelle said, and smiled. “It really is comfy.”

“You can't stretch out on the couch, though.” Ren smiled. “I'll see you in a couple of days.”

“Goodbye, My Lord.”

“Bye, Anabelle.” Ren said, and Teepo dissolved into the ring. Ren opened the cabinet and nailed it shut from inside, then stepped through the portal. He opened the cabinet on that side, and ran downstairs to feed Princess. He summoned Teepo as she ate, then took Princess outside to hook her to the cart. Ren climbed into the driver's seat, and told Princess to not waste any time. She took off like a shot, Teepo chittered in delight, and they were back at House Neram just over an hour later.

“You're getting faster.” Ren commented as he led her into the courtyard and unhooked the cart.

...Feel stronger...

“I'm glad.” Ren said and she plunked down on her old mattress.

...Ahhh...

“Hi, Riley. Hi, Stacy.”

The dogs barked softly, and he pat them, then he went into the house.

“I'm home.” Ren said.

“We're in the kitchen.” Nathalia said.

“I've got Adventurer's business to take care of, and will probably be gone most of the night.” Ren explained as he came into the kitchen and saw Nathalia and Ereka finishing up a meal. “I'm really sorry that I didn't make it back today.” He said and sat down. “So many things happened, and then I had to open my store.”

“You opened the store?” Nathalia asked. Ren nodded, and she smiled.

“I'm surprised you made it home at all, then.” She said. “You must have worked nearly all day.”

“It certainly felt like it.” Ren said. “I'll tell you all about what happened in the morning.”

Nathalia nodded slightly. He kissed her goodnight, went back into the main room, and sat down on the couch.

See you in the morning, Teepo.

“Goodnight, Ren.”

“Logout.”

********
