Ren walked around the shop and placed stone bricks enchanted with the Illumination rune, to light up everything. They worked so much better than oil lamps, and there was no chance of them catching fire.

“Oh, my!” Anabelle said, as Ren put a stone to light up the lingerie items that he had put in the partitioned-off area beside the stairs. “What are these pretty things?” She asked as she browsed through the items.

“You know what these cover.” Ren said, and pointed to a pair of underwear. “These cover the top part.” He pointed to a bra.

“The top part?” She asked, as her eyes twinkled. “Can I try one on?”

“Actually, I had planned on giving you a set when I put the rest of the stock in the storage area under the stairs.” Ren said. “You can't very well sell them if you don't know what they can do for you.”

“Thank you, My Lord.” Anabelle said, and looked them over again. “Ooo, I like this one!”

She picked up a bright red set, and they offset her dark hair nicely. Ren took out a set from inventory and gave them to her. She stepped into the partitioned-off area, and made sure she couldn't be seen through the store window, and took off her suit coat and blouse. He showed her how the clasp worked, and when he hooked it, the bra shrunk slightly to fit her.

“Oh, it feels wonderful!” Anabelle said. “It's both soft and firm at the same time.” She said and ran her hands across the fabric. “I can't see it properly.” She said. “Do you have a mirror?”

Ren slapped himself in the forehead. “Damn, I knew I forgot something.” He said, then thought about where to put it, since the shelves and walls of the partition were full of items. He smiled, then made a changing room area on the other side of the stairs, put a large rectangle mirror on the wall, and added a door for privacy. While he was at it, he made a wall across the stairs and added a door, just so people wouldn't think they could go up the stairs and see more stuff. Anabelle went inside the changing room, and stared at herself in the mirror.

“Look at how big and high they are!” She exclaimed as she poked the flesh of her breast with a finger, and it bounced slightly. “I look so beautiful!”

Ren smiled. “I could argue that you didn't really need a bra for that; but, I'm glad you think so now.”

Anabelle laughed. “You're just saying that because you've seen me nude.”

He shook his head. “I thought you were pretty as soon as we met.” He smiled. “Of course, after that you kind of overwhelmed me a little when you appeared in the mansion's upstairs room in only your thin nightgown.”

She grinned. “Imagine what your reaction would have been if I'd been wearing this instead.”

Ren's eyes widened as he thought about it. “I might not have gotten out of there alive.”

Anabelle laughed as she put her blouse and suit coat back on. She slid off the skirt, and then her underwear, and put on the new ones.

“Ooo, that's nice.” She said, and turned around to look at herself in the mirror while she held the bottom of her blouse up above her waist. She stuck her butt out a little, and giggled at how nice it looked. She saw Ren looking at her in the mirror, and she slowly bent over and pulled her skirt back up. When she was fully dressed, she came out of the changing room and smiled.

“My Lord, I hope you have a lot of these.” Anabelle said. “We won't be able to keep them in stock.”

Ren smiled and went to the storage area under the stairs, and made a large set of drawers. He took out the items he had, and placed them in their own drawers, and filled half of them.

“I should have more the next time I come back.” Ren said. “These you can sell as is, and everything is custom made. If a customer has an idea of what they want, I can try and make it for them.”

“I'm sure there will be a lot of them.” Anabelle said.

“Which one?” Ren asked. “Customers or ideas?”

“Both, of course.” She said and smiled. “Now, what else do you have for sale here?”

Ren showed her the mannequins he'd put a few outfits on, and told her that it was only for display; and that the clothing can only be ordered at the moment, as he didn't have the time to make multiples of them. Anabelle nodded and he showed her the furniture.

“It's all white.” She said. “People aren't going to like that.”

“What colors should I make them?” Ren asked. “I'd planned on making them different colors, but I've only made red and blue for myself and others. I have no idea what colors people will want.”

Anabelle helped him pick some nice colors, and rearranged the displays to suit the new colors.

“That looks much better.” Ren said. “Thanks, Anabelle.”

“It's my job to sell them.” She smiled. “And I'm going to, once people sit on them.”

Ren nodded. “The chairs and couches you can sell, but I've only had the time to make one of each large furniture item.” He pointed to the sitting table, dresser, table and chairs, and cabinet. “They are order only for now, until I can get some spare time.”

“Will they be bare wood as well?” Anabelle asked.

Ren shook his head. “Should I make them all a dark brown, or should they be colors, too?” He asked. “I'd planned on asking the customers when they ordered it what color they'd want it to be.”

It was Anabelle's turn to shake her head. “People don't know what color they want, until they see it.”

Ren smiled. “I got it.” He said, and took out a piece of wood, and cut it into a dozen pieces, then dyed them all different colors. He nailed them to the wall next to the furniture display. “There.” He said. “Now they can see what the wood will look like in different colors.”

“That's great!” Anabelle said, excitedly. “The customers should like that each piece will be made specifically for them, and in the color of their choice.”

Ren nodded. “That's my hope.”

“Okay, what else?” She asked, and Ren took her to the weapon and tool display. “Good god, look at that!” Anabelle exclaimed. “I don't even know what a lot of those are called!”

“I haven't had the chance to label everything yet.” Ren laughed. “Don't worry. I'll do it in a minute.” He said and took her to the window display.

“You did this?” Anabelle asked. “It's like a real living room!” She looked at the wall. “Except for the underwear and weapons on the walls.” She said and laughed.

“I was trying to give an overall impression of what I had to sell.” Ren smiled. “The armor I have a few sets made. They can also be different colors, or just bare metal.”

“Where are the extra sets?” Anabelle asked.

“Right!” Ren said and went back to the storage area under the stairs, and took out three more sets of armor. He used his dye station to remove the mottled gray color and just left them bare metal.

“What is that in the chest plate?”

“It's the protection glyph.” Ren said. “It gives the wearer a 40% bonus to their Defense.”

Anabelle nodded. “I'll remember that.” She said. “It'll be a big selling point.”

“So is the high durability, and...” He leaned in close. “...if anyone buys one, tell them that if I'm here, their first repair will be free.”

Anabelle gasped. “You can't be serious?”

Ren nodded. “I am.” He said. “If I'm not here, they'll have to wait, or take it to Donan.”

“Okay.” She said. “You're crazy, but I'll tell them.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm trying to give them reasons to come back and buy more stuff.” He took her to her desk. “This is your desk.” He said. “Behind it is the potions and a list of what's available.”

Anabelle nodded. “Can I sell them?”

Ren took out a few more Mana and Health potions that he had and added them to the shelves. “Yes, it's what they're for. I'll have more made, and bring a larger stock in a day or so.”

“If anyone asks, I'll tell them that.” She said. “When people find out you have them, they should fly off the shelves.”

Ren nodded. “These, on the other hand, are display only.” He pointed to the stone bricks with the labeled enchantments. “It's to show that I can enchant things, and will do so when I visit.”

“Is there somewhere I can store customer's items for that?” Anabelle asked. “What about the repairs?”

“Good point.” Ren said, and went over to the part of the store with the forge. He built a partitioned area near the wall, and made shelves from floor to ceiling. “This should be enough room; but if it's not, I'll take the time to finish the second floor.”

Anabelle looked up. “What second floor?”

“Exactly.” Ren said, and pointed to the various posts and cross members. “I had intended to build the second floor for other things, but never got around to it.”

“Is that why everything is so crowded?”

Ren nodded. “Yeah, the furniture and clothing were supposed to be on the second floor.”

“That makes sense.” Anabelle said. “They don't quite fit together with weapons and tools.”

Ren took her back to the desk, and took out the few pieces of large parchment paper that he had left. He cut them into page-sized pieces, and gave her several pieces of charcoal for writing.

“You should probably order some more of these.” He said.

“How?”

Ren looked at her in confusion, then chuckled. “I'm sorry, I actually forgot about this.” He opened the business owner menu and assigned Anabelle as the store clerk, and gave her authorization to order things that were needed. A small key appeared around her neck, and she gasped.

“What's this?!?”

“It gives you authorization to place orders and take care of the business.” Ren said. “And you can leave and come back whenever you want now, without having to wait for me.”

Tears came to Anabelle's eyes. “You... you gave me a key...”

Ren closed the business menu and took the hand that wasn't clasped around the key on her neck.

“Like I told you before, I'm trusting you with all of this.” He said. “I honestly can't run the store and work off my sentence at the same time.”

“I know that, but... it... it just hit me... I...” She took several deep breaths, then looked at him. “Thank you, My Lord.”

“I'm kind of throwing you in the deep end here.” Ren said. “I had planned on easing you into the job, but I'm practically out of time.”

“Don't worry, My Lord.” Anabelle straightened her back and pushed her chest out. “I won't let you down.”

“I can only ask you to try your best.” Ren said. “The only way you could possibly let me down, is if you didn't try at all.”

Anabelle smiled. “You're a good man.”

“You're only saying that because you saw me nude.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“Yes, that's the only reason.” Anabelle said, and hugged him. She let him go and looked around. “Why aren't we getting any customers yet?”

“I haven't officially opened yet.”

“Well get off your butt and do it!” Anabelle said and grinned. “I'm not here to just look pretty!”

Ren chuckled. “Hold your horses.” He said, and went around the store and labeled everything, then went back to her desk and gave her a list of all of the items and their prices.

“This will be a big help.” Anabelle said, and looked at him. “Are these prices set in stone, or is there room for haggling?”

“That depends.” Ren smiled. “If you think they might buy a little more if you give them a better price, then go ahead. If you think they're looking to scam you, then the price is firm, or you can refuse to sell to them.”

Anabelle smiled. “You're leaving it up to me, then?”

Ren nodded. “You're the one that's going to be dealing with the customers, even when I'm here.” He said. “You've got some leeway in the cost of the item and the actual price, so as long as you don't under-sell things, whatever you decide is what the price will be.”

“You're trusting me with your livelihood here.” Anabelle said. “Are you sure...”

Ren nodded. “Just remember: Those that seek power don't deserve it; only those that have the power thrust upon them, can use it wisely.”

Anabelle thought about it. “So, you're 'thrusting' it onto me?” She said seductively, and Ren laughed.

“Yeah.” He grinned. “I hope you can take it all.”

“Open the store, My Lord.” Anabelle said, and made a kissing motion. “I'll show you how much I can take.”

Ren shook his head and opened the business menu again, selected the storefront option, and set the hours of operation.

Notice!

You have previously selected 'No' for this option. Do you wish to activate the storefront now?

Confirm: Yes / No

“Yes.” Ren said.

Notice!

You have chosen to open a public business. A notification shall be posted to the message boards, on the main server, and on the FLOW website in the list of local businesses. All players within the city limits will also be sent a notification.

Do you wish to proceed? Yes / No

“Yes.” Ren said, and the entire warehouse glowed for a brief moment.

Congratulations!

Your business is now active, and customers will flock to see your wares. Good luck!

“It's open.” Ren said, and looked around. “I'm sure there's something I'm forgetting.”

Anabelle chuckled. “It'll come to you when you leave.”

Ren laughed. “Yeah, more than likely.”

The front door to the business opened, and a woman stepped in.

“This place just gave me a popup that it was open.” She said and shut the door.

“I've got this.” Anabelle said and walked over to their first customer. Ren watched her closely, and she actually did tone down the sexiness. They talked for a minute, then the customer grabbed Anabelle's arms.

“You're kidding!” She exclaimed, and Anabelle shook her head. “Show me!”

Ren stepped aside as the woman practically ran by him and to the partitioned off section.

“Oh my god!” The woman exclaimed and grabbed 3 different types of bras. “Where can I put these on?”

Anabelle pointed to the changing room, and the customer disappeared inside. Ren heard a loud sigh, and a few minutes later, the woman came out of the changing room.

“I'll take them.” She said, and handed two of the three bras to Anabelle. “I've been bouncing around and jiggling for weeks!” She cupped her chest, and sighed. “It's so nice to have them contained and not flopping around.”

“Running is the worst, isn't it?” Anabelle said, and the customer chuckled.

“Don't get me started on that!”

Anabelle smiled and told her the price.

“Only 10 silver each?!?” The customer exclaimed. “I thought they would be a gold at least.”

Anabelle accepted the money graciously, and the customer thanked her for carrying such fine products, and would tell all of her friends about it.

