For most of his life, Goujian played the part of hunter and inquisitor, a misguided and deluded fool who ferreted out those who stumbled across the Truth

Much as he regretted all those wasted years in service to a lie, he still took pride in his skills and counted himself as second to none when it came to exposing the Chosen of Heaven for who they were. He learned that hiding in plain sight was far more effective than sticking to the shadows, for one needed an identity that could move freely about if one wished to investigate. Whether it be a beggar, a household servant, a patrolling soldier, or whatnot, a false identity afforded Goujian and his Aspirants the freedom to track their quarry without arousing suspicion. The only issue was that if your cover were ever compromised without your knowledge, then this left you vulnerable as it put the initiative in your quarry’s hands. For this reason, it was always best to have an escape plan in place before infiltrating your enemies, and Goujian’s latest escape plan just so happened to start at the bottom of a stinking midden heap, where he lay still and silent as could be while doing his best to ignore the filth pooling around and on top of him.

Such was life, trials and tribulations without end, but after a few hours, he grew accustomed to the smell and even found this situation rather amusing. The thrill of the hunt was nothing compared to the dread of the hunted, and he relished the novelty in this reversal of roles. He’d come so far along the Martial Path, yet here he was hiding like a rat in a den of dragons, an exhilarating experience he might one day look fondly back upon after reaching the pinnacle of strength. It was so amusing, he almost let out a chortle, but there was a kitchen scullion emptying a barrel of kitchen waste nearby, so Goujian settled for a restrained smile instead.

There were drawbacks to embracing the Truth, and uncontrolled expression of emotion stood chief among them, but such was the price the Heavens demanded. True Balance was a tricky thing to get right, since one could hardly surrender to emotion and retain control at the same time. Too much or not enough, one was as disastrous as the other, which meant a few mishaps were bound to happen when progressing along the Razor’s Edge. It was not a Path of Balance nor Imbalance, neither Imperial nor Defiled, but both in one, True Balance as the Heaven’s intended. Embrace love and joy, give in to anger and hatred, wallow in grief and regret, indulge in relief and pleasure, for only then could one understand what it truly means to be human. This was Goujian’s Path, the True Human Path, for once he understood what it meant to be human, he could then divest himself of all mortal trappings and emerge as a being of pure Divinity.

And since this lofty goal finally appeared within reach, why did it matter if he had to lay in filth for a day or two to escape the powerful foes hunting him? Even a fearsome tiger can be brought low by a pack of wolves, and though Goujian was strong, he learned firsthand in Sinuji that there were always People beyond People, and Heavens beyond the Heavens.

Goujian only found True Balance a single time, just over six months ago in Sinuji. On that fateful day, he suffered grievous injury in the fires of war and there, on the brink of death, he surrendered to Balance and reforged his body using the Energy of the Heavens to become stronger than ever before. Impressive as his feat was, it was at best a partial success, for in his folly, he held too tightly to the reins of control and failed to wholly surrender to fate. Because of this, he denied himself the critical Insight and information he needed to properly design a new and improved body, leaving himself riddled with a myriad of unforeseen defects like poor heat dispersion, weak ligaments, overly dense muscles, lacking senses, and more. Alas, he had yet to find that elusive moment of perfect Balance once again and replicate even his partial success so as to correct some of his mistakes, but he was close, so close he could feel it.

Even defective and limited as it was, Goujian’s new form was formidable indeed, to the point where he only needed a few months of gruelling, agonizing training to reach the level of a half-step Divinity, or so the young Emperor claimed. In truth, Goujian believed even this much was being overly generous, because as impressive as his physical strength and durability might be, leathery skin and steely bones was no defence against Honed Spiritual Weapons. In high level exchanges, speed was king, and Goujian’s speed and reaction times were far from overwhelming, only marginally better than they were before his rebirth and in some ways, worse. Though able to move in straight lines at ridiculous speeds, he had to be careful when checking his momentum lest he tear his own muscles apart when moving at speeds too high for his flawed body to handle or stopping too suddenly. If not for this oversight on his part, he would have easily defeated Nian Zu in Sinuji, a man yet to unravel the true mysteries of the Heavens aside from the secrets which remained hidden inside his singular, signature move, the Shooting Star.

And even lacking in comprehension as he was, Nian Zu had been more than strong enough to teach Goujian how high the Heavens truly were in a mere ten exchanges. Even one had been enough, since the previous nine had been drawn out to buy time for the beleaguered Imperial soldiers, a warrior and general without compare. In contrast, Goujian was neither of these and counted himself a spy and assassin, which was simply the way of the world. Despite making prodigious improvements over the last six months, he was certain that if he were discovered hiding at the bottom of this midden heap, it would most certainly end in his death.

For Nian Zu was merely one among many Peak Experts residing in the Northern Citadel, which housed the midden heap Goujian was currently hiding in.

As for how he got here, well, he only had the Uniter to blame. The conniving schemer hadn’t even bothered giving Goujian this task himself, and instead sent the young Emperor to pass along his plans, which were utterly lacking in detail. Though happy to wage war on the front lines and give the newly turned Chosen of Heaven time to learn and grow, the Uniter wanted his Wraiths in position to act against Imperial leadership should the opportunity present itself, but thus far, he had no success getting his Concealed killers past the Imperial defences. Thus, the task fell to Goujian, who happily accepted this fool’s errand to get away from his arduous, agonizing training before it could finally break him.

The Uniter was a bastard through and through, but a brilliant one, for a few errant words of advice did much to help Goujian along his Path and shore up the weaknesses of his physique, but it came at no small price. For months, he endured constant pain and suffering by day as various Demons pummelled him to near death, only to relive the same injuries while they healed naturally to become stronger than before thanks to the medicinal baths he soaked in overnight. Rinse and repeat, that was his life for far too long, but the results spoke for themselves as little by little, Goujian’s flaws diminished in severity allowing him to harness more and more of his strengths, tempered by the repeated beatings and healings. It seemed so obvious in retrospect, given the Penitent Brotherhood’s penchant for self-inflicted torment, but were it not for sheer desperation, Goujian would not subject himself to such torture ever again. The pain turned seconds into minutes and minutes into hours, to the point where the last few months felt like decades to him, with each passing day filled with abject misery save for those few, precious moments of rest the Uniter afforded him to meditate on the Dao and possibly find True Balance once again.

Most of the time, Goujian merely wept, and when it came time for his training to begin anew, he wept some more. Why was a strong body even necessary if the end goal was to leave it behind and ascend to Divinity?

Regardless of his thoughts on the treatment, Goujian could not deny that it was effective, so he put his full effort into this venture in hopes of learning more from his wise ‘Mentor’. It became immediately apparent that the first group of infiltrators would have no chance of success, for they were all natural-born Defiled Wraiths from beyond Imperial borders, meaning they were unable to speak Common and utterly incapable of blending in. To remedy this, Goujian and the young Emperor picked out over three hundred candidates from among the newly Chosen and sent them to the Uniter to undergo the speedy, secretive training required to become a Wraith. Not ten days later, a little more than a third returned to Shi Bei looking pale, wan, and sickly, but while their strength had not improved by much, and in some cases even regressed, every last one of them knew how to innately Conceal with only a modicum of focus.

A shame Goujian was denied the opportunity to witness the process firsthand, but the young Emperor was refused access as well, so there was no helping it. The Uniter was a man of many secrets, and he guarded them fiercely as a mother bear guarded her cubs, and even the young Emperor was not privy to most of them, or so he claimed.

With the right people, the next part came to devising the right plan, and Goujian immediately cast aside the Uniter’s suggestions that he find a ship and sail east under Concealment or blaze a trail across the dangerous and impassable Arid Wastes. Instead, he led his hundred Chosen Wraiths out to the front lines, where they worked with a tribal Chieftain to isolate a no-name Imperial Captain and slaughtered them to the last man, whereupon their armour, weapons, and uniforms were confiscated by Goujian’s people. From there, it was simply a matter of marching east in full view of Imperial scouts and keeping a careful distance from other battered, retreating units, until they were close enough to sprint for the Azure Sea and swim past the heavy Imperial barricades at Sui Hua before disappearing into the Central grasslands, all in a single, exhausting night.

Difficult to mask the disappearance of an entire hundred man retinue, but by the time the Imperials tracked him down, Goujian intended to be hidden within plain sight once again.

With the first hurdle overcome, Goujian led his Chosen further east to a remote township of Central, where he made contact with a well-to-do merchant inside the Uniter’s network who was happy to vouch for their new identities. The majority of the Chosen Wraiths became sailors working on the merchant’s ships, while others found work as labourers, farmhands, and aspiring landowners under Falling Rain’s initiative to bring workers to the Western Border. Those poor, misguided souls were being herded to the border to become fodder for the Defiled, but they believed that runt’s silver-tongued lies and flocked to his districts in droves. An ambitious plan, sinking so much coin into a mere distraction, but as the Minister of Finance, Falling Rain had the coin to spare, and the lives of commoners were worth less than the dirt they tread upon in the eyes of the Imperial Clan.

All this was easy enough to accomplish, and soon, the majority of Goujian’s Chosen Wraiths were on their way to the Northern Citadel, save for the lone, six Defiled Wraiths the Uniter insisted Goujian keep. These half-dozen killers were an inhuman lot, their pasty grey skin and dark, shifty eyes painting them as insidious vipers not to be trusted, but he had strict orders to see them safely into the Citadel. A difficult prospect bringing obvious Defiled into one of the most heavily guarded fortifications in the Empire, a task made all the more daunting by Goujian’s newfangled physique. In Sinuji, he impersonated a common farrier before MuYang and the others betrayed him, and it had been simple enough. By day, he worked, and by night, he disappeared into his tent with large jars of alcohol, which was enough to explain his absence. Blending in at the Citadel would have been even easier, if not for the fact that his new appearance did not lend itself to subterfuge. Where he once possessed a lean, lanky frame which looked positively decrepit whenever he donned loose robes and hunched his back, he was now too tall, too large, too handsome, and too memorable to blend in, which meant he could never pass as a commoner.

So once again, Goujian relied on old tricks and dressed the Defiled Wraiths up as Western Warriors garbed in the draped head-wraps and face coverings associated with those barren desert lands. To get around their inability to speak proper Common, he cut out all their tongues to force them to converse only through Sending. Thankfully, these six understood enough civilized language to follow basic orders, and he concocted a fanciful story of how the six comrades had taken their own tongues away and taken an Oath of silence in a show of contrition for failing to defend their fallen province. This was a good enough story to get him and his companions into the Citadel, but it took some time to secure real clients, and then travel from the ass-end of Central to the Western border while fighting off every bandit with half a mind to earn a quick coin.

The Empire was at war, and competent Martial Warriors in high demand.

