This was it. Goujian held his breath in anticipation, waiting for the hotheaded young Rain to order his people to attack and the Empire to come crumbling apart, but long seconds passed and still the runt did not reply. Changing his angle of Scrying, Goujian saw that Rain’s eyes were closed in deliberation, no doubt parsing through countless Sendings imploring him to stand down, urging him to rebel, and everything in between, but it was clear the stubborn boy’s mind was made up. Opening his eyes once again, he sighed, dropped his spear and shield to the ground, and stepped forward, away from his mother whose spear shot out to bar the path of his single, Death Corps escort. Alone, unguarded, and armed only with a sheathed sword, Falling Rain moved with slow, deliberate steps towards the stage, climbing up on his hands and knees in ungainly fashion before slowly approaching the Death Corps barring his path. Without prompting, the Death Corps readied their weapons as one, lowering the points of their polearms in Falling Rain’s direction and stomping once in unified warning, but to his credit, the runt didn’t slow or even flinch, his hands clasped behind him as if out for a leisurely stroll. Slowing as he arrived before the wall of blades, he stopped just short of a Death Corps halberd and eased forward until the pointed tip lay flush against his simple cotton shirt. “Move aside.” The Death Corps guard remained rooted in place, which was to be expected, but still Rain sighed and shook his head. “I believe my father is being unlawfully held in the building behind you. I intend to go inside and bring him out, without violence or bloodshed. Should you continue to bar my path, then I will die on your blade, and you will have killed me, Falling Rain, Minister of Finance of the Imperial Clan.”

With that seemingly obvious and apparent statement, Falling Rain slowly stepped forward to impale himself on the tip of the Death Corps’ blade, and illogically, the guard pulled back, his feet rooted and weapon still pointed at the runt, but face twisted in panic and confusion.

Despite watching everything through Scrying, Goujian couldn’t fathom why the Death Corps Guard would step back, until he realized the truth of the situation. This was all an elaborate bluff on Yang Jixing’s part, because he did not have the authority to order Falling Rain’s death if no crime was committed, and could only order the Death Corps to bar anyone’s path into the building. Now, the savage runt was leaving his protectors behind and calling Jixing’s bluff, telling the Death Corps that the only way to stop him from going inside was to kill him, which their Oaths would not allow.

The unfortunate guard could neither move nor stand in place, and so, the Heavens exacted its toll from him as he fell to his knees gasping for breath. “You need to order him to actually stop me or get out of my way,” Rain said, his voice piercing and easily heard even from Goujian’s distant hiding place. “He’ll die if you don’t.” It would not be a quick death either, for the Heavens were merciful, but the Death Corps Guard had no recourse, for he was caught in a paradox. Bar everyone’s path, but to do so would kill an Imperial Scion, and thus, he could neither stay nor leave, and so he fought for breath even though the weight of his Oaths would not allow it. The nameless guard’s face turned red, then purple, his bulging eyes panicked and desperate as he clung to hope, but Jixing ignored it all from high above. Down below, Rain watched the poor guard choke to death on stage, and only Goujian and other Scrying eyes could see the conflict and pity in his expression as those amber eyes took in the slow suffering his presence was causing.

Then, inexplicably, Falling Rain stepped back, and the unfortunate Death Corps Guard finally drew breath, gasping and heaving as he collapsed to the stage. Raising his head to glare at Yang Jixing’s balcony, Rain asked, “Are you really so spiteful? Even now, you refuse to compromise? You erred in arresting my father, erred in denying me the right to attend his trial, erred in setting the Death Corps to block my path without the proper justification, but you would rather loyal Imperials die than admit it, and now the entire Citadel sees you for the man you are. A bully who would happily spill Imperial blood to take what is not his, and a fool who abuses his authority and would risk rebellion in a time of desperate war rather than admit his wrongs. Yang Jixing, you are a wastrel and an idiot who is not fit to lead, and as such, I refuse to acknowledge your authority.” Raising his voice for the first time since arriving in the square, Rain shouted, “I accuse Yang Jixing with dereliction of duty and criminal misconduct in a time of war. Is there any Justicar willing to hear my case?”

Much as he hated to admit it, Goujian was thoroughly impressed by Falling Rain’s political maneuvering. Though he might not have the law on his side, his actions proved that Yang Jixing was unwilling to compromise even the slightest to avoid bloodshed and conflict, while his words suggested this was a conflict based on greed and misconduct. Now, the Disciplinary Corps’ silence showed that they were complicit in Yang Jixing’s schemes, which lent credence to the claims of Baatar’s innocence. Coupled with the fact that Yang Jixing was an unknown, most would instinctively side with Baatar and Falling Rain, even though the former stood accused of treason and the latter was unlawfully demanding the freedom of an accused criminal.

And now it seemed like the boy would emerge victorious from this Imperial conflict, all without bloodshed or rebellion. Whoever was pulling Falling Rain’s strings was no less brilliant than the Uniter, which explained why the old schemer was so reluctant to proceed. A warrior barring your path was a threat one could plan for, but a hidden mastermind lurking in the shadows? Difficult, truly difficult to defend against.

“I, Colonel General Nian Zu, call into question the competence of the new Legate, Yang Jixing.” Dropping his Concealment, the Living Legend appeared on the edge of stage with fist clasped in a military salute, standing behind Falling Rain to support him while still keeping enough distance between them to appear neutral. “This servant requests the Disciplinary Corps to hear his case.”

“I, Major General Han BoHai, call into question...”

“I, Lieutenant General Situ Jia Yang, call into question...”

“I, Brigadier...”

“I, Colonel...”

“I Captain...”

As more and more Imperial Officers revealed themselves to support Falling Rain’s accusations, the pieces of the Uniter’s plan finally all fell into place, and Goujian cursed himself a fool for not seeing it sooner while marvelling at how naturally the Defiled mastermind had manoeuvred everything into place. Earlier, Goujian had cursed his allies for not biding their time and picking their targets, but who knew how long it would be before a Peak Expert like Nian Zu would let his guard down? This was not the Northern Wall, where he had a manor to reside in, and there was no way to tell if a given opportunity was an ambush set to force the Wraiths to reveal themselves. Now, the Northern Army’s greatest Military Officers were all gathered in one place, voluntarily coming out of Concealment for all to see, and Goujian would not let this opportunity pass. Even before the Uniter’s painful Sending arrived in his mind, he had already stealthily launched himself out of the midden heap and Concealed himself, his presence going unnoticed amongst so many Concealed Imperials coming out to lend support or simply enjoy the show. Never one to leave things up to chance, Goujian went one step further and Concealed himself from probing Domains as well as the physical senses. The concept remained the same, but the execution was different, in that rather than his Concealment being just an extension of his Domain, it also incorporated his Aura as well to emanate a second layer of obfuscation.

Yet another of the myriad possibilities hidden within Aura, alongside the mysteries of Oration and other such Talents the Uniter would not share with Goujian, but the Heavens would reveal all in good time.

There stood Nian Zu on stage in plain sight, hands clasped and head lowered in supplication to the Disciplinary Corps hidden within, a man of honour and integrity, unlike his Imperial Masters. Goujian scowled as he watched from the rooftop of a nearby restaurant and waited for opportunity to present himself. The Uniter wanted him to wait, said that one death must come first before all others, and Goujian disapproved, assuming the old schemer valued Falling Rain’s death over that of Nian Zu. A foolish trade, killing the boy and giving a chance to the General to go free, but Goujian still needed the Uniter’s wisdom for the time being.

More and more Officers revealed themselves until their voices all ran together, the message always the same and rarely changing. In a single day, a single action even, Yang Jixing had lost the North’s confidence, and the fiercely independent northerners would not be quick to forget this. The inept youth in question loomed over the crowd with a face red with rage, his veins throbbing and teeth cracking beneath the force of his gritted teeth, helpless to act but unwilling to accept defeat. What a disappointing Imperial Scion, but this, more than anything, proved to Goujian that the Imperials were no better than the rest of humanity, and only their stranglehold on the secrets of the Martial Path kept them in power. No wonder they recruited almost every Martial Warrior of note, bringing them away from the outer provinces and binding them with Oaths so that their precious secrets would never be revealed, and Goujian once again swore to tear down the Imperial facade of lies and bring Truth to all who would hear it.

Then, with barely a warning, the Uniter called Goujian to action as a Defiled Wraith, one of Goujian’s ‘comrades’ still dressed in Western garb, neatly separated Yang Jixing’s head from his shoulders, in full view of thousands of loyal Imperials.

How the Uniter could have planned this all in advance, Goujian would never know, but the unpredictable scheme unfolded beautifully before his very eyes. The Wraith died before finishing the follow through to his attack, his heart skewered by the sword of a bearded Imperial who appeared a fraction of a second too late, ruddy cheeks blazing with fury as he roared, “Rebel filth! You dare sully Imperial honour and ally yourself with the Enemy?! Death Corps and Royal Guardians, arrest the traitor Falling Rain! Slaughter all who resist!”

Cackling with delight, Goujian drew upon the full strength of his reforged body and launched himself towards his foe, collapsing the roof beneath his feet and savouring the truncated screams which emerged from within. The distance between him and his target closed in an instant, but even this was enough time for Nian Zu to react, his head turning, feet moving, and mace rising to see, dodge, and intercept the perceived threat, but it was too little too late. Time slowed as Goujian watched his hooked sword scythe through the air, hurtling in an arc which would pass clean through his foe’s neck. Despite holding all the advantages, he knew that this was a game of millimetres and marvelled at the still Living Legend’s strength. Instead of cleanly decapitating him, Goujian’s sword just barely opened Nian Zu’s throat in a spray of arterial blood, and the taste of salty victory was more divine than Goujian had ever imagined. The shocked disbelief in Nian Zu’s eyes made it all the better, his brow furrowing in confusion before raising in denial as his body gave out, only for his eyes to narrow in anger and finally, ease into acceptance. There, in his final moments of clarity, Nian Zu gazed upon his killer, and Goujian smiled back.

“I warned you in Sinuji, did I not?” Goujian’s voice came out as barely more than a whisper, but the Living Legend could hear him well enough. “You should have guarded your head better, because I always accomplish what I set out to achieve.”

And just like that, the Living Legend Nian Zu, lived no more.

Chapter Meme
