The Imperial Army paid fairly decent wages compared to what a man like Guying, Goujian’s alias, would make, especially at the rock-bottom prices Goujian had set in an effort to entice enough merchants to avoid suspicion and get moving as quickly as possible. To counter this, Goujian had planned on feigning not just utter incompetence, but also the wildly stubborn demeanour of a narcissist who could admit no wrong. Warriors like this tended to have issues with authority and were quickly drummed out of basic training, and Guying was the epitome of dumb and proud, so he fit the type perfectly. All of this and more had been worked into his backstory, but what he failed to account for were his chatty clientele. After selling their wares at a considerable markup, Goujian’s clients took to the barrooms and whorehouses to spend their profits and brag about their brilliant exploits, which inevitably led to talk of their ‘harrowing’ journey to the Citadel. In the way of gossip shared over a drink or three, Goujian’s inebriated clients exaggerated the dangers they met on the road, as a handful of sneak thieves turned into a throng of insidious assassins and a band of seventeen bandits grew into a veritable army of seasoned marauders.

Though Goujian went to great lengths to hide his true strength by fighting poorly with a crudely forged and exceptionally heavy mace, it was difficult to swat a bug and not kill it in a single strike, and the young Emperor’s Wraiths had not even bothered trying to pretend. Even though most of the talk could be waved off as drunken boasting, there was too much truth in their blustering for an experienced Warrior to overlook, and soon, recruiters were arriving at his shared quarters in droves to offer gainful employment. It wasn’t just the Imperial Army, who were easily waved off with his falsified service history, or other ‘competing’ escort companies, which Goujian dismissed by saying he would rather work for himself, but he even received offers from noble houses and well-to-do merchants who wanted him and his six companions to join their useless relative’s retinue.

After Falling Rain publicly shamed Ishin Ken-Shibu for resting on his laurels instead of fighting on the front lines, serving time in battle had become a necessity for all Warriors of rank, lest they and their families lose face. Now, the Empire had an overabundance of Third Grade Warrant Officers who had purchased their rank and were now in dire need of Warriors to accompany them in battle to avoid being shamed for holding ‘hollow’ tokens, a new term coined for those who shirked their military duties and was synonymous with coward and wastrel. There were always people with more money than sense, so Goujian found it almost impossible to turn down gainful employment, especially at some of the ludicrously lucrative prices offered, but he did so anyways, and that had been a grievous mistake.

His suspicious actions earned him the attentions of a canny, cagey hunter, one on the lookout for suspicious Warriors. Goujian had seen signs of his foe during the past month, in the wandering eyes that sometimes turned his way and the strangers who asked questions which seemed innocent, but were designed to catch him in a lie. His extended stay in the Citadel only made the unseen hunter more wary of Goujian’s presence, but it couldn’t be helped; the young Emperor failed to mention that the Chosen Wraiths Goujian had smuggled into the Citadel would take action less than a week after his arrival. Had he known in advance, he would have set up bolt holes and safe houses for them to hide in and avoid detection, but he was barely settled into his new role when they first struck. Were these his Aspirants of old, they would have made sure that their absences weren’t noted so they had a role to return to, but these Wraiths only knew how to Conceal themselves, and were amateurs at hiding their presence through mundane efforts. Instead of being clever about it, they wholly abandoned their original identities to stalk their prey, thus becoming entirely reliant on Goujian to find them food, water, and a place to rest while hiding from Imperial kill-squads of Peak Experts and roving Divinities who were bored enough to go searching for Wraiths.

The worst part was, the Chosen Wraiths weren’t even particularly effective in their assassination attempts, only killing a smattering of notable Warriors and no Peak Experts among them. The Citadel was a target rich environment, and even the most cunning beasts would eventually let down their guard, but instead of biding their time and picking their moments with care, the Wraiths set out night after night in a futile attempt to sow chaos and death in the Citadel. Most of their attempts seemed aimed at Falling Rain’s manor, despite losing over half of the Wraiths Goujian had painstakingly snuck into the Citadel during their first night of attacks. Coincidentally, the Uniter contacted Goujian on that same night demanding he personally go see what was happening in the vicinity of Falling Rain’s manor, and what he saw was... well, nothing.

By the time Goujian arrived at the lakeside park, the fighting was over and done with. More than sixty Wraiths had died in as many seconds, if that, and the Death Corps were out in full force securing a perimeter around not just the runt’s manor, but also the rest of the park it bordered on. A little excessive considering they had little difficulty dispatching the Uniter’s Wraiths and the runt was already secured, with a grand working of Concealment surrounding his entire manor to keep Goujian from peering in. There were too many powerful Peak Experts guarding Falling Rain, and the Uniter was paying the price for underestimating his foe, but even then, Goujian’s mysterious ‘Mentor’ refused to give up. For two weeks, his Wraiths tested Falling Rain’s defence every night like clockwork, and only Goujian’s insistence that they make the attempt in isolated groups of three and never make contact with friendly forces again kept them all from being wiped out by their canny foe. Whoever it was knew his methods well, and Goujian suspected it was one of his former Aspirant’s leading the hunt, perhaps even the traitorous MuYang who had yet to reveal himself. Gunan and Kanri were there, hiding in plain sight as the Imperial Servant’s clerks, and he caught sight of Jadhar by sheer happenstance when he spotted the once fervent believer leaving Falling Rain’s manor in the dead of night. Traitors to the cause one and all, men who Goujian saved and trained now working against him, much like his own sons.

Despite their betrayal, Goujian found it difficult to blame them. As he learned from his sons’ betrayals, it was far easier to swallow pleasant lies than embrace an unpleasant truth, but this only made his conviction all the stronger. The Imperial Clan must be dealt with and their lies revealed for what they were, else how many more good men and helpless innocents would be left to suffer, when True Enlightenment was but a step away?

For two weeks after that initial attack, Goujian worked tirelessly day and night to ensure the rest of his comrades remained hidden and safe. It was infuriating how the Uniter seemed to have a vast network of allies in every corner of the Empire except at the Western Wall, which was where they would have been of most use, so Goujian was left to fend for himself. He lost many of his people to Imperial raids, but he kept most out of harm’s way despite their nightly outings, hiding them in empty warehouses, unloaded ships, underground cellars, and unused dining halls. Aside from their targets, he forbade the Wraiths from killing anyone unless they were discovered, because a trail of corpses would lead the hunters straight to those Wraiths. It was all he could do to keep ahead of his foe, while also juggling his Guying persona, which was far more difficult than he would like. True to ‘his’ loutish personality, Goujian visited with prospective employers and took advantage of their hospitality, saying much and promising little while fishing for the highest price for his services, as well as the services of his six comrades who had yet to make a move. That was fortuitous at least, because it allowed Goujian to move freely and inspect prospective hiding places without having to reveal his true allegiance, and by getting into random heated arguments with prospective employers, it also gave him good reason for remaining unemployed.

Then, yesterday afternoon, Goujian’s ‘comrades’ made a move and almost killed the Legate himself, without bothering to remove their distinct Western robes beforehand.

It was an asinine move which revealed them all for little to no gain, but Goujian was more upset over the missed chance to watch a truly high-level battle. Oh what he wouldn’t give to have been a fly on that wall, to witness the strength of an Imperial Scion firsthand. He didn’t even care that his comrades’ stupidity forced him into hiding, because he couldn’t have kept his Guying ruse up for much longer. That was the problem with being a Martial Warrior, because even with so many of them gathered here in the Northern Citadel, theirs was a small world with too many overlapping connections. Sooner or later, someone would find it odd that no one knew of Guying and the pieces would then fall into place. Better to disappear on his own terms before the noose was already around his neck, so Goujian absconded to his personal hiding spot, one he picked out the day he arrived.

Which was how he ended up hiding in the midden heap of the busiest market district of the Northern Citadel, not two minutes away from the Command Centre. When night fell, the sanitation workers would arrive to fill their wagons, after which they would cart Goujian safely out to the waste pits beyond the Citadel gates.

As for the Defiled Wraiths, or at least the five who survived, Goujian was uncertain and uncaring of their final fate. Perhaps they’d been captured and killed, or perhaps they led their pursuers back to their Chosen, but that was precisely why Goujian didn’t bother informing them of his nearly foolproof plan. If the gate guards were diligent enough to dig through a stinking midden heap in search of assassins, then Goujian would simply have to give credit where credit was due and accept defeat.

After the better part of a day however, Goujian discovered that the entire Citadel was abuzz with news of Lieutenant General Baatar’s arrest. Not two minutes later, word came of Falling Rain riding at the head of his Khishigs, all armed and ready for battle. Now this was a development, one Goujian was perfectly poised to exploit if the chance should present itself, and one which boded poorly for the Empire’s future. Giving thanks to the Legate’s incompetent successor and Falling Rain’s hotheaded response, Goujian laid in the midden heap while Scrying and Listening for any and all developments.

And it all worked out so perfectly to his benefit, Goujian just had to wonder if the Uniter had planned on this all along. Remove Falling Rain’s patron and puppeteer, and watch the arrogant, impulsive, and ultimately dangerous young man bring everything down around his ears, it was a brilliant plan by any measure, and worked more effectively than Goujian could ever have imagined.

When Falling Rain laid Yang Jixing’s actions bare with no regard for Imperial face, Goujian almost snarled in rage at the sheer nepotism on display, for this was truly a perversion of justice. It was almost as if they were kindred spirits, fighting for a better world in which the people were ruled by honourable and righteous Warriors rather than the self-serving oppressors of the Imperial Clan. Falling Rain’s tone made Goujian weep, for he bore witness to the death of innocence and optimism in a young hero who truly wanted the best for the world, and was learning that the world worked against him. This injustice could not stand, and Goujian almost revealed himself to attack Jixing and free the wrongly imprisoned Baatar.

But then, Goujian caught himself and froze in terror at the power Falling Rain just revealed.

This was the young Emperor’s Talent, Oration, at work, and the runt had come a long way since his time in Sinuji. The Devourer was progressing far too quickly, and had to be removed from the board, but to strike here and now in the heart of his power... Even with a thousand Wraiths attacking in secret, Goujian would not be confident of success.

“Release my father now,” Falling Rain demanded, and if Baatar were in Goujian’s hands, he feared he would be compelled to do as asked, for Falling Rain’s tone left no room for defiance. “I make no demands or threats, I only suggest you do what is right, or what comes next lies on your head, and yours alone.”

An ultimatum if there ever were one, and the tension was palpable even to Goujian hiding in his midden heap. One second passed, then two, then three as Jixing considered his options from on high, his indecision clear to anyone who was watching. Then, his expression stilled and took on a haughty cast as he drew himself up to full height. “The Emperor’s Justice,” he said, enunciating each word with deliberate lack of haste, “Will be decided by the Emperor’s Servants, not some tribal savage with delusions of grandeur and no respect for Imperial Face. Save your threats and learn your place, lest you be charged with rebellion alongside your treasonous dog of a ‘father’.”

