Thrilling as all this combat might be, I can’t let it distract me from my goal for tonight, which is to show I still have enough support to stand on my own.

Which doesn’t really make sense, because by definition, I’m not standing alone if there are people supporting me, but whatever. So far, my team is killing it in the sparring ring, with Song knocking it out of the park with eight consecutive victories, followed by Fung and Wu Gam’s resounding exhibition match, and topped off with Huu’s remarkable debut into the public eye. Thrilled as I am with how things are going, after taking a moment to think things through, I’m worried we might still be in hot water after all.

For starters, Song will be seen as merely a slave and her accomplishments written off, not because it wasn’t impressive, but because the public doesn’t want to admit that a slave might be worthy of admiration. That’d be too much like treating a slave as a person, and we can’t have that. It’s a slippery slope, I tell you. First you admire them, then you see them as human beings, and next thing you know, people will be clamouring about things like ‘human rights’, ‘freedom’, and all that other nonsense. No, better to treat all slaves like tools to be used and discarded, because then slave owners don’t have to worry about silly things like shame and morals.

As for Fung and Wu Gam, neither one is politically powerful or popular, so even if I have their support, it doesn’t affect the political landscape insofar as the powers that be are concerned. You’d think the doting Mama Gam would count for something, but then again, I had Guan Suo literally standing behind me since passing Ping Yao, and that did nothing for me. Or maybe it did, and the grumpy Divinity is why I got mixed up in the Legate’s plans in the first place. Who knows?

Then there’s Huu, but he’s one of the People, so aside from showing that there’s another thriving young Talent in our ranks, his presence changes nothing, which means even though my team has dominated the sparring matches thus far, overall I’m still sitting at zero points for the night on the political scoreboard. Hell, Gulong scored more points for the opposition by not being a complete wastrel, because even though he’s got a temper problem, there are plenty of hot-headed young warriors who grow up into hot-headed adults, and most of them never go full Defiled, so yea.

Which begs the question: why didn’t anyone bring this up while we were planning all these sparring matches? BoShui and Zian have yet to go up, but I don’t think either of them could do anything to shift the balance of power in my favour, because they’re too young and inconsequential. What’s the point of all this sparring? Everyone else seems to think it matters, but I don’t get it. Sure, it shows that I’m surrounded by young Talents, but with how things stand, it almost feels like no one short of a Peak Expert really matters, which means...

...

.......

It means Gerel is my only hope? Tch.

...I kinda regret antagonizing him so much, but in my defence, it’s really funny to see his entire head turn red in a mixture of anger and embarrassment.

The banquet spars continue as I stew in anxiety and dejection, but the participants are mostly second-rate younger talents or of minimal consequence. Well, second-rate might be a bit uncharitable, as they’re still well above your average Martial Warrior, but it’s like watching regional amateur boxing matches after multiple thrilling world-title bouts. The participants are scions of wealthy and/or influential families, but largely of no political consequence since they’ve either already taken a side or have remained staunchly neutral. Seoyoon and Geom Chi both make an appearance, as do two or three more Society adherents, and a good number of unknown Southerners also show up, but again, this doesn’t really affect me on a personal level, so I’m not all that invested. Still, I make an effort to appear interested while trying to puzzle out which one of them might be an Imperial lackey, but my efforts prove fruitless on both accounts.

I wish I could talk to Luo-Luo without our discussion being noted and listened to. It’s poor form to erect a Sound Barrier in front of so many people, and half of them can probably read lips regardless. I should ask her to put extra effort into Sending practice, so she can hold my hand and pass along any pertinent information which comes to mind.

Whilst debating if it would be okay to ask for twenty-two servings of every dessert so my guards can have a taste, a new challenger arrives in the sparring ring whose name finally draws my attention. Striding down from the back of the banquet hall is none other than Tam Taewoong, which more than anything proves that the banquet organizer is an utter twat. Not only was Taewoong front and centre for both titular battles of Sinuji, he is currently the junior officer with most time served on the front lines. There stands a dedicated soldier who fought and bled for months on end in an effort to keep the Empire safe, yet somehow the powers that be deemed him not important enough to be seated towards the front. Hell, rumour has it Taewoong only received an invitation at Chen Hongji’s adamant request, as the two of them have an amicable relationship after working together for so long.

Truly nepotism at its finest. One only needs to look at Tam Taewoong’s closest rival to see it in effect. For years, he stood shoulder to shoulder with Ryo Geom-Chi and eventually tied for the Number one Talent of Central, but while the former works his ass off and gets shunted off to the nosebleed section, the latter spends exactly zero hours on the front lines and gets seated in the front row, all because of a difference in family name.

“Tam Taewoong,” he begins, after saluting the Legate. “Second Grade Warrant Officer.”

That said, he turns to the crowd and locks eyes with BoShui before clapping his armoured gauntlets together. “You won our last match, and have progressed by leaps and bounds ever since, but I would appreciate a chance to regain my honour.”

“There was no honour lost,” BoShui replies, striding out in full battle gear despite the festivities. “Tam Taewoong is a Warrior worthy of the highest respects, far worthier than many of my peers sitting around me.” It’s not fair. When BoShui insults people directly, no one says a thing, but I do it and it’s like an echo chamber of ‘you dares?’. I suppose that’s the benefit of looking the part, not to mention having curb-stomped no small number of older warriors looking to put BoShui in his place. While I was busy upping my step count, BoShui was kicking ass and taking names, both on the front lines and in the Citadel as a means of garnering support, not just for me but for his Clan as well. In the end, he’s had about as much success as I have, which is to say none, but part of that is because he commissioned a quarter-million copies of ‘The Storm over Sinuji; a saga of Falling Rain’ and handed out his fanciful journal entry like it was an excerpt from the bible. No one came out and called him a liar, but I’m the protagonist of the tale and even I can barely believe his version of events.

Seriously, he makes it out like my clash with Gen was a battle between the Gods themselves, with Mother and Father duking it out over the fields of Sinuji. BoShui is many things, but a literary artist, he is not.

Still, he’s a good man and a good friend, so I cheer loudly after his formal introduction and settle in to enjoy the show. Taewoong wastes no time in taking the offensive by unleashing a lightning-fast combination of jabs and hooks while dancing around his larger opponent. In response, BoShui stands his ground while parrying each attack with frightening ease, his hands in place to stop Taewoong short long before he comes close to connecting with his intended target. It’s like watching a boxer hitting mitts at maximum speed except Taewoong isn’t aiming so much as BoShui is intercepting the attacks, using a combination of proper positioning, rapid reflexes, and what I think is some form of reverse Deflection to draw Taewoong’s punches into his waiting palms.

Then Taewoong kicks things up a notch and my mundane eyes fail me once more, with both warriors fading into a barely perceptible blur darting back and forth in front of the stage. While I can’t make out the specifics, it’s clear as day that BoShui is holding the upper hand. Taewoong is faster by far, darting about while throwing ten punches for every one of BoShui’s, but the effect is minimal. BoShui either blocks or parries the attack with minimal movement, while Taewoong is forced to stall his offensive and skirt aside every time his burly opponent throws a punch, slowing the tempo for a fraction of a second which is enough for me to perceive things. It’s the difference between an assault ship and a battle carrier, which means that even if the carrier never hits, it can still sit around and shrug off all the hits until the ship either finds an exposed weakness or, more likely, runs out of ammo.

A year ago, these two were so closely matched, BoShui only eked out a victory due to sheer, dumb luck. Today, he stands head and shoulders above Taewoong, so much so that the match doesn’t even seem fair. It’s all thanks to Domain somehow, because it augments everything that came before it, not only making it easier to use External Chi, but also enabling the use of so many tools which were previously unavailable. The reverse Deflection is one of them, because while standard Deflection is considered an Internal application of Chi, whatever BoShui’s doing is undeniably External. There might also be some form of External Lightening going on, because that’s been one of BoShui’s weakest areas, yet he’s still able to move around fast enough to keep up with Taewoong. Then there’s the sheer reaction speed, which seems borderline inhuman, but maybe all Martial Warriors are this fast and I’m only noticing it now because I’m crippled.

I wish I could see what’s going on.

And just like that, I can.

How many times has it happened before, usually in the thick of battle? Time slows and the world moves forward at a snail’s pace, giving me ample time to observe and react to everything and anything in my path. I always attributed it to adrenaline surging through my veins, but this time my heart-rate is sluggish and lethargic after a hearty, eight-course meal. Thump-thump goes my heart, and a dozen punches are exchanged in the process, but on the next ‘thump’ time slows to a crawl and the blurred warriors focus into crystalline clarity. Taewoong throws a jab, then another, drawing BoShui’s guard high, then feints with a right hook before delivering a left blow to the abdomen. Not the first attack to slip through, judging by the state of BoShui’s robes, but he weathers the blow with ease. Undaunted by the attack, he calmly steps in to close the distance and unleashes a fearsome right straight, but Taewoong is two steps ahead and cleanly dodges the attack while simultaneously responding with a clean cross-counter to the chin.

Which BoShui neatly blocks with his left, but not without feeling the sting, his cheeks rippling from the Reverberating impact which passes cleanly through his guard. A lesser man would’ve fallen flat on his face once the pulsating wave of Chi-delivered force reached his brain and rattled it about like a maraca, but BoShui is no slouch when it comes to Reverberation himself and negates the aftershocks with an internal Reverberation of his own. Of course, I only know this because he’s still standing and able to defend himself, but it’s a textbook example of the benefits of a Natal Soul, since I doubt BoShui could have saved himself if not for having partitioned his mind into two separate but equal working units.

And still the match continues, with Taewoong hesitating ever so slightly before pressing the advantage and unleashing yet another devastating combination attack, aiming low now that BoShui is guarding high to land another three clean hits. No, not entirely clean, as BoShui’s Domain is blunting their force, but if not for that, this match would have long since ended. A scything hook sails well over Taewoong’s head and affords him the opportunity for two more hits, but then his luck runs out as BoShui corners him against the stage and leaves him with nowhere left to run.

A one-two combination to the chest brings Taewoong to his knees, and only then does my heart complete the earlier paired beat before time resumes it’s normal flow. Thump. Thump-thump. Thump-thump. Thump-thump.

The State of Enlightenment. I’d honestly forgotten all about it. At one point, I think I even started confusing it with Insight, but they’re two separate things. Insight is downloading info into your brain, while the State of Enlightenment is more like bullet time, allowing Martial Warriors to react against opponents moving at inhuman speeds, but only now do I realize it is a Chi skill like any other. This is how BoShui was blocking all those attacks, because he’s trained his State of Enlightenment to a higher level than anything I’ve ever experienced. It makes sense that it would improve with use, because otherwise battles between Martial Warriors would eventually just be decided by who strikes first.

...I hope it doesn’t take Chi or Heavenly Energy to use. Same with my anti-Concealment spotting efforts, because if I keep burning through my reserves, I’ll probably go full cripple again, and I’d really rather not. Recharging involves getting way closer to Demons than I would really like, dead or otherwise, so it’d be nice if I could avoid that for as long as possible.

