I can still see the Oriole Form in Zian’s movements, but they’ve become something more than they are, rising to a higher level than I can possibly emulate. These are Human Forms, Movements based on us bipedal, hairless apes, optimized maneuvers which bring out every ounce of speed, power, agility, coordination, and flexibility our bodies have to bear, and the results are shocking to the extreme. Three minutes into their frantic exchange, Zian takes control of the tempo, made possible by a simple half-step he took forty-five seconds ago which put his opponent into an awkward position. Back and forth the two warriors go, but it’s clear Ken-Shibu is slowly being herded to his demise as Zian picks apart his defences and forces him onto the back foot. There it is, the stutter-step I warned him about, and Zian wastes no time taking advantage, his boot scything out to catch Ken-Shibu’s cloth shoe in transit and sweeping the Painted Dancer off his feet.

Gotta hand it to Ken-Shibu though, he’s no pushover. Rather than futilely resisting the foot sweep, he performs a one-legged back-flip to narrowly avoid it. More impressive is how he keeps his guard up even whilst in mid air, slapping aside two quick thrusts which would have ended the match and left him with a vicious cut on each cheek. Zian was going for style points instead of safely ending the match, and while it didn’t work out, I still gotta give him props for trying. More importantly, the blatant disrespect has got Ken-Shibu in a tizzy, and he lands soft as a feather before charging forward in a frenzy. Caught off guard by the unexpected aggression, the balance of power shifts away from Zian as there are no more missing notes to be found, for it is all he can do to stave off Ken-Shibu’s murderous offensive.

The back and forth is no more as Zian is driven back, with Ken-Shibu’s longsword punching holes through his defences while the shortsword seeks to kill. Somewhere along the way, Ken-Shibu reverses his grip on both swords and the change in angle and reach throws Zian for a loop. The longsword comes dangerously close to taking off his leg, but Ken-Shibu angles it back at the very last moment because he has no intention of letting his foe off so easily. No, he wants Zian’s life, which becomes clear as his grip returns to normal. Arms outstretched and swords positioned to strike Zian’s head from his neck, Ken-Shibu’s blood-thirsty grin is ghoulish to behold, a pale, painted spectre of death incarnate.

Then Zian’s sabres swing up from below and lop Ken-Shibu’s arms off at shoulders in a crimson spray of blood.

A shrill shriek fills the air as the Painted Dancer staggers away, his face twisted in pain and surprise. Hongji’s table flies off the stage and chaos breaks loose as the wooden furniture explodes into splinters, revealing a furious Ishin Shigen charging into the fray, but the slight delay buys enough time for Nian Zu to leap off the stage and meet him in a roar of wordless challenge.

“Stay your hand!”

Just like that, the chaos comes to a standstill, with Nian Zu’s mace mere inches from slamming into Ishin Shigen’s unprotected face. As the State of Enlightenment fades away, I blink in confusion and try to make sense of the scene before me. I saw the table flying out and Nian Zu leap out to meet Shigen, but when did the rest of the audience break out into wholesale violence? Broken tables and shattered porcelain litter the ground, with the crowd clearly separated into pockets of allies and enemies with bloodied blades a plenty. It feels like I closed my eyes for a minute and missed it all, but I don’t think I even blinked. Standing atop his table, the Legate snaps his fan open to reveal the Imperial Sigil, and everyone present drops to their knees and lowers their heads. I follow their lead a half-second later, but it’s long enough for the Legate to grow annoyed and shoot me a glare, which I pretend not to notice while lowering my head.

C’mon man, gimme a break. Vanilla human here, so cut me some slack for having a slow reaction time.

“See to the wounded,” the Legate commands, followed by the tell-tale snap of his closing fan. “Remove all the remaining furniture from the room. Since the greatest powers of the outer provinces cannot be trusted to get along, then there is no sense letting good tables and chairs go to waste.”

The thought of so many nobles getting their chairs and tables taken away is actually pretty funny, but I can’t afford to laugh. The last thing I need is for the Legate to fixate his rage on me. For long, uncomfortable minutes, the massive banquet hall is filled with the sounds of frantic servants moving furniture as quickly as they can while doing their best to avoid looking at any noble in particular. I know this because I peeked, and after thinking it through, decided it’s probably because they don’t want to be seen by any Scrying Martial Warriors and accused of taking delight in their hardships. Poor guys, they’ll probably still be accused of moving furniture too slowly and get whipped or something. It’s a hard life being a pleb, but hopefully that’ll change sooner rather than later.

“Disgraceful.” Dripping with scorn and disapproval, the Legate’s rebuke echos through the banquet with startling clarity as the din of workers dies off. “Tonight was to be a celebration of the Empire’s staggering victory in Sinuji, a victory made possible by the united efforts of the outer provinces, yet you lot have turned it into a viper’s nest of discord and dissension.”

Psh. He’s one to talk. As if all this isn’t happening because the Supreme Families are pitting us against each other.

“Mitsue Watanabe.”

“Yes, Imperial Legate.”

“Where are the heroes of Sinuji?”

“...Sir?”

I would give anything to see the look on Watanabe’s face right now, but the Legate hasn’t given us permission to look up yet. “When I instructed you to organize this banquet,” he says, his voice radiating with cold, restrained fury, “I told you this was a celebration of our victory in Sinuji, yet I see only a handful of Warriors who served there in attendance tonight. Fifteen-thousand soldiers survived the battle of Sinuji. You mean to tell me none of them deserve recognition for their efforts? That not a single soldier accomplished anything of note in battle? That there were no surviving officers besides yourself, the Colonel General, and a single Warrant Officer alone?”

“Uh... no Imperial Legate, but... but fighting is but a small part of our victory in Sinuji. Training, supplies, construction, administration, all this and more is vital to the ongoing defence of the Empire.”

“Do you think me a fool? If this is what you believe, then why are the Southern delegates seated so far away? Why are your closest cronies all crowded together at the front?”

“...A thousand apologies, Imperial Legate. Mercy Imperial Legate. This one was wrong.” A slap rings out. “This one was wrong.”

“Imperial Legate, this humble one requests permission to speak.” Mitsue Juichi, sounding real heartbroken over his son. I wonder if the Legate used some Aura-voice thing to scare Watanabe, or if he’s just that spineless to begin with.

“Permission denied, Colonel General. Speak again and I will have your tongue.” Well, I suppose that’s proof that Juichi isn’t working for the Legate, which means he’s got a different Imperial backer. Something wooden clatters against the stone floor, and I peek under my arm to see a scroll unfurling itself across the stage. “That,” the Legate snaps, “Is a list of commendations, promotions, and prizes I intended to hand out at the end of tonight’s festivities, but seeing how there are only five intended recipients present, I see no point in doing so. Do you, Colonel?”

“...No? Imperial Legate.”

“Hmph.” Flicking his sleeves, the Legate falls silent while his Death Corps march about the stage. When their boots fall silent, he says, “See to it that the heroes of Sinuji receive their due, and dock yourself five years salary to help with the expense. Overlook a single person on that list and I will have your head. Colonel General Nian Zu.”

“Yes Imperial Legate.”

“A man of your years should have long since learned restraint. You will forfeit your prize and pay the Healer’s fees to mend what your younger clansman has wrought.”

“By your will, Imperial Legate.”

“Raise your heads.” Already seated in his palanquin, the Legate looks none too pleased by the night’s events, though I have no idea why he thought things would go differently. “Situ Jia Zian?”

“Yes, Imperial Legate.” Despite his dishevelled robes and unkempt hair, Zian still looks the part of a heroic young noble, albeit a tired, bloodstained one.

“Well fought. With Warriors like yourself holding the line, the Defiled will find no ingress into Imperial lands.”

Yanno, besides the one province they already have. Weird though. The Legate barely paid attention to any other fights, so this is a pretty big statement. Is Zian gonna get a job offer too? God dammit, do I have to worry about a ZianXLegate ship now? No, he’s my reformed friend, and you can’t have him!

Glowing with pride, Zian offers yet another salute and basks in his moment of glory. “This one thanks Imperial Legate for his high praise.”

Snapping his fan open once again, the Legate addresses the crowd. “Hear me. Situ Jia Zian, Han BoShui, and Tam Taewoong are to be provisionally raised to the rank of First Grade Warrant Officer. Ishin Ken-Shibu is to receive the rank of Third Grade Warrant Officer. Ryo Geom-Chi, Huushal of the...”

The litany continues for a good while, and even ends with Song getting a gift of gold, though the Legate only refers to her as ‘Akanai’s daughter’, for plausible deniability, I guess. Who pays it out, I have no idea, but Song seems pretty pleased and everyone I’ve marked as an enemy is definitely not, so overall, I’d call this banquet a win.

Which I should know better than to do, because that’s just tempting fate. As the Legate’s palanquin makes its way out of the banquet hall, the Seneschal Sends instructions demanding I meet with the Legate at my earliest convenience, with only my Death Corps guards to escort me.

This is my fault, really. I called it too early, and now I’m paying the price.

Still, all in all, it was a pretty fun banquet, and I didn’t even have to get drunk to enjoy it. Not too shabby, I’d say, not too shabby at all.

Chapter Meme
