While I muse about the State of Enlightenment and my Chi reserves, the banquet hall comes alive with applause in celebration of their incredible match. BoShui extends a hand to help Taewoong to his feet, and both men are smiling as they take their places in front of the stage, but I’d be lying if I said Taewoong didn’t look sorely disappointed. It doesn’t help that Watanabe gestures for them both to stand in place while holding a hand up to indicate he has something to say, and thereby keeping Taewoong in the spotlight after his close defeat. “Well fought, young Taewoong, well fought. Your opponent has the advantage of being one step further along the Martial Path, but this is hardly an insurmountable hurdle for a man such as you.” Watanabe doesn’t even look at BoShui, who similarly pretends as if the cowardly Colonel isn’t speaking, but neither side seems willing to back down. “My esteemed father can’t help but note,” Watanabe continues, after it becomes obvious BoShui isn’t going anywhere, “That a young man such as yourself has no Mentor. Just now, he lamented at how a fine Warrior such as yourself has been inhibited by this criminal lack of guidance, though one could argue that your choice of companions might have also hindered your growth.”

And there it is, spelled out as clear as day with a pointed glance in my direction. It’s an offer from Juichi to take Taewoong in as a Disciple, so long as he cuts ties with me and the Ryo family, delivered in front of the most influential people of the Empire. Cowardly is what it is, not the offer itself, but how Juichi doesn’t have the balls to make the offer outright, because he’s afraid of losing face if Taewoong should turn him down. Most nobles would’ve done the same, but I can’t help but look down on Juichi for tiptoeing around the subject like a shy boy too scared to ask his crush out to dance. Barely even giving him a second to think, Watanabe immediately pushes Taewoong to accept. “Choose carefully young man. You’ve come this far without guidance, but talent and intuition will only take you so far. Already, you are falling far behind your peers, as you just experienced firsthand, so do not waste your best years muddling along the Martial Path.”

Laying it on real thick there, Watanabe. That ain’t even true. Taewoong’s doing fine.

“Imperial Consort,” Shuai Jiao intones, startling me in my seat. “You disagree with Colonel Watanabe’s opinion?”

Shit. Was I shaking my head? I suppose I was. Or sneering. I have a tendency to do that when presented with bullshit. Resisting the urge to glare at the under-dressed Living Legend for putting me on the spot, I clear my throat and gather my thoughts before trusting myself to speak. “Well, I wouldn’t say Taewoong is ‘falling behind’ his peers or ‘muddling along’ the Martial Path. BoShui is one step further along the Martial Path, but as anyone who has taken that step would know, it’s a significant one.” Pretty sure Watanabe has Domain, else he’d never have made Lieutenant Colonel, but most people in the room don’t, and wouldn’t understand how vital Domain really is. “Without that advantage, Taewoong would have won the match.” I meant to leave it at that, but after a few seconds of oppressive silence, I can’t help but add, “I mean, even with the disadvantage, Taewoong technically should’ve won. He thought the fight was over with that last cross-counter, so he hesitated because he didn’t want to cripple his opponent, but if this were a life and death battle, he was in perfect position to follow up with a left hook to the temple.” Offering BoShui a shrug of apology, I bite my tongue as Luo-Luo nudges me to keep quiet, because there’s really no benefit to going on.

“Sharp eyes, Imperial Consort,” Shuai Jiao mutters, “Sharp eyes indeed. Your thoughts mirror my own in this, though I have more to add.” Ignoring the glares from an irate Juichi, Shuai Jiao nods at Taewoong and BoShui both. “Fine young warriors, dragons among men, but somewhat lacking in the Forms. You both focus too much on striking, on aggression, on pushing ever forward, and you’ve lost sight of one simple fact: hands can make fists to pummel with, but they can also be used to grasp.” Accentuating his point by making a grabbing motion, he moves his hand about in a variety of pantomimed grappling movements and I can almost picture him tossing his foes around like rag dolls with a flick of the wrist. “A vast array of tools lay at your disposal, and you cast the bulk aside in favour of pummelling your foes into submission. A waste of potential, but it is the duty of us elders to correct the mistakes of our juniors. Tam Taewoong, Han BoShui, I, Shuai Jiao, invite you both to visit at your earliest convenience, so I might pass along some minor teachings and help smooth the way forward along your Martial Paths.”

Great... Now I have to worry about BoShui and Tam Taewoong becoming best friends too, not to mention the Legate’s golden boy and Shuai Jiao’s stupid man-bun toting Disciple, Yong-Jin, looking oh so distinguished in his almost-but-not-quite golden robes and fancy red vest. Psh. He’s not that handsome, and I bet his personality matches his Blessing, wooden and boring. I’m short and weak, but at least I have a sense of humour.

...What is wrong with me? Why do I keep getting jealous of dudes?

BoShui and Taewoong are both quick to accept Shuai Jiao’s invitation, as the borderline-ascetic is notoriously reclusive while also quite possibly the strongest of Central’s three Colonel Generals. Rather than reject Juichi’s offer outright, Taewoong kneels and bows in his direction, holding his head low for the count of nine seconds, whereas he’d be offering nine kowtows to a Mentor if he accepted the offer. A very politically apt answer, because not only was there no actual rejection, Taewoong even responded positively to Juichi’s offer without actually accepting. This is the sort of stuff I could never do, because quite frankly, I’d never think to try it. It’s just not a response that would appear in my natural thought process, and I totally thought someone would have to step in to save Taewoong if he didn’t accept.

Regardless of the courtesy, Juichi still seems none too pleased, deliberately turning aside from Taewoong so as not to acknowledge the bow. I don’t know what that says about him on a political level, but it feels like he’s being childish when he should instead be the bigger man here. Then again, what do I know. Maybe this is a top-tier face preservation trick Imperials don’t want us plebs to know about, and everyone else thinks this is proper behaviour. Either way, I probably pissed off the Mitsue family even more by butting in, but Taewoong’s a good man and he deserves better than being gas-lighted into accepting a Mentor.

As BoShui and Taewoong make their way back to their seats, Zian strides forth to take their place, and the crowd erupts into a deliberate hush of whispers and gossip. Sort of defeats the purpose when you know most people present can Send, and it’s a wonder how anyone can keep a straight face while being so blatantly obvious about it, but Zian ignores it all while making his introductions. “Situ Jia Zian,” he begins, speaking over the bustle. “Son of Lu An Jing and Situ Jia Ying. Twenty-six years old, Third Grade Warrant Officer, Young Magistrate of Shen Yun, and Disciple of Situ Jia Yang and Twinned-Dragon Jukai.”

The last bit elicits a handful of realistic gasps, as naming more than one Mentor is akin to adultery, but worse, because the people of the Empire don’t really put much stock in marital vows. Ignoring the scandalized mutters, he faces Ishin Ken-Shibu and cocks his head. “Here I stand,” he says, offering the barest hint of a mocking smile, “A friend of Falling Rain’s. Come, show us what you can do, Painted Dancer Ishin Ken-Shibu.”

Man... I will never be half as cool as Zian. Just the way he says it, ‘Painted Dancer’, like it’s a proper title instead of an insult. Plus the stones on him, challenging a man eight years his senior and standing near the pinnacle of his generation, while knowing the drama at the opera house might very well have been engineered to make this very match happen.

Fuming with so much anger it’s a wonder steam isn’t shooting out of his ears, Ken-Shibu takes his place across from Zian as the two warriors flourish their swords in similar manner. “Good, good,” Ken-Shibu says, his rouged lips curled in a snarl as his bejewelled headband chimes ever so softly. “These past few weeks, I’ve heard so much about the disgraced Young Patriarch of the Situ Clan. Too much, in fact, for it sickens me to think there are those who might compare one such as you, with someone like me. Had you kept quiet and stayed hidden in the crowd, I’d have left you be and challenged the Fire-bird instead, but since you called me out, then I would be remiss not to put you in your place. Falling Rain’s lapdog thinks himself the match of Ishin Ken-Shibu? Hmph. Your father died young and failed to teach you proper manners, so I will do so in his place.”

“You talk too much,” Zian replies, affecting an air of casual indifference which I can tell is fake, but only because I know him better than most. “I asked you out here to spar, not to hear you sing. Whenever you’re ready.”

It’s a wonder Ken-Shibu’s face paint hasn’t cracked with how fast his veins are throbbing. “The dog acts fiercest when his master is present,” he growls, speaking through shockingly white teeth, which makes me wonder if he paints those too. “But remember, swords and spears have no eyes.”

With no further preamble, Ken-Shibu finally launches his attack, going from zero to blur in the blink of an eye. Too excited to care if I use up a little Chi, I seek the State of Enlightenment and will time to slow around me. Technically, my brain is just processing images and information faster and time continues at the same constant speed as always, but it’s so much cooler to call it slowing time, because that’s exactly what it feels like. Where before they were two blurs, Ken-Shibu and Zian are now two distinct blobs, still moving too fast for me to really focus, but somewhat visible at the very least. Round and round their four swords go, connecting in a symphony of harsh, metallic notes, yet more telling are the absent notes which don’t sound out when their swords just barely fail to meet. The anticipation of a note makes it’s marked absence that much more conspicuous, and for a fraction of a second, I wonder if there’s something wrong with my hearing, but no. Zian is actively avoiding head on collisions and using the missing impacts to throw Ken-Shibu off his game.

Which is... freaking brilliant.

Because they move so quickly, much of what Martial Warriors do is based on flow and timing, and a lot of their information regarding this comes from sound and physical feedback. By avoiding the expected outcome of connecting blades, Zian is messing with Ken-Shibu’s sense of flow and timing. He expects an impact, and the absence of one forces him to readjust. It’s like when you miss a step and your foot plummets further than expected, and your brain seizes up for one infinitesimal fraction of a second as you process this unforeseen circumstance. While walking, it’s no big deal, but in the middle of a fight, even the slightest delay can turn a sure victory into crushing defeat. Zian is doing this multiple times per second, and while Ken-Shibu is handling things well thus far, it’s obvious he’s struggling to keep up. Conversely, Zian is as cool as a cucumber, his features ice cold and expressionless as he sets Ken-Shibu dancing to a new tune.

And what a dance it is, not just of swords, but of steps as they trade blows with unnatural grace and superhuman agility. I told Ken-Shibu it was stupid to spin around in battle, but he and Zian seem hell-bent on proving me wrong as they twirl and wheel about in a deadly dance of steel. Two Warriors cut from the same cloth, they are the physical embodiment elegance and finesse, circling and gliding across the sparring grounds as if the stone-tile floors were made of ice and their bodies light as air.

But even though they share many similarities, their differences are just as pronounced. Ken-Shibu is silk, fluttering weightlessly upon the wind and drifting aimlessly about, going this way and that with little to no rhyme or reason. In stark contrast, Zian is a bird in flight, cutting through the air to get wherever he wants to go, whimsical nature versus predatory beast. Watching Zian fight puts me in mind of what happened before the opera, when Roc launched himself off the rooftops to flutter down and perch on my arm. Knowing without knowing, that’s Zian in a nutshell, placing his feet and directing his sabres exactly where they need to be, without deviating from his intended goal by even a hair’s breadth. He isn’t planning and calculating so much as seeing, anticipating, and responding without needing to think, because the optimal actions have been ingrained into his mind and body from countless hours of practice.

