“Where to next?” Fallopolis asked.

Erick’s answer was automatic. “Wherever there are people that need help.”

“We don’t have all the time in the world. Just another 12 hours. Ten, really.”

“If you don’t want to help, then I can find some people myself.”

Fallopolis smirked. “Go ahead.”

In the crimson lights of the kendrithyst towers, Erick cast a bit of brightness into the illusion-filled sky. A ball of white light took hold overhead, then began cascading light all around. A map formed in front of Erick, showing the entire 140 by 150 kilometer geode of Ar’Kendrithyst as a five meter wide space, where spiny towers poked up, and radio waves barely penetrated through the Upper Layer maze of crystal skyline.

But [Cascade Imaging] still worked, and it worked well, thanks to [Lodestar]’s boosting of all light spells.

It wasn’t long till blue dots started appearing everywhere among the miniature map of the Dead City. There were a lot more ‘people’ inside the Upper Layer than Erick had expected. Fallopolis must have been surprised, too, but not about anyone nearby. She ignored almost all of them, as she walked through the map, to stand at a spot that indicated a place not twenty kilometers from their current position.

Like the Jungle and the Swamp and the Brightwater Expanse, many places in Ar’Kendrithyst were geographically altered from their normal locations in the skyline. The place Fallopolis had walked to was one of these places. Erick recognized the location, but Killzone warned him not to go inside; looking was fine, but to venture inside was death. It was the Armory.

Fallopolis indicated the domed enclosures of the Armory, and said, “That’s a lot more dots in there than there should be.” She grinned wickedly, then spoke in a singsong voice, “Someone is slacking~!”

The map continued to fill in the large depressions of the Jungle, the Swamp, and the Brightwater Expanse with half-solid images of crystal, while it also filled in more of the Upper Layer, and even a bit of the Middle Layer, of the Central Lane, almost 15 kilometers directly below. Erick wasn’t sure how his radio waves were getting through all of that kendrithyst crystal, but [Lodestar] likely had much to do with that phenomenon. Whatever the case, there were no less than a hundred tiny blue dots, mostly in clumps, scattered all over the place below Erick. There were at least 10 in the Armory.

Erick looked to the Armory, and at the blue dots therein, asking, “Thoughts on who to save?”

Fallopolis gestured to the blue dots of the Center Lane, “A few Shades like to wander around and fight whoever they find, but we all have better things to do right now. If those people down below aren’t capable of saving themselves, then they never should have come in here in the first place.” She gestured to the blue dots at the Armory. “This is much more interesting. They almost never make it this far. I have to see what’s going on.” She took a step, and was gone.

After a moment’s hesitation, Erick booked it, triple time, toward the Armory.

- - - -

Erick had heard of the Armory from Killzone. The General had explained it thusly: The Armory was a multi-domed structure in the center of the Dead City, full of traps and artifacts that were collectively owned by the Priests of Melemizargo. If you wanted a weapon that could turn the tide of a war, and if you had more desperation than sense, you tried your hand at the Armory. Most people died. Some people made it out with true treasures, like the Sword Staff.

The Armory was overseen by the Caretaker; a Shade who never purposefully showed themselves. Killzone had been at this job for a few centuries and had only seen the person a handful of times, and each time, they wore a different body.

What Killzone had not explained, was that the place was absolutely gorgeous, in a deadly sort of way.

It was still made of kendrithyst crystal, but there were no towers here, and the reds were maroon and burgundy, while the violets were eggplant and wine; the stone was utterly full of shadows. The Armory was made of domes, as far as the eye could see, and layered upon one another like stacked bubbles. Some larger than others, some smaller. In the edges of the bulbous crystal, Erick saw brilliant red and violet glows, but everywhere else, was darkness.

It reminded Erick of his [Vivid Gloom].

And that was an uncomfortable thought.

From his position on the edge of the kendrithyst-tower part of the city, to the north of the Armory, he saw four main bubble-zones, one in front of him, another much larger one beyond that, and two more to the east and the west. He suspected there was another one he couldn’t see in the south, for it was occluded by the central bubble; the main structure in the center. That central dome was a smooth, uninterrupted, multi-kilometer-wide bubble, surrounded by countless smaller bubble towers, like they were stalagmites of unprecedented size.

The northern bastion of the Armory, directly in front of Erick, was only a simple kilometer-wide bubble, with a few bubble towers here and there. It was a much, much smaller version of the place in the center, but even this northern bastion was still impressive. It had some robust defenses, too.

The northern bastion had been launching missiles at him ever since he stepped out into the open, but the explosions and the damage couldn’t get past his sunform, at all. The kendrithyst towers behind him were also appointed with missile launchers, but they were manned by shadelings. Those shadelings saw and recognized Erick; they abandoned their stations and [Shadow Blend]ed into the stone at their feet.

They didn’t seem to be the fully cognizant version of shadelings, and Erick wasn’t sure how he could tell that, but he was glad that they didn’t try to attack him, in either case. He certainly wouldn’t have killed them, but it would have been weird.

… This whole place was fuckin’ weird.

Oh. The missiles from the northern bastion had stopped, too. So that was nice. They must have recognized him. Or deemed their efforts useless? Either way was fine.

Erick recast [Cascade Imaging].

A white map began to coalesce in front of him. In moments, the Armory was revealed, and blue dots appeared. It looked like they were just beyond the northern bastion area up ahead, somewhere just before the central dome, deep in the structure. Erick gazed across the distance, trying to judge where…

There.

He walked forward—

Shadows shifted on the upper domes of the bastion below, like crawling waves of darkness that uncoiled. Ah. This was their secondary line of defenses, for when the missiles failed. A monster crawled atop the northern bastion. It was a black snake, a thousand meters long, loosely coiled atop the dome like a sleeping guardian. And now it was awake.

The snake glanced up at Erick with bright white eyes. It shook its head, then seemed to sigh. It was hundreds of meters away, so Erick wasn’t particularly worried about most forms of attack, and Super Long Range spells were almost always fully lethal, so he didn’t worry too much about those since he was supposed to be ‘Untouchable’. But then the snake spoke, and its voice carried on the air like it was right beside him.

“If you wish to challenge the Armory, come through the entrance, or be denied. The first denial is non-lethal. The second is half-lethal. Normally, a failed third attempt would mean your death. But for you, any third attempt means we involve the Shades of the Spire, and you will not escape unscathed, Erick Flatt.”

Erick looked down at the ‘snake’. He considered if this was the smart thing to do, and then he decided to just do what he wanted, and he wanted to save those people. He said, “I’m going to try to break into the center dome.”

“All are entitled to one try.”

Erick eyed the snake with a few Ophiel, as he prepared to cast at the main dome. With a thought and a cast, he threw a [Domain of Light] at the center dome, like a spear a hundred meters wide and ten kilometers long. Light manifested, a brilliance upon the heavens that turned shadows to nothing and lit up the world. But the Domain didn’t even get through the outer shell of the center dome. And then the center dome fought back. Darkness clawed up from the land with a million grasping hands, reaching into the light, pulling it down, into the shadows, into the dark. Within moments, Erick’s spear-shaped Domain was reduced to the shaft. Before long, the Domain was disintegrating, as shadows crawled up the entire length; devouring.

Erick frowned.

The snake said, “Melemizargo’s Domain is in power here. But at least you didn’t try to blast your way in. That much is commendable.”

“I don’t suppose you’ll let me have another free attempt?”

“I will not.” The snake said, “You would have better luck going through the entrance, like all the other trial takers. Even Shades go through the front entrance.”

Did he want to do that?

Yes. He did.

Erick said, “Then I guess I’ll do that. And that is… where?”

The kilometer-long black snake flowed down into the crystal, settling itself into the shadows, saying, “I’m sure you’ll figure it out.”

Erick watched the snake shuffle all the way back under the dome, like a desert snake hiding under sand. He wasn’t going to be any help, which was fine. Erick looked for other clues.

A skyroad led from the Central Lane into the bubble towers.

… Erick stepped over that way.

To the north, the hundred-meter wide, purple skyroad, vanished into a tangle of kendrithyst towers, far, far away. The haze of distance and darkness occluded more where the road was going, rather than any buildings or other city planning. To the south, to the Armory, the purple road turned dark, almost black, as bubbled kendrithyst began to pile onto the avenue here and there, like great stalagmites. Further than that, the architectural oddity became a masterpiece of carved darkness, arcing over the road hundreds and hundreds of meters large in size, scope, and presence, formed of hundreds of sculpted people, twice the size they normally were. They were all nude, and made of black crystal, but Erick would have been lying to himself if he called it anything other than darkly beautiful. Legs intertwined with arms, reaching over thighs, as chins were gently lifted up to the sky by kind neighbors, so that all might see what lay above.

It was a white orb, shaped like an eye. People reached for it, some managed to caress the orb, but most were beyond its salvation. For those at the bottom, there were swords and fire and hurt, with some carved people having carved wounds upon their bodies, but above, there was peace and tranquility and purpose. Dark eyes were full of hope all throughout the sculpture, but those near the central white orb had eyes of white as well.

Erick stood in awe for a moment, taking in the sight of the sculpture. His own brightness of [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk] and all his Ophiel, brought light to the sculpture, eliciting bright reflections of the dark surfaces, highlighting the enormity of the artwork that spread out to cover the entire forward view.

It was quiet, here, in this dark place. The only sounds were the sounds of the wind, flowing down the road from north to south, pushing at Erick’s back, and whistling into the hands of the frozen hopeful of the gate to the Armory.

Beyond this gate laid unnatural shadows, holding in the air, blocking further sight.

Erick stepped down onto the air just above the black road. His [Lodestar] pressed against the crystal underfoot, and penetrated just a little; maybe a centimeter, maybe less, carving a splash of purple a meter wide in an otherwise black land. Tiny fingers poked up around the light, pressing inward, but failing to get far.

… He stepped up, just enough to not touch the darkness.

And then, thinking that he needed to do this sooner rather than later, he cast a 15,000 mana [Personal Ward]. White light cracked all around him, then solidified, then vanished, as he had gotten quite good at making his daily ritual invisible. 15,000 mana meant 50,000 points of defense. It was a large upgrade from his previous [Personal Ward]. All that mana would come back in 12 minutes, but he needn’t wait to begin his advance.

He stepped forward, in the air, never touching the road, the air around him alight with glows, as Ophiels trailed behind—

A man stepped out of the shadows ahead, onto the road. He had white eyes, dark layered armor that covered everything except his face, and massive horns. He was a massive man, himself; almost like a miniature orcol. Oh. He was an orcol. The horns were a part of his armor—

He took the helmet off, removing the white glow of his eyes, as well as the horns, revealing dark eyes and dark hair. It had been a mask? To make him appear as a Shade? What? That made no sense at all. Erick was very confused. Here was this man, who had appeared as a Shade to Erick, but who was not?

… No. The simpler solution was that Shades could hide the white of their eyes when they wanted to. Erick hadn’t heard of that happening before, but it should have been possible.

The man spoke like a friend, saying, “Hey, Erick! Nice to meet you. I’m Quilatalap.” He sucked in air across his sharp teeth, saying, “Sorry! I can’t let you in right now. If you’re worried about the people in there right now, you shouldn’t be. They came in here knowing exactly what they were getting into.”

… So he was a Shade, who was simply hiding his white eyes. Was this the Caretaker?

Erick decided to proceed like he was.

“Nice to meet you, too, Quilatalap,” Erick said, “But pardon me if I don’t believe you about… any of that. I thought I knew most of the Shades, but I cannot recall your name.”

