Domain of Light, instant, super long range, 5000 mana

Harken unto the Truth of Light. Let no authority diminish your brilliance.

Undispellable. Uncorruptible.

Lasts 1 hour. Effects last longer.

Domain of the Withering Slime, instant, super long range, aura, 2 MP per second

Provide an anchor for the Withering Slime to exist on your world.

Particle Mage Only.

[Domain of Light] was based around the idea of the supremacy of Light, and Erick’s light in particular. [Domain of Light] boosted all of his Light based effects, and, discounting the Shades, it probably was truly ‘undispellable’ in all normal circumstances. [Domain of the Withering Slime], though…

Ah. Erick was just providing the anchor for another being to exist? Was the difference that simple? Did Withering Slimes exist somewhere else? They existed in the mana, for sure, since mana was possibility. When he cast [Domain of the Withering Slime] for the first time, it caused the sky to open, and for another force to come into being…

Erick had never truly considered that he had created a being, in that moment. But maybe he had? Or maybe, he had created the idea of a being, and imbued that idea into the manaphere. Erick thought for a moment, and decided that the second was more likely.

A new arrival shocked Erick out of his meandering thoughts. He had been standing beside his map, in the Upper Reaches of the Center Lane, thinking, and staring at blue dots. But then a shadow to the east resolved into a strong-looking human girl. She wore well-cared leathers and carried a bare, white-metal sword at her hip. This time, she had a small bag on her back. She waved, as she walked through the sky, toward Erick, her steps flashing darkness.

“Hello, Erick!”

“Hello, Librarian,” Erick asked, “What brings you here?”

The Librarian stepped closer, saying, “It occurs to me that I never gave you anything for the belt and the necklace, and I said I would.” She gestured toward the map, saying, “And then I find you here when I was on my way out to the Feast, so I decided to get this obligation out of the way sooner rather than later.”

“… you said that?” Erick thought for a moment, and then he remembered. “Oh. Yeah. You did say that. But no worries. Don’t worry about it.”

“Nonsense!” She cheerily said, “Do you have a book or a topic that you’re interested in? I am the Librarian, after all. I got copies of every book in the entire world, and more besides.”

Erick thought for a second, before asking, “Do you think the prevalence of immortality leads to problems with growth and change and advancement, on Veird?”

The Librarian looked askance for a moment, then paused, then relaxed, and said, “Immortality is not just a societal problem of mediocrity on Veird, but everywhere immortality has ever existed. But by that same token, immortality is a blessing that provides a good foundation for society to take place. The mediocre stability of immortal power is still power that is countable, and solid.”

“That’s mortal-based immortality, though, right?” Erick asked, “What about godly immortality?”

“Divine beings are not immune to this failing. Gods never innovate, because that is not their purpose. It could be argued that the entire purpose of gods is to provide stability. From certain angles, though, they might look like innovators, but all you see in those moments of godly innovation is the introduction of the stability of another part of the god that you’ve never seen before.” The Librarian said, “But by that same token, when a god works through a specific mortal, that mortal can achieve great things, and divine beings never tire; they’ve got mortal-immortals beat, in that regard. Gods never lose focus or determination when it comes to their Domains.” She added, “If you want to talk more philosophy, I’m all for it, but that still doesn’t relieve me of my obligation to grant you some sort of book or something else that is within my power to grant.”

Erick wasn’t sure he wanted to accept knowledge from a Shade; even one as nice-seeming as the Librarian. So he said, “I’ll take your advice on which books to research regarding Domains.”

“I have books with knowledge of that subject, but from your phrasing, I take it you don’t want my books?”

“Correct.”

The Librarian nodded, “Sure… But I’m still gonna get one of them for you, since I know you won’t be able to find it outside Kendrithyst.” She stepped away, and was gone.

Ahhh… Damn. Erick didn’t want her propaganda, but he had asked her his questions, and she had answered, so this was his fault, really. He could just stash whatever book she gave him in some protected location and never read it, like he had done with Undine’s book.

The Librarian popped back into the air, holding a small, white book. She held it up, saying, “This is ‘Defined Barriers’; one of the only definitive works on Domains, both godly, and in magic, penned over 1200 years ago.” She was five meters away, but she walked closer, saying, “It’s a copy.” She stopped a meter away, outside of Erick’s pulled-in sunform, holding out the book as she said, “Here you go.”

Erick took the book with a light tendril, saying, “Thanks.”

“It’s not cursed, or anything. Not even magical.” The Librarian said, “You could try an [Identify] if you don’t believe me.”

… Erick tried both a [Detect Magic], and an [Identify]. An Ophiel cast [Detect Magic], and found nothing, while Erick cast the [Identify], since that spell worked off of what the user knew, and Ophiel didn’t technically know much at all. A blue box appeared, as it usually did in the case of [Identify].

A book on Domain Magic.

Erick said, “Okay. So. That checks out, I guess.”

“You should [Duplicate] it anyway, and then hand me the one I handed you.” The Librarian said, “I do that to all my books to ensure that nothing magical enters my Library.”

… That was a good idea, too. Erick did so, then handed her back the one she handed him, saying, “Thanks for the tip.”

The Librarian smiled, adding, “There are some other works you can search for on your own. ‘On the Nature of Defensive Magic’ is a heavily theoretical treatise on the subject of Domains and many other defensive structures, while ‘Offensive Warding’ deals with the offensive aspects of such magic, and how to take down an enemy’s various protected spaces.”

“Thanks. I’ll have to find those, then.”

“Are you going to the Feast, now?” The Librarian looked south, saying, “It’s going to begin in eight hours.”

Erick looked to his map, and dismissed the glowing white structure. Crimson light returned to fill the sky, coloring Erick and the Librarian in reds. He said, “Yeah. I guess I am.”

“Care for a walk, then?” She smiled, awaiting Erick’s answer.

“Sure—”

Another Shade appeared, not a hundred meters away. Fallopolis.

Fallopolis called out, “He’s my date, not yours, you hussy!”

The Librarian frowned, then looked to Erick, saying, “Good luck with that.” She gazed at Fallopolis, saying, “You’re very unkind, you know.”

“And you wear the persona of whoever you read!” Fallopolis walked toward Erick, regarding the Librarian with an unkind visage as she said, “So step off, sociopath.”

The Librarian huffed, then said, “Fine.” She glanced to Erick. “See you at the Feast.” And then she stepped forward, three times, moving a hundred meters with each step. Soon, she was out of sight.

Fallopolis watched her go, saying, “Good riddance.” She turned to Erick. “Watch out for that one. She’s a crazy woman without her own moral center; she picks up ideology whenever she feels like it and discards those morals on a whim. Thankfully, that new ‘Legacy of Bone’ book came out, or else she’d still be on that ‘Murderer’s Row’ series, and that was not a pretty time.”

Erick changed the subject. “What happened in the Armory?”

Fallopolis waved a dismissive hand, saying, “Those kids got it. They won’t last out the full Shadow’s Feast without killing one another, though. We’ll probably see them blow up at each other at the Feast when Quilatalap shows off this year’s attempts, triumphs, and aftermaths. They’re a part of the show.”

With a sudden chill rolling through his body, Erick asked, “What artifacts they get? For what reason?”

Fallopolis suddenly stood tall, and smiled. She slowly turned to Erick. She said, “Ohhhh. I… I shouldn’t…” She forced her smile away, and said, “Okay. I’ll tell you this much: It has to do with the Converter Angel that the Greensoil Republic released upon the Wasteland.”

“… Shit.”

“Yup!” Fallopolis cackled just a little bit, saying, “Everyone’s gonna want to know your thoughts on the matter, since you’ve already been contracted to help kill that angel!” She giggled, adding, “And that’s all I can say on that.”

“Tell me more, please.”

“No! I can’t! Can’t be done. Won’t be done.”

“… Fine. Then tell me: who is Quilatalap?”

“Oh? Him?” Fallopolis smiled. “Why? You think he’s handsome? I could set you two up if you want. He is rather pretty.”

“That is beside the question.”

“Eh! He’s nothing special. Just the Caretaker of the Armory.”

So he was the Caretaker! … But that just raised more questions.

“Why is he not a Shade? How does that work?”

Fallopolis scrunched her face at Erick, asking, “You never seen a lich before?”

“Probably not?” Erick said, “I’ve heard that word before, but… No. No idea what that is.”

Fallopolis almost spoke, but then she paused. She frowned. She said, “Okay. So. I want to play a trick here, but I already promised not to fuck you over. So. I’ll tell you what a lich is and I won’t lie.” She began walking south, saying, “Let’s walk and talk.”

Erick eyed the Shade, as he began following at her side. It wasn’t long till the dark domes of the Armory appeared in all their glory, but Fallopolis took a detour to the west, staying to the edge of the kendrithyst towers, while a horizon full of black domes filled the left view. There were no missiles from the Armory this time.

Fallopolis, for her part, seemed to be trying to decide what to say. Erick did notice a tendril of thought coming off of her head, though, so maybe she was talking to someone else at the moment.

He asked, “Are you talking to someone else at the moment, or just letting me see that tendril of thought?”

“I’m considering how to go about this, and asking the man what he wants me to reveal.” She lifted her hand to the air above her head and waved through the thought tendril, saying, “And yes, you are seeing this because I am letting you.”

“… Okay.”

After a while, the tendril broke, and Fallopolis spoke, “You ready to hear?”

“Sure!”

“You’ve heard of necromancers, but a lich is not a simple necromancer. Liches are archmages, first and foremost, who have decided to forgo the usual path of life and death and who have stepped outside of fate, becoming undead in total control of their own body and soul. All liches are archmages, but Quilatalap is an archlich, and also one of the best soulweavers you will ever meet. He is much stronger than almost every Shade you will ever meet.”

Erick almost stumbled. “Oh?”

“He can take you apart and put you back together and you would never know what happened.” Fallopolis said, “So when he says that he will harm you, he means it. But as the Caretaker, he is duty-bound by certain rules that he has willingly accepted. In the course of his duty, he usually warns people away from the Armory. But he also oversees the trials therein. Those who fall in his trials, fall hard, and either try again and die for real, or give up. They might die a few times in the process, but Quilatalap has had a lot of practice healing souls and bodies and casting [Resurrection], so a resurrected person falling to cannibalism or melancholy is exceedingly rare for him, and usually not a result of anything he did.”

That was a lot to take in. Erick had no idea Quilatalap was that kind of person.

Erick felt like Killzone should have known all of what Fallopolis had just said.

For a brief moment, everything was too big, and the sky was too bright and dark all at the same time. Erick had stood before that sort of person? Holy shit. And then, Erick had another thought. He had been standing before people like that ever since he stepped into Ar’Kendrithyst. He was not cut out for this sort of thing. No way. No how. What the shit. Why were people like this allowed to exist?

Erick’s skin-tight sunform vibrated. Fallopolis stepped away; quick as a snap. Shadows crawled over her skin; dark and bright at the same time.

Erick pulled himself inward, far enough that he was flesh and bone again. He breathed. He sat down on the light under his feet. With a thought, he grabbed a copied vanilla cupcake, and just sat there for a minute, eating.

Fallopolis retreated to her own fleshy body; reflected red light from the kendrithyst all around appeared on her skin, as she stepped back toward Erick, saying, “You’re not yet acclimated to this, are you?”

“No one should be acclimated to this level of horror.”

“Incorrect.” Fallopolis said, “You just need to learn soul magic so that you can identify and protect yourself from literally the most powerful, most varied magic there has ever existed, both before the Sundering, and under the Script.” She added, “That’s why Quilatalap is the Caretaker, you know. He could kill any Shade if he wanted.”

“I’ve been neglecting certain magics; yes.”

