Once again, approval rippled through the room.

Master Grediv grunted. “Very well, all in favor of investigating this line of research?”

Every hand went up, save Mistress Holly, Tala, and Rane’s. Well, Eskau Meallain also didn’t vote.

“All opposed?”

No one raised their hand.

“Good. Then we can move on.” He paused for a quick moment, and when no one else interjected, he nodded. “So, we have an indisputably confirmed encounter with a Black Legion automaton for the first time in millenia. Will the Major Houses honor the treaty?”

All eyes turned toward Eskau Meallain. The elf grimaced. “The Black Legion is a threat to all. If properly presented with supporting evidence? Yes. The Major Houses should rally to the effort.” She hesitated for a moment, then sighed. “I would caution you against that course of action, however.”

Master Grediv cocked an eyebrow. “Oh? Do tell.”

“They would muster immediately, that is without question—assuming we presented them with this body or evidence of equal weight—but you have no target for that army yet, Master Grediv. An undirected army will find a target. They would quickly decide that a united front would be better positioned to face the Black Legion and, undirected, they would take the Wandering Plains before coming for you.”

Silence hung heavy in the room for long moments before the woman continued.

“Right now, the Major Houses are pointed inward. You don’t register as a threat, and even our new agreement will—at most—make them begin to see you as if you are just one more, well defended resource to jockey for a stake within. The Black Legion, though? That will galvanize every House, Major or not, together, and as a united force, they will want you to be united with them in one manner or another.”

“And the factions of the plains.” Rane added solemnly.

Eskau Meallain nodded seriously. “Indeed.”

Master Grediv sighed. “What, then, do you suggest?”

“Prepare for war, strengthen your connections with the House of Blood and maybe one or two other Major Houses. Seek to find the Black Legion, and once you are ready, call on the old treaty. Don’t give the Major Houses and City Lords time to scheme and seek targets of opportunity. And once you have an enemy to engage or”—she pointed toward Tala—“once she is Reforged, standing as an Eskau of the House of Blood to cement the position of gated humanity. Her advancement—as an already established and acknowledged Eskau of a Major House—would prove that you all are just as capable as any hue- or beastman, as valuable as any elf, dwarf, or other sapient. Then your call for aid will not be the spark that lights your own pyre.”
