Instead of rushing in like they had with the jackals, they spent more time and collected more flames by killing the weaker monsters. That would both make the mini bosses stronger, and also give them more time, which they felt they would need for a more defense-oriented monster.

Once they got close enough, they threw their flames at the mini bosses again, empowering them to harvest for more power.

Once the latest set of mini bosses were dead, their flames had nearly reached a proper orange color, signifying how advanced the flame had gotten.

Most delvers never went beyond blue flames before either rushing the boss or deliberately letting their flames starve. Not because of how strong it made the monsters, though that was undoubtedly a problem for most delving Tiers, even those delving at Tier 28 instead of at Tier 26. But rather because of the willpower and mana drain the higher spectrum flames needed to sustain themselves, even at a base level. The three of them pushed all the way to violet thanks to Matt’s Concept and Talent ensuring they always had mana. That combined with their Minkalla reward which gave them more effective willpower thanks to its cost reduction for their Concepts making them practically free.

That didn’t make it easy but it made it possible. The final groups of monsters they fought up until the boss were all at peak Tier 29 strength.

They themselves had reached the peak of Tier 26 thanks to their massive essence multiplier in the latter half of the rift, but they really wanted to finish the rift at Tier 26 and reap the massive rewards that would come with delving up so high.

The boss room was appropriately thematic for the rift, as the cave was thick with fire and fire mana, making it hard to see more than a few thousand feet ahead of them. But at the center was a single flickering flame on a plinth made of volcanic glass.

Their flames, even without their direction, left them to fuse with the boss. It started to bubble and pop as it was empowered by the violet flames they carried through the rift and strengthened throughout their delve.

A single humanoid figure formed and stared at them with the rift’s rage burning in its eyes.

A greater fire elemental.

Aster immediately cast a debuffing spell, but almost instantly the violet flames washed out of the purple elemental and tried to burn the ice mana in the spell. It failed, but it blunted the effect enough.

Aster quickly shifted to illusion and wind-based spells, speeding them up and buffeting the boss.

It launched itself forward with a speed that even while fully enhanced by potions, spells, Aster, and his own gear, Matt could hardly follow.

[Cracked Phantom Armor], having absorbed massive amounts of fire mana and being fully fire aspected, blocked the first claw strike that tried to drive into his face, and Matt called out to his team.

“It's pushing close to Tier 30 speeds. Fight or retreat?”

Aster made the call, surprising him slightly. “Fight! And we aren’t Tiering up, damn it!”

Liz hadn’t hesitated and threw herself forward, thrusting out at the elemental’s side.

It tried to dodge, but her spear caught its right arm, causing a stream of liquid fire blood to spill out.

Matt didn’t think much of it initially, and was instead going to chase after the monster, but from its blood rose half-sized jackals which attacked all three of them in a rush, uncaring for their own lives.

Swinging his blade back and forth, Matt cut down five of them in short order, though he was forced to use his teleport ring to intercept the boss rushing at Aster.

His blade was slammed back into his own chest from the force of their collision, but by using his Intent, Matt locked his place in the universe and even the faux Tier 30 power combatant couldn’t dislodge him.

That move did, however, drain a large portion of his willpower. Not because of the cost from Matt’s Intent usage, but because the boss had a draining effect built into its own Domain, similar to the willpower drain of the flame, that was activated when it touched him.

A quick check showed it wasn’t just his willpower being drained but his mana as well. The second wasn’t an issue but the first was.

While he had endless mana, they didn’t have endless willpower, which meant they needed to be careful when getting in close to the boss going forward. If his willpower was fully drained, he wouldn't be able to keep Liz and Aster topped up enough on mana, leading to a cascading set of issues and potentially death.

Shoving back, Matt slapped the elemental with a [Telekinesis], which did little more than ripple the monster's flame body.

Genuinely surprised, Matt instead switched to [Cosmic Pressure], which multiplied the strength of gravity near Matt.

With the amount of mana he was pouring into the spell, if he had cast it on a lower Tier planet, he would have rendered it uninhabitable immediately. But inside the rift there was hardly a quake.

The boss did slow down for the first time, and its retreat turned into a stumble that caused the boss to reform prone.

Liz followed up with a [Ichor Bullet] which struck the boss in its exposed back, but the fire portion of the ichor seemed to heal the monster while the lightning and blood were ineffective at best.

Cursing through the chat, Liz said, “Its fire absorption is stronger than mine. I’d need to be in melee to even have a chance at beating it.”

“Play it safe from range, then. I’ll keep it occupied.”

Matt put his words to action as he launched himself forward, unbothered by the increased gravity.

Just as the boss started to adapt to the new environment and move again, Matt started pulsing the mana he sent into [Cosmic Pressure], letting the gravity fluctuate, throwing every one of its moves off.

Matt, being ready for each pulse, was able to attack unbothered and landed several attacks in quick succession.

Cycling through spells, he confirmed Liz’s earlier finding that lightning spells did little damage and instead stuck with raw mana spells.

[Mana Slash] and [Mana Charge] were old favorites he had never abandoned for times just like this.

Not that he was able to attack uncontested.

The violet boss monster being at a Tier 30 power level wasn’t an empty statement.

Where the lesser monsters and the mini bosses struggled to pierce through the fire aspected [Cracked Phantom Armor], the boss’s flaming claws managed to punch through both layers and his physical armor any time he let it land a direct blow.

Its claws leeched fire aspected poison into his flesh.

Like a tree spreading its roots into fertile soil, threads of fire ate their way through Matt's flesh, carving their way deeper and upward towards his brain.

Not that they made it far. Between [Regeneration] and Millennium Willow Lifesap, which let him pour mana directly into his flesh, he was able to overpower the insidious attacks before they moved more than an inch or two.

Expelling the solidified fire and destroyed flesh was then just a matter of [Regeneration] pushing it out.

It wasn’t pleasant, but nothing Matt hadn’t dealt with a million times before.

As for the smaller monsters that formed from its splattering blood, they were of little consequence, as they were destroyed as fast as they formed with the blowback from both of their attacks.

While he was keeping it occupied, Liz and Aster weren’t sitting idle despite being soft countered by the boss.

Liz used [Ichor Crystal Armor] to solidify her ichor and started launching crystal feathers at them. Each one that stuck into the boss exploded, sending its liquid fire blood to flow and gather. But any time it tried to turn its attention away from Matt, he landed his own devastating attack.

Aster, on the other hand, kept cycling through her repertoire. They were more buffs than debuffs, but they were enough to allow Matt to stay in the fight when combined with everything else.

The boss did escape from his gravity trap by recalling itself to the plinth in the center of the room, but they showed it why that was a bad choice even before it fully reformed.

Matt opened up with a full powered [Mana Beam], which ripped whatever bodypart it touched apart with an arm thick beam of pure mana.

It tried to match his [Mana Beam] with its own [Flamethrower], but when even its higher Tier failed to push back [Mana Beam], it quickly gave up.

It might have tried something else, but with it at range, Liz and Aster were able to attack indiscriminately and caused massive damage to the boss, with its flames flickering unsteadily at points.

Seeing its repeated failures, the boss tried to wash the arena in fire but Aster turned them into partial illusions, which let their defences negate most of the undirected attack.

When that failed, the elemental turned to rush down Aster and Liz, but Matt swapped with Liz and the Aster it targeted was an illusion from the start, simply trapping itself in [Cosmic Pressure]’s area of effect once more.

The boss threw itself back at him with renewed fervor.

That was fine.

Better than fine, actually.

He was perfectly willing to trade an arm for a moderate wound, because by the time his arm hit the ground, he would have already regrown the appendage.

His own limbs littered the ground just as the boss’s fire blood did, but he didn’t miss the small thread of blood, both his and the bosses, entwined with golden blood that ran all the way back to Liz.

He felt her grin as her body fell into a puddle, and she flowed along the conduit to appear next to the boss.

She formed fully crystallized thanks to [Ichor Crystal Armor], which protected the fire portion of her ichor from being so easily stolen away.

Her arms transformed into spikes and she drove them repeatedly into the boss’s back, which eventually caused it to turn on her. But while fully armored, she took the blows and let them wash over her.

Her vitals reported damage, but she mitigated most of that by stealing the blood Matt had left all over the ground. Or at least what blood that hadn’t been burnt off by the fire.

Right after Liz’s attack landed, when the boss was at its most distracted, Aster made her move. She had taken the blunting of her ice spells as a challenge, as for an instant the entire injured elemental froze solid, though it took everything she had.

He could feel its very nature start eroding the spell, but Matt didn’t give it time to break free. With one final thrust, he forced his sword into its frozen body and exploded the mana crystal his sword had been filled with.

The massive explosion flung him and Liz away from each other, but that was fine as he felt the essence unleash from the boss, and the torrent that washed into them signified the end of the fight.

It was more than enough to overfill their cores, but Matt quickly stepped to the rift reward and dissipated it while they were still Tier 26, before crunching his core ten times and stepping into Tier 27 while the essence was still pouring in.

The boss alone got them a noticeable way into Tier 27, which was fairly impressive for a single monster. Though, not that impressive when he considered how they had pushed the rift to its very limit by bringing a violet flame when only Tier 26, two full Tiers below the rift’s own Tier.

Looking down, he snorted, seeing the reward.

A massive pile of mana stones. Almost a hundred Tier 28 mana stones was a small fortune for most at even their new Tier, but it was nearly useless to the three of them.

Not that he’d leave them behind. With a wave, he collected them into his storage ring.

Aster kicked the boss's ash mark. “Stingy rift. Come on. We deserve a good reward, damn it. Even Luna can’t complain about that run. Four Tiers up at Tier 26 for that final boss. That's basically a record.”

Matt threw an arm over her shoulder and ruffled her helmet. “It was only a faux Tier 30, so Luna won’t praise you. But it's ok. I’ll make us a nice meal to celebrate.”

Liz sauntered over, phoenix Liz already reforming now that they were done with the rift. “Oh, anything in particular?”

Matt shrugged. “After this rift? I was considering something spicy.”

“Har har. You're not funny, Matt.” Aster blew a lock of hair now freed from her helm out of her face as she said it.

“I think I’m hilarious!”

“Yeah, that's the problem.”

Grinning, the three of them exited the rift having finished their push.

It was time to return to the real world and take care of the problems waiting there, but Matt was excited, as it meant it was time to release the new skills and see how the Empire and the greater Realm reacted.
