On the other hand, Cale had been to other libraries in the process of going rogue. He'd seen what library manifestations were like. This didn't strike him as an ordinary one, and given his experiences, anything out of the ordinary could very well mean the rest of the rules of magic were about to be thrown out of the window.

He glanced again at the shelves. The thing that both reassured and worried him was that there seemed to be a mind behind all of this. Whatever this was, it was intentionally keeping them and the professors away from the tomes that should have anchored the sealing ritual for the Bitter Path.

The effect hadn't started until they passed the shelves of conjuration-fire-three and began to reach conjuration-fire-four. Manifestations weren't usually this specific, which meant there was most likely a mind guiding the effect.

Yet that mind didn't seem to be a hostile one. With the power implied by the degree of spatial manipulation, whatever this was could have done far worse, if it had wanted to. Was it just trying to defend or protect something? Was there a reason it didn't want the Bitter Path to be unsealed?

Cale frowned to himself, trying to figure it out. In the meantime, Leo was looking through the tomes on the shelves, picking out each one to stare at their warped covers and then squint at the contents within.

"Interpolation magic doesn't seem to make very good books," he said. "I think this one is just wrong?"

Cale snorted. "Well, it wouldn't," he said dryly. "It's just guessing at what's supposed to exist between the two shelves, it's not actually creating anything. There are mages that swear by it, but they're usually not very good ones."

Curious, he glanced over Leo's arm to peer at the contents of the tome he was holding. It purported to allow for the conjuration of fireflies, which were, according to the tome, fire-breathing swarms capable of incinerating any foe.

Cale snickered, and Leo shook his head, putting the tome despondently back on the shelf. "I was hoping it'd have something interesting," he grumbled.

"Oh, it might," Cale said, shrugging. "You'd have to spend a lifetime searching these shelves, though, hoping to find the right one. Something something, broken clock."

"What?" Leo gave him a strange look.

"Is that not a saying?" Cale frowned. "I could've sworn that was a saying."

Leo just blinked. "...anyway," he said, changing the subject. "I can't help but feel like there's something weird about this. What do you think?"

"Aside from the shelves full of books that shouldn't exist?" Cale quipped. Leo rolled his eyes.

"Yes, obviously aside from that," he said. He hesitated, looking for the right words. "We know the professors couldn't find the right tomes, and obviously we can't, either. We could keep trying, but the same thing would probably happen to us.

"The thing is, this effect is in the Haelforge Library as a whole, right? But Professor Delia didn't say anything about other students running into something like this. And I'm willing to bet if the students did know about it, half of them would probably go missing trying to explore—you know. Infinite interpolated space. I know I probably would."

Cale's eyes gleamed. "That is a really good point."

"I might have an idea," Leo said, meeting his gaze.

"Funny." Cale began making his way back through the shelves, with Leo following close behind. There was a grin in his voice. "I think we might've had the same one."
