Its frantic squirming echoed in my ears. I watched its steadily weakening rolls against the grass in a feeble attempt to put out the fire, and listened to the gargling sound of blood rising up its throat alongside its muffled voice. It was a sight for sore eyes, as the orangey tang of the fire burned away its fur and charred its skin.

“With the wave of my wing, I, Fa Xiaolan, reduced this cat to ashes!”

[You have slain [Unspotted Panther] Level 8]

[XP Acquired]

[You have Leveled Up]

[Phoenix Chick Level 3 has become Phoenix Chick Level 4.]

[Skill Points Acquired]

It took a few minutes for it to die, and its death was nothing less than a painful torment that gave me a small bit of sadistic satisfaction. However, the thing I wanted to do more than anything was eat its flesh and collect its core. I was hungry, famished even, and the power such a beast would give me was far too appealing to just throw away.

Making my way toward it, I scanned the area, making sure there was nobody around. Just to err on the side of caution, I picked an inconspicuous spot and waited. Five minutes, ten minutes, fifteen, half an hour... and then— something moved.

Two smaller, yet similar-looking panthers walked out, wailing upon noticing the corpse of the bigger one. Soon after, another one jumped out from the bushes, hurrying out and making calming sounds.

A family?

How awful, it seemed like I killed their dad… and it also seemed like the mother had locked onto my position. She vanished from my sight, causing my heart to skip a beat.

It only took me a second to hear a sudden rustle next to my ear, then another for the air to split as her paw came crashing down on me. The mother’s frightening speed made it so she almost turned me into a diced phoenix.

Luckily, I reacted fast enough and dodged, then made some distance between us. However, when I turned to look at her, she’d vanished again.

So she has a stealth skill! I want it! I want it! No, I need it!

It didn’t look like I would be able to get away either way, as the mother seemed keen on killing me, and I doubted I could outrun a panther.

Especially an invisible panther!

The only way I could tell where she walked was from the sound and the slight denting of the ground— and even that was hard to spot in the darkness.

However, I had my own method of defense!

Without thinking about it much, I lit myself on fire using the Nirvanic Flames. A small five-foot area around me both burned and got illuminated, and it just so happened that the mother panther was within that area.

She let out a shrill scream, closing her eyes in agony, and that’s when I took my chance.

Swiping with my Iron Claws and pecking at her with my Peck skill— even though it was just a normal action— I quickly made her bleed. It seemed like I even took an eye out, as it bled while she ran away.

You’re giving me that stealth skill whether you want to or not!

I didn’t chase, though. I decided to wait. An angry mother would never turn away and run… I knew that much.

Crunch.

I turned to see the panther jump at me, its stealth nullified by my intense flames. I didn’t have much time to dodge, though, and the only thing I could do was raise my legs in defense.

After activating Strengthened Constitution, I had some extra force to push away its mouth, though there wasn’t much I could do about the claws.

“Now you’re really courting death!” I yelled as the flames surrounding me flared to life. They burnt away at her fur, reddening her skin before disintegrating it into a pile of ash. She didn’t seem keen on letting me go, though, and the crazed look in her eye told me that she wasn’t thinking straight.

However, whether or not she wasn’t thinking straight, it wasn't my problem, because if I relented, I would be their dinner!

I clenched my claws, digging into her flesh and bone, the seeping blood instantly evaporating.

“Let go of me!”

My screams had no effect, though. Part of me didn’t want to kill her, but I saw that she’d lost herself. For one reason or another, seeing her mate die turned her into… whatever this was.

“I’m sorry. Your sacrifice won’t be in vain.” I activated the Phoenix Fire as well, and with the two flames in such close proximity, she didn’t stand much of a chance. Not long after, she perished, her corpse almost crushing me if I hadn’t dodged.

[You have slain [Unspotted Panther] Lvl 5.]

[XP Acquired]

I heaved, catching my breath and reducing the fire surrounding me to a minimum.

It was then that I noticed the two cubs looking at me, their expressions filled with terror.

“SCRAM!” I yelled, flaring up both fires, an explosion of orange, yellow, and red, casting a looming shadow over them. They rushed away, disappearing into the forest.

Turning to look at their mother, I closed my eyes and turned off all of my skills. “I’m sorry.”

I felt regretful; I never intended to separate a family, but both parents tried to kill me. If you’re ready to kill, then you should expect others to want to kill you as well.

Despite how much I struggled, though, they were both weak.

That much was to be expected, though. It looked like even in such a Qi-dense area, those stronger beasts didn't dare linger around the nest of a Phoenix. Of course, that was just my speculation, but it seemed plausible enough.

Without standing on ceremony, I walked toward the corpse. It hadn't moved at all during the time I waited, except for the occasional muscle spasm. I was surprised the tendons were still intact for it to be able to do that, but I didn't care too much.

If they were that strong, I'm sure the beast was even stronger. It was Level 8 after all. The amount of XP it gave me was good, I supposed, as it gave me a level, and I decided to check the changes to my stats after eating it.
