Outside again, they walked close to the edge of the Old Forest, the forest closest to the base camp and stretching all the way to the Sunken City. Having rested for over half an hour, Veron had enough Focus again to throw a few rocks, though he didn't use it to kill more mosquitoes. It was Hayden who took care of them, his hammer throwing them back and his shield protecting against any blood that still made it back to him. Veron started to wonder where the large mosquitoes came from. There seemed to be an endless amount to them. He was glad they didn't move faster and in bigger groups.

He was sweating when they reached about a halfway point between the tower and the city walls. They had yet to find another Vereltir, despite stopping and waiting whenever they had killed any of the mosquitos. Reka decided they would circle back, the group continuing the same approach for another hour before they found a second creature.

This time, Veron felt a lot more ready, holding his shield and spear as he waited and watched the moving scales in the murky water. Hayden used his magic to bolster them and Silvie got ready to summon her bear.

The Vereltir burst out and hit Hayden, its tail whipping out immediately, caught by appearing chains before the bear formed and rushed in. Two blood lances cut into the monster’s face, a hammer strike stunning it for a moment. More chains wrapped around it and Veron charged in too, always conscious of where the tail was. He stabbed with a charge, their immediate and brutal assault pushing the creature back. It pulled against the chains but this time, they were secure.

The fight was one sided, Hayden's shield the only piece that took some damage before they put the monster down. Together, they pulled it up and once again, Reka extracted the essence of the beast.

“Are they always cubes?” Veron asked Silvie as they waited at their next spot. They’d decided to continue back towards the tower to see if they came across another beast.

“What?”

“The vessels.”

“Right. No, they're not. Probably the easiest to make though. The quality of a vessel depends on its overall size, density, the purity of the material used, the quality of the inscriptions, and the complexity of its design.”

“A cube is complex?” Veron asked.

She laughed. “Well, no. It’s not. But the main thing a vessel absolutely requires, next to the inscriptions, is symmetry. To extract essence from durable beasts like the Vereltir, what Reka carries is sufficient. Anything better would be a waste of gold.”

“Symmetry. Any idea why?”

She shook her head. “I asked that too. The magical theory professors in Leiveen may have some theories but I was told that different shapes were tested and the only and best results came from symmetrical shapes, the more detailed and ornamental, the better. Yes. I get that a cube is a cube.”

This time, he laughed. “So you do the inscribing then? The golden runes? Why gold?”

“Because gold works best. With this part, I have actual experience. My magic flows better with gold, the runes take shape faster, bear more power, and last longer. Silver is still okay but vastly inferior. Iron is a tiny bit better than copper, tin, and other metals, but if you can get it, you really want gold. Same for any runic tools. Wands and the like.”

“And then you get an infuser to put the essence into something to make a relic?”

“Relic or enchantment. For a relic you need something to act as a relic vessel. Higher quality and more expensive. For enchantments, more mundane items are fine but of course you still need to know what you're doing.”

“That's a lot of specialized craftspeople working together.”

“Yeah. One really doesn't have to wonder why Leiveen is the richest city in the world.”

“Not Anvakar?” Veron asked with a smile.

“Anvakar is the mine. Leiveen is the jeweler. Go figure.”

“Which makes us?”

“Adventurers,” she said and winked.

Digging for essence.

“Can I take up classes for any of those jobs?”

“You're neither a Runic nor Devotion Path. Maybe if you get a very specific relic, you could become good at a very specific part of one of those jobs. Seems like a strange thing to do though, so if you don't want to spend a shit load of gold and time to do that, I'm afraid you're stuck flinging rocks.”
