“What—what’s happening?” Shiv gasped. He had returned to campus immediately after setting Monster Mystery Meat on fire and had no idea what was going on. There were people all around them, and they had the look of Pathbearers about to enter a battle, rather than healers ready to treat patients. “Why’s everyone outside?”

“Two rogue Morbomancers are fighting each other inside the hospital,” Maxime growled.

“Morbomancers?” Shiv asked, completely lost.

“Biomancers specializing in magical diseases,” she explained. “Former faculty. They were married to each other, but then their child got sick, and—well—he died earlier, and now they’re blaming each other for his death. They’re jumping across the bodies of our patients as shifting strains of diseases.”

“They’re… they’re turning themselves into diseases,” Shiv said, trying to conceptualize the situation. “And attacking each other? In the hospital.”

Maxime nodded grimly. “We already lost the Oncology Ward to the Cancer Dimensionals they’ve unleashed. We need to take that section back before they breach Pediatric and Emergency.”

A notification suddenly loaded before Shiv’s eyes.

Hero-Biomancer Huell! Hero-Biomancer Morgana! We understand you are in pain, but this cannot continue! You are endangering the other patients at Last Chance—as well as your fellow Biomancers. Please submit to militia custody immediately!

Shiv's mind struggled to process everything that was happening. “What the hells…”“I won’t blame you if you want to sit tonight out, Marcus, because this is about to be one hell of a shift. We’re preparing to go in with the rest of the militia. Hero-Biomancer Van Erren’s still missing, so I’m picking you as my apprentice if you’re willing to stay. I won’t lie to you, though—this might get bad. Real bad. If things go wrong, and I tell you to run, you need to listen.”Shiv’s right eye twitched. I just… got done burning down a felling restaurant, System. What is this shit! What the fuck is wrong with you!“I told you,” Adam said. “I told you not to provoke it so many times before. I felling told you!”
