Lira was dead.

The truth crushed her. It loomed all around her like the shadows of dark mountains of despair. There was no way around. There was no way through. There was no way.

They had battled through the Crypt of Kings, Nevyn Eld’s own personal dungeon, just to lay eyes upon the mystical Well of Eternity. Ali had risked insanity and been cursed with an eldritch Title from the Nightmare in order to secure their first vial from its waters.

They had wrought defeat upon Nathaniel Sunstrider, a third-tier Archmage wraith and dungeon, liberating Ciradyl for the Wood Elves and Pathfinders after such grievous losses. They had unraveled corruption and purified the Well of Souls with a fragment of Nendir’s soul, all to secure the second vial.

But here, at the end of it all, among the shattered fragments of the Thousand Celestial Peaks, she had learned to her dismay that the Well of Divinity was gone. Destroyed ages ago by the dark forces of the Lich during the Breaking, all that remained of the fabled artifact was a faded echo of the relic, memories, and the mere imprint of its weight upon the fabric of the Spirit Realm.

All of her efforts had been in vain. Doomed from the start, only she’d been unable to see it.

Moving through the battlefield like an automaton, Ali slowly deconstructed all the corpses; a task she always performed at the end of every battle. She went through the motions, barely even seeing her own hands or feeling the mana pouring into her spells.

Variant: Sacred Guardian added to Imprint: Elemental.

How will it feel? A soul, trapped inside an acorn, slowly, painfully consumed by the corruption of the Lich’s curse. Her only hope of restoration had just died with the cursed image of the Well.

Azryet’s words of caution sprang clearly recalled to her mind:

“You must succeed before it corrupts her, or I fear the evil that may germinate from that Acorn will be more than your realm can bear. If you cannot find the Wells, you must find a way to destroy the Phylactery.”

Ali shuddered at the thought. The very idea that she would have to permanently end Lira’s soul was far too much for her to bear. I… I can’t. She sat in the middle of all the blood and dying flames and let the tears spill down her face.

Malika sat beside her and reached out to hold her hand.

“Why’s she crying?” Mato asked, but her dear friend’s question was just background noise to the screaming from the great wound in her heart.

“She can’t get the vial from the Well, so Lira’s going to die,” Calen said quietly.

“Lira’s not going to die. Ali’s going to fix the Well, right? Ali?”

“Fix the…” Ali coughed as the lump in her throat sabotaged her ability to speak. The thought was preposterous, and yet it clung to her like a leech supping on the vastness of her despair. How can that – can he – I don’t understand. She stared at the image of the Well, stable, nearly solid, even when the surroundings flickered and shifted moment by moment. As if its presence, even after its destruction, was so significant that it failed to succumb to the fickle insubstantiality of this place.

Beyond the image of the Well, visible out in the real world, the rubble that remained simply floated about, billowing holy mana in chaotic eruptions even now.

“How…” was all she managed. The Well of Divinity. An ancient artifact that predated all records and memories. How was someone like her supposed to repair an artifact so powerful, so critical, and so important?

“You fixed the Anvil. That was an artifact, too,” Mato said, joining her and Malika on the grass.

“Yes… but that was different.” That had been an artifact made by a Dwarf. Moreover, she hadn’t really known what she was doing at the time. It had been a fortuitous accident.

“How is it different?” Mato asked, his voice laced with an unfamiliar pleading.

Ali was about to dismiss him and his ignorant idea as an unintentionally cruel joke, but the earnestness upon his face brought her up short.

“I had my domain…”

“But you have Gates. You can bring your domain here.”

“I’m still pretty sure it won’t work,” Ali managed. How could she explain that the Anvil of the Emberforge was less than a seed to the mighty forest that was the Well of Divinity? A speck of dust to the endless sands of Brast?

“But you’re going to try anyway,” Mato asked, still staring at her with unrelenting intensity.

He loves her. The realization hit her like a bolt of lightning. A realization that shouldn’t even have been a surprise. Of course, he did – so many people cared about Lira. Even Azryet did, and here she was, wallowing in her own self-pity while everyone was suffering around her.

“Of course I’ll try,” Ali said, forcing some measure of determination into her words for his sake. Whether it worked or not, neither of them could afford to let it go without trying everything in their power. After all, she loved Lira, too. She got to her feet, dusted off her robes, and shifted back to the real world with a flicker of her Dismantle upon the banishment curse.

Then, she opened her Grimoire and made a Gate.

She linked the Gate to the middle of her jungle level – somehow feeling it would be appropriate to connect the chaotic mana between the two locations and still finding it close enough to come under the protective umbrella of the suppression aura should she need it. Immediately, dense waves of mana spilled outward from the rippling surface of the Gate and bathed the island in her domain.

Ali took a deep breath and then flexed her domain.

Variant: Howling Reed added to Imprint: Grass.Variant: Tempest Willow added to Imprint: Tree. Variant: Storm Bloom added to Imprint: Wildflower.…

Ali ignored the slew of messages and summoned five Lirasian Oak Elder Trees to encircle the ruins of the Well. They bent and swayed in the heavy winds, but they were immense trees in the second tier, and mere winds could not break them. Not even the violent winds of this magical squall. Carefully, she sank her awareness into the flow of her mana as it seeped through the chaotic holy mana and the remnants of stone. She studied the image of the Well of Divinity, comparing it in minute detail to the Well of Souls already bound to her domain. She noted every detail she could sense, every difference she could define.

Then, she wielded her domain like a crafter wielded their tools. Stone flowed forth from her Grimoire, born from her mana, and sculpted into reality by her magic. She twisted it, rearranging the pieces, binding them together according to the blueprint that overlapped from the Spirit Realm. She filled in gaps, binding the chaotic eruptions of holy mana into more laminar flows and molding them into the stone walls of the Well, and with every chunk, every ancient remnant she molded, the mana flowed into her domain to be fed in tantalizing tidbits to her Sage of Learning.

Her mana surged out into the Spirit Realm and suffused the Well of Divinity with the crystalline structure of her domain, and with a thought, she bound it together with the manifestation on the other side of the veil. Sweat poured from her brow as her mind stretched, saturated with magic, and the memories of the formations imbued into the Well itself. She didn’t have to create them, finding them intact in the echoes, but just the sheer volume and weight of binding them through her own domain to the rubble and boulders in the real world was nearly overwhelming. She reached for the next piece, bending it and fitting it into the whole. Another fragment of mana mingled into her domain, and another tiny glimpse of the vast vista became clear.

Minutes passed, or hours. Time ceased to have meaning, as she wrought magic and wrestled with power far beyond her own, struggling to undo the destruction and the erosion of eons.

She reached for the next remnant – a fragment of the well – but she suddenly found nothing remaining. She blinked in surprise, but her work seemed far from done.

“What’s wrong, Ali?” Malika asked.

“There’s not enough of this stone left,” she said, still surprised.

“Can’t you make more?”

“It’s not the stone really, it’s the remnants of the Well’s mana that I need,” Ali said. Whatever else it might be, the mana left over from the original carried the essence of the Well like an indelible fingerprint. If she could find enough pieces, perhaps she might be able to weave it all back together – at least, a tiny kernel of fragile hope within her dared to believe it might be possible.

“There were more stones on the other islands,” Calen said, landing beside her. “Should we get them?”

Suddenly, Ali remembered the vision Mirianth had shown her in the seconds before her kobold priest had died – an image of a rapidly approaching island floating in the storm. An island with a stone hovering in the center. A stone much like the stone fragments of the well.

Ali glanced over at the freshly named Mirianth, and instantly she knew what needed to be done.

“I need to link them all,” Ali said. “Can you find them for me? All of them?”

“Yes!” Calen answered with a fierce grin coming to his face as his mana flared brightly within him.

“Ok, I’ll need to absorb it all through my domain. Let me make a few Gates on this island and then let’s go collect the rest,” Ali said.

It took some time, but when she was done, she had created an array of Gates that encircled the site that held the remnants of the Well like an elegant white marble megalithic ring. Hopefully, she would be able to link to each and every island Calen hunted down.

“I’m ready,” she said, hope beginning to burn fiercely within her heart.

“Ok. Just be warned: some of the islands still have live Fractured Archons on them,” Calen said. “Follow me.”

“A fight, you say?” Mato exclaimed with excitement that Ali knew was only slightly exaggerated.

Ali grinned and hoisted Mato into the air on one of her barriers. He yelped and stiffened, instantly transforming into his Bear Form to cling on with his claws, and then Ali pulled him along and followed Calen into the storm. Maybe I can steal that Mirror Image again.

It was dark by the time Calen tracked the kobold priest’s corpse to the final island, and Ali was already exhausted from a long day, lots of fighting, and the grueling toll of wielding Sage of Learning to understand one of the oldest artifacts in existence. She stood beside her kobold minion as they stared at the splattered remains of her fall. Each island on their arduous path to this one had been filled with wind elementals or Fractured Archons, and, while Spell Steal had made many of those fights far easier, it was still a long time to be struggling through a storm.

Still, the fierce determination that burned within her heart and drove her onward had only grown stronger. Her Gate appeared, spilling domain mana out into the smaller island, and no sooner had it enveloped the several-ton floating boulder leaking densely chaotic holy mana than she set to work binding it to her domain.

“Ok, this should be it,” she said. I hope. She hopped back through the Gate after securing it and studied the nearly complete replica of the Well of Divinity that she had made. The collected mana from the fragments of the Well had been coalescing toward some transcendent epiphany, and Ali knew she must be close now.

Carefully, she wrought new stone to finish the construction, drawing the remaining holy mana through the Gate from the boulder, and finally attaching it to the Well itself. And then she reached across the veil and merged the image with reality.

How it was accomplished, she couldn’t really say. And yet the process felt somehow intuitive – her mana worked across realms, and she was burning mana like kindling to her Sage of Learning and Runic Script to restore the formations, but the veil between realms shifted, somehow becoming porous. Her mana rushed through the gaps, rapidly filling the replica she had made, drawing in the meaning, traits, mana, and imprint of the well from the Spirit Realm. There was a soft, but infinitely heavy grinding noise, and the two sides became one. The veil between realms shivered, and then the startling gong rang loud, drowning out the storm.

[Realm] The Well of Divinity has been restored. Runic Script has reached level 105 (+3).Sage of Learning has reached level 112 (+4).Runic Script has reached a base skill level of 100.Runic Script has advanced to tier two.Sage of Learning has reached a base skill level of 100.Sage of Learning has advanced to tier two.

“Ali, you did it!” Calen shouted.

“I knew you could do it,” Malika said softly, squeezing her hand.

For once, the massive beastkin had no words. Mato just pressed his knuckles to his eyes, blinking.

It… worked? Oh, wow…

Ali stood frozen, staring in astonishment as the Well she had been working on all day suddenly began to glow. As if the porous veil had suddenly manifested in reality, water began flowing through from the other side, filling the Well, and within moments, the water reached the top, stilling to a mirror surface, and slowly beginning to shine with the intense, radiant light of holy magic.

A burst of holy magic shot forth from the Well, bathing her Grimoire with light.

Variant: Divine Archon added to Imprint: Celestial, Elf

Just like before, her shrine reacted. Like an echo from the Spirit Realm, she heard the disembodied voice of the Divine Archon speaking like a memory once again.

“Protect the Well!”

Ali shivered, and the light dimmed like a dense, black cloud had just passed across the sun. An array of more than a dozen crimson eyes flickered into being in the air to the sound of loud popcorn bursts. Every last one of them swiveled to fix her with a mind-withering gaze, but before her defenses could buckle, Malika moved.

You have gained Clarity.

A hail of arrows filled the skies, followed by detonations of flame and lances of ice, and the eyes vanished, entirely obliterated by the storm of magic. But it was not over. A massive dark formation of death magic coalesced into a pillar of rapidly condensing power. A vertical tear ripped downward through the fabric of reality and then expanded outward like a great eldritch eye opening.

“Incoming!” Ali shouted.

Moments later, a figure shrouded in black mist, with impossibly long, spindly legs, clawed its way through the slash in the fabric of reality, tearing it wider.

D̷͙͝r̸̡͇̓͐ę̴̣̎a̵̬̬̫̓m̵̨̞̩̓̔͠ ̵̳̉Ẽ̶̟̇ä̵͓̌̊t̵̹̖̃͠é̸̼̗́͑ȓ̶͎̻̯̃͗ – Eldritch Horror – level 230 (Mind).

