Ali didn’t hesitate – she summoned her Eternal Reverie potion from storage and downed it right as the weight of the horror crashed into her mind with the familiar, sickening, warped probing that cared nothing for her sanity.

“Oh, no, you don’t,” Ali growled. “Not today!”

You have gained Mental Fortitude – Eternal Reverie.

“Attack!” she yelled, and all her minions sprang into action, galvanized by her suddenly clear thinking. Deep within the portal, darkness stirred, and it disgorged a Devastation Knight, followed by a seemingly endless swarm of crawling Parasitic Nightmares.

“Dungeon break! Ali! Close the portal!” Calen yelled, a withering hail of arrows flying furiously from his bow.

Ali rushed forward, under the protection of her barrier, while Mato and Malika cleared the way with roars and punches, but more and more monsters crawled out of the portal. Before she had made it even halfway, they were already being forced backward by the horde of undead and eldritch monsters. Magic detonated against her barriers, forcing her to hunker down and pour mana into them just to hold her ground.

But the denizens from the Crypt of Kings were relentless.

From the Dream Eater’s indistinct body, dozens of black tentacles burst forth, lashing out and sending her minions flying as they grasped hungrily. Meeting little resistance, they plunged into the Well of Divinity, and the waters instantly began to turn black.

Seeing all her work about to be corrupted, Ali lashed out with her golden darts, disrupting the probing tendrils, just as she had with the Well of Souls. Then another eldritch horror emerged from the portal, and more tentacles reached for the waters.

Ali’s heart chilled as the heavy-set figure of an immense Devastation Knight stepped across the threshold.

Haverron. He’s back.

In that instant, Ali knew her friends were seconds away from being overwhelmed. Even the sky overhead was growing darker, flush with eldritch monsters she had never seen before. Twisted illusions that burned her eyes and clutched with invisible claws that raked through her mind.

The scene before her seemed frozen. Mato roared his fury at the Death Knights. His paws trailed void and nature magic while several swords swung in toward him, shining with devastating magic. Calen, his face bearing a grim fatalism, unleashed his arrows into the sudden sea of undead. Malika was calm and serene, dancing within the chaos, but her magic seemed like the last flickering light about to be swallowed by an ocean of black.

Driven back up against the very brink of the Well itself, with ever more Death Knights and worse pouring through the portal and fresh skeletons beginning to rise from the ground, Ali knew they were already out of options.

All options, save one. Ali shifted, and the world turned gray. She blinked, studying the battle scene from the relative safety of the Spirit Realm and the shelter of her Arcane Recall spell. Already, there were two dozen death knights of various types. Haverron had somehow stepped through the portal, and the frozen ground at his feet crawled with summoned skeletons, but the black tentacles of the eldritch nightmares still twisted and writhed, seeking the Well even here with time arrested.

She opened her Grimoire and summoned her chosen defender.

Divine Archon – Celestial Sun Elf – level 235 (Holy).

Rapidly scanning through the skill list as Arcane Recall completed, she simultaneously bound the shining Celestial Sun Elf to her domain while her friends struggled to stem the overwhelming tide.

Domain Respawn applied to Divine Archon.Champion Domain Enhancement applied to Divine Archon.Affinity Aura (Holy) applied.Immunity (Death) applied.Amplify Skill (Celestial Sword) applied.Elemental Storm (Holy) applied.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +2692.

Ali breathed as the color rushed back into the world.

Her domain mana surged into the strongest Divine Archon she was able to summon, forcing her to grow to more than twice her original size, a tangible and visible infusion of the domain magic. The radiant glow that shone outward from her shining armor bathed the entire island in the soft light of the Archon’s holy presence, a constant, steady assertion of power, entirely unlike the chaotic, broken magic that had suffused the island before Ali had repaired the Well. Healing pulsed through all her allies like a heartbeat of divine energy. It pulsed again.

Like the holy version of Elemental Storm, the holy-affinity aura had been one of several timely gifts from Azryet and his mentorship. The immunity to death, on the other hand, had come from her own efforts to satisfy her bargain with the Dragon God and subsequently feeding it to and thoroughly plundering the Well of Corruption for everything she could extract from the dark shrine artifact that had once powered Nathaniel Sunstrider’s dungeon.

Just as she had hoped, the mana from the Well surged in concert with her domain, further imbuing her defender due to its proximity to the ancient artifact. A quick glance at the status confirmed a fifth domain magic for summoning Sacred Guardian elementals.

“Turn Undead,” she commanded, hastily running through the Divine Archon’s abilities again in her mind as she cobbled together a sketch of a strategy. The Archon’s mana simply shifted at her command, and the aura activated. Ghostly white flames erupted from every single undead monster’s body, as the paladin’s aura began to push the dead back.

“Defend the Well and our allies against the invaders,” Ali ordered, echoing this very same Divine Archon’s last plea, as every single Death Knight’s head swiveled to glare at the Archon.

“As it should be,” the Archon intoned, standing like a beacon of all that was radiant against the sea of crawling undeath before it. A being whose very existence was anathema to the dead and all they stood for.

A burst of holy mana flared as the Archon summoned a Sacred Guardian, and then she leveled her sword and flung it into the host arrayed before her, cutting a devastating arc through the sea of undead and eldritch horrors and leaving behind spinning afterimages of gleaming swords to further tear into the hordes.

If the undead hated the aura, every single monster noticed the Celestial Sword and the trailing images of holy blades left whirling in its wake like holy blenders or whirlwinds that sliced through decayed flesh like an unquenched, forge-heated sword through butter. Across the battlefield, undead and eldritch horrors paused, glaring at the shining beacon of holy power, while flames of holy power began to burn them. The Archon caught the sword at the end of its circular arc and threw it again, leaving more and more blades spinning in its wake, filling the area with consecration and the flashing glints of swords.

As the flying sword slammed back into her outstretched grasp, Ali sent her Divine Archon charging into battle. With a shout of challenge and eyes flaring with inner holy power, she waded through the monsters with her blade flickering and slashing. Lesser skeletons burned up and turned to dust before they could even approach, and the stronger ones exploded from the impact of the powerful cleaves. Even Death Knights gave way under the power of her onslaught, defensive spells flaring.

Despite Havok and his general delightfulness, Ali was well aware that Paladins were often considered to be not the most sociable. But there was no other class more suitable for facing down endless hordes of undead than one of the durable holy warriors. An implacable hatred flowed from the Archon, clearly felt through Ali’s connection with her powerful summon. Not the hatred of grudges or vengeance, but the methodical hatred of an exterminator dealing with an infestation of Plague Rats.

A second Sacred Guardian appeared. It stood beside the Archon as a pillar of holy fire and lashed out with six disembodied Holy Avenger swords. Then she summoned a third. Magic howled, sizzled, cracked, and blasted, drawn into the Divine Archon and crashing against her radiant breastplate like lightning drawn to a steel steeple. The black bolts of death magic were shrugged off effortlessly, fizzling against the Archon’s death immunity, and the rest met with continuous dispels and heals. Death Knights burst into flames despite their defensive shields as the archon turned her healing magic into an offensive weapon.

Without being bidden, the Divine Archon switched auras to one called Fanaticism.

You have gained Fanaticism.+182% to attack speed.Magic – Aura.

About to correct the aura switch, Ali suddenly pulled up short.

“One hundred and eighty-two percent?” Mato exclaimed, his incredulousness echoing softly within the chambers of her mind. “What the heck did you make?”

“Divine Archon,” Ali whispered, knowing he was still likely to hear her over the racket. She stared in awe as their entire party’s attack speed nearly tripled. Sure, it might not benefit her personally all that much, but the Sacred Guardians’ swords were whistling through the air. Mato and Calen moved like they’d been possessed. Arrows buzzed and swords crashed as her minions leaned into the powerful enhancement aura, and Malika was moving so fast that Ali could barely even perceive her attacks.

Even under the onslaught of the holy elementals, flying blades, and the ludicrous auras, Haverron began imposing his arctic storm on the field of battle, raising undead by the dozens. Still more were pouring through the portal. A portal Ali still could not reach. The icy grip of frost began to creep outward, slowing everything, often even freezing them solid before they shattered from impact.

It was then that Ali sensed a particular readiness from the Divine Archon. She caught her minion’s three-eyed glance, as if her Archon were requesting permission.

“Allow me to smite this filth,” the Archon said, putting words to the sense Ali felt through her connection.

“Destroy them,” Ali said grimly. “Destroy them all.”

The Fanaticism aura vanished, replaced by one Ali had already seen before – Holy Vulnerability. Then, Divine Archon drew heavily on the power of the domain, filling herself to the brim. White flames burst from her body, tearing outward with a blazing roar that hushed the winds. It ripped through the dark horde, erasing lesser monsters in an instant and igniting everything it touched.

Elemental Storm.

All Ali felt was the warmth of healing as she stood in the midst of the raging inferno. Chimes began to sound, somehow audible over the deafening roar of holy fire, and Ali took off, aiming for the portal as the raging waves of holy flames guttered Haverron’s arctic storm.

Thirty seconds of flame. When it slowly faded, the battlefield was scoured clean of everything save bone-white ash and the cleansing holy flames that lingered on the few corpses of the dead that were strong enough to avoid obliteration. All that remained standing was the battered form of Haverron, lit like an undead torch.

Haverron’s body shimmered, flickering to semitransparent as he launched himself forward and unleashed his Devastation Rush, charging right for Ali. With the lowest health, she knew she would always be his pick for target, but she simply faced him down, staring calmly through her glittering golden barrier that would matter little against his deadly ethereal strike. A flicker of intent passed from Ali’s mind to the mind of the Divine Archon via the conduit of Martial Insight.

“Your kind is not welcome here,” she declared, and with those words, the Divine Archon flung her sword with an almighty overhand throw. The sword flipped end over end, crossing the breadth of the field, and slammed into Haverron mid-charge, burying itself to the hilt with a terrible thud as it impaled him dead center through his chest. The power of the throw and the holy magic roaring within the sword tore the great Devastation Knight out of his Devastation Rush, slapping him as if with a godlike hand nearly ten meters across the grass and leaving him impaled to the ground. He lay there for several moments while the blade sizzled against his undead flesh, releasing a cloud of foul smoke from the grievous wound. Then, he succumbed to the blade.

The Divine Archon gestured with her hand, and the sword returned, soaring through the air as if called home. She flickered with a formation and her aura switched, this time to Redemption, and within the magic, every single corpse evaporated, leaving the ground pristine once again.

“Wow,” Calen exclaimed breathlessly.

“Holy shit,” Mato said as he shifted out of Bear Form.

“She’s so strong,” Malika said. “What did you do, Ali?”

“The Well of Divinity gifted me the imprint. I made her a champion. She gets the Summon Elemental skill from the Well, so she has five abilities. I amplified her sword skill, gave her immunity to death, holy elemental storm, and a holy aura,” Ali explained.

Mato nodded sagely. “Simple.”

Ali gave him a side-eye. “In that tone of voice?”

“That must be expensive,” Calen said, still aiming his bow at the portal, although no new monsters seemed to be emerging as the portal flickered and shimmered wildly.

“Yes, but not as much as I expected,” Ali said. She was already studying Haverron’s portal and preparing her magic to dismantle it, but it turned out she didn’t need to do it. Without Haverron there to sustain it, the magic was rapidly destabilizing on its own.

When the portal collapsed, Ali shot across the battlefield to finally fill her vials at the Well of Divinity, choosing to scan her notifications quickly on the way.

Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 237 (+2).+20 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 147 (+2).Arcane Recall has reached level 83 (+3).Barrier has reached level 127.Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 84.Martial Insight has reached level 139 (+3).Empowered Summoner has reached level 125 (+2).Domain Mastery has reached level 80 (+5).Minion Teleport has reached level 84.Reading has reached level 22.Sculpting has reached level 18 (+3).You have learned a new Domain Magic: Abundant Summoning.Abundant SummoningRequirements: Nature affinity monster, Domain Mastery has reached at least level 80. Source: Class.Summon nature-affinity elementals, plants, or nature-affinity beast monsters in overwhelming waves.Skill – Domain Magic

She nodded to herself. A nice option.

