“This is one of the things I want to change by doing this tonight, even though we’re not truly ready for actual guests, or anything like that. But look around you, and see the vision I have in store. This place will be great. We’ll have restaurants and services like the banks. We’ll enable the founding of new cities outside of this one. We’ll bring more people in from Ar’Cosmos, and they can settle a new city by the lake. We’ll be settling new lands all over the place, and turning the Crystal Forest back into a real forest.

“We’ll bring the whole world under this roof, and through causing prosperity, we will rise upon that prosperity. I expect each and every one of you here to have a safer life, a richer, better life, and to help others accomplish the same. We’ll push back the monsters of this world. We’ll open new ones.

“Candlepoint will be the main city that supplies all the rest, while everyone in House Benevolence will be working on these goals I have set forth.

“And to accomplish these goals, I have appointed 6 overseers.” Erick said, “I’m going to put up some lights, so don’t get startled now; I know we’re all way too much on edge.” He gave a small smile, and made a terrible joke that he knew wouldn’t land, but he was already committed, “Maybe I should cast a [Zone of Peace]? But that seems a bit too heavy handed.” He began casting lightsculptures into the air. “Anyway…

“This is Zolan Brightborn, from Oceanside. He is the Castellan of House Benevolence. Consider him the governor of this Gate District. His position is similar to Mephistopheles, and the two of them will be on the governors’ court, which is basically a ‘royal court’.

“Mox Dawnborn, also from Oceanside. Overseer of the Exterior. She’ll be making some dungeons for now. She’ll be overseeing city settlements eventually.

“Raingorl Brightsnapper. Oceanside. Overseer of Wellbeing. He’ll be making a school and a hospital.

“Volaro, from Ar’Cosmos. Overseer of Law. He’ll be making laws and courts to uphold those laws.

“Burhendurur, from Ar’Cosmos. Overseer of Enforcement. Consider him a guard, but for the Gate District and for the lands outside of the control of governors.

“And Aisha, from Stratagold. Overseer of Magic. She’ll be making a magic school and much more.

“And that’s it for the House.”

Erick moved on, talking a bit about Candlepoint, and the people from there. He barely recognized what he was even saying, only that it needed to be said, for this groundwork needed to be laid perfectly. As he saw the people of Candlepoint brighten under his praise, he knew he had done well.

And then Erick stopped talking, and tried to get everyone else to start mixing.

It was awkward.

It was awful in parts, of course.

But it was also constructive.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, since Candlepoint was a known actor and without any history with any of the other people in the House, the three factions of House Benevolence (really only two, though, since Stratagold and Oceanside were almost on the same side) mostly spoke to the people from Candlepoint. From there, small talk moved on, and larger conversations occurred. There were a few incidents as Ar’Cosmos and Stratagold clashed, but, to Erick’s utter delight, everyone from Candlepoint worked hard to defuse those situations, and his Overseers also worked hard to do the same.

And sure, Zaraanka was still scared of him, and Valok was still curt, but both of them spoke at length to anyone who wanted to talk. Zaraanka, in particular, was very interested to talk to Zolan about trading with other nations.

Erick wasn’t there for that conversation since he didn’t want to scare Zaraanka, but he did manage to overhear that Zolan had quite a few contacts he wished to invite into the Gate District, but it would be a process. He was more interested in what Zaraanka had managed to do with Candlepoint. This transformed the discussion into talk of Erick’s Wizardry reveal and all that fallout.

There were a lot of small connections being made, all around Erick, which was perfect! That’s what he was trying to accomplish.

On the scale of ‘bad office parties to good office parties’, on Earth, Erick would rate it a 1.5 out of 10.

But on the scale of peace talks on Veird?

An easy 7. Maybe even an 8!

And everyone seemed to enjoy the food and the band.

Erick called an end to the party after only 3 hours, which was more than enough, for now.

- - - -

The gathering came and went.

So did the night.

The next day dawned, and Erick met with his people, individually, and sometimes as a small group. He [Gate]d in reincarnators from Oceanside and showed them to their rooms, and tried to make them comfortable. Some people from Ar’Cosmos ventured out to Candlepoint in small groups of two or three to buy food and supplies from the markets to bring back to their tower. Raingorl and Mox also ventured into the city, looking for supplies for the New Folks Home, and also to meet with potential employees who they had spoken with the previous night. You couldn’t run a school or several dungeons without having people to man them, after all.

The day passed long before Erick had gotten enough done, for he had barely scratched the surface of what Zolan could actually do for House Benevolence, and yet, already, Zolan had secured some official trade routes from the Wasteland Kingdoms to Candlepoint. He had piggybacked off of the work of Zaraanka and Princess Weilux, and used his connections as a former world power himself to do it, but still! It had gotten done. And now, Candlepoint had an official trading agreement in the West Bank.

That official trade agreement came with a request for a meeting with Erick, which was something he would satisfy on his own time.

Probably wouldn’t happen for a while, though.

The very next day, instead of goods blipping into discrete houses like they were smuggling goods (which had been how it had been happening since Erick’s announcement of Wizardry) [Teleport Platform]s floated through the eastern gate of the city, headed to the previously empty customs house. From there, those goods went to Market Street, and a new general store opened up.

It was sold out within five hours.

Erick would eventually open a [Gate] to make all of that easier, but for now, this was good.

The next day passed quickly, but monotonously, for Geode Bank had come to town and it was time to set up the banking for House Benevolence. With Zolan at his side, Erick went to Mage Bank first and spent five hours sorting out a new kingdom account. By that time, the basic building for Geode Bank had been built, right in front of House Benevolence, and so Erick and Zolan went over there to set up more accounts with them. Making accounts at Geode Bank went like a breeze, even though Erick had never worked with them before, because King Alfonin had paved the way for them long before Erick ever stepped in the door.

Mox began working on the sewers of the Gate District that day.

Raingorl broke ground on a trade school inside Candlepoint, since that is what they needed right now. There weren’t any kids but there were lots of adults who had to make a living in that place, since they weren’t allowed anywhere else in the world, and so a trade school was deemed the most prudent of options. He had eight students by the end of the day.

After overseeing a discussion between Zolan, Aisha, and Burhendurur (which went pretty well!), the Overseer of Enforcement decided to use summoned sand elementals instead of flesh golems and other undead monsters in order to secure the lands outside of the lake. There wasn’t much to actually secure out there, but Erick’s [Cascade Imaging] for ‘people’ surely didn’t catch all the possible problems out there. He had been using [Cascade Imaging] for a while, and surely someone would know that blocking radio waves was enough to stop that spell from seeing them; even if no one really knew the true nature of light, some people did. The Gemslicers down in Stratagold knew of light. Others probably did, too.

Volaro and Erick spoke of laws and ideals, here and there, and though Erick suspected they would talk a lot more about all of that in the future, for now, Volaro had a good idea of how to set up his court of laws. Mostly, he worked through Candlepoint’s existing court structures, which was great.

Erick was able to talk to Aisha some, and to lay out his smaller plans for wide scale denial magics, and for magical iron that wouldn’t rust no matter how much magic was threaded through it. Aisha already knew about using [Condense Oxygen] to prevent the rusting of iron, for that is what they used to treat wrought rot. Attaching that magic to simple iron was different than using it on wrought, and was not something that the Gemslicers had solved yet, but their office would work on that for now. Erick couldn’t really participate right now, though, for there was too much other work to be done.

Yetta Wheat, the Champion of Atunir came to town, stepping out of her own [Gate] and directly onto the farms of Candlepoint. Erick only noticed her ten minutes after she showed, because he was busy elsewhere.

Erick stepped down onto the land south of the erick bean fields, north of the wheat fields. He waved, and shouted, “Hello, Yetta!”

Yetta stood up from inspecting the beans. Valok stood up beside her. They had been discussing the beans and how they were used, but now they were focused on the Wizard. The young woman was exactly as Erick remembered; skin like dark wood, curly hair cut short, and with a faint aura of divine fire all around her. She seemed both perturbed, yet happy.

With a false air of anger, Yetta shouted back, “I kept waiting for your invitation!”

Erick smiled. “I’ve been busy!”

“I know.” Yetta walked toward him, extracting herself from the bean fields, saying, “I’m going to work on these farms. Keep what happened the last time you tried this from happening again.”

An unexpected swell of emotions rushed through Erick’s chest. He smiled brightly. Tiny arcs of Benevolent lightning skittered across the ground, and vines began to spread—

“Whoops!” Erick said, pulling himself back from sparking all over the place. He didn’t want to fill this walking space with unintended flora. “Ah. That happens sometimes.” He wiped away a quick tear. “Glad to have you, Yetta. Do you need a place to stay? I mean— How can I help you, help others?”

Yetta grinned, saying, “How about a proper altar to Atunir?”

Valok had joined them, and now he spoke up, “We can’t work in such a field.”

Yetta turned back to Valok, concern on her face. “We’re under a truce right now.” And then suddenly she shifted. Divine fire flickered behind her eyes, and she was the avatar for Atunir, the Goddess of Field and Fertility. She commanded, “Say my name, my former parishioner, and let us test the veracity of this truce.”

Valok’s glowing white eyes went wide as he realized who, exactly, was talking to him. A single name slipped from his lips, “Atunir?”

And nothing happened.

Valok jolted with surprise, for he was fine. No blood from his eyes. No vise-grip upon his soul. None of the usual signs that happened when a shadeling spoke the name of a god besides Melemizargo. Valok laughed a little as he, too, realized what had happened.

Valok smiled, wiping away a tear as he said, “Ah. Atunir… Ah. Hello, my Goddess. It’s been a long time since I could pray to you.”

Atunir looked on through Yetta’s eyes, judging. She found the situation acceptable. The Goddess of Field and Fertility nodded at Valok, then turned back to Erick, and she was Yetta once again. The Champion of Atunir spoke, “There is no issue.”

Erick chuckled. “Then… I’ll make an altar… Somewhere?”

Valok said, “This way.”

The farms got an altar to Atunir, placed centrally. Yetta planted some divine-fire beans by that altar, and without ceremony, the beans instantly began to grow, spiraling vines of gold and silver up and down pillars, surrounding Atunir’s statue. The very next day the usual yields of the fields multiplied, as [Grow] worked overtime and the land itself teemed with vitality. And now, farmers of all kinds, including shadelings, did what they usually did all across the world before they started their work day, or maybe just a few times a week; they had a proper place to pray to Atunir. And that is what they did.

More days passed without great incident.

Here and then gone, went Stratagold’s month-long moratorium on new Gate sets.

Erick was already talking about where to open the next Gate set, but there was one thing to do before that happened; he needed to talk to the Wayfarer’s Guild. Zolan was already on the job. Soon, House Benevolence entered into negotiations with the Wayfarer’s Guild for them to provide ‘last [Teleport]’-level transportation services near the various nodes of the Gate Network. Thanks to Erick’s castellan (because the Wayfarer’s Guild wouldn’t actually talk to Erick, but they would happily talk to Zolan) the Wayfarer’s Guild came to town the very next day.

Even more days followed, the sun seeming to rush across the sky faster than Erick could handle.

Erick’s main fears of a sudden war had yet to materialize. There had been a few fights between members of his House, of course, but mediation by Volaro settled many of those fights. Thankfully, Volaro proved to be impartial once he was on the judge’s seat, so that was great.

Everywhere Erick looked, there was noticeable growth, and burgeoning cooperation.

Peace.

And so, because there was so much peace, Erick offered Jane the chance to go out and find her sword.

“You mean it?” Jane asked, all excited.

“Yes!” Erick said, “You will have some bodyguards and stuff, and this isn’t really a mission to find your sword; that’s just the excuse. You’ll be spearheading the chance to show how all of our sides can work together.”

Jane rushed her father and grabbed him in a great big hug, saying, “That works! Thanks, dad!”

Erick smiled as he hugged his daughter.

