In his office, on the western side of his throne room, Erick took a seat at his desk. Poi stood behind him. They were the only two people visible in the room, but he knew there was another close by. If Goldie didn’t show up after being named, then Erick would call to the Darkness ever-lurking in the corners.

“Goldie,” Erick said, “I’d like to talk now.”

The goldscale Shade of Assassination appeared in the air next to her seat, looking proper in her black work attire. Her large sword hung in the air behind her like a plank of black steel, while her eyes were bright white. She gave a small, professional curtsy. “My lord.” She rose. “What would you have of me?”

“I’d like to know of your encounter with Patriarch Xangu, what you found regarding the Chelation War, and to know what you’ve been doing since then. Afterward, I will tell you what I expect of you going forward.” Erick gestured to the chair. “Please sit.”

Goldie took out a folder of papers from the air and sat them down on Erick’s table, and then she sat herself down in her chair. “Where would you like me to begin?”

Erick ignored the folder for now. “When you stepped through that portal at the meeting.”

Goldie nodded, then she began, “I stepped through the portal and went unknown…”

Though she couched her abilities in obfuscating words, the rest of her tale seemed normal enough.

Goldie entered the Underworld where Erick had put her. She went ‘unknown’. She found the house on the hill under the large blue crystal, and then she infiltrated. Within ten minutes she had managed to confirm her target was at the location using a variety of measures. These included paperwork in three offices linking the owners of the house to Nelboor and Terror Peaks related interests, a blood-matching spell taken from the stray hairs of three easily identifiable family members and cross checked with some blood she had taken from the direct Terror Peaks clan, and visual and magical-signature confirmation of the target. While she did that, she also gathered evidence of Terror Peaks’ various interests and knowledge of how they managed to gather those Soul Spears. Then she prepared for the actual confrontation.

At the time of her infiltration, Patriarch Xangu was inside an office and arguing with his cousin, and he had been doing that for the last 25 minutes. The argument had been about the loss of the war a few months ago, but primarily it had been how Erick had been taken by the fae, and how Stratagold was keeping it as quiet as they could.

Erick interrupted her there. “Did you discover how they knew about that?”

“It was the argument you had with the fairy on the shores of Yggdrasil’s Underworld lake.” Goldie said, “There are always thousands of Sights upon all of these World Trees. Most of the world knew when you were taken.”

“… I probably should make an anti-[Scry] magic and put it out there.” Or maybe not? It was a double-edged sword. Anti-[Scry] meant Ophiel and Yggdrasil were blind… So probably not, actually. Erick moved on, “Continue.”

Goldie nodded.

Once she had confirmed the target, through several independent Blood Magics and prognostications, she flinched at actually killing the man. But she knew it was for the greater good, and Erick had ordered it, so she rapidly cut Patriarch Xangu into several disintegrating slices, annihilating his body, soul, and mind in the process. It was as quick and as thorough as possible. His defensive magics activated briefly and Goldie also had to tear through the various [Ward]s surrounding the whole property, but she did the job, and then she left. She was ashamed to say that they did track her for a short time, as she had left tears falling in her escape; her Blessing remains rather strong. Escaping from pursuit and the Underworld was easy enough, though, as she went to the nearest Teleport Station and commandeered that magic laid down by Tasar and Stratagold in order to reach the Surface.

Erick was a bit stunned by that.

Goldie finished with, “I arrived here in Candlepoint about 36 hours after that meeting. Since then, I have been acting in hidden service to ensure that only positive outcomes have happened in this land, as well as pursuing leads that I have accrued regarding the Chelation War ever since that disaster. I haven’t acted violently in any of these cases, but I did leave some notes on some pillows in order to frighten certain malefactors, and side-powers. The investigation into the Chelation War was completed weeks ago, with confirmation of many leads proven by what I found during my assault on Xangu.

“I have also checked up on your hires.

“Your woman, Mox, has a whole family of airy assassins, and they have been spying on you for a while now. When she accepted her [Reincarnation] she divorced herself from that life, as she does not wish to endanger what you are building here, and she is unsure if you would like her assistance in these sorts of matters. She would take her family back if you gave her the go-ahead. Her family would likely also feel in your debt if you took them back.

“As for the other ones,

“Zolan is a crafty man who we have attempted to kill only once, but he talked his assassin out of it, so he has had our approval for a long time. That happened when he was 45. Raingorl teaches his students well, and he seems to be continuing that tradition, so we have never had a problem with him. Mundane teaching has never been a problem for the Church of Melemizargo, for we do wish people to grow and prosper. We have tried to recruit Raingorl several times, but each time he rebuffs us. Our previous ultimate goals and his views of how the world should be have been incompatible.

“Aisha would be a Cultist and fall in line with our previous ideals to change the world if she didn’t have such a bad opinion of Melemizargo. As she has chosen to join you, a Wizard, I can reasonably confirm that she will be a great asset.

“Your dragons are dragons, and they are plotting to take as much power from you as they can.” Goldie said, “I am rather sure you will either have to put them in their place through physical means, or magical means, for they will never truly join House Benevolence until you undertake either of these options.”

Surprises, and non-surprises all around.

There was nothing about Goldie’s story or her opinions that struck Erick as untrue, and so he said, “One minute,” and he opened the folder and began leafing through the 30 page report, with pictures. 45 seconds later, he closed the folder and looked to Goldie. “Terror Peaks managed to infiltrate the Book Binders and actually get the spell themselves? I have a hard time believing that.”

“I doubt Kirginatharp realizes what actually happened because the trail was rather distant, or maybe he does, and he does not wish to inform you of his own failure to protect his assets.” Goldie said, “As for the infiltration itself, I could easily infiltrate the Book Binders if I wanted; it is not impossible. You might be able to infiltrate them as well, just by virtue of that necklace you wear. But as for Terror Peaks’ infiltration... Your Worldly Path allowed a lot of small things to happen that would not have happened otherwise.”

Erick took a breath, the enormity of 4 million lives hanging over him like a guillotine. He frowned. He breathed again.

He fell silent.

Goldie sat at attention.

Poi was steady as a rock, standing behind and to Erick’s left.

Erick moved on, saying, “I’m going to give a copy of your report to Kirginatharp. Moving on. Do you have a place to stay? A place you are comfortable with?”

Goldie sat a bit straighter, for she had not foreseen that particular question from Erick. She said, “I have made a small place for myself in the tunnels of this House. It is more than enough for me.”

“That’s not enough for me, though.” Erick said, “If you’ve been keeping up with my actions here, you can probably guess that one of the towers I put into this House is for approved Shades if you can keep to a level of civility that everyone else in this House maintains… Or at least to the level of which I wish them to maintain.”

Goldie’s breath hitched ever so slightly. “I will follow your wishes, my lord. I will take residence in the smaller tower southeast of the main tower.”

“Good.” Erick said, “I want people to eventually get used to you being around, but I don’t want you seen that much in public for the first few months. Maybe not even a year or two. Other Shades who come here will need to adhere to the same level of respect and wariness as I believe you have shown. But! That said, you’re the only one I am accepting right now. If any others wish to follow you, they will be better served by making a district of their own on the other side of the lake, or somewhere they will not frighten everyone else. They will also have to adhere to all the general laws that I expect a place around here to adhere to.” Erick warned, “This whole endeavor cannot fall apart due to old hatreds, Goldie, and your Clergy is the largest contributor to those old hatreds in all this world. Do you understand?”

Goldie looked ready to cry for joy; small tears of light gathering in her bright white eyes. With a voice that she desperately tried to keep calm, Goldie said, “Your words are my law. I will see your will be done.”

Erick nodded. “Good. Now. How did Burhendurur know where you were?”

“An Elemental Death ability known as [Death Sense], though he was not able to accurately guess. I moved into the position he thought I was in at the last possible moment, in order to make him think that he knew where I was.” Goldie said, “His ability sees the number of lives that someone has taken. The only thing impressive about what he managed to do was that he was able to see through the pure pull of your own kill count. With the number of monsters you have killed I am amazed he was able to see anything at all past your own glory.”

Erick had mixed feelings about that, but he was too busy to dwell on them for any length of time. “Do Carnage dragons have any senses like that? Any stranger abilities I should know of?”

Goldie nodded. “Death Dragons are very good at Soul Work, though they are not good at working living souls. They have to kill the thing first.

“Carnage Dragons are a bit more nuanced. They are able to see the rage of others and accept that rage into themselves, giving them untold destruction in a battle. They can also control their rage better than any other dragon type, giving them the strongest resistance against the Dragon Curse compared to the other two types.” Goldie said, “Death kills the Dragon Curse. Fae tricks it away. Rage simply nullifies it. There are other nuances to Carnage which some are able to tap into, which allow them to subdue the impetus to war in others, or to sense the flow of battle, or to sense people ready to start a riot inside an otherwise plain-looking group of people on the street. There are nuances to all the types of dragons. Would you like me to continue?”

Partially, Erick did want her to continue, but he had other things to do and he couldn’t spend time on this right now. He’d need to ask Aisha about all this, too, for she would likely know. He could also directly ask Burhendurur and Volaro.

“Ah. No. That’s enough for now, which is why you asked that, I suppose.” Erick said, “I’ll learn all of this in due time, and I suppose I’ll learn all about Benevolence as time goes on, too. Do you have any suspicions about what Benevolence can do?”

“I know it can lay out the best possible path forward in any situation in order to exert helpful pressures on all involved.” Goldie said, “I believe you do this mostly unconsciously, but in the future I suspect you will be able to actively visualize the best paths forward. Other than that, and the visualization of ultimate ends and ultimate beginnings, I am unaware of any other unique uses of Benevolence.”

Erick’s eyes opened a bit wider. “Ah. Yes.” Laying out that as a nuance of Benevolence sort of put Erick’s entire life in a different light. Or maybe it didn’t? Erick wasn’t sure. He moved on. “You will not be joining the gathering tonight. Not publicly. In the future, you might, but not tonight.”

Goldie accepted this with a small nod.

Erick asked, “Do I require an oath from you? Or will that be too much for your prior commitments?”

“You have me forever, my lord, but I cannot offer you the final, most truest of oaths. It would turn binding in a way I will not be able to survive, for I have already given my entirety to my God in Darkness.” Goldie said, “I pray that His gift of me to you is enough.”

“Would it be correct, or incorrect, to say that the veracity of your loyalty is thus connected to the whims of your God?”

Goldie stared with bright white eyes, her countenance solid. “My God desires this to work, and so, I am here at his command.”

Erick left that non-answer alone.

He simply said, “Dismissed.”

Goldie slammed a fist over her chest, and then she vanished.

He had no idea if she was truly gone, but…

It was what it was.

Erick sat there for a moment longer, then he said, “Time to get ready for a party, I suppose.”

Poi sighed a little, letting out a massive amount of stress in the moment, all in order to shoulder more stress in the coming hours.

Erick said to him, “You need a break too, eh?”

“I don’t think I’m going to get one.”

Erick put on a smile, saying, “Maybe you will! Maybe these overseers will be the best possible people to make House Benevolence bloom into something that makes life easier and better for all of us.”

“One can hope,” Poi said, not feeling it.

“One can hope!” Erick said, speaking with as much enthusiasm as he could.

Poi tried to feel it, but it wasn’t taking. He shook his head.

Erick changed the subject, “Is everyone at Candlepoint getting ready? What about the other reincarnators?”

Poi looked away for a moment, tendrils of thought spilling off his head.

Erick waited.

Poi said, “Mephistopheles got the information packet and is happy to be part of your governors’ court. The Interfaith Church has been cooking since noon, when you officially told them this would be happening. They are prepared for a professional feast, but they want you to know that if you require an actual feast, they have food in reserve.”

Erick smiled a little.

Poi continued, “The Headmaster received your overseer packet earlier as well, and now he is talking about all that with the reincarnators you installed at— ahem— the New Folks Home. The other reincarnators will be ready for transport two days from now. There have been a few delays on regaining Levels.”

