Erick was glad that nothing had changed with the plan for the reincarnators, but upon hearing that name for the house at Yggdrasil… He frowned a little. “I didn’t call it ‘New Folks Home’? But— Ah? I kinda like it?” He lost his frown and said, “Yeah. I think I do.”

“It was named by Zolan, since you didn’t give it a name.”

“I think I made a good choice with that one.” Erick said, “With all of them, really.” He got up from his chair and opened a [Gate] back to the house, saying, “Time to get ready for the party.”

- - - -

Zolan sat in the common room of his new apartment building, feeling concerned.

Not about the house, or the fact that he was now living with others just down the hall, like this was an old folk’s home. He actually liked that a lot. He loved living in a great big house full of people, and the thought of living with his colleagues was growing on him. It would be difficult to maintain a proper work and life balance in this sort of environment, but it would be good to live like this while constructing House Benevolence. Later, he would have his own home inside the House itself, with his own security, but this was fine for now. This place was pretty decent, too, even though it was all Fae Magic. It even had most of the proper amenities, but the reincarnators would have to take care of cycling the water themselves. Wouldn’t be too hard to do that; the place was set up for easy [Cleanse Ward]s and [Gravity Ward]s for moving around water, and there was a giant lake not 1300 meters below them if they needed refills.

Zolan wasn’t even concerned over his new assignments. He was thrilled to have almost as much responsibility as he had had back when he was working for the Headmaster. In some ways, he had even more responsibility. He was excited to get in on the ground floor of what would eventually become a multi-world organization.

And then there was another nuance to this whole situation. Zolan was excited, and a little scared, knowing that if he was even half as good as the man he used to be, then Erick would keep him around for a very, very long time… Assuming Erick would achieve immortality himself. But then again, Erick was a Wizard. Of course he would eventually become immortal. Knowing that, Zolan saw his own future stretch into beyond. He could probably get another [Reincarnation] in 80 years. Or maybe only 40?

65 seemed like a good age to reset at.

Zolan couldn’t imagine growing much older than that, now that he had experienced youth again. His fellow overseers had had similar thoughts, back when they were at Oceanside and talking about their experiences in their new bodies. They wanted to be young forever, too.

Mox was a stunningly beautiful woman who Zolan was still feeling strange about. He had never felt anything even remotely desirable about Mox, and yet, here he was, getting odd, tingly feelings down there when he looked at her. It was probably the vagaries of youth, for Mox was usually not his type. ‘Type’ didn’t seem to matter much, though, for Zolan had been getting a lot of those sorts of feelings with practically every woman he looked at these days, and even a little bit for Raingorl, which was new, and a little bit exciting if Zolan was being honest with himself. At least Raingorl did have a strong Blessing from Aloethag, so that explained that, and other men just looked like men to Zolan; nothing special. There was no denying that Mox was definitely special, though. A competent woman with strong ties to other competent people. Who wouldn’t be attracted to that? And yet, Zolan had found himself making similar justifications regarding every woman he met—

He cut his thoughts short.

‘Splitting up our people will be a disaster,’ Zolan thought at the group. ‘Ar’Cosmos is going to do something to those under them. Some sort of ensorcellment.’

‘I don’t believe Erick would allow that.’ Raingorl sent, ‘He would notice.’

‘Unless he’s already compromised.’ Mox sent, ‘But the fact that we’re able to think these thoughts at all gives credence to the idea that he is not compromised.’

Raingorl sent, ‘I feel like everything that is happening is fine. Erick was willing to listen to our suggestions and push back on Burhendurur’s and Volaro’s overreaching. We’ll get our own securities for our tower in the House and they won’t be under the Carnage dragon’s oversight. Our people will be inside every other department, and we can all talk to each other about what happens in those departments. And none of us are redundant. We will know everything that happens there. Therefore, this is fine.’

For a long moment, no one said a word.

And then the Headmaster sent, ‘I suggest you think hard about whether remaining in your New Folks Home or moving into the House is in your best interests, for once you leave Yggdrasil you will likely not be allowed back. As for the departments and the organization, I am reading Zolan’s report, and Erick passed me one of his own. They are virtually identical. I don’t believe any of you are compromised. I do believe that Erick is trying his best and that it will be enough, if you help him to make that House the best that it can be. The future of our world is in your collective hands, my newly-young friends. Do your best.’

Zolan, Mox, and Raingorl sat there in the living room, stunned. Those words from the Headmaster were clearly his final decisions on the subject, and his final decision had been good. And he had called them all friends. Zolan knew that, in private, each one of them had received that honor at least once. It was why the Headmaster had even taken this chance on Erick’s [Reincarnation] working as advertised.

But to openly state friendship was to give honor and danger in equal measure. If someone else had heard that Zolan was a ‘friend to the Headmaster’, he would have been targeted…

But he supposed they were going to be targets now, anyway.

So they might as well tell those good truths to the world, while they could.

Zolan cheerfully sent, ‘Thank you for your kind words and your guidance, my old friend Kirginatharp.’

‘Ha!’ the Headmaster sent, surprised and amused at the same time.

Raingorl and Mox gave Zolan a little stare.

Zolan shrugged, adding, ‘I heard that everyone else is going to be calling you that, so I should, too. You know. So that they take me seriously.’

Still amused, the Headmaster sent, ‘Maybe save that for when you become at least an archmage and can stand up to your other overseers without Erick backing you.’

‘Ah. Prudent as always, my old friend Headmaster,’ Zolan sent, smiling, ‘Always a wise one, you are.’

Still amused, the Headmaster sent, ‘Enjoy your party, safe in the knowledge that if something strange should happen with Erick, that Stratagold, Oceanside, and others are ready to step in if necessary. If some exterior force should attack, then I wish your organization the best of luck in growing strong. Farewell.’

The connection to Oceanside vanished.

And then it was just the three of them, sitting in a room together. Zorik was in his own room down the hall, putting away clothes. There was nothing to do for another three hours; until the party. So it was time to work.

Zolan stood up, saying, “I need to prepare myself for the gathering.”

Raingorl stood up alongside Mox, saying, “I’ve got it easy compared to you. Making a school and a hospital? Simple.”

Mox said, “I’m on dungeon and sewer duty for a while. Also rather simple.” She looked to Zolan, saying, “You’ll have to organize something completely new, though.”

“The exact form of this castellan position is new to me, but it’s little more than money tracking, allocation, and politicking on the entire world stage through this Gate District. I admit that it will be different to be within a single [Teleport] of any possible meeting, but that should prove more conducive to proper organization than anything.” Zolan said, “No… My worries remain in the contents of this House. We’re going to be vastly outnumbered by Ar’Cosmos and Candlepoint’s people, even if the wrought will be there with us.”

Mox hummed under her breath, saying, “Even when our fellow reincarnators come here we’ll still be outnumbered, just because of Candlepoint.”

“Even with your family hiding in the wind we’re outnumbered,” Raingorl said, shrugging.

Mox said, “They won’t do anything. I already told them not to.”

“But that’s enough fretting for now.” Zolan said, “All the world is watching, so we best put on a good show. It’s time to get politicking.”

“I’m ready,” Raingorl said, “Though the feel of eyes upon me is something I will need to get used to again.” He gave a tiny smile, adding, “It is not a bad feeling, but I did not expect as much from you, Zolan. Or you, Mox.”

Mox blushed, hiding a small smile of her own.

Zolan smiled wide, saying, “You’ve got a lot to look at, big man!”

Raingorl barked a laugh.

Zolan included Mox in the teasing, saying, “And you’re as beautiful on the outside as you always were on the inside.”

Mox laughed loud, and then she gave a false stare, filled with feigned anger, saying, “That might have worked on me once, but not this time, and never with you.”

Zolan shrugged. “I’m out of practice with beautiful young ladies.”

Raingorl chuckled, saying, “Don’t get too much practice tonight; we do have work to do.”

- - - -

The party was held in the atrium of the House, in the very center of the building. For the last few days this particular location had looked rather plain, and empty. Technically, it was still exactly that, if one ignored the lightsculptures that Erick had put up all around the place.

Over the last hour Erick had placed ideas of what could be into restaurant locations, into the empty Wayfarer’s small office, the two banking offices, and into the smaller offices of his overseers, all around the atrium. And it looked great! It would take time, but Erick was rather sure that his goals were not that distant. This place would eventually look like Archmage’s Rest, or the Grand Wizard Tower in the Core, or some of the large Guild offices Erick had seen in Songli.

All the while he was doing that, the people in the Stratagold tower, and the people in the Ar’Cosmos tower, watched Erick from their hallways on opposite sides of the atrium. They also watched a helpful clock that hung midair in the atrium, gently spinning, counting down until the party. The place was as good as it could be, for now. So Erick helped Justine and the people of Candlepoint move into the space, setting up tables and putting out foods.

It was nothing fancy, for Erick had warned Justine away from that. He was going for a low-energy sort of night.

“I understand,” Justine had said, “Everyone is worried about everyone else.”

Erick tried to pull back his paranoia, because it was obviously showing. “Yes.”

“Do you want a band? I have a small one that would like to play here, if you’ll have them.” Justine said, “They’ve played for us at a few gatherings, though most of their stuff is more high-energy than what you are likely going for. I’m sure they can tone it down, though.”

“Approved,” Erick said, glad that he could get a distraction for the night.

The large clock above continued to tick down, rapidly approaching 0:00, and that was apparently making everyone nervous.

Jane was the first to actually point that out, though, as she stood under the clock in the center of the room. “So the clock is a bomb?”

Erick instantly dismissed the clock and eyed his daughter. Jane put up her hands and backed away slowly, smirking a little as she went.

And the room was ready.

Erick opened a [Gate] from the New Folk’s Home to the atrium, another [Gate] from Candlepoint to here, and told the people from the wrought tower and the Ar’Cosmos tower that they were starting.

Those first five minutes were tense, as Erick herded everyone into the room and Justine’s suggested band used way too much drums in their music, but then the drummer switched to a violin and things turned softer.

Mephistopheles stood with Justine, Ava, Zaraanka, Valok, and Slip, each of them wearing nice clothes, alongside a good thirty other people from Candlepoint who had come along for one reason or another. Erick knew them all, from the woman who oversaw the Crystal defenses, to the farmers working under Valok, to Daetroi the cattle and other meat rancher, to a few minotaurs, to people in the guard who followed Slip, and even some paper shapers from city hall. A few of them were obvious Cultists, too, for those, like Mephistopheles, wore mostly black, and they stood next to the mayor, too, so that was a big clue.

A lot of people were eyeing Mephistopheles and his Cultists, or all the shadelings in the Candlepoint group, but no one was openly speaking at all.

There were a lot of telepathic tendrils, though; quiet conversations held outside the ears of anyone else, save for maybe Poi. A lot of small groups had formed roughly along expected divisions, leaving great gaps in the floor of the atrium. A lot of people gazed across those gaps at their historical enemies, or at unknowns.

Ar’Cosmos and their 16 people took up a slice of the room, while the wrought stood closer to Erick, but still distant. The reincarnators stood by the wrought, while the people of Candlepoint filled out almost half of the space on their own.

With Jane, Kiri, Teressa, and Poi standing with him, or close by, and Sitnakov standing a little further away, nearer to Aisha, Erick looked across the gathered crowd, and decided that it was time to bring the gathering to order.

With a step into the air, Erick made himself clearly visible to everyone. Since they were all silent, and the only other noise was from the small groups of Candlepoint, it was easy for his own voice to draw attention.

“Hello everyone. We are not a fully stocked House, yet, but we’re getting there.

“The main party will be another day; possibly a week. Tonight is so that we can all get to know each other in a more relaxed setting, and so that I can feed you guys and so you can go out and feed yourselves using the markets of Candlepoint, since there’s not been nearly enough venturing outside of your towers. Too much worrying over old, deep wounds, for anyone here to go out and get food, or to even venture far past their own [Fairy Stronghold], which is fine, for now.

