Except avoiding the dungeons wouldn’t be enough, would it? Not officially registering would almost certainly trip some databases. He could get pulled over, and the authorities would have pointed questions. Or they could just find him. His address matched his driver’s license.

He could just wait it out until the government fell. But what if it fell unevenly, or fell in an authoritarian direction?

No. His best bet at the moment was to stay under the radar. That meant being a good citizen, bland enough not to be noticed. Okay, he’d kind of failed on the whole unobtrusive ‘gray man’ thing, considering his work with the National Guard, but Gift of Senses wasn't that extraordinary.

It was a risk, but playing along was the best strategy.

____

There were a lot of compliant citizen dungeon divers, or at least people with the same inclinations as him. The line to the register desk was out the door. Thankfully, there was some form of organization and everyone in line was given clipboards and a form ahead of time to fill out while they waited. Ahead, the Guard had set up a long table with five stations of people transposing the forms into their computer.

Thomas casually kept an eye out for Twitch. Most of the guardsmen wore thin gaiter masks pulled up over their noses, though Twitch would be easy to spot with his tattoos. He couldn't see him, though.

The form itself was easy: name, date of birth, social, addresses for the last seven years, employment, and first dungeon dived.

Finally there was a line for Gift: Title and description.

Gift of Senses, he wrote. Perception increases with every monster killed in a dungeon.

Easy enough, and matched what he'd already told the National Guard. Still, he was sweating as his turn came up in line.

The man on the other side of the desk greeted him politely, glanced the form over, and made sure Thomas had signed at the bottom. He had but forgot to date it. Thomas did, and the man started typing into his computer.

Everything was blandly going to plan, at least until the man looked at him and said, "Mr. Coldstrike, if you could please step to the side?"

"For what?" Thomas asked.

"I'm afraid your social security number has been flagged for manual review," the man said, and turned to wave down one of the National Guardsmen.
