The city of Weave fared only a little better. It took two hours to move over to a critical state of collapse, but unlike last time, her conquest became a straightforward affair. She still needed to be strategic about her targets. No longer was she forced to create crisis after crisis, engineering a series of collapses to take shape across the city so that she could pick off the defenders one after another. With every mind she colonized, she gained their thoughts as fuel. She gained their thoughts as electricity, and her storm grew larger and larger until she became something that devoured entire portions of the city-state.

When the defenders realized something was terribly wrong and tried to form a defense, it was too late. Uva was more than herself. She was a concert of calamities, and she brought her overwhelming light down upon the last vestiges of resistance—before drowning and sealing away their egos as well.

Uva followed Hymn’s instructions, harvesting core memories and saving away nightmares and traumas. All of Weave was enwreathed by translucent storms, leaving afterimages of incomprehensible, shifting colors with each flash.

As the literal city fell, a psionic city was constructed from the minds of its conquered inhabitants—and to make things simple, she based it on Weave, creating a near-perfect replica in little time since she had all the necessary memories and references already in place.

A sigh escaped from Uva as her lament grew. “It's just a shame I have to surrender this skill. This evolution is remarkable. Truly potent.”

“I told you you would appreciate it,” Hymn replied. “But for all the benefits it confers, the standard Psychomancy weaknesses still endure. Uncommon intellects are still beyond our ability to influence, and the physical world is untethered from our power. I suspect you'll grow to like As Within, So Without. Being able to project aspects of your mind upward effectively circumvents a great many weaknesses you have. Imagine fighting a foe who can project the mental onto the material while the rules of Psychomancy still apply. Quite the power, isn't it?”

It did sound that way, but there was something Uva couldn't quite shake. “If it is quite the power, then why didn't you try to gain it? You said you traded might for more insight, but you don't strike me as the type to turn away from such an absolute advantage. For such a specialized power, for such an extreme expression of Psychomancy that goes beyond being merely an art of the mind, what is the price?”

Hymn’s lips curled in a half-smile. “For one, I am not pacted with the Dreamtaker. I have no capacity to evolve this skill because I cannot bring the realm of dreams into reality. You, however, are most well-positioned to inherit such a skill—if we can shore up your lacking legend.”

But he was holding something back. Uva could feel it in her bones. She narrowed her eyes at him. “What aren't you telling me?”

“Relax, girl, I'm not trying to sneak up on you or anything. There's no devious plan on my part to use you as a sacrifice. It's just…” He gave a noncommittal shrug. A little too noncommittal. “It takes a little bit of getting used to, as all skills do. As it is an entirely abnormal Legendary skill, due to being touched by the Outside and diverging from the rules and norms of Psychomancy, the way your mana stream works and how your mana usage affects you is also rather peculiar.” Uva's stare became unblinking and intense, and after a few seconds of uncomfortable silence, Hymn rolled his eyes and sighed. “It's not such a big risk with you, but since you are projecting an externalized representation of your mind over the world, or more often, someone else's mind over the world, to use as a mental material resource, any damage it sustains usually causes… well, mental damage.”

Uva pressed her lips together so hard that she came close to forming a diamond from sheer nothingness. “Following that logic and taking this to its conclusion, doesn't that mean using the skill in active combat will make me vulnerable to brain damage when this… eldritch psionic matter I project is destroyed?”

The Headmaster hesitated as he thought of a way to spin his elaboration. “Well, as I said before, it doesn't exactly need to be your mind. You can kidnap one of your enemies and use them as mental ammunition. They can suffer the brain damage on your behalf. Very convenient.”

Somehow, that felt even less ethical than enslaving her foes.

“Oh, climb down from your throne of purity,” Harkness groaned within her. “Is that so different from how your current skill functions? You are literally using the populace as mana-amplifying lightning rods.”

“It's different. It's extremely different! It's different because I'm not destroying their minds. I'm simply trapping them in nightmares and confusing scenarios so that they stay incapacitated and don't die. I can release them afterward if I so choose or strike them down if I identify them as an unacceptable threat. I am not literally ripping pieces out of their mind and flinging them at my enemies and reducing them to brain-dead vegetables!”

The rogue Owl snorted like an annoyed grandmother. “Of course, my mistake. Truly, your grasp of ethics exceeds anything I can comprehend. It is absolutely righteous of you to continue harvesting eldritch terrors from the nightmares and psychological scars of your victims. That's not enslavement at all. Instead, it is pure objectification. You've rendered them a resource. What tremendous wisdom and strategy to categorically avoid one sin by performing an even greater act of degradation.”

“Your judgment is of no worth to me, Owl,” Uva spat. “Be of service, or be silent.”

Harkness just laughed. “Spoken like a true noblewoman, oh daughter born of cattle-slaves.”

Throughout the argument, Hymn's mouth fell slightly agape as he regarded Uva with a fascinated look. “You know, she does actually have a point.”

“What? You're agreeing with her?” Uva's left eye twitched—and then her right.

“Oh, don't misunderstand. I still think she's a boring, arrogant idiot, but you're not troubled by what you do at all, are you? Actually, you haven't been troubled up until very recently, despite ripping into the foundations of your foes’ minds and hearing them beg as you made them kill their friends.” Hymn noticed the coldness in Uva's gaze and held up his hands casually. “This isn't judgment, and I don't think your personality is psychotic at all, nor is it sociopathic. No, you're just very good at compartmentalizing and justifying things to yourself. Aren't you?”

The Umbral struggled to contain her annoyance. It was bad enough that Harkness was harassing her over this. Now Hymn was mocking her too. Neither of them was a beacon of moral virtue.

“Oh, indeed, far from it.” Hymn chuckled, waving her off. His Psychomancy-Divination Skill Fusion once again proved as intrusive as ever. “Again, I am not judging your virtue. My hands are painted black with blood. And I do mean black. My primary victims are Fingerlings, after all. Fingerlings, other Outsiders, and fellow Seekers I find distasteful. But reaching into someone's consciousness and wrenching it, hearing them beg you to stop, that didn't even bother you until your experiences in the Fairwoods. In a way, I guess this makes you the ideal Psychomancer, not so cut off from emotions that you're blind or pointlessly cruel; not so sensitive that you're affected by every other thought you interface with.”

Uva huffed. “Now I can't tell if you're trying to compliment me or insult me.”

“Neither. Both. And it doesn't matter, really. Frankly, it doesn't matter if I'm judging you or anyone else is judging you. You have your own things to sort out: your own ignorance, your own values, your own code. Or maybe you'll forgo all that and just go with your feelings. There are no rules anyway. And beneath the heel of the System, none of us matter. Nothing we want matters. It's just that we fight, we struggle, and then it laughs at us as the fruits of our struggles are stolen from us, and no true resolution follows. Live how you will. Live how you want. And on that point, I agree mostly with your current pursuit of higher ethics. It's a terrible thing to steal someone's agency away from them.”

But then his expression hardened. “But a word of advice from someone old—who's learned, regressed, and then re-learned the same lessons over and over again: You should be flexible. Your ethics shouldn't be like stone. Things change all the time; cultures change, people change, you will change. Trying to cling when there is no reason to cling will see you torn apart from the inside out. I'm not saying you should be a slaver. I'm not saying that this pursuit of yours will end in failure. What I am saying, however, is that you must know when to break your own rules, and when to step over the line.”

Uva considered it for a few moments, but then she frowned. “But if one's values are so easily broken, then how can they be values at all?”

“Because values are demonstrated through actions and reinforcement. You perform your values over and over again. It's the same thing with culture, though they can change, and you can relapse or fail. But failure is common. Hypocrisy is common. It is not absolute. You will fail many times. You are failing many times right now. You are likely going to fail a few more times before you achieve your desired Skill Evolution. You will likely humiliate yourself and shame yourself when you are trying to become someone new, when you are trying to discover what your better self looks like. But that's just the thing: behavior determines who you are. Not a single moment, no matter how grave; what defines you is repeated behavior, consistent behavior. So, if you absolutely must take hold of someone's mind and force them to do something against their will, you should feel bad about it. You should regret it. You should lament doing it and process it, but when that's done, you should accept it as what it is: an outlier, a one-off. Keep your behavior consistent, because just as you can fall off the wagon, so too can you climb back on.”

And like a black cloud, Uva's animosity was parted, and she looked upon Hymn with new eyes. “He really shook you with this Harbinger, didn't he?”

“Yes, but this is more than the Deathless. He's reminded me of something. I've been here before. I've been this miserable. I've been this lost, and I've broken out of the story. I told myself that I was special somehow. That this mattered. That I would prevail. These glimpses of what the world actually is, what the System actually wants… The problem is, even if I am a Psychomancer, I sink back to my own mind. My behaviors—our behaviors—are more than just who I am. They're also cages. They are narrow paths, and we sometimes forget that we can shape them, that we can take a turn. It doesn't always need to be straight.” A self-deprecating smile spread across Hymn’s face. “I've taken turns before, but walk forward long enough, and you will forget that taking another turn was ever an option. Ah, I'm rambling—”

“No, no, I understand. At least I think I do.” Uva’s mind parted in several directions at the same time. The bulk of her consciousness continued creating a psionic replica of Weave—hosted via the collective minds of all her victims. But behind a wall she built and warded, a part of her considered the problems she had been avoiding for far too long. As Hymn said, she was good at compartmentalizing—but whereas that was a useful skill in combat, it simply delayed things she needed to resolve in her personal life.

She'd barely spoken to Tulveg. The thought of confronting the supposed lover of her mother made her blood curdle, made her skin crawl, but ultimately she didn't even have anything against him as an individual. In fact, he seemed to be morally upright, not only for a vampire, but for a person in general. How he ever managed to get inducted into the First Blood was beyond her imagination. Yet there was something between them over his mother. She didn't want to think of her mother as anything less than perfect. Anything less than the ideal Sister of the Order and faithful worshipper of the Composer. But Tulveg wasn't lying. Uva knew this. She could sense lies, and so could Shiv. The vampire at least fully believed he'd been in a relationship with Uva's mother, and he loved her deeply. Even if it was an implanted emotion or delusion, he felt it, and that feeling burned strong even now, after all these years. When he was in her presence, he stared at her unnervingly, a vestige of what he felt toward her mother now inherited, if in a different shape than before. She didn't want that fire, but it wouldn't go away until she faced it—wouldn't go away until she came to terms with the fact that her mother might not be the perfect sister, the perfect subject of her Lady Arachnae.

I don't want to lose that idealization of her. I don't want to lose what she was to me.

“For what it's worth, and I apologize in advance for listening in—my skill doesn't allow for ignorance—but I am jealous of you, and I'd rather you not lose that utopian vision of your mother, either.” Hymn seemed entirely genuine. “I wish I had someone like that, or at least something like that, to cling to. I might be a healthier person right now if there was a guiding light to my life, even if it was tragically stolen away from me, but I don't think she committed any great sin from what I understand. It didn't seem like she was planning to betray your city or your goddess. At the worst, she simply succumbed to a forbidden romance: a widowed Umbral and traitorous vampire. It’s a far lesser taboo compared to something truly vile.”

