“I know,” Uva said through clenched teeth. “I know logically; it just feels wrong. It's prejudicial, but like you said, with behavior after a lifetime of hunting, fighting, and treating the Bloodspawn as enemies when one or two arrive seeming like normal people... It's like a shadow clings to them.”

“Unsurprising. But you should try. After all, how did you think and feel about surfacers, especially those from the Republic, before a certain Deathless and his red-haired friend came wandering into your home?”

Uva really didn’t have a good retort for that.

“But honestly, I think Tulveg is your lesser concern. If I were you, I'd need to ask the truly painful question of what I'm going to do about Hawgrave.”

And there was the second looming problem Uva was avoiding. The Giantsbane. Grandmother to the man who'd supposedly murdered Uva's mother. Lapdog to the Yellowstone Republic's true sovereign: Legendary Councilwoman Veronica Chandler.

But also not quite; Jessica was slowly being turned. She'd been spending time with Shiv; she seemed to actually like him as an apprentice, and the feeling was reciprocated. Though Uva had made things clear about where they stood, she had to admit that Jessica wasn't that vile of a person. She had flaws, deep and severe flaws, but they ultimately just made her seem more human.

That didn't change what her grandson did. That didn't change what Uva set out to do. What Uva long dreamed to do.

Hymn cleared his throat. With a thought, Uva quickly cleared the last of the defenders and began stitching a perfect mimicry of the Composer’s cocoon. “I have another question for you, Uva: What happens if there is no catharsis at the end of this journey? What happens if you become like me? Someone steals the ending of your story from you. What then?”

“It doesn't matter. He killed my mother. He must face me. He must face me and tell me why.”

“And what if he's just a scared child who got lucky, or what if he's just pathetic, just a dog of the Republic—and he can't even remember her face? What if he's a nervous wreck and he thanks you for coming, since death would be a relief, and he asks you to make it quick? Or what if he's already dead? What if there's no ending to the strife brewing inside of you? Because that's how I feel right now, and I have a feeling that you won't be too much different than I if that happens.”

“It won't happen. It won't. The System favors me. I know I can't defeat Jessica right now, but the tension exists in the System—and I can feel it manufacturing a coming conflict between me and her for the life of her grandson. I can feel it. I can see it. And I will confront him. I must.”

The sheer fervor in her voice as she spoke those words made Hymn stop pushing.

Just in time, for the second encounter came to an end once more.

Encounter Complete (2/5)

A tremor exploded through her, and her Noostorm responded in kind. Every bolt of lightning connecting her came alive with power, and all of Weave was drowned as a thousand threads of crashing Psychomancy whipped up toward the Composer's cocoon. At the heart of the city, a new web crisscrossed, a new, apocalyptic web born of ten thousand different storms born of ten thousand compromised minds and converted into a single concentrated attack.

This was the single crudest and single greatest spell Uva had ever channeled. There was no shaping, just a pure expression of her intent unleashed. The moment the third encounter loaded, Adam descended—and was promptly struck from all sides and consumed by a singularity of lightning.

Encounter Complete (3/5)

A second later, Adam's body fell out of the sky like a dead pigeon rather than a flaming hawk come to deliver retribution. His obliteration was so quick and complete that nothing remained of his consciousness. Not a single speck of thought escaped his hollowed mind.

A series of low notes escaped the cocoon, and the totality of Weave vibrated, but there was no one to deliver the Composer's judgment.

Uva was rendered absolutely speechless. Even after gaining a partial Legendary Skill, she'd still expected a fight, some kind of struggle, but she cut Adam down like he was nothing at all. Not her alone, but this entire city and all the Terrorspawn. She tapped into every bit of thought within this place; it was hers to command, and she was more than a storm. She was a storm of storms. She was the eye, she was the will, and she was the hammer that fell.

The Delve made it easy for her, shrank down the population, reduced the opposition to something manageable. Not every single Hero and Legend that Weave had to offer had been simulated here. But with the magic she now wielded, a notion inside Uva broke. For most of her life, she'd thought herself capable, competent, reliable, but never truly gifted. Never a great talent that would wield powers capable of matching entire magi formations. She'd learned to be fine with that and dedicated herself to service years ago, seeking only to reach the ceiling of her potential.

The System's favor had changed her fate. It had broken that ceiling she was destined to languish beneath. Her potential wasn't to be bottlenecked at Master-Tier anymore, or perhaps Heroic-Tier if she were lucky enough to survive multiple centuries.

She was Legend now. For the first time, she truly felt it: that she was a great power, that she had been a great power for some time, and even if she wasn't the grandest of intellects or the most naturally powerful of mages at the start, she was someone entirely different now, someone without limitations, without end.

Her metamorphosis had only been eldritch at first, transforming her soul, her skills, her flesh. But now, philosophically, something inside her opened up. Between the words of the Headmaster, her own thoughts, and what she just achieved, something within her blossomed. Something made her willing to imagine who she might still become instead of grounding herself in assumed reality.

“There it is.” Hymn gave a single laugh. “You didn't give him a chance at all. I told you you would find a way, and I knew it would be overkill. If you let him get a single shot off, he would kill you. You're not that durable on your own, especially against someone who always knows where you are, who can strike at your soul directly. You need more Magical Resistance, but the same goes for him as well. That armor of his isn't imbued with enough, and even if he's a Legend, I suspect no one we know aside from Hawgrave can take more than a few hits from all that lightning. Well, no one but—”

Initiating Encounter (4/5)

The fourth encounter commenced. Uva didn't hesitate before unleashing all her mana once more. The electricity she had been building up was diminished, her storms sapped after she'd unleashed every last bit of her might on Adam. There was one thing about her current skill: the magic she used was burned up and quickly replaced thereafter, but there was always a period of rest and reconstitution before she reached her previous height of power. The initial bolts she flung this time were thinner, weaker, but still considerable, still enough to shatter Master-Tier Magical Resistance like glass.

But a song, loud and wrathful, echoed out from the Composer's sanctuary, and its bottommost webbing burst apart in a column of plunging flame. Flame so dense and bright that it fried Uva’s lightning. Flames of glittering gray—the kind she'd only seen one person possess.

Uva realized who she was fighting in an instant—and so did Hymn.

But instead of a whole and complete Shiv, what fell was a massive shape, something that dwarfed entire buildings, that resembled a mess of injuries stitched together. A rolling landslide of collapsing buildings and ruined edifices crumbling and flowing, creating a titanic emulation of the Deathless’s form.

A strange version of Shiv fell, wrapped deep in his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things. But rather than being wrapped in gold and dancing across time using his Harbinger, this Shiv let out bellows of incoherent and monstrous rage. And as she glimpsed his mind at the heart of the shifting nest of ruin engulfing him, she realized he sported the mind of a Tarrasque—and there would be no bringing him down through subversion at all.

Encounter 4 Objectives: Survive for 5 minutes.

“Fuuuck,” Uva groaned.
