This… I don’t… What is with the people in this place? Just what is happening inside Gate Piety? First the Deathless and now…

Undergoing eldritch symbiosis…

What… Agh…

Shadow-Mine, to Chorus with you. Bump up now-Legend Uva Mettabon’s interview as well. At least John’s already on scene; saves him another trip.

[Hijacking System]...

[Quest Parameters Updated]

—Mythic-Fatejacker [Redacted] of the Farwalker-Mysteria

405

As Within, So Without [II]

Encounter Failed (3/5)

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

Applying Partial Legendary Skill Evolution: The Lurking Noostorm

Uva’s mind burst open. Her Legendary evolution exploded free from her feeble threads.

Ever since Uva had wielded the Jealousy in battle, an imprint of its Psychomancy lingered within her, granting her unparalleled control and a reach capable of crossing horizons. Her eldritch metamorphosis evolved that power further, making her the nucleus of a crawling, unfettered web. That impossible dexterity came at the cost of raw power, but Uva never truly noticed the limitation. She worked around it. She was always a suppressive mage, striking her enemy and disengaging, attacking and then avoiding. Direct struggles did not benefit Psychomancers, and she applied that philosophy to her lore: let Pyromancers indulge in bombastic devastation; she was the subtle blade, the slow blade, the quiet blade, that which raked with calculation and languor.

She had control, and she had initiative, and for so long, she thought that was paramount above all others.

But as a Legendary surge of mana tore out from her threads, shedding her previous skill like a spider molting free of its exoskeleton, Uva’s mind roared with thunderclaps of power utterly unlike the silent art of Psychomancy that had been ingrained into her.

Where her mana field once resembled a dense web of hair-thin threads connected to her mind, what exploded out from her now was forking bolts like the synaptic currents within her brain—unleashed beyond the confines of her flesh and magnified by mana. In an instant, Uva went from being the heart of a spider's web to the eye of a psionic storm. Lashing currents of mana exploded out from her, forking and multiplying with every passing second. Every thought that passed through her created another surging current of mind magic.

Her puppeteer strings were thin in density, like razor wire when directed in battle, but the explosive currents spawned of this Noostorm lurking within her went beyond any analogy of lightning. Each cord was as dense as titanium, while also flowing akin to water. And while her incredulity built, so too did the new storm, as her mana field got thicker and stronger, with every bolt gradually thickening to a point of no return—and breaking into three. The bolts of her partial Legendary Skill Evolution didn't just dwarf the power of the strings they were hatched from; the Noostorm spread like a raging hurricane rather than a creeping forest.

Uva's Matriarch of the Enshadowed Web slithered across space and struck at vulnerable minds like swarms of snakes. Her Lurking Noostorm abided by no such weakness. It tore across the world; it multiplied in size in the span of heartbeats, its translucent mana serving as a membrane to a kaleidoscopic core.

Despite all this, she retained her unmatched dexterity and control with this new imbuement of might, and Uva could imagine the skill to be nothing less than perfected destruction itself.

Hymn begged to differ. “Is that the Lurking Noostorm?” His bottom lip furled out in a display of distaste. “Well, there are worse Skill Evolutions to gain. Things aren’t completely hopeless.”

Encounter Initiating (1/5)

Encounter 1 Objective: Capture and control Passage.

The simulation trembled. The insides of Passage and the city of Weave beyond became spontaneously populated. Once more, Uva found herself in that hidden anchor at the heart of the transdimensional complex. A cascade of stolen perspectives poured over into Uva as the fears and traumas harvested from nearby minds were drawn to her like gravity. Such became the fuel for her Terrorspawn and spiderlings, and Uva’s flesh and mind chittered as the first of her swarm took shape.

“Is there something wrong with the Lurking Noostorm?” Uva asked, made wary by Hymn’s response.

“Nothing wrong, exactly; it's just less than ideal. But I still think we can get you to the evolution we need. On its own, I'd say the Lurking Noostorm fits you; you're an extremely offensive and asymmetrical Psychomancer who values distance, disengagement, and control. The problem right now is with your legend. Your Psychomancy has almost been solely defined by conflict. As Within, So Without requires a substantial commitment to architecture as well. You need to be building mindscapes—bridging different consciousnesses together, or creating other great works of mental architecture that mirror and reflect the actual world. Simply put, you need to be able to achieve a simulation of reality within the mind. And you’ve never had the chance to do that. Even if you ask the Delve to reconstruct your current skill, it likely can’t offer our desired outcome because you simply don’t have the foundations required.”

“Then I suppose I must build that foundation within this Delve,” Uva declared.

“Glad you catch on so quickly. Now, the good news: you don't need to spend months or years inside this Delve trying to learn the fundamentals of psionic architecture from first principles.”

“Because you're going to teach me?”

“Because I'm going to show you how to cheat. Now, I'm sure you are familiar with the concept of core memories: every mind has things they can cling to, things they don't let go of. Engraved so deep in their memory, it's practically steel amidst the mist and water of their near-term recollections. Those are the pieces you should harvest as resources, and the best thing about them is that they're renewable. You can take one core memory from one mind and apply it to another so long as your Psychomancy is controlled—which yours is—and so long as the minds are bridged, which you can do.”

A light went on inside Uva's mind, and at the same time, her Noostorm’s bolts grew brighter as well, becoming conduits expressing her sudden enlightenment. “You want me to use these core memories as pre-fabricated constructs?”

Hades snapped his fingers. “You don't need to dream up an entire ecosystem, or location, or a building, or a person. You can populate a mental world using the people you've psionically farmed and the memories you've harvested. This technique also confers a strategic and ethical advantage for you; you don't even actually need to shatter anyone's ego anymore. You can simply trap them in this mental realm, and if you make it nightmarish enough…”

“The metaphor of the farm becomes quite literal because they become renewable assets of trauma and nightmare.” In a scant few moments, she had gone from being in awe of her new skill to disappointed, and now confident in what she needed to do. But though her path toward that eventual Skill Evolution she required was clearer than before, she still had other quandaries she couldn’t overcome. “But what about Adam? And the Composer? How is he only the third encounter?”

“Because he's actually pretty easy to deal with if you think about it.” Hymn shot her a look and waited, allowing her to ruminate on potential solutions.

Uva descended into her own discomfort and realized where this was going. “It wants me to literally capture the city, to turn Weave against Adam, using everyone as an instrument. That's why it provided me with Legends vulnerable to Psychomancy.”

“That is one solution.” Hymn shrugged. “I suspect you'll figure out a few others as you adapt to your current skill. Again, the Lurking Noostorm is an ideal skill for you—and you currently have no idea of the power it can provide. But you'll learn, and you'll understand, and you'll realize that you need to adopt a different mindset when facing someone like Adam Arrow. Your standard modus operandi has crippled you. You cannot play the idle web-bound spider when you're being hunted by a hawk. You must turn and strike first—build up your resources and slay him in an instant. You know where he's going to come from. You know what accompanies him. Patience is not hesitation, and the rules always change. Don’t be stiff.”

“Don’t be stiff,” Uva echoed, letting out a breath as she mustered her focus. Bands of psionic lightning crawled out from her mind, becoming a fractured web of storm-stuff rather than faint strings reaching out to brush easy prey. “Very well, then. Let’s begin.”

She began this attempt as she did the last, casting a single limb of translucent mana out to strike a nearby mind. But where it took almost a dozen strings to breach the Magical Resistance of the Adept she'd ambushed, a single branch of forking mind magic impacted the same individual and broke their resistance like a hammer descending on a glass figurine. She cleaved into the inner recesses of their mind in the blink of an eye and found herself further invigorated as she stole away their thoughts and mental essence as additional energy for her raging storm.

It was one bolt of lightning that struck the Adept. It was three bolts that exploded out from them. An avalanche of lightning built as Uva’s mana field crashed through vulnerable mind after vulnerable mind, not only shredding through the defenders but also using them as sources of magical propagation. Uva's Noostorm tore through the halls like the hurricane that it was, an ever-swelling tide that swallowed more people with every moment. Instead of needing to rend their minds asunder, she simply confined them, wrenching away their perception and entwining it with their subconscious.

A series of seizures rippled through the defenders of Passage, and with each victim trapped in her growing web of lightning, Uva gained new renewable conduits to generate more Psychomancy from while keeping them alive to harvest other resources from at the same time.

“Oh, Composer,” Uva gasped. With every mental blow she inflicted, a shudder of invigorating energy tore into her.

“And now you're starting to get it.” Hymn grinned. “Your metaphor is lacking. You're not just a storm. You're a storm of storms, a propagating storm, with every mind you touch becoming a smaller storm that you can wield. Congratulations! Now enjoy building your own generator network and turning all that lightning on the unfortunate pylons-to-be.”

Uva didn't reply. She was caught too deep in the fervor of enjoying her new skill. It would be a shame to lose this evolution. It felt right, it felt proper, it felt like her in every aspect. But Adam needed something else, and so sacrifices had to be made. But until that sacrifice arrived, there was nothing wrong with having a little fun, was there?

It took twelve minutes to engulf the entirety of the massive complex that was Passage in a psionic storm. The defenders there barely had a chance to rally. Even the strongest of their number fell when Uva concentrated the forces rooted to her mind. She didn't even need to apply strategy at this time. Only power. Overwhelming power.

Although Uva would liken herself to a typhoon, with the full might of her mind attached, she would build into a storm capable of uprooting entire buildings and flinging them beyond the bend of the horizon if things continued.

Everything she did bestowed her with more power. Every being capable of thought became a sub-storm she could command, and that applied to more than the Umbrals and Weaveresses she held in chains of psionic electricity. She stole away their traumas, created spiderlings to use as extensions of her flesh, but from her lightning there came her Terrorspawn, and they proved a paradoxical asset, for they too were capable of their own thought, and as such she latched on to them as well.

The mana they produced was far inferior to an intelligent creature, but every little bit mattered—and ten thousand little bits became a formidable storm all its own.

And then there was the lurking aspect of her skill. Her new mana didn't just leap like bolts of lightning; it flickered like them as well, and she seemed to be the only one capable of hearing its resonant thunder. For other mages, even Psychomancers, her mana proved hard to track, and her network of storms was maintained in constant high-frequency bursts rather than thin and fragile wires that could be severed.

Uva didn’t even need to kill the Legendary Weaveress normally in charge of Passage physically as she did last time. With twin Legendary skills in Dimensionality and Magical Resistance, the only thing Uva could exploit without diverting a critical amount of resources to overwhelm the Weaveress was using alien geometries to tear into her soft flesh.

Not so much this time. Instead, Uva simply bombarded the Weaveress with all the lightning she possessed—and with every other mind aside from that Legendary Weaveress in a building multiple times the size of Blackedge captured and repurposed, that was a great deal of lightning, indeed.

Even so, it was a testament to the Weaveress's Magical Resistance that it took a full minute of continuous, unceasing bombardment of Psychomantic electricity to bring her down.

All Legends were monsters. Even those bearing generalist skills.

