Finally!

With the serpent dead, on top of gaining five levels, I’d also gotten two achievements!

Oooh, levels… I never thought I would see them gain! It’d been so long since I’d hunted and leveled up. Truly, this was the best way to get stronger!

Cultivating in a cave for five hundred years was so boring; going around and killing Spirit Beasts? Now we were talking!

As the sea serpent died after its heart had gotten destroyed and its spine severed, large amounts of energy began leaving its body. The corpse kept the shape, but it was losing much of its essence.

That wouldn’t take a decade or two, of course. Odds were this corpse would still be powerful-looking even after two hundred years.

However, there was one thing that wasn’t expected, and I thought the sea serpent was bluffing.

I supposed not…

Qi was gathering in its mouth, and large amounts of it, forming the symbol for ‘Mark’. As soon as it finished forming, the thing flew toward me, moving faster and faster with every passing second.

Seeing that, I didn’t stand around on ceremony and ran away, deeper inside the corpse. It was big enough to accommodate a few of me, and so it wasn’t hard to rush through, but I knew that I had to find a way to escape before it got to me.

However… I was deep underwater! How could I escape?!

Not to mention I still wanted to get that Golden Core…

ARGH, how annoying. Why did these people care so much about who and why killed their family members? Honestly, that was plain unfair.

That didn’t matter though… Even if I got marked, I wouldn’t care.

Still, I would prefer against it. But how was I to hide from the thing? It probably recognised its owner’s killer via Qi signatures or something, but Peng Long had the most credit for it! He did, so it should go to him, right?

So what if I was the one who got the most from it? Peng Long dealt the most fatal of blows! Go after him, shoo!

Of course, the mark didn’t care to listen and kept chasing me, and I was getting quite tired of it, to be honest.

At the end of the day, it was just a mark! What could they do about it? Hmph, I would love to see them chase after me… Not really, I didn’t want that much trouble.

But the deeper I went, the stinkier it got, and I didn’t want to deal with all of that… In the end, I could only resign myself to my fate. Thankfully, I was going to go into a secret realm soon… I should still be able to catch up to the aircraft if all went to plan.

Turning around, I faced the symbol and… IT SMASHED ME RIGHT IN THE FACE!

It made me fly back, and a burning sensation etched into my forehead, but something was strange…

Only half of it was etched; the other half was flying away… somewhere.

So I was right, it was going to look for Peng Long! Hahah!

That was good for me, but that didn’t mean I loved the feeling of being tracked.

As the mark etched, then disappeared, I could only sigh. It didn’t matter, but I had no time to deal with it at the moment anyway. Hell, I couldn’t even check my achievements.

I had to hurry up, get the Golden Core, do my best to grab the corpse, then get away.

Hm, I planned to go directly to the place where the aircraft would land, but since they’d stopped for maintenance, maybe I could go ahead and catch up. How would I explain my flying then? And how I survived?

After a serious minute of thinking, I’d decided that I would figure that out later.

Either way, that didn’t actually matter at the moment; what mattered the most was how to get this fat fucking corpse into my bag of holding.

I was scared of placing it in my dantian, since there was a certain someone there ready to eat it, and honestly, I probably wouldn’t even be able to get half of it inside either of those spaces anyway…

Holding my breath, I walked deeper in. The Golden Core should have formed already, and my dragons were hard at work finding it.

On the way, I passed by a few organs, such as the lungs, so I’d grabbed them. They were the size of… a giant spirit beast, I supposed.

I couldn’t get most of the flesh anyway, but the organs were far more valuable, as they were filled with much more Qi than the flesh.

And I could actually fit them inside my bag of holding…

The heart was there as well… It didn’t look like a heart anymore, and most of its nutritional value had probably died alongside the explosion, so I left it there.

I’d grabbed whatever I could on the way. My dragons sent information that they’d found the Golden Core, so I was a little impatient.

Finally, after what felt like forever, I went and opened up the path toward the core so I could enter as well.

They didn’t really have an issue fitting through small openings, but I did…

As I pushed away the flesh, the luster of the core broke through, shining upon my face.

And finally, there it was… The Golden Core of a giant sea serpent was right in front of me, ready to be grabbed.

My wings shook as I reached toward it. The thing was larger than me by quite a bit. That was normal, given the size of the beast, but wow, I could scarcely believe it.

I didn’t even know what to do with myself. My first instinct was to absorb it, but I’d never had one this large, so I didn’t want to risk anything.

Most of them beforehand were instant, but this was a Golden Core…

The first one I’d absorbed was way smaller and didn’t have such a presence.

The heat and power exuding from it almost made my twig-like legs buckle. How could this guy’s Golden Core be so intimidating?

Controlling myself, I put it inside my bag of holding, completely filling it up.

I had more space in my dantian, but someone was definitely going to eat it…

With that space cleared, the corpse shook…

It seemed that it was a little reliant on the Golden Core to keep itself together… Ah well…

With everything I wanted collected, bag of holding full of goodies, achievements waiting for me, and other notifications I didn’t catch, it was time for me to return!

◈◈◈

Elder Su flew toward the location that the Patriarch had transferred to her as fast as she could. The ocean waves rolled beneath her as she did, scaring many of the weaker sea serpents and only gathering the attention of a few stronger ones.

None of them attacked, and that was how it should have been. She knew that these things weren’t aggressive by nature, and that they didn’t need to hunt humans.

In fact, they only needed to be aggressive toward a few other Spirit Beasts in the sea, and didn’t need a lot of food to sustain themselves. The fact that the Golden Core giant one attacked the aircraft was extremely suspicious, but she didn’t know what to make of it.

She could only sigh and hope that the girl was still alive, since she really needed her to help with advancing this ghost technique of hers.

By now, she’d realised that the Patriarch knew, but didn’t know how he’d found out.

Did he know from the beginning?

Whatever the case was, she was grateful that he didn’t denounce her. That did mean that she was now under his thumb. Or maybe, that was always the case. Even she didn’t know.

As she flew, her eyes widened upon seeing some sort of Qi construct fly toward her at an unimaginable speed. Her hair stood on end as she felt the aura of someone above the Golden Core stage, but didn’t see an owner.

What in the Heavens…

As the thing came closer, she realised that it was half of a symbol, but she could scarcely tell which one it was.

She put up many defences in a short amount of time and even moved out of the way, but the thing still seemed like it was running toward her.

Weaving back and forth did nothing, and for a moment she thought it would collide with her.

And in the end, that’s what it did, passing through all of her defenses… And also herself.

What?

She had no idea how something like that was possible, but it was clear that the character wasn’t for her.

Shaking her head, she continued toward the place where the Sea Serpent lay, feeling pity for the unlucky bastard who was the recipient of that terrifying half-character.

◈◈◈

The aircraft sped forward toward the place where the Four Corner Secret Realm was. In truth, it wasn’t that far away, considering the length of the continent.

Their ancestors had found the place many hundreds of years ago when they explored together, but they couldn’t uproot the thing, so they had no choice but to set up many protection arrays and to hide it from the rest of the world.

They’d crossed this path many times before, and they never had any such issues with any sea serpent attacks. Generations upon generations of sea serpents knew that they would pass around that time of the year, and they had no reason to attack them.

Peng Long kept thinking about what had happened, and most importantly, why. There was nothing that would make the sea serpent want to attack, but the more he thought about it, the more he’d realised that it was strangely fixated on that Fa Xiaolan girl.

It didn’t seem that way at first, but when she fell and the thing immediately left what it was doing to go and swallow her, that’s when his suspicions arose.

However, he couldn’t just up and ask what sort of secrets she held, not that he’d cared anyway.

What he cared about was his people being put in harm’s way. Peng Long decided that an investigation into Meng Mao and that mysterious woman was necessary. They didn’t look related at all, and even an idiot could tell it was a flimsy excuse.

But he would figure out the truth.

His head snapped back all of a sudden when he’d felt that aura. The aura of a Quasi Nascent Soul cultivator.

No, it wasn’t a cultivator but… Something else. A Spirit Beast!

Who could it be?

He knew that the sea serpent had died from its wounds because the Reaper Qi he’d left on it had scattered, and that would only happen after it’d eaten away all the target’s life force.

However, if such an aura was now chasing him… Could it be because of that? But that didn’t make sense either. Sure, sea serpents were territorial and were strongly bonded, but that didn’t mean that they would seek revenge.

Surely if he could explain the circumstances-

His hands flew up into a myriad of signs before he had time to think, quickly having realised that what was chasing the aircraft wasn’t someone but a something.

Peng Long’s pupils narrowed as a protective barrier sprang around him, the half character smashing into it with extreme force.

The aircraft he was on shook violently as blinding light separated the character and him.

Who the hell was that sea serpent?!

Immediately, he recognised the symbol as a tracking mark, but it was only half complete.

I knew that girl had something to do with it!

With his suspicions more than confirmed, it was time for him to fight the mark. There was no way he would let himself get etched with that thing.

Weaving another set of hand signs, characters of his own materialised and attacked the half symbol, howevr they did nothing.

No matter how many or how hard they impacted the tracking mark, it didn’t budge. It had one singular goal it was determined to accomplish.

Peng Long created multiple characters and multiple small chains, but time and time again, the tracking mark resisted, broke off its restraints, and smashed the barrier with incredible force.

He had no choice but to resign himself. That was the power difference between him and a Quasi Nascent Soul Cultivator.

Lowering the barrier, the tracking mark shot toward his forehead, burning itself onto his flesh.

He frowned, feeling the half-completed mark, and a hint of anger rose within him.

I’ll deal with it when the time comes…