Who can’t even cast properly?

Who is POOR?

“I, err, when you put it like that…”

It is not the right time to question yourself.

I am dragon.

If I hated being with you, I would have left a long time ago.

I stay because I want to.

You are making us strong.

Arthur’s ruby eyes glittered malevolently in the dim light, and Viv was reminded that her adopted daughter had and would again burn people to death.

This is Nyil.

Our power carves our will onto this world.

She spread her wings in a totally-not-evil display. Droplets of water splashed over Viv.

So no, I do not regret it.

I think Judgment is reconsidering the way we raise whelps because of you.

“You mean, not raising at all?”

You are exaggerating.

I meant to do more than just guarantee survival until fledge.

You are such an important borgling that dragons are thinking about you as not-prey.

Truly, mother is remarkable.

But that is not what your question really is about, is it?

Arthur smiled, and it was a ghastly reveal of a forest of fangs. Funny thing was, baring her fangs was an imitation of a human gesture, but in dragon body language, it was a promise of imminent violence. Arthur was really, really good at leaving the actual result ambiguous.

You are afraid.

You are afraid because for the first time in a long while, there is nobody around who can give you a clear solution to your problem.

That is how you resolve most difficulties.

Identify it, obtain the right tools, then usually ultra violence.

But now, you are afraid.

Because you must fumble in the dark.

So you revert to the human habit of worrying about everything.

It will not help.

But I have a solution!

A very easy one.

“Ok, do tell.”

Just be dragon.

What are human souls, but pathetic seas of doubts and guilt?

You will never find enough reasons to be certain of success as a flawed, short-lived, hairless monkey thing with only two useful skills: prehensile thumbs and lying.

Therefore, you can never convince yourself you will succeed.

It is human nature to overthink, or die.

Sometimes, overthink, then die.

That is why you must be dragon.

Feel supremely confident, act supremely confident, never doubt that you will succeed.

For the power of your conviction shall move your minions to a devoted frenzy.

As befits us.

“That is… surprisingly good advice. Sounds like a ‘fake it till you make it’ kind of thing but with more fire and claws.”

As long as you stop moping.

As it is an activity that serves no purpose.

Let us return and prepare our next strike!

“Alright. Just… maybe five more minutes?”

It was really comfy in here.

Five more minutes.
