“Last time it told me my chances of success were in the negatives. What does that even mean?” Lana complained.

“The interface called me a meatbag,” Frosthawk added.

“It asked me if I wanted to meet Enttiku in person,” Abe commented. “I am not particularly in a hurry.”

“What?” Viv exclaimed. “Is it working weirdly with everyone? Why am I getting normal feedback?”

“Because,” Sidjin patiently explained, “you are one of the only entities Solfis actually respects.”

It didn’t make sense unless Nous was in on it as well.

Actually, he probably was.

“Looks like being dead makes gods really bored huh.”

User input detected.

“Nevermind hahaha.”

Viv grabbed her cup of kava. The handle promptly broke, causing her to spill piping hot liquid all over herself.

“Gah! Alright, enough stupidity. We’re doing serious work to save people. So! Let’s assume there is something in or around the horde that directs it, using black mana in some form. Let’s assume this is the same thing that tugs on every scrap of black mana it detects. The solution, then, is to find it. How? Since it’s not some disincarnated soul floating in the middle of nowhere, then it must have some sort of physical location, maybe a core or something, therefore I suggest creating a ritual to detect the, well, the center of the horde.”

Viv was making a lot of assumptions here, but the issue was that since this was unprecedented, there were no readily available solutions to find. She’d have to make one herself. The horde having some sort of decision center was the safest bet she could make.

The mages discussed options in a low voice but she knew what it would come down to. She was the best black mana expert they had. It would be up to her.

“Right, I’m going to create a fast ritual I can cast while moving because the horde won’t just let me hang around. It will have a tug-detection compass that detects interference, some support detection element, and… I think an amplifier. That should be all I need.”

“Do we tell her this violates Erengis the Elder’s non-directional unmanifested mana paradigm?” Lana asked Rakan.

“She’s a witch. They don’t care about that sort of thing,” Rakan wisely replied.

“What the hell is a non-directional unmanifested rule?”

“Erengis the Elder is a researcher from the late Harrakan era who observed that so long as mana is not manifested onto Nyil, it doesn’t technically exist on this plane of existence and therefore cannot be in a direction.”

‘What do you mean? The mana is in our conduits.”

“Which are metaphysical organs that do not technically exist in this plane of existence either.”

Viv blinked.

This was so fucking stupid.

“Well, existence or not, they’re literally tied to my body and I know where my arm is related to my eyes so I guess it’s good enough to get a direction,” she retorted.

“See?” Rakan said while Lana nodded to herself.

“Ok, you smartasses work on the amplification while I remind the planet that directions are a thing. Again.”

“Do you not make it forget about directions and distances with your portal spells?” Abenezigel asked with some measure of confusion.

“I don’t make it forget anything, I convince it to temporarily make two distant points merge as one. I even tell it which specific points should be linked. And then I give the mana to fuel the working.”

The room erupted in a debate on the merits of ‘convincing’ the world of anything. That was the problem with mages. Get two of the fuckers to argue and you’d get three separate opinions. Four mages were a symposium. Five were a controversial video’s comment section.

“I would like everybody to focus on stopping the uncountable horde of undead and necrarchs descending upon our city as first priority,” she gently reminded them.

After twenty minutes of intensive work, the group had a working prototype. That would have surprised Viv before, but she was currently leading a team of geniuses including one with literal centuries of experience working with complex constructs. It was, however, decided that it would be much simpler to create a tool rather than have Viv constantly keep the thing active since she would presumably be under constant attack. As Viv left the Palace, she looked to her right, north, where the undead horde would come from. On the desolate plains beyond the high city, a multitude now labored to save their empire. She had to stop to take it all in.

Civilians and soldiers formed organized columns, hard at work digging, shoveling, carrying, stacking and moving the soil. Vast cooking pots had been erected at the edge of the work site to keep the thousands of people fed. An entire convoy of water barrels was now making their way around under the competent leadership of New Harrak’s civil servants. Mages dug deep while others rested to replenish their mana, and priests moved around to bless and help where they could. It was a great sea of humanity labroting towards a common goal, and with every minute that passed, more trickled in from distant villages. There were red turbans from the mountain tribes, white embroideries from Kazar, blue fabric from Baranese immigrants and black cowls from Efestar’s converts. As she watched, the first of the yries diggers rolled down the path from the city. They were immediately directed to the front.

“Holy hell.”

“This is our land,” Sidjin said. “It wasn’t before, but now it is. We will defend it. Against everything.”

Arthur flew over the plain. She roared, and the humans roared with her. Flags rose in a crescent that faced north.

They had eleven days.

A lot could be achieved in eleven days.

“Let’s go to the workshop.”

By the time Viv reached Sinur’s Gate’s most famous smithy, Vulcan was already there along with her squabbling gaggle of mages. They were in the middle of intense discussion, though Viv could only hear the golem’s side. This was standard when one group used vocal chords and the other used mana-powered speakers.

//No, it will be made of silverite steel alloy at four percent purity.

//Yes, we have it.

//Yes, I can work it.

//Yes, it is the most reliable material for a tool this small.

//No.

//Because you know magic and I know metallurgy.

//You can certainly try.

“Let the golem work,” Viv ordered as she approached. “We need the frame quickly so we can inscribe the runes. Hurry.”

Honestly, there was nobody better at precision work than Vulcan, who was pretty much a walking computer integrated machining workshop with snark. Under his control, it took less than an hour to create the tool from picking ingots to the finished product, with Frosthawk providing cooling. The group of mages then worked on each part with three different last-minute arguments on mana efficiency that Viv had to quash because it wasn’t about getting the perfect tool, it was about getting a functional one on time. Arthur arrived at the end of the process and immediately agreed to carry Viv on her back again. The dragoness really took the situation, and the fate of her investments, seriously.

By mid-afternoon, Viv was ready. She jumped back into what was left of the portal network to find the horde. Something told her it wouldn’t be too hard.

***

Viv recognized the large rock formation below her. Once it had been the training site for some of the empire’s best scouts, but little of it was left save for derelict structures among a forest of dark stumps.

Incidentally, it looked like a ballsack. Solfis had once confirmed it was called exactly that by its students.

Arthur was still picking up altitude in preparation for their mad dash. Her wings might have only worked because of magic, but even violating the laws of physics was easier when diving. She brought out her detection tool. Its central piece, a tiny copper sphere, was empty for now. They were still outside of the range of the horde, though closing fast.

Viv looked at them. It didn’t get any better the third time. Their fliers still formed a lazy hurricane of desiccated flesh over a squirming carpet of grasping limbs that covered the land for kilometers upon kilometers. It was an impossible sight, a cataclysm on the march, more a natural disaster than an invasion force. Just watching them all move gave her vertigo.

Closing in.

The pair climbed up to just below the dense clouds. Viv activated the compass. A perfect ball of black mana formed inside of the copper circlet.

“Active. Ok, go.”

Arthur dove. The pair picked up speed as they approached while Viv continuously fed the tool. As they crossed over the first real clumps of revenants far below, it activated. The ball showed a spike. That spike was aimed upward. It pulsed, reached, fighting Viv for control.

“What the…”

The spike moved.

They made contact with the first fliers, then it was all Viv could do to kill them as they arrived. A fire shield formed in front of them, turning all the lighter birds and bats on their path to ashes. Arthur weaved between the larger monsters. As planned, they were too fast for them to catch up.

“It’s up. Up!”

A flying thing?

Where?

I don’t see it.

The ball pulsed again.

“Climb.”

They did so, flying away from the lazy river of fliers following them. The hundreds of creatures soon lost interest as they returned to their old patterns. Viv looked up where the arrow was pointing. Still nothing. Just dark clouds upon dark clouds.

“Is this thing working?” Viv mumbled to herself.

But she knew the answer. It was working. She just didn’t like what it was telling her. Arthur kept climbing, this time more slowly and in a circle to conserve her strength. The black mana held in the cloud infused her with power.

Ugh.

That is too much, even for me.

“Wait, are you getting poisoning?”

Yes!

The concentration is too high!

It had to be as high as the Imperial Ziggurat if she was suffering like that. Viv winced. Should she stop now? Arthur coated herself in a thin layer of life mana, making Viv uncomfortable but it was a sure sign she didn’t intend to give up.

Suddenly, they burst through the cloud cover and into a mass of radiant, gray light, as sickly as it was powerful. The dome of the blue sky should have been a rejuvenating sight, but instead, the dark air reminded Viv of the Helockian arena when she was done with it. Viv gasped. Her sight caught up to the vast bone construct gliding above her head, its wingspan equal to that of an airliner. She inspected it as fast as she could.

[Reanimated Dragon]

And then her eyes drifted to the next.

And the next.

And finally, to the largest one. That one was different. Its eyes didn’t glow with the blue fire of liches, yet silvery runes ran all along its spine, its mighty jaws, right down to the tip of people-sized claws. The creature was absolutely monstrous. It radiated black mana with a rare intensity.

Its head turned to her.

“Fuck. Yoink!”

The spell didn’t even connect. It evaporated a meter away from the creature’s body. Viv’s last minute inspection worked though, but before she could read it, a pulse of black mana tore through the air. Arthur buckled under Viv. She looked down and saw that black lines were crawling over the poor dragoness’ skin.

“Pull out,” Viv immediately said.

Arthur didn’t wait. She dove back under the cover of the cloud. A cough shook her entire frame.

Viv didn’t even consider returning.

They were not ready for this.

***

Arthur was suffering. Viv could see it and it was tearing her heart apart. A black sheen tarnished her healthy white scales, and she shivered from time to time.

I can feel your concern, mother.

Kindly stop.

I will be fine.

“We’re making a detour. Go west.”

Mother?”

“Go west, now. I recognize the place.”

What do you —

Oh.

“Unless… it’s too hard for you.”

No.

I am curious now.

I will go.

***

The two flew over hard terrain, then over dunes that had seemed endless five years before, as a feverish Viv had crossed them on her sled. They soon found the derelict remains of a small town adjacent to a low elevation, the mouth of a grotto waiting like an invitation. A waft of pure air emanated from its openings. Viv and Arthur landed in front of it.

The soft gurgles of water welcomed them. They moved in, wordless for now. Inside, the dim light of the deadlands took on a more pale hue. Steps descended into a pure pool from which vapors rose. In the distance, a tattered veil covered the mummified remains of Cassia, one of Neriad’s many worthy champions. This was Cassia’s Last Gift, possibly the only artifact that had survived the death of the Old Empire inside of the fallout zone.

It was there that the two had met.

Without waiting, Arthur carefully stepped down into the pool. Smoke rose from her body as the pure water washed away the corruption. She sighed with pleasure. After hesitating for a moment, Viv disrobed and joined her. They still had much to do if they wanted to save Harrak, but it was also important to pace oneself. They both needed a short break. Viv offered a prayer to Neriad as soon as she was inside of the pleasantly warm water. It might have been her imagination, but she thought she spotted golden light briefly embracing the remains. There was no soul here, only the traces of a courageous essence.

Viv relaxed. She wanted to forget the invasion for a little while.

It has been a very long time, mother.

“And you have grown so much,” Viv replied, allowing herself a smile.

We have grown so much.

Although, still no wings!

“I’m doing my best.”

The dragoness huffed. Her powerful breath pushed Viv’s hair away from her face.

“Do you ever regret it?” Viv asked.

What?

“Me raising you, instead of returning to the wilds. Like your brother did.”

My brother?

The unwashed simpleton?

