“I see the problem.” Ren said when he examined the metal tray. “The center of balance is too high.” He said, and took out his blacksmith hammer to bend the thin legs of the tray underneath it, pounded them flat so that they wouldn't make the tray unstable, then took out the crucible with some molten metal still in it and poured some on the underside to add a lot of weight to it.

Ren used a tool to spread the metal out instead of his hand, because he didn't want to shock them, and absorbed the heat from it to cool it off. He put it back onto the desk with a heavy thump.

“Where was it?” Ren asked, and the head healer pointed to the other side of the desk. Ren moved it to it's proper spot and stood back. “Were you sorting them for storage, or were you working on them?”

“Both. I only have a few more forms to do.” The head healer said and pointed to a small stack of them on a small table behind the desk. “Just put the pile right in the middle of the desk.” She said sadly. “I'll work on getting them sorted after I eat a late lunch.”

“There's no need to sort them again.” Ren said and opened his inventory. It had already sorted them, and he put the individual stacks on the desk beside each other and in order.

“You're kidding me.” The head healer said, and looked at the stacks. “They really are sorted in order.”

“Miss Grandure, maybe he can come back next month and do the next batch.” The receptionist suggested, and Ren chuckled.

“You don't know how much time you've just saved us.” The head healer said.

“Well, it was my fault this stack was knocked over.” Ren said. “The least I could do was put them back.” He smiled. “I don't think I should be handling your documents all the time, though.”

Miss Grandure nodded. “Yes, that's right. This was a valid exception.”

“Aw.” The receptionist said. “I wanted someone else to do it.”

Miss Grandure chuckled. “You're not worming your way out of the grunt work that easily.”

The receptionist grinned at her. “It was worth a shot.”

“Go on back to your desk while I see what this gentleman wants.”

The receptionist nodded and shut the office door.

“What can I do for you, My Lord?” Miss Grandure asked as she took each stack and put them in the filing cabinet at the side of the room.

“I was wondering if a healer or two would be willing to move to Walin County to take care of the residents there.” Ren said, and the head healer stopped filing the documents and looked at him.

“You want someone in my organization to leave here, actually move to a place, and take care of people with no support structure?”

“There's almost 800 people in the whole county, which is 50 miles by 50 miles.” Ren said. “The good news is, nearly 650 of that 800 live in Goagan Village... soon to be Goagan City... so there should only be a bit of travelling to look after the residents that are spread out over the rest of the county.”

“You're actually serious.” Miss Grandure said and started to file the documents again. “You want a couple of healers to give up their jobs here to go there.”

“I don't know if anyone will want to move there permanently, because I know that's a lot to ask, especially if they don't like it there.” Ren said. “Maybe you could just have them rotate in and out on a regular basis, like every month or so.”

“You mean like a remote posting?”

Ren nodded. “You could consider it training, or experience building.” He said. “Or even punishment.”

“Yes, that would go over well.” Miss Grandure chuckled. “You haven't healed enough people! I'm sending you to The County for a month!”

Ren laughed. “I'm glad you see punishment as ridiculous as I think it is, but I had to mention it.”

Miss Grandure nodded. “Yes, some of the healers would see it as punishment.” She said. “Especially since Gerald has been telling everyone about his treatment.”

Ren grinned. “In my defense, it wasn't my idea... and that was a special rush case.”

“Yes, he told me about the farmer and his leg with multiple fractures.” The head healer said. “He also told me about your wands.”

Ren nodded and took out a Minor Healing wand and a Major Healing wand. “They have 50 charges.”

Miss Grandure's eyes widened slightly. Gerald didn't tell me that.

“What Gerald wouldn't know, since I didn't do it in front of him, is that I can recharge them.”

The head healer gasped and sat down. “You're telling the truth, aren't you? Please tell me you're telling the truth!”

Ren chuckled and put the Minor Healing wand on her desk, used the Major Healing wand on himself, which used up a charge and refilled his Mana Pool, and then he used some Mana to fill up the charges on the wand.

“Oh, my.” Miss Grandure said and looked at Ren. “I can't believe... you made a rechargeable Healing wand...”

Ren put the Major Healing wand on her desk next to the Minor Healing one, and took out the other 10 Level 1 wands he had and made a pile.

“Oh, my g-” The head healer cut off her own words and squinted her eyes at him. “Are you trying to bribe me, My Lord?”

“No, M'lady.” Ren said. “I know how difficult it is to constantly have people running around and expending their energy to heal people.” He separated the 4 Minor Healing and 8 Major Healing wands. “You can have these no matter what you decide.” Ren said.

“So, it's a bribe; but, not to buy what you want.”

Ren chuckled. “Is it a bribe if I'm not using them, then give them to someone I know will use them to help people?”

Miss Grandure opened her mouth to respond that it was, and then closed her mouth to think about it. If he really isn't using them... not that someone could use 12 wands anyways... but if they're rechargeable, why have 12? You would only need one, right?

Ren waited patiently for her to work through what he said.

“You have better ones.” The head healer said a few moments later. “Don't you?”

Ren smiled and tapped the tip of his nose a couple of times.

“Very well.” Miss Grandure said. “I will accept this generous donation to the organization, and won't let it influence my decision to approach several individuals about creating a healing outpost in Walin County.”

“I didn't expect it would, M'lady.” Ren said. “All I wanted it to do, was open you up to the possibility of the idea.”

“It worked, My Lord.” Miss Grandure said. “It never would have crossed my mind to make a place for people to work, rather than just sending them out individually.”

“Just make sure you tell the healers that they have the option to actually move there and work there permanently.” Ren said. “I might just get lucky and you'll find someone that will fit my county's needs.”

Miss Grandure nodded. “I'll inform them of the options they will have.”

“Excellent.” Ren said and held a hand out to her. “Thank you for taking the time to listen to my request.”

Miss Grandure stood up and took his hand automatically. Ren bent over it and lightly kissed the back of it.

“Have a good day, M'lady.” Ren said, let her hand go, and left her office. He shut the office door and the receptionist turned to look at him.

“Done already?” She asked, and Ren nodded. “Thank you for visiting.” She said. “We don't get a lot of non-healers coming in here.”

Ren smiled at her. “Do I still count for that if I have the Healing skill?”

“You do?!?” The receptionist asked, surprised. “But you're not a healer!”

Ren chuckled. “I was a bit surprised when I learned it, too.”

“You're amazing, My Lord.” The receptionist said.

“You don't have much information to base that on.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“I felt your Aura when you were down the street, My Lord.” The receptionist said. “Plus, you're the proclaimed Hero of Aurora. I know you're amazing.”

“Thank you for saying so.” Ren smiled, and took her hand. He bent over and kissed it as if she were a Lady. “Have a good day.”

The receptionist blushed so hard her face was bright red. “Y-y-yes, M-my L-lord.” She managed to say. “I will... I mean I did... I mean... thank you!” She said, and her face became even redder somehow. “For visiting! Not for... oh, for that, too!” She used her free hand to cover her face. “I'm so embarrassed!”

“Please accept my apologies for embarrassing you.” Ren said and kissed her hand again. “That wasn't my intention.”

“It... it's all right, M-my L-lord.” The receptionist said, but she still had her face covered with a hand and held onto Ren's hand with the other. “It's my fault for... I should be used to... oh, I don't know what to say!”

Ren reached out and moved her hand from her face and down to her other hand, then held onto both of them.

“I'm sorry I made you so flustered.” Ren said, because he knew it was his Prince Charming title that was at fault this time. “I guess I'm just too irresistible for you to resist.”

“My Lord, I...”

“I hope you don't tear off your tunic and ask me to ravage you.” Ren said. “That would be just terrible!”

The receptionist snorted a laugh. “My Lord...”

“Yes, if you threw yourself on me and covered me with kisses, it would be the most horrendous thing I've ever experienced!”

The receptionist chuckled.

“I shudder at the thought of your wanton advances! I'll put up a valiant fight, mind you; but, I'll eventually succumb to you trying to take advantage of me! Oh! The horror!”

The receptionist laughed for several moments, and Ren saw that she was no longer flustered and was over her embarrassment.

“My Lord.” The receptionist said. “Thank you.”

“It really was my fault.” Ren said and opened his hands to let her hands go. “Please accept my humble apologies.”

“Of course, My Lord.” The receptionist said, squeezed his hands once, and let go as well. “Although, your proposed 'horror' actually sounds quite tempting.”

“I'm sorry, but I'm seeing someone.” Ren said.

“Like I didn't know that.” The receptionist said and chuckled. “Half of the city is talking about how you caught that scary dark elf woman, then wrecked the room at the Snoozing Bear Inn.”

“Th-they are?” Ren asked, surprised.

“When the Hero of Aurora runs down the street with a yelling woman thrown over his shoulder, people are going to notice.”

“Oh.” Ren said. “I... ah... didn't realize...”

“Just because people aren't out in the street, doesn't mean they don't see anything that happens in the street.”

“Okay, that's true.” Teepo said. “Houses do have windows and doors.”

Ren chuckled and the receptionist smiled.

“If you decide that... well, I'm not looking for a date or anything... but...”

Ren smiled. “I don't even know your name.”

“That's because you don't really need to know it.” The receptionist said. “You're the Hero of Aurora. Just being in the same room with you is... well...” Her face flushed a little red.

“I better go, then.” Ren said, and that made her laugh. “Tell Miss Grandure that she can leave a message for me at my shop in the Artesian District.” He said and walked to the door. “Oh, and before I forget.”

Ren took out one of his iceboxes, took out two plates of food from it, and stored it again. He took out a stone brick and enchanted it with Fire, warmed up both plates and stored the stone, then handed the plates to the receptionist.

“Lunch is on me.” Ren said and grinned at her surprised expression. “Goodbye, Ma'am.”

“G-g-goodbye, My Lord.” The receptionist said.

Ren left the house and climbed onto Princess. “Let's go and pick up Zetaya.”

Princess huffed in agreement and trotted down the street at a good pace.

*

The head healer put the wands in her desk and discovered she had a problem. Now she had to decide who would get the wands, and who would be left out. Her office door opened without a knock, and she looked at her secretary with wide eyes as she put a plate of food in front of her.

“When did you leave to make this?” Miss Grandure asked her.

“I didn't.” The receptionist said. “Lord Ren gave them to me.”

“That was nice of him.” Miss Grandure said and looked at the food. “I suppose I can eat it cold.”

The receptionist smiled and started eating, and then laughed at her boss when she gasped at the hot meal.

“How?”

“I don't have any idea.” The receptionist said. “He took out this big box that was full of plates of food, did something with a stone brick for a few seconds, then passed me two warm plates.”

The head healer shook her head in disbelief. I may just have to visit his county myself. She thought and ate her meal in silence. When she was done, she sighed and sat back in her chair, quite satisfied. Yes, I am definitely going to have to visit there.

It was one of the best meals Miss Grandure had ever had, and the receptionist had agreed wholeheartedly.
