Still no response from her. I might as well have just told her that it was raining, for all the emotional depth she showed. Whatever. Maybe she just needs some time to process it all. I walk off outside the cave and find a place to start practicing, punching large rock, over and over again. The movement calms me down, centers me as I continue to try to Amplify my strike. When my fists are bloody and bruised, I sit down and heal, standing up as soon as they're fixed, to continue again. The sun begins to set, and still I continue to punch, succeeding more than a dozen times. I'm getting better at it, at least.

“You're trying too hard, idiot.” Sumila walks up to me and grabs my arm before dragging me off. “I've told you this before. You're unbalancing your chi with how forceful you're being. Take a break with me.” She takes me to the edge of the cliff, sitting down with her legs hanging off the incline, and patting the rock for me to join her. Honestly, I'd rather not. I'm fine with heights, just not with hanging out on a cliff edge. I have limits. Gingerly scooting towards the edge, I sit with my legs crossed, not quite at the lip. Sumila rolls her eyes and moves back to sit next to me. She doesn't say anything, just looking out at the scene before us.

It is a beautiful view, facing the namesake of the continent, the Azure Sea. A massive body of water that spans across four provinces, North, west, south and central. It almost splits the continent in two, requiring an incredible amount of time to traverse, but it is as clear and blue as the name would imply. The tiny sails of far off ships dot the orange-red horizon and I can almost make out the movement of the oars, propelled by unlucky slaves. Fuck. What am I going to do about Song? We sit there for several long minutes, enjoying the serenity together. “What are you thinking about?” Sumila leans in to me, shoulder to shoulder.

Absently, I reply, “About Song.”

She remains silent for a long moment, just sitting next to me while we enjoy the view, comfortable in each others presence. It's nice that she isn't mad at me anymore, but I still have no idea what I did. “Give me the necklace, Rain.” Necklace! why didn't I just call it a fucking necklace?

“Ya sure.” Weird, she wouldn't take it back earlier, when I was panicking over having a slave. Placing it into her hip purse, she stands and leaves without another word. I guess sightseeing is over. Staring at the view for a moment longer, I return back to my training, trying to be less forceful, to try less hard. Not very helpful advice. I continue to punch, my anger mounting. Between being dragged out here, left behind for war, targeted by the society of assholes and scumbags, and dealing with Song, I have plenty to spare. After a few dozen strikes, the rock begins to shatter apart, every strike successful, the stone crumbling before my power. Breathing heavily, I pick shards out of my fist and face, wiping the blood as best I could. I think I'm getting better at it. It seems tied to my emotions. I need to be angry for it to work. I think. Needs more testing.

Sitting down and closing my eyes, I begin healing the worst of my injuries, my broken knuckles and a deep gash from an errant shard. When my eyes open again, Charok is standing in front of me. He seems upset, but doesn't say anything for a long time. “You are training incorrectly.”

“I know you're concerned about my injuries, but I'm old enough to make my own decisions.” The anger is still there, and I'm more harsh than I mean to be.

He knocks me on the forehead hard, instantly deflating my anger and bringing tears to my eyes. “Not that, little brother.” He gestures for me to stand. “You're training to fight angry. You need to practice in the state of Balance. Too much anger is of no use to you, as is too little, and the same with any other emotion. You must hold to the middle way, in more ways than one. Do not force your emotions out of balance for the sake of combat.”

Holding up a rock shard for me to see, Charok turns towards the treeline. Holding it between his thumb and middle finger, he flicks the shard away faster than my eyes can track. A thud is heard in the gloom, and he leads me over to a tree more than 15 meters away. The rock shard is embedded within the bark, digging maybe 10 centimeters deep. “Amplification isn't about power, but control and timing. The easiest way to train is with small, simple movements. Your punches have too many moving parts to them, shoulder, elbow, wrist, waist, complicating the issue.” His grin is visible in the dim light, teeth almost glowing as much as his eyes. “With a flick, you can wait until you feel the chi explode before taking action. The more you practice and become familiar with the sensation, the easier it will become.”

I stare at him, then at the hole he made with just one finger, then back at him. What. The. Fuck. That's terrifying... what can he do with a throwing knife? Or darts or whatever. “Why didn't you just tell me this sooner?”

He shrugs at me and flicks my forehead, still grinning. I almost pissed myself for a moment there. “Despite your insistence otherwise, I am not a mind reader. I thought you were just strengthening your fists again. You have odd training methods, and you still have not learned to ask for help, little brother. Besides, it's best if you make mistakes on your own. Only then can you learn from them.” His smile disappears, turning into a frown. “This is not why I am here. I wish to speak with you regarding the slave girl.”

Perfect. “Oh good, I thought you wouldn't want to talk about her. I'm at a loss at what to do, with all the restrictions, how can we help her live a normal, happy life?”

Letting out a sigh, Charok remains silent for a long time, before taking me into a hug. “You're too kind, little Rain, It is one of the best things about you, but I worry it will get you killed one day. Just treat her as you would anyone else, and let time heal her. Do not push yourself too hard with training. There will be long days ahead." He turns and leaves, letting me stew in my own thoughts.

I'm not too nice. I can ignore the suffering of the slaves in the ships, or in the mines, or anywhere else, because it's not my fucking problem. It's sad, but what can I do about it? There's no ignoring this though, no matter how much I'd like to. I can't just hand her off to someone, or sell her, or kill her. I'd never be able to sleep at night if I did. Not without a pill at least.

Wandering back to the pile of rock shards, I pick a handful up to practice with. The stones flick out, arcing to the ground, and I continue until I have no more stones, my fingers bloody, nails beginning to peel.

God dammit.

This hurts worse than the punching.
