“It does; all of that. It still might be the best spell to put into one of these. If Erick made these for us, then we could scatter them about in the Darker places of the world and let the [Undertow Star]s permanently weaken those danger zones. If the Star becomes unstable we could put a detonation binding on the interior and disrupt the runic web and make the whole thing consume itself, breaking the magic down as the iron rusts itself to death.” Riivo said, “It would be dead simple to do. It would also be dead simple to put some Privacy magics inside so that no one could see inside the sphere without harming the working, thus protecting the security and knowledge of the runic web. If someone tried to drill inside and send in a Sighted tendril, or something along those lines, the physical barrier for oxygen and otherwise would be broken, and thus the whole thing would rust over in a flashing instant.”

Aisha smiled softly, glad that Riivo was taking this miracle so well.

Riivo asked, “There has to be… 15,000 mana running through this thing right now?”

“Only 5,000 mana, according to Erick, and that was 4 days ago. Maybe about 4,000 right now.”

Riivo smiled a little bit, softly saying, “Wizards, eh? I can already feel my worries over the future evaporating. How about you?”

Aisha said, “The main worries are gone, though they have been replaced with smaller, more nuanced ones.”

Riivo stared at the sphere, nodding as he said, “Me too.”

- - - -

Erick sat behind his desk in his office, worrying over a lot.

A rather handsome man from Enforcement wanted him in a way that wasn’t easy to put into words. A man from his own Castellan office was now fucking terrified of Erick. Portal’s Trademasters were sending him small gifts now; Erick had a few very good enchanting-grade pearls sitting in a box in the corner. Songli’s Local Area Gate Network was going to be a trouble, because he had chosen to not marry into one of their main families. How much had he harmed his future platonic relationship with Nirzir? Did Nirzir resent and hate him? Or would she be able to control her emotions for the good of her own nation? Erick had finally gotten a working prototype of the magical iron runic web, and that iron sphere now rested with the Office of Magic. Aisha had been rather worried about that sphere, but when compared to how much of that worry was personal, versus how much Teressa had been truly happy to see that sphere completed… Was Aisha worrying over nothing? Was Benevolence telling them all that this was fine?

Was Benevolence speaking for Erick, or was Erick speaking for Benevolence? Was there a meaningful difference? Or was Erick worrying over nothing, and all his worries amounted to a case of ‘this is my persona while at work’ and a ‘this is my persona while at home’ sort of thing?

Yggdrasil was growing up fast, and spending a lot of time at Treehome.

Jane and her team were still prowling the Underworld, killing giant monsters and restoring connections between settlements in the dark which had been thought lost.

And there had been no large explosions in three months. Was Erick becoming complacent? Was the House becoming complacent? Was every single one of his subjects turning to interpersonal diversions of sex and food and other inconsequential things, while the world was getting ready to erupt and burn everything they made to the ground?

Erick had a lot of worries.

He breathed. He centered himself.

And then the Wizard of Benevolence and Apparent King of Candlepoint decided where he wanted to start, and began, “I think my problem is that I am doing a lot, and I feel my people are doing a lot, but it’s not enough. There is simply so much to be done. Like… We cleared out Nergal, Nelboor, and Glaquin of a great many mental monster threats over the last two weeks, thanks to the help of the Mind Mages, but… we only cleared out the major cities, and we didn’t even touch Quintlan, or the Underworld. There’s just so much to be done and I wonder when some insane person is going to come out of the woodwork and destroy everything I’m trying to build here. I’m pretty sure that the major powers of the world are solidly behind me… But you never really know.”

Across from the table, sat no one.

Erick was alone in his office. Privacy magic and more defenses of all sorts held all around. This was a private conversation.

Even Ophiel wasn’t here, and Yggdrasil was off doing a lot on his own. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye had been gone for an entire day, two days ago. He was having too much fun to check in as much as he used to. Erick found he missed that [Scry] eye. And he missed Ophiel’s weight on his shoulder, and those violin sounds in his ear. Why did Erick have Ophiel flutter around outside? He didn’t really know beyond the fact that he wanted to be alone for a little bit. Actually alone.

There was no way he was truly alone, though.

Erick spoke more words of worry into the empty air, expecting someone to pop out of the manasphere, even though he was not purposefully contacting anyone.

And yet, as he spoke to the empty air for over an hour, no one appeared. Erick casually swept his light through the room while he spoke, too, and though he randomly varied the sweeps, no one showed to his senses. Even the shadows in the corners of the room seemed empty.

When Erick finally felt he had gotten all his worries out there, giving a voice to the shadows in his heart, he did not feel lighter as he thought he might. He needed to actually talk to a real person. But at least now he had all his thoughts organized.

Erick canceled the Privacys and the [Hasted Shelter] he had cast into the space, ending his privacy with a pop of equalizing time and a sweep of cleaning mana that disrupted all history in the manasphere. No one would know that Erick had been pouring his heart into the void.

Except for Poi, who walked back into the room, leading the way for Zolan—

Poi paused and looked at Erick, a brief moment of confusion passing across his face, becoming a frown. Without warning, Ophiel fluttered back into the space, squeaking with annoyed guitar sounds. Erick had left the little guy outside of the [Hasted Shelter], too.

Poi resumed walking inside the room. Zolan followed, carrying a stack of paperwork.

Erick’s castellan was a highly observant man, so he noticed the sudden change in the air. He and Poi had only been outside of the room for two minutes, and yet something deeply important must have happened while they were gone, besides what Erick had told them would happen.

“A good nap, Sir?” Zolan asked, expecting a lie.

Erick lied, “A great nap, yes. All ready for the rest of the day.” He put on a normal enough smile, and brought up the topic on the paperwork in Zolan’s hand, asking, “What’s happening with Portal’s embassy?”

Zolan knew enough to ignore what he had been told to ignore, so he got right into it, talking of numbers and facts and three more monster kills Portal desired of House Benevolence. Two of the kills were tangled hydras hunting in the waters around some cities on Archipelago Nergal, but the third one was a suspected ‘tidecrasher hydra’; some sort of Variant tangled hydra. It was its own tidal force, apparently; able to shift the ocean’s surface for a hundred kilometers around. The Variant had torn through a handful of minor coastal settlements and one minor city in the last two days. The Church of Sininindi had an emergency bounty on the beast.

Erick killed all three city-killing monsters within the hour.
