Tasar spoke of small, hidden truths that no one in the standard Arcanaeum track would ever learn. Kiri absolutely loved when Tasar did that. It made her feel like she was finally getting the education which was denied to her back at the Tower, or even at Oceanside.

Oceanside wasn’t nearly as bad about the smaller lies as the Tower was, though.

- - - -

Archmage Quel, Master of the Tower, was an older man with long, dark hair and pale white skin. His robes of office were slate grey, and his staff was straight and polished…

He scoffed at the mirror. This was good enough. He had some news to give to the Viridian King, ripped this very morning from the Scryers he usually had spying on The Wizard. Apparently Erick Flatt got truly flustered around offers of sex!

… It might not be the most pure information to bring into Greensoil’s negotiations for a set of Gates, but every little bit counted.

… It was honestly shit information that would be difficult to use.

But Quel was mad, and he was going to use every advantage he could take, for the King was mad at him, because the nobility was mad at the king for first trying to assassinate Erick, and then again for all the failures to actually acquire Erick themselves, and thus, shit seemed to not only roll downhill, but also uphill and all around, in ever-broadening circles. There wasn’t a single noble in the Greensoil Republic who was silent about their collective failure to acquire Erick for themselves. Odaali was perhaps the loudest of all, for what did the Republic expect out of them, to ask Erick to come and fix all their problems? To bow down before another king when they already had a king on the Viridian Throne?

Preposterous!

And Quel kicked himself every single day for not taking Erick for more than he had. Who would have ever thought that one of Quel’s failed students would attach herself to a planar from some magicless world, and that planar and the apprentice would rise up to such lofty heights! All the public was shouting out that ‘of course Erick Flatt was The Scion of Forgotten Light!’ or some other such nonsense tripe, ‘he had invented Particle Magic! And Elemental Benevolence!’. Those idiot commoners would believe whatever they wanted, but their voices were loud, and (though Quel would never say this anywhere it could be overheard) the king ruled at the pleasure of the mob.

When the Wizard had killed Ar’Kendrithyst, Quel thought his head would roll, and he was almost ashamed enough to put his head on the chopping block himself. When the man was outed both as a Wizard and as having made [Gate], everyone thought that Stratagold or Oceanside or Ar’Cosmos (for those who knew of that land) would soon take care of the problem of Erick themselves, and Quel had no idea what to really believe anymore. Surely, whatever was going to happen to Erick would be over as soon as the wrought decided to move, which would happen within days, and then Quel could move past the shame of not doing more to get more out of Erick.

But no! The wrought did not move on the Wizard! Apparently, the Wizard had either ensorcelled all the powers of the world (a [Far Shot Bolt] if there ever was one), or he was the genuine article of the true Old Wizards; those who pushed back the edge of the Void and brought others with them into new worlds and new bases of power. The real Old Wizards; not the one you read about in Sundering stories.

According to some of the more restricted texts Quel had recently reread on the subject, though, Erick could be either type.

As far as ensorcellment went: According to Greensoil’s own history, back when the Wizard Oathbreaker almost took the throne, it was very possible for a Wizard to ensorcell a great many people without those people knowing they were controlled, and with no signs of anyone being controlled, either. Oceanside had eventually helped to break those controls on the kingdoms of Greensoil, so Quel was having a hard time believing that Oceanside and the Headmaster were corrupted by the Wizard…

And so, for now, Greensoil’s response to the Wizard was to ‘wait and see’ and—

And another thing! There was also the whole problem of Erick being a human allied with Koyabez and not with the Angels, and going on record to openly state that the Angels needed to die! At least the Converter Angel was smart and decided to bide their time. Knowing what Greensoil now knew, a clash between Erick and the Angels could have been a disastrous outcome for Greensoil and all of humanity.

… Aside from just sitting back and watching and waiting, and sending out desperate attempts to get Erick fully on their side —None of which worked! Damn the man— Greensoil, and Quel and the Tower, were starting to approach Erick as one would approach a… a ‘normal’ diplomatic relation.

With a desire in their hearts, plans to grant certain compromises in exchange for a vast increase in power and influence, and whatever knives they could scavenge together that could be of use against a Wizard.

Gossip about sex was apparently one of those knives.

It felt weak to hold onto such a thin hope, but war and other violent options had been cleared from the table. Softer power and softer threats were required, now.

Apparently —and Quel was still uncomfortable about this— they would be working with The Wizard. And yet they had no real leverage. They had nothing to offer the enigmatic Erick Flatt. They were paupers coming to beg for scraps from the master’s table, and it irked Quel terribly.

A lot of time had passed since Quel managed to trick Erick into spilling the secrets of the Daydropper…

Quel doubted he could manage the same sort of trick again.

- - - -

Burhendurur had a great many plans he could unfold inside House Benevolence in order to tie Erick more closely to Ar’Comos, and to alienate everyone else. But he hadn’t needed to enact any of them yet. He and Volaro had conferred several times since they got here and got their duties, and each time they both agreed to delay their major anti-wrought and anti-Oceanside plans. The smaller plans went through without interruption, of course, but those were plans for smaller gains, such as making inroads in international markets, and transforming smuggling routes into normal trade routes. They hadn’t needed to do anything directly against their longtime enemies, because Erick was already working tirelessly for the gains of their homeland… And everyone else, too, but the gains for Ar’Cosmos had been immeasurable.

Aside from allowing Ar’Cosmos to buy and sell openly in the markets of Candlepoint, which was steadily becoming something that was actually worthwhile, due to Erick’s runic [Renew] rings the size of their ancient homeland had multiplied at least ten times over. Maybe even more! House Fae had the real numbers on that account, and Burhendurur wasn’t a member of that House so he didn’t know the exact size increases. He wasn’t really a member of House Death anymore, either, so he had no idea how well the inroads of Ar’Cosmos were being maintained.

But he still got all the important and generalized news from their homeland, and everything he heard was good news.

Even Erick’s insistence that the wrought be allowed an embassy of their own inside Fairy wasn’t as disastrous as everyone had suspected it would be. At least not yet. In exchange for that weakness of their homeland, the Houses demanded and acquired trade routes between Stratagold and Ar’Cosmos, directly, and that the export fee be nothing more than normal. So that was truly to Ar’Cosmos’s gain. One embassy was easy to eradicate if necessary, but so far…

There had been no need for eradication.

Every plot Erick enacted sprouted life and possibility.

Conversely, every plot enacted against Erick was met with swift destruction, and most of the time by any number of people acting on Erick’s benefit, and without the Wizard’s direct involvement at all.

So today’s news of an old plan restarted, with the capability to disrupt the tenuous forward momentum of House Benevolence and Ar’Cosmos, had struck a chord deep inside of Burhendurur, making him less than happy with the messenger.

Burhendurur slipped his draconic form through his bone pit, scattering the raw materials of his beloved magics back and forth as he went. Most of it was dry dust, but among that dust lay femurs the size of orcols, crushed ribcages from shadowolves like tiny specks among the ground dust, spines from lesser dragons weak enough to fall to him and stupid enough to try, and so very many skulls. Mostly, the bone pit was a simple bed. Burhendurur had been submerged below the dust, resting well, but he was not resting right now. He swam up though the pit, grey magic flowing from his form as bones and claws and horns scraped him most wonderfully.

The Overseer of Enforcement lifted his head from the bone pit, bone dust burbling around him like aerated sand. Some dragons liked gold, but Death Dragons liked something a bit more useful, for this place easily acted as a command center when the dragon in residence wished. Even while sleeping tendrils of thought left Burhendurur and touched upon all of his active offices, and officers, allowing him to coordinate the defenses of an entire land by himself.

There wasn’t much to do right now besides defend the walls that Overseer Mox and the Wizard’s apprentice had erected, and even that was rather easy. Moving around a few thousand skeletons, most of them simply detectors rather than actual threats, was something Burhendurur could do in his sleep. Which he often did.

While it was true that monsters crawled everywhere outside of civilization, and you never knew what you would truly find out there in the darker spaces, the enemies most prevalent in the Crystal Forest were rather easy to kill. Crystal Mimics were rather harmless for anyone of any skill at all.

When the lands started to grow trees and other things started to move in… Then this job might require some actual focus and organization. And so, since the patrols were easy, and nothing pressed in on his senses as though it were a danger, Burhendurur could focus almost his entire self upon the messenger, which is what he did.

To his credit, Iriki did not quail under Burhendurur’s Death-filled Sight.

“Are you proud of yourself?” Burhendurur asked, rhetorically.

Iriki knew not to respond, though the flush of embarrassment upon his face was enough for Burhendurur to know that, no, Iriki was not proud. But if the man’s plan had worked, Iriki would have gained a kingdom. For that reason and that reason alone, Burhendurur did not fault the man for his attempt.

It had been a rather stupid attempt, though. Iriki didn’t seem to understand that, either.

Burhendurur attempted to enlighten him, saying, “I sent you there to fix the problem of our king displaying himself for all the world to see. Not to make a new problem for me, and certainly not to get stirred up by Zolan into making such a critical blunder of your own. That man is almost as skillful with a scheme now as he was before he retired. He instantly saw your desires and when you delivered my report, he took advantage to see if you would go for it, because he knew you would fail. Which is exactly what happened.”

Iriki’s face turned redder with subsurface Rage, but then he blinked that away, and said, “I want Erick. I saw what Zolan was doing, and I decided to go for it anyway, because if I wait too late then someone else will get him and I will be relegated to his harem! And that’s if he decides to get a harem! Which he won’t. I had a chance, and approval from the Castellan, and so I went for it.”

“… Advancing where you should be retreating, I see.”

“Are you going to help me recover from this blunder, or not?”

Burhendurur glared at Iriki.

Iriki glared back.

Burhendurur sighed, all his anger going out of him. He transformed into his incani form and wrapped himself in a robe sculpted out of bone dust and Death. With a bit of flourish, Burhendurur added some black markings here and there, in the style of their king. With eyes glaring grey, Burhendurur Sighted everything he could about Iriki, then said, “It is to your credit that you have not let any of our ‘coworkers’ see you acting this familiar with me. It is also to your credit that you have held back from pursuing Erick this long.”

Iriki brightened a little, but his was a guarded sort of hope.

Burhendurur said, “I will push for our king to allow more guards to accompany him during his duties. You and that Arda woman from Oceanside will be my selections. If our king chooses to go along with this request of mine for him to have more guards, then you will not advance upon him until he is ready, if at all. You will hold back and let him come to you, do you understand?”

Iriki beamed with joy, smiling strongly as he said, “I understand. Thank you, Burhendurur—”

Burhendurur cut him off, adding, “IF this works, then it will be because our king allows it. It will be prudent for him to deny you and marry some other worldly power out there, and if he gets a good offer, I will be telling him to take it, if he should accept my advice. If such a thing should pass then you will not embarrass Ar’Cosmos with any further pursuit of our Wizard King. You will not gainsay this decree in private, and especially not in public.”

Iriki was so thrilled that Burhendurur was assisting him now, directly, that he barely heard all the cautions Burhendurur set upon him. Burhendurur didn’t know why he even bothered. Iriki had been infatuated with Erick ever since Particle Magic happened, because Iriki was a bit of an idiot who had always been attracted to power and righteousness, and even before Last Shadow’s Feast. If Iriki managed to land that fish, then he would treat Erick well, for sure, and Erick would treat Iriki well, in return.

Iriki’s fervor was not in question. His motivations were not in question.

His target was so far above him it was as though he was trying to [Strike] with a standard sword while standing a kilometer away. His methodology in going after Erick left much to be desired.

… Burhendurur could not really blame the man for his recent attempt, though, for any day now some world power would throw a marriage at Erick. It was just a matter of time.

Iriki’s [Gate] of opportunity was closing.

- - - -

Nirzir sat across the table from the man she would marry, and tried not to stare. The pure… physicality of Erick Flatt could not be denied, and every time she looked at him her face turned redder. Thankfully her naturally white skin did a lot to hide her blushing, but she blushed all the same.

