Lingxing scowled at the door in front of her, exclaiming, “Nirzir Void Song! You will take down this barrier, cease your warbling, dry your tears, and come out here this instant. It’s bad enough you ran away from the negotiations after your private meeting, and I had to continue it all on my own! But now I come home and I find you breaking things!”

Beyond the door to her rooms Nirzir’s wailing carried like she was a babe who missed her meal, but she was a Songstress so her songs were more destructive than Lingxing would have preferred. The walls of their clan mountain vibrated under Nirzir’s Thunderous cries. Vases crashed to the floor. Servants went running.

All because this child couldn’t understand the denial of a Wizard—

The door slammed open and Nirzir stood on the other side. Her face was not reddened with tears. She was perfectly put together. She was a touch angry, but that much was forgivable. Crying in the face of a loss of this magnitude was not.

Nirzir declared, “I was not ‘warbling’! I haven’t warbled in years. I was singing a sad song, Matriarch. If it was too much, then I apologize, but I was certainly not warbling!”

“Oh?” Lingxing spoke sarcastically, “Then pardon this one’s concern for you, for the vases in the hallway which are now piles on the ground, or for the new cracks in the walls of our great clan mountain. Our estate is much better looking now that our archmage has taken a good working to the walls.”

A crack formed in Nirzir’s visage. Her eyes watered, her lips trembled.

And then Nirzir shoved those dark emotions down, asking, “What of the Network?”

“It’s going to happen anyway.”

Nirzir’s hidden sorrow turned to revealed rage. “You never had any intention of making a marriage happen, did you?”

Lingxing almost reprimanded Nirzir—

But Nirzir instantly realized that she had misstepped. Too bad she didn’t realize the folly of her young love before they got into this mess, but to her credit, Nirzir stood straighter and her anger vanished. “Apologies, that was unkind of me. Erick had already made his desires known long before today’s… misstep. I both created and stepped into my own [Force Trap].”

Lingxing pulled back her harsher words, and said, “And we’re lucky your [Force Trap] didn’t explode on all of us.”

Nirzir stood tall. She took the rebuke with aplomb. Lingxing felt proud at that moment, and she allowed some of her own approval to appear on her face. Nirzir noticed, her facade cracking again as she wiped away a quick tear.

“I apologize for running away after my private meeting.” The young girl asked, “What about the other concerns?”

Lingxing gestured forward, saying, “I won’t talk in the hallway. You might have become a proper archmage since your journey with the Wizard, but I am still the matriarch of this clan. Invite me into your rooms and fetch some tea for the talking.”

Nirzir’s eyes went wide, as she suddenly realized she had failed again. She nearly hopped backward, saying, “Honored Matriarch Lingxing. Please come in and allow me the honor of knowing what happened after I left.”

Lingxing walked forward, her right hip briefly catching as it did sometimes, sending a shooting pain through her back. She ignored the pain for it quickly subsided anyway, then allowed herself a bit of joy as she walked beside her niece, deeper into the archmage’s rooms.

Lingxing began, “Erick accepted the [Reincarnation] requests in lieu of ties of marriage. I won’t be going first, but I’ve already lined up 15 elders from various households who wish to restart their lives. We’ll be watching them for signs of corruption for a few years before we do more, but I doubt many people will wait that long…”

- - - -

Palodia opened her eyes in the predawn light. Her first thought was of the warmth at her back, pressing up against her like a solid pillow that could turn hard at any moment. Her second thought was at the large arm wrapped under her own, and the hand gently resting upon her breast.

Tenebrae breathed behind her, his breath tickling her neck as his chest expanded, pressing his muscular chest into Palodia’s back, just a little. He was still completely asleep, as he usually was this time of day. The sun was barely up. This had always been Palodia’s preferred time of day, and she was glad to have that part of her old life remain strong.

Palodia had a harder and harder time waking up early these days, but she still did.

The bread wouldn’t bake itself!

It had been too easy to slide into this new life of hers, as an orcol, and as a match to Tenebrae. Finally! Finally… All of the main problems of their old lives and races were gone, and though some differing circumstances and power remained, they were more like complementary problems, than actual problems.

It had only taken 9 days after their [Reincarnation]s for shy glances between Palodia and Tenebrae along with a few conversations about their next steps, to transform their relationship into something deeper. Something both of them had been dancing around for decades. That first time that they both truly knew what they wanted was a frantic fumble of pants and shirts and underthings, and Tenebrae shooting before the battle even started. Palodia would remember that moment for as long as she lived for it was just so perfect, because after some happy laughter the truth of their new, younger selves reasserted itself. And then they got down to it. Again and again.

And now they were here, in Treehome, at Tenebrae’s suite at Wyrmrest. They had vacated the Rocky compound 15 days ago and got to work reestablishing Tenebrae’s base of power here in Treehome. The house had needed a remodel to fully account for their new orcol bodies, for the place was only partially orcol-sized, but now…

Everything was wonderful.

Tenebrae was a long, long way from having the same sort of power he once had, but in five years he would have another cloud castle, for sure. And this time the two of them could live together, instead of Palodia being stuck behind the kitchen for decades because she was too damned afraid to go to Tenebrae and say what she wanted. To be fair, Tenebrae had also been all the way up in his tower and unwilling to come down to her, except for dinner.

They had already had long conversations about how funny that all was, how both of them wanted this, but neither had been willing to take that first real step—

Tenebrae’s breath hitched as his arm flexed.

Palodia smiled. Tenebrae was awake.

He pulled her tight, his new, deep voice rumbling behind her, “You always wake up before me.” He kissed her shoulder, and then her neck. “Have you been awake for long?”

Palodia smiled wider as she ground her butt into Tenebrae, saying, “Long enough to know I want to start the day off right.”

Tenebrae chuckled, rumbling behind her. She liked when he did that.

It was good to be young again, and not just because of increased stamina and all of that, but also because this was just one of many, many more days like this. And because this was just one of many, many days like this, Palodia could just roll away, laughing all the while, leaving Tenebrae behind, disheveled in the sheets and looking like she had taken away his favorite new toy. Perhaps she had.

The look on Tenebrae’s teenager face was priceless.

Palodia strutted around the bed, headed toward the door, saying, “When all the rest of you is up we can do something really nice, like bake some bread or hunt down some good monster meat.”

Tenebrae huffed out, “What about the monster meat right here.”

Palodia laughed again, bright and happy. She had said ‘monster meat’ specifically to see if Tenebrae would pick up the innuendo, and he had. She understood him, and he understood her, and everything was perfect.

She had never been good at magic, nor had she even really tried beyond a few good cooking spells, but it was the gods’ honest truth that she knew the power of a good spell, and [Reincarnation] was about the best magic that she had ever experienced. Living with an archmage most of her life had taught her that magic could do a lot, but the magic of a Wizard was another thing entirely.

- - - -

Four days ago Erick had made a meter-wide iron ball glow with runic magic.

Not that impressive considering what he had done before. But here, four days later, the iron ball was still glowing with spellwork.

For all the world without a mana sense, the sphere looked like a mirror-smooth silver or steel ball that some fool had cast a [Light] upon, along with a bunch of smaller, air-disturbing magics that layered upon the surface.

But Erick had a good mana sense. He saw into the hollow sphere. He knew what he had made. For all those like him, they could look into the iron ball too, and see that it was hollow, and the interior space was about 15% covered with runic inscriptions. The entire thing was a runic web made of magical iron. And there was room for a lot more magic.

This sphere was a minor miracle, only made possible through the layering of so many different, specific magics. All that stable magic should have torn through the iron like mice through cheese, leaving behind nothing but refuse. But the power Erick had invested into that simple sphere did not tear through.

There were so many ways this should have failed, but it did not. 5 other failures lined up against the far wall, showing exactly how this sphere should have failed. He had expected a lot more failures before this success.

But…

This was a success.

It was time to show it off to the Overseer of Magic.

- - - -

Aisha stood next to a glowing miracle.

White light shone from that miracle like the light of Benevolence.

It was just her and one more inside the room with the miracle, and the room had been layered and layered with [Ward]s of all kinds. No one was to see this miracle right now. Not yet.

And yet, Erick had delivered the miracle in such a haphazard ‘nothing is wrong’ sort of way that so many other people had seen it, including those from Ar’Cosmos and even Oceanside. Oceanside’s forces were trustworthy, for they saw what this was and what it meant, and while the Headmaster would be alerted, nothing else would come of that leak. But Ar’Cosmos’s people now knew.

That could be a problem.

Aisha’s only assurance that nothing too deadly was going to happen was her own insight into Benevolence. She did not foresee any instant problems upon first Sighting this sphere and understanding what it was…

… And, Aisha supposed, Teressa had seen the sphere first and that large woman had been smiling the whole time. She had even confided in Aisha to ‘stop worrying about the good things so much’, which was, of course, not something that Aisha was capable of doing, but she appreciated Teressa’s words, anyway. Benevolence seemed to be on Erick’s side in this creation, and so…

Maybe this would turn out okay?

Historically, the proliferation of runic webs had been disastrous. This, right here, would lead to another such proliferation. Which had been Erick’s intent this whole while…

The Kings and Queens of the Geodes and even Kirginatharp and the Gods seemed to trust Erick—

Aisha trusted Erick, too. But when runic web knowledge proliferated, and when it went bad, Erick would be asked to clean up his own mess. Maybe he could actually do that?

Maybe.

Aisha did not know.

She didn’t know much right now.

And so, she had invited another person to come see this device. The only other person in the room with Aisha stood to her right, viewing the glowing white orb of iron alongside her. If the orb had not been glowing white, then its color would have been the same color as the man; they were both made of iron.

Archmage Riivo, the leader of Archmage’s Rest, stood beside the iron sphere, eyeing it critically. He had huffed in his first ten minutes upon seeing the thing, fussing over it as though it were a trick of shadow and he was having trouble seeing through the illusion; as though Aisha’s report to him had been a lie. One did not make magical iron—

Unless one was Rozeta, of course.

But outside of wrought bodies, mana-infused iron degraded as soon as active magic passed through that iron. Even inside the wrought, and especially inside the iron born, using too much magic could lead to rapid onset wrought rot.

Riivo stared for ten minutes more, and gradually his disbelieving fugue began to wane. He began to really investigate the runic structure laid inside the sphere. Ten more minutes after that, and he was back to simple staring, mentally dissecting what he could see. Erick hadn’t tried to hide any of his inscriptions, so while there wasn’t much to see, there was a lot to understand.

But Riivo had studied the object for long enough.

Aisha began their conversation with, “There’s a lot of conventional wisdom in there, but it’s the addition of this Particle Magic that makes it work so well.”

Riivo pulled back a fraction from the sphere, his focus returning to the present. “It’s all rather simple when he puts it down like that, isn’t it? His scripture is perfect, and though his style is rather simple, it’s impeccable. The challenge will be applying this structure to something other than a stable, hollow sphere, though I have no doubt that Erick will be applying this working to many large, bulky shapes. Gates, of course. Town anchors, or whatever he wants to call them. The ones with the Denial magics.” Riivo did not look away from the sphere as he asked, “That’s still his plan, yes?”

“Denial spheres at the center of every settlement; yes.” Aisha said, “He could scale this up rather easily, and have room enough to put [Withering] inside every single one of them, though he probably won’t do such harmful magic considering he has a core, too.”

“Prismatic Denials, Spatial Denials, probably some sort of basic monster protection, too, but yes; not something outright harmful...” Riivo contemplated, then said, “He could add some variable permissions into that [Undertow Star] of his and put that in here.”

[Undertow Star]. Yet another miracle of magic, using principles that some archmages sometimes touched upon in the long history of Veird, but which Erick had managed to wrangle into a true working of magic. That young princess of Songli, Nirzir Void Song, had inherited that particular magic already, while even more were studying those shadowy stars that both Erick and Nirzir had placed in the heavens here and there.

Aisha said, “I heard that spell is still going strong in the mountains of Nelboor, and that the Dark Sects of Nelboor are rallying under it, seeking absolution under Koyabez. Keeps the monsters away quite well, but it does leave everyone weakened and vulnerable.”

