Lyrical happily skipped forward, saying, “Not if I can find the sword today!”

“I’ll believe the sword is here when I see it.” Hizogard said, “It probably got lost in the Abyss. We should go back there.”

Sitnakov said, “If it got lost in the deeper parts of the Abyss then we’re never seeing it again.”

That was another point of contention. Jane’s sword was very small compared to the places they were exploring. Some of these places even Sitnakov couldn’t travel safely.

Ravan said, “I still feel it got stuck in Ar’Kendrithyst’s walls, and none of us know enough about how they work to know if it was truly lost, or not.”

“We can go bother the new settlement again?” Sitnakov offered. “Or look for more people who need monsters killed? There’s that settlement north of this cavern that we didn’t get to yet.”

Hizogard and Danaro were the last ones to put away their camping shit, but Jane and everyone else were ready to get a move on. Jane’s backpack was a rather thin thing that she could strap onto any sort of Familiar Form she had, but right now it was a simple weight upon her normal human back. The bulk of their stuff was held by those who stayed in the backlines while others fought on the front.

Ravan telekinetically hauled one such very large backpack onto her back, and supported its weight with a long term [Weightless Platform] spell, as she said, “We should go to those settlements. We could spread word of the outside world and Candlepoint, as well as ask around about the sword.”

Jane said, “It’s still surprising to me that there are places down here that aren’t connected to anywhere else.”

“We try to keep people connected,” Sitnakov said, “But we don’t require them to stay connected.”

Lyrical grinned brightly, reminding Jane yet again of her father with his perpetual joy, as she said, “It’s all going to get so much more connected in another fifty years, too! There won’t hardly be a single place that’s not a week’s journey from a Gate!”

Lyrical’s infatuation with Jane’s father also reminded her of Erick all the time. In one of Jane’s more bitter moods, Jane had suggested that Lyrical try to ask Erick out on a date, knowing that the woman would get shot down hard, but Lyrical had laughed it off, telling Jane that she was here for the journey and the experience and to make something Good. She had absolutely no interest in her father, but if Teressa was interested, then she would take that introduction.

Jane had been pretty sure that Teressa would not be interested.

Lyrical took that information in stride, and that little conversation had dispelled practically every dark thought that Jane had had about Lyrical.

It seemed like everywhere Jane had gone during the Worldly Path, someone had been wanting to shack up with her father, through her. That had sensitized her to every single person who saw her and their eyes lit up and then they started being nicer.

But it turned out that Lyrical was just a nice person. And a lesbian.

Jane returned some of Lyrical’s joy, saying, “Sing us a Seeking Song, Seeker!”

Instead of instantly starting in on her magic, fully thrumming her strummer in her palm as she sang loud and clear, Lyrical’s grin faltered. She looked around.

Sitnakov looked around as well, but he didn’t seem nearly as concerned as Lyrical… or Hizogard, now that Jane was looking around for other discrepancies. Hizogard had been helping load up Danaro with another bag, but he faltered and that bag fell off of Danaro’s pack, tumbling to the ground. Ravan was already looking around. Something had happened, but Jane had no idea what.

There were no sounds from the ground. No big and heavy monsters on the way. Just the usual whipping wind noise beyond the cave that barely filtered into this space. Jane focused on that noise to see if there had been any change, but nope, no change.

The only ones not in the loop were Danaro and Jane, even with both of them throwing their senses wide.

The cave was empty. The stones around them remained unmoved, and uninhabited.

Jane broke the silence, “… What?”

Lyrical looked around again. Everyone else did, too.

Sitnakov said, “Sounded like Fae Magic in the air.” He looked to Jane, “Did you finally figure out your Domain? Or was that just a roll of the tongue?”

All attention turned to Jane, and Jane realized what had happened. Alliteration.

But at the mention of a Domain, Jane’s mood darkened. There were many reasons for this trip besides just finding her sword and helping people. She still didn’t have a Domain. She was getting better at aura control and everything else, though.

“It was just a roll of the tongue.” Jane said, “I am constantly stressing my aura, though. There could have been some Fae Magic in there?”

A moment passed.

Ravan broke the silence, saying, “Doesn’t feel like there’s Fae in the air. Let us move on.”

Sitnakov shrugged.

Hizogard said to Jane, “A Domain will come with time. My own [Domain of the Sword] took me a decade to understand. Second time was easier.”

Sitnakov said to him, “A more generic Domain is usually better.”

That was a new, old argument between them. Sitnakov usually won because he had the weight of time on his side, but Hizogard’s recently recovered [Domain of the Sword], a Force-derived Domain, was rather good at cutting things. Jane liked that idea. It fit in well with her own Prismatic Magic, and her own Truth that she could be whatever she needed to be in order to advance.

Danaro said, “Domain of Blood is still the more useful Domain, I wager… Not much use against all the elementals we face down here, but it has been useful! What can a sword do but stab?”

Hizogard smiled and leaned in to Danaro, giving him a quick kiss on the cheek. He pulled back, saying, “I think I can stab rather well.”

Danaro rolled his eyes.

Lyrical had allowed them all to speak as they wanted, but now she spoke up, saying, “Well, whatever happened with Jane’s words, there was resonance in my strummer—”

Everyone looked to her as she held out her left hand. Her strummer was glimmering faintly on the pinky-finger string.

“—and I already started the new song, Seeking Adamantium Swords.” Lyrical questioned, “Maybe the sword is actually close by, and there was some resonance with Jane’s aura and some random Fae stresses? Your magic is supposed to be prismatic, anyway, right?”

Jane’s eyes lit up. “It could be here!”

Sitnakov smiled, saying, “I hope a monster found it.”

Ravan held onto the straps of her bag, saying, “We were already going to search the area again, so let’s get to it.” With a flick of magic, a layer of silver spellwork draped around Ravan and her large backpack. When it settled, she looked sort of like a volcano inspector, with her bright silver hazmat-like suit.

The camp was already cleared, and so, one by one, each person began conjuring their own armor. Everyone had armor that did a few different things, like having zero gaps, added air filtration systems, and whatever other conveniences they could cram into that spellwork. Jane had updated her own armor to match theirs.

Sitnakov didn’t need any of that, though. He transformed his outer layer into smooth armor so debris wouldn’t accumulate on his surface.

Lyrical held up her left arm, where her strummer held under a clear glass case that surrounded her fist.

Ravan brought up and maintained their group [Telepathy], and after a routine series of ‘ready!’s she pointed at the solid wall where Lyrical had been taking her watch. The wall vanished, becoming a crack in the world, letting the noise of an ever-tumbling avalanche rush into the cave, drowning out all normal sounds. Another cancel command from Ravan extinguished all lights and warming fires in the cave, so that their light wouldn’t attract anything out from the storm beyond.

Beyond their nook of safety, roiling darkness that was not darkness at all enveloped the world. It was a corridor of obsidian sand storms a hundred kilometers across, where glimmering shards of glass cut apart everything it could, leaving behind either obsidian sand drifts kilometers deep, scoured stone, or violent elementals. The sapient natives to this land hunted these depths for the rarer types of elementals made of silver or iron or other valuable metals, but the main enemies encountered were obsidian elementals, and those things were not nice. Especially the big ones.

Lightning flashed in the upper parts of the obsidian desert cave, where wind and mana poured down from above, briefly illuminating the massive obsidian elementals that kept the storm going. They were each the size of twisters, and they fought and broke the world around them with every tornado-filled step, vying for position around the mana vent.

The cavern their little party had picked out was far, far south of the main monsters that called this land home, which no one engaged. If you tried to fight them, they fought back and usually murdered the attacker, but if you ignored them and stayed away, they usually didn’t bother you, because they were always primarily fighting over the mana vent.

When Jane had come through here the first time, with Melemizargo, she did not notice the elementals. It was highly possible that the elementals fled before Melemizargo, though.

Jane sent through their connection, ‘We should investigate the center again.’

Ravan replied, ‘You should at least allow Lyrical to search before you suggest a course of action that takes us directly into the jaws of death.’

Sitnakov backed Jane up, saying, ‘I bet the monsters have it, anyway. They usually do!’

Ravan looked up at Sitnakov.

Jane couldn’t see through her silver armor, and her mana sense wasn’t large enough to let her spy like her father could, but Jane got the impression that Ravan was frowning at the giant black wrought.

Sitnakov allowed his armor to transform a little, showing a smirk. He instantly seemed to regret this as grit flew into his mouth.

All the while, Lyrical had been gesturing back and forth with her glass-bulb hand, the strummer clearly visible. She moved the musical instrument back and forth a few times, and then up and down. She settled on a straightforward and downward path, pointing toward the giant obsidian elementals…

And then a bit to the right, and her strummer pulsed with an unheard song. ‘I think we should check out the settlement north of the cave.’

No giant obsidian elemental fights today!

Ravan laughed a little through her connection, sending, ‘Time to help out some natives!’

Sitnakov sent, ‘I bet we have to fight the giant elementals anyway.’

‘One can hope!’ Jane sent.

Obsidian sand crunched underfoot as they walked into the storm.

- - - -

The small storm raged at the top of the Benevolence dungeon, spitting out white lightning that arced between pillars and occasionally danced down the side of the spiral tower. The tower had originally been made of dry, orange stone, but over the last three weeks Kiri had watched it change to full white, with a whole lot of green decorations. Masses of vines and moss dripped down the tower, a green flow to accompany the white rains which also ran down the whole structure.

A lot of those plants flowered, too, so that was a whole rainbow of color to add to the effect.

The pit to the south side of the structure was now a real reservoir, filled with lily pads and fish and all sorts of life. All the land around every pool of water was iridescent white, and though that transformation stopped about ten meters away from the water, the plants that transformation produced continued to spread outward.

[Terraforming]’s wave of green had reached the first wall around the tower. It was just starting to overcome that wall, too, but the effect would not reach the second wall, five kilometers further out, for a long time.

Kiri retracted her senses from Sunny and returned to the room. Chalkboards filled with Spatial equations lined the wall in front of her. Tasar stood in front of those chalkboards awaiting success, but unfortunately...

“That didn’t work,” Kiri said. “It was a greater lightstep; not a [Teleport Other].”

At first, under Tasar’s Spatial Magic tutelage, Kiri had spent a good week trying to brute force [Blink], [Teleport], and [Teleport Other]. She had succeeded on the first two accounts but not on the third. She had had brief success learning [Teleport Plant] and [Teleport Monster], but she was not skilled enough to accomplish the same thing on a living, fully-sapient mind.

She was not willing to experiment on people to overcome this limitation. Tasar wouldn’t have let her experiment on people, either, or to create a ‘person’ of her own, as Erick had done with the Myriad Citrus. And so, they had had more lessons.

Tasar briefly frowned, but then some other thought passed across her mind. She said, “Perhaps we are coming at this from the wrong angle. How much experience do you have with Force Magic?”

Kiri perked up. Force Magic wasn’t Spatial Magic, but Kiri was willing to learn anything that Tasar the Summoner was willing to teach. Even if Kiri only got an hour or less of private tutelage per day, and only when Tasar wasn’t needed for guard duty, this was still fantastic. Kiri didn’t have much time to pursue what she learned on her own, though, for she was working with Mox to Shape the land outside of Candlepoint, trying to bring back the forest.

Mostly, she killed mimics.

Soooooooooooo many mimics.

“I’ve studied the basic Shapings and tested out of Arcanaeum Force Magic 1, 2, and 3.” Kiri almost embellished her next words, to inform Tasar of noble interference with her education and explain away why she hadn’t completed more Force Magic training, but she simply said, “Force Magic 3 was a bare pass.”

“Ah! Then we will do that, though we will begin with Force Magic 2.” Tasar waved at the chalkboard and the writing vanished. Words began appearing as she spoke, “We will begin with the Force Conjecture, which states that all non-elemental magic can be traced back to applications of Force, and it is from Force where we get Spatial Magic, which is technically a pseudo-element-derived magic in the same category as ‘elemental sword’ and ‘elemental shield’ and ‘elemental defense’ and ‘elemental movement’, which don’t actually exist, but which do exist within Force. Normally, that is where that particular Conjecture ends, but as you are you, and Erick is Erick, and there is no need to obfuscate helpful truths, I can add in some smaller truths to the Force Conjecture...”

