Erick forced his smile away, saying, “And now we inspect the web.” He leaned in, looking over the sphere as he said to Ophiel, “See here? The mirage-like sheen atop the iron? That’s the [Inhibitor] and the Anti spells all working together. None of them work properly because Particle Magic can’t work on individual atoms, but together they might work well enough…” Erick frowned. “Maybe.”

Ophiel cooed in quiet violins.

“You’re right; it should work.”

Ophiel looked up at Erick’s shoulder and twittered in guitar thrums. He seemed to ask, are you done, Father? Your shoulder is too dirty to sit on but I want to sit down now.

Erick smiled a little bit. His shoulder was quite dirty with soot and sweat. With a localized [Cleanse] that only caught his own body in the effect, Erick was suddenly clean and thick air flowed away. A larger [Cleanse] would have been bad because the floor was dirty with scattered but useful iron, like so much black sand. With another sweep of magic Erick gathered up the black sand and forged it into a block of iron that he could work with tomorrow.

With one last look at the glowing iron sphere, Erick felt hope rise again.

Maybe he had done it this time.

And then he got naked and went for a swim among Yggdrasil’s roots.

- - - -

Night stretched far, far overhead, filled with twinkling stars, but down here on Veird, where water formed a lake in the desert, the world was filled with light. Green light from Yggdrasil’s canopy, but also white light from his trunk. Rainbow light filtered down through the green, and smaller lights held on the horizon to the east and the north.

And the Wizard swam naked through the illuminated water, enjoying some time to himself.

Zolan pulled back to himself, in his office at House Benevolence and regarded the messenger in front of him.

Enforcer Iriki was an orcol from Enforcement. The large, red-skinned man was also from Ar’Cosmos. He was not Enforcement’s usual way of delivering important and possibly-urgent messages to this side of the House, but that is what he had just finished doing.

Iriki repeated some of his message, his voice strained with worry. “At least 32 [Scry] orbs out there right now. A few from Treehome, one from Oceanside, but the rest are impossible to tell.”

Zolan sat back in his chair feeling less than happy at this news. To some it might seem he was working late, but no, he was working truly early. The sky was full dark; the day was at least two hours away. It wasn’t so odd for him to be awake this early, for he was truly happy to work for 20 hours a day when the numbers were up and there was gold to be had. Ever since the Gate from Spur and the Gates to Portal had opened business was booming, even at a simple 1 gold per ton, 1 gold per person rate.

Zolan should have been happy.

He was… Generally happy. Life was really good these days. Better than it had been in a long time. And yet, the Wizard’s sometimes-habit of swimming in the lake, nude and in full view of the world, was concerning. Zolan cast another [Scry] and gazed out across the world.

Yup. Still looking rather defenseless as he swam through the illuminated water like a lightning-trailing fish. He was obviously not defenseless, but that’s certainly not what it looked like.

“Such an odd and unnecessary risk.” Zolan came back to himself. He looked to Iriki—

Suddenly, and silently, pieces of Zolan’s mind came together and drew a slightly different picture than the one presented to him. Zolan recognized what was happening as it happened, and it was good news. His magic was finally working again. It was like he was seeing again for the first time in a long time.

It would not last. This sudden awakening of his larger mind was about the tenth time this had happened since Zolan’s [Reincarnation]. The awakening lasted longer and longer as his magic gently reasserted itself across his collective knowledge, but it was still not stable yet.

And so, Zolan considered what lay before him. Or rather: who.

Iriki was not a bad looking man, though he was from Ar’Cosmos so the plan forming in Zolan’s mind was something of a risk, but according to what he had seen over the last two months of living and working here at House Benevolence, Erick wouldn’t go for Iriki, anyway. The outcome of what Zolan was about to do ended up with Enforcement taking a much needed knock; they were getting too strong in Zolan’s opinion.

To start with, Zolan simply asked, “What are your thoughts on the matter?”

Iriki stood a bit straighter. “Enforcement needs our Wizard to listen to us, and to stop these nightly swims. He started this nonsense 3 weeks ago and he continues to ignore the guidance of Enforcement. I am here to ensure that the message gets across this time in as solid a way as possible.”

Zolan calmly said, “You already said that and I heard you the first time. I have even given our King this much guidance before, both on my own cognizance and at Enforcement’s request.” Zolan said, “What I asked, though, was what are your thoughts on the matter?”

Iriki instantly said, “He needs a swimming partner.”

Expected.

“A better solution than my initial one of telling him to stop, and one I already tried.”

Iriki scowled, not understanding, more than a little lost. “And he continues to swim alone?”

Suddenly, Zolan reevaluated his plan. He had been thinking of making Burhendurur look bad and Iriki look horrible, but he saw something there.

Some sort of genuine concern.

That made Zolan pull back a little. Admittedly, Zolan had had little interaction with Iriki, though the community here was rather small and therefore Zolan knew of Iriki quite enough. Until now, Iriki had always appeared as the usual hothead battle nut that came out of Ar’Cosmos and went into Enforcement. Until now, Zolan had seen no need to update that label with anything besides a continued list of information on the man.

But now...

Iriki respected their king a great, great deal, and he wanted to serve Erick in any way possible. If one of those services were in the bedroom, Iriki would take to this assignment with the same fervor he showed when he cut down monsters in the name of House Benevolence.

Zolan’s initial plan had ended in a deep embarrassment for Enforcement, but now…

It could actually go well?

After briefly weighing the pros and cons of a physically-important-to-Erick person working in Enforcement, under Burhendurur, and also from Ar’Cosmos, Zolan decided to go full throttle. Ar’Cosmos could not be allowed any good hooks into Erick.

Zolan said, “Since Erick is not willing to forgo his swims, I will have to assign someone to watch over him. I think Miloxo is awake—”

Miloxo was a fantastically handsome orcol man from Oceanside who worked under Zolan, and who was gaining a rather promiscuous reputation among the staff for his brazen attitude. He had even hit on Erick once, almost a week ago, though by Miloxo’s standards it had been a rather weak attempt. Nothing had ever come of it, as far as Zolan knew, but the important thing there was that Erick had taken those flirtations in stride and had even flirted back a bit.

Much to everyone’s surprise.

Who knew! Erick might accept Miloxo’s bedwarming offer eventually, though rumor was that Miloxo had been terrified two days after Erick had flirted back. No one knew quite what had happened there, but either someone talked to him, or Erick talked to him, but as far as Zolan knew, Miloxo had simply realized that he was chasing Darkness by pursuing Erick. It just took him two days to realize this.

But bringing up Miloxo had the expected sort of reaction in Iriki.

“I will do this myself,” Iriki said, puffing up his chest and squaring his shoulders in a way that Erick might find attractive. “I can solve this myself.”

And thus, the plan was set.

It had been rather easy, actually. Iriki was an attractive man, and maybe Erick would be receptive. Rozeta knew that a lover might do Erick some good, for though Erick hadn’t critically failed any meetings due to lewd advances by the other party, those Trademasters from Portal had certainly set the tone for every other meeting with Portal.

Erick didn’t attend those particular meetings anymore.

Zolan was beginning to think that Erick might have some hangups, for some reason, though everyone knew that he had bedded that one warlord in the cow lands north of Songli, and had taken that Runesmith out on a date. Erick had only gained power since then, so taking someone to bed should have been even easier. So… Yes. He had to have some hangups.

Zolan had participated in a few delightful diversions courtesy of Zaraanka Checharin’s wonderful Pink House over at Candlepoint, as well as a whole bunch of colleague-level investigations at the New Folk’s Home. He was rather sad that Mox desired much more than he was willing to give, but such were the breaks of dorm room romances.

“Good luck to you, Iriki.” Zolan said to the hopeful orcol, and he found himself only halfway hoping for a disastrous failure.

It wasn’t that he wanted Ar’Cosmos to look bad…

Ah. Well.

He wanted Ar’Cosmos to look exactly like they were and—

Iriki left the room.

He did not bow as he left the room.

… A small spike of annoyance lodged itself in Zolan’s forehead, causing him to narrow his eyes. Iriki should have bowed considering their stations, but Iriki only showed deference to Erick, or to one of the two dragons at the House. Every single person from Ar’Cosmos was still like that, even all these weeks later. Sure, all of them could have gone into any of the Overseer positions if Erick had chosen them to go into those positions, so Zolan understood how they were all ‘sort of equal anyway’, but Erick had chosen their positions. He had solidified a command structure.

All the people from Oceanside and Stratagold were bowing when they should! They even bowed to their Ar’Cosmos superiors of Burhendurur and Volaro! Iriki’s and Ar’Cosmos’s general lack of respect for the command structure would have been fine, but Iriki bowed to Burhendurur. The people from Ar’Cosmos didn’t bow to anyone who was not from Ar’Cosmos!

This! This right here was why Zolan had done what he had done and tricked Iriki into pursuing Erick.

Erick would be fine. He had been hit on so many times this last half month that Zolan knew exactly how resistant the man was to amorous aggression. And yet...

If Iriki worked out, Zolan would take credit.

Zolan gave the man a 10% chance of landing that big fish.

More, if Iriki approached their king with a proper measure of respect. Maybe, if Iriki asked to accompany Erick and bolster his honor guard at all possible hours, and maybe even inside the bedroom, Iriki’s plot might work. Erick certainly needed more guards these days.

Teressa was in the Benevolence Research Tower almost all the time, honing her prognostication skills. Kiri was working with Tasar on magic, to Zolan’s continued surprise, when she wasn’t working with Mox to turn the land around here habitable. Jane was still adventuring in the Underworld with Sitnakov and others. At least Poi was still by Erick’s side most of the time, except when Erick decided to go for a swim at—

Zolan looked at his clock on the wall and his eyes went wide. “4:40 in the morning.”

Iriki’s interruption had cost him time.

Time spent on something that would likely amount to nothing.

Representatives from Songli would be showing in four hours and Zolan was still working out this stack of paper in front of him. He shut out all other distractions and began tearing through the sheets, devouring the information within and sorting it through his mind, spitting up tax rate information in Holorulo, shipping rate information through the ports of Eralis, and Wayfarer Guild plans in the Highlands. Everything went into his mental library, sorting itself out as long as Zolan had the mana to spare to record everything he read.

Zolan had once known all of this by heart, but he had needed to regain this information after his [Reincarnation]. It would take years to regain everything he had lost, especially since he had no time to just sit down and read and read and read, but actually putting what he read into work was better than simple reading.

This job —this life!— was a dream come true.

- - - -

Poi woke up bleary-eyed when Erick blipped back into the house, carrying with him a cloud of flustered feelings and tension. The man himself was invisible due to that necklace he wore, but his mind was a cloud of rainbows and lightning and thoughts moving through the house, following the Wizard. That cloud roiled. Poi was briefly worried, but after mentally confirming that Erick’s most recent experiences were nothing special, Poi rolled back over in bed and pulled the covers tight over his head. He would talk to Erick about what had happened in the actual morning.

An hour later the sun peeked in through the window.

Poi got out of bed and went to the kitchen, first. Sitting on the counter, under a nice wrapping of [Ward]s, lay some of the best pancakes that Poi had ever eaten… Or would eat, anyway. That was the impression that he was getting from Erick, who was already eating his own pancakes on his breakfast balcony. Poi helped himself to a trio of his own 3-centimeter-thick loaves of syrup-soaking deliciousness, along with some of the verdant-cactus syrup that Poi had been missing since this time last year. He missed that syrup every year, for he always went though this stuff rather fast, but the point still stood.

The syrup only went on sale right before the end of the year, when the natural growth of the sugar cacti slowed down, and they started producing the truly great, thick as ooze stuff. After a bit of cooking, the late year harvest turned deliciously brown and then the harvesters bottled it up and sold it on the market streets of Spur.

And now that the Gate between Spur and Candlepoint was open, Poi got to experience this deliciousness without needing to go through proxy markets.

Poi could not wait to dig into these pancakes!

The Cooks Erick had hired were proving themselves well worth their pay.

Now this? This right here? This is what Poi imagined when he signed on with Erick almost two full years ago. Comfort. Security. Soft breads and nice syrup and all the fish imports he could eat. He did not imagine that he would be making the world a better place (not so much, anyway), nor that he would now be living on the branch of a World Tree, and that all the enemies of the world would be working for his boss.

Erick had solved a lot of problems here on Veird—

