As Poi carried his loot out to the breakfast balcony where Erick was already eating, and as Poi’s presence pinged on Erick’s thought cloud, Poi had a funny thought. Of all the various problems in their lives, somehow Erick’s recent bashfulness surrounding sex had not been something Poi had expected to see. Sex was nothing important unless one made it important, and usually sex was not important to Erick, but recently that had changed. This hangup could develop into something deeper, and so...

Poi decided he was going to rip through this problem.

He sat down beside Erick, saying, “You should fuck Iriki.”

Erick shuddered a little, his fluffy-pancake filled fork halfway to his mouth, his eyes suddenly wide as his mind filled with a thousand different experiences all at once. Gazing at that swirl of sudden information was like looking into an abyss and seeing a thousand pairs of eyes staring back, so Poi didn’t look too hard. As the abyss swirled and stilled, Poi naturally picked out Erick’s thoughts as though looking at the pages of a book; he couldn’t help but read everything he saw.

Erick had some worries.

Propriety. Balances of power. Morality and social concerns over what would happen if people found out that all it took to get in bed with the Wizard was to ask him and show up naked while he was swimming. In that same moment, Erick thought about how ballsy it had been of Iriki to try that, which then morphed into a thought about balls and what Erick had seen last night when Iriki proudly stood nude atop one of Yggdrasil’s roots, saying that he was here to swim, too, and act as a guard for his king at the same time.

That particular moment played for Poi like he had been there, in the water in Erick’s body, looking up at Iriki standing not too far away.

And then came a bunch of thoughts on sex, including the intrusive thoughts about Erick having sex with Poi. It was rather easy to skip past that part of this particular book, for Poi had been desensitized to those particular types of thoughts long ago, and Erick was usually rather devoid of intrusive thoughts; it was one of the reasons why Poi truly liked the man.

Most people, and especially those who labeled themselves adventurers or otherwise, had a great deal of intrusive thoughts all the time. Most people even went down intrusive thought patterns sometimes, thinking through all the bad things that they would never want to actually do. Thankfully, Erick knew when his thoughts were unhelpful and he usually banished them whenever he could.

Erick moved past his own thoughts, saying, “It wouldn’t be right to… Accept Iriki’s offer.”

Another sudden cloud of sexual thoughts filled the air, and Poi ignored that cloud, too.

“You decide what is right, Erick. That’s what it means to be king, and while you are king, your actions have consequences beyond the physical. If you attach too much meaning to a simple flirtation then it will have meaning.” Poi said, “If you decide not to ever have sex anymore, then when you finally do find someone you like then that relationship will have so much meaning that it will be uncomfortable for all involved.”

Erick’s thoughts stilled.

And then Erick suddenly realized something he should have realized already, that Poi was right.

“I’m certainly not going to let that worst case scenario happen,” Erick said, sighing a little. He still wasn’t about to do anything that Poi suggested, but at least Poi had exposed Erick’s reluctance for what it could turn into. Erick said, “Sometimes I feel like a stupid teenager.”

Poi smiled. “That describes about 95% of your staff at least sometimes, so you're in good company.”

More sexual thoughts filled the air, of all Erick had unintentionally seen.

“Gods! They just won’t stop, will they!” Erick said, but deep down he wondered what it would be like to give in to the small invitations he had been getting practically every single day since the incident with Portal’s Trademasters. And then Erick’s upbringing reared its head, dominating his mind, along with worries over vulnerabilities, and knives gleaming in the dark. Erick said, “I’m not sure I want this to be the culture of House Benevolence. They planned an event over at Zaraanka’s Pink House and Zaraanka is planning on expanding.”

And Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about that.

“We have a therapist at that Pink House,” Poi said, plunging the conversation into deeper waters than where it was already headed.

Erick froze, but his mind did not.

His thoughts turned to a red storm of blood and death. Bodies mangled by monsters. Pus and viscera and rib cages half stripped of flesh and broken bones and brains spread out across the stone floor as a red wave flooded the land, and solid light evaporated it all. Death and blood returned soon enough as more bodies fell to swords and spells wielded by unseen enemies, along with hopelessness that Erick could never kill the enemies fast enough before they killed everyone he loved.

It was hard to look at.

For a brief moment, Poi saw Erick’s thoughts as the thickest cloud of horror that he had ever witnessed, but that was untrue. It was just the thickest cloud Poi had seen in a while. Erick had been getting better, but the second any conversation turned to serious topics, like Benevolence’s dark knots, or being intimate with another person, or even just a casual meeting between people who wanted something from Erick that had nothing to do with violence at all, and had everything to do with all the good Erick had done, or, how good Erick physically looked. Sometimes it seemed that every single thing pinged Erick’s trauma in a small way. Sometimes in a large way.

Poi asking Erick if he wanted help, to talk to someone, usually pinged this trauma and all these thoughts of blood and monsters and death. It was why Poi rarely brought up this subject. It was also why Poi knew that he had to bring up the uncomfortable subject.

Today’s attempt didn’t seem to be bearing any fruit, though.

Erick settled down, saying, “No. I don’t need to see a therapist yet. But...”

Erick surprised Poi. His thoughts turned toward questions, instead of toward denial.

“… But tell me what therapy looks like here on Veird.” Erick shrugged. “I might as well know, right?”

Poi grinned a little, then began, “It could look tens of different ways. There’s erasure, which is the most extreme option, or simple talking, which is the least option. Most people fall closer toward the smaller options.”

Poi would have continued, but Erick had a sudden, visceral reaction to the offer of erasure. That mental reaction passed like a flash of lightning—

And then Erick began truly considering it—

For all of half a second.

Poi would have been worried if Erick had considered erasure for any length of time longer than that, for erasure meant erasing a part of one’s own mind. Erasure was a good offer when it came to healing away defining trauma that would never happen again, but with Erick making himself a king, the trauma was not over. Therefore, Erick could not safely remove that trauma from his mind.

Erick asked, “Middle of the road option?”

“A reframing.” Poi said, “Reframing takes the specific trauma and turns it into a source of growth. You’re familiar with the idea of ‘post traumatic stress’ turning triggers into full blown war responses. Well, a proper reframing turns mental scar tissue into something more productive; ‘post traumatic growth’. It’s invasive, perhaps even more so than an erasure, but in my professional opinion, you’re already far down that path, so I’m not sure what a Mind Mage-assisted reframing could do for you, but it is an option.”

Erick sat back in his chair and thought.

Poi let him think, tuning out the storm of thoughts crowding their breakfast nook.

The two of them got to eating their breakfasts, and smaller conversation started. Plans for the day, news of the new prototype iron web over in the warehouse, words over Zolan’s latest ‘newspaper’ which Erick had been reading before Poi had come out and tossed Erick down a different series of thoughts. When Kiri and Teressa came out for breakfast the conversation turned to land development surrounding the lake, and to what was happening in the Benevolence Research Tower.

Jane called when breakfast was over.

Poi patched her through to her father. As father and daughter connected, all thoughts of Iriki vanished. Erick filled with joy as he spoke with his daughter. Poi stayed out of that conversation, but he was still providing the connection so he heard everything.

- - - -

‘I love you, Jane! I hope your search goes better.’

‘It might! I love you, dad. Bye!’

Jane cut the connection.

They had talked about a lot, as they usually did. Jane asked after dangers threatening Candlepoint and the only thing her father spoke of were meetings and how everything was going well, as he usually did. Her father had asked her after the dangers she had been facing, and she… Mostly spoke the truth.

What was she supposed to tell him? That she had almost died three times while exploring the Underworld in these last two months? And that it was the best time of her life? She might not have found her sword, but here she was, prowling the depths of Veird with a team at her side, visiting little spots of civilization everywhere they went, helping with smaller problems and sometimes very, very big problems. She had tried telling the full story to her father once, and thankfully her father had not rushed after her, but Hizogard and Sitnakov started to stay closer to her than they needed to. Such a failure of party dynamics had almost ended in Danaro getting killed.

So they stopped doing what her father had wanted after the first week of being down here in the depths.

And Jane loved it!

“You like this life a bit more than you need to, Jane,” Ravan said.

Ravan retracted her mind tendril and stood up. She was a Mind Mage dragonkin with scales like bright smoke. A generous person would call Ravan a silverscale, but Ravan was not a generous person and she appreciated facts above all else.

Ravan announced to the group, scattered across the campsite, “Jane has checked in. It is time to finalize a plan for moving on. Everyone awake!”

No one moved fast enough for Ravan’s liking, so she pulsed a telepathic gong, filling their cave with silent sound.

The ripple of power passed over a pool of blackness sitting in a crack in the side of the campsite. Sitnakov jolted out of that blackness, halfway forming his orcol body before he realized that there was no danger, so he slowed down and yawned wide. He started crawling out of the hole in the ground. With the back of one hand he rubbed grit and rocks out of his eyes and with the other hand he plucked a spike of stone out of his side, casually tossing the stone back into the small sleeping pit. With one final, full body shiver, Sitnakov stood tall and himself again.

Then he got to putting together his pack.

Down the short tunnel, where their camp seemed to end in a solid wall, another orcol rested on a rock beside that solid wall. This orcol was female and fleshy, with bright red skin. Her name was Lyrical Carnage, and she was rather skinny for a full grown orcol, but that was probably due to the Carnage Dragon in her. Jane thought she smiled too much, but she had a nice voice and nice attitude which all went rather well when she sang and played her strummer. Her instrument of choice was a battlefield version of a one handed guitar which she had strapped to her palm, leaving her other hand open for a sword; she held and played her instrument with only her left hand.

With a cheer in her words, Lyrical hopped away from the wall, flicking the strings on her strummer, asking, “Are you all ready to hear a new song? I finally got it worked out!”

Sitnakov yawned again, saying, “Is it going to ping on me, or on the sword?”

Lyrical said, “It might just ping on you again!”

That was an old ‘argument’, which no one really cared about anymore. Sitnakov was made of adamantium, and so was Jane’s sword. It made finding the damned sword rather difficult.

At the noise all around (and not due to the telepathic pulse, apparently) the last two members of their group pulled themselves out of their combined bedroll. Hizogard was a bog-standard good-looking human man, with blonde hair, flawless skin, and blue eyes. He was a frontline fighter who was still getting back all of the magic he had once had, before he had taken a dip on Ar’Cosmos’s Renewal Tanks to rid himself of his corrupted half-dragon nature.

The other man in the bedroll was a pale red incani named Danaro who used to be a shadeling. Now, he was just an incani, and a rather skinny one at that, like he never quite ate enough. He was still working on getting back some of his more nuanced Healing Magic, but almost all of it was back now that he had been an incani again for the last 6 months.

Danaro grogged out, “Are we going back to Healing Waters yet?”

He had been asking that question for the last two weeks. He had loved that place, even if it was filled with electric spiders and rapidly mutative cancerous danger. Jane had loved that place, too. Healing Essence condensed in some of the animals who lived there, and if they didn’t turn into failed horrors of amalgamated flesh and fangs, they became almost ascended lifeforms, unable to be harmed in their natural environment at all.

Jane still hadn’t been able to kill one of the brighter fish. She almost wanted one of them for a Familiar Form, but without the Healing waters of the aptly named ‘Healing Waters Cave’ (which was more like a Great Lake), they lost almost all of that power. Such a Form still might have some useful properties, though. Jane still hadn’t found another useful Familiar Form in their two months of hunting the Underworld for her sword, but that was to be expected.

Jane said, “Not going back to Healing Waters until Lyrical’s magics fully clear this place again.”

Danaro sighed as he fully untangled himself from his shared bed with Hizogard. “I miss the Healing Waters Cave. I could actually explore there, and not hunker down in camp, or wait for you all to kill the monsters.”

Aside from Jane and Sitnakov, no one else was able to explore the full breadth of Jane’s fugue-state-fueled race through the Underworld, where she bounced through Abysses of Blood monsters, caverns filled with Sand and Shadow, rivers of Healing and Lightning, and a whole bunch of smaller places that Jane barely remembered, and only thanks to the Mind Mage in their group, Ravan.

Hizogard began packing up his belongings, saying, “We’ll get back there soon enough.”

