She had heard stories about Erick’s transformation and even sent a [Scry] orb his way once or twice —just to check on him!— to see if all the stories were true.

The stories had been true.

Back at that feast at Enduring Forge, Erick had already looked good with his flat stomach hidden behind nice robes and the bulges of his shoulders clearly highlighted under expensive fabrics. His nice face with his nice eyes. Those memories had stayed with Nirzir for a long while after their journey together had ended, and Erick had stepped on that magical device and been swept away on his Worldly Path.

Nirzir had had Void Song’s Knowledge Mages keep her apprised of every single one of his movements after that event. She had cried herself to sleep more than once after Erick had vanished, and then again came tears of joy when he reappeared at Stratagold. More tears of sadness fell when Erick had been whisked away again by unknown forces on Stratagold’s shores, but everyone in the know, including Nirzir and Clan Void Song, had known that Erick had been taken by the Fae.

Nirzir didn’t cry that time, for she knew that Erick would make it back to her—

Back to the world!

Eh hem.

—Erick would make it back.

But then came a whirlwind of world events that Nirzir was still mulling over all these months later. Wizard. Gate Networks. Treaties of Gods and Melemizargo. And that was just the stuff happening over in Erick’s part of the world! Songli was still rebuilding from the war with Terror Peaks, but while almost all of the reconstruction was done, the damage done to the people would take a generation to heal. Everyone had lost someone. Some lucky (or unlucky) few were the only survivors of their towns, or cities, or villages. The Void Song Temple had lost a lot of Singers, too.

And so, even though Yggdrasil was growing on Songli’s shores, Songli did not want to add ‘Wizard’ into that reconstruction mess for as long as they could, and hopefully after Erick had proven himself as truly stable. In Nirzir’s opinion, Erick was already stable and more. And so, Nirzir had lobbied through her family to speed up Erick’s recognition, for it did not matter that he was a Wizard.

… Not really.

… Nirzir had been terrified of that truth for a while, but the more she thought of it, and the more she heard all of the stories coming out of Candlepoint, the more that her love for Erick had rekindled and burned brighter than ever. Sure, the man had dashed her hopes while they were traipsing through cow fields and warlord lands, but that was then. This was now!

Erick had had a problem with her being too young, but she was 18 now! Surely that was old enough? Other young women in her position usually got married at 15, and sometimes even before they Matriculated. It was only because of her own gifts for Song and her steady rise toward Archmage, and the fact that no one could match her for quality of marriage, that she had been allowed to be on her own this long.

… And she had been petitioning her family to tie her to Erick Flatt ever since he came out of Ar’Kendrithyst and banished the Darkness from Songli. The man had invented new magic! And he could hear the mana! And he looked…

Well.

Rozeta truly did bestow proper gifts when it was proper to do so.

Nirzir didn’t know if Rozeta’s gifts had been to Erick, or if they had been to Nirzir. The timing was just too perfect. Truly, the gods were good.

But Erick was having trouble accepting this fact.

Erick, frowning a little bit and in a very cute way, asked, “Could you repeat that last part, please?”

Erick sat on his side of the drawing room, upon a nice long couch. His lithe muscles (he was bigger than before, right?) bulged under his robes of office, and his jaw was like a brick (and his lips were made for kissing). Nirzir had to tear her eyes away to keep her heart grounded.

Ophiel twittered on the back of Erick’s couch, overlooking their meeting; he was as cute as ever, too. To Erick’s side stood Zolan Brightborn, the man who had been Second to the Second of Rozeta for over half a century, decades ago. Nirzir didn’t know much about Zolan except that the previous Matriarch of Void Song had been business friends with the man.

Great Grandmatriarch had been mostly a figurehead for the last twenty years, though, until Terror Peaks had killed her, thinking she was still a head of house. Nirzir had heard that Great Grandmatriarch had laughed when they came to kill her, telling them that they were fools chasing minnows while the rivergrieve had gotten away.

On Nirzir’s side of the room sat Matriarch Lingxing, the rivergrieve Great Grandmatriarch had referenced, who had been in actual control of Void Song for quite a long time. She had only gained the actual position of Matriarch after the Chelation War, though. As far as Nirzir knew, Lingxing also liked Zolan.

According to some of the small looks between Zolan and Lingxing, of surprise, hope, and something a bit more than that, Nirzir was getting the impression that their appreciation for each other had been more than a simple appreciation of business. … But how could that be? They were rather old when they were working across the ocean from each other, right?

No. Of course there was nothing physical there. Nirzir was too in her own head right now. She focused on the conversation.

Matriarch Lingxing Void Song gazed down Erick, summarizing what she had already said, “Songli wishes to join the houses of Void Song and Flatt together. We desire a marriage between you and our rising daughter Nirzir. Your union would bring great joy and stability to all future cooperations between our great nation, and your burgeoning one. If you were to accept such legal bindings, then it will be worlds easier to accept your Gate Network, and the close ties your Network will bring between your lands, and our lands.”

Erick glanced to Nirzir—

Nirzir’s hopes rose.

—then turned his gaze back to Matriarch Lingxing. “My instinct is to say ‘no’, but in the pursuit of clarity and goodwill, I ask for the full nature of this proposal to be in writing. You can tell me now what the written words would say.”

Nirzir could barely contain her joy. This was much, much further than they thought they would get. Months ago, Erick had dismissed this entire idea and then crushed Nirzir’s hopes for a joyful union. But she had persisted anyway! Her love could not be denied! And now he was asking for clarifications!

This was a good sign!

Lingxing spoke, “A baby in her belly inside a year. An heir for your kingdoms, even if you do plan on ruling forever. Ideally, you and Nirzir go on to have at least five children. In all chance, we expect such a union of houses to be raised half in your House, and half in Songli, and to be fully capable of all of the magic you possess, and all of the magic we possess. This includes both the Void Song, if they have the aptitude, and [Gate], if they have that aptitude, too. We are not creating a small union here. We are creating a lasting dynasty.

“But on the monetary side of things: You will create a Gate Network with your recently published universal rates of 250,000 gold for a Gate pair, 1 gold per ton of goods, 1 gold per person, all across Songli, but it will be overseen by our people. We will have an embassy here in your Gate District. You will provide [Reincarnation] services to keep your family alive for as long as they please you.

“If I could gain a [Reincarnation] myself, I could ensure that these rules we create today, or in the near future, remain adamantium solid for as long as our nations persist in friendship, though this is not necessary for the agreement we put down in writing.

“You retain your lands and your wealth, and Nirzir retains her wealth. As you are the power being married into, Nirzir will live here, with you, in a style matching or exceeding your own, and what Nirzir is accustomed to. When you or your current family, or growing family, comes to Songli, you will receive the same respect which you have given Nirzir.

“There is no need for fidelity in your marriage, for we do not care about your proclivities or extramarital affairs, but only the children born of a union between our nations will be considered legitimate in the lands of Songli. If we were working on Highland sensibilities, then the children born outside of Nirzir would form branch families. If you choose to work under different sensibilities, then we will get those in writing before we write our signatures in blood.” Lingxing finished with, “There are a lot more to be said for specifics, but those are the basics, and aside from the Gate Network inclusions it is a rather basic marriage contract between powers of Nelboor.” Lingxing finished.

And Erick sat there, thinking. After a moment he looked to Nirzir, asking, “You want this?”

“I do,” Nirzir said seriously, and softly.

Inside her own mind she imagined her ‘I do’ as an echo of her future marriage vows, and she could not wait for that day.

Erick asked Lingxing, “And this is the only way Songli will accept a Gate Network?”

“No, it is not,” Lingxing said, reluctantly but surely.

… What?

What was that, honored Matriarch?

Did Nirzir hear that correctly? She backed up her mana senses a moment, and realized—

Nirzir’s eyes went wide. They had had a plan! What was Matriarch Lingxing thinking—

Lingxing continued, “But this is our best, most solid plan to make Songli accept your nature, Wizard Flatt. We are all rather frightened about you, and about the giant tree growing beside the capital. Yggdrasil continues to grow. He is well outside of the initial bounds of his small 3 kilometer lake. But those are just the unknown fears. Mostly, we wish to participate in the bounty you have promised the world, for we are still recovering from the Chelation War. A solid union solves these fears, and these economic hardships. Mostly.”

Erick was silent in thought.

Nirzir’s heart clenched.

FUCK! This wasn’t going to work!

Erick must have found someone else. Or maybe he truly didn’t want her? Like he said he didn’t? But why wouldn’t he! She had grown a lot in the last six months. She had boobs now! Men liked boobs, right?! And Erick had changed, too! He was reborn through Rozeta, and he needed allies more than ever! And not just the wrought, who lived inside their holes in the ground and never involved themselves in the world, or the dragons who raged and sundered everywhere they touch. Oceanside was only a partially acceptable partner!

Erick needed Songli! And Songli needed Erick!

Nirzir almost wanted to speak—

But Erick said, “I need to speak to Nirzir in private.”

Nirzir’s heart clenched again.

… That… did not sound good.

Nirzir was rather frozen to the spot for a good five minutes as small words floated through the room and Lingxing, Zolan, and all of everyone’s guards on both sides exited from the gathering.

And then it was just her, and Erick, looking at each other from across a tea table.

Erick started speaking...

- - - -

In a new bar on the waterfront of Candlepoint, Burhendurur refilled Iriki’s glass with redrage wine. He had been doing this for the last twenty minutes, while also coordinating the defense of Candlepoint in the back of his mind. Killing mimics through undead proxies was easy, but the worries of soldiers took a closer touch to fix, and Iriki was devastated. The large man tried not to show his emotions for they were in public, but anyone with any modicum of empathy could recognize Iriki’s sullen face and heavy drinking for what it was.

Iriki grabbed the cup and drained half of it, then summed up everything, “I thought I had more time.”

“He might not accept the offer,” Burhendurur said, “Though he would be a fool to turn down this offer.”

And if Erick asked for Burhendurur’s opinion, or even for the general opinion of his Overseers, then Burhendurur would tell the man to marry the girl and tie them all to Songli. Iriki didn’t need to hear that, though.

Iriki smiled a little bit, though it was a sad sort of expression. “He is a rather foolish man, but his foolish hopes might reach the stars.”

“If he makes good decisions and uses his power well.”

Iriki chuckled. “What needs are there for good decisions when there is more than enough power to make up for the bad ones?”

Without warning, Iriki lost his minor joy and suddenly downed the other half of his drink.

The large orcol sighed, and Burhendurur could see Iriki crush his hope for love and sex into something more manageable, putting away his brief, yet deep feelings for Erick back into a box like they never existed in the first place. Iriki had a lot of nice qualities, though he was dumb as a desert of mimics when it came to love. Burhendurur had worked ‘across the office’ from Iriki for decades, so he knew what he was seeing. Iriki always went after the unattainable, as though he wanted to be hurt. He didn’t care a bit for the emotional comfort or security he could find in the arms of those all around him. It was why he had been single for most of his previous 80 years. It was why he had chosen to move on to Candlepoint, leaving behind the security of House Carnage to come out here and try something new.

Burhendurur had not planned for the man to join him at the Office of Enforcement, but when the time came to pick a person he wanted working for him, he chose Iriki. It had been a selfish choice, only made palatable by how good Iriki was at most paper shaping things, and otherwise. For Burhendurur had hoped, in a small way, that now that he held a position of power directly over Iriki, that Iriki’s strange sensibilities would land on him.

But! No.

They were just coworkers. Still.

Maybe the next time Iriki went into a Renewal Tank he could ask for his sensibilities to be fixed.

Burhendurur could wait. Dragons operated on a different timetable than mortals, and for all his good parts, Iriki was still a mortal. Maybe less so now that [Reincarnation] and Renewal Tanks were things that existed, but even with those new magics filtering out into this world and across Ar’Cosmos, Iriki was a fallible, un-Sighted mortal, unable to see the opportunity staring him in the face.

It would be a century before he gained any real measure of Sight into the hearts of others, or even himself.

… Or maybe Burhendurur was simply not powerful enough?

No. That could not be it.

“It was a [Farshot Bolt] anyway,” Iriki said. “Time to move on.”

At least when the man had received a strict ‘no’ he accepted that decree and moved on.

Burhendurur nodded as he refilled the man’s drink.

- - - -

