Meetings, meetings, meetings.

It was near midnight, over 20 hours later than it had been six hours ago, back on the beach with the arbors, and Erick had finally gotten out of the last big meeting of the minds at Storm’s Edge. He honestly had not needed to do any of that; to talk with the nobles, or the merchants, or the Local Area Gate Network administrators, or with those of a priestly nature. But he did it anyway. It was good to let people know what House Benevolence’s stance was with the dungeons, and it was also good to be seen standing alongside Regent Augustive.

High Storm Priestess Tiza Nindi wasn’t present for any of it, which was strange, but not really, for early on in the evening her lackeys had privately and politely conveyed to Erick that Tiza wanted to meet privately, after everyone else had had their turn. Erick had decided to grant that request.

And so now here he was, sitting down in a nice hardwood chair, across a desk from the middle-aged owl shifter, in the second-highest room in the lighthouse of Storm’s Edge’s harbor. It was a nice room, slightly meant for public dealings with others, but the lighthouse itself was a mostly private location, with beds and personal effects in its many church-cells down below. Tiza’s bed, books, clothes, and a hand-span-sized fish lazily resting in a large tank, lay beyond a door right over there, to the side of this office space.

The lighthouse was something of a church and a guide for ships; in those ways it was used all the time. But it was also a deterrent for monsters, and that function hadn’t been used in years. Right above this office space, past a half-floor and then up in the air, sat a massive, slowly-rotating grey stone that shone with lightning all day and night.

There hadn’t been much conversation between Tiza and Erick yet; just perfunctory greetings, and Tiza holding herself back a great deal.

Erick decided to break the ice again. “So that lightning stone up above acts as a collector and discharger of divine lightning, yes? It shines rather well, too. Illuminates at least half the harbor out there and more besides.”

Tiza frowned a little bit. “… It doesn’t scare you at all to be this close to our base of power, does it.”

“Absolutely not,” Erick said. If that is how she wanted to play this, then that is how it would be played. “I know I am in good standing with Sininindi, and will be with Everbless, eventually, and I am currently the living treaty between the Light and the Dark and the rest of the world. And you couldn’t kill me even if you tried. So no, I’m not scared at all of you or yours, Tiza. Are you scared of me?”

Tiza didn’t answer. She just glared from behind her mask, that layer of wood and enamel only serving to hide the upper half of her face, leaving her frown on full display. It barely covered her upper face, too. Erick had long ago found out why shifters wore such ineffectual masks, and for most of them it wasn’t to hide. All shifters carried over the hallmarks of their animal form in all of their forms, but most had perfectly normal faces. Tiza’s eyes were a bit larger than a normal human’s eyes, and her hair had feathers in it, but that was about all. She could clip those feathers and look like a somewhat-odd human if she wanted to.

Shifters wore masks because they were ‘always wearing masks’. Whether in public, or private, in a human-form or animal-form, everyone wore masks. Shifters just decided to openly display that fact. The mask they wore was to reveal who they were to others; not to hide.

… Erick’s mind was wandering since Tiza wasn’t answering—

Erick said, “You shouldn’t be scared of me—”

“It’s not often that someone shoves me through a [Gate] and then locks me out of all the important gatherings of my home.” Tiza said, “I have earned my place here at Storm’s Edge, Wizard Flatt. As I had called you once, I call you again: You are a usurper, a blasphemer, and an adulterer, and I am not scared of you. I am disgusted by you. I am disgusted by your mangling of Lightning, your disregard for Storms, and how you have Wizarded your way into making Sininindi forgive you.”

Unperturbed at her statement, for Erick had heard a lot worse (particularly after the Teleport Exodus and how ‘beneficial’ that was for his Gate Network) Erick said, “I understand the usurper and blasphemer, but why adulterer; that part I never understood.”

Tiza narrowed her eyes. “You make mockery?”

“I do not. Explain yourself, lest I leave this conversation for more important matters.”

“To use Lightning outside of Sininindi’s domain is to cheat the Goddess of her throne.”

Erick nodded. “Ah. So that’s how you figure… Well you’re wrong and I don’t care about your opinion on that matter, so I’m still gonna do it. Cheat cheat cheat! All the way to my own throne.” He added, “Now that was me making mockery. Now you know the difference.”

Tiza scowled.

Erick didn’t often make light of the serious complaints of others, but what was ‘serious’ to Tiza was asinine to Erick, and he honestly had no idea why the woman was still being so antagonistic after all these years and distances— Well. He knew why. Tiza had told him why. She did not like that Erick had stolen the lightning from the sky. That was her honest, true complaint. Everything about her hatred of Erick stemmed from that place of understanding…

There was probably more to it, but sometimes people were irrationally uncompromising, and Erick had (mostly) learned to live with that fact.

Not fully, though.

Erick began, “I have healed Melemizargo. I have given a reliable [Control Weather] to Sininindi as well as a World Tree. I have stopped the Shades. I have made a Gate Network. I have taken down rogue Wizards, and I will ensure that we get to the next world and the next. I have gifted Veird Particle Magic and the Node Network, and OH YEAH, Elemental Benevolence, to prevent Sunderings for all the rest of existence. And then I made myself no longer a failure point for any of that, because we’ve got Benevolence dragons making Benevolence all on their own and Kiri will replace me as the Gatemaster eventually.”

Tiza glared all throughout Erick’s speech, but at the same time her breath was shallow. She was worried. A lot—

Oh.

She was worried Erick was going to execute her.

Gods above, this woman didn’t understand him at all.

Erick decided to give her an out. “I understand you must have some need to maintain your rage, but we haven’t interacted in over a decade, Tiza. I might have come into your lands and messed with your established order, but a storm is coming, and I needed to prepare, and you weren’t being cooperative, and I doubt you would ever want to be cooperative. So while I understand your continued anger, I actually have no idea why you choose to be angry with me when Sininindi isn’t even angry anymore. And so, I offer you a complete forgiveness and forgetting of what has come before. You can continue this imagined feud you have with me, if you want, but know that I am done with this feud. Please, can we move past this hatred?”

“You put shadows in the same church as the light, Wizard,” Tiza said, harshly. “Those shadows are more than enough for any sane person to condemn you as a trick of the Dark. Benevolence? Pah! A lie. A mask to hide yourself.”

And there it was, along with a deep insult about masks that only really worked with other shifters, but which Erick understood the meaning of anyway.

Whatever.

The Sininindi stuff was one of her reasons for hating him, but the Darkness stuff was the real reason. Erick appeared at Spur all those years ago, oh so close to Ar’Kendrithyst, and then he made Particle Lightning. Tiza would literally never trust him, ever. In her mind, Erick was a pawn of the Dark, and she was waiting for the moment when he destroyed everything she knew and loved.

No wonder she was terrified of him killing her.

And yet she was still confronting him? She was, wasn’t she.

There was a certain amount of bravery there, Erick thought. Almost admirable.

“Guard the walls and keep the lighthouse lit, Tiza, and don’t ever forgive the Darkness if you don’t want to. I won’t ever ask you to do that. But what I do ask for is some sort of civility in our future engagements. Can you and I agree to that, at least?”

“… I can do civility, but since you flicked me away during that conversation in that major meeting, I will no longer be pulling my [Strike]s against your actions in this land. I called you here to tell you that.” Tiza said, “I will fight you on everything you do here in Storm’s Edge. You have won the dungeons, but don’t expect to win anything beyond the Pit.”

Erick nodded. “Fair enough.” He stood.

He almost left—

But Tiza continued, “Toward that purpose of ensuring your Darkness has no power in this land, we’ve decided to resume the Church’s summary execution of all cultists found within Storm’s Edge, and we’ve decided to kick the Xoatists out. Religious tolerance is for religions, not for your cult. Never your cult. These measures will take place tomorrow. If those cultists Vanya and Soltic should come out of that dungeon, and leave that Pit, they will be executed as well. If any of the monsters those two make should try to come to Storm’s Edge, they will be executed, too.” She finished with, “And we Storm Priests will not be going inside that place when the Storm Prophecy unfolds, if it ever does and if this wasn’t all just another power grab by you. The Darkness will never be a shelter from any storm, you uneducated outlander. Should a Particle Storm develop, as I am sure you will make it happen, we will be fighting the good fight out here, against your corruption of our lands.”

Erick managed a calm tone as he asked, “Are you done?”

Tiza narrowed her eyes. “I am done. Get out of here, Wizard, and go rescue your cultists before I kill them all.”

Erick left in a flicker of lightning that took several moments to fizzle out.

Tiza glared at the lingering white sparks, dancing across her chair and the floor, until they vanished, leaving black marks on everything.

- - - -

Fury.

Rage.

And then some calmer words.

“Don’t be a tyrant, Erick. Don’t be a tyrant,” Erick mumbled to himself as he stood upon the shore of a river, deep inside the Forest of Glaquin, where hopefully no one but the free-roaming monsters could see him. And Ophiel. With false relaxation, he declared to himself and the world, “There is no need to be a tyrant, because no one has died yet, right? Right.”

Jarod Maryol. Glariol Maryol. Nero Maryol.

Those people were at the top of Erick’s rescue lists, though there were more, apparently. Erick had already had an Ophiel scan all of Storm’s Edge for those people since Tiza’s anti-cultist declaration not ten minutes ago. He had not been able to find them on Storm’s Edge, which was somewhat expected, but only after Erick had seen what had happened. The three Maryols and a few other cultists were all on the next island over.

Barda, Nero’s girlfriend/fiance/whatever, was nowhere to be seen. She might have been considered a cultist-by-association and thus left in a hurry once it became apparent that everyone she knew was getting rounded up, and then even faster when the guard confronted her. Her and Nero’s room at the Dungeon Guildhouse had been stripped. According to the manasphere, Barda had gone in there alone, tears almost falling but not, right before she had been summarily dismissed by guards of the Regency, punted through the Local Area Gate Network, off to the Greensoil Republic, to Riski, on the southern coast of Glaquin.

Erick didn’t know the other people caught up in Tiza’s crusade, thrown into the same prison as the Maryols, but he would save them, too.

Erick would save them all.

Calmly, Erick said to Ophiel, floating in the air beside him, “I almost lost it back there, Ophiel, but I managed to control my anger, and now I have a path forward. One that… Only involves me being a little bit of a tyrant. But it’s a rescue mission… And not a [True Resurrection] mission. She could have done that instead… She could have said that she had killed them all, and that if she found anymore that they would suffer the same fate… But she’s given me a day to get them all out. Or more like an hour till sunrise? That’s… Fine. So this is... Not that bad? Not that bad— Ah. But…” Erick got paranoid as she said, “She’s probably looking to see which ones I rescue, and she’s going to use that against me somehow. She thinks that there’s some great big plot against everything that she values, and there is a plot, but it’s one that Sininindi herself asked for. What complicates things is that Tiza is in league with the Regency, for how else could they have all known to keep this information away from me, which is both very normal since I’m an outsider to them, and which would explain why I haven’t heard of what happened to the Maryols all this time. Or any of the cultists they rounded up. They were purposefully keeping that hush-hush, and I suppose I didn’t directly ask for Soltic and Vanya’s full history of interactions with Storm’s Edge, which probably set off some warning bells for them…”

Ericks voice trailed away as his words started going in circles, there on the riverbank of a rather lazy river, the water gently rolling through the depths of the Forest of Glaquin. Kilometer-tall trees blocked out the night overhead, but luminescent mushrooms grew here and there among the canopy and on the ground, providing more than enough light for Erick’s Perception-enhanced senses. Erick sometimes came here to think and do other things when he didn’t go to Yggdrasil to relax.

Ophiel watched his father think.

Erick’s thoughts were interrupted by another problem.

Erick decided, “I’m going to eat something first and then I’m going back there to solve this newest mess.”

And then he turned to the left, where a monstrous chimera was charging down the river’s rocky bank toward him, rocks flying out from underfoot as it moved. It was an alligator-like thing with too many horns and too many long legs, with masses of saliva flinging from its roaring, open maw. Erick flickered with lightning, and when the lightning faded, he was a black dragon, his wings flapping out to the sides to tower over the suddenly-terrified beast. A quick swipe of claws killed the thing, while a few more swipes cut it into four bite-sized pieces. It tasted alright. Not great, but not bad either. The monsters’s Elemental Decay and Stone made it sort of like eating a meaty tart, while the bones provided a nice crunch.

