When he had finished his first kill, eating everything bones and all, it hadn’t been enough.

Ophiel leapt through the air, leading the way, saying, “Big fish there!”

Erick chuckled. “Thank you, Ophiel. You were already looking for more food, weren’t you?”

“Father eat lots!”

Though the Dungeon Exodus had happened over eleven years ago, the Forest of Glaquin was still home to many different wild monsters, for unless a dungeon was properly managed, then it never grew large enough to hold all the monsters that would invade. Wild dungeons formed, deepened when they were taken over by a monster large enough to keep all the other ones in line, then through a series of perfectly normal events, other monsters rose to power inside that space and ate the bigger one, thus starting a chain of events that usually led to the core getting damaged, and thus expelling all the monsters therein. This was colloquially known as a ‘dungeon break’, but a break could actually happen in multiple ways…

Eh.

Erick was hungry and angry still, and his thoughts were spiraling. Anyway. The current problem was that the Forest was a lot calmer than it used to be, but it was not that calm at all.

As a massive black dragon with wings and bright white eyes, the Forest was deader than a doornail.

He would have to actively hunt his next meal, which he did.

Fish were easy to catch and he only really grabbed the one, for [Duplicate] solved all quantity issues. As Erick ate and ate the same fish over and over again, gradually his anger seeped away. He didn’t spend too long on the process for there were people to rescue, so he was still a little angry by the time he left the Forest behind, but not being hungry helped a lot.

- - - -

The Regent was asleep.

And then he wasn’t, because Erick came calling at 5:30 am.

Erick almost felt bad for doing that to him, so he offered, “I can wait ten minutes if you want to sleep for a good ten hours in a [Hasted Shelter]. I know you only had about an hour so far.”

Augustive looked at Erick, rapidly going from worried to a little miffed. He was slightly disheveled from having just rolled out of bed to attend to Erick’s request for an audience, but only Erick could really tell that dishevelment. The man was Classed as a Regent, and so he had quite a few niche spellworks that allowed him to forgo the usual problems of being a mortal king, such as a long-range [Clothe]-type spell allowing for instant dressing and hair and styling and cleanliness needs of all sorts, whenever he wished to spend the mana. The tiredness in his eyes still showed past that facade, though. No real cure for lack of sleep besides the New Stat, Constitution, and the Regent did not have that; not many people did.

“… I would take that sleeping shelter option after I hear and help solve whatever issue requires my attendance at this late hour— Early, hour. It’s nearly 6?”

“Only 5:35.” Erick explained, “Tiza taunted me by threatening to execute prisoners of Storm’s Edge who are thought to be cultists, just because they are cultists. What’s more, she threatened to murder Miss Silver and Mister Cross should they come out of those dungeons at any time. This is intolerable for a multitude of reasons, the first of which is that cultists are no longer allowed to be executed out of hand; this was decided by international decree, and Storm’s Edge signed this decree.”

According to his face, Augustive had expected this to happen. “Storm’s Edge cannot abide cultists of Melemizargo at this dangerous juncture, and so the ones we discovered in the city have been stripped of their property and put in cells. We are not going to execute them, though; Tiza exaggerated. We were going to exile them. Probably to Candlepoint, if you would have been amenable to that, and in accordance with that decree you’re talking about.”

“… Is that how you wish to play this action by Tiza Nindi? To be soft on her? For her crimes of over-policing others?”

“Yes. She is the harbor guardian of Storm’s Edge and her Lightning Magic can incinerate tangled hydras and worse. Her position of power is a lot less physically powerful today than it used to be, thanks to the dungeons removing most monster threats from the ocean, but should her power be required to defend Storm’s Edge then I want her to be happy with Storm’s Edge.” Augustive said, “I fully expect her power to be needed to fight against the coming Storm Prophecy.”

“… Fine.” Erick said, “Exile them to Candlepoint; I’ll take all your undesirables and give them new lives.”

“Thank you, Wizard Flatt.”

Erick offered, “Do you want a [Hasted Shelter]?”

“I would love one of those.”

Erick nodded and sent Ophiel along with Augustive, saying that he would be back later to personally take the cultists to Candlepoint. But he had other places to be right now, since the cultists-issue had been sorted.

- - - -

Seafoam Manor was lit brightly, like a beacon of civilization hidden among the night-cloaked greenery of the mountain. The outer defenses were down completely, so Erick descended upon the house without worry, down onto the lit lawn. It looked rather nice compared to how it had been before.

Instead of a slightly-overgrown lawn and trees that needed trimming, the lawn was cut, the trees were in their proper shapes once again, and the fountains burbled. A bunch of small night birds with long legs poked across the freshly cut grass, eating insects uncovered by the cutting, while the noises of the forest flowed into the air from outside the property; nightsong birds and howling monkeys, and chirping bugs of all sorts.

The house was no longer boarded up. The closed front doors were exposed to the world, in all their carved beauty, the windows were open on much of the front of the house, and the smell of something cooking wafted on the breeze. Some sort of stew, according to Erick’s casual mana sensing of the interior of the house.

Also according to that mana sensing, minutes ago, Goldie had been talking animatedly with Oozy in the kitchen, over dinner. She had taken off her face mask in order to eat with a spoon, while Oozy had just spooned some of the stew onto himself, there in his floating Force bowl. They seemed to be getting along well.

But then Erick had shown up, and Goldie had rapidly moved into the foyer of the house, to present herself for Erick’s arrival. Oozy had been a little slower than the Shade and a lot more scared, but he had come out to present himself, too.

Erick walked forward, the double doors opening before he needed to open them himself. Goldie smiled a little as she laid proper eyes on him, while Oozy quivered in his bowl.

“Greetings again, Oozy Stormcaller, last King of Storm’s Edge,” Erick said, and Oozy flummoxed there in his bowl.

“That’s not me anymore,” Oozy said, “I cannot be King.”

“Even after I turn you back into a person?”

“… I want to be a person again, but… not…”

Oozy fell silent.

Good to know; he wouldn’t upset the Regency, and all the power Erick was trying to build here.

Goldie took that moment to hand over some [Reincarnation] paperwork. “We worked on it together.”

Oozy fell down into his bowl completely and it was only through sheer fortitude that he didn’t float backward, to vanish off to someplace where he would not be seen. Erick admired him for his bravery, and in more ways than just being willing to ‘stand’ before Erick without quailing anymore.

Erick glanced over the paperwork, taking a full moment to let Oozy know that he really was looking it over. It was rather standard requests; average height, if a little on the shorter side, average build, if a little on the smaller side. He kinda wanted to look like a mix of the original Aroido, and Frydrika, which was fine. The only odd thing to stand out was that Oozy wanted a [Blessing of Empathy], because he knew he wasn’t like other people, and he wanted an easy way to understand others.

Well. That was the second odd thing.

The main one was that he wanted to burn down the house and leave forever, and he wanted Erick’s help with that, too.

“Pardon me, Oozy, I need to ask Goldie something in private.”

Oozy instantly backpedaled, floating away down the hallway in the back of the stairs, vanishing behind a corner as he said, “Of course of course!”

Erick put up a Privacy around him and Goldie and the goldscale Shade turned serious, her bubbly nature vanishing under what was obviously a concerning moment. Erick asked her directly, “How was he? Can he make these sorts of decisions?”

“Oozy Stormcaller is possessed of a certain kind of madness that makes him rather docile around people stronger than him, for he lives in constant pain and is terrified of more pain. He acts well enough to hold a conversation and he knows the largest topics of the day, for he does know how to spy on people and look at the rest of the world, but he doesn’t know where he is, who he is, or what is really happening out there. He is both 250 years behind the times, and able to work with modern magics quite well. Currently, he is under the care of himself, but only because he has lived in this house for the last 40-odd years of his life and he literally never leaves.” Goldie said, “And no; he cannot make any sort of real [Reincarnation] decision. I had to help him a lot with all of that, and I am absolutely sure that you will have to redo the [Reincarnation] afterward.”

“How did he respond to you being a Shade?”

“He comes from a different time, back before the Great Purge of Spur when we stopped making Shades all the time and Fallopolis began her job as Culler; I was only around for 40 years of the previous era, which was long before some Shade cursed Oozy. He thinks it was the Witch, because he thinks he had some sort of positive correspondence with the Librarian over some books he used to read, and the Witch didn’t like that for some reason.” Goldie said, “Back then the Shades were monsters in the dark that you prayed never knew about you, and if they did, and if they came to you, you did what you had to do in order to appease them. So when he was with me, inwardly, he was terrified the whole time, but that terror was probably the only thing keeping him on track in our conversation. He felt the same way when he saw you; he probably can’t tell that your eyes aren’t actually full-white, and that you have pupils.”

Erick looked over the paperwork again, then he dismissed the [Privacy], and said, “Thank you, Goldie. That will be all.”

Goldie slammed a fist over her chest, and then vanished into the shadows.

Erick called out, “Oozy. Can you come out? We’ll get you [Reincarnation]’d and then on your way to a new life, okay?”

Oozy peeked out from the hallway behind the grand staircase, paused, and then rolled forward. “Uh. Yes, sir. I’m ready for a new life!”

Erick nodded. “I have a question about the paperwork, though. It says you want an average height body, if a little taller?”

“Yes sir!”

He had written down ‘if a little shorter’.

“And average stature, if a little muscular?”

“Yes sir!”

He had written down ‘if a little thinner / smaller’.

Welp! Goldie was right. It wasn’t that Erick didn’t believe her, but it was good to check on these sorts of things.

Erick said, “If you don’t like what I do today then you can get another body later. Are you ready?”

“I’m ready!”

Erick was rather sure that the guy was not ready at all, but after he regained a mind he would be able to communicate his thoughts better, and quite literally better, too; oozes couldn’t [Telepathy] or do Mind Magic at all, but as a person, Oozy would regain all that capability. Erick began the transformation by making some completely superfluous gestures with his hands, winding some Benevolence glows into the air, giving the illusion that he was starting. A lot of people felt more comfortable when they knew what was coming, and as soon as [Reincarnation] actually started, people usually went directly to sleep.

Erick said, “You will feel some discomfort, but that’s because you don’t have lungs or the biology to absorb this sedative anesthesia I am creating. That will pass fast.” And then Erick began casting and real magic began to flow into Oozy. The bathtub of red gelatin and gore began to flop a bit, and then go completely rigid, body parts floating to the surface, multiple eyes wincing in utter pain. But then lungs began to develop inside the pile, and Oozy relaxed. As the patient’s lungs began to work, and proper biology began to happen once again, Erick relaxed, too, as he spoke to himself, “That wasn’t so bad. The pain part is over. Now to make you what you wished to be.”

Erick had gotten very good at making young, healthy people out of all sorts of types; the old, the infirm, the broken, and the non-person-shaped. Oozy was a slightly special case, but not really special at all. As Erick cast, and the magic took full hold, Oozy’s soul began to transform right alongside his body. The ooze had been a red-souled sort of person, but murky and full of shadows. Ten seconds into the procedure a brilliant spark of bright red blossomed within that murky soul and then overtook all the rest, like light shining through the dark. All that dark was really just accumulated spellwork and messed-up soul stuff and other assorted things that were being pushed away, as the true soul took hold of itself once again.

The ooze shifted. The lungs moved to the center. A red-boned spine developed out of the red slime—

… Red bone? It wasn’t white bone. It was red. And not just a film from the ooze? But really red?

What the fuck?

That was Erick’s first clue that something was wrong. Red bones were not the sign of a good [Reincarnation]… Probably. But then again this had literally never happened before, and everything else seemed to be working out well. Erick had no idea what was actually happening, but he would figure it out later. For now, the procedure continued.

Ribs and femurs and a skull collected out of the mana, all red, but not red like the spine. Pink, maybe. Soon, a full skeleton developed out of the gore that was Oozy. It was red at the spine, and then pink going outward, with the bones turning normal-white at the fingers and toes.

That skeleton curled up inside that Force bowl, as though it was alive already, but it wasn’t. It was still halfway an ooze.

And then red lightning flickered across the skeleton, followed rapidly by the growth of red muscle and blood and skin and thankfully the skin was pale tan, exactly as Erick had chosen.

Red lightning was funky. Not normal. But also, not causing a major probl—

