The third clue that something was wrong with the [Reincarnation] had come and gone, and Erick hadn’t realized that something had gone wrong until he was staring down at a nude man in his early 20s, who looked completely normal.

Erick hadn’t seen the world shatter into fragments of futures. Erick had not picked Oozy’s fate for him—

A fourth problem occurred.

Oozy woke up.

Oozy gasped hard, his eyes slamming open as he screamed a little and flinched backward, slipping and flopping in his Force bowl. All he managed to do was to slip and slide among the parts of himself that weren’t used to make his body. Erick washed him with a quick [Cleanse] before the freshly-woken man could be too terrified of what he was laying inside, and then Erick followed that up with a quick conjuring of clothes, directly onto the lad.

Oozy’s eyes were bright red and yellow, like the sun, which was yet another thing that Erick hadn’t picked out for him. He hadn’t been awake for more than three seconds so far, and those three seconds had been completely terrifying for him, so Erick hadn’t said anything yet. Soon enough, Oozy seemed to calm down; to settle into his freshly-cleaned Force bowl.

Oozy breathed a bit heavily, but then that, too, evened out. He looked at Erick warily, but his eyes were no longer as wide as they could be.

He just sat there, waiting.

Erick nodded, then said, “Sorry, Oozy. You shouldn’t have woken up like that. I’ve done this [Reincarnation] thousands and thousands of times, and though sometimes some people wake early, usually they’re out for an average of 4 hours. I also didn’t manage to hit your targeted future of ‘moving past the horror of your past’, but as I’m rather sure that you are of much sounder mind and body, that you will be able to do that yourself. If not, then I can always redo this [Reincarnation] later. Even right now, if you want.” He asked, “Do you understand that?”

Oozy extended his head and opened his mouth, but nothing came out except his tongue. That tongue waggled around as confusion showed on his face. He tried to touch his face with his elbow, obviously forgetting that he had fingers, but then he looked down and saw fingers once again and excitement showed on his face.

He tried to stick his whole hand into his mouth to touch his throat from the inside as he tried to understand how to speak again. He gagged, instead, spit flying out as he coughed several times. He opened his mouth again, and this time he controlled himself.

“AHHHHHh—” Oozy paused. “OOOOhha… Ah? Ah? Aeee. Ahh. Ooo. Ah. Looooo. Ah loo. Haloo.” Oozy breathed deep, marveled that he could breathe again, spent a good thirty seconds not-breathing and then purposefully-breathing, and then he looked to Erick and proudly stated, “Halooo!”

He realized that he had failed to say ‘Hello’ properly. He furrowed his brows. Speech didn’t seem to be coming very easily to him, so he stopped.

Erick said, “That’s weird, too, but I suppose you were an ooze for a good 275 years. I’m sure you’ll figure it out. Anyway. Do you think you want to keep your name as Oozy? Your paperwork wasn’t specified on that matter, aside from ‘I don’t know’.”

“… Ah… Ah …” Oozy concentrated hard, and then he said, “Ahh… Ark.” Disappointment. Anger. Frustration. “Bak! Baggit! Badaturitua jallak uaipatnaks.” He touched his mouth, wondering where the fuck those words had come from. “Hajlklar. Baraookl?” He tapped himself in the throat. “Ahhhlooo. Ahloo. Hellaarr. Hellooo—” Surprise! Elation! “Hello! Hello! Hellohellohellohellohellohellohellohello! Hello… Mahhh. Mahhh. MY. My. Hello, my naaaaamm. Name.” Surety, and joy. “Hello, my name is Oozoliooookipal.” Back to frustration. “Oozeee.” Narrowed eyed. “Oozy. OOZY! Hello, my name is Oozy!”

The man radiated pure joy and Erick had to clap a little. “Good job. Welcome back to civilization, Oozy Stormcaller.”

“Hank yar.”

Erick chuckled.

Sure, some odd stuff had happened during the [Reincarnation], but the man had no ring of lightning around his neck, so he wasn’t a Benevolence target at all. That was Erick’s first major concern, and since Oozy had already expressed interest in leaving Storm’s Edge behind forever, Erick was rather sure that Oozy wasn’t the cause of the coming storm.

Oozy added, “I nooot starcraller… starcroooo… Storthisss. Stormmm. Stormcracker.” He stopped trying.

Erick mused that Oozy’s denial of his name was yet another reason not to worry about him calling any storms, though that reasoning was rather pure whimsy, and not based on any real facts at all.

Erick said, “How about we get you out of that bowl, and you can go sleep in one of the beds up top, or something, and then we can talk about what you want to do next with your life. We can even burn down Seafoam Manor later, if you still feel like it once you get your feet back under you. Or, perhaps you might want to sell it, so that you can have some money for your new life? Or you could just live out here, you know. It’s a nice piece of property.”

Oozy looked ecstatic and ready to burn down the house as soon as Erick mentioned it, but then Erick kept talking, and Oozy started to backtrack his own ideas of burning the place down.

Erick said, “And there’s another thing. Do you want that [Blessing of Empathy]? Or do you want to wait a few hours, to see how you feel now that you’ve already gone through one major life change?”

Oozy shook his head, then gestured for Erick to get on with it.

“… I suppose we can undo this Empathy, too, if you decide you don’t like your current choice of a body.” Erick hit him with a [Blessing of Empathy]. Light soaked into Oozy, into his soul, and turned his fiery-red soul into something… Perhaps even more resembling a fire made of blood and sun. Well that was probably fine. Erick asked, “Ready to get out of that bowl?”

Oozy took a moment to stare at the floor, and then the ceiling—

His eyes caught on the portrait of the original Aroido and Frydrika and their five kids, up at the top of the stairs. Tears fell fast. Oozy giggled, and then cried, and then breathed deep, and said, “Farmarly unn, yut I remaan.”

“They’re gone, yet you remain, but I’m sure they’d be happy for you if they could see you now.”

With reddened eyes, Oozy looked at Erick, and nodded.

Erick helped him out of the bowl, and then helped him learn how to walk again for the next ten minutes. The former-ooze could barely manage to stay awake once he mostly figured out how his legs worked, so Erick put him to bed upstairs in one of the guest rooms. Oozy was very firm about that. He wouldn’t sleep in the family’s rooms, which were all in perfect order, and they would stay that way in his mind forever more. Or at least that’s what Erick thought he was saying.

There was a lot of guesswork to understanding him, but Oozy was getting better, and fast.

Erick left him behind, and then spoke to the shadows, “That was an odd [Reincarnation]. I want him monitored at all times for the next week and to know more of his story, from whatever sources you need to tap. If the Witch did something to him it might have stuck around through a [Reincarnation], but I doubt it; such a magic would have to have been done in some very roundabout ways.”

It couldn’t have been a soul twist done on the soul itself, for a [Reincarnation] would have solved that. It would have had to have been a trick lingering in the manasphere… or something. Oozy was a ‘Stormcaller’, though, so perhaps it was something from Sininindi?

Goldie bowed, saying, “Your will be done.”

“Don’t let him burn down his house unless he absolutely wants to do that; either way, take him to Candlepoint to the intake system when he’s done here. Or I’ll be back later to help with that, if he wants it. Put a person on the guard job; you don’t have to do that yourself.”

“Aye, sir.”

Erick took off, into the sky, lightstepping away to the next destination…

Which was actually back home, to his cloud castle at Candlepoint, over the Gate District.

He was going to call up Phagar in order to deal with this [Onward] stuff, but he needed to be someplace nicer to deal with all that. Later, he would return to the mire of Storm’s Edge and pick up the cultists, because according to a brief talk with Augustive, they weren’t ready for him yet. They also weren’t going to execute the people, so there was no real rush.

Erick kept an Ophiel on the prison site anyway.

- - - -

“I don’t know, Erick; I can’t answer what happened to you, or why Melemizargo thinks the way he does,” Phagar said, looking like a carbon copy of Erick, as he moved his pawn up a space.

A stone chess table sat between them, up on one of the cloudy higher levels of Erick’s castle. All of Candlepoint and the Gate District and Yggdrasil’s Lake stretched out below; a modern day utopia of magic and opportunity and worldly connections. But up here, in this little garden in the clouds, there was just Erick, and the God of The End and Time. They sometimes played friendly games of chess, but even during these tenser talks, they both needed something to do while they talked.

This time, Erick had a large topic.

Erick said, “I felt like I was here the whole time, but with this stuff happening in Storm’s Edge, I do feel more present… Somehow.”

Phagar shrugged. “Maybe Melemizargo is right, but we gods can be rather fallible. More so these days than when we were large as a million planets. Or a trillion trillion, in Melemizargo’s case. We still don’t truly know what caused the Sundering, either.”

Erick took Phagar’s knight with his own pawn as he thought of those words. Neither of them were truly trying to win the game and it was just a distraction from the conversation anyway. Phagar would win every time if he actually tried, because there was a certain kind of power that came from knowing everything forwards and backwards, and even sideways through time.

Erick said, “Sometimes I wonder about that truth; that no one knows what the Sundering was.”

Phagar smiled. “If you find out what happened, you’ll tell me, right?”

“Sure...” Erick narrowed his eyes as a thought occurred. “Could that truth been ‘interventioned’ against you all?”

“Doubtful. But that is one theory. Not one I personally ascribe to, but I’m not anything close to truly all-knowing.”

“… What is your theory? I don’t think I’ve ever heard it.”

“I never had a good one, but lately I’ve been thinking it was a Big Rip. That theory you explained about the universe getting too big for physics to function. It would make a lot of sense about how none of us saw it coming.” Phagar huffed. “Perhaps one of the archfey got tired of our ‘little black painting’.”

Erick chuckled. “You really do hate that story of the Daughter and the Darkness.”

“It’s too simple. But then again, gods go through emotional transformations based on the thoughts and prayers of their worshipers, so perhaps my current feelings on the matter are how my people feel. Ever since that story got out into the world at large and since the Xoatists came about, I have been finding myself shifting a little from what I once was. I certainly wasn’t perturbed by the story before that particular Shadows’ Feast.”

“Ahhh. Now we’re talking about the trouble in Storm’s Edge, eh? Or about the Xoatists?”

Phagar captured Erick’s pawn, as he said, “Since we’re having a serious conversation this time I would like to know your feelings on the Xoatists, now that you’re ‘back’, as Melemizargo would say. See if anything has changed and all that. But we can talk about Storm’s Edge if that is bothering you more.”

“It’s that priestess, Tiza.” Erick admitted, “I was so close to… To doing something I really didn’t want to do because I know that she’s going to pull some shit… I’m not sure what she’s going to do; only that I will hate it when it happens.”

“Priests of the Storm are like that.”

Erick took Phagar’s queen, as he asked, “Any hints as to what’s coming next?”

“Probably a storm of some sort,” Phagar said, grinning as he put Erick into check.

Erick huffed a laugh, then moved his king aside, asking, “No clues at all?”

“Well I do have one. You’ve been working at the high-government level for such a long time that you only really focus on the large-scale problems anymore. If you had gone into Storm’s Edge as Erick, instead of as who you did, then you never would have known about the Maryols, for the people in charge never would have spoken about them. They also never would have been in danger, but that was never a real option since they are cultists.” Phagar moved a bishop and put Erick into checkmate, saying, “There are reasons gods don’t act openly aside from the purposes of letting people live their own lives, and that is so that we can see who people really are, behind the various masks that they show the world.”

Erick sat thinking.

Phagar added, “And the world is pretty much secured these days. You can spend time fixing actual problem areas, instead of patching small issues here and there. You can even retire if you wish. Probably only temporarily, though.”

“… I have enjoyed not being in meetings all day long. Well. Except for all of yesterday.”

Phagar smiled. “Looks like we’re at the end of this game.”

Erick nodded. “See you later.”

“Till next time.”

- - - -

Three hours later, the sun held high in the sky over Storm’s Edge, and Erick was there to personally receive and send off all the cultists that the Regency and the Church of Sininindi had gathered up in their latest purge. For many of them, all their assets were stripped by the state and they had nothing but their names. Some of them didn’t even have that, though, for the name ‘Maryol’ was a noble name, and the Maryols were not able to use that name anymore.

Even the shirts off of their backs were not theirs to keep, seeing as they were part of the prison system.

From behind one-way glass, Erick watched as a few unknowns and all the Maryols, all three of Jarod, Glariol, and Nero, were forced to change out of their garments and into the clothes provided by House Benevolence. Many of the unknown people wore state-mandated Draining-gauntlets, for they were not fully recognized as cultists, but the Regency and the Church of Sininindi had enough dirt on them to send them packing, so they had. But the Maryols had freshly-inked Drain tattoos. Those would be harder to get rid of, but he would get rid of those, too.

Only time could rid them of their anger, despair, and loss.

