“This whole system is rather more punitive than it should be,” Erick said, as he turned to Tiza, who stood on the other side of Augustive. The priestess looked to him, daring him to say anything at all against her; she would find a way to use it against him, eventually. Erick almost did say something he knew he would regret, but then he said, “The Cult and the Church are no longer at odds, or at least they shouldn’t be. You set back relations a decade by doing this.”

Tiza announced, “If I cannot end them as they should be ended, then I will have them out of my lands, Wizard. Pray I do not alter our acceptance of the Dark in this land any further.”

Augustive almost said something, probably to try and alleviate the tension—

But Erick spoke first, “It was an absolute misery to meet you again, Tiza. Don’t step over any truly reprehensible lines, or else I will be forced to do what I do not want to do.” And then he put Tiza out of his mind.

He stepped through a [Gate] that put him into the courtyard with the convicts. He shut the [Gate] behind him, and then he sighed a little in relief, even as the prison-wide Drain pressed in against his body. Honestly, if they had a prison-wide [Draining Ward], or whatever they used, then why did they need to tattoo the Maryols? Or Drain-shackle everyone else? Erick didn’t let the Drain bother him.

He put the Drain out of his mind, too, as he said, “Hello, everyone. I understand that your lives have been ruined by an uncaring priestess, and then saved by a caring Regent. Allow me to help you further by helping you rebuild all that you had, over in Candlepoint, where we don’t persecute cultists at all. It’s nearly [Reincarnation] day, too, so you all get one of those if you want it; I’ve got about 1400 of those to do, so what’s 7 more. But first! Who wants those nasty shackles and tattoos removed?”

As Erick spoke, every single person there in that group had a nuanced reaction, but between the tears and the sudden, overwhelming relief, everyone was mostly happy not to face the executioner’s block.

Jarod spoke first, “I would have mine removed, Good Wizard.”

Erick opened a [Gate] to Candlepoint, saying, “This is the way to the Reception House at Candlepoint. They’ll remove all your chains and have you set up at the next part of your life soon enough. You’ll likely spend a day in a hotel-like room, but after that, you’ll be moving onto freedom soon enough.”

Jarod bowed, alongside Glariol and Nero—

Which is why a pair of women rushed forward. They had seen freedom on the other side of the [Gate] and they ran for it, both of them rapidly thanking Erick as they fled Storm’s Edge. One of them rapidly spat on the ground toward the one-way windows as she left.

The rest of the ‘convicts’ followed along rather fast.

Erick got them settled in, and then he went back for one more person.

- - - -

Erick stood in the front yard of Seafoam Manor with Oozy at his side and Goldie just beyond.

Seafoam Manor was burning.

Great plumes of smoke rushed up and out of the yellow-red conflagration, filling the sky with a great blackening. For being a stone manor, there was a lot of burnable stuff in there, and there wasn’t much that Oozy wanted to save. A few smaller paintings and a few other things were now at Candlepoint, at the Reception House, in Oozy’s temporary dorm room, but the large painting of the family and all the beds and the wooden roof and the wooden floors were all burning. Glass shattered from the heat, adding a characteristic pop here and there as the moments passed.

And Oozy looked on, tears in his flame-colored eyes, relief upon his face.

Erick said, “It’s a clean sort of break, I suppose.”

Oozy said, “I’m done killing Aroidos for the Regency, and I’m done living here. I hope I never come back to Storm’s Edge.”

Erick nodded a little. “I don’t have to erase the property completely. I could leave something behind?”

Oozy shook his head a little. “Burn it all; till it under; I’ll start again somewhere new. Let the forest reclaim the ashes and the stone—” He paused. “… But maybe a little… Family statue?” He rapidly added, “And then I want to leave, please… I don’t want to see it burn anymore, either.”

Erick nodded again. “Sure thing, Oozy.”

And then he waved his hand, and the land began to shift under the power of a [Cityshape], a spell that Erick had made a while ago, and never really used. The ground dropped away, but Erick, Oozy, and Goldie remained in the air, held up by a Platform of Erick’s.

The ground shifted.

Like a great roiling mass of liquid stone, the land of Seafoam Manor and all the walls of the building began to churn, the mountainside turning liquid, and yet remaining in place at an angle. The inferno of a house spewed up one great rush of flame before the ground twisted, and pulled everything down under. Trees and other plantlife bobbed to the surface under Erick’s perfect control. Erick took a moment to right the trees here and there, to make them stand tall and scattered across the whole property, filling in the places where the road and house had been. He had taken down the walls surrounding the place, too, and moved some trees inward, which had been outside. The trees were sparse right now, scattered as they were across the land, but they’d fill in eventually.

In a year, the forest would fully reclaim the land.

Erick set the Platform back down on the solid, loamy ground, that was perfect for growing anything at all.

There was also a perfect statue just ahead, about fifty meters away, in the exact center of where the house had been. It was a life-sized statue of Aroido, Frydrika, and their five kids.

Oozy stepped forward, toward that statue, his hand raising. But he stopped. He couldn’t go any further.

Erick softly said, “The stone around the statue is solid, so nothing should grow around there for a while. Give it a trim every year if you wish. I’ve already broken the node network all the way out here, so this is truly all that… remains…” Erick stopped talking.

Oozy was having a moment. Erick waited for Oozy to be done.

Four minutes later, Oozy shuddered, then said, “Thank you for everything, Wizard Flatt. I don’t want to see the Aroidos ever again. Will I have to see them at Candlepoint?”

“I don’t require you to forgive them, but I do require you to not start anything with them. I can make it so that you don’t see them, but unless you seek them out, they won’t know who you are. They never did, anyway, right?”

Oozy paused. “… Right. They never did, did they— Are the Mind Mages still erasing memories for a fee?”

Now it was Erick’s turn to pause. “… Do they do that?”

“As a part of extreme therapy,” Goldie supplied.

“Right. That they do.”

Oozy said, “Then that is what I will be doing to myself. Thank you for everything.”

“… You’re welcome.”

- - - -

Three non-eventful days passed without issue.

‘Vanya and Soltic’ made diplomatic inroads with Storm’s Edge, with Vanya appearing outside her dungeon, dressed in the regalia of an undead queen, with Soltic at her side, and Erick on the other side of the field.

All the dungeons of the pit were under Vanya’s control, and all the Aroidos had decided to leave the dungeons to her for a multitude of reasons, only a few of which were because of Vanya. Or something like that. Erick wasn’t privy to whatever conversations they had with Vanya, and he didn’t want to be.

Nothing was on fire, and everything was good.

Erick went into his [Reincarnation] day feeling great.

By the end of the day, he was wiped.

1759 [Reincarnations]; a full 24 hours of casting, each of them done with purpose and intent, and to the requester’s specifications. He had gone through all 49 of the Aroidos, for not a single one was staying behind at Storm’s Edge, not when Tiza Nindi was on the prowl and when Augustive didn’t need them anymore, because he had the backing of House Benevolence. Not a single one of those [Reincarnation]s were different than usual, like how Oozy’s [Reincarnation] had been.

Oozy was doing fine. He was still in a lot of physical therapy, learning how to paint, and how to walk and then run, but he seemed perfectly normal.

Goldie hadn’t been able to dig up anything about Oozy and the Witch, so that was a dead end. If Erick wished to do some digging himself, he could talk to Melemizargo directly; Goldie could not do that, she could only receive orders and give prayer.

Everbless was talking a lot with all of Treehome’s Arbors, and he had voluntarily removed the intervention from all of them. There had been a few incidents involving storms at sea in the last few days, and how the Arbors thought that Everbless should stop all storms, which resulted in Everbless pushing back hard, but mostly the stormy World Tree absolutely loved having other trees to talk with. He was getting along well with Yggdrasil, too, for the both of them had formed a fast friendship over fish.

So it was little surprise as Erick laid his head down to sleep, that he woke up standing on the surface of a calm ocean. Storms ringed the horizon. The ocean lazed below. Distant thunder echoed in the valley of clouds.

A woman with tanned skin, wearing a ship’s sail for a dress, stood on the water in front of him.

Sininindi said, “Greetings, Erick. You’ve done well. The dungeon is coming along well. Quilatalap has already transformed each of them into a positive mana flow.”

“Ah! Already! That’s good news.” Erick smiled. “I thought he was still a few days out.”

“That initial investment from Melemizargo helped save a month of growth, and now that the Aroidos are gone the whole thing is a lot smoother.” Sininindi said, “Thank you. Our bargain is almost complete, and I am grateful for what has occurred. I wish to grant you a boon in addition to the rest, if you would have it. I already gave Quilatalap one.”

Erick was a little wary, so he said, “I would hear the offer.”

Sininindi chuckled. “Ahh… I had to think for a long time what to offer, too. Too little, and I offend. Too much, and I look like I attempt to control. I considered demoting Tiza, but I certainly can’t throw her to the shadows, for though she hates you most fiercely, she loves her people even more; it is why she is so angry when others attempt to control those she loves. So how about this: When the storms come for you in your life, I will be there to see you through the worst of it, and I’ll make sure Tiza stays out of your way.”

“I accept.”

The air flickered gold.

“It is done.” Sininindi said, “I have now removed my part of Yggdrasil’s seal. I look forward to seeing how he and Everbless grow up together.”

Erick felt buoyed. “I do, too.”

Sininindi said, “I also look forward to seeing how the Last Stormcaller comes back to himself. Their entire family line was touched by lightning long ago, but that power has moved on and shifted to the Tidewalkers these days, or at least the ones who try to reach for that power, like Wiloza. If Oozy can truly regain himself he might regain that power. If he does, he will be an asset against whatever False Storms might come. Let him know that, will you? Even though he has left his post, the Storm will still carry him far, and care for him the whole way.”

Erick smiled softly. “I will happily let him know.”

“Fare thee well, Wizard Flatt,” Sininindi said, vanishing into the clouds and the sea.

“Fare thee well, Sininindi.”
