Eric looked at her strangely for a second. “Since when are you so damn knowledgeable about this stuff?”

“Google?” She shrugged prettily. In truth, Lana being sued for one corporate decision or another was merely a Monday.

Eric kept his eyes on the road.

“You’re right,” the lawyer groaned. “The law favours the rich. A few years ago, one of Universal’s performers, Sandy Moore, sued the company for not sufficiently protecting her from the industry. She was drugged and assaulted at an after-party by a well-known producer. Klaus Steinberg.”

Eppie had no idea who these people were, but she guessed where this was going.

“Two years it took, after the tenth time Moore was deposed, cross-examined, and scrutinised, she broke mentally. They settled out of court, and Moore disappeared from the media entirely. If Mio is the child of migrants, and they’re as poor as you say, there’s no chance she can endure all that, recording or no recording. And I am going to say something you won’t like—Mio's recording has chain-of-custody problems. It won’t hold up if their lawyer is experienced and connected enough. And you can bet your ass Senator Sanders has the best.”

“So much for justice,” Eppie hugged her knees.

“Well, as you said, there’s always the court of public opinion.”

“Yeah, but I want something more concrete…” Eppie mopped. I want William Chen’s mind to crawl with scorpions. I want his psyche flayed with such shame and horror that legal justice would be mercy.

That: she should be able to do. The [System] would make it so. Or else, what would be the point?

"You know, if Mio has been in Fresno since late July, and the assault was early May—" Her Newfoundland gulped, then stopped himself. "It's not relevant. But when we find her, we go prepared for whatever we find."

Eppie held that thought for a moment. Then she nodded.Maybe Mio just wanted to move on with her life. Maybe Mio was no longer interested in justice.

The truck turned into a plain white warehouse that was invisible from the outside. The logo, barely visible, read “LIGHTBOX STUDIOS” from the street, then rapidly replicated itself as they ventured into the compound. Eric parked outside what looked like an old sound stage converted into a studio. The place was filled with stands and light boxes, dollies and unboxed equipment.

The lobby, once they got out and entered, was a functional space attached to the giant warehouse.

There was a woman there, light makeup, delightfully plump and bubbly, who waved at them with her whole body. She wore a headset, and she carried a clipboard.

"You're eleven minutes late," she said with such familiarity that Eppie felt whiplash. "I told the stylist you'd be here at nine. I lied and said nine-fifteen. You are still eleven minutes late. Don’t worry about it, though, we’re the leads here.”

"Traffic," Eric lied. It wasn’t as though he could tell the woman that they were plotting against a Senator and a dynastic construction tycoon.

"Everyone in LA has traffic," the lady laughed. Her eyes went straight to Eppie. "You look amazing, Eppie."

"Good morning to you too,” Eppie smiled, her mind still full of question marks. Who the hell was this woman?

"Hair and makeup are waiting. We also need your approval for styling." She turned and was already moving. "We have Set A until noon. White cyc, soft box, solo Eppie with guitar and without. Set B from noon to two. Editorial for Seventeen, which means a rack of clothes you will need to approve. Set C at two. This is for LAPA. I bought a set of everything your school sold as merchandise."

"Excuse me," Eppie apologised. "Can I ask a question?”

"Yes?" The woman pushed open an interior door without breaking stride. "I am all ears."

Eppie fell into step beside Eric. "Excuse me. Who are you?"

The woman stopped at the door. Eric winced. Her eyes grew suddenly wet as she looked at Eppie with a mask of betrayal, horror and disappointment.

“I…” she choked back the tears. “I am Madeleine Filmore, your Media Manager…”
