How unfortunate, then, that the one they faced was a piece of trash, who wasn’t afraid to shred his own body to get ahead.

The orange light around Mae’s body faded. She stumbled back, gripping her shoulder. Walter rushed toward her, concern all over his face. Before he could step on the battlefield and taint their duel, Rhys kicked Mae over the line. She could have no complaints, that way. No take-backs or try-agains. This was their duel.

And it was over.

Walter caught Mae before she hit the ground. Baring her teeth at him, she tore free of his hold and stomped away, yanking a potion out of her robes and downing it in one gulp. Rhys stared at the potion, raising his brows. The emanations from that potion were tremendous. If he had one of those, with Less is More…

Now isn’t the time. He was bleeding from a dozen cuts, and his mana guttered in his core. Rhys drew out his potion and his mana potion and sipped from both. Less is More sparked into life and closed his wounds, and the mana smoothly flowed into his core. Naturally, with all the gold he had, he’d purchased his fair share of potions and mana potions, though the potion he sipped today was one he’d made himself, with strong impurities in it. After a moment, he drew out his impure potion and dripped a few drops on his hand. He had one fight left to go, and Mae had truly pushed his limits. If he hadn’t used underhanded techniques and been willing to put his own body on the line, he would have lost. To put it clearly, Mae should have won their duel, and it was only thanks to his troublemaking that he’d won.

On the sidelines, Walter pointed at him. His hand shook with rage, and his voice trembled with it. “You…”

“Me. So afraid that you’re shaking? I guess that’s only fair, since I’ve beaten all three of your underlings with ease. Should I remind you that I’m a mage of no standing within the school? Hmm, maybe it’s Purple Dawn Academy which is lacking,” Rhys said, lightly flicking his sleeve. A drop of blood splattered across the ground. It was his own, but Walter wouldn’t know that.

Walter’s hand shook harder. His lips pressed into a dangerous white line.

“Should we call it here? I’ve already won three of four. Or is Purple Dawn Academy going to force this duel to its bitter end?” Rhys asked. He was playing the villain, but what else was he supposed to do? Purple Dawn had come here to stunt him his school, and here he was, stunting on them. Was he supposed to act all noble in this circumstance? Graciously accept his victory? Quietly stand here and wait for the next duel?

No! He’d never held back in his life! When he had the upper hand, that was exactly the time to taunt! Piss off the other team even more! Ruin their plans by riling them up! Push their mentality to the edge!

Well, if being silent and mysterious would piss off the other team, he’d do it. But good Walter looked like the sheltered type, who hadn’t done any trash talking in his life, who’d had it beat into him by some well-meaning parent to only say things he meant and say nothing at all rather than something rude.

Ha! He shat upon such noble ideas. Shit-talk, trash-talk, and ruin their mentality! Mental warfare was a kind of warfare, and Rhys loved it most of all! How could someone who loved trash not love trash talk? It was a part of his nature, a piece of his very soul. If he didn’t have anything nice to say, he’d make sure he shat so hard upon his opponent that they’d be wiping excrament out of their crevasses for years to come! Oh delicate of heart, oh noble of mind, come before him! Lay your lily-white ears before his mouth, so he could spew the worst excrement he could come up with into them! Yes, yes, he was in his element!

Walter’s mana flared. His aura clashed with Rhys’, and for the first time since the duels had begun, Rhys felt actual fear. Walter was technically Tier 1, yes. Technically. But his mana was so pure, his emanations so powerful, that he was but a blink of the eye from ascending into Tier 2. In fact, fighting too hard might even push him directly into the next Tier.

Whu-oh, Rhys thought, but not a glimmer of regret went through his mind. If he was going to face the beating of his life, then at least he went down after handing out the tounge-lashing of his life. He could be at peace with that.

“I’m going to kill you,” Walter snarled, and stepped onto the field.
