Unfortunately, it seemed like neither the Crone nor Gam intended to shed light on the matter. Running her finger over his cheek, the Crone peeled off a layer of skin and flesh and ate it with a smile, slurping it up like a stray noodle. “Are you so eager for death, half-breed? It will not be so easy. You killed so many of my babies, each one hand raised with great effort and difficulty.” Sighing in regret, the Crone took a second strip from Gam’s face, this time from the other side, and once again spoke while still chewing away. “If only it were as simple as spreading my legs for a man, like your whore of a mother did. Then again, perhaps I misspoke? Which one was which, half-breed? I could hardly fault a human woman for wanting to lie with a Divinity.”

“Ha!” Gam laughed in outright defiance even as the Crone peeled a third strip away. “Have you looked in a mirror lately? Finding a willing man won’t be easy as you’d think.”

Sucking air through the gap in her teeth, the Crone jabbed her finger into Gam’s clavicle and finally elicited a response from the half-fox. A truncated cry of pain sounded out before being choked away, Gam refusing to give the Crone any satisfaction. Leaning in close to Gam’s face, the Crone bit off the still dangling strip of flesh. “This physical form is merely... a minor setback. Now that I’ve grasped the Truth, it will only be a matter of time before I rediscover how everything works. I did so as a beast, a creature barely capable of rational thought, so I most certainly can do it again.”

“Disgusting.” Spitting ineffectually once more, blood dripped down Gam’s chin as he faced death without fear. “You may have once been a Divinity, but now, you are Defiled filth.”

“Believe what you will,” the Crone said, visibly angered by Gam’s statement, “But I am still a Divinity! Nothing you say can take that away from me, nothing. I once touched upon the secrets of Creation itself, only to be denied true Godhood by the jealous Heavens, but you?” Scoffing in disdain, she carefully peeled another strip of skin from the side of Gam’s face, exposing a long patch of flesh from temple to throat. “You’ve inherited the worst of both bloodlines, the frail ego of humanity alongside the irrational intuition of beast-kind, and combined, they make you less than either. You might have eventually found True Power as man or beast, but a piddling half-breed like you will forever be denied it. The only merit you can claim is your infertility, proof even the villainous Heavens don’t want more of your kind around.”

“I disagree.” Leaning on a staff for support, an ancient, matronly woman strode out from the crowd of silent Death Corps soldiers. Though she seemed frail and wore her robes in haphazard disarray, Min Gyu was still awestruck by her stately beauty, her exquisite features refined by the touch of time, rather than diminished by it. With a strong jawline and chiselled features, she lacked the soft curves of a traditional beauty, but was no less attractive for the loss, possessing flowing, silken locks of dazzling white hair which hung freely down her back, and flawless jade skin which shone in the starlight. Who she was or why she was here, Min Gyu couldn’t say, or at least, not until she walked by and he saw the white-furred tail dangling beneath the hem of her robes. A half-fox companion perhaps, here to lend aid to their cause. Heaven knows Gam knew enough of them, currently teaching the fifth of his lazily named half-fox disciples.

Wait... Was there a Gam One or did the Eccentric consider himself the first and name his Disciples starting with Gam Two?

The blood loss was making him daft. Min Gyu had to warn the beauty to flee, but the words froze in his throat once he saw Gam’s expression. Despite staying strong through the Crone’s beating and torture, Gam now looked like he was on the verge of crying, his lips quivering and eyes brimming with tears. “Mama,” he said, slumping down in relief. “You came to save me.”

... Mama?

It couldn’t be...

Frowning as she glanced over her son’s injuries, Gam’s mother replied, “A coincidence perhaps, or a twist of fate. Little Five’s contest brought us nearby when I noticed all the commotion and ran ahead for a peek. A good thing too, you got yourself into a real mess now, didn’t you? Look at your face, so mangled and ugly. You really so eager to die?” Behaving like a chastised child, Gam opened his mouth to refute, but his mother would have none of it. “Hush now, Mama has business to attend to.” Studying the Crone as one would study a filthy beggar in one’s path, she wrinkled her nose and shook her head. “There are many limitations to half-beast progeny, but we can debate the benefits and drawbacks at some other time. First I’d like to ask you one thing.” Straightening up, she slammed her staff against the ground and a ripple of dirt carried Gam away to safety behind her. “Who the fuck do you think you are, bullying my boy like this?”

Growling in a beast-like manner, the Crone scrambled away from Gam’s mother and stood ready to defend herself. “He killed my children,” she hissed, her voice nearly a plaintive whine. “He deserves death a thousand times over.”

“These things?” The earth rumbled and spit out five Demon corpses, each one a mole-like abomination. “He was right to kill them, ugly, disgusting creatures whose corpses taint the earth. If you don’t want to end up dead like them, then fuck off before I shove this staff up your ass and fly your corpse like a banner."

It was easy to see where Gam learned his manners from. A shame such a lovely beauty was ruined by her crass demeanour, but if Yan were here, she’d likely be beside herself with laughter.

Unmoved, the Crone bared her teeth. “You think I fear a dying old woman? Perhaps I’ll cripple you and feast on your corpse while your boy watches. A fitting punishment for his crimes.”

Snorting in disbelief, Gam’s mother shook her head. “My boy and his cronies must have knocked something loose in your head if you think you’re my match.” Smiling radiantly, Gam’s mother crooked her finger and added, “But please, make a move. My boy tells me you haven’t broken the Treaty, so I can’t kill you yet, not with so many witnesses around.”

“I won’t tell.” A deep, baritone voice echoed out from outside of Min Gyu’s vision, and he was unable to muster the strength to look around. “I’m bored of looking after brats all day and it’s been ages since I seen a good fight.”

“You woke me for this?” A second voice spoke up, irritable and cranky. “Kill the hag and be done with it. I’m going back to sleep.”

“I suggest we take her alive,” came a third voice, and this one sounded familiar, but Min Gyu couldn’t place it. “A simple enough task with so many of us here. I’m curious what her goals are and a few days under my knife might loosen her tongue.”

“We cannot.” From the lyrical lilt of his accent, Min Gyu identified the fourth speaker as a Southerner, though he still couldn’t see anyone. “The Treaty must be upheld lest chaos and destruction ensue.”

“Enough yammering.” Gam’s mother put an end to the debate. “She’s already gone. Any of you want to chase her that’s your business, but me, I’ve got a boy to tend to.”

Thank the Heavens. Though unsure why so many Ancestral Beasts were present, this was a matter to puzzle out later. The danger was finally over and Min Gyu allowed himself to relax. Right before he closed his eyes, he caught a glimpse of Gam’s mother, or rather, her shapely posterior as she squatted down to treat her boy. Struggling to remain conscious for a few moments longer, he burned the sight into memory before peaceful oblivion came to claim him.

How disgraceful, the Sanguine Tempest Du Min Gyu behaving like a lusty teenaged boy.

But such a lovely posterior, how could anyone resist?

Chapter Meme
