And that got Shiv thinking about Sullain’s special project: the Undying Tarrasque that wore Shiv's face. “Great. Felling hate the frost giants already. I still don't fully get the girl’s deal, if she’s evil at all, but it seems like Simeon was just a victim at the start that decided to turn into a bit more of a bastard when he went about keeping his position and hiding his shame."

"So, he burned down the dorm?" Irons asked in a hushed tone.

"Ha, no, that was his idiot middle child, who's also a prostitute burner."

"A prostitute burner?" Irons said, surprised. "Then, wait, the brothel... I know something about this."

"Yeah, so you know what kind of freaks we're dealing with," Shiv said with a derisive scoff. "Anyway, he's the one who decided to take a direct approach. By direct approach, I mean that he tried jumping his own half-sister in the middle of the night inside her room. And when he screwed up trying to kill her, and she managed to get away, he tapped into the mana surrounding the structure. You know the rest.”

Irons grimaced at that. But the expression was a fleeting one. "I see," he said again. "And so, all this was for the sake of conspiracy. A shameful birth."

"Yeah, seems to be. It really is kind of… underwhelming that over 40 kids had to die for that. But who the hells knows what's going on in the minds of the nobility? Anyway, I've had enough of this shit. I need to get my first class in order."

Irons grunted, rolling with Shiv's mood without suffering any whiplash. "What is your first class?"

"A Culinary elective. I'm going to be volunteering at a restaurant somewhere across the city. After that, I'm going to move on and take part in my first medical course. Biomancy-related, but it's mostly about helping people who are sick and injured. I might take up a more basic Biomancy course if I still need the additional support, but I think I want to move at a higher pace than most students. Wanna be hands-on.”

"I see. You're taking Van Erren’s Medic 301 course, then. You're going to be serving as an assistant resident. Respectable.”

“Something like that. Got a taste for it earlier during the volunteering session right outside the Dragon Dorm."

"I heard," Irons replied. "Some of the militia spoke highly of you."

"And by some, do you mean Maxime Van Stormhalt?" Shiv asked.

Irons grunted. "She's also in the Tac-Strat class."

"Ah," the Deathless said flatly. He didn't know how he felt about being in such close proximity to a member of House Stormhalt. But from what he'd gleaned earlier, Maxime didn't sound fully overjoyed about her family either.

"Be mindful about the impression you leave," Irons said.

"Trying not to seem like too much of a bastard," Shiv said.

"That's not what I'm worried about," Irons replied. "I'm worried about how memorable you become." He briefly leveled a stare at Shiv. "Remember, Marcus Unblood is dead. You are wearing his skin. You bear his name. But there will come a time when you have to shed him. He is ephemeral. And there is something sacred in that. Be mindful of what you do. Be mindful when using him as your facade."

And with that, the captain walked away, leaving Shiv alone with his thoughts on the way to his first course.
