“I think Mr. Carisson was really impressed I took that spell impression,” said Jeffy as Alden slipped by him. “I hope he doesn’t find out I jumped in the fountain and made Vandy mad at me on the first day we met.”

“I don’t think he’s impressed.” Max was near the door with a foot propped on a bench, putting on the ankle cuffs. “I think he’s probably embarrassed. It sounds like a communication failure between the High Council and SkySea. Or between both of them and the Artonans.

“Anesidora obviously requested a ship-locating spell for handling things like runaways. Maybe they were even hoping that they could tell everyone that SkySea was better equipped to find underwater vessels. And the Artonans obviously delivered the spell. But for some reason, SkySea didn’t have an employee ready to affix it. Either they didn’t realize it was coming yet, or it didn’t occur to them that it would be limited. Doesn’t matter. They made a stupid mistake. I know they’re dealing with a lot right now, but that should be mortifying.”

Alden had finally caught up. “Jeffy, you picked the spell impression we talked about on Saturday! You like it?”

Jeffy beamed and nodded.

“Good then. I’m glad.”

Who’s Yesenia again? Was she the Aqua Brute he mentioned being a red halo with?

He’d have asked for more details if circumstances had been different, but he needed to change. And there were twenty other guys listening in. It made conversing feel like a performance.

At least Winston wasn’t here. Alden had spotted the speedster, already in his uniform, running what must have been warm-up laps on the track.

They’re all looking at me, he thought, glancing around. They probably want to ask questions.

He wished someone would go ahead and do it so that he didn’t have to think of some kind of tension breaker himself.

Maybe I will ask Jeffy who Yesenia is after—

“So,” said Haoyu.

Lexi said, “Quit staring like a bunch of—”

“Hey, Alden,” said Kon.

All three of them had spoken at the same time.

“Hey, Kon,” said Alden, looking across the room to where Kon had just stopped in the act of pulling off a t-shirt. He’d left the neckband wrapped around his forehead so that the light blue fabric draped behind his neck and shoulders like a veil.

“One of the girls keeps shouting ‘wasabi.’ Should we yell it back? Or should we yell back ‘pickled ginger’ instead?”

Alden felt a smile stealing across his face. “I think wasabi would sound better yelled.”

“You’re obviously wrong,” Kon scoffed.“Not as wrong as the lunatic who wanted to moo at them.”

Haoyu raised his hand.

“But wrong nonetheless,” Kon continued. “We’ll still count your vote twice, though.”

“Twice?”

“We have to honor your commendedness somehow. This is what you get.”

“I get two votes for a commendation?”

Kon held up two fingers.

“Two votes on all class votes?” Alden asked. “Forever?”

“Absolutely not,” said Haoyu. “Not unless I get extra. My mom has more than you.”

“My grandfather has a commendation,” Febri announced. “So I vote yes twice on wasabi.”

“Look what you did, Alden,” said Kon. “Now we’ve got people thinking Artonan honors are genetically heritable. No. One extra vote for Alden. For wasabi.”

“That’s all I get?” said Alden. “I was brave; the commendation even says so.”

“Listen.” Kon tossed his t-shirt veil like it was long hair. “If you want more votes, get another commendation.”

“Don’t make it too easy on him,” said Haoyu. “Make him get a better commendation next time.”

By the time the group had finished debating the rules for commendation earners getting extra say in unimportant votes, Alden was dressed in his gym suit and feeling unexpectedly grateful toward his classmates. A couple of them hadn’t joined in with the joking around, but there was no reason to read anything into that.

These guys are mostly good guys, he thought, following Ignacio out the door. The Meister was giving Søren a pep talk. Despite all the different dumbassery that goes on.

Ignacio and Febri both seemed to be driving Søren a little nuts. Apparently, they were still feeling guilty and trying to make up for the whole pressure-induced, self-burning incident. As of Monday’s class, Søren hadn’t managed to get the hang of his shaping, which they seemed to feel might be weighing on his mood.

[I don’t think complimenting him on his ability to glow is as nice as they think it is,] Alden texted Lexi and Haoyu. [He’s been able to glow since the first day.]

Lexi shook his head.

[Why no brain text?] Haoyu demanded. He stared at Lexi. [Never brain text as much as me.]

[It’s true,] said Alden. [You don’t.]

“I’m focusing on Writher. Mental texting can wait until I’m—”

[Practicing in private so he never talks bad!] Haoyu proclaimed, nodding at Alden.

[That seems like a likely possibility,] Alden agreed.

Lexi rolled his eyes at them. “There’s nothing wrong with mastering it in a less confusing way.”

[Type word coward with cow part in angry font. Coward. COWard. There. Mooooo.]

Haolyu looked triumphant. Lexi looked unimpressed.

It’s okay here on Anesidora. Better than okay a lot of the time.

“Why were you guys shouting ‘pickled ginger’ at us?” Astrid called from up ahead.

“You were shouting wasabi at us!” Kon called back.

“Your favorite rice topping is ginger?”

“What? No. It’s spicy mayonnaise. Weren’t we shouting about sushi?”

I think it’s been a good day.

From talking with Porti-loth in the elevator to deciding Chicago couldn’t be a priority. From personal training at North of North to a kid with a can of peas to a spell cast correctly for the first time. To here. Now.

Alden still had that raw, clear feeling that had accompanied him since this morning. Like he’d cut something away and it hurt, but he was moving better for it.

Probably his time with Yenu-pezth and having a straightforward goal was contributing as well.

“Principal Saleh said gym today might be rowdy. Do you guys know why?”

“No,” said Haoyu, “but I will commit to being the rowdiest person in the whole…the…um, does anyone else see my mom swinging my dad around like she’s going to hammer throw him? Or is this a new version of that dream I had one time about…?”

They’d entered the gym to the sight of a few unexpected adults, but before those adults could be examined, Haoyu’s father was flying toward them, curling up like a human cannonball and then uncurling at the last second to smash his bare feet into the invisible barrier high over their heads that marked the boundary at the edge of the magic floor. He launched himself back toward his wife with his arms outstretched. He flew like a rocket, and they collided with a sound like boulders crashing together. Or maybe that was just Alden’s imagination.

Mrs. Zhang-Demir didn’t budge a centimeter, and they were both grinning so wide that Alden could tell even from this far away.

“Haoyu,” Kon whispered, nudging him with one elbow, “that’s how you were ma—”

“You can go there if you want to,” Haoyu whispered back, “but I would’t. Your own parents are basically circus performers.”

Kon looked like he was considering the risk versus the reward.

“Floor on!” Vandy announced.

In spite of the note of expectation in her voice, it took everyone else a few seconds to return the call, since they were all spreading out and surging forward to get a better view.

******

The battle between Haoyu’s parents only lasted a few minutes, just until the official start of class. It was too short for most viewers, but too long for Haoyu, who was trying to look unfazed while his father’s interface name tag shifted through a variety of increasingly interesting names.

From Omega Scorpii Zhang to things like Haoyu’s Favorite Superhero and Look, Son, I’m Upside Down. Alden’s personal favorite was I Could Kill a Tank Faster Than Anyone Else in This Room! because it prompted Big Snake to hurl a metal pole right at Mr. Zhang-Demir, and watching the pole bend around his raised forearm like the metal was soft modeling clay was a great visual aid to show the forces involved.

It also made Alden curious about the pile of junk Big Snake was standing beside. He was watching the Zhang-Demirs with Instructor Klein, Vandy’s mom, Galecourse, and an Indian woman who Ignacio had run over to talk to as soon as he spotted her. She was his grandmother, according to Febri.

When the demonstration was over, and it was time to join the instructors and visitors on the floor, they found out that the class was going to be a kind of obstacle course.

“But the obstacles,” Instructor Waker said, “will be all of us.”

Haoyu’s father and Ignacio’s grandmother looked convincingly murderous  for a second before they both broke into broad smiles again.

“No time wasted today,” Instructor Klein said in a clipped voice. “Not even on instructions except for these few. Form teams of five. Make it from that end of the gym—”

He nodded toward the locker rooms, and Alden looked behind him to see a black starting line appearing at the edge of the white floor.

“—to that one.” Klein gestured toward the opposite side of the gym. “You can try anything you want to try and see where it gets you.”

“What’s the pain realism setting?” someone asked.

“Figure it out as you go.”

“Do we attack the other teams, or—?”

“Figure that out, too.”

“Tell them about the pizza party,” Instructor Waker said.

“You have today’s class and Friday’s to get across the floor one time,” said Klein. “This is thanks to the generosity of these current and former heroes. We’ve had a record number of family members and alumni volunteering their help since the disaster, and we’re getting organized to make sure none of you miss out on the benefits of their experience and support. Anyone who succeeds by the end of class Friday can have a personal lesson here in the gym with the volunteer of their choice. There’s a list of available heroes and faculty members, with their schedules…”

It was hard to hear what he was saying over the burst of excited voices and Marsha shouting, “How long do we get to fight them for, and do we get the whole gym or just a block?”

Klein was uncommonly patient with the outburst, but his tone was also amusingly severe as he added, “And regardless of your success, there will be a pizza party picnic at the track on Friday after class. Attendance is optional. We’re sorry your class dinner ended on such a bad note. Now…form your teams.”

******
