Well, there had to be a dark one of some kind among them. Even if there wasn't, there had to be at least one person who had lived through the reign of a former dark one. The magic didn't necessarily stay the same between each dark lord, but it would most likely be close enough that they could get an idea of what to expect. It was a means of research that would be more consistent than Streaming into another realm and hoping for the best, too.

Also, it was an opportunity to learn some ancient magic. Cale grinned. He'd been around when a lot of ancient magics had been created, but even back then he hadn't been able to cast those spells. Who knew how different things would be now that he could finally cast them?

Well, when the Gift got back to him, anyway. He couldn't wait.

Kelegas was rather surprised by how much he didn't despise his time in the Rittefel Academy. The anger he had been battling for years had been worse than ever, at first, but all the time spent suppressing his innate corruptive influence seemed to help keep it under control to a degree.

Now he found himself almost enjoying the time he shared with the Rittefel students. He was teaching them, even, and some of the professors here had begun to respect and rely on him.

It couldn't last, though. The more he suppressed that corruption, the worse the blowback would be when he was eventually forced to let it loose. Worse, even when the anger wasn't direct, it lurked in his mind as the voices of those dark ones of the past: voices that reminded him how much was at stake.

His people were relying on him, after all.

He had, unfortunately, reached a bit of a stumbling block in getting approval to enter the tournament. A competitor for the position had appeared out of nowhere, and this particular "student" Kelegas did find both extraordinarily annoying and, frankly, rather suspicious. What were the odds a wyldfire would turn up looking to join the tournament at the very same academy as the dark lord? He'd picked Rittefel because it was relatively unknown.

The man was a pest, and he had a single spell that was his pride and joy. [Reign of Thunder] was, in Kelegas's opinion, an absurd spell. It could manifest a burst of thunderous sound at any point of the caster's choosing, and it somehow managed to bypass most standard magical protections, making him the favored candidate to fill the open spot on Rittefel's wyldfire team. Kelegas had spells that could beat it, of course, but he was loathe to play more of his cards before he had to show them,

But now Kelegas strode along the corridors, humming to himself. Anyone who truly knew him—which, in these parts, was pretty much just Steve—would know that this meant he was unusually cheery. The reason for that was known only to him, though. He trusted Steve implicitly, but this particular secret was one he quite literally could not speak of, even if he had wanted to.

The unique magic granted to every dark one was hidden with powerful obfuscation magic. Kelegas didn't know who had cast the spell, but he did understand the point of it. If he failed, the next dark one would receive a new and improved version of that same magic, and it would continue until the Dark succeeded.

And now it had emerged for him at quite the opportune time.

In front of him, hovering in the air and comprised of dark magic, were words..

Analyzing [Reign of Thunder]...

[Reign of Thunder] will be decomposed and no longer available to the Source after: 3 days, 14 hours.
