"Now," she said.

They activated simultaneously.

The Chaos Grenade left Nadia's hand in a high arc. Solenne pushed the Arcane Mark's amplification through her Harmony Conductor passive at the same moment, and the two skills met in the air above the Tidebreaker -- Jester and Arcanist, Brightspirit and Trueweave, disruption and synthesis doing the thing the System had apparently been waiting for them to do since Floor 6 --

A shimmer at the edge of Solenne's vision. Brief. Golden. Not a combat notification, not a damage number, not a status effect. Something else. Something the System had been holding in reserve until the exact moment two people looked at each other across a boss chamber and chose the same impossible thing at the same time.

```stat-screen
[HARMONY SKILL UNLOCKED]
Laughing Storm (Harmony: Jester + Arcanist)

Participants: Nadia Volkov-Baptiste (Brightspirit)
            + Solenne Achebe-Park (Trueweave)
Cost:    45 MP (Jester) + 45 MP (Arcanist)
Cooldown: 8 minutes

Effect:  All enemies within 20m simultaneously
         afflicted with random Jester debuff AND
         Arcane Marked. For 20 seconds, every hit
         on an afflicted enemy generates a second
         random debuff.

System Note: The chaos is compounding.
```

Solenne processed the notification in the half-second it was visible and did not break stride. Across the chamber, she saw Nadia's eyes flicker to the same spot at the edge of her vision -- the same shimmer, the same golden frame -- and Nadia did not break stride either. The grenade was already in the air.

It detonated.

---

The next forty seconds were the most beautiful catastrophe Solenne had ever witnessed.

The Chaos Grenade hit the Tidebreaker and the random roll was kind -- Fear, Slow, Blind, three debuffs on a single target, each one landing simultaneously with the Arcane Mark's twenty percent amplification burning underneath. The Tidebreaker, which had been learning their patterns, which had been building a defensive profile with the mechanical precision of something designed to end adaptive parties -- the Tidebreaker stumbled.

It stumbled because it was Afraid of something the Chaos Grenade had conjured in its perception. It stumbled Slowly because the Slow debuff had cut its movement speed in half. It stumbled Blind because it could not see the platform it was stumbling on.

And then Dayo hit it.

Shield Rush into a Slowed, Feared, Blinded target. The knockback was not one-point-five times normal. It was something else entirely -- the Tidebreaker's reduced defenses and movement speed turning a standard displacement into a full-body rearrangement. The creature slid three meters on the wet limestone and its reactive armor tried to adapt and could not. Could not adapt to Fear because Fear was not a damage type. Could not adapt to Slow because Slow was a temporal effect. Could not adapt to Blind because Blind was perceptual. The armor's intelligence, designed to learn from physical and magical attacks, was receiving inputs it had no category for.

Tomás fired. Precision Shot from above, two arrows into the dorsal gap while the creature was fear-stumbling with its head lowered and the gap between neck ridge and plate exposed. The arrows hit flesh -- actual flesh, unarmored, and the creature's shriek was different now. Higher. Hurt.

Solenne's Arcane Bolt landed on the Marked target. Twenty percent amplified. The magic damage burned through the Tidebreaker's magical resistance because the armor was still trying to process three debuffs that did not correspond to any damage category it had been designed to learn.

Every hit generated a second debuff. Every hit. Laughing Storm's passive effect was rolling the dice on every piece of damage that landed, and the dice kept coming up different -- Silence on Dayo's gauntlet strike, Confuse on Tomás's arrow, Sleep that broke immediately from the next impact but registered long enough to stagger the creature's movement cycle.

The armor could not categorize what it could not predict.

The Tidebreaker was at thirty-five percent. Thirty. The HP bar was dropping in chunks now, each cycle of attacks landing harder than the last because the debuffs were compounding, stacking, a cascade of status effects that made the creature's considerable intelligence work against it -- every processor cycle the armor spent trying to adapt was a processor cycle it was not spending on defense.

Twenty seconds elapsed. Laughing Storm's active window closed.

The Tidebreaker was at twenty-eight percent HP.

Phase 3.

---

The creature stopped trying to be smart.

Solenne saw it happen in the Arcane Analysis feed -- the moment the Tidebreaker's behavioral pattern shifted from adaptive defense to something the System categorized in two words that made her blood go cold: *unrestrained aggression*.

The reactive armor locked. Not adapting, not learning, not reconfiguring. Locked into a neutral state that was not optimized against anything but was not vulnerable to anything either. The Tidebreaker abandoned the intelligence that had made it dangerous in Phase 1 and Phase 2, and in its place was something worse.

Speed. Raw, enormous, four-meter-tall-predator speed, the kind that came from a body built for water and stone that had been holding back its full physical capacity while it focused on defensive adaptation. The Tidebreaker was no longer focusing on defense.

It hit Dayo.

The strike came in at a speed Iron Stance was not designed for -- not a sweep, not an overhead, but a lunging full-body slam that used the creature's mass as the weapon. Dayo braced. The impact drove her back one meter on the limestone and her HP dropped from three sixty-one to two forty-eight in a single hit. One hundred and thirteen damage. Through Iron Stance's twenty-five percent reduction. Through her Reinforced Composite Plate. Through Vesper's armored wrap.

"Vesper," Miriam said. One word on the party channel. The Empathic Sense had registered Dayo's HP drop and the alert was in Miriam's perception before the number finished updating.

The Tidebreaker struck again. Same speed. Different angle -- low this time, a sweeping claw that caught Dayo's legs and would have taken her off the platform if Iron Stance had not been holding her feet to the stone. Her HP dropped to one ninety-six. Forty-six percent.

Again. An overhead that Dayo caught on her buckler and redirected but not fully -- the redirected force still clipped her shoulder and the number dropped to one fifty-two. Thirty-six percent.

Miriam's hands were already glowing. Mending Touch activated -- WIS twenty-eight, the Warmhearted Aspect running underneath, the heal landing on Dayo with the specific quality of warmth that meant Miriam was not just restoring HP but caring about the tissue she was restoring. One hundred and two points flowed back. Dayo's bar climbed to two fifty-four.

The Tidebreaker hit her again. Two fifty-four became one eighty-nine.

Miriam healed. One eighty-nine became two sixty-three.

The Tidebreaker hit her again. Harder. Two sixty-three became one fifty-eight.

This was the math. This was the problem of Phase 3 made numerical and immediate: the Tidebreaker was dealing damage faster than Miriam could heal it. Not by much. By enough. Each cycle, Dayo's HP was lower than the cycle before. The creature was not trying to outthink them anymore. It was trying to outlast them, and the math said it would.

Dayo's HP hit one hundred and twelve. Twenty-six percent.

Ninety-one. Twenty-one percent.

The next hit would take her below ten percent and if she went below ten percent --

"Unbroken Line," Dayo said. Not a request. A declaration. The same voice she used for Rally Cry -- not an order but something the party heard and responded to.

Miriam did not hesitate. Forty MP flowed out of her and forty MP flowed out of Dayo and the Harmony Skill activated in the space between them -- the Vanguard and the Warden, the Steadfast and the Warmhearted, the two people who had survived Floor 5 at twenty-five percent HP and earned this skill with their shared proximity to dying.

For thirty seconds, Miriam's heals on Dayo were instant. No casting delay. No travel time. Miriam thought the heal and the heal was there, HP flowing into Dayo as fast as the Tidebreaker could take it away. The Vanguard generated two hundred percent threat. The Warden could not be targeted.

The Tidebreaker hit Dayo and Miriam healed her simultaneously and the HP bar flickered between damage and restoration like a light that could not decide whether it was on or off.

It was not enough.

Twenty seconds into Unbroken Line. The Tidebreaker was hitting harder now -- ramping, each strike building on the last, the unrestrained aggression accelerating into something that felt less like a boss mechanic and more like rage. Dayo's HP was being pushed down despite Miriam's instant heals. Two hundred. One eighty. One fifty. The gap between damage and healing was widening.

Dayo felt it happen.

Her HP crossed the threshold. One oh seven out of four twenty-seven. Twenty-five percent -- the elevated trigger that Unbroken Line granted, the Harmony link with Miriam pushing Last Stand's activation window wider, giving Dayo more room to survive what was coming.

Defiant Last Stand activated.

The skill engaged in a way she had felt once before, on Floor 5, in the moment she had been certain she was going to die: a fundamental rewriting of the contract between her body and the damage that was being done to it. Fifty percent damage reduction. She could not be reduced below one HP. For thirty seconds, she was the thing between the party and the end, and the System had decided she was not allowed to fall.

The Tidebreaker hit her. The damage number was halved. She held.

Hit again. Halved. She held.

The creature reared. Its full height, four meters of enraged aquatic predator, forelimbs spread, mouth open in a shriek that shook water off the stalactites forty meters above. Its body weight came down in a two-fisted slam that carried every point of STR the System had given it.

Vesper's Reinforcement hit Dayo at the same instant.

Solenne could not see the moment of decision -- could not see Vesper's hands move on the far platform, could not see the skill activate across thirty meters of boss chamber. She saw the result. The Reinforcement's protective layer settled onto Dayo's armor a fraction of a second before the Tidebreaker's largest hit landed, and the hit that would have driven through Last Stand's damage reduction and tested the one-HP floor was absorbed. The Reinforcement took half the excess damage and shattered -- consumed, spent, the skill burning out to keep Dayo standing.

Dayo stood.

Her HP was at twelve. Twelve out of four twenty-seven. She was standing on cracked limestone with a four-meter predator rearing above her and twelve hit points and the Last Stand timer counting down and she was standing because six people had decided she would be.

Miriam's heals were still instant. Unbroken Line's thirty seconds were almost spent. She poured everything she had left -- Mending Touch at Level 9, tripled by the Last Stand synergy, the Warmhearted Aspect burning hot underneath -- and Dayo's HP climbed. Twelve to one forty-eight. One forty-eight to two thirty. The creature hit her again and the Last Stand reduction cut the damage in half and Miriam healed through it and the HP bar stabilized at one ninety.

The Tidebreaker reared again.

From above -- from the stalactites where he had been waiting for forty minutes, in the position he had chosen before the fight started, with the patience that was not about aim or distance but about knowing when the gap would open and being ready when it did -- Tomás fired.

Precision Shot. One arrow. Into the dorsal gap between the neck ridge and the upper plate, from directly above, at the angle only available when the creature reared and exposed the one section of its anatomy that was not armored.

The arrow hit flesh.

The Tidebreaker's shriek cut off. Not gradually -- instantly, the sound dying in its three-rowed throat as the arrow found something vital in the gap between the plates and the something vital stopped working. The creature's forelimbs dropped. Its legs buckled. Four meters of reactive-armored aquatic predator collapsed sideways off the central platform and hit the black water with a sound like a building falling, and the splash reached the ceiling and the Cavelight Moths scattered in all directions and the water churned and then --

Silence.

The boss chamber was very, very quiet.

---

Dayo's legs gave out three seconds after the Tidebreaker stopped moving. Not dramatically -- she just sat down on the cracked limestone, controlled, the way an athlete sits when the match is over and the body is done performing and the adrenaline is leaving. She sat with her back against a mineral deposit and her gauntlets in her lap and her HP at one ninety and the Last Stand timer expiring and the twenty percent heal flowing back in -- eighty-five more HP, bringing her to two seventy-five, the System's acknowledgment that she had held the line for thirty seconds and survived and this was her reward for not dying.

```stat-screen
[FLOOR 8 BOSS DEFEATED]
Tidebreaker -- Floor Boss (Rare)

Party XP Earned: 1,200 (shared)
Bonus: No Party Member Downed (+25%)
Total XP: 1,500 (shared)

Loot:
  Floor Boss Core (Rare) -- crafting material
  Deepwater Bracer (Uncommon)
    Water Resistance +30%
    +2 VIT
```

Miriam crossed the platform to Dayo without running. She never ran to a patient unless the patient was actively dying, and Dayo was not actively dying anymore, which meant Miriam would walk with the measured, deliberate pace that said *I am here and I am not panicking and neither are you*. She knelt. She put her hands on Dayo's shoulder -- the one that had taken the redirected overhead -- and the warmth of Mending Touch flowed in, and Dayo closed her eyes and let it.

Vesper arrived next. She did not speak. She placed two items on the limestone beside Dayo: the Floor Boss Core, dark amber and warm, and the Deepwater Bracer -- a piece of armored wrist-gear that shimmered with a faint blue iridescence. Water Resistance plus thirty percent. Plus two VIT. The bracer was sized for Dayo's right wrist. Vesper had already checked.

"For you," Vesper said. "Because this floor tried to drown us twice and I am holding a grudge."

Dayo opened her eyes. She looked at the bracer. She looked at Vesper. She picked it up and put it on, and the VIT bonus registered in her stat line and her maximum HP ticked up and she did not say thank you because Vesper had not asked for thank you, but the way she turned the bracer on her wrist -- feeling the fit, finding the weight -- was its own kind of answer.

