Her grey-green skinned adversary shimmered into existence, a stupefied expression on his face as he gawked at her—her dagger buried deep in his chest. A moment later, Jarthrams took the orc’s head with a broad blade formed out of conjured ruby.

[*ding!* You have contributed to the slaying of an orc [See No Death] (Mirage, level 701), [Hear No Death] (Sound, level 685), [Feel No Death] (Void, level 670)!]

“Clear!” Ranthia called out of habit, once she confirmed that there were no other obvious hostiles in the vicinity.

“Well, that was easy! Loathsome villains have been brought low and the deed is done!” Anthelleon beamed. She hadn’t actually done much more than provide defense, yet she was still smiling like she’d singlehandedly bested their enemies.

“We should have kept one of them alive though. We might never know how or why they pulled this much off.” Aegiomus cut in, glaring at the inanely named Elf Hunter that was swinging his sickle idly via the chain it was tethered to.

“Yeah, and this is why we’re here. You damn monster fuckers never pay enough attention.” The man replied, smiling the smuggest and most punchable smile he possessed. But with that, he loosened his grip on his weapon and sent it flying toward the driver’s seat of the wagon.

With a strange, surreal sound, the weapon vanished, leaving a shimmering fissure in midair. An instant later, it went taut and the elf planted his feet and heaved on his chain. The little fissure expanded with a horrific noise—like an unholy halfway point between shattering crystal and ripping fabric—which was immediately erased by an even worse sound.

It was a sound that Ranthia heard in most of her nightmares, ever since the horrible day that she’d inadvertently elicited it. The world seemed to be in slow motion as her dread built. One forceful, accelerated heartbeat revealed vibrant blonde—a vivid shock of color that seemed to leave the rest of Pallos greyer.

By the time Ranthia’s next heartbeat came, Avyna’s head and torso were already in full view as she was hauled out of the Spatial distortion by the damned hook buried in her shoulder. Blood spread from the wound, staining her favorite travelling dress. And her haunting scream reached its crescendo as her [Hidden Hideaway] failed and her full body emerged.

“Always look for Spatial bullshit.”
