Erick broke the silence, “I don’t want any of the anti-magic runes in this place on, because I would like to continue to be able to [Scry] and [Teleport] myself, but how would we go about charging all of that?”

Kiri piped up, saying, “Powell told me that they sold the potions for that sort of thing in town. Or we could crush up some of the grand rads we brought with us. One of them should provide a few days of [Scry] protection. If it’s not overly stressed.”

“I haven’t seen any [Scry] eyes since we arrived. It’s kinda nice, for a change.” Erick said, “Anyone seen any?”

“Nope,” Rats said.

Poi said, “None.”

Erick smiled. He had been popping a dozen eyes every day for two months, now.

- - - -

Erick sat in a cozy corner on the second floor, surrounded by thick walls and nice wooden paneling, reading from Eduard’s [Familiar] training manual, while the night sky twinkled beyond the thick glass paneling of Windy Manor’s main room. Ophiel rested on a conjured pillow on the floor.

Poi walked up the wooden staircase in front of Erick, saying, “Sir. The Headmaster wishes to know if he can visit for a short while.”

Erick flummoxed Eduard’s book down onto the table in front of him, saying, “Uh! Sure!”

Poi said, “He has been informed, and will be here in minutes.”

Erick launched to his feet, as Ophiel launched into the air to land on Erick’s shoulder. Erick said, “Do we have any coftea left?” He mentally commanded Ophiel to stay in the front room, saying, “Not right now. You can watch, though.”

Ophiel whined as he went back down to his pillow.

“Teressa has been informed, and is already making some.”

Erick smiled, walking past Poi to step down the stairs, saying, “You guys are really good.”

Poi said, “Thank you, sir.”

Erick reached the first floor, just in time for a bright flash of gold light to fill the night, outside of the glass windows. Kiri eep’d next to the staircase, but Erick just continued to the door, beside the windows. For the absolute briefest of moments, a gold shadow illuminated the night, but then that shadow condensed to a point; to a person. The Headmaster was a small, old human man, who stood with a regal bearing, wearing gold and white embroidered robes like he was some Chinese emperor or classical dignitary. His hair was white, his skin was tan, and his eyes glowed amber. In the dim yellow wardlights of the front lawn, he looked almost like a golden ghost.

Erick opened the door to the front lawn, saying, “Hello, Headmaster! Thanks for the invite.”

The Headmaster smiled, saying, “Thank you for accepting.” He turned to the lawn. A wooden table and a pair of chairs were suddenly there. The Headmaster conjured them, certainly, but it happened so fast and so precisely, that Erick never even knew he had cast a thing. “If we could please discuss your participation in Oceanside and the proceeding events of your stay?” The Headmaster sat down on one of his chairs. “It shouldn’t take long.”

Erick paused, then said, “Sure.” He sat down in his chair, asking, “So what’s the plan?”

Teressa walked out of the house, wearing immaculate grey clothes that she was not wearing earlier, and carrying a small tray with glass cups and coftea in a glass pitcher. Steam rolled up from the coftea; a warm mist in the calm light of the night and the yellow wardlights scattered around the grassy lawn.

The Headmaster smiled wide, saying, “Oh, good! I was hoping for some of this.” His entire demeanor went from quietly professional to gushing happiness, as Teressa set down the tray on the table. He asked, “This is that ‘coftea’, correct?”

Teressa bowed and nodded like a professional butler, saying, “Yes, sir.”

“And milk and sugar, too.” The Headmaster said, “I’m glad the house has been properly opened and someone is there. Haven’t had a guest in years. Are you happy with the location, Erick? Teressa?”

Teressa answered, “Full pantry, full wine cellar. It’s great.”

“Thank you for your hospitality, Headmaster.” Erick said, “It’s all quite nice.”

Teressa bowed, and exited; back to the house.

The Headmaster served himself, but paused when it came to adding milk and sugar. He asked, “How do you drink it?”

Erick poured himself a cup, then added milk, saying, “I usually just do a bit of milk.”

“Then I shall try the same.” The Headmaster put milk in his coftea, then took a sip. He paused. He took another sip. He said, “Bitter, but there’s stimulants in here, and the milk does a lot to negate the bitterness. I take it you drink this for the perk of energy?”

Erick smiled, saying, “Yup. Everyone worked a lot of hours back on Earth, and coffee was a part of that culture.”

The Headmaster sipped more, saying, “I can see how that would happen.” He tentatively asked, “Would you, perhaps, [Grow] some of this, here? For us? Sometimes the students just are not prepared in the morning.”

“Of course.” Erick said, “Culture is best shared, and how am I going to get a cup when I’m out of the house if I’m the only one who has any?”

The Headmaster smiled, small and quaint, then said, “True.”

They both sipped coftea for a little while. Erick waited for the Headmaster to speak; this seemed like that sort of scenario.

The Headmaster said, “I heard Messalina wormed you.”

Erick frowned at nothing in particular. He set his drink down, and said, “Yes. But I pop dozens of [Scry] orbs every day. I think Poi intercepts and backlashes every [Telepathy] attempt made against me.” He looked to the air, saying, “I killed her Toxic Hydra, but her Flare Couatl is still killing hunters in the Crystal Forest. As long as her goals are to kill killers and there are no more incidents like with the Dream Worm, I can’t very well fault her for her methods of getting in touch with me.” He added, “If it would have actually gone away on its own.” He looked to the Headmaster, and said, “Well. I probably should fault her, for all of that. She mind controlled me, and was able to get a letter to me the next day. She had every chance to contact me without needing to enforce her will, first. She’s obviously not a good person, but she’s killing killers… So that’s that. For now.”

The Headmaster sipped his drink, then said, “Your unwillingness to involve yourself in the affairs of others is admirable, for power should never be used to inflict one’s self upon the world.” He said, “But power should be used to excise those who would do harm to others. Messalina is one such person, as you have already personally experienced, and will surely experience again.” He added, “Though I do not have to prove this to you; time will tell, and then you will become involved on your own volition.”

“Probably.” Erick said, “She wants me to make a Particle [Scan] spell that would work to find anyone without regard to how they hide themselves. She overestimates my capability.”

The Headmaster nodded, saying, “It would be a good spell, though it would certainly fall into a worldwide threat of a magic. You could uncover anyone hiding anywhere.”

Erick laughed, saying, “So even more surveillance than normal?”

“I take it that this was not the case on Earth?”

Erick knew he was being pumped for information by one of the most powerful people on Veird. He knew this. But he didn’t want it to be this way. He wanted comradery. So he acted like a friend, and hopefully that would be enough to make it a reality.

Erick looked out at the darkness, and said, “Surveillance on Earth was pretty bad, but you still couldn’t just spend some mana and [Scry] anything you wanted to [Scry]. Information never vanished, though. Here on Veird you have books and ‘Knowledge Mages’, though I’m still not sure what those are, but your information goes cold. Someone could disappear if they wanted, and it would be difficult to find them without a starting point.”

“Are you looking to get lost in the world?”

“… It’s what Archmages do, right?” Erick said, “I certainly don’t want to vanish, but I am aware of the violence of your world. I’m here to learn how to defend myself from that violence so that I don’t need to go into hiding.”

The Headmaster nodded, saying, “You will have access to much knowledge, while you are here.” He added, “Dissuading others from their [Scry]ing ways is easy enough; any of the methods you will learn at Oceanside will provide you the privacy you seek. But you have provided many new ways of thinking, and magic, and even a whole new Class. You will need to prepare a great deal more for the trials of this world than most others.”

Erick smiled. “Got any tips?”

The Headmaster grinned out at the darkness, saying, “There are five people who have agreed to the terms of shared learning I have already outlined in the letter you received. It would have been ten, but the other five decided to be difficult regarding the bargain of trade.” He began listing names, “Tasar, Tenebrae, Ryul, Syllea, Hocni—”

“Tenebrae!” Erick said, “That asshole?”

The night shifted. The manasphere vibrated. Then the Headmaster laughed loud, three times, followed by a descending giggle. A sudden burst of mirth filtered out into the dark night, like a gong, much larger than the small man’s small body, reverberating through the forest, shaking the windows of the house. Erick felt both a reflection of that unbridled joy, and also like he would piss himself if the laughter went on for much longer. Thankfully, the Headmaster stopped laughing, but a brightness still filled the air.

The Headmaster said, “Tenebrae is certainly that way, but he is also one of the best Stone Mages to come along in four and a half centuries.”

“I’ll take your word on that,” Erick said, struggling to keep his voice even.

The Headmaster smiled, saying, “Tasar the Summoner. Tenebrae the Stone Mage. Then you have Ryul and Syllea; both Force Mages, though one is pure Force and the other is all for Alterings. Hocnihai is a Warder of uncommon ability. All of them are archmages. All of them have agreed to a bargain of trade. And I, too, will be sitting in, and trading.”

Erick joked, “I thought boarding and protection was a pretty good trade. Powell and Vinsez are part of your Elites, are they not?”

The Headmaster smirked into his coftea, saying, “They’re mostly here to knock down the students who decide to test you; Oceanside is a very safe place, even for famous archmages.” He added, “But feel free to knock down any wandering younglings that decide to bother you, though take care to not kill anyone. Lessons must be survived to be learned.” He frowned a little, adding, “Necromancy is forbidden in Oceanside.”

“Even for archmages looking to protect themselves?”

The Headmaster said, “Soulwork is for the advanced learners and those who have proven themselves a boon to society, who would not misuse such knowledge.” He added, “You are almost there, and that Silver Star helps your case a lot, so I will simply say that the option to learn soul magic will open up for you, but not right now.”

“Fair enough.”

The Headmaster finished his coftea and set his cup down, and stood up. Erick followed suit. As soon as he left the chair, both chairs, the table, and the tea set, vanished. Erick and the Headmaster stood alone on the grasses in front of Windy Manor, while wind blew through the tall trees outside of the garden-light lit property, and the stars twinkled in the cold sky. Erick spent a moment looking at where the tea set had been.

The Headmaster said, “I cleaned and placed the tea set back in the cupboards.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Thank you.”

The Headmaster said, “Krigea will be here in the morning to attend to your scheduling. If it is alright with you, I would like to schedule your lecture for the morning after tomorrow.”

“That’s fine.”

The Headmaster nodded, asking, “Is there anything else you would like to speak of, before I go?”

“I’m interested in a renewal-type spell that would renew and strengthen whatever spells there are going on around me. The opposite of a [Dispel]; a [Renew]. Any ideas?”

The Headmaster scrunched his face, then said, “If it weren’t for Particle magic I would call this spell an impossibility, but we are living in a new age of magic.” His eyes twinkled amber, as he said, “I thought you were going to ask about creating a [Gate] network.”

“You can see how the parts would work together.” Erick said, “Unless I have that completely wrong.”

The Headmaster paused. He asked, “You don’t simply wish to use grand-rads to power such a device?”

“No.” Erick said, “Shouldn’t we be working to kill all the monsters, anyway? When they’re gone, how would we work the magic that requires rads to function?”

The Headmaster went utterly still, and then he smiled, as he breathed out. Sadness filled his eyes. “The impossible dreams of youth.” He said, “This is why I run a school, you know? To hear these dreams, and nurture those hopes.”

Erick felt the crushing weight of sorrow-filled years as he gazed at the Headmaster, in his immaculate white and gold robes. The man-shaped dragon was ancient. At least 1400 years old, but likely much older, since he was there for the Sundering and he was one of the ones to shape the plane into a planet; to set Veird spinning around the newly-crafted sun.

Erick said, “Times change quickly once technology comes along. For my own world, we went from swords to starships in a hundred years. Would you like to see some of my world’s history?”

