The Headmaster stood as tall as his body would allow. A tendril of thought connected him to Erick, as he said, ‘I would love to see some of the history of another world.’

Pure need flowed along that connection, and Erick obliged.

The exchange was quick. Erick sent along pictures he remembered of the history books and shows he had seen over the years, giving small explanations here and there. He started with Ancient Greece, but quickly moved to Rome, then Great Britain bringing almost the entire world under their flag; almost never peacefully. Then came the printing press; books and words available to much of the world, speeding along ideas and information to the far corners of the globe. The industrial revolution came next, with brick towers belching smog into the air, but creating the wonders of cars and clothing and everything else on a scale never before seen on Earth.

A hundred years ago, people were dying to disease, but advancing microscopes and scientific study brought forth the cures from moldy cantaloupe, and antibiotics, and vaccines that managed to eradicate one disease forever, and hamper many others. People began to live longer, healthier lives. Food grew on modern farms, and everything got better. Computers made travel to the moon possible, and then humanity achieved that goal. Sure, missteps were made, and people suffered, but they also prospered.

Erick said, “The computers came about seventy years ago. The people back on Earth are probably going to start a colony on either Mars or the Moon in a few decades.” He smiled. “Interstellar travel is obviously possible, too. So… Who knows what could happen from here?”

The Headmaster stared at the sky, his eyes wide, his shoulders relaxed. He chuckled. He rubbed a tear from an eye, as he said, “Our universe used to be much bigger than one living planet and seven dead rocks.” He sniffled. He said, “Maybe, if you live long enough and your people continue to advance, they might just arrive in our skies one day. Interstellar travel is obviously possible, as you say.”

Erick laughed. “Maybe!”

The Headmaster turned to Erick, and said, “Thank you. Good night.”

“See you later, Headmaster—” Erick added, “Before you go? Do you mind if I rain over this property? And garden, a bit?”

He smiled, saying, “Go ahead. This house and area are yours for the duration of your stay.”

The air blipped yellow. When the light dissipated, the Headmaster was gone.

Erick went inside. Tiny-sized Ophiel instantly landed on Erick’s shoulder. Erick petted his [Familiar] as Teressa, Rats, Kiri, and Poi, each nonchalantly stood around in the main room. But as the door to the front lawn closed behind Erick, they all spoke at once.

Rats said, “Fucking hell he really is a dragon.”

“Of course he is, you dumbass!” Teressa said, “You heard that laugh.”

Poi asked, “What did you show him?”

Kiri asked, “Are we cleared for classes?!”

Erick smiled, saying, “Yeah. We are.”

Kiri gave a high pitched, quiet squeal.

Erick added, “And just some Earth history, Poi.”

Poi said, “Okay?” He frowned a little, saying, “I was worried there for a moment.”

“You made him cry!” Rats said, “How the fuck?”

Poi said, “Leave it be, Rats.”

Teressa said, “I need a beer.”

Kiri rushed to the kitchen, saying, “I saw some good stuff back here!”

Erick said, “Crack it open!”

Poi told Teressa, “You’re still on night shift.”

“A little beer is fine, Poi.” Erick said, “We’re in a new place, with new people, and it’s supposed to be the safest place in the world, right?”

Teressa paused. She looked to Poi, saying, “A small drink.”

“Very small,” Poi agreed.

- - - -

Erick spent a long time relaxing in the tub. Hot running water was wonderful.

Eventually, Erick started to prune. He got out of the tub and [Cleanse]d the water before pulling the plug. He didn’t have to [Cleanse] the bathwater, but it seemed like the nice thing to do. Soon enough, Erick went to bed in his second floor room with Ophiel curled up on the pillow beside him. Erick slept well, even if it was in a strange, new bed, in a new land.

Nothing happened during the rest of the night.

- - - -

Erick woke up late. The sun shone down from the forest on the other side of the house. After a late breakfast, Erick went out and found Vinsez and Powell. The groundskeepers were in their own house, separate from the main Manor, but inside the property walls.

After clearing it with them, and them showing him where he could plant his garden to the side of the front lawn, Erick planted the seeds for coftea bushes, lemon trees, potatoes, and corn. With a tall stack of [Exalted Storm Aura] reaching into the sky, his garden grew from seeds to mature plants, with platinum rain to speed them along and Erick’s Handy Aura to ensure that the trees grew tall and the rest grew in nice, orderly rows, ready for picking.

Ophiel watched from Erick’s shoulder.

In a sudden blip of seafoam green light, Krigea showed up in the sky outside of the property two minutes into the platinum rain. She looked to the sky, watching the rain fall, as she hovered to the front lawn.

Erick finished up with the garden, asking her, “Good morning!” He cut the [Exalted Storm Aura]. The clouds overhead began to wisp away in the ocean breeze. “Time for classes?”

Krigea said, “I thought you might like a tour, first. I also thought you might still be sleeping in; the timezone change is rather large.”

“Only five hours.” Erick turned away from his garden, saying, “As soon as Kiri and Poi are ready—”

A door opened behind Erick. He turned around to see Kiri, dressed in some of her nicest clothes, and Poi wearing his usual dress clothes; no armor. Kiri carried two bags; hers, and Erick’s.

Erick said, “I guess we’re ready.” He turned to a plot of turned soil and [Stoneshape]ed some free stone from the ground. [Teleporting Platform]. A disk of stone coalesced from the dirt Erick prepared, three meters wide and laced through with the circular rune for [Teleport]. The platform hovered in the air; a solid step and a vehicle ready for transport. Erick stepped on, saying, “Room enough for us all.”

Kiri immediately, soundlessly, got on behind Erick, while Poi took more than one second to do the same.

Krigea bowed in the air, saying, “This way, please.”

She flew into the sky, over the cliffs. Wind tugged lightly at her clothes, but whatever spell she used was keeping her safe from the vast majority of the wind. When Erick moved the platform over the ocean, the wind tore at the platform. Poi grunted as the platform shifted slightly out of Erick’s control.

Erick dropped a [Weather Ward] into the center of the platform. The windy weather went away, instantly.

Poi said, “You could have done that yesterday, too.”

“And miss out on the experience of feeling the wind? No thank you.” Erick said, “Besides, it was fun to tease Rats.”

Poi deadpanned, “Is that the story you’re going with?”

Erick laughed as he brought the platform into the air, past the trees, to see the cream and pastel Oceanside Arcanaeum in the distance. Kiri quietly squealed again, as Erick followed Krigea through the sky, to the city.

- - - -

In a hidden section in another part of the world, in a place where coral reefs stretched up from the ocean floor and islands dotted the surface, there laid a lair, in an unassuming section of that coral reef. Much of that lair was hidden, but two exposed parts were covered by complicated illusions; the entrance, and a larger location on the edge of the coral reef, that looked out into the deep blue. The larger of the illusions by far, hid that viewing room on the side of the reef.

The viewing room was a large amphitheater of flat stone and tall glass, a hundred meters wide and tall. It was a dry, air filled space behind glass and one-way illusions. The view of that room looked out at a deep blue sea of sharks and whales and sunlight. Most mortals would be scared to see nine-meter monsters floating right outside such a large, vulnerable pane of glass, but Headmaster Kirginatharp loved it. For others, the space was a viewing room, but for Kirginatharp, it was his larder.

Two minutes ago, he had [Teleport]ed into those waters and plucked himself a juicy Great Black shark. The Headmaster was already halfway done eating the shark, but he contemplated grabbing a second one. For, you see, he had a problem.

A hundred meters long and covered in gold scales, Kirginatharp, Second to Rozeta, tossed the last fifth of the shark into the air and snapped it up, swallowing the remains of the beast in one bite. He savored the taste for a moment, then turned back to a conjured blackboard, to the side of his larder.

… He went and got a second shark.

Dripping saltwater and blood onto the floor of his viewing room, Kirginatharp went over the list again.

Pros

Cons

More Particle Magic

Too much new magic

Possible Scan spell better than [Eyes of the Goddess]

Upsets current politics

New classes and professorships

New classes and professorships

Gate network might be possible

I have to teach him, personally

Computers, technology

A lot of hassle

Printing press

Knowledge of another world that is applicable to Veird

Space ships

He knows at least 2 more hidden magics, likely more

Jane is a good leverage, if needed

I want the Shades dead, too

I want his Scan spell

Kill all monsters

Less food? I can live with that.

By the Light, a [Renew] spell! Maybe?

Kirginatharp munched on his second shark, thinking. Contemplating. Debating with himself. Over the next hour, with a precise bit of [Telekinesis] and a tiny piece of conjured chalk, he added several more pros and a few more cons. And he thought.

He frowned. He sighed. That sigh turned into a deep groan of displeasure, rumbling the glass of his larder, scaring away a juicy shark on the other side of the glass. Eh! Whatever! He ignored the quickly vanishing meal; he was full enough, anyway. Best not to overeat. He turned back to his blackboard.

He read, and reread, still trying to decide.

A white and gold voice spoke to the side of the room, “The pros obviously have it. But...”

Kirginatharp turned slightly. Rozeta stood to the side of his larder, wearing her white wrought human-shaped body. Kirginatharp turned back to his lists.

Rozeta stepped toward the blackboard, walking on top of saltwater puddles tainted red from sharkblood. She reached the board, and picked up the chalk, writing over the entirety of it all:

Melemizargo wants him alive and making magic.

Rozeta turned to Kirginatharp, saying, “That’s the crux of it, son.”

Kirginatharp sighed again, rumbling his lair, agreeing, “That’s the whole quandary, Mother.”
