“Eleanor doesn’t hate many people. The duke is more discerning. And forceful.”

“And that’s when you started discussing possible bridegrooms?”

“Yes.”

“I understand you and Massey were competing to find the best possible man for the job.”

“It might have been in poor taste, Inspector, but I never meant for anything to happen. It seemed like a harmless outlet for my frustration, and it was an interesting question.”

“You never seriously considered doing it?”

“Of course not! It was nothing but a game.”

“Did you think it would work?”

“No. But then, I never considered using Mr. Penn’s name. If Winfield was still alive, I think both Massey and I would have to bow to him as champion.”

When the marquess felt Haley eyeing him, he decided more of an explanation was in order.

“You see, there was always a fundamental flaw in our devious little plan; the moment the invitations were published, all the prospective groom would have to do is deny he’d ever sent them, and the whole thing would fall apart. Of all the men in the world, I think Winfield chose the only one who might have been willing to play along.” Fitzmon shook his head. “Watching it unfold was awe-inspiring.”

“Why didn’t you tell me all this the last time we talked?”

“Inspector, the last time we talked, you asked me if I knew who had sent the invitations. I answered you honestly.”

It was clear that Haley didn’t approve of this form of honesty. It was equally clear that Fitzmon didn’t care.

Haley said, “If it had worked and Lady Serrs was forced to pick from one of her suitors, who do you think she would have chosen?”

“Me.”

“Even though she refused you?”

“Eleanor refused all of us, so there’s no reason to think she prefers any one of us over the other. If there’s no strong personal preference, I think most people would choose me over Massey.”

There was a short silence.

“I said I didn’t find her particularly intelligent,” Fitzmon said. “I never said she was stupid.”

“I meant the question to include Mr. Winfield.”

The marquess shook his head. “She wouldn’t have chosen Winfield.”

There was something about the offhanded assurance of his answer that struck like a needle, piercing through all the haze of half-thought questions, lodging itself in Haley’s mind. As his certainty grew, a chill crept over him.

“You’re the one who told her, aren’t you? You told her about the bet.”

Fitzmon could sense the intensity behind the accusation, despite the fact the inspector had tried to keep his voice composed. It only took him a moment to entertain, then discard the idea of pretending he didn’t understand.

“I did,” he said.

“Why?”

“I thought she deserved to know.”

“Why, Fitzmon?”

“She deserved to know! With myself and Massey, she knew her father had approached us. It was only fair that she knew why Winfield had approached her.”

“And you told her as soon as you found out?”

The marquess hesitated. “No.”

“Why not?”

“Because I didn’t think it would matter. I thought she would turn him down—”

“But when it looked like his suit was going well, you told her.” Haley had to swallow back his disgust. “Did you know Dominic Winfield was in love with Lady Serrs?”

“I suspected something of the kind, but that doesn’t change what he did.”

“Did you hate Dominic Winfield?”

“Not at all! I had nothing but respect for Winfield.”

“And yet you undermined his courtship with the woman he loved.”

“That courtship was based on a lie. You can’t claim a prize by cheating.”

“She’s not a prize! She’s a person! Did you even think about how it would hurt her?”

“Oh, come on, Inspector! She didn’t love him! Do you honestly believe that any woman in love wouldn’t be able to overlook something like that? She’d have created a thousand excuses before I finished telling her.”

“And you think that makes it all right?”

Both men stopped to take a breath and calm themselves.

It was Fitzmon who spoke first: “Chief Inspector, it’s obvious you don’t approve of what I did, and I admit I didn’t know it would hit Winfield that hard, but I don’t regret my decision, and I would do it again.”

“Did Winfield know you told her?”

“I don’t know. I only spoke to Eleanor. Whether she told anyone, I couldn’t say. If she did tell Winfield, he never mentioned it to me.”

“Where were you on Wednesday night?”

“I was here, working.”

“At night?”

“It’s normal for me to work late.”

“Can anyone confirm you were here?”

“I believe Malcolm was here until seven-thirty. Then I was alone in the building.”

“Do you still live at your father’s house?”

“I do.”

“What time did you get home?”

“Eleven. I ran into our housekeeper as I was on my way to bed.”

“Then you didn’t hear about Lady Serrs’ kidnapping?”

“By the time I learned about it, she was already safe. The duke came in late the next morning—which is understandable—and I was able to give him my sympathy then and ask how she was doing.”

As the silence stretched on, Fitzmon added, “Are there any other questions?”

“Not at this time, Your Lordship.”

Fitzmon stood up. “Then if you’ll excuse me, Inspector, I have work to do. If you think of anything else, I’ll leave instructions with my secretary to bring your calls to me immediately.”

Haley left without another word. A man had been waiting to show him out, but he might as well have been a shadow for all the inspector noticed him.

When Haley got outside, he stood in the middle of the sidewalk and let the city move around him. The noise and chaos of it was somehow comforting. As he allowed his eyes to rove over the figures in the crowd, he realized he was looking for anyone who might be Penn. He wasn’t sure if he wanted a chase or if he wanted to ask the thief for a favor—a little simple violence that was denied to him—but, like always, Penn wasn’t where he was supposed to be.
