I turned my nose away in a gesture that said, “Thanks, but we’ll be fine.” I then started padding towards the bridge. Then used Pack Bond to tell Lily and Grick, “Let’s go.”

I heard an audible “tsk” from the fox as we prepared to leave her behind. However, just as we were approaching the bridge, she bounded up alongside us and got in our way.

“Really! I was just in a bad mood earlier over my pants getting ripped! I’m really quite nice!”

I fixed her with another narrow stare. What was with her? This was a complete 180 on her attitude.

“So I’ll just stick around until you get to where you’re trying to go. And once I know you’re safe…”

I let a single fang bare as I let a growl rise to a bark. “Leave us alone!”

She flinched. But then her expression dropped into a dry stare as she focused her golden eyes on me. “Alright listen, pup. I’m just going to stick around for a while. It’s no big deal, alright?”

I raised a brow.

She had been ready to leave us when she presumably started checking her stat screen… or was it another kind of system message?

Then, I thought of what she had said, ‘So I’ll just stick around until you get to where you’re trying to go.’

She could have surmised we had a particular destination in mind, but the way she had phrased that… Didn’t it sound like she knew we were going somewhere? She also said, ‘Just until I know you are safe.’

Then it hit me. Back when I got my quest to kill the red masks who were hunting us, a nice unintended consequence was that the quest also revealed how many of them were hunting us. Though I was, of course, increasingly suspicious that everything the System did was in fact intentional.

I’d bet that Miss Vulpyr just got a quest and that’s what this sudden change in attitude was all about! Still, that gave me no reason to trust her without knowing what exactly the quest was. It could have been something like, Stop the Hell Hounds before they make it to the Verdant Empire.

Well, maybe that wouldn’t quite be it… If it were about stopping us, she’d just attack. Still, I didn’t trust her!

I turned my nose up at her and walked past, stepping onto the bridge.

“Wait! It’s much faster to go this way along the river!” she insisted as Grick and Lily followed me.

That double confirmed it. She definitely knew we were going somewhere. But I had every intention of following Genzo’s advice and staying far away from the Umarii lands. I now knew where at least two of my brothers were, but knew I likely couldn’t save them myself, so I had to trust that Genzo’s people would help me and I could make my way to the Burning Steeps later.

“Come on! I know you understand me, so why don’t you listen! It’s this way!” the fox insisted.

Maybe her quest was, ‘Lead the Hell Hounds into the Umarii’s clutches before they make it to the Verdant Empire.’

It was certainly a possibility, so I wasn’t taking any chances with this sly fox.

The bridge was weathered and broken in some spots. I had to hop over some missing boards, but we crossed easily enough and were soon on the other side. The fox followed behind much more cautiously, each of her heavy steps creaking the bridge, and she watched her paws carefully as she went. “You little brats! You should learn to listen to your elders!” she grumbled.

Huh, so much for the nice fox routine.

Lily and Grick looked between the fox and me uncertainly once we were on the other side, and she was still carefully making her way across.

“Just ignore her,” I told them.

When she was near the bridge's end, she took one last leap to finish her way across, then she bounded up next to us once again. “Listen, I’m going to help you get there, then I’ll be on my way. You’re going in the wrong direction, and I’d like to get this over with as soon as possible! If you don’t mind!” She let a growl rumble in her chest.

I trotted ahead and flicked my tail at her. I would have liked to say, “Not my problem!” but I think the gesture did the trick anyway.

The fox pounded both paws on the ground in frustration. “Aaah! Such a damn pain in the tail!”

I looked over my shoulder with a dry expression, thinking, “Come on, don’t resort to stupid puns.”

Grick used a finger to pull down one eyelid and blew a raspberry at her. “Stupid fox lady!”

Lily and Grick continued alongside me while the fox skulked behind us. I didn’t really have a way of getting rid of her, and she was probably faster than us, so I supposed we’d just have to put up with her presence for now.

Read Next Chapter Now!
