“Thank you, Seeker,” Tol’brekk said, and if Death Knights could shed tears, Ali knew he would be crying. “Please, allow me to serve you – I will endure this wretched existence; the continued agony of undeath. Anything to ensure their survival.”

“Perhaps we can fix even that,” Ali said, tugging on his enormous hand and drawing him toward the shrine. “I have a new feature I need to test, and this is the perfect time.”

“Very well,” he said, “What do you require of me?”

“Use the shrine. Revert your evolution.”

“I will do as you ask.” He placed a massive palm against the heavy black stone, and moments later, the shrine surged with power, runes flashing as all the remaining stored mana vanished. Immediately, the massive Death Knight shrank, and then Ali felt the death-affinity mana holding him in undead animation slipping as her connection suddenly failed. Her Grimoire appeared in a sudden storm of gold and green.

“Thank you, Seeker…”  Tol’brekk toppled sideways and hit the ground like an uprooted mountain, lying still in the field of Spectral Wraithroses.

Ali’s reservation snapped, but she could tell that her experiment had worked. The only reason he had collapsed was that he had transitioned from undeath and her trick with her local domain mana had not been able to keep up with the change. It was a simple matter of mana, and a minute later, she resummoned him without needing her domain to keep him alive.

Tol’brekk [The Crimson Blade of Carnage] – Giant Troll – level 100 (Blood)Your reserved mana has increased by +706.A massive, healthy Giant Troll stood before her, intelligent eyes catching hers filled with far more than could be spoken. “Thank you,” he said, glancing over at his own undead corpse still lying by the shrine.

With a glance, Ali confirmed his class had reverted to Blood Berserker. He was back to normal, if a giant berserker troll could ever be considered normal. He had lost an enormous amount of the power that had come from his evolution and forced class change to Death Knight, but he was smiling. And he was ready for his evolution, just as soon as the shrine mana was refilled.

“What now, Seeker?” he asked.

“I have something fun in mind,” she said, beckoning a witch doctor over.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
