“Yes, yes.” Narhilda said, and sat up as well. “We can't pretend to be asleep anymore, Nathalia.”

“Yes, we can.” Nathalia said, and didn't move. “The world doesn't need us yet. Ren does.”

Ren got up and walked around the bed to her and knelt down. “I'm always going to need you, Nathalia.” He said and kissed her. “The entire population of the Kingdom is depending on you making their new monarch look so pretty they can't breathe.”

Nathalia chuckled and opened her eyes. “Okay, fine.” She sat up and looked at Narhilda with a huge grin on her face. “I've got a lot of work ahead of me.”

Narhilda fake gasped. “You shouldn't insult the ruler of your land like that!”

“Ladies, please.” Ren said, and they both turned to him. He stood up and held a hand out to both of them. “It's hard enough for me not being able to stay here all day with you; stalling is not helping the situation.”

They took his extended hands, and he helped them stand up. They only wore their dress slips, and Ren hugged them close. He gave Narhilda a quick kiss.

“Go out there and make this Kingdom a better place, just like it should be.” Ren said. “Show them how great you are, and what you can do.” He turned his head to Nathalia and gave her a quick kiss, too. “Your job is to take care of her every need before she knows she needs it.”

Nathalia smiled. “I know that.”

“Well, she needs to get dressed and ready for the meeting.” Ren said. “What should you be doing right now?”

“Making love to you.” Nathalia said without missing a beat, and he chuckled.

“If we had the time, not only would it have happened already, we'd all still be in the bed.” Ren said and grinned.

Nathalia rolled her eyes at him, and sighed as she hugged him close.

“Don't worry.” Ren said. “I'll come back tonight and make sure I keep you awake for a few hours. At least.”

“You'd better!” Nathalia said and kissed him. When they broke the kiss, he looked at Narhilda.

“You'll get the same amount of attention, I assure you.”

“I have no doubt.” Narhilda smiled and kissed him, too.

Ren let them out of the hug. “Now get going.” He said, and lightly slapped them on their butts at the same time. “You've got work to do.”

Both women's mouths dropped open in surprise and jumped slightly. Ren smiled crookedly and admired their chests as they jiggled. The two women stared at him as he held his hands in front of his own chest, and did pincer movements with the index finger and thumb of both hands.

“Don't make me use the key!” Ren said, and reached for their butts to pinch them.

“Aahhh!” They said together in mock horror, covered their butt cheeks with their hands, and Ren chased them around the bedroom for a few minutes. Riley and Stacy were up for a bit of chase the prey, and joined in. They hopped onto the bed, and barked a few times, then helped Ren chase them down. He caught them easily, flipped up their slips, and kissed their cheek instead of pinching them. After a bit of laughter and some giggling, he helped Nathalia get Narhilda ready for the first meeting, and equipped his Travelling Clothes and Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak.

“I'll see you tonight.” Ren said. “The mines are only half an hour outside of the city. I can run that far practically asleep.”

They nodded slightly to him, then there was a knock on the door.

“One moment.” Narhilda said, and turned to Ren. “Do you remember what you said to me after you told me you loved me?”

“Of course I do.” Ren said. “That was an important moment in my life.”

“It has to apply in this case as well.” She said, a little sadly.

“Of course, My Lady.” Ren said, and bowed slightly to her. “No public signs of affection can be seen; but while in the bedroom, there's no holds barred.”

She bit her lip slightly, and looked at him expectantly. He grinned and kissed her passionately. She hugged him closely and kissed him back. He broke the kiss a moment later, and stepped back. Narhilda's face was flushed slightly red, and he smiled.

“Come.” Ren said, and the door opened to show Dural standing there, with a group of dwarves behind him.

“Ah! I see you're ready for the meeting. Excellent.” He said and stepped aside. “Shall we go?”

“Of course.” Narhilda said and Riley and Stacy took up their positions on either side of her. Ren hooked Nathalia's arm and pulled her close. He kissed her just as passionately as he'd kissed Narhilda. She ran a hand through his hair and when he broke the kiss, she was a little breathless. Several of the dwarves in the hall chuckled.

“Wh-what was that for?” Nathalia asked, and blinked at him.

“I love you.” Ren said. “Have a good day at work.”

“Th-thank you.” Nathalia said, and followed Narhilda and the dogs out of the apartment. Ren waited for a couple of minutes to give them time to get to where they were going, then left the apartment himself with Teepo flying ahead of him. It didn't take long to get back to the lobby, now that he knew where to go, and he walked down the hallway to the passage into the Main Keep. Ren approached the hidden door, concentrated on it, and thought Deactivate. The door appeared and he opened it, stepped through, and closed it. The door disappeared again, and Ren shook his head.

I have got to learn how to do that. Ren thought and walked down the hallway.

“It's probably a spell.” Teepo said. “I don't remember you saying you saw any runes.”

They might be hidden. Ren thought. I wonder who I could ask about it?

“Probably the Enchanter's Guild, but I don't know if they'd tell you anything.”

Yeah, enchanters guard their secrets even harder than dwarves do. Ren chuckled. Can you imagine how secretive a dwarf enchanter is?

“I think the word 'hermit' comes to mind.”

Ren smiled as he turned into the General Records room and walked over to the desk with the female dwarf sitting there.

“Hey, you.” She said.

“No 'your highness', 'your majesty', 'your grace', or anything?” Ren said and smiled.

“I think we know each other enough to get by all of that.” She chuckled. “What can I do for you today?”

“I need a copy of a standard indentured servitude form.” Ren said. “And I'd like to know how to make doors invisible.”

She raised her eyebrows at him. “Here's the form.” She grabbed it from a pile without looking at it. “You don't have the qualifications for the other knowledge.”

“What qualifications?”

“You need to be a magic user to cast the spell.”

You were right, Teepo. It is a spell. Ren thought, and felt Teepo's amusement.

“I can use a wand.” Ren said, and the female dwarf looked at him with wide eyes.

“You have a wand.” She asked. “A blank wand.”

Ren nodded slightly and took out one of the fireball wands and absorbed the charges in it. He held it out to her, and she examined it.

“Well, damn.” She said and looked at him. “You do realize what this means.”

Ren nodded. “I can put any spell in it, assuming I have the Mana available for it.”

“It's only a level 1 wand, though.”

“A what?”

She smiled. “It would need to be at least a level 3 wand to hold the spell.”

Ren looked at the skill and frowned because it didn't say anything about a wand level. “How many levels of wand are there?”

“Five.” She said, and Ren nodded slightly.

It's a level for each stage of advancement. Ren thought. Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced, Expert, and Master.

“Hold on.” Ren said. “Major Healing is a level 1 wand spell?”

She nodded. “Anything a basic magic user can use is level 1. As they advance in levels, new spells are unlocked.”

“Can you give me the spell anyway?” Ren asked. “I'll get a level 3 wand eventually.”

She shook her head. “I don't have the spells here, all I could have done was given you a recommendation for the Mage Guild.”

“Oh. Well, thanks for the information.” Ren said, and read the indentured servitude form. “Wow, this thing sucks.”

The female dwarf laughed. “Indentured servitude isn't supposed to be a picnic lunch.”

Ren shook his head. “No, I mean this literally states that you have to do whatever the holder of the contract says.”

“Uh huh.”

Ren sighed. “Why is this thing even legal?”

“The Council voted it in years ago.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “Yeah, and people stopped reading it soon after that.”

She looked at him like he was crazy, and he laughed.

“Is there any chance I can modify this, submit it as an alteration, and use it until the Council votes on it in a month and a half?”

She smiled at him, and nodded slightly. “There's precedent for that, sure.”

“Great!” Ren said and took out a piece of parchment, and copied the form nearly word for word, but changed the wording slightly in one section, so that someone could only be ordered to do the job they were hired for, and nothing else. It wouldn't stop people from being hired specifically to be used as sex objects; but, at least someone hired to mine wouldn't be contractually obligated to do everything the boss asked for. He handed it to the female dwarf, and she read it. Her eyes widened at the implications of that one changed sentence, and she stared at Ren.

“Why hasn't anyone caught this before?” She asked.

“You're all so caught up in how things are done, no one is thinking about how things 'should' be done.” Ren said. “Plus, I'm a fresh set of eyes. I've gotten really good at finding loopholes in things.”

She smiled. “You know what?” She asked as she stamped the new contract form with something. “I'm not even going to put this in the 'Pending for Review' file.” She got up and went to another file cabinet and opened the drawer. “This is going right into the 'Confirmed and Waiting for Approval' file.” She slipped the new form in, and closed the drawer. She came back over to the desk and sat down. “It should slip right through, and no one is even going to look at it twice before approving it.”

“Oh, you're sneaky.” Ren said and grinned.

“You flatterer.” She laughed as she handed him a copy of the new form. “Is there anything else?”

“Yes.” Ren said. “I assume you've heard that I'll be leaving soon.”

She nodded slightly and sighed. “I had the morning off for the execution.”

“Then I need to give you a new toy before I leave.”

She chuckled. “I've still got the one you gave me.”

“That old thing?” Ren said, and walked around to her side of the desk. He took her hand, and she waited in anticipation for what came next. He didn't let her down, and kissed her cheek. She blushed slightly, and put a hand up to cover the spot. Ren took out a platinum coin after distracting her. “This one spins much better.”

Her eyes nearly bulged out of her head as Ren spun the dragon-faced coin on her desk.

“Thank you so much for all of your help.” He said and walked away.

*

He... he did not... he didn't... She thought, as the coin came to a stop and fell onto it's side and the dragon's face stared up at her.

*

Ren left the Main Keep and everyone stared at him as he passed. I'm not even concentrating on my Aura, and they still stare.

“It's not your Aura, Ren.” Teepo said. “Haven't you noticed that they are all smiling at you?”

Ren looked a little more closely at some of the people, then smiled himself and started to run. He ran all the way back to House Neram Keep and was greeted by Wohrum and Golir. He nodded slightly to them, and went inside the stable to check on Princess. She'd been well fed, and greeted him as if he'd been there the whole time. He told her to run on her track if she wanted, and she huffed at him. Ren went into the house and checked on the baby fire elemental, and saw it was nearly 6 inches across. There were still a few squares of fabric left in the pen, too.

“You're getting big.” Ren said and picked it up. “Yes, you are!” He tickled it, and heard a crackling fire. “I can't leave you here, since I don't know when I'll be back.” Ren said and stored the pen he'd made and put the baby fire elemental in the hood of his cloak.

He went into the kitchen and looked in the icebox. It was still nearly full of food, so he stored the icebox and locked the house when he left. He went out to the guards and told them to let Princess out to run on her track if she wanted, and he'd be back in a few days to get her to go for a long run. Ren ran up to the workshop and saw several women there working.

“How's everything coming along?” Ren asked them, and they smiled.

“We'll have this all gone by the end of next week.” One of them said. “We're up to 800 bags a day now!”

Ren chuckled as he remembered her. “Come inside for a minute, please.”

The women stopped shoveling and went inside as Ren held the door for them. He went inside and only saw a few sacks of cement.

“Tee-one takes them every hour or so.” Dorathy said as she sewed up another sack. “Ruck's really good at sewing, too!”

“I'm sure you've taught him well.” Ren said, then repaired the women's clothing and equipment. “I assume you've heard that I'll have to leave in a few months.”

The women became sad and nodded slightly.

“We feel really bad about that.” One of them said. “You've done so much for everyone, and they're making you leave.”

Ren nodded slightly. “At least they didn't say, 'right away'.”

Some of them gasped, because they hadn't thought of that possibility.

“That's why I came here today, before I go to start my sentence.”

“Hard labor in the mines!” Another woman said. “I can't believe it.”

Ren chuckled. “Don't worry.” He said. “Hard labor for me is just labor.”

She smiled at him. “I'm really glad to hear that.”

“Me, too.” “I'm happy about that, too.” “Can I pet your hair?”

Several women laughed, and the woman blushed from embarrassment. Ren went to her and knelt in front of her.

“Go ahead.” He said. “You're not going to get another chance.”

“Th-th-thank you!” She said, and blushed deeply as she put a hand on his head and ruffled his hair. “By the gods, that's...” She put her other hand in and grinned. “...it's so FLUFFY!”

“Now I have to touch it, too!” One of the others said, then Ren was swamped with women's hands ruffling his hair before he could say 'one at a time'. A few minutes later, he stood up and his hair was a mass of fluff. The women laughed as he tried to fix it; but, it was well and truly messed up.

“I'm sor... okay, I'm not sorry.” The one who'd asked first, said. “I've wanted to do that since the first time I saw that mass of hair.”

Ren chuckled. “I get that reaction a lot.”

“I hope... I hope you'll be happy wherever you go.”

