“I thought you were going to have a hamburger?” Stella asked.

“Why would I fill up on healthy protein and bread, when I can suck down grease and salt like there's no tomorrow?” Ren said as he pulled a gravy-coated french fry from the pile and shoved it into his mouth.

“Because you'll want to live until tomorrow?” Stella asked, then laughed as Ren picked up another fry, stuck the end in his mouth, and sucked it in with a loud slurping sound.

“I hope you realize that you're going to have plain white rice and water for supper.”

Ren picked up another french fry, tilted his head back, and dropped it in his mouth. “Totally worth it.”

Elise smiled as she leaned closer to Stella. “Is he always like this to be around?”

“No.” Stella said and grinned. “Sometimes he's happy.”

Ren snorted a laugh. It was lucky for Stella that he had been between eating fries; or there would have been bits of fries strewn all across the table.

Elise chuckled for a few moments, then looked at Stella. “How's the testing coming along?”

“I've already got my baseline stats recorded and indexed.” She said. “It took a while to get things set up at my place, but everything is ready to go now.”

“What about Ren?” Elise asked.

“This is my first day back with Ren since I got the headsets, so I haven't gotten his baseline done yet.” Stella looked at him. “He's already had a full day of excitement, and it's only just past noon.” She said. “I might have to wait until we have a normal day before getting his stats.”

Elise nodded. “His levels will definitely be skewed today.” She said. “What preliminary tests are you using to-”

“No work at the dinner table, young lady.” Ren said, and pointed a french fry at Elise. “You are to sit there, look pretty, and enjoy our company like a good girl.” He saw the gravy was about to slide off of the french fry and ate it. “You can worry about work when the meal is done.”

“Yes, sir!” Elise beamed a smile at him.

“You better not try to tell me that.” Stella said, while trying to stop herself from laughing.

“Like you'd listen to what I say.” Ren rolled his eyes, then grinned after he ate another french fry. “I know the limits of my awesome cuteness powers.”

Elise laughed and Stella joined her. They enjoyed the rest of the meal while they shared small talk. When they were done, they left the restaurant and climbed back into the Hummer H2.

“Oh, that was delicious! Thanks, Ren!” Ren said, and rubbed his slightly bulged stomach. “You're welcome, stomach. But don't expect this treat every day!” He said and pat it. “Maybe once a week. You can't be greedy.”

“Once a week, he says.” Stella shook her head and smiled. “You'll be lucky to get that once a month. If that.”

“Aww.” Ren said. He covered his mouth with a hand, turned towards the window, then burped. “Excuse me.” He said, then turned back to look at Stella. “My stomach just protested your unfair terms of feeding it.”

Elise snorted a laugh. “I think someone is suffering from gravy shock.” She said. “What's your professional opinion, Stella?”

“In my professional opinion, he will be spending more time in the bathroom this evening than he thinks he will.”

“I didn't really need that image in my head.” Elise laughed. “Thanks a lot!”

“I'm always glad to help.” Stella said and grinned.

Elise drove through the city, and back to the hospital. She pulled into the parking lot and came to a stop in the same spot she'd had when she'd been there before.

“It was really nice spending this time with the both of you.” Elise said, as she turned to look at Ren, then at Stella. “I don't remember the last time I had this much fun, without loud music and free drinks being involved.”

“Same here.” Ren said as he took off his seat belt, and the two women laughed. Elise got out and went around to the back of the H2, and Stella was quick to follow. They got the wheelchair out and went to Ren's door.

“Come on, you lush.” Stella said, after Elise opened the passenger door. “We've used up enough of Elise's time today.”

“It's really all right.” Elise said as Ren climbed down out of the seat. “I'm actually tempted to keep chauffeuring you around town...” She looked at Ren. “...but I think we've pretty much worn you out for today.”

Ren sighed as he sat in the wheelchair. “I'm not sure if it was the company, or the gravy fries.”

“Gravy fries.” Elise and Stella said at the same time, then laughed again.

“Four helpings of gravy fries, to be exact.” Ren said, and grinned as Stella shook her head.

“I take care of you, and I have no idea where you put it all.”

“Match called for time. Endless stomach, one; endless gravy fries, zero.” Ren said. “Tune in next time for the rematch. Will the stomach prevail again, or will the gravy fries finally get it's tasty revenge?”

“I know you can't be this funny all the time.” Elise smiled. “But if I didn't have to work for a living, I swear I could just hang around and listen to you talk all day.”

“I spend most of the day playing F.L.O.W., so you're not missing much witty banter.” Ren said. “I do have my moments to shine, though.”

“I can imagine.” Elise grinned and turned to Stella. “Thanks for letting me come along.”

“Come along?” Stella shook her head. “You practically hijacked us.” She smiled. “We'd have gone straight to the bank and come right back hours ago.”

“Thanks for not complaining, then.” Elise said. “Don't forget the bags.”

“Right.” Stella said, and went to the back storage area to get Ren's things. Elise crouched down to an almost kneeling position to look Ren in the eyes. “And thank you, Ren.” She held out a hand for him to shake. “I had a great time.”

Ren took her hand; but instead of shaking her hand like normal, he automatically did what he would do when he greeted a woman in the dwarf kingdom. Since he knew his place in her social standing, he turned her hand to the side to have it face him, and placed a light kiss on her fingers.

“It was nice spending time with you, too.” Ren said, and let her hand go. “I hope we can do it again sometime.”

“S-s-so do I.” Elise said, completely flustered. Her face flushed a little red as she stood up.

“I better get him inside.” Stella said, as she came back with the bags. “See you later.”

“B-bye.” Elise said as Stella rolled Ren across the parking lot and into the hospital.

*

Elise watched the hospital doors close, walked around to the driver's side of the H2 in kind of a daze, then climbed in.

Oh, my GOD! She thought, as she cupped the hand Ren had kissed to her large chest. She closed her eyes and took several deep breaths.  I will not geek out. I will not geek out. I will not... oh, god... I'm geeking out!  She started to shake with giddiness, and let out a chuckle of laughter.

“He kissed my hand!”

*

Ren signed back in at the main desk, and Stella took him up the elevator and to his room. He got out of the wheelchair and she handed him one of the bags.

“I assume you want to wear the red one first.” Stella said.

“Yeah.” Ren said and put the bag on the bed. He unbuttoned his shirt and slid it off, then tried to fold it.

“I'll do that in a minute.” Stella said and took the shirt from him. She then took out the red pajama top and held it out for him to slide into.

“Thanks.” Ren said and buttoned it up. He picked up the bag and went into the bathroom. He came out a couple of minutes later wearing the full set. “I feel a lot more grown up wearing something like this.” He handed her his pants and she folded them up.

“You look a lot more grown up wearing that.” Stella said, and put his clothes away. “You made a good choice.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, then put a hand on her arm. “Thank you for today.”

Stella smiled. “It's my job.”

Ren shook his head. “No, it isn't.” He said. “You got yourself certified to take me outside all on your own.” He smiled. “I'd be stuck in here, with my only way out being the virtual world.”

“I couldn't let that happen.” Stella said. “You'd wither away if you didn't go out every so often.”

“You see? Caring about me like that is not your job.” Ren said. “So, thank you.”

“Get in bed before you make me blush, you rascal.” Stella said, put away the papers from the bank and the television series contract, and locked the cabinet. “You need to rest after all of this excitement.”

“You don't have to tell me twice.” Ren said, and climbed into bed. When he got settled, he grinned. “Ohhhh, yeahhhhh. That's comfy.”

Stella chuckled. “Your other pajamas were comfy, too.”

“These have matching underwear, though.”

“Is that a challenge?” Stella asked and grinned. “I'll go out tomorrow and find a nice pair of comfy Cookie Monster underwear for you.”

“No, that's okay.” Ren laughed. “These new jockey shorts are just fine, thanks.”

“Are you sure?” Stella asked. “I'm sure Elise wouldn't mind seeing you in them.”

“You saw how she reacted when I came out wearing these.” Ren chuckled as he plucked at the new pajamas. “I think she'd enjoy seeing me wear pretty much anything.”

Stella grinned. “You caught that, did you?”

Ren nodded. “I'm sure if I decided to buy a whole new wardrobe, she'd practically hold me hostage as I tried everything on for her.”

“I think you'd be the one holding her hostage.” Stella said. “She's got it for you pretty bad.”

“No way.” Ren said. “There's no doubt that she likes me...” He saw Stella's glare, and smiled. “Okay, she likes me a lot.” He said. “But, there's no way she'd... ah...”

“...want to take a ride on the Ren Train?” Stella suggested.

“Yeah, that.” Ren laughed.

“She seemed pretty receptive to your charms.” Stella said. “You aren't that funny all the time, you know.” She grinned again, and Ren nodded.

“Okay, point taken.”

Stella pulled the rollaway table over when he asked, and Ren checked his emails. There was nothing new except spam, so he closed his email program and then thought about what he needed to do before he had to leave the Dwarven Kingdom. He looked up a building pattern for a nice-sized mansion, then practiced drawing it out so he could duplicate it in the game. Once he had that done, he looked up some lingerie patterns. The game seemed to be severely lacking in undergarments for women, so Ren decided that it was something that he would have to include; either in his own business, or he'd make another one. Once he had a dozen outfit patterns memorized, he moved the laptop out of the way and looked at his watch.

“I've got about 4 hours of night left.” Ren said. “I think I'll log in and grab a few hours sleep before I start work.”

“Yes, only sleep.” Stella said, and glanced down at him. “I'll have the replacements stashed in your cubby hole before you log out for supper.”

“Thanks, Stella.” Ren said, and she helped him put on the VR headset. “I'll try to keep myself restrained until then.”

“You'd better keep your hands off those cute dwarves if you're not wearing protection, little stud!” She tickled his underarms and he laughed. “Or you'll mess up these great new pajamas.”

“Okay, okay!” Ren said. “I promise!”

“Good.” Stella said, and straightened his clothing. “See you later.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up on the couch and didn't see anyone. Teepo?

“Ren!” Teepo said, and flew over to the couch. “You're back early.”

Yeah, it didn't take as long as I thought it would. Ren thought and stood up. What's the situation like?

“Narhilda was in meetings nearly all day after you left. She had to sign a bunch of papers and scrolls, and so did Fritz.” Teepo said. “They finished transferring power to her about 6 hours ago.”

I'm glad. Ren thought as he walked over to the nearest table, and took out several sheets of parchment. I was a little worried there would be protests over Fritz giving up all that power so easily.

Ren started to draw out the plans for the mansion.

“No one said a word, not even the Council.” Teepo said. “When one of them tried, Riley growled at them.”

Who was it?

“Thanyur Faldihr of course.”

Thanks, Teepo. Ren nodded absently, and finished the plans for the mansion. He stored it, then did a pile of quick sketches for the lingerie he had memorized, and stored them as well. He could finish adding in the details later.

Are Nathalia and Narhilda here?

“Yeah, they're in the bedroom.” Teepo said.

See you in the morning. Ren thought, and went to the bedroom. Goodnight.

“Goodnight, Ren.”

Ren opened the door and crept into the bedroom, and over to the bed. He saw Riley and Stacy sitting beside the bed as if they were end tables, and he concentrated on his mental link to them, and sent them his gratitude. He stored his red House Neram outfit, equipped his armor's bodysuit, and slid into bed behind the closest woman. They were spooning each other, so he cuddled in close and took them into a hug. Nathalia was the the one in front, and she stirred slightly, looked at him briefly, then hugged his arm. Ren felt both happy and sad, as this was probably the last time he would get to do this; then drifted off to sleep while holding them both.

Ren woke up the next morning, just over 3 hours later, and sighed. That was not enough sleep. He thought.

“I'll wake you in an hour.” Teepo said. “Narhilda's first meeting isn't for another hour and a half.”

Thanks, buddy. Ren thought, and closed his eyes. I'm a lot more tired than I thought I was.

The hour passed by in the blink of an eye, and Teepo woke Ren up.

Yeah, I'm definitely tired. Ren said and tried to pull his arm out of Nathalia's grasp. It feels like I just closed my eyes.

She wouldn't let go, and murmured that she didn't want to wake up.

“Come on, sleeping beauties.” Ren said in a normal voice, instead of a whisper. “Narhilda has to get ready for her first meeting.”

Both women sighed, and tried to hold onto his arm instead of letting it go.

“Believe me, I'd much rather spend a few more hours cuddled together.” Ren said. “You can't disappoint the Kingdom by being late, though.”

“It's just an agriculture meeting.” Narhilda said. “We can be late for that.”

“How late is late?” Ren asked. “If the meeting is only an hour, and we stay in bed another hour or so...”

Nathalia sighed and let his arm go, and Narhilda did the same. Ren sat up in the bed and looked at them.

“I assume you've got to get dressed.” Ren said. “So you've only got a half an hour to get ready.”

