Her sight also let her see that her hip and shoulder were healed entirely. There was not even a visible discoloration of new-grown flesh visible to give away the previous presence of the injury. The iron was simply in too small a quantity to stand out to mundane sight.

That bore investigation later… but not right then.

Terry was seemingly asleep, the size of a cat and curled up on her shins above the blankets which covered her.

Rane was down the long hall, talking with someone, but even as she regarded him, he glanced her way and smiled, tension obviously bleeding away from him.

Their soulbond had likely alerted him to her changing emotions, and even possibly to her return to consciousness.

Then, she saw him.

Nalac was alone in a room just like her, curled in a ball, weeping.

That’s when the memory hit Tala like a collapsing mountain.

Illie was gone.

Her sister, the bright and chipper young mageling, was gone forever.

In that moment, Tala wished that she were still injured. She wished that she was in some sort of physical pain so that the emotional turmoil could be kept at bay.

She knew that it wouldn’t actually help—especially not long term—but she felt utterly powerless to do anything about the only hurt that seemed to matter at the moment.

Terry lifted his head, then flickered up to her chest as she rolled onto her side, catching him and hugging him close.

His sturdy body—small though it was—bore up just fine under her distressed clutching.

Though Rane was there in less than a minute, the time in her own despondency felt like an eternity.

As soon as he opened the door—having seemingly felt her shift in mood and hurried to her—he shot across the room to pick her up and cradle her in his arms, just as she was clutching Terry close in hers.

“She’s gone, Rane. She’s gone, and there’s nothing we can do about it.”

He slowly stroked her hair. “I know. I know, my love. I’m here. You aren’t alone.”

She curled inward almost convulsively, then shook herself. Alone.

“Tala?”

“We need to go to Nalac. He shouldn’t be alone.”

Rane nodded. “He is here. I looked in on him, but he was sleeping.”

“He’s awake now.”

Rane hesitated for only a moment. “Let’s go to him.”

It was actually a trivial thing for Tala to extend her aura downward and over to Nalac’s room. Though her everything still felt achy, nothing actively opposed her, so she was quick to establish dominance in the boy’s room, carefully not asserting her power over him.

Then, she mirrored Terry’s magic across all three of them and flickered.

The next instant, they were all standing in Nalac’s room, Terry on Tala’s shoulder, and Rane’s arm across her back.

There was no sound from their entry.

Because of that, they stood there, unnoticed for a long moment as Nalac wept.

Tala felt instantly awkward, as if they were intruding, but Rane seemed to be able to shake himself free of the sentiment.

He cleared his throat and moved them forward.

Nalac jerked his head up, showing off his red-rimmed eyes and tear-streaked face.

“Tala? Rane? Terry? What—?”

Then, the three were upon him, wrapping him close, causing him to descend back into tears.

“I’m sorry. I’m so sorry. I… I tried. I tried to keep her safe. I tried to… I tried! I really did!” He babbled as they held him.

Finally, Tala quieted him. “You did all you could, Nalac. Illie’s death isn’t your fault. It wasn’t because of you.”

He shook his head, trying to argue, but Tala wouldn’t hear it.

“We can talk more later. Now? Now, you are with us. You are safe. You aren’t alone.”

Nalac broke down again, sobbing and shaking as they held him. Tala and Rane were crying freely as well.

Their sister was gone, and that wound would not heal quickly. Nor completely.
