He leaned forward agressively. “I am not saying we are monsters. Apathy isn’t malice, but it is easier to carry because it requires nothing from us. We simply don’t care about the mortals until they become useful.” His voice shifted to sarcasm. “After all, they simply don’t live long enough to accomplish great deeds, do they?”

Then he pointed back to Nathan and the Heirs. “But look at them. They rose on their own and accomplished deeds and fame that would make any Questor proud. We say that any of us could do the same, but why don’t we?”

He gestured once, sharp and controlled. “Here is a truth. Mortals are what make Davrar interesting. The wars and squabbling of grids exist outside their side of Davrar. But the reason you are here is because of the mortals. They are the spark that creates meaning, because they feel the pressure of death in a way we don’t. They wish their lives to mean something, to have a testament to their existence. We are freed from that burden, so we come here to steal some of that fire, to warm ourselves against their light.”

He lifted his chin. “This is why Davrar feels repetitive to many of you. The years blur together into feuds and decadence because we don’t engage with the mortals. They create new laws, trade, and art, and invent strange solutions to the problems of Davrar. By refusing to respect them, then Davrar itself loses the purpose that we so lack. This respect doesn’t mean we hand out thrones. It means we treat them as people, and when they make demands, we listen. If they ask for a legacy that is greater than rubble, then it is in our interest to consider it. Empowered mortals will make Davrar better, deeper. It will present a more interesting challenge to us, with more people like them.” Once more, he threw out his hand towards Nathan and the Heirs.

“Our enemies will try to silence these mortals, to kill them so that we forget about all of these ideas. So remember them, and when the vote comes, choose depth.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 7

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 6

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 7

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 6

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
