Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought, then closed the baby fire elemental's pen. He left the workshop and went back into the mine to keep working. He dug for about half an hour, and then got the relief and happiness feeling.

The trip to the Convent to get the anvil actually counted. Ren thought, then left the mine after telling the workers to only dig around any large boulders they find, and he would deal with them later. He went back to his workshop and to the cart of sand outside, while Teepo went back to his perch on the roof. Ren took a shovel full, and went inside the workshop to start up the large glass forge. He poured in the shovel full of sand, and went back out to get another. After several filled shovels worth of sand was added to the glass forge, he closed it to let the sand melt.

I don't know how long to leave it. Ren thought, and shrugged. I'll come back in a few minutes.

Ren left the workshop, went to the mine foreman's office, and knocked on the door.

“Enter.”

Ren opened the door, and stepped inside. “I just wanted you to know that I'm taking tomorrow off.”

“That's fine.” The mine foreman said. “You've been doing good work.” He said. “I heard about the boulders.”

Ren laughed. “I needed to work out some frustrations.”

“I wasn't complaining.” The mine foreman grinned. “In fact, once the other workers got over the shock of you smashing the boulders apart so easily, they're actively looking for them instead of avoiding them.”

Ren smiled. “I'm glad I could help.”

“Make sure you enjoy your day off.” The mine foreman said. “I wish I could take one.”

“You're not?” Ren asked, and the foreman shook his head.

“I can't, until we get the production going.” The mine foreman said. “After that, though...” He grinned. “I can hand this off to someone else.”

“There's no point in ordering you to take a day off right now, is there?”

“Nope.” He said. “When you have a job to finish, who would want to take a break until it's done?”

“I have to take the break, so... me, I guess.” Ren said, and he laughed.

“See you in 2 days.” The mine foreman said. Ren nodded slightly and left the foreman's office, then went back into the workshop. He looked inside the glass forge, and saw the sand was nearly melted into a liquid. He stirred it around with his hand, as he didn't know if any of his blacksmith tools would survive the heat that could melt sand.

“Another couple of minutes, I think.” Ren said, and closed the glass forge.

“The healer is almost at the door.” Teepo said.

Ren turned around and opened the door to his workshop, to see the healer staring at him with her hand raised to knock.

“H-hello.” Deresdra said, and dropped her hand. “I... I came to apologize.”

“That's not necessary.” Ren said, and stepped back to let her into the workshop. “It was my own fault for trying to help you.”

“D-don't be like that.” She said as she came inside. “You're a nice guy. Don't let my stupid assumptions stop you from doing what you want to do.”

Ren tilted his head slightly to the side as he shut the door. “You were in the mine.”

Deresdra nodded slightly. “One of the workers thought you were going crazy, and came to get me.”

Ren smiled. “And what's your professional opinion?”

“I think you shouldn't hold in your feelings like that.” Deresdra said and grinned. “You should let them out.”

Ren snorted a laugh.

“Seriously, though...” She sighed. “...I'm sorry that I thought...”

“That's okay.” Ren said. “It's not like you know me or anything.”

Deresdra smiled. “I... I'd like to.”

Ren shook his head. “I'm sorry; but, I can't.”

“W-what?”

“Despite the fact that I'm still engaged, even though it will end in 4 months, I'll always think you would be offering this because you want to make it up to me for thinking that I wanted to buy you.”

Deresdra stared at him in shock. “You... you...” She swallowed. “You're turning me down?” She asked. “But... but you're allowed to enjoy the company of another woman, especially if she's willing!”

Ren shook his head again.

“You've seen me without my clothes on!”

“That didn't seem to matter to you before.” Ren said. “Why does it matter now?”

Deresdra closed her mouth, and didn't say anything.

“Well, that clears things up nicely.” Ren said. “I'll be taking tomorrow off, so you won't be able to inspect me until I get back the next day.” He opened the door to the workshop. “I hope you have a good day otherwise, Ma'am.”

Deresdra took in a deep breath through her nose, and let it out through her mouth. She looked at Ren, and was about to speak, then changed her mind and walked out of the workshop. Ren shut the door behind her, and sighed.

“Why does it matter now?” Teepo asked. “I'm curious.”

After my little rant in the mines, she knows that I had no intentions of doing anything with her afterwards. Now she wants me to give her the money to pay off her contract.

“And she was willing to sleep with you to get it.” Teepo said.

Yeah. Ren thought. Little does she know that's exactly the wrong thing to do.

“What are you going to do?”

The only thing I can do. Ren left his workshop and ran to the gate, while Teepo flew above him. The guard opened the gate and Ren ran by, waved to him, then ran down the road. I'm going to buy her contract. He ran back to the city, then to the Main Keep. He concentrated on the House Neram pendant, and bypassed the long line as one of the guards stationed there opened the side gate to let him through. Ren went inside and to the main desk.

“Head of the Medical Wing.” Ren said to the receptionist before she could speak, and she gave him directions. “Thank you.” He walked at a fast pace to the right doorway, and down a hallway. Teepo.

Teepo flew under the door and Ren waited until he got the all clear, then opened the door to the Medical Wing. He ignored all the stares as he walked to the right door and Teepo flew under it. After Teepo told him what was inside the office, he knocked.

“You may enter.” A very dignified voice said, and Ren opened the door to see a very beautiful woman. She sat behind a large and ornate wooden desk, and wore a simple white tunic just like all of the other healers. Ren closed the door, walked over to her, and held his hand out. She stood and put her hand in his; he bent over it, and spoke.

“It's a pleasure to meet you.” Ren said, let her hand go, and stood up straight. She was an inch taller than him, and had her dark hair tied up in a bun at the back of her head. It revealed a long neck and drew attention to her face, which was more like an exquisite carving instead of a woman's face.

“Likewise.” The woman said. “I've attended both Council meetings of course, so I know who you are.” She smiled. “Meeting you in person is quite the treat.”

“I can honestly say the same thing.” Ren smiled. “You're a sight to behold.”

“So are you.” She said, and motioned to his clothing. Ren looked down and saw he was covered in dust and dirt. His eyes widened, and he looked up at her.

“My sincere apologies.” Ren said as he equipped his armor bodysuit to replace the Travelling Clothes, then stored the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak for an instant, then equipped it and his clothing again. “No wonder everyone was staring at me.”

She laughed, and it sounded like birds singing. “Yes, you're quite the treat.” She said. “People are going to stare at you no matter what, though.”

Ren nodded slightly, and she sat down.

“What can I do for you today?” She asked, then smiled.

“Did you receive the Minor Healing wand?”

“I did.” She said. “50 charges will definitely help the younger members of the staff.”

“Don't throw it away or harvest it for the focusing material.” Ren said. “It's not a normal wand.”

She laughed again. “I know that, dear boy.” She said and looked at him intensely. “I examined it myself, and was surprised to discover that it can be recharged.”

“I think it's because of the focusing material.” Ren said.

“You are careful to avoid saying 'diamond'.” She said. “Are you trying to downplay it's value?”

Ren nodded slightly. “It's worth about 3 and a half platinum.” He said. “In the wand, 5 platinum.”

“Yes, it's quite valuable.” She said. “And a gift worth more than it's value to a healer.” She smiled. “is that why you are here? Do you want it back?”

He shook his head. “No, of course not. It was a gift, and I hoped that the Medical Wing would put it to good use.”

“Then why are you here?” She asked.

“Although meeting you is reason enough...” Ren smiled. “...I came here about a healer working at my mine.”

“Ah, yes. Deresdra.” She smiled. “She's a feisty one.” She looked at Ren with a question on her face. “Are you not happy with her?”

Ren avoided the question, because he didn't know how to answer it honestly. “I'd like to buy her contract, if that's possible.”

She leaned forward and folded her hands on the desk. “That's interesting.” She said, and frowned. “I'm not in the habit of selling my healers.”

“I don't want to buy her for sex, if that's what you're implying.” Ren said to her surprised face. “I can get all that I want, or ever need, from other women the normal way.”

“Then why...”

“I tried to help her, and she accused me of the very thing you just accused me of.”

Her eyes widened at the truth in Ren's words.

“I want to prove to her that I'm not like that.”

“Hmm.” She smiled. “I'm not sure I should sell her contract to you.” She said. “I don't really need money, you see.”

Ren took out 5 Minor Healing wands and put them on her desk.

“Oh... oh my...” She stared at them, then at Ren. “They're all rechargeable.”

Ren nodded slightly. She caressed the diamond tips and sighed.

“I don't think...” She started to say, and Ren took out the Major Healing wand. She gasped. “By the gods!”

“I had to use it a few times so it's not full; but, since it's rechargeable...”

She reached into her desk for a moment, then slid over Deresdra's indentured servitude contract without another word. Ren put the wand on the desk with the others, and picked up the contract.

“Thank you for-”

“Yes, yes! You can go!” She said as she waved him away, then gathered the wands into her arms and hugged them to her chest. “Such wonderful items!” She said, and started to laugh. “We can help so many people now!”

Ren didn't say another word, and left her office. The sound of singing birds followed him through the Medical Wing until he shut the door to the connecting hallway.

That went better than I expected. Ren thought. I figured she'd hold out for 10 wands.

“You should have started with the Major Healing wand.” Teepo said, and chittered in laughter. “She might have just taken that by itself.”

Ren smiled as he went back to the Main Keep's lobby, then thought about something. He turned from the front door and went into the General Information / Hall of Records door instead.

“What can I do for you today, My Lord?” The female dwarf at the desk asked.

Ren grinned at her. “Well, there is something...”
