There’s more to manipulating Heavenly Energy than Visualization, Intent, and Emotion, or perhaps just less. The Abbot’s advice led me to believe that all this can simply be broken down into Will, as in you control Heavenly Energy by Willing it into action, but there’s no way things can be that easy. If that were the case, the world would be in chaos as Martial Warriors manifest their hearts’ desires. Yes, Will has a part in the control process, but what else is there?

The Abbot told me to trust myself, but I don’t even understand what I’ve been doing this whole time. Does this mean I should just dive in face-first without looking back? Somehow, I don’t think that’s what he meant, but he might not have known just how stupid I really am. I mean, not to toot my own horn or anything, but I put on a pretty damn convincing show of competence, but only because I have the memories from my past life. Without those, I’m nothing and no one, an idiot dumber than Baledagh because at least he understood how to use Chi and progress along the Martial Path.

Having gotten this far, I decide that the best place to start is not at the beginning, which leaves me with too many unanswered questions, but towards the end, or rather the last place where I remember actually making progress. In order to do this, we have to go pretty far back, to just before I Shattered my Core in battle against Gen Shi. Back then, whilst steeping in a tub of cooling water upon a soon to be battlefield, I came to an important decision I only recently understood was pivotal to my development. For so many years, I was lost and without control, wholly vulnerable to the whims of Heavenly Energy and the world around me. I hated that, and I wanted to take back control, to find Balance without having to struggle against the torrent of serenity and surrender. I was done with all the theological bullshit, done with the Mother and Father both.

Forget good and evil, there is only creation and destruction with no morality to muddy the waters. Heavenly Energy is an enigmatic force of nature, but people have been taking advantage of nature since the dawn of humanity. Whether it be working with fire or harnessing the wind, taming a horse or cracking the atom, humans have always bent nature to their will, so I will do the same. Instead of treating it like an ineffable power, I will uncover its secrets and use it to my benefit and the benefit of humanity. Energy is energy, regardless if it’s electric, kinetic, potential, Heavenly, or otherwise. The only difference is how to use it, but the first step to using energy, is to control it.

That is word for word what I thought at that moment in time, a memory I was somehow still able to access with crystalline clarity, and it’s a good thing too, else I might have missed my defining moment in my life. Since opening my eyes up on the auction block, I have just been lost in the craziness of my new life, and while I dabbled in trying to unite my understanding of science with the mystical Energy of the Heavens, it wasn’t until that very moment that I decided to stop giving a shit about the theological aspects of the Martial Path, because there was no way a phenomenal cosmic force would ever be subject to the morals of mankind. Let’s not talk about good and evil, or even the Mother and Father, because even if I am a chess piece in a game between gods, they can both fuck off since I refuse to keep playing along. There will be no surrender to the Father or acceptance of the Mother, and instead, I set out to forge my own Path.

A revelation which led me to my Dao of Humanity, which in turn led me to discover how to Devour Heavenly Energy. There are still so many questions yet to answer, but at least now I am free of the moral debate. So long as I adhere to my personal morals and do nothing to violate my sense of justice, then who cares which side of the line I fall on between Imperial and Defiled? There are few people in the world who can be considered wholly good or wholly evil, for we all harbour our own grim secrets and dark desires. Even my sweet, adorable wifey Lin-Lin is a remorseless bunny killer when the need suits her, and is more than happy to buy rabbit meat skewers when she thinks I’m not paying attention. In her defence, rabbits are delicious, but I just can’t eat anything that came from a species I’ve befriended.

Which of course limits me to mostly fish, waterfowl, and pigs now, but no one ever said the life of a floof lover would be easy...

Putting the matter of morality aside, I take a moment to cuddle Buddy for the sake of my sanity and begrudgingly forgive Lin-Lin so long as she never eats one of my beloved floofs. I’m pretty sure she won’t, so we’re all good, and after a brief hiatus, I bring myself back on topic once again. Putting aside the question of how I Devoured Heavenly Energy, because I really have no answers at all, I recall all the steps I took before accomplishing this inexplicable feat. I remember not reaching for Balance, but visualizing the process in my mind while willing the Energy of the Heavens into my Core. I remember how it raged and coerced me, abused and nurtured me, whispered sweet lies and tempting propositions in an effort to drive me into cold surrender or warm embrace, but I rejected them both. I stood undaunted and bent the Energy of the Heavens to my Will, Visualizing my Intent whilst holding firm to my emotions.

There was no surrender and no embrace.

I did not go with the flow, nor did I resist.

Instead, I contained and controlled the Energy of the Heavens. I became the dam stopping the river, the wall blocking the wind, the forge containing the fire, and the drill which pierces the mountain.

All of which crumbled apart when Gen Shi shattered my Core.

This is some pivotal stuff I would’ve forgotten all about it if not for the Abbot, because while telling him my life’s story, I made sure to go over every step I’ve ever taken. Almost everything I’ve ever accomplished has been off the beaten path, so I’m not sure what to do next. I doubt the Abbot knows either, which is why he told me to trust myself. I mean, it’s kinda worked for me so far, but I dunno. Shatter the Void sounds kinda extreme, and considering most people die in the attempt, I’m not entirely sure I should be trying it while mentally crippled as I am. Problem is, I’m not sure how much time the Abbot has left, and my pea-brained conscious self doesn’t know how to help him. Granted, I don’t know how to help him either, but I could at least try, but nope. Waking me would rather cuddle with Kukku, Tai Shan, and occasionally Lin-Lin too, who has been exploring the area these last few days with the big rooster in tow. I would much rather she went back to the monastery, but if I insist, she’d just lie about it, and I do love hearing her tell stories about her adventures in the Arid Wastes. It’d be even better to go with her, but even my conscious self knows to stay close to the Abbot, just in case shit really hits the fan and he needs my assistance.

So what do I do now? I don't really know. Shatter the Void, I guess. What does that even mean? Suppose I'll just put on my Void-Shattering helmet and stick myself into my Void-Shattering cannon and launch my thick head at the fucking Void in hopes it will actually Shatter.

Deep breaths. Okay. According to Dad, Shatter the Void means to become One with the Heavens, which fits right in with the rest of the Ones. One with the Sword, One with the Self, and One with the World, and now this. Am I missing any Ones? Feels like it, but fuck if I’ll ever know for sure. One with the Sword I get. One with the Self, I have Buddy to help me with that, bridging the gap between my past and current lives. One with the World, well, as explained earlier, I kinda went a different way and told the world to fuck off. This my world now, bitch. Whatchu gonna do about it, son?

As for One with the Heavens? Well, I already told the world to fuck off. Can I do the same for the Heavens? Dunno. Still though, what would that entail? I have some suspicions, but again, I’m not entirely sure. Dad also said Shatter the Void meant to break through the barrier between mortality and the Divine, but let’s try and think about this logically. What is the Void? It is the vast emptiness I perceive from inside my Natal Palace, a place that exists not in the physical world, but outside my Core and possibly even my soul. However, even though the Void appears to be a separate plane of existence, there must be some correlation between the Void and the world, because I am only able to directly visit the Natal Palaces of people I am in physical contact with. When Zhen Shi tricked me into leaving my Core and Natal Palace, I believe my long trek to the mines was actually my soul traversing through the Void, with my destination being Zhen Shi’s Natal Palace. I also know that there are Spectres lurking in the Void, and they are not happy there, desiring to return to the material world in any way they can. Most importantly of all is the fact that when I shattered my Core, the Void also went with it, meaning I no longer had access to the Void, not until Pong Pong came back for the night and I accidentally slipped into his Natal Palace while trying to sleep. While I was then able to visit other Natal Palaces, I was never able to find Balance and reach the Void on my own, not until my near death experience during the withdrawal from Castle JiangHu, during which I somehow Formed another Natal Palace despite lacking a Core to house it in, and the rest is, as we say, history.

So here’s the million dollar question: what does all this even mean?

Let’s try this from a different angle. What is the goal? To Shatter the Void and ascend to Divinity, albeit a false Divinity on par with Ancestral Beasts. What does it mean to be a false Divinity? To have power beyond what any Peak Expert is capable of. To have an extremely long life span, long enough to forget the faces of the people who raised you. To have touched upon the secrets of manipulating the raw, unfiltered Heavenly Energy.

And what does it mean to become a True Divinity? To have unfettered access to Heavenly Energy, without the need to convert it into Chi. Of course. The Core is the medium through which Martial Warriors harness Heavenly Energy, but I recently theorized that we might be doing it all wrong from the start. The Core is a crutch, a tool to allow us crafty humans more control over Heavenly Energy, control most animals sorely lack. It’s not until they Refine a Spiritual Heart that animals begin exhibiting the same amount of control over Heavenly Energy, which apparently takes hundreds if not thousands of years to develop, years we humans don’t have. In fact, one could even say all my current problems stem from my Core, because I am unable to fit my ginormous, oversized soul inside it without ‘lessening’ myself in the process. However, Divine Beasts like Ping Ping and Pong Pong also have absolutely enormous souls, which are somehow contained in their tiny little bodies, but how is this possible?

...Well duh. It’s possible because animals don’t have Cores. They have Spiritual Hearts.

Is that what I need to do? Destroy the Core I only just recently reformed? No, that can’t be right. If it was, then I would’ve Ascended to Divinity when Gen Shi shattered my weapons, but if that’s not the case, then what am I supposed to do? How do I get my girthy soul to fit into my tiny, tight Core? Lube. Lots of lube and pressure. That’ll stretch it real good...

Oh.

Oh no.

I hate myself.

Why did I have to find Insight from a stupid filthy joke?

Instead of cutting off parts of my soul to reduce its size, why don’t I just expand my Core so my soul can fit inside? Way to overlook the obvious, idiot.

That being said, if I’d come up with this solution a few days ago, I would’ve had no idea how to even go about it, but here and now, I have an inkling of what I must do. Sensing my need to act, Buddy sits up and stretches before hopping off of my lap, before padding over to the bed and giving me a look as if to hurry me along. Grinning at his obvious impatience, I lay back on the bed and Buddy flops down beside me, resting in the crook of my arm with his head nestled against my chest. Once we’re both settled in, I kiss his head and match his sigh as he sinks comfortably in my embrace, just happy to be here by my side. Glancing up at the roof, I watch as the carved ceiling comes back into existence, taking the place of those old posters that were there in my past life. I’ve always wanted to be a hero, to have a purpose to fulfill by coming to this world, and while I’m not entirely sure if that’s what the Heavens had in store for me, I will walk my own Path and find my own purpose without need for fate or destiny to guide me.

And now, I might finally have the ability to do so. All I gotta do is trust my gut. Easy Peasy, right?

