After days of profound study and inspection, I have arrived at one irrefutable conclusion.

Panda bears are the derpiest of all bears. Full stop.

Black bears like Banjo and Baloo can be a little silly at times, but they’re a little too lithe and graceful to achieve max derpiness, while bigger bears like brown bears and grizzly bears are just a tad too ferocious for my tastes. Moon bears just look funny with their weird, dyed haircuts, while polar bears have a sleek, slender figure that lends gravitas to even the silliest of antics. Then there are the bear-adjacent animals, like red pandas and binturongs, with one being a bear-cat, and the other a bear-cat-weasel mix, while Princess is clearly a weasel-bear, with emphasis on the bear. While red pandas in particular come close to matching big Panda energy, there’s just something so endearing about watching a chonker of a panda munch away at a turnip while sitting slouched like a lazy slob.

The Abbot’s panda is named Tai Shan, and I love him so very much. Not only does he like to grab his feet and roll around, he’s also got a cute little belly and the chubbiest cheeks I’ve ever seen on any creature besides a rabbit or chipmunk. Eyes half-closed in sheer relaxation, Tai-Tai is just chilling next to the Abbot and having a grand old time, holding his giant turnip in two paws and crunching in rhythmic contentment. I envy how much joy he can derive from something so simple, like chomping on a root someone just pulled out of the ground. That being said, his evident satisfaction doesn’t stop him from turning his gaze to me every so often, checking if I have anything better to treat him with. Much as I would love to share, Lin-Lin and Kukku haven’t come back with my meal yet, as they probably got sidetracked along the way. I don’t mind though, as this gives me time to appreciate Tai-Tai’s big chonk energy in private, or at least as private as can be while closed off in a room with the sleeping Abbot and his four human guardians.

That being said, my days spent studying this derpiest of floofs were not wasted, as I had a purpose all along that had nothing to do with my overbearing love of all things furry. In my past life, my dog always went crazy for food, so the hardest part of meal time was making sure he never ate too much so he wouldn’t get fat. However, since transmigrating to this world, I don’t think I’ve ever seen another animal that was actually fat aside from those few days when Roc ate so much he couldn’t fly. I assumed he lost the weight after hopping around all the time, but seeing how I never weighed him and that the difference was probably a matter of grams, it’s possible he just adapted to fly with the added bulk. I mean, I like to joke about Mafu being fat, but most of it is muscle, and while there are plenty of huge animals, they’re all big in a strong, husky, muscular way, as opposed to just plain obese. So why get buff?

My best guess is that it all has something to do with the fact that almost all animals instinctively bulk up in preparation of refining their physical bodies into a Spiritual Heart. Which when you think about it, is kinda strange. There’s really no advantage for animals like Mama Bun, Guai-Guai, and Kukku to bulk up, and yet bulk they do. Mama Bun is twice the size of her full-grown bun-buns, while Kukku is ten to twenty times larger than your average silky chicken. As for Guai-Guai, he’s what I would consider average sized for a red-panda from my past life, meaning he’s probably on the smaller side in these here parts, where everyone and everything is super-sized. However, before he became the Ancestral Beast Guan Suo, Ping-Ping’s memories showed that he was a real chonker of a red panda, which just doesn’t make any sense. All three are prey animals, and being bigger only makes them easier to spot and a more tempting target. It’s not like Mama Bun’s bulk makes her any better at fending off or hiding from predators, but it does mean she needs to eat more than her regular sized counterparts out in the wild. More risk with no reward does not seem like the right move to make, but I must be overlooking something because most if not all animals adhere to the rule of ‘bigger is better’.

Which brings me full-circle to a question I’ve asked many times before, and will continue to ask until my curiosity is sated: why?

With my mind caught up in the moment, I leave Tai Shan to his meal and retreat to my Natal Palace, where the curtains part on my limited mental capacity as Buddy greets me with glee and exuberance. Hugs and kisses are great and all, but I should figure out a way to make treats for him to eat, but that’s a matter for another time. Cuddling him as I settle into my office chair, I boot up journal.txt to go over my complicated Martial Path for the umpteenth time.

I know, I know, the Abbot told me to stop second guessing my own decisions and trust myself, but the problem is, my gut tells me I’m still missing one vital piece of information, or maybe more than one. Core Creation, Aura Condensation, Natal Palace Formation, and Domain Development, these are the milestones I myself have already achieved, but where does Spiritual Heart Refinement come in? Yea, I’ve technically refined my physical body using the baths Taduk, Taiyi ZhuShen, and Li TieGuai arranged for me, but I just know it’s not enough because I am clearly not in possession of a Spiritual Heart. Maybe I’m trying to overachieve and looking down on false Divinity, but I can’t just let this go. If I’m going to do this, then I want to do it right, which is not to say I mean to go straight to full-on godhood. I just feel like this is the right path for me, to figure out what I’m missing before proceeding from here.

“Shatter the Void,” the Abbot says, like it’s that easy. “Just shatter it bro. What are you waiting for? It’s not that hard man.”

Okay, so I might be paraphrasing here, but I captured the general gist of his tone well enough. He expects me just to take the next step, as if I already know what to do, but let’s be honest here. I have never, in this life and quite possibly the last, ever known what the fuck I was doing at any given moment in time. I’ve just been stumbling my way down the Martial Path and somehow accidentally succeeding all along, and while it might look like I’m some brilliant genius from an outside perspective, we all know how tricky perspectives can be. Aside from watching Tai-Tai eat and play, I’ve spent the last few days going over all my notes and reflecting on my own personal Path, and as far as I can tell, I have no idea what I’m doing. Core Creation just sorta happened, and I barely even remember the process, to the point where I’m not even sure if I already had a Core when I woke up in this body. I mean, it would explain a lot, like how I managed to survive in the slave mines where so many older, stronger, healthier slaves died, but I have no idea if I Created my Core the good old fashioned way, or if I had help from Spectres I didn’t know existed just yet.

That being said, I don’t think it matters. A Core is a Core, regardless of how it’s Created, so I’ve been more than happy to write that part off, but things only get more complicated from there.

Core Creation is not the only milestone where I’m not certain if I achieved success with my own merits or possibly had help from the spooky, scary whisper ghosts. I Condensed my Aura in the midst of battle against Laughing Dragon, but I didn’t really figure out how to use it until taking part in the Purge. I’ve tried to forget so much about those dark days, but I cannot forget how I contemplated suicide by Shrike in the face of more pain and suffering than I could previously imagine. It wasn’t just the torture and bloodshed, which I more or less expected after seeing the harsh measures Magistrate Tong used to deal with a seventeen year old boy, and he’s one of the good guys. No, what really caught me off guard was the sheer indifference to death and suffering demonstrated by so many different individuals, from the fanatical Aspirants fulfilling what they believed to be their holy duty, to the plethora of Elites dispatched to ensure no innocents escape from their gruesome, agonizing end. The sheer apathy inundating the participants of the Purge was just too shocking for me to process, and I couldn’t find a single person who sympathized with my thoughts, so when I failed to convince Han BoLao to take a step back, I almost lost myself to anger, grief, and misery.

And in doing so, I managed to harness the power of my Aura and share my pain and angst with the soldiers around me, an event I now believe was the first time I utilized Oration.

Later on, my continued conflict with Han BoLao proved that my Aura was not by any means standard either, as I had access to both Imperial and Defiled varieties. It’s difficult to explain the difference, but the best I could come up with was that an offensive Imperial Aura feels like staring down a dangerous predator, while the Defiled counterpart is like unexpectedly coming across a psychopathic murderer covered in blood and guts. Both are scary, but at least you can somewhat understand the mindset of the first, with the latter is just too alien to really wrap your mind around. There is no logic to the Defiled Aura, no rationalizing with the individual in possession of it, or at least that’s what it feels like, because as soon as you come into contact with an Aura like that, then your only options are to kill or be killed.

Things are already ridiculously complicated even without getting into my innate Aura resistance, the discovery of Emotional, Beyblade, and Musical Auras, and how animals don’t Condense their Auras until they become Divine Beasts, which only goes to show how little the outer provinces truly understand about this supposed early milestone. There is no doubt in my mind that Shen ZhenWu knows much more than he let on, and judging from how respectful the Imperial Scions are towards Luo-Luo, I suspect they know more too. Alas, since no one is talking, I have nothing to really go on besides the fact that Aura be wack, leaving me no choice but to abandon my efforts to understand Aura and forge onwards in ignorance.

My Natal Palace isn’t normal either, and I’m not just talking about recent events either, though I do have concerns regarding it. For starters, I’ve theorized that my current Natal Palace is situated outside of my Core, and that in order to cure what ails me, I must stuff my replica of the village alongside the condo, lake, and waterpark I created on a whim into my Core. This would understandably mean I’d have to shave off large portions of my Natal Palace, an undertaking I am justifiably loath to do since Shen ZhenWu once made a vague comment about how I seemed ‘lessened’ after a round of impromptu mental renovations.

That’s not all either. Before I even knew what a Natal Palace was, I’d fashioned myself a largely working replica of the village inside it, complete with flowing water, working weather, a day/night cycle, and even a brief period of fully autonomous robotic villagers. How was I able to cram so much into my Core at such a young age? I’ve never been able to really measure how much Chi I have, but I’ve also never really ever pushed my limits, not that I can remember, so it’s entirely possible my Core is larger than average. Sure, there have been times where I’ve felt like I was running low on Chi, but I don’t think I’ve ever hit rock bottom before, and then I figured out how to Devour Heavenly Energy, which would’ve afforded me essentially limitless amounts of Chi. That’s a whole other kettle of fish however, and I have no idea where to even begin with that, so I’ve pretty much chalked up my Devouring to a miracle and will be moving on from there.

I hate not knowing so much, but there’s no point agonizing over it since I have nothing to go on.

After Natal Palace Formation comes Domain Development, which is where things start to get really weird. Grandpa Du claimed that Aura is a metaphysical expression of emotion, while Domain is an extension of Aura in that it is a metaphysical expression of authority bestowed by Heaven, meaning within one’s Domain, their Chi would remain Chi instead of reverting back to Heavenly Energy.

This so-called authority is supposedly granted by the Heavens or the Mother Above or whatever, but my experience was atypical in that I rejected the Heavens and seized authority for myself. Then, I did the same thing during the withdrawal from Castle JiangHu, except at the time, my Core was still shattered and I didn’t seize authority for myself, but rather I granted it to Rustram instead. Now, he has his own Domain and wields it with ease, but I haven’t been able to ask him about it. Does he still draw his authority from my rejection of the Heavens, or was he granted authority through his own merits after the fact? Also, what is this authority and what does it entail? I already know Chi is simply Heavenly Energy bound by emotion, and more recently I realized that said emotion was actually slivers of soul, so this means that in order to use External Chi, we Martial Warriors are literally expending our souls. Luckily, the soul is not a finite resource and is actually rather easily replenished, but this begs the question of why the Abbot is even dying. Is it because he himself doesn’t want to live and is inadvertently using Heavenly Energy to fulfill his wish? It can’t be that simple, because if that were the case, I’d be dead a thousand times over.

