Closing my eyes, I focus on my body, but not just my corporeal form. I’ve always envisioned my Core sitting just below my navel, because that’s where the sensation of warmth of comfort stemmed from every time I found Balance. I’m not the only one to feel this way, as all Martial Warriors experience similar sensations, though I’m not entirely sure why. Maybe it’s wordplay, and we associate a Core with the centre of our being, or maybe there’s another reason I’m not seeing. Regardless of the why, I now intend to correct this misconception, because I no longer require these crutches. Opening my Core to the World, I sense the Energy of the Heavens naturally flowing in, drawn there by my soul and the emotions contained within, emotions made manifest through my Natal Palace, Buddy, and my memories. The flow slows to a trickle as my Core fills to the brim, but despite having reached my limits, I exert my Will and continue to Devour all that I can.

There is no struggle or surrender, and I do not go with the flow or resist.

I simply contain and control whilst enduring the torrent rushing into my overflowing Core.

I am the dam which stops the river, and I am the wall which blocks the wind.

I am the forge which contains the flame, and I am the drill which pierces the mountain.

Water, Air, Fire, and Earth, these are the four basic elements that make up the world as we know it. Taking in all that the world has to offer, I make it my own, yet even this is still not enough. I am a product of the world, one forged by the four elements, but I am also more than that. I am human, and I have a soul, which means in order to progress along my Path, I must offer a part of myself to it, and I know exactly what to offer. Peace blazes into existence within my consciousness alongside Tranquility, my sword and shield which I both hate and love, emotions condensed through Aura directed inward, and I still have more to offer. Unity is required as well, not just the weapon itself, but the concept itself to balance power and morality. Absolute power corrupts absolutely, so no matter how powerful I become, I must always remember to weigh my own desires against the needs of the many.

Which really, is just good advice for life overall. Don’t be a selfish prick. How difficult is that? Sad to think so many people can’t even do this much...

One with the Sword and One with the Self, I move on with uncharacteristic confidence, as I just know I am on the right track. One with the World means to borrow authority from the Heavens, but I make my own authority. My Core is more than just a storage tank for Chi and my Natal Palace, for it is also my Domain, which I deploy about me with nary a second thought. Almost immediately catching my error, I draw my Domain inwards just like I directed my Aura, compressing it until my Domain just barely extends past my skin, but something is still missing. Envisioning Unity appearing within my hands, my Domain warps into the shape of the weapon as it appears before me exactly as I remember, not just in my mind’s eye, but in the real world as well. This is a weapon forged not from blood and bone like Peace and Tranquility, but from pure, untouched Energy of the Heavens itself, an extension of my Domain and my very soul itself. How is this possible? I have some inkling of the science behind it, that I’m not creating matter, but rather transforming it from one medium to another, though the specifics are above and beyond my meagre understanding. This was not my initial goal however, merely a much needed pit stop along the way. Unity has become more than a weapon, it is also the symbol of my authority in a way that not even I truly comprehend, and by drawing upon its familiar presence alongside Peace and Tranquility, I have finally finished all my preparations needed to move forward and take the next step.

Merely a step and not quite a milestone just yet, but a pivotal step nonetheless.

The Energy of the Heavens continues to flow through me, but regardless of the atypical means through which I acquire it, any Heavenly Energy that enters my Core is lessened and becomes Chi. Though the Abbot would call this a distinction without a difference, I know they are not exactly one and the same. While I technically utilized Heavenly Energy to reforge Unity, this was easily done because the weapon is a part of me and the Heavens recognizes it as such. I wasn’t making something out of nothing so much as restoring a missing part of myself, so the Energy of the Heavens was more than happy to oblige, much like how regular people can regrow teeth. What I intend to do next is entirely different, as I will be changing myself in a way that is... not unnatural, but is most certainly in defiance of Heaven’s plans.

Thus, the Heavens will not care to help me and mere Chi is not enough to fulfill my Will, but fortunately, I have a sizable cache of usable Heavenly Energy already sitting inside my Core.

Still focusing inwards with my Aura and Domain, I direct the Cleansed Heavenly Energy out towards the outer surface of my Core while continuing to Devour Chi without end. Fixating on the sensation of warmth and acceptance, I Will it outwards and expend the Heavenly Energy to enlarge my Core, which will eventually allow my oversized Soul and Natal Palace to fit inside without expenditure or reduction. Pain blossoms and a single second stretches into eternity as I reforge my body, not with the goal of making it stronger or better per se, but rather to ensure my Core becomes synonymous with my physical form. Had I tried this before I refined my physique, I might well have died, but I endure without breaking because this is merely physical pain, fleeting and temporary.

The human body has bones, organs, blood vessels, and more, but I have always been able to sense Chi moving through my physical self. There is more to Chi manipulation than just the Core, an entire metaphysical system that we have yet to even define, but while a thousand changes take place in the blink of an eye in order to meld the physical and metaphysical together as one, the details are unimportant for now. What must be done, will be done, without need for me to micromanage every last detail of Refining my body into a Spiritual Heart, because the usable Heavenly Energy at my disposal knows exactly what to do, unlike the lessened Chi taken into my Core. By my authority, the Heavens bend to my Will and heed my demands, forging my body in the elements and my own experiences until it is capable of not just containing Heavenly Energy, but eventually also controlling it.

I am the Core, and the Core is me. Add another ‘One’ to the list.

And when I open my eyes, I find myself seated in reality, with sword, shield, and glaive resting comfortably in my lap. Physically, nothing has changed, and yet I feel like a whole new person.

“What did you just do?”

The unfamiliar voice shakes me from my thoughts before I have time to examine my work, and only then do I sense the tension in the air. Standing before me are the four guardian monks, flanking an older, undernourished monk Jorani affectionately calls Monk Bones. Behind them, but in front of me, stands Lin-Lin with arms spread at her sides, shielding my defenceless self with her own body, a sight which warms my heart even as it breaks in the same moment. Talented though my sweet wifey might be, she is not a fighter and has no place here on the battlefield, which I suspect is what the Abbot’s secluded cave will soon become.

For the Enemy has come to the Brotherhood, and they mean to do battle, led by none other than the excommunicated Vyakhya himself. This is the Divinity who stood out to speak against the Abbot in Sinuji, and he eyes me with hostile curiosity, as does the hulking giant of a man standing beside him. There’s something familiar about this Herculean figure, a madness in his eyes I’ve seen before, but I can’t quite place who he is, and truth be told, I don’t really care. Mostly because despite his formidable physical features, he is still dwarfed by the hairy behemoth towering beside him, a giant mammoth of a man in every sense of the word, complete with two massive tusks protruding out from under his upper lip. An Ancestral Beast if I’ve ever seen one, and in his shadow lurks another, a lithe, feminine form that exudes mature yet frigid sexuality. Or maybe that’s just me, but there’s something about her narrow eyes and pointed features that draws the eye, a slim, willowy slip of a woman who somehow radiates more threat and peril than the behemoth she hides behind.

Last, but not least is a regal, imposing man, dressed in flowing silken clothes reminiscent of western fashion. A jewelled turban sits atop his raised head as he stands with hands folded behind his back and nose pointed towards the sky, pointedly declaring that everyone present was below his station and unworthy of notice. The man sells it well too, exuding danger by way of his existence, a deadly Warrior without peer despite the lack of a weapon on his body. It’s clear he’s the most troubling opponent here, a human Divinity whose prowess outmatches his peers, but even he seems to be wary of our little party, for despite his haughty demeanour, his eyes dart about the room to watch me and Bones while quietly searching for other threats.

Thankfully, Kukku, Tai-Tai, and the Abbot are nowhere in sight, but the downside is that we are handily outnumbered. I only Refined a Spiritual Heart and have yet to truly Shatter the Void, meaning I am but a mere half-step Divinity, a lofty existence standing close to the peak for sure, but no match for the formidable foes before me.

Sensing that he wasn’t going to get an answer, Vyakhya’s wrinkled, dismissive sneer speaks volumes to his mindset. He’s curious about what I just did, but he’s a man with a mission who will not be swayed. He means to unmake the world with Anathema and in doing so, break the cycle of reincarnation and existence as we know it. Without these barriers in place to stop us, he believes all souls will be free to ascend to Nirvana, a lofty goal to be sure, but one twisted by pride and misconception. “We have come for the boy, and the boy alone,” he says, making his demands to Monk Bones and ignoring everyone else. “Hand him over, and there will be no more bloodshed on this day.”

Before Monk Bones can reply, my sweet wifey huffs and my heart freezes in place. “Stupid,” she declares, drawing the ire of no less than four Divinities and one muscled madman. “You can’t have him. Rainy is mine.”

Oh my sweet, adorable wifey. I love and adore you so much, but you are just way out of your depth right now. Me too, but that’s hardly surprising against a line-up like this.

God dammit. I was so close too. I almost had all the answers figured out, or all the relevant ones at least. If only I had more time, but I suppose my journey ends here, for this tribulation is far too calamitous for anyone to bear.

Taking a deep breath, I close my eyes and resign myself to surrender, for I see no other way forward.

Chapter Meme
