“No one told Erin? Erin who doesn’t like people kissing? Big shock. I am shocked. See? Why would Erin, who is not supportive, know about Pawn and Lyonette? Probably first love with them. Heartbreak…ah, young people. Want to bet on who the [Princess] finds next? I can’t figure out Antinium.”
Erin’s head was spinning. She put her head down, then raised it sharply.
“Wh—but Elirr didn’t ask me about a villa at all! And he loves the beach! Hexel was sleeping on it last night! Wait a second. So was Elirr. Were they—”
“Yeah. Because if someone finds out he and Hexel are sharing a hut—”
Ulvama pulled a belt-knife out and made a stabbing motion with it. Erin’s heart sank.
“That’s not right.”
“That is Turnscales. Was it not like that where you were?”
Ulvama turned too-bright eyes onto Erin, and the [Innkeeper] hesitated. She lowered her head.
“I didn’t know. I wasn’t really aware of it. My parents knew more than me, but I just played chess all the time, and that’s a sport with a lot of guys in it.”
She flushed, and Ulvama patted her on the shoulder.
“Well, good thing you have me. Because chess is all about strategy, and boring [Strategists] and war-people love it. But sex is where people kill each other over things.”
Erin stood there for a bit, then the light of resolve filled her eyes again. She turned to Ulvama, who did have fashion, albeit snake-related. Erin’s eyes lit up.
“Hey, Ulvama, d’you think we could make a really snake-related place with cool motifs for Hexel? I bet he’d like that. Why don’t we make a villa for Elirr and Hexel and, like, invite them to stay as good friends with Mrsha or something? An ultra-secluded one. And one for Mirn and Onieva, each! They were asking, and I’ll just coincidentally have them in the corner with extra-maze-like walls.”
Ulvama looked proud of Erin’s deviousness. She patted Erin on the shoulder.
“Now do you feel better about doing beach stuff? You don’t have to do all of it, silly. Just half of it. Or less!”
Erin sighed.
“I know, I know. I just hate when people make me do things, y’know? Lasica bullies and prods to get her way, and I like her, but sheesh.”
Ulvama’s patting became quizzical, and she eyed Erin.
“No. I meant…why are you doing work at all if you don’t want to? Helping hidden lovers is funny. But you don’t have to do any work. I don’t do work if I don’t want to. Focus more on helping relationships you like. And ruining stupid ones. That is the way of [Shamans].”
Now it was Erin’s turn to look puzzled as she pointed towards her beach-garden door.
“Someone’s gotta terraform the place, Ulvama. I bet everyone’s waiting for me to get back.”
Ulvama scratched her head.
“No…I think they’re bothering the Archmage. You should help her, too. Otherwise, she’ll probably fail. I like her. She reminds me of my old [Chief Shaman].”
“…Huh? Valeterisa?”
 
——
 
Archmage Valeterisa had been thinking of going back to her mansion. After all, her research materials, familiars, and most of her stuff was there.
The long jaunt to Fissival had been for personal reasons, to reconcile her past. She’d slowed down around Liscor to scope it out and because of her teleportation network, but the fact remained that the isle she’d bought was her home.
Why would she stay around Liscor? Well…she had sworn to make a place for [Mages], and the middle of the continent made sense.
Moving her mansion would be such a pain, though. Valeterisa had suspected she’d teleport using her network and keep mobile. She should have been getting back to work, collecting supplies, and teaching her apprentice in her safe domain.
She kept hanging around here, though. Larracel had already left, so why was she here?
No reason. She should leave already. The beach was pleasant, but so were warming spells. The Archmage of Izril was a very busy woman.
“…[Earthshape]. And to smooth the ground…[Transmutation: Flat Mudscape]. [Halt Spell]! Is this better?”
“T-thank you, Archmage! That’s perfect.”
Lasica stared as Valeterisa shaped a place for Rufelt and the Drake to sit just over the beach. Erin had been reluctant to, partly because working with sand was so hard.
However, Valeterisa had raised a wall of stone, then shaped it into a gentle cliff. But she’d made it smoother, a pleasant thing to walk barefoot on, by using the [Mudscape] spell, which could turn a lot of surfaces into unpleasant mud.
Yet she’d halted the spell before it actually mudified anything, so the result was rougher stone becoming as smooth as polished marble. Valeterisa added a few steps, then absently scratched at her head.
“Why am I doing this?”
She turned to Montressa, and her apprentice gave her a look as blank as Valeterisa’s.
“I have no idea, Archmage. Why are you helping make villas?”
“I…feel like it?”
Part of Valeterisa’s mind twinged at her. If she had been using [Parallel Thoughts], at least one of them would have had the answer, but Valeterisa was trying to wean herself off using that dangerous ability.
Unfortunately, that meant she sometimes obfuscated her own thinking. She lied to herself. Valeterisa casually floated over to Lasica and Rufelt.
“I can put a heating rune in your hot bath. It will feed off the mana in the inn.”
“T-thank you, Archmage. Again, you’re so kind…do you have a villa?”
“No. But Montressa is going to stay at the one with Palt and Imani. I am just staying at the inn for a while, and I am very free. I should go home soon.”
Valeterisa spoke loudly, and the Drake nodded respectfully.
“Well—can we invite you for a potluck on the beach? Everyone will bring something—ah, but you’ve done enough! All the local waterfronts will be participating. In fact, I think Erin said she’ll sell or use up the last spots, there.”
Valeterisa looked over at the remaining spots for villas and nodded. Then someone else waved at her.
“Archmage! Archmage, I am so sorry, but I was just thinking of making a flat slip-n-slide with an ice spell? Bounded here? But I, uh, couldn’t figure it out.”
Palt wanted to make a slide down to the sea, and Valeterisa floated over. She took one look at the cold water flowing down the sand and shook her head.
“It’s not strong enough to maintain during this heat. Have you done any calculations? The rule is for every degree above freezing you put in 0.32 magirite. What was your calculation?”
That was a rough formula using ‘magirite’, which was a standardized unit of measurement around a sample of raw magicore that you could calculate to find the intensity of spells. A lot of magical empires and schools had varied in their units of measurements, but this was the most constant unit that Valeterisa had found. In the past, it had gone magirite, erchirite, and then seith for progressive units of power…but while she knew erchirite, a powerful gemstone that was a benchmark for magical power in Salazsar for being constant, seith was lost to time.
Palt gave Valeterisa a woebegone look as Bezale and Montressa both turned away and tried not to get Valeterisa’s attention, like naughty students in class.
“I, er—I tend to eyeball most spells, Archmage.”
“So you didn’t measure the temperature? What is your maximum intensity of [Icy Floor]? We can test whether it is even possible for you to maintain, let alone ground as a bounded enchantment.”
Palt shuffled his hooves faster as Imani glanced over.
“Maximum intensity? Well, well…”
“You don’t know. Do you know any of your spells in magirite? Have you even taken Analytical Spellcraft?”
“—I don’t think they still teach that course, Archmage!”
Palt smiled desperately as he tried to evade Valeterisa’s look of disappointment. She held his gaze, mystified.
“And you graduated?”
Palt was sweating so hard he might have passed out from dehydration, but someone came to his aid.
“Hey! Did I hear someone can make walls for us? We’re building a villa, and we need help! Turns out it’s not as easy as a tent! I—oh, hey. Archmage Valeterisa.”
Relc came trotting along the beach in swimming trunks, looking tired and nursing a scratch from where a bit of falling timber had snagged him. Valeterisa turned around swiftly, and Palt made his escape in a flash.
“Oh. Sergeant Relc. Hello. I didn’t realize you were on the beach. I meant, resorts. Are you making a villa?”
Relc rubbed at the back of his neck.
“Yeah, that’s right. Er, greetings, Valeterisa. I fixed that puzzle of yours that got broken.”
Her eyes lit up.
“You did? How?”
He casually felt at his belt pouch, realized he’d left it, and cursed.
“It was just a bit of wire. I unstuck one part, replaced it, glued it together, and the entire thing works! I had to learn to repair mine, but no wonder [Repair] didn’t work—it’s all in tiny parts, so the spell probably didn’t do the entire thing or something.”
“It is highly specific. If it regarded the entire puzzle as being in pieces, I never got at it with the spell. I should have made a full bubble and then…did you solve it?”
Relc grinned. He rubbed at his neck-spines, glancing at Valeterisa as her eyes lit up. Behind him, on the beach, the kids were shouting at him to come back and continue playing the ‘Kraken’. He waved at them, then glanced at the construction work—then Valeterisa. Relc indicated the puzzle.
“I solved it twice! So—you’re making a villa? I bet you could do a giant sandcastle or something. That’s amazing. We’re trying to make some huts, and it’s a mess. Menolit can’t build, and we could really use some stone walls for the frame, but Erin’s apparently mad as a Rock Crab in boiling water, so when I heard someone was building things…”
Valeterisa had on her robes for the beach, not really fancying the swimwear, and she brushed at them innocently.
“I decided to volunteer my magic. I don’t have a villa, though. I don’t feel the need. My apprentice is staying with her friends, but I am not. But I’m staying in The Wandering Inn for a few days.”
“Ooh. Nice! But no villa? I bet you could rent one and make a nice one. Why are you…”
Relc frowned, and Valeterisa gave him an innocent shrug.
“It never occurred to me. Do you need magical help, by any chance?”
Valeterisa was just coincidentally doing some magic over here and suddenly here was Relc. The Drake stared at Valeterisa, then gave her a big smile. She blushed and was glad he turned his head to wave at Ekirra.
Relc actually knew her, unlike the other guests of the inn, who treated her like a dangerous, unpredictable force of magic. Rather like an older Erin, actually. But Relc had gotten to talking with her about puzzles, and he really was an amazing puzzlehead.
The Archmage floated after Relc as he pointed with sheer gratitude at their villas. She noticed that her apprentice had slowly, slowly turned her head, and Valeterisa felt a prickle down her back, but she kept her face straight.
“Do you—it seems like there are a lot of couples on the beach. Are you bringing anyone?”
Strange. She was having heart palpitations. Where was Larra when Valeterisa needed her? Relc shrugged self-consciously, and eyed Valeterisa before turning and laughing.
“Me? I’m a dumb guy…nah. Menolit and me were inviting Grimalkin, actually, and we were going to, uh—throw a few parties. My kid might stay, actually. Which’d sort of defeat the purpose…if I even build a stupid hut. What about you?”
He sighed hugely, contemplating a number of ways this could go wrong. Valeterisa floated a bit higher, then came down to earth.
“Me? No…no. Not anyone. Why—why don’t I help you? With the hut. I could make something very nice, I think. It’s the only thing to do for someone who likes puzzles.”
“Really? Thank you! You’re definitely the best Archmage of Wistram!”
Relc beamed, and Valeterisa felt like she really needed to lie down. She floated after Relc and tried to say something.
“I…I…”
“Hm?”
“Would you invite me to your party?”
Montressa was holding on to Bezale, who looked amazed, and Palt was staring so hard that Imani had to punch him in the side. Relc was oblivious to Valeterisa’ comment. He just paused, looked her in the eyes, then grinned.
“Sure! Maybe we’ll both get lucky—er—damn. Don’t mention that around Erin. She gets weird, but hey. Absolutely!”
No! Valeterisa’s face fell, and she wondered if someone were casting [Confounding Obliviousness] on people around here. This had worked when she was younger! Then she realized she might be old, and her face fell, and she wanted to leave again.
Of course, she was too old, so it wasn’t even an option. Sadly, Valeterisa floated after Relc…and the senses of a certain Menolit began to tingle as he saw them approach. That was nothing compared to the bells going off in a certain [Innkeeper]’s head as she and Ulvama watched through her garden door.
Relc paused only once to notice Valeterisa, the absent-minded [Archmage], was getting sunburned. So he went and got one of the parasols and held it over her as she asked what kind of a house he’d like her to build.
 
——
 
“Okay. We have to help. Wait. Relc and Valeterisa? Isn’t she like ten years older than him? Maybe more. Is that a good—ow!”
Ulvama almost kicked Erin through the doorway they were using to survey the beach.
“She’s trying hard. I like it! You don’t like it? I’ll drown you in the surf.”
“No, I like it! I like it! Relc…I just can’t believe it! Relc’s a good guy, and Valeterisa lifted a city! Are you sure they’ll fit?”
Ulvama considered the question seriously.
“Dunno. But do you want to give them a chance?”
Erin hesitated.
“S-should we? Shouldn’t we just leave them—don’t hit me!”
Ulvama had raised the fist of the [Great Shaman] in wrath. She eyed Erin and lowered her fist.
“Sometimes you do nothing. But I am a [Shaman]. You can help. Not push—not unless it needs pushing. Or pull. Only when it’s bad do you do it. But you can be subtle.”
“Subtle how?”
“Like…two [Scouts] going on the same patrol. Someone runs out of good arrow glue, so has to go talk to another leader in other tribe. Invite both to party. Shy ones are bad. Too confident ones are the worst. Bleh.”
Erin was super nervous as Ulvama spoke like a seasoned expert in the realms that only Pellmia had dared to attempt. Yet if the [Lord of Love and Wine] could have been here…he might have realized there was some skill here, too.
“What do I do, oh wise Ulvama?”
Erin sat there, and Ulvama gave her a suspicious look, then smiled.
“Some of them only need nice, private places. Others have heads thicker than Rock Crab shells. You give those ones big chance.”
“And if they fail?”
Ulvama tapped the side of her nose.
