“Really? I didn’t know that. It must be nice to be young.”
The [Spearmaster] rolled his shoulders as he put the spear across them, hanging his arms off it.
“Eh. No one’s ever old. But sometimes it feels harder. Back in the army, it was more—casual. These days, it’s a drink at a bar or even the Haven…it’s hard to meet new people.”
Larra. Valeterisa was considering doing a teleport out of here, then just [Invisibility]. But she couldn’t leave her apprentice. Once he left.
“Wistram was very social for me as well.”
Relc glanced at Valeterisa’s hung head.
“Right, right. That’s why I was glad when this happened. Because it’s that sort of chance, you know? I just wish I knew someone. And again—your villa’s too nice for me to take. I’m not some [King]. I hope you find someone cool…if you were looking for anyone. I mean, you’re an Archmage. Maybe you’re busy.”
“I wasn’t.”
Valeterisa felt like someone was casting [Reduce Size] on her. Or at least, her voice. Relc hesitated for one long moment, then coughed.
“Well, if you did have anyone in mind, I bet you they’d say ‘yes’. If you asked. I dunno.”
Here, at this point, even the Archmage of Izril’s single, non-parallel mind realized that Relc was not obliviously rubbing something in, but perhaps, perhaps, employing that most rare of tactics.
Subtlety. Her head rose, and she adjusted her sandy spectacles slowly. Valeterisa saw Relc stare straight ahead, but he was peeking out of the corner of his eye.
Wait a second. Menolit had kicked the damn snake into the surf, and he turned—and halted as his instincts suddenly said, ‘stay the heck away’. Relc glanced at Valeterisa again. Stared straight ahead.
And hope bloomed like a Faerie Flower in the darkness.
“I wouldn’t want to, y’know, presume. I’m bad at stuff like that. But hey, I’m single, and I don’t want to go flirting if Embria and her squad’s around. That’s a bad look, doing it in front of the kid. What if I romanced one of her soldiers from my old army? Under her command?”
He shuddered. Valeterisa spoke breathlessly.
“That would be—uncomfortable. And this is my villa.”
She double-checked. Relc nodded.
“Got anyone in mind?”
“I—I—perhaps. But I do not know how to do it. Asking. It’s been a long time, and perhaps I’m old.”
She self-sabotaged. Someone screamed very quietly, and Valeterisa and Relc turned. A ‘bush’ that had been planted in the illusory resort’s scenery suddenly shook—and Montressa, Palt, and Bezale appeared as Valeterisa pointed a wand.
“Aaah! Montressa, you idiot!”
They ran for it. Valeterisa met her apprentice’s gaze—
“[Siege Fireball]—”
Her wand sparked, and her apprentice screamed and ran into the surf, but Valeterisa canceled the spell and stood there, looking away now. She was afraid to even glance to her right at the Drake. After a second, she realized he was chuckling.
Then silence.
Then…Relc spoke, and Menolit, the [Mages], a snooping Mrsha, Visma, and even Erin, Ulvama, Rufelt, Lasica, and countless other people craned their necks and perked up their ears to listen. One was wavering, and the other?
Relc gave Valeterisa his most serious look as Embria came marching towards the villa with 4th Company on break. She stopped as her father hit Valeterisa with the final blow.
“Old? I dunno about that, Archmage Valeterisa. Because I’m either blind or stupid, but you look like a pretty fine [Immortal Moment] to me.”
It was his greatest line yet. He’d been working on that one for months. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Valeterisa stared at Relc.
Wham.
That was the sound of Erek falling out of a tree in the beach-house he and Seve were working on. Relc held his toothy grin as Lasica turned and walked away. But Valeterisa? She turned red, then stuttered.
“I—I—thank you, Sergeant Relc. And I think you’re—insert a joke here—um. Ah. Would you care to stay in my villa instead?”
Slowly, the Drake met her eyes as Embria goggled in ignorance and horror, and 4th Company jumped her before she could say anything. They might have parted ways with Relc and had a difference of opinion, but as Squad Captain Wikir would later volunteer, you never left a fellow [Soldier] in the lurch when they were charging the breach.
And Relc grinned and nodded.
“I think that might be great. Why don’t we try it?”
 
——
 
That night, a bunch of couples sat next to a fire in the private beaches, talking about their new villas, drinking and socializing next to a grill that Imani and Lasica were womaning.
“So, how did you and Palt meet, Imani?”
Rufelt and Palt were there, hovering around, talking drinks, and the topic came up. Imani looked up.
“Actually, Palt met me after he fought Pisces’ team…”
Palt looked shamefaced, but Imani patted his side.
“He made up for it, and he noticed I had panic attacks at, well—everything. I survived a Creler attack when I first came to Izril. All my friends…even after most of a year, I was terrified, and he gave me tonics to help with it and taught me to deal with it.”
“Dead gods. You poor girl. Crelers? I forget, in Pallass, how terrifying it is.”
Lasica stared at Imani, and the [Chef] nodded. Then smiled at Palt.
“He was there to help, and I think that’s when I started to like him. He liked a certain [Innkeeper], but I eventually managed to get him to stop trotting off.”
Palt coughed, red-cheeked.
“I made a lot of mistakes. But Imani truly did make me, well, appreciate her love of a lot of things. Including cooking! And my various specialties, like my rollups.”
Lasica snorted as Palt offered her one and twirled it around her claws.
“Oh? Erin throws a fit about them. I guess that’s another reason you two worked.”
Imani sighed.
“I don’t smoke like Palt does, but it’s part of his charm—at times.”
“And my darling, unshod love is focused. I was wandering around after Wistram, and then I met her and thought, ‘I want to see her in a kitchen’. She rekindled my love of cooking, and so we stuck together.”
“Sounds familiar, doesn’t it, Lasica?”
Rufelt grinned, and she put her claws on her hips as she checked on some meat. The other couples were here, and one very upset and bewildered Klbkch.
“What do you mean, they are a couple? When did this happen? I was not informed. I thought we were partners. Even if he and I are not on active duty—”
“I don’t know. I don’t know, but I can’t get near the castle! 4th Company is holding me off!”
Embria was shriek-whispering to him. Klbkch looked over towards the castle.
“I see. Then we must conduct a siege. Do you have any forces at your disposal? My Antinium are insubordinate.”
“Uh—uh—Mrsha?”
“…Let us go and rally support.”
They headed off as Lasica rolled her eyes. Children, the lot of them. Somehow, the Slayer of the Centenium had less emotional maturity than the young Earther and Centaur standing together. She turned back to Rufelt.
“As I recall, you and I fought over customers back in the day, then decided to work together.”
“What a strange story.”
Krshia murmured, and Lism nodded innocently. The Councilmembers were sitting at the fire, and Imani and Palt gave them a long, long look. But there weren’t actually any other Liscorians here, so the two looked innocent as could be.
The older couples and Imani and Palt laughed, and Palt looked around seriously as he offered cigars about.
“That was definitely the start of it. The rest was just a matter of making everything fit. Which was hard for me, because they say I’m hung like a—”
Imani punched him in the side as Lism began choking on his drink. Krshia nearly spat out her drink.
“Dead gods, Palt. I knew there were rumors, but I wasn’t going to ask, yes?”
“Love overcomes all obstacles. My darling Imani is—ow, ow! Don’t burn me!”
She had one of the grilling tongs and was threatening to burn him. But in truth, Imani wasn’t that violent, and Rufelt began laughing.
“I had no idea you told jokes, Palt!”
The Centaur was smug as he looked around.
“I’m Ullsinoi. We love that kind of humor. I just can’t ever make jokes around Erin because she will stab me, if she even gets the joke. And Lyonette would geld me for saying it in front of Mrsha.”
Imani rolled her eyes, slightly red-cheeked, but she whispered to Lasica.
“Don’t mind Palt. It’s true, he’s a prankster—you should hear the things he does to go after our competitors. But there’s a potion for everything. Not that he needs it. He’s less a stallion, more like a pony.”
“Dear!”
Palt was stricken, and Imani shot him a huge smile as he trotted around in agitation, trying to defend himself, and nearly walked into the fire. That was also something you didn’t get to joke about, especially in Erin’s inn.
Bethal appeared as she heard the ribald humor, whereas Thomast was happy enough to sit with Maughin and have a serious discussion about—well—decorum.
“I am called Chevalier Thomast, not ‘Lord Walchaís’. Bethal is determined to let her family end with her, not to foist that legacy onto a child. Moreover, I am a [Chevalier] from Terandria. My entry into the ranks of the nobility is somewhat contested, so this is the best solution for us.”
“Really. That is…tragic. Commendable, but tragic. Myself, I feel as though half my people are unsupportive of my marriage. They would rather, they tell me, to my face, have me marry a Dullahan. And I ask ‘who’? And they present me with people who understand nothing about smithing. Who have never known Invictel. Is it wrong for me to not want to marry for my station, so far from home?”
Maughin rumbled a reply as he drank, more open and more honest away from his people. Thomast offered him his cup, and the Dullahan gently chinked glasses.
“But you are marrying her.”
Maughin’s scowl darkened further, then he smiled.
“Yes. And we might not have rushed it if they had not hinted at me to break up. Once we are married, they will have to respect her, and that will settle that.”
He looked over at Jelaqua, who was laughing and talking with Wailant, Viceria, and Lady Pryde about the places they’d been, and the two smiled.
Oh, yes. Lady Pryde was there. She sat, somewhat stiffly, but she too had visited other countries, and she was respectful of the [Pirate] and Jelaqua. In fact, this gathering even had Lyonette popping by, but it was mostly for couples.
Couples…and Pryde. Relc and Valeterisa had showed up for a bit, but they had begun to talk about puzzles and walked off to find a shop in Invrisil that sold them, of all inane things. That had occupied the conversation for an hour, and Embria and Klbkch were currently heading off to destroy the castle before the two returned.
However, there was one more guest who sat stiffly by the fire, eating his fourth hamburger without the regular wheat-buns, but some gigantic seared mushrooms because he deemed it healthier.
Magus Grimalkin kept up a pleasant demeanor—well, his face was stiff—but he would glance every now and then at Pryde. And she would chance a look at him when she thought he was not looking.
Bethal had tried to get Pryde to go over three times and had failed. And the Sinew Magus was not at Menolit’s party, which had turned more into Goblins and Antinium throwing a rave…but the [Wingman] had a feeling he might level tonight anyways.
He’d done his best, but the wall of Grimalkin’s stubbornness had defeated him. Still, there were easier people to help, and sometimes the [Wingman] had to look out for himself.
Yet Grimalkin was putting in an appearance. He sat there thinking, observing, gathering data, and making a wild inference based on what he was observing.
He might not have. He would have ignored most anyone, like Himilt and Colfa, who were both eying him as they ate extra-rare burgers and smiled as Himilt joined in on the conversation with Wailant.
“I have been to Terandria. I toured Noelictus.”
“That gloomy place? Phsaw! Himilt! I like you more and more every time we talk! Join in with more stories! What did you do there?”
“Oh, toured some places that belonged to my ancestors. I did see a number of undead. Ghouls, even.”
“Dead gods. And people live…?”
Normally, Grimalkin would have gone over as a student of the world or eaten his fill and gone to his students, who were, he suspected, having their own party in his absence.
Perhaps the body needed fun. He just…he wouldn’t have believed it.
Lady Pryde showing affection for him, that was.
He hadn’t noticed it before. He had thought Himilt, Menolit, and Thomast were respectfully stupid and/or out of their minds. He’d completely ignored Saliss when the [Alchemist] had just broken down and told him.
What had changed? Well. Sometimes to move a mountain, you had to divert a river with a single pebble in some kind of metaphor about applied force and gradual change.
Other times, you blew the mountain up with a Tier 8 spell. A little Gnoll had come over and handed him a note. It read:
 
Hey, Grimalkin, this is Erin. I am telling you in a sorta non-pushy way something you need to hear. Lady Pryde Ulta likes you. Trust me, this is not a joke, and you can ask me yourself. If Mrsha alters this or leaks this info, I will ban her from desserts for the rest of her entire life. 
I am a Level 40+ [Innkeeper]. Look at the facts. Why would she sit in a freezing tent with you if she didn’t like you? It is illogical to think she’s just a good business associate. 
…She’s not gonna say anything, you know. Think on it, good luck.
—Erin
 
PS. Good luck from me as well! I did not alter the note! Mrsha!
 
Inconceivable. Impossible? Highly unlikely! What would this mean? The implications—was it serious? Did Lady Ulta have a complete reckoning of the political fallout of even a casual…
Was she serious?
Erin Solstice said it. She could be silly, thoughtless, reckless…but she was not often wrong. Grimalkin could ask her for clarification.
He was afraid to. Because he wondered if she might look at him like a storm lay behind her eyes and speak with such clarity and truth that he would be unable to doubt it.
Now, the Sinew Magus wondered.
What about him? He sat there and sat there…and eventually he looked up, and Lady Pryde had just glanced up as well.
They held each other’s gazes, and Grimalkin felt his heart palpitate for no physical reason, but a purely mental one. And then?
 
——
 
Erin Solstice sat in her [World’s Eye Theatre] and did not sense anything in her beach garden. Nope. Not a thing.
She had sent Ishkr skating across the beach with refreshments, and somewhere, she was sure, a Hobgoblin was playing on his guitar.
Of the two, she had invited Ishkr and Bird to be here, but they had their own ways of keeping happy this night.
 
——
 
