“Lots of drinks so they can cry into the surf. And make sure they don’t drown themselves.”
“…You have done this a lot, huh?”
“Yep.”
 
——
 
“Is this…for us?”
The first thing Elirr thought when Mrsha took off the blindfold was that Erin had realized what was up with him and Hexel. He was worried, but he hoped Mrsha hadn’t told his secret. Perhaps Ysara or Qwera had, but he was glad, because he saw something in the private villa by the sea, twining with snake-like motifs and made of sandstone, painted like a coastal cottage. He saw care, not hostility, and it touched him.
Okay—that was the second thing he thought. The first thing he thought was that he was glad Mrsha hadn’t led him into a trap where her friends would pelt him with mudballs.
The rapscallious Mrsha looked inordinately proud, despite having done nothing more than help drag in some chairs and fetch Elirr. He turned, and Erin gave him a huge wink.
“Hey, Elirr! I thought you and Mrsha and, I dunno, Hexel or someone could use this cottage for all your hard work! Just whatever you want!”
Wink. Wink. Ulvama covered her face with a hand then slapped the back of Erin’s head. Elirr’s stomach twisted again at the thought of Erin being subtle, but he came over to her and took her hands.
“For me? Thank you.”
Erin grew serious and stared earnestly up at the [Beast Trainer].
“I just wanted to—well, make something for you guys. Oh, and this is a private section of the beach with one entrance over there. You only have two neighbors. Two spots—for Mirn and Onieva. They might have guests, but I thought it’d be okay. Is that fine with you? I can block it off even more, but…”
Elirr glanced over, and two Drakes looked back from exclaiming over their own cottages. The walls were actually stone, but Tesy had painted the interiors, and they’d furnished both with actual furniture and beds. He saw the Drake [Protector] give him a long look, and Elirr’s smile was genuine.
“I think—I would rather like to have them as guests. I should introduce myself.”
“You do that! I’ll leave you guys alone—”
Erin was heading off when Elirr caught her hand. He looked her in the eye.
“Erin. Thank you. Really. I don’t often look for kind people, but you are.”
She gave him a wide-eyed look and then sniffed.
“Don’t say that or I’ll feel bad. It’s just—you have lots of fun, okay? Mrsha, he’s gonna make me cry!”
How dare you! Make Erin cry? She’s only supposed to do that every other day! Let’s have a fun time, Elirr! Let’s show Hexel!
Mrsha ran over, mock-punching at Elirr’s legs, and he swept her into a hug. She patted him on the shoulder, then held up a card.
I am not staying here tonight. You couples are gross. Visma’s crazy because she says it’s all amazing.
He laughed and kissed her on the brow, and she wiggled and scowled, then hugged him. When he let go, Erin had run off, and Ulvama, the Goblin, gave him a huge grin.
“She’s shy. It’s very funny. Okay! Now let’s go save poor, stupid Drakes from themselves.”
 
——
 
If building a villa for Onieva was simply the task of working hard, it had simple, guaranteed rewards. When the Drake saw what Erin had made and Erin showed her how private it was—you had to literally walk right instead of join the main area that led to most resorts—the Drake gave her a long look.
“So you arranged all this. Did you plan it from the start?”
“Me? Nah…I’m not good with secret stuff. But once I had this—you should thank Ulvama. She helped convince me to rescind the ban on kissing and stuff, and then I wanted to make somewhere without…raids. Do you need anything else?”
Ulvama waved innocently as Onieva looked at her, and the Drake [Alchemist] felt a mix of conflicting emotions in her chest. She turned to Erin and exhaled.
“No. This is a wonderful little gift, Erin. A resort for us to…be natural? We might have to put up a few spells, but this is perfect.”
At least, for a little getaway. Erin beamed proudly, and Elirr looked excited, but Onieva’s smile was banked, and Erin noticed.
“Can I get you anything else? Do you not like sand?”
“No…I was just thinking logistics. Mirn?”
The Drake was just as excited by the beach-prospects as Onieva, much less to get a free spot given how much others paid for them. However, there was a bittersweet look in his eyes when he pointed to the painted villa.
“It’s beautiful, really. That Tesy did it? I know…well, I’d invite Vetn as well if I could find him. And a bunch of our good friends. But—I don’t think we’ll manage more than two. Maybe we should just fill it with Onieva’s friends.”
He put his claws in his pockets and stood there, sighing. Erin blinked at Mirn and didn’t see what Ulvama was talking about. He had slim Drake-style jeans that actually had a tailhole and a kind of cuf-off fabric that hugged his tail. Pale white, like the snow, and the yellow sleeveless jacket looked nice, and he was only wearing that. No undershirt for the beach, so he was showing off what Erin took to be like a Drake version of a six-pack. That was definitely some style, and she even noticed he had a tail-ring. So maybe he was a bit modern and trendy, but fashionable?
It occurred to Erin that she didn’t know any fashion terms, so she couldn’t tell anyone what Mirn was wearing exactly, but okay, fine, it was a cut above most winter-going people. Trendy.
So why was he so let down? By her architectural choices? Ulvama and Tesy had helped her make it! It even had furniture!
“The problem, Erin, is that even if this place is cut-off and secluded—your inn is not. We were just talking about it. Let’s say we brought, um, a bunch of people who’re our real friends, here. Well, it’s all good if they have a fun time and no one notices them. But then we’re associated with them, see?”
“…Why’s that bad if no one can tell you guys are, uh—uh—at odds with the Watch?”
Erin didn’t see the problem, but that was because she had to wrap her mind around the Turnscale community’s struggles. Onieva spoke, overly patient.
“It’s trouble because if a single one of them—through no fault of yours—gets in trouble, all of us might be tarred with the same brush. Even though we’re obviously upstanding citizens with nothing to hide.”
“No sausages in my sheets. Just good old-fashioned tuna.”
Mirn nodded. Erin almost snorted at the analogy, but he looked sad and…oh.
“So that’s why. If you guys were a group and someone was taking notes…”
“Trouble by association. Sorry, Erin. Even if we all came in separately, they know we’re coming to the inn, and we’re Pallasians. We can bring some people in, and I bet Elirr and Hexel have a better—reason—but us?”
The Gnoll actually did look a bit worried as Onieva brought this up. Erin’s face fell. Of all the problems to have!
“But there are tons of Pallassians coming through all the time! Can’t we just pretend they’re travellers?”
“Your guests are a much more select clientele, Erin. I know it is quite tempting, but too dangerous, no. I’m sorry, but I see her point.”
Elirr murmured, and Erin almost sat down as the excitement turned to a kind of frustration. Both Mirn and Onieva tried to cheer her up, seeing the gift go sideways, but Erin just sat there.
“That’s so unfair. No. I’m…”
She stared blankly at the houses she’d worked so hard on, then got mad at Pallass and their snoops. Spies everywhere. She was normally cool with them, but this?
Walled Cities and their eyes. Chaldion might be someone she needed the help of, but he liked to be in control.
She’d never warred with him. Maybe he would’ve won…but Erin knew he wasn’t the greatest [Strategist] ever to live. She’d met them, from dirty Nerrhavia to cunning rulers like Khelta and even heard stories of places like Samal and their deviousness. Why…why…
Erin paused a long moment. Then her eyes flickered. She looked up suddenly, and a truly Nerrhavia-level insight flickered in her mind. She might not know Turnscale covertcy well—but Erin knew her inn. And she knew dirty.
“Actually…I think I might have a solution for that. Can I run an idea by you guys? It’d depend on one person and if you’re okay with a teensy bit of risk, but I have a good idea.”
Onieva gave Erin a sharp look, and the [Innkeeper] suddenly straightened. She rubbed at her chin as Mirn folded his arms.
“We’d have to okay this, Erin. Nothing flies with us unless it’s tested and good.”
“Well, let me explain it! I think it’d work…it just really depends. Ooh, now I’m nervous.”
Erin got worried again, because it all hinged on one person. She looked around.
“I need to find Ishkr—and maybe you could trust him? But it really depends on whether or not…Liska is cool with Turnscales. I hope she is.”
Erin frowned worriedly, and Onieva instantly raised her claws.
“Erin. Erin. This is what we were afraid of. You can’t just tell people…not your most trusted [Server]. The cute one? Not even him, and certainly not someone we don’t know.”
“Uh, Onieva?”
Mirn hesitated, because Elirr had nearly choked on his spit. The Gnoll and Drake exchanged a wordless look, then Mirn turned to Erin.
“Er—is that the kid at the door who sits back in her chair and snacks while insulting people? The sassy one?”
“Y-yeah?”
Mirn turned to Onieva and raised his brows.
“I think…we should hear Erin out. She and her brother might be okay.”
Onieva paused, then looked at Erin. Okay. But what was her plan…?
 
——
 
Doors and Gnolls. Later that day, a Drake from Pallass went for a visit to Invrisil. They could get on the day-listing since, these days, Pallass preferred to run everything via a passport system.
If you had a passport and you weren’t a risk, they’d essentially let a Pallassian head in and out, even appear without advance notice.
Visitors were far more heavily regulated, and many realized they needed passports for large-scale business or travel to other cities. It was one of those protective things that made the City of Inventions so popular…
At any rate, the Watch gave the Drake a second glance, because they were clearly a bit nervous. One of them double-checked the Drake with a manual magnifying glass enchanted with [Detect Magic], but when they came up clean, they were simply noted with a tiny note.
It usually didn’t mean much. Of course, if a Watch Commander, Captain, or anyone else had reason to check their file, they could find more notes, and in this Drake’s case, a suspicion of unmoral conduct unsubstantiated—one neighbor, one via association.
—Of course, proving it was hard, and to the annoyance of many, the budget for having the Eyes look into these open cases had been cut down to a tenth of what it was by Chaldion. If the Drake had gone in the company of other people with flags to Invrisil, well, that might get someone on their case.
As it was, it was just data, and if they made a habit of going to Invrisil, perhaps whomever they were with would be correlated by an [Analyst]. But it wasn’t the inn, and the Drake wasn’t entering a group with, say, Onieva Oliwing or ‘Mirn’, both of whom had more flags—all unsubstantiated—than a consulate.
The Drake lined up, making small-talk with a few other pedestrians bound for Celum, one to Esthelm—and they went slowly, one by one through the door.
“Next! One by one! Sorry, it’s not my job—hey, don’t dawdle! Sorry, it’s Pallass.”
The Gnoll on the other side was giving the Watch a hard time, and they glared at her. She did have to double-check destinations, and she got to eat bagels with hot chocolate with her feet up. The [Innkeeper] had been banned from bribing the gate-guards, and so they retreated to the warm checkpoint for tea while she worked.
“To…Invrisil? Kendrei Kalsei?”
“Uh, y-yes. For shopping, Miss. I’ll be back tomorrow.”
The Drake nervously cleared her throat, and Liska glanced up. She had a list of her own, and she was more alert than normal. She gave the Drake a big smile as she waved her through.
“Come on through. Hey, no pushing behind me! You lot, step back!”
Owing to security concerns, the line in Pallass was behind a door that could be shut and reinforced in case someone or something came through. The same for Invrisil, Liscor, and Celum. Esthelm was building their own checkpoint too, so the sighing pedestrians waited and saw the Drake walk on through.
Did the door…flicker? A Dullahan clutching the ticket that Maughin had given him glanced up, and Lorent the [Sharpener] thought he saw the door flicker for a second. But he had no good angle to see, and when two more came through, he saw them stride on through…then the familiar, open door to The Wandering Inn when Liska waved him through.
Lorent appeared in the hallway and looked around. Not many people had been allowed into the beach, and Liska had congratulated him about having a pass. He hurried into the beach, so happy to be invited he didn’t think to notice there weren’t many people waiting for Liska to tune the door to Invrisil.
He didn’t think about it much. The only thing the Dullahan thought, later on, was that it was funny that one of the Drakes playing on the beach and looking excited was the same Drake he’d seen in line. But he just assumed she’d come back from Invrisil. Or that Drakes looked alike. He wouldn’t want to get in trouble, and what did it matter?
 
——
 
After the sixth person passed through the door and came out into the beach, Onieva was sold.
“Dead gods, I didn’t know your door worked like that!”
She turned to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] was hugely smug.
“It doesn’t. Liska’s using my [Portal Door] as well as my Garden of Sanctuary’s door.”
“But how? It’s still open in the middle of the beach, isn’t it?”
For a reply, Erin twirled something in her fingers, and a key shone as it spun into reality. She showed it to Onieva as Mirn welcomed the nervous Turnscales in.
“I’ve got two doors. What’s actually happening is that they step through the portal door—and Liska’s chaining it to one in the basement. But that one’s connected to the second door, so they actually teleport twice with no one the wiser. I betcha we could even fake a ‘checkpoint’ so if someone stares over their shoulders, it just looks like they’re walking through like normal. They won’t appear on the other end, but I bet Pallass doesn’t spy on Invrisil’s checkpoint, huh?”
“You clever—”
Onieva laughed. Of course! She sombered quickly, realizing it wasn’t perfect. Of course, people might notice that the others weren’t where they should be.
