“Pryde! This is your chance! He’ll never get it—remember what Thomast told us?”
“I can’t.”
Pryde stared up at the ceiling, avoiding Lyonette’s gaze and looking at Grimalkin. The [Princess] hissed.
“Whyever not?”
“I’m too—it’s too humiliating. I can’t say it.”
Then she turned red, and Lyonette saw Pryde’s, well, pride on full display. Her face fell, and Lyonette got, in that moment, how Bethal had both the need to protect her friend—and simultaneously could contemplate murder. Mostly, though, Lyonette just felt bad for Pryde.
 
——
 
“Huh. Is my [Dangersense] tingling? Hey, Relc. Is your [Dangersense] tingling?”
Someone looked around in the inn at that exact moment and rubbed at the back of his neck. His companion, eating a hearty breakfast and looking forwards to a swim in the ocean, paused in shoveling down food.
Relc Grasstongue looked over at Menolit, then frowned.
“Nope. Feels safe to me. Why?”
“Something’s going off. Wait, maybe it’s my new class. [Wingman].”
“I forgot you actually got that. Hah!”
Relc chortled, nearly spraying food out of his mouth. Menolit looked around, frowning.
“Well, I wonder why. Hey, it’s probably because of the resorts. You going to, uh, get a spot? I bought three spots for Liscor Beaching—Erin took my name—and I’m thinking of maybe getting another. One to rent, and maybe one, for, you know…company?”
He waggled his brows, and Relc sat up slightly. He felt that twinge of expectation in his marrow, and he lowered his voice.
“They’re really expensive, though. Do you have…someone to go with?”
“Not for Erin’s friends. As for company—Relc. It’s Erin’s beach, and some idiot paid eight hundred gold for a non-waterfront spot. You or I could probably beg for one of the remaining spots in the premium area. Imagine it. Tons of people would be asking to come on over just to see it.”
“That’s not company, though.”
Menolit shrugged, twiddling his claws together.
“True, but if there’s good food, good fun, and good company…you get your chance is all I’m saying. It’s just a chance, but once you have a breach in the enemy lines, you have a shot. This is like having covering fire. How about it?”
“…I can’t build houses, Menolit.”
The [Veteran] swung an arm around Relc’s shoulders. He and Relc hadn’t known each other that well before the inn, but they were friends—in both their personal histories and single status.
“Relc, I’ll help you build a nice spot. Then we head over to The Drunken Gnoll and just talk—loudly—about our empty villas. If we play our cards right, we could have a great—week.”
Relc perked up instantly as the idea took hold. He was certainly receptive to the idea, and only the pain of making a villa himself had held him back.
“Menolit, you’re a genius.”
“I know. And hey, let’s get Grimalkin in on it. Did you hear him asking about a villa for training? The three of us together have to land a fish. So to speak.”
That was probably why Menolit’s sense was tingling. Relc, himself, and Grimalkin—three lost souls pining for companionship.
In fact, the Drake was so open-minded he even decided he’d throw a proverbial bone at other people in need if he came across them, regardless of species. That was how he accidentally invited nearly thirty Goblins and Antinium to his first party mixer.
 
——
 
Live and let live. This beach was not where all feuds went to die. Rather, it was the effort of some people trying very hard not to bring things up.
Don’t bring up the war. Which war? Any of them. Don’t bring up Drake saboteurs. Don’t bring up the Bloodfields. Don’t bring up Liscor, actually. On the safe side, don’t even talk.
Tyrion Veltras stayed well away from almost everyone. And even when an attempt was made in good faith, it was…rough.
“Um. Excuse me. Are you for hire in building a villa?”
Lady Bethal approached someone lying in the shade of a parasol, sipping drinks, and using her favorite pillow for lumbar support. Rags slowly, slowly glanced up, and she and Bethal met again.
“Oh.”
Bethal stared at Rags. The Goblin Chieftain stared back silently.
Of all the ways for them to meet again—Bethal had been wandering around the beach for the last half hour, trying to secure ‘Goblin builders’ on the chance it’d make Erin disposed to like her.
She had not known that they were the members of the Flooded Waters tribe who definitely remembered her, and they’d sent her from Goblin to Goblin up a fictitious chain of command until she got to Rags.
“You…you’re that little Goblin Chieftain, aren’t you? I know you. You’re the one who didn’t kill me when you had the chance.”
That surprised Rags. She was taller and looked different than she had after fleeing Tremborag’s tribe, but Bethal recognized her.
“You’re more powerful. But your aura’s the same. You—hello. I—oh dear. This isn’t going to start a fight, is it?”
Rags sat up slowly and noted Thomast, two familiar [Knights], and several of her warriors casually playing in the beach close by.
“You tell me. Why are you hiring Goblins?”
“To—I—er—Thomast!”
Bethal’s husband stepped up and bowed.
“I believe it was to get on Erin Solstice’s good side. We will withdraw now. We would not like to cause an incident.”
He eyed Rags, and the Goblin nodded.
“Sure.”
First Magnolia, now Bethal. Rags thought of the Goblins who’d died and wished she had sunglasses to flash in Bethal’s face or do something cool like slide them over her eyes like that [Mathematician]. Anything to hide her own expression, which she feared was naked.
Bethal retreated a few steps—then halted. She swung around and called out.
“I didn’t hunt any more of your kind after that, you know. Not since then. I have never forgiven Velan the Kind, but I did think. The ones in the north rampage and slaughter.”
“Kraken Eaters.”
That was Redscar, who was grinning and eying Thomast, who calmly returned the look. Two experts in the blade looking each other over.
Rags thought about it. Goblins had killed Bethal’s family. Bethal’s [Knights] had killed Goblins.
Leave it there? Call it even?
No, of course not. But she just put her head back down on the pillow.
“My tribe is called Flooded Waters. Remember that. What my tribe does is not all Goblins.”
“I’ll remember that. Flooded Waters. And is this the inn that—changed you?”
Rags tilted her head up and glared at Bethal. Then sighed.
“A bit. But I changed me most of all. Go away. This was my place first, not yours. Erin will kick you out before me.”
She had the satisfaction of watching Bethal hesitate—then retreat. Rags put her head down on her pillow and stared up at the sky. After a second, Redscar flopped down on the beach. Rags muttered.
“Even if you killed all them and Erin let you get away, we’d be hunted down.”
“Wasn’t what I wanted, Chieftain. Can I duel the husband?”
“…No.”
“Please?”
“No. Now, go find the Gnoll with the cool things on his face and buy me a pair.”
“Yes, Chieftain.”
 
——
 
It was history. Raw history. If Rags had words for Bethal, she and the Goblins pretended Tyrion Veltras didn’t exist, but deliberately parked themselves in the funnest part of the beach so he couldn’t wander over.
It wasn’t like they were going to run off. If anything—they wanted to be here. Erin had been worried, but this time, they were not going to run. He could run off.
This was not the day for reconciliation if there was any, or even much confrontation. In fact, the biggest fight was when Erin was sulking in her private [Garden of Sanctuary].
The real one, amidst the Sage’s Grass, with pleasant, if cold, air blowing in through the center of the dome, her garden of many seasons, accept no substitutes.
No one could follow her and ask for a viewing platform or special waves. But unfortunately, at least one person did have access to the garden.
A door slammed open, and Erin growled without checking who it was.
“Go. Away. If it’s about my beaches, I’ll put in a sinkhole beneath your villa.”
“Beaches? You’re making their villas fancy? You couldn’t decorate an egg.”
Them’s were fighting words. Erin turned around, and Ulvama kicked the door the rest of the way open. She folded her arms, and Erin’s mouth dropped as Tesy appeared behind her.
The two color-experts in the inn had walked off, but not to sulk to themselves. They had taken Erin’s accusation like an insult, and Ulvama pulled down one eye while Tesy gave Erin double middle fingers.
She stared at them.
“Whubuh—what did you do?”
They’d dressed up. That was what they’d done. Or rather, both had employed their own color-abilities, and the thing that Erin forgot was that neither one actually flexed hard that often. Ulvama had her magical skin-paints, and Tesy could draw, but neither had actually shown Erin the depth of their craft, so she’d thought it was literally that.
Mrsha had not forgotten Tesy’s trick at the hidden Turnscale bar. Now, he’d repeated it, but for himself and Ulvama. And she had done the same for him.
Ulvama’s hair was semi-translucent, pale white, and the braids had been redone to look like scales, and the ends of each had been colored to look like a snake. She looked like a fashionable Medusa, and Tesy had painted a green-and-gold shawl and summer dress that looked fancy, but almost plain compared to her hair—until Erin realized that Ulvama had also added magical, glowing skin-paint underneath.
She looked like one of the Nagas, especially in dim lighting. Whereas Tesy’s neck-spines were each a different color, and he’d put on fancy robes with little golden filigree scrolls. His painter’s palette looked glossy and shiny, like he was some kind of philosopher-painter from ancient Greece.
The two posed as Erin stared at them. And the first thought that Erin had as Apista buzzed around the two was…
This was their favorite style?
It was impressive, and Erin had never seen someone do translucent hair, but Ulvama’s favorite style was glowing snakes, and Tesy was a multi-colored Grecian philosopher. Yet they looked so pleased with their look that Erin applauded.
“Whoa. It’s been, like, an hour! Did you do that all this time?”
Ulvama folded her arms triumphantly as Tesy painted a little top-hat for Apista. They did have style, and she nodded.
“This is my best look. Fashionable and useful.”
“Useful h—yaaaah!”
One of Ulvama’s snake-braids bit at Erin! The [Innkeeper] leapt back as she came over, and she realized that Ulvama wasn’t just faking the snakes—she’d made her hair into snakes!
“Also, magical paint. See? Like the Courier does, but less permanent.”
The [Shaman] happily reached for her arm—then pulled a glowing strand from the paint and tossed it at Erin.
“Gaaaaah! Stop it, stop it!”
A spectral snake went slithering after Erin, and the [Innkeeper] freaked out at the viper. It couldn’t attack her in the garden, but Ulvama’s snake outfit was apparently one she’d used in actual combat.
“See? What dress have you made for yourself? All this clothing is mine, by the way.”
Tesy flipped open his sketchbook, showing Erin a lot of designs, both male and female, he’d come up with. She stared as he flipped through it.
“I’ve got good clothing?”
“Like your shirt and pants for the beach? Pfft.”
“I have great winter clothes! You’ve seen ‘em!”
“Yah. Selys bought them for you. Say we have good taste! Say it!”
They looked ready to trounce Erin, so she apologized, and the two calmed down. Tesy brushed his claws on his painted-clothing, admiring the silver tips.
“Ulvama is actually a master of painting on skin and hair and stuff. She’s got actual dust for dyes, and they’re not watery but the real stuff. I thought I wouldn’t ever meet someone else with a high-level class relating to art.”
“I can do skin paints, hair dyes, nails, and more. Even designs on shields and stuff, but that’s stupid.”
“Like what?”
Ulvama thought about it.
“Cute skunk? You draw it on a shield, and then someone hits it and—Goblins don’t usually ask for it after the first time. Why are you here? Sulking again?”
Erin scowled.
“I wasn’t! I was just—look, it’s a lot of work to make things on the beach.”
“For all the lovey couples? You wanted to be nice to them. Why are you here and not helping?”
“They’re all over it!”
Erin protested as Tesy drew a mustache on Apista’s face for fun. Ulvama rolled her eyes with exasperation.
“No, stupid. Not for the ones already together. What about the ones who need help?”
“Like who?”
This time, the [Shaman] raised another snake in her hand, and Erin had to think. She closed her eyes…
“Well, hold on. Now that you mention it, there were a few hints like Pryde and Grimalkin, which is sorta obvious to everyone but me. But there’s not that many!”
“You only saw that one?”
Ulvama challenged Erin, and the [Innkeeper] had to drop the act. She fidgeted and eyed Tesy, but the [Painter] was happily heading off with Apista to show off her new style to Lyonette.
Erin whispered to Ulvama nonetheless.
“Um. Keep it a secret?”
“Yes, yes. Who did you see? I know all of them. You’re a smart [Innkeeper]—”
Erin chuckled weakly. It was actually a relief to tell Ulvama; she had thought to mention it to Lyonette, but it’d get weird, and the [Princess] sometimes exaggerated things. Numbtongue wasn’t really a good pick, Bird and Mrsha were silly, and Nanette was too young. There was Ishkr, but she felt like he was an employee. So Ulvama really was one of the only picks aside from maybe Selys or someone.
“Okay. But I have to be wrong about some. Because like—Krshia and Lism? Elirr and Hexel are really close, which I noticed, and, uh—uh—well, here’s an old one. Lyonette and Pawn were, like, more than friends I thought until I died. And there’s also Pryde and Grimalkin, at least, one way, but those have to be mistakes, right? Krshia, Lism?”
“Yep. Lotsa sex.”
Erin gave Ulvama a long stare. Then she smiled politely.
“No. Ulvama, I just realized you didn’t know this, but Krshia and Lism hate each other. They’re on the Council, but they were both [Shopkeepers], and they nearly killed each other back in the day.”
“So…? Sounds like it’s even more passionate. Lots of times things happen like that.”
“No. That’s a mistake. You don’t know they’re—”
Ulvama raised her brows.
“I know. Same with Gnoll and Lamia. But they’re secret because otherwise some stupid Drakes stab them.”
“Wait, what? Elirr’s gay?”
“…Happy? Yah, probably.”
Erin had to sit down for a second.
“Wh—but no one told me!”
Ulvama gave Erin a surprised look.
