The Drake [Chef] stared at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] held her gaze as long as she could. But this was not the pressure she was used to, of sheer intimidation, but the far more insidious force of friendship being applied for little favors. Rufelt made it worse as he came up behind his wife.
“Don’t pressure Erin, Lasica. It’s too much to ask. You making Mrsha special meals every time she comes over isn’t the same as her making a little hill for us.”
Erin covered her face and tried.
“I can’t open this box, guys. It’s not going to be ‘just the hill’. You know it, and I know it. I’m not doing it.”
“Erin, I lost my child. Can’t you do me one favor?”
Lasica went so low that even Lyonette winced. Erin stared at her, and the Drake’s eyes widened. She was going—?
How badly do you want your hill? But Lasica just gave Erin a steady smile.
“I can joke about it. Come on, Erin. Do I get my hill or not?”
“Fine! Just don’t do that again! Palt, get back to making your stinking illusions before I kick you in the butt for starting this. I’ll see you two after breakfast. And no one else!”
“Miss Solstice. My entire family died in the Sacrifice of Roses.”
Thomast actually choked as Bethal put a hand over her heart. Erin didn’t even dignify that one. When Wailant came charging through the door—
“Erin! My mother, bless her heart, died at sea. Every time I stare at the waves, I think of—”
“Raaaaaaah!”
 
——
 
She hated being bullied into things. Part of Erin wanted to close the beach now, and the other half got the fact that these couples wanted cool features only she could make.
If she could delegate…but there was no one with her powers. Erin was grumpy because she disliked the arm twisting, even if Bethal and Wailant were mostly kidding.
Worse, you knew how the inn was. Within the hour, it wasn’t just Bethal and Thomast, it was couple after couple, enterprising businessmen like Menolit and Wailant, and even people who weren’t allowed in the beach bidding inordinate amounts for the resorts.
“Look, it’s not permanent. You can’t—”
“Two hundred gold pieces. I’ll build my own hut. Two hundred for a week, and that includes breakfast, lunch, and dinner, right?”
A [Merchant] in Invrisil made what he thought was a good play. Erin just closed the door on his face with Liska’s help. He grabbed it.
“Two hundred, Miss Solstice! Can you walk away from that?”
She gave him a long look.
“Trust me, pal. You’re not even on the list for craziest offers I’ve gotten today.”
Then she closed the door in his face as his mouth dropped open. Erin turned with a huge sigh to Liska.
“Has the beach actually driven them crazy, Liska? I don’t get it. Even if you’re freezing in the winter—I get that part. But why are people offering this much money for it?”
Liska scratched her head.
“I think it’s because it was on the news.”
“Oh, right. Drassi and her damn coverage. If you see her, tell her I’m gonna kick her next time I see her.”
Erin punched a fist into her palm. Liska grinned.
“Well, that and all the nobles in Invrisil want to come in because of the postcard.”
“…The what?”
Erin had not seen the printed mage-pictures that Lady Bethal had been liberally passing around. She stared at one that Liska had acquired and altered. Mostly by removing Thomast’s face so she could admire Bethal, Lyonette, and Pryde—
Liska avoided Erin’s gaze as the [Innkeeper] stared. But that was it.
 
——
 
“The nobility love unique experiences. If someone can do something fantastic—and expensive—that the others can’t, they go insane for it. What did you expect, Erin?”
Larracel the Haven was amused when she took Erin’s frantic call to her. The [Innkeeper] was in her [World’s Eye Theatre]; she could see the Haven passing across Izril as Larracel expanded her garden.
She had so few guests now; ironically, Larra looked happier. She was reconfiguring her inn from a noble’s retreat into something closer to Erin’s inn.
Actually, that watchtower looked like she’d stolen it wholesale. But the former adventurer had taken time to talk to Erin as she watched her staff planting new crops; her heating spells kept her garden warm. Erin was asking what she should do about her own beach.
“It’s getting crazy, Larra. Someone offered me a thousand gold pieces for a super-villa!”
“And? Did you make it?”
“No! This beach is not permanent. I can’t offer that, and it’ll start a bidding war.”
Something broke on Larracel’s end; she may have actually tossed a gardening pot in vexation.
“Erin! Accept the request, tell them it’s not permanent, and have them bid up the prices! Gouge them! What are you doing?”
“I don’t want to! This is for my friends!”
“Then tell them that and rub it in their faces. But don’t play coy. You and I both know it’s special. If I could make a beach…”
Larracel sounded disgusted.
“It’s absolutely wasted on you, that Skill.”
“Thanks.”
Erin glowered, but she realized she might have to open up a few spots for non-inn guests just for the sheer monetary value. And that meant she was taking requests to do custom landscaping.
It wouldn’t be so bad, except that Lasica and Rufelt decided they didn’t want the hill ‘just there’, but they wanted a flatter one over next to their house. Oh, and could Erin do a sandbar out to sea? Also, Lasica fancied that this was a perfect spot to do some outdoor grilling, so if Erin could prepare some solid ground—and did they have firewood?
Erin knew how ‘teensy’ requests like this worked, and every time someone hurried over, she almost summoned a tidal wave. Lyonette would have happily taken over the work, but unfortunately—only Erin could command her garden, and she couldn’t delegate.
 
——
 
If you thought that Erin was unhappy, her guests were earnestly desirous of making their private villas the things of dreams. They knew they were transitory—and they knew Erin was already sick of their little requests.
But you had to dream.
In fact, the ones who had gotten the premium, first-class waterfront spots were all people that Erin knew. They were—
Lady Bethal and Thomast.
Imani and Palt.
Rufelt and Lasica.
Jelaqua and Maughin.
And Wailant and Viceria.
There were more tentative couples, like Jewel and Normen, Pryde and Grimalkin, but they weren’t at the ‘let’s get a villa’ stage. Nor did Numbtongue actually count because he was securing a spot in the expectation of multiple guests.
He was…not at the same stage in relationships to Erin. In fact, she had rented an entire villa to a [Merchant], who had put down eight hundred gold with the expectation that if he had a villa in the exclusive beach, he’d find someone to share it with.
She wished him luck, because his attitude seemed like it was going to produce a certain set of results for him. Actually, Erin wished him no luck. But she’d taken his money.
People were hard at work using everything from timber and nails to sand to try and make a cozy spot. But it was true that making even a temporary residence was, well…
Really hard. That was why Erin was needed; sand was not a good foundation, and the grumpy [Innkeeper] had to turn the ground to something solid, and she could put up a wall very easily.
Anyways, it turned out all the couples were actually along the same stretch of land, so they waved at each other and actually introduced themselves.
“Hello! Are you our neighbors?”
Lady Bethal waved at Imani, who looked flustered to have a [Lady] and her pink [Knights] address her. Palt trotted over and bowed.
“Lady Walchaís! Forgive us for not introducing ourselves earlier. This is Chef Imani, and I’m Illusionist Palt; we run Barehoof Kitchens in Liscor.”
Thomast shook both hands, bowing slightly, and Bethal exclaimed.
“Oh! Are you the ones at that restaurant? We tried to get a place, but we were told it was closed. Invitation only, and Thomast and I have only been here recently.”
“That’s right, it is—but if we’d known a [Lady] wanted a spot—we could absolutely do an exclusive dinner, Lady Walchaís. In fact, I could reserve you any spot in the next month—”
Palt hurriedly produced a notecard, and Thomast interjected.
“We would not wish to take up your time with business now. Perhaps after this is done we’ll inquire?”
“That’s right, Thomast. We are all ‘beach folk’ here, and I hope you will call me Bethal. Hello! Are those our neighbors on the other side? Oh. My.”
The ‘my’ was because she’d seen Maughin coming down the beach, and the War Walker was only hidden by Erin’s privacy walls. Jelaqua was waving around, and that was how Wailant and Viceria appeared, followed closely by Rufelt and Lasica. The [Chef] nodded as she trotted over.
“Well, at least we’re not neighbors to people we don’t know. Hello, Lady Walchaís.”
Bethal was the most noble person here by a long shot. She waved the title away delicately.
“Hello to everyone! Please, Bethal will do. Are you all constructing villas?”
“I’m hiring Antinium. Rufelt is supervising, but they’re the best at moving sand and can apparently put up a house in half a day.”
“Antinium!”
Bethal was shocked, but Imani and Palt nodded.
“That was our decision, too. It’s not going to be just a place for us—well, it will—but we’ll have guests over. Kevin and Joseph and Palt’s mage-friends from Wistram.”
Palt coughed.
“Even a few other guests. The beach is, um—popular—so we might invite a few people I know from Invrisil who’ve been dying to get in here. Erin’s said that if we’re responsible, anyone with a villa can have someone in.”
Jelaqua winced, looking amused.
“She must hate that. She’s already got that fed-up look, and I was nervous she’d rip my heart out when I begged her to let me and Maughin bring a bunch of Dullahans into the beach.”
Wailant grinned, remembering the Dullahan crowd.
“I saw that! Did they actually enjoy themselves? Stony-faced, the lot.”
Viceria elbowed him sharply and smiled at Maughin.
“My husband is indiscreet. I’m sure he didn’t mean to imply the Dullahans were objectionable.”
Maughin had stiffened a bit at the [Pirate]-[Farmer]’s flippant comment, but he inclined his head, which he was holding lower to be part of the conversation.
“My people are less expressive, but they communicated to me that they were taken with the beach. This—public socialization and nudity is not something that we are culturally used to.”
Wailant pursed his lips, eying Maughin.
“I didn’t mean it badly. I’ve been to the north of Baleros. Dullahans don’t like smiling. I never did manage to read their expressions right, even when I crewed with them.”
Maughin blinked. It was rare to meet anyone who knew Dullahans outside of Pallass, but Bethal interjected as she whispered.
“Actually, I was hoping you could all advise me about Miss Solstice. I would hate to be kicked out or offend her, but I truly would like some additions to our garden. If I hired some Antinium…do you think she’d be more well-disposed to me?”
“You’d hire Antinium? Lady Walchaís?”
Palt’s eyebrows shot up, and Bethal barely hesitated.
“Oh, I know we’re at odds, and I was right there in the Antinium Wars, the first one, but that was then, and Magnolia’s the one who lead the charge. This is about having a fine spot with me and Thomast to share! Priorities.”
The others speculated, and Lasica smiled crookedly.
“If you want to get on Erin’s good side—hire some Goblins. She has a soft spot for anyone who treats them nicely.”
Bethal’s face went blank a second, and Thomast shifted. Rufelt, who knew more of Bethal’s past as a [Bartender], interjected nervously.
“My wife has all kinds of notions. She might not be the best person to ask when it comes to getting on Erin’s good side. I can’t believe you said that to her, Lasica.”
“Someone has to make light of things, and I’m the one who went through it all. Besides, Erin is more stubborn than Grimalkin. What’s wrong with…oh.”
Rufelt kicked Lasica in the ankles, but Bethal smiled after a second.
“When in this inn…I shall consider it, thank you. Er, to change the subject, is Emperor Godart going to be staying here?”
She was very curious about Laken. So were a number of guests, but it was Imani who raised a hand.
“I don’t think so. He’s been here two days out of five, but I think he doesn’t care for the beach. Durene and his people do, but not him.”
Why was that? Of everyone, the [Emperor] was avoiding the beach for a simple reason: he couldn’t ‘see’ in Erin’s domain. Sitting on the beach without being able to swim or dodge people running about was less fun, so he had vetoed the villa life. Durene had almost dragged him into the beach anyways, and the grumpy half-Troll was building sandcastles in the play section of the beach.
At any rate, the couples talked and socialized, and there were actually a few more slots open as Erin was debating selling off the remaining resort sections; her garden didn’t have unlimited space. The prospect of a quiet getaway with beach fun was making a lot of people think quite, quite carefully.
 
——
 
Lady Pryde Ulta died. Lyonette saw it happen in slow-motion. She had seen Pryde walk through a snowstorm without putting on a coat. The [Lady] had, apparently, taken a swing from an enchanted weapon wielded by an Ogre and not taken a step back.
But this one was painful.
“Ah, Magus Grimalkin? I heard Miss Solstice was offering a villa retreat. Would you care to join me in one? That is—it would not make sense for me to indulge in one myself, and Bethal and Thomast have their own space.”
Magus Grimalkin looked up from writing a list of potential beach calisthenics for his apprentices. He brightened up.
“A capital idea, Lady Ulta.”
She smiled, and Lyonette gave her a huge, covert thumbs-up as she peeked at them. Grimalkin stood up.
“I had been thinking—we could work from the mansion, but my students would benefit from a full experience. Pallass Hunting is too gentle, and Liscor Hunted is too harsh. Building a villa would be a good exercise in teamwork, and we could do morning runs along the beach and late night exercises.”
Pryde’s face slowly drained of life.
“The…students? Of course. A villa for the students.”
“I’ll arrange it right away.”
He strode over to Erin, and Pryde sat down. Then she stared at the ceiling. Lyonette had never seen her look more defeated. The [Princess] danced in place. Then she rushed over.
“Go tell him—you want it to be with the two of you! Go tell him! Pryde!”
“No.”
Pryde stared at the ceiling. Lyonette glanced at Grimalkin, who was eagerly laying out his scheme to Erin, who rolled her eyes indulgently.
