“I have the power of colors on my side. Heh. Heeheehee. Ehehehahahaha—”
If you thought yesterday was bad, Erin Solstice was cackling today. This time, Lyonette just locked herself in her room until Erin stopped.
When she came out, Erin was staring at something in the common room of The Wandering Inn. She hid it behind her back, or tried to.
“Oh, hey, Lyonette. What are you doing up so early? Why don’t you go back to…um…”
Lyonette stared at Erin, then at the table. One of Erin’s tables was a pastel white and black, devoid of colors—all the scratches, stains, and whatnot were still perfectly visible, but the colors were gone.
“Erin? What have you done?”
“Levelled up? I can do this now.”
Erin had just de-colorified a table. Mrsha was stopped, mouth open in awe, as Nanette put her hands to her mouth.
“Miss Erin! You’ve found more of your craft! Color magic? Of course!”
“Wh—yeah! Color magic! That’s me! I totally meant to do this, incidentally, and I can definitely put it back.”
Erin had no idea how to [Infuse Colors] back into the table. She’d yanked the colors out, and she stared at a slightly brown ball of something in her hand.
“What the heck is this? It’s not that good, and it’s not even pure. Why do I think it’s not pure?”
The color of the brown table was in her hand. Mrsha tried to grab it, but her paw just passed through it. Lyonette was appalled by Erin’s new powers.
“Erin, are you going to redesign the entire inn? You don’t have that good an eye for colors.”
“Hey!”
Erin looked outraged, but even Mrsha was nodding seriously, worried for the future of The Wandering Inn’s aesthetics. A shadow quietly slithered downstairs, trying not to be seen, as he always did, and Ulvama came out of the lounge where she’d fallen asleep with her clawed hand in the popcorn bowl.
Both Tesy, going for his morning breakfast, which Calescent put out for him, and Ulvama stopped dead when they saw Erin’s new power. She was waving around the ball of colors, arguing with Lyonette.
“I have great taste. Look at my cool hair! Hey, I wonder if I can drain the color out of my hair and dye it like Ulvama did—”
“No, don’t!”
Both screamed, and Tesy actually tackled Erin. Since he was lighter, he only made her stagger, but Ulvama executed a flying jump-kick.
“Gah!”
Erin went over, swearing. She actually blocked the [Shaman]’s kick, and Ulvama shook her as Erin tried to get up.
“Ulvama, what are—”
“You idiot! What are you—we talked about your hair, stupid! Are you stupid?”
She shook Erin as the [Innkeeper] sat up. Erin scowled as Tesy, panting, wiped at his brows.
“You nearly messed up your head! What—did you become a [Painter] too? Never remove color from your body! I don’t even think you can do it—what kind of Skill was that?”
He stared at the table. Ulvama herself got up, and Erin, spluttering, had Mrsha and Nanette drag her up.
“Guys. I just levelled as a [Witch]. I was just using my new Skills, [Drain Color] and [Infuse Color]. Guess who’s Level 20?”
Mrsha gasped, and Lyonette clapped her hands together, then looked around sharply. Ser Dalimont slammed a window down, and someone screamed from outside—but it was too late. A [Spy] appeared and ran for the hills. Erin barely noticed; they were all over the place. Sometimes she felt bad and fed them.
She expected more applause, and Lyonette turned back to Erin.
“Congratulations, Erin! Aside from that just leaking—we should have a party!”
However, she was shoved aside by Ulvama, who snapped at Erin as Tesy glared.
“You think colors aren’t dangerous? You idiot! Can you even fix the table?”
“No, but what’s wrong?”
Erin suddenly realized the two were actually concerned. For answer, Tesy inspected the monochrome table, then kicked it.
Nothing happened. Ulvama snorted, then overturned it suddenly. That more-forceful action sent one edge hitting the floor hard. Erin saw the edge hit the floorboards—then a third of the table snapped off.
“What the—”
Erin was astounded. Her furniture was meant to be stronger than usual! True, throwing a table over was aggressive, but her common room had seen every kind of fight, and any table that lasted here had seen everything from Crelers to Gold-ranks duking it out.
In fact…Ulvama was strong, but she had turned the table over amazingly easily. Mrsha, prodding at the broken piece of wood, actually picked it up.
“It’s…light. And fragile.”
Nanette inspected it, and Ulvama turned slowly to Erin.
“You want the power of unlimited split hairs and bad hair for a year? Go ahead. Colors matter. You want to be bald? Go on, take colors out. You can’t even put back right.”
“I—oooh—but why can’t I put it back? I have the blob here. Let me just—”
Erin tried to sort of splash it back on, then wipe it on the table, but all she got was a splinter. Tesy and Ulvama watched with amazingly pained expressions. Tesy produced a brush.
“Can I see?”
Erin held out the blob. The famous Sellme was often in his rooms, hiding, and this was a rare moment when he showed his face. Like Tessa…Erin wavered between trying to talk to him and leaving him alone. In Tesy’s case, Erin still held a grudge about the entire assassin affair.
But he was concentrated here, and he dipped his brush into the ball of colors. Tesy grimaced at it.
“Ew. It’s got stains in it. It’s not pure.”
Ulvama nodded.
“Erin’s tables are gross. I don’t eat off them.”
Erin put her hands on her hips.
“Hey! They’re fine!”
“That Antinium with silver antennae did a better job. Inkpaper cleans tables, and he never does the underside. Lazy.”
The Goblin staff shuffled, and a Hob tried to sneak off as Peggy slowly looked around with a huge glower. Tesy, meanwhile, was busy inspecting the table.
“Can you fix this?”
“Oh, sure. [Partial Reconstruction].”
The table fixed itself, but the color didn’t come back. Erin was fascinated by her new Skill, but she was aware it was actually dangerous. Indeed, it seemed that this Skill required actual technique to use effectively. Because Tesy began painting the table again!
He delicately brushed it back into existence using the ball of brown and even adding cosmetic stains to the wood in the right places. He still had to add an artistic flourish; he frowned, then made it change color from a bleached balsa wood look to a very deep brown near the bottom in a gradient effect.
“It’s not that fancy, but that looks nicer, doesn’t it?”
The table stood out after that, like an art-piece. Mrsha and Nanette oohed, and even Lyonette seemed impressed. It wasn’t like a…painted table. It was more uncanny than that. The very wood seemed changed.
“See? Colors matter. Is good job, I guess.”
Ulvama herself stamped it with her seal of ‘good enough’. Tesy sniffed, but he stowed his brush away with a flourish.
“How come I can’t do that?”
Erin demanded. Ulvama and Tesy looked at each other, and Ulvama answered for them.
“Because you suck at painting.”
 
——
 
All the power in the world and not a whit of talent. By the time her guests came in, Erin Solstice was angrily showing off her artwork.
“That’s not bad!”
“Oh, is that a duck? Are we doing painting today? Hello, Miss Solstice, we had a very fun night on the beach! Absolutely quiet, and, er, did I hear breakfast was here?”
Lady Bethal Walchaís beamed at an image of a green duck on paper, then turned to Mrsha.
“It’s very lovely art, my dear.”
She only then realized that Erin was looking redder and redder, and Bethal’s eyes flickered.
“No. Did you…?”
“It’s a Dinobird. A Razorbeak.”
Erin pointed out the green bird on her blue background. Tesy had given her his brush, and he was sobbing as he stared at it.
“You dipped it in multiple paints without washing it first!”
“Sorry! I forgot; art class was a long time ago. I—it’s not that bad. See?”
Erin showed another picture to Thomast. She chose her target with care. The [Chevalier] was the most polite and least brutally honest of Erin’s guests. She looked up at him pleadingly.
“Is that…I think it’s…a spider?”
“No. An Antinium. See? Two legs, four arms—”
She had no perspective, no shading, and her drawings looked like literal watercolors, which was about the same skill level from the last art class she’d taken in elementary school. Erin was crestfallen by her audience’s reactions.
“But it’s my new Skill! I’m a [Witch]!”
“Witches have to be good at what they do, Miss Erin. Maybe you’re better at decorating? Other kinds of art? You got your Skill because you must be good at something related to colors.”
Ulvama snorted.
“She got her Skill because she makes magical flames. She can’t use it.”
“Oh yeah? Well, if you’re so good at colors, why do you not dye your hair and why do you dress in boring robes with white scales?”
Erin took out her hurt feelings on Ulvama and Tesy. She pointed at the [Shaman] with her coat and woolens and black, braided hair and Tesy, who had on his Sellme cloak over his white scales flecked with colors.
Both artists stared at Erin, then turned and marched off. Erin raised her hands.
“No, wait! I just meant—”
 
——
 
More guests appeared, both from the magical door that Liska was operating as well as the beach. Yet another day of beach.
But today, it was all about…couples.
And art.
In fact, the two topics were co-mingling because Erin’s new beach had the surf, and the kids were already there. It hadn’t changed, but the hot, new section wasn’t the bar or games-area.
It was the resort section.
Wailant had brought in help today. He was marching around with a crew of [Farmhands] and even some [Builders] from Liscor, as well as Antinium, getting to work on his three plots of land. Erin had sold multiple plots off, and with the help of some clever sand walls, you could feel like you were isolated in a little beach-valley that led to the sea.
She was not prepared, though, for someone bringing in fake trees. Erin pointed at a grove of trees as her door opened and she caught sight of her beach-garden.
“What’s that?”
“Oh, illusion spells. I hired Palt to do them, and he’s sampling the look. I’ll have a beach here—say, can I get a miniature waterfall right abouts here? Remember, you’re getting a third of my profits!”
Wailant strode over, pointing at his resort-for-rent. Erin stared at a sign.
The Pirate’s Booty.
“No.”
“No waterfall? Come on, Erin. Imagine it. A waterfall, pond, and I’ve even got some fish—and I’m even throwing in a portable stove. Say, you need to tell Liska to let me bring everything through—”
“No. The Pirate’s Booty? Wailant? Absolutely not!”
He gave her a ribald smile and roared with laughter as she glared at him.
“You hafta have a good name, Erin! I reckon it’ll bring in the right clients. Besides, I am a [Pirate]. We know how to have a good time.”
Erin covered her eyes and slowly shut the door as Wailant shouted.
“Since we’re here working this morning, how about breakfas—”
She turned back to her guests and counted with a sigh. Wailant may have been first, but Lady Bethal had been the one to actually demo the beach-experience. She was sitting, talking with Lady Pryde, who had appeared with Lyonette.
Strangely, Erin barely held a grudge against Pryde despite their past. Bethal? Bethal was sitting there chattering away.
“You know, I may have to build something a bit more upscale myself. I know we won’t be here long, but our magical tent, far better than that tattered one in the snow, is still not the best. I thought a few chairs instead of a sleeping bag would be the thing. Thomast and I could sit on the beach and watch the sunset—which is lovely, by the way, Miss Erin.”
“Oh. Thank you.”
Erin was surprised, but Ulvama had been right after all. It wasn’t just about canoodling. It was about—a fun experience. In fact, more than one person was interested in making a place to relax in.
“Erin, Erin. I’m so glad I caught you!”
Palt clattered into the inn from the beach and nearly trampled a shorter woman wandering around looking for her apprentice. Archmage Valeterisa recoiled as Palt halted.
“Oh, I’m so sorry—Archmage Valeterisa?”
“Don’t mind me. My barrier spells are working perfectly. You’d just break your legs. Has anyone seen Montressa?”
She was like someone hunting for a cat. Erin saw Palt heading towards her and called out to Valeterisa.
“Montressa? I think she’s upstairs calling for you.”
“Oh. Thank you.”
Palt caught up with Erin excitedly and danced in place.
“Erin, I forgot to say this—I need a pristine spot for myself and Imani. I was thinking…a special inlet, maybe? With a pretty little island? And if you could cordon it off for the two of us, that’d be great. With sand walls so we can be private?”
Erin rubbed at her forehead. Oh, here came the consequences of her new actions.
“Palt, I don’t do special inlets.”
“Not even for me, your favorite Centaur? Erin, please?”
“No!”
“I’ll pay you five extra gold.”
Erin hesitated as Lyonette’s head snapped around. She held up a hand like someone trying to stop a tidal wave.
“No! No extra features for money! I know where that leads! It’s not permanent, anyways, Palt. You might only use it for like, what, a week tops?”
“A week’s all I want. Come on, Erin. Imani’s been working like mad, and if I can’t surprise her…I need to impress her. I can’t—I can’t do it with illusions. I need it to be real.”
Palt gave Erin such an earnest look that the [Innkeeper] hung her head. She knew, before she even said it, what kind of door she was opening.
“I’m not sectioning off parts of the beach for you. This isn’t like those stupid hotel-beach areas in Florida. But I suppose on your spot I could, like, make some longer privacy walls. Only for you.”
“And me? I will pay for that!”
Bethal turned excitedly, and Erin held up her hands.
“Palt’s an old friend! Lady Bethal, no one else. I’m not made of time, and it’s not permanent! Seriously, I’d feel bad about taking your gold. Only for Palt because I’ve known him so long.”
Bethal’s face fell, but Erin thought she’d gotten away with it. Until someone coughed loudly behind Erin.
“And what about us, Erin? What about…”
Erin closed her eyes, then turned as Rufelt and Lasica appeared. She gave them a weak smile as Lasica put her hands on her hips.
“Lasica! I was just—”
“I would like a hill.”
“But the thing is—”
“I’ve had a tough year. I would like a hill.”
