But that was only a problem if the others very clearly showed their faces in the inn’s common room. If they were in a private room, for instance, so they never had to wander…
Wait. What about a room with no doors? One only accessible by…
Erin Solstice had gotten where Onieva was headed long ago, but she had never employed her methods in service of anything but Earth’s secrets. Now—something was dawning on Onieva.
Yet this moment was for the beach, and it was that which moved Elirr to tears. Just a tiny bit. Ishkr was there, hovering around and offering people tours, but the Gnoll looked at Erin and shook his head.
“That—this is more than anyone I know has had. Perhaps it was never needed in Liscor, but look. She did it for us. Just like she’s done for everyone else.”
Done…? Mirn looked over, and then Onieva glanced at Erin and saw it was true. The [Innkeeper] had a twinkle in her eyes, and she was plotting. She had pulled out a secret, her magical door, and conspired with Liska.
True, the [Doorgnoll] had been over the moon when she was asked to do the work. She’d been sulking since the beach was open and she had to work, but when she’d been asked to clandestinely transport a few people on her list into the beach? Even the procrastinating, lazy, reluctant worker in Liska had smiled.
Tricking the law and spiting Lord Tyrion Veltras were Liska’s great passions in life. Erin just patted Elirr on the shoulder.
“Don’t cry! Elirr, it’s not much—”
Even Onieva didn’t get the tears, not at first. The villas had been a kind gift. The door…that struck Onieva in her heart, a tiny bit. But Elirr was crying because the Gnoll wiped at his eyes on his arm and turned to Erin.
“It is if you’re doing it. Because, Erin, you never stop. At least, so I hope…this is the first gift, and I will thank you again for things I cannot think of.”
She gave him a mystified glance as the [Innkeeper] waved at Mrsha to bring over a bracing drink of something sweet.
“Why would I stop? I like you, Elirr, and if it helps thwart some jerks—come on, it’s just a door.”
She was so embarrassed, and Onieva was staring at Ulvama, who looked even smugger than Liska, and her mixed feelings grew. Why was it so easy? Why was she suspicious of things going well? Why did a Goblin have more empathy than the entire Assembly of Crafts put together? 
But her feelings towards Erin were far easier to resolve. Erin blinked—then squeaked as Onieva picked her up in a huge hug.
Onieva was strong. Her pink and blue scales flashed under the beach’s sunlight, and she squeezed fiercely.
“You. I had my doubts, but Saliss was right. You’re a good person, Erin Solstice. Thank you.”
“No, no, it’s just a bit of work! Really, it’s just—”
Onieva put Erin down and gave her much the same look Elirr had. One that was too genuine, even for Erin.
“No. It’s not a little thing. It matters. Thank you.”
Then she smiled.
“If you want, you could find someone and join us.”
“I, uh—I have to go help out other people! See ya!”
Erin ran off, but she waved at Mirn, and Onieva stepped back as Hexel was brought over in a blindfold.
“We have to make contact with Liscor’s people. Mirn, stop crying.”
“I’m not crying. It’s sand. It gets everywhere. Especially in my eyes. Onieva, if this is a stupid dream, don’t wake me up from it for a bit, okay?”
She punched him in the side. Not hard, but enough for Mirn to swear and believe he wasn’t dreaming. Then Onieva stared up at the cottage that Erin had built.
If she could do this…even if this was paint and sandstone and a magical garden…I wonder if she can make a bar after all? Or something else?
Onieva had never, ever thought to leave Pallass. But for the first time—she eyed Elirr, who was on Liscor’s Council, and wondered how many homes were for sale in Liscor. Perhaps…she smiled.
She just smiled.
 
——
 
That wasn’t easy in the sense of emotions. But it was easy in the sense of the stakes. Ulvama told Erin that the next part was tough.
You could make a huge mistake. Like Numbtongue could hurt feelings by inviting people to his villa. Or how Jewel and Normen were up to making a sandcastle together, but not yet ready for a push.
Pushing was bad. Pushing meant you were, by definition, moving someone ahead of where they wanted to be. Sometimes, you could push, but you had to be very good at your job.
A [Shaman] could throw a tribe into chaos if they sucked. Ulvama had experience both in good pushes and bad—as befit someone who had kept her power in Tremborag’s backstabbing Mountain City tribe.
“This is very tough. That one is like…a huge mountain.”
“Of pride. Sorta fits her name. Do you think she changed her name or was it the name choosing her?”
Erin stared at Lady Pryde, and Ulvama sighed.
“Doesn’t matter. She’s like a mountain but…glass. Get it?”
“Hm? Oh, yeah, that totally makes sense. So she’s not willing to say anything?”
“Nope. And he’s strange. I think he thinks no one likes him. Because too many muscles. Bleh. Not my type. Sort of like Tremborag’s war form. Fomirelin. All muscle.”
“It’s…Grimalkin’s got more muscles than anyone else, that’s true. But he’s a pretty composed, confident guy. He beat up Wyverns when they attacked, and he shouts ‘testicles’ all the time! You think he’s self-conscious?”
Erin had never pictured the Drake arguing with Menolit as shy in any regard. But Ulvama gave Erin a piercing stare.
“What does all that have to do with confidence in other ways? Sounds like no confidence to me. Have you ever seen him flirt?”
“No.”
“Do you think he likes other people?”
Erin had to think.
“…Y’know, I can’t tell. He’s really never expressed an opinion. But then, I’ve never seen anyone flirting with him, either.”
Ulvama sighed. They were sitting on a hill, so they had a good view of the resort villas. Erin had raised it for a better view.
“Yup. Is tough. He could be like Garen. Very tricky. Doesn’t really like anyone. Or Pyrite. Stupid Goblin. But he could also be like a…lonely, shy person.”
“Hmm. So what do we do?”
Ulvama scratched her head.
“Dunno. It’s harder without Goblins. In my tribe, I’d have Goblins poke them and keep hinting. Even if he’s stupid, if fifty Goblins say it, he’ll think. Does he have fifty friends?”
Erin held up her fingers.
“Uh…he’s got a lot of acquaintances, but I think it’s mostly Chaldion he hangs out with? He really is a private guy. Who is his friend outside of hanging at the inn?”
“Interesting.”
Ulvama was formulating a plan, but she made binoculars with her hands and stared at their next target. Relc and Valeterisa. Then she and Erin stared at Relc’s ‘villa’.
“Um. Y’know, it occurs to me I should have put a height limit on that thing.”
Erin had seen castles. She had seen sandcastles. But this was a castle made out of sand. Not a stupid one, either, but a literal mansion that Valeterisa was blasting to turn the sand into hardened glass. She was even using color-spray spells, and Relc was staring up at the castle in awe.
Erin put her chin in her hand.
“I think it’s Relc. I think he just didn’t realize she’s into him. Which I get. He’s a self-conscious dude. He has an ugly tail, apparently.”
“Mhm. Too short.”
“Oh, come on! I can’t tell. And he’s never been in a long relationship since I’ve known him. He’s sort of a goofball…but he’s changed a bunch. How do you want to help?”
Ulvama had her chin in one clawed hand.
“Is tough. If you act stupid, like ordinary Erin, you’ll make them self-conscious and ruin everything. If you push them together deliberately, they’ll bounce apart. Don’t do anything stupid.”
“I won’t! I’m super nervous, Ulvama! Come on, give me some wisdom!”
The [Shaman] was watching, and she smiled slightly as she saw Valeterisa floating down, panting from her magical efforts. She turned to Erin, eyes lighting up.
“Sometimes you wait. Then strike! Like a snake!”
One of her hair-braids struck and hit Erin in the forehead. Ulvama laughed as Erin swatted at it. Then she pointed.
“Sometimes you wait and watch. Sometimes…they don’t need much help. Sometimes you’re honest. I think now is the time.”
 
——
 
When she was making the second-floor balconies, Valeterisa began to feel stupid. Even for her, she was burning mana.
What was she doing? She was casting illusion spells, and there was a huge entryway, a connection to the sea, and even the other neighbors were exclaiming.
“This will be some party! Menolit, you keep your guests away from our spot. We’re having quieter couples’ nights, got it? No sneaking into my barbecue.”
“I would never, Lasica!”
Menolit was protesting, looking slightly guilty as she anticipated him coming over for [Chef]-level food. Grimalkin was trying to also get away.
“I have my students’ training villa, Menolit. How would it look if I were flirting instead of work?”
“Grimalkin, you have to relax sometime! Let them work, and just have a private life! Tell me you’re not interested! Relc, help me out!”
“In a sec!”
Relc was watching Valeterisa work, and she felt like she was making a fool of herself. The Archmage heard Grimalkin reply, voice low.
“I’m not looking to get into romance, Menolit. I am married to my work, and frankly—I just don’t believe I’m that appealing to most people.”
“Grimalkin—”
Menolit looked exasperatedly at him. The [Sinew Magus] folded his arms defensively.
“I’m simply stating facts. I am at peace with it.”
“You don’t think someone’s interested in you? Listen, I’m a [Wingman], and my instincts say there’s a chance.”
“—I would say that’s unlikely, and even if that were the case, who would I appreciate? Few people could tolerate my lifestyle. The issue cuts both ways, Menolit. There are few people I could even consider romantically, and—I am frankly uncomfortable with this line of conversation. Just count me out, would you? Relc! How much longer are you going to ask the Archmage to design your villa? She’s used more mana than I have in my body!”
Grimalkin called out, and Valeterisa nearly collapsed the balcony as she jumped. Relc called back.
“I didn’t! Archmage, this is incredible. You…thanks for doing all this, but I think this is good. I don’t even know how we’d furnish it all.”
Valeterisa floated down, embarrassed, and regarded the sand-mansion as Relc waved at her. She shuffled her feet in the sand.
“I just wished to help. I hope you like it. For your vacation.”
“I will. I…all the villas appreciate your help.”
He grinned at her, and her heart flipped—then flopped as Relc waved at Menolit.
“Hey, Menolit, don’t bother Grimalkin too much! He’s his own guy.”
“But Relc! I just feel like—”
Menolit was trying to sort out his own instincts as Relc turned back to Valeterisa. The [Trusted Sergeant of the Watch] put his claws in his pants pockets. He had taken off his shirt for the beach, and Valeterisa tried not to stare at his tail.
“Y’know, this really was more than I should have asked for, Valeterisa. I didn’t stop you, and you went all out.”
“Oh…it’s for a fellow puzzle-head. It’s nothing.”
She muttered, staring at her feet. Relc eyed Valeterisa, then coughed into one claw.
“I think—I should give you this mansion, Archmage.”
“Me?”
“Yeah, well, you built it. And you made it so nice—you’re the one who seems to be looking forwards to the beach. Me, I just went along with Menolit since it sounded fun, but look at this place.”
Relc craned his neck back and stared up at the entire façade. Valeterisa’s heart beat faster.
“I—made it for you.”
“I can’t accept it. And I’d feel bad if we just used it for Menolit’s party. Don’t you want to stay on the beach?”
Now he was eying her, and Valeterisa had to admit that it did sound nice. Books and puzzles on the beach…but her heart sank as Relc jerked a thumb at the other two Drakes, still arguing, as Mrsha padded over with a note.
“I’ll go room with them. Your apprentice could probably use the rooms here; Imani and Palt’s is sort of a couples’ retreat. Sorry to put you to all the effort, but I just can’t make you do this work and do nothing.”
Now, her heart was sinking, because this made sense. Valeterisa hesitated…and sighed and nodded.
“Of course. But I could offer it for the, um, the party?”
She was feeling worse, and Relc actually paused before glancing at Valeterisa. Then he dropped the final Tier 8 spell on her.
“Actually—I’m not feeling the party. I think Menolit’s the one who’s the most interested in it, you know. Grimalkin? He’s not in the mood, and the couples with Lasica’s barbeque are more my thing. I realized when I saw all the people coming over like the Wishdrinks staff, who’re off-duty, and even my kid. I’m sorta too old for that.”
He sighed and kicked at the sand as Valeterisa’s mind went to a stop. Then Relc raised his claws over his head.
“Raaah! I’m only in my thirties! That’s not old! I’m not old!”
The pain. Valeterisa was—she deliberately forgot how old she was. She drooped as Relc nodded at her.
“So—the villa’s yours, Valeterisa. Sound good? Hopefully you can find some people to stay with. Or someone. That’s sort of what this entire resort area is. Couples…or groups looking for love. Wow, Erin must be furious.”
He scratched at the back of his head, embarrassed. Valeterisa tried to give him a smile through bloodless lips.
“Yes. That was my conclusion as well.”
Menolit’s head kept swinging over, but Mrsha was getting in the way with the note and distracted the [Wingman]. Relc glanced at them, then found his spear, which he kept even on the beach to do tricks with, springboard off of, and perhaps, like a soldier’s version of a security-blanket to stab people with.
“Is that all fine by you?”
“Mm. Thank you for considering my feelings, Relc.”
She lied. Relc paused a moment.
“You know, that sand-mansion’s pretty nice, and Erin’s said everyone has like a week or two in the beach. Do you think you’ll be here that long?”
She gave him a watery smile.
“I think I may return to my mansion soon. Even tomorrow. You can use it if I vacate it, or my apprentice might.”
“Oh. That’s too bad. Because it really is a nice place.”
Relc faced the as-yet undecorated mansion, and Valeterisa hung her head. Menolit turned—and for some reason, a magical snake bit him on the ankle. He went hopping away, cursing. The Drake stared at the mansion, then spoke again.
“It’s a great resort Erin made up. Even if she doesn’t have a, y’know, person, there are people that like her, but Erin’s sunk them all, even this fancy [Earl] who came by.”
