Bird was sitting in his tower, covered in blankets and staring at the falling snow. He loved just staring at the weather, and even the allure of the theatre wasn’t enough to tear him away from the High Passes.
“Bird? You sure you don’t wanna come down and watch? The Lion King has birds in it. I’m pretty sure. A talking parrot, at least.”
Bird stirred slightly and glanced at Erin as she did a double-check, shivering as cold air rushed through. That was tempting, but he stared up at the mountains.
“No, thank you, Miss Erin. I am waiting for my special surprise.”
“Your what?”
“Lady Reinhart has said that she may surprise me soon. The last time she visited—”
“Oh, dead gods, Bird. Did you bother her about the ballista so much she left?”
“…Maybe. I am waiting because she said she ‘may give me something if only to spare her ears’. That means a gift. I am waiting to see it. Also, I like the cold and being warm in my Fortress of Fluff. Also, also—I must sit out here because it is more fun than even movie-night.”
“…How?”
Erin stared at the distant, snowy, landscape, and Bird smiled.
“Because there are still birds! I have seen them. See?”
He pointed towards the distant mountains looming in the dark, and Erin stared at them.
“I see a big hecking dark mountain, Bird.”
“Yes. But there are a bunch of goats there, see?”
“…What?”
Bird pointed, and Erin gave him an odd look before trying to see. He clapped his hands together.
“Oh, you must not have my Skill. I have [Eagle Eyes]. And [Owl’s Vision].”
“Bird! Lead with that! Wait—can you actually see Eater Goats?”
Erin was quite impressed, and Bird nodded judiciously.
“Yes, so I am always entertained even if there are not many birds in the winter. I will sit out here, please, Erin. But may I have more popped corn? As snackies.”
“Go ahead, Bird. Actually—I’ll get you a bucket.”
By the time Erin came back, Bird was humming happily.
“Yellow bird, yellow bird, why do you cry? Because you got Eater Goat poop in your eye? Go to sleep, go to sleep—but watch out for the black goat. Because it is trying to eat you. I cannot make that one rhyme but it is true.”
Erin laughed as she hugged him and gave him a huge bowl of hot popcorn. Bird dipped his head into the bucket, and Erin stared out into the darkness.
“Is there actually a yellow bird, or was that a new song? It’s pretty good, Bird.”
“Thank you, Erin. I am a singing hunter after all, and I must level my class. And yes, there is a yellow bird. It is my new best friend. I can see it. It keeps wandering all over the High Passes. It is a silly bird who gets into trouble. I feel bad for it, but I have been watching it all month.”
Erin snorted.
“Poor bird. Don’t get sad if it gets eaten though, Bird. I mean…it’s sad, but it’s life, y’know?”
He tilted his head.
“I would be very sad, Erin. It is the shiniest bird I’ve seen. I should help it out with my bow if it is in trouble. I just cannot shoot far enough. Maybe I should learn [Covering Fire].”
“Great. Another Lord Xitegen.”
“He is a very stylish [Lord] with the arrows. I like him.”
Erin just rubbed at Bird’s head and antennae affectionately.
“I think you need more time watching good parental figures, Bird. Sesame Street! I’ll put on a few episodes for you and Mrsha. There’s even a big, yellow bird for you to love.”
“Oho. Then I will watch it. Later. Have a good movie thing.”
Erin vanished, and Bird went back to staring at the mountain.
“Pretty bird, pretty bird. Why do you cry? Don’t be sad. You ate tonight, which is pretty rad—a thing Kevin says. Someday you will be big and tough. But the avalanche was rough.”
 
——
 
As for Ishkr, the Gnoll might well come over to catch the movie, but he was busy delivering little gift-baskets for the new beach-goers.
Most, he just gave some fruits or drinks he’d prepared, and if he didn’t like them, the gifts were accordingly basic. But if the [Head Server of Tales and Fables] liked you…he would skate over the sand, carrying a full bottle of wine and precious snacks.
“Ishkr! Did this come from Erin? What’s she done this time?”
Lasica was exasperated, but pleased because Ishkr hadn’t insulted her or Rufelt with drinks or food—which they had—but a complimentary bunch of toothbrushes and other toiletries.
Outhouses were a concern, and Erin had reluctantly had several dug on the beach, so the toilet paper was a gift. And if you didn’t get any, Ishkr really didn’t like you.
He smiled as he handed over the toothpaste tin and all the things that you might forget on vacation.
“This is just from the inn, via me.”
“Well, you’ve earned yourself a seat at our bar any time. Thank you. I didn’t even think about…Rufelt! Look what we’ve been brought!”
The gratitude of people saved from using sand to wipe—or more dire instruments of cleansing—was deep. Ishkr smiled, but he didn’t linger.
In a way, he was happiest intruding without pressing to be made part of the couple’s night. It was this that the Gnoll wanted.
Like gingerly approaching the secluded part of the beach, waving a paw, and seeing Onieva appear and offering her the gift-basket and getting a smile.
His heart flip-flopped when the [Alchemist] thanked him.
“Ishkr, right? You’re a lifesaver. Mirn! Toilet paper!”
“Ancestors praise that Gnoll!”
Other people cheered, but Onieva paused a second, and Ishkr thought she might remember him. And that…even more than her attractiveness, that called to him.
He was still puzzling out who she was, though he had a suspicion. But Ishkr recognized a talented person, and he couldn’t wait to see what happened next.
These stories and legends in his inn. Why would he have ever gone with Barnethei? Of course, he was just the server. The one in the background—for now, that was enough. Onieva’s eyes lingered on Ishkr as if she recognized his level, and he, embarrassed, retreated.
“I hope you enjoy your stay, Miss Oliwing.”
“Oh, I will. Thank you, again. Do you want a drink or something…?”
“I have to get back to work. But if you need anything—”
Ishkr beat a retreat and skated down the beach as a gaggle of kids ran after him.
“Ishkr! Ishkr, can we get a little drink of Velrusk Claw?”
Ekirra ran over, wanting to be an adult with the other kids. Ishkr turned.
“Sure. If you can catch me.”
He kicked off faster, and the kids chased him down the beach as he slid forwards. They were eternally envious of his great Skill, and why not? Silly adults said things like, ‘well, he could have a better Skill instead’.
As if they weren’t jealous of someone who could treat the world like a skating rink. Ishkr left the kids behind, raised a foot, and dodged the loop of grass that Mrsha had conjured. The Gnoll pointed a paw at his back, and he took something out of his bag of holding. Ishkr tossed the pre-prepared mudball to the side, straight into Nanette’s face as she lunged out of the water.
 
——
 
He was smiling when he entered the inn, proper, and found a sulking Gnoll at her station. Ishkr jerked a thumb.
“Liska, you’re off-duty.”
“What? But I have to work for hours. Nightshift. Even if all the fun is happening and I get to…”
Liska avoided mentioning the door’s new feature, but her ears perked up. Ishkr just nodded.
“I know. Go have fun. I’ll take over.”
“Wh—really? Did I blackmail you? Is something crazy happening in the garden? Is the sky falling or what?”
Her older brother gave Liska a patient look as she bounded to her feet.
“I’m letting you have fun. Maybe even go check out the special guests—but don’t bother them! Erin will get mad if you cause a fuss.”
“I’m totally invited. Mirn dropped me a note when we set it up. Ishkr, you’re the best!”
She hugged him briefly, then dashed off. Ishkr sat down, and Liska poked her head into the portal room with narrowed eyes a second later.
“Hey. What about you?”
“Someone’s got to do your work. Besides, I’m on duty all night.”
“Lame. You know, that ultra-spicy Drake was winking at you yesterday. What about her?”
Ishkr avoided Liska’s gaze as he sighed patiently.
“Don’t flirt with the guests, Liska. And leave me alone! Or do you want to work after all?”
“Nope! See you—”
Liska ran before Ishkr could change his mind. She dashed into the beach, and her first destination was the laughing group in their secluded spot. They fell silent, but then one of them raised a claw.
“I recognize our doorkeeper! Come on! Everyone, relax. Elirr, do you know…?”
The Gnoll gave Liska a patient look, and she bounded over, only growing slightly chagrinned as Elirr murmured.
“We’re not organized, but I have had to bail Liska out of trouble with the Watch a few times.”
“U-uh, hello, Honored Elirr. Master Hexel. I just got off work, so…can I join in?”
Her answer was being handed an empty mug and directed towards the generous kegs set up on a table. Liska dashed over, but paused as she saw a familiar Drake chatting with Hexel.
“Oh, hey. Um…are you Onieva?”
The Drake turned, casually, and Liska waved.
“Oh, the [Doorgnoll]. I was hoping you’d show up. I was interested in your class. It sounds stupid and weird—”
Liska blushed and hung her head. She had never had a high-level class or good job. But Onieva smiled approvingly.
“—so it must be good. Onieva Oliwing. Don’t spread it around.”
The Gnoll’s head rose, and she brightened up. She took Onieva’s claw.
“I’m Liska! Your scales are amazing, by the way.”
“Oh, well. Thanks.”
Liska hesitated as she admired Onieva. Water, water, and she suddenly had an empty mug ready to fill. That was probably why that [Lady] Ieka and Fierre had been doing work on the beach all day and watching guests. They had good taste, too.
But Liska sighed as she looked at Onieva’s casual smile, and she cursed herself—but she sighed, leaned over, and whispered.
“Hey, Onieva, this is out of nowhere, but—I think my brother, Ishkr, sort of likes you. But he’ll never say it, just work. Do you know him?”
Onieva paused—then her eyes lit up, and Liska grumbled as she reflected that Onieva was too good for Ishkr. And yet, no one was good enough for her stupid, shy brother. It was a good thing he had his sister to make up for his copious failings.
 
——
 
“You’re not going there?”
“Me? Snuggling on a beach? I’m not getting in their way. Nope. They’re all happy, and I’ll see them tomorrow.”
Erin sighed, as she sat back in a padded chair, and someone else nodded and put her legs up.
“Good. All my Goblins are there, and I refuse to listen to whatever they do. I’m staying in your rooms.”
“Smart.”
Rags nodded and glanced over to Erin’s right. She muttered.
“…Does she get on your nerves? I told her to behave—”
“Actually, she’s been a huge help.”
Erin smiled and waved as the third person not in the beach tromped over. Ulvama had so many snacks that it looked like a Skill was enabling her to balance them all. She put them down and then scowled at Rags.
“These snacks are for me. These are for Erin.”
“What about that third?”
“Apista.”
The Ashfire Bee flew over and perched on top of a bowl of popcorn. Erin Solstice stopped the two Goblins from fighting as she excitedly waved up at the screen.
“Guys. Guys. Calm down. You know, Kevin and Joseph and Imani and all the kiddos have been hogging this thing every single night? This is the first time I get it to myself. So…let’s watch.”
The screen turned dark, and Rags sat back as Ulvama put up her legs and brought out a blanket. She hesitated, then tossed it over Erin and threw another one at Rags. The theatre was cold, and it was winter.
“What are we watching?”
“Lion King, maybe? I know it’s for kids, but we have all night. Plus, there’s this great song that fits tonight. I was gonna sing it outside the resort area, but they’d probably throw stuff at me.”
The movie began to play as Erin beamed up at the ceiling. Rags slowly reached for a drink as she layered the blanket over herself, and Apista snuggled into it. After a second, a cat and Sariant Lamb appeared, and a chorus of faeries flew into the room.
 
“Ah, is it movies? Excellent! Yon mortals are fucking.”
“Which isn’t bad! We just can’t watch because they get mad when we give them tips.”
“Or encouragement! ‘Tisn’t fair!”
 
They landed on the chairs, and Erin groaned. But then she grinned and waved them all over. She sat back and sighed.
“This is my kinda night.”
Then she stared up, and the movie began to play.
 
[Doorgnoll Level 24!]
[Skill — Hidden Door obtained!]
[Skill — Greater Illusion (Door) obtained!]
