Piety wasn’t certain what she had expected from her little note, but this frightened her. A response. A riddle. It was inconceivable that sharing her mind with another person could be something to be cavalier about. So, if this note was written by another person, they were teasing her. If it had been produced by her subconscious, she was teasing herself. Neither possibility was comforting. Piety berated herself for writing the question in the first place.

“Piety?”

Piety started. Temperance stood at her shoulder, holding the slim volume. Piety blinked slowly and took the book. She leafed through the pages, not really seeing the writing on the paper.

“It was strange,” Temperance said, “the ink dried without having to be blotted, and it didn’t take as long as I thought it would.”

Piety nodded and tried to push the note to the back of her mind. There was a task to be done and she needed to focus. She looked at Temperance who was looking around the room again.

“It really is cozy,” she said, “It’s nice.”

Piety smiled a little. “It is.”

“You can escape here any time you want.”

Piety shrugged. “The real world is always waiting for me.”

“What if you just stayed here and refused to go back?”

“I’d die of hunger I suppose.”

“Still, it must be nice.”

“It is.”

Piety let the silence stretch almost a full minute before she said, “Would you like me to teach you how to do it?”

Temperance shook her head. “I don’t have any powers. I couldn’t do this.”

“It’s a trick of the mind.”

Temperance looked dubious. “This all seems too real to be just a mental exercise.”

“Maybe so.” Piety hoped her concern wasn’t obvious. She cleared her throat and stood. “Temperance, I’m going to take this information away from you now.”

Piety gestured for her to sit down in the large chair and Temperance did so.

“When I’m done, you won’t be able to remember how to make the black powder. But you’re smart, so if you try to recreate it, you’ll probably figure it out eventually.”

Temperance nodded.

Piety focused on the book she held, recognizing upon it, Temperance’s aura, like she’d left an imprint upon the book. Then she looked at Temperance, who looked at her. Gently, Piety slipped into Temperance’s thoughts, ignoring the surface thoughts: concern about the power of the fire-arms, relief at the giving up of the burden of the black powder, and absolute trust in Piety’s abilities. Deep grief at their recent loss of Father Vytal was buried under the surface, an aching maelstrom that had been, for the moment, sated.

Piety slipped deeper into Temperance’s memories and it was like she was looking through the well-catalogued files at the High Temple’s library, looking for the location of a specific book or scroll. With the feeling of the book as her guide, she found what she was looking for. The knowledge was surrounded by a dark cloud: pain and sorrow and guilt.

Piety wrapped the information in her power, like she was wrapping Temperance’s shoulders in a thick blanket against a bitter chill, and she tugged. And that was it. She knew she had succeeded, that Temperance would not remember how to make the black powder.

Temperance slept. With a thought, she sent Temperance back to her body, then looked down at the book in her hands. Temperance no longer knew how to create the weapons, but Piety held the knowledge now, and she didn’t think she could make herself forget. The knowledge of the black powder was hers to guard.

• • •

In the morning, Minerva Aegis was gone. The soldiers on watch claimed they hadn’t seen her leave.

“Perhaps she disappeared,” Temperance suggested. And that seemed as likely as anything.

They stood on the outskirts of the military camp, watching soldiers pack up to head north to Pinefort. The stink of burning bodies lingered on the cool, morning air. Piety wondered why she’d never encountered Master Gholen at Pinefort. She wondered why Father Vytal hadn’t known about the attack on Upton Port. She wondered who his source about Minerva’s escape had been. She wondered…

“What if we just don’t go back,” Piety said quietly.

“Hmm?” Temperance had been lost in thoughts of her own.

Piety met her friend’s gaze. “We’re not beholden to the army. Let’s just go our own way.”

Temperance looked around. “Which way? And what about supplies?”

Piety shrugged. “It doesn’t matter. West maybe. Maybe even past the western border. There are people who live out there who’ve probably never heard of Khulanty and its wars.”

Temperance nodded. “We could do odd jobs to earn meals. Mending, healing, cooking. Well, I’ll cook, you can do the magic cleric stuff.”

“So, you’re all right with the idea?”

“Piety, you’ve done everything for me. I would do anything for you. I love you, and will go wherever you go.”

So, the two young Sisters of the Khulanty Church, Daughters of God, turned and walked away.
