Cornelius and David came back half a bell later. By that time, Angeline had teased Niala to her satisfaction, and the three women were catching up on the past four years of each other's lives.

As he sat down, David gave Niala a wink, while she shot him a look that told him she knew exactly what he was up to, which only made him smirk.

The group eventually retired to the parlour, where Niala recounted her travels after having run away.

David had heard most of it, and he hadn't been too surprised to learn that she had mostly bumbled her way across the land, getting by on a mix of dumb luck and being helped by the people she'd charmed with her golden innocence along the way.

Cornelius nearly fainted a few times when his daughter described the few truly dangerous situations she had found herself in. Each time, he had offered to purchase a mercenary band and attach them to her as protection.

Not hire, but purchase. David didn't even know you could purchase mercenaries.

Each time, Niala had denied her father's wishes, telling him that David was stronger than any mercenary group he could find, which garnered him dubious looks from the man.

After a few bells, as night arrived, people retired to their chambers. Cornelius accompanied his returned daughter to her bedroom, which had been waiting for her return. The catkin man deftly interposed himself between his daughter and David, wishing the former good night and closing the door before she could say anything.

He then brought David to another bedroom, halfway across the manor, and wished him a restful, private night, once again closing the door before his guest could say anything.

David stared at the door for some time before he felt something through the link, and smiled. He leaned against the wall and waited.

A few minutes later, someone tapped on the door. He cracked it open, his smile widening as he saw his girlfriend making herself small. She darted in and spun around as he closed and locked the door, just in time for her to jump into his arms and rub her face on him.

She spoke softly. “If my dad thinks I'm not sleeping with my favourite pillow, he's badly mistaken.”

“Hmm, I thought I'd won him over. He's not ready to give up his daughter just yet, I guess.” He replied before picking up Niala into a princess carry and shuffling over to the large bed, sitting down on it, his girlfriend in his lap.

She leaned into him. “Doesn't matter what he wants. I know what I want.” She said.

“You want your favourite David-shaped pillow.”

She giggled, putting her legs on each side of him and pushing him down onto the bed, settling her face above his. “That's right. We've been travelling a lot, and I didn't get to... enjoy my pillow very much over the past two weeks.” She complained, eyelids low, her voice purring.

Her bright amethyst eyes locked onto his own. He could sense the lust pouring out of their link, infecting him in turn.

“...you tend to scream a bit, you know?” He asked.

She lowered her head, softly biting and pulling at one of his lips, before moving her mouth close to his ear and whispering, “thankfully, my father was kind enough to stick you in the empty guest wing, far away from anyone.”

“Oh,” he said, his eyes widening. He heard her rummage in one of her pockets and bring up a small vial with a milky-white substance within.

“Oh,” he repeated, smiling.

“Oh,” she confirmed, smiling back.

Shouts and insistent banging on the door woke them up from their very pleasant night.

David groggily opened his eyes, the morning's light assaulting his poor ocular organs. He blinked a few times before turning his head toward the loud noises. Grunting, he garbed himself with one of the sheets and made his way, opening the door on an All Brew house guard.

“What is it?” David asked.

“Mr. Wayman! Madam All Brew was found missing from her chambers this morning! Her father has requested you to... to...” The guard's voice tapered off as he caught sight of Niala sitting up in bed, covering herself with sheets.

She rubbed her eyes and looked in their direction, ears lopsided. She blinked a few times. “Hmmm... David, what is it? Who are you talking to? Is that... is that you, Martin? What's wrong?”

“I... huh... nothing, Madam. I was just, huh...”

David, still staring at the guard, quirked an eyebrow, catching the man's attention.

“I guess I'll... call off the search. Ah, good morning to you, Sir.” Martin said, nodding, before beating a hasty retreat.

David closed the door and rejoined Niala in the warm and comfy bed. As he did, she rolled over and draped herself over him.

He put his arms over her. “This isn't going to win me any favour with your dad.”

“Hmm, to the pits with him. Be a good pillow now. It's too early. Sleep more.” She half-said, half-moaned.

He heard her breath slow down, and soon she was asleep once more. He remained there, listening to her, until they were summoned for breakfast.

Having shuffled her chair next to David, Niala had wrapped her arms around one of his, her stare fighting off her father's, to the point where David was expecting sparks to erupt mid-air.

The courier kept eating with his free arm, while Angeline couldn't stop glancing at her sister with a rather proud smile on her face.

Cornelius's ears twitched. “All I'm saying, my dearest daughter, is that a mere courier is not the best provider for a family. Their role sees them far and away, and their lives are perilous. Have you thought of the anguish you would feel, not knowing if your... partner was even still living while out on a job halfway across the kingdom?”

“No, dad, I haven't, because David wouldn't leave me like that, and because he's too strong to get done in,” Niala replied, ears tucked back in open defiance.

“He wouldn't leave? But that's even worse! How will he be able to bring back funds?!”

“He doesn't need to, I have my shop!” She snapped back.

“You would let him parasite off your hard work?” He scoffed.

“He helps me!”

“How much help can a courier be to an alchemist?!”

“Dad!” She exclaimed.

“And, you keep saying he's so strong, but you're clearly infatuated with him. I question your judgment on the matter!” He said, leaning forward, arms crossed.

Niala narrowed her eyes at her father, growling.

David tapped one of her arms. She spun her head to look at him. He smiled. “If I showed him, would it help?” He asked.

She blinked and then smiled back. “It would! If you don't mind...” she returned her sight on her father, “... showing my dad what you can do.”

Cornelius turned up his nose, while Angeline clapped her hands. “Oh, a demonstration! We would very much enjoy that! Isn't that right, my dear father?” Her tone made it clear it wasn't actually a question.

Her father looked at his youngest daughter, swallowing when he saw her eyes, and nodded.

“Wonderful!” Angeline exclaimed, looking at David. “Shall we move to the training yard? I'll have the guards vacate. It looks like you would prefer this to be a private showing.” She said, batting her eyelashes.

“Ah, huh, yes, I would,” David blurted out.

“Splendid! Let's go, then!” Angeline said, getting up and walking past her father, dragging him up to his feet by the collar, and pushing him ahead of her.

David and Niala shared a look before following after her sister.

The training yard, at the back of the manor, was more akin to a small stadium than a mere yard. It was fully enclosed under a high arched ceiling, with large windows all around the top of the walls to let in plenty of light.

The house guards and staff who had been present had been asked to leave, and the doors barred after them. The only ones left were the All Brews, David, and Mahala, who had been invited to watch.

David was on the ground floor, a few dozen meters away from a series of wooden dummies.

He looked to the side, at Niala, who gave him a sharp nod.

Turning back his attention to the dummies, he called forth Leviathan, his mana, and put on a show.

Cornelius didn't actually have anything against the young man. He seemed like a good sort, and his daughter clearly loved him. Her actions last night were proof enough that- no, absolutely not, I am not thinking about this. My poor, precious daughter, in the arms of this – no! Think of other things, Cornelius!

But! That was the issue. She was letting her emotions cloud her judgment. He did not really doubt the man would step up to the defence of his daughter if need be, but what could a single courier do, really?

Well, the man was about to do a demonstration. Fortunately, he had observed many training sessions of his house guards, so he would be well-placed to judge of his swordsmanship and overall strength.

Ah, he was starting... by closing his eyes and...

David's body flared blue, his imbuements roaring to life instantly. He stacked all of them: Iron Body, Strong Arm, Quick Step, and Energy Burst, feeding them plenty of mana. Not enough to blind the people present, but enough for the blue flame around his body to reach a few metres high.

He kicked forward, leaving a small crater in the packed dirt, and flew toward the dummies. One Strong Arm punch on each, his fist cracking through the air each time he sent it forward, Quick Stepping to each of his targets so fast that he dragged up a cloud of dust like an after-image.

He stopped, barely a second later, the last dummy smashed to smithereens before the shards of the first one had touched the ground.

Thanks to Energy Burst, he wasn't even breathing hard when he powered down all of his imbuements and called back his mana, the blue flame evaporating.

He turned toward his spectators and smiled at Niala, who was hopping up and down and waving at him.

The other three...

...what?

Cornelius could do nothing but stare, mouth hanging, as his brain tried to process what he'd just witnessed.

Beside him, Angeline and Mahala mirrored his expression.

He managed to clamp his jaw shut and frowned. He had seen similar abilities before... the blue glow, and the arcane script glowing along limbs...

His eyes widened in recognition. Azure Guards!

But even then, the display had been ridiculous! The amount of mana the young man had pushed out...

Ah! That was it; he had gone for a show. He was probably bone-dry now. An impressive display, all the same, but that was all it was.

Cornelius smirked, knowing how to call the young man's bluff.

“Very impressive, David! But! Those were nothing but static wooden targets. How about you show us what you can do against opponents who fight back?”

The courier quirked an eyebrow. “You want me to... fight your guards? I'd rather not have more people know about this.”

“Ah! Well, I understand. How about training golems, instead?” The catkin offered.

David glanced at Niala, who gave him a thumbs-up, and then nodded.

His confidence caught Cornelius off guard. “Ah... hum, very well! Mahala, if you could? Three training golems, expert level, please.”

The woman snapped out of her trance. “Oh- of course! Ah... David? Expert-level means the golems have no restrictions. They will wound you if you're not careful.”

David tilted his head. “Am I allowed to...wound them back, then?”

Mahala, blank-faced, looked to Cornelius, who dismissed her unspoken question. “Sure, sure, do what you can, young man.”

Mahala narrowed her eyes and looked at Niala, who smiled reassuringly at her, before approaching a control panel on the wall and pushing a few buttons.

One of the doors at the end of the yard opened, and three man-sized metal golems walked out, each one bearing multiple dents and scratches. They set up in a line in front of David and stood.

Cornelius, a thin smile on his face, looked at the young man who wasn't engulfed in a blue flame. Just as he'd thought, he must have been low on mana.

“Starting... now!” Mahala said, activating the golem's training program.

And Cornelius' smile dropped faster than an anvil, as the blue flames re-ignited around David, reaching higher than before.

The golems surged forward, arms extended, hands grasping for their target.

A target who met their charge head-on, body runes glowing through his clothes. David met the first golem's hand with one of his own, clasping the golem's.

The courier spun, dragging the steel automaton around as if it were a rag, and used it to bat another golem. They slammed into each other with the sound of dying metal, sending one golem flying into a wall, its body bent in a sideways V.

The third golem reached David, who swung an arm back, smacking the first golem into the ground behind him, and then flexed his arm forward, delivering an overhead golem slam on his opponent.

The swung golem, already badly damaged from the first impact, broke in half, while the last automaton had its legs crumpled and its head caved in, the entire thing driven a few inches into the ground.

The upper half of the first golem, still attached to David by a hand, jerked its other hand toward its target, only for the young man to grab it with his other hand. He advanced on the half-golem, settling it on the ground, as one of his feet shone brighter.

Niala meeped and put her hands over her ears, Angeline mimicking her sister.

David's foot rose.

It hung in the air.

His runes pulsed. Tremor Step.

His foot drove into the half-golem's torso.

The ground shook. Thunder cracked. A cloud of dust exploded in all directions.

When the particulates settled, ears ringing, Cornelius saw David, holding a golem arm in each hand, standing above a hole.

The young man shut off his mana, his glow evaporating, and let go of the two lumps of metal, turning to face his audience.

“Do you need more?” He asked, nonplussed.

Cornelius slowly shook his head, before craning his neck toward his eldest daughter, who was blowing kisses at her boyfriend, ears at top mast and tail wagging.

What... is this? Is my daughter dating a monster?!