ed. Others were in bigger worlds with established kingdoms. I answered and I went from an idea to a tree. A physical thing containing an idea. Much like a person. If they consumed me like this other god, the people of this world would only see a wizard every hundred years or so. I was not that strong of a god, but the person would be able to heal and cause great changes in the land," Wyin went on, then thought about it."Or terrible changes," she admitted with quiet anger."So gods are just beings people hired off the cosmic internet?" Delta asked, feeling her jaw wanting to hit the ground."You make it sound so simple and ugly," Wyin scoffed."Can you go back?" Doctor asked, intrigued."Maybe, but I would never do it. I would have to give up everything I've gained so far. Reduce myself... surrender my own self. I would rather die," Wyin said firmly and Delta believed her."I don't think I can summon some eager temp worker and just harvest their organs," Delta admitted as she sat down, the pain getting to her.Three different emotions rose around her."And no one else is allowed to either," she said and Wyin audibly groaned in disappointment."Just become a god then, if you're so moral," Wyin grunted and Delta snorted, about to say that she'd love to make a cult when a new screen appeared.Cult of the Mother ping request number 999+.Automatically set to pending.The Pygmies?"How can it be legal to make creatures then be made a god if they decide to worship you. Feels a bit like making a farm and expecting sheep to appear," Delta argued and Doctor leaned in gently."The key words there are 'if they decide to'. You gave them free will and they choose to use it in religious bliss," he pointed out."I don't know-" she began then saw there was a page two to the menu so she clicked on it.Active Gods: Nu of the Night (3 weeks)"Nu?"She blinked as the screen turned blue."Oh, you finally got my memo about that," Nu said as he appeared from the fourth floor. Delta had memos?"Y-Yes, I did," she said with a serious nod."Good, hurry up and join. I love the fear, hate the sermones I have to attend. Do you know they expect me to praise them? To encourage them. It's horrifying," Nu said with a shudder."You haven't yet assigned apostles or saints to go to your place? Amateur," Wyin said smugly, fanning herself with a branch."I've been busy doing saintly work in regards to stopping Delta exploding," Nu responded harshly."If I accept, can I give Giant magic? Real magic?" Delta interrupted and there was a prolonged pause."Yes, but no, but there are things I can't even begin to explain that will happen," Wyin said finally.Eh, close enough for Delta. She'd just wing the details and smooth over the wrinkles.She looked at the thing and decided to just create a new position, not wanting to 'usurp' Nu of his beloved sermons.'Ultra High Omega Super Madam Superior' position created!There, now no one would take this business seriously!---Sister watched as her 'machines' began to loop and create feedback over their mushroom ladened screen. She loved this part.Delta accepted into religion.Delta put herself lower than construct Nu.Error.Nu is subservient to Delta.Solution.Puppet position.Delta's position renamed: Truly Interested Loving FriendReligion is now becoming detectable.Bind Delta to the Accord of the Shattered Left?Sister hit 'no' on her console, having to move a few mushrooms to reach. Delta didn't need silly things like follower limits or restricted land sizes or such nonsense.Sister trusted her to be too busy causing trouble for herself to become a deadly god.Sister wasn't expecting that from Delta for at least another few months, so this was all just a happy accident!"The others won't like that." the Goddess of Truth said from the shadows where she rested and lurked. Sister hummed. The goddess of the girl, Kemy, was an interesting one."They can... hm what does Delta say sometimes, ah yes! They can 'deal with it'. They're divine children throwing hungry tantrums. I am a child god too and I act with more dignity at times," Sister said with a shake of her head."Aren't you afraid they might start another war, using mortals?" the goddess asked, more intent than ever on an honest answer."I am not worried because I trust Delta. If they barge into her home and demand tributes or respect, they shall be reminded of an important mortal lesson I've grown fond of," Sister turned and beamed."Start bad word, get hit," she said elegantly then she paused, "or was it, bad word around and find out?" she asked herself, frowning."You created this world, why are you censoring yourself?" The Goddess of Truth asked, confused."Words have effects. I learned that too so I'm watching my language." Sister explained and she turned to her 'Alpha' screen which radiated a mix of symbols, blue light, and the scent of pickles.The Beta screen was cracked and oil leaked but was recently beginning to smell of popcorn.Her Gamma screen had animated pictures of naughty rabbits bullying hunters on repeat but stunk of ammonia.Delta's screen was gone, it was now her floor, her walls, and her chair... warm and gentle. It made some of Sister's pain numb, helping her find peace she hadn't felt since before Little Brother.It was nice and smelled of old books."You just like her better than any of us gods?," the other asked."Yes," Sister admitted and the goddess seemed satisfied with the truth.Delta never demanded sacrifices or treated people like little ants they owned.It was just the small things that Sister enjoyed about Delta.
