“But your telekinesis is new, so perhaps you’ve not been taught this.” His eyes remained looking far away, but he directed them toward her, as though he was looking through her, or into her. “The world is made up of very small things,” he said, “things so small you cannot see them, so small that most people don’t know they’re there, so small that we don’t even have a word for them. Now if someone with telekinesis were to rub them together, they could achieve impressive phenomena, some can ignite substances, but when I do it, I generate lightning.”

Sparks danced upon his shoulders. He unclasped his hands and held his fingers out to each other, slightly curled. Sparks arced between his fingers. He focused his eyes upon the space filled with miniature lightning bolts.

“Most telekinetics can’t do this trick, but, as it would turn out, this is the only power I have.”

The sparks died away and he looked up at her again.

“I was a Sword of the Church before I became a councilor. I fought many battles and my power became my greatest weapon. I understand how battle can be chaotic, and I understand your concern for your friend. But do you really think that I could send you to Pinefort and not Temperance? She’d be right behind you, no matter the orders I gave her.”

Piety smiled and the ghost of a laugh escaped her throat, but it was a sad sound. “Yes, sir, she would.”

High Cleric Radden leaned back in his chair and his look was steady on her now, no longer far away. He was his position again, no longer the man. “The two of you will be a great asset to General Byron and his officers. I will not grant your request.”

• • •

Piety stood on the rain slick, stone-paved wharf of Kinswell, staring at the forest of masts on the foreground of the grey-blue ocean. The great expanse of water swelled with white-capped waves all the way to the hazy horizon. The wharf, and the docks beyond, teamed with sounds and smells alien to Piety’s experience. Despite having lived in Kinswell for months, the greatest port in Khulanty, she’d never seen the ocean and it held an unexpected fascination for her.

The murmur of conversation punctuated with shouts and birdcall was underscored by the drone of the surf. Brine permeated the air and was countered by the smell of fish, tar, and bodies washed only by the sea.

She did not stand alone but was accompanied by two docile horses from the stables of the High Temple. She held them by their reins and they shifted gently, occasionally butting her with their noses so that she would pet their noses or scratch their ears. Down on the docks, Temperance stood with a group of clerics headed by Father Christoph, a white-bearded man in a whip thin frame. Temperance had said they would be collecting healing supplies from the ship. The supplies for herbal healing were foreign to Piety, so she stood with their horses while Temperance went with Father Christoph.

From behind, Temperance was butted by a third nose and she turned, smiling. Steady, the donkey Father Vytal had purchased from Rauf Kaver, would join them on their journey south, carrying their personal supplies. Steady whickered and lipped her shoulder. Piety patted his neck.

“Thanks for coming with us, Steady. I’ll make sure they send you back once we get there. War is no place for a donkey.”

“Piety?”

Piety turned to find Temperance approaching. The contingent from the High Temple was ready to meet with the rest of General Byron’s army heading south. Temperance stood next to Piety and patted Steady’s nose.

“Good to see a familiar face, huh?”

Piety nodded. “Are you ready?”

“No. But we’re doing it anyway, right?”

Piety nodded again.

Father Christoph started their contingent of clerics and supply wagons moving, but before the girls could follow suit they heard the shout of a familiar voice.

“Temperance!”

From the main thoroughfare leading to the High Temple, Elijah threaded his way through the dockside crowd, his labored breathing testament to his hurried journey.

“Temperance. I… You haven’t left yet.”

Temperance looked at Piety, confused, then back to Elijah. “Uh… We were just about to leave. Did I forget something?”

“No, no. I just… I wanted…”

Elijah’s cheeks were beet red, but Temperance continued to look confused. Piety realized Temperance really didn’t understand that Elijah was interested in her. The poor boy looked ready to explode with everything as yet unsaid.

Temperance’s expression turned stern. “Elijah, we have to go. What is so important that you ran all the way here from the High Temple?”

“I love you, Temperance.”

Piety felt her eyebrows climb to her hair. Temperance choked. Elijah looked mortified but resolute. He took Temperance’s hand, kissed her fingers, and fled.

• • •

It took a full month for the caravan to reach Pinefort from Kinswell, just over the border of Mineres Province into Kempenny. On her own, even with her inexperience in riding, Piety was certain she could have gotten there quicker, but she learned that an army could march no faster than its supply wagons.

Every night, they set up camp in what Piety and Temperance learned was typical military fashion: everyone in their assigned place according to division and rank, everyone responsible for his or her own gear. The first night was chaotic, and Piety and Temperance sat atop their horses, watching it all and not knowing what to do.

“You girls, who are you?” A skinny young man with the marks of a lieutenant on his shoulders strode toward them, looking determined.

Piety straightened from under the day of riding and gave him her attention.

“I asked you a question, girl. What are you doing riding with the army? Shouldn’t you be back with your father?”

Piety didn’t like the man’s superior attitude, but she ignored his rudeness in favor of expediency and began to explain. “My father isn’t here. We are…”

But the lieutenant interrupted. “This is no place for children. Get back to the civilian’s camp.”

“Lieutenant,” Piety began, but was again interrupted.

“That’s enough, girl. Civilians interfering with military matters are not immune to military discipline.”

“We’re with the church,” she said quickly, hoping to head off any further misunderstanding.

The man frowned. “Where are your sunbursts then?”

“We’re acolytes, not clerics.”

He shook his head. “You’re lying. Come down from that horse.” He stepped to them and grabbed Piety’s ankle.

“Let go.”

Piety pushed her palm at the man, and though she didn’t touch him, he stumbled back. She hadn’t meant to, but she’d shoved him with her telekinesis. He looked up at her, surprised, then went for his sword. Piety wrapped her power about her without more than a cursory thought, then wrapped the young lieutenant in stout bands of power. She spoke gently but firmly into his mind.

“Listen. My name is Piety Churchstep and this is Temperance Sunday. We are acolytes under the command of Father Christoph. If you want to be of help, you’ll show us where the clerics are making camp.”

She released her hold on the man and he staggered. His look of superiority had faded and been replaced by awe, perhaps even fear. Piety didn’t like that look directed at her.

“Yes, ma’am. This way.”

Piety awkwardly nudged her horse into motion, Temperance at her side, and Steady plodding along behind.

“Wow, Piety,” Temperance whispered.

After that, the two made sure to stay near the clerics while traveling. Soon they learned where to put up their tent and shared the necessary chores of a military camp with the other representatives of the church. Piety refrained from helping to cook, but avoided any grumblings that might have resulted by volunteering to clean up afterward and do laundry.

Soon, Piety and Temperance found a rhythm to the military march southward and their place in it. As they became efficient with their duties in the camp, they found themselves with some free time, and so experimented with Piety’s mindspace.

Piety sat facing Temperance from the other side of a stack of books they’d managed to wheedle out of Father Katsinger, the head clerk for the church’s contingent. They had promised to return them in the morning. Next to the books were three wooden boxes containing Temperance’s jumbled notes.

“Well,” said Temperance, and she shrugged, “just pick one, I guess?”

Piety nodded. “All right.” She took the top book from the stack and looked at it: Navigating the Islands: A Study of the Peoples of the Archipelagos. She held the heavy tome in both hands, closed her eyes, and slipped into her mindspace. When she opened her eyes, her hands were empty. Taking a moment to look at the latest chess game, she grimaced at her poor position, moved a cleric, and pulled herself back to the physical world.

“It didn’t work,” Piety said.

Temperance frowned. “All right. Try the next one.” Piety took up the next book: On the Habits of Field Mice. She showed it to Temperance. “Why does Father Katsinger even have this book?”

“Piety, focus.”

“Right.” Again, Piety held the book in both hands, closed her eyes, and slipped to her mindspace. The book did not join her.

“Try the next one.”

Piety sighed. “Are we going to do this with every book in camp?”

“Try it,” Temperance insisted.

The third book was a worn copy of the Scriptures. Piety held the book, closed her eyes, went to the mindspace. And this time it worked.

“But why this time?” Temperance asked. She rested her chin on her hand and hunched, thinking.

Piety flipped through the book, catching familiar phrases from familiar stories as they flashed by. It wasn’t a copy she’d ever seen before, but it was printed in the traditional format and she knew it like she knew her own copy given her by Father Vytal.

“That’s it,” she said.

“Hmm?” Temperance blinked and looked up.

“I know this book. Not this one specifically, but the Scriptures. I didn’t know the other two at all.”

Temperance straightened and her eyes brightened. “I see.” She pulled the books off the stack before she said, “Ah!” and held one out to her. A Brief History of the Founding of the Nation of Khulanty. It was a text they’d both been required to read at the High Temple. “Try this one.”

Piety wasn’t as familiar with this book as she was with the Scriptures, but this, too, proved a success. With a little more experimentation, they determined that she was able to take to the mindspace anything she’d ever read, even if she wasn’t intimately familiar with it. Further, she able to take items other than books, like the blanket she’d taken months ago. She also learned she was unable to remove anything from the mindspace.

“So, if you’re going to store my notes in that magical filing cabinet, you’ll have to read them first, become familiar with them.”

Piety fixed her friend with a wry look. “That’s what all this was about, huh? You just want a fireproof place to store your notes.”

Temperance shrugged. “What else are friends for?” But she couldn’t hide her playful smile.

Piety threw a pillow at her.

• • •

On the south bank of the Grand River in Kempenny Province, Pinefort was one of the original forts in Khulanty. The original wood structure had been built over one hundred years previous, before First Royal Sean Loreamer had held the Council of Kinswell, before Khulanty was a nation. It had been a resting point for riverboats and travelers walking along the river and the last outpost of civilization before the wild lands of the west.

Now it served as a point of commerce between Loreamer and Kempenny Province and was the biggest city on the Grand other than Kinswell itself.

Officially, the war had started three months ago. Governor Kempenny had sent an emissary declaring secession and war with the nation of Khulanty and Loreamer Province in specific. Within a day, houses Artio, Ceres, and Mineres had made declaration lending their provinces’ support to the Royal House of Loreamer. Governor Kempenny was alone in her rebellion.

Despite the official start three months ago, Kempenny soldiers had been making unlawful forays into Loreamer Province for months before that. Now the Royal Council had commandeered the fort as their headquarters for the war.

The former Magistrate of Pinefort, Mayhew Aramick was a staunch supporter of Governor Kempenny and had evacuated his family when occupation by Loreamer forces had become inevitable. He was now entrenched with the Kempenny forces in the south.

Pinefort was a city on the tallest hill in a landscape surrounded by forested hills, with the river guarding its north flank. When the military contingent arrived, the populace had been halved, most fleeing south to support their governor. Those who remained carried on, though much of the city had been abandoned.

Piety and Temperance were given a bunk bed in the great hall along with nearly one hundred others. The large room echoed with the murmured conversation of everyone settling in.

Piety sat on the bottom bunk, and Temperance joined her.

“Well,” said Piety, “here we are.”
