Piety reclined on her bed, reading by flickering candlelight, her blanket pulled up to her neck like a soft embrace. She was reading the red leather-bound copy of the Scriptures given to her by Father Vytal for her birthday. She was in the middle of Saint Mary’s exile in the western desert, when her candle gave one final gutter and went out, allowing darkness to invade.

Piety blinked as her eyes adjusted to the sudden darkness. Light from Kinswell Square cast a faint glow through her window and eventually she was able to see dimly. For several minutes, Piety weighed the value of making the trek to the supply closet for more candles. On the one side, she couldn’t read by the dim light coming through the window. On the other, the hallway would be cold so late at night, and she was quite warm and comfortable in bed, under her blanket.

And then the obvious solution struck her. The room within her mind was always well lit, though the light source was a mystery she had long since come to accept without question. But there wasn’t a copy of the Scriptures in her mindspace, peculiar given the number of hours she’d spent reading them. She had, occasionally, wondered why her subconscious hadn’t put a copy on the bookshelf of her mind, but had eventually dismissed the question and simply accepted it, as she often did with the room in her mind. And so she wondered whether or not she’d be able to take her new copy of the Scriptures into her mindspace. She had never tried to take anything into or out of the mindspace before, but she did know that her clothes always came with her.

And with that realization, she held on to her book and her blanket, and went to the room in her mind.

The first thing she did, as she always did in the mindspace, was to look at the chessboard. Her subconscious had moved another rook, to trap her regent, the most powerful piece on the board. Piety sighed. She’d gotten better and there had been some close games, but she had yet to win, and this game looked like another loss.

She put the game out of her mind for the moment to notice that she held her new copy of the Scriptures and her cotton stuffed linen comforter, one in each hand. She smiled at her success and was ready to settle down and read when another thought came upon her.

Father Vytal and later Father Berek had told her that the mindspace wasn’t a physical space, but rather a representation that allowed one to block out distractions and achieve calm. Piety knew her mindspace was different, and she wondered if the book and blanket were here physically, or if they were a mental representation.

She set the book on the desk and draped the blanket over the chair, then, hands empty, she slipped back into her body and found herself as she had been, trucked under the blanket, book in hand.

With a smile, she put the physical copy of Father Vytal’s birthday present on the desk by her bed, then snuggled under the covers so her body would be lying down while she was in the mindspace. Preparation complete, she slipped back into the mindspace, where her blanket and book awaited her.

Piety told Temperance about her experimentation the next day while they walked through the kitchens of the High Temple’s dining hall. Meals were received differently at the High Temple than at Sacred Heart: everyone walked through the kitchens and selected from a variety of dishes. Sweep and Temperance were still expected to take their turns in the kitchens, but all acolytes were.

“So it’s like you’ve got a filing cabinet in your head. Could you keep anything there? Could you keep my notes for example?”

“I don’t know.”

“It’d be useful if you could. I keep losing mine.”

“More lab fires?”

Temperance nodded. “Sometimes its corrosive solutions, but usually fires,” she said without a hint of humor.

Piety gave her a long look. “Aren’t there any… I don’t know… precautions?”

“Sure. I had to take a class in laboratory safety. But Mother Simmons has me experimenting based upon fifty-year-old notes, so I’m doing a lot of guess work. Sometimes it ends spectacularly.”

“What are you working on now, more fire blossoms?”

“No. Miners in Artio Province say that Father Roquet, the man who invented sulfur matches, had promised to make explosive mining equipment. So I’m trying to figure out what that means.”

“I suppose it’s not a pickax that explodes when you swing it?”

“It involves powder that explodes, kind of like the fire blossoms, but different. I just need to find a reliable way to store it, transport it, and direct it.”

The two found an empty space at one of the long tables in the large dining hall. They were at breakfast earlier than most, so free space was easy to come by. The normal subdued babble was almost nonexistent. Pre-breakfast prayer wasn’t for another hour and morning sermon in the main sanctuary wasn’t for another two. One of the things Piety liked best about the High Temple was that though it was steeped in tradition and ritual, studies were considered more important. Piety preferred to pray alone.

“So, we should experiment,” said Temperance.

“What?”

“With your mindspace.”

“Oh, right. Well, I suppose we should. After dinner?”

Temperance shook her head. “Sorry, Elijah is free after dinner and he’s going to help me with some experiments this evening. It was the only time he had free.”

Piety smiled. “Elijah, huh? He seems nice.”

“I suppose he is. He’s a decent laboratory assistant, certainly.”

Piety let the matter drop. Anytime she hinted to Temperance that Elijah might be interested in her as more than a lab assistant, Temperance tended to get distant.

“Perhaps tomorrow morning? I’ve only got a history class scheduled after breakfast,” suggested Temperance.

“No, I’ll be in lectures all morning tomorrow.”

“Hmm.”

Piety stopped eating and regarded her friend. When they had first come to the High Temple, months ago, they had refused to do anything apart. Now that they were assured the High Temple would be nothing like Sacred Heart and had relaxed into their roles, Piety realized, they mostly only saw each other during breakfast.

“Do you girls mind if I sit here?”

Piety recognized the High Cleric’s baritone rumble and stood to bow, Temperance following suit. High Cleric Radden bowed to them in return as was his custom. He sat and they resumed their seats.

“I hope you’ll excuse the intrusion, but I need to discuss something important with you.”

“I should be going anyway,” said Temperance, preparing to stand, but the High Cleric raised a hand.

“Actually, I wanted to talk to you too, Acolyte Temperance.”

Temperance settled back on the bench and hunched her shoulders uncomfortably.

“As the two of you know, the Governor of Kempenny Province isn’t particularly fond of the Royal Loreamer family. There have been rumors of war. Well, recently it was made official. The Church of Khulanty is giving its support to the Royals. We’re sending a contingent to Pinefort with General Byron and I want you two to be a part of it.”

Piety was stunned. She’d known the war was coming, had started already really, but she’d never thought she might participate. The thought made her stomach clench. She was no longer hungry.

“Us?” she asked. “Why?”

The High Cleric nodded, as though he’d been expecting the question.

“An apprenticeship, at least in name, but the truth is we need you there, both of you. Piety, your reputation is well known, and Temperance, your knowledge of plants, healing, and chemistry is lauded throughout the temple.” The High Cleric sighed. “I would rather not ask it of you. You are acolytes and young acolytes at that. A war is no place for you. But your reputations are such that if we did not send you, questions would be asked. This is as much political as it is tactical. The Royal himself has asked for you.”

Piety met Temperance’s eyes and wondered if her own expression was so frightened. Surreptitiously, she reached a hand to her and Temperance grabbed it.

“If you go, I go.” Temperance’s mind voice was strong.

“It will be unpleasant,” said the High Cleric, oblivious to their mental conversation, “but I assure you you’ll be well back from any fighting. Tristam would have my head if I put you in danger. You’d be supporting our soldiers, mostly in healing. Father Christoph has said he would be grateful to have you.” His expression was of concerned earnestness. Piety couldn’t help but wonder if he practiced it.

Piety looked away, thinking. There was a nervous thrill building in the base of her chest. Piety had no illusions about the glory of war as seen through the eyes of romantic bards. Since coming to the High Temple, she’d read plenty of romantic ballads about battle, and she’d read the personal accounts of soldiers and she knew the difference.

“I think Father Vytal would rather settle disputes without fighting,” said Temperance.

“We wouldn’t be fighting, we’d be healing.”

“I understand that your experience with established authority hasn’t been particularly positive, but hopefully these last few months in the High Temple have shown you that we’re not all bad. Royal Loreamer is a good man who has ruled fairly. He’s asking you to serve the nation.”

And really, that was all Piety had ever wanted, to help people. She liked the High Temple, like attending lectures, liked studying in the library, but she yearned for those months when she’d traveled with Temperance and Father Vytal and had helped those in need.

“Royal Loreamer himself has asked for our help. I can’t refuse that.”

Temperance squeezed gently. “I know.”

• • •

They’d been given a week to prepare, and Temperance was busy scrambling about her laboratories, trying to decide what to bring and what to leave. Mother Simmons was coming too and worked closely with Temperance. Elijah would not be coming, but he, too, helped Temperance prepare to leave. Piety found her time unfilled as she was unenrolled from her classes to give her time to prepare. She packed her clothes and her red-bound Scriptures in an hour and was done.

Which gave her time to think.

With a day left until their departure, late that morning, Piety decided to visit with the High Cleric. She’d never gone to see him before, he’d always summoned her. This time, when Piety entered the antechamber to his office, she found his secretary, Sister Fleetwood, busy with stacks of paper on her desk. She looked up when Piety came in.

“Oh,” she said. “I didn’t know he’d summoned you, Piety.”

Piety shook her head. “He didn’t. This is unscheduled, but I’d like to see him if I could.”

Sister Fleetwood raised her eyebrows, but stood and went to the office door where she knocked twice and entered, pulling the door closed firmly behind her. Piety stood uncomfortably. She considered sitting on one of the chairs meant for waiting guests, but it seemed presumptions, so she stood.

Minutes later, Sister Fleetwood reappeared. “He will see you, acolyte.”

Her expression was faintly disapproving, and Piety avoided her gaze as she went into the office of the High Cleric. He sat on one of the couches of the sitting area of his office. A mug of once-hot tea sat, forgotten, on the table. He read a short sheaf of papers and did not look up when she came in and closed the door. Piety stood uncomfortably in front of the doors, waiting for his acknowledgement.

“Tristam sends his regards,” said the High Cleric suddenly, and Piety jumped. He shook the papers in his hand gently for emphasis.

“Oh.”

Piety didn’t know what else to say, and the High Cleric went back to his reading, expression grim. Several minutes later, he set the papers on the table and looked up at her.

“How is your telekinesis progressing?”

Piety shrugged. “Well enough, sir.” Despite having been unenrolled, Piety continued to go to powers class. Father Berek had been training her telekinesis since the day after the fire blossoms, and she wasn’t willing to give up that training.

The High Cleric shook his head, and a tired smile appeared. “Father Berek says you’re progressing quickly. He tells me he suspects you’ll have several more powers before you come of age.”

Piety shrugged again. She hadn’t come to talk about her powers.

“Piety, have a seat and tell me what you wanted to talk about.”

Piety sat on the couch across the table from the High Cleric. This area, designed for comfortable sitting and casual conversation, was also designed to put visitors at ease. It was often where she spoke with the High Cleric, and it worked. Piety immediately felt calmer.

“I want to talk to you about Temperance.”

“Not to worry, Piety, I haven’t decided to break you two up.”

Piety swallowed hard. “Actually sir, I’d rather she didn’t come. I want you to keep her here, where it’s safe.”

“Oh? Why is that?”

“It’ll be dangerous at Pinefort. I don’t want her to get hurt.”

Cleric Radden nodded and closed his eyes. “You’ll be far from the front lines.” But he said it quietly, without much conviction.

“War is unpredictable, sir.”

Cleric Radden stood and walked to behind this desk, sitting in the large, leather upholstered chair. It creaked when he sat. From behind the desk, Cleric Radden lost the friendly nature he’d had when he was only sitting across the low table from her. He leaned his elbows on the desk, clasped his hands, and rested his chin on the resulting fists. His eyes looked past the opposing wall, to a place beyond.

Eventually, he said, “Yes, it is.”

Piety stood and walked to the desk to face the High Cleric of the Church of Khulanty. She looked at him, for the first time, not as the High Cleric, but as a man, an equal. For the first twelve years of her life, she had been told she was lesser, unworthy, unclean. But the Scriptures had taught her that one person wasn’t inherently better than another. She saw in him the strain of his position.

Piety took a breath to speak, but he spoke before she could.

“You’ve had classes on powers,” he said, but he was still looking to somewhere beyond the room, not her. Piety was afraid he was going to repeat their conversation about the Dread Necromancer.

