I took a few moments to orient myself as I woke up. The room around me was empty and I was clearly alone, the vast sky outside the nearby window showing over the bay. I had been up quite late last night apparently and didn't wake up until the sun was well and crested above the nearby sea, it's bright rays bathing the room around me in golden light. I quickly prepared as we had a number of meetings and plans to do today, mainly centering around the region we were headed off to and the base organization for that. The emissary had let us know that she had contacts that could get us near the area safely, but we'd need to travel with a small merchant caravan that wouldn't be leaving for a few days yet. In the intervening time I planned to learn as much as I could about the area, and about the ancient elven king whose name I had never even been told. That was one of the things that was a bit unclear about the history. The elves never referred to him by his proper name for some reason and either claimed or feigned ignorance if you asked. He was always referred to simply as their king, the only one who'd ever been a true king of the elves, and the only one who they seemed to think deserved that title. Which was... kinda weird, but the way they seemed to like it. I also had a line on the best place to learn about him. His old palace was still around, and if I knew the elven people like I thought I did was probably fastidiously maintained. I imagined that should that king find himself alive again today he might be able to walk in and find most of his possessions either replaced near perfectly, or right where he'd left them last. Best of all I'd been told by several people that it was possible to tour it, so that would be my first line of inquiry. The other members of my team had their jobs as well. Dras and Glen would be looking about the local markets for information on magical items and threats in the region of our travel. Leah would be brushing up on the flora and fauna, since it was likely that she could get either examples or first hand accounts here, rather than just books. Her brother would of course be looking into any diseases and the like, by asking the local priest organizations. Olnir would be remaining with our host to look over a few candidates for additional muscle, since we'd need one or perhaps two to aid us. So after dressing and a quick breakfast I headed towards my destination. I considered trying to borrow one of the carriages, and one would certainly be made available to me if I asked, but it wasn't far from this place, and seeing things from ground level could be useful at times. Directions were easy, partially because the city was well laid out and partially because I could ask anyone about where I was going, literally any elf I met on the street should be able to direct me to my destination. I did ask a few people, even though I knew where to go I still wanted to gauge reactions to the question, so I knew what to expect when I got there. I asked an older fellow who seemed to be mostly strolling and he gave me the brightest smile. "Ah, heading there are you? It's a lovely sight, just four streets up to the main thoroughfare and then follow that to your right, you can't possibly miss it. Is this your first time in our lands? If it is your Atal is quite excellent." He asked, looking down at me like I was an inquisitive child. "It is. I had heard it was possible to see the palace and was hoping that I might take a look. Do you think that will be allowed?" I played along with him, looking as hopeful as I could. "Oh, there might be a bit of a wait, but if there is you should check out the library just down the street from it a bit. It's from the same time period and is quite wonderful as well, and all are welcome, so long as they don't damage the books." He made a slight finger waggle at the last part, not that I would dream of doing so. "Thank you for the advice, I'll be sure to." I added the place to my list of locations to visit. A bit further down I met a merchant running a small street stall selling barbecued meat stuffed into something not unlike a tortilla. At first he seemed hesitant to deal with me, but when I gave my order in at least passable Atal he quickly brightened up. "You speak our tongue? That's wonderful, I've heard some stories about friends who had a beast of a time dealing with foreigners who didn't," he said as he held out the small snack. "Oh yes, I had a teacher who taught both the language and dance, though if I'm honest I think she liked the latter much more than the former." The merchant got a good laugh out of that one and shrugged. "Nothing wrong with that. I know a good few ladies who've let their skills in dance slide, and it's all the better to see a good dancer in action." I nodded. "She was quite a bit better than any other I've seen, and used it to focus her magic, quite the show." As he nodded along I decided to lead him where I wanted. "I'm hoping to see the palace for the first time today. Anything interesting you'd point out?" "Hmm, there are a few murals and the like that are weird, but seem to have been important. Nobody really knows what they're about, and it's considered kind of a legend or mystery. The guides there should be able to fill you in though, if you really want to know." My pre-investigation was going well, but if I wanted plenty of extra time it was still best to head to the place itself, so I moved along down the road.  It didn't take long before I could clearly see my destination, which was, unlike the buildings around it, rather short.Ensure your favorite authors get the support they deserve. Read this novel on the original website. The edifice was still massive though, easily five stories and as large as several city blocks.  White was the main color, with gold accents in what seemed to be inclusions of some kind in the stone.  I could tell that those had been put in unnaturally by the way they flowed rather than the more cracked structure, but how was well beyond me. The architecture was much like the buildings around it in shape and coloration, but with some elements that were distinctly older, and I couldn't quite place.  The columns weren't Greco-Roman, but had definitely drawn some inspiration from similar things, they flowed upwards in gentle spirals, looking almost living in the way they stood.  The roof, and many of the landings were covered in flowering plants, parts of the garden hanging down over the balconies to artistically drape here and there around doorways. I made my way slowly to what seemed to be an entrance, if the milling about of people was anything to go on and then slowly to the front.  I had to climb a small set of stairs to reach the little place where officials in green and gold uniforms were standing, but got a pleasant surprise when one turned to address me. "Good morning, are you here for a tour?"  The female attendant asked in perfect Human Tongue. "If possible yes, this is my first time in Atal and I was told seeing the palace was a must." The woman gave me a gentle smile.  "Certainly, I don't suppose you reserved a spot earlier though?" "No, I did not."  I had to frown a bit, as it seemed I might need to come back later, perhaps even much later. "Are you alone?"  She asked. "Yes," I replied. "We'll see if we can't squeeze you into one of those leaving soon then."  She consulted a few records at a nearby station and took her time, but soon enough found a spot for me.  I breathed out in relief when she told me that I would only have to wait until lunch time, Having several hours to burn I decided to do what I could in background while waiting.  The palace was huge and giving it a walk around was no small task.  Still, it let me take in the form of the place in more detail.  Sadly I wasn't able to do anything like look at the spells, as that was well beyond what anyone I'd heard of could do, but I could examine the building at least. I also found the library that I'd been told about.  It too was a sizable building, with huge windows spread along the side that one could easily see in through.  The inner area looked much like one would expect of a book repository, shelves and large seating areas, and there were no small number of elves going in and out of the place. I considered going in, but if I had any questions from my tour of the palace that needed answering that would be the place to go, and I didn't much feel like backtracking.  I also wanted to get a good idea of how the place worked, if there was an entry fee, or book borrowing, or any number of other questions.  Most of the libraries that I knew of on this world were both far smaller than this place, and extremely private, being that they belong to the magical academy or very wealthy people. I didn't rush in either of my tasks, as I was doing nothing other than waiting, and it paid off well.  I could see quite clearly that birds of all kinds were avoiding both of these buildings I was near.  It would have gone to most, but a passing flock of pigeon equivalents swerved around the library at the last moment, never passing the barriers around the place.  I could also tell that while they seemed to have lights, all of them were magical. I didn't know if the lighting thing was just elves being fancy with magical lighting, or some spell put in place to prevent combustion, but I heavily suspected the latter.  Fires in places with that many books would be no joke, and if I took the time to build one I sure as heck would take that basic precaution.  I thought I'd heard about old libraries on Earth having similar bans on all fire within, but couldn't remember the details exactly. When the time came I made my way back to the palace, where I was quickly moved over to a tour group.  The worker from earlier approached with a smile. "I didn't ask before miss, but do you need a translator?"  She asked as we met once again. "No, I speak Atal well enough to understand most people, but thank you for the kind offer." "Regardless, it is policy that you be told the tour rules in your native tongue."  Her smile didn't falter and she kept on.  "Please stay to the carpeted areas, as they are there to protect the floors.  No food, drink, or anything that might spill is allowed of course, and any damage to the palace will be viewed quite dimly." I nodded.  "Certainly, I've no desire to break anything." "Good, also all spellcasting is strictly banned within.  The wards of the palace are quite through, and believe me you do not want to come into conflict with them.  That experience is not one I'd wish on anybody."  She seemed to have rehearsed this innumerable times. "Of course.  Is there anything else I should know?" "We do ask that you maintain a respectful stance, and direct any questions to the tour guide.  Now if you'll follow me." I was led up to a full group of elves who were being given the same spiel in Atal by another elven woman in a crisp uniform.  Most were older children or elderly, and all were paying close attention to the instructions. "Any questions?"  The guide asked the group, and seeing none continued on.  "Then if you'll all please follow me."
