His foot slipped as he tried to duck back into the inn—the [Assassin] cried out and fell as the dragonfly-thing landed and opened a huge mouth. It bit—and Theofore dangled a foot out of reach.
He wasn’t falling? The [Assassin] looked up, and his tail was curled around a lantern just inside the inn. He pulled himself back as Erin pointed, and a bolt of lightning blew the dragonfly apart at point-blank range.
He was laughing in giddy relief—until he saw the Hag Queen punch Tessa into a wall and point at Ressa. The world warped, and Ressa leapt back with a scream. The Hag Queen ripped the door open and lowered a glowing stave, aiming straight for the Hobgoblin and interior of the inn.
“Numbtongue!”
Erin screamed. The [Bard]—Pyrite—looked up and tried to dive with a grunt.
Bekia, the Gnoll [Maid], seized the arm and lifted it with a roar. The spell shattered against the inn. Erin’s entire inn shook, and she sensed spiderweb cracks running through the entire front façade. But it missed Numbtongue, and Erin began repairing the damage.
“Wretch.”
The Hag Queen tore the snarling Bekia off her. She threw the Gnoll to the ground and drove her staff down. Erin heard Bekia’s howl go silent, and the Hag Queen lifted her staff from the hole in the [Maid]’s torso. She grinned—looked up—
A bolt of lightning hit the Hag Queen in the face, and half of it melted. But unlike the one who had been caught off-guard—the Hag Queen’s face healed through it again. She was laughing, holding her belly, until a blur landed on her.
Ressa and Tessa crossed paths—then blurred. Criss-crossing blades stabbing and stabbing until pieces of the Hag Queen were flying left and right. Still trying to regenerate until her very bones were being torn apart. A crawling corpse that Bird shot twice with his ballista, then was covered with acid.
Only then did she die. And Erin Solstice stared down at the Knights of Solstice.
“Enough.”
That was all she could say. Enough—then she heard a warning and turned her head.
“No—Lyonette?”
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion was under attack. The [Lady] received the notification from her servants as they warred with—undead.
Kevin, Joseph, Imani. None of the three Earthers had ever met Kasigna. But the Goddess of Death had no end to her spite.
The Steel Golems had taken down scores of them, but they were clinging to the mansion, fighting the painted animals emerging to defend it.
Magnolia Reinhart had defenses, powerful ones. There were just—too many undead. The lightning cloud had vaporized them for the last half-hour, and it was out of electricity. Worse, the principal defense, the servants, were all near Liscor.
Ser Sest was humming as he stood on the second floor. The main hall was being overrun, but the servants were trying to punch a hole towards one of the carriages. They fought well, he had to admit.
“Mrsha! Mrsha!”
Lyonette was screaming. Mrsha was separated from her; it wasn’t Mrsha’s fault. A Draugr had gone through a window as they were running.
Sest stood with Lyonette, Dame Ushar on the left, watching the hallway behind them, Ser Dalimont in front.
“They’re fine, Your Highness.”
Sest had to shout. He was humming to keep himself calm. Lyonette grabbed him.
“Find them! Forget about me. Where—”
“I saw the lad vanish. Hethon Veltras grabbed the girls and boys—he ran into a forest in the air.”
They stared at him as if he were purely insane, but Sest had seen it. The children had been screaming as the Draugr turned to face Nanette—the [Sariantfriend] had been casting spells, and Nerry, the little lamb, had been blasting the thing with wands somehow—and a hand had pulled Hethon Veltras into a wall.
Only, it wasn’t a wall, but a forest path. Sest had been trying to get them when Hethon grabbed the children and ran.
Good lad. Must have been some secret House Veltras Skill. Lyonette turned to Sest, and he gave her a big smile. Kevin, Imani, and Joseph were behind her, and Sest supposed whatever trick that had been hadn’t included adults.
Fair enough. Thank Queen Marquin for sensible, decent people, whomever they were.
All the Thronebearers had to do was get to the coach. There were, oh, thirty undead between them and the stairs, and Magnolia’s people were fighting with Druid Nalthaliarstrelous in the courtyard.
If they didn’t make it to the carriage, the undead flooding the second floor would kill them all. Simple logic. Ushar snapped.
“Get Her Highness and the Earthers to the carriage at all costs. Thronebearers—”
Lyonette had a sword, and she’d even used some magic and gotten an undead or two. But she had no armor, and frankly, Ser Sest was better with a blade than she was. How he wished they’d kept Shriekblade, eh?
Or even Ser Lormel. The three Thronebearers were outnumbered thirty to one. Now—Ser Sest stopped humming.
“We’ll make it. The Fool, the Blade, and the Bodyguard. Dalimont, you’re the Blade. Ushar—keep her safe.”
The two Thronebearers looked at Sest, and the [Knight] smiled as Lyonette turned. Even she didn’t get the reference.
“Sest? Sest!”
Thronebearer doctrine was simple when it came to fighting. They knew they were bad at warfare. Ever since Marquin the Radiant, they had been ridiculed as being dress-knights, fancy [Knights], and it was true.
They were better bodyguards. The best. They had learned their doctrines from the real job of a [Knight]: keep their charges safe.
The Fool, the Blade, and the Bodyguard was a Thronebearer tactic. At least three per [Princess] or ward. You split roles. One always guarded the target. But the enemy had to die. So the Blade killed. But unlike a fair fight, the Blade went from the side, cut the enemy down from behind. Took advantage of the hardest and easiest role.
The Fool. Sest began to run down the stairs. The Fool didn’t require an arm like steel or the swordsmanship he lacked. The Fool was easy.
All you had to do—was throw yourself at the enemy. Block them. He didn’t even raise his sword, just shoulder-charged the first Draugr, and the first blow caved in his helmet and blinded his right side. But he knew where they were.
A grinning [Knight] tangled with a snapping undead that tore into his armor as Ser Dalimont fell on them. Real swordsmanship, cleaving into the Draugr’s side, and Dame Ushar was running with Lyonette and the three Earthers.
Sest was grinning as he saw Lyonette staring at him. Perfect job. Can you see me now, Lormel? Perf—
Something tore a hole in his neck, and he was floating, now. But he lunged and grabbed the Draugr as it whirled, and there you were. Fool. What a p—
Sest was laughing as he appeared in the lands of the dead. Lifting a hand up with a smile. That celebrating [Knight].
 
——
 
—Dying. 
A Hag Queen appeared high above the Floodplains, whirling her staff and snarling. A teleportation rune faded around her as it sent her far away from the battlefield. It had been drawn so fast, too!
“Who dares. Who—”
She looked up as her foe landed. A Brass Dragon, teeth bared. He exhaled, and flames ran over her, sending the Hag Queen flailing and shrieking—until Teriarch, circling, saw her grin.
She pointed, and he realized she was fireproof. Then she tripled in size and seized his neck—only for him to cast a spell and blink out of her grip and land on top of her. The Brass Dragon tore into the Hag, ripping pieces of her body off as they fought.
She grew and grew—until she realized his scales were harder than any metal she knew. Until she realized he was ripping into her heart—then the Hag Queen tried to curse him with a thousand spells until her body jerked and fell. Teriarch arose from her rapidly rotting corpse, spitting and gagging—then looked up.
A mountain shook as a Giant crawled down towards him. Wearily, the Dragonlord of Flames spread his wings and flew.
 
——
 
The fighting was getting worse. Even immortals were bleeding. Even they could die.
The first blow that Rhisveri took tore open his side. Not the side of the man, ‘Duke Rhisveri’, but actual scales on his real body.
Somehow, Zeladona of Blades cut his very nature, even from within the world of the frozen [Greater Teleport]. She blocked a spell from Visophecin—and when she locked blades with Czautha, the splinters of their clash sent showers of force through this realm.
They should not fight here! Rhisveri knew it even as he tried to kill the Cauwine-Zeladona being. She was laughing, enjoying herself. The only person who seemed calm, even displeased, was Silvenia.
The Death of Magic was bleeding. All of them were. Even Cauwine had taken a blow that had turned her hand withered; she fought with the other one, and Visophecin had delivered a joint slash to her stomach with Czautha that was showing her insides.
She wasn’t healing; whether she could not or regarded this as some fight to the death was unclear. But the Death of Magic had taken a sword-thrust through the neck.
Like her other wounds, she had sealed then ignored it. Her voice rasped as she spoke, and Czautha retreated as Zeladona slashed a hand through the Djinni’s magical being. It would have delimbed any other being, but for Czautha, she just regrew her arm.
Immortals died hard. But Silvenia was disappointed.
“Is that it? You’re no match for the four of us, whoever you are. The [Blademistress] would be an equal match for me alone.”
“Hah! Prove it with more than words, woman—”
Zeladona whirled with a look of delight on her face. She lunged, and her slash split the entire dimension in half. Silvenia cast a spell Rhisveri had never seen before.
It looked like…teardrops that turned to diamonds that became a cyclone. Zeladona tried to slash them apart as Silvenia moved her hands—twisted space and sent the attack away from herself. The [Blademistress of Ancients] cut in a flurry—
The storm of tears passed Zeladona and blew outwards, magnifying in size as they vanished in the realm of the [Greater Teleport]. The [Blademistress] had a hole in one leg, then two more in her stomach and another that tore the right side of her face and let her jaw hang loose.
Zeladona looked delighted. She lifted her sword as Silvenia stepped back and Rhisveri and Czautha circled her. Then—frustrated. As if she realized she was indeed going to lose.
It was Rhisveri who screamed.
“Stop! Stop fighting! You fools—”
Silvenia nodded at him, a grimace on her face, as Visophecin and Czautha hesitated. The avatar of Zeladona didn’t know or didn’t care if she knew, but Rhisveri’s shriek was too late.
The battle in the realm of the [Greater Teleport] was entering realspace.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice took a second to breathe. Just breathe. More undead were coming. They were always coming. Now it was a rolling mass of them, a literal ball of undead tangled up in each other that broke apart, then reformed like some strange piece of magnetic sand. It had rolled away from the front and was passing the flanks, coming up at the inn from the side.
The Knights of Solstice were preparing to charge again.
Who was going to die this time? Erin stared at the undead—then someone screamed in her ear.
“Beware! Giant! Rheirgest’s Giant is—”
She had a speaking stone tuned to the battle, and the frantic scream was relayed to her. Erin’s blood chilled as Niers acknowledged it.
“Chaldion, I have marked the Hag. Execute Contingency One.”
“—it’s almost time. Almost time, yes.”
The Grand Strategist sounded disoriented. Somewhere across the Floodplains, Erin saw another Hag Queen fighting from the rear turn sharply as Drakes appeared out of hiding.
The other Hags were not dying easy. The two fighting the [Witches]…Erin closed her eyes as she sensed the magic moving. Then—another shout.
“Erin Solstice! This is Dragonspeaker Luciva. What are the Horns of Hammerad doing?”
Her eyes snapped open, and her heart lurched. Erin searched the battlefield.
“This is Erin. What about the Horns? They’re not here!”
She knew they weren’t. Rafaema, Ryoka—she’d lost track of the Halfseekers and some of her friends, but she saw many of them. But the Horns weren’t here. She’d know.
“I know they are not. They are in the Crossroads of Izril. We see them—”
Erin stared at the speaking stone. See them? What did that mean?
It means they’re safe, that’s what. Her mind whispered at her, and she tuned Luciva out. Erin had no time to explain. The sphere of undead was coming…
Then she heard a scream from Lady Buscrei.
“Oswen! Oswen is—”
What? Erin looked around, fearing the [Lady] was dying. But that wasn’t it. She heard a rumble, felt the wrongness in the air—looked up—
And saw a hole appear in one of the mountains overhead. Erin stared up as the mountain vanished—then a shockwave blew the air and sent the entire Floodplains shaking. She swore she saw the piece blasted out of the High Passes falling—saw the top of the mountain begin to collapse—
Something round had hit it. A spell cast in the [Greater Teleport] spell—twisting back into realspace. Another blow had carved across Izril and hit Oswen—
 
——
 
Rhisveri saw the attacks burning across Izril. He saw the tip of the mountain vanish. Saw the sword slice across part of Izril and obliterate—
A falling piece of magic searched for an outlet in this world of the [Greater Teleport]—found something to latch onto.
A Mage’s Guild exploded as a fragment of the clash between Zeladona and Czautha emerged into realspace.
They’re dying as we fight. The Wyrm looked up, and Cauwine stepped back, wearing Zeladona’s face. Yet even now, the [Blademistress]’ lust for battle infected the dead goddess.
“You can actually challenge me. I have not enjoyed myself since I died. Come. Come…”
The Death of Magic and Death of Chains exchanged a silent glance. Czautha was hesitating, realizing what Rhisveri meant, but Silvenia spoke.
“She won’t give us a chance to leave. She’ll cut me if I open a door.”
The half-Elf spoke almost lazily to no one in particular while drawing a sigil in the air as quick as the passing moments. Zeladona was giggling as she used her sword like a crutch, digging into the floor of this dimension to steady her bad leg.
She was going to slash upwards and tear a void like a [Swordswoman] flicking dirt at her foes. It was impossible, of course, but Zeladona’s level transcended what should be possible with a sword, and she didn’t care about anything but victory.
Their battle was destroying chunks of Izril, their destination. Oswen—Rhisveri saw a blade striking across the Vale Forest where it met rivers and became a marsh.
Citizens of House Veltras. Children. He saw the smile on Zeladona’s face and the way Silvenia looked everywhere but at him.
“Cover me.”
