The Wyrm rasped to Visophecin. The Lucifen glanced up sharply. Czautha nodded almost imperceptibly from the other side, but Cauwine-Zeladona just smirked. She broke off from her stance as Silvenia twisted, pulling together a grand spell. Tier 7? Tier 8—?
Zeladona cut sidelong through Silvenia’s spell as Rhisveri tensed, and the Djinni and Lucifen attacked in tandem. Cauwine charged past both spells, and the two had to cancel their magic. She bisected Silvenia, and Rhisveri made a sound as he lunged—
Silvenia floated past Zeladona as the [Blademistress] cut her head off, then bisected all the pieces and turned. Rhisveri barely escaped a beheading as the [Blademistress] flicked her blade at him amidst all her cuts. Yet the goddess-aspect of Zeladona looked miffed as the Death of Magic reformed. Silvenia bared her teeth.
“In realspace, I would have already destroyed you.”
“Interesting. I haven’t had a challenge cutting anything since my last Dragon.”
There was no opening for Rhisveri to find. He bared his teeth desperately. They were all holding back, but Zeladona wasn’t.
 
——
 
“We have to end this Solstice. Someone must destroy that woman, Kaligma, or end whatever effect is prolonging the Solstice. That is the most logical way to survive.”
Of all men, Tyrion Veltras came to a conclusion in the midst of the battle. He was numb and in disbelief.
Oswen? Gone?
He lowered his lance, gore-spattered and aching from repeated charges, as someone landed.
“They’re everywhere. I can’t—”
Ryoka Griffin was dead white, exhausted from using the wind to avoid the specters. Half-frozen too. Tyrion glanced around.
“Jericha. Signal Lord Pellmia and every member of House Veltras not engaged in battle. Tell them to contact their [Mages], The Blighted Kingdom, Wistram, anyone. [Chronomancers]. We will sally forth and attempt to attack her directly the next time she appears, whatever the risk.”
He didn’t know magic, but he was clear on this: neither Humans nor Drakes could long endure more of this.
Jericha raised a hand to her temples, but Ryoka gasped.
“It won’t…do any good. They can’t stop her magically. I don’t even think she’s casting a spell, Tyrion, Jericha.”
Tyrion glanced at her.
“We assail Kaligma directly, then.”
The brief conference was taking place wide of the undead assault on Liscor and The Wandering Inn. They were completely ignoring the western Floodplains; Tyrion had almost expected them to go for Esthelm, but the undead were focused completely on Erin Solstice and her allies. The hills the Antinium had not terraformed were still covered by snow—and Tyrion saw a pair of bootprints in the snow.
No one he could see—
He drew his sword as he dropped his lance, but a Drake stepped back and appeared.
“No good either.”
Major Khorpe appeared as Tyrion halted his stab. Jericha nearly shot him with her wand. Ryoka looked up.
“Khorpe?”
“You can’t kill her. I’m positive. You can’t even hurt her. She’s…invincible. She’s Death. I see it now. I can’t figure out how to even harm her. Silly me.”
He had a crossbow loosely in hand that was making Tyrion’s [Dangersense] explode. The bolt was…Relic-class?
“We have to do something. Okay, maybe if someone can cast a time spell? And hurting her—what stops death? Life?”
Ryoka was trying to speculate desperately, and Tyrion glanced at Khorpe, then frowned around the Floodplains.
“What are you doing here? Did you teleport after us?”
“No. Why?”
Khorpe was staring at the snow, silently, and Tyrion narrowed his eyes.
“…There’s a [Portal] over there. Reinforcements?”
Everyone turned and stared at a hazy door he saw in the air. Ryoka stared at Jericha, who cast a spell, shook her head.
“There is nothing there, Lord Tyrion.”
“I see it. It feels…”
All the hairs on Tyrion’s arms were rising oddly, but Buscrei’s scream was in his ears. He couldn’t think. Someone had to do something.
Then Tyrion felt a fell wind on his shoulder, and all four mortals and House Veltras’ vanguard turned. Once more, Tyrion raised his sword and lowered it.
Theillige.
The warrior of the Wild Hunt strode out of the air, the sounds of battle and screaming behind them. Tyrion caught a glimpse of a frozen bat twice as large as he was—
However the fae moved, the warrior was here in an instant. Ryoka bowed, and Khorpe backed up a step.
“Can’t kill this one either.”
He muttered under his breath. Theillige’s helm swung silently to the [Major], then raised a finger. They weren’t alone. Tyrion saw someone stagger after Theillige, clutching at a bloody arm.
“Can’t…keep…are we resting? Running?”
A silver-haired half-Elf looked hopeful as he came to a halt, panting. He was the swordsman who’d charged the Draugr!
“Taletevirion!”
“Oh. Horseshoes. It’s you. Send me back.”
The silver-haired man actually backed up a step, but Theillige’s helm swung to Tyrion. Never had the Lord of House Veltras met someone more recalcitrant than he, but he felt a kind of kinship with the silent warrior. As if he understood without words a simple idea.
This matters.
The warrior would not abandon the battlefield a second without tactical reason. Tyrion nodded.
“What would you have us do?”
A finger pointed, and Tyrion’s head turned. He narrowed his eyes and nodded. Ryoka’s head turned desperately.
“What—I don’t see anything.”
Yet Theillige was now pointing at the same door Tyrion saw. When they pointed—everyone believed.
Taletevirion swore as the Winter Fae drew their sword and pointed it back towards the battlefield. They had to keep fighting. Tyrion nodded.
“How many?”
The helmet turned to Ryoka, Taletevirion, and Tyrion. Two of them swallowed hard, but the finger crooked, and someone sighed.
“I dislike being ordered, warrior. Though I shall consider your service if you offer it.”
Someone else walked out of the snow, looking piqued. She narrowed her eyes.
“It seems at least one person can sense something amiss—so this is why the spell went astray. Your Winter Sprites, I suppose? Every piece in place? Very well, I shall conduct the board.”
The woman gave Tyrion a thin-lipped smile, and he instantly grew wary of her. She reminded him of Magnolia Reinhart. Ryoka stared at the woman, whose plucked eyebrows rose.
“Not a useful set, but you have some promise. Whatever you see, Lord Tyrion Veltras, is a product of a Skill you possess. [Give It To Me].”
She closed her hand, and Tyrion jerked as the door vanished. Nerrhavia inspected her hand and pursed her lips.
“Ah. [Greater Resistance: Chronos]? How…rare. You may have it back after the battle is done.”
“Who—”
Khorpe hid behind Taletevirion as Jericha aimed a wand at the stranger, who ignored her.
“Girl, aim that wand at me again and lose it. I see. That door…is in the middle of a time-stop. Interesting. You three. Consider yourselves temporary champions in my name. Perform well and I may keep you.”
Her eyes flashed. Tyrion still had no idea who she was, but he jerked and stared down as his armor hissed—then turned jet black. He raised his ancestral longsword and shield and saw, to his horror, his sword had developed a curve upwards along the blade—albeit one that made it lighter and more adaptive a hair—and there were spikes on his shield’s edges! Actually, it felt more like horn than metal!
Ryoka yelped as her wingsuit turned black and the enchanted fabric turned glossy—and armored plates of modern ceramics and kevlar stitched across her chest. Her Faeblade turned into a black handle contouring to a Human’s hand and ignited into a searing white-black blade.
Taletevirion stared at his longsword dripping with venom, and Nerrhavia laughed.
“Through the door, now. I grant you your Skill back, threefold.”
Theillige nodded as Ryoka, Tyrion, and Taletevirion stared at Nerrhavia. Then Tyrion narrowed his eyes. He thought he saw something through that door—
The Winter Fae watched as the [Lord] turned to Jericha.
“You have command. We will be back as soon as we can.”
The three went for the door, and Nerrhavia watched as they passed through—vanished—she turned to the Winter Fae, frowning.
“It must be a [Greater Teleport] spell. Whoever is in there might well destroy half of Izril. Can they stop it?”
The warrior only shrugged. Nerrhavia pursed her lips, displeased, and stared towards The Wandering Inn.
“I dislike walking. Fail me and you shall regret it.”
She vanished with that threat as Jericha looked at the place Nerrhavia had been, the door she still couldn’t see—and Theillige’s sword as it swung down at neck-level.
Not at her. Major Khorpe froze as he slunk towards the door, invisible again. But the Winter Fae’s helmet turned slowly to regard the Drake.
Not you.
“Why not?”
The Drake saw frost emerge from the slits of the visor as several members of the Winter Fae alighted in the air around Theillige. They narrowed their eyes at Khorpe, but the Winter Fae was already turning. Inside the door—
 
——
 
Zeladona-Cauwine turned just in time and avoided the lance strike before the [Rider] thundered past her. Rhisveri lowered a sword, panting, and stared.
Lord Tyrion Veltras passed Cauwine in a blur, and a shouting Ryoka—dressed in skin-tight spandex for some reason—slashed at the [Blademistress]. Zeladona blocked, but hissed in surprise as the black Faeblade seared through her sword. She dropped her sword, drew a new one, and smiled.
“I want that sword.”
“I want that sword.”
Cauwine and Zeladona reached for it, then blocked a flurry of strikes as Taletevirion, swearing, leapt at her. She was being pressed back—by a levelless thief, an underleveled [Lord], and a Unicorn?
Yes! Because they were moving about twice as fast as Rhisveri, Silvenia, Czautha, and Visophecin. In the midst of a [Greater Teleport] spell?
“They should be exploding. How—”
Czautha was guarding Silvenia, and the Death of Magic narrowed her eyes.
“That’s no spell. Well, well. Looks like they’re timeslipping.”
Ryoka, Taletevirion, and Tyrion were all moving incredibly fast. Not even [Haste] could explain their speed; rather than being sped up, it seemed like they were literally moving at a different rate of time than Cauwine, giving their reactions an edge even the goddess looked annoyed by.
Cauwine didn’t understand; Silvenia did, and so did Tyrion.
[Greater Resistance: Chronos]. That woman had taken his Skill, then reflected it three times onto the three of them when she called them her ‘servants’. It might not have worked in realspace, but in this place where time was literally halted? Tyrion, Ryoka, and Taletevirion were moving forwards, surfing on time’s edge. 
Cauwine dodged a beheading cut from Taletevirion that still opened up her cheek. The goddess narrowed her eyes as she realized what was happening at last.
“Ah. Fae. How annoying.”
Cauwine spun as now it was seven-on-one, and Lord Tyrion’s lance-charge nearly took her head off as Visophecin, Czautha, and Taletevirion all attacked at once. The Goddess of Last Stands narrowed her eyes.
“Very well. I’ll bite.”
Rhisveri had been looking for his opening, but he hesitated a second too long as he glanced at Ryoka, wondering who had changed her into such stylish armor and how the hell she had gotten into the [Greater Teleport] spell without a [Mage].
Then he saw Cauwine split into two.
“That’s not fair.”
Ryoka Griffin whispered. Silvenia grinned.
“I can do that too.”
However, even the Death of Magic’s smile vanished as the two figures spoke, and Cauwine tilted her head—and Zeladona swung her sword up.
“Oh? Go ahead.”
The Goddess of War taunted the Death of Magic. The [Blademistress] addressed Tyrion.
“What a beautiful day. I taught your ancestors, boy.”
Seven versus two. Ryoka Griffin’s bladework was behind even Rhisveri, but the tech-blade burned, and even Zeladona and Cauwine didn’t seem to know what it did, avoiding her slashes. Only her enhanced speed saved her; both women wanted the sword.
Tyrion, Taletevirion, and even Czautha shielded Ryoka, taking slashes as Silvenia, Visophecin, and Rhisveri covered them.
“[Regeneration]. I cannot cast more spells, and that idiot—”
Silvenia regrew Tyrion’s arm as he reeled, clutching at the stump of his wrist. Rhisveri snarled, almost telling her to not heal him, but then he saw Zeladona’s eyes brighten.
“[Cleave the Mortal W—]”
She tried to bisect all three warriors in a single motion. She was going to destroy—
Cauwine herself blocked Zeladona’s blade.
“Control yourself.”
“Argh.”
The [Blademistress] was grinning. Silvenia glanced at Rhisveri, and he spoke.
“Which one?”
The Death of Magic pointed.
“That one. The other’s just a memory.”
Rhisveri tensed as Tyrion, Taletevirion, Visophecin, and Czautha all glanced at the two conferring mages. He’d never make it, yet he had to try. Visophecin spoke.
“Rhisveri—”
The Duke charged like an amateur linebacker, a wild shout on his lips. The [Blademistress of Ancients] turned and looked genuinely surprised and disappointed.
She swung three times, blocking a spell from Visophecin, clashing her sword against Czautha’s shield, and the third blow—all at the speed of sound—ran Rhisveri straight through the chest.
He felt it. It wasn’t a simulacrum; he shouldn’t have felt pain, but her sword passed through the world and stabbed Rhisveri through the heart.
A Wyrm shrieked as, in his palace, a sword the size of a Giant’s blade skewered him down the center like a snake upon a dagger.
Yet he was a Wyrm. He had multiple hearts—the Duke Rhisveri tried to stand as Zeladona kicked him off her sword with a laugh. Tyrion and Taletevirion were attacking Cauwine from both sides, but the Goddess of War was looking at Ryoka and her sword, reaching out—
And the mortal Wind Runner did the only thing she always knew how to do. Immortals. Ghosts—she stared Zeladona in the eye and panted a question.
“Who’s stronger? You or Cauwine? You’ll never know again.”
Zeladona’s eye widened—and went wild with excitement.
Cauwine blocked the blade that slashed at her from the side as Rhisveri charged. The Goddess of Youth bared her teeth, unmaking the [Blademistress of Ancients], slashed—gave Ryoka Griffin a rueful smile as Silvenia and Czautha captured the blade with a shining spellsword and the Djinni’s shield.
That gave him his opening at last. Once more, the Wyrm threw his fake body forwards in a howl, in the moment they opened for him. If that half-Elf messed things up—
