Saliss saw one of the Human wings buckling and activated the Jar of Winds again. He dove, and this time, he did twist and drop Potions of Blast over the undead trying to break through. He tried not to hit the [Soldiers] but saw them rock as the fiery blasts knocked them down.
Still—it got most of the undead. Saliss swung left, now, as he saw one of the Hag Queens staring his way. Invisibility Potion. If she noticed him, he could report they could see invisibility.
He continued throwing potions, hitting Antinium, Drakes, and Humans alike with friendly showers of alchemy. This…was not the Saliss of Lights that many expected. It was the one they needed.
His training let him pick out sectors of struggling soldiers and augment them. Each potion he threw was like a Skill. In fact—it was exactly like a [Strategist], albeit one who could fight as well as command.
The Grand Strategist’s heir. A Drake who could lead armies. Saliss closed his eyes a second.
“Only for you, Erin.”
When he opened his eyes, he looked down and watched more [Soldiers] die.
 
——
 
Now they had no more time to play around. Perorn saw Vaunt was being torn apart by undead attacks. A single [Lieutenant] was holding the line, and reinforcements were streaming in, but his section of the battlefield was bulging in her bird’s eye mental view.
If the undead burst through before lines reformed—they would begin overrunning formations. Her job was to halt that.
“We’re hitting Vaunt’s area. With me.”
Three thousand Centaurs stormed down across the battlefield. Perorn saw strange, ghostly centipede things scuttling at her in a wave spawned from one of those huge horrors.
Great. Ghost Crelers. She saw it was already under attack from magical spells and knew better than to engage. But they’d be caught—Perorn snapped into her stone.
“Enchantment! Now!”
“I hear you. Now—”
An azure Antinium swept past them overhead. Xrn’s staff pointed down, and the glowing magic burning out of her head turned to wisp-light. The Centenium, the Small Queen, spoke.
“[Mass Enchantment: Haste].”
Perorn’s teeth bared as the Centaurs flickered and magic ran around them. There wasn’t a single [Mage] of this caliber in all of the Forgotten Wing. But Xrn had agreed to research this spell.
—Looks like she only managed six hundred.
“Break! Enchanted on me.”
The Centaurs broke away as six hundred Centaurs sped up behind the [Strategist] renowned for her speed attacks. The fastest damn species in the entire world on the ground under [Haste] spells with her Skills.
Time stopped for Perorn’s Centaurs as they accelerated, leaving the wave of spectral crawlers behind. They slashed past a rank of weird creatures wearing bandages, blades cleaving through heads. Perorn shot an arrow and noticed a Centaur drop dead in the strange, surreal world of speed.
She didn’t speak, but hand-signed.
No blades! The Centaur had dropped dead without a word the moment he cleaved a head from the shoulders. These…bandage-people were cursed! The Centaurs switched to arrows, shot flames into the backs of the mummies—swung right.
That one. 
An absurdly tall creature with a wicker basket on its back had been creating more undead. It had been striding away from Vaunt’s position. It was barely moving as Perorn galloped at it, unsheathing a sword.
She cut only half through its right leg, but the Centaurs breaking left and right around her finished cleaving through. The sack-carrying undead was going down as they rammed blades through it, then charged the Draugr milling around Vaunt.
“[Memo: Niers]. Clear Vaunt down the center!”
If Perorn spoke, no one would hear her, accelerated as her voice was. But the magic carried her will to the Titan as the Centaurs struck down the rear of the Draugr lines. She was rearing, kicking at skulls with her hooves, but enhanced with speed or not—the Draugr were turning. They struck slowly, but each blow could still shatter limbs. The Centaurs had driven into the center of the Draugr, and they were at risk of being chewed apart from both sides.
However, Perorn was cutting forwards, and her officer, Basal, was breaking the lines with his greatsword. They went through the Draugr formation straight into Vaunt’s lines.
It would have been disastrous, but Perorn saw the [Soldiers] milling about jerk and leap to the sides, clearing a path. Perorn and her forces streamed through the gap, which snapped shut as Niers’ Skill reformed the lines.
Breakthrough charge successful. Repositioning. She curved her people again, counting down the six minute enchantment window Xrn had confirmed with her. Then she saw the inn was under siege.
 
——
 
“They’re teleporting! To the inn! To the inn!”
Olesm didn’t realize the Hag Queens were able to teleport forces until he saw them appearing behind his army. He whirled and saw different undead storming The Wandering Inn this time.
Carrion-beetles, huge and disgorging smaller ones, that had those weird tiny skulls on their insectile bodies. They were all grinning as they tore up the hill at the nine [Knights]. Whispering, he thought, in a language he didn’t know.
The Order of Solstice charged.
 
——
 
They swarmed up his armor, but they had no pincers, these beetles with heads. Normen instead heard the whispers that came from their strange skull-faces. The whispers built up on his armor, and it started to vibrate. He realized the danger as his skin began to tear beneath the metal.
—The flames on his armor saved him. The fire of honor burned the skull-beetles, but the larger ones had more tricks than just voices. They beset him, slashing with huge, bladed forelimbs. Ramming Ama into a wall and trying to grind her to paste.
Normen slammed into the one trying to kill her, mace swinging again and again, but the bone of its face was like rock. He uttered a sound.
“[Gravesummon Skeleton Retainer]! [Arcsinger’s Downfall: Wallbreaker Hammer].”
A skeleton leapt out of the void, landing on the beetle’s back and stabbing into it from above, disgorging white pus. Was the beetle alive? It groaned—as Normen’s mace glowed.
He swung the mace with a fraction of the strength of Elia Arcsinger’s final arrow, and the beetle jumped from the blow. It rocked backwards and overbalanced onto its back. The soft underbelly was visible, and Ama screamed.
“Sillias! [Razorfangs]!”
Her cat leapt onto the stomach and began tearing the thing open. More pus and half-grown skull beetles spewed out.
Neither Normen nor Ama celebrated—more beetles raced over them, and this time, Normen felt their teeth biting at his armor, tearing it—he stomped and kicked and didn’t see the second beetle charging until Vess screamed.
“Normen—”
The impact drove Normen into one of the walls of the inn, and he lay there as massive molars tried to gnaw through his armor. Numbtongue was fighting in the hallway. They were getting in.
“For Liscor’s Army! 3rd Battalion. Charge!”
Hands finally tore the beetle away. Normen saw a halberd enter its side as it turned, shrieking, and Antinium poured over it, punching, slashing, and he heard crossbows firing.
Antinium! Some of them had noticed the fighting.
An Antinium officer held out a hand as he fired his crossbow, and Normen gasped.
“Thank you—”
For a second, he thought it was the [Crusaders], and they were Antinium in armor, but he noticed his mistake. These were…Armored Antinium.
Tersk’s 3rd Battalion were swarming the hill, fighting the insects. But dead gods—there were so many. The Hag Queens had teleported over a hundred massive beetles and their spawn around the inn.
Normen felt like a bug himself, running forwards, swarming the gigantic beetles, who died hard. Antinium tore them off their feet, ripped limbs off—but the skull-beetles chewed apart the smaller Antinium or just covered them with waves of tiny ones.
Insects fighting insects. A cruel thought, an unworthy thought, but that was how it felt. He finally tore out of the belly of one of them that had tried to swallow him, covered in filth, unwilling to speak as he wiped at whatever foul intestines were coating him. It was still squirming.
The beetle attack was finally routed as Perorn hit them from the side; he saw flames coming down from Erin’s inn, blasting the ones scuttling away from the battle. Normen didn’t know how long he’d fought to keep them from the inn.
“Did they get inside?”
That was what he managed to say at last, and Vess hurled water on his face, trying to scrub whatever it was off Normen’s armor.
“Not many. The Hags…”
Someone had to kill them. Normen longed to sally out, for never had he seen something he thought had to die like the Hag Queens. He was looking for them when he stopped.
The Armored Antinium of 3rd Battalion had saved the inn. They should have been heading back to Liscor’s forces, but they had gone still. Once more—Normen saw a silent gathering and realized something was wrong.
He pushed forwards, desperately, and saw a single Antinium lying propped against a dead skull-beetle whose jaws were still clamped shut on his lower half. Someone had wrenched his helmet off, but something was wrong. Tersk’s antennae were waving feebly.
“Ksch. Have held. I cannot hear you, Armored Queen. Tell Dek—ksch—Dekass. He is in charge.”
Tersk was lying there, green blood covering his armor. He was searching the sky for something as Normen halted. But Antinium couldn’t die.
Wouldn’t he come back? Yet the Prognugator was whispering.
“I cannot hear you. My Queen? Who is that? Not my Queen…stay away. Stay—”
He was trying to hold something at bay. The Armored Antinium pouring potions on his lower half—Normen grabbed one from uncorking the precious potion. Tersk looked at him.
“Help—”
Then he went limp, curled up as if something had touched him and taken him in a second. Normen heard a sound and his head turned to the Antinium who had begun shuddering around him. One spoke in an unsteady voice.
“He is gone. The Armored Queen does not have him. Woe. Woe.”
The Armored Antinium were turning their armored heads wildly, as if something they hadn’t expected had occurred. They were trembling, and Normen spoke.
“Stay with me. Reform—”
He gazed around and realized Dekass wasn’t here. Olesm’s army was engaging—the Armored Antinium stood there. Shuddering.
Even Antinium were—dying—
 
——
 
“I do not have him. I do not have him. What happened? Free Queen.”
The Armored Queen was shouting. The Free Queen felt it too.
“Something took him. That being. She is taking their souls.”
The Free Queen of the Antinium was reaching out for Tersk, but something had snatched him away. Not like another Queen saving him. She had never—never seen that before. Her feelers were grasping at the air.
No.
The Armored Queen began keening. The Free Queen could feel her, now. A female presence, like a hand carelessly grabbing the souls.
All of them. Those things, her Hag Queens—they were sending more and more Antinium to their deaths.
 
——
 
Curse magics. The mortal world had not seen spellcasters like the Hag Queens of Aklat Vunn before. One pointed, and the blood leaking from [Soldiers]’ wounds accelerated. The cackling Hag Queen danced as [Soldiers] began to bleed out, even from minor wounds.
Another was casting spells that rained down insects on the enemy; they were malevolent. Hateful.
“Beautiful faces. Rot your faces. Eat your eyes! The Mother of Hags will take your flesh!”
They seemed to hate ‘beauty’ the most. One of them had noticed some of the [Ladies] and was spitting curses.
Old beings from another world. Brought forth by Kasigna’s will from a time when her nature had been even less forgiving and kind than now.
They had to die. One was snarling as Magnolia Reinhart fiddled with her hands. The Hag Queen pointed at the [Maids] and [Butlers] now splintering, moving to defend weaker points in the formations. She opened her mouth…and hesitated.
The foul Hag Queen of Aklat Vunn had lived another lifetime where she had reveled in rejection of beauty. In curses and hatred until she swore loyalty to a new goddess. She and her seven kin had been blessed to be reborn time and time again as Kasigna’s champions.
Now, her bulging eyes crossed as Magnolia Reinhart aimed a finger at her chest. A red line of light traced its way across the battlefield, across miles and space and time. It was running through the Hag Queen’s chest, and there was a strange whining sound in the air.
“Wormringed w—”
The Hag Queen got no further before Magnolia Reinhart’s ring fired. The other Hag Queens turned as a line of air ignited at the speed of sound.
One of the eight Hag Queens stared down at her chest where melted flesh and bone formed a gigantic hole. She tried to raise her staff, her lips still uttering a curse. Then a prayer to Kasigna.
Her body slumped over as the first of the eight died. The others ducked back away from Magnolia Reinhart as the [Lady] lowered her finger.
They were not invincible. But they were fearless of death. Wary of failing Kasigna, but the other seven just redoubled their efforts as they retaliated and Magnolia Reinhart retreated out of sight.
One of them had a doll and was snapping its head methodically. Back and forth, back and forth, eyes locked on a line of people from Riverfarm.
Goblins, Humans—their necks were twisting as the Hag Queen simply murdered them as fast as she could jerk the puppet around. She only stopped when she felt someone hexing her. The Hag Queen’s head rose in outrage.
Someone dared to speak the words of curses to those who had sacrificed thousands upon profane altars for their power? Who dared? Who—
She spotted them in a moment, following the magic.
[Witches].
A coven of eight stood together. The most senior [Witches] were all bearing elements of their craft.
Eloise, Hedag, Mavika, Oliyaya, Agratha, Wiskeria, and two more senior [Witches]—one of them was calmly breaking bones across her knee.
Trying to snap the Hag’s own bones. The Hag Queen grinned. She yanked on the doll’s leg and snapped one of the [Witch]’s arms.
They were pathetic. They had nothing of her to use against her, and they needed it. Whereas she had magic of a different world that obeyed no restrictions. She jerked the head—and Mavika’s neck snapped around.
“Mavika!”
Witch Alevica screamed as she saw Mavika’s head twist. But then she saw Mavika blink and her neck move back around. Like an owl—for a second, her face bore the owl’s feathers and beady eyes.
The [Witches] had tricks. The Hag Queen hesitated and cast aside the doll like a toy as another Hag Queen joined her, lifting a spellbook of ancient, mottled skin. Now two began battling the coven of eight.
