Tonight, he really did feel like he understood the fragile nature of communication and knowledge. He had taken it for granted, just like his world.
Rémi Canada stood in his dark newspaper company, surrounded by scrying orbs that all showed the same thing: nothing.
Or if they had something, it was a broadcaster in Terandria apologizing for the delays.
“—Esteemed [Lords] and [Ladies] of the broadcast…”
His title was ‘Esquire Vinovam’, not his actual rank or class. Terandria was a funny place. The man put on a nobleman’s air and always opened with that. [Lords] and [Ladies]. A way to show due deference to the nobility who watched as well as make commonfolk feel important.
Rémi had talked with him twice, and the man had been actually very cordial. Everything about him was an act. Esquire was a knightly term; it had nothing to do with nobility, but he was a common man and needed some pretense.
Right now, his normal composure from months on the job was breaking.
“That is—Your Majesties of Terandria.”
Rémi read [Message] scrolls, writing fast. In another part of the small publishing house, his [Editor] and [Printers]—a crew of six who put out the Chandrar International—were trying to get information. The man’s lips moved as he spoke, pale-faced.
All of Terandria had to be watching.
“We deeply apologize for the delay regarding the coverage of the warfront. We expect to have scrying spells on the battle in the next day or two at the latest. The—the issue is Wistram. It appears the Academy of Mages has suffered an attack. And accordingly—”
“…Every news broadcast that piggybacked off their network is down. All of them.”
The world was in an information blackout. Rémi likewise. Mage’s Guilds—down. News networks scrambling. Now, ironically, everyone was turning to the few pillars of old news.
[Spies]. [Informants]. And Rémi himself.
They wanted to know what was going on, and he was reporting the facts, but he didn’t know what to say.
A dead god is attacking one of my people, a young woman from Earth, Erin Solstice.
Can’t publish that. The truth was unethical. What a strange thought. Rémi tried to focus.
Wistram attacked. Liscor embattled. Terandrian fleet’s fate unknown.
That was how you did it. Big, bold letters. As many reports as he could verify by the time the sun rose. He was waiting on the Mage’s Guild representative in the local city, a statement from Wistram…but Rémi was working on another piece.
Erin Solstice is Dead. No…he tried again, writing it down. The [Printers] were using a primitive press, but they could still churn out countless copies when they made the wooden letters move.
The [Innkeeper] of Liscor is Dead. He stared at the title.
The Wandering Inn, Destroyed. He paused.
Someone had to tell them. She had warned him not to say anything about the ‘six’. He didn’t understand what was going on. Rémi wished he’d had time to interview Erin just so he could know what to say and not say.
Journalism was something you were taught, good ethics and practices. Your pillars. He was doing biased reporting. Somehow, Rémi felt like he was in the middle of a war. He was assured the ‘enemy’ were terrible people. He…believed it from his experiences. But people had to know.
He tried to write a set of headlines.
Winter Solstice Survived.
The Innkeeper of Liscor, Murdered.
Those would do. Rémi drafted a brief summary for both articles. Mention Khelt, unification of major powers of Izril…as-yet-unnamed enemy of Erin Solstice…
He was so busy working that at first he didn’t notice the sound of shuffling in the building. It was a converted old warehouse, and the main floor held the printing press the Mad Ones—insane inventors—had whipped up based on rudimentary sketches. Sometimes it tried to take fingers off.
“Escorital? Is the [Mage] ready?”
Rémi finally noticed the shuffling and called out. He lifted a magic lantern higher and peered around the building.
—His skin tingled for some reason. It was the instincts that sometimes misfired at night. That made you think something was moving slowly around your house or peeking at you as you lay in bed.
Only this time, in this world, Rémi had learned to trust them. And they were a hundred times worse than a false premonition.
Someone bumped into the printing press, and he heard a loud clatter of wood that made him jump. No one in the printing team would make that mistake; it was huge. He slowly lifted his lantern, then belatedly put a hand over it.
The main office would be glowing, a dead giveaway he was inside. Rémi—suddenly—looked around and realized he was alone. Tonight.
On the Winter Solstice. He hadn’t realized it; he’d been with the printing press, crew, and yes, they had guards after some attacks from unhappy kingdoms like Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
They were all out, tonight, escorting his team. Rémi—
“H…”
He almost said ‘Hello?’, then began sliding towards the only door that led outside. Rémi hesitated as he felt around his side for a belt dagger urgently. Where was his backup wand?
He had Skills that protected him normally. [Impartial Observer] was one of them. Normally, Rémi talked his way out of danger, even when the [Soldiers] were hostile. But whatever was moving around in the darkness…
Rémi’s hand rattled the lock just as he heard a shuffle from the door to the office. He froze as he fumbled for a key. The office’s door—
Wasn’t locked.
It came through the door in a lunge. Rémi saw rotten flesh, maggot-filled, and eyes jerked upwards in death. Rotten stitch-flesh clung to the corpse, the zombie, as it burst into his office.
“God!”
The young man screamed. He leapt back as it surged at him. He dropped the key, and the zombie ran at the door—slammed into it as Rémi ran back, past his writing desk. The zombie turned and charged forwards.
He had no idea they ran—Rémi saw this one charge forward like a bull, slam into a bunch of cabinets as he scrambled around the table again.
“Help! Help! Undead!”
Rémi shouted even as he sprinted for the door the zombie had come through. The thing followed him, crawling over the table and landing on the floor where it crawled until it got up. Too fast. Rémi dodged into the main room, lantern swinging wildly.
The vast printing press was sitting silent, but a figure appeared along the far wall of the former warehouse as Rémi dashed forwards. He shouted.
“Escorital? Get help! The z—”
The Stitch-man who’d taken the fancy name with his new position as [Editor]—stood there. Rémi shouted as he ran—then tripped. Stumbled. Slowed.
Escorital was swaying, his neck tilted far to one side. Bite marks had torn a chunk out of his neck. And three more swaying figures were blocking the door. Rémi heard scuffling behind him and turned.
The zombie was stumbling towards him, claws outstretched. The [Journalist] backed up, swinging his lantern right and left.
This was a bad dream. He had his knife out and thrust it into the face as the first zombie lunged again. The impact wrenched it out of his hands. He saw the knife, not a real weapon, buried between the zombie’s eyes.
It didn’t even flinch. The others were moving now, running towards him, and Rémi looked around—and ran for the only thing he could think of.
The printing press. He swung himself up onto the press bed, where you would hammer down the wood blocks, then avoided the crushing arms and primitive belt as the zombies came after him. Something tore at one leg, and he screamed, but then he heard a slip and felt the entire press lurch.
It came down with a sickening thud as it crunched something beneath it. The idiotic zombies were crawling on it, and Rémi kicked and saw another arm go down and swat a swaying corpse like a fly.
Thank you, Mad Ones. Thank god for bad safety regulations—
God.
The word hovered in his mind, and he remembered that woman. That…Rémi saw a hand rise from the top of the press, and Escorital was climbing up.
“Escorital—don’t—”
He knew it was insane, but his friend looked like himself still. But the swaying figure clawed at Rémi, and then the two were struggling on the top of the press. Its head was trying to bite at Rémi, but it was broken, so the clawed hands were the worst. They cut and grappled with Rémi with insane strength as he stumbled. With all his might, Rémi swiveled—pushed—
The corpse fell, toppling off the high press and onto the ground with a thud. Rémi slipped and went with him, crashing downwards. He landed bad, one arm twisting beneath him. Pain and terror got him up.
The office. Rémi just ran. At least one of the zombies left the press and followed. Now, though, Rémi could hear voices.
“—attack? Rémi! Rémi!”
“Help! Undead! Help!”
The [Journalist] screamed. He threw himself into his office, slammed the door shut, locked it, and then threw a chair behind it. Instantly, something hit it hard enough to make the thin wood crack.
“Key. Key.”
The storehouse had no windows to jump out of. Rémi had dropped his key—he hunted around the floor, without his lantern, searching for the piece of metal. The door was breaking inwards, and he heard screams, now. But the living made him hopeful. The city wasn’t too far off; there would be Watch here in a second. A damn army. Rémi could run. He fit the key in the lock as something shoved the chairs away.
Rémi unlocked the back door, heaved, and realized the deadbolt was in the way. His fingers were moving in slow motion as he lifted it, tearing the door open at last. He stumbled forwards in relief—and halted when he saw the glowing green eyes.
A zombie had been standing against the door, pressed against it. It practically fell inwards as the [Journalist] screamed.
“No—”
Then it grabbed him. A mouth filled with rotten teeth tore at Rémi’s cheek, and then—a second body leapt onto him and he was screaming and the smell of rot and death was everywhere. Rémi swore he could hear her laughing.
Kasigna had promised revenge the day he refused to take her hand.
 
——
 
It was a long night, and the scrying spell was dead. Gnolls sat in their tents, and the ones who’d volunteered to mount an expedition to the Crossroads were standing silent, uncertain of whether to act.
Garsine Wallbreaker, Gamur the Axe, Wer the Wanderer, and Gadiekh the World-Pact Adventurer had mustered from their tribes. Convening two Named-ranks was not easy. And their counterparts were equally deserving of the title.
Berr the Berserker and his best fighters; even Shaman Theikha. An argument had raged the last three days as they waited for the Horns. Losing this many Gnolls would cripple the tribes. But they also had to know what had happened to the Horns.
Rose and Inkar had been most afraid for Liscor, tonight. The Horns had been one worry; when the scrying orbs went dead, they had feared the worst.
The Meeting of Tribes was cold and, worse, icy as a layer of crust developed on the snow from snow melting, freezing, and melting again. It made travel hard.
The camps of huts with smoke rising into the night sky provided clear sight-lines across the entire Great Plains. Thus—they saw the undead coming.
The first howl made all the Named-rank adventurers turn. A Steelfur [Sentry] was calling an alarm in the direction of the battlefield where so many had died.
“Undead! Thousands of corpses!”
Rose was terrified. She had no idea what was going on as Gnolls raced away from Wer and the howling began. Children and noncombatants fled to the center of the Meeting of Tribes as Theikha’s voice boomed.
“Block the camp! No entry points!”
Ghouls were racing over the ground ahead of running zombies, and there were larger undead too. Rose was screaming as Adetr howled.
“Steelfur, stay back!”
They had lost the blessing of Iratz’s Skill. Feshi was snarling as she spoke.
“Gamur, those are Draugr. Take them out. Garsine—charge. Delay them!”
Without a word, the Gnolls went running. Rose looked around.
“Inkar, let’s get to safety. Inkar?”
She was panicked, afraid, and knew Erin had warned her, but she had not expected this. Fear was in Rose’s heart, but she had survived terrible battles, albeit as a spectator. Yet Inkar…Inkar was cowering, hands over her head. White as a sheet.
“She’s coming for me.”
“Inkar?”
Tkrn tore into the tent where the two young women had been watching the battle for Liscor. Inkar’s eyes roamed the night, and Tkrn and Rose dragged her towards the Earth Tent, where Gnolls were streaming into to hide.
“We can repel them. Keep an eye on our flank! Someone tell Az’muzarre to put their Roc into the air and drop into combat! Now!”
Feshi was counting the undead. Enough to murder any one of the lesser tribes; the proximity to that battlefield had allowed too many to rise. But she had multiple Great Tribes present, and Theikha had already turned the ground into a swamp, sinking over a thousand of the undead up to their necks as the ground re-solidified.
Yet. Feshi wondered as Rose ran past her. The [Chieftain] looked at Inkar’s face and then snapped her head around.
How many Earthers were under attack by the undead tonight? The answer was—
Every single one. Every single one that the Goddess of Death had met the last Winter Solstice.
All of them.
 
——
 
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings and the Earthtenders in Oteslia had been warring that night. A raid on the central headquarters that Wilovan and Ratici had set up.
The Hangmen of Loeri had descended on the fighting as well, to arrest both sides, and the brawl had been bloody. Rickel had been trying to hide, then ran for it.
They wanted him dead. Ratici and Wilovan too, but he was dragging his still-healing leg. The young man was waiting for an opening. When it came…
A dead Earthtender Drake got up. One of his buddies exclaimed in relief—a second before the Draugr ripped his head off. The dead Drake’s body bulged and visibly grew in mass, and the headless corpse collapsed—then the skeleton crawled out of the skin, tearing out of the flesh and bones, and scuttled, red with gore, towards the living.
“Fuck, fuck, fuck—you have got to be kidding me.”
Rickel ran. Wilovan and Ratici took one look at the undead and ordered an evacuation. Hangmen, Earthtenders—they looked around as more dead began to rise.
“What is that? What is—”
A living Earthtender was shooting bolts of magic through the skeleton crawler’s bones as it leapt on him, ripping into him. And the Draugr was turning, its eyes finding Rickel—he was screaming as it ran. Wilovan slammed into it, club smashing into dead flesh.
It was a bad dream. It wasn’t fair.
It was a bad dream, and he couldn’t wake up.
 
——
 
Not all of them were unready. A [Singer] saw the first undead rising from the walls of a city that shone with a thousand candlelights.
