Menorome, the City of Repose, capital of Noelictus, had not seen an undead attack in thousands of years.
Tonight—they began ringing the Graveward bells, and Cara saw something unbury itself—then spread wings. Another just appeared out of the thick mist that had sprung up around Menorome.
“You fecking bitch. You really want me dead, don’t you?”
She was ready. She had known, just like Erin Solstice, that it would be a bad night. Like the [Innkeeper]—Cara knew this dead goddess held a grudge.
It was mutual. The first undead…it wasn’t a Dragon; it had too much fur instead of scales. It swung down, some bat-thing from nightmares, screaming and shattering glass. The [Singer] saw a wave of undead getting up and charging after it. And a big thing that cleared the nearby trees of a forest.
For three seconds, Menorome lurched in horror as citizens heard the toning Gravewards ring. Then—the flickering lights of the city were illuminated by more flames.
“That one.”
A woman with a hat pointed, and crossbows fired. The Hunters of Noelictus launched one flaming volley at the first flying bat-horror, and it turned into a blazing fireball. The Guildmaster of the Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus—undead hunters—turned her burning gaze across the field.
“Put the undead to rest.”
[Undead Hunters] had the walls. They lifted axes and fired crossbows into the first wave of undead. Even the dead looked up as Cara opened her mouth.
“Where are you, you graverobbing bitch? Come on, you cowards! Come on!”
Her voice rose until it was a scream of anger, loss, and fury. A [Banshee’s Voice] ripped up the ground as she aimed a cone of sound at the undead. But they kept running, and Cara saw no Three-in-One. Just her malice everywhere.
 
——
 
It was…everywhere.
Fetohep of Khelt heard the reports from the scrying orb. Most of the news networks were down, but his sources were sending terse messages.
Nombernaught has been attacked by undead whales.
Rhir is facing an onslaught of the dead from the sea. The Blighted Kingdom claims a million zombies—reports of activity on Demon side.
Fissival under siege. 
Each spot was one Fetohep knew to contain Earthers. Menorome as well. He could only guess at places where there was no city. How many, he wondered. How many children might awake to hear the mindless undead at their door?
Khelt was quiet. So, yet, was Reim. However, Fetohep knew that Trey and Teresa Atwood were with the King of Destruction, as well as the other ‘liberated’ Earthers.
A half dozen were in Flos’ care, more with the Quarass. Fetohep trusted each ruler would keep them safe. Yet…no undead were rising in Khelt of all places.
The King of Khelt did not wonder why. He sat on his throne, wearing his ceremonial robes of royal purple writ with the names of all those he had known, his citizens upon his death-day. An empty goblet of the drink of the dead sat on his armrest.
His palace was empty.
No servants of Khelt were there to wait on him tonight. He had dismissed the [Mages] who had accompanied him at the start of the battle. Pewerthe, like his people, did not sleep an uneasy night in the capital city of Koirezune.
The city was, in fact, empty. Only the infestations of bugs and rats had not fled. More fools, they. Everyone down to the last pet had been evacuated to the surrounding cities, even temporary camps for this night.
An unprecedented action for unprecedented times. Fetohep was one of two beings in the entire city with a soul.
Even the undead had been sequestered to tombs, which were sealed. So Fetohep waited. He sat with objects scattered around on the floor of his throne room.
Scrolls. They were burnt or disintegrated. The old magics and vellum wasted away to nothingness. He had used them, fired spells across the world with such fury he knew he had wasted tens of thousands of Draugr. Killed countless of the other undead. None of the Hag Queens.
That was the last thing he had seen of the battle. He knew it raged, but Fetohep sat without watching it. He knew his attention would soon be elsewhere, and besides…the King of Khelt’s eyes glowed dimly upon his throne.
The detritus in his throne room was all that remained. His eyes lingered on each scroll, capped with burnt gold metal or fragments of gem dust. Normally, he would have them swept out…he should have someone sort them for valuable metals. They were surely worth something.
But the scrolls. Ah. The scrolls. Fetohep wished he could close his eyes. He looked down and saw Khelt’s authority lying in the dust.
Every last scroll in his vaults capable of reaching across continents was now gone. All he had left were two scrolls. Two, reserved for the likes of the Creler Wars. Fetohep of Khelt had spent the weapons hoarded by his predecessors, an arsenal of war.
Glorious Khelt was now de-fanged. Its enemies abroad no longer had to fear their interference.
I spent it well. The King of Khelt had regret, but not for how he used it. Only fears of the future. He might rebuild his arsenal, loot or purchase more scrolls and magic, even have them created in time. There were still other scrolls for close-range battles. Even so.
Another golden link fell from the throne of Khelt into the rusty waters of dead Laws. Another crack in the ancient order. 
Fetohep felt it. Yet he did not bathe himself in recriminations nor bend over the scrying orb waiting to see if Erin Solstice lived or died.
He sat on his throne as a woman walked across distant sands. She paused a second on the borders of Khelt. An old woman wearing a nondescript, grey hood. A traveller, perhaps.
In a million stories she would be so. The withered crone begging for mercy or kindness or a favor. She would answer scorn with scorn, generosity with generosity. She never forgot a grudge nor failed to reward those she favored.
She stopped a second on Khelt’s borders, not for fear, but to inspect the lands critically. To weigh up this paradise against the places she had known—it was not that she found Khelt wanting.
She found every land wanting. But even the Crone could admire what was good of it.
Then Kasigna took a step onto Khelt’s lands, and Fetohep’s eyes—flickered.
Like a burning candle before a breeze.
He made no move as one step carried the Goddess of Death into the center of Koirezune. Fetohep sensed her move in a single moment, not like teleportation but walking as if distance had no meaning to her. One step from the border into his city.
A third step into his palace. Then she walked through the corridors of legacies, past the statues of its rulers, profaning Khelt with her discourteous presence. The palace trembled in silent fury, but the ruler of it all sat there. Waiting.
Each step left a trail of her very being in Khelt, and Fetohep had to acknowledge that he felt empowered, energy coursing through him, closer to—life—for lack of a better word, but as the dead felt it.
Energized. Yet, he noted, her presence faded quickly. If there were any hope tonight, it was that singular fact. Kasigna’s presence waned slightly, as if the reflection of her being were a shadow exposed to light.
Even so—
When she appeared, she was more and less than he imagined from every tale and description of her he had heard. From Erin Solstice, he imagined a petty woman, squabbling, scheming for souls, her nature closer to a predator; dangerous by what she was more than what she did.
Unto a Giantess made into Human form, like a dangerous Named-rank adventurer who had forgotten conscience.
From Khelta, Fetohep had envisioned her closer to some unknowable force that deigned to look like a person. An old being plotting, yet crippled and mortally wounded. Unto a Seamwalker and their like, only more advanced.
The truth before his eyes alarmed the King of Khelt as at last he understood the nature of gods. For she did not look like a simple, wretched Crone-goddess nor some horror pretending to the nature of deities.
He beheld Kasigna as who she longed to return to. Fetohep saw in her the true nature of the Goddess of Death. And the first thing he saw was that she was not Human.
A Drake, grey of scales, eyes alight, form hunched, hobbled into his throne room. Then a Dullahan carrying her head in a shawl as she walked with a staff. Next, he saw a Stitch-woman, threads fading, but ancient cloth held together with brilliant pieces of pale string.
Crone each time, but her species changed. Perhaps it was because he was dead and beheld her nature, but he did not see a Human. That was what Erin Solstice saw.
Fetohep beheld age incarnate. An idea that crossed species. Whoever you were, whatever you belonged to—that was what made up Kasigna. She was part of you. That figure on your shoulder, whether you loved her or hated her.
Death. The very idea of her.
Her authority he felt, too. In every particle of his being, the undead king knew that she had sovereignty over his very nature. She came to a halt, stick tapping the floor, and the two said nothing for a moment.
Three Kasignas walked the world tonight. One deigned visit here. Another offered the masters of death a bargain. Her minions rampaged the world, attacking her foes.
If there was any weakness that could be said of Kasigna on tonight of all nights, it was that she knew the mortals poorly. She expected them to understand her nature or that her power would tempt even the most arrogant.
She had been too long gone to realize how this world had changed and truly forgotten her kind. Fetohep was ready.
[Open the Vaults].
With a single thought, he quietly armed the right Relics and artifacts. Most were not intended for this purpose, but he had carefully considered how to align them right. Magical reactions were unpredictable until they reached a critical mass. Then they tended to do the same thing.
It was not his first intention: it was his last. Whether the Goddess of Death realized it, he did not know. She looked displeased, for that was her very nature at this moment.
“You do not greet me, King of Undeath.”
Indeed not. Fetohep, who ruled upon ceremony and gave every ruler their due, sat upon his throne, resting his chin upon one weary fist. The King of Khelt did not even correct his posture, merely spoke.
“The Ruler of Khelt does not rise for you. Name yourself, intruder.”
Kasigna’s eyes narrowed, and once more, Fetohep felt the urge to rise and prostrate himself. He…refused. His withered skin shifted, and his bones hummed as the magic animating him fluxed.
He would rather vanish than stand. So—his eyes flickered, but the moment passed. Then, Kasigna spoke, calmer now. As if acknowledging the slight, recording it for all of forever, but allowing him a second chance.
“I am Kasigna. Goddess of Death. You know me.”
It was not a question. Fetohep allowed the slightest of nods.
“I know you. You have sullied Khelt’s lands, slain my great predecessors, and attacked a citizen of Khelt, Erin Solstice. Name me one reason I should not destroy you this instant.”
The Goddess of Death was scrutinizing him, eyes holding a rage to make Vizir Hecrelunn look like a yapping dog by comparison. Yet…he thought they were approving. As if she almost liked his responses, his poise, his insolence.
Yes, this was how a ruler of death should be. Of course…one lesser to her.
“You cannot.”
That was also true. Fetohep’s head dipped fractionally once more. They did the courtesy of the truth in this moment. Kasigna went on.
“I have no time, this long Solstice, for games. I walk your lands with a single offer I make to countless beings, Ruler of Death. Serve me. Thus, I shall give you strength beyond each of your predecessors and safeguard this land. Worship me. It is my only requirement, and your kingdom shall endure till the end of time and beyond.”
It was a ridiculous statement, and Fetohep had uttered similar ones, been made the offer from even Flos Reimarch. What terrified him was that he believed her.
Part of him knew there was merit to her offer. Khelt…Khelt was weakening each passing day. His own authority over his undead, the lost souls, made him feel like a ghost himself upon the throne.
Last year, he would have hesitated. This year, the King of Khelt only paused a moment to fully consider her offer. Then he spoke, motionless.
“Eternal Khelt shall never join forces with its enemies. You would have done better to ask Khelta herself, Goddess of Death. I am her successor. Her will immortal. We shall never make peace with you.”
There was no eloquence to his reply, nor even the ceremony of refusal. There was nothing to say. Kasigna’s exhalation was soft and somehow, he thought, tired. Even for a god.
“I have heard this refrain countless times tonight. Have mortals truly forgotten my gifts and wrath? No matter how long, I thought some part of them would know. Yet you speak as if I am any foe.”
She seemed confused. Disappointed. Her eyes found Fetohep, and he realized, to his uncertainty, that she liked him. Something in his nature and what Khelt was she admired.
One of the few nations that embraced death. Of course Kasigna had a fondness for this place. Yet the Three-in-One was, in her way, as certain as he.
“I caution you, Ruler of Death. For I respect this kingdom, despite the way its rulers opposed me, I offer you a second chance. Serve me. I will not demand your fealty nor your armies march at my name. Simply carve my name and likeness in a single statue before your palace, and I will let you stay in this world unblemished by my wrath, and my favor shall fall upon this land if mortals or the dead but reach out.”
This time, Fetohep hesitated. He was ashamed, but he did.
One statue? She asked no fealty nor worship, only a statue? He knew what was coming and the cost of refusal. He saw it happening. The King of Khelt paused one moment, and his robes whispered around him as he looked down and read the golden names that etched themselves on the lining of his clothes.
Each person he had sworn to safeguard…and they made new robes, writing their names that he might wear their memories. He thought of Pewerthe, children unborn, his citizens and duties.
“…Would you spare Erin Solstice?”
The King of Khelt wavered upon his throne. His voice rasped, and Kasigna’s eyes narrowed.
“Not she. She is mine. I shall grant you even the children of Earth, as many as you collect, to live free of my kin. No more.”
“I have sworn to protect Erin Solstice.”
Fetohep relaxed slightly, relieved. That made it easier. Yet Kasigna lifted one finger.
“One woman, Ruler of Death. Your kingdom for one woman. Be careful how you answer me. A third time, I give you a chance. No more.”
For a final time, Fetohep hesitated. He knew how he should answer, as ruler. Yet Khelta had stood by Erin Solstice at the last. His beloved Queen Xierca was now gone. Had this one slain her, or another?
