So black even a Goddess could not stare into their hearts. And in that darkness let horrors and sins be committed.
She thought it foul, a cruel suffering of arbitrary judgment. ‘Sinners’ went here, and the rules had been writ such that every Goblin was sinner. Her afterlife had no distinction, hence her disdain for a place of punishment, Hellste, and a place of reward, for those who earned the favor of gods or became ‘heroes’ and ‘champions’, Diotria.
Long had she argued when the other two realms were made. And it was to her satisfaction—even though Hellste was closed, guarded by the souls of Goblins—that these lands had changed beyond their creators’ whims.
The Emir was reaching for Kasigna. He crawled forwards with countless wretched ghosts babbling for her to take them, to empower them once more. Offering service, trying to pray. He would have liked it in the original version of Hellste, Kasigna suspected.
He tried to twist that land to match his will, made alliances and plots just like he had in life…but he could not. The land was designed for countless beings to reshape it slowly, in theory, to allow more depravities to exist. To let them fight for domination and, perhaps, begin foul assaults on other realms and even the living realm itself.
—However. The designers had not realized that for every being worthy of a class filled with sin, every truly depraved individual who came here, scheming and filled with enough bile to taint everything—there were a thousand Goblins. Ten thousand Goblins. A hundred thousand Goblins.
It was bright. Goblins sat and waited as a channel of Riqre and his like swam, trying to taunt or manipulate the Goblins who largely ignored them. Someone had cast a light into the pitch blackness, and there was nowhere to hide or indulge in their dark desires.
It was not wholly happy, perhaps, for many souls found the company of Goblins abhorrent, and the Goblins did not care for the company. But it was hardly the hell of torment that Kasigna had expected.
The caretakers, who should have had authority here, even in death, were sulking or looking pleased. The very beings who derived power from Hellste, Lucifen, had largely joined the new owners of this realm. Yet so few had even made it here. They had truly forgotten even who they were and where their authority sprang from.
That was not what drew her gaze. She wanted Hellste, wanted to drive all the souls into her fold, but it was unassailable…for now. At her strength, she could take it, and the grim Goblin Kings knew their victory might be short-lived. The wrath of their souls could not hold her back any more than the last Dragons, Elves, and other immortals had.
What drew Kasigna’s eye was a realm within a realm. She stared longingly at the place that other souls, Goblins knocking on the boundaries, could not enter.
Mine. Oh, mine. They were building it themselves, the few of them there were. So few compared to Goblins. And they were clumsy, their materials gifted to them from a small faith.
They were constructing it wrong. Let her take their hands and show them a true afterlife. Kasigna wanted the Heaven of the Antinium as much as she desired Hellste’s souls.
 
——
 
Diotria was stranger still. Kasigna’s aspect that battled there fought figures with shining wings whose voices scored the world and bore blazing blades that were designed to hurt her.
Guardians who had forgotten or never known who they were meant to serve. Diotria was a contrast to Hellste; a civilization instead of an afterlife.
She saw, at the borders of the realm, a great city rising and a light that even she found odd. They had reshaped this afterlife more than Hellste!
Worse, the foolish Diotrichne…had been murdered before she finished this afterlife. The rules had been wrongly set. That damned Goddess of the Afterlife—Kasigna was eating souls, but more were flooding towards her, armed with actual blades and using Skills, albeit without much grace, compared to the living mortals.
She locked eyes with the being who had claimed dominion over this realm and snarled as a blow tore even her flesh. This looked nothing like a place of holiness and goodness, though. It looked…simply like another world.
Smaller, though. Diotrichne had always thought small.
War across multiple realms. Winning, losing, she was still Goddess of Death. She summoned three souls to her as Kasigna pointed down at the battlefield of the Floodplains.
“My minions die. So too do mortals. I am defeated at many turns. My servant, Eldavin, foiled by yet another of your schemes. I applaud you, the foes who have laid gods low.”
“It was done long ago. Not by we. That is the spite of Elves.”
Zineryr and two other Gnomes stood in front of Kasigna as she held them on one hand as long as infinity. He wore the suit that he had first breached space in, and another had a tinkerer’s vest; she had made strange contraptions out of metal that flew and spat smoke. The third? The third chose to remember an apron smudged with little handprints and grime.
A caretaker of children.
All three dared to meet her eyes, though they knew her. Kasigna remembered the day Zineryr had breached the stars themselves and his cry of disappointment as he confirmed they were fake. It still stung, his critique of the gods.
That was not my design. I did not labor over that aspect. Zineryr folded his hands behind his back as he looked down sadly.
“This was not our scheme.”
“That is your champion.”
One of the Gnomes scratched his beard and raised a hand politely.
“Yes, well, she has free will. Advice, we grant you, but we didn’t tell her to do any of this. We gave her notes. None of this was our scheme. In hindsight, expecting our safeguards against your return not to exist was your mistake.”
“Don’t be rude. They’re not good at thinking ahead, some of them.”
The Tinkerer, whose name Kasigna recalled as Beitrne, smirked, and the other two Gnomes laughed in her face. The Goddess of Death had never liked most of the Gnomes.
Zineryr…didn’t mock her in the same way. He just tugged at his beard softly.
“Want to hear a joke?”
“No.”
Kasigna was tired. She held the three souls of Gnomes in her palm and spoke gently.
“I wished it otherwise. Even if you claim it not, you three are the tricksters to fool even the God of Tricks.”
They nodded, accepting this praise. Kasigna looked at Zineryr.
“I suffer no more of it. My realm should be that which accepts even other gods. In time, all peoples will come to these lands, and it shall grow and shelter them all and offer them the choice. It shall be the perfect afterlife which promises nothing and judges not.”
“Yes. It would be beautiful.”
Zineryr answered as the other two shook their heads. Kasigna closed her eyes.
“You should but see it. Yet I fear you. I offer you this one compliment as so few have ever received. And my greatest apologies. Come. Take my hand.”
If they could, she was sure at least two would have continued to defy her. They would have danced against the dead gods and made war once more, but they were hers. This was her realm, and they could not refuse her.
So in theory, they could do nothing. Still she feared them. The Gnomes looked at each other, and then, slowly, the caretaker lifted his hand.
“Defiance to the last. Even as I admire the beauty of what you intended—you did it cruelly. All this time and I regret nothing.”
He took her hand as he looked her in the eyes, and a tear fell from the Goddess of Death’s ancient face. She did not consume his soul and make it a part of her. Not this time. She did not banish his existence that he might be remade as she willed it.
Kasigna unmade the first Gnome entirely. Surely, the other dead gods had done likewise, but she had tried to keep them. That they terrified her even now…
Her third defeat was most bitter. The second Gnome, Beitrne, walked forwards, skipping with a laugh.
“You won’t know how many more tricks we left behind. If at all. I spit in your face, Kasigna.”
She did, and the Goddess of Death felt a small hand touch hers. The memory of spit dripped from her face with a second tear.
“I am sorry, Zineryr.”
The soul she so liked, whom she felt she had failed, so rarely of any souls, walked forwards, hands in his pockets.
“I knew this would happen. For I thought of how you would act. Do you believe me when I say I did nothing for this day but hoped the girl I met would rise? That people would be as I have always expected them to be: unpredictable?”
“Yes. From you, I believe it.”
She answered him honestly as the third and final tear dripped from her face. Zineryr offered her a hand with a sigh. He stared into Kasigna’s, the Goddess of Death’s, face.
“And still you walk the same path?”
She said nothing. The Gnome looked her in the eye as he took her hand, and there was no laughter nor joke nor anything else at the end of it. He vanished. As he surely knew, that hurt the most of all.
In the silence, Kasigna finished weeping and lowered her gaze to the realms below. Defeat after defeat after defeat. That was the nature of death.
In the Floodplains, mortals were dying.
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights stood on the highest point he could find and then leapt into the air from Bird’s tower. There, he hovered.
A Potion of Levitation was possible, but expensive. So instead he used a Potion of Superior Freefall and a simple Potion of Jumping.
The effect was the same. If he needed to redirect in the air, he had an enhanced Jar of Winds he had custom-built for maneuverability. He’d fought and won against Garuda in the skies.
He was Saliss of Lights. Somewhere, his grandfather was calling down the wrath of the Walled Cities. It looked impressive, but Saliss knew it wasn’t enough.
Gently, he uncorked one vial and took aim. Not at the hordes of undead coming his way. That was banal; Khelt was raining meteors down with the Walled Cities. Saliss could destroy armies, but he didn’t compete.
“[Accelerated Throw]. [Remote Countdown]…thirty-two seconds. [Controlled Release: Horizontal Spray].”
He tossed a small vial, activating Skills. Many of the [Alchemist]’s Skills were throwing-related, which people thought was stupid. They didn’t get that half of fighting was just where something landed.
The vial flew through the air slowly, but picking up speed with each passing second until it would be exponentially quicker. Saliss had calculated it based on seeing Draugr charging towards some of Manus’ [Soldiers]. The brave idiots hadn’t gotten any powerful Skills or auras.
So they’d have to make do with him. He was lobbing more potions down, using the same Skills to influence when they landed—but he watched as his first vial accelerated out of the corner of his eye.
Thirty-two seconds later, it exploded roughly over the heads of the Drakes, who flinched—then saw a mist of green liquid falling on them down their lines. It engulfed them just in time.
The Draugr hit the Drakes as the Potion of Barkskin activated. It didn’t save all of them as screaming Draugr smashed faces through helmets, regardless of the effect, but it did something.
Not going to be enough. Potion of Speed. Saliss fast-threw the next one and hit the back ranks to avoid empowering the Draugr. He didn’t have as many of those potions, let alone ones with enough concentration to empower a group. Octavia couldn’t make them yet, but he saw Drakes accelerate and start carving into the Draugr.
Good. Saliss’ instincts told him something was coming. He looked up, and his tail triggered the Jar of Winds it was curled around.
Most Drakes never practiced with their tails. Saliss blew himself out of the way of a specter with a scythe going for him and lobbed potions.
Lightning—half effect. Flames full effect or eighty percent. Acid no effect. Cold no effect. Light…a concentrated beam of light magicore tore the thing apart, and Saliss decided that was a weak spot.
“Saliss, Manus High Command. Light spells on specters. Lightning half effect. Flames good. Acid and cold worthless.”
“Acknowledged! Our [Archers]—”
“I see them.”
Saliss threw six Tripvine Bags empowered with as many of Oteslia’s powerful regrowth reagents as he could add. Vines over a foot wide snared a Draugr group that had been leaping at a bunch of [Archers].
Teleported in. Those damn Hag-things. 
Each one was taller than Moore. He guessed they were around fourteen feet high, with massive, wart-covered hands and their skin tones were green, black, grey–one was even a dark blue, but none were healthy colors. They all looked sickly ill, like they had the plague. But what Saliss noticed was that they were, none of them, really humanoid.
Their bodies were too squat and hunched. They stood on two legs, but they looked more like toads, with vast heads and a lack of a neck. They had huge, flat teeth and insects buzzed around them. Saliss tore his eyes away as he maneuvered but he had to note one thing—none of the ‘insects’ resembled anything that he was familiar with. His keen eyes found a five-winged insect whose fifth wing was more like a sail, a drooping worm wriggling out of the Hag’s pores with a huge eye that lacked a pupil—
Not of this world. Saliss saw one Hag bring her staff down—a huge, twisted piece of wood that looked like it had once been exceptionally fine. But whatever relief and delicate etching it had once bore was rotten. The Hag was naked except for the grime and she smashed down a Draugr in one move, then ripped out the undead’s back as it squirmed under one foot and chewed, grinning hugely.
As monstrous generals went, they were beyond an Ogre Chieftain or any other semi-intelligent monster clan he’d ever met. And he knew from the mana swirling around them they were all spellcasters. Teleportation was the first spell they had begun to cast en-masse.
At least their aim was bad. They got the undead mostly in the right spots—but in random pockets. It had to be Erin’s bread. Saliss would have laughed if he weren’t plotting how to murder the Hags.
The [Alchemist] swung his attention to them. There were eight, and each one was big as a house.
Open sores, some kind of strange flies around them, and he swore he saw fumes from their breaths. They were naked, and he saw one was oozing liquid from a breast, but their anatomy actually struck him as closer to toads.
They were foul to common sensibilities, he suspected. Yet each one had a crown of what looked like bone and a scepter or wand…one of the scepters had a rotting eye that was swiveling as it cast spells for the Hag Queen.
Champions of some other species. He debated striking at them, but they were too bunched up right now. Too dangerous.
