Curses meeting and mixing in the air. Eloise poured her cup, and a wave of water knocked one Hag Queen down, making the champion of Kasigna rise with expletives as she lost concentration. Hedag grunted as she swung her axe through an incoming curse that split and cursed the ground, whose surface bubbled with warts of filth, endlessly.
Law. Wiskeria’s magic clashed against the Hag Queens, who laughed as Traffy’s light found them—and failed to do a thing.
They were the law of their lands. This was unto righteousness in their domains. Wiskeria lowered the little Law Elemental. Shrugged as the bright red light of Traffy became uncertain.
“Turn off the law, now.”
The little street-light’s eyes flickered as she whispered at it. Then its green light flickered and turned black. One of the Hag Queens, casting bones down, hesitated mid-speech as the bones flew through the air and then began to rise.
Gravity stopped functioning, and she snarled as her ritual began unmaking itself. But the two Hag Queens were still experts. Wiskeria stymied them only a second. Then Agratha groaned.
“I think we’re outmatched.”
“Yes. We are.”
Oliyaya, the most haglike of the eight [Witches], was leading the hexing war. She drew on the nature of [Witches] as the spiteful crones, and she feared these Hag Queens were living embodiments of the craft she used.
They were older. Stronger. Their craft…one of them produced a dagger. Instead of setting up a ritual the [Witches] could easily disrupt, she turned, drove it into the back of the second Hag Queen, and began etching a ritual into her sister’s flesh as the other Hag Queen covered her. Eloise murmured to the others.
“Draw deep. She’s coming to kill us.”
The [Witches] began working their magic faster. Mavika’s crows were circling the air, but the other Hag Queen was sending up strange dragonfly minions to do battle with them.
Death and death as the [Witches]’ fingers twined with thread and craft and the Hag Queens muttered profane oaths.
 
——
 
One of the Hag Queens was acting as a [General] and sent the most fearsome undead straight at the Humans. No artifice; just brutality.
A rampaging mammoth’s bones were flanked by an actual formation of dead soldiers. They weren’t Human nor any species that the Humans knew. They were some kind of aquatic creature, thin-headed like a salmon, but with whip-like bodies.
Dead; their blades were equally odd, wavy and short, perhaps meant for fighting in some sea environment.
But they had formations, and they ran fast.
“Some of them are eleven feet tall. Half-Giant charge. Ready—”
Lord Xitegen was panting.
He was soaked in sweat, and the stink of death was all around him. Lady Bethal, Lady Pryde, Lady Desinee, Lord Alman, nobles high and low stood in ranks around him. They did something strange as the undead approached.
Lord Xitegen stopped commanding his Golems to attack. He adjusted his formalwear clothing, the black, maestro-like outfit. He pulled out a scented handkerchief, mopped at his face.
“Here.”
Lady Desinee beckoned, and Lord Xitegen leaned over. She sprayed some perfume on his cheeks, and he nodded.
Lord Tyrion was dismounting as Lady Bethal opened a little hand-mirror and inspected herself. She used some of the powder to darken her cheeks, bit her lips for color.
The nobles of the north were—primping themselves. There was no other word for it! Even Lord Tyrion accepted a comb from Lord Sanito and dragged it through his hair.
As the undead charged their position, the nobles strode forwards. Lord Xitegen tugged the butt flaps trailing behind him straight, then slapped his rear briskly. The Hag Queen’s eyes bulged as the Flowers of Izril looked their finest.
They lined up, sneering at the undead as their retainers looked at them with a strange confidence. The Hag Queen had never seen a foe so offensive to her.
The charging mammoth lowered its tusks, and the strange aquatic undead screamed—Lord Xitegen checked his watch as Lady Bethal covered her nose with a handkerchief. Even Lord Tyrion managed a sneer—
The braced undead slammed into something a dozen feet in front of the tensed Humans. The mammoth’s tusks splintered into the air from the weight of its charge. It rammed forwards, and its bones shattered as the undead pulverized itself against—what?
[Combined Skill: Barrier of Ego].
The same technique four rulers of Chandrar had materialized at sea against Rasea Zecrew activated, and the nobles rocked slightly. Then the Humans charged.
“Now! [A Fine Copy]!”
Lady Desinee looked up, lifted her hand, and grabbed something from the air. She thrust it at the head of her bodyguard.
“It will last thirty minutes. Go!”
The other nobles stared, and Lord Tyrion jerked; a pink light shot from the copy of Ryoka Griffin’s Faeblade, and the [Mercenary] grinned as he took it.
“House of El!”
He swung the blade once, testing it, then plunged forwards as the reeling undead tried to reform. Lady Desinee caught Tyrion’s and Bethal’s eyes as she shrugged and stepped back behind Lord Xitegen.
“What? We still can’t figure out how to take it apart, you know.”
 
——
 
The actions of the north were as nonsensical to the Hag Queens as they were to the Drakes. But they worked.
Drakes were executing their own tactics on their side of the battlefield. A rank of weary Pallassian [Soldiers] who’d just been chewed to pieces fell backwards as Grimalkin pointed.
“Someone must take out the rest of those Hags—wait. One just vanished.”
His eyes narrowed. He swore he saw a teleportation rune around one—that left six alive. But General Duln, the defense expert, was calm.
“Focus, Sinew Magus. We cannot lose you.”
Grimalkin gritted his teeth. He had a job—he turned and spoke.
“[Mass Sleep]!”
The rank of Drakes had already been lying down. It was another kind of insanity—born of understanding how leveling worked. They accepted the spell and passed out.
A slow count to fifteen—and another Drake began kicking them up. More than one looked—different as they rose.
Grimalkin saw a [Warrior] lifting her head. The weary, wide-eyed Drake had looked terrified a minute ago, and she still looked shocked. But when he gazed at the sword she held, he realized she must have been one of the groups that had survived a specter raid.
“[Ghostbane Warrior]. Reorganize the ranks.”
Duln snapped at one of his officers. Grimalkin saw the [Soldiers] who’d changed classes or hit a capstone being interrogated at speed, reorganized by value.
A calm logic to it, but the nonsense of reorganizing like this in the battlefield—the Humans didn’t do this the same way. It was working, but those Hags…
The battle was not going well. Grimalkin heard a voice from General Shirka as the Hag Queen assaults were stymied. The thing he had feared hearing most.
“Duln, my forces have used up their reserve of healing potions.”
It was a statement Grimalkin had heard seldom from Pallass, the City of Inventions. They had the most [Alchemists] of any Walled City. But this battle…Duln paused.
“Understood.”
Not ‘fall back’. Not ‘sending you resupplies’. They were out. Then—Drakes began to die.
It happened as Grimalkin threw [Siege Fireball] after [Siege Fireball], a simple spell with priority for the largest foes. He saw a Drake go down, choking as a skeleton thrust a piece of a sword into his neck.
He was bleeding out, and his friend reached for a potion. Even that dire wound could be healed with a low-level…
There was no potion. The Drake looked around, screamed for help, then belatedly, clumsily, put her clawed hand on the other Drake’s throat. Grimalkin realized—she didn’t know how to stop the bleeding.
Then the [Soldier] was dead. Grimalkin heard screams begin echoing through his speaking stones.
“Out of potions! Requesting permission to retr—”
“[Healer]! We need [Healers]!”
They had [Battlefield Healers], but the frantic Drakes were swamped, using needles and thread to close massive wounds.
“We need exponentially more. We’re losing [Soldiers] faster than…”
General Duln looked around and saw the stalemate, perhaps even rally, suddenly turn into terrible losses for the Humans. Potions could heal even a Draugr’s blow so long as it wasn’t fatal.
They were out of potions. 
“House Sanito’s running! Niers, anyone, restore their morale!”
Perorn warned the officers, and Grimalkin turned his head to see an entire section of the Humans turn and flee. The lines thinned…held…Grimalkin saw one man raising a sword.
 
——
 
He was no longer terrified. Gershal of Vaunt knew it was stupid, but he was furious.
How dare they? How dare they slaughter so many of his friends and allies? That woman—these undead—
“Hold, damn you! Hold, you cowards! Are you going to abandon Izril twice?”
He was screaming at House Sanito as blood ran down one arm. He had no more potions, and Vaunt’s [Soldiers] had been looting their own for just one more. They looked at Gershal as he planted his blade in the ground.
“Vaunt stands! Stay with me for the Tidebreaker of Izril! I would rather die than be a coward!”
He didn’t know how many heard him or realize how some [Soldiers] halted—and many more ran on, even his own. Nor did the [Lieutenant] count the odds, only turn as the first of the strange undead with trunk-like arms shuffled forwards.
Without potions, without caution, he stood in the way of the undead. At last—at last.
The last impediment to his levelling like the times of old was gone. The Grand Design of Isthekenous began assigning levels like those days of myth and legend.
Praying they lived.
 
——
 
Only one mortal man laughed as hell drew around him. The fury of the [Lieutenant] of Vaunt, the grim determination of the Sinew Magus who charged into battle to relieve the beleaguered Humans—these were brave and good people. They had no more potions. Each person who fell died there or was dragged towards Liscor or operated on in the darkness with needle and thread, and they would not rise again.
That was why Seve-Alrelious laughed. He alone had nothing to fear from a lack of potions. He looked at the horrors of that dead goddess, and his blood boiled.
“Courier, come back! Come—”
Seve had advanced far past House Sanito’s lines. He chopped through one of the Draugr, who smashed its broken bones in one fist into Seve’s face.
But the Hundredfriend Courier refused to die. His skin healed; the static in his head as the shards of bone hit his brain faded when Erek chopped the Draugr’s head off.
“Ook!”
Get back! The Orangutan was panting. Yet he held the longsword Erin Solstice had given him like a bladesman, his long arms throwing off an opponent. The skeleton warrior feinted—Erek blocked with one glowing arm and beheaded his foe. Then he pointed the blade and flashed—
The roar of a lightning bolt at close-quarters made even Seve flinch. But the Courier saw one of his friends, a cat he had met at Elirr’s shop, leap onto a Draugr’s head and vanish, yowling, as the undead bit her in half.
His friends wouldn’t die that easily. Seve was fighting forwards, heedless of the warnings.
“Hag Queen! Face me!”
One was breaking for Erin’s inn. She actually slowed as she saw the Courier challenging her. She pointed, and Seve’s face bubbled, and he screamed as hives burst from his body. Something squirmed in his flesh. Wasps? The insects burst from his skin—then began to die, stillborn.
The Hag noticed Seve was still coming at her when he grabbed one of the undead generals that allowed the others to regenerate and began stabbing with a dagger.
“Foul smelling wretch.”
She bit his arm off—then her cheeks bulged, and she spat. The Hag Queen had a blade that she dug frantically in her mouth. She spat blood and flesh onto the ground as Seve staggered back.
The Hag Queen backed away and pointed, and undead swarmed Seve as he tried to reach her. His arm was already regrowing.
I’m so hungry. 
Seve had to stop and tear into the precious flesh of Tombhome. He was going through his entire stock so fast—
I’ll need to return home after this. He didn’t care. This battle mattered. Erin Solstice living mattered.
“Face me, Hag Queen!”
Some things even the Hag Queens of Kasigna refused to face. Seve tried to reach the Hag Queen, but he was engulfed by the undead, who tore at him as his tattoos burned. Erek cleaved through Draugr after Draugr, hooting and screaming in rage.
Seve was turning his head right and left. Champions. If that dead goddess had them—so did Erin Solstice. He turned his head, snarling.
“Where’s the fae warrior?”
A blizzard was freezing an entire flank of undead trying to encircle the inn from the south. Seve grunted, then spat. He saw a green shape fly down and lifted his sword a second.
 
“Courier! They will kill Bird if you don’t stop that one!”
 
Seve saw a rippling shape moving through the undead and narrowed his eyes. There was nothing there, but the size of it.
Invisible, giant something.
“We’re on it. By Tombhome, I swear it dies.”
Shaestrel took wing again, this time looking for a Drake. Seve had seen Grimalkin, Griffon Hunt, the Halfseekers, Gershal of Vaunt—
If only those Horns of Hammerad were here. Where the fuck was Khorpe? Someone had to kill that Hag—
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had been throwing magic from her [Gardens of Sanctuary] the entire battle. She paused only once—after how long she couldn’t say—as the potions ran out.
She stopped aiming her door at clusters of dead, turned her head, and threw up. Vomit poured out of her mouth and nose, and she puked until she was coughing, turned her head, and kept fighting.
They were dying.
The Knights of Solstice charged a third time as one of the six Hag Queens led a charge personally at the Armored Antinium and Order of Solstice. Her staff batted Jewel aside and sent her crashing to the ground—she grabbed Normen’s mace, covered in acid, and extinguished the flames as she belched poison over them.
She nearly took the inn; she was hammering a fist through the door when [Maids] leapt on her from behind.
Ressa herself drove the Blade of Grasses into the Hag Queen’s back, slashing as Erin tried to hit the undead joining the monstrous being. An [Assassin] leapt out of the second-floor window.
Tessa. The two began slashing as the Hag Queen shrieked, but she was immune to poison, and her flesh was regenerating with a spell she cast on herself, fast as they could cut. The Named-rank adventurer was shrieking like her name; a second figure appeared in the window.
“Oh dead gods, dead gods—”
Theofore was shooting a wand and crossbow at the flying undead, massive dragonfly-things that Ryoka was trying to cut down. He winged one going after her and barely saw another buzzing at him.
