It was wrong to put the rulers of Khelt above its people. That was not the way he had lived for six hundred years.
…Yet to ignore them was to ignore Khelt’s golden heart. Erin Solstice was one woman, it was true. Still, Fetohep looked up, slowly and sadly, and at last shook his head.
“Khelt lies eternal, Kasigna, Goddess of Death. We have done whatever is necessary to endure. Yet, and yet, throughout our existence, though Khelt was prepared to crawl through carrion, though it may yet beg and crumble—this glorious land should never be petty or small. I say to you: no. Begone.”
A third time he rebuked her, and for a while, Kasigna said nothing. She almost looked pleased. Bitterly pleased, like the Crone who was spurned by the ill-fated hero, but enjoyed the refusal. This was how it should be. My enemies should be no less haughty.
Fetohep waited, calm now, as Kasigna slowly pulled a hood over her features, her eyes sinking into her flesh until she seemed older than creation. Something so lined by age that time itself knew she stood in its shadow, waiting for forever to die.
“So be it. A broken puppet shall serve if this prideful vessel does not. I admire you, Fetohep of Khelt. Rarely do the vessels of death have the will to oppose me. But you do not know me. Now—serve.”
She lifted her hand, crooked a finger, and Fetohep’s golden eyes winked out. The ruler of Khelt jerked upon his throne and began to stand.
Mistress of Death. Goddess of all his kind. Fetohep was still an undead. Revenant or not, his soul was drowned out, a single candle in a dark sea he had never dreamed of.
Serve.
He began to stand from his throne, safeguards and will forgotten. One of two beings in Koirezune. The other watched and took aim.
 
——
 
Alked Fellbow was the only mortal in the city. He had remained upon orders of the King of Khelt himself, though he would have preferred to be anywhere but here.
Many rulers had the Named-rank Adventurer met. Even Queen Yisame and, before her, the previous rulers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
He had known loyalty, of a kind. Never respect. Never true desire for service. A strange thing, he had thought.
This ruler, he would follow. So it was bitter, twice bitter, that he stood in the tower slowly drawing the arrow back.
The Bow of Heavens’ Arc, gifted to him by Fetohep himself, was shining in his grip. He had a single arrow nocked. It could destroy the entire throne room in a moment, yet Fetohep and Alked were sure that woman would not die from it.
…The King of Khelt would. The arrow pulled back as the figure on the throne rose. Alked’s arms never wavered, but his heart did. Fetohep had planned out this moment meticulously with full awareness of what might happen.
He had entrusted Alked with the final mission. The Named-rank waited, hoping the undead king had the will…but he saw Fetohep’s blank sockets.
The flames had gone out. Alked drew the bow fully, a whisper on his lips. He saw the figure take a step from the dais, bending its knees. Then…he saw a flicker of gold and froze.
 
——
 
Fetohep was drowning. His will being overridden, unable to break through the dark ocean. He had lost, utterly, in a moment; he saw his puppet bending to swear and knew Alked would set him free.
Be it so shameful, he was ready to protect Khelt by vanishing, though he grieved for Pewerthe. But he could not fight Kasigna’s will alone.
The body began to kneel, and a golden light stopped it. It twined around his arms and legs. Encircling his neck, pulling him back.
Chains of gold. Even Kasigna seemed surprised. They rose from the throne of Khelt, pulling the puppet back, diving into that black ocean for Fetohep’s soul.
“Chains?”
Even the Three-in-One bent forwards to inspect the golden light as Alked hesitated. Fetohep’s body froze, then drew back. A light flickered in those sockets—and Fetohep’s hand rose as another link of something encircled it.
Not chains, he realized. It was…fabric. Cloth. Golden thread, woven together. Made of names.
His robes were shining. The names of Khelt’s citizens, past and present, were running like a river, twining around him. Keeping him from kneeling. The King of Khelt gently held the thread connecting him to his throne—and clung to it.
The golden flames in his eyes grew brighter, filled with the color of Khelt’s will itself. Slowly, his soul re-emerged from the sea of Kasigna’s will, suspended on a delicate web of connections. Living and dead. Souls devoured, it mattered not.
Fetohep’s head rose, his body arched—and for a moment, he felt alive. Slowly, he took one step backwards, then another. He lowered himself on the throne, and the threads locked him into place.
“Never, death.”
The eternal King of Khelt spoke, and even the Goddess of Death was left speechless for a second. She had forgotten how mortals could surprise her.
Even she loved him, a second, as a Named-rank Adventurer lowered his bow and bowed. Fetohep silently raised his hand, and the vaults of Khelt’s weapons glowed. She might still destroy him, but she would never have his service.
“This I name my second defeat of the Solstice.”
Kasigna spoke softly. Her eyes fixed on Fetohep.
“The will of Goblins and the dead surprises even me. So be it. I do not envy you, King of Khelt. My enemies have been legion, and betimes I have walked the realms, and no foe of mine remained. Yet remember this: they have ever found life more intolerable than death.”
Fetohep replied slowly, still enmeshed in light.
“I have found every second of it delightful, dead goddess.”
She gave him the bleakest of smiles.
“The greatest of my foes suffer life. Regret it as long as you exist, oh stubborn King of Khelt.”
She lifted her hand and stepped back. Fetohep rose, reaching for a halberd he pulled out of thin air—but the Goddess of Death was gone as his blade cut the place her head had been. He swung around, looking for her, but she had vanished.
Victory? Defeat?
His lungs moved for the first time in centuries as Fetohep took an unconscious breath. He stood, shaking, shaking with triumph he had not looked for. And a terrible regret.
It was done. Slowly, he walked back to his throne and rested a hand on it. He had done what Khelt itself willed, and he would not regret that.
“—These coming days, I may become the most wretched of Khelt’s rulers and wish for oblivion. So be it. I was endlessly proud of this moment. Let me not forget.”
The King of Khelt slowly knelt after all to the throne itself and no other. To Khelt, in mourning, as Kasigna vanished in her second great defeat of the Winter Solstice.
Her vengeance was simple and swift. Fetohep sensed them moving. Slowly at first, then shaking themselves away with inviolate will. The first vengeance of Kasigna was this:
The Jaws of Zeikhal awoke. A dead Giantess’ corpse stirred from her slumber on the edges of A’ctelios Salash.
A green light entered the sockets of the one buried on Medain and the Claiven Earth’s border. Another stirred on the edge of Khelt’s lands. More turned from their sentry positions around the Carven City.
“Prepare for war.”
That was all Fetohep said as the Jaws of Zeikhal and the dead Ash Giantess began to rampage. One tore across the land of half-Elves and Medain, tearing his authority and promises to shreds.
Another rampaged into Khelt, shattering the peace that had lasted generations. Two more Jaws and the dead Giantess began their return to Khelt as the Arrows of Razzimir and Khelt’s defenses began to set the paradise alight with battle.
The last of the Jaws of Zeikhal went for the fortress where the King of Destruction stood.
 
——
 
“The Jaws of Zeikhal are attacking? Has Fetohep lost his mind?”
Flos Reimarch heard the urgent warnings that came moments too late for the other nations as he spun from watching the quiet night.
He had been monitoring the events worldwide—but his people had been unmolested by any activity, to his vague disappointment.
—Until he saw something on the horizon moving his way, like the legends of the city-destroyers. The newly-taken fortress of Nerrhavia’s Fallen began to shake as a Jaw of Zeikhal moved through the sands.
“Ah.”
The King of Destruction felt his blood beginning to race as his Seven announced they were abandoning their fronts, rallying to the fortress. But he was tracking the movement of that thing, and it wasn’t headed straight for him. Not at first.
“Your Majesty! It’s not Fetohep! He says they’ve gone rogue—it’s the one Erin warned us about!”
Trey burst onto the battlements as Flos Reimarch stood there. The King of Destruction’s lips were moving.
“Takhatres. Orthenon. Amerys. Do not rally here. Intercept at Reim’s capital. Now. It will strike the fortress, but stop it from crossing the Thamas River. Amerys, fly.”
“What is it, Your Majesty?”
“—It’s not going after me.”
Teresa scrambled onto the battlements, and Flos Reimarch looked at her. The Jaw of Zeikhal was racing too fast. He closed his eyes.
“Run, Takhatres!”
The Lord of the Skies was dozens of miles away. With a sick feeling, Flos stared into the distance, following the trajectory of the Jaws.
“George was headed back to the capital.”
The boy was sick of bloodshed after seeing a real war. The King of Destruction gripped the battlement’s ancient stone. In the silence, the masonry began to crumble to dust under his hands. He watched as the Jaw of Zeikhal paused a moment.
Then it turned towards him, and the King of Destruction swore vengeance.
 
——
 
Defeat after defeat. Setback after setback.
Kasigna quietly returned to the lands of the dead, wearily resting a second. For she was indeed tired. It was not unknown to her, this feeling of refusal.
That was, in its way, classic to her. Many times had the Goddess of Death been the most hated, feared, and every hand set against her. She had been driven back, defeated by consortiums of her foes.
What they forgot was that she played the game of gods, the slow and brutal board of fate. She accepted the losses, though they stung.
Slowly, she cleared the board of pieces.
—He screamed, still shielding his face and cowering as he appeared in her lands. One Earther. Joining seven more who stood, weeping or lost.
Cowering as they saw her. But the Mother simply nodded to them as George silently joined the ranks of the dead. They looked at her and spoke her name.
“Kasigna.”
Worship. Be it hatred or adoration, it was the same. The ghosts growing in number looked around and finally beheld the place that Drevish was creating piece by piece.
The place was known as the Hall of Judgement, made of pale, ancient stone in a heptagon set betwixt the center of a palace cut in the likeness of Kasigna’s first home. Here, ghosts appeared before a great lectern set high above them where their accomplishments and failures, sins and regrets, would be read.
A single book would be writ with each detail, then they would be given leave to wander the halls of this palace and out into a wasteland of thought and existence.
Dry, featureless ground where nothing existed to break the monotony. A desert of the soul where some would stand and wait, letting their griefs and regrets pour out into the void. If they so chose, they could walk back into the palace, which was now resembling the one Kasigna so desired: a tomb itself, a coffin whose black entrance welcomed her kin should they stand in her realm.
Without beauty, but not without grandness; she had told Drevish to make her palace as grim as she was. Yet the rooms would have looking glasses and books, every one ever written, and mirrors that the dead who so craved might stare at the world that was until they were satisfied.
The wasteland and palace would be filled so it would be seven hundred and seventy-seven floors in size, enough to hold the ghosts that would surely cling to their past mortalities.
But the wasteland would consume far, far more. All who wandered out into it would walk for eternities, then stop and be driven into madness by their own guilts if they were allowed. With naught to reflect on but their deeds.
Let them empty their souls there. For she was not unkind; if they had but the will or walked for the time required, they would find fertile ground beyond. Already, the first souls had begun to venture out that far, and she would allow them to remake their homes and memories, unto a museum of souls, and even let them bicker and reshape their own stories until they were satisfied.
Some parts of Kasignel would be given to ghosts to remake; the rest would be the labor of centuries for Drevish, for she had given him the plans to remake her first home’s finest wonders and most wretched lands. The sea that flowed to the underworld of her homeland would one day float above this place and the black sun hold sway over the deserts of one of the continents lost.
In time, she would even remake this world in its entirety as one small place for ghosts to wander, yet her vision extended until the limits of Kasignel, for the ghosts who walked furthest would carry them to the final spot.
A great river that would allow them to step into its waters and be reborn. All of this was unto a test; Kasigna expected that when finished, souls might linger for millions of years until they were ready and finally found that river. If they so chose, they would find oblivion as well, an exit from this eternal cycle.
This she offered. This was her at her grandest, the Crone’s pettiness put aside. Many had said her afterlife was empty of either true punishment or reward, or judgment. Yet her world still had purpose and heart to it.
As yet, only the first floors of the palace and wasteland were made, and Drevish had labored well to do this much. He had some of her power, and Kasigna wearily watched more souls flowing into her dead lands.
“Setback.”
Victory. Her third defeat was most bitter of all. It was not in Diotria, though her eyes did roam the two realms.
She saw in Hellste an army of Goblin souls led by their Kings. Male and female, each filled with the rage of remembrance and knowledge.
Hellste had been meant to be a punishment; other gods had made it in their pitiful ways. It had been designed for souls to wallow in their filth and create such horrors that fools might summon them as weapons.
[Warlocks] possessed by the likes of Emir Riqre. He was crawling forwards, both embodying nightmares and haunted by them. A giggling soul clung to by hundreds of vengeful horrors he had created, still gnawing at him. Bloated like some Giant in the horrors of his existence.
In Hellste, souls could be reshaped, and the very land was drawn from the nightmares of gods. The flaming pits of hellfire and damnation were but one image reflected there; some parts of Hellste were just…dark.
