The Goddess of Battle ran Rhisveri through the chest a second time, and the Wyrm dug his heels into the ground, and his tackle caught the goddess as she began to cut across his body. The look of surprise on Cauwine’s face changed to one of satisfaction as he rammed forwards, screaming.
“You are worthy—”
The Wyrm charged straight at the Death of Magic with the sword in his stomach. Silvenia was already finished drawing a door—they tumbled through it, back into realspace. Rhisveri screamed as he let his clone vanish, and Cauwine ruefully fell into the sea. Visophecin, the Deaths of Demons, both retreated through the [Greater Teleport] spell lest she intercept them again.
A screaming Wyrm writhed across his palace, bleeding, as immortals raced to the sound of his voice. But he was screaming—
The inn. What was happening to—
 
——
 
Rheirgest. Oswen. The Horns.
Buscrei was still wailing, as if mortally wounded, until someone cut the speaking stone. Erin Solstice wished she felt cut. She didn’t know if she were bleeding, only that the world was falling out of her.
The rolling mass of undead was ignoring Saliss as he bombarded it with fire. For every undead he slew, it picked up more.
Once again, the Knights of Solstice were preparing to charge. A fourth time she saw their flames rising. She saw Ama hesitate, saw Normen push at Jewel’s shoulder. Numbtongue was playing a song; a bolt of lightning struck the mass of undead, and nothing happened.
So the [Innkeeper] opened a door on the grass next to her [Knights]. She stood in her garden, ozone burning around her and her throat raw and coated with bile.
“Fall back. Let them reach the inn.”
“Erin—”
“No.”
Embraim lifted his sword, still blazing with pink flame, but even his fire was dying. Erin Solstice looked him in the eyes.
“I’ll need you at the end. Let them reach me.”
The other commanders were telling the knights to ignore her. But the Hag Queens were refusing to die.
 
——
 
Five left, and one had met a challenger. Lady Pryde and House Ulta had advanced. The [Lady]’s warriors were bleeding as she stood in the path of a blow that tore up the earth.
“Is that all you have, monster?”
[Pride is Unbreakable]. She swung a hammer, snapping the Hag Queen’s knee and producing blackened bones. The huge warrior-queen hissed.
“Pretty wretch. Thou’rt not invincible. Suffer ye.”
She boomed, her lips making the English tongue with effort. Pryde lifted one arm, eyes narrowed, but the Hag Queen’s mouth split, and she thrust a hand forwards. Instead of a blow—she gripped Pryde’s head as the [Lady] swung.
“Hideous.”
Steam began rising from beneath her palm. Lady Pryde began screaming as the Hag cast a hex point blank.
“Pryde!”
Grimalkin abandoned his post. He couldn’t see what was happening. He saw the [Lady] recoiling, clawing at her face, and looking up as the Hag Queen lifted a shard of glass. A mirror.
Lady Pryde’s aura winked out as the Hag Queen laughed and cackled, not even bothering to strike her. Undead poured over House Ulta’s troops as the Sinew Magus ran. The Hag Queen turned as she saw the Drake leap.
“Show him your face, woman. It shall never be beautiful again. Swear it I, on Kasigna’s name.”
She was still laughing as she pointed, and the rolling sphere of the dead reached the inn. Now—Kasigna’s foe died. Yet the Hag Queen narrowed her eyes.
Why was the door open? The [Innkeeper]…wasn’t moving.
 
——
 
Erin’s door was no longer floating in the sky. The [Garden of Sanctuary] shone on the ground as the milling undead broke apart and swarmed at her.
The Order of Solstice had retreated into The Wandering Inn, but the final sanctum, the garden itself, had appeared in the grass, open invitingly for the undead.
An [Innkeeper] waited inside her garden, sick and bleeding, though she had no mortal wound yet. She had no knife. Nor jar of acid nor pan.
“Enter. The door is open.”
She stood there, and even the dead hesitated a second. The first Draugr raced forwards, braced to hit the invisible wall of the [Garden of Sanctuary]—but it found no resistance. It charged, roaring, into the sand of a beautiful beach.
The sand had melted and fused to become glass. The resorts were aflame or embers. Once, this had been a beach.
Erin Solstice stood on the far side of the Garden of Wistram as more howling Draugr followed a tip-toeing monster with a sack, who opened it to reveal a monster from her dreams. The undead ran forwards—and Erin Solstice whispered.
“Sandcastles.”
Her arms were leaden. Her friends, her guests…the [Innkeeper] lifted a heavy hand. Let them come. Enough. 
A screaming Draugr just saw the [Innkeeper] standing at the far end of the beach, and he ran, arms flailing. A Human man, bloated until he was pure muscle. Like someone filling a piece of flesh with power. Grimalkin was far stronger.
This was just a toy made by death, but it could kill her in a second. The Draugr didn’t notice anything else until it saw the shadow—and its crazed eyes registered the hand.
Erin slowly closed her hand, and the mass of sand shaped like her arm grabbed the Draugr. The grinning undead with the sack stopped as Erin squeezed. It turned to flee, but more dead were pouring into the beach.
The [Innkeeper] made a fist, and her hand was shaking. She felt weak as a feather, but she drove the fist forwards. The undead thing with the sack trying to get out looked back as six thousand pounds of sand flew at it. The other undead looked up—
She ground the fist of sand against the far wall until the squirming stopped. A Draugr tore out of the pile of sand, and Erin realized some of them were just too tough.
“I was making sandcastles.”
The [Innkeeper] closed her eyes as one of the other Draugr leapt at her, bounding like an animal now, dodging the next hand—climbing—
It realized Erin was rising into the air. The [Innkeeper] stood on a cliff of earth, and now the Draugr was trying to climb straight up. Erin stared down at it as another group of the dead raced through her door.
She pointed, and a torrent of water knocked the Draugr off her platform, sent it spinning head-over-heels against the floor of the Garden of Wistram. A tidal wave hit the far wall, and Erin pointed as the waters receded, revealing the blank floor of white tiles.
“Firestorm.”
Columns of fire burned the garden’s door, incinerating a score of undead. Then—a ghost covered in chains and green fire pushed into the garden.
Erin struck it with a fist of sand that made the entire room quake. Sand actually pushed out of her door until the press of the dead fought back into the Archmage of Wistram’s garden.
But they kept coming.
Thousands of undead were milling around the door, and Erin was moving faster, now. Her door was—flickering.
So was she.
The [Innkeeper] stood in the middle of the Garden of Wistram. Doors opened behind her, disgorging bolts of lightning from the Garden of Storms as she threw up walls of sand. Water poured through the Garden of Wistram and drained into a new door: the Drowned Garden where sharks and fish attacked the flailing undead submerged in water.
 
——
 
She waited for them in the middle of the Iron Vanguard’s Garden of Sanctuary. A snowstorm at her back. A sneering champion of bone, a long-dead warrior of Kasigna, strode towards her.
“Sorry.”
The [Innkeeper] looked up, and the undead raised his sword a second before a hammer of ice fell and crushed him flat. A bellowing Snow Golem threw itself forwards, crushing the undead pouring forwards.
 
——
 
She came to a halt in the Garden of Pomle. A dome of ancient sandstone shook as a snarling bat-monster, fangs dripping with blood, a primordial vampire, clawed into the room, saw Erin Solstice, and the [Innkeeper] spoke.
“Warriors of Pomle. Repay your favor to me in advance.”
The [Innkeeper] swore she saw the Garuda who stood up slowly and lifted his spear—smile. Xil, the [Peerless Spearmaster], joined the bare-chested warrior that never looked at Erin, the young Stitch-man with gauntlets, and the boy with a staff.
Xil, Collos, Vandum, and Orjin as the owner remembered them spread out, each choosing a foe. Xil dove at the bat, who tried to fly in the sandstone dome. The Garuda severed one wing as more undead raged forwards until they met Pomle’s memories.
They kept coming.
 
——
 
“What is she doing? Get me answers.”
Niers Astoragon had no eyes in Erin’s garden. He saw the thousands of undead that had formed that death-orb pouring into Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. Yet she wasn’t dead. He’d know if she were dead, he thought.
Was she killing them all? How? His mind flashed to her gardens. Maybe if she funneled them into the gardens, used them like a weapon—
They were [Gardens of Sanctuary]. What was she doing? 
Killing them all, of course. Piece by piece. The Titan whispered as Chaldion signaled him now—do it now—but he took one second.
“That’s not an inn. That’s a vengeance dungeon.”
Then he focused on an army of Drakes in the hills charging wildly at a Hag Queen. She was already tearing apart the Drakes with fountains of blood that cut like razors. Laughing at the ambush—until Niers pointed.
He dragged on the world as his hand slowly picked up a piece on the world’s stage and moved it across two continents.
“[Castling the Pieces].”
The Drake battalion winked out of existence and crossed continents in a second. In the space of a second, each and every one of them was replaced by their counterparts. Niers swore he heard Chaldion’s voice.
“Follow the plan…”
Of course, the Cyclops had a plan. So did Niers. The laughing Hag stopped and pointed a finger.
“False Giant, ye die first.”
She aimed a curse at the War Walker who slowly rose, swinging a sword upright. Dullahans, Lizardfolk, Selphids, and Centaurs stumbled a second as the effect of the Skill disoriented them. But a Centauress was already tearing up the hill.
“Forgotten Wing Company—charge!”
Perorn Fleethoof shouted, and her reinforcements stormed across the ground. The Hag Queen contemptuously pointed at the War Walker, unmoved. Then she pointed again and uttered a profane word of magic.
Someone behind Niers noted down the word, how it was pronounced, and the gesture. The Titan just watched. He saw the Hag Queen stare stupidly at the War Walker, then try another spell. Then another.
[Battlefield: Even Ground]. This far away, he could barely project his capstone Skill across more than a single sliver of the Floodplains. So he used it where it mattered. Perorn galloped parallel to Niers’ Skill, activating her Skills.
“That one. THAT ONE.”
The Hag Queen backed away, magicless, as Fleethoof rode down on her. She had no final great magic. She went down, breaking bones and swinging her staff like a club, screaming like a tyrant dethroned as blades carved her flesh to pieces and she bled out.
Four. Niers looked away from Perorn at last and counted. Two were battling the [Witches], but one was breaking for Liscor. He looked around for someone to intercept them. But—
The armies were retreating.
 
——
 
“Fall back. Sound the retreat.”
It was not Lord Xitegen who said it first. He was glad; Lord Tyrion signaled the retreat the moment he returned to the Floodplains of Izril and saw how the battlefield had changed.
He had vanished, then reappeared, wounded, with Taletevirion and Ryoka Griffin in tow. Yet whatever he had done—he spoke the moment he reappeared and assessed the situation.
“We cannot abandon the inn!”
Magnolia Reinhart shouted back instantly. She didn’t understand. She didn’t know war—Tyrion snapped back.
“We are out of potions and being overrun. Fall back to the secondary point around The Wandering Inn.”
They had to hope Erin Solstice could handle some of the undead. Xitegen saw a thin line reforming as Humans abandoned their posts, collapsing their side of the battlefront in good order. Niers was shouting.
“Intercept that Hag! She’s making for Liscor!”
“We are pinned—”
No one was in range. Xitegen pointed, and a volley of arrows rained down, but the Hag ignored it like rain. She was going after the city. The wall spells were pouring down magic on her, but the [Tactician] in charge was hitting the lesser undead. Every time a spell came for the Hag Queen, an amulet around her neck would flash, and the spell would dissipate.
“Someone defend Liscor.”
Xitegen croaked, but everywhere he saw more dead pouring forwards. Overrun. They were being overrun—
 
——
 
Normen knew why Erin hadn’t done this trick with the undead before. He was standing in the common room of the inn, panting as he tried to get his energy back.
Her gardens weren’t unlimited.
There was a finite amount of dead she could destroy, and right now—she was being overwhelmed. The damn Draugr.
There were just too many. A hundred thousand? A hundred thousand could win this entire battle, and that was without the Hag Queens or other undead. 
They were coming down the hallway, aiming for the inn proper, Erin’s doors admitting them or not. One was smashing at the door to the common room, but the inn’s staff were—holding—
“Acid jar!”
Peggy fired a crossbow through an arrow-slit, and an Antinium poured a jar of acid through a hole in the ceiling, melting a Draugr. It collapsed into a puddle after thirty seconds of trying to get through the door, and Peggy nailed a skeleton mage in the head.
“Where is Chieftain Rags?”
She shouted. The last thing she’d seen were the Goblins mowing down undead with Rags’ Thunderbows firing nonstop. But that wasn’t the way of the Redfangs. When the Humans and Drakes buckled—that was when the Flooded Waters tribe would fight and die.
“They are meeting Liscor’s army. The Free Antinium are fighting.”
One of the Workers reported. Peggy thought some of the flashes of light coming from the boarded-up windows looked like Miracles.
Now it’s our turn.
The Hobgoblin’s teeth were bared as Ulvama’s brow streamed with sweat. The [Shaman] was holding something up, staff blazing with light. It was…a bubble swirling with foul liquid pouring over it.
Curse magics. She was warding the entire inn, and Erin, from the Hag Queens’ attacks. She spoke, her voice shaking.
“They’re coming through the doors.”
“Yah.”
Peggy dropped her crossbow, and her peg-leg clacked on the floor. More Draugr were slamming into the hidden side-door. Not good. If they got through there…
She drew a sword as she saw Numbtongue waiting at the common room’s door. No…not Numbtongue.
A Goblin Lord glanced at her, and Reiss’ fingers twitched. Undead began dropping in the corridor as he unanimated them. Peggy snarled at him—then saw the Order of Solstice had noticed the danger.
“They coming.”
“I know.”
