Ser Normen, Antherr, Embraim, and Jewel were braced for the Draugr smashing on the side door to get in. Peggy stood behind them.
Won’t last long. She wondered—if they destroyed the inn from the inside—if the [Garden of Sanctuary] would cease to exist and Erin would lose her powers.
“The Beriad have heard the inn is in danger and are coming.”
Antherr hand-signed to Peggy in their shared Mrsha-speak, and she nodded. The pounding stopped a second as Reiss killed the Draugr—but more kept coming.
“Five minutes.”
The wood was cracking. Normen turned to the Order of Solstice. Five minutes? They had no more healing potions. Peggy saw a Draugr punch a fist through the wooden door.
Someone spoke behind her.
“I regret being late. Damned [Necromancers]. I had to ensure mine wasn’t mad. This one is useless. I will stop the Draugr. Capture one for me even if it costs your lives. The fate of the battle rests on it.”
Peggy spun. She knew every single person in the inn right now, and that voice—
“Who you?”
“Who are you? Who art thou for one such as I.”
A voice corrected her. A chin rose, and a hand flicked Peggy’s sword aside so hard it bounced off a wall. Peggy hesitated.
The woman was shorter than people expected. Her skin bore the faintest pattern of black stitches, though she could have asked for any body. Her skin was bronze, a color Peggy rarely saw on Izrilians. And her eyes held no pity at all, just impatience.
The Order of Solstice turned—but the Draugr was breaking through the wood. Normen hesitated, and Nerrhavia snapped.
“Capture one now!”
Normen’s eyes swung to Peggy. The Hobgoblin hesitated. She thought of Ishkr—looked at Nerrhavia without knowing who she was, and shouted.
“Do it!”
Capture a Draugr. One came charging through the door as it broke so fast that it rammed past the four [Knights] as they tried to slow it and slammed into Peggy. She grunted and would have gone overboard but for the woman.
“Halt.”
She put out a palm, and the Draugr halted. But she was no warrior—she backed up as Peggy swung a sword, and it lodged in the Draugr’s leg.
Halt it—
More undead were trying to get into the side stairs, but Inkpaper and smaller Goblins were ramming a table into the way, screaming, as Peggy and the four [Knights] tried to bring the Draugr to a standstill.
[Floor Boss Lev—
—Peggy woke up on the floor, pushed herself out of the way of the foot before the Draugr went down. She saw a door break inwards, saw one of the [Knights] turn.
“Me.”
Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus charged silently into the undead, glowing like a green beacon. A scythe cut into the green flames and slashed into his head. He slowed, but the green flames kept rising. He slumped across the side entrance. Jerking. Falling.
“Antherr!”
Normen shouted. The Antinium collapsed, and a wall of flames burned across the side entrance. A wall of flames like the Antinium’s honor. Draugr hammered their fists into it and could not break it.
Peggy rose and put all her might into tearing an arm up until she heard it snap. The Draugr kept trying to move as Normen, Jewel, Embraim, and Peggy knelt on it, trying to hold it still.
“Good.”
Nerrhavia barely glanced at the fallen [Knight]. Slowly, and awkwardly, she drew a sword. A simple, steel sword. She must have looted it from the Order of Solstice’s armory.
“Antherr’s dead. The Free Queen is reaching for their souls.”
Embraim spoke quietly. His head rose as Vess skidded around the corner, wands raised.
“They’re coming through the front! What’s—”
“Shut the child up. Move it to the side. I do not swing swords. Hurry.”
Nerrhavia snapped at the [Knights]. Peggy was gasping, her Hobgoblin strength still not equal to the Draugr’s mindless strength.
“You—crazy? Hurry—”
Nerrhavia narrowed her eyes as the Draugr began to pull itself forwards despite the [Knights] and Peggy’s attempts. They were weary, and it—
“Hm. Fate, heed me.”
If ever the Immortal Tyrant had a prayer, it was that. Nerrhavia gripped her sword with all the strength her body possessed—and swung down as the Draugr jerked upright.
It was a weak blow. Her body was strong, but she had seldom used a sword. Even so—the Immortal Tyrant swung with all her might, aiming for the only point she had a chance of even wounding. The Draugr’s neck was taught with sinew, but the sword was sharp.
She bit the sword halfway down the neck, and Peggy saw the Draugr’s eyes dim a second—then it snarled and tried to bite Nerrhavia’s leg. The Immortal Tyrant grimaced. She stepped backwards.
“So be it.”
What was that? Peggy was about to scream and finish the Draugr off when Nerrhavia lifted her hand. The Hobgoblin’s rage, Antherr’s sacrifice—Peggy saw Nerrhavia’s eyes turn black.
Two crimson pupils shone, and a black wall of stone filled Peggy’s vision. A woman sat upon a throne drenched with blood. A laughing voice echoed across the Great Desert. A single thumb angled downwards spelled the crumbling links of countless crowns, and blood drenched Chandrar’s sands and dyed her lips red.
The Immortal Tyrant whispered.
“[Mass Execution: You All Look the Same to Me].”
The Draugr froze—and Normen’s despairing head rose as the massed howl of the Draugr faltered. A single blow tore across tens of thousands of necks, spreading outwards in a flash. Nerrhavia turned her head, and a cry of horror echoed from the four remaining Hag Queens. Fleeing mortals looked up as they saw a single blow strike itself across countless necks.
Even the Goddess of Death glanced up from her musings, and her fingers twitched. Hag Queens tried desperately to re-knit the Draugr’s flesh—but it was done.
“Unto godliness. Remember that, Goblin.”
Nerrhavia cast the sword down and walked past the Draugr without a word.
 
——
 
One blow gave the armies a reprieve as Draugr slowed and desperate [Soldiers] completed the coup de grâce. The Hag Queens pulled the Draugr back, mending the wounds as they desperately preserved their forces.
Liscor was now under siege. And Erin’s [Gardens of Sanctuary]…
—Were filling to the brim. 
First went Pomle’s Garden. It had never been meant for anything like this. The Garden of Wistram was still incinerating countless undead, but even the memory of Collos and his people—
Erin walked back across the Garden of Pomle, staring at the oasis and ground as undead raced after her. Her [Garden of Sanctuary] had—ironically—saved the Draugr inside from Nerrhavia’s blow.
How many could Kasigna raise? When would the Goddess of Death return? This was the greatest of the six by far. She was death; none of them could match her for the sheer power Kasigna had.
Erin met the far wall of the Garden of Pomle, which Collos had changed to look like his dreamland until he made it a reality. She put her back to the wall, and still, she held no weapon.
Only the Key of Reprieve. The winged key of the last Empress of Harpies. Erin looked across the sands as undead thundered towards her.
 
——
 
“—Erin Solstice. What is happening to her?”
“I don’t know.”
Orjin of Pomle finished killing the corpses that had gone after the Earthers of Pomle. The Fury of Winds had severed heads with fast blows from his new wind powers—Vandum had killed the largest of them.
The undead that had spawned from the battlefield where Pomle had so recently triumphed were numerous. But against Pomle, it was only a small battle compared to the war they had won.
A bitter one, even so. Not a single [Martial Artist] had died that Orjin saw, but the dead were a reminder something was happening.
Erin Solstice. Her day of trials…Orjin looked around the sands as Iratze, Raul, and the other Earthers stared around. Iratze was white-faced; so was Raul.
They were camped on the edge of the destroyed Pomle. [Druids] had begun striking their camp when the Solstice occurred; they had given up.
The rot was so deep they wanted to bury the entire oasis. Orjin had been contemplating Pomle’s future.
He thought of Erin Solstice. He had never met her in person. He did not know her well, yet he considered that Pomle owed her a debt.
He owed her a debt.
Erin hadn’t talked about her Winter Solstice. She had talked about his fate, helped in the ways she called small, and maybe they were to her.
She had looked him in the eyes, afterwards, and told him to go back to Pomle. Orjin didn’t know why. Only that the [Innkeeper] had secrets in her heavy gaze.
As the Solstice lasted forever, unchanging, he swore he could hear her voice. The Strongest of Pomle lifted a hand, and Salii fell silent. Vandum raised his head like a hunting wolf.
 
——
 
“Time.”
The undead were running at her, but as they filled the Garden of Pomle, Erin took one step out of that place and into the hallway that led to the Pavilion of Secrets.
The door was yet locked. There was no easy escape from Kasigna, if Erin could even hide there. The Key of Reprieve was in the [Innkeeper]’s hands, and Erin Solstice was sick at heart.
Weeping.
Even the [Garden of Sanctuary] could be broken. The door of Pomle was shuddering, now. The ancient sandstone cracking. Khorpe had said it best…where was he?
Erin didn’t know, but she raised her tear stained cheeks. A Level 40 Skill. Nothing lasted forever. The words Sheta had written lifetimes ago stood out on the wall.
 
Sanctuary can never shelter enough.
 
“I understand it now.”
Erin lifted the Key of Reprieve in her hands, and it was so heavy. What was its purpose? To open this door for the worthy? To let her use two doors at once?
Or something else? Slowly, she inserted the key in the shaking door of sandstone. The Garden of Pomle was filled with undead smashing the very walls. The [Magical Innkeeper]’s voice cracked.
I told you, Orjin. Her fingers twisted on the Key of Reprieve as Erin Solstice slowly locked the door forever. The door cracked—for a second, she saw a Draugr’s glowing gaze filled with empty, mindless rage. Then the [Innkeeper] spoke as the [Gardens of Sanctuary] rang as one with the sound of a promise breaking. With the authority she had been entrusted with.
“Sanctuary ends.”
A door vanished. Erin Solstice closed her eyes as the Key of Reprieve shone in the void. And—across the world—
The Strongest of Pomle saw his home flicker.
 
——
 
Pomle’s warriors heard a click like a door shutting forever. They turned, and the oasis of Pomle, blackened, corrupted forever—flickered. Vandum shouted.
“Orjin!”
“Ready yourselves, warriors of Pomle.”
Orjin strode forwards as the ground to the east of his ruined home shimmered. It was not wide across, this dome of flickering world covered in faint light. He thought he smelled something familiar. Thought he remembered Collos’ presence. So familiar Vandum rubbed at his eyes.
“Collos?”
Then stepped forwards as Orjin spoke to the warriors getting to their feet. Salthorn turned to Orjin as the [Fist of the Living World] saw Erin Solstice’s gift. His eyes beheld hundreds of packed-in shapes. He heard snarls and roars—but his eyes were on something behind them.
It wasn’t much. Just a pool of water, really. A few palm trees—
But that was all they had ever needed. He raised his shaking hands, and the land called to him. The earth was crying out. The winds screaming his name. He cried it back.
“Pomle. Warriors, rise. We win back our home tonight.”
Then the [Martial Artists] beheld a small army of undead. Draugr lurching around disorientedly. Strange and foul creatures many had never laid eyes on.
Yet—the oasis was there. The waters muddied perhaps, but Pomle’s Garden bloomed before the nation without a home.
Orjin was already running, but Vandum leapt first, hands gripping a Draugr’s face as he swung a knee into it. The [Martial Artists] charged as Orjin saw it so clearly and understood what Erin had meant.
Sanctuary ends. For a second, he thought he saw Collos’ image in a breaking dome of sandstone. The Strongests of Pomle looked at each other—then the dome shattered. And the magic was gone forever.
But the garden remained. Orjin swung a fist, and the oases, both of them, broken and new, trembled.
His home.
 
——
 
A [Garden of Sanctuary] vanished. The place it was meant to embody, be it fake or real—the world shifted and allowed it to exist.
It carried the undead breaking into her inn away with it. A strategist’s genius move.
A move on a board no one could predict.
Erin Solstice was weeping.
Even this place was ending. And it was the first of—her eyes rose. Another garden was dying. Erin Solstice lifted her key—a Drowned Garden under the sea trembled with secrets she had not yet even uncovered.
“Sanctuary…ends.”
The door vanished, and somewhere under the sea, undead appeared in the crushing depths, flailing. The [Innkeeper] felt something leaving her.
Two. They were pouring into her other gardens. Wistram’s. The frozen Iron Vanguard’s Garden, set in the walls of Invictel.
Be ready for battle. She had warned Tulm and Wistram. The [Innkeeper] inserted the Key of Reprieve into the next lock. Waiting…waiting…
 
——
 
Dullahans stood in silent ranks outside Invictel along a wall that Tulm had ordered found. It might not be the right one, so the Bastion City had been partly evacuated and multiple platoons stationed around it.
But the spot that the [Strategist] had found was the right one. The air warped—and the Seer of Steel spoke. He lifted his head and placed it upon heavy shoulders. He had wished to see this with his own two eyes for once.
“SO. THE INNKEEPER RETURNS OUR LEGACY TO US. MARK HER INTEGRITY. SAVE THE SNOW GOLEMS WHO HONORED THIS PLACE. SLAY THE UNDEAD.”
His footsteps shook the snow as a horde of snarling undead looked up. Dullahans silently charged after the leader of the Iron Vanguard as a keep of stone appeared in the shadow of Invictel’s walls.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice slowly opened the door to the Garden of Storms as she stepped back into the Garden of Wistram. She opened her eyes, and lightning rained down around her as the undead formed a chain of bodies trying to climb the pillar of crumbling sand she stood on.
“Everything, Kasigna. I will do everything.”
The Goddess of Death heard her. Now, Kasigna’s eyes flickered as the Maiden turned her head and felt uncertainty once again.
It sounded like laughter. Yet the Gnomes were well and truly gone, one and all. Kasigna listened to the pained laughter, the hysteria and despair on the edge of madness—falling—like a rain of stars and breaking sanctuaries. A cackle of a witch, an [Innkeeper]. Kasigna realized it at last.
“It was you.”
Will of the Gnomes. Heir to their ways. Even with the last of them gone…
Then Kasigna knew why Erin Solstice must die.
