“Ah. Damn me.” Muttering a few choice phrases which were probably also things no monk should say, the wrinkled old Healer said, “I shouldn’t have said anything, so don’t go telling the others. Best they stay focused on matters of importance than dwell on worldly concerns, but since it’s you...” Sighing, the old Healer Sent, “I only found out after you disappeared, but... less than a week after you arrived, Sinuji came under concentrated attack from an army of Defiled. The Imperial forces emerged victorious, but at great cost, for whilst engaged in single combat against the Defiled Emissary Gen, Falling Rain’s Spiritual Weapons were destroyed and his Core shattered, rendering the Number One Talent in the Empire and the Abbot’s golden child crippled with little hope for recovery.” Shaking his head in sorrow, the old Healer lamented, “Forget surviving the journey here, I worry he won’t even survive the journey home. The nobles of the Empire are a cruel and merciless bunch, and a man like Falling Rain has enemies to spare.”

The old Healer continued to voice his regrets, but Jorani was no longer listening. His mind racing and heart pounding, he almost passed out while choking back all the profanities he wanted to scream. Though outwardly distressed by this news, the glint of satisfaction in his clear, bright eyes gave away how he felt about this matter, and Jorani recognized the look. It was pride and satisfaction, a measure of glee over having been proven right. ‘The Abbot’s golden child’, the old monk called Rain, and had Happy not hinted at a schism between the monks earlier, then Jorani might have thought nothing of it, but for all his lectures and the Brotherhood’s teachings, even the old Healer wasn’t above the failings of man. Pride, one the five poisons Happy had just explained, had taken root in the old Healer’s mind and now he celebrated the defeat of one of the best men Jorani ever had the pleasure of knowing.

A cold and insidious thought crept into his mind as the old Healer helped him down the empty hallway. All this time, Jorani had thought of the monks as enlightened beings beyond the concern of petty affairs, but everything he’d experienced told him they were still human in the end. Humans with good intentions who strove to become better, but they were far from the paragons they preached of, else they wouldn’t need to go to such great lengths. They lived in isolation to avoid hearing of worldly affairs, destroyed their artwork to ward off conceit, even lopped off their cocks to resist temptation, but all this wasn’t strictly necessary to succeed, it just helped things along. This showed the depths of their determination, but it also proved how difficult it was to follow their teachings. Monks though they might be, they were still no different from anyone else, people with dreams and aspirations, doubts and insecurities, which meant Jorani had overlooked a very simple and reasonable possibility.

What if the old Healer was actively working against them?

He wouldn’t even need to lie or go against his teachings. The Abbot wasn’t here and the old Healer might not know where his superior was, but that didn’t mean he wouldn’t know where to look. What’s to keep the old Healer from pointing GangShu and the others in the right direction without warning them of the dangers? Wugang and Yelu Shi were strong, but even Ancestral Beasts were said to avoid the Arid Wastelands, which meant GangShu couldn’t guarantee his own safety here, much less two Experts yet to reach the Peak. What’s more, the old Healer obviously had a private and secretive way of receiving news from the outside world, else how would he know about Sinuji to hide it from the other monks? What was keeping him from using said means to ask about the Abbot’s whereabouts or pass along a message? Was he actively working against the Abbot to ensure news of the bossman’s plea and the Dharmapala’s death never made it to the right ears? He was already keeping secrets from the other monks of the monastery, so what’s to stop him from hiding more?

And all this was assuming the old Healer’s motives were pure...

Now that he’d seen through the flaw in his logic, all manner of issues cropped up, and he needed time to sort through them all. Motive was the most important part of what Jorani was missing, because no one ever did anything without motive, even if it was as simple as spite. Knowing the why might be the key to figuring out what to do next. Perhaps the old Healer resented the bossman’s high standing, or maybe he genuinely believed the Abbot misguided and was trying to rectify his mistakes, but regardless of the reason, Jorani knew it was time to do some digging, but Happy aside, the monks were a closed-mouthed bunch who wouldn’t take kindly to being questioned, so he was at a loss on what to do next.

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Lost in his thoughts, Jorani sat on the edge of his bed while the old man stood across from him. “This monk sees that the news has caused you much distress. You worry for your friends, your comrades, your leader, and more, but such is life, trials and tribulations without end. Perhaps this, and your safe return, is a sign from the Mother above, telling you to cut ties with your past life and start anew. You stand at a crossroads with a choice left before you: continue as you were and return to the red dust of the mortal world to become a pawn to another, or set aside your meaningless suffering, embrace the Four Noble Truths, and take up the Eight-fold Path, for only then can you find true peace.”

Though his first instinct was to reject the old Healer’s offer, Jorani saw the naked ambition in the wrinkled man’s eyes. Their solitary lifestyle left them unused to hiding their intentions, and the old Healer might as well have been an open book. GangShu’s warning of the Brotherhood’s interest sounded in Jorani’s mind, and he realized this was what the old Healer had been after all along. Why though? Testing the waters, he asked, “If I want to leave, would you bring me back to Sinuji?”

The old Healer’s smile slipped, but he nodded without hesitation. “Certainly, though it would take some time to arrange. The journey is fraught with danger and not one we make often, for there is little of the outside world which interests us and the Precepts forbid us from leaving without good cause. You’d have to wait until an initiate is ready to take his vows and join the inner order before someone can bring you out, but it shouldn’t be too long. I hear there is a promising candidate in the Southern province, so a handful of years at most.” Which was plenty of time to convince Jorani to join, so unless he learned how to Cloud-Step himself in the next eight weeks, then he probably wasn’t going to make it to Ral’s wedding.

Sorry about that, big guy. It’s alright though, you got Chey and the bossman looking out for you. You don’t need old Jorani anymore...

Seeing him waver, the old Healer continued, “Regardless of your decision, you are welcome here for as long as it takes, but should you choose to begin your journey down the Eight-Fold Path, it does not mean you must go through with the vows immediately. You would become an initiate, much like your comrade Wugang once was, which has much less stringent requirements. All this entails is a simple vow of celibacy and poverty while you read scriptures and meditate on the teachings the Brotherhood presents you. Some remain initiates for decades before taking their final vows, and so long as you swear an Oath to the Heavens to never reveal our secrets, then you may part ways with the Brotherhood at any time you so wish.”

Having made his argument, the old Healer walked away with a smile leaving Jorani think things through. Since he didn’t have to cut his cock off right away and would lecture him regardless of his decision, then why not make the most of his time and become an initiate? Only then might he learn more about the division amongst the Brotherhood and maybe even discover what happened to GangShu and his minions. Taking a deep breath, Jorani almost made his decision before realizing he’d overlooked one, vital, important question.

The old Healer didn’t say if initiates could keep their hair, and one thing was sure: no one in their right mind could possibly think a smooth scalp with two floppy, rounded rat-ears was cute...

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2
