“I don’t know. We are way past the part of the map with the sea monster on it, Mr Secretary. Here be dragons. I will tell you that gods can affect each other in ways they can’t impact mortals, or vice versa. It is the responsibility of gods to manage their own. She could bend those rules to start a fight over who governs the Earth as its one true god.”

“If gods manage their own,” Michael said, “then why aren’t the gods of the other world intervening?”

The whole room flinched as Jason’s face twisted into a snarl.

“Something I intend to ask them,” he growled, before schooling his expression and taking a cleansing breath.

“I’d just like to say,” he continued in a normal voice, “that I’m glad you asked if I would be willing to become God. I know there’s a lot of contention being stirred up around me and what I’ve been telling everyone about the world and how gods work. That you would even ask that means that you understand the magnitude of what we’re up against.”

“I’d like to continue exploring the idea of you becoming the god of this world,” the Secretary said. “If that would help us—”

“It might,” Jason said. “Maybe. A little. But it wouldn’t stop her armies coming. And I would never do that. It’s suicide.”

“Suicide? You think she’d kill you?”

“She wouldn’t be able to kill me, but if I went full god, she could mess me up, assuming she wins. I could be left powerless and broken, like a long-running TV show that keeps going after the lead actor quits. But even if I won, I would then be bound to this planet which, a few billion years from now, will be a burned out, lifeless rock. That’s assuming the expanding sun hasn’t swallowed it entirely. As it stands, I’m going to live well beyond the life span of this planet, while any gods attached to it will not. Killing their planet is the one way I know to kill a god, but I think we can all agree that destroying the Earth to stop her is not worth it.”

The room fell silent, everyone staring at Jason. It went on for a long time until he flashed them all a smile.

“General, should we move on to the more detailed questions?”
