“Snakes hiding in the shadows, just like the original. I suspect at least ten,” Cora answered. “They aren’t very big, but they are supposed to be fast. They show up as green threats, so they’re probably still not venomous. They’ll be more annoying than anything, I think.”

That tracked with what I’d read on the forums. Aside from one mention of an extra spawn that showed up after the party cleared the room, this particular room was reportedly the same as it had always been.

The extra spawn was only reported by one party, and it apparently showed up when they’d been pushing it close to the nightly reset and rushed back to the safe zone.

Most commenters said the party must have either missed something or been mistaken, but the original poster was adamant that it was a new spawn. It also supposedly could fly, which did not match the room’s mobs at all.

I figured it was worth looking into if the timing worked out.

“Alright. Cora, make sure nothing sneaks up on us. Feel free to take out any stragglers, but try to keep your distance from the main fight so Emie can use her lightning freely.

“If things haven’t changed too much from before, the snakes should try to swarm us. If that happens, I’ll start off with an Earth Wave to knock them off-balance. Emie, I’ll want you to follow that up with a few bolts of lightning, if you can manage. Once they are stunned, we can move in and kill whatever is still alive.

“If for some reason they don’t swarm,” Mike continued, “We’ll handle them as they come. Any questions?”

Neither Cora nor I had anything to say, so we moved forward. The rogue slipped into the shadows and mostly disappeared into the surrounding trees while her husband and I remained on the path.

We made it about halfway across the room before the berry bushes along the path started shaking lightly.

“Get ready,” Mike whispered.

As non-venomous, low-level snakes, the mobs were no real threat unless we did nothing to defend ourselves and allowed them to whittle us down. In many ways, this room was safer and easier than most of the rooms on the first floor.

However, I doubted most of the brand-new delvers would see it that way. If they were anything like I was when starting out, the thought of a dozen or so snakes attacking would likely leave many of them shaking in fear.

I’d obviously gotten over my fear in the centuries I’d spent facing such creatures. That didn’t mean I enjoyed fighting the unsettling serpents, though.

The encounter went much as Mike guessed. He started by stepping toward the swarming snakes, causing a ripple of earth to rise and move outward like a wave.

It was more than just a wave, though. The stones churning along the crest seemed to almost grind anything that they came in contact with, making the wave particularly dangerous for small creatures incapable of escaping.

Though it was probably overkill, I targeted the largest clusters of injured snakes with a channeled Lightning Bolt before releasing the skill.

Mike and I didn’t move in immediately since there didn’t seem to be much to target, but Cora was quick to flit from one bloody pile to the next, ensuring every mob was dead.

The essence gains were negligible, which was about what I expected when defeating much weaker mobs and splitting the essence between three people.

“That wasn’t too bad,” Mike said, appearing pleased. “Let’s get these things looted, and we’ll take a break to absorb the cores.”

I felt a strange impulse to explore the room. I wasn’t sure why, but I felt like there was something there that I needed to find.

“Why don’t the two of you absorb all of the cores while I forage the room?” I suggested as I looted the nearest pile of bloody meat, turning something useless into a couple of cores, a set of needle-like fangs, and a copper bit.

“Are you sure?” Cora asked, looking uncomfortable with the idea.

“Yeah. You said we needed to find a balance between my foraging for materials and our progress. I’m already a few levels higher than the two of you, so this will give you both a chance to catch up a little while I see if there’s anything worth harvesting in the room.”

It seemed like a pretty good idea, I thought, even if I was getting shortchanged a little.

“I won’t say no to a bit more progress, but we’ll give you more of the loot to offset things,” Cora said. “We’d rather not feel indebted to you, if it’s all the same.”

I shrugged and handed them the cores I’d collected, accepting the non-core loot from each of them in exchange.

“I’ll keep an eye out, just in case,” I said. “The room isn’t very big, and I doubt Cora missed anything, but that way you don’t have to worry about something sneaking up on you while you’re focused on absorbing the essence.”

It wouldn’t take them long, so I quickly headed away from the path, cutting through the middle of the room, and started looking for anything that might be worth harvesting.

While there was plenty of flora, nothing stood out as particularly valuable. There was some grass that could be mixed with beast food to aid in digestion, but it wasn’t rare enough to bother harvesting. In fact, such plants were commonly found even outside of dungeons.

I moved on. There had been something to harvest in every room so far, so I wondered what this room had to offer.

I didn’t remember reading about any resources in the room, but just because they hadn’t been listed, it did not mean they didn’t exist.

I’d made it all the way around the room and was about to give up when something caught my eye. Among the fallen leaves that littered the floor of the dungeon, I could see several small, shiny objects.

“Is this…”

I crouched down, picking up the closest one.

“No way,” I whispered before my head jerked upward, allowing me to see what had been hidden in plain sight. “A Golden Oak. There’s a Golden Oak in the dungeon.”

Chills ran down my spine as I realized how lucky a find this was.

I quickly collected all of the golden acorns that had fallen from the tree. I didn’t bother trying to harvest anything from the tree itself since only the acorns that had fallen would be of use.

Golden Oaks were insanely rare, and almost every part of the plant could be used for one purpose or another. The acorns and wood were the most valuable parts, of course, but the bark, roots, and leaves had value as well.

I wanted it.

Though it was very clearly a young tree, I wasn’t sure it would fit inside the small area I’d allocated for the garden. I quickly shifted the layout of my demesne, making it so the space was no longer ‘Y’ shaped, but instead made one single line.

The proportions were all messed up, but I needed to hurry unless I wanted my new party members to see what I was doing and start asking questions.

Giving the center area more height to accommodate the tree, I put my hands on the trunk and pulled the large object and as much dirt as I could retain around the enormous root bed into my garden.

I quickly shaped the floor to create a bowl capable of holding the roots and dirt, aligning the tree itself so it looked like it was naturally growing out of the floor.

Not having time to adjust things further, I put the whole thing into stasis before rushing back to the path. Hopefully, nobody saw the hole before the dungeon reset.
