“To explain: Back in that first year and then second year after the ‘Last Shadow’s Feast’, the effect was minimal. I couldn’t even tell until now what you had done back then, when you hadn’t actually done anything at all, except for here, in the ‘distant future’.

“Of course there are likely countless realities where you failed and none of this growth happened at all. But here we are, in this reality, so I can only say that this one is the real one and all the other ones are imaginary.

“Moving on:

“And now we come to this Time Magic, when you actually learned Time Magic and then tried to make some more yourself. The first few tries were normal. [Hasted Shelter] or what have you. But then you tried for the higher tier Time Magics.

“The Script smoothed over both [Return] and [Onward]. It’s possible that you even flubbed [Return], though, and you shoved yourself all the way back to the beginning of your time on Veird; in the mana. No way to really know about that, because if you did, then you flubbed the consciousness transfer part of that magic. Maybe only your subconscious went into the past, and that directed all of your actions to this current future? I doubt this is the case, though. It was unnoticeable back then.

“The effects of [Onward] were similarly unnoticeable until now. I couldn’t even tell that you had flubbed up [Onward] until today. Here is how:

“The first evidence is that Benevolence is an Element with properties of Time, with the major duty to prevent disaster from now until forever. I believe you have always been Benevolence, but that you became your true self when you became Benevolence Itself, and that true self also went backward and forward through time, in order to nudge and poke events into the best possible order so that it would come into being. Backwards-capability is not within Benevolence’s currently established powers, but you are a Paradox Wizard, and those get all over the place.

“The second piece of evidence is that you’re not a Full Wizard yet. While you have been able to make spells like [True Resurrection], and all your various other smaller spellwork in the years since you cast [Onward], you haven’t been able to take that final step into Wizardry. This is because you weren’t fully here all this time.

“There are a few smaller bits of evidence here and there.

“And the last bit of evidence is this: I know. This little song you sang there in that dungeon was real, Erick. It had something to it that was not present in all the other songs you have sung over the years.

“Plus: Paradox Wizards always miscast something, somewhere in their history, and you were well overdue for a miscast.

“This [Onward] was your miscast. Perhaps because you didn’t know how to cast it properly because of the many, many nuances to Time Magic which weren’t explained to you because you’ve never needed them explained before, and you’ve never had formal study, or maybe you miscast [Onward] because you wanted to skip the last eleven years. I can’t really blame you for that last one.” Melemizargo said, “Personally, it was very frustrating dealing with you and your bureaucratic mindset. Yes, you were consolidating power and whatnot and that’s perfectly reasonable. But looking back on it, you were always asking me to ‘cut to the chase’ and saying that you couldn’t stay because you ‘needed to go do this-and-that’; running off and going back to work for two days every day. And you’re even having a real emotional response right now! See? You wouldn’t have had this before. This is you. You’re back. Welcome back from your fugue.”

Erick’s heart felt tight. His skin seemed dry and wet at the same time. His breath came out slowly and evenly only due to the many lessons he learned on the job as the Apparent King; to never show weakness—

“I remember everything perfectly, though,” Erick said, “There are no gaps.”

“It was a low-level [Onward] and you have a high Intelligence, and you were ‘in the flow’, as you say. If you had cast Mind Magic to get into the flow then the Mind Mages would have noticed it moments before I noticed it, but you did not touch that spellframe. Perhaps that is where the actual fault lay in your spellwork; you tried to include Mind Magic, when you have no capability with Mind Magic at all.” Melemizargo added, “Wizardry is dangerous, Erick, but when you screwed up, the whole world got eleven years of prosperity and stability, because, I think, you might have been ‘inside the mana’, as you say, and helping yourself and everyone else without even knowing it.

“You might have ‘pulled yourself out of yourself’ just enough to be everywhere your Benevolence was, which is something Creation Wizards usually learn how to do, but which you might have Paradoxed your way into, at least a little bit.

“And your failure was just what we needed, really, after I introduced the Dungeon Cores and demanded the Teleport Exodus. I’d give you a boon for that wonderful feat of near-Establishment magic, but as I have already said I’m not doing any real boons these days.” Melemizargo waved a wing dismissively. “Politics and all that.”

“But I was there,” Erick complained, disbelieving everything he was hearing.

“90% there. Maybe 40% during the boring parts.” Melemizargo hummed a little. “Maybe less— Oh!” He looked to the side. “Ah? Now what is she doing here?”

A portal to Springtime opened, all green and pink and white and whirling.

A little person stepped out of that [Gate] into Fairy. She was dressed in brightest jewels of every color imaginable, layered onto her like they were some sort of armored-business-suit-dress. Erick knew this one well, and he was glad to see her, though her timing was suspect. Her name was Gnowmi, and she was already smiling at seeing Erick. And then she saw Melemizargo, did a double take, and then gave a courtly bow to the God of Magic.

Melemizargo dipped his head.

Erick was surprised to see Gnowmi, but it was not an unwelcome surprise.

‘Gnowmi’ had popped out of creation when Rozeta relaxed the Bands of Intent of Elemental Fairy around five years ago. Fairy Moon had brought Gnowmi, along with the nine other recently revived fairy, out to a grand Presentation Gala, where everyone who was anyone visited, which ended up being a lot of people from the Fairy-side of reality, and also Erick. Events then happened, and Gnowmi had picked the name ‘do you know me?’, and then asked for it to be translated into some other language she did not know. After a small talk, Erick supplied her with a shortened name, in English. It was only after he was done naming Gnowmi, and seven other of the nine newest (oldest) fairies to be reborn on Veird, that he realized that he had named her ‘gnome’.

That particular naming had given Gnowmi a whole slew of expectations, from being an inventor and creator, to being very, very fast. In Erick’s opinion Gnowmi ended up a rather awesome person, and she loved her name, so there was no issue there. All of the new fae loved their English names, and even Fairy Moon was happy they were happy.

Gnowmi was the only fairy that Erick really interacted with these days, though, and then only once or twice every few months.

“Gnowmi?” Erick asked, unsure of her arrival into this particular meeting, though it was still nice to see her. “Does the Fairy Court have a request, or is this a social visit?”

Gnowmi stepped a single step onto the white stone, and out of the Springtime [Gate]. She seemed to be about business today. With a high voice, she exclaimed to Melemizargo, “Greetings, Melemizargo, God of Magic. I apologize for my impertinence for interrupting your talk. Please forgive.”

Melemizargo nodded a little bit. “It is of no trouble at all.”

Gnowmi gave a small bow again, and then she turned to Erick. “House Benevolence has contacted me to get into contact with you. There is something big happening, and you are needed.”

An icicle to the heart; that’s what those words were.

Melemizargo furrowed his brows then glanced to the air— “Ahh… Someone is trying to contact you. Ahh. I hoped to have some time... Well I will cut this short, since you’re going to come back here anyway. A few final things: I’m not removing my part of the seal until the others have removed theirs; that was the stated agreement and I’m sticking to it. We can talk more about Time Magic when you come back. You’re rather skilled with [Return], so there’s likely no problem there, but I suggest you don’t do [Onward] without the Script assisting you, for you might find yourself suddenly standing ten or twenty years down the timeline.”

Gnowmi’s eyes flickered in bright concern as she heard what Melemizargo said, and then she put together a lot of her own facts of the last several years. She rapidly believed that Melemizargo must have been mistaken, and so she turned her attention back to Erick.

Erick decided that the timeline-thing was a lot to handle right now, and that he did not need to be handling that at this very moment. Especially with something happening at House Benevolence that required them to ask Gnowmi to come get him. So Erick said to Melemizargo, “Good to see you, then, Melemizargo. See you later.”

Melemizargo smiled a little, and nodded.

Erick asked Gnowmi, “Will you be coming with me?” as he opened a white-lightning [Gate] to his throne room in the House—

As Erick looked on the other side, saw the gathering over there, he rapidly decided that he probably didn’t have time to spend with Gnowmi at all, talking about odd Fae Magic, or whatever. He was still thankful for her help in developing [Fairy Banishing] and a few smaller fairy spells, but he had only really given her record players and calculators and light bulbs in return.

And Gnowmi had already decided that she was needed elsewhere, anyway. “Farewell, Erick. We’ll get to work on more inventions eventually!”

Erick suddenly remembered Ezekiel.

He needed to introduce Gnowmi to Ezekiel, or perhaps his repro, Ezekiel, was already in contact with Gnowmi? Maybe not, though, if Gnowmi was asking about more inventions. Maybe Ezekiel just didn’t want to cloud the connections to Erick’s life?

“I have someone to introduce you to later, Gnowmi.” Erick simply said, “I’ll tell you something fun the next time I can. You’ll like it, I’m sure.”

Gnowmi smiled brightly. Then bowed and stepped backward into a suddenly-swallowing [Gate] to Springtime, and then she was gone.

Erick said to Melemizargo, “Farewell!”

Melemizargo nodded serenely.

And Erick stepped through the [Gate]—

- - -

—into a shouting match that had only stopped because of his presence. Or perhaps everyone here had seen Melemizargo on the other side of the hole in the world and that brought them up short, too. Probably a bit of both. With a mental switch, Erick shut the [Gate] behind him, popped out his horns, became the ‘Apparent King’, and studied the scene in his throne room for a leveling-glare moment.

Kiri wore a nice dress, and all of her was well put-together, with her [Familiar] Sunny loosely curled up around her neck like a boa. She was not doing well, though. Her emerald-scale face was haggard, and her shoulders were tense in an abnormal way. Not many people would have noticed that except for Erick and other people closer to her, but the room was full of ‘other people closer to her’, so a lot of people noticed.

Teressa stood near Aisha, the Overseer of Magic, the large orcol woman and the petite human-shaped celesteel wrought forming something of a bloc amongst the gathering.

Poi stood between Teressa and Kiri, but not directly between them, looking worried, but not overly worried. That was good. That meant that whatever this was had to be solvable. Not quite solvable on their own, though, or else they never would have sent Gnowmi after him.

And then there was Burhendurur. The incani-shaped Overseer of Enforcement had gone google-eyed when he saw Erick, as though he was embarrassed that they needed to call Erick in at all.

Volaro, the orcol-shaped Overseer of Law, and Raingorl, the Overseer of Wellbeing and the Chancellor of Candlepoint Arcanaeum, were both missing. That was rather normal for a ‘not everyone needs to be concerned about this’ sort of emergency. Mox, the Overseer of the Exterior, was also missing, though, so whatever this was… Well maybe Mox just hadn’t gotten here yet. A few other Overseers were missing, though, which was completely normal for them to be absent. The Overseer of Trade. The Overseer of the Council. The Overseer of Gate Expansion, who was a man by the name of Vixo and who had been Kiri’s secretary prior to his promotion. None of them were in attendance either…

One missing person should not be missing, though. Zolan, the Castellan of House Benevolence. A quick mana sensing found the man. He was downstairs dealing with—

Ophiel alighted on Erick’s shoulder, cooing in happiness as he said, “Welcome back, Father!”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye appeared before him, bright and iridescent white. “Thank you, Father, for doing what you are doing. I have seen it and I know it has been tough. Something came up though, as you can tell from the gathering here. That is why I asked Gnowmi to get you.”

“Ah. You called her. That’s fine.” Erick stood a bit taller. He nodded. “That’s one mystery solved, then. From what I’m seeing here, that decision to involve the fae was a controversial one?”

“It was.” Yggdrasil said, “I made the call, though.”

Burhendurur sighed a little; he would not scowl, but he was close.

Erick said, “Burhendurur; you are of the opinion that I did not need to be called?”

“The prognostication is several months out,” Burhendurur said, “We have a firm grip on the House and on the land and on the world. There are no disasters that go unnoticed, and we have noticed this one early enough to get all the way in front of it. Your presence is appreciated, but not needed at this time.”

Not a Wizard-level disaster, then. Something smaller. Something that was prognosticated. By whom? Erick would usually ping Aisha for a prognostication about something bad, but—

Erick saw Poi glance at Teressa.

So Erick looked to Teressa. “Summarize what you have seen.”

Teressa easily said, “I have Seen a problem down at Storm’s Edge—”

