Well, Erick had grown somewhat friendly with Melemizargo, too, over the years. There had been a lot less accidental murder or catastrophe when talking to the God of Magic these days, so he was easy to get along with, even though he was usually several buildings bigger than everyone else in the area. Which was fine, though somewhat awkward for most people not used to it.

But there were a few things Erick wasn’t sure about right now, that made all this rather questionable.

“Why do you think I went [Onward] for eleven years?”

Melemizargo eyed Erick, and lowered his head closer to the ground. “I am not insane, Erick. I know what I see.” He raised back up. “Never before on this lifeboat of a planet— I know what I saw, and I saw you, a few months after—” He paused. He said, “Tell me of the day you made [Onward] and the methodology you used.”

“… It was two months into the new year, after the Dungeon Exodus and the Teleport Exodus, and I wanted to get through some rather boring meetings with awful people faster than I was able to do so on my own, and I was facing down two solid months of Gate creation. So I took a break and worked on both [Return] and [Onward], the first to avoid the bad ends in those future meetings and all other future meetings, and the [Onward] to sort of ‘turn my mind off’ when facing months and months of routine runic creation.

“I had been toying with the functionality of both spells for a while, and while both spells are similar in creation, they are vastly different in their function. [Return] takes my conscious soul when I cast the spell and updates the me-of-however-long-ago, depending on mana spent, with the experiences of future-me, by melding my future self with my past self through my world-line. This is possible through mana’s general ability to ignore time, and, in my case, Benevolence’s easily-used Elemental-Time-adjacent properties.

“As for [Onward]...”

- - - -

Erick stood in his warehouse on Yggdrasil’s branches, staring at the job ahead of him.

He didn’t much care for what he was seeing. This was a task that needed to be done yesterday, and yet, he did not want to do this, at all.

The warehouse held a thousand thousand blocks of grey-black iron, ready to be transformed into intricate runework Gates, all while they were currently inside in the middle of a continuing, global emergency. You couldn’t just [Duplicate] a working Gate, though, or else Erick would have done that.

Runic webs required that magic be carved directly into them, and a copied gate did not copy over magic at all. There had been some experiments with [Duplicate]ing magical items long, long before Erick’s time, and Kirginatharp had all of that information with him, and he had shown Erick all of it. The long and short of it was that magic did not like to be copied, unless it copied itself, which the Propagation Ban stopped short. Shade Lapis had a suggestion, though it was one she didn’t believe Erick would take and it wasn’t one she was recommending, anyway.

Magic could be copied easily if one were to construct a living artifact to do this work. Such an artifact would include an undead arm capable of wielding a runic knife, a brain capable of doing a complex spellwork chore and not burning out from doing that chore, and senses enough to allow the arm to hold the knife and carve the runes.

Erick chose to ignore that ‘living artifact’ option.

He would have enlisted actual help, with real people, but that was a non-starter, as well. Stratagold and Tasar and Archmage’s Rest and Oceanside were all working overtime to get there, but Erick was the one with all the spellwork that went into these things. He couldn’t really offload half the job, either, because when you introduced multiple mages to a working, then you ran into the cooperative casting problem, and though [Renew] helped with that…

The tolerances for this job required that Erick do the work himself.

So instead, Erick focused on a different solution.

He had made [Return] about an hour ago, and it worked well.

Now, it was time for the other option. [Onward]; a spell framework that allowed the user to flash forward through a task, or for a set amount of time. The spell would allow Erick to get through work quickly, though time would still pass. If he did it well enough, then he could even use this magic inside a [Hasted Shelter], and that’s when [Onward] started to actually look like a good option.

Phagar had originally told Erick about both [Return] and [Onward] back at that first real lesson in Time Magic months ago, right before Erick had made [Hasted Shelter]. The God of the End and Time had told Erick that there were certain types of Time Magic that were easy, and others that were difficult, and some which were the realm of Wizards only.

Speeding up or slowing down localized time was easy enough. One just had to focus on Elemental Time in an area, and then drink deep in one way or the other; faster or slower. Elemental Time was already everywhere, after all, but by altering one's temporal rate of flow with that Time, time would alter accordingly.

Ophiel twittered in the air near Erick, humming an odd tune of guitar-string worry.

Erick smiled, saying, “Don’t worry, Ophiel. This is just me skipping forward. I won’t be going anywhere.”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye bounced in a worried-sort of way. “But you won’t be here.”

“I won’t be leaving long.” Erick said, “I doubt I’ll use this magic much at all, but it’s a part of the full set of Time Magics, and I need to have it, just to have it. I might be able to use it inside a [Hasted Shelter], too; Phagar was able to [Return] me inside the Feast Barrier that one time, on the day you were born. Normally Time Magic doesn’t play exactly well with each other, but it does work fine if you can work it well.”

“How does it work?” Yggdrasil asked.

Erick had Ophiels begin to hum in Elemental Time, as Erick explained, “[Onward] takes my consciousness and sort of ‘plucks me upward’ while my body and soul and everything else continues to operate normally. I’m here, but I also become unmoored in time, and when the spell ends, I come back to myself and a certain amount of time has passed without me really experiencing it. It’s more of a loosening of the soul and allowing the world to happen as it would, and less like actually trying to affect anything in a temporal sense. [Onward] is sort of like how you can walk through town from one normal location to another normal location in a routine-sort of way, and zone out while doing so.”

Yggdrasil asked, “Like when I’m sleepy, but still awake?”

Erick smiled. “Yes. Almost exactly like that. Your body is still growing and changing and working but you’re not really there. Now imagine if your body and your mind were there, and doing something, but you were not really there at all.”

“Subconscious?”

“Something like that. It’s a lot less complicated than [Return].” Erick said, “Because of the natural direction of the arrow of causality, [Return] costs about a hundred times more mana than [Onward]. Honestly, the ‘zoning out’ that [Onward] can cause is also easily achieved with certain drugs, or what have you.

“I’ve been warned that doing the magic that way is like putting yourself into a true fugue, instead of achieving the type of [Onward] where you can still work while casting the spell. So I won’t be doing it that way.

“A much better way to think of [Onward] is to think of it more as a ‘flow state’, in which all your goals become incredibly easy to achieve, and then suddenly they’re achieved.

“A third way to think of [Onward] is to imagine yourself at the point where you wish to end up, and then you cast the spell, and then you’re there.” Erick tuned Ophiel with his intentions as he spoke, and the little guy began to sing a happy song, and Erick felt as though a radio had come on and his favorite song was playing. He just needed to turn up the volume; he needed to actually cast the magic, and then the workday would pass him by. Before he did that, though, he said, “Please know that I’m still here, Yggdrasil, Ophiel. You can talk with me about whatever, but I do plan on doing this work right now. I’m just turning on the music and getting into the groove, okay?”

In a breezy sort of way, Yggdrasil sighed, saying, “Okay.”

And Erick turned up the volume.

A song that only he could hear played for him, and he began to move to the beat; shaping metals and carving them deep with his runic knife, time passing oh-so-quickly. One runic Gate was suddenly done, and then the next and the next; complete, complete, complete—

The music ended in a sudden record scratch.

Erick breathed deep as he came back to himself, halfway into the next Gate creation but having stopped at a good part to stop—

A blue box appeared.

Onward, instant, self, 1,000 mana + Variable

Speed through to the future by at least 100 Script seconds.

“That was like, ten minutes?” Erick commented to Yggdrasil, “That wasn’t so bad, was it, Yggdrasil?”

The room darkened a fraction and then brightened back up, as Yggdrasil flickered unsure colors outside the windows. “… It worked?”

Ophiel twittered unsure guitar strings, for he was also confused. Did the magic even happen?

“Yes, it worked.” Erick showed Yggdrasil and Ophiel the blue box. Ophiel didn’t get anything out of that, not really, but Yggdrasil did. The big guy’s floating white eye nodded a little. Erick said, “Now this time, I want you to talk to me, okay? I’m still here, so talk to me about anything at all.”

“… Okay?”

Erick cast the spell again.

A minute into his next Gate, Yggdrasil asked, “Is the spell active?”

“Yes, it is, Yggdrasil.”

“But you’re talking to me?”

“Please don’t treat this as me skipping out on you. Please treat this as me dealing with work, and then coming back to you and everyone else after the day is through. But just like when I’m at work, you’re able to give me a call anytime you want. Okay?” Erick replied cheerfully, as he finished the last line on a runic carve.

“… Really?”

Erick said, “Really. You can always talk to me, no matter what’s going on in my working life, or whatever.”

“I already knew that,” Yggdrasil said, perhaps defensively.

Erick grinned a little. Before he moved onto the next part of this Gate, he asked, “Tell me about your day? How was the fishing at Treehome?”

Yggdrasil was unsure at first, and then he began talking about scarlet kings and green lads and bright, bright golden darters, and about how he was moving around the river in order to make better habitats for all of them.

“I’m really glad you’re helping all those scarlet kings to grow up well and plentiful, Yggdrasil,” Erick said, as he continued to work on his Gates. [Onward] ended, and then he recast it, and said, “They’re such good fish.”

Excitedly, Yggdrasil said, “I found good one for you! He’s old and big! Ready to eat!”

Erick chuckled as he imagined the treat waiting for him after this Gate-making marathon, and Yggdrasil talked about anything and everything. Only one of his newest children was talking right now, but Ophiel was listening a lot.

Finally, when Erick was comfortable with [Onward], Erick told Yggdrasil that he needed to put up another [Hasted Shelter] and truly work to make these Gates happen faster. Yggdrasil suggested a [Hasted Shelter] large enough to house him, so he could continue to talk with his father, and Erick let him do that.

And so, Yggdrasil put a giant [Hasted Shelter] around all of himself at Candlepoint, including all of Erick’s warehouses, and he continued to talk with his dad for the next 24 hours, while Erick [Onward]ed through his Gate making.

At the end of that, Yggdrasil decided he hated having a part of himself inside the [Hasted Shelter], but that he really liked talking with Erick.

- - - -

“And I loved the whole experience,” Erick said, “I was there for the whole thing, but I was able to put myself into an [Onward] and get right into that flow state. I never really used the spell outside of those specific situations, though.”

And that was the full story, as far as Erick knew. Making those two spells had been about the only break Erick had had in that first year after the Teleport Exodus, and even then, that ‘break’ had been in order to allow him to work better; him and House Benevolence. He abused [Hasted Shelter] way too much… All the time, really. But especially back there in the beginning when everything was changing and people were dying the world over due to any number of factors.

Lack of food was a big one.

The Underworld did a lot better than the Surface, for the Underworld hadn’t had [Teleport] for a long time, but even then, the Underworld got shipping through the Surface, so it was a complete mess all the world over.

Erick added, “I have used and continue to use [Return] when the situation calls for it, but I never really had a use for [Onward] outside of making the grunt work go faster. Like, theoretically, I can see how I might have wanted to [Onward] through paperwork and many of the bureaucratic meetings I have had over the years that never really meant anything aside from giving people face by being there with them...” And then he frowned at Melemizargo, saying, “I’ve spoken with you tens of times since I made that magic and you never said anything about this before. That time with the Anarchy Wizard and quite a lot of talking afterward, and then there was the time you actually came to the Feast, in person that one year; we all talked then, too.”

Melemizargo listened the whole time Erick spoke, and then at the end, he said, “There were, and continue to be, many different discrete factors working in concert with each other in order to produce what happened there, with you traveling [Onward] to the current day. I’m not sure when, exactly, you came out of your fugue, except that you only really came back when you sang that spellwork there in that dungeon, but it likely started when Yggdrasil asked to be freed.

“Now I know what you’re thinking, and yes, you did sing to the mana a few times before now, so how do I explain that? We’ll get to that.

“When you created Benevolence, you Established many different things. A bit of how some of your spells work. A bit of how your [Familiar]s function. Etcetera. I suspect, based on how this whole situation with how you and I and Veird has gone, that, from the very beginning, you probably did a little bit of Establishment and other assorted magics to get to this point, and that includes [Onward].

