Erick flicked some runic workings in the wall, enacting some dormant spellwork that was layered into the throne room and was only now active. The bright sky beyond the glass dome turned suddenly black, and the only light in the room came from the wardlights set up all around the perimeter of the room, near the reliefs of trees that was the wall. It was a Privacy working, and it was rather perfect, except in specific ways to allow Yggdrasil and Ophiel and Sunny to operate without issue. No one outside this room would know what was happening in this room.

There used to be days when activating that spellwork would suddenly drop some hidden people out of the air, and onto the floor, or that a dozen [Scry]-eyes would pop. No [Scry]-eyes popped this time, though, and no unseen people fell out of the air.

Most everyone in the throne room had a reaction to the Privacy going up which was somewhere between relief and a solidification of worries. Everyone in that room knew what Erick had been up to, generally, in that ‘he’s down at Storm’s Edge’, but only Poi had any specifics at all. Yggdrasil obviously knew what Erick had been up to, too, for he knew about Soltic and Vanya, and he had some rather good long-range [Scry] spellwork, courtesy of Erick’s efforts with that magic years ago.

Teressa probably knew more than the others due to her prognostication abilities, which was probably partially responsible for the altercation that Erick had walked into. Mostly, this altercation was due to some people wanting to keep Erick out of it, and others wanting to draw him back in. Erick didn’t care about that altercation, though, but if something had caused Yggdrasil to act on his own like he did, then this was a big deal.

So Erick simply said, “Please continue, Teressa. Leave nothing out. Bring me up to speed on whatever happened, and then we’ll solve whatever happened.”

The tension in the room began to lessen, though Burhendurur was still embarrassed that House Benevolence couldn’t function without Erick—

A knock came at the door.

Erick checked who it was, and then he canceled the Privacy and let Zolan into the throne room. As soon as the pale-purple incani man walked into the room, Erick shut the door and activated the Privacy again.

Zolan did a double-take upon seeing Erick, and then he chuckled, and said, “You’re supposed to be on vacation.”

“Events ever conspire against me,” Erick said, and then he nodded to Teressa.

Teressa resumed, “Around noon, three hours ago, Archmage Wiloza Tidewalker enacted the Prognostication Clause of our Gate Treaty, asking about some people who approached the Regency looking to alter the dungeon system. Since we’ve been hands-off with Storm’s Edge, and especially since you were down there, I did that prognostication myself. Apparently, Wiloza investigated Soltic and Vanya for the past day, and she found dead end after dead end. She brought that paperwork with her, and I read it. She was rightfully worried based on what I read.

“And so, I did the prognostication. The exact wording of that reading is this: ‘Have them make the dungeon into a shelter. Devote the majority of the inner lands into a truly defensible location. Somewhere that all of Storm’s Edge can shelter inside, for there is a storm coming and it is not of Sinininidi’s make at all.’ And then came the big part: ‘The Grand Dungeon of Storm’s Edge must hold all of the life of the Archipelago, and more besides. It will be The Lighthouse, The Castle That Withstands All, The Vault In The Ground Under The Roots Of The World Tree, The Protected Cove, and more, and you, Wiloza Tidewalker, must make that happen. Through the Death that is yet to come, there will be life, or there will be nothing at all for you and yours when lightning lashes Storm’s Edge.’ And that was the full prophecy.

“The current timeline has this happening is between 6 to 9 months from now. The exact nature of the ‘storm not of Sininindi’s make’ is unknown.

“And now we’re here.”

Erick took a moment to think.

And then he said, “Here’s what we’re going to do. House Benevolence will make an overture to the Regency offering assistance. It will not be an offer, though. If necessary, it will be an action from us onto them, through the proper channels of the Gate Treaty, but it will be a unilateral action, if necessary. I would prefer to work alongside them, though. Inform them not to touch the dungeons until I have a chance to inspect them myself. I will be arriving in an hour, but until then, I will move an Ophiel into position around those dungeons as soon as possible, and if they should touch those dungeons, then I will be arriving earlier than declared.

“That hour is to allow me to talk to Sininindi and to get approval for visiting. If, however, she does not approve my visit, then I will be visiting anyway, and things might get diplomatically problematic.

“None of you are to speak of the truth of Soltic or Vanya at all. We will maintain that secrecy.

“And I will be solving this problem, personally.” This was actually really good, now that Erick had spoken the suddenly-made plan aloud. The prognostication was worrisome, but in the perfect case scenario, Erick could go down there, ensure that Quilatalap got his Grand Dungeon and that the city of Storm’s Edge supported Vanya’s work. And then Storm’s Edge and the Archipelago would be set to weather the coming storm, whatever that might be. Erick said, “And that’s the plan. As for the eventual prophecy, we’ve got time. Since the prophecy only speaks of the Archipelago it might not be a large event that would actually cause worry. Might be a Wizard, though, so Destiny will need to be contacted, soon. For now, we solve the problem in front of us. Zolan, begin the missives. Teressa or Aisha; one of you is coming with me to Storm’s Edge, alongside Poi. Everyone else is to maintain their work here. I will be talking individually with some of you soon enough.”

Erick canceled the Privacy surrounding the throne room. The glass dome brightened as darkness retreated, and soon, they were all standing under natural sunlight again.

People began moving, once again under the auspices of the Apparent King.
