Cale thought she looked rather constipated, personally. Graystalk tapped on his desk, and Cale turned his attention back to the professor, who arched a single brow at him.

"Introduction to the Standard Array is perhaps the single least respected class among the students of this academy," Graystalk said. "I have long accepted this reality. It has become a game, amongst some, to see how quickly they can get me to remove them from this class. The ones that stay do so largely because they believe that my approval will buy them status amongst the elves."

Whiteleaf looked rather ashen at that, and she wasn't the only one. A lot of the elves were murmuring among themselves now, alternating between staring at Cale and then at Graystalk.

"Allow me to ask you this properly, then, without my poorly-conceived preconceptions in the way." The professor gave Cale a smile so slight he almost missed it entirely. Cale was pretty sure this was his version of an apology. "What do you think of the Standard Array?"

"Uh," Cale said. Wow, Graystalk looked a lot better when he wasn't sneering. That was incredibly distracting. Stupid elves. "I don't actually know the full list of spells that are part of the Standard Array, but it's a set of basic spells that every mage is expected to learn before graduation, right?"

Graystalk nodded. "To be specific, they are first- and second-tier spells that were first shortlisted by the Orstrahl kingdom as a requirement for legal recognition as a full-fledged mage. Over time, as it grew and was iterated upon, the Standard Array became recognized and adopted over much of Utelia. The Gift itself seems to reflect this: any spell from the Array is particularly easy for a fledgling mage to learn, with each one only requiring thirty minutes to an hour of study."

"Huh." Cale took all this in as Graystalk steepled his hands on his desk, his gaze suddenly intent. "And that's supposed to make me think less of the Standard Array?"

"It has led many other mages to dismiss its importance," Graystalk said evenly, though once again, he didn't quite manage to hide the bitter undertone in his words.

"Oh." Cale was finally beginning to understand where all this was coming from. "That's kind of stupid."

The class erupted with whispers again. Whiteleaf, however, sneered—really, again with the sneering—and spoke up. "Graystalk only thinks the Array is important because he can't cast anything outside of it," she spat, her tone mocking. "He used to be one of our most respected clan elders. The Mage Killer, we called him. Then an archmage locked him down with a restriction curse. How do you think he got that scar? It's pathetic."

Cale stared at her. Whiteleaf looked genuinely proud of herself for saying those things; some of the students around her were nodding in agreement, and she looked at him like she was expecting him to agree, too.

"Wow, she's annoying," Cale said, turning back to the professor.

"Tell me about it." Graystalk rolled his eyes. "It has been rather taxing to pretend her wards were strong enough to keep me out."

Whiteleaf spluttered, but both Cale and Graystalk ignored her. They were pretty much focused exclusively on one another. "Mage Killer, huh?" Cale asked, raising an eyebrow.

Graystalk shrugged. "I am not proud of the title."

"Do you know the easiest way to kill a mage?" Cale asked, turning his attention back to Whiteleaf and raising an eyebrow. "It's not just about the tier of magic you use, you know. Mana control and efficiency matters. If two mages cast the same spell, they don't just cancel each other out—the better mage is going to win. And if you aren't casting the same spell, then nine times out of ten, the faster mage is going to win. How fast do you think a basic spell is?"

Whiteleaf stared at him, silent.

"Also," Cale added. "How bad a mage are you, exactly? Did you see the spells the professor used earlier?"

"That—those were basic alteration spells," Whiteleaf argued, though the students around her were beginning to look more attentive. "From the Standard Array."

"Yeah, except they punched through the Academy's wards like they were nothing, and he did them so quickly they might as well have been a single spell. Did you really not notice that?"

"That was—" Whiteleaf faltered. "Anyone could do that. He's a professor. He probably has an exception in the wards—"

Cale ignored her. He wasn't actually interested in whatever she had to say. More important was the way the rest of the class was reacting.

"Is he saying the Mage Killer was using the Standard Array to take down archmages the whole time?"

"Why did he retire, then?"

"I thought it was because he got the scar..."

Graystalk sighed heavily, though he didn't look upset. Instead, there was a new light in his eyes. "It seems I have misjudged you, Cale," he said. "I believe I owe you an apology. I assumed you were like the many students that look down on the Standard Array, but you seem to appreciate it for its strengths in combat, at least."

"Not just in combat," Cale said. "I mean, I get it. A lot of mages take magic for granted. But no one from the Astral Wing is going to look down on something like the Standard Array. Sure, it's basic magic, but do you know what basic magic means for us? I'd love to be able to make just a single flower bloom. Or light a candle.

"Right now, if I tried to do either, I'd probably grow a forest and then set the whole thing on fire. Which is awe-inspiring in its own way, don't get me wrong, but... there's a lot of magic in the little things, too."

There was no response. Cale waited for a moment, then realized the professor was staring at him with wide, watery eyes.

"Uh," Cale said.

"You actually understand." Professor Graystalk stood from his desk, walked over, placed his hands on Cale's shoulders, and stared straight into his eyes like he was searching for some sort of lie. When he found none, he threw his arms entirely around Cale and hugged him like he was some sort of lifeline.

"Um," Cale said again. He looked around helplessly. Was the professor crying? Everyone was staring at him, with the sole exception of Whiteleaf, who was glowering. She looked outraged.

Cale had a feeling he knew where this was going.

"I demand a duel," Whiteleaf snapped, standing up from her desk and almost knocking it over. "Standard Array restriction, since you think it's so special."

At the same time, a rather befuddled voice spoke up from near the door, with a sound not unlike two stones being ground together. "I... feel like I'm interrupting something?"

Cale blinked and looked over at the door. He'd forgotten there was probably another student arriving—whoever those bushes had been built to block, presumably. What he saw wasn't anything like what he expected.

It was a golem.

And it was...

"You're so round." Cale whispered the words like it was a revelation.

[Blabbermouth] has reached level 9!

Cale twitched. He really needed to stop doing that.
