"Then the Substrate is wrong."

The words landed with the weight of something Drake had been carrying for a long time. This was not rhetoric. This was belief -- the bedrock kind, the kind built on graves. Callum thought of the sixty-three names in Drake's journal. Thought of Marcus Morrison, who died on Day Three holding a line so civilians could cross I-94. Thought of the creed carved into the Iron Vanguard's founding charter: *What you earn, you keep. What you idle, you don't deserve.*

Drake's philosophy was mathematically wrong. Callum knew this with the certainty of someone who had spent four months watching the curves. Linear effort could not keep pace with exponential demand. The Barrier costs were accelerating. The Fracture surges were accelerating. Drake's approach would hold for months, maybe a year. Then the lines would cross, and no amount of personal sacrifice would be enough.

But the philosophy was not morally wrong. It was not even unreasonable. It was a belief that said: *the things worth having cost something real. Power should require skin in the game. If you automate the sacrifice out of survival, what's left?*

Callum did not have an answer. He had numbers, and the numbers were unambiguous. But numbers were not answers. They were measurements. And some things resisted measurement.

"I lost seven people on the factory floor," Callum said. The words came out before his internal filter could stop them. "The day the Emergence hit. I was running a time study. The Fracture opened a quarter mile away. I hid in a hydraulic press for nine hours while my coworkers died." He paused. "I didn't fight. I hid. And I survived because I was lucky, and they weren't. So don't tell me I don't know what sacrifice costs. I know exactly what it costs. I just can't afford to keep paying it the way you do."

Drake looked at him for a long time.

Then he nodded. Once. Not agreement -- acknowledgment. The nod of a man who had heard something true and chose not to argue with it.

"Think about it," Drake said. "You have a week."

He turned and walked toward the loading door. His boots rang on the warehouse concrete with the measured cadence of someone who had learned to walk under fire and never lost the rhythm. At the door, he paused.

"Your constructs are impressive," he said, without turning. "But constructs don't bleed. And in my experience, things that don't bleed don't fight hard enough when it matters."

He ducked under the loading door and walked into the morning light. His silhouette against the gray sky was the silhouette of the strongest man in Detroit -- scarred armor, greatsword across his back, the exhausted bearing of someone who had carried a city on his shoulders for six months.

Mira watched him go. She did not relax until his footsteps faded beyond the range of her Danger Sense.

---

The warehouse was very quiet.

Jin spoke first, because Jin always spoke first. "That was -- okay, that was terrifying. That was specifically and precisely terrifying. His power reading on my scout was like looking at the sun through a pinhole. I don't even want to know what his stat sheet looks like."

"98 Strength," Callum said absently. "94 Vitality. 1,338 HP. The highest physical attack value in the Detroit zone by a factor of three."

Jin stared at him. "How do you know that?"

"Loop Analysis can read publicly registered guild stats. His are filed with the Compact." Callum was staring at the Enhancement Construct, but he wasn't seeing it. He was running scenarios. *Drake gave me a week. Option A: join. Option B: cease. Option C: neither, and lose zone access.* Each option fed into his mental model and produced an output. Each output was unacceptable.

There was a fourth option. It had been sitting in the back of his mind since Vera had shown him what Condensing truly meant -- since she had looked at his compound loop through the Cartographer's Lens and told him that Condensing was not a reset but a compression. Since she had said: *The multiplier isn't a reward. It's the output of higher informational density.*

"I'm going to Condense," Callum said.

The words came out flat. Factual. The way he stated production estimates or Flux calculations. But his hands, resting on the workbench, were not steady. Pip's light flickered rapidly on his shoulder -- the familiar's basic status reporting interpreting his elevated heart rate, his shallow breathing, the cascade of stress indicators that the Substrate tracked because the Substrate tracked everything.

Mira crossed the warehouse floor. She moved with the fluid economy of a fighter transitioning from guard stance to engagement, and when she stopped in front of Callum, she was close enough that he could see the scar on her left forearm -- the one from her first week post-Emergence, the one she'd earned with a fence post and fury.

"You'll drop to Level 1," she said.

"Yes."

"Everything resets. Stats, skills, equipment lockout. You'll have the HP of a tutorial player. Anything in this zone that can kill a Level 20 will kill you in a single hit."

"Yes."

"The Vanguard will see a Level 1 in a warehouse full of constructs he can no longer operate and they'll --"

"That's why I need you." The words came out faster than he intended. More raw. The analytical filter dropped for a moment and what came through was simply human. "Both of you. While I'm weak."

Jin straightened on his cot. "Hold on. Hold on. You're talking about a full prestige reset. Level 1. In a zone where the ambient monster level is -- you know what the ambient monster level is. You're talking about being the most vulnerable person in the Detroit Barrier Zone for --"

"Nine days," Callum said. "I've calculated the re-leveling curve. With a 1.5x permanent multiplier on all gain rates -- which is the projected output of a first Condense at Level 25 -- I can reach Level 25 again in nine days. In two weeks, I'll be back where I am now. In a month, I'll be past where Drake is. And then I Condense again, and the multipliers compound, and the curve--"

"Callum." Mira's voice cut through his acceleration the way her blade cut through Flux bolts -- clean, precise, absolute. "Stop mathing and listen to me."

He stopped.

"Nine days," she said. "Nine days where you can't run. Can't fight. Can't operate your constructs because you won't meet the level requirements. Nine days where anyone who wants to shut you down just has to walk in and *push*." Her dark eyes held his. "You're asking me to stand between you and every threat in this zone for nine days. You're asking me to trust that your math is worth more than my instincts, which are screaming that dropping to Level 1 in a world that eats Level 20s is insane."

"Is it insane if the math works?"

"Math doesn't stop a sword."

"No. That's what you're for."

She stared at him. He held her gaze because looking away would mean something he couldn't afford it to mean right now. The warehouse hummed. The compound loop cycled. Somewhere in the Foundry District, a construct smith's hammer rang against crystal, the sound carrying through thin walls like a distant bell.

"Okay," Mira said.

One word. She said it the way she said everything -- fast, direct, without hedging. But there was something underneath it that wasn't fast at all. Something that had taken weeks to build, from the first day she'd walked into this warehouse and seen a skinny engineer running constructs that fought like drunk children, to the night she'd watched the Vanguard shut him down and decided she wouldn't let it happen again. Trust. Not the easy kind -- not the kind that came from shared experience or mutual advantage. The hard kind. The kind that required betting on someone else's certainty when your own told you to run.

"Okay," she said again, softer, as if confirming it to herself. Then, louder: "But we're doing this smart. I want a plan. I want fallback positions. I want to know exactly what happens at Level 1 and exactly how fast you get back. And if your math is wrong, Callum -- if you're off by even a day -- I will drag you to the Barrier by your collar and personally throw you inside the safe zone."

"My math isn't wrong."

"It better not be." She turned to Jin. "You in?"

Jin looked between them. His hands were shaking -- with fear or excitement, possibly both, the line between them thin in a nineteen-year-old who treated existential threats as optimization puzzles. "You're asking me if I want to participate in the first documented compound-prestige acceleration attempt in the Detroit Barrier Zone? With a Loopweaver running a feedback loop that the Substrate itself is apparently watching?" He pushed his glasses up with one trembling finger. "Obviously I'm in. Are you kidding?"

Callum felt something loosen in his chest. A tension he hadn't known he was carrying. He looked at the two people standing in his warehouse -- a sword saint who could kill anything she could reach and had chosen to protect a man she could out-fight in her sleep, and a college sophomore with a graphing-calculator talisman and a heart three sizes too big for his body -- and for a moment the optimization mindset flickered and what was left was simply gratitude.

He filed the feeling away. There would be time to process it later. Right now, there was work.

"First," he said. "We level."

---

The next forty-eight hours were a sprint.

Callum had three remaining skill points. He invested all three into Compile Familiar, pushing it to Level 3. The effect was immediate: Pip's flickering cursor-form brightened and stabilized, its golden light taking on a warmer hue. A new capability unlocked -- basic status display. Pip could now project a simplified version of Callum's thread status into his peripheral vision without requiring him to open the full System interface. More importantly, Pip could manage one thread semi-autonomously, adjusting minor parameters -- kill target selection, retreat threshold calibration -- without Callum's direct input.

```stat-screen
  Compile Familiar has reached Level 3!
  Pip — Compiled Familiar

  New Capability: Status Display
    Pip can project simplified thread
    status to user's peripheral vision.

  New Capability: Semi-Autonomous
    Thread Management (1 thread)
    Pip can manage basic parameters
    on one thread independently.
```

"Hey," Callum said softly, watching the familiar's new, steadier glow. "You in there?"

Pip chimed once. Not the warning chime from earlier. A clear, warm tone -- like a note struck on a tuning fork. Acknowledgment. Presence. Not language, not yet. But something that lived in the space between computation and communication.

"Good. We're going to need you."

He turned to the compound loop and began the push.

The Enhancement Construct's feedback cycle had been running for thirty-one hours since the Vanguard reset. Compound Growth was at 11.2% -- modest, but climbing. Callum rewrote the Sentinel's combat script with Script Engine Level 5, incorporating conditional targeting, enemy-type prioritization, and a retreat protocol that was surgical rather than panicked. The new script was nineteen lines of tight, efficient automation that squeezed an additional eight percent kill-speed from the Sentinel's combat pattern.

Jin contributed his summons. Chunk and Zephyr deployed alongside the Sentinel in the Rustbelt Flats, creating a combined formation that cleared spawns forty percent faster than either could alone. The Summoner-Loopweaver synergy Callum had theorized about was real -- Jin's summons operating inside Callum's optimized loop infrastructure created a force multiplier that made the math sing. Jin watched the combined output numbers tick upward and made a sound that was half laugh, half prayer.

Mira ran the Overgrowth. Physically. She spent twelve hours per day in the field, cutting through Tier 2 mobs with the focused brutality of a woman who had been told she had nine days to keep someone alive and intended to front-load the danger. Her XP flowed through the party bonus. Her kills fed the gathering constructs' material collection. Her presence in the zone deterred anything large enough to threaten the construct deployments.

The numbers climbed.

```stat-screen
══════════════════════════════════
  LEVEL UP! 22 → 23

  +5 Stat Points available.
  +3 Skill Points available.

  Allocation:
    +2 INT (72)  |  +2 WIS (75)
    +1 WIL (39)
══════════════════════════════════
```

Callum allocated without hesitation. INT and WIS, always INT and WIS, the twin engines of his idle architecture. The one point into WIL pushed his session duration higher, buying another twelve minutes of continuous operation before decay. He banked the skill points. No time for skill decisions now -- everything was about velocity.

The level-up rush hit him in the sternum like a warm fist. He'd felt it before, that familiar Substrate acknowledgment of growth, but it was different now. Sharper. More urgent. Each level was a step closer to 25 and the choice that waited there.

Fourteen hours later:

```stat-screen
══════════════════════════════════
  LEVEL UP! 23 → 24

  +5 Stat Points available.
  +3 Skill Points available.

  Allocation:
    +2 INT (74)  |  +2 WIS (77)
    +1 WIL (40)

  Compound Growth: +27.8%
  Daily Essence: ~14,200
══════════════════════════════════
```

Level 24. The number pulsed in his interface like a heartbeat. One level from the threshold. One level from the edge.

Callum sat on his cot in the blue-dark warehouse, constructs humming around him, and pulled up his full status for the first time in days. The numbers arranged themselves in his vision with the clean precision of a production readout -- except these numbers were him, were the quantified total of everything he'd built and everything he was about to risk.

