Sinful? Decadent? Hedonistic? The Wandering Inn was gaining a reputation as having some solid cooking. But that wasn’t what propelled the Drake [Guardsman] up the hill. He hadn’t even bothered to wait for the teleportation door to activate. Relc Grasstongue rubbed his claws as he pushed open the door.
“Oh boy. Oh boy. Ohboyohboyohboy—”
Relc’s partner, Klbkch, walked in through the magical door from Liscor a minute after Relc had arrived. The Antinium glanced around; Relc was already sitting at a table.
“Klb, get over here!”
Relc waved a claw excitedly. He was sitting at a table near the front of the inn. The Players of Celum were warming up on the stage, and some of the [Actors] and the regular guests were having their breakfast. Klbkch walked over to Relc and saw someone bustling out of the kitchen. Erin Solstice herself set down a big plate of pancakes on the table and a cup full of blue fruit juice in front of Relc.
“Here you go! Blue fruit juice, fresh! Hi, Klb! It’s great to see you! It’s been ages! Come in! What do you want to eat?”
“It is good to see you as well, Erin. I would like to inquire—are there any Acid Flies on your menu yet?”
Klb glanced at the cup Relc was lovingly caressing. Erin shook her head.
“Not yet. But we’ve laid traps, and I’ll let you know at once when we have enough.”
“Ah. In that case, perhaps a fish-based dish? I had a quite enjoyable fillet last time.”
“You know what? I think I have that exact fillet still in a cupboard. Drassi! Get that fillet and some condiments for Klbkch! Blue fruit juice, Klbkch?”
“Thank you. And perhaps a pitcher?”
Klbkch indicated Relc. Erin turned to look and saw Relc tilting his cup up. The Drake licked his lips.
“Blue fruit juice! I’ve missed this so much!”
He was nearly crying as he gulped down the sweet cup of juice. Erin nodded and waved an arm at Drassi. She turned to Relc, smiling.
“As good as you remember?”
“Better. Better. This is amazing. I can’t believe I went a winter without it. Hey, can I buy a flask of it or something for work? I’ll have a pitcher. How much is—aw. You upped the prices? Fine.”
Relc spotted the sign above Erin’s bar. She made a face.
“Sorry. Lyonette controls the prices. I can definitely get you a flask, though.”
“You’re the best. And these pancakes are great! You’ve got to try one, Klb!”
Relc stuffed half a pancake onto one fork and swallowed all of it in one bite. Erin watched with fascination; Klbkch deliberately averted his gaze.
“I am allergic to wheat-based products, as you may not recall, Relc. Although…my Queen did mention she removed my gluten intolerance after my last body was developed. Or didn’t she? I would have to ask her.”
The Antinium paused to think. Relc eyed him.
“You don’t remember what your current body does? That’s weird.”
“I did not qualify that as important information. Eating pancakes is not high on my list of priorities.”
“Because you’ve never had these pancakes.”
“Hm. Would they then shift my entire perspective? Very well. I will try one.”
“Hey! These are mine! Get your own.”
Relc protectively covered his plate. Klbkch stared at him. Then he looked at Erin. She beamed at him.
“It’s so good you’re back. Both of you.”
“That is a highly subjective and generous opinion. Thank you.”
“Yeah.”
Relc reached for his cup, which Drassi had just refilled. He drank half of it, sighed, and then, suddenly, looked up. He looked around the inn slowly, and then focused on Erin. And to her surprise, to Klbkch’s surprise as well, Relc put down his fork and looked seriously at the young woman.
“Thanks for letting me come for breakfast, Erin. Seriously. I won’t stay long. So if you need me to go…”
He glanced at the stairs. Erin followed his gaze and line of thought, and she blinked. She looked at Relc, then at Klbkch, who silently shook his head, and gazed at Relc.
“What? No. It’s fine, Relc. You’re free to be here. If…anyone has a problem, he can just eat in his room. But he said it’s fine.”
“Well, thanks. I appreciate it. And I really missed your cooking. It’s good stuff, these pancakes. I wish I could make them. Klb misses this place too.”
Relc gestured around at the inn. Erin stared at him, then smiled. She looked at Klbkch. The Antinium was eying his partner as if Relc were some strange new species.
“That is correct. I do appreciate the ambiance and cooking. Although, I have to point out that pancakes are not, by and large, considered high cuisine, Relc.”
“How would you know? You’ve never eaten them.”
Erin grinned. Klb’s antennae twitched.
“And you cannot cook them. Why is that?”
“Yeah, why? Pancakes are easy. I could teach you how to do them myself.”
The young woman looked at the Drake [Guardsman]. Relc grimaced as he filled his cup for the third time.
“I’m just no good, Erin. Believe me.”
“No one’s that bad, Relc. If I walk you through it—”
“I nearly burned down my kitchen last time I tried to make pancakes.”
Relc eyed Erin as he took a small sip from his cup. She blinked. Her eyes slid sideways to Klbkch. This time, the Antinium nodded. Erin digested this fact.
“Okay, no cooking. How are you so bad at it?”
“I dunno. I don’t eat at home. Why are you so good at it? It’s all oil and fires and stuff the moment you light a stove. I nearly died when I tried to make pasta last week.”
“How did you—? You know what? Fire hazard or not, I’m willing to take this risk. We can make pasta in the kitchen right after this. You, me, a healing potion on standby…”
The smile on Erin’s face was infectious. Relc grinned, and Klbkch smiled politely. But the Drake cast one eye towards the window and shook his head.
“I’d love to. Really, Erin. But I don’t think you want to build a new inn—although you’re sort of missing a third floor, so it wouldn’t be too bad. But I can’t either way. I have an appointment. Today’s actually the start of my days off. Klb and I just finished a night shift.”
He yawned as if to prove that fact. Erin raised her eyebrows.
“Wow. Maybe I should have served dinner. Fillet’s a dinner, though. What do you have planned after this, then?”
“Er…just hanging out with my kid. You know.”
Relc shifted in his chair. Erin gave him the blankest look possible until a light went off in her head.
“You mean, Wing Commander Embria? The Drake with the red scales? The one who’s really, really angry?”
“Uh. Yeah. That’s her. You’ve met her before.”
“A few times. What’s she like?”
“Good. Good. I, uh, well, we do this every week. Sometimes it’s hard to get the dates to line up, but it usually works out. She’s her own boss, at least of 4th Company, so she can choose her days off. And I—well, I’m going to meet with her after this. All day.”
Relc slowly bit into the second-to-last pancake. Erin studied his expression.
“Sounds like fun.”
“Yeah. Of course. Why wouldn’t it be? Do you, uh, want to come with?”
“Me? Or Klbkch?”
Relc hesitated.
“Both?”
The two looked at each other. Erin bit her lip. Klbkch was the first to respond.
“I believe that would be unwise. Your daughter has made her feelings about my presence very clear on fifteen different occasions.”
“Yeah. But she only says that. Come on, Klb, buddy. It’d be fun.”
“I believe that statement is incorrect on every level conceivable. And I do not believe Erin would have fun either. This is a prearranged time with you and your offspring, Relc.”
“Yeah. I don’t want to get in the way.”
“Right. She probably wouldn’t like that.”
Relc slumped into his seat and sighed. Erin looked from him to Klbkch. The Antinium was studying his partner. Erin coughed.
“So…I’m sure it’ll be fine. You’re her dad, right?”
“Yup.”
“Her actual dad.”
“Uh huh.”
“You’re her father and everything. You. Relc.”
“You keep saying that, Erin. Yes, she’s my kid.”
Relc looked up. Erin stared at him, unblinking, until the Drake looked down at his plate. He played with the scraps. Erin pondered Relc for a moment.
“So why are you trying to avoid her?”
The table fell silent. Relc silently ate the last of his pancake bits. He pushed back his plate and looked at the nearly empty pitcher of blue fruit juice. Erin stared at it, and then at him. The Drake [Guardsman] stared ahead. Then he shrugged heavily. His huge shoulders slumped.
“There’s not much to talk about. Or rather, we talk about the same things, Erin. That’s all. It feels like a pain for her to do this every week. I don’t think she likes me that much, honestly. Can’t say I blame her.”
“Then why does she do it?”
“I don’t know. Duty? She’s big on duty. Which reminds me. I’d better not be late. Thanks for the juice.”
Relc stood up. He fished in his belt pouch and put down some coins. He pointed at the pitcher.
“Can I get a flask to go? Later? Sorry, but I should go. I’ll come back later for dinner if I’m free. Or pick it up after. Thanks for the meal, Erin. It was great.”
“Sure. Uh, good luck!”
Erin raised her voice. Relc was already heading towards the door. She stared at his back as he pulled open the magical door and vanished. Then she looked at Klbkch.
“That was weird. What’s that all about? Has he been like that every week?”
The Antinium nodded absently.
“Their ongoing arguments have featured heavily in Relc’s conversations with me. I gather that she wants him to rejoin Liscor’s army. He refuses to. Hence the quandary.”
“Oh. Do you think…”
Erin trailed off. She stared at the door through which Relc had gone. She half-rose, and then seemed to decide to sit. The table was quiet as Klbkch pushed back his empty plate. After a minute, he looked up seriously at Erin and opened his mandibles.
“After due consideration of the risks, I will have a pancake after all, Erin. What is the appropriate amount of syrup and butter?”
The young woman blinked. And then she beamed, Relc temporarily forgotten.
“Klbkch, you’re in for a treat. Drassi! Butter and syrup on the side! Pancake for Klbkch! Hey, wait. Do you know how to make pancakes?”
“The desire to create a pancake has never occurred within me in my entire life.”
“Today’s your lucky day.”
“Apparently?”
 
——
 
Liscor, in the morning, the real morning in which most people got up, not just the eternal early-risers, was busy. The city was in the midst of late spring. Life was blooming across the continent. And excitement abounded.
On the streets, Lism and Krshia’s supporters engaged in shouting matches in the early morning. The Drake [Shopkeeper], severely on the back foot after the drama of yesterday, tried to make his case to a city full of people. The 4th Company marched. But so did the Antinium. And the giant who led them attracted every eye.
There was something to see everywhere. In her inn, Erin tried to teach Klbkch and Mrsha how to make pancakes. In her inn, Lyonette stopped a fire. Three times. In her office, Zevara got some very irate [Messages] from a lot of cities. And the High Command. Olesm got back with Pisces from a night in Pallass and an adventure involving a [Librarian] to find out…everything…had changed. In her shop, Octavia paid the protection fee and sat under her counter. Her shop was closed.
And among it all, two Drakes met on a small street outside of an apartment. Theirs was not an important, exciting event. It was quiet. In fact, neither one said anything for a second when they met.
He was big. Not just tall; he had height, but the impression he gave was of musculature, not stature. His scales were light-green.
She was shorter than him, but only by a bit. And she had muscles, but she didn’t give off the same impression. If her posture and body indicated anything, it was her profession. He slouched; her back was straight as the spears that neither one carried at the moment. Her scales were crimson, vibrant.
Neither Drake looked particularly comfortable out of their gear and in casual clothing. And their idea of casual clothing was…Relc stared at his daughter’s cream-colored tunic and leggings. She eyed his slightly syrup-spotted front and worn clothes.
“Hey.”
“Good morning. You’re late.”
Relc started guiltily.
“Oh. Sorry. I, uh, had breakfast. At The Wandering Inn. Uh, how was your day? Just get up?”
He smiled hopefully. Embria eyed him. Her lips did not feel the need to reciprocate the smile.
“I’ve been up for a while.”
“Really? Doing what?”
“Morning training. Or have you forgotten?”
“Uh…”
Relc scratched his neck-spines. Embria stared at him silently. When he didn’t respond, she jerked her head challengingly.
“Never mind. Let’s go. Do you have anywhere you want to go today?”
“I could go to a few spots. I have some shopping to do. What about you?”
Relc trailed after Embria. She shook her head and slowed down to accommodate his amble.
“I’m free. Where to?”
“Market—no, wait, that’s probably crowded. Let’s go to the [Trader]’s stalls.”
“Fine by me.”
The two proceeded along the street. It wasn’t anything like the quick march that Embria was used to, and she kept stepping too fast for Relc, whose leisurely stroll sped up for her. The two Drakes glanced at each other and both sought for conversation topics. Relc was first.
“So. Heck of a thing. These elections, huh?”
“They’re something. You aren’t for them, are you?”
The younger Drake eyed her father. Relc held up his claws.
“Hey. I’m staying out of it. I’m surprised Captain Z backed it, to be honest. She usually says the Watch should stay out of politics.”
“I’d like to know why she’s trying to push for the elections myself. I understand what she wants, but is this the way to do it?”
Relc gave a shrug that was the opposite of eloquent. He gazed at Embria.
“So…I heard you were marching for that Lism guy. The army’s not for the elections or Krshia, huh?”
Her regular pace faltered a beat, and then picked up.
“I had orders. From High Command. I’m carrying them out. You know how it is.”
“Sure. Sure.”
Embria coughed.
“…If I had the choice, I wouldn’t be involved at all. But I have to do my job. And Shopkeeper Lism’s right. I’m not saying I disagree with the idea to expand Liscor, but having Antinium aid…did your partner tell you about his Hive’s plans, by any chance?”
She glanced swiftly up and to the side. Relc smiled crookedly.
“Klb? He doesn’t tell me anything. Well, usually. These days he complains about his subordinates. Pawn and the others. But he doesn’t talk about stuff like that. Suits me.”
“And it doesn’t bother you? His proposal?”
“What? Paying for more buildings in exchange for making the Hive bigger? Works for me.”
“But they’ll expand the Hive.”
