“That’s right. I’m back home on duty. I haven’t been back to the city in…years.”
The Gnoll’s gaze sharpened.
“Of course, the army hasn’t. But Liscor is pleased to have the army back defending us, yes? Your company saw fighting during the siege.”
Embria nodded, surprised. Not everyone gave them credit. But the Gnoll’s smile seemed genuine. He gestured to the menagerie. Relc was going from pet to pet, and he was popular with dogs. Not so much with the cats, who flipped their tails up at him.
“Do you wish to see the animals? You need not buy them; they enjoy a good scratching. And, ah, is your father serious about a dog? I have had a number of odd questions from him, yes?”
The Drake smiled ruefully.
“Sorry about that. I don’t know if he’s serious. I like cats and dogs. My dad—my father prefers dogs, though. He doesn’t get along with cats.”
She pointed. Embria turned back to see Relc glowering at a cat perched at head-height. The cat was hissing at him. Relc hissed back.
“Bleh. You want some? Bring it.”
That was the wrong move, apparently. The cat leapt and slashed at Relc’s extended tongue. The Drake staggered back, howling. Elirr sighed. Embria covered her face.
“That cat slashed my tongue!”
Relc’s first reaction after a drop of healing potion had been used was outrage. Embria put her claws on her hips.
“What are you doing, picking a fight with a cat? And how did it injure you, anyways? You’ve got two defensive Skills for your scales alone!”
“My scales, not my tongue!”
Relc moaned. Elirr was apologetic.
“I’m afraid Miss Twekla is also a bit more dangerous than the average housecat. Which is already a bloodthirsty murderer. She’s trained to kill pests, and her claws are sharper than normal. Please don’t tease her.”
“Do you sell cats for stew?”
The Drake glared at the cat. Miss Twekla hissed at him and leapt out of Elirr’s arms. She disappeared among her friends. The Gnoll shook his head.
“No one eats my animals. Or dogs in Liscor. Or cats. Unless they poop outside the litter box.”
He eyed his charges. They looked innocently back at him and raised their backsides, as if for inspection. Embria had to laugh. Elirr shook his head.
“I wonder how much they do know—Guardsman Relc, do you want a dog? You’ve seen all the ones I have, although I could hold any puppies that are birthed. It is a chore training them, but they are lifelong friends, yes?”
He looked at Relc. The [Guardsman] looked like he was seriously considering it.
“Maybe. You know, it’s a big thing, but I could see myself having a dog.”
“Oh come on, Dad.”
Embria was exasperated. She poked Relc in the side, eliciting a yelp. He looked at her, and she folded her arms.
“You’ve never had a pet. And you’ll forget to feed the poor animal. You don’t need a dog anyways; you can barely spend one day out of the week with me.”
“That is a consideration. Hrr. I do ask that my pet owners be able to care for their animals. If you weren’t taking this dog with you on patrol, it would be an issue.”
Elirr bent to pet one of the war hounds that had wandered up. Relc bent to pet it too.
“Yeah, well, I wasn’t going to leave it alone. I guess I have to ask Klbkch for his opinion. But he likes animals. I think. In theory. These are good dogs, though. Right? You hate cats, don’t you, pal?”
The dog panted in agreement. Embria had to smile. Relc cast her a side-ways glance.
“Why don’t you take one, kid? You could raise a dog yourself. Worth a shot?”
Elirr looked up hopefully. Embria blinked at the dog, who had rolled onto its back and revealed that it was a he.
“I do have good hounds trained in a number of roles, from tracking to combat, Wing Commander. Even cats who can pull their weight in adventuring teams, believe it or not. Birds…”
Embria cut him off with a polite, apologetic smile.
“I’m sure, Mister Elirr. But I’m afraid that we’re not allowed pets in the army.”
She saw her father frown. Relc leaned on a counter, accidentally pushing a cat off the side. He ignored the yowl of hatred.
“Commander-ranks are. Getting a cat would be weird, but you could get a war dog instead of me.”
“No. I really don’t think it’s a good idea.”
Embria straightened. She would have loved to pet the dog more, but she had a sense that Relc was about to be attacked by a bunch of cats if he stayed any longer. Elirr nodded, but Relc was insistent.
“Why not? They’re good company. You could get one that can bite legs off. One of those super-big ones, the size of wolves. Or a Carn Wolf. Can you train those, Elirr?”
“Not unless you’re willing to pay the food bills.”
The Gnoll muttered. He lifted up a small terrier and offered it to Embria. She hesitated. The Gnoll’s smile was welcoming. But then Embria closed her eyes.
“Animals die in battle first. I’m fine. Thank you, Mister Elirr, really. But I can’t.”
And that was that. Elirr nodded. He gestured to the shop.
“If you would like to stay, feel free. The animals do like company, and I can’t be everywhere. Just, please. Don’t keep the doors open. The cats like to think they can come back whenever they please. They’re incorrigible.”
Much to Embria’s surprise, she did stay for half an hour longer, to inspect some birds with Relc and watch as a cat projectile-urinated on him from above. After Relc had sponged off the worst of it with some water, they left the shop. Two cats followed them out; Relc tossed them back inside. He grinned at Embria, and she smiled back. Relc pointed down the street.
“Hey. You want to get lunch? My treat. I want to show you a cool drink.”
“Sure. But if it’s that blue fruit drink you’ve been harping about…”
“What? No, no. Yes. Come on. It’s great, I promise.”
Relc led the way down the street. Embria followed him, a step behind now. She saw Relc humming to himself, pleased as could be despite the dampness on one shoulder. She stared at his swinging arm, and then her own.
She looked at her claw. It twitched. Embria looked ahead at Relc’s claws. She reached out hesitantly. Then she lowered her arm.
And she followed him down the street without another word.
It was just a memory.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn had a lunch crowd. In fact, the lunch crowd was big. Apparently, there had been a near-fire, but only the inn’s regulars were disappointed they’d missed that. The rest were here to debate the ongoing election issue. It seemed the Council would be forced to vote on it! And what if they voted no?
Embria and Relc sat removed from it all. They were having lunch, and Embria found herself enjoying it. The blue fruit drink was indeed blue, and such a vivid color that she was immediately uneasy about it. But the taste was as sweet as Relc had claimed, and Embria found herself drinking it with a will. Although she did water hers.
The two were having a slice of Erin’s pizza, another novel taste. Embria picked apart her first slice, then watched as Relc devoured two in quick succession. She had to admire the utilitarian nature of the slice, and even the Players of Celum performing in the back.
“They’re getting better. They’re not nearly as good as the original crew, but this new cast is doing all kinds of fun stuff. They even let you perform some of the roles as the lead while the others do a scene some nights! It’s great!”
Relc was clearly happy to watch the performers on stage. It was all Drathian to Embria, but she listened to him talk about a number of ‘plays’ that made no sense to her. He pointed at the blue fruit juice as she helped herself to another cup.
“You like it? It’s good, right?”
“I do like it. Thanks for dragging me here. It was your first good idea today.”
Embria slyly looked at Relc over the brim of her cup. He mock-bristled.
“Hey! I have plenty of good ideas! Just ask Klb! Not cooking was one of them. You see those burn marks?”
He jerked his thumb towards the kitchen. Embria had to agree.
“Okay. The puzzles were interesting. I had no idea you liked those. Honestly, though. A dog? How long would you keep one for before it died or ran off?”
Relc looked embarrassed.
“It was just a thought. I thought it would be a fun pal, you know? I wouldn’t mistreat it.”
That was…true. Embria had to admit, she couldn’t see Relc deliberately neglecting a dog, or even forgetting to feed it really. A fish? Definitely. A cat? Probably on purpose. But not a dog. She hesitated. Something about it did bug her, though.
“You don’t need a dog. I don’t need a dog or a cat. Or a pet. They’re a distraction for me, and if you got one, it would get in the way if—”
Too late. She bit her tongue. Relc’s convivial gaze sharpened.
“If what? If I…rejoin the army?”
Embria didn’t reply. She was gripping her leg with one claw under the table. She shouldn’t have said it. But it was too late now, and Relc was glowering.
“Yeah, I guess I wouldn’t be allowed a pet, being a lowly [Sergeant]. If I rejoined the army. Which I won’t. Although, now that you mention it—it sorta seems shitty, doesn’t it? No pets, no regular days off, fighting and dying without coming back to Liscor and forgetting all your old friends—hey, it’s almost like there’s more to life than fighting and nearly dying every week.”
He glared at his drink. Embria folded her arms, feeling a spark of indignation flare up in her chest.
“I didn’t bring it up once. That was an accident. You don’t need to bite my tail off.”
“Oh, sure it was. But you keep thinking it’s going to happen, don’t you? And I didn’t see you turning your tail up at any of my hobbies. What’s wrong with them? I’m retired, kid.”
“I didn’t say they were—Senior Guardsman is not retirement, father.”
A note of heat entered Embria’s tone. Relc’s was already as hot as the fireplace. It wasn’t that this was coming out of the blue. It was continuing a discussion—an argument—a quarrel, that they’d had week after week. Both knew what was coming. Both couldn’t stop it.
“It is for me. I’m never going back. Stop suggesting it. Why do you keep wanting me to, anyways? It’s not like I was ever more than a [Sergeant]. That’s nothing in our army.”
“You weren’t just a [Sergeant], and you know it. If you asked—”
“They’d welcome me with a huge banquet and give me a crown? Fat chance. You think it’s great being in the army? Who’s got you marching up and down for Lism, huh? Fun job, that.”
Relc slowly drained his cup. Embria pushed hers back.
“I won’t have you insulting my home. The Antinium deal is idiotic, and you know it. Liscor needs to make the right choice—”
A claw cracked the pewter cup.
“What would you know about the right choice? You haven’t been back in years! The army doesn’t know what Liscor wants or needs! And you don’t know the Antinium!”
“I know more about the Antinium than anyone in this city! You’re mad if you think they can be trusted, and that includes your so-called partner!”
Embria raised her voice. No—it had been risen. Relc stood up amid the localized silence. He pushed his chair back, tossed the shards of the mug onto the table, and glanced to one side.
“Sorry about that, Erin. I’m going to the outhouse.”
He turned and walked out of the inn. Embria looked to one side and saw that everyone was staring at her and her father. Including the young woman sitting at another table, feeding a Gnoll bite-sized morsels of pizza. Embria colored. But Erin Solstice came over. She stared at the shards of the mug on the table.
“Huh. He drank everything before cracking the mug. Cool, cool. I can respect that. Uh…hi. Embria, right?”
“That’s right. You’re Erin Solstice. We’ve met.”
Embria recalled their first meeting. So did Erin. The [Innkeeper]’s mouth twisted slightly, but then she looked over at Relc’s place.
“Um…so. Relc’s your dad.”
Embria sighed. She was already predicting the flow of this conversation.
“That’s right. He is. I know he’s…young. Compared to how old I am, at least. He was young when he joined the army. And my mother—I’m sorry about the shouting.”
Erin waved a hand.
“Don’t worry. ‘S cool. There’s been a lot of shouting all day. And screaming. And fire. People are really upset about the election thing, right?”
“That’s only part of the issue.”
The Wing Commander was glad it was hard to tell when she was flushing. She picked at her last slice of pizza. Erin studied it.
“Yeah. I gathered. Well, I don’t know the whole thing about the army and so on, but I know Relc. So—my condolences. Want another pizza? Or a burger? On the house. We also have alcohol. Dark lager.”
She waggled her eyebrows. Embria looked up sharply.
“What do you mean, my condolences.”
Erin raised her palms innocently.
“Oh, nothing. Nothing…but he is Relc. He can sort of be a jerk without trying sometimes. And he’s a goof—he makes mistakes, he’s rude, unhygienic…I can see how it’s hard. Y’know?”
She gave Embria what might have been meant to be a commiserating look. It failed. Embria controlled her temper, which had sparked up in her gut. She fixed Erin with a stare.
“No matter what you might have heard, Miss Solstice, my father is a Senior Guardsman. I hope you give him the dignity of his rank? I’ll remind you that Sergeant Relc has served Liscor’s army and the city for over twenty years. He’s entitled to his faults, and I didn’t hear him pointing out yours just now.”
“Well, of course. I didn’t mean he was bad. He’s changed a lot! Improved! I just meant—”
Erin began to stammer as Embria got up. The [Commander] stepped back from the table and fished for money. She slapped down some coins and walked towards the door—at the precise moment Relc, looking annoyed but also relieved, walked back in. He stopped, staring at her.
“Where are you going?”
“Out. I’ve just insulted your [Innkeeper] friend. I don’t think I’m welcome here.”
Embria mumbled, wishing she could reduce the heat in her cheeks. Relc stared at her face, and then over Embria’s shoulder.
“What? You didn’t get along with Erin? Everyone likes Erin. What got under your tail? Besides me, I mean.”
“Nothing.”
Embria snapped back. Then she caught herself. She shook her head despairingly at the blank, exasperated look on Relc’s face.
“Nothing. I’m just done. Sorry I brought up your past, Father. Have fun with the play.”
“Hey, I thought you wanted—”
Embria walked past Relc before she could say something she’d regret. She did anyways.
“We don’t need to keep this up, Father. You’ve got your life. I’ve got mine. I’m going back to work. I’ll see you next week.”
