“And Captain Z will double the Watch. We could probably use both, after the siege. Right?”
Embria opened her mouth to respond. After a second, she closed it and kept walking. The two walked down one street and then the next. They passed by arguing Drakes and Gnolls. Embria eyed them. She looked twice when one of the Drakes threw a punch and a Gnoll raised a fist.
“Shouldn’t you stop that?”
Relc picked at his teeth.
“Off duty. Besides, it’s just a fight. Long as there’s no blades, it should be good. It’s healthy to punch things. It was like this just a bit ago, remember? When that Numbtongue guy entered the city?”
“I remember.”
The tone in Embria’s voice passed Relc completely by, or he ignored it. He nodded. Then he brushed at a crumb on his front and brightened.
“I tell you, though, it was good being back at the old inn. Ever since that thing with the Goblins, it’s been hard to visit. I think she’s forgiven me; she didn’t throw a knife at my head, anyways. Breakfast was good.”
He smacked his lips together absently. Embria just looked at him.
“You mean, during the siege?”
Relc paused. He looked at Embria, and the two shared a long glance. After a second, he kept walking and shook his head.
“Oh. Well, that too. I meant the first thing with the Goblins. And the other thing with that small one. Rags or something.”
“What thing? Rags?”
“The first time I killed some Goblins. Cut their heads off. Erin really didn’t like that. The second time—I was sort of a jerk to a little Goblin who always came in. Erin kicked me out after that. I didn’t really go back until recently. Haven’t gotten into a fight this time, and I’m trying not to. They’ve got blue juice there now.”
The Wing Commander stared at her father. She opened her mouth, then closed it and sighed. The worst part was that she could decipher some of what Relc had just said from previous anecdotes.
“Why do you want to go there anyways? A Goblin-loving—what’s that inn got to offer that the Tailless Thief doesn’t?”
Relc looked surprised.
“Besides price? Besides the free plays, which are awesome and the really good food? That, uh, Peslas guy who runs the Tailless Thief just serves Drake food. Erin serves new stuff, and really good stuff. I love it.”
He licked his lips. Embria smiled.
“You do like to eat. But why not cook it yourself? You could probably get the class.”
“I can’t cook, kid. You know that.”
“Still? How long has it been?”
Relc counted on his claws and then shrugged.
“I just can’t get a hang of it. But I do have hobbies.”
“Like…?”
“Well, here we are.”
They’d turned down another street during the course of their conversation onto Trader’s End, but not the ritzy section with the highest-leveled spaces.
This part of Trader’s End was filled with more [Traders] than anything, and you shopped here if you had less of a budget. At least this street was mercifully free of the arguments enveloping most of the city. Relc explained eagerly as he took Embria from stall to stall, clearly searching for one in particular.
“I tried gardening. Didn’t work out. But I’m into these puzzle-things. They’re—oh, look! There they are!”
He pointed excitedly. Embria saw one [Trader] had a display full of…she could only call them rejected [Blacksmith] pieces. Pieces of bent metal, odd shapes, some made of wood, some metal, a few decorative, but all very, very strange looking. They weren’t decorations. And as Relc showed her one excitedly, Embria saw they were meant to come apart. Only, it was the doing that would be the challenge.
“Take a look. I’ve got like six of these, and I work on them during my patrols. And at night. And when I wake up. See? I know this one by heart.”
He had a tiny pair of what looked like bent, intertwined wires in his claws. It was two parts, joined at the center with a tiny little gap, but the two pieces of wire were twisted so that it seemed you’d never get them apart. But Relc confidently held the puzzle up by one claw. He flicked the little wire puzzle expertly, and the connected pieces flew apart.
Embria blinked. Relc caught the piece before it could fly off and joined them together in a moment. He turned to the [Trader], a Gnoll with spectacles, who looked approving.
“Not bad. You’ve done some beginner puzzles, hrm?”
“I’ve done advanced and even expert ones. Do you have any of the Wistram head-scratcher puzzles? The last female [Trader] who was in said sometimes you have the really complex ones.”
The Gnoll grinned as Embria picked up the pieces of wire, bemused.
“I’ve got a few very hard ones. Would you like to see?”
“Yes! Ooh. Oooh. How much is that one?”
As the Gnoll brought out some of the ‘special’ puzzles from below his counter, Embria gazed at her father and then the puzzle she was holding. She stared at the puzzle and tried to copy what Relc had done. But when she flicked it, the little wire pieces just spun around without separating.
Frowning, Embria tried to figure out how the two pieces were supposed to disconnect—the gap didn’t seem large enough, but maybe if she twisted it so the thin side was going through…no, that didn’t work…why had he flicked it?
She was so engrossed in the puzzle that she didn’t notice time flying by. Or the Drake who suddenly appeared behind her.
“Embria?”
The Wing Commander turned. She blinked down at a shorter Drake, around her age—no, slightly younger. She had bright yellow scales and a huge smile. The Drake beamed at her.
“I thought so! Only one Drake I know has scales like yours. Embria, hi! It’s me! Drassi! Remember me?”
“Um. Hello?”
Embria stared blankly at Drassi. The Drake wasn’t familiar to her, but she acted like she was. She peered at the puzzle Embria was holding.
“I didn’t know you were into those metal puzzles! They’re really hard. But there’s an entire group of people who love to solve them. Especially the magic ones. Apparently even Archmages get stumped with some! I’m not one for puzzles myself, but I hear [Thieves] like them too. Say, Embria, how has it been? I’ve seen you about, but you’ve always been on the job, and we never had a chance to catch up!”
The words washed over Embria like rain. The Drake [Commander] opened her mouth for a word in edgewise, and had to wait for her moment.
“I’m sorry, Miss. But are you mistaking me? I don’t remember you, I’m afraid.”
“You don’t? But we were friends! At least, I thought so.”
Drassi looked heartbroken. She glanced over Embria’s shoulder at Relc and brightened.
“Hey Relc! It’s me, Drassi! I was just at the inn! You know me, and you know I used to know Embria, right?”
Relc turned. He had a flashing, half-ghostly puzzle in one claw, and the [Trader] was showing him another one that was invisible—Embria could barely see the outlines as some dust or dirt covered it. Relc blinked.
“What? Drassi? Hey. You knew Embria? Wait…did you?”
He frowned. The [Gossip] looked crushed twice-over.
“I did! We haven’t seen each other for over a decade but—don’t you remember? When we were just kids? Embria, you came to Liscor with Relc back when he was just starting out as a [Guardsman], right? And you and I used to play in the streets! We got into tons of trouble! Heck, you and Selys used to know each other! Any of this ringing a bell?”
It was…vaguely familiar. Embria frowned. She could remember growing up in Liscor after Relc had left the army. Until she’d joined it. But it had only been for a handful of years. She didn’t remember Drassi. Although she did vaguely recall the same loudmouthed, cheerful voice the longer it went on.
“I—maybe I did? I’m sorry, but everything before I enlisted’s a bit of a blur. My apologies, Miss Drassi.”
The Drake laughed good-naturedly.
“It’s just Drassi! But I’d love to sit and talk, Embria. I just got off my shift. Do you have time? Hey, we could sit at The Wandering Inn and catch up! How about it?”
The offer was vaguely tempting. But—Embria glanced at her father. Relc was inspecting his puzzle while watching her out of the corner of one eye. She hesitated and shook her head after a moment.
“I’m sorry, Drassi. But I’m busy today. Maybe another time?”
She smiled apologetically at Drassi. The Drake didn’t look too put out.
“That’s totally fine. I’m actually shopping for some bug-killing traps myself. I have this infestation. Bad wood in my apartment. Know where I can get any charms?”
“My friend six stalls down has a number of charms.”
The Gnoll [Trader] leaned into the conversation. Drassi grinned.
“Really? Thanks! I’ll check him out. Embria, Relc, let’s talk again sometime, okay? Don’t be a stranger! And don’t forget me!”
Bemused, Embria waved a claw as Drassi headed off. Relc grunted to himself as he peered into one side of his puzzle.
“She’s cool. I talk to her on my patrols sometimes. Although, I get in trouble if I talk for too long. You did use to know her, you know.”
“I sort of remember. But it’s ages ago now. I don’t know anyone in the city.”
“Huh.”
Embria watched Drassi disappear into the crowd. Then she turned back to the stall. The Gnoll was smiling as Relc cursed over the puzzle he was holding.
“Like it? Only two Archmages have completed it. Feor and Nailihuaile. Amerys doesn’t count; she blasted hers apart. You can try as long as you like. Solve it here and you can take it with you.”
“Hah! I can do that. Just give me a second. Hey, kid, do you, uh, think this thing goes here?”
“Hm?”
Embria was still watching Drassi. Then she noticed a Gnoll mother walking from stall to stall with a young child. She watched the Gnoll grabbing his mother’s hand excitedly and pulling her past him to look at a display of colorful toys the next stall over.
“Damn! This one’s impossible! There’s no way to move this thing!”
Relc complained. The [Trader] laughed.
“You’ve barely even unlocked half of the functions, yes? There’s a lot more you need to do to even come close. How about it? I can show you some more if you’d like. All equally hard or harder! There’s one that not even Wistram’s mages have figured out how to open yet. But I’m told that the creator swears on a truth spell that it’s doable!”
“Really?”
Relc’s eyes lit up. Then he glanced to one side at his daughter. She noticed his stare at last and looked up. The [Guardsman] hesitated, then shook his head.
“Eh. I’ll get one later. This is boring. It’s boring, right, kid? Let’s go somewhere else.”
He jerked a thumb down the street. Embria started.
“What? No. Go on, try your puzzle.”
“You’re not into them, though. I won’t take up your time.”
“No, it’s fine…why not get one? For your patrols, at least.”
Embria smiled, and it wasn’t too forced. Relc stared at her, and then turned back to the [Trader].
“Alright. I can’t afford whatever that stupid magic one is. How about a good, expert-level one? I can spend…”
A few minutes later, he counted out some gold and silver into the [Trader]’s paw and walked away with three small puzzles, all mechanical and magic-less. Relc seemed happy, although Embria was mystified.
“You had to have spent at least a few day’s pay on that. Maybe a week’s! How much do Senior Guardsman earn per week?”
“Eh…enough. Look, I like these things.”
Relc answered evasively. He walked down the street, and both he and Embria heard Drassi’s cheerful voice as she talked to the [Trader] with charms on display. Relc paused as he watched Drassi.
“You really don’t remember Drassi?”
He looked at Embria. She shrugged, embarrassed.
“I don’t. I wish I did, but all I remember is the voice, and not even that.”
“Really? You kids used to get into all kinds of trouble. I remember that. I can’t believe I didn’t…well, you weren’t here long. Hey. Why don’t you catch up with her at the inn? I could sit and watch a play or something.”
Surprised, Embria blinked up at her father. He shrugged in answer to the question in her eyes.
“You don’t have to hang out with me. If you’re busy. I know being a Wing Commander’s hard work, and you only get so many days off…”
And for a second, she wavered. Embria stared at Drassi’s wagging tail, then at Relc’s smile. Her expression firmed, and she shook her head.
“It’s fine. Did you have anywhere else you wanted to go? I didn’t have a plan for today.”
“Well…”
 
——
 
The second stop they came to was a shop that smelled like animals. Because it was, in fact, inhabited by animals. Lots of them. Embria pushed open the door, sneezed, and then saw a cat glaring at her from its window perch in the sun. The Gnoll running the counter shouted he’d be out from the back, and a number of dogs barked. That set off the birds. And a sheep. Embria stared around, and then at Relc. He grinned.
“I thought about getting a pet, too. That’d be cool, right? I could get a big dog and have it run down [Thieves] while we’re on the job. One of the Senior Guardsman has an attack dog he’s allowed to take on patrols. He never has to run.”
“You want a dog.”
Embria eyed the animals wandering the floor. They were either all amazingly well-trained, or the owner cleaned up after them. Relc nodded.
“It would be cool, right? Dogs run. I can run. Dogs like food. I like food. It’d be this thing. Anyways, I’m just checking them out. But if you get a good impression—hey! Elirr! It’s me!”
Relc waved at the Gnoll who came out of a tattered curtain in the back. The Gnoll froze when he saw Relc. Then he groaned.
“For the last time, Senior Guardsman Relc. I will not sell you a trained attack sheep—”
He protectively moved in front of the one sheep in the room. Relc scratched the back of his neck, avoiding Embria’s pointed gaze.
“I’m not interested in sheep. I’m just looking for a dog. And I’ve got my, uh, daughter here! This is Embria. Embria, Elirr’s a [Beast Master].”
“[Beast Trainer].”
“Yeah, that thing. Say, do you have a dog with really big teeth? And how fast do they run?”
The long-suffering sigh that Elirr emitted sounded almost familiar to Embria. She’d heard it from a number of Relc’s colleagues. But the Gnoll soon had a number of dogs wandering the floor, and she was impressed at how well they obeyed even Relc’s commands. The Drake bent to scratch ears and ask who liked the taste of [Thieves]—Embria stood back and watched.
“You are Senior Guardsman Relc’s daughter, Wing Commander? I recognize both of you, but I hardly put the pieces together until now.”
Elirr’s voice made Embria turn. She smiled at him, and the older Gnoll smiled back. He only smelled a bit like wet dog, and if you got to know Gnolls, you understood that was a distinct possibility anyways.
