With that, she walked out the door. Relc watched her go, as did Erin and half the inn’s guests, who were used to tableaus by now. The [Actors] on stage were taking notes. Erin wandered past the Horns of Hammerad, to Relc. She looked at him. He looked at her.
“Was that my fault?”
Relc sighed.
“No. I think it was mine. Don’t worry, Erin. It happens every week.”
“Every week?”
“Yeah. She always gets around to asking me to rejoin the army. And I always say no. We were having fun up until it this time, though. Well, even if we don’t do that, we argue about the High Command or something.”
The Drake felt at his shoulders, shaking his head. Erin looked at him. And then at the door. Embria had taken the door to the outside, which meant she’d be walking back in the mud and drying soil.
“It didn’t look like that to me.”
“Me either.”
Both Relc and Erin turned to look at the person standing behind them. Relc blinked.
“You’re…”
He hesitated. Then he snapped his fingers a few times.
“Uh, we’ve met. But I forget. Who are you again?”
 
——
 
Wing Commander Embria was unhappy. And unlike her father, she had no hobbies to engage her. Or rather, none she could really pursue at this moment. She had no friends outside of her subordinates, and she was their [Commander]. So she was alone. And because she was alone, she did what she knew.
The training grounds attached to the Adventurer’s Guild were in use at this time of day, mainly by adventurers who weren’t currently at work. The City Watch must have had their own area, because Embria saw none of them there. She did recognize some teams—the Gold-rank teams, the Wings of Pallass, and the Flamewardens looked to be coordinating team attacks together.
They were known even outside of their home Walled Cities of Pallass, and, of course, Embria knew them as part of her job. Another time, she might have introduced herself, but at the moment, she was just angry. So she grabbed a training spear, eyed it, and then stalked back to her barracks and came back with her regular spear.
That alone earned her a small berth of space, although the grounds really weren’t that busy. Embria went through a basic attack drill, thrusting and pivoting, parrying invisible shapes, working out her muscles and trying to forget anything else. She was so caught up in the drill that she didn’t notice the figure standing in bright armor on the other end of her area until she was halfway down towards her. Embria instantly stopped; her enchanted spear was very dangerous to anyone carelessly walking in front of it. Not that anyone but an idiot did that in a practice area.
But the person wasn’t a foolish passerby, or even a member of the audience too close for their comfort. It was in fact, a woman, perhaps Embria’s age, with long, golden hair, fair skin that invited the word faire, and the complexion that would fit right at home on a damsel in distress in a similar, very specific era of Human society that had somehow still endured in Terandria and parts of Izril until this day.
The only difference was that this damsel was both [Knight] and maiden. Her armor was polished, if slightly mismatched, and clearly enchanted. She held a wooden longsword in two hands and nodded politely at Embria.
“Apologies. I was wondering if you’d like to spar?”
It was a common request, and the courteous answer was yes. But Embria was in no mood. She planted the tip of her spear in the ground.
“Sorry. I’m not in the mood for a spar. One of us would get hurt.”
The [Knight] or adventurer shrugged.
“I’m willing to take a risk. I have armor on. And you’re quick with that spear. What do you say? Practice spear, though? I don’t want to take a hit from whatever that is.”
She indicated Embria’s enchanted spear. The Drake bared her teeth. But why not? She took her spear to one side and grabbed the training spear. Then she walked back.
“Don’t blame me if you get hurt. Call out any time if you want to stop.”
The [Warrior] nodded calmly and set herself. Embria didn’t bother with a count or formality; she set to with a series of rapid thrusts aimed straight at the woman’s chest. She didn’t intend to strike the unguarded face—that was begging to put out an eye or do serious damage—but a few sturdy hits against the breastplate would make Embria feel better.
Only, it turned out the woman was better than Embria had thought. She blocked and moved back with the longsword, calmly deflecting aggressive thrusts meant to hit her. More than a fair number got through; Embria was a Wing Commander, and she had the advantage of reach and speed with her spear.
But the woman was quick and more adept with her longsword than most [Warriors]. Even better than the [Lieutenants] under Embria’s command. And yes, she took hits, but if she had a helmet on and Embria were trying to get through her armor? It would have been closer.
After a few minutes, Embria let the woman go on the offensive. She found that the [Warrior] was just as aggressive as Embria herself. The Drake blocked a heavy two-handed strike and grunted; she pivoted and avoided a lancing thrust at her chest. To the Human woman’s clear frustration, she didn’t get more than a single, glancing blow in on her entire offensive. She lowered her sword, panting, and Embria smiled.
“You’re not half bad, Miss Warrior.”
“The same to you. Although it’s more like false modesty in your case. I thought I’d touch you properly at least once. That was humbling.”
The woman planted her sword in the ground, looking disgusted with herself. Against her mood, Embria laughed. And she was feeling better.
“If you could hit me so easily, I’d be worried. You’re a Gold-rank adventurer, Miss?”
“Silver. But I’ve improved since my last ranking test. Not enough, apparently.”
Embria shrugged.
“A Wing Commander should be the equivalent of any Gold-rank adventurer. At least.”
“True. True enough. But you’re quicker with a spear than I thought. I’d hate to try that with my actual sword, enchantments or not. Yvlon Byres, at your service.”
The woman held out a hand. Embria blinked; normally you’d take off a gauntlet, but she shook the hand anyways. Yvlon rubbed at one forearm as she stepped back, and Embria wondered if she’d taken an injury. She didn’t comment on it.
“Please. Wing Commander Embria Grasstongue. Are you here to challenge Liscor’s dungeon, Miss Byres?”
“Call me Yvlon. And I’ve had enough of that dungeon for two lifetimes.”
Yvlon’s smile was bitter. But she brushed that away in a second. She and Embria stood to one side, watching as Bevussa flew up in a mock sparring match with Keldrass.
“I have to admit, I sought you out myself, Commander Embria.”
“Just Embria. Have we met?”
Yvlon blinked.
“No. But you were just at The Wandering Inn. And I, uh, saw part of what happened there.”
“Oh.”
The Drake’s mood soured at once again. Yvlon spoke quickly, eying her face.
“I don’t know about the, uh, Drake. Relc. Your father? I meant about Erin. I heard what she said. And I wanted to clear the air. Erin can be tactless, but she counts Relc as a friend.”
“That’s something. But she didn’t get anything wrong. And you can probably guess our relationship at a glance.”
“I can.”
Yvlon’s quiet voice made Embria look up. The [Warrior] gripped arm absently, then she met Embria’s eyes.
“He’s quite good. I saw him fighting during the siege. And against the Face-Eater Moths. The Raskghar too, come to think of it.”
“You were here for all of that?”
Embria was surprised. She’d heard of Liscor’s woes. To hear tell, the city had barely made it out of each encounter. Yvlon nodded.
“I took part. Not as the vanguard of any of the action. But your father was a good part of all of it. I think he took out one of the giant Face-Eater Moths? He certainly killed a number of Raskghar. Even one of their Awakened. And…Garen Redfang.”
Her expression grew still at that. But it only made Embria more curious.
“I haven’t been able to get anyone to give me a full account of what happened. Can you tell me more? Uh—would you like to sit?”
“I could stand or sit. It’s not like we’re that tired. By all means, let me fill you in. I can’t say I saw all of what Relc did, but as for the action—”
Yvlon began to tell Embria about all three encounters. Then, with a grimace, she went back and related the encounter with Skinner as well.
“I didn’t see any of that. I was out of it after I escaped the dungeon. Not—well, not Liscor’s side of things. But I heard that he helped chase off Skinner himself.”
“No one mentioned that. It doesn’t surprise me, though. He’s one of Liscor’s best—no, probably their best fighter, if not the highest-level [Guardsman].”
By this time Embria was sitting. The Wing Commander smiled to herself as she balanced her enchanted spear on her legs. Yvlon eyed the tip with interest; it had been given a very fine metal inlay that made it look like blue traces of metal were forged into the spearhead.
“I have to admit, I was surprised at how good Relc was. I’ve known [Guardsman] and none, not even their Watch Captains, have come close. Not even in places like Invrisil. I know the Drakes value their law enforcement, but Relc’s as strong as a Gold-rank adventurer. Without more than his enchanted spear. And he was a war hero?”
The question in her voice was without judgment. Embria hesitated.
“You could say that. He was really just a soldier. One of Liscor’s finest. He was a [Sergeant]—I don’t suppose you know how Liscor’s army works? We have a lot of officer classes.”
Yvlon’s lips quirked.
“I have a friend who educates me on everything and anything. I do know a bit. [Sergeant]’s low, isn’t it?”
“It is. But my father wasn’t just an ordinary grunt. He had a nickname. The Gecko of Liscor. And he was an anti-officer fighter. He could charge into enemy lines, take out a commander, and retreat.”
“And he was only a [Sergeant]? Was it a ploy?”
Embria ducked her head.
“Yes and no. You see, he really wasn’t the kind of person who could lead an entire unit, let alone a wing or an army. He had the fighting skill. Leadership? Strategy? No. He was perfect for a [Sergeant], so the High Command decided he could be the best. And his class also interfered with him advancing. You see, he’s a [Spearmaster].”
Yvlon whistled softly. Embria nodded a few times.
“You get it?”
“They’re like [Fencers]. The ones with silver and gold bells, I mean. Not just anyone can get that class. Don’t you have to be trained for years to be a [Spearmaster]?”
“Or kill one in combat. The trouble is, there’s no class consolidation that combines [Sergeant] and [Spearmaster]. There is a [Spearmaster General], although that’s generic, and he might have gotten [Spear Captain], but…it just didn’t work out. So my dad’s a Level 30 plus [Spearmaster] and nearly as high level in [Sergeant].”
“And a [Guardsman]. No wonder he can fight with the best of them.”
“Right? He was a nightmare to face for low-level officers. The High Command even made an allowance to give him a [Commander]-grade artifact.”
It was no use, Embria couldn’t suppress the delighted smile on her face. Yvlon was smiling too as she balanced the practice sword on her knees.
“Like the one you use? I’ve got a good sword myself. The armor’s second-rate, but decent. But my sword? It’s a Sword of [Weight]. I’m trying not to let it do the fighting.”
Embria blinked. Her [Soldier]’s mind took over for a second.
“How heavy?”
“I haven’t measured. But maybe as much as thirty pounds? Higher?”
“That’s…powerful.”
“It is. But your spear looks just as deadly. May I ask what its enchantment is?”
Yvlon indicated the spear balanced across Embria’s legs. The Wing Commander looked down. She hesitated, but anyone who knew something of spears would be able to identify it.
“It’s an Evercut spear. Heard of it?”
The warrior nodded.
“I’ve heard of Evercut arrows. Same principle? One cut and you don’t stop bleeding?”
“Not with magic. And it halts regeneration. It also makes the bleeding worse since it takes far longer to clot. It’s a good spear. Not the best, but I’ve used it for years. His is better. My father’s, I mean. He’s got one enchanted with anti-magic. It’s nearly as strong as a blade made of Naq-Alrama steel. It’s a [Mage]-killer, or an officer-slayer.”
“That is good.”
Yvlon nodded appreciatively, as only one who knew something of combat could. She glanced at Embria as the Drake blushed, realizing she’d gone on about Relc for the last five minutes.
“Sorry. I just don’t get a chance to learn about my father that often. He doesn’t talk about his life. Much less his past with me.”
The Human woman shook her head. She sighed and sat back on the practice bench.
“No, it’s refreshing. And I’m glad I could tell you what’s happened. I have to say…I suppose I was wrong. You admire him. I guess that’s not like my father and I at all.”
Embria coughed.
“W-what? Well, he is my father.”
The armored woman nodded.
“I know. And I have a similar relationship to my father. I admire him too. But he’s not my hero.”
She looked at Embria. The Wing Commander froze. And what might have come out of her mouth next was anyone’s guess. Because she saw something similar in Yvlon’s gaze, a knowingness. And then she saw something else reflected in her vision. And she heard a voice, polite, friendly, clicking, from behind her.
“Hello, Yvlon. I am not interrupting you, am I?”
Embria spun. She saw two open mandibles, a black body. Multi-faceted eyes. Antennae. Three arms.
Antinium.
Reflexively, Embria rose, spear raised. Yvlon jumped to her feet, putting an arm out. The Antinium stepped back, studying Embria. He raised one hand in greeting.
“I am Ksmvr.”
“Back off.”
Embria snarled. Yvlon quickly interposed herself between Embria and the Antinium.
“Ksmvr, take a step back. Wing Commander, please calm down. Ksmvr is with me. He’s part of my team.”
“You?”
Embria stared at Yvlon. She felt like she’d been punched in the gut. She’d heard someone was crazy enough to have teamed up with an Antinium. But Yvlon? The [Warrior] nodded.
“Ksmvr’s from Liscor’s Hive. He was exiled. I know what Liscor’s army’s relationship is with the Antinium but—they’re not all monsters. Neither are all Goblins. It took me a while to realize that myself.”
“That is correct. I am not listed as a monster in the Adventurer’s Guild.”
“Not helping, Ksmvr.”
Embria was shaking her head. She took a step backwards, glaring at both Yvlon and Ksmvr, her body taut.
