“That’s right, Captain Wikir. And I’m afraid that you’re in charge of banging the drum and doing parade marches all today. It’s my day off. Try to rein in that Shopkeeper. Lism. But yes, we’re trying to convince people to vote him into the Council for that election. Just don’t say or do anything that’ll upset the civilians, got it?”
Wikir nodded. Vell stretched, looking annoyed.
“And here I’d nearly forgotten about that stupid election. Commander, you make it sound like that Lism Swifttail’s a problem. But he’s the one running against that Krshia Silverfang, right? What’s your problem with him?”
She glanced up the table. This time, Embria hesitated. She didn’t have to answer. But this was her command, and they knew her. Better to answer than not.
She looked down at her cup of tea and grimaced. Then Embria glanced up and checked both doors leading into the officers’ mess. She tilted her head; Sergeant Tlik got up and closed one of the doors that was partly ajar. The other officers sat up a bit and leaned in.
“It’s not that I’m against this election thing. The High Command is, and they’re livid that it’s happening, but they’d be fine if we elected good, law-abiding citizens to the Council, I think. Doesn’t matter what the Council does so long as it keeps Liscor safe, right?”
The officers sitting on both tables around her nodded. Embria sighed.
“I’m not even saying we’re wrong to be against that Gnoll, Krshia, and her proposals. Some of what she’s saying sounds good to me, but allowing the Antinium any concessions? No. Absolutely not.”
“Idiotic idea. I can’t believe Watch Captain Zevara’s going for it. I thought she had sense.”
Vell growled. Embria had her own opinion about Zevara that wasn’t germane to this conversation. She shook her head briskly.
“The terms are good. And I’ll speak with Watch Captain Zevara. But despite all that—and this is my opinion, not High Command’s—Lism is not our guy. He’s obnoxious, sycophantic, prejudiced against Gnolls as far as I can tell, and he’s going to lose. But the High Command trusts him, and I haven’t been able to convince them to let me approach Krshia instead.”
The table was silent. Most of the officers carefully covered their reactions, although a few, like Wikir and Vell, nodded openly. Pielt’s tail lashed under his table.
“Captain, you make it sound like he’s as bad as that Krshia Silverfang. But as far as I’ve seen, he’s been for the 4th Company since we came to Liscor. He’s given my boys discounts when we visit his store, and he’s the only person who’s stood up and told the truth about the Antinium.”
“True. Which is why we’re supporting him. But he’s not offering a good platform. Just one that says the Antinium are evil and everything’s fine. Which it isn’t. Have you seen the rent prices on rooms?”
“Double that of when I was here ten years back.”
One of the [Lieutenants] muttered into his tea. Embria nodded. Kesa popped another bean into her mouth and crunched it.
“Exactly. But we have orders to support him, and we have to. I wish we didn’t. Soldiers like Zel Shivertail never played politics. He said what was important. Stop the Antinium. Kill the Goblin Lord. Tying ourselves to someone else or meddling in this election is going to come back and bite all our tails. But we have to win.”
She looked around the table. The other officers sighed or muttered, but they all nodded. Vell leaned over, looking troubled, and poked Wikir.
“Hey, Wikir. That Gnoll [Shopkeeper]. She’s a big shot, yeah? What’re her odds on the Gnoll side of things? How many of them will see sense about the Antinium?”
Wikir coughed. He looked at Embria and shrugged.
“She’s honored Krshia, Commander. I can’t explain it too well, and I’m not running with the civilian crowd yet. They don’t trust me. But I do know Krshia. She’s smart. Got lots of authority. When she howls, a lot of Gnolls will follow, no matter what deal with the Antinium is going down.”
“Then maybe we have to get her to reconsider her stance on the Antinium thing.”
“And fund all her shiny projects how?”
“Tax the adventurers more? I’m all for expanding Liscor if that’s possible. I have an aunt who told me about the prices yesterday. And if she’s hurting for coin—”
The breakfast table erupted into several arguments. Embria quietly drank the rest of her tea as she listened to the pulse of her officers’ opinions. At last, she raised a claw and had silence.
“I’ll explore our options. Tomorrow. For now, keep an earhole open and wait for further orders from High Command. We’ll support this Lism and wait for more candidates to emerge. There are eight seats on the High Council unless anyone’s forgotten, and these two are fighting for the same district under that plan Krshia rolled out. Someone get me a map of those districts too.”
The Drakes and Gnolls nodded. Fika shook her head as she scratched at a patch of scarred, burned skin on the side of her face where the scales had never regrown.
“What do you want to bet it’s eight Gnolls versus eight Drakes on either side? Ancestors, we might have more Gnolls than Drakes on this year’s Council.”
Wikir turned his head down the table like the slow wrath of the mace he used. Which wasn’t slow at all in battle.
“And would that be a bad thing, Sergeant?”
Fika’s cheeks colored.
“Nossir! Not unless it means I wake up sharing my bunk space with an Antinium!”
Another laugh. Pielt covered for Fika, who was part of his mainly Drake squad.
“You just worry about getting our squad that table at Wishdrinks, Sergeant. I’ll see to it we walk out with two lovely companions. Drakes or Gnolls.”
Captain Vell smirked.
“You keep saying that, Pielt. But even if you got more nests than all the other squads—which you won’t—could you even get anyone to join you for a drink?”
Pielt glared at her.
“No problem, Vell. I’m as smooth on a tavern floor as I am on the battlefield.”
“Really? In that case, give me your best shot.”
Vell spread her arms, mockingly. The officers laughed, and Pielt grinned. He pushed back his plate, then leaned one arm on the table and gave Vell a full-toothed grin.
“Hey there, sweet-scales. I saw you checking out my tail. I’ve got two. Want to see the other one?”
Embria saw Vell’s eyes bulge, and then heard her guffaw. The Wing Commander smiled as the female side of the mess hall laughed, and some of Pielt’s male friends rolled their eyes.
“Dead gods, that’s your best, Pielt?”
“If it works, Vell…”
Pielt grinned around. Kesa snorted and leaned over to Vell. The Gnoll whispered loudly.
“He says that, but I’ve never seen a tail that short before.”
The table burst out into raucous laughter. Two of the male Drake [Captains] coughed as their morning tea went down the wrong tube. Pielt’s scales turned beet red. He opened his mouth to reply, and Embria decided it was time to cut short a potential argument. It was nearly time for her to go, anyways. She didn’t want to be late. So she put a snap into her tone as she stacked her cup on her plate.
“Lieutenant Kesa, stop impugning your commanding [Captain]’s authority. Captain Pielt, stop bringing up your failed attempts at romance. Find someone outside of the army or I’ll write you up for your inability to conduct interpersonal relationships.”
“Under what charge, Commander?”
The [Captain] looked hurt. Embria stared at him and replied, deadpan.
“Making me laugh my scales off.”
This time even Pielt joined in the laughter, and Embria considered it a job well done. She was standing back to bus her plates when Vell glanced up.
“You are one to talk, Commander.”
“What?”
Embria paused, one claw holding her plate. Captain Vell shrugged, apologetic.
“I’m just saying. I’ve heard your best, and Pielt’s a master [Seducer] compared to you. No offense to the class.”
“Oi, Vell. Commander Embria can’t be that bad.”
Another officer chortled. Vell only raised her brows. She looked teasingly at Embria, and the Drake felt an ominous prickle on her back. She’d known Vell for years. Even so, she couldn’t just walk away after hearing that. Embria tossed her plate back on the table.
“My game’s better than Pielt’s. I can guarantee you that, Vell.”
“I’m wide open, Commander. Or Pielt is. Come on, give us your opening line. Say you spot someone handsome across the bar—not Pielt, for instance. What do you say?”
Suddenly, it was Embria on the spot, and the Wing Commander couldn’t see a way out of it. Embarrassed, she cleared her throat. No problem. Casually, she walked over and put a hand on Pielt’s shoulder. She gave him a smile.
“Yo. Good looking. Are you part Selphid? Because I’d like you to get inside me tonight.”
Pielt stared up at her as if she were a Creler. Embria wavered. She looked around. The other officers weren’t laughing. They were just staring. Wikir reached for his cup and found it was empty. Mechanically, the Gnoll reached for a kettle and tried to fill his cup.
“You’d actually say that, Commander?”
“What’s wrong? Too forwards? Okay. Fine. How about this?”
Exasperated, Embria turned back to Pielt. He flinched as she leaned further down, treating him to another smile. Something charming, the kind of thing that would sweep him off his feet if Embria were interested in him.
“Hey there. Are you a Courier? Because you’ve been running through my mind ever since I laid eyes on you.”
She waited a beat. And then she winked. Pielt opened his mouth slightly. He gulped.
“I, uh—wow, Commander. That’s…terrible.”
“What? No it’s not.”
Embria looked around. No one else could meet her eyes, except Wikir. The tea cup he’d been filling from the kettle was slowly overflowing on the table. Embria stared at it.
“It’s not. Is it?”
Vell looked delighted. She gestured with a claw.
“One more. Come on, Commander.”
Embria hesitated. This time she abandoned the winking and just leaned on Pielt’s shoulder.
“You come from Salazsar? Because you’re a fine gem in my eyes.”
He froze. Just froze up in his seat. Embria searched his face for something, anything, then straightened. She glared around the room, daring anyone to say anything. They were silent.
“I’m going to take my day off. We’ll discuss this later, Captain Vell. The rest of you—you’ve got a job to do. Dismissed!”
She stalked out of the room, her tail twitching angrily. The officers watched her go. None of them, not even Vell, had the heart to laugh this time. Pielt stared back at his fellow [Captains]. It took him a few more gulps to make the words come out.
“Ancestors. The smile, the timing, the way she looked at me—everything was wrong there. How is that even possible?”
Vell sighed. She finished her last mouthfuls of breakfast.
“You know those sad losers who hang out in taverns and bars and buy anything with a pulse and a tail a drink? I’ve seen Commander Embria scare them away when she’s trying to be encouraging.”
“Dead gods. I hope she doesn’t try that on her date today.”
Someone else mumbled under his breath. Vell turned her head.
“You think she’s on a date? She didn’t say.”
“Well, she’s not wearing her armor. And she usually dresses up. Did you notice she was only wearing her practice gear? Normally she’s in full armor. Who’d she land with those lines?”
“Oh. That? It’s not—”
“It’s not a date. It’s her father.”
Wikir cut in quietly. He mopped the table with a napkin. The other officers went quiet. Lieutenant Kesa growled.
“You mean she still visits him? That’s too good for that coward.”
“Lieutenant, show some respect. That Drake saved our Commander’s life. He’s a former [Sergeant], even if—”
“Even if he’s a coward? He gave us one retreat order, Captain. A coward’s a coward no matter what. I’m not licking his boots even if he was a big shot. And if the Commander wants to waste time on his sorry tail—as if we’d just let him waltz back in after abandoning—”
Kesa’s growling voice turned into a yelp of pain as Vell kicked her in the stomach across the table. It wasn’t a light kick either. The [Captain] stared at her subordinate and hissed.
“Stow that shit, Lieutenant. Unless you want to go for a twenty-lap run around the walls again? If the Commander hears you, you’ll be scrubbing the toilets with your tail.”
“I just—”
Vell jerked her head sideways. The younger Gnoll [Sergeant] followed her glance towards Captain Wikir. Kesa’s ears flattened on her head, and she went quiet at once.
The oldest Gnoll at the table didn’t look at Kesa. Wikir calmly drank from his cup, and then spoke, as if reminiscing to the air in front of him.
“He got Garen Redfang, a former Gold-rank, even if he was a Goblin. He’s as good as I remember. And I was barely a [First Sergeant] when he retired. What Wing Commander Embria does is her business. You can’t choose your family. And if he’s a coward, then every single Drake in 4th Company will lose to a coward in a one-on-one duel.”
No one had a reply to that. After a long moment, Pielt bit into his fish.
“True that. My day off’s coming up. Birthday, actually. I almost wish it wasn’t. I’m going back to see my folks. My dad’s a Gnoll, and he’ll try to get me playing catch. I want to tell him it’s not my thing, but his idea of fun’s throwing around a ball for hours.”
The mood at the tables relaxed. Wikir grinned sheepishly, and the other Gnolls sighed, shaking their heads. Vell looked curious.
“You adopted, Pielt? You never said.”
“Nah. Fertility spell. One of those cross-species kinds. It works out well, but…you know? I think it hurts my old man when I don’t race after a ball. Just toss it to me. Don’t make me run for it.”
Pielt sighed. Sergeant Fika patted him on the back. Vell looked around; one of the youngest [Lieutenants], a Gnoll, looked frankly jealous of Pielt. She shrugged. What was there to say?
“I wonder what the Commander says to her father?”
Thoughtfully, Pielt stroked his chin with a claw and shrugged.
“Whatever she has to, probably. Gotta make it work, Vell. Gotta make it work. Pass the butter?”
 
——
 
Breakfast came and went in Liscor’s barracks. The 4th Company was having an easy time of it. At least compared to the quick meals that came and went during their time on campaign. They would be the first to describe their more relaxed schedules, frequent days off, and easy duties as luxurious. And that was because life was a subjective affair. If the 4th Company’s breakfast was luxurious, what could you call breakfast at The Wandering Inn?
