Wing Commander Embria Grasstongue of Liscor got up like she normally did. For a minute, a good, nice, long minute, she lay in bed as the dawn’s rays began tickling the scales on her face. Her crimson scales, as vibrantly red as could be, reflected the light, creating a small nimbus of color on the far wall of her room. Embria admired it. Then she raised her voice.
“4th Company, assemble!”
The shout went straight through the thin walls of Embria’s private quarters. She heard a thud from the room over, a groan, and more distant sounds still. The Wing Commander swung herself out of bed and reached for her folded clothes and armor. Then she checked herself and just took the clothes.
A minute later, Embria pushed out of her room. The Drakes and Gnolls in the officers’ quarters were still dressing. They looked up as Embria strode into the room.
“Inspection, then morning training. Hop to it.”
The two [Captains], five [Lieutenants], and eight [Sergeants] in the room groaned. Embria ignored them and headed straight for the main barracks that housed the regular [Soldiers]. They were larger, but not by much; the officers weren’t outnumbered by much when it came to the regular soldiers.
The first [Sergeants] followed her as the sleepy [Soldiers] rolled out of their bunks. Those who’d slept through Embria’s call and their fellows warning them to wake up got up as the [Sergeant] rolled them out of their mattresses and onto the floor.
The thumps and curses were a backdrop to Embria’s voice. The Wing Commander bellowed into the barracks that the 4th Company of Liscor’s army was using in Liscor.
“Wake up, ladies! What are you complaining about? We’re waking up at dawn, not before! This is the height of luxury. Now, present your gear, and so help me, anyone who isn’t ready for a scrap I will feed to Captain Vell for breakfast! Stand to attention!”
The [Soldiers] did. The [Sergeants] and [Lieutenants] proceeded down the bunks, checking gear and calling the Drakes and Gnolls out. The Drakes and Gnolls of Liscor’s regular army stood straight, wincing only when some aspect of their preparations was called out.
They were, as Embria had indicated, all female. The Wing Commander gave the female wing of the barracks five minutes of her presence, and then marched over to the male half, where the officers were already doing the same process.
“That’s enough. Captain Wikir, take the squads out and have them practice. Anyone with punishment detail will take it out of their vacation time. The rest of you, to the practice grounds on the double!”
Embria jogged out of the barracks, followed by her 4th Company. She ignored the muttered jokes and groans coming behind her; her men and women, none of whom were in fact actually Human, were right on her tail. And in the early morning, all ninety-seven of Liscor’s 4th Company were running down the streets of Liscor.
They were headed to the sparring grounds. Usually, they’d do it right outside their camps, but since they were quartered in Liscor, the 4th Company had arranged to use the Adventurer’s Guild’s large practice area. Embria didn’t expect to find many people there this early.
And indeed, only a few private citizens were there. They let the 4th Company form sparring sets and occupy eighty percent of the courts. Embria grabbed a practice spear and went through her morning routine alone. She barely thought about it until she came to sparring with one of her [Captains].
First Captain Wikir, the second-in-command to Embria, was her first victim. Then two more of his [Captains] took his place. Embria took a few hits during a sparring session with two-on-one, but the wincing officers walked away with twice the number that she did.
“Alright. That’s an hour. Back to the barracks!”
Embria called a halt to the morning training as she checked the position of the sun. She led the way back down the streets, which were still mostly empty and towards the barracks. The [Soldiers], who had been reluctant to abuse their bodies, brightened up and picked up the pace. They could smell food coming from the barracks, and the [Mess Sergeants] on duty had readied the morning meals.
That was how Embria started her day. But in truth, that was almost all muscle memory. And muscle shouting. It was rote and routine. It was only during breakfast she remembered what day it was. Then she smiled.
 
——
 
4th Company’s officers got their own, smaller mess hall to eat in. The [Captains], [Lieutenants], and a few [Sergeants] had the privilege of dining with their [Wing Commander], a rank roughly equivalent to [Major] in other military traditions. The [Commander] rank that Embria possessed meant she acted with autonomy and authority; the officer ranks below her possessed some of the privileges and abilities she did, but the [Wing Commander] class was a leadership role of note.
If [Leader], [Sergeant], [Mercenary Captain], and so on were all the most basic tier of leadership—from small groups to larger ones—then [Commander] was the middle tier. And [Generals], [Lords], and so on were the greatest of leaders. In 4th Company, Embria’s was the highest role.
It still meant she ate the same food as the regular soldiers. There being no dedicated [Chefs] attached to 4th Company at the moment, the [Mess Sergeants] had to take up the slack or Embria would have to hire a [Cook]. And she wasn’t about to do that. Not that anyone minded.
“Good food! Pass me a damn biscuit. I’m starving.”
The first female officer into the room was a Drake. She flopped into her seat, her scales beaded with perspiration. A Gnoll sat across from her and obligingly flicked a biscuit at her commanding officer. The Gnoll yawned. She reached for a steaming kettle.
“Hrr. I hope the tea’s strong this time. I’m nearly falling asleep on my paws.”
“Long night?”
Embria walked towards the head of the smaller table as some of the other officers took seats nearby. The Gnoll [Sergeant] shrugged. It was a relaxed formality in the officers’ mess.
“Hrr. I was up late. Drinking. This tea’s not strong enough for me. Got some more tea leaves?”
She peered into the pot. The Drake sitting across from her, [Captain] Vell, a sharp-tongued Drake with yellow scales, eyed the Gnoll under her command, Lieutenant Kesa.
“It’s good enough for me. But then, I like tea. You hate it, don’t you, Kesa? Wing Commander, biscuit?”
Embria raised a claw. Vell skimmed one across the table. A Gnoll [Captain] leaned back reflexively and scowled as he reached for his plate. Embria caught the biscuit without missing a beat. Kesa sighed through her nose.
“That’s right. I’d use stamina potions, but they taste awful, yes? And they do terrible things to the stomach if you have too many for too long. You have a better option, [Captain]?”
“Sure do. Hold on. Try some of these.”
Vell got up and reached for her belt pouch. She slapped a handful of hard, brown objects onto Kesa’s plate. The other officers eyed the objects dubiously; Vell was known to pull a lot out of her belt pouches, and it was very rarely wise to eat what came out.
Kesa the Gnoll sniffed along with a few other Gnolls at the table. She wrinkled her nose, but picked up one of the little objects.
“What is this? It looks like a bean. Do I put it in my drink?”
“Hah. No. Just eat them. Grind them up and swallow. They’re a natural wake-up supplement. I bought them from Oteslia a while back, and I use them sometimes when we’re out of tea or I need to wake up.”
Kesa blinked.
“What, from the Walled City? Really?”
“No, scales-for-brains. The other Oteslia. Not the one we’ve been fighting with and against for the last two years.”
The Gnoll sniffed.
“Hrr. No need to be rude. What kind of beans are so…hard? And small?”
Vell shrugged.
“They were actually green. See, they’re good for energy, but they were starting to rot. So I tossed them in a pan and fried them up. To get rid of the moldy spots.”
All of the [Soldiers] stared at Vell. She scowled.
“Don’t give me that! It works! Anyways, they work. Try it.”
She glared at Kesa. The Gnoll hesitated, but Vell was her superior. The things you did for rank. Embria watched sympathetically as Kesa delicately popped three of the bean-things into her mouth and began to chew. Embria heard some loud crunching, and then Kesa made a face. She took a gulp of tea as Embria sipped hers.
Today’s breakfast included some pickled fish, preserved from the spring. It went really well with some roasted onions, a few greens, and all put together with a Gnollish sauce that had enough spice to really make the mouth water. The biscuit was a wonderful carrier for the concoction, and Embria chewed, watching Kesa make a face.
“Eugh. Bitter. Almost as bad as stamina potions. How long does it take?”
“Few minutes. But you’ll wake up. Go on. Have the handful.”
Kesa did as she began to eat the rest of her breakfast. After a few minutes, she did indeed perk up.
“That is better than stamina potions, yes? Say, Captain, would you mind lending them to me?”
Vell nodded. She spilled more beans onto the table from a pouch dedicated to holding them.
“Take ‘em. I’ve got tons. Apparently, they’re from some Balerosian plant that Oteslia imported. Those [Gardeners] grow all kinds of things, and this stuff isn’t popular. Good travel pick-me-up, though.”
“You keep anything else you want to share in one of those pouches, Vell?”
Another [Captain] leaned over, looking interested. He was male, one of four [Captains] left in 4th Company since their battle at Liscor. Traditionally, that number of [Captains] would have demanded a huge regiment of [Soldiers], but Liscor’s army was somewhat unique. It relied on high-level officer classes and a very small army of sitting [Soldiers]. In fact, Liscor’s army was more of a force-multiplier. If it led a larger force of low-level [Soldiers], it was incredibly deadly.
Vell scowled and placed a hand over her belt.
“Nothing I’m offering you, Pielt. Only my squad gets to share my stuff. You want to get something? You should have gotten it at Oteslia before we crossed half the damn continent.”
“Aw, come on, Vell. Not everyone saves their coin—”
“What are you, a [Soldier] with his first month of back pay? Pass me that gravy boat and I might give you something.”
“…The butter?”
“Yup. Out of my scales.”
The Drake sighed and raised a finger. Vell threw a biscuit at him. It bounced off of another Gnoll’s head, and he glared around. Vell shrugged apologetically. Then she turned to Embria.
“Hey, Wing Commander. Any reason for today’s inspection?”
“Besides making sure you lot aren’t getting lazy? Be glad I didn’t check the officers’ gear myself. If we need to fight, I’m not having anyone claiming they left their sword at a [Sharpener]’s.”
Embria glanced up from her second helping. Vell nodded.
“Fair. Fair. I’m just asking because my squad’s getting antsy. They were telling me that they’re afraid they’ll be stuck here for another month before being recalled with no action. After the Goblin Lord was…”
She drew a claw across her neck.
“You know?”
Half the officers in the mess glanced at Vell. Embria could see the missing spots where some of her officers and friends should have been. Vell didn’t blink twice, though. After a beat, Embria replied.
“They think that, do they? Well, I can’t say how long we’ll be here, but we’re not sitting on our tails all this time. I suppose now’s as good a time as any. Captain Wikir.”
The Gnoll sitting next to her glanced up. He twitched one tattered ear as he looked at Embria. Wikir was twenty years Embria’s senior and had dozens of scars hidden under his fur.
“Wing Commander?”
“Wikir, it’s Shield Spider breeding season. Word is it’s even worse this year given all they’ve had to eat. Which is why we’re helping out Liscor and the City Watch with this year’s culling. You know where I’m going with this?”
Several Drakes and Gnolls groaned. Wikir grinned.
“Vell gets her wish?”
“Exactly. Tomorrow, all the squads are sweeping the area around Liscor. Work your way down the road first, then sweep out from there. Each squad cleans at least four nests by the end of the day. Collect their shells and turn them in to the Adventurer’s Guild. The squad that does the best gets a night in Wishdrinks, on me. The squad that does the worst will also get a night of fun and relaxation—cleaning the barracks.”
That perked up the room, as intended. Embria didn’t mention that the squads would be doing this for at least two weeks, but Wikir got it. He nodded and flicked his ears at the [Lieutenants] and [Sergeants] under his direct command.
“Sounds like fun.”
“So says you. I’d rather fight Wyverns than Shield Spiders. Ever been covered by a hundred little spider babies?”
“No. And I don’t plan to. Burn the nest, Captain Pielt. If your group doesn’t have a strong [Mage] like mine…”
“Yes?”
[Captain] Pielt raised his brows. Wikir grinned.
“Enjoy picking baby spiders out of your earholes.”
“Go to hell.”
The other two [Captains] in the room, Vell and Igissi, laughed. Wikir grinned toothily, and one of the Drakes under Pielt’s command covered her eyes with her claws. Sergeant Fika shook her head despairingly.
“My vacation’s in two days! If I start my days off with spiders laying eggs in my nostrils, I will kill myself.”
Pielt turned to his subordinate as the table laughed even harder. He glared at Wikir and Vell.
“Think of the opportunities, Sergeant. You invite a few lovely ladies to Wishdrinks, and you won’t need to come back to a clean barracks tonight!”
Sergeant Fika glanced up.
“Lads, you fucking idiot. Sir. I’m no Turnscale.”
Embria glanced up. Pielt blinked, but then grinned. Vell stopped laughing abruptly, but no one save perhaps Embria and Lieutenant Kesa noticed.
“Sorry, Sergeant. Two lovely lads. Drakes or Gnolls for preferences?”
“As long as you can figure out which parts they’re supposed to have, I’ll settle for whatever you can get, sir. Just get our squad the most nests.”
More laughter. Pielt rolled his eyes, but good-naturedly. Wikir chuckled, then glanced back at Embria.
“Commander. Helping out the City Watch wouldn’t also be part of our attempt to make good with Liscor, would it? And help win an election?”
He looked innocently at Embria. She scowled and put down her butter knife. Ancestors take it, she’d forgotten the drama of yesterday for a second. That was really going to complicate today’s activities. Maybe.
