“Everyone forgot about the Gecko of Liscor. Until recently, that was. No one remembers Sergeant Relc, and that’s fine by me.”
A hand reached for his. Relc started, and then looked back. A little Drake looked up at him. And then an older one replaced her. Embria looked up at her father.
“I never forgot.”
For a while, he looked at her. Startled. And then he smiled. They walked on, into the night and towards the inn sitting on the hill. And after a while, Relc spoke up. His thoughtful tone was gone, and a brasher, relaxed note entered his tone. Bragging. And it was nostalgic.
“You know, I did use that trick where you keep jumping with the spear in battle. Didn’t I tell you about it?”
Embria rolled her eyes.
“Go on, Dad.”
Relc grinned.
“Well, when I was in the army, I was fighting an entire nest of Crelers. Babies. And the little bastards were swarming the ground, popping out of it. The [Mages] were going to hit the entire spot, so I…”
And he jumped ahead of her, demonstrating. Like a kid. But as Embria rolled her eyes, she realized this was the first time he’d talked about being in the army to her. And then she told him what her life had been like. And he listened.
 
——
 
“And that’s how I killed my first Wyvern.”
Embria finished her tale and sipped from her cup. No blue fruit juice for her. Just a dark lager, which was, in fact, light. Erin had gotten the barrels mixed up again. But it didn’t matter. Relc sat across from her, listening. And when Embria was done, he grinned and leaned over to nudge the girl sitting next to her.
“Hey Erin, hear that? My kid got her first Wyvern when she was eighteen. Not bad, huh? You know, I was twenty-six when I killed mine. Not that we had to fight them that often. Obviously. But that’s something. Those bastards have sharp teeth and they dive fast.”
“Way too fast. You hear the shriek, and it’s too late. Nightmarish.”
Embria agreed. Relc made a face.
“Damn High Command. Deploying us in Wyvern territory every two damn seconds.”
Embria nodded. This at least she could get behind. Relc grinned, caught by a sudden thought.
“But you know, we did figure out a way to deal with them. Poisoned dead cows. Or pigs. Didn’t old Scartail tell you to do that? He figured it out when I was in command.”
“I wish. We had a green Field Commander when I was deployed. Didn’t even get the horses under cover on the march.”
“Ancestor’s sack, what an idiot. But you got a Wyvern yourself. That’s something. Right, Erin? Embria’s almost as good as I am. And she’s a [Commander]. Right?”
Nudge, nudge. Erin nudged back out of irritation and lowered her mug.
“I get it Relc. She’s cool. Stop nudging me!”
“Sorry. Are we boring you?”
“Maybe? You’ve been talking about this campaign or that mud pit you had to fight in for the last two hours. I’m not saying I’d rather listen to Pisces talk, but I might.”
Relc and Embria laughed. The Wing Commander spread her claws helplessly.
“Sorry, Miss Erin. I guess that’s what [Soldiers] do. Swap war stories. Even retired ones.”
“Well…okay. At least it’s acting hour in the inn. I get to watch people being booed off if I’m bored.”
Erin waved to the stage. The [Actors] were letting members of the crowd come up and try their hand at performing, usually with disastrous results in specific scenes. Then she brightened up.
“Hey! I should sell moldy produce to throw at them!”
“No, you shouldn’t. We have to clean that up.”
Drassi passed by Erin with a refill for all three mugs. She winked at Embria, who waved at her. Relc harrumphed.
“Just you wait. I’m gonna have my turn and be excellent.”
“Sure, Dad. In the meantime, have you ever fought on the water? One of my fellow [Wing Commanders] said you never did, but two of my former superior officers claim you were with them on several naval campaigns.”
Relc looked indignant. He reached for a french fry and stuffed it into his mouth, chewing furiously.
“Have I fought on the…of course! I used to eat Drowned Sailors for breakfast. And that’s, uh, not entirely a lie. There was this winter where—hold on. Is it my turn?”
He broke off, looked up, and shot to his feet. The [Actors] on stage were beckoning to him. Relc raced forwards.
“My turn! Sorry, I’ll tell you later! Hey! I want to be Macbeth with the dagger!”
That left just Erin and Embria. Amused, the two young women watched as Relc clambered onto stage, already looking around for his costume. Erin cleared her throat as she looked at Embria.
“Sorry about earlier.”
“No. I should apologize. I bit your tail off over nothing.”
Embria waved a claw. Erin shook her head.
“It was my fault. I was a jerk. It was my Pisces moment. Everyone wants their dad to be a hero. Right?”
The Wing Commander hesitated, then she nodded. Ruefully, she looked at the stage.
“I just wish they could see what I saw. I’m sure Senior Guardsman Relc is well-loved. But I knew him back when he was the Gecko of Liscor. And it wasn’t just an insulting nickname either.”
“He was cool, huh?”
Erin watched Relc posing with an imaginary dagger in front of him. She blinked as Relc delivered Macbeth’s soliloquy without a flaw.
“Wow. He’s not half-bad. And he memorized half the play in a single day.”
“He gets into things. Just don’t let him act. Please. I don’t think I could bear him quoting that weird language to me all the time. And if someone insults him, he will jump off the stage and start a fight.”
“Gotcha. Don’t worry, I think he’s too busy anyways. Plus, he’s too muscly for most lead roles. Maybe Othello? We can make it part-time at best.”
Embria nodded. She had no idea what Erin meant, but she was happy enough to eat from her plate of lasagna and watch Relc enjoying his moment. Erin watched her.
“How’s the food? Good?”
“It’s not bad. I’ll probably copy this for the 4th Company back in the barracks. Shouldn’t be too hard.”
Embria tapped the layered lasagna. Erin stared at her.
“You can make lasagna? Really? No one I talked to knew how to make it, at least not Drakes or Gnolls.”
The red-scaled Drake shrugged.
“I’ve never made it. But it’s not hard, right? Layer of noodle here, noodle here, cheese, bake it probably—it’ll go good. And if the idiots on mess duty can’t copy me, I’ll make them eat whatever comes out.”
She smiled, and Erin laughed.
“You have [Basic Cooking]? Or are you some kind of [Cook] as well?”
Embria waved her claw dismissively
“Some classes like [Mess Sergeant] get [Basic Cooking]. Myself, I never got anything like that. But cooking isn’t that hard, no matter what people think. You just need to learn what goes where and when and take calculated risks.”
“But how did you learn…?”
“Lots of practice.”
Embria pointed at Relc. He was coming down the stage, flushed with triumph to modest applause. Erin nodded slowly. Both turned to Relc as he strode up excitedly.
“Did you see? Line perfect! What you think—do I have a shot?”
“It wasn’t bad. Do you think you’ll become an [Actor], then? It would be a nice class to pick up for a few Skills, right?”
Embria raised her brows. Relc stroked his neck spines, looking smug.
“I mean, if I get the call. What do you think, Erin?”
“I think you should hope all four lead actors break a leg, Relc.”
“I can help with that.”
Embria smiled. Then she looked out the window at the moon.
“Unfortunately, I can’t help you with that. I think I have to go back. It’s going to be an early day tomorrow. And I can’t have anything more to drink. This was…fun. Same time next week, Dad?”
She looked back at him. Relc nodded.
“Sure. That would be fun.”
He looked surprised as he said it. Then he smiled. Embria agreed. She walked towards the door, her steps lighter than they’d been in a while. Erin, sitting at the table, saw Relc’s smile change, and then he half-rose, and called out after Embria.
“Hey. Have you ever thought of…quitting?”
She turned back. Erin held her breath. Relc grubbed at his neck.
“It’s—I mean, just—have you? It’s not like [Guardsman] pays a lot, but Senior Guardsmen get more. And while it’s fun being here, no one can keep up with me. Not even Klb. It’s lonely, being the toughest and the greatest. So if this army thing never worked out…would you do it?”
He looked at her. And Embria looked back. Erin held her breath as she watched the Drake study her father, and then the inn. Embria glanced about, and then smiled ruefully.
“If you became Watch Captain, I’d think about it. Later.”
“Right. Later.”
Relc smiled. Embria walked out the inn’s door. Erin held her breath. She stared at Relc.
“Does that mean you’re going to run for Watch Captain?”
Relc shook his head. The [Guardsman] sat at his table, staring at the remains of his plate. Then he smiled wearily, and looked at her.
“She said no, Erin.”
“Oh.”
“It’s okay. I think—”
Relc abruptly got up. Embria, who was walking down the street, heard the door open behind her. Relc bellowed down the street of Liscor.
“Hey kid! What time is morning practice? Your [Captains] and officers aren’t nearly as good as they were when I was in the army. They could use a good example. When do you train in the morning?”
Embria’s heart skipped a beat. She turned, laughing.
“It hasn’t changed! It’s the same as always! Come on by whenever!”
“Sure!”
Relc grinned. The door closed, and he stepped back. Erin stood next to him. She stared up at him.
“You don’t remember what time it is.”
“Nope.”
 
——
 
Wing Commander Embria walked back. Towards her barracks. Towards the only home she really knew. And she knew that tomorrow she’d have to deal with the High Command’s new orders. With Lism. With Shield Spider nests and perhaps the issue of a father who was too lazy to wake up in the morning. Or, conversely, a group of [Soldiers] who would not be happy to see him.
It didn’t matter. What mattered was a realization that Embria had. A strange feeling. Something had happened today. Something quiet, wonderful; something Embria hadn’t known could even happen.
Because she’d always had a father. Now? She had a friend.
