Then the two Drakes paused. They looked at each other, and Relc gestured up. Embria nodded. Yvlon was confused. Then Embria and Relc took a run up. They leapt, using their poles to vault high, high into the air.
They should have fallen, no matter how long it took. But they stayed in the air. The butt of Embria’s spear struck the hard earth, and the force launched her again as her body twisted sideways. She struck again, and the earth cracked. And then again, launching herself in midair before she could touch the ground. The impacts kept her moving through the air until she landed. Next to Relc, across the sparring courts. Thirty feet away.
Silently, the audience stared at Tekshia. The old [Guildmistress] folded her arms.
“That’s just showing off.”
As the two landed, they finished the routine. The final combination was just a series of thrusts.
Strike. Step. Strike. The spears shot forwards, finding an invisible target with each strike. As if there was no doubt they would ever miss. It was confident. And just when Yvlon thought the two would lower their spears, they turned. As smoothly as they had been in clockwork before, suddenly Embria was facing her father. And her enchanted spear lanced out like a serpent at his chest.
Clack.
He knocked it down. Undeterred, Embria swept her spear up. But the sound of wood meeting wood was the only sound in the world. She spun her spear, and Relc blocked the butt of the spear swinging to his thigh. The female Drake slashed again, and it was blocked. But she continued. Faster, and faster.
Clack. Clack. Clack. Clackclackclackclackclack—
The sound became an endless stream of sound in Yvlon’s ears. Each slash was blocked or diverted, each blow parried. And then, suddenly, it was Embria on the defensive. First Relc attacked, his spear whirling from form to form—short stabs, long slashes, whirling the spear like a stave—and then Embria was advancing.
Back and forth. Advancing and retreating. They pressed each other hard, but not once did the spear’s tip touch the other, wood or enchanted metal. It put Yvlon’s bout with Embria to shame. If this was what the Drake was capable of, Yvlon wouldn’t have ever touched her.
The duel, the practice, lasted sometime between a heartbeat and an hour. Then Embria lowered her spear and wiped at her brow. And Relc propped his spear up on his shoulder and stretched. Yvlon exhaled, and Tekshia applauded.
Once. It was so quiet that Yvlon barely heard it. She saw Keldrass uncertainly raise his claws with some of the other watchers, but Tekshia had stopped before anyone else could join in. The Guildmistress shook her head once more. But her tone was far from dismissive.
“And they say we don’t have true skill at arms. Someone show those [Martial Artist] freaks at Pomle this sight.”
She hobbled forwards, using a cane that rather resembled a spear itself for a crutch. No—it was a short spear. Tekshia leaned on it. Yvlon followed her.
“That’s what a Wing Commander in your army can do?”
The old Drake snorted.
“That’s what Commander Grasstongue can do. Why do you think she made Wing Commander in just two decades?”
She shook her head. With her spear-cane, Tekshia indicated Relc. He was smiling. So was Embria.
“That was a [Spearmaster]’s routine. No [Spear Hunter] could do that just by practicing or leveling up.”
The look she gave the other adventurers in the sparring fields said they couldn’t do it either. Yvlon tried to remember if she’d ever seen Ylawes or anyone else perform a sword-dance nearly that advanced. Pisces…no, he had polished moves, but not nearly to this level.
Now Relc and Embria were talking. He wiped off sweat from his brow as he indicated at the spot where they’d literally flown across the ground for thirty feet.
“Where’d you learn my patented [Soaring Spearsman] trick?”
Embria grinned. Her tone sounded waspish, but her expression looked pleased to Yvlon.
“Don’t make up Skills. I watched you do that trick for years. It took me a decade to learn to copy it. And unlike you, I’ve actually used it in battles.”
“Hey! Wait, really?”
“Yes. I didn’t think you still practiced, though.”
“Well, you know. I keep up. The Captain would kill me if I didn’t practice. So I do. Say…I’m beat. Want to wash off and…get a drink?”
Embria paused. She looked at Relc and hesitated. At last, she shrugged.
“I could try that. We could.”
“Sure. Want to go to the bath house?”
“Nah. I’ll just grab a bucket of water and…get a change of clothes. You’re covered in sweat. What if we meet at your apartment in ten minutes?”
“Sure. I mean, great.”
Relc stood to one side. He watched, almost bemused, as his daughter left the courtyard, spear on one shoulder. He turned his head and stared at his spear—even the way he carried it was the same. He looked around and then noticed the audience at last.
“What’re you looking at?”
Tekshia poked Relc in the back with her spear.
“You, fool. Where did that girl learn how to do that spear dance?”
“I don’t know. From the army?”
Relc ducked as Tekshia swung at his head. And she was quick too. She glared at him.
“Don’t be cute. You’re too ugly. She copied you. I’ve seen you practice that before. And you can’t learn that from sight alone, no matter what genius you are. You taught her.”
The big [Guardsman] hunched his shoulders.
“So maybe I did. I didn’t think she’d keep using that in the army. I taught her how to use a spear and nothing else. So what? That’s a terrible gift for a kid to get.”
Tekshia just shook her head. She looked around and then clicked her fingers.
“You. Keldrass. Grab a bucket of water. Fill it up from the wall.”
The Gold-rank Captain blinked. But another click of Tekshia’s claws sent him trotting off. She looked at Relc. He was leaning on his spear, sweat dripping down.
“Go wash up. And put something decent on. Don’t leave your daughter waiting. If you really feel that way, then your company is the least she deserves.”
Keldrass came back. Tekshia grabbed the bucket and hurled it on Relc. The Drake cursed, and then blinked at her through a waterfall of water dripping off him. He hadn’t dodged it. Tekshia snapped at him.
“Did you hear me? Get lost.”
Relc uncertainly looked around. Slowly, he holstered his spear across his back in its custom harness. Then he trotted down the street. Yvlon stared at the puddles of water he left. Tekshia sighed as she watched him go. Then she stared around.
“What are you waiting for? Do you think you’ll level up by watching? Get back to work!”
The adventurers started and took their spots, even if they’d been intending to get a nice long drink instead. Tekshia walked back into her guild. She paused to stare backwards at Relc’s disappearing from. Then she looked at the place where they’d been. She swished her tail and shook her head a final time.
“Ridiculous. Liscor doesn’t need three [Spearmasters].”
But she was smiling when she said it.
 
——
 
A father and a daughter met outside his apartment. As they had. As they did. They walked together through Liscor’s streets. It was both their days off. And as it had been noted, Liscor was full of things more interesting and exciting than them.
On his platform, Lism dueled Krshia with words. By his side was the esteemed, no, heroic Captain Wikir. The Gnoll stood in full breastplate and armor, saluting and looking bored and embarrassed to tears by halves. Embria paused to stare at him with Relc. She hesitated, and then pointed to the stage.
“You should be the one he calls out. Not me. All I did was follow orders. You slew that Goblin. Garen Redfang. I never thanked you for doing that.”
“Don’t.”
“But you’re Liscor’s war hero. If anyone was.”
“I don’t feel like it.”
Relc crossed his arms. He looked bleakly at the stage and shook his head. He looked at his daughter. This was the first thing they’d really said to each other since the sparring match. But it was honest. It didn’t dance about the subject. And it wasn’t the same conversation. She looked at him, hesitating.
“Why not? You stopped Garen Redfang. A Gold-rank traitor. And you commanded the 4th Company. You called the retreat when I didn’t. And they listened. Didn’t you feel anything?”
The former [Sergeant] hesitated. He could have evaded or lied, but he didn’t.
“Of course. I went out there, and for a second, it was like being back in the ranks. But just for a second. I didn’t want to go out there swinging and fighting with the [Soldiers]. And I didn’t go down there for the 4th Company. I went there for you.”
He looked at his daughter. And his daughter looked back. Relc shook his head. He stared at Lism and Captain Wikir. His voice was far-off.
“I didn’t do anything heroic. I killed a dead Goblin. And it still wasn’t me that got him. He just stopped. I’ve seen it before. What’s heroic about that? He killed the Goblin Lord. He went through an army—no, two armies and the 4th Company. And you think I stopped him? Besides…”
His voice trailed off. Embria waited for more, but a roar from the crowd drowned out whatever might be said preemptively. One of the candidates had shouted something inflammatory. Both sides pushed forwards, and Embria reached out.
“Let’s get out of here!”
“Right!”
Relc pushed through the crowd, single-handedly driving through the flow of people. He felt a grip on his hand, and when he won clear of the immediate crowd, he looked back and saw Embria was holding his hand. Relc swung his arm.
“Whew. Glad I’m not on duty. It’s going to be a pain breaking up the fights. Where to, kid? Uh, you can let go.”
Embria hesitated. But then she gripped Relc’s hand. He stared at her. She didn’t let go. Relc stared at her clawed hand. He opened his mouth. She jumped in.
“How about the inn?”
Relc closed his mouth on what he had been about to say. He nodded.
“Okay.”
And so they walked. Hand in hand. Embria’s cheeks were flaming with embarrassment, but you would hardly notice with her fiery scales as it was. And the hands? No one noticed as the two walked together at first. But the two whom it mattered to felt it.
“You’ve gotten a lot taller. When was the last time we did this?”
Relc looked down at Embria, mystified. She blinked up at him.
“It must have been around ten years ago. Eight at the least. Remember how I ran away when I was thirteen?”
His hand tightened on hers.
“Yeah. Yeah. I do remember that. And we never did this back in the army, did we? I just got back from the front or something. You were usually asleep.”
“That’s true.”
On they went. Embria took a deep breath as they walked down the street, past people whose lives didn’t matter to her right now.
“Is that why you left? Really? It wasn’t cowardice.”
“Nah. It was.”
She stopped.
“Dad. You don’t need to—”
“What? Lie? I don’t need to. I know what they say about me. I was one of them, remember?”
He looked at her. And he shrugged, a bit sad and guilty.
“It’s the truth. I just didn’t want to die. I thought I would. No, I knew I would. I had a nickname. And I was going into every battle with the front lines. I was afraid. Someday, someone was going to lay a trap. Or hire an [Assassin] and get me. I already had a dozen close calls. I didn’t want to die. And you were there. That’s true. So I quit. But it was about me, kid. It always was.”
It wasn’t what Embria wanted to hear. But the bitter pill wasn’t the poison she thought it would be.
“You know, I was serious about you coming back. There’s a bunch of your old friends who made it to the High Command. They’d call you in. You could be a [Captain]. It’s a possibility.”
And she hoped. Oh, she hoped, but she knew what he would say. For a glorious second, he hesitated. Then Relc shook his head.
“I wouldn’t be happy there, k—Embria. I couldn’t go back, even if everyone welcomed me with open arms. I was afraid, yeah. But I wasn’t happy, near the end. That’s why I left. I could have died for the army, with my pals, I guess. But I wasn’t happy. I didn’t say that either, did I? I’m sorry.”
He looked at Embria. And his grip was very gentle. She looked up at him. And slowly, she nodded.
“Okay.”
It was the last time she would ever ask. Embria tried to blink tears out of her eyes, but there were none. Even so, Relc brushed a hand across her neck spines.
“Hey. It’s a good offer. If I ever lose my job, I’ll think about it, okay?”
And she laughed. Because that, more than any of his denials, was the truest refusal she’d ever heard. And on they walked. And in time, unbidden, Relc spoke. He looked at the inn on the hill as they walked out the gates, walking through mud and growing grass and plants.
“So I never got why Erin was upset. I thought Goblins were trash. Monsters. And I kept thinking that until I found myself hitting this little Goblin. Rags. Erin kicked me out of the inn. And then I realized ‘oh wow, she’s not kidding. She really likes Goblins.’ But I still didn’t get it until later. Really later, I mean.”
Embria waited. The inn was growing larger. The sun falling. And it was lit up. Relc swallowed, and then went on.
“The first time I came to the inn after the siege, Erin welcomed me in. She didn’t say a thing. And that Hob, Numbtongue, he didn’t attack me. Just gave me a look. I felt like I saw it in a mirror. I killed his dad, I guess. Goblins don’t have dads. But I heard that Redfang guy was his tribe’s Chieftain. Taught them all how to fight. But Numbtongue never went after me.”
“Why?”
Relc let go. He ran a claw down his neck and shook his head. Embria stopped to watch him. And the emotions flickering across his face were also realer than she had seen before.
“I asked him. Erin asked him, really. And he said it was because I didn’t kill him. Garen Redfang. His brother did. The Goblin Lord. Or Garen did. He chose where to die. I just held the spear. But you know what was familiar? Numbtongue, that guy. He didn’t forgive me. And I don’t think he will. And that’s fair. More than fair.”
That was all he said. Embria absorbed it quietly. She stood in the wet soil, inhaling the wet, musty scent in the air that was almost overpowering. And she had to ask. It wasn’t the same thing.
“So you’re okay with being here? With just being a Senior Guardsman and being a joke to some people?”
Relc hesitated. Then he smiled.
“They say that. But they made me Senior Guardsman. And Erin let me back into her inn. Klb’s my buddy. They say tons of stuff, but they’re my guys.”
Embria nodded. She swallowed a lump in her throat. Relc kept walking. He went on, staring at the sky.
