“I don’t care. I know my enemies, and Goblins and Antinium don’t get a pass for being different. They’re both species that have nearly wiped out Liscor and my people—you have no idea what that thing is capable of.”
“No?”
A touch of fire entered Yvlon’s eyes. She held an arm, blocking Embria. The Drake lowered her spear’s tip, but she still glared at Ksmvr.
“No.”
“No.”
Both females looked at Ksmvr. The Antinium adventurer nodded.
“Wing Commander Embria is quite correct. You do not know the full capacity of my abilities, Yvlon. I have been trying to educate you. But Wing Commander Embria’s hostility is quite understandable.”
“No, it’s not.”
Yvlon folded her arms, glaring between Ksmvr and Embria now. She turned to him.
“Your people may have invaded Izril, Ksmvr, but you killed no one. And the Antinium helped save Liscor. Surely that earns them a small pass? Humans and Gnolls have both been at war with the Drakes, and I didn’t see Commander Embria instantly threaten me when I approached. No Antinium has killed a Drake in a decade. Can’t we be civil?”
She looked pointedly at the Drake in question. Embria took a deep breath.
“No, we can not. You’re the one who doesn’t understand, Miss Byres. The Antinium are not another species on Izril who can be reasoned with. They are cold, insectile strangers. And I’ve killed Antinium before.”
The [Warrior] paused.
“How do you mean? From Liscor’s Hive?”
Embria laughed.
“We haven’t been here long enough. But Liscor’s army fights everywhere. You think we aren’t called to patrol the neutral border between the Hives? It’s not peaceful like you Humans think. The Antinium attack us, and we attack them. Clashes happen all the time on the border zone. And not with these Worker-types either. Liscor’s Antinium are tame compared to the ones I’ve seen. Flying bastards who pick off travellers on the roads. Armored Antinium. Invisible ones. And there are worse kinds, like the things that sometimes appear and kill entire villages. They don’t look like regular Antinium—until you cut them open and see the similarities. We are at war.”
The woman opened her mouth. But it was Ksmvr who jumped in.
“That is correct, broadly speaking, Wing Commander Embria. But I am no longer a member of my Hive. Therefore, I am no enemy of yours, Wing Commander Embria. I am an adventurer. That is all I have left.”
Embria filed away that information in case it was important. But she still held onto her spear. She lowered it to the ground and stepped back, but she couldn’t let go.
“That changes nothing. I’m sorry to bother you, Miss Byres. But I think it’s time I get back to my drills.”
She saluted with her spear. Yvlon looked annoyed and disgusted by turns. She moved Ksmvr back and spoke sharply.
“I’d have hoped that you could meet one member of a species without tarring the rest with the same brush. Or are all Drakes the same? All Gnolls? Either way, if you won’t accept the Antinium, at least you could rethink Goblins. One stays at Erin’s inn. And Goblins may have attacked Liscor at the behest of their Goblin Lord, but Goblins—”
“Saved it?”
It was a common refrain. Embria spat the words. She looked Yvlon in the eye and shook her head.
“You want me to be at peace with the Antinium? Fine. I’ll do that when we’re actually at peace. When I can trust that the Hive isn’t working to undermine Liscor.”
“That would be very difficult.”
“Shush, Ksmvr.”
Embria ignored both. She tightened her grip on her spear.
“But Goblins? Make peace with Goblins? Never. Goblins killed my mother.”
 
——
 
And then she was the angriest she’d been all day. For a moment. For ten minutes. For twenty. Twenty-seven. And then she couldn’t be angry anymore. Because as deep the injustice, as true as the emotions were, they were old wounds. Embria couldn’t be angry. So she was just tired. And a bit sad as she practiced alone.
That was how he found her. She didn’t expect it, but when she turned her head, there he was. Just standing there, watching her. He nearly made her lose her grip on her spear. In the end, Embria swung it onto one shoulder and glared at him. She wasn’t in the mood for half-hearted apologies.
“Did you send that Human? Yvlon Byres?”
Relc looked around. Yvlon was standing on the far end of the practice grounds, showing Ksmvr how to fight with sword and shield more effectively.
“Her? Nope. I got sort of mad at Erin when I found out she’d gone. But apparently it was all Yvlon.”
“Well. She’s best friends with an Antinium. Just like you’re now best friends with Erin and all her Goblins, right? Are you enjoying their company too, along with Senior Guardsman Klbkch?”
The words felt like acid coming out, as if Embria were Oldblood. Relc just stared at her, until she couldn’t meet his gaze. Shame rushed through her; the look in his eyes was—
“No. I don’t speak to that guy. And he doesn’t speak to me. But I don’t need to join the army and slaughter another thousand to avenge your mother.”
“So you’re fine with Goblins now? Is that it?”
Embria whirled on him. Relc shrugged. It was pained, contemptuous, and tired all at once.
“I didn’t say that. But tell me. How many more should I have killed? How long should I have stuck around to kill them? One killed her. And it could have been Humans, Gnolls, Drakes, a damn Corusdeer—”
“They killed your parents. You told me.”
“I did. And they did. I never said I was okay with it. But Antinium got my buddies. Klb is my buddy. Let’s just say it’s like that.”
It was too much like what Yvlon had said. Embria turned her back.
“You don’t have to follow me about. We had our half a day. That’s better than normal.”
Relc sighed loudly.
“Why is it always like this? I thought you liked the pet store. And the pizza. Maybe even the puzzles.”
“I did. But that’s your life, Father. Not mine.”
Relc paused.
“Yeah. So maybe I should visit where you work. What’s stopping you from saying where we’ll go one time?”
“If you went back to the barracks, half of my command would be lining up to have a ‘friendly’ sparring match with you. The other half would spit in your face.”
“Sounds about right. So it’s my crummy life, huh?”
“It wouldn’t bother me if you did anything useful with your time. But what am I supposed to do? Just watch you go about your business? Can’t you—do something I’d do?”
There was a pause. And then a sigh. Embria listened to it as she stared at Yvlon and Ksmvr, who were studiously ignoring them. Well, Yvlon was.
“I tried. But I guess my life just isn’t that interesting. Puzzles. Dogs. Blue fruit juice. I’m sorry. What would you like me to do? Go for a drink? Watch a performance or something?”
“I don’t know. No.”
“Then I’m out of ideas. What do we have in common?”
Embria spun. She walked over to Relc and poked at his chest.
“You’re my father. I’m your daughter. Isn’t that enough?”
He looked down at her sadly.
“I guess not, kid. Or I guess we’re too alike. Only, we’re on the wrong side of things. You’re in the army. I’m not. How do we deal with that?”
And she had no answer. If she had, she wouldn’t be here. They wouldn’t do this. And she wouldn’t have been a Wing Commander while he stayed in Liscor. And both of them knew it. So Embria turned around. She grabbed her spear and ran through one of her exercises. The spear cut the air. Embria did a basic spear dance, alone in her world. Waiting for him to leave.
He didn’t leave, though. Whenever she turned her head, there he was. And that was different too. She’d expected him to stalk off in a huff or just sneak away. Run away. But this time he stayed. He was watching her. Watching the arcs her spear traced in the air. Embria turned her head and kept practicing. And after three more forms, she heard his voice.
“You do that pretty well. I have a similar warm-up, you know.”
“Uh huh.”
She concentrated on her footwork. It was familiar. Comforting. But she was aware of his presence. It was aggravating and familiar. And…Embria tried to shut out the rest with the purity of her art. She transitioned from basic thrusts and steps to advanced moves. Sweeping cuts, sudden feints and reverse-strikes. The sounds in the practice courts slowly died down as Embria cut and stepped, faster and faster, each strike striving for precision, the height of martial prowess that Skills alone could not achieve.
And then she turned—and he was gone. Gone from the place he’d been standing. Just like that. It hit Embria in the gut, and she staggered for a second. But what had she expected? For him to wait forever. Angrily, Embria turned. She raised her spear to slash—
And there he was. Relc raised his spear above his head. And he was right there. His head turned to look at her. Embria faltered. Her spear nearly slipped. Then she realized. His arms. His posture.
It was a copy of hers. And as Relc brought his spear down, he completed the slash she’d been about to perform. Slowly, Embria cut downwards, in the same arc. She looked at her father. And he waited.
What came next? Embria’s body took over for her mind. She retreated, cutting across the first cut. And beside her, Relc copied the move.
No—he didn’t copy it. Because that would have put him a beat behind her. He had moved at the exact same time she did. He knew what was coming next. And, of course, he did. This was a spear technique. A move he had learned. Perhaps even one he had shown her growing up.
Of course, they were the same. Slowly, Embria brought her spear up. It was her routine. Her warm up. But two spears rose. They fell as one. And daughter and father looked at each other. And then Embria took a deep breath. She spun her spear, and Relc blinked and then mimicked her. And they began again.
 
——
 
Yvlon saw the two figures moving in synch out of the corner of her eye. And at first, she didn’t pay attention, coaching Ksmvr in traditional Byres swordplay. But then the movements were impossible to ignore. Because they were an anomaly. Just like something completely dissonant stood out, the unity of the two figures was also different. Yvlon turned and halted her practice session.
Her eyes widened. She saw Embria, sweat covering her crimson scales, turning. Her spear was lowered, tracing a circle in the dirt around her. And beside her, his spear held in the exact same way, at the same angle, was Relc. He flicked his spear up, and hers flew with it, a slight thrust that kicked up dirt. They jumped back, and the veil of dust billowed up. Two outlines moved together. Two shadows.
Step. Pivot. The spears cut a line through the cloud of dust. Yvlon watched the tips of the spears tracing silver lines in the air. They caught the light.
“Silver and steel.”
Yvlon breathed the words. The move was beautiful, but the technique of both Drakes was flawless. And she wasn’t the only one who’d seen. Across the sparring grounds and practice area, other people were lowering their weapons. Captain Bevussa and Keldrass halted in their practice to watch.
“Are you seeing this, Issa?”
“Yes, Captain.”
One of the Oldblood Drakes alighted on the ground. Her eyes caught a crescent cut. This time, Embria and Relc advanced, and the half-moons cut patterns through the air. Bevussa glanced at her teammate.
“You use a spear. How good are they? Could you do that?”
“Good, Captain? I can’t tell. But I can’t do that. Not with a Skill. Look.”
It wasn’t just the way they cut, or the fact that they moved in tandem. Because a spear was not a single weapon like a sword you could only hold a limited number of ways. It could be long or short, and where you held it, where you stood, affected how you fought your opponent.
Stab. Cut upwards. Shift grip. The spears jabbed and then spun, from a lance to quarterstaff. The other practitioners in the courtyard looked over. The two Drakes struck, up, down, left, right, a never-ending flurry of blows. Then they changed their grips and swung.
“Watch out—”
The long end of the spear swung across the courts. And Relc and Embria were too close. They were going to strike each other across the torsos! Bevussa started forwards with two Drakes from her team. They were too slow.
And it didn’t matter. Embria’s torso twisted. Sideways, and down. She leaned under Relc’s swing, and as she completed the sweeping slash, he twisted back, letting her enchanted spear’s tip pass over his face. Neither Drake blinked. They kept moving, wielding their spears like longswords now, with even greater reach.
Yvlon watched silently. So did Ksmvr. Both used swords. But Yvlon was the daughter of a martial house. Ksmvr had been born a Prognugator. They understood the art of wielding a spear. To Yvlon, it was a lesson in watching basic forms executed flawlessly. And then both Drakes left her understanding of spear combat behind.
A flash of light. The spears touched the ground. And then dust billowed up. But the two Drakes didn’t appear from behind the dust cloud. They pivoted, and then used the blunt ends of their spears. And as casually as if they were walking, they swung themselves off the ground, landing, cutting. A backhanded strike cut the air behind Embria as Relc duplicated the feat, before the cloud had begun to drift downwards.
“What was that move?”
Bevussa wondered aloud. No one on the courts answered her at first. And then an old, crackling voice spoke up.
“Blinding moves. Repositioning. Fighting an opponent to your rear.”
Yvlon looked around. An old, female Drake stood behind her, in the back door to the Adventurer’s Guild. Tekshia Shivertail, Guildmistress of Liscor’s Adventuring Guild, watched as Relc and Embria turned. Their spears lashed out, cutting the air.
“They’re good, Guildmistress?”
Bevussa asked on behalf of the silent audience. Neither Embria nor Relc noticed. Tekshia shook her head. She watched Embria as the younger Drake’s scales flashed.
“If you have to ask, you know the answer. Watch.”
The spear dances had changed. Now more complex forms were appearing. Relc and Embria stepped back, walking backwards from an invisible foe. The spears flickered, front, back, jabbing with the tip and butt of the spear.
“Fighting off a two-pronged attack. Spinning technique to keep them off-guard.”
The two spears flickered as the Drakes spun then, and Yvlon lost track of where the spear tip was for a second as the two attacked two directions at once, repeating the confusing maneuver, halting the rotation of the spear to attack with the spearhead or lash out backwards.
