“Thank you.” Ren said, then turned to the seven women. “How many of you can sew?” Three raised their hands. “How many can sew really well? That is, a 'bag holding sand' well?” Only one held up her hand and Ren smiled. “Please follow me to my workshop.” Ren led the 7 women to his workshop and opened the door for them. They walked inside and looked around. All that was there was a big stone fireplace, a forge, and a walled off area.

“It's not much of a workshop.” One woman said.

Ren chuckled. “I've been busy.” He showed them the giant oven and told them what it was for. They stared at the tilted contraption as Ren explained how it worked, and showed them how to position each bag under the chute, then to sew it shut and stack them at the side of the room

“This I gotta see.” The same woman said.

Ren chuckled again and asked them to step back, then concentrated on the oven. Activate. He thought and snapped his fingers for dramatic effect. The oven lit and a blast of heat hit them all.

“Woo-eee!” She said.

“I'll need 3 of you to shovel small amounts all along the length of the metal on the other side. I'll show you how.” Ren said at the look of worry on their faces. “I'll need you...” He said to the one woman who could sew. “...to sew sacks, and to sew the tops when they are full.” Ren smiled. “The last 3 are in here to catch the powder in the sacks and stack them along the wall.”

They all nodded slightly and Ren smiled. “Don't worry, it's quite easy.” Ren ran them through the process and they got the hang of it quickly. Ren told them to take their time, to rotate who shovels, and that the bags didn't have to be lifted. They could be dragged across the wood floor easily to be piled by the wall. He took out 19 of the bolts of tight weave fabric and stacked them by the door.

“Please take your time. It's not a race... and by the gods, be careful.” Ren walked over to Dorcot's section and saw that he had a good amount of gems done. Ren left the workshop and walked down the road to the cart. It was perfect timing, as the foreman and the 5 carts pulled up to House Neram. Ren waved to him and told him to follow down the road 2 miles. They got to the spot Ren had picked and then took a bit of time to work out the best way to make houses and have them easily accessible to the road.

“Let's just do a subdivision.” Ren said.

“A what?”

Ren took out a piece of parchment and drew a line. “This is the main road.” Ren said and pointed to the main road. He drew a line perpendicular to it, about an inch long, and then drew a rectangle. “We can have the houses here face away from each other, but face the road they are on, then more houses can be built on the other side of the road.”

“So they're in their own little loop, but still attached to the road.”

Ren nodded slightly. “We've got lots of space here. They can have a good yard, in the front and in the back, and still be close enough to the neighbors if help is needed.”

“Good thinking.” The foreman said. “Are you still sticking with 12 houses?”

“Well...” Ren said and smiled. “If you can keep building them, I can keep paying you for it.”

“Ha!” The foreman said and laughed. “You're the best client I've ever had.”

Ren handed him 3 platinum and a coin pouch. “That should be enough for the 12 houses, to start.”

The foreman equipped the pouch, put the coins in it, and turned around. “Okay, boys! Let's get to work!” The crew pulled out pickaxes from the carts and did the same technique that Ren had done for both Dorcot's house and to make the buffet area. The workers dug out a spot with the pickaxes, then cleaned it out with shovels to make it flat. Then they started to build a house on it.

“I'll leave you to it.” Ren said. “I'll be back in a little while.” The foreman waved and Ren got in the cart. “To the Library.” He said and the driver looked at him like he was crazy. “You can take me to the city for now, and I'll give you directions when we get there.”

The female dwarf nodded slightly and flicked the reins. Ren directed her to the Library after they got to the city's main area, and the driver was just as shocked as the foreman was that a library was actually there. Ren went inside and heard loud tromping above his head.

Teepo! Ren thought and waited while Teepo went to the back of the room and up the wall by the stairs.

“It's just the Librarian.”

Ren followed Teepo up the stairs and saw the Librarian as she tromped over the floor and hopped onto a chair. She sat on the table for a moment, and then rolled over the end and landed on her feet. She turned around and saw Ren.

“YOU!” She yelled and ran over to him. Ren braced himself and the female dwarf took him into a giant hug. “Ow!” She said and let Ren go. “Your armor's hard.”

Ren laughed. “Sorry, it's supposed to be like that.”

“How did you do all of this?” She asked and looked around. “I've never had this much open space before.”

“Did you go upstairs yet?” Ren asked and pointed to the other set of stairs.

“THERE'S MORE?!?” She screamed and disappeared up the stairs. Ren heard more tromping for a minute, and then there was a loud bang. Ren ran up the stairs to see what happened, and the female dwarf was laying down in the middle of the floor, laughing.

“Are you all right?” Ren asked.

“All right?” She sniggered. “ALL RIGHT?!?” She rolled up and off the floor and came over to Ren. “Your highness, I don't know why you did this.” She said and waved at the empty room. “I've lived in this little hovel all of my life, surrounded by books. Not once have I had the room to dance like that.”

“That was dancing?” Ren asked.

“Dancing. Flailing. Tripping.” The female dwarf said and laughed. “It's all the same.”

Ren smiled. “I guess you like my idea then.”

“Nope, I hate it.” She said and laughed really hard at Ren's surprised expression, and grabbed her belly. “Oh... oh... I have to remember that look.” She said after a few minutes of laughing. “That was priceless!” Ren rolled his eyes and she laughed again.

“Shall we get back to work?” Ren asked, and she nodded slightly. Now that she had all this extra room, she decided to spread out her collection a little. Ren kept building more and more cabinets to hold everything. By about 3pm, Ren had made the final cabinet that was needed to hold the last stack of books.

Stat Change!

Woodworking Level 1 (Intermediate 0%)

Nailing Level 7 (Beginner 0%)

Ren stored the cabinet and took it to the second floor and put it in the spot the female dwarf told him to. “Well, that was the last of the books.” Ren said and sat down in a chair.

The female dwarf look at him and laughed. “The last of the books?” She said and gave Ren an evil grin. “That's just what I had out for display.”
