The small wince the boy just tried to hide was the last straw, so Baatar put aside his training equipment and sent the attending Peak Experts on their way. He half expected the boy to argue, but instead he quietly surrendered his gear and let Baatar help him to the swinging couch. Truth be told, Baatar loved the swings more than a man of his age should, as they’d helped him rediscover a long-forgotten sense of whimsy. Cloud-Stepping was a thrilling experience, but Baatar was not talented enough to relax and enjoy himself while hurtling at high speeds through the skies. This was hardly comparable, but there was something magical about sitting here with the wind in his hair as he swung his feet back and forth to see how high the couch could take him. It was doubly fun with his beautiful rose at his side, who was more radiant than ever now that she’d found her good health and confidence again. Gone were the veils, scarves, and gloves meant to hide herself from the world, and she’d even taken to a few Central fashions such as adding a splash of colour to her outfits and wearing local flowers in her hair.

More than sixty years later, and Sarnai was still as beautiful as the day they’d wed, and every morning, Baatar thanked the Mother Above for bringing them together.

But now was not the time to pine for his wife waiting in their bed. This was Baatar’s time to make up for his failings as a Mentor, though it would take many decades of hard work before that particular debt was repaid. “You fought well today,” he said, pulling the boy close in to a one-armed embrace, while gently rocking the couch beneath them and belatedly putting up a Sound Barrier to silence the creaking chains.

“Well enough for a cripple, you mean.”

This was rare. The boy almost never gave voice to his frustrations, and for a moment, Baatar wasn’t sure how to respond to his surly petulance. “Do not speak for me, boy, or presume to call me a liar,” he growled, though in truth, he was delighted to see the boy finally acting his age. “I said you fought well, and I meant it.”

“Sorry Dad.” Bah. There was fire in the boy, but he was too quick to apologize, and others would mistake this for weakness. Taking a moment to steady his breathing, the boy exhaled slowly and said, “It’s just so discouraging to see what’s happening and know what to do, but fail to follow through because my body is too slow and weak. There’s been no improvement these past three months, or at least nothing worth talking about.”

Indeed, this would be frustrating to the extreme. Despite his inability to find Balance, the boy could still enter the State of Enlightenment, which gave him ample time to act and react accordingly with Baatar moving so slowly. “I cannot claim to know what you are experiencing,” he began, picking his words carefully so as not to make things worse, “But you are mistaken if you think there has been no improvements. Aside from your gradually improving health and physique, tonight, you demonstrated a high understanding of momentum and positioning, as well as a passable grasp of opposing forces, all subjects you were sorely lacking in before taking injury.”

“...The first two I understand,” the boy said, completely overlooking the attempt to cheer him up as he often did. “But what do you mean by opposing forces? Like my counterattacks?”

“No. It is what it sounds like. A push-pull interaction, if you will.” Pointing at his legs as he swung them higher and higher, Baatar explained, “They exist in almost everything we do. Even something as simple as lifting your leg requires different muscles working in opposing directions. Your movements show you are learning to carry out these interactions in a more optimal fashion and minimizing the amount of wasted effort and energy.”

“Really? I’m not doing anything differently though.”

“Incorrect. You are doing almost everything differently, only it feels so natural you have yet to notice.” One issue was that this usually meant a young Martial Warrior had reached the end of their physical growth, since their bodies had stopped changing long enough for them to finally acclimate, but Baatar kept this piece of information to himself since it was clear the boy still hoped he would be taller. There was still a chance, but a slim one at best, and one could hardly fault him for his stunted growth considering what he went through. “You stand taller and no longer slouch or slump. You move confidently without hesitation, and you no longer fumble your steps or look at your hands when adjusting your grip. You speak clearer, your gaze is sharper, your mind quicker and so much more. All of this is a form of knowing without knowing, of being more in tune with yourself and the world around you, and these minor improvements will continue to add up over time.”

No doubt all of this could be attributed to the boy’s nightly adventures in Pong Pong’s Natal Palace. Though he thought their games of chase merely for fun, Baatar had long since recognized it for what it was: training for predator and prey alike, training which had honed the boy’s instincts to a razor-sharp edge. Falling Rain was no mere boy or even a simple warrior, not anymore, for he was now a predator in mind and spirit, albeit one lacking in physical prowess.

No matter. His strength would return in good time, according to Broken Blade Pichai. The way he put it, the boy’s Core was shattered, but not gone, and would eventually recover some small measure of functionality. Leaking Chi would be a constant issue, and the Southern Living Legend claimed his Core was still not whole even decades after the fact. He also warned that his own recovery might well have been a miracle of the Mother, but still... where there was life, there was hope, and even if the boy never became a Martial Warrior again, Baatar was already more than happy with things as they were.

Granted, Broken Blade Pichai never experienced a period of extreme frailty like Rain had, during those long, arduous months immediately after shattering his Core, but not even the greatest Healers of the Empire could figure out why Rain’s physique so frightfully fragile, or why he miraculously recovered after Devouring three Demons worth of Ichor...

“Huh.” The boy had gone quiet while musing over the explanation, so quiet Baatar thought he’d fallen asleep. “Push and pull,” he muttered, musing over the words as if tasting them for the first time. “I wonder if this has anything to do with Yan’s whole... heavy-but-light, slow-but-fast shtick.” While the boy briefly explained Yan’s Martial dilemma, Baatar considered reprimanding his Disciple for discussing the Dao with his betrothed, but one might as well ask the sun to stop rising in the east. Baatar and Sarnai had been the same, freely exchanging observations and insights without caring or understanding the possible harm it could do, and they were neither the first couple, nor the last to do the same. “So I was thinking,” the boy concluded, “Is the answer to Yan’s problem another push-pull thing? Make the wind fast at one end and slow at the other, or heavy versus light?”

“Difficult to say, especially in matters of Elemental Blessings, nor is it my place to offer advice to another man’s Disciple.” Seeing the boy’s disappointment, Baatar couldn’t help but add, “However, it is possible you are right and wrong at the same time. Your muscles stretch and contract to lift your leg, so instead of trying to making wind heavy and light at the same time, try to envision what the end result of such an interaction might be. Perhaps this might help, but keep in mind, your Mentor is speaking purely from conjecture.”

“Aren’t we all.” Frowning as he mulled the problem over, the boy voiced his thoughts out loud. “So heavy and light wind at the same time gives me... what? Hmm... then again, is wind ever heavy or light? If the wind is against you, it’s heavy, and if it’s with you it’s light, so maybe we just treat wind as directed forces, and have Yan try pushing and pulling at the same time. But without something to push and pull against, that seems kind of worthless. Then again, wind is just the movement of air, so what if you... restricted it somehow, then... push-pulled on it? Would it... condense? concentrated? No, those aren’t the right words...”

“Enough. This train of thought will do you no good, my boy.” Gently clutching him a little closer, Baatar whispered, “Better to focus on your own problems first, before trying to solve Yan’s, because even if you gave her the answer, she would not thank you for it. Each must walk their own path, and you are not yet far enough to give advice without risk. I cannot stop you from discussing this, but remember to tread lightly, if only to keep your future Grandfather-in-Law from tanning your hide.”

“Good point.” The boy still had a mind to share his musings with Yan, but nothing would stop him, and perhaps his unique perspective might actually help.

After a moment of shared silence, Baatar asked the question which had been eating at him the whole time. “Boy... why this sudden interest in the Martial Path? Has there been a change in your health?”

“Nope. Still broken as ever, with no Chi to be found.” Gesturing at his bedroom, the boy added, “Aurie bumped into the wall and another chunk fell off of Unity. Can’t even call it a staff anymore. It’s barely even a cane.” Though he kept his tone light, his pain was evident, because in his eyes, those broken Spiritual Weapons were physical representations of hope, when they were simply tattered remains of the past. Broken Blade Pichai had kept his for as long as he could, but he advised the boy to get rid of them as soon as possible, for they were simply a reminder of a past best forgotten.

In response, the boy politely nodded and ignored any and all advice he found unpalatable, which was true to character.

Settling into Baatar’s embrace, the boy sighed and said, “I wanted to check my progress because I’m worried about what’s to come.”

“Worried? You are the Imperial Minister of Finance, the first ever independent Imperial Scion to hail from the outer provinces. Socially, you stand first above all others save for true-born Imperial Scions, and with your Office, you stand higher than a good number of them as well. What do you have to worry about?”

Truth be told, Baatar wasn’t as convinced as he might sound, especially since it could all be easily taken away, and the boy knew it. “That’s the problem,” he said, flashing a wry smile while looking up at the sky. “Now, my enemies will all hail from the Imperial Clan, which means all the allies I’ve gathered and the defence I’ve built up will be of no use against them.”

“The Supreme Families are back again?”

Their influence had all but disappeared following the boy’s appointment to office, but it seemed he feared their return soon enough. “I’ve caught wind of their agents sniffing around, but they’ve made no moves against me. Not because they can’t do anything, but because I’m not worth the effort. Problem is, if things go well, then we’ll be ready to sell War Bonds by the end of the month, possibly even sooner, and once everyone sees how valuable they are, it’ll bring a whole host of Imperial scavengers crawling out of the woodwork. Then I’m stuck with nothing but the Legate’s good graces to protect me, and we both know how much that’s worth.”

Baatar could see why that would be disconcerting, but the boy was overreacting, and not just because the War Bonds were likely to be far less successful than expected. From what he could tell, this was a good idea to raise coin for immediate use, but each War Bond would have an absolute of ten-thousand gold to be paid out after one year, so why would anyone pay more than ten-thousand gold to acquire one? It made no sense whatsoever, and Mother, Father, and even his beautiful rose agreed, but the boy was never one to give up without trying, and Baatar would support him the entire way. “You underestimate your influence, boy, and the influence of your allies. True, your enemies will likely hail from the Five Supreme Families, but even a powerful dragon cannot repress a local snake. A modest tribute is expected, but the outer provinces will not sit idly by if all the funds raised by your War Bonds go directly into some Imperial Noble’s pocket, nor will they continue purchasing them.”

“...Huh. I never thought about it like that.”

Straightening from the boy’s look of respect, Baatar swung them a little higher, until the couch was almost parallel to the ground at its peak. “Most importantly boy, you have won the respect of the people, and not only those you work with. Do you know how I know this?” Grinning as the boy shook his head, Baatar said, “Because these past few months, I have noticed a growing fashion trend in the youths of the Citadel. They have all taken to wearing plain, short-sleeved and short-hemmed shirts, loose pants which are rolled up at the cuffs, and sturdy military boots instead of the cloth shoes which were once so prevalent.”

“...You think I’ll be okay because some people dress like me?”

“Yes. They emulate you to feel closer to you, and in doing so, take some small measure of satisfaction from your success. Conversely, they will also commiserate with your failures, so long as they are within reason, and as such will not stand idle if they see you bullied by the Supreme Families. They might not die for you, boy, but as your mother always says, one grumbling idiot spoils the village.”

“...Isn’t is supposed to be ‘one bad apple spoils the bunch’?”

