“Yes, but your mother is not one to mince words.” Worried the couch would soon overturn if he kept swinging, Baatar stilled his feet and let their momentum play out. “But remember, even if all of the Empire turns against you, your mother and I never will. This I swear, son.”

An Oath he’d swear upon the Heavens if need be, but the boy was already terrified of Charok’s Oath to never let any enemy take him away. As if any of them would stand idle if he was captured, but the boy had an irrational aversion to Heavenly Oaths and thought them all monstrous to the extreme. True, some were, like poor little sister Song’s slave Oaths, but some were beautiful, such as the Oath Baatar made to Sarnai during their wedding ceremony, and the Oath she gave him, to always cherish and support one another no matter what might come.

Speaking of which... “Your wedding is fast arriving,” he said, grinning as the boy froze in alarm. “How goes the planning?”

“Well enough, I guess. Mom wants a list of people you need to invite, excluding friends and such. Officers under your command, work related acquaintances, that sort of thing.”

“Yes, yes, I know.” There was so much of Sarnai in the boy now, for his beloved rose had reminded him no less than five times already, twice out loud, and here he was doing the same. “How are you feeling?”

“...Nervous. Terrified actually.” Craning his neck back to look up at Baatar, the boy matched his grin at the apex of the swing’s rotation, father and son hanging weightless for all of an instant. “But excited too. I’m finally marrying Mila.” Sadly, the smile disappeared before the swing reached the mid-point in its arc. “And Yan, and Lin-Lin, and probably Luo-Luo too.”

The boy was still in denial about little sister Li Song, much like Mother and Father, but Baatar was smart enough to say nothing. “This worries you?”

“No, no. It’s just... Well, yes. I’m worried.” Snuggling in against Baatar’s shoulder, the boy slumped down as if the weight of the world were pressing down on him. “I mean, at first, I was like ‘woo multiple wives, awesome’, but now it’s like... I’m going to have Multiple. Wives. That’s... kinda a big deal. I never really thought about it until now, but being a husband is not easy, and I’ll be a husband four or five times over.”

Five. Definitely five times, if not more, because the boy loved pushing his limits. “Such is the price of having eyes larger than your head,” Baatar said, trying his best not to laugh at the boy’s plight. “What is it you always say? Happy wife, happy life, and you will have your hands full keeping five women under one roof happy.”

“Yea, that’s what I’m freaking out about. How am I supposed to keep them all happy?” Spotting the flash of panic in Baatar’s eyes, the boy awkwardly laughed and said, “No, not... don’t worry, I don’t mean... in the bedroom happy, but happy in general.” Thank the Mother for small favours. Sarnai had handled this conversation with the girl, and Baatar had no idea what to say, though he was game to try. Pausing for long, awkward seconds, the boy lowered his voice and said, “I mean, I’m worried I’m not being fair and that I’m robbing them of the chance to find someone who loves them and only them, you know? Like I somehow... tricked each of them into sharing me with four other women.” Ha, even the boy subconsciously believed he would eventually have five wives, though it still wasn’t clear if he was aware of his feelings for little sister Li Song. “So... I’ve been thinking about telling them that it’s okay if they want to... you know... find another husband? Not like... leave me for them, but you know... bring another guy to join our... err... multi-partner relationship.”

Baatar laughed. There was no helping it, for the boy was playing the fool. “Terrible idea, my son. Just terrible.”

“Why? Is that... frowned upon?”

“No. Multi-partner relationships exist, but they are rare, for humans are jealous creatures, and you are more jealous than most.” Shaking his head to forestall an argument, he smiled at the boy and said, “Boy, I have seen you scowl when your pets greet someone else before greeting you. No, you would not be able to stomach sharing your wives with another man, not in this life, and they all know it.” Happy to have some advice to give, Baatar smiled at his son, who looked so confused and out of his depth. “Do you love Sumila?”

“Yes?”

“And Du Min Yan?”

“Also yes.”

“What of Mei Lin?”

“Still yes.” There it was, the certainty and conviction, for the boy truly loved his three betrotheds. “Good. Once you are married, then it becomes your responsibility to ensure your wife knows the depths of your love, and is reassured of this each and every day. Remember this last part boy, for it is of the utmost importance, because women are capricious by nature and will grow suspicious if your love is not made known. Most men think it a simple matter of declaring their love every full moon, but most women expect far more than simple reassurances.”

“...Seems a bit sexist, but okay.”

Repressing the urge to roll his eyes, Baatar pulled the boy in close and mussed his hair. “What I mean is that so long as you love them and remember to show them you love them, then there is no sense in worrying about the future. If despite your best efforts, one of your wives changes her mind and believes herself better off with another husband, then you must either win her back or accept that you have lost her heart. That is all you can do, that and cherish what you have while you can.” Sighing, he added, “So stop playing the fool and accept Zheng Luo into your heart, else you might find yourself with a belly full of regret for waiting too long.”

It was the boy’s turn to hug Baatar tight, having read the undercurrents in his tone. “Mom’s been doing what I asked her to, right?” Channelling Panacea every day even though she had no injuries to speak of. A strange request, but the boy thought it might do her aching bones some good, and Sarnai was always one to indulge her children. Seeing Baatar’s nod, the boy continued, “Then maybe there’s hope for her yet. It doesn’t make sense that animals can live thousands of years but humans are limited to a mere hundred and twenty, or five hundred for demi-humans.”

“Perhaps you are right.” Sarnai was livelier these days, and more radiant than ever, though she still constantly complained about her barely visible wrinkles and whatnot. Still, some hope was better than none, and Baatar meant to learn from his mistakes and cherish his beloved rose for as long as he had her.

So much was changing lately, first with the girl moving away with the grandchildren, then the boy getting married to Mila and possibly moving out. Time passed so quickly now, for it felt like just yesterday when he came home to a bouncing baby daughter, and now his grandchildren were getting too old to want to play with him.

Such was life, but Baatar would not trade his for the world.

Chapter Meme
