A little boy was running away from home because he was scared his father was going to beat him. The boy was completely unprepared to run away, because he was 9 years old and his backpack only had 1 sandwich in it, and the kid was on the edge of the forest, unsure where to go from there. He had managed to get a full ten miles from home, though. Erick saw the kid, crying beside a tree, so he walked over while opening his own backpack. With a sandwich and soda can in hand, Erick sat down with the kid, and the kid instantly latched onto him once he showed off the food. And then the kid started talking. Soon, as the kid cried and ate his food, the story came out. He was running away because he had broken a window by playing with the baseball inside the house, and he didn’t want to be beaten. He was terrified of his father, and his father was going to be home in an hour.

“You know what’s more scary?” Erick asked the kid.

“Noo-ah?” the kid said, his mouth full of sandwich.

Erick said, “Getting a job. Making decisions for yourself. Taxes. Solving problems yourself but you don’t know how. Being alone.” He looked to the kid. “Being alone is terrifying. You should go back home and accept your punishment. Just imagine what your father is going to experience when he gets home. He’ll see a broken window and he won’t see you at all. He’ll be terrified. Don’t do that to him. Don’t do that to yourself.”

“He’ll beat me! That’s what the television says!”

“Television lies. Real life is so much more complicated, and you won’t make it home in any short length of time. Your father will be there before you get back, and your father will be worried sick. He will be crying. He will be furious. He will be happy to see you again.” Erick shrugged. “And if he’s not, then you don’t have to worry about his feelings ever again.”

The kid had a complicated set of emotions.

Erick handed him another soda, saying, “For the walk back.”

And then Erick left.

He was pretty sure he knew exactly what was going to happen when the kid got home, which was why Erick had spoken to the kid in that way.

The kid stayed there, just on the edge of the forest, off the edge of the road, for a little while. Eventually he got up and started walking home. When he finally made it back it was dark but police cruisers sat in the front yard, red and blue lights spinning. The father was there, sobbing and terrified that something had happened. He was an absolute wreck, and then he saw his boy walking up to him. The father broke down, and then the son did, too. There was a hug, soft words, harsh words, questions, and anger, but there was no hitting. There was only hugging.

The father and the boy’s relationship became stronger, because the father cut back on work and the boy actually asked his father to play catch again, like he used to ask. And this time, the father actually played with the son. Soon, the father started to attend the boy’s little league games, and the son eventually got into the pros in his 20s.

Now that was a big butterfly flap.

Young Erick’s timeline diverged, like the rumbling of a quake far, far out of sight. And then the timeline rumbled back into position, aiming back toward Veird. That future seemed even stronger after the rumbling, too, which was kinda weird. Kinda nice, but kinda weird, too.

Erick would figure it out, eventually.

“Maybe it has something to do with my Ascent to True Wizard, and solidifying my own timeline...”
