Everything was the same, yet vastly different, like a childhood home that had been renovated by new owners. The Benevolence crystals that were his Spells and Abilities were still there, and so was the ocean of iridescent white mana, but the Dark headwaters of the ocean had changed, and now there were no Dark headwaters at all. Everything burbled up Benevolence, everywhere. Erick was a self-generating depth of mana that churned and made more of himself with every passing second. As that ocean churned, and as Erick’s Wizard’s Clarity cycled his mana out into the world and then back inside, it brought with it tiny bits of power that it had sampled out there.

Because yeah.

There was magic on Earth.

And yes, Erick’s cycling Benevolence was allowing him to sample all the power out there that he touched, and take it into himself, just as he had done with Genesis so long ago.

Erick would get back to that and all those little magical powers out there later.

For now, he looked at his soul, trying to find the Dark Mark. It was not that easy. Before Erick had eaten his own heart out, the Dark was a vast sky that rained down Benevolence waters into Erick’s everything, supplying him with mana. Now, Erick generated his own mana, and the Dark Mark was…

Where was the damned thing?

It usually wasn’t this hard to—

Ah!

There it was.

The Dark Mark. It was a spot of black inside the white ocean, like a rock to hold onto. From the headwaters of Erick’s everything, to a tiny rock, the Dark Mark looked almost inactive right now. What to make of that? Erick wasn’t sure. He metaphysically poked at it, and it tumbled in his Benevolence ocean like a tiny island, before it settled back down to being simply stable, inside his soul.

Was it stable? It was stable.

Erick went looking for the Fractal Mark next. He found it inside the rim of the ocean that was his soul, near where he had put it to go along with his Wizard’s Clarity. It had taken up the entire rim of his ocean, but now his ocean was a reson-spliced fractal, generated by his Benevolence Itself, and the actual Mark was a tiny crystal floating in the ocean. It was lessened. It wasn’t necessary anymore. Erick’s Benevolence Itself took care of all of the hiding and cycling aspects of his Wizard’s Clarity, automatically. It even trapped the powers Erick’s mana sampled out there in the world, inside of individual fractals in that rim of his soul, keeping them inactive until Erick looked at them and wanted to try them out… Maybe? Is that what was happening there?

Hmm.

Erick picked up the Fractal Mark and set it next to the Dark Mark, setting the ocean to still around them, to keep them in place, and held. The two universal marks soon began to gently orbit within the depths of his soul.

The rest of Erick’s Benevolence-crystal-locked Status was the same as before.

Erick came out of himself and stood there in the bathroom.

He stood there for a while, just thinking.

And then he tested himself. Erick shaped some of his mana in his aura, and without using any special powers at all to keep his magic together, here in the manaless atmosphere of this Earth. He released that shaped mana as [Force Bolt]s that struck the bathroom tile, chipping the off-white glaze.

The Bolts worked exactly as they should have. Before Erick’s creation of Wizard’s Clarity, Erick had to string together some Domain work and other magics to keep his mana together inside a manaless atmosphere, but here, the power just worked fine. Wizard’s Clarity was doing exactly as it should have been doing.

The Bolts still disintegrated, as broken magic normally did, and then the mana that made up those Bolts drifted in the air, making its way to Erick’s body, where it joined with him. There was no magical trace upon the chipped tile; just the new damage.

So his powers were working as expected.

And this was his own past.

He could see that this was his own past. Erick expanded his senses wide and saw everything. This was the community college that Erick had attended for two or three years —depending on how you counted it— and Young Erick’s apartment room had the same posters of the Simpsons and Nirvana and Pulp Fiction that Erick had had. There were even the same sports posters hanging on the walls, of basketball guys and football guys that Erick didn’t really know, but his hookups certainly did. Of course this was 1997 and it was pretty fucking weird to talk openly about gay stuff with strangers that were probably into it, but which you weren’t quite sure, but the posters were a good part of the softer way to ask guys what they thought about other guys. And then there were the Jenifer Anniston posters; those were much more socially acceptable.

That Young Erick was him, at 26. Not 20, like Erick had imagined back there waking up in that room, all disoriented. He still looked 20, though. Erick had gone from high school to the job scene, and then he had gone to college because he wanted something more out of life. Young Erick had already spent several years at this point in time working shit jobs.

First there was the pizza place, and then the retail, and then he got passed up for manager because he didn’t have a proper education…

Erick left that past in the past, and considered Infinity.

Could this have been a side slice of Infinity? A variation-reality of Layer 99,081, Earth? Not his history?

Erick closed his eyes in thought, and then he opened them again, focusing on his Lightning Path, which was working just fine, too. The thing about the Path, when used in a certain way, was that it allowed Erick to view the fates of certain people, if he focused on those people well enough. It wasn’t a clear picture. Personal choices could change a lot.

Erick focused on Young Erick, and to him, the world fractured into futures.

Young Erick was in for some hard times ahead, followed by all the ones that Erick would look back on and cherish for how fleeting and good they were. There was Margaret, and then she vanished, and then came Jane, and everything fell apart before it came back together later, though things only truly got better when Jane was 12, and able to be on her own for a while.

And then, years after that...

Veird.

If nothing else happened, then Erick was 99% sure that this was his personal Earth, circa Young Erick Flatt, the one that would become the Apparent King.

There was a problem.

Multiple problems, actually, because Earth had magic...

But that was a part of the Malevolence problem, which was here on Earth, for sure, and so Erick would get back to that later, too.

Erick focused on himself, on following his own Lightning Path, his current Path, and choosing all the best choices for himself and for others...

The Path of best choices headed in whatever direction he wanted.

Those Paths called to him to do good here, though, which could have a whole bunch of Butterfly Effects if he followed that Path. But right now, his Path was calling strongly for Erick to step outside of the bathroom and take a glance at a girl who was walking by, who was feeling terrible because her hair dye had come out the wrong shade of blue, and now she hated the whole idea of dying her hair. The best thing for him to do would be to see the girl and then stare awestruck at that girl, and then when she asked him what the fuck he was looking at, he could honestly say that he liked that color. That small action would set that girl’s entire life onto a good path… Or at least she’d be good for another week.

… Erick decided that he wanted to help, and to see what happened to the future if he changed the present.

Erick stepped out of the bathroom, right as the crying girl with the blue hair stepped into view. Erick stared, marveling at the blue of her hair. It was all sorts of shimmery and with green undertones. Whoever had done that had done it very well. It was easy to appreciate the beauty of it all. And yet, the girl was headed toward the woman’s bathroom, carrying a shopping bag with some bleach and dye. She saw Erick staring at her.

She scowled and yelled, “What THE FUCK are you looking at?! Creep?!”

Erick honestly said, “Your hair is amazing. It’s beautiful.”

The girl’s mouth dropped open. She stared. Her tears dried for a moment. And then she remembered she was mad. “Fuck off, creep!” She rushed into the woman’s bathroom and shut the door. She took her time to go to the sink, trying to understand what had just happened. She almost turned around and came back outside, trying to make herself mad again, but then she stopped herself. She muttered, “Hot creep.”

She went to the bench at the back of the woman’s bathroom and sat down, to stare into her shopping bag with its bleach and a simple brown hair dye. The girl would be on that bench for a while, trying to figure out what had just happened. Eventually, she’d dye her hair back to brown, but she would remember being called beautiful for the rest of her life, and eventually she’d go back to dying her hair, and telling everyone who told her they didn’t like her colored hair to fuck right off. She’d get into the punk scene, and go on to become a minor musician celebrity. She would always remember Erick’s simple compliment, and it would warm her for the rest of her life.

The future had changed, irrevocably, and for the good... As long as nothing else happened.

Other stuff was going to happen, for sure.

The Infinity of every Layer was always generating new worlds from every possible action happening all across all of them, all at the same time. Living inside the Fractal Universe, once you knew how it worked, was less like living in an individual part of a multiverse, and realizing that you lived on an ever-multiplying cascading river, and everyone you ever knew was there with you, but they were also going down their own paths in life, which would diverge from your own path in an irreconcilable sort of way. And yet, they were still there, with you, on your own path.

And then magic got involved, and made things like Margleknot’s society, where everyone lived on the same Layer and multiverse, an amazing sort of thing. The same situation happened with Veird’s Godpact world. Nexus events in worlds also spilled out into other versions of those worlds in undeniable sorts of ways, too.

Infinity was both amazing and horrific to think about, so it was usually best not to think about it, and to cherish what you had.

Erick walked away from the bathroom, thinking about stuff as he headed into campus, to get to the town on the other side. He could have gone through the woods in the other direction, but he went forward, instead.

He had a lot of thoughts as he hid behind bushes and low walls to evade the campus police. There had been a big rager last night on a Sunday and the townies had come onto campus in force, and the cops were still angrily clearing out townies. Erick, of course, didn’t evade the early-morning college students. The students all saw him hiding. They knew what was going on, and they laughed about it. One pair of girls even covered for him, to help him make his escape by distracting a donut-eating cop that was stationed at the gate on Erick’s preferred exit.

He could have turned to light and walked away, but he didn’t want to do that.

He was checking on Young Erick’s future all the time as he set off butterfly effects everywhere, and yeah, there was some alteration, but he was still on the same slice of infinity as Young Erick, and Young Erick was still headed toward Veird… So what was happening here? Erick needed to find out.

Also, Erick wasn’t evading the police just because he shouldn’t be here.

He had no identification at all.

This person that Erick had woken up as was not a person at all until recently… Maybe. Maybe this guy died in his sleep and Erick slipped into the body? Maybe Erick created the guy whole cloth? He couldn't check the manasphere for the history of it all because there was no manasphere here on Earth. Erick assumed that he had created the person whole cloth, but without any IDs for whatever reason…

Or maybe something weirder was going on.

Whatever the case, Erick needed to avoid the police. ‘Oh, you don’t got no ID? We’re calling the real cops on you, kid.’ Erick didn’t need some sort of ‘Fractal Sight’ to see that things would spiral bad from there. Really bad. Like, governmental-agency bad.

It was weird to pick up those clothes in Young Erick’s room and not have a wallet, or anything at all. Of course he had no cellphone, but even in 1997 people had wallets. Great big ones, too, filled with all bunches of cards and photos and even a condom or two for those calmer sort of weekends. Young Erick had a box of condoms back in his room, and he went through a box a month.

Well.

Whatever?

Sure.

Whatever.

Erick passed a large window on a bakery outside the college. In the light of the morning it was more like a mirror, and this person was young, hot, and with short blonde hair and blue eyes. He looked like he was more at home in the gym than on a treadmill, and he was a bit older than the usual college student; maybe 25. Young Erick was older than the usual college student too, though, so… yeah?

… Well! Erick certainly existed. This person he was, was here, and Erick remembered… people like him, anyway, back when he was in college.

Also, Earth had magic.

Not a lot of magic, but it had magic.

That had been the thing that Erick had avoided thinking about until he was here, away from his younger self and finally not in danger of getting found by the cops. Sure, he could have turned to magical light and stepped away from the college completely, but he did not want to take such an overt magical action. Not now that he looked around Earth and saw all these little bits of magic everywhere. People could be spying on the magic out there. There might even be magical societies, and Erick didn’t want to get involved with them.

There were always magical societies on worlds like this; Erick had seen a lot of them in his universal travels. Earth was literally nothing special compared to all the other worlds Erick had seen in his work against corruption; it was exactly the same as many other worlds, in fact. That meant certain things were to be expected. Like magical societies.

Erick didn’t know it at the time, but Earth had been odd in 2047 in that it had no magic happening anywhere.

Not even reson-based stuff.

This, then, looked like a much more normal world.

Erick guessed that maybe 1 out of 100 people had something going on with them, though his sample size was currently just a few miles around himself, and he didn’t want to poke at anything too hard at all; Butterfly wings, etc.

