Erick passed a paint store on the street outside of the community college and the girl behind the counter had some sort of reson-thing going on with her eyes, as she painted a window display. Down the road, Erick saw a cook in a breakfast joint have something going on with his hands as he flipped breakfast sausage patties. A woman at a public payphone held her pager in her hand as she spoke to the person on the other end of the line, talking about where to find things in a warehouse, her mind crackling with some sort of memory magic.

Erick walked all the way across town, through nice neighborhoods and bad neighborhoods, and he saw a lot of magic everywhere, but… Maybe Erick should re-examine his idea that Earth might have a magical society or three. Not a single person out there knew what they were doing with that magic at all. It was all natural magic. It all just happened. No one actually tried for magic at all.

Erick had one big thought about that.

In the year 2047, there was no magic on Earth at all. Nothanganthor had claimed that he had removed all of his Malevolence from Earth —which he had said was here, and the ‘cause’ of Erick’s own Benevolence— and left Earth to Erick. And yeah, Erick saw some Malevolence here, so at least that part of Nothanganathor’s story was true. Red Sparks glittered in the heart of a father over there, as he roared at his teenage son that the son needed to do better in school, or else he would be disowned. Gods. Seeing the father yell at his own son almost sent Erick into a rage, but then the Malevolence connected to the son and the son gained his own spark of Red. Erick opened his Fractal Sight.

That son would go on to bully kids in his school, and thus ‘do better in school’ by way of stealing the homework of others.

It was a cycle of violence.

Erick wanted to intervene, and yet… If he did that, then… He wasn’t sure what would happen. There was no easy solution to that sort of problem, anyway. Maybe he could reincarnate the father as a better person? But the father was probably getting shit on in his own life, causing that shit to roll downhill...

All of Earth had problems.

Magic, however… didn’t seem to be a problem?

It was there. Nothanganathor claimed to rid the world of it in a few decades. So yeah, it made sense that it had been here. Erick had assumed that Nothanganathor had spoken of getting rid of Malevolence as what he had done to the magic of Earth, and since there was no magic, that meant that the only things here had been Malevolence. But that was obviously not the full story at all. The full story was that Nothanganathor killed all the magic users on Earth in like, 30 years, or something like that.

Erick closed his eyes to those problems, and focused on his own. As Erick turned his gaze back to the college, back to Young Erick, Erick noticed something that he had not noticed before.

Young Erick wasn’t magical at all.

He had no Dark Mark. He had no power at all. His soul was a thin thing, rather weaker than all the other souls around him, actually. He was just a dude, coasting through life…

So what the fuck did that mean?

Was Erick not born a Wizard at all?

… Erick paused on the sidewalk, beside a park where kids played and moms gossiped with each other as they watched their kids. A thought had hit him. Did he make himself a Wizard? Well, sure. That’s what people had said before, but it was always a metaphorical sort of thing. ‘You made yourself who you are’ and ‘You certainly didn’t start off throwing lightning bolts’ and all that sort of stuff had happened, but Rozeta had also said that Erick was a Wizard before he hit Veird… Or rather, that Erick had been a Wizard when he entered the Script for the first time.

Hmm.

That Young Erick back in that room was Erick, but also not. Young Erick wasn’t a Wizard. Young Erick was stuck here, in this life, in whatever he made of it. Young Erick had choices ahead of him, and all of his life could change based on any one of them.

… But Jane didn’t have any choices, because she did not exist. Not yet. Maybe not ever, if things didn’t go how they had gone before.

Erick saw a Path open up before him.

He could sever himself from his own history, sending Young Erick down a path of something else, and thus Nothanganathor would have nothing to ever use against him. It wouldn’t take much to do that. Erick could go back home to his parents —oh, shit, his dad was still alive! Mom had already passed on from blood cancer, but Dad was sitting at home, not going to the doctors, and not getting diagnosed while he was still able to be healed… for a given definition of ‘healed’. Medicine in 1997 wasn’t great. Dad was only gonna get tested when the problems actually started to hurt him, and then insurance was going to drop him and he was going to die.

But Erick could fix all that, and then he could fix up Young Erick’s life, and Jane would never happen and everything would change. Young Erick would take another 10 years to grow up properly and when he did he would have a family in his 30’s. He would never go to Veird. Veird would remain as it was before Erick got there.

The war with Nothanganathor would never get as bad as it did, and then Erick could just go to Veird and blindside Nothanganathor, fighting him then and there, while he was still the Arbiter of Veird. He probably had some safeguards against that because he did win once, to Ascend to the God of Magic, and exist outside of time, like Erick did now, sort of, but it would be an easier fight…

Maybe. Who knew.

That was Option One.

Option One also had concerns regarding multiversal shenanigans, but Erick would rip through those, too.

Option Two was to reinforce his history. Young Erick would go through some very big trials, and then Erick could have his family again exactly as it was, and this time… This time, things would turn out how he wanted. Not how Nothanganthor wanted them.

The second way was much tougher, of course. Erick would need to thread a whole bunch of needles, all at once, and he would have to stay here for the next 23 years…

Or maybe just step back? Let stuff happen? Maybe everything would happen as it needed to happen as soon as he wasn’t here interfering…

Well. No. He’d need to step in and help make Young Erick a Wizard; the guy had no Dark Mark at all. Maybe he gained one later? Somehow?

Option Two was Erick’s choice, obviously.

It was selfish beyond belief in some ways, for Erick would be orchestrating everything for his own benefit… But also, the Veird Erick and many others had worked hard to make, had been prepared to face Nothanganathor (as much as they could have been) and now, as soon as Fae Erick rejoined them, they would be more prepared. They could actually win.

… Erick was going to be a little selfish. He was fine with that.

Anyway.

If Nothanganathor was to be believed, Erick became a Wizard in an almost ‘immune response’ scenario against Malevolence. Erick didn’t believe that for one fucking second… And yet, it kinda made sense? Maybe it was the truth in the way that someone can say ‘the sky is blue’, but which doesn’t take into account sunset, night, sunrise, storms, and all that.

… Erick decided: he certainly wasn’t going to spend the next 23-ish years on Earth, watching shit happen.

He could bounce around some.

Maybe he could go live a quiet life down in, like, Australia, or something, as he waited for the big events in Young Erick’s life to happen? That might be fun.

Erick smiled at nothing in particular and he started walking again, having only briefly stopped by the park with the kids and the moms. All his thoughts had taken but a half second to work out, so that was all working back as it should. Erick chuckled a little, and then he practiced, “G’day mate. Crikey it’s a bonzer week. I need to get me thongs on and go walkabout outback.”

… Was any of that correct? Some of it sounded correct. Sort of.

A pair of moms had stopped their gossip to look at him, wondering what he was doing out here. They should have been looking more at their kids, but gods knew that Erick had trouble keeping up with Jane all the time; he didn’t blame them for wanting to talk with each other instead of stare at their kids.

But one of their kids was about to poke the other one in the eye with a stick, and it wasn’t going to be an accidental poke, either. Those kids fucking hated each other, but both the moms thought since they were good friends, that their kids were also good friends, but those two kids had been out for blood for, like, maybe a month? Erick guessed a month. They were only 6 and 7, though. They were both too young to understand their own feelings, or how much damage they could do with those sticks.

Erick had a thought.

The Dark would probably let the kids hurt themselves. That’d be the usual go-to lesson plan on Veird. But Veird had good healing. Earth had no capability to replace eyeballs.

Erick pointed at the kids as he kept walking, saying, “They’re gonna poke an eye out with that.”

Both moms stopped gossiping with each other and both of them got furious, real fast. One mom was almost ready to light into Erick and the other mom was going to help, but the other mom looked at her kid. Her eyes went wide and then her mouth opened wide as she yelled her child’s full name, launching off of her seat. The first mom had a moment of uncertainty, and then she saw what was happening with her kid. She shot off of the bench, too, both of them yelling at their kids not to play with sticks like that.

Erick smiled at the scene. A thread of lightning untwisted within his vision, a tiny problem removing itself from the timeline that would have become a massive event in every one of their lives—

Something twitched within Erick, as a Path diverged.

Erick kept walking, but his smile dropped as his Sight extended off into the future. He had just flapped a very large butterfly’s wings and Jane no longer existed, and thus this Young Erick Flatt never went to Veird.

Ah.

Shit.

So.

Uh…

Where did he go wrong? Was it the kid back there—

Something twitched again, and Young Erick Flatt’s Path was leading him back to Veird.

A mirror had shattered, and then it came back together.

… Uh?

What just happened?

Erick had no idea.

He needed to sit down and think.

Erick got to walking under the bright morning sunshine, all the way until he reached a fast food joint. He went inside and ordered some food while he copied some money inside the cash register in order to pay. He changed the serial numbers on the cash, of course. With greasy breakfast sandwiches in hand, Erick sat down at a table beside the kid’s play area, which took up a good half of the seating space—

Nostalgia hit Erick like a truck.

Some kids played in the ballpit inside the kid area, while another pair of kids played on some arcade machine. Jane never got to experience a kid area like this, and yet they used to be so common across America. Erick remembered playing in one when he was a kid, and his parents took him to a place like this every so often. Veird didn’t have anything like this at all, or at least not outside of playgrounds.

Erick watched the kids play for a little while, feeling somber.

And he thought.

As he ate, he turned his senses inward, to see his Lightning Path, and to view the fractal splash of reality all around him, as he had so very many times when he was cleaning up the universe of those few spots of corruption. He also looked in the past, to see whatever that ‘blip’ was that had happened after he stopped that kid from losing his eye.

He was no closer to understanding how the world had ‘torn’ and then ‘come back together’ after a half hour of magical thought experiments, but he had a few guesses. Perhaps Benevolence was working outside of his direct control? To fix things how he wanted? And yet… That felt like a weak answer right now.

Perhaps Erick’s very presence on this plane of existence was like a weight, ensuring that this history remained strong? That seemed closer to the truth, but not the whole truth. Erick was practically a walking Nexus Event right now.

Breakfast was great. It was exactly as delicious as he remembered, back when he was a kid. Of course the sausage and bacon and egg and the single squirt of ketchup was a pretty abysmal meal, but it tasted great when your taste buds were new, or when you didn’t have to worry about heartburn. As Erick had gotten older, this meal had started to taste less and less good, and his body started telling him that the grease was bad. But Erick was young again, and the food was great.

He went and got another one, and then he sat back down.

Soon, he left the place and went for another walk.

He walked for a few days, not bothering to sleep or do anything else but walk down the road, wherever it took him. He cleaned himself up when he got dirty. He ate when he felt like it. He copied some clothes and wore them. And he did little good things for people as he walked.

A very old woman was about to have a heart attack, as she struggled to get out of her car to go into the grocery store, but Erick healed her and helped her get her walker out. He also copied some of the money in her purse and gave her some more of what she already had, though he did change the serial numbers. He didn’t want her to be suspected of counterfeiting. Later, the woman was so surprised at the register when she saw she had two extra 20s, which was more than enough to get everything she wanted. She told the boy scanning her groceries that she was going to have the best possible birthday party for her grandson this week. The boy scanning the groceries didn’t care, but he pretended to.

The grandmother’s grandson would go on to have a lot more birthdays with his grandmother because of Erick, and those two people would grow closer because of that. It was a fantastic outcome.

Erick saw a homeless guy sleeping under a bridge. The guy had some sort of plaque and tumor problem in his brain. Erick cleared that up, ridding the guy of his cause of early-onset dementia and cancer, and then Erick cleaned up the guy himself and gave him $20 in his pocket. Four days from now the guy would finally start to realize that the voices were gone, and that he could go back to living a normal life. He would go on to get help at the local shelter, and this time that help would allow him to help himself.

