“That is what happened.” Ren said. “I was unconscious for 2 days after that, and I had to wait for the swelling on my head to go down for a day before I could put on the VR headset...”

“WH-WHAT?!?” Janice quickly walked over to him as she uncrossed her arms and sat down beside him. “You... you were really...” Tears came to her eyes and she took his hands in her own. “I'm so sorry!”

“Not as much as I was.” Ren said and smiled, because he could feel that she really was sorry. “Especially when I logged back in and I wasn't where I was supposed to be.”

“Wh-where were you?”

“Shargon Caverns.” Ren said, and she didn't react. “It's a villain training camp.”

“IT'S A WHAT?!?” Janice yelled, and he felt her shock. “You're not a villain!”

“The game thought I was when this world event thing triggered, and I was shunted off to learn a few things.”

“Oh, god! That's so horrible!” Janice said. “Ren, I... I'm sorry I was so... I had no right to be angry at you for missing the lessons!”

“Yes, you did.” Ren said. “It completely slipped my mind, and I should have made sure you were paid.”

“Ren, you... you don't need to...”

“Nonsense.” Ren said and took out 2 platinum coins. “Here you go.”

Janice looked at the two coins, then looked at Ren. “Wh-what is that for?”

“An apology... and a possible commission to make mirrors... or to teach me to make them.” Ren said and smiled. Janice took the two coins and hugged him tightly.

“We can do it right now!” Janice exclaimed.

“I thought you said we couldn't have sex.” Ren joked, and she laughed.

“I said I wouldn't have sex for money anymore.” Janice said in his ear, then nibbled on his earlobe. “I never said I wouldn't jump on you when I'm horny.”

“I still have women at home; but, it's good to know that money makes you horny.” Ren chuckled.

“Did you already satisfy them?” Janice asked and licked his ear.

“I did.” Ren said then sighed. “Damn, I forgot to check on... ah, never mind.”

“So, you... you had all 5 of them.” Janice said and laid her head on his shoulder. “Why aren't you asleep right now?”

“It was 6, actually.” Ren said and he felt her surprise. “At the house, that is. I was with... someone else for a while before that.”

Janice lifted her head up and leaned back to look at his face, and he felt her surprise. “You slept with 7 women? You said 7, right?”

“In the game.” Ren said and smiled.

“You... how... how many before...”

“If foreplay counts, 3.” Ren smirked. “If you mean how many times... well... even I lose count after a while.”

Janice's mouth fell open at his stark admission; and for some reason, she knew he was being completely honest with her. She looked down at his crotch and didn't know what to say.

T-t-ten! He satisfied ten women!

“So... mirrors.” Ren said.

“W-wait.” Janice said and stood up. “I'll be right back.” She said and quickly walked over to her bedroom. Ren wasn't sure what she intended, until she stored her clothing and flopped down onto her back on the bed. “Oh... oh, god!” She said as she started to rub herself.

“J-Janice?” Ren stared at her as her hand moved faster.

“Yes! Talk!” Janice said as she stared at him.

“Um... what do you want me to say?”

“Anything!” Janice nearly yelled. “Tell me what you did!”

“With which one?”

“I don't care!”

“O-okay.” Ren said, and he started to describe everything he had done with Lara the day before, leaving out her name of course, and in the middle of one particular description, Janice cried out.

“Oh! OH GOD!” Janice yelled as she finished. Ren felt how much she had enjoyed hearing his voice as she did that, and he stood up and walked over to the bed. “N-no, don't... I... I can't believe that I...”

“You made quite a mess.” Ren said and knelt. “I still can't have sex with you; but, after doing what you did in front of me, would you mind if I cleaned you up?”

“C-c-clean m-me u-up?” Janice's voice trembled. “Are...are you crazy?”

“Only a little.” Ren said and licked his lips. When she didn't say no, especially since she thought that he wouldn't really do it; he grinned at her and then used his tongue to clean her. Janice threw her head back onto the bed and moaned, almost uncontrollably. She went again a few minutes later, and he cleaned that up as well. He stopped when she was clean, and he could feel her emotions as she floated on the pleasure she had just experienced. He stood up and walked around the bed to look at her.

“Janice? Are you okay?” Ren asked.

“Imshofine.” Janice mumbled, and Ren chuckled.

“I guess you haven't had that done in a while.” Ren said, and she shook her head lazily. “I'll let you rest for a while, then I'll come back for my next glass working lesson.” He said, and she nodded just as lazily. He closed her bedroom door, then left her house and went next door to the large forging warehouse.
