Eighty-seven.

Eighty-eight.

Eighty-nine.

“What are you doing?” Ameliah asked.

Rain paused, letting his arms fall to his sides. He looked at her, ignoring a meaningless twitch from Linksight. I still need to figure out what that’s supposed to mean. Just one more thing for the list. He shook his head. “You haven’t seen someone do burpees before?” he panted. He picked up where he’d left off, trying to keep himself in the proper form as he transitioned from a squat into a plank, then a pushup.

“Actually, no.”

“I’m not surprised,” Rain gasped, completing the exercise with a jump. Ninety. “They suck. I’ve just got…a few left… Don’t mind me.”

Ameliah watched him in silence.

Ninety-one.

Ninety-two.

Ninety-three.

“They don’t look that difficult,” she eventually said. “You aren’t even using weights, just the armor. Wait…” she peered closer, narrowing her eyes. “How many points do you have in Strength right now?”

“Twenty,” Rain answered, not stopping. “Though in terms of…effect…it’s more like six.”

Ninety-five.

“Ah,” Ameliah said. “I keep forgetting how weak you are.”

Okay, ouch. Ninety-six.

Ameliah gestured at the swarm of Coal Lurkers piling up against the barrier near where Rain had decided to do his workout. They were climbing all over themselves, too stupid to realize that they couldn’t get to him. “You know we’re going to have to fight our way back to the city, right? Or were you thinking I was going to deal with that on my own?”

One hundred, thank fuck. Rain had to stop himself from melting to the ground. Instead, he walked in a circle flapping his arms, then stopped to take a long drink of water from his canteen. “I’m training by the barrier…on purpose… so they gather,” he finally managed. He put his arms on his hips, struggling to catch his breath.

“You need a minute?” Ameliah asked.

Rain shook his head, waving her away and taking a few deep breaths. He tried again. “I know we’re going to have to fight, but it’s fine. I think Razorspines stopped spawning. Anything else won’t be a problem. Watch.”

He gestured at the barrier. Immolate.

The innumerable Coal Lurkers that had collected burst into flames, practically blinding him. There were a few startled shouts from behind them, but no flaming spider-bits made it into the Lee. A few secondary explosions indicated that there had been slimes buried in the pile as well, a fact that Rain’s interface confirmed a moment later.

You have defeated [Coal Lurker]x126, Level 2

3150 Experience Earned

You have defeated [Coal Lurker Broodlings]x181, Level 2

4525 Experience Earned

You have defeated [Slime]x14, Level 1

350 Experience Earned

Huh. There were more of them than I thought.

“That’s hardly fair,” Ameliah said, waving an arm through the barrier.

Rain grinned, still breathing heavily. “Isn’t it great? Hey, question. Do you ever stop getting experience for monsters and stuff?” He gestured, mostly to give himself some time to get a lungful of air. “That was like eight thousand experience, even though there was practically no risk. What even is experience? Also, is there an official classification for monster types? Slimes and Coal Lurkers are both worth the same, even though Coal Lurkers are a higher level.”

Ameliah laughed. “I missed you, Rain. You can barely breathe, and you’re using all of your air to ask questions. Yes, it will stop eventually. According to the Guild, Coal Lurkers are ‘fodder’ class, the weakest, and Slimes are one step up at ‘lesser’. After that it goes ‘minor’, ‘normal’, ‘greater’, and ‘elite’.”

“What about ‘reaper’ class?”

“That’s an unofficial name, though most elite monsters are also classified as reapers, so it hardly matters. You’ll hear people call different kinds of monsters things like turtles, mages, strikers and so on. The unofficial terminology varies, but it’s pretty self-explanatory.”

“Ah,” Rain said. His breathing was slowly coming under control. He used a quick blast of Purify to clear away some of his sweat. “So, back to my question. Does experience from weak monsters fall off when I reach a certain level or something?” I’m level eighteen. I’d have thought I’d have stopped getting experience for Slimes ages ago.

Ameliah shook her head. “It’s based on total experience earned from a particular type, or maybe number of kills.”

“Type? So, like, slimes in general, or Slimes, slimes.”

“Slimes in general, I think.”

“Cool… But why, though? And what’s the limit?”

Ameliah shrugged. “High. I’ve never hit it. It’s more of a goldplate problem.”

Rain snapped his head to the left, peering into the black smoke that the barrier was holding at bay. Detection had just fired following his preset pattern, returning an unexpected signal.

“What is it?” Ameliah asked.

“There’s a Chem-Cryst in that mess. Only one, but it’s something.”

“Uh-huh,” Ameliah said. “Rain, we should probably get back to the city.”

“Yeah, I know,” Rain said, glancing over to where the others were having breakfast. They were far enough away that he wouldn’t have to worry about being overheard, as long as he spoke softly. Staavo was trying to fish what looked like a spoon out of Dozer. The slime seemed to enjoy being a nuisance. “Listen, Ameliah. I want to talk to you about, well…” He hesitated, looking at her. “What are you going to do now that the barrier is open?”

“I was going to stick around to help with the evacuation,” Ameliah said. “After that, I’m not sure. Maybe I’ll go to Bellost. Get away from the war. What about you?”

“I…” Rain hesitated. Damn it, just go for it. “I want to form a party. A real one, not just a one-time thing. You, me, Tallheart, Jamus, maybe Carten and Val if they’re interested.”

Ameliah looked away, rubbing at her elbow. “I don’t do parties. Not official ones. And Tallheart’s not in the Guild.”

“Why the hell won’t they let him join, anyway?” Rain said.

“Policy,” Ameliah replied. She didn’t sound any happier than Rain did. “The Guild is for humans only, according to the rules. It used to be different, I think.”

“Fucking racists,” Rain said. “Specists. Whatever.”

“Yeah,” Ameliah said. “The Guild’s got some problems.”

“Fine, whatever. Not a party then. I want us all to stay together, and if the Guild won’t let me form an official party, I’ll form an unofficial one. I’ve been thinking about it since last night. Some sort of, I don’t know, mercenary company or something.”

“A what?”

“A company.” Rain shrugged. “Mercenary is probably the wrong word. It implies that we’d be fighting other people. I just mean something like what I had going on in the baths.”

“I’m not sure what you mean.”

“I mean…” Rain sighed, rubbing at his neck. “I mean a big group of people traveling together. Living on the road and making their own fortune. Like bandits, without the banditry. Awakened and unawakened, both.”

“Okay…” Ameliah said, still looking confused. “Why would you want to do something like that?”

Rain sighed. “I need to be stronger. That means I have to go find lairs and stuff, but I’m a support, so I can’t do that on my own. I thought that’s what the Guild was meant to help with, but if they won’t let Tallheart join, well… I don’t want to abandon anyone.”

Ameliah didn’t look convinced, but Rain just shook his head and plowed on. “I don’t want to leave without Tallheart, obviously, but there’re the workers, too. I feel responsible for them. You’ve met Vanna. If she joins, then a lot of the others would probably come with her. She’s a good leader. Damn it, I’m rambling, and you get the point. Look, Ameliah, we’re friends, right?”

Ameliah blinked at him. “Yeah?”

“And friends stick together, right? Will you help me start a company?”

“Rain,” Ameliah said gently. “You’re going to have problems if you try this. People aren’t going to just—” She paused, shaking her head. “I’m not going to just—” She stopped again, sighing. “I don’t like to get tied down, Rain.”

“Please, just consider it,” Rain said. “I can’t do it without you.”

Ameliah closed her eyes, a pained expression crossing her face. She turned away, looking up at the sky.

“Ameliah—” Rain cut himself off. Damn it, I’m being selfish. She isn’t going to want to babysit a whole bunch of unawakened. I came at this the wrong way. Stupid, stupid, stupid.

Ameliah sighed, then turned to face him again. She held out her hand, and a tiny speck flew into it. It took Rain a moment to recognize that it was the Chem-Cryst he’d sensed earlier.

She showed it to him as she spoke. “Why do you think the workers are going to join your ‘company’? Are you going to pay them? How? Who’s going to volunteer to live on the road, risking starvation, death, and poverty, rather than just settle down in a new city?”

Rain shook his head. “I can figure all that stuff out, and that’s not the point. The point is getting stronger together. If unawakened join, we awaken them. If we find a high-level blue, we work together to take it down.”

“Just like that?”

“Just like that,” Rain nodded. “I’m not saying it’s going to be easy, but with you and Tallheart, we’ve got a start. Eventually, it should become self-sustaining. Nobody has to stay if they don’t want to.”

Ameliah sighed, tossing him the Chem-Cryst. “You’re talking about founding your own guild.”

Rain scrambled to catch it, then nodded. “I suppose I am.”

“And you think the real Guild will just let you do that?”

“No, of course not, not if I frame it like that. Look, at first, we’ll be small enough that they’ll just ignore us. The Guild doesn’t try to stop nobles from awakening their children, do they? This is the same damn thing. Eventually, if the company gets big enough that they start having a problem with us, well, we can figure something out. By that point, I mean to have a secret base and an airship at the very least.”

Ameliah sighed. “What’s an airship? Wait, never mind. Not important. Fine. Let’s say you try this. All of your worker friends join. Then what? We just take the teleporter through to Jarro and start doing odd jobs?”

Rain shook his head. “No. I don’t want to go to Jarro. I was thinking Vestvall would be our first mission.”

“What?” Ameliah said incredulously.

“Now hold on,” Rain said. “Look, you were there yesterday when Dunwich was explaining. Anyone who uses the teleportation platform to get to Jarro or Southguard is basically signing up to live in the DKE. The Watch can’t do anything about it. There’s no platform in Vestvall, but we can get there the normal way.”

“So you’re going to just lead a bunch of unawakened on foot through a ranked zone in winter? How many times did you say you hit your head in the fight with the Razorspine?”

“Ha ha,” Rain said. “But look. Tallheart will come. He’s not going to want to go to some random city in the DKE. If you come too, I think we’d have a shot. And besides, there’s a good reason for going to Vestvall. There might be survivors there, depending on how badly they got hit by the Shift.”

Ameliah paused, then glanced at Jamus, who had his back to them.

Rain nodded. “Jamus’s family. Exactly. I have to talk to Tallheart, first, before I talk to him. I don’t want to get his hopes up. Once we get to Vestvall, we check for survivors, then come back here, or even head east through the wilderness. It’s a long way to the coast, but there’s another free city over there.”

“Three Cliffs,” Ameliah said. “And ‘city’ isn’t the word I’d use. It’s a smuggler’s port.”

“Doesn’t matter,” Rain said. “Lots of people who were living in Fel Sadanis were probably here for a reason. They aren’t going to want to go to the DKE any more than Tallheart is. What I’d really like to do is bring them south. Into the Badlands. That’s where the essence monsters are.”

Ameliah laughed. “Oh, you are definitely insane if you think people are going to follow you into the Badlands.” She held up a hand before Rain could reply. “A rescue mission to Vestvall is a reasonable idea. You should have started with that. I’ll come with you, just not if you’re trying to escort half of Fel Sadanis there. After that, well, we’ll see.”

“Yes!” Rain said, resisting the urge to hug her. “You won’t regret it.”

Reason shivered as the wind cut straight through his coat. There was no protection from the wind atop the barricade that surrounded the Lee, and his black jacket had been designed for theatrics, not protection from the elements. The high collar only did so much. I should get a cloak made in the same style. Lined with fur. Another gust of wind blew, and Reason pulled his jacket tighter. At least Ter’Karmark was warm.

“Okay, I’m here, what did you want to talk about?” Myth said, hauling himself up over the edge of the barricade. “Would it have killed them to have made stairs?”

“I want to talk about our plans,” Reason said in Vejik.

“Ah, yes. We should,” Myth said, switching to the same language.

“Obviously, we’re not going to be able to stay here,” Reason said, gesturing at the frozen wasteland. “The Watch only tolerated our presence because this was a city first and a stronghold second. If they’re running it as a fortress, they won’t want outsiders hanging around.”

“Plus, our shop exploded, so there’s that,” said Myth.

Reason nodded. “Where, then?”

“A good question. Do you think we could try Ter’Karmark again?”

“What the heart desires, the body must provide,” Reason quoted, then shook his head. “You remember what being in the ten-thousand was like. If we could earn a place in the thousand, then maybe, but do you really think we’d fare any better this time around? It isn’t like we’ve gotten any stronger.”

Myth sighed. “The DKE, then?”

Reason snorted. “Do you want to be a slave? Because that’s what would happen once one of the Citizens got wind of a pair of unaffiliated crafters.”

“It might not be so bad,” Myth said. “If we found the right Citizen, then—”

“No,” Reason said. “I am my own master. The DKE is off the table.”

“You say that, but I’m not hearing any alternatives.”

“We need to leave the continent, obviously. I was thinking Bellost.”

“What?” Myth said. He lost his footing on the unsteady barricade and had to windmill his arms to avoid falling, though he recovered quickly. “We can’t go to Xiugaaraa. You know how they treat people like us.”

