Reason shook his head. “I didn’t say Xiugaaraa; I said Bellost. There are other cities on the continent, not just the City of Lights.”

“Yes, but will it be any better?” Myth asked. “I don’t know much about the smaller cities, but being so close to Xiugaaraa, they might hold similar opinions.”

“We will have to risk it. Unless you want to try Rellagia.”

“No,” Myth said. “We barely escaped as children. They’d kill us the moment they realize we’re awakened, which they would the moment we set foot on the continent.”

“I am not convinced that rumor is true, but regardless, I agree with you. Thus, Bellost, even if we must deal with some unpleasantness. Who knows, it might not be as bad as we’ve heard. You saw for yourself that not all Guilders are so close-minded. No one in Fel Sadanis has given us any trouble.”

“Yeah, but we haven’t exactly made an announcement about ourselves,” Myth said, pulling his own jacket tight. It was a white mirror-image of Reason’s, and thus, no warmer. Neither of them had any other clothing, it all having gone up with their shop. “We’ve been discreet.”

“People can tell,” Reason said. He gestured toward Rain, who was busy speaking to the silverplate, Ameliah. “Rain figured it out, and we’ve only spoken with him a few times. He doesn’t seem to care, but he’s definitely noticed.”

“What makes you say that?”

Reason shrugged. “He made this face like he’d solved a puzzle. It was after he brought Cloud to us. I know he doesn’t care because he didn’t treat us any differently afterward.”

“That’s hardly proof,” Myth said.

Reason shook his head. “Not everyone is as oblivious as Meloni.”

Myth snorted. “Meloni knows. Be careful who you call oblivious, genius.”

“She does not know,” Reason said. “I am quite sure of it.”

“Seriously?” Myth said. “Stop messing with me. There’s no way you haven’t picked up on how she keeps smiling at us whenever we’re together. She even winked at me once.”

“Whatever,” Reason said, exasperated. “We’re getting off topic. Would you be willing to try Bellost?”

Myth chewed on his lip, looking back at Fel Sadanis. “What about the southern isles?”

“Hmm. Perhaps.” Reason tilted his head. “I do not know much about them. I believe the merchant is an islander… He has an islander sword, at least. We can ask him. Still, we would have to go to Bellost anyway if we wanted to book passage on a ship.”

Myth sighed. “Fine. Bellost.”

“Good. Now we just need to figure out how to get there.” Reason shook his head slowly. We’re going to have to start over. Again.

Their life savings had been in the shop, just like everything else. They hadn’t gone back to search through the smoking crater. There wasn’t enough chemical resistance in the world to deal with that. Not even the toxic moss was growing there. Perhaps a Tel or two had survived, but realistically, there wasn’t much point to attempting a salvage operation, even if they could get Rain’s help.

We cannot afford international teleportation. It will have to be a ship. Reason laid a hand on Myth’s shoulder, squeezing lightly. He gestured back at the fires with a tilt of his head. “Let’s go back. I’m freezing my ass off.”

After Rain finished his conversation with Ameliah, she had agreed to create a distraction so he could talk to Tallheart without Staavo and Jamus interrupting. Almost everyone else was gathered around the cookfire, still finishing breakfast. Myth and Reason had been on the barricade and were just now on their way back. Tallheart was doing something over by his smelter, though he was supposedly on watch.

“Okay, everyone,” Ameliah said, clapping her hands as she and Rain joined the group. “We’re leaving soon. Before we do, let’s have a little fun. As you saw Rain demonstrate, the barrier won’t block magic, so I propose a contest. Anyone who has a ranged spell, come over here. We’re going to work on our aim and thin out the monsters a bit. Big Coal Lurkers are one point, Slimes are two. If you hit a Stumper, that’s three. Just hitting them is enough. Don’t waste mana trying to kill one, and it won’t count more than once.”

“Yay!” Ava yelled, rushing over to Ameliah.

“Careful, Ava,” Ameliah said. “It’s dangerous. I don’t want you getting hit by—oh.”

Rain smiled. Ava had launched a Firebolt, nailing one of the Slimes that had arrived to investigate the burnt remains of the monsters he’d broiled.

“I’m winning!” Ava declared.

“Ava!” Mlem shouted, his voice stern. “She didn’t say you could start. What have I told you about playing fair?”

“Rule fifty-four: Avoid playing fair,” Ava recited, launching another Firebolt. This one missed. More monsters were rapidly approaching, including a medium-sized swarm of Coal Lurkers.

“Ava,” Mlem shouted, getting to his feet. ”That rule only applies to real enemies! This is a contest!”

“A contest I’m going to win!” Val said. He’d rushed over to Ameliah almost as quickly as Ava had. He raised a hand, blasting a hole through a slime. “Two! We’re tied!”

Mlem puffed out his mustache. “Pfft. Fine!” he shouted, drawing his sword and charging for the barrier. “I’m playing too!”

“No going through the barrier!” Ameliah shouted. Heeding her rule, Mlem stopped short of crossing the boundary and started slashing through it at the swarm of Coal Lurkers that had just arrived.

“What are the little ones worth?” Mlem asked, but before Ameliah could reply, Val shouted, interrupting her.

“Yeah! Did you see that shot? I got it right in mid-air! That’s six for me.”

“Nuh-uh,” Ava shouted. “That one was mine! You stole it!”

“Um, Jamus,” Meloni said. “Why can the little girl throw fire?”

“There’s no age limit on awakening,” Jamus said. “Though most nobles elect not to awaken their children until they’re a little older. Otherwise…” He shook his head, raising his voice. “Mlem, have you taught your daughter the proper safety—”

“Don’t think he’s listnin’, Jamus,” interrupted Carten, having finished strapping on his shields. “You comin’?”

“Carten—” Jamus began, but the big man was already stomping toward the barrier. He took a wide stance next to Mlem, then started smashing the edges of his shields together through the magical wall, taking huge bites out of anything that came too close. It was surprisingly effective, like an angry bearded horizontal Pac-Man.

“He seems like he’s back to normal,” Rain said to Jamus, gesturing to Carten. “That’s good. I was worried.”

“Mmm,” Jamus said, glancing at Meloni.

Meloni laughed, holding a squirming Cloud. “Go on; I don’t mind.” She turned to Vanna. “Want to make a bet? Jamus or Val? Who do you think will get more?”

“Hmm,” Vanna said. “No bet. Val’s not really trying anymore. He’s started missing on purpose, look. Besides, I don’t know how anyone’s going to verify the count in that mess.”

“He’s planning to let the little girl win,” Staavo said, setting down his bowl. “Didn’t figure him for a softy. There, food’s done. Time to show these youngsters what’s what.” He started walking toward the barrier. He didn’t draw his sword, clearly planning on using magic. “I’m not losing to a little girl, that’s for damn sure.”

Rain shook his head. Ameliah used ‘challenge’. Critical hit. It’s super effective. He looked in Tallheart’s direction, seeing him watching the commotion. “I kinda feel bad for the monsters, honestly,” he said. “That barrier is really unfair.”

“That makes you a softy, too,” Vanna said. “They needed something like this. It’s payback. I just wish I could join them,” She tilted her head. “You know what, no, I am joining them.” She got to her feet, grabbing a burning branch from the fire.

“Rain,” Meloni said, catching his attention. She was also climbing to her feet, having released Cloud, though the overlarge puppy was still safely tied up. “Keep an eye on Cloud.”

“Um,” Rain said.

Meloni ignored him, following after Vanna. She stooped to pick up a rock. Cloud started whining and pulled at his rope, trying to follow after her.

Rain sighed, removing the rope from the stake where it was tied. The dog immediately tried to pull it out of his hands. “Hey, cut that out,” he said, gently reeling Cloud in as he closed the distance. After a brief struggle, he managed to scoop him up into a fluffy bundle. At least Dozer’s not making trouble. The slime was busy cleaning the dishes, content to ignore the chaos.

Rain watched for a moment to make sure Ameliah had everything under control. Myth and Reason had descended from the barricade and were standing next to her, clearly having decided to watch rather than join in. How would an alchemist fight, or a chemist for that matter? Bombs?

Ameliah glanced at him, then smiled and made a shooing motion. He nodded and started picking his way over toward Tallheart through the scattered remains of breakfast.

“Rain,” Tallheart said, greeting him as he approached.

“Hey, Tallheart, got a minute?”

Tallheart rumbled assent, watching the chaos. Rain thought he detected a hint of amusement on his face, but it might have been just his imagination. He snorted, confirming Rain’s suspicion. “She should have known that this would happen.”

“She did,” Rain said, adjusting his grip on the still-squirming dog. Ugh, this guy is pretty heavy. Damn burpees. My arms are like noodles right now. “I’m not sure she expected it to work as well as it did, though. I asked her to create a distraction so I could talk to you privately. In retrospect, I probably should have just told everyone to give us a minute.”

“Mmm.”

“Anyway, Tallheart. I know you probably don’t want to go to the DKE, so I was wondering if you’d want to come with Ameliah and me to—”

“Yes,” Tallheart said.

There was a knock at the door, and the guardian looked up from the report he was composing for the Warden. He hid the fatigue from his face, concentrating on the public persona of the unflappable commander that he maintained in public. “Enter.”

The door opened, revealing Officer Bartum. Dunwich set down his pen, raising an eyebrow. “What can I do for you, Officer Bartum?”

“Greetings, Guardian. I would like a moment of your time to discuss a few things.”

“Of course.” He gestured to the chair in front of the desk. This office had belonged to one of the sentinels—he wasn’t sure which. From the look on Bartum’s face as he entered, he suspected that he’d known the former occupant.

Bartum closed the door behind him before taking a seat. He took a deep breath. “About the Guilder Rain. Have you considered his request?”

“I have,” Dunwich said, keeping his tone level. Officer Bartum was protective of the bizarre Guilder. “Unfortunately, fixing his paling is not something that I would be able to do, nor could anyone, for that matter. He will have to repair the damage himself.”

Bartum frowned. “And you’re not going to tell him how?”

“Correct,” Dunwich said. “Soul manipulation is esoteric knowledge. The required technique is restricted, even among guardians.” He held up a hand, as it looked like Bartum was going to react poorly. “I passed your request on to the Warden. She has agreed to consider it if the Guilder consents to a full mental scan. She is very interested to know how a bronzeplate managed to tame a Majistraal artifact.” As am I.

“She wants him brought to Vigilance, then?” Bartum asked, still looking like he had a bad taste in his mouth.

“No,” Dunwich said. “She extended an open invitation. She hopes that he will come, but it is not a command.” He reached into his pocket and removed a plate stamped with the Watch’s emblem. It appeared physically identical to an officer’s plate, except that it was made of steel—Grand Arcane Steel, technically—instead of bronze. “This is for him.”

“Oh,” Bartum said, relaxing. “I thought I was going to have to fight to get him one of those.”

“Of course not,” Dunwich said. “The Guilder saved countless unawakened and returned Fel Sadanis to our control, and he did so before even asking for a reward. We haven’t given anyone one of these for dozens of years, but if that level of contribution isn’t enough to earn one, I don’t know what is.”

“May I?” Bartum asked. Dunwich nodded, and Bartum picked up the plate. “I’ve never actually seen one of these up close, only the diagram of the signature that I used to train my students.” He turned the plate over to look at the back. “Marvelous.”

“Mmm,” said Dunwich. Even unbound, the signature laid into the metal was clear to his eyes thanks to Reading, as it would be to every member of the Watch. It couldn’t be faked. That was the point—Once it was bound to the Guilder, the pattern would take on the flavor of his soul and serve as irrefutable proof of his identity. It would mark him as an ally, trusted to look after the interests of the powerless. It was the closest an outsider could come to joining the Watch.

“So, does that mean we’re going to let him stay?” Bartum asked. “Rain’s skills would be particularly useful for charging the teleportation platform, not to mention his cleaning spell.”

Dunwich shook his head. “No. We have both issues under control. The bottleneck on teleportation is in Jarro, anyway. The DKE is making a fuss. Regardless, Rain will have to leave, along with the rest. Once the evacuation is complete, all non-Watch names will be removed from the access list. No exceptions.”

“And if he doesn’t want to go?”

Dunwich raised an eyebrow. “Is that likely?”

Bartum shrugged. “I don’t know. He doesn’t act like a normal Guilder.”

“That he does not,” Dunwich said. He’d only spoken with Rain briefly, but that much was clear. His description of the artifact’s interface had been completely incomprehensible. He shook his head, returning his attention to Bartum. “I will leave it to you to manage the situation if it arises.”

He reached into his pocket again, retrieving a second plate, this one made of silver. He offered it to Bartum. “I was going to do this formally later, but since you’re here now, this is for you. You are being elevated to Sentinel, effective immediately, though the expedition will have to wait.”

Bartum looked stunned. Wordlessly he took the plate, his overwhelmed gratitude clear in his expression.

