Dunwich’s mouth twitched, betraying the barest hint of his real emotions before he schooled it back to impassivity. He does deserve it. I would hate to have been stuck in this backwater for as long as he has. He cleared his throat, maintaining his level tone. “My responsibility is to protect the barrier stone and to oversee the construction of the citadel. The evacuation is yours. I found a way to grant access to everyone currently within the dome, so there should be no further issues of that nature. We will discuss the permanent leadership structure of the Fel Sadanis Citadel at a later time. For now, you are my second in command.”

“Thank you, Guardian,” Bartum said. “I am honored to accept.”

“Don’t thank me,” Dunwich said. “I just gave you a pile of responsibility and none of the power to back it up. You’re going to be in charge of the sentinels from Jarro until we get this all sorted out, and I expect that they won’t be pleased about the situation. However, I believe that the officers native to this city should have a commander that they know, and you have proven yourself capable.”

Bartum nodded. “Yes, sir.”

“Good. Here’s your first headache. I need you to get rid of those bloody Bankers without causing a diplomatic incident. The thing with the exGuilder was bad enough. To think that we had her in our grasp and didn’t even realize…” He shook his head, relying on his training to project the proper level of annoyance. It went without saying that he was controlling the emissions from his soul. Bartum would get nothing from him.  “And because they will ask, no, there is no way I’m letting one of their recovery teams in here.”

Rain grunted, moving a shovelful of earth. He was helping Tallheart with the smelter by digging a temporary channel for the outflow. They were getting set up just inside the south gate to prepare for their expedition. Jamus and Meloni were nearby, having a private conversation. Staavo, Myth, and Reason were slightly further away, having a slightly less private conversation as they argued about the design of a new generator. Their argument was also confusing, as both Myth and Reason were speaking in mystical mumbo-jumbo.

Much to Rain’s surprise, everyone who’d come out to the Lee had agreed to join the expedition to Vestvall once he’d explained his plan, including the formation of the as-yet-unnamed company. The others were off gathering supplies and, in Vanna’s case, recruiting volunteers. He hadn’t expected Myth and Reason to join, let alone Mlem, but there it was.

What am I going to do if other people want to bring their kids? Damn it, I’m getting a headache already. How many people can we take? Should I set a limit? How do I pick who gets to come?

“Hello, Rain,” Bartum said, interrupting Rain’s thoughts. “I need to talk to you.”

Rain looked up, wiping his forehead. Where did he come from? I need a more specific version of Detection, already. “Hi Bartum, uh, look, I’m sorry. I’m not going to say who did it, but it was an accident. We didn’t mean to set the gatehouse on fire, and we put it out as soon as we—”

Bartum waved him away. “The fire didn’t spread, so don’t worry about it. The walls are hardly going to be important in a few days anyway. Dunwich is preparing the foundations for a citadel that we will construct around the barrier stone and the teleportation platform. Everything else is going to be leveled.”

“Oh,” Rain said. He paused, tilting his head. “That explains the tremors I’ve been feeling. Did you bring through some stronger Earth Mages from Jarro?”

“Yes,” Bartum said. “Anyway, that’s not what I wanted to talk to you about.”

“The expedition? You’re not going to stop me, are you?”

“I did hear a rumor about that on my way here, but no, I’m not. In fact, you have my provisional approval. I don’t like the idea of resettling people in the DKE either. I’d send some officers with you if I could, but it’s a long road to Three Cliffs.”

“Okay then, what—” Belatedly, Rain realized that Bartum had a silver plate around his neck, not bronze. “Bartum, you got promoted. Congratulations.”

“Thank you, Rain,” Bartum said, looking bemused. He smiled, holding out a small black-lacquered wooden case bearing the Watch’s emblem. “So did you.”

Rain took it curiously, opening it to see a metal plate like the silver one around Bartum’s neck, though the metal was darker. His Linksight twinged at him, telling him that there was something unusual about it. Rain was distracted from further inspection by what Bartum said next.

”You are now a <Something> of the Watch. Congratulations.”

Rain tilted his head. “A ‘<Something>’? I don’t know that word.”

Bartum nodded. “I’m not surprised. It isn’t a common honor.” He cleared his throat. “In normal conversation, people call us Watchers, but it should be Keepers, properly. The full name of the Watch is the Vigilant Order of Watch Keepers, if you were not aware. <Something> is another word for Keeper, but it is less...hmm. A Keeper takes ownership of the things that they watch over, while a <Something> merely maintains them and ensures that they are kept in good order. To be a <Something> is to be an ally of the Watch, but not a full member.”

Rain blinked, gratitude mixing with confusion. A horrible realization came over him as the correct word for what Bartum was describing popped into his mind.

Great, now I’m not just the Night Cleaner. I’m the Custodian.
