As she rode away from the meeting, one of BoLao lackeys stood waiting. “The Priestess Han requests your presence, along with Falling Rain’s. She wishes to discuss the prisoners.”

Resisting the urge to roll her eyes, Yuzhen collected Rain and followed the Aspirant. These past few days, BoLao was near inconsolable, a complete wreck as she struggled with her inner turmoil, unable to come to grips with the truth. Though she sympathized with the poor woman, her patience was wearing thin, especially after BoLao publicly broke down when Yuzhen suggested they return to sleeping in separate tents. The resulting display had set the soldier’s tongues to wagging as they spread word of an illicit affair between the Shrike and the future Marshal of the North. Some of the rumours which reached her ears were absurdly detailed, and while Yuzhen was open-minded, she’d sooner stick her fingers into a dragons mouth than strike up a courtship with BoLao. She’d hoped giving the poor girl a few Defiled to torment would make things better and prayed this wasn’t another meltdown.

Dismounting from her horse at the edge of camp, Yuzhen pushed past the Aspirants and crossed her arms, in no mood to deal with BoLao’s antics. Fully garbed in her torturer’s gear and her vambraces strapped to her wrists, BoLao appeared calmer than she had in days, an easy smile on her lovely face. “Thank you for coming so quickly Major, it’s much appreciated.”

Perhaps torturing the Defiled did put her head in the right place. “Get on with it, BoLao. My men are breaking camp as we speak. I know you’d rather carry on with your holy duties, so you and your Aspirants are free to remain behind, but I cannot leave you with any guards and must commandeer your horses.”

“You’re most welcome to them, Major.” BoLao merely nodded, her eyes fixated on Rain who weathered the gaze admirably.

“Well?” Rain asked, his eyebrow raised. “What’s all this about.”

Turning aside, BoLao revealed her Aspirants dragging out one of the Defiled prisoners, his naked chest sporting a flapping square of skin, hanging open like a grotesque window into his flesh. “Aye, that’s him, I seen him, felt him,” Laughing Dragon babbled, the fear evident in his eyes. “Called himself Baledagh then, but I sussed out who he was. Falling Rain, and he’s Defiled as any, I swear it to be true. See, I’m willing to help, I’ll be yer bloodhound and pick out all the Defiled in the province, in the Empire itself if need be.”

Taken aback, Yuzhen gaped as the Aspirants turned on Rain, clubbing him into submission. “This is madness,” she screamed, diving in to save him, but BoLao moved to intercept. “You saw yourself, he proved his purity multiple times in front of everyone. Laughing Dragon is lying, he’d do anything to spare himself the pain.”

“Perhaps he is,” BoLao allowed, her smile slipping. “But too much of what Laughing Dragon says rings true. His confession reminded me of Falling Rain’s claims, that there were no Defiled among the prisoners. How did he know if he is not Defiled himself?” Her eyes hardened. “I must put the boy to the question and I knew you’d object. Thank you for your aid and support Yuzhen, but my faith demands this be answered.”

BoLao struck, and with Yuzhen’s sword still in its sheathe, she was little match for the armed Shrike. Breaking through her guard in three passes, BoLao’s knee impacted against Yuzhen’s jaw, rattling her brain as she collapsed in the dirt. Her vision fading, she watched the Aspirants ride off into the west, carrying Falling Rain away from Sanshu.

Chapter Meme
