The Proving Gate was not what she expected.

She had read the design reference — or rather, she had read what Vasic's researchers had assembled of the design reference, third-hand and partial. A gate. A chamber. Individual Bond Trials, each party member alone in a private evaluation. She had known what was coming since Floor 15, when Brennan mentioned the Proving Gate as the landmark before the formal Apex approach. She had built a picture of it in the weeks since.

The picture was wrong.

The gate was a door. A single rectangular door set flush into a white stone wall at the far end of a corridor, its surface unmarked, its frame indistinguishable from the wall's material except by the seam. No guards. No mechanism visible. No System notation on approach — no preamble notification, no countdown. Just the corridor narrowing from the Crystal Salt Desert's open formations into this: a flat white passage, six meters wide, fifty meters long, and a door at the end of it.

Tomás had known. He had said nothing — had flagged it in the advance schematic as "terminal structure, uncertain classification," and she had read that notation and filed it. She understood now. He hadn't been able to classify it because nothing in the intel matched it. The Proving Gate looked, from the outside, like a room someone had forgotten to furnish.

The party stopped at the corridor's entrance.

The Resonant Stalkers had not followed them here. They had tracked to the edge of the Crystal Salt Desert's formation zone and held. When the party entered the corridor, the tracking frequency in the Conductor had simply stopped — the attentive faint signal present since the first encounter, gone. She had felt its absence before she understood it. The floor's creatures did not follow into this passage.

Dayo looked at the door.

She was in the anchor posture — the specific quality of Steadfast under assessment, weight low, attention complete. But the Conductor was giving her something she had not seen from Dayo in twenty-two floors: the signal had a quality of open presence, yes, but underneath it, running alongside the groundedness, something she could only describe as weight without momentum. Dayo processed everything as forward motion. This was not processing. This was sitting with something she had not converted yet.

"What does it do?" Miriam asked.

Not clinical. Just the question.

Solenne pulled up the notification that had arrived when they crossed the corridor's threshold:

```stat-screen
[PROVING GATE — FLOOR 20]
Individual Bond Trial Chamber

Each party member undergoes a private evaluation.
Trials run simultaneously. No assistance is possible.
The trial ends when the Trial determines you are ready to leave.

Party members waiting in the antechamber retain passive Harmony connection.
```

She let them read it.

"Simultaneously," Tomás said. He was reading the notification with the forward-lean quality in the Conductor — the architecture already running, the schematic of what "simultaneously" implied. Six people in six private evaluations, no shared information, no coordination. He had read "no assistance is possible" and had immediately modeled what that meant for a party whose mechanic was mutual support.

"It says passive Harmony connection," Vesper said. She was looking at the notification with her hands still, the Workframe not running. "That's different from nothing."

She understood what she was being asked to do before she said it. She would be the anchor point — the Trueweave, the conductor's role made literal. She could feel them. She could not help. It was the practice run for Six of Six: six people doing something that required all of them, and the one who ran the Conductor learning to trust that the others could do it without her management.

"Yes," Solenne said. "I'll be able to feel all of you through the Conductor. I won't be able to do anything with it."

Nadia was looking at the door, the dulcimer case on her back — the case a different quality since Vesper's resonance-damping insert went in at the second rest node, the floor's ambient chord muffled, the instrument's own resonance slightly cleaner.

She was not looking at the notification.

"One at a time?" she said.

"The notification says simultaneous," Solenne said. "All five go in at once."

Nadia nodded. She was still looking at the door.

"All five," Tomás said. "Not six."

"Not six," Solenne confirmed.

She did not say this aloud.

"Okay," Dayo said.

One word, in the load-bearing register. She had processed the weight without momentum and it had become forward motion, the way everything eventually did with Dayo. She adjusted the tally bracer on her wrist — the small habitual check she made when she was entering something she had categorized as significant.

"Okay," Nadia said, one beat after.

The five of them walked through the door.

---

The antechamber was a small room with five doors in the far wall. White stone, the same material as the corridor. No seating. No system notation on the walls. A room sized exactly for waiting.

She had a moment to see the configuration before the five doors opened simultaneously — each one admitting one party member into a private corridor, each corridor extending in a direction that the room's geometry should not have permitted. Then the five doors closed.

She sat down on the floor of the antechamber, her back against the wall, and opened the Conductor to full bandwidth.

All five signals, present. Faint, as if heard through stone. The "passive Harmony connection" the notification had described was not the working register — she was not receiving the detailed Aspect reads she used in combat, the precise signal quality that let her track Nadia's Pattern Break timing or feel Miriam's depletion curve. What she had was: presence. Each one was there. Each one was real. None of them had stopped.

Steadfast first.

Dayo's signal came through the door at the left end of the row. It had the weight-without-momentum quality she'd read in the corridor — not converted yet, held deliberately. She felt the shape of it: Dayo in a space without anything to anchor against, without a formation to hold, without a direction the fight was coming from. The Steadfast aspect was load-bearing by nature. What happened when there was no load to bear?

The signal did not stabilize. It stayed in the open quality — weight held, not distributed. She had never felt Dayo hold weight like this without converting it.

Four minutes.

The signal shifted.

Not resolved. Not converted to momentum. Something else: the signal had the quality of weight accepted rather than weight managed. As if Dayo had looked at the thing she was carrying and decided she did not need to put it anywhere. It could stay. It was hers to carry and it was allowed to be there and she was not going to make it useful yet.

She did not know how long she had been sitting on the floor of the antechamber. The door at the left end of the row opened.

Dayo walked out.

She had the tally bracer in her hands — not on her wrist, in her hands, looking at it. She looked up. She saw Solenne. She did not say anything for a moment.

"Fifteen minutes," Solenne said.

Dayo nodded once. She set the bracer back on her wrist and sat down on the floor against the opposite wall.

```stat-screen
[TRIAL COMPLETE — STEADFAST]
Dayo Adeyemi-Okafor

Trial duration: 15:04
Result: Complete

LEVEL UP: Level 13 → Level 14
  +3 Strength  +2 Vitality  +1 Agility
  New passive: Iron Will — resolve-based HP floor;
               cannot be reduced below 8% HP by a single hit

[+3 RESONANCE EVENTS — Proving Trial: Steadfast]
Party total: 130/150
```

Dayo read the notification. She read the Iron Will passive twice. The second read was for what it meant: a single hit couldn't bring her below 8% anymore, which meant Defiant Last Stand — which activated at 10% — would only fire now from accumulated damage, not from a burst. The shape of her threat profile had changed. She looked at the stat changes the way she looked at all stat changes — methodical, complete, filed.

Then she said: "Is Nadia still in?"

"Yes," Solenne said.

Dayo nodded. She looked at the doors. She settled back against the wall and waited.

---

Miriam's door opened eighteen minutes in.

The Warmhearted signal through the passive Conductor had done something Solenne had never felt before: it had dropped. Not failed, not gone — the signal was present throughout — but the quality of it had shifted from the cooled-to-tactical-precision of combat mode, through the open-attentive of rest, into something lower and more basic. The signal at minute twelve had been: Warmhearted running at minimum, not because the Aspect was depleted but because it was being asked to show what it looked like at the bottom.

Miriam walked out.

She looked, in Solenne's read, like she had been crying — not from distress exactly, but from the specific release of something that had been held a long time. Her eyes were clear. Her clinical notebook was in her hands.

She sat down near Dayo without speaking. After a moment Dayo moved to sit beside her — not touching, not in the protective-calculus posture. Just beside.

Miriam opened the clinical notebook.

She did not write anything. She looked at what was already written and then she closed it. Then she looked up at Dayo and said: "Can I have the Mana Vial?"

She said it in the register of someone who needed a thing and was asking for it without running the clinical assessment first.

Dayo already had it out.

```stat-screen
[TRIAL COMPLETE — WARMHEARTED]
Miriam Osei-Bonsu

Trial duration: 18:22
Result: Complete

[+3 RESONANCE EVENTS — Proving Trial: Warmhearted]
Party total: 133/150
```

Miriam drank the Mana Vial. She handed it back to Dayo. She leaned against the wall and did not explain what the trial had shown her.

---

Vesper's door was the third.

Twelve minutes — shortest of the three so far. The Artificer signal through the passive Conductor had not dropped the way Miriam's had. It had done something different: it had simplified. The specific-orientation quality, the attentive-to-a-problem register that the Workframe ran on — that had been absent for the first few minutes. And then something simpler had come through, something she had difficulty categorizing because she had never felt the Artificer signal without the Workframe component before.

The Workframe was craft-expression. Vesper's Aspect expressed through making. Without the making — without a problem to solve, a material to assess, a construct to run — what was underneath was something quieter. Not empty. Just present. Openhanded, the aspect was called, in the formal taxonomy she'd read on the System docs. She had always read it as Artificer in Vesper because that was how it expressed. What she felt for those twelve minutes was the Openhanded underneath.

Vesper walked out.

She was looking at her hands. She turned them over once and looked at the backs. She looked up.

"It didn't give me anything to make," she said.

Solenne waited.

"Twelve minutes and it didn't give me anything to make." A pause. The Workframe notation was not running. "I thought I was going to fail."

"You didn't," Solenne said.

"No." Vesper sat down. She was still looking at her hands. "I didn't need it."

She said it in the voice she used for things she had confirmed after checking: not declaration, not surprise, just reporting what the data showed. She had checked during the twelve minutes whether she needed a problem to solve in order to be present in a room. The check had returned a result she had not expected.

She looked like she was still deciding what to do with the result.

```stat-screen
[TRIAL COMPLETE — ARTIFICER]
Vesper Castillo-Huang

Trial duration: 12:11
Result: Complete

[+3 RESONANCE EVENTS — Proving Trial: Artificer]
Party total: 136/150
```

Dayo, from across the room: "Twelve minutes."

"Yes," Vesper said.

"That's fast."

Vesper looked at her. "Is it?"

Dayo considered this. "I don't know," she said. "It might just be what the trial needed."

Vesper held that. She set it down next to the other thing she was still deciding what to do with.

---

Tomás's door opened at twenty minutes and eleven seconds.

The Clearvoiced signal through the passive Conductor had been the most legible of the four — Clearvoiced was by nature a perceiving Aspect, and even through the attenuated passive connection she had been able to read something of its quality. What she had read: the forward-lean, the geometry running, and then — around minute eight — a stillness that was not the absence of process but the completion of it. The forward-lean had gone out of the signal entirely. What remained was the perceiving quality without the architecture: Clearvoiced present but not building, not modeling, just receiving something it had already seen. It was the signal of a mind that had finished working and was sitting with what the work had found.

He had reached a conclusion. He had sat with the conclusion for the remaining twelve minutes.

The conclusion had not made him comfortable. She had felt that too — the perceiving quality turned inward, held against something that didn't resolve cleanly.

He walked out and said, before anything else: "Is Nadia still in?"

"Yes," Solenne said.

He exhaled. Not relief exactly — the quality of someone who had been carrying a contingency calculation and was now releasing it. He sat down on the floor, back against the wall near the others, and was quiet for a moment.

Then: "I said something wrong in there."

Nobody asked him to elaborate. Dayo looked at him once, the assessment-quality look, and looked away. Miriam had the clinical notebook in her lap and was not writing.

"Not wrong wrong," he said. "Right thing, wrong — " He stopped. He looked at the wall across from him. "Wrong moment. Wrong approach."

He was not going to elaborate further. She understood. The trial had shown him something about his own timing — the Clearvoiced register, the precision of when to deploy a perception. He had used it correctly in terms of content and incorrectly in terms of placement, and the trial had made him sit with that distinction for twelve minutes.

"You came out," Vesper said.

He looked at her.

"The trial ended," she said. "You're here."

He held this. He nodded once, the smallest version of acknowledgment, and looked back at the wall.

```stat-screen
[TRIAL COMPLETE — CLEARVOICED]
Tomás Reyes-Walcott

Trial duration: 20:11
Result: Complete

[+3 RESONANCE EVENTS — Proving Trial: Clearvoiced]
Party total: 139/150
```

The antechamber had four people in it now. The fifth door had not opened.

Dayo looked at it.

Miriam had closed the clinical notebook. Vesper was still looking at her hands occasionally, the way someone returns to a question they haven't finished with. Tomás was sitting with the wall.

The door did not open.

Solenne ran the passive Conductor read. The Brightspirit signal was there — present, open, the quality it had been running since Floor 19 still intact. Not closed. Not panicking. Present with something in a way that was consistent with every reading she had taken of Nadia since the dulcimer arrived.

She let herself receive it without doing anything with it.

Eleven minutes.

---

The fifth door opened.

Nadia walked out.

She walked directly to the center of the antechamber and stopped. She looked at Dayo. She looked at Miriam. She looked at Vesper, then at Tomás. She looked at Solenne last — a long look, the quality she brought to things she was actually trying to see.

She did not say anything.

The Brightspirit signal through the Conductor had not changed register. It was still open-present, not closing, not managing. She had come out of eleven minutes in a private Bond Trial and the signal was the same as when she went in — the same quality she had been running since the dulcimer arrived, since Floor 19, since the notes she played without deciding to. The trial had met it and found nothing to press against. Not because Nadia hadn't been touched. Because the signal was already doing what a Bond Trial would ask it to do.

Nadia turned and looked at the five doors.

"They're all done?" she said.

"Eleven minutes," Solenne said.

Nadia's expression did something brief and not entirely manageable. She turned back to face them.

```stat-screen
[TRIAL COMPLETE — BRIGHTSPIRIT]
Nadia Volkov-Baptiste

Trial duration: 11:03
Result: Complete

[+3 RESONANCE EVENTS — Proving Trial: Brightspirit]
Party total: 142/150
```

She read the notification.

"One forty-two," she said.

"Yes," Solenne said.

"Eight."

"Eight."

Nadia looked at the number for another moment. Then she looked at the five of them sitting against the walls of the antechamber — Dayo with the tally bracer back on her wrist, Miriam with the clinical notebook in her lap and her shoulder touching Dayo's, Vesper with her hands quiet, Tomás looking at the wall — and something in the Brightspirit signal shifted. Not closing. Something that arrived the way Nadia's notes arrived: briefly there, without announced intention, sustaining for a moment, and then releasing.

She sat down on the floor in the remaining space between Tomás and the door they had entered through.

"Okay," she said. "Eight more."

The antechamber was quiet. Through the stone, somewhere ahead, whatever Floor 21 was waiting. The Proving Gate's five doors were closed again. The System had not told them what came next, and nobody asked.

Dayo said, to no one specifically: "We should eat."

"Yes," Miriam said.

They ate.
