Alden looked up from his tablet to see Jeffy had just strolled up to the bus stop. He was squinting in the late afternoon sunlight.


He’s not going to strip right here is he?


“You can keep it for now. Just give it back when it’s convenient.”


Jeffy nodded.


“I’m a Brute,” he said.


“I assumed.”


“Aquatic.”


Wait, aquatic?


“But that’s dumb, so I’m going to ignore as much of the water stuff as I can and put everything the System will let me into Strength.”


“Uh…so, I haven’t looked into Brute subclasses a lot, but I think Aqua Brutes are cool. And all of the enviro ones are pretty uncommon. And you shouldn’t just give up on the idea before you even try to—”


“Who wants to grow gills?” Jeffy said. “I only took it because the internet said high rank Aquas were shoe-ins for school. Thought it would make up for my grades. But now that I’m in, I’m going full building-puncher!”


But there are so many building punchers, Alden thought, feeling exasperated in spite of himself.


Maybe the instructors would be able to explain to Jeffy that being able to breathe underwater and endure pressure and temperature extremes was a good thing. Plus there was at least one high level Aqua Brute who could see in near total darkness.


They boarded the bus. Right before it left, Maricel jogged toward the stop and climbed aboard. Winston blasted through the doors right behind her, his sunglasses swinging from the strap on his neck.


It was standing room only, and they all ended up together, gripping the handrails near the front.


“When I used to stand on buses, I had to focus on balancing,” Maricel noted. “Now it’s just easy. I don’t even have to think.”


“Super perk!” shouted Winston. Then he grinned at Jeffy. “You got in, too, man. Way to go!”


“You’re in intake?” Alden asked Jeffy. “You didn’t leave with us from the dorms, though.”


He was obviously not a local. He had an accent that didn’t really sound like an accent at all to Alden, so he was American. But he would have remembered him if they’d met this morning. The mohawk was hard to miss.


Jeffy nodded. “I tried to run.”


Winston looked like he was holding back laughter.


“Run?”


“Yeah. From the dorms to Celena North. To show them I meant business.”


“You…tried to run the entire width of F-city, the bridge, then most of Apex?” Alden didn’t know whether he ought to admire the ambition or despair at the stupidity of doing that the morning before your physical testing.


“He left at one AM!” said Winston. “His roommates helped him sneak out.”


“A police drone tried to stop me from running on the highway. But I didn’t know police drones were real, and it looked evil. So I swatted it away, and I wasn’t accepting messages through my interface because they would have distracted from my process, so they sent an actual cop after me.”


What poor soul had been assigned to grab a teenage newbie who thought running on the street instead of using the plentiful sidewalks was a good idea?


“She made me sit on the ground and read aloud all of the traffic rules in the U.S. to Anesidora legal guide.”


Maricel looked like she was struggling not to laugh.


“We are allowed to run on the roads if we go fast enough and get licensed for it,” Winston said. “That’s why you see people doing it sometimes. I'm going to--”


With flawless timing, a boy running on the street passed the bus as it slowed to make its next stop.


Winston’s face fell at the sight of the better speedster.


“Awesome,” said Jeffy. “That’s what I wanted to do!”


“Isn’t he one of our new classmates?” Maricel asked. “I think I recognize him.”


“That’s Finlay,” said Alden. “From Scotland. He’s really nice. He beat me up in like two seconds.”


They all stared after the speedster as he threw out a hand to signal a turn. Alden suspected they were each thinking the same thing—superhero school was going to be pretty different from everything they’d done before.
 


*
