His fellow corner-dweller shook her head. “I know you heard them say the co-ed dorms were full. Anyway, I want to live with Tuyet, and I don’t think she wants to live with boys.”


Alden groaned. “I’m going to get stuck with someone awful.”


He was watching Winston Heelfeather, still in his sunglasses, zip around the room introducing himself to people. How did he get in? I know speed types have an advantage, but…


“Ask Kon,” Maricel suggested.


Alden wanted to ask Kon. “I would, but just look at him. He’s talked to six friends since we came into the room, and he’s air texting students who already live here at the same time. He’s probably got a dozen possible roommates, and they’re all people he already knows.”


“Just ask. He might say yes.”


“I don’t want him to say yes because he feels obligated after hearing my tale of woe.”


Maricel peered at him over the can of cherry soda she was drinking. “You’re not confident about this kind of thing, are you?”


Alden tried not to look offended. He was sure he did anyway.


“You seemed so in control this morning, handling the people being mean on the bus.”


Ignoring jerks is completely different from imposing on nice people.


“And afterward, when you were telling me why I would get into school and they wouldn’t…I used that in my interview.”


“What?”


“They asked why they should let me in when I didn’t really want to be a hero. The others from intake did make sure to talk about what I’d said in front of the faculty—about wanting to go back home. And the interviewers told me this wasn’t a place for someone who trying to run away from their problems.” She looked angry. “So I said what you did. That going back home was a serious goal. And it meant more to me than anything. And getting stronger is one of the best ways to do that, so I’m going to work so much harder than everyone else. They must have believed me. Because here I am.”


“And almost none of the others from the bus this morning are,” Alden added.


She took another gulp from the soda.“Can I ask you for a favor?”


“Sure.”


“Don’t…don’t let them know that I hate it here. Kon and Tuyet. And everyone else.”


He looked down at her. Her cheeks darkened.


“It was a mistake,” she muttered. “Not trying to get along with people in intake. My roommates can’t stand to spend time with me. They leave me out of everything. My counselor said he was tired of me ‘clinging to a negative attitude.’”


Well the Shaper counselor sounds like a dick.


“At home, I used to be somebody with lots of friends,” she said. “When I first moved here, they called every day, but now it’s less. Having lunch with that stupid group made me remember. I want…I think I should try to be a little more like I used to be while I still can. Or it will be intake all over again. I hate Anesidora. But I don’t want everyone to hate me, and this is their home, so…”


“I understand,” said Alden. “I won’t say anything.”


A few minutes later, Maricel left to go to her advisement. Alden sighed and worked himself up to brave the group of people standing around Kon.


As soon as he spotted Alden, he waved and started introducing him to everyone. It was too many names and classes to memorize at once, so Alden only bothered to remember the girl with the tongue piercing he’d “rescued” earlier. Astrid. A-rank. She was a Morph Brute.


“Oh,” a girl with dark hair and blue eyes who was standing beside Astrid said. “I guess they did let a B in this time after all. I thought they might have already met their annual quota or something.”


“Nope." Alden pretended he hadn’t heard the clear note of condescension in her voice. “There are at least two of us here. Kon, do you have your roommates picked out yet?”


Nothing for it but to ask.


“Yeah,” said Kon apologetically. “I’m rooming with Mehdi.” He pointed to a boy with perfectly gelled hair. “And a couple of guys who are already on campus. Since Lexi’s being a stubborn ass—”


“That’s nothing new,” someone said.


“I know it’s not,” said Kon. “But I assumed since we’re brothers he’d prefer me to people he barely knows.”


“We’re going to be the party room, anyway,” said Mehdi. “He’d hate it.”


Kon brightened. “You should be Lexi’s roommate, Alden!”


“Um…”


“He thinks he’s going to put together a room full of silent people. He’s already talked Haoyu into it.” Kon paused. “My brother is clean. And he doesn’t snore—”


“That’s the best you can do to sell him?” Mehdi laughed.


Kon glared. “He’ll be gone every weekend for sure. He studies or trains all the time, and as long as you don’t interrupt him or forget to hang up your towels there are no explosive temper flares”


“Oh my god, Konstantin, you’re making it worse.”


“I think Fountain Jeffy is looking for roommates,” Astrid piped up.


“Fountain Jeffy?”


“The guy with the blue mohawk who jumped in the fountain.”


“Jeffy got in!!” someone shouted, miming the shirt-ripping moment.


“Where is he?” Kon asked, looking around. “That was fun.”


“Vandy gave him a speech about following rules. And now he’s standing around in the men’s room trying to dry off his pants.”


“Thanks anyway,” Alden said. “Nice to meet you all.”


So I can choose from a guy who’s clean and quiet until he explodes, and an excitable guy who jumps into fountains and takes off his clothes. I mean…both are fine but neither would be my first choice. I guess the party room wouldn’t be either, though.


Where are the friendly but low-key people?


Low drama potential. It had to be here somewhere. He scanned the other boys.


There were two Brutes loudly trying to outbrag each other about their duels. There was a boy with a tablet who was editing photos of himself in the gymsuit to make himself look slightly taller. A knife Meister—the very one who’d cut Maricel’s hair— was on the verge of stabbing Winston for interrupting him during a call. An Object Shaper was chatting up girls and trying, without much success, to show off by molding an aluminum can into some animal shape.


And then there was Max.


Alden’s fellow B was pretending to mind his own business while he played games on a handheld console, but he was glancing up often enough that Alden thought the gaming was just a cover for his eavesdropping.


Alden went to the bathroom to examine his other option. He walked in just as a tan guy with a mohawk, wearing no shirt or pants yelled, “You idiot!” and tore the electric hand dryer off the wall.


All right then. That’s a nope for me.


Alden tried to quietly shut the bathroom door before he was noticed.


“You’ve got two shirts!” Jeffy said suddenly, staring at Alden’s reflection in the mirror. He was holding the dryer in both hands. There were dents in the metal case. His soggy jeans were in a pile on the tile floor.


“Sorry for interrupting,” Alden said quickly. “I think I’ve got the wrong bathroom.”


“Can I have one of your shirts?”


Alden stared at him. Then he looked down at himself. He wants my clothes?


Jeffy tossed the hand dryer in the direction of the trashcan without looking. It hit the wall with a crunching sound and then clanged onto the tile floor. He walked toward Alden.


“Gimme a shirt, man. Please?” he said, holding out his hand. “Mine got messed up.”


You ripped it in half yourself, thought Alden.


Jeffy leaned toward him, and Alden leaned back, still gripping the bathroom door handle tightly.


“I can’t meet the faculty with my bellybutton showing,” Jeffy hissed. “There was this girl, and she said they expect students to be professional. And maybe they would throw me out and replace me with someone who wasn’t a ruffian. I think it’s Anesidoran slang for people who behave like dogs.”


“No. It isn’t. It’s—”


“Because it’s ruff. Like ruff ruff,” Jeffy said seriously. “They have so many new words here, and I wasn’t paying attention to see if the System translated that one. So I—”


“You can have one of my shirts,” Alden interrupted. “It’s fine.”


“Do you have a power that will dry pants?”


“I can set them on fire with my candle lighting spell,” he said. “I don’t recommend that.”


Alden stepped into the bathroom and took off the green plaid shirt he’d been wearing over his tee. “Here,” he said, shaking it in the other boy’s direction.


“Can I have the t-shirt instead?”


Dude.


“Plaid will make me look like a farmer.”


Alden threw the shirt at him. “I think you should be more worried about the fact that you just broke the bathroom. The school’s going to care way more about that than your clothes. Konstantin might fix this for you if you ask him quick enough.”


He stalked out and left the boy there. For real? They let in a person who beats up appliances because they’re not drying his pants fast enough, but I’m a waste of the faculty’s time just for being a Rabbit? What kind of elitist Anesidoran shit—


He sighed at how easily his thoughts had taken this path. Maybe he was a little upset about what Instructor Klein had said.


Getting in because of the commendation isn’t something I have to be embarrassed about. I think Alis-art’h was more generous than she should have been, but it’s not like it’s fake. The star is there on my profile with my level and my rank. Think of it like its own separate stat.


And I have the emergency response merit from LeafSong. There can’t be a lot of other teenagers walking around with one of those either.


It wasn’t important. He was in. He would learn everything he could. He would get stronger. He would put his life back on some kind of track.


He would get himself a roommate.


He glanced at Max.


Maybe there would be solidarity in them both being B-ranks? But he’d also be worried he was being analyzed all the time. Alden had secrets. Living with someone ambitious, observant, and good at manipulating others would be stressful even if they weren’t enemies.


Determined, he walked over to where Lexi was sitting at the conference table and sat down beside him.


“Hi,” he said, “I didn’t get the chance to introduce myself earlier.”


Kon’s brother strongly resembled him. They were both good-looking, with light brown eyes and straight dark hair. But in contrast to Kon’s expressiveness and easy smiles, Lexi looked like someone had carved ninety percent of his personality away and left only suspicion and annoyance behind.


“When you wouldn’t let go of my Mind Writher?”


“Did you really expect people not to try to fight you?”


Lexi huffed. “What do you want?”


“Kon says you’re looking for quiet roommates. Quiet is fine with me. I clean up after myself. And I plan to spend a lot of my free time locked in my room studying.”


It was all true. Even if Alden had wanted to become a party animal, he didn’t think he was going to have time for it. He’d be privately learning magic on top of all his schoolwork.


“I do have a cat,” he added. “He’s quiet, too. And he will stay in my room if you don’t like cats. Did you already have your apartment full or…”


“It’s going to be me, Haoyu, and probably a guy I know from Arts once I get him to answer his calls. There’s one more bedroom in the apartment.” Lexi examined him. “You haven’t been on the island long, have you?”


“I just got here. I’m still in intake.”


“Yeah. That’s okay then.” His eyes flicked up to Alden’s name tag. “Alden.”


Hey, he used my name instead of calling me B-rank. Or Rabbit. He can’t be that bad.


Lexi held out his hand, and Alden shook it.


A second later, a notification popped up letting him know Lexi had added him to his housing form and asking him if he wanted to do the same. Five minutes after that, while he was on his way out the door to meet with his course advisor, Haoyu added him to the form, too.


Even though we haven’t met. So he must just trust Lexi.


If it didn’t work out, Alden could always try again. There was bound to be some roommate shuffling right after everyone moved in, wasn’t there?


The teacher advising him gave him permission to take a couple of classes for credit even though they were already well underway. In addition, he would be auditing two more. It would either make it easier to breeze through them when he took them in a later quarter, or with instructor permission, he could sit the finals and receive credit for those, too.


He would also be taking a phys ed/self-defense hybrid with everyone who’d just gotten in so that they would be extra well-prepared for their first full combat courses in January.


He walked out ten minutes later with his new schedule finalized. Tomorrow was Sunday. It was a week until he officially had to start classes and move into the dorms. But according to the advisor, he could begin this Monday to get a jumpstart if he didn’t mind commuting.


So…that’s what we’ll do.


He pulled out his tablet while he waited for a bus and studied his new schedule. If he did everything that the school required, he would be busy. If he did everything that they strongly recommended, he was going to have about two hours of free time at night, meal times, and weekends to himself. And that was it.


They said I could skip the study hours if my grades were good.


That was almost two hours a day, but it was set aside for everyone to do their homework. So he wouldn’t know if he needed it or not until he actually got to class.


“Hey! Do you want your shirt back?”


