Quilatalap continued, “When at least 850 mana is channeled into the Void Star, one [Void Star] is produced. If not directed to a target, the [Void Star] will attempt to kill the user. But otherwise, these energetic, ethereal summons, will rapidly move to any target within sight, slipping through most intervening barriers, in an attempt to reach that target’s center. Upon reaching its destination, the [Void Star] detonates in a [Void Blast], of medium size. Simple. Effective.

“And the entire team that won it is already dead from misuse and infighting.”

Stardust paled.

Then the giggles began. Fallopolis began chuckling, then cackling. It wasn’t long before a few Shades were howling with laughter.

“You told me those people won eight months ago! How am I just hearing about this now?” Stardust sat straighter, attempting to speak over the laughter, “Were they fools?! Or was this treachery?!”

Fallopolis ceased laughing, like the sudden stop at the end of a long fall. She glared her hateful white eyes at Stardust, and said, “They won. And then they died to what they won. That’s not right, Stardust.”

All laughter ceased, as eyes turned on the snake shifter woman.

Fallopolis continued, “Were they not aware of this fault? Or did you not tell Quilatalap?”

With a cocky sort of calm, Stardust said, “I told him. It was on the placard I wrote up. The winners knew what they were getting into.” She asked Quilatalap, “Didn’t they?”

“They knew. But they were a team from the Greensoil Republic, with ties to nobility. I suspect treachery of some sort, but I cannot confirm at all. And you would have known if you had asked.” Quilatalap said, “The artifact itself is still in play, and in the hands of a young noble of Greensoil, now.”

“A noble?!” Fallopolis instantly stated, “I vote for a Reclamation.”

Leofield said, “Deny.” He added, “They fucked up. It’s out there, now.”

Fallopolis eyed the man. Leofield just smiled. Stardust almost began to speak—

But Quilatalap shorted any more discussion, saying, “MOVING right along.” The screen behind him became an image of a spherical-ish die, with a short spike on every corner. It was silver, but otherwise unremarkable, save for the brighter parts of the metal that seemed abnormally shiny, and the shadows were deeper than they had any right to be. “We have Toymaker’s Breaking Die.” Quilatalap smiled. “For once, it’s not a murder machine. It’s an unusual little piece of fun.”

Through Ophiel’s eyes, Erick eyed Toymaker, who sat two tables back. He was a dark purple incani man with much of his horns, nails, and hair, an even darker purple, while his outfit was one of a comfortable black almost-sweater and almost-sweatpants. Erick knew of Toymaker, thanks to Killzone.

The Shade of Diversion was heavily active near the western wall of Ar’Kendrithyst, with much of his creations populating that side of the city. The Shade never showed himself, but his killer golems often resembled children’s toys, up until they released their inner swords or warhammers or such, and then you had a bunch of stuffed rabbits and frogs and puppet knights, all ready to kill. No teddy bears, though; Veird didn’t have that particular cultural phenomenon.

Toymaker smiled as Quilatalap kept speaking.

“This artifact would be easy to mass produce, too, as are most artifacts made by Toymaker.” Quilatalap said, “The Breaking Die is usable once per day, with a reset time of a day. When it is used, the Breaking Die is able to grant the user a single step along the Elemental Body skill that most complements their nature.”

Some people in the crowd gasped.

Fallopolis turned around. “Really?!”

Toymaker grinned. “Really. I’ve let three of them go in the Sovereign Cities already. Pure havoc.” He added, “The good kind!”

Quilatalap spoke before the crowd could ask any questions, “When rolled, the Breaking Die grants a step along the Elemental Body most in tune with the user. It will only stop working for that person when they have a full Elemental Body of any sort. With any luck and personal balance at all, a person could end up with a full suite of nascent skills, though that part about stopping at a full Elemental Body is more conjecture than proven fact.”

Toymaker spoke up, “The problem is that gaining a Body makes the die always roll that way!”

Quilatalap nodded, then continued, “The larger benefit of this item, is, of course, that the gain of any Elemental Body Skill automatically unlocks the Script usage for the recipient, without the need for crafting any elemental essences into armor, first.

“A hidden benefit appears when not used for ten days, and then used by any young person who has not yet Matriculated. For such a user, the Breaking Die will grant a beginner skill in all six Elemental Bodies at once, and then fall into a stupor for 10 days; unusable.”

The crowd tried to speak to Toymaker. The proud man just kept his eyes on Quilatalap; joy radiating from him like a palpable force.

Quilatalap continued, “A further hidden benefit appears if not used for 1 month. If not used for 1 month, the Breaking Die gains temporary sentience and will attempt to escape all bonds in order to find a child for whom to grant its boon. Toymaker. As we agreed, you can say the rest. Small speech only, and make it fast.”

The audience turned to the man.

The Toymaker stood, regarded the crowd, and said, “The original Breaking Die went to the Sovereign Cities team. And then I found them, and gave them three more. In Melemizargo’s name, they have already started to build a rebellion to overthrow their controlling overlords. None of them are true believers, and they likely won’t get very far —they never do— but it’s been seven months and some of them are still alive, and fighting!” He smiled. “Over a hundred people have been freed from the tyranny of Rozeta’s Registrars, and more are freed every day.”

Professional and enthusiastic claps all around. Toymaker bowed a few times, giving thanks, while a few people requested him to make more.

And then Tania Webwalker stepped out onto the stage, across from Quilatalap. A fist-sized white spider sat perched on her shoulder. The crowd stopped. Toymaker turned, and regarded the Champion of Melemizargo.

Tania said, “A good artifact. Simple. Necessary. Well made. I want a thousand. Rip out whatever functionality you need to rip out to make a working artifact of base needs. Complete this task, and you will be awarded commensurately.”

Toymaker, still standing, looked suddenly mad. He started, “That’s impo—” He paused. He forced his anger away, and asked, “What do you consider base?”

“The options for elements beyond Shadow are unecessary. Everything else is fine.”

Toymaker sighed, and with exasperation in his voice, said, “It only works because it is balanced, Tania. I have never gotten the shadow-only one to work. If I had, I would have debuted that version a hundred years ago, and the world would be a very different place.” He glanced toward Erick, saying, “This one only works because I stole his lights in that dungeon he made. That was the missing piece—”

Erick whipped around. “You WHAT!”

Toymaker pulled a frown at him, saying, “Ooh. Like you were the only one I stole from. Get over it.” He added, “If it makes you feel better, that light dungeon in Nelboor was trash compared to what you made.”

Fallopolis said, “I agree with Erick’s anger. Give him twenty of these Breaker Dice, and fulfill your obligation to him, first.”

Erick stared at Fallopolis, unable to come up with a counter to her suggestion, for there were too many places to start, and it would take way too long, and he’d lose anyway, and—

Quilatalap glared at everyone as he loudly tapped his papers on his podium.

Tania rolled her face toward the man, then turned back to Toymaker. “We’ll talk more later.” She snapped a finger toward the side of the pavilion, where a few butlers stood. “I want a table up front.” She turned toward the table where Erick sat, then pointed not two meters to his left, saying to the butlers, “There.”

There was an awkward reorganization. Tania and Bulgan sat down at a small table only two meters from Erick.

Soon enough, Quilatalap resumed.

He spoke of a diadem of [True Sight] that never broke, and which were able to eventually let the user gain the skill for themselves. Next came an [Onslaught] Shield, which let the user easily overcome a Juggernaut’s Unmovable with a simple [Shield Bash].

And then he spoke of artifacts based upon the laptop that had fallen to Veird with Jane.

The pavilion-full of Shades glanced Erick’s way, looking at his back, as he kept his own eyes firmly forward, but he did let Ophiel’s wander where they would. As Quilatalap spoke, and the Shades behind Erick congratulated themselves on their stolen ideas brought to fruition, Erick recalled his talks with Jane, about her hobbies when she was younger, and more recently, about all the items that had been on display in Candlepoint. As it turned out, according to what he was seeing right here, those one-off items or 50-charge wands or ‘belts of giant strength’ or ‘bags of holding’ offered at Candlepoint, were but the beginning. The versions of items won at the Armory’s Artifact Course were exactly that; artifacts that never fully broke, unlike all the other magical items created under the Script.

A weapon made of living fire, that grew with the user. A Bottled House, that came out with a command word and went back in with the same. A Robe of Tentacular Eyes, that was a conglomeration of Ophiel’s ability to see everywhere, an eldritch abomination, and that yellow eyebeam wyrm Erick killed both a lifetime ago, and not too long ago.

One of the bigger items was a Mini Box, that used an advanced form of [Adjust Size] in order to fit a meter of stuff down into a 4x4x4 centimeter metal box. The box itself was also imbued with a [Gravity Ward] that negated all of the weight of the stored items. Erick’s brief marvel that Jane’s ‘Bag of Holding’ had come true, was turned to annoyance, sadness, and disgust, all at once, after the boisterous creator spoke of breaking the Wayfarer Guild. This Shade had created a marvel! But all they wanted to do was destroy.

Then there was the Amulet of Non-Presence, that negated the ability for a person to regain Health or Mana, prevented them from using Health or Mana, but also erased their presence from the Manasphere. They wouldn’t trip [Alarm Ward]s. They could walk through [Prismatic Ward]s. Almost all non-physical magic would simply pass them by, as if they weren’t even there. And the creator Shade was happy that it had already been used to assassinate several high ranking politicians of some place called Stratagold in the Underworld.

Fallopolis must have noticed Erick’s confusion, for she whispered to him, “Stratagold is the largest Wrought City in or on Veird.”

Quilatalap said, “And now, for the final two winners. We’ll do the single winner from Eidolon, first.” Behind Quilatalap, the image of a young human woman appeared. She was walking along a skyroad holding a seafoam-green conjured sword that was easily three times her own height. It reminded Erick of Jane’s choice of sword; thin, brittle, useless if used wrong, but when used right, it was an object of pure cutting. The woman had sun-bleached hair, brown eyes, and bronzed skin, and was absolutely covered in the rotten gore of a killed umbral wyrm. Quilatalap said, “Hakina entered Kendrithyst 45 days ago by coming over the wall. She shot from level 34 to 75 in her first week by attacking the Deep Dark. A quick trip outside, and then back, had her returning as a Dragonslayer.”

The questioning gazes and interested faces of many Shades suddenly shifted to recognition. Some turned to admiration. A few Shades leaned back in their chairs, going, ‘Oh.’ A few others nodded, like it was obvious what Hakina was, and had become.

Quilatalap said, “Hakina completed three trips through the Armory. Her first two were on Hard. She selected a Constitution Fruit and an Intelligence Fruit. There was never a danger of her turning shadeling, for she was well trained in a few good soul-securing techniques that she had gained from her grandmother, who in turn, gained them from Messalina.” Quilatalap remained professional as he mentioned the Life Binder, but Erick recognized a break in the facade. What was that about? Quilatalap continued, “Hakina’s dream was to become an herb stalker, like the rest of her family, but when Messalina’s village was destroyed and the power structures she enabled were torn down, the whole of Continental Nergal went into a spiral. In Eidolon, Hakina’s family was killed by a dragon fight, that was apparently the result of trade routes shifting and two dragons coming into contact with one another.”

“Yup.” “Saw that coming.” “Of course.”

Quilatalap glanced through the audience, and his eyes landed on Queen.

Everyone seemed to know what that meant, as Queen herself gasped, and others clapped.

Queen asked, “Really?”

Quilatalap said, “Yes.”

“Finally!” Queen exclaimed, giggling as she smiled wide. “I’m so glad you didn’t tell me. I wouldn’t have been able to resist tracking her down.”

“That was what you asked for, and that is what I provided. Now, for the item.” The image behind Quilatalap shifted, to show an entire tiara made of what looked to be opal. “Queen’s Bright Crown was installed in the Armory nearly 60 years ago, and had yet to be won, until now. Very few winners had fit the item’s requirements in the last 60 years, but only Hakina had elected to actually pick the Bright Crown as her artifact.

