When the minor storm finally finished, Erick said to Quilatalap, “Apologies for the interruption.” He muttered, “What even is that thick air, anyway?”

Quilatalap said, “The thick air of [Cleanse] is a complicated topic, best left for another time. Now. Could we continue?”

Tania was already sitting. She magnanimously said, “Of course. Continue.”

Quilatalap nodded, then gestured back toward the screen behind them, where the Black Star was displayed. He said, “The Black Star was the last resort of the Peacekeepers. It has always been locked up behind heavy wards, and heavy restrictions, when not in use. Some of those restrictions are self-imposed; this is a semi-sentient divine artifact, after all.” He gestured to the four incani still standing on stage with him, saying, “Rexx, Idolizia, Caizoa, and Skorka, passed these restrictions, and gained the trust of the Black Star. Thus they have won the right to use the Black Star against the Converter Angel sent by unknowns of the Greensoil Republic.

“The Black Star requires a goal and a certain level of conviction in order to activate. Once those measures are met, the Black Star does many, many things for the wearer.

“As for the lesser functions, the Black Star automatically [Greater Teleport]s the user out of traps. It provides nourishment and a healthy body. It protects against disease, parasites, and all sorts of environmental harm. It provides immunity from all forms of mind, soul, or body control.

“Its larger function is to provide complete and total protection to the user, when the user is in pursuit of their goal.

“As the Black Star is very much a divine artifact of the Founding God of Veird, there are only two other greater gods on Veird that are capable of overcoming this protection: Rozeta and Melemizargo.”

There were some minor ‘booo’s from the crowd at the mention of Koyabez and Rozeta, while Melemizargo got several small prayers; it all inexplicably seemed like a game to Erick.

“The greater function is thus: When the user declares a goal in line with the goals of the Black Star, the Black Star will point the way to those who would harm all. There is no way to obscure this function, and it works through all known systems of obfuscation. Back in the Old Cosmology, this function worked five worlds away from any world touched by Koyabez, and would have only been slightly off in its guidance past that. Here, on Veird, this function is absolute.

“If the user is able to somehow, miraculously solve the problem that necessitated the use of the Black Star, without killing, then the Black Star does nothing. In such a case, the Black Star will usually choose to stay with the user. But in the usual event that the user intentionally causes a death, then depending on what the Black Star saw, it might stay with the user, or it might slay the user, and then [Greater Teleport] back to a Black Priest of Koyabez.

“All in all, it is an item of absolute self-protection, and a guiding star toward a chosen goal.” Quilatalap gestured to the captives, saying, “And now that you know the item, let’s hear their plans for this ancient artifact, from the winners themselves.”

The four incani on stage began to stir from their addled state. They blinked. They rolled their shoulders. Some sort of magic settled upon them, or rather, peeled back from their upper halves. Though they moved their legs, their booted feet came right back down on the stage, and their lower halves seemed to de-animate, just as much as their upper halves began to move.

One gasped, and then the other, as they looked out at the sea of white eyes staring back at them. The Cook schooled her face, while the others panicked, and then calmed. No one said a word.

And then the Cook looked to Erick. Skorka’s red eyes went wide, and then narrowed. “Fuck. He turned Shade.”

From two meters away, Bulgan laughed a single, “Ha!”

“Fuckin’ knew it!” exclaimed Rexx, the only man in the adventuring group.

Erick sighed, muttering, “Not a Shade.”

Fallopolis smirked as she suggested, “You should look into some cosmetic magic for those eyes of yours, or maybe just take the plunge and actually join us.”

And then there was quite a lot of bickering on stage, though none of the adventurers were able to do more than that. Erick, and the Shades, watched on, some smiling at the hatred on display, some looking a little bored.

And then Skorka brought their yelling back to Erick. “What the FUCK are you doing here with them?”

Erick asked, “What’s your plan for killing the Converter Angel? I’m already obligated to help with that, so maybe that means I’m obligated to help you.”

Skorka shut up, her mouth closing with an audible click of her teeth. The other three looked to her for guidance. No one said another word.

A Shade spoke up, “So what’s their plan? I want to hear it so I can watch it all happen!”

Another added, “They don’t seem that fractured to me.”

Quilatalap said, “They killed their opposition, so, yes, they’re not that fractured anymore.”

A bored Shade said, “I expected more than this. Why’d they go silent?”

“Operational security,” Quilatalap said. “They never spoke in full and complete terms in their journey through the Artifact Course.”

“I want to know why their trial took two months,” Tania casually demanded.

“Can we all just move on?” Fallopolis said. “They were obviously taking their time in there. It’s boring, but it does happen.”

“Yes we can!” Quilatalap readily took the offered out by waving his hand at the four adventurers, returning them to their zombie-like selves. He banished the floating image behind him, then picked up his papers, and said, “That concludes this year’s Armory presentation. See you all next year—”

“No.” Tania said, “These people are connected to Erick. I need answers. What are you going to do with those four?”

“Storage, till after the Feast is over. Then I’ll loose them outside of Kendrithyst.”

“Nonsense. It does them credit that they kept their heads despite facing three dozen of the Clergy. Not a lot of credit, but some. I want them at the party, after the Second Telling, tomorrow.” Tania said, “I want to see how they deal with Erick in a less confrontational setting. Also. Have you given them the Black Star yet?”

“No.” Quilatalap said, “As laid down by the precepts of the Black Order, the plan was to temporarily block their memories of everything beyond the Converter Angel, give the Star to them, and release them out into the Crystal Forest, all at the same time. After the Feast.”

Tania gave a sly smile. “We’ll talk.”

Quilatalap frowned at Tania. Then he put on a neutral face, and turned to everyone else, declaring, “The Armory Presentation is over. Thanks for coming. Queen has opted to provide refreshments—”

Queen gestured to butlers waiting off to the side. They began moving. A door opened, and carts with covered trays began rolling out toward the Shades.

“—so you may now begin further plans for artifacts like the Breaking Die, the Void Star, the Mini Box, and others.”

Erick got the fuck out of there.
