That apparently was his language. "Yeah, duh. But phones don't get signal in dungeons."

It took Thomas a second to realize they were talking about an app and not... actual snapping. Well, whatever, this was a lead. He glanced at Zach with a question in his eyes.

Reluctantly, Zach shook his head again. "It'll be a few hours 'til I'm good to teleport again."

Thomas wasn't surprised. The last time he lost control of his Fire mana had been worse, but he'd needed days to recover. "Anything I can do? I have more healing crystals."

"Nah, I just need time—"

"What's this?" Kingston said, holding up a metal box he had pulled from Thomas's bag.

He had completely forgotten about that. Thomas stood. "Wait, don't—"

It was already too late. The lid of the box popped open, and the psychotic unicorn toy leaped out with a screaming whinny.

Kingston fell back with a shriek as the unicorn swarmed up his arm, then jumped to the ground and galloped around in a circle around him and Braxton, trumpeting its rage.

Braxton giggled.

The little toy unicorn wasn't attacking them, but it sure turned its angry self on Zach and Thomas as they approached. In fact, it pranced between them and the children, snorting, showing its teeth, and whipping its lion-like tail.

"It likes us," Braxton said smugly and reached out to pet the unicorn.

Thomas started forward, but Zach held him back. "No, I think it's fine. Let it happen."

The unicorn not only allowed itself to be petted, it turned and bumped its muzzle against Braxton's fingers without biting them.

Thomas was honestly at a loss.

Ashton came over and knelt down. The unicorn turned and looked at him. It seemed a little bit more wary of the older boy, but grudgingly allowed itself to be petted.

"What is this thing?" Ashton asked.

"It's your uncle's pet unicorn. Its name is Problem Child," Zach said, pure mischief in his eyes for those times Thomas made fun of Kevin being an energy vampire.

"Problem Child is not a nice name," Braxton said reproachfully.

"That's an awesome name," Kingston corrected. He reached to scratch the unicorn toy, and the usually violent thing practically melted against him.

Thomas's tongue finally unstuck. "What," he hissed, "the hell is going on?"

"I think it's kind of a guardian," Zach said. "That pet lady said it's bonded to you, remember? But, like, what if it's bonded to your bloodline? Aren't there unicorn stories where the unicorn can only tolerate, um," he glanced at the boys who were listening intently, "children?"

Thomas watched for a few moments as the boys gave the unicorn toy all the attention it clearly wanted. Unicorns weren't usually a boy's toy, but they seemed pretty interested in it, on account of its needle teeth, dagger-sharp horn, and whippy lion tail.

It became clear that the unicorn much preferred Kingston and Braxton, and out of them, Braxton most of all. Thomas guessed that it had to do with Gifts. The System recognized kids at fifteen years old as legal adults, and Ashton was nearly there. They'd know in a few weeks after Ashton's birthday if Problem Child started hating him.

Until then, the unicorn had its uses, very specifically when a fire-breathing chipmunk came within viewing range.

Thomas had been keeping his Health Sight on and had been about to dispatch the thing, but the unicorn neighed a war cry and peeled off to gallop after the chipmunk instead.

Problem Child was technically a level one, but fire didn't seem to stop it, and it plowed right through the blast and speared the chipmunk. It even collected the mana crystals from the drop and returned them to the young boys, spitting them into their hands.

"Two mana crystals!" Kingston held up the red mana, as proud as if he had killed the chipmunk himself. "Wow!"

Zach nudged him and muttered, "I think it's got your Gift."

Thomas wasn't sure how to feel about that.
