There were a few areas of concern, but nothing worth acting on. For example, Rain’s source of wealth was a mystery, but a quick look into the Bekhai was enough to convince Goujian that Rain was being backed by their vast natural resources. Then there was Dastan Zhandos, former member of the Coalition worked at Rain’s side, but the young man showed no signs of Defiled Taint, a calm, collected warrior wholly focused on the Martial Path. Were Goujian to bring news of young Dastan home, he’d be laughed out onto the streets as it was common knowledge Dastan could also demonstrate Purity and even recently joined the Empire’s Roster of Experts.

Most surprising was Rain’s association with the Society youths. To be friends with his disciple’s cousin and murderer Han BoShui wasn’t too surprising, but for Situ Jia Zian to amicably spar with the warrior who defeated and humiliated him reeked of the Father’s influence. It made sense if these youths had all been Tainted and were now working as His agents in the Empire. How deep the corruption might spread if these prominent youths were Tainted? It explained why the Defiled horde withdrew whilst on the cusp of victory, the province was already theirs, they only needed time for Falling Rain and his cronies to deliver it to them.

Thus Goujian put in motion a plan to kidnap the young hero and steal him away for interrogation. If the Undying Savage turned out to be Defiled, then it was proof positive of the Father’s deep roots in the North and Goujian would bring his findings to the Emperor himself. If not, then the Empire would lose a young hero in return for peace of mind, a small price to pay in the long run.

Before taking action, he left a large donation at the school, praying someone would continue the good work here. A hot meal didn’t seem like much to the nobility, but to a man who knew hunger every day of his childhood, Goujian understood the true value of this school.

Sitting on the ground floor of a tea-house, he awaited Falling Rain’s arrival, the young hero on his way with his hare-eared betrothed and two goat-horned children in tow. Sipping his tea, Goujian watched as the amber-eyed young man trundled through the crowd with a bear on his back and two children in his arms, smiling without a care in the world. Defiled or not, this was the man responsible for BoLao’s death, so it vexed Goujian to see the boy smiling so. His emotions must have gotten the better of him because the boy seemed alerted to his presence, amber eyes swivelling left and right in search the unseen threat.

If not Defiled, then Falling Rain was a genius seen once a millennia but Goujian trusted BoLao’s judgment enough to take the risk. Withdrawing his Watch, he poured another cup of tea and waited, wagging his eyebrows at a precocious young child enjoying her snack with relish. Children were the future of the Empire but so easily brought astray. He prayed with all his heart he was wrong, that BoLao was wrong, so these sweet children and moral, upright citizens of the Empire might continue their existence here in the North.

Because if he was right, then the entire Province must be cleansed, in blood and in fire.

When his adherent arrived to escort Rain away, Goujian cursed the man for his poor acting. Any blind fool could see he was more warrior than merchant, but thankfully Rain didn’t notice. Keeping his emotions in check, he Watched Rain proceed to the storefront to inspect his slaves, only to witness his adherents make a mess of things as the clumsy assailant missed his unsuspecting target, then died in a miserable manner. So hard to find good help so far North, but this was what he had to work with. There were too many experts here at the Bridge, his other adherents already under watch. Unable to risk exposure, he ordered the surviving adherent to wound the boy and die to make it look like a failed kidnapping/assassination attempt.

And when Rain’s Demonic Aura erupted out, Goujian knew his Disciple was right.

Falling Rain was Defiled.

The North was lost.

He considered several angles of attack, including snatching Rain away using the hare-girl and children as leverage, but his instincts warned him from acting out of line. This was the Northern Bridge, as far from his sphere of influence as one could get and still be in the Empire. No sense acting on impulse and risking discovery by the multitude of experts. Now that he knew, he could slowly gather evidence and -

Steely fingers clamped down on his neck and Goujian froze in surprise. An expert, one capable of sneaking up on him without notice? Yesterday, he would have scoffed at the notion, but here they were. Keeping calm, he folded his hands on the table and Sent, “An impressive feat to mask your presence before the Confessor,” he Sent, hoping to rattle the expert with his title. “Might I have the honour of knowing this expert’s name?”

Silence and a tightened grip were his only answers, so he abandoned all thoughts of intimidation. Around them, the tea-house guests continued eating and drinking in merriment, wholly ignorant of the peak expert standing in their midst. For the next ten minutes, Goujian sat in uneasy silence as the hare-eared girl and goat-horned children finished their desserts on the empty second floor. Only after they strolled out the door with their pets did the expert’s grip loosen ever so slightly, but still not enough for Goujian to act. “Hmph. I know not who you are or why you are here,” the expert Sent, his voice grim and unyielding, “but you reek of blood and suffering. The stench offends me. In accordance with the treaties, remove yourself or be removed. This is your first and final warning.”

Ah. So he was a Territory Lord, an Ancestral Beast, which explained his skill. No point mentioning this was an Imperial fortress, these creatures weren’t ones to quibble over niceties. “This one has offended Great One out of ignorance and offers his apologies. Might I inquire where Great One’s territory ends?”

“Where my territory ends is unimportant. Remove yourself and your companions from the North. I’ll not risk scenting you on the wind.”

With that, the grip on Goujian’s neck loosened and the expert disappeared. Wasting no time, Goujian paid his bill and left. Disappearing into the shadows, he ordered his adherents out of the North before leaping into the air and racing across the sky in his haste to leave. Cursing his poor luck, the kilometres zipped by as he wasted prodigious amounts of Chi and stamina on this arduous effort, but discretion was the better part of valour. How he’d offended the Territory Lord was a mystery. Perhaps it was the father of the hare-girl or the goat-children, but Falling Rain was out of his reach so long as he remained in the North. Although a Territory Lord technically couldn’t exile him from the Northern province, if the Ancestral Beast killed him on a whim, the Emperor wouldn’t lose sleep over Goujian’s death.

If anything, the Emperor might send the Ancestral Beast a gift of thanks.

Chapter Meme
