Erin stared at Numbtongue. The Hob wore a pair of steel cuffs that had just been placed on his wrists by a Gnoll [Guardsman]. The Hob looked at her and then at the ground. He was wet, sweaty, and looked…beaten. So did the other Hobs. What had happened? Green blood still dripped from Headscratcher’s hands where he had held the bandages against Bird’s side.
They were under arrest. Olesm had ordered it. Erin turned to the [Strategist].
“You can’t do it. It’s wrong.”
“I can and I have to, Erin. Liscor is in danger. Senior Guardsman Klbkch!”
The Antinium had sheathed his swords. He was standing at the entrance to the Hive with the Soldiers. He turned.
“I am in my position as Revalantor of the Free Antinium, Strategist Olesm. My Queen rages. She demands the death of whomever injured Bird. As we speak, she struggles to save his life.”
Olesm nodded.
“I understand. I will send the Watch to patrol the waters in full force. But there is a situation. The Goblin Lord is coming here. Liscor will soon be under siege. By both the Goblin Lord and Humans.”
“Wait, what?”
Erin exclaimed, but neither Olesm nor Klbkch looked at her. The Antinium Revalantor went still for a second.
“Explain.”
“I don’t have the time. Watch Captain Zevara has the details. I have to contact Pallass. Now.”
“I see.”
Klbkch didn’t waste time asking further questions. He turned, and the Soldiers retreated into the Hive. Then Klbkch strode down the street. Leaving Erin, the Hobgoblins, and Olesm behind.
“Olesm, what’s this about the Goblin Lord? I thought he was defeated! On the run!”
Erin stared at Olesm. The [Strategist] passed a claw over his eyes.
“I don’t—I don’t have the time to tell you, Erin! I need your door, now. Guardsmen! Arrest the Hobs and put them in separate cells!”
He turned. Erin ran around Olesm and blocked his way.
“No! Olesm, the Redfangs did nothing wrong! They came here because of Bird!”
“I know!”
Olesm shouted at Erin. She stepped backwards. The Drake glared at her.
“I know! But the Goblin Lord’s army is about to sweep down on Liscor, a mysterious Hob just destroyed part of your inn and nearly killed Bird, and there are hundreds of Cave Goblins living in the dungeon! I do not want those five causing an incident! And if I send out the Watch with orders to find and kill a Hob, they will find and kill Hobs. This is for their good, Erin! Don’t argue; just let me do my job!”
He tried to push Erin aside. But she folded her arms.
“No.”
This time, Olesm nearly hissed at her. But Erin wasn’t looking at him. She was looking at the Hobs. Her friends. Employees and…they’d done nothing wrong. Nothing. She knew that. Olesm knew that. But still, Numbtongue was in cuffs. Erin closed her eyes. Then she looked at her friend, the Drake with light blue scales. Olesm. And she clenched her fist slowly and spoke.
“You’re right, Olesm. But you’re wrong. You can’t arrest them. I won’t let you.”
Olesm sighed. His shoulders drooped, and his tail curled up at the tip. He shook his head.
“You don’t have a choice, Erin. I’m sorry.”
“Me too.”
Erin saw Olesm’s head raise. He blinked as she punched him. The [Strategist] staggered back and cried out in pain, but he didn’t drop. So Erin kicked him in the stomach. She whirled, and the Gnoll [Guardsman] raised his paws.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
He tried to block her, but Erin’s fist punched right through the Gnoll’s guard and knocked him flat. The other [Guards] stared at Erin. So did the Redfangs. Erin turned and shouted at them.
“Run for it, guys!”
The five Hobs hesitated, but then they took off. Headscratcher, Badarrow, Shorthilt, Rabbiteater, and the manacled Numbtongue each sprinted off in a different direction. The Watch tried to chase them, but Erin jumped forwards. She hit a female Drake with another [Minotaur Punch] and knew she had only two left. She turned, keeping her hands up as the Watch jumped back.
“Come on, I’ll take you on! Fight me! Hiyah!”
Erin tried to menace them, but the Drakes and Gnolls rushed after the Hobs instead. Erin threw a fake jab at a Drake close to her, making him duck back.
Behind you! A bell rang in Erin’s head. She turned—
And Relc was standing in front of her. The Drake waved at Erin. The [Innkeeper] hesitated, but then she aimed for his chest.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
The Drake [Spearmaster] raised one claw. He caught her hand. His arms strained a bit with the recoil, but Relc himself barely moved. He let go as Erin blinked up at him. The two stared at each other. Then Erin threw another punch, this time at his stomach.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
Relc blocked her fist again. This time, he shook his claw.
“Ow. That hurts.”
Before Erin could react, he reached out and tapped her on the forehead with his knuckles. She frowned and tried to swing at him again—
And then found herself lying on the ground. She stared up blankly at the clear sky. Then someone’s face appeared in her field of vision. It was Relc. Erin stared up at him dizzily. The Drake scratched the back of his head.
“Hey Erin.”
“Hey Relc.”
“You’re under arrest.”
Erin blinked stupidly up at Relc.
“Yeah, that’s fair.”
She lay on the ground for a few minutes. By the time the world stopped spinning, Olesm had gotten to his feet and the Hobs were returning.
In chains. The Watch had caught them. Erin watched in despair as the Hobs returned. First Badarrow, caught by Relc. Then Headscratcher with a bloody nose. Shorthilt. Rabbiteater with several bleeding scratches on his leg. But not Numbtongue.
“Senior Guardswoman Beilmark. Did they give you trouble?”
Olesm winced as he clutched his stomach. Erin felt bad; she’d kicked him as hard as she could. The Gnoll who’d caught Rabbiteater shook her head.
“No, sir. They tried to knock us down, but they didn’t draw steel, sir. But the fifth Hob, the one we already shackled—he, uh, made it out.”
“What? How?”
Erin looked up. Beilmark looked embarrassed.
“The fifth one—he ran down the streets shouting about a Raskghar attack. In the panic, we couldn’t catch up to him, and then he ran up to the battlements and jumped off.”
“Clever Numbtongue.”
Olesm glanced down at her and made a frustrated sound.
“That’s—keep an eye out for him! Don’t shoot him, but if he appears in the inn or the city—just keep an eye out! As for these four…”
He turned and looked grimly at Erin and the Hobs.
“Take them to prison and put them in separate cells.”
“The Hobs?”
Relc raised his brows. Olesm shook his head.
“All of them. The Hobs…and Erin. I can’t have them running around. And Erin causes trouble. This is an emergency, and I can’t—I don’t want to lose my breakfast. So take her to a cell.”
He looked back at Erin.
“I’m sorry.”
Olesm didn’t wait for a response. He turned and hurried off. Erin stared down at her hands. Relc walked over with a pair of metal cuffs. He shrugged.
“You know, he does have a point.”
Erin stared at Olesm.
“Yeah. That’s fair too.”
Then she looked at the four Hobs sitting around her. They looked at her, tired, confused. And frightened, though they tried to hide it. Erin smiled weakly at them.
“I’m sorry.”
And she saw the guilt in their eyes as Relc closed the manacles over her hands. Then Erin and the Redfang Warriors went to jail.
 
——
 
Klbkch did not waste time. When Olesm told him Liscor was in danger, he made his way to the barracks, listened to a brief summary of events from Zevara, and then spoke four brief words.
“The Antinium will fight.”
There was nothing else to be said. Not to Zevara who was trying to do a thousand things at once. Klbkch strode back through the streets of Liscor to his Hive and descended into it. Twice as many Soldiers were on guard near the entrance. They might not have known what was going on, but they could sense the tension in Klbkch. The Revalantor walked further into the Hive.
He felt as though the air was tingling around him. Klbkch’s antennae slowly moved back and forth. He didn’t grasp at the handles of his swords, but he was aware they were there as he walked.
War. It had returned to Liscor. Klbkch had not predicted this. The news had caught him off guard. But now that he knew, he felt as though the entire Hive was humming. Klbkch recalled a distant scene and paused. He remembered a song, echoing, and for a second, he nearly drew his swords.
Goblins and Humans. They were coming in numbers to drown Liscor. And the city was not ready. The Hive was not ready. But they would fight and fill the Floodplains with death if they had to.
“Prepare the Hives. Call the Black Tide. The Antinium march.”
Klbkch whispered. Then he forced his hands away from his swords. Not yet. Klbkch kept moving, but now the air was electric. Workers straightened and Soldiers turned as he passed. They could feel it. The Soldiers closed their hands into fists and stood straighter, and the Workers stared at Klbkch’s back. They could feel it too. But only those around Klbkch. Those who passed out of his range were cut off. Confused.
The Hive was in disarray. Workers and Soldiers milled about, only half going about their assigned tasks. The rest were—confused. As if their mental link with their Queen had been interrupted. As if she were dead. When Klbkch passed by them, they stared at the Revalantor and then moved smoothly back to work. But as soon as he passed from view, they grew confused again. Because their Queen was occupied.
Klbkch could feel her presence as he swiftly made his way towards her chambers. The Free Queen’s presence filled his mind. He could ‘hear’ her, sense her emotions and will. She was in turmoil. Then Klbkch did hear her voice, echoing from her inner chambers.
“Klbkchhezeim!”
He entered her chambers. The Soldiers standing guard were agitated, standing far away from the entrance to the room. Twitching, half-looking inside before watching the corridor leading to her rooms. Klbkch didn’t have to guess why. The scent of Antinium blood—hemolymph—was thick in the air. And inside the Free Queen’s chambers was a mix of confusion.
Strange Antinium milled about in the center of the room, surrounding a fallen Worker. The Free Queen of the Antinium herself bent over Bird, issuing orders as her feelers moved rapidly, scooping up gels and tending to strange, bulbous sacs filled with green blood and organs. Klbkch stopped, his mandibles opening with shock as he beheld the scene.
No wonder the Soldiers were agitated. Although they had guarded the Queen all their lives, they had probably never seen the Drones, the Antinium with bodies that resembled their Queen, before. They had no arms or hands, but six feelers with palps and hunched, insectile bodies even more ant-like than…well, the other Antinium.
The Drones had smaller mandibles than even Workers, and they were physically tiny compared to their brethren. They were not designed for war. In fact, the nine or so Drones weren’t even properly formed.
They’d been crudely copied from memory, but the Free Queen had yet to complete their design. As a result, the Drones moved unsteadily, sometimes jerking as muscle fibers fired improperly. They were unbalanced compared to the relatively flawless design of Workers and Soldiers, but they were more precise than the other two types of Antinium at delicate tasks. As such, they were essential here.
Because of Bird. The Worker lay on the ground. Bleeding. The Drones clustered around him, applying the Antinium’s unique gelatins and secretions to him. Another tended to a strange tube inserted into Bird’s chest. As Klbkch watched, he poured a bowl of blood into the tube and then trundled over to the semi-translucent sac filled with blood and floating organs. The sac twitched as the Drone collected more blood from it.
It was alive. The blood sac wasn’t Antinium, though. Klbkch doubted it was even conscious. It was designed for one purpose: to provide raw materials for his Queen to harvest. He stared at it for one second, then looked at his Queen.
“My Queen.”
“More gel! Stop the bleeding! More blood.”
The Free Queen’s voice echoed as she bent over Bird. Her massive form was hunched, bending possessively over Bird, forcing the Drones to scurry around her. The Free Queen’s head turned to Klbkch as he approached.
“He is dying.”
“Can you not save him?”
The Queen’s mandibles clicked together harshly.
“I am trying. But his body is torn. Whatever struck him created a shockwave. His organs are in failure. I am trying, Klbkch. But his internals are—who did this? Who?”
Klbkch bowed his head. He looked down. Bird was moving slowly, mandibles opening and closing. He was awake. The Antinium didn’t have anesthesia or painkillers. Klbkch spoke dispassionately.
“A Hobgoblin, my Queen.”
“Find it. Kill it. Send the Soldiers! All of them!”
“That would not be wise, my Queen. The waters are still risen. And there is another issue—”
A feeler shot out. The Grand Queen grabbed Klbkch and drew her head close to his.
“Do not argue with me, Klbkchhezeim.”
He held still. Klbkch opened his mandibles slowly and spoke cautiously. He had never seen his Queen like this. Why did she care about Bird so much? She would not have grown half as agitated to lose a thousand Workers. But Bird?
“My Queen. Liscor is in danger. I have just been informed that the Humans are driving the Goblin Lord to Liscor. Not to eradicate it as we had assumed, but to lead an assault on Liscor.”
The Free Queen froze for a second.
“Impossible. That would be an act of war. Besides, the Humans cannot breach Liscor’s walls.”
“That is what we believed. But the [Strategist] of Liscor believes they have obtained trebuchets.”
“Trebuchets? How?”
“I am unclear. But it is certain that the Humans intend to create a breach in Liscor’s walls and allow the Goblins to sack the city before occupying it themselves. My Queen, Liscor will be under siege in four days’ time.”
The Queen released Klbkch. She sat back for a second, her antennae waving frantically. Klbkch stared up at her as the Drones worked frantically. And then he heard a sound.
“Ow. Ow.”
Both the Free Queen and Klbkch looked down. Bird was lying down, still oozing blood. His mandibles opened and closed.
“It hurts. I am dying. Ow.”
“Bird.”
The Queen bent over him, the danger to Liscor and the Hive forgotten in an instant. Klbkch moved closer, and a Drone hurried out of the way. Bird’s head turned.
“It hurts. Revalantor Klbkch? Is that you?”
“Yes, Bird.”
Klbkch looked down at Bird. Dispassionately. He had seen countless Antinium die before. Bird was one face of millions. Klbkch’s hands tightened on his swords’ hilts. Just another Worker. But Bird was an Individual. And he looked so broken lying there. His left side was missing.
