What kind of a Goblin could have done this? By throwing a sword? Klbkch had fought Goblin Chieftains in the Second Antinium War. He had dueled Goblin Lords. But even the strongest Hobs he’d met there didn’t seem capable of doing that. Only a few had been that strong. And they had been—
Klbkch realized Bird was moving slowly. His right side was twitching. Bird’s mandibles were opening and closing, and he was quivering. With pain? Klbkch searched for something to say.
“Stay alive, Bird. This is an order.”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch. I will try.”
“Klbkch. Move back. Bird, do not move. You are torn.”
The Queen’s voice was quiet. Her feelers pressed against Bird’s side, applying a viscous gel. But the regenerative gel the Antinium used was insufficient to this injury, as were healing potions. Bird was torn open. And no matter how desperately the Drones labored, they couldn’t stop the worst of his bleeding.
In a Human, it would be different. In a Drake or Gnoll, too. But Bird had no arteries, no closed circulatory system. It was impossible to close a vein or stem the bleeding. All the Queen could do was restore his blood. But so long as Bird bled—
“Can you save him?”
Klbkch looked up at his Queen. She did not answer. Her feelers were wet with Bird’s blood. The Free Queen kept moving, directing her Drones, but Klbkch sensed the answer in her emotions.
She was frantic. She had not been taught to heal like the other Queens designed solely for that purpose. When she had crossed the ocean and left Rhir, she had been young. She was neither a Weaver Queen nor a Battle Queen who could save Antinium wounded on the battlefield. All she knew of the Antinium was a result of rediscovering it from memory, out of desperation.
“Do not die, Bird. Hold on. The bleeding will slow.”
“It hurts. It hurts.”
Bird stared at the tube in his chest as a Drone poured more blood into him. He clicked his mandibles and tried to turn his head.
“I fell. There was a Goblin with a beard. He had a sword. Where is Erin? She was very upset. I broke her tower. Where is my bow? I must have my bow. It is mine.”
“Be still.”
The Queen gently pressed down on Bird’s chest. He looked up at her, at Klbkch.
“I am dying.”
“Yes.”
Klbkch knelt by Bird’s side. He pressed a hand to Bird’s torn flesh and felt the gel and blood mixing at his touch. He looked up at the Free Queen.
“My Queen—”
“No. He can be saved. He must.”
The Free Queen shook her head. Klbkch stared down at Bird. Then he looked around.
Drones, hurrying about. The quivering sacs of flesh, the product of secret experiments. Staring Soldiers. Bird. The Queen searching through her reagents and catalysts for something. Panicked. Not thinking. Hive in chaos. Belgrade and Anand in the western area, restoring order. Pawn’s presence, stabilizing Antinium around him.
Bird dying. Garry standing by the door to his kitchen, staring at them. The Queen calling for more blood. Klbkch’s swords were by his side. Bird looking up. Asking for his bow.
Movement in a corner. A shape. A vessel, a body shaped in the image of a Queen. Holding a mirror. Jerking. Standing. Moving forwards. Speaking. A face reflected in the magical depths of the mirror. A voice.
“Klbkchhezeim. What passes here?”
Klbkch looked up. Then he turned and knelt.
“My Queen.”
The Antinium around him—stopped. The Free Queen, the Drones, the Soldiers. Bird. The small version of the Queen looked around. And then she raised her mirror. And reflected in the depths was a large form. A Queen of the Antinium stared out from the mirror’s surface. She sat in a grand chamber, surrounded by Antinium. An azure Antinium with a staff stood by her side, and Prognugators armed with silvery blades, replicas of Klbkch’s weapons, surrounded her. The Grand Queen of the Antinium spoke.
“Why does this Worker’s fate concern the Free Queen of the Antinium? Why are Drones present in Liscor’s Hive? Answer me, Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium.”
Klbkch felt the Free Queen’s shock ripple through his connection to her, but he didn’t move. The Grand Queen was here. The vessel she had sent looked around the chambers, inspecting everything. Seeing through her connection with it and the magic mirror it held.
“Grand Queen. An Individual of the Hive has been injured by an unknown assailant. He is—a valuable asset to the Hive.”
“I am?”
“A single Worker? Ah. One of your unique Antinium reported to the Hives. Very well. And the Drones? We forbade this Hive to experiment with new forms or create Antinium besides new Workers and Soldiers. Why?”
“A…necessity, Grand Queen. My Queen deemed them essential for the purposes of enacting the Rite of Anastases when I fell.”
That was a lie. The Drones had been present for nearly six years, hidden in the Free Queen’s laboratory, defying the Grand Queen’s orders. But the Grand Queen did not know that. She paused, and her feelers rubbed together.
“We see. Very well. Klbkchhezeim, Free Queen, you are called to speak with the other five Hives. Abandon this…Worker so that we may speak.”
“No.”
The Free Queen spoke softly. The Grand Queen’s vessel turned and looked up at her.
“This was not a request.”
Klbkch spoke quickly to prevent his Queen from speaking again. It had been years since the Grand Queen and his Queen had communicated. And yet the two had never forgotten their past. A decade had passed since his Queen had settled in Liscor, but the Antinium never forgot.
“My Queen. This Worker is of great importance to the Hives. If necessary, I would require that the Hives wait. The importance of this Worker cannot be understated.”
“Really?”
The Grand Queen froze, her mandibles opening in shock. So did the Free Queen. Beside her, in the mirror, the blue form of Xrn smiled, raising her mandibles with delight. The Grand Queen regarded Klbkch for a second. If the Free Queen had said the same, she would not have listened. But Klbkch was a Centenium. The last of the ancients. So the Grand Queen slowly nodded.
“Very well. If Klbkchhezeim speaks of this Worker’s value—what say you, Queens of the Antinium?”
For a second, Klbkch thought she was speaking to the Free Queen. But then the mirror flickered. The image of the Grand Queen sitting in her Hive vanished. Another Queen filled it. A smaller Queen, shadowed in a quiet place, surrounded by shadows. Antinium blending with the darkness. The only light came from phosphorous moss growing around the room, dimly giving light. The Queen spoke in the shadows, her words soft.
“If Klbkchhezeim speaks, the Silent Antinium listen.”
Her image flickered. The mirror brightened. Another Queen sat in the light. She was huge, the largest of the Queens, her body bloated. A ring of steel stood around her, Antinium covered in metal armor. Tersk stood by his Queen’s side as she waved a feeler.
“The Armored Antinium assent. What strengthens the Hives is worthy of being saved. Preserve the Worker.”
Another flicker. She vanished, and a third Queen appeared. Her room was filled with motion; Antinium with wings flew or ran. This Queen sat in the center of her Hive as corridors and tunnels filled her cavern, and her Workers and Soldiers moved in a constant stream. She twitched as Pivr, her winged Revalantor, brought her a bowl of meat to eat from. Her voice was quick, impatient.
“If it must be, it must be. Save the Worker but hurry. The Hive must discuss and the moment is now. Twisted Queen?”
The last Queen appeared in the mirror. And she was unlike the others. A ruined face and one eye stared at Klbkch and the Free Queen. Repaired mandibles opened. A voice spoke. The glowing sacs and bodies floating in liquid in the chamber around the Queen moved uneasily, unaccustomed to sound or light.
“Agreed.”
One word, and her image flickered and changed back to the Grand Queen. The large Queen was clearly displeased, but the others had spoken. She waved a feeler.
“Then it is decided. Save the Worker. Queen of the Silent Antinium, I call upon you.”
The body holding the mirror jerked. And then its mannerisms changed. The mirror shifted as it crept closer, suddenly less decisive, more reserved. The Drones moved back as one as the puppet moved forwards. The Silent Queen stared out of her mirror down at Bird. He looked up at her and whispered.
“Hello. I am Bird.”
She ignored him. The Silent Queen made the small replica lower the mirror so she could inspect the wound. She spoke, choosing each word with care.
“His system is severed. The liquid leaks. It must be redirected.”
“I know. But the damage is too great to contain. Each seal I form cannot contain the blood. If I had false flesh or chitin—”
The Free Queen’s voice was frustrated, and she felt helpless in Klbkch’s mind. The Silent Queen regarded Bird and then looked around the room.
“Not necessary. Apply a gel of congealed blood-fluid here and here. Increase the ambient temperature by three degrees. This Worker’s body temperature is dropping too quickly.”
The Free Queen immediately sent Drones to obey. The Silent Queen abandoned Bird and moved towards the blood sacs.
“These are containers preserved for blood? Parts?”
“Yes.”
The Free Queen spoke. The mirror flickered.
“You were not allowed to create other Antinium! This is unacceptable! A violation of orders! This—”
The image flickered back to the shadowed Queen. She inspected the living sacs of organs and then pointed with one feeler.
“There. That is necessary. Splice that organ with the Worker’s injuries.”
The Free Queen’s antennae waved with surprise.
“Would that work?”
The little vessel and the Silent Queen in the mirror nodded as one.
“The Worker design was created uniformly. With flesh and chitin, a seal may be created.”
She looked up at the Free Queen. For a moment, the Queen of the Free Antinium hesitated, then she moved. She reached out and gripped the sac. She tore the membrane. Antinium blood splattered. Something died. The Drones swarmed over the sac, cutting with knives. The Silent Queen crept back to Bird and oversaw the treatment.
Klbkch watched impassively. This was not like the weaving of old, where a Queen could replace a limb or body part in minutes. This was crude. But it worked. The organs replaced the damaged ones in Bird’s body as the Worker quivered. The membrane and more regenerative gel was packed into place, creating an oozing mass. And then raw chitin was delicately placed just so, to cover the rest. It was sealed in place with a different type of gel meant for sealing wounds.
The bleeding stopped. Bird lay on the ground, surrounded by blood as the transfusion tube was removed from his chest. He stared up at the Free Queen and Klbkch as the Silent Queen sat back, her job done. The Drones moved back, disposing of the rest of the organs and beginning to pack away the tools and different mixtures they had brought here. Bird opened his mandibles and spoke.
“That hurt.”
Klbkch stared down at Bird. The Worker stared up at him.
“Am I going to live, Revalantor Klbkch?”
“Yes.”
Bird nodded slowly.
“That is good. I am Bird. Ow. Ow. I am much in pain. Ow. But I am brave. La, la, I am a brave little Bird…ow.”
He fell silent. Klbkch saw his mandibles open a bit and wondered if Bird had passed out…or gone to sleep. The Silent Queen’s image flickered, and another intelligence took control of the body. The Twisted Queen, her broken body a reflection of Bird’s own, stared down at him. Her feelers moved slowly towards him, and both Klbkch and the Free Queen grew concerned. But the Twisted Queen did not touch Bird. Instead, she looked at Klbkch.
“Why. Does it speak? Why is it. Named?”
“It is Individual. You were informed of my success. And you have known of my designs for the Antinium.”
The Free Queen spoke coldly. The Twisted Queen looked at her and did not reply. The body jerked. The Grand Queen spoke briskly.
“The success of the Free Antinium is documented. Now the Worker has been preserved, we are called to more important issues.”
She made the body move back. Klbkch pointed, and the Drones carefully lifted Bird out of the way. They moved back as the vessel, the Free Queen, and Klbkch stood in the center of the room. The Grand Queen’s voice echoed out of the mirror.
“We are called to action, Free Queen. So we gather. The five Queens of the Hives are present. We deliberate. We call on you to join us.”
The Free Queen hesitated for a fraction of a second, then lowered her head.
“I am a servant of the Antinium, as are we all. What do the Hives call the Free Antinium for?”
The vessel raised the mirror it held. The view of the Grand Queen splintered into five parts. The five Queens sat and spoke. Each in their Hive. Each watching, regarding the others. In unison and apart.
“For war.”
The Armored Queen and her legions standing to attention.
“For planning.”
The shadows moved as the Silent Queen raised her head.
“For excellence bar none.”
The Flying Antinium and their Queen buzzed, their wings beating restlessly.
“For. Change.”
The Twisted Queen sat as things grew and died around her.
“For victory.”
The Grand Queen spoke simply. And her Prognugator, Xrn of the Antinium, raised her staff and called a map of Izril into the air. Klbkch knelt, and his Queen leaned forwards. And the humming was back in the air. War. The Free Antinium looked up across their Hive and felt it.
And a little Worker, in pain, lying in a corner of the room, turned his head a tiny bit. Just a bit because everything hurt. He stared at the mirror, the kneeling Revalantor, and the six Queens gathered for the first time in a decade. His antennae waved about, and he looked at the Drones standing silently around him.
“Excuse me. Who are they?”
 
——
 
While the Queens of the Antinium spoke, another conversation took place further north. Two others were magically linked, but not by an artifact. One spoke and then the other did, using the same mouth. They saw through the same eyes. But they were not the same. One’s voice was Human, male, old but not decrepit. The other was young, a Goblin’s voice. And the body walked through the camp, staring at the Goblins, the distant Human forces who had paused for the death of Tremborag of the Mountain.
Reiss, the Goblin Lord spoke to his master, Az’kerash. Behind him lay a Drake’s body. Osthia Blackwing. A group of Goblins scurried forwards and bore her away. The rest were silent. Snapjaw, Eater of Spears, and the Goblin Lord’s tribe stood back, watching their leader with unease. They knew. But for the moment, no one else did.
