It was not crying in the way babies cried. It was not a reactionary sound or a sob or a hiccup of pain. Bird just said the word over again.
“Waah. Waaah. Waaaaaah. Wah. Waaah. Waaaah…”
It was insistent, annoying. And Bird did not stop. It sounded nothing like crying. It sounded like a mockery of it, in fact. Klbkch stared at Bird. At first, he was shocked, then he was furious. He opened his mandibles to tell Bird to be silent—
And then he realized the truth. Klbkch stopped and stared at Bird. The sound was annoying. It got on the nerves. Klbkch had listened to babies wail and not been discomforted. But Bird made the sound, and he reacted as he had seen Drakes and Gnolls grimace. And the sound kept going. A cry for help. An expression of pain. It was…Bird was…
Crying.
He was crying, though he had no tears to shed. Though the Antinium didn’t cry. He had learned to cry. And the sound went on and on. The Free Queen held Bird, staring at him. And then, slowly, she began to cradle him, move him back and forth.
Klbkch stared. The way the Queen held Bird was familiar. But she had not learned that from the Antinium. She had seen it in his memories, through his eyes. She cradled Bird as he cried in her chambers. She bent over him, and Klbkch felt something in her emotions he had never felt before.
He shuddered and took a step back. He stared at Bird, then turned. He had to go. He had to—Klbkch fled the sound of Bird’s crying and the strange emotion. He strode back into the Hive, past the staring Garry and Soldiers. The Hive must be readied. Klbkch knew that.
But no matter how far he went, he still heard the sound. It echoed through the corridors, following him. A sound of sadness and pain as Klbkch strode through the tunnels of the Hive and began to prepare for war.
 
——
 
Headscratcher sat in his cell. He was miserable. Across from him, Erin sat in the cell, telling the other Hobs a story about the time she’d thrown a snowball at a ‘car’. A Minotaur stared blankly at him from his cell, looking lost. Headscratcher tried to listen, but he couldn’t.
They had lied to the Watch. Not by words; they had barely been able to speak. But by omission. The Watch had questioned them about who had hurt Bird, about the identity of the mysterious Hob. They had told them about the beard and greatsword. Not the name.
It was one thing to hate Greydath, and Headscratcher did with all his heart. But it was another thing to tell the Drakes everything. To kill the other Goblin, to betray him. And yet, if there was a Goblin worthy of that, it was him.
Greydath. The name meant something, Headscratcher was sure. Greydath could not have been just a Hobgoblin wanderer. He had been someone before; his Skills told that if nothing else. Headscratcher clenched a fist and felt the helpless rage surging in him. He fought it down. If he went mad now, he would only scare Erin. He could not break free of the cell.
But the anger wouldn’t go away. Greydath. He had done it. He had ruined everything. The Hobs were in jail. Numbtongue was the only one who was free. Bird was hurt, and Erin had cried. She had wiped away the tears and now she was smiling, but every now and then, her face would turn sad.
And it was all their fault. Headscratcher closed his eyes. Everything was desolation. But he knew one thing more after having fought Greydath. One valuable thing.
One thing. He clung to that fact. None of the Hobs had said it, but they had all realized it.
Badarrow had hurt Greydath. With an arrow. It hadn’t even been shot from his bow; the Hob had just stabbed him with it. That meant Greydath had no Skills to enhance his skin. He was just…fast. Skilled beyond belief. But his injury meant he could be hurt even by an ordinary sword.
He could die. Headscratcher remembered that, because he would not forgive Greydath. But then he looked up and saw Erin looking at him, and his guilt burned him again.
“Sorry.”
He said it again. Erin paused, and her smile wavered. She stopped telling her story and sat closer to the bars.
“Hey. What happened to Bird wasn’t your fault, right?”
“Was.”
Headscratcher shook his head. He couldn’t explain. Erin stared at him.
“Did you hurt Bird?”
“No.”
“Did the Goblin who hurt Bird do it because you told him to?”
“No!”
“Did you let him hurt Bird?”
“Tried—”
Headscratcher shook his head. Erin nodded.
“Then it’s not your fault. You tried. He was just…a jerk.”
“But—”
“It’s not your fault what other people do, Headscratcher. It’s not your fault what they do. Only what you do.”
Headscratcher’s eyes stung. Not just because Erin had told him it wasn’t his fault. Not only because he was relieved. He had feared she would blame him. Not only because he wished he could rip open his chest to show her how sorry he was. No, for one other reason.
It’s not your fault for what other people do. She called Goblins people. Headscratcher wiped his eyes, then looked up at Erin. She stared at him, trying to smile.
“We have to go. Can’t stay. Bad things coming. Goblin Lord.”
Erin’s smile vanished. Headscratcher fought with the words Numbtongue had begun teaching him. He wanted to talk to Erin.
“If stay…Drakes mad. We know. Must go. Should—should have—”
“Should have gone already.”
Shorthilt spoke from his cell. Erin looked at him and then Headscratcher. She shook her head.
“You’re in jail. You can’t go anywhere, guys.”
The Hobs looked at her. Erin’s tremulous smile vanished.
“Sorry. Bad joke.”
She sat there with them in silence. Headscratcher wiped his eyes. At last, Erin spoke.
“It’s all happening so fast.”
No one replied. The Hobs looked down. The Minotaur stared at Erin from his cell. Erin looked at the stone floor. Her voice was quiet. Perhaps the entire prison was listening to her. Perhaps they were alone in the world.
“It’s all happening. And I want it not to. I want time to stop. I want to be here—even here, forever. I don’t want to know what happens next. Why can’t things stay the same? Forever?”
She looked up. And there were tears in her eyes. Headscratcher wiped his arm across his face. Badarrow turned his head away. Shorthilt and Rabbiteater scrubbed at their eyes.
“At least tonight…at least one more day.”
One more day. They were in jail, separated in cells that smelled a bit like pee, on hard stone. But they were here. Erin, the Goblins. Headscratcher had never been happier in his life. Never sadder. He looked up and through watery eyes, saw a Minotaur close his and sink to the ground.
For one more day, they sat together. Human, Goblins, and the Minotaur.
Waiting, waiting. Waiting for everything to change.
 
——
 
The Necromancer finished plotting, and his apprentice thought of death. The Queens departed, and their Hives began to stir. Erin Solstice sat with four Hobs, and they and she said everything they wanted to say. And Olesm sat in the City Hall, at his office’s desk, poring over plans.
He had not rested, though the hour was late. Pallassian troops had begun moving slowly through the door to Liscor, though the cost in mana to the [Mages] was painfully high, even with the door staying in Erin’s inn to soak up the ambient magical power. But they were coming.
And Olesm had plans. He’d consulted with Zevara, begun preparing Liscor for the attack, discussed how to blockade the streets with Ilvriss, even checked the sewers for the possibilities of collapsing them or laying traps. He had a thousand and ten things to do, but tonight, he was looking at a book.
Reports, actually. Old ones. Olesm had demanded them from Pallass, and they had been sent. Now he read them feverishly. They were concise, written after the fact in brief by a Drake not used to lengthy reports. The actual content of the reports was short, but so many people had added addendums and other details and insights that it was like reading a book. But Olesm read each and every word, trying to memorize as much as possible.
The account he was reading was of a siege. Of a city that had fallen to an invading army. Only, it hadn’t been Humans who’d taken the city. It had been Antinium. They’d overrun the city in hours, but the Drakes had retreated. Into a dungeon of all places. And they had held there for months.
The Drake who had written the report did not glamorize what had happened. He wrote frankly and unassumingly, at odds with the glorified notes of all those who had chimed in. He had signed the reports simply.
“Zel Shivertail. [Lieutenant].”
Olesm whispered the words. He looked at the report and then a map of Liscor’s dungeon. His claws traced the parchment, and he thought long and hard about what might happen if—if.
There were so many things to keep track of. Olesm’s head hurt. He lowered his head onto the desk and fell asleep, though he’d only meant to rest for a second. He had worked so hard. After the last Pallassian [Soldier] had come through for the day, he’d tried to extract the door to Liscor, but he couldn’t get Lyonette to budge, and the Horns, the Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, and the Silver Swords were all there. So Olesm had given up. Gold-ranks were better than regular guards, anyways.
But he hadn’t entrusted it to just them. A dozen of Embria’s [Soldiers] and a [Captain] were standing watch in the inn, as were a group of [Guardsmen]. Sentries on Liscor’s walls were watching the Wandering Inn, and no one was allowed in or out, magic door or otherwise. Olesm had left nothing to chance. He’d done everything right, in short. Even Relc was there, grumbling about a lack of free drinks and looking more alert than usual.
No one would be able to get in or out. Unless they had been waiting inside the inn all night, waiting for this moment. Embria’s [Soldiers] were standing by the windows, not speaking and glancing with irritation at Relc as he talked with the other members of the City Watch. One of the [Soldiers] began to yawn and caught himself. The [Captain] on duty turned to shout at the [Soldier]—
And all the Drakes toppled to the ground. Relc looked around wildly. He got to his feet unsteadily and growled.
“Aw, hell—”
He toppled over before he could grab the potion at his belt pouch. The inn went silent. Not a creature stirred, not even Apista. And then a figure popped open the trap door to Erin’s basement. He stumbled out, grumbling about dead Raskghar corpses, and walked over to the magic door, staff in hand. He bent to fumble with the mana stones in the bowl and stopped as someone else stepped out from the shadows where he had been perfectly hidden.
Typhenous slowly turned around. The old [Mage]’s beard caught the light glowing from the tip of his staff. He turned and locked eyes with a smiling [Magician] who held a wand in his hand.
“Ah. I thought I might be running into someone else.”
“A neat spell. I was impressed that you got even the big Drake. May I ask what spell it was? Some kind of empowered [Sleep] spell?”
Eltistiman walked forwards, wand held casually in one hand. Typhenous smiled and tugged his beard as he turned, putting his back to the door.
“Not [Sleep]. A higher-Tier variation on the spell that involves a living vector. [Mites of Slumber]. A fine spell to use on the unwary. Even Gold-rank adventurers are not unsusceptible to its effects. Although I imagine Halrac might have noticed even in his sleep.”
Eltistiman nodded.
“Few prepare against actual living creatures as vectors. I imagine the soporific effect is only partially magical and partially a magically-induced sickness?”
Typhenous looked surprised.
“Exactly. It’s a pleasure to meet a fellow mage of the craft, aside from young Pisces and Falene, who are quite insufferable. Ceria and Moore are far more pleasant company, although they’re hardly avid students. Merely practitioners.”
“It is a fine line between mages who study theory and simply cast spells without understanding the full effects.”
Eltistiman nodded, smiling. He regarded Relc’s sleeping form.
“I’m impressed you got the Drake, again. The mites must have labored hard to get into his skin.”
Typhenous smiled.
“I didn’t bother with that. I just had him eat some with his food.”
“As one would expect of the Plague Mage, Typhenous.”
Eltistiman nodded politely, and Typhenous tipped his own chin. The two stared at each other. Typhenous sighed and glanced back at the door behind him.
“I don’t suppose we’ve come here for the same reason?”
Eltistiman smiled ruefully. He stood casually, his wand pointed at the ground. But the light tone and relaxed posture were betrayed by his watchful eyes. Typhenous leaned on his staff, eying Eltistiman.
“I’m afraid not. You see, my client would prefer that door stay here. She sent me here to make sure that it did and to aid Liscor in any small way I could. Oh, and also to investigate these ‘plays’ she’s heard about. She’s quite taken with the idea.”
“I can well imagine. I don’t suppose you’d care to tell me who hired you?”
The [Magician] waved a finger.
“Ah, you know the rules. Let’s just say a [Lady] with a fine taste in horticulture hired me.”
Typhenous raised his eyebrows.
“Indeed? That is quite the important employer. Myself, I was hired by the Smiling Man.”
Eltistiman’s lips quirked.
“Oh, him? Well, I can’t imagine he was pleased by today’s events. Still, he’d be quite pleased if you completed your mission. Which you will not, by the way. Cast a spell and I will kill you. Throw your staff down, sir.”
Typhenous eyed Eltistiman. The [Magician] hadn’t even raised his wand. For a second, the air hummed, and then Typhenous sighed. He slowly lowered his staff. He tossed it to the ground. Eltistiman, who’d tensed, nodded.
“Thank you, sir. And now, move to the side and retrieve a pair of cuffs from that Gnoll there. The one with the stripes on her ears. She has a pair of cuffs for magic users.”
“Well thought out, aren’t you?”
Typhenous grumbled as he slowly walked over, deliberately not making any sudden moves. Eltistiman was still watching him. He slowly bent and searched for the cuffs. Eltistiman nodded.
“It does pay to be prepared, and I had an inkling my opponent was you. Those in the business, you know.”
“Yes, yes.”
“What I can’t understand is why you would do this. Surely you owe the charming young lady who owns this inn more than betrayal.”
Typhenous looked up sharply. He stared coldly up at Eltistiman.
“I owe Erin Solstice a great deal, young man. And I do not forget my debts.”
The [Magician] frowned. He lifted his wand warily, but Typhenous made no move.
“Why, then?”
The old Gold-rank adventurer sighed. He bent and looked around the Gnoll’s waist and finally found the cuffs.
