A strange sense of tranquility filled Devick as Randidly Ghosthound appeared in front of her. He stood tall, clothed in tattered rags after a day’s worth of intense fighting. She could see wounds and burns all across his flesh. His black hair was messy. Malice whispered that there seemed to be something wrong with him and his eyes had shifted, but he offered her the same crooked smile. “Really, the issue is you refuse to wait for me before throwing yourself in harm’s way.”

With a single hand, he swallowed the tome that had so threatened her.

“If I wait around during all of your strange little meanderings, even I might not be able to keep up with you, Randidly Ghosthound. Reflect seriously on your wild and unpredictable improvements.” Even as Devick spoke, she was already swaying, her mind and spirit overtaxed. Randidly’s arm snaked around her waist and kept her standing.

She gave him a frank look, not missing his own tattered body, the subtle lines of exhaustion around his eyes. “I know you are obsessed with ravaging me right now, but we have a bigger problem here. Besides, the monkey has no knowledge of carnal congress between man and woman-”

Randidly interrupted her with a wicked grin. “Surely we have time for at least a chaste kiss?”

Devick blinked, genuinely surprised that no-nonsense Randidly Ghosthound had gone along with her joke. And before she could formulate a response, that arm around her waist tightened and she was pressed against him. His lips were warm.

Tingles radiated out from their multiple point of contact, setting off firecrackers in her body. She could feel small tremors in his body, not from weakness, but from control; maybe they had been closer to a ravaging than Devick had expected.

Then he pulled away and turned to face Laplace. As Randidly’s eyes narrowed, the monkey hopped to stand next to them. “Randidly Ghosthound. I know you. No matter how powerful you have become, you cannot yet rival an Eternity. I shall buy the two of you time-”

“Pine, I know you too. And I know that even after I defeat this foe, you are the one who really needs attention,” Randidly said, but his eyes were surprisingly soft as he looked over at the growing monkey. He reached out and touched the being’s shoulder— there was a stinging sensation of static, as he felt a familiar energy in the monkey’s body.  “...the arrangements that Elhume made, cycling and funneling all the significance back through you, so you wouldn’t deteriorate further… you’ll soon collapse under that weight. The entirety of the Nexus will be implicated. But don’t worry.

“Today…” Randidly unleashed a beaming grin as he pivoted to face Laplace. “I’ve got one last miracle up my sleeve. It’s time to finish this.”
