It was a familiar view, an echo of the first vista Viv had seen on Nyil. The same steps led to the same terraces decorated with statues and passages leading inside, the same arrogance in not just having the highest pile of rock in the city, but also spreading it all over the place in a display of careless power. Mornyr’s ziggurat carried the essence of Harrakan culture down to its most despicable features, but the resemblance stopped there. The steps were polished, not dusty, and the top oversaw a vibrant city merging various cultures and faiths. By contrast, Harrak City had been a monolithic, brutalist affair designed from end to end to inspire awe.

Viv watched a civil servant enter by one of the side entrances. The hurried lady wore a northern robe with cloth pauldrons in the fashion of Helock. Harrak was long dead and its people had died with it, yet it still chaffed Viv to see a foreigner violate the sanctity of what should be hers. It didn’t matter that she had taken the mantle of that old nation on a fluke, driven by necessity and a grumbling old golem. What mattered was that… it had become hers.

“Pull your wings back, young dragon. You are not ready to fly yet,” a voice said behind her.

Viv turned, realizing her aura was leaking. Draconic intimidation influenced her thoughts, it seemed. It didn’t affect the old man walking towards her with a kind smile. It didn’t affect him at all, and it was not difficult to guess why.

Viv didn’t use inspection. Her skill was too low not to be noticed. There was not really a need either. The man standing in front of her in heavy plate armor exuded the same sort of controlled aura Solar had. He was no mage to make demands of the planet with glyphs and emotions, but Nyil listened anyway. A sword rested on his hip, and a golden cloak covered his broad shoulders. It was the only concession to luxury he tolerated on his person. The rest was military cleanliness and order down to the last hair of his beard.

“You must be Knight-Principal Gram. Thank you for inviting me.”

“And thank you for coming. Inquisitor Denerim spoke highly of you, young lady. I thought it best if we could meet face to face.”

Viv nodded, the most respectful act she could afford as a ruler. Gram came to stand by her side with his arms crossed behind his back. He, too, looked at the city at his feet and the walls beyond, but he also spared a glance to the massive shield tower standing proudly in the middle of the city as a reminder of the power of the gods.

“First, let’s get the politics out of the way so we can have a real talk. I represent Mornyr in this meeting. The city will support your bid.”

“Really?” Viv asked. “Just like that?”

“Just like that. We warriors of the temple stand as defenders of faith and civilization. By stopping the Empire of Dawn, you have done more for Param than most princes alive. The churches also fully support your attempt at reclaiming the deadlands. I tell you this as the representative of Mornyr. Now, as the head of the Temple of Neriad on this continent, I will also remind you that you have made our faith your state religion. Of course we are on your side.”

“Things are seldom this easy.”

“We are the good guys, the not clever good guys, Viviane the Outlander. I will leave the plotting to Maradoc’s followers. Now that that’s out of the way, I have three questions and one request.”

“A request?” Viv said. “The timing is a little suspicious.”

“I assure you, it really is a request. I cannot force you to come but, to tell you the truth, we are going to need your help.”

“When?”

“The winter solstice. Are you afraid of the sea, outlander?”

“Err, no, it’s drowning and the giant squids that scare me.”

“A fair judgment. There is an island off the coast of Vizim that hosts a great temple. Sardanal’s birthplace, actually.”

Viv frowned. She remembered reading that Sardanal was one of the only gods of Viziman origin. She also remembered who had mentioned it first.

“Wait, Denerim told me Octas was trying to sink it.”

“And she will try again during the winter solstice. If we do not receive reinforcements… she will succeed.”

“I assume it would be bad.”

“The complex was one of the first beacons of civilization for mankind. Gods work with symbols, and Octas destroying that island would significantly empower her. She has a stronger grasp on the Shadow Lands than she does here. Her resources are… significant. Ours are not. We are overstretched because she found our point of failure.”

“Logistics?” Viv wagered.

It was, after all, an island.

“Ships, specifically. She has managed to get control over sea monsters. Our resupply vessels have been sunk with all hands. The losses were… catastrophic.”

He gave her a long look.

“We can probably get a warship through but we need a blade to its shield.”

“Me?”

“You. It will be a lonely adventure this time, I’m afraid. We simply do not have enough room for your army, but if you could come with us, we could save that place.”

“So in half a year?”

“Before. It will take some time to sail there. We would… really appreciate it. There are very few people here who can match your raw destructive power.”

“Bah. Alright. Fine. I just hope there won’t be any urgent crisis until then.”

“You may call on us to help if there is. Remember. We are on your side.”

“Alright. I’ll prepare for some high intensity fishing. Now, what was that about your questions?”

“Farren. My pupil. How did he die?”

Viv sighed, caught off guard.

“Aaaah fuck.”

“Not well, I take it?”

Viv had a very ambivalent feeling on the question so she said as much.

“He died for his principles but I told him exactly what would happen, didn’t stop him and saw it come true and I… have regrets.”

She recounted the scene. Farren riding down the hill alone to extend his hand to a faction known for fanatical hatred. The subsequent battle with Efestar’s avatar. When she was done, both of them remained silent for a while.

“I do not believe we should decide the way people live or die. We can only advise and hope for the best, and besides…” Garm began.

He struggled with words while Viv looked on. It was clear the old man had held Farren in high esteem.

“Sometimes, people die and the meaning of that sacrifice is only felt years later. Sometimes, a fool changes the world against the wisdom of others. It happens rarely but it does happen. The temple in Harrak reports that your Hallurian refugees consider him a holy person. Some want to return and spread the word of his message, and the reality of life beyond the Baranese walls. Have you talked to them?”

“Not much. They are under the care of Abenezigel, not mine. I have been busy and…”

“A little vindictive?”

“I concede that point,” Viv said after a brief moment of introspection.

“Do not hold it against them. This isn’t what Farren would have wanted. Many of those captured foes want to join your banner. You should let them. Prove to the world Hallurians can be redeemed if they can be made to listen first.”

“I’ll… do it as soon as I return. This was an oversight on my part.”

“Denerim was right. You do know how to listen and you do mean to help.”

“Well, don’t get used to it.”

Garm chuckled. Below them, a bell rang to signify the mid-morning break. A few civil servants gathered on the terraces, sharing slices of fruit and tea in tiny cups.

“My next question is a little more delicate. A certain secret keeper told me someone came with you on this trip. That someone has proven themselves to be quite hard to catch. Now, one may wonder why a visiting dignitary would bring a war golem who leaves no traces and a master infiltrator on a diplomatic trip, so I have to ask… are you here to kill someone? Because as much as I am loath to oppose you, I cannot let that happen.”

Garm’s expression turned steely. It was no wonder he had saved this question for later in the conversation, and Viv knew there was a core of unshakeable belief under the kind demeanor of the Knight-Principal. He might not kill or arrest her but he would fight her every step of the way if her answer didn’t satisfy.

“No, I am not here to kill anyone. I will not tell you why Irao accompanies me, but I will tell you I hold the strong belief that my cause is just.”

“Tell me what you are here for. No details, and I swear it stays between us, but tell me.”

“To rescue a hostage,” Viv said after a little hesitation.

Garm’s face formed an ‘o’ of surprise, then his eye shone with a mischievous twinkle.

“Aha! Yes. Yes! That certainly sounds like a good cause, though obviously I cannot be sure what you are referring to. Say, is there anything the temple can do for you? To completely change the subject.”

“I would love the opportunity to play with a ward fueled by divine mana.”

“Why of course! I am myself capable of weaving one, although it will be temporary. I am sure we could meet at the complex, say, tonight?”

“With pleasure. And… you had one last question?”

“Ah yes. To be perfectly honest with you, traveler, I expected you to storm off two minutes ago.”

“My reputation for explosive bouts of anger is wildly exaggerated. I only lose my temper for good reasons, like princes selling my people into slavery or some asshole eating my dessert and drinking my wine.”

Garm kept a contemplative silence for a moment, his gaze fixed on the distant gates of the city. The Baranese delegation had just arrived, their coming announced by loud trumpets.

“I find your reply strangely relatable, only I will add the administrative branch of the temple arguing in favor of the ‘rational and pragmatic approach’ to the top of the fury-inducing pile. As for my last question, it relates to a dark god.”

The temperature dropped. Viv felt a chill crawl up her spine.

“You know of whom I speak. You two talked during your fight. We have concerns. Deep concerns. He’s a devious and powerful foe. I strongly advise you to reconsider. The dark gods are the enemies of mankind. You cannot trust them.”

Viv was about to shrug. The truth was, it wasn’t that simple. Unfortunately, she had sworn an oath to the gods not to spill their secrets. Even now, the bindings on her soul tightened to remind her of the cost of transgression.

She could still ask questions though.

“How much do you know about Efestar?” she asked, the hidden question hanging between them.

Garm looked around, worried for the first time since they’d met.

“Do you have a quiet spell?”

Viv activated it with a thought. Suddenly, the drums of the Baranese fanfare were silenced.

“Right. Only a few members of the temple are aware he and our god used to be brothers by blood pact. And… how he came to fall.”

“Then you know he’s different from the old ones. Efestar was betrayed and slighted but his original purpose was the same as that of the other light gods.”

“He has been consumed by revenge.”

“Not completely, at least, I do not think so. He has much to answer for but perhaps there is a chance. I will keep talking to him yet refuse all his offers. He cannot force gifts upon people.”

“The gods will not like that.”

“There are many things the gods do not like. Apologizing for their wrongs is apparently one of them.”

“You are getting dangerously close to blasphemy,” Gram warned.

“Kinght-Principal, no one can deny Neriad is fighting for justice and the greater good, but honestly? If your sworn brother betrayed his word, even for a good cause, would you not feel cheated?”

“I would not destroy countless lives as revenge.”

“You are a better person than he was. It doesn’t mean a path to redemption doesn’t exist. This world is crammed with dangers and horrors. I see no reason not to try to remove one without killing it, for once.”

“Viviane. He is a monster. You do not know what you are talking about.”

“Right,” Viv said with some impatience, “what did you say about Farren, earlier? A fool may change the world against the advice of wise people?”

The knight massaged the bridge of his nose with a gauntleted hand.

“I hope you know he is ancient and cunning.”

“I am not trying to outwit him, or trick him. That won’t work, not just because he’s devious but also because this is exactly why he turned in the first place! Neriad may have a chance to make amends for the sake of his sworn brother.”

“No longer his sworn brother.”

“By his own doing.”

An uncomfortable silence filled the air. It was clear Garm was worried. Very worried. Viv couldn’t blame him. There was a part of hubris in thinking she could change a divine status quo that had lasted for possibly millenia. Someone trying to turn a dark god would get turned instead in most cautionary tales. There was also an old red flag and relationship advice Viv was consciously ignoring. A law as old as humanity itself.

If someone tells you they’re an asshole, believe them.

Under normal circumstances, Viv would not have bothered. But this was a god. The reward was worth the investment.

“I pray to Neriad that you are right.”

“Thanks. I hope so too as well.”

“Yes. Forgive me but I must take my leave. I wish to withdraw for a little while, I am sure you understand. I will see you tonight?”

“See you then, yes.”

Gram left but Viv remained at the top of the ziggurat, standing alone like some edgy dark lady. The temperature kept dropping.

Wait for it.

Wait for it.

One of the statues by her side shifted. It depicted a young warrior in heavy armor, his hand carrying a steel spear. The eyes turned black, then bled inky darkness over the cracked stone face.

“They will never listen to you.”

