“Here I was brooding over a monument to arrogance and look who shows up. It’s nice to see you again, Fefe.”

The face tilted to the side. She heard a crack.

“You mean those words. How precious.”

“I do believe in you. As naive as it may sound, I believe there is still a heart under all that scorn.”

“Your servants do not share your belief, although I will admit that they have proven extraordinarily hard to convince.”

“What can I say? Hope and scorn seldom mix. Speaking of which, have you given any thought to being happy again?”

“INSOLENCE!”

The air shook, but Mornyr’s aura dimmed the dark one’s wrath. Viv remained unfazed.

“Do not pity me, elemental. You are still so young. Yet to have been broken by life, but the time will come as it always does to those who live long enough to see their dreams collapse. I heard you wanted to see divine wards?”

“Eavesdropping, are we?”

“I could help you, freely. Few know more about infiltration than I.”

“Just forfeit your throne of hatred, join the ranks of the light gods, and we’re in business.”

“Never. They have proven their hypocrisy time and time again.”

“You must learn to forgive, Fefe. You don’t even like your present company. The dark gods are the ones who slaughtered your family.”

“AT LEAST THEY ARE HONEST. The others, they have never, ever even apologized!”

“Would it help?”

“What?”

“Would it help if Neriad apologized? If he acknowledged that he wronged you and failed you in your hour of need? Would it help to know he always felt the pain of having to choose between mankind and his friend?”

“I care not about that happy birdbrain. He is nothing to me.”

“Hmmm.”

“You doubt the gods at your own risk, traveler.”

“It’s just, there is something I don’t understand and I hoped you would enlighten me,” Viv said, channeling her inner Columbo.

“Oh? Humility? From you?”

“You were an assassin, yes?”

“You know this to be true. Stop wasting my time.”

“So I assume you were moving in clothes that helped.”

“I was.”

“And yet now you wear black full plate with pauldrons. Your avatar is massive and heavily muscled.”

“I was muscular as a mortal.”

“I’m sure,” Viv said, knowing the builds were simply not the same. “It’s just like you’re some dark mirror to a certain himbo.”

“You believe you understand me. You do not.”

“Then talk to me.”

She spread her arms, encompassing the brightly lit city around them. Although it was cold near the avatar, his aura of control could not dispel the warm light of summer shining all around them.

“Isn’t this place nice? Palaces, temples, merchants, all the trappings of civilization mixed in a harmonious whole. There would be room for you if you wanted.”

“It is too late. You are wasting your time.”

“You could try one act of kindness. A vengeful yet beneficial one. Bring justice to the oppressed. Become not scorn but hope for those who have lost everything. There are plenty of people down here who could use a second chance at life.”

“You think gods can change, mortal? YOU KNOW NOTHING.”

Crushing pressure, but once again, Viv didn’t feel so oppressed. She had backup, she realized.

“I know they can,” she affirmed with absolute conviction.

It would be the height of folly to reveal Emeric's existence, or the fact he’d come to regret his actions. That didn’t matter. Efestar knew she believed every word she said.

“Just give it a try. You have nothing to lose but the bitterness in your heart.”

The statue glared. Abyssal blood reached its throat and more of the statue crumbled.

“Please?” Viv asked. “This planet is a mess. We could use another champion.”

“I will… I…”

She almost had him.

And then, the statue crumbled.

Viv sighed. Shit timing but it was already a miracle the piece had lasted for so long. Heat made a vengeful return on the bright platform as the last dregs of power evaporated. There was no recovering the statue so Viv annihilated the tainted shards. After she was done, she prayed to Neriad.

It was easy, really. Just focus and mana would start leaking. She pushed it, feeding enormous amounts of energy into the link until the part of her that was her soul felt the attention of the god on her. She didn’t make demands. She didn’t talk. The only thing on her mind was a simple request.

“Help?”

The energies around her took a light golden hue. Rather than an answer, emotions filtered back from the link. It was strange, associating the immense power of the planet-sized presence in her mind with doubt, grief, fear, regret, but it was Neriad. He was a good person.

The last emotion to pierce through was a tentative agreement. She took it as a good sign and walked down the stairs, taking her time after a rather challenging encounter. Sidjin was waiting for her at the bottom, expression unreadable.

“How did it go?” she asked.

“Glastia will support our bid. They also agree to reinstate me as a prince, though my claim to the throne is completely forfeit. My father also gave me his blessing to be your paramour.”

“I sense a condition coming.”

“Glastia will push out of the wall next spring. I am to help with the assault. There are reports that beastling shamans have sustained their troops thanks to the dark magic of Gomogog. We can no longer afford to wait them out.”

Viv didn’t challenge him on the ‘we’. He was still a Glastian at heart.

“The Paramese alliance will mobilize, I assume?”

“Yes. Several knight orders already agreed to join the effort, including the White Orchard and the Golden Order. I want to, no, I need to go. I need to see it through.”

Viv sighed. Her schedule was getting busier by the minute. She still had to travel to Harrak to recover Solfis’ original body and allow him to, ah, spawn.

“Of course we’re going, it’s just that I agreed to cross the ocean this winter to kill sea monsters and stop Octas from sinking an island.”

“Pardon me?”

“It’s just my luck.”

Viv discussed details with Sidjin on their way back to the embassy though everything was still very far off. She wasn’t sure what state Harrak would be in next year. Not like she could ignore the expedition anyway. Letting her boytoy go alone into that den of vipers? As if.

Solfis was unexpectedly waiting for her at the entrance. He strutted up to her as soon as she was within an acceptable distance. If she didn’t know better, she would say he was excited.

//Your Majesty!

//Look!

So she didn’t know better. The golem clutched a breastplate in his clawed hands, a familiar make she quickly identified. Her fingers brushed the steel with bafflement. The quality wasn’t great but there was no mistaking the design. It was the same piece of gear the Mountain People used before they had joined the heavies, leftover equipment from the days when Harrak had a regular infantry.

Except, it was clearly recent. The steel lacked the patina of age and heavy use.

“Someone is making Harrakan knock offs?”

//No.

//This was sold in the Zesthanet commercial district.

//I asked the salesman.

//They sourced these from a city directly to the west of them on the shores of the White Sea.

“No fucking way.”

“It can’t be,” Sidjin said. “After not having made contact for three hundred years.”

//They did.

//With Zesthanet.

//The Frozen Peninsula extends to the south west of the Harrakan heartland, beyond the mountains.

//The cataclysm could have stopped with the mountains.

“Then…”

//Yes.

//There were outposts and cities there.

//Harrak… has survived!

//…

//What are you doing?

“Writing it down on the damn list.”
