She is beloved by the Death Spirits.

Ability: True Immortality – The user will never die and will always regenerate from any sort of damage done to them given time. Furthermore, the amount of time it takes to heal from a wound will shorten every time that exact same type of wound is received.

Class: Harbinger of Death – One of the four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, the harbinger must bring death unto others to grow stronger.

Characters

Pestilence: Pestilence, otherwise known by the name of Victor von Lüneburg, is a mad man who is obsessed with science with a specific focus on poisons and diseases. Victor is always in his lab on the planet of Vest and rarely sets foot out of it. He lives on a secluded planet, only ever leaving in order to test out a new virus, plague, or disease he has made, wiping out the populations of entire planets in the process.

War: War, otherwise known by the name of Lucius Octavio, is a war fanatic who brings war wherever he goes. He is the absolute ruler of a military nation called the Crimson Flag and is always on the battlefield, his class giving him the ability to fight forever without rest.

Famine: Famine, otherwise known by the name of Ignatius Darkheart, is a brutal tyrant who starves his people for obedience within his ever-growing Dread Empire. He is also a warmonger who travels from planet to planet, spreading his rule along with the eternal famine that comes with it. Ignatius also grows stronger by the number of starved near him, so the further he spreads his rule the stronger he becomes.

Isabella de la Vega: The ruler of the Arcadian Society that has dominance over the world of Arc. She is a mage with the ability to keep three spells ongoing indefinitely as long as she pays the mana price to activate them initially, with no more price required to upkeep them. And her Arcadian Society is a society of mages with a powerful school of magic.

Leopold da Silva: The Emperor of the Grand Silvanian Empire ruling over the world of Silverfall. He is a kind ruler who loves his people but is ruthless towards his enemies and goes the extra mile to remove threats to his Empire before they become a problem.

Raja Singh Amunet: The Pharaoh of the Rex Dynasty of the Dead. He is a brutal tyrant who worships death and the Spirits of Death and views death as a reward for those who have fulfilled their purpose. And his people believe it as well.

Hassan al-Malik: The Leader of the Council of Darkness, an Assassination group that is spread out across most of the powerful worlds initialized into the System. He is a psychopath without the capacity for emotions and cares only for coin, same as his assassin underlings.

Shirou Amatsuraki: The Emperor of the Eternal Dynasty, a neutral empire that wishes only to stay afloat forever without entering conflict with other nations. Shirou himself is a lover of commerce and runs the empire as a merchant would. He has white eyes and shoulder-length white hair, and enjoys fiddling with a coin in his hands.

Ashur Kaelar Valan: The emperor of Arteria. DEAD

Lysandre de Pyre Voltaire: The former emperor of Albaria. He is power hungry and cares only about himself without any care for the nation. To the point that he eliminated the Crimson family simply due to their power and influence threatening the little power he has remaining over the people and politics. DEAD

Elara Crescent: The First General of Albaria. Serious, intelligent, leader, and cares about skill more than anything.

Rowan Vale: The Second General of Albaria. Analytical and ruthless. Meanwhile he appreciates tactical maneuvers and intelligence.

Calyx Star: The Third General of Albaria. Quiet, reserved, and in charge of the Third Army, which is in charge of gathering the nation’s intelligence.

Seraphina de Aragon: The Fourth General of Albaria. She has the most powerful Superstrength Ability in the world and can crush a skull with her bare hands with ease. Supports Aria. And she does not like how powerful ability holders are treated.

Selene Morn: The Fifth General of Albaria. She has long blond hair and golden eyes and is blunt and to the point. Supports Aria because her brother, the Eighth General, supports her. While she is very much a nationalist who loves her nation and will do whatever she can to benefit it, she will assist her brother over her nation any time.

Alaric Ashfall: The Sixth General of Albaria. He is an old man who doesn’t participate in any of the political squabbles surrounding the generals and therefore has the least power amongst them.

Valerie Sylver: The Seventh General of Albaria. She has a screw loose and does what she wants, when she wants, and when she becomes interested in something.

Victor Morn: The Eighth General of Albaria. Supports Aria. He is passive aggressive and sometimes is hard to figure out.

Aeliana Fang: The Ninth General of Albaria. She is power happy and enjoys having as much power as she can get her hands on.

Frank Rogers: Part of Team Predator with a Category 5 Enhancement ability that lets him flood energy into other people’s bodies, replenishing their mana, stamina, and healing them while also increasing their strength and speed. He doesn’t speak much but when he does, everyone listens. Meanwhile he sees himself in Aria and takes a liking to her. He has a large frame with black hair and green eyes and is in his early forties in age. Overdrive.

Leonardo Striker: Leader of Team Predator with a Category 5 ability that lets him control kinetic energy to a degree. He wishes for his team to get along well and be more informal, so he’s constantly making attempts to get them closer together. And he especially likes Category 5 abilities, finding them all to be interesting as he tries to learn more about them. He has black hair and purple eyes with an average height. He is in his mid-thirties. Twilight Huntsman.

Hannah Harvey: Part of Team Predator with a Category 5 Perception and Protection ability that allows her to sense everything with mana in a ten kilometer radius around them and use her own mana to create an incredibly tough barrier within a single kilometer radius around her. She is very excited to have another girl joining Team Predator but is saddened by how Aria treats them. She is taller than Aria and has brown hair with equally brown eyes and is in her mid-thirties in age. Mystic Warden.

Adrian Snow: Part of Team Predator with a Category 5 ability that lets him create blades of ice that are nearly indestructible and grow stronger with each unsuccessful blow against the target. He is a lady-killer who often goes to mixers when given time off. So he is very interested in Aria when she joins Team Predator since she’s a beautiful girl. However, he believes she is too young for him and to be an officer in general and believes that she should retire. He is tall and has white hair and blue eyes and is in his mid-thirties in age. Arctic Edge.

Jason Vargas: Part of Team Predator with a Category 5 ability that lets him read the minds of whoever he touches and dig into their memories. He acts kind and jokes with everyone but when it comes to his job, he is ruthless and follows Striker’s orders to a T. He sees Aria as a weapon to be used, just like himself. So he has nothing against her joining the team and welcomes her. He has gray hair and eyes and is in his late thirties in age. Psionic Inquisitor.

Vorelius Cornelius Caesar: Emperor of the Grand Roan Empire.
