There, in the swamp still visible from their vantage point, was a bird. No, a duo of birds. They had long beaks, like a pelican, and huge wingspans. They were, somewhat fittingly to the swamp, an uncanny green color, but a vibrant one that was close to turquoise; they’d blend partly in with both greenery and sky.
Their beaks and eyes, though, were highlighted a brighter orange. What made them distinct was that their tail feathers were pale white speckled with yellow. And when one spread their wings, their interior plumage was yellow too.
They were, if Ulvama was right, as big as an albatross. In addition to their massive beak—which could swallow her whole—she saw one roosting in one of the huge trees. The other was swooping down towards something in the marsh.
All well and good. Bird-like things. Any bird could fly or be that big. It would scoop up something to eat with that long beak, like fish; doubtless what it normally ate.
Now, where a magical bird differed from all that was when this particular bird made a curious sound.
“Auurrrrrr-mak!”
The descending aur was followed by the bird twisting, slapping the water with a thunderclap of sound so loud it reached Ulvama and Erin…and then gently ruffling its wings, floating there like a swan, and paddling over to several dead fish that had just floated to the surface.
“…It just sonic killed them. With a wing attack.”
Erin had heard you could kill fish underwater by slamming rocks together. But she was certain no bird from Earth could do that maneuver without breaking a wing.
Ulvama stared at the bird. She stared at Erin.
“Me, kill that? With this?”
She hefted her toothpick spear. Erin shrugged.
“I don’t make the rules.”
“You just did.”
“It’s gotta be ‘impossible’. What part of that don’t you get?”
“Make it a bit more possible!”
“Can’t. I just posted the quest.”
“Well, I’m not killing that bird!”
Ulvama poked a shaking finger at the ‘Aurmak’ bird. Erin sneezed on her and then apologized.
“Sorry. You don’t hafta. Can we keep going?”
She was still suffering from allergies. Ulvama relented and stomped forwards, head on a swivel for dinner of a less deadly kind. The two made good progress and actually reached the marsh by nightfall; they camped once more by some sprawling roots that broke the ground, securing a divot in the ground.
Ulvama reinforced leaf walls that Erin secured with bits of stone and ‘nails’ of pieces of wood she hammered into the bark. It wasn’t the most secure, but it held, and Ulvama ended up dashing over to find some more of those berries she’d lived on for a month for the <Quest>.
The system grudgingly spat out a single packet of salt from one of Liscor’s diners as a reward for Ulvama’s hard work. Since it was salt, the two instantly agreed they should be assigning these quests every night. Even if the ‘impossible’ clause might never get fulfilled.
Oh, and one more thing. The reason the two camped by the marsh and didn’t head into the more inviting-looking forest was for a simple reason.
“Erin? Your [Dangersense] still going off?”
Erin turned as she kept sneezing and wiping her nose. It was actually bloody phlegm by now. She hoped she didn’t choke in her sleep. If she even slept. Ulvama gave her a pat on the back as she hauled in more water and grass for Erin. The [Innkeeper] croaked.
“Yeah. Big drums.”
The two eyed the forest, and Ulvama sighed.
“And the marsh?”
“Little bells.”
“Bleh.”
 
——
 
Erin did not sleep well that night. She ended up hawking and snorting and sneezing so badly that Ulvama barely got any sleep, and after six hours without sleep Erin wound up sitting, curled up and hoping the pollen vanished or they got out of range the next day.
Almost naturally…
…She opened the door to the [Pavilion of Secrets], inhaled, and her sneezing was gone. Her face still hurt, but in this place, at least—there was no pollen.
No air.
“Whew. That’s a relief.”
The [Pavilion of Secrets], legacy of the last Harpy Empress, waited for her. But Erin was mainly interested in getting away from that pollen. She walked into the gazebo, sat down, and then lay out on one of the hard benches.
“I wonder if you can sleep here. Maybe Ulvama would let me do it just for a night? Shame there’s no blanket.”
Erin stared up at the roof and, past it, the void itself. Not like the stars at all. After a moment, she cleared her throat.
“Blanket. And falling lights, like the [Garden of Sanctuary].”
Neither appeared.
“Darn.”
Silence. Erin lay there for a while, breathing in and out, or thinking that she did. She was tempted to just while the night away, but that would be impossible for a different reason. Not just upsetting Ulvama. After a second, Erin sat up.
“Alright.”
She looked straight across from her, and there it was.
The door.
This time, it looked like the door to the room she and Visophecin had entered. Outlined by black flames. Waiting.
“So you look like what scares me most, huh? Is it a warning from this place? Or from me? Give me a door that fits.”
The [Innkeeper] narrowed her eyes. She blinked—and a third door sat there. Perhaps, if someone came to inherit this place, it might scare them more than the other two doors in a way. For the young woman? The door had a brass nameplate. It said:
 
Erin Solstice.
 
It was the door to her room in The Wandering Inn. She exhaled.
“Yeah. Okay. Let’s do this.”
She squared her shoulders. Then—Erin marched over to the door, yanked it open, and called out to the identical place beyond—and the one person who was there, waiting for her.
“You’re not worse than pollen, you know.”
Erin Solstice sat there, shuffling the deck of cards, her feet on the chess table. She was leaning back in a simple wooden chair; she indicated the one across from her.
“You and I both know we are. But you haven’t been told the rules. Sit, Erin. Take a seat.”
Erin sat down. She decided, for her sanity, that this other person was going to be…Pavilion-Erin. Not-Erin?
Her reflection grinned at her as Erin sat down. The [Innkeeper] stared at the feet propped up on the chess table.
“Take them down.”
The other Erin didn’t move.
“Why?”
“It’s disrespectful to the board.”
The chess board. Even if there weren’t any pieces—Erin saw the other Erin cross her worn boots instead.
“No, it’s not. You don’t know this chess board. You don’t even believe it exists. And you don’t think a chessboard or the pieces matter more than the players, even if they’re worth tens of thousands of dollars. Just like that time in Munich when your opponent tried to get you flustered. You were eleven. Bishop checkmate. 67 moves. Stained glass chess pieces.”
The [Innkeeper] stopped. She stared at the Erin of the Pavilion of Secrets and, after a moment, copied her and put her boots up on the table.
“I can’t punch you. That’s correct. How d’you know that?”
“I’m you. You haven’t asked what the rules are, by the way. Cormelex did the moment he walked in. Aleieta Reinhart tried to charm herself for three days before she gave in. Empress Sheta never had to ask.”
The real Erin scowled at her copy.
“Great. You’re the Pavilion of Secrets. It’s just—you. What are you, a Djinni? An aspect of the System of Levels?”
The other Erin kept shuffling the cards.
“That’s a secret, and you don’t have the answer. But I can tell you since it’s about the rules. No, I’m not the all-encompassing power that made this place. I’m just the reflection of the Pavilion of Secrets whose job it is to sit here. Across from you. My function, and I say ‘my’ when I mean yours, is to facilitate meetings. Or talk with myself. Nothing more. Mind you—”
The other Erin chuckled in a way that made the real Erin’s hair stand up. She didn’t sound like that, did she? This—dark? This sardonic? Her eyes were boring holes in her own head, but Erin refused to look away.
“—I think aspects of myself could scare even the Grand Design of Isthekenous. If it’s watching, even here. And you, Erin, believe with all your heart it is.”
Simultaneously, the two looked in opposite directions, as if staring at an invisible camera, searching for the watcher who was always there. Whether or not there was any presence, let alone if they unsettled it…
Erin spread her hands out as she sat forwards, and her clone did likewise.
“Okay. What are the rules? Also, what’s with the act? What’s with the deck of cards, and if you are me, what’s with the Chris Hansen impersonation?”
The other Erin shrugged.
“I’m trying to be ominous in a way I’ll get. So you know this isn’t the [Garden of Sanctuary]. If you mess up, you’ll regret it.”
“I know that.”
“Ah.”
The other Erin held up a finger and wagged it.
“Don’t be an idiot.”
Then she leaned over the table, and Erin Solstice got to meet the Erin Solstice other people knew. A scarred [Innkeeper] narrowed her eyes, and her face darkened. She leaned over like Chaldion would when he was at his most serious, with that dead-set expression that Relc, Niers, and others wore when it was time to kill or die.
And her voice rasped.
“This is more than ‘sanctuary ends’. Don’t. Be. Stupid. You know yourself. All these games I like to play? Pushing the envelope? Pretending that you forgot to bow? Tweaking the nose of someone you think needs a lesson? This is your first and last warning, Erin Solstice. Try it here and you may regret it till the day you die. You think you’re beyond more suffering? In this room, you can kill Pisces with a single word. You can kill your friends, Ulvama, everyone. Understand?”
Erin leaned back. She had to. The words were not only delivered by that intensity—she stared at her face, felt at her hair, wondering how she hadn’t realized how many scars she had—but they were aimed at herself.
She took a shuddering breath, hating that she was losing to, well, herself.
“Okay. I get it.”
“No you don’t.”
The other Erin sat back, calm as could be in a flash. She sighed and went back to shuffling the cards.
“You still think I might be someone other than you. Now, you just think I can read your mind, not that I’m actually you. But you paid attention. The cards came from Sheta, by the way. She thought some kind of divination object or whatnot would make this all less…personal. The others kept it. If you want, they can vanish.”
The cards remained. The [Innkeeper] folded her arms.
“What are the rules?”
The other her responded instantly and with a hint of a smile. She said it how Erin would best understand it, logically and to the point.
“This is the Pavilion of Secrets. The nature of this place is secrecy. If the [Garden of Sanctuary] is, well, sanctuary, think about how secrets work for people.”
“…So I can uncover them here? Or hide them?”
The mirror-Erin shrugged.
“What is a secret? Don’t bother trying to answer that; you don’t have one ready. In this place, you can indeed uncover some, but there’s a cost. You can’t get anything for free. Or rather—”
Her eyes glinted.
“—the more powerful a Skill is, the higher your level. Or the greater the cost. This is ‘only’ a Skill you get at Level 50. So there’s cost and reward. When you say something here, if it’s true, if it’s real—you’ll remember it.”
“Okay? It’s not like I forget what happens in here.”
Real Erin raised her brows. The other her lifted a finger.
“Right. You get all that. But whoever sits right here? If it’s true and real, they’ll remember it too. That’s how it works. In part. A secret for a secret.”
For a second, the other Erin flickered out of existence. Just for a beat, like an image on a monitor flickering. Then, the real [Innkeeper] saw it. The other her gave her a sardonic smile. Erin breathed out as her heart began to beat faster.
“Oh. Is that how it works?”
For a reply, the other her put the deck of cards down on the table, and they vanished. Then she winked at herself.
“This one’s on the house. Presenting—the Harpy Queen.”
And then she was gone, and the last Empress of the Harpies, Sheta, sat across from Erin.
The [Innkeeper] recoiled, falling out of her chair, and stared up. Up—at a real Harpy.
She was eleven feet tall. Her plumage was a royal brown, darkening to black near the tips of her wings—and she had no arms. Just wings. Her talons were huge, a bird of prey’s, yet she had a humanoid torso, a woman’s body, covered in a toga, and Erin saw three rings glinting on her talons.
A crown on her head, each tine a different species holding a torch skywards. Gnoll, Drake, Human…
The Harpy Queen was there in a moment. Her voice was deep. And she was—a memory.
“When I was young and needed somewhere to hide after confronting Dragons, to weep or rage or simply be, a place of solace to call my own, I created the [Garden of Sanctuary].”
“Wh—Empress Sheta?”
The reflection paused, but didn’t reply. It was like a recording. But Erin felt the presence of the vast Harpy across the table from her. If she reached out—
She didn’t dare. She sat on the ground as the Harpy raised one wing and pressed her face to her feathers for a moment. Her voice was nostalgic—and Erin realized she was in her late thirties?
Not as old as…
Did Harpies get that big? Maybe. But the [Garden of Sanctuary], the statue that Teriarch had seen, hadn’t been that large! And at the same time—Erin’s memory flickered.
She had seen great Harpies in the land of the dead. Even the Empress herself. And that Harpy had been even larger.
Then—the one of ‘now’, who had left this message, wasn’t full-grown? She was certainly older than the one who had made the [Garden of Sanctuary]. In a low voice, Sheta continued.
“My [Garden of Sanctuary] was a wondrous delight. It brought together friends, even foes. It was a safe place as well as a place of confidence for many. But it was never large enough.”
“No. It isn’t.”
Erin whispered. Now, the Harpy seemed to meet her eyes, as if she knew who would eventually find this place. She dipped her head and went on.
“When I was older and needed weapons against my enemies—and I have so many—”
She paused and closed her eyes.
“—When I found I had enemies, I made this place. My [Pavilion of Secrets]. A harsh weapon from a ruler, a dangerous, nay, unfair weapon. If my greatest champion and counselor knew of its existence, he would be disappointed with me.”
She looked to the side, and Erin thought she knew who that was. But then that bright-eyed stare came back to Erin. Eyes as green as the Vale Forest, turning winter blue as they narrowed to the pupils, like the snow atop the High Passes, stared down at Erin.
