They were heading along the thorn bushes, which provided shelter, walking along rocks, chatting, keeping an eye on the bushes for predators—and an eye on the forest for more enemies. If they saw something by sky, they went into the thorns. If they saw something in the bushes, they backed out.
However, Erin and Ulvama did have techniques to avoid conflict. One of them was in fact Erin’s aura and flames. The first time another Spear Mantis came at them, she glared it down and then threw white flames at it.
Bugs and animals in general did not like the unknown. Two arrows from Ulvama made the mantis back off. Once, Erin saw a huge bird land in the bushes and begin to peck at bugs, but she and Ulvama just crouched down and waited for it to be distracted with a meal before hurrying off.
They strategized as they moved.
“I’m just thinking, Ulvama. It’s either Nerry or…the inn. Which one do I alert?”
Ulvama’s head rose.
“What you mean?”
Erin’s eyes glittered as they headed up a stream. She sipped from some coconut water.
“[Boon of the Guest]. I can use it on you, but if Nerry needs it—I think the move is to give it to someone in the inn first. You understand?”
Ulvama’s mouth opened.
“—So they know you’re alive!”
Erin nodded. Then she frowned.
“—The problem is, I’m not sure it’ll work. Either on Nerry or anyone but you. I don’t know where they are, and I’m not even seeing them in a [Scrying] orb. I tried using it while I was at sea.”
“Really? On who?”
“Oh…Yvlon, Pisces, Colth, Ceria, Rabbiteater—Silvenia—I was trying to help any of them. Or make her come back. I could use it on you. But what if I used it on Lyonette to let her know I was alive?”
This made sense. Ulvama considered it for a while as they began to hopscotch over stones to cross the stream. After a few minutes, she had a question.
“Erin. Do they think you’re dead?”
“Well, probably if they can’t find me. Even if they use the [World’s Eye Theatre]—and I think they are—or my box, they can’t find me. I’d assume I’m dead.”
“Right. But how are they using the [World’s Eye Theatre] if you’re dead?”
Erin opened her mouth. Ulvama stared at her, and after a second, Erin splashed herself in the face with some water. Since it was coconut water, she cleaned her face off with regular water and refilled her canteen.
“Whew! It’s hot out here. Frying my mind, right?”
“Mhm.”
They decided following the stream was a good idea. It might run them into creatures who wanted water, so they crossed over to the treeline as a nice middle ground. By now, it was already early evening, and Erin was opining that the best shelter would be a knothole like her first night had been spent in. Ulvama just stared at the trees as Erin scratched at her head and posited a question.
“…Do you think it’s Baleros?”
“Yah, probably.”
“What if…I booned Jelaqua?”
“Why her?”
“Well, Jelaqua comes from Baleros. So then they’d know which continent.”
“Can you tell them we washed up on a beach or give them directions or something?”
“Uh…who do you associate with the beach?”
Ulvama’s lips moved as she considered it.
“Kevin?”
“Kevin’s dead.”
Erin’s flat tone made the [Shaman] swing around. Ulvama’s eyes widened.
“Oh. I didn’t kn…I forgot. He’s dead.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Ulvama a lost gaze. She almost used her Skill—then stopped and leaned wearily on a replacement thorn-spear.
“Yeah.”
“How? He survived the Solstice, I thought—”
“I don’t know. I only saw his statue, and he told me—I could ask.”
Erin stopped until Ulvama walked over and tugged her along.
“No. Use your boon Skill on someone instead. How will we tell them it’s Baleros?”
After a few minutes, Erin’s head rose.
“What if I did a different boon for each person? And spelled out Baleros? Can we do that? Who starts with a ‘B’ who’s at the inn?”
“…Bezale?”
“Right. A?”
“Ama? Is she alive?”
“She’s alive. Liska. E…E…we could skip that and do Relc, then ‘O’ is, uh…Onieva?”
“Doesn’t really work.”
“Olesm?”
“Is he at the inn?”
“Well, I’m sure he’d tell people. And Selys is easy.”
“Hm. If we’re in Baleros.”
Erin stared at Ulvama from the side.
“I thought you were sure.”
The Hobgoblin hunched her shoulders.
“It might be Drath. Or maybe we’re on Izril or Terandria? Even Chandrar.”
“Terandria doesn’t have…and Chandrar?”
Erin waved her hands around at the jungle. Ulvama eyed Erin.
“What if we’re in the Claiven Earth? Do you know all of Chandrar? It’s not all desert.”
“Oh, come on. If we’re on Chandrar…actually, is that good or bad?”
“Roshal’s in Chandrar.”
Ulvama spoke darkly, and Erin murmured.
“But so is Fetohep. Then again—I think he’s in trouble.”
The two fell silent. After a while, Ulvama stared up.
“You want to sleep in a squirrel’s den?”
“Yeah, why not? It’s got free nuts.”
“What if it’s filled with a squirrel?”
“Eviction. Or dinner.”
“What if it has babies?”
“P-peaceful coexistence?”
They tromped on. After a few minutes, Erin exhaled.
“So who should I boon?”
Ulvama thought about it.
“Spelling Baleros is too much work. Use it on one of them and send a message. Maybe we can’t say where we are. But tell them something important.”
Erin nodded. She closed her eyes and thought—then nearly tripped over a root. By the time it was growing dark and Ulvama pointed out a chipmunk going up to a home, Erin had it.
“[Boon of the Guest: Ulvama]!”
She raised her hand and called out. Ulvama spun—and saw Erin concentrate, then wipe away sweat from her brow.
“It worked?”
“Yeah, sorry I did it so fast. I sensed they were in the inn, and I know exactly where he pops up with his Skill.”
“He? Oh.”
Erin had given the Skill to Ishkr. The two nodded at each other. Ishkr was reliable. Then Ulvama gave Erin a serious look.
“Wait. Maybe you should have given it to someone who matters more. Like Mrsha.”
Erin stared at Ulvama. The Hobgoblin folded her arms. Then they laughed for the next fifteen minutes as they climbed the tree.
The chipmunk was very unhappy to find Erin and Ulvama there. It fled, and Erin felt so bad about stealing his home and food that they only ate a third of his nuts and also ate coconut that night with an open fire.
She was about to use her [Pavilion of Secrets] Skill that night, but she was tired from all the color-Skills and sending her boon, and Ulvama looked worried. Plus the chipmunk might come back with friends, so Erin just went to sleep.
 
Day 2
 
The chipmunk was waiting outside its home, staring up from the base of the tree with a haunted look in its eyes the next day when Erin shuffled out on a branch to do her business.
“I didn’t steal all your nuts! Go away! Get lost! Wait, Ceria told me how to speak to animals. Piss off!”
It got lost, and Ulvama and Erin munched on more coconut and a few more seeds. They were finding a problem with their food stores.
“That’s…one entire pack plus seeds for a day of food. Maybe we’re overeating, and I used more Skills including my boon, but we’ll need more food soon.”
“We can kill something. Have you tried eating bugs?”
“Nope. You?”
“Nope. I killed a little minnow with a spear.”
“Nice! Let’s get some fish. I can do fish. And I can cook! Coconut flakes and some nuts for breading…hey, we could fry something up!”
Ulvama licked her lips.
“Why have you never cooked like this before?”
Erin stood on the branch as they prepared to hop down.
“I, uh…used to think it was so boring and so much work for so little gain. I would kill for a good meal right now.”
 
——
 
It was amazing how much food mattered when you might starve, or when you had nothing to eat but one thing for ages. It also, oddly, added to Ulvama’s and Erin’s senses of compassion.
“I feel bad about leaving only half the nuts.”
“Mm. Life is hard.”
They kept peeking over their shoulders. The chipmunk had come back after Erin had chased it away, but it was hesitating rather than climbing the tree. As if it thought more of Erin and Ulvama were gonna jump it if it went back home, or it was afraid they had left it nothing.
“It’ll be okay, right? It’s still winter, isn’t it?”
“Yep. Last month. Is good food all over. Like berries. It probably smells us.”
“Oh, like how you can’t touch baby animals or their parents won’t recognize them? Come on, little dude! At least check out your nut stash! Half’s there! Half!”
They were walking off but keeping the den in sight, and after an hour, the silly chipmunk still hadn’t gone inside. They were rounding a tree, and Erin glanced back hopefully one last time as Ulvama stomped off too hard—her way of ignoring the guilt, maybe.
Then Erin’s face brightened. The chipmunk had found its nuts! It was eating one right now! Erin went to shout at Ulvama.
“Hey, Ulv—wait. No way.”
She squinted, then used her [Aspect of the Inn]. A third eye appeared on Erin’s head, and her jaw dropped.
“That dude’s back. Is…is…wait a second. That’s my bat!”
She gobbled there as Ulvama turned. The Hobgoblin strode back.
“What? Erin, did the cute chipmunk find—”
Erin’s head swung towards Ulvama, and her third eye blinked in her forehead. Ulvama screamed. Erin screamed.
A raindrop half as large as Erin’s head smashed down so hard Erin saw the dust rising from the impact. Both Human and Goblin looked up.
Pow.
A water drop hit the ground like artillery fire. Then another. One smacked Erin in the head, and without her [Reinforced Structure] Skill, it hurt.
“Argh! Get to cover!”
It started raining. And Erin remembered Niers complaining about rain for Fraerlings. She hadn’t gotten it before—now she did.
Raindrops keep falling on my head. A lovely, silly song for children. Cranial trauma if you were a Fraerling.
Okay, maybe not that much, but a raindrop that large proportional to you could actually make you stagger or knock you flat. Rain, when it gathered and flowed? It could sweep you away.
More than that, the sound of it coming down was just terrifying. And this was definitely a tropic; the storm came hard and fast, and Erin and Ulvama ran into the forest. Not least because of the rain. Erin shouted.
“The stream’s flooding! Run!”
The stream they had used as a guide now became a deathtrap. If they were caught by the water running through the forest—they’d be flushed down the stream and into the sea. Erin and Ulvama ran for the foliage, and mercifully, the first pass of the storm didn’t create that much runoff; the leaves and branches above did a great job redirecting the water.
“Okay. Do we climb a tree and hide—or keep moving?”
Erin panted, and Ulvama checked their surroundings.
“If the water keeps rising…let’s go to higher ground.”
If they headed away from the stream, they might have a better shot. They could just climb a branch but that might be dangerous; the wind was picking up. So, marching they went.
As it happened, Erin and Ulvama were doing what all of nature did; Erin recoiled as she saw insects moving with her, but most were not actually dangerous.
“It’s a dung—ew. Hey, dude, roll elsewhere. And a ladybug! And…”
“Centipedes.”
Smaller than the one Erin had met, but an entire colony scuttled past Erin, and she backed away. To be fair, the bugs avoided her, and if the Antinium were here, they’d have seen this as a walking buffet.
In fact, some animals did see just that. Erin saw a lizard darting ahead of them and pulled Ulvama left; Erin glanced up, but any birds were hunkered down.
“Most birds won’t fly in a storm like this, right? Then it’s stuff on the ground we have to worry about.”
“Mhm. I’ll use [See Heat]. Lizards are cold…what are you doing?”
Erin lifted her spear up, and all the bugs around her recoiled. The tip was burning with a white flame that illuminated the area around her.
“Bad idea?”
“Things follow light!”
Ulvama hissed at Erin. The [Innkeeper] sighed, began to douse the flame—
Crackoooom.
A bolt of lightning landed somewhere close to them, and the entire world lit up. The world flashed—then went dark. The rainfall that had been falling down like thunder?
It became an all-consuming downpour. After a few seconds, Ulvama shouted over the noise.
“Erin?”
“Yeah?”
Despite it being morning, the skies were dark, and above them, branches waved like gigantic arms amid the howling wind. Ulvama cleared her throat.
“Keep the light.”
 
——
 
Their march along the forest floor was fast, but not as dangerous as one might think. Water had cut natural channels through the forest, and Ulvama and Erin quickly learned when there were signs the water might come this way; their response was to climb a tree and scale a branch or to use Ulvama’s powers.
“[Path of…Vines]! Hah!”
Ulvama created a narrow bridge of vines, and she and Erin dashed over a stream of fast-moving water. They high-fived, and Ulvama almost severed the spell…but saw some insects following them. She let them cross, then cut the spell; a big lizard had been crawling towards them. Erin shook her fist as the lizard recoiled, eyeing the collapsed bridge and rushing waters.
“That’s right! Back off!”
Aside from these adventures, the travel wasn’t the worst. After a while, Ulvama remembered the chipmunk.
“What did you see that was so surprising?”
“Oh. Right! He found his nest! But something else found him!”
Ulvama closed her eyes as Erin recalled what she’d seen. But to the [Shaman]’s surprise…the [Innkeeper] pointed back.
“Some other rodent—the hamster—was extorting nuts out of him! Just like I said! The chipmunk was rolling them out, and the hamster was cracking them—get this—with my bat!”
Ulvama stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] waved her arms.
“I know, right? He must have found it! He was swinging the bat around! Not perfectly, but it was the battle hamster!”
After a second, Ulvama put her clawed hand on Erin’s forehead. The [Innkeeper] swatted it down.
“I’m serious! I told you all about him!”
“Erin. Don’t make things up. Just tell me something ate the chipmunk.”
“I’m not—why’s that so hard to believe?”
“Erin. It’s a hamster. Magical animals aren’t all weird.”
“Wh—there are Waisrabbits, Corusdeer, Sariant Lambs—why are Battle Hamsters, no, Mafia Hamsters so hard to believe?”
Ulvama refused to dignify that with a comment. She just shook her head and marched off. Erin followed her, trying to convince her she’d actually seen the hamster. Then she had a thought.
“…Seriously. How did he find my bat? Do you think he’s following us?”
Ulvama just rolled her eyes.
 
——
 
