“I know, right? Hey, how about twenty guesses for the other Sk—”
Then something bit her. Ulvama heard a shout, leapt out of the water onto the mud, and Erin whirled.
“What is it?”
“I don’t know. It was big—my size? It’s gone.”
Erin stared around the waters disturbed by the splashing. She checked her jeans. There was a gash in them. But she couldn’t see…she strode out of the waters, and Ulvama eyed the forest longingly again. The cliffs had ended, and the ground rose until it met dry land again. If they took a day to cross over to the nearest deadwoods spire…
Well, they didn’t find out what had attacked Erin until the next stretch of water. And when that happened, they’d already run into another problem.
 
——
 
“Wailer Frog.”
Both groaned the moment they heard the huge ribbit in the distance. By now, Wailer Frogs had become one of the more persistent threats in the area. Of course they had a presence in this damn swamp.
They were having trouble finding a way towards a mangrove to camp at night, and both were making increasingly-risky forays into shallows to try to get to some of the roots. Without that dry place to sleep—it would get increasingly risky for them. There were larger amphibians in the swamps who weren’t shy about crawling onto land for a snack.
Erin was grimacing as she waded into the water, and Ulvama held onto their packs. The [Innkeeper] swam out a bit.
“Okay. See that dry ground there? It’s a minute swim. I say we keep our packs above the water or float them, and that leads to solid ground and the root.”
“We have to swim?”
Erin looked right and left.
“No other way unless you want to go all that way over there and see if it’s dryer. Come on, we’re losing daylight. Let’s—whoa!”
Something attacked her in the water. Ulvama saw Erin, standing at chest-height in the water, dip and then vanish.
“Erin!”
The Hobgoblin instantly dropped the packs, raised her thorn-spear, and cast a spell.
“[The Tangling Vine]!”
A spectral length of plant matter shot into the water, and Ulvama felt it wrap around something. She grabbed one end of it, heaved—but if it was Erin, she was suddenly heavy!
However, the [Innkeeper] was still protected by [Reinforced Structure]. The water thrashed as Ulvama desperately pulled—then steam billowed up, followed by red flames of resentment. Something was fighting her—multiple somethings.
“Ulvama! They’re all around me!”
Erin was punching, twisting, hitting multiple…what? Ulvama saw the mud, the water, but nothing concrete. She narrowed her eyes, seeing…no, there wasn’t even a shape. There was the twisting outline of falling water running over something. Her vine was wrapped around nothing at all. Yet that ‘nothing’ was wrapped around Erin—
Then the Hobgoblin shouted.
“Erin! They’re invisible!”
Erin, swamp water in her eyes, hadn’t realized the truth yet. She blinked, stared at a fistful of something wet, slimy, and felt teeth grating against her face, unable to break her skin. And it was indeed invisible. What was—
Ulvama screamed as something bit her leg. Her magical paint flashed—she turned, kicked whatever it was in the face, then stabbed with her spear, impaling it.
“Ulvama! Get to safety!”
The [Shaman] was safe. But she instantly began kicking mud around her, revealing the outline of two more…things. They were long, as long as Erin and Ulvama, very wide, and Erin began fighting towards the ground. They couldn’t hurt her—
Ulvama kept stabbing and stabbing, clearly doing a lot of damage to whatever she was hitting. When she backed it off enough, the panting [Shaman] raised a hand.
“I have this! [See Invisibility]—aaah!”
Erin had forgotten how many spells of utility Ulvama had. The [Innkeeper] was burning whatever was biting her face with orange flames, and it was letting go and trying to get away. Ulvama stared at the foe, at Erin, blanched, then backed up.
“Erin! It’s—leeches!”
“Aw.”
Invisible leeches. Erin instantly tossed one of the ones trying to suck her blood into the water.
“This has got to be Baleros! I hate this place!”
 
——
 
In the end, Erin and Ulvama ended up casting a very expensive spell to get to the next mangrove root: [Earthen Spire]. It was a Tier 3 attacking spell for a [Shaman]. Moore had [Pillar of Earth]. This was…not the same.
The spell made a piece of stone jut up from the ground; it was dangerous, effective, but hardly as powerful as a [Mage] spell. Most of Ulvama’s spells were designed to help other people, not fight for herself.
She could cast the spell multiple times given her level. To make enough footholds to hopscotch their way safely to the other side of the leech-infested channel?
Ulvama had to cast the spell eleven times. She was so exhausted that Erin was worried she’d fall into the water as they hurried across the magical constructs, and then she was so tired, Erin ended up carrying her on her back the rest of the way.
Magically exhausting Ulvama was not a good idea. And this damn swamp was actively and rapidly becoming less and less fun to stay in. They actually failed Ulvama’s food quest that night too; she curled up as Erin did all the fishing. She caught one fish. Another leech; Erin sat there on guard duty, unable to use her pavilion again. She was muddy, irate; she had been drying their gear out by her fire of resentment.
“Erin.”
A sleepy Ulvama woke to go pee and made a request.
“Can you boil water and wash our clothes?”
“Oh, sure.”
That was a good use of her night. Sighing, Erin lowered their largest canteen into the water on a length of rope; it’d take dozens of haulings of the bucket up to get enough boiled water to douse everything. Then she turned and yelped.
“Whoa! Hey!”
She covered her eyes. Ulvama looked up as she stripped her clothes off.
“What?”
“You’re naked!”
The Hobgoblin eyed Erin.
“Yah. And we’re alone. Here.”
She tossed the muddy clothes at Erin, then wrapped herself up in another leaf. Erin protested.
“But—I mean—”
“Sleepy. Complain later. What you gonna do…wash with clothes on? That’s stupid.”
Ulvama was already drifting off to sleep. Erin stared at her. But—they had been naked on Roshal’s ship, but that was one thing. Forced captivity. Goblins had different modesty standards than…
 
——
 
Ulvama woke at some point during the night for a drink of water. She found Erin pouring boiled water over herself and her clothing on their narrow camp ledge, washing her clothes with them indeed on.
The Hobgoblin stared at Erin. Erin threw Ulvama’s clothes at her; Ulvama was still naked. Since they were wet clothes, Ulvama just gave Erin a long stare.
“Can you dry my clothes, too? You do that with clothing.”
 
 
Day 7
 
The Aurmak birds attacked when both were asleep. One second, Erin was slumbering. The next, her [Dangersense] howled, and she shot up.
“Ulvama! We’re under—”
The Hobgoblin rolled out of her leaf, naked, and nearly went over the edge of the root. Her first sight was of a giant bird swooping down, a struggling Erin—then the Aurmak bird was flying up, up—
With Erin in its beak.
“Erin!”
Ulvama was helpless, and she flinched as a second bird swooped down. A wing struck the root near where she’d been sleeping. Not as hard as the water; the bird recoiled, swerved, and turned for another run at her.
It was like a dancing [Duelist]! The wings of the huge bird could slam down hard—but it was still a bird, so it couldn’t strike too hard and break its hollow bones. This bird was clearly used to preying on fish and mobile targets, and it dropped down in a dive that twisted in the last hundred feet for a wing-slam on…
Nothing? The Aurmak bird aborted its attack and landed on one of the mangrove roots. It tilted its head left, right, staring at where the second small thing had been.
Gone? It took off as its mate called for help. Then the two were in the sky—and Ulvama, still on the root, was trying to find out how to help Erin.
[Natural Camouflage]! Her skin had melded with the root, making her invisible! In fact, only because she was naked did the spell work as ideally as it should; normally, she needed to apply the enchantment with her magical paint to conceal a group of warriors.
She wanted to shout at Erin, but what would that do? Ulvama grabbed the thorn-spear and stared upwards; the birds were high, high overhead. At least a hundred feet.
No spell she had would reach that far—and they were moving so fast Ulvama couldn’t get a lock on them. The most she could think of was to either blind or entangle one if they came down.
All of Ulvama’s magics were size-related. She could make someone taller—but that was relative to a Fraerling! She could command insects, even—one or two given their size. Even if she called a spire of earth or threw fire, it was weak.
That was why she had been so terrified of travelling before Erin got here. Now, Ulvama’s terror was all for Erin; the two birds had her, and she was dead!
Or was she? As Ulvama watched, the circling birds did something curious. The first one, which had gotten Erin in the ambush, kept tossing its head up and snapping at something. Then—it tossed something to the other bird, and it began to bite as well with that giant beak. They began flapping in the air, now, tossing something back and forth, even picking it up in their claws so both could peck at it.
Erin?
Neither one wanted to eat the [Innkeeper]. They tried, twice, and Ulvama saw one visibly gag and spit Erin back out. At the same time, though, they were effortlessly tossing the [Innkeeper] back and forth, trying to peck and claw her to death.
Stalemate? Just like the beetle Erin had described. However—a flare of red fire made one of the birds recoil. It missed catching Erin, and Ulvama thought she saw the tiny [Innkeeper] drop—hundreds of feet away.
By now, Ulvama had her clothes on, and the packs, and she was about to leap into the swamp. But she watched, instead, as the second Aurmak bird twisted, saw the falling figure Ulvama could barely pick out—and went for a killing move.
It came down, wing extended, for an aerial slam. Ulvama feared that would do more damage to Erin than the biting or clawing; the shockwave alone might blow out Erin’s eardrums! The bird dove, locked onto a target in the water—
Ulvama prepared to jump from her ledge. If there were invisible leeches there, well, she couldn’t see them. Something big had surfaced—the ridged exterior of a crocodile—and there was even a furry wet thing swimming through the mud towards her position.
She had to help Erin, though. The [Shaman] began to utter a spell when, in the distance, the world shifted.
Ulvama’s skin burst out into goosebumps. She felt that ripple down her body, that animal instinct that appeared whenever you saw something uncanny. That chill for better or worse—but a dozen times stronger than normal.
Her lungs felt suddenly constricted in her body. Sweat burst from her pores, and Ulvama was reminded of the first time she had seen a Human hunting dog sniffing through the grass. A savage, snarling monster mere feet from her.
Teeth bared. She could practically feel it in front of her, but far larger.
A huge predator, staring at the Hobgoblin with hazel eyes. Blood and flesh still clinging to…her…hands?
The [Shaman of the Old Ways] forced the aura off her. Shook herself—looked up. She couldn’t see Erin from her vantage point, but she knew where the [Innkeeper] was.
She was at the center of that menacing apparition of the mind. A wave of intimidation rolled out from the place the [Innkeeper] had landed—and the effects were immediate.
“Aur! Aur!”
The bird broke out of its dive instantly. It flapped ungainly away, cawing in terror. Its partner was already flying for their nest in a distant tree. Ulvama, on the root of the mangrove tree, blinked—then jumped as the crocodile in the waters burst out of it. The huge reptile crawled onto land ahead of her, and then leapt into the water.
The normally-slow reptile dove down deep, and Ulvama saw fish churning the waters, some literally leaping into other pockets of water. The rest dove and vanished.
In the distance of the forest, birds spiraled up and away, screaming in terror. Ulvama, breathing hard, saw everything vanish. Either running for the hills or hiding. When she looked around in the sudden silence, there was absolutely no one and nothing willing to tangle with the [Innkeeper].
Well, except maybe a red dot that had buzzed up from the forest in the distance. Everything else?
Every creature in a ten-mile radius had just sensed Erin and decided if they wanted to fight her. Ulvama, shakily, grabbed their gear and began to find a way to get to Erin.
 
——
 
It took hours before the two found each other. Not for lack of knowing where the other was; Erin’s aura persisted until they met. Rather, neither one wanted to swim towards the other. By the time Ulvama had charted a route through the swamp, she realized Erin had also found other concerns.
“I’m beginning to think Bird had a point.”
Erin was a bit battered from the bird attack despite her Skill. Not badly; she was amazingly intact despite their attempts to literally eat her. But her clothing was a different matter.
She’d managed to turn the remnants of her t-shirt, already battered, into a very bad toga for her chest, but her pants had been practically shredded. A kind of bad skirt was all she could do, and Erin’s first comment after Ulvama checked on her condition was—
“I need clothing. And I’m sick of the swamp. I say we go to the forest.”
She got little argument from Ulvama. Though the Hobgoblin was amazed that partial nudity was Erin’s problem after the fight with the birds.
“You sure you’re not hurt?”
“The seagull was worse. I was afraid of drowning. I’m fine, Ulvama.”
She’d just nearly been eaten by two gigantic birds. Ulvama had been terrified of one pecking her. That…
That was the level difference, the Hobgoblin realized. She kept looking at Erin sidelong as they marched out of the swamp. It wasn’t hard to get to dry land; in fact, when they stumbled onto the soil and saw the greenery returning, the two looked at each other and wondered why the heck they’d stayed in the marsh so long. Then Erin grimaced.
“Drumbeats. Keep an eye out for threats. But at this point—”
Her aura had faded by now, but Erin’s eyes glinted.
“—I think I’d rather fight than wade through the mud.”
Try as she might, Ulvama couldn’t think of an argument against that.
 
——
 
As it turned out, one of their backpacks had been mostly smashed by the Aurmak bird, and it had done a fine number on the rest of their supplies.
