She looked around, almost upending the table. Fetohep steadied it with one hand before Erin could flip it; he was stronger than she was, and his mouth opened, yellowed teeth smiling. His voice needed no tongue, and it was amused.
“I confess, I am no less astounded and gratified, Erin. Yet I cultivate poise.”
Erin gobbled at him. Then she stared, and her eyes bulged as a basket of bread appeared. She snatched the first loaf of hot bread so fast that the waiter recoiled. Fetohep saw Erin cram a piece of bread into her mouth, choke, and then grab the tea.
Even the King of Khelt could look appalled—but Erin was so hungry she scarfed down one and was tearing at the meat.
“Is this real? It can’t be. I don’t care. Give more!”
Fetohep turned his head and crooked a finger.
“Real or not. Napkins. This is a café I sat in upon my youth, Erin Solstice. The owner is dead nigh on five hundred and twenty years. Even this Khelt is one of Queen Xierca’s reign. Observe the lack of foot traffic near her palace. Drevish’s architecture has not yet been added, and few guests wish to visit her royal gardens.”
He raised a hand, indicating the vast palace beyond. Erin stared at the Chemath marble steps—kept chewing as Fetohep paused.
“This was but a thought. Yet I wonder—it seems the rules of this place favor ingenuity and knowledge. I was not told I could do this. Therefore, perhaps—”
He touched his face, and the mummy’s face became a man’s. Erin began choking in earnest, and two waiters had to run forwards and give her a Heimlich maneuver. But Fetohep just felt at his features. Then snapped his fingers.
“Mirror.”
What did he see in its reflection? Erin knew what she saw.
Dark brown skin tanned from years under the sun. A stubborn jaw; he had shaved his head bald except for a strip of hair that ran across his scalp and became a ponytail at the back.
He was, for a second, far larger. Broad-shouldered, wearing a soldier’s uniform, golden armored, a halberd resting by the table. A warrior of Khelt at repose. He had a scar down one arm—
Fetohep picked up the mirror and stared at his visage. He actually recoiled from the man staring back at himself.
“Eugh. How familiarly unfamiliar. Perhaps just taste.”
—Then he was the King of Khelt again. The one Erin knew, and she saw the emaciated mummy tapping a finger on the table. When Erin looked, she could see the flesh on his left arm was slightly indented on the inside part where the man’s body had once had a scar. The rest? Dead flesh.
Yet Fetohep seemed more pleased by it.
“This is the more regal of the two forms. The man was fallible. Hot-headed. Unworthy of a crown. The only things he possessed that I envy were the power to level. His comrades. And…”
Fetohep lifted a skewer of meat. Took a gingerly bite. His teeth tore the flesh of the skewered meat away, and it vanished in his mouth. He paused.
“Ah, yes. This.”
He lifted a hand, and the poor imaginary [Waiters] were working overtime.
“Make that three skewers. Do not hold the spice.”
An undead king who had not eaten for over five hundred years pointedly held his manners better than Erin, who had found garlic butter and was dipping bread into it. When Erin had sated her hunger, at least in this place, she looked around and took in their surroundings again.
They were still sitting in the pavilion, Erin realized. Only, the gazebo had become the bounds of the café and tables.
“I don’t get it. This is like my [World’s Eye Theatre]. And my [Garden of Sanctuary], in a way. Nothing here is real.”
“Your nature may influence this place. I believe the rest was my own doing.”
The King of Khelt looked rather pleased with himself. He continued to dine, albeit ‘licking’ his fingers by holding them up to his mouth. It seemed even the King of Khelt was allowed to have finger foods. Erin was confused, though.
“But why are we here? Just a fancy table setting? I don’t mind it—but why?”
It was an odd power to have. Yet Fetohep had clearly already come up with the answer. He tapped a finger on the table, indicating it and his magnificent city.
“What is a secret, Erin Solstice? It may be mere words. Or it may be a face—”
Fetohep touched his own familiar features, and they flickered again, then raised his hand to sweep across the entire vista around them.
“For many, the sight of Khelt’s cities are in themselves a secret that I deny most of the world. To you, I grant them without requesting a boon.”
A picture was worth a thousand words. Erin thought of the sight of the room she and Visophecin had sat in. For a second, she thought that if she wanted to…
The air trembled and almost changed to match her vision, but Erin desisted at the last moment. No, this was better.
“I see.”
So he had given this secret to her without being asked. You could do that too. Fetohep lifted a cup.
“How shall we begin, Erin Solstice?”
He studied her. That worn, terribly tired looking young woman? She did not, perhaps, know how much she revealed to Fetohep’s eyes just by her attire. It had not occurred to her to change her appearance.
So the first secret had ever been in how he saw her.
Someone must find a healer for her. Someone must…find her.
The King of Khelt said nothing, though, waiting for this to be concluded. And when he saw her open her eyes, he was gladdened to see her smile. And those eyes twinkled.
The King of Khelt turned—and his cup of tea was replaced by something else. Bemused, he looked down, and the coffee shop in downtown Grand Rapids had a latte with one of those cardboard slips to protect your hand from the heat. Erin picked up a pastry as cars drove by and a bus halted, people getting in and out. Fetohep saw a statue; Rosa Parks Circle, a plaza just past him, and Erin Solstice grinned at him.
“How about we talk and catch up for a second, Fetohep?”
Her world about him. The King of Khelt looked about, then gingerly sipped from the small opening in the plastic cup. He tasted the liquid. Took a bite of a donut. Then he smiled at Erin. The King of Khelt put down the pastry and politely moved the dish away from him.
“Of course. May I view the menu?”
Erin’s face fell. Fetohep turned his head and saw it was written on the sign above the counter.
Most excellent.
 
——
 
Oh, if only it could last. There were moments unasked for but which Erin would not forget for the sheer, little joy of them.
Imaginary moments that weren’t real, but somehow were. Things she had never considered—like how Fetohep, upon being told about the custom of tipping, insisted on giving a King of Khelt’s tip to the poor cashier.
His disdain for donuts. But almost heretical admiration of the art of making stupid images in your coffee with foam. But the first thing they did was talk.
“Hm. My loyal heir apparent, the [Potter], Pewerthe, continues to prove she is ever suited to rule. She often acts as intermediary between myself, my newest guests in the Gnoll tribes, the People of Zair, and even adventurers. There has been some friction, you see.”
They were trying to, well, share secrets. Fetohep began talking about Khelt. He was good at that. Erin did not mention her escapades or day. She was trying to figure out how it worked. It was just—talking that was the uncanny part. It was natural, and therein lay the trap.
“Uh oh. Racism?”
Fetohep shook his head instantly.
“The actions of Gnolls at the Meeting of Tribes and Herdmistress Geraeri have endeared both species enough to my people. Rather, the attitude of Gnolls and Centaurs is to accumulate value and wealth. It is an outsider’s necessity, I know, to buy more than mere favors and sequester tangible goods. Or to take slightly more than is convenient for citizens sharing the same cities as they are. It is a natural instinct of those new to Khelt. The problem arises when my citizens, in turn, treat those new to Khelt as they expect to be treated.”
“Oh. So they’re being meaner to the Gnolls and Centaurs?”
Fetohep didn’t care for Erin’s diction and held up a reproving finger.
“Mercantile, say, rather. A pettiness easily undone by time. We have resolved the issues.”
“Hm. What else is going on?”
Fetohep cast about. As one might when searching for easy gossip.
“Hm. The King of Destruction has sent his Earthers to me, and I have made the acquaintances of a handful; I am minded to grant some my hospitality permanently. The most striking of the lot is, at this moment, ‘Elena’, who has gone through greater ordeals than the rest. She has even related meeting the Witch of Webs herself. The Earther who has perished—George—has been laid to rest as his fellows believed was best. I shall ensure that his remains are preserved. If ever our worlds meet.”
The [Innkeeper] looked up at this. Did Fetohep’s gaze waver? She glanced at him. Then took a sip from her drink.
“Go on.”
She said so little, but the King of Khelt was content to talk. This was, after all, a learning experience. For her as much as he. So he baited his hook. Khelt was a sandy island kingdom, but any citizen of it might learn to fish if they wished.
“What else? Ah. The Horns of Hammerad were found, and the report I was reading moments before I appeared here, in this fashion, indicated Pisces Jealnet and Colthei Lacment are still in Jecrass. Ceria Springwalker and Yvlon Byres remain in the Claiven Earth.”
Erin sat up, and her eyes flashed with delight. It felt like a shock ran through her, all the way to the base of her spine. Relief flooded her as well.
“So they’re alive! Thank goodness.”
“Hm.”
Fetohep agreed softly. But Erin was beaming. Suddenly—she knew she’d remember that! Fetohep went on, relating a few nuggets of tales he’d heard of both and concluded with some final thoughts.
“—Minor clashes at my borders. The undead rise and repel any invaders. One particularly stubborn group has been attempting to enter Khelt itself, claiming the right of entry via a single citizen who once resided here.”
Then he splayed his fingers together and sat there.
“Well, Erin Solstice. What do you think of that?”
She was breathing in and out. Erin frowned, then nodded.
“The Horns’ location. I felt something there. I know where they are! No, wait, I know where you think they are. Even so, that’s a secret. When I leave here, I’ll remember that. Did you get anything like that?”
She was almost certain she could remember almost anything that had occurred here. Now, what Fetohep remembered was what Erin was more curious about. The King of Khelt tapped his fingers on the table.
“A pleasant daydream, perhaps. These vistas? I shall remember them; the sensation of taste, the recollections of the café may well become a daydream, however vivid. I know this, you see.”
So he already knew what he’d remember? Daydream didn’t sound too bad. Erin was nodding until Fetohep lifted one finger.
“Of course, that is my mere experience. The conclusions I have drawn while sitting here? You are not in the Titan of Baleros’ presence, are you, Erin Solstice? I shall remember that.”
—Huh?
Erin felt a crackle of alertness break the happy moment. A warning—not one of hostility or fear because it was Fetohep. But that sensation.
Here was the danger.
She sat up slightly, keeping her face cool. Thinking.
“Why would you think that, Fetohep?”
He flicked up his fingers.
“Firstly, if you were, you would have known where the Horns of Hammerad were already. Second, your attire and very visage differ from what I expected. Third, you would have referenced my communications with you.”
He paused—and Erin Solstice narrowed her eyes.
“…Why would you expect me to look different? And reference my…does Niers have a body double of me? Is someone impersonating—”
She would remember that too. And then she realized Fetohep had taught her a lesson, confirmed what he’d already gotten from her. The two sat across from each other in silence.
“…So that’s how it works.”
“Indeed. I possess a kind of experience you lack. However, yours shall be greater, in time.”
Now, Erin got it. The knowledge of the Horns—what Fetohep had just implied—they were burning truths, searing insights in her mind.
The meal, the sights of Khelt, were things Erin might remember, but just like a pleasant vacation or an event that occurred when she was stressed—how much would she actually remember?
Lesser truths compared with higher ones. Fetohep seemed content with this lesson, and he clapped his hands together. Their vista dissolved, and they sat in the [Pavilion of Secrets] and the void once more.
“I am mindful time passes here, and it seems I needs must use the knowledge I have gained. Rest assured, I will send whatever aid is tenable to those at your inn and you yourself, Erin. It may be a more odious task at present, but Khelt shall endure any trial. Should I alert the Horns of Hammerad or make discreet efforts myself? Subtlety might be best…a quality many of your associates lack…you may opine, here.”
He was musing, thinking ahead, clearly deciding to act on the information given. Clearly, he’d had his enjoyment, but was determined to help.
…As he always did. The King of Khelt was canny, wise, and he had taught her more than most might in one short meeting. Yet he was not perfect.
He did not realize, perhaps, what Erin heard in his voice. In his casual words. For the [Innkeeper], the new owner of the [Pavilion of Secrets], had the ability to remember what was true. A power he was gifted too.
With that—she also had the understanding of what was not true. What she had noticed…Erin interrupted the King of Khelt as he mused out loud.
“Fetohep. How is Khelt really doing?”
The Revenant stopped. He was good.
“Pardon? Do you require more gossip, Erin Solstice?”
He sounded genuinely amused and vaguely perplexed. But a poker face, even one as good as his…ah. The [Innkeeper] understood, now.
“I know you defended me at sea. I know what’s happened to Khelt. Is something…wrong?”
She didn’t know what he’d done. Only that he’d done it; fragments of Archmage Blackwood shouting. The knowledge of Fetohep himself.
He hadn’t brought it up. The [Innkeeper] looked at the King of Khelt.
“Who’s attacking your border?”
“Pests. A handful of annoyances. Not even a tenth of a formal army. That is the purest truth, Erin Solstice.”
Fetohep dismissed the question, and it was true. They both felt it, but Erin didn’t even look away. They knew how to lie with truths. And then Fetohep of Khelt moved as if to rise and exhaled as he realized something.
Ah.
He couldn’t leave this place. He was trapped.
Of course, he could just cease talking. But the [Innkeeper] was looking at him, and that was an answer in itself, so Fetohep shrugged his shoulders.
