Combined with that, this new area of the forest was, while green, less-than-stellar for foragable supplies. The two ended up trying to fish for dinner, but found Erin had scared away the usual minnows; combined with that, the ground had become a lot less tree-focused. Less nuts…more plants.
More dangerous plants, as it turned out. Erin’s [Dangersense] hadn’t lied; the first time the two spotted a variant of a flycatcher plant, they looked at each other and groaned.
It resembled one of the predatory plants Erin had seen at a garden in her home city. Not the venus fly trap; more like a pitcher plant. She pointed it out to Ulvama.
“See? It’s got that mouth with spines. And that poor sucker over there doesn’t even spot—aw. That’s no good.”
The flytrap plant was more…mobile than the plants of Erin’s world. Instead of an appetizing opening a fly or other insect would fly into then be trapped by the jaws of the plant, or fall into a sticky solution where it would dissolve?
This flytrap plant dipped, snapped up a blue beetle, then sprang back to position. It was like a natural plant-trap. Anything that walked into its killzone triggered the snap-attack, unless it was already eating.
Ulvama stared at Erin as the [Innkeeper] nodded to herself, eying this particular set of flytrap plants…they’d have to avoid the rest.
“And this is in a garden? In your world?”
“What? Oh. Yeah. Just a part of it. The Meijer Gardens. It’s great.”
The Hobgoblin looked so horrified, Erin had to clarify.
“Look, it’s got this greenhouse section, and they’re only in part of it. I think there’s butterflies in another, plants—the real lure is the statue garden. They’ve got a huge bronze horse.”
“…A horse.”
“It’s huge! Forty feet or something! You can stand under one hoof! It’s great. I used to buy a ticket all the time. Anyways, that’s how I know. That plant? Bad news.”
Ulvama stared at the toothy plant swaying there. A bunch of other flytrap heads were packed together in a frond; one plant or all growing together, she couldn’t tell. The Hobgoblin looked at Erin.
“Yeah. I don’t see how you’d figure it out any other way.”
Erin nudged Ulvama as the two scouted for dinner.
“I’m trying to talk about home, and you’re making fun of it.”
“No, keep going. Tell me about your fish ladder again. Which has fish. And a river. I’ve never seen that before.”
The two argued good-naturedly—until they realized they really weren’t finding anything edible. Except insects, which were apparently too stupid to notice Erin’s aura or didn’t care. Erin stared around.
“There have to be berry bushes. C’mon. Let’s…maybe there’s something in the water?”
There was not.
 
——
 
Dinner that night was the last of the berries, probably slightly rotten coconut, and a growling stomach. They both drank lots of water, and Erin lay there.
She hadn’t told Ulvama, but she did hurt a bit. Being thrown around by the birds had hurt—the fall had not, but Erin was tired.
Tired. And noticing that their equipment and clothing was in a worse state than they had been at the start of this journey, and rapidly deteriorating.
I can’t even make a good backpack. That frustration kept Erin awake for a while, tossing and turning. She’d improvised another one with a rope-wood frame, but she knew a better one could be made.
Her [Advanced Crafting] and knowledge just…didn’t allow for it. At least the two had been able to make a grass shelter in the lee of a rock this time. But it was perhaps only natural that Erin’s mind turned to the one thing she could use.
 
——
 
The [Pavilion of Secrets] was waiting for Erin when she entered it. This time, she knew she looked worse. Her jeans had turned to mismatched cutoff shorts shredded in several places and patched with grass. Her shirt barely covered the top of her stomach, and she and Ulvama had tried to weave grass, but they had been looking for dinner for so long they hadn’t had the time.
“I need help.”
“Yep. Glad you finally admitted it.”
Her doppelganger was playing cards again. Well, playing with cards. Shuffling them from hand to hand like a magician. Erin glared at the imposter.
“I can’t do that.”
“Cormelex could. Are you here for me? Or someone else?”
The [Innkeeper] still didn’t understand the rules. Was this a secret given away freely? The ‘her’ sitting there seemed to be waiting, though.
She could have gone through the other owners’ doors. But Erin felt like she had to master this aspect of the pavilion before trying another area. If she didn’t know the rules, she might hurt herself.
She had been warned. The [Innkeeper] had thought about what—or rather, who to talk to. She had to be careful. She stood there, arms folded, eying herself.
“Just so I’m clear. If I asked—and I’m not going to ask yet—if I wanted, say…the Blighted King, could I get him here?”
In reply, the Erin Solstice holding the deck of cards held up the King of Hearts. Othius the Fourth’s face stared at Erin.
Then she fanned out the one card and held a dozen.
“You’ll have to be more specific than that. Which Blighted King? Also—see this?”
She held up one of the cards, and Erin saw the face and name were scratched out, damaged. Not-Erin tossed the card down on the table.
“That one was a ghost.”
“So the Skill’s been damaged along with the lands of the dead.”
The other Erin smiled at the [Innkeeper]. Erin felt a bit better about this, as if learning the [Pavilion of Secrets] had weaknesses like this were a good thing, however much it hurt her. Then—the Erin of the pavilion spoke.
“Correct. But it’s a convenient excuse to need the memories and soul of everyone who dies—ever—isn’t it? For this Skill to work, you’d have to have all that data saved. Even if Hellste itself were to vanish. Even if dead gods ate them—this place needs it. How convenient for someone. I wonder if that lets them break the rules.”
Erin didn’t like the way she smiled at herself. She felt her skin crawling and glared at her reflection. Because, of course—they’d both had that thought.
“Who would you like to speak to?”
The cards played across the deck, and Erin waited, wondering if her copy knew the answer. But the cards just kept shuffling, and eventually, Erin articulated the name she thought was—safe.
Not Othius. Nor…anyone else in Rhir. Not until she knew how this worked better. No one dangerous to her.
You probably could guess, if you considered Erin’s options and her friends, who she might pick. Or narrow it down. Erin took a breath, closed her eyes, and said:
“Fetohep of Khelt.”
Erin opened her eyes and recoiled. The image of her was gone. The cards vanished—but one hovered in the air a second. A king…the very image of a king in repose. A painted portrait that seemed to draw in Erin’s gaze, fill her vision and the very world of that empty pavilion and the gazebo in the middle of nowhere.
—Then he sat there, posture perfect, a cup of ghostly tea wafting pale blue mist in one hand, holding an open book in the other. His head rose, and he closed the book one-handed, placed it on the table, and stood gracefully.
As if he had been waiting for her. He inclined his head, from one ruler to another, and pulled back her chair slightly, inviting her to sit. That magnificently mannered being she knew so well and had never met before.
Not like this. She could actually feel the aura of death and command around him. An urge to kneel. Smell the faintest of perfumes that masked his dead flesh, even the dry scent of the desert about him.
King Fetohep of Khelt, the Eternal King, the 19th Ruler of Khelt, perhaps the last, raised one emaciated brow, his withered, preserved skin turned brown, like that of a mummy, still conveying emotion. His golden gaze burned, and he spoke.
“Seldom have I ever been forced to meet another against my will, Erin Solstice. That I acceded matters not; I am pleased to find you well. Recall, now you walk shoulder-to-shoulder with myself and those who have trod the long road to reach our level that courtesy is an unneeded boon. But know that it makes the difference between the glorious and the wretched.”
He was not surprised to be here. It was as if someone had briefed Fetohep, given him a rundown on the pavilion, such that the eternal void around them, Erin being here, were all things he’d had time to understand and process.
A clone of him? Consciousness transfer? Erin didn’t know. She only felt, with all her heart, that it was him in some terrifying way. Her breath caught. She stood there—stunned—
Then she stepped forwards and, instead of taking a seat, approached the King of Khelt. He was shocked when she threw her arms around him in a hug.
For a second, his arm blurred, instinctively, and he almost threw her, catching her arm—but then he relaxed. Nothing stopped Erin from squeezing Fetohep, his royal robes of purple—she felt tough skin under the softest of fabrics, a thin, impossibly thin frame—
They both staggered, for he was so light. Devoid of flesh, much less fat. It made him frailer in an instant. And somehow, more of a person. She could have picked him up—but instead, Erin just squeezed hard.
Fetohep placed a hand on her head briefly, and when Erin let go, he seemed surprised as she. Erin backed up, red-faced.
“I—I’m sorry, Fetohep. I just had to—you’re here.”
“Of course. You called for me.”
The King of Khelt studied Erin, taking in her attire, her state—then sat himself down abruptly and gestured to her.
“I sit upon my throne in Khelt. I do not dream, but my mind wanders as I watch the scrying orbs and maneuver the mindless undead of my kingdom. I am there. I am here. For a moment, the me who sits upon my throne is ignorant of the one who is here. But the two are simultaneously present. Curious.”
Erin’s breath caught. She fumbled her way into a chair, every bit uncoordinated as he was not. Her body still hurt, and she longed for something to drink. Her stomach growled.
“Is that how it works? Wait, you’ll remember what happens if I say true things here, right?”
Once more, the King of Khelt paused, and his golden gaze flickered, as if unseen pupils were looking over Erin again, then regarding the pavilion of secrets.
“It appears I know more of the rules of this place than you, then. Curious. I have never laid eyes upon this vista, yet I know it. It should astound even I to some small modicum, yet when I wake, perhaps I shall forget where we met. Unless that is given to me to remember.”
His head shifted to Erin. She sat there, then blurted out.
“I called you first, Fetohep, because I needed to talk to someone—someone I could trust. Someone smart to see how this place worked.”
“Aha. Then I am the first to set foot within this place. This pleases me.”
Fetohep’s eyes glowed brighter. At this, Erin almost rolled her eyes. Okay, this was the Fetohep she knew. Almost, it was like them talking via her [World’s Eye Theatre], or as if she were a ghost.
But she’d hugged him. That was…Erin wanted to go over and poke Fetohep again. But she was pretty sure he’d get mad.
And, true to her hopes, the King of Khelt was moving faster than Erin. He tapped another finger on the table as he took a sip from his cup of ethereal tea.
“Ah. Refreshing.”
“Wait, that tea’s real? Can I have some?”
He ignored her.
“It seems I may elucidate you on my perspective, Erin Solstice. That which I ‘know’, despite never having been told, are the rules of this place. That which is true matters. It is my choice to reveal aught that I wish. I understand this is no place to do battle in any physical sense. Yet this is a true battleground of wits and trust. I might reveal anything here.”
His voice deepened on this last sentence, and Erin, reminded of the warning she’d been given, exhaled.
“That’s what I was told. So…how does it work? We just talk at each other?”
The King of Khelt looked at [The Wandering Innkeeper] with the knowledge, or at least, an understanding greater than she currently possessed. And he thought to himself that she had indeed chosen well.
Erin Solstice had many friends. But who better for this than the one with the wit of undeath and the largesse of paradise? Others might try, but it was one thing to be a genuine friend and another to be clever enough to show her.
There was a reason she had not chosen Mrsha. Thus, Fetohep lifted a beringed hand, and his voice rose.
“It is my right to tell you anything I wish. Do you think you and I are strangers, Erin? No. Come; let us sit somewhere proper rather than this void of contemptible infinity. Behold what is far more pleasing, however temporary and fragile.”
He waved his hand, and Erin Solstice sat up. What did that mean? Then, the void around the gazebo the two sat in, that nothinglessness—trembled. And Erin felt something.
A wind blew, hot and so moistureless that it felt like a hair dryer on Erin’s body. Sun suddenly baked her skin, and she flinched—until blessed shade covered the young woman’s upper torso. She twitched, looked around—and a bowing man adjusted the umbrella until it covered her entirely.
Erin’s mouth dropped. She turned—and a street filled with bright, perfectly kept flagstones stretched behind her. When she looked ahead—Fetohep sat at a table of simple, white metal and stained glass for a surface. He was reading a menu with one hand, and behind him, a small café bustled with people.
They were in Khelt’s capital city, Koirezune. Sitting at an outdoor café, the like of which Erin had seen in death and in her conversations with Fetohep. When she twisted in her seat, she saw the citizens of Khelt walking down the street, garbed in silk finery and comfortable, colorful cotton, not a frayed tunic or tear in sight. The buildings were works of art, not garish or overly colorful, but drawn from every culture and every part of the world.
Paradise. Erin’s breath caught, for she had seen the dead, seen this place in the [World’s Eye Theatre], but never felt like she was here.
The air smelled like baking bread! It was hot—even with the umbrella, enough sunlight passed through to make Erin’s skin warm! The seat she was sitting in was padded, and—Erin ran a hand over the stained glass table and felt the smooth glass, saw light reflected through it change colors as it ran onto her lap. Then Fetohep spoke to the waiter!
“Peachvine tea for my guest. Fresh kakla bread with plentiful garlic butter. A skewer of meat—hold the spice to an acceptable level for an outsider.”
“At once, sir.”
The man bowed, took the menu, and Fetohep turned to Erin.
“Wha—wha—”
