“—But he never shall. You, who have found this place. Know this: when I beseeched the world and the force behind levels and classes and skills for this place, I made it to do what I needed. To create a Skill of great power, you must entertain a cost. The greater the cost, the more powerful a Skill can be.”
“Yeah.”
Then they nodded at each other. The Harpy Queen went on again.
“This one has a dire cost. Too much at times. And others, it is too dangerous. Too—painful. Use it as you will. Soon, I shall reach the next stage of my class, if I live long enough. Then…”
Her eyes grew distant, and Erin knew the name of her final Skill. So this was before she left her message. The Harpy Empress murmured.
“It will be a useless Skill. A valuable one. That has always been the nature of these ones I have made. The last one shall be most of each, I think. If I finish it—”
Her eyes focused on Erin.
“If it is something you desire, you will find it. As for this place, I hope it does not shatter your heart.”
She dipped her head—and then she was gone. Erin let out a breath she had held—and her doppelganger dusted off her pants and sat down at the table.
“That one’s just a memory. I’m here for context; she knew what she was making, but even Sheta needed the rules spelled out. You can call someone, if you want. Go ahead. Name someone. Anyone.”
Erin grinned at herself as she shuffled the deck of cards like a gambler.
“Just remember. They’re allowed to refuse to talk to you. A secret for a secret makes the world keep turning. Or something like that. Now, you’re wondering if Wistram was made from this place. Now, you’re wondering about the dead.”
Erin Solstice began to place cards on the table, flipping them face up. One by one. The Jack of Diamonds—Kevin. Halrac, the Ten of Clubs. A King—His-Xe of Khelt.
She met her own eyes.
“Yep. Just remember there’s not many secrets the dead want from you. And anything true—they’ll remember.”
So saying, Erin Solstice sat back, stretched, and stared at her other self standing there. After a long, long silence, she waved.
“Have fun with the pollen. You can always talk to yourself if you want. But be warned: you’re not very nice.”
The door slammed as Erin departed.
 
 
Day 5
 
“I don’t get it.”
Ulvama was trying to understand Erin’s explanation of how the Pavilion of Secrets worked the next day. They were preparing for their entry into the swamp territory.
The first thing both women had to do, each and every day, was boil water, cook breakfast and make repairs to their travel gear, plot out their route, and if they had spare time, wash the dirt and crud off their belongings.
Nightfall was not a good time to do any of that; they were generally tired, and the darkness meant that unless they had a light spell—very dangerous given nocturnal predators—they should have already been inside a shelter.
The amount of time it took setting up camp, getting food, and tending to basic necessities without tools made Erin long for the days she just had to run her inn.
At the moment, she and Ulvama were trying to waterproof their backpacks with the feather material and, well, mud.
They didn’t have any glue or other substitutes; the backpacks had to be light, and Erin kept infusing the mud with the essence of bark’s color. It still made the adhesive fragile, but it might keep whatever was inside from instantly getting swamp water all over it if one or the other fell in the water.
If Erin looked up from their camp today, she could see a narrow series of ‘paths’ leading through the water around the edges of the swamp leading up to some cliffs as the ground rose. The forested terrain to their left would be more of an uphill hike; the swamp would be treacherous, winding, and wet.
However, Erin’s [Dangersense] told her the swamp was safer, Aurmak birds or not. Thus, they went. Ulvama was sighing as she boiled more water for their canteens.
Erin’s allergies from last night had subsided for the most part. She still didn’t feel well, but Erin understood her condition hadn’t been anywhere close to normal since before the Solstice. Talking about the Skills helped.
“So you met yourself and the last Harpy Empress. In that room, you trade secrets…is that it?”
“Y’know, it’s sort of more powerful than just that.”
Erin was slightly offended by how Ulvama framed it. However, the Hobgoblin just scratched her head.
“Maybe. Goblins remember most things, so maybe it’s better to other species? So you can ask for anyone’s secrets?”
“Yeah, but I have to trade.”
“Hm.”
“Whaddya think? I can’t beat up the other ‘me’. And I think they’re all telling the truth. Plus, there’s the other doors to the other pavilions. Those could be, uh—dangerous. What’s my next move?”
Ulvama scratched at several large bites; even without mosquitos, there were, it turned out, other bugs that were relatively small and nimble enough to come at you for a bit of your blood. Her magical paint was wearing already, and she had not, as yet, found an alternative.
“We’ve got to look for good materials in the swamp. Magical mud. Something sticky for crafting.”
“Food for dinner. Hey, want another quest?”
Erin began working on one and, after a moment, gave Ulvama another dinner quest. Ulvama grunted and then looked at Erin.
“I think the only thing you can do is test it out. Carefully.”
“…Sounds about right.”
 
——
 
The first day of swamp-trekking wasn’t actually that bad. The hardest thing was establishing a constant route forwards—and dealing with the issue of the muck.
It turned out the ‘paths’ of solid ground meeting water were inherently treacherous. They turned to shallow water, which became impassable for Fraerling-sized people, and even the portions that remained land were muddy and hard to traverse.
Erin and Ulvama were covered in mud within the first hour and quickly learned they had to rely on staffs to keep moving. The irony was that this was actually the best place they’d found yet—for food, at least.
“Got another one! Sorry, bud.”
Erin had noticed curious creatures in the shallows when they’d had some of the dried berries for lunch. When she’d tossed some berry fragments in, what should come swimming up to take a gulp of it but a minnow? Whatever freshwater fish it was—there were lots of them, and they were so dumb that Erin and Ulvama had given up spear-fishing.
Erin just stuck her arm in the water, waited for one to bite, then Ulvama yanked on a grass rope, and Erin would wrestle it out onto the mud.
Cleaning the little fishies took more work, and Erin, mindful of the fish incident from way back when, insisted on using Ulvama’s knife to do the gutting.
She noticed something funny, despite the annoying mud-trekking and repeated attempts to upgrade their shoes into waterproof boots. Ulvama was almost drooling over the lunch fire.
“You, uh, like fish, Ulvama?”
“…Maybe. What? Fish is good.”
The Hobgoblin grew defensive. Erin had seen Ulvama express a lot of satisfied reactions regarding food, but it seemed like fish really was a craving of Ulvama’s. The first fish meat skewer with salt was so hot that Ulvama burned her tongue on it—and Erin herself almost cried.
“Salt! Hey! Do you think we can get some spices for fulfilling the bounty quest tonight? I want spices, you got it?”
She shook a fist at the sky. Ulvama nodded rapidly as they munched on their food. The silly minnows kept eating the guts and bones the two tossed back in the swamp. Then all of them scattered as something big moved through the water. Just out of sight.
“…Was that a crocodile?”
Erin stopped eating in alarm. She and Ulvama retreated further to dry ground, and Ulvama glanced again at that inviting forest.
“You sure it’s better here, Erin?”
Erin’s [Dangersense] occasionally rang that smaller bell when she was about to walk through deeper areas of water—or when she spotted something big, like now. The [Innkeeper] exhaled as she eyed the forest.
“Got to trust the Skills. Right? I’ve got to trust them. Just like I’m trusting tonight’s dinner: paprika as a reward! Or something good.”
She gave Ulvama some finger-guns. The Hobgoblin stared at Erin. Then gave her a pair of finger-guns of her own and tried to smile.
She looked so pained Erin stopped doing the finger-guns for a while.
 
——
 
Erin did not use the [Pavilion of Secrets] that night; she was too concerned about their setup. The two camped in the only defensible spot they could think of: along the roots of one of the giant mangroves over the water line. They had to still sleep outdoors, though; there weren’t enough salvageable materials to make a camp.
Erin didn’t like it. Ulvama didn’t like it and breathed a sigh of relief when Erin assured her that she’d stay on watch.
“I’ll crank up my aura a bit.”
Ulvama was still eating fish, happily dipping it in the night’s reward. Which was a cardboard carton of—get this—soy sauce.
Someone was messing with Erin. And by ‘someone’, she knew exactly who it was. But the joke was on them; the container looked like it was Japanese, from home. It even had a product label on the side. It was small, but when emptied of the delicious, salty sauce? It was going to be a perfect little waterproof container.
The two had way too much of their condiment as flavoring that night. Ulvama ate so much she started burping non-stop and glared at Erin when the [Innkeeper] started laughing. She poked Erin repeatedly to get her to shut up. Then she frowned.
“Your aura is still working far from your inn? I can’t sense it.”
“I suppress it most of the time. But I can use it. Just not as well as my inn.”
Erin lay back with a sigh. Then she remembered she had to stay up to watch out for predators. She saw a mosquito buzz past, large as her face, and it flew closer to Ulvama. Erin groaned, and Ulvama quickly decided it was time for bed; she pulled a muddy leaf over her. The mosquito buzzed around several times, landed on Erin’s shoulder, and tried to suck blood.
“Hey, Ulvama?”
The sounds of mosquito death made Ulvama raise her voice slightly.
“Mm?”
“Do you have any favorite foods? I never asked.”
Ulvama thought about it for a long time. When she answered, it was bereft of the [Pavilion of Secrets]. But probably truthful.
“I like crabs.”
“What? Crab?”
“You have a problem with that?”
“No. Nope! Not me. Just—okay, I might have a thing about crabs. Y’know. Rock Crabs.”
“Oh. Not those crabs. I like crab. I used to have them when I was small, before Mountain City. And…rocky, sweet things. Rocks you can eat.”
Ulvama’s voice was far away and sad. Erin stopped and didn’t have to wonder who’d taught her about edible rocks. Ulvama’s voice was nodding off.
“What’s your favorite food, then?”
“Oh, mac-and-cheese, I guess. I’m just not a food person.”
Erin stared at the bones and remains of the fire. She felt at her stomach. Then she lay back.
“…I’d kill for good food. Or a bath.”
“If you find good food bath monster, go kill it for me.”
“You got it, buddy.”
“Stop calling me that.”
“I’m not your buddy, friend?”
“Stop it.”
“I’m not your friend, pal?”
Ulvama threw a fish bone at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] shut up.
 
 
Day 6
 
The next day of the swamps was eventful for three reasons. The two were fishing for breakfast and Erin was talking.
“Okay, fine. It’s seven.”
“What is?”
“Seven [Innkeeper] Skills.”
Ulvama turned her head to Erin. She did some rapid math.
“…Only seven? For six levels?”
“That’s what I said. I think since three are big, I got downgraded. Plus—Level 52 was one of those no-Skill levels!”
Erin slapped her thigh indignantly. Then grimaced and wiped her now-muddy hand on her shirt. Since that only made it worse, she resolved to find a way to boil enough water tonight for a bath. But it was hard to make a container in the swamp…
“How do you know that?”
“Oh, I got levelled up in a list. No Skills at Level 52.”
“Hm. I think at Level 60, or maybe Level 70, you stop having no-Skill levels. Then every level becomes a Skill.”
Erin twisted. The [Shaman] put a clawed hand to her head, trying to remember some of the secrets she’d found in older Goblins’ memories.
“Really? That’d be sweet. Anyways, since you asked, two of my Skills work on my inn. Actually…I wonder if the gang there have noticed.”
Ulvama’s head rose.
“Really?”
“Yep. They might not. One’s a room…wait. Maybe I have to enable the room and the effects? Hey, presto! Bam. Okay, it’s…next to one of the guest rooms? Eh, maybe it should move around. Like that. And that. And hey, that’d be funny if they just started working, eh?”
Erin waggled her fingers, and Ulvama had to imagine what she was doing to her inn.
“So you can still control it and know who’s inside your place?”
“Vaguely. It’s strongest in my [Garden of Sanctuary]. Wanna play twenty guesses about my Skills?”
“No. Tell me. No, wait, do they work on your [Aspect of the Inn]?”
Erin sighed.
“You’re no fun. One of them I can’t figure out, again. I think it’s because I, uh, haven’t done enough travelling. I’ve been to Invrisil and Pallass, but that wasn’t really going anywhere. It’s a travel-related Skill. Okay, fine, stop poking. [Room of the Traveller].”
“Ooh. Ooh. What’s it—”
“No idea. And the other does work with [Aspect of the Inn]. Wanna see?”
Ulvama did. They checked their surroundings, and Erin deactivated her [Reinforced Structure] aspect. Ulvama sat there eagerly as Erin extended an arm, concentrated, and…
Her arm began to lengthen. It slowly extended, skin stretching, and Ulvama instantly lost her appetite for breakfast.
“Look! I never have to reach for the cookie jar again. Whabububububub—”
She waggled her slowly-extending arm at Ulvama, and the Goblin leaned away.
“Stop it. Stop it! It’s gross!”
“It can’t make it extend really fast. I can also get taller, but just my legs. Is it a cool Skill?”
“No!”
Erin made her arm go back and sighed.
“Yeah. The inn-version of the Skill isn’t the greatest either. But it’s fun for messing with people if we ever get back.”
Ulvama slowly sidled back and sat there. She eyed Erin.
“…[Inn: Extended Rooms]?”
“Nope.”
“Does it…make your inn bigger?”
“Nope. Both are close. Wrong thing.”
 
——
 
Walking through the swamps, Ulvama tried her seventeenth guess.
“[Inn: Stretched Corridors].”
“Hey, that was your closest yet!”
“Okay, tell me.”
“[Inn: Long Hallways].”
The two looked at each other as they began to wade from one stretch of ground to another. Ulvama pulled a face. Erin sighed.
