The ability to ‘pavilion out’ might be tempting, but Erin disregarded it as an option except as an extreme resort for one main reason: if she was gone, Ulvama was not. And Ulvama was the more fragile of the two of them.
[Aspect of the Inn: Reinforced Structure] meant that Erin was tough. Ulvama refused to believe how tough until Erin had Ulvama try to stab her with one of the thorn-spears the [Shaman] had made. The Hobgoblin incredulously poked Erin harder each time until she was doing a full run-up stab, and Erin only stumbled from the impact.
“Toldja. Let me go first.”
“I’m tough too. See?”
Ulvama flexed her arms, showing off her magical paints. Erin squinted at them as the two kept working over breakfast; they were taking the thorns and cutting them into smaller pieces, and Erin was trying to make crude ropes out of grass.
It was toolmaking day. You see, Ulvama did have a knife. A crude one made out of stone, but she’d geared herself with the basics for survival. The problem was, she had only her hands, and she was a former [Shaman] of the least survival-oriented tribe of Goblins ever: the Mountain City Tribe.
Erin, likewise, wasn’t a master crafter like Pelt or a [Mage] with utility Skills, but she did have [Advanced Crafting], and Ulvama glowered as Erin twisted together some grass-fiber ropes.
“You make that look too easy.”
“Sorry. Here, give me those thorn-pieces. I’m gonna make a pack. Leaf chunk…”
The concept was simple. You made a rectangular frame, lashed together with pieces of tied-off grass rope, and then bored holes in the tough leaves of the bush and tied those into place.
It was far from waterproof, rattled, and would probably snap if you fell wrong, but you could then secure it to your back with two loops of fiber and make a primitive backpack.
It took Erin thirty minutes to make. Ulvama had been trying for a week to get it right. In the [Shaman]’s defense, Erin’s Skill let her instinctively braid the grass fibers and assemble the backpack in her mind, like she was always staring at the blueprints. She also did it far faster than she would have without the Skill.
“Nice collection of materials.”
“Thanks. Give backpack. Hmf. Too small. We need to put berries in there. And they’ll get sticky.”
Erin handed Ulvama a section of leaf.
“Sandwich this between each of the berries so they don’t stick. I hope it doesn’t attract bugs.”
“Eh. We’ll see them.”
“Good point. But if one comes—what are we fighting them off with? I don’t want you getting hurt if a bird attacks us.”
Ulvama held up her painted arms with satisfaction again.
“This makes me a lot stronger than using mud. It was the enchantments I had back at the inn. So…protection, warming—don’t need that—and unobtrusiveness? Not-noticing is what my old master called it.”
She began to scrub at some of the glowing sigils on her arm. Erin, as a [Witch], eyed the foreign magical system with interest.
“I never asked how it all worked.”
The [Shaman] indicated her paint as she pulled up her mended shirt—another boon of Erin’s power—and scraped at a marking on her stomach. Erin looked away.
“What’s to understand? I paint something, something gets enchanted. Easy.”
“Doesn’t it have drawbacks?”
“Yeah. Water. Or idiots who get it messed up.”
Ulvama removed one of the superfluous sigils and grinned at Erin. The [Witch] frowned.
“Seriously? Nothing else?”
“What do you want? Wearing my magic makes you weak to getting kicked in the knee? No, it’s magic. I can’t write in magic gemstones and make permanent magic, but I get to write a spell in paint unlike a stupid [Mage]. They throw [Fireballs]. I…can do something like that. But less direct.”
Ulvama looked insulted, and Erin held up her hands.
“Sorry, sorry. It’s just—I guess Ceria can make ice wherever she wants. It’s always amazing to me. Hey, the backpack’s sort of tight. Let me adjust the straps. How’s it feel?”
“Like wearing a rock. It’ll be okay.”
Ulvama didn’t look forwards to having to lug the pack everywhere, but it was light, and the two of them were stronger than a Human was, at least, relative to their size. She frowned at her arms.
“…I wish I had paints. I don’t want to put your colors on my skin, but I’d draw more runes to make myself stronger. And…[Shamans] do have drawbacks. We need a tribe. Rags let me use her tribe’s power. But I’m not as strong as a [Mage] by myself.”
She had learned that the hard way. Erin glanced up, bit her lip, but then grinned and made her voice joking.
“Yeah, well, I was thinking that Larracel could, like, port meals from her inn to her. That would be so great.”
Ulvama’s throat closed up, but she smiled instead and let her voice and body relax.
“Yeah. You’re a bad [Innkeeper].”
“Hey! Can Larracel survive fighting a giant beetle trying to saw her in half?”
“Yeah, probably. She’s a [Wizard], Erin.”
“…Right. Damn. Okay—what do we do about weapons? And we need more tools.”
 
——
 
Tools were going to be a thing. It was one thing to have enough to make a crude backpack for the two of them, but Erin’s t-shirt was a mess, and while her allergy-rashes had faded thanks to Ulvama’s mud-poultice, only the [Shaman] had nice clothing thanks to Erin’s Skill.
“I’m out of power. And I don’t exactly know if it’ll work on me. That was, um. A lot of remorse. We’ll have to settle for what we can make. The problem is…my [Advanced Crafting] can make a basket or another bow like that, but not much more. I don’t know how to make, like…a chair? A bad one, but I can’t woodwork.”
Ulvama had a simple bow she’d made and ‘arrows’ from more thorns, but it was weak, and the arrows were prone to missing. She used it to chase off flying insects, and she added that to a pair of thorn spears—not exactly good gear to fight even an angry squirrel, let alone the Corumdon Beetle.
That was apparently its name. Ulvama knew about the Wailer Frogs, and she knew the beetle, or rather, the species it belonged to. The [Shaman] grunted as she watched Erin using her color magic.
“Makes sense. You never were good at crafting. I never saw you do it at the inn. Even if you have [Advanced Crafting], zero multiplied by zero is still zero.”
“Hey! I can make stuff! I did it when I first came to this world!”
Erin glowered at Ulvama and missed the timing on her Skill. She hit a patch of leaves and cursed; the leaves turned slightly paler, and Erin tossed some dark green aside.
The sun was rising, and morning light was shining down through the bush’s leaves. If they were to get moving, they had better start, but the two were preparing. Erin sighed.
“Don’t distract me, Ulvama. That Skill takes energy. Did you see how little green I got? I can’t use the [Drain Color] Skill on living things at all. Even plants resist it. What’s a Corumdon Beetle?”
“Hmm. That one? It’s a big super-leader of his area. Mean. He eats sap, mostly, but I’ve seen him chase birds off. I just know his name. Some [Shamans] hunt them for pigment. But, uh…they send [Warriors] to do it. One of them can bite your nose off. Happened to a [Shaman] in another tribe, I heard.”
“…Great. Well, he can’t hurt me, so we’ll watch out for that guy. And with this new weapon, we’ll—aha! Got it!”
Erin was determined to do this properly. She hadn’t experimented too hard before, but this time…she had Ulvama to protect. So she was determined to make something to help.
A proper piece of metal would have let her cut or whittle wood into good shapes; her woodworking was severely limited without a saw, even if she could shape wood to a limited extent by removing the color and breaking it apart. Since neither she nor Ulvama wanted to take the time to do all that right now, they’d agreed to swing by the beach for another check for either’s bag of holding or materials, then set into the jungle.
They wanted to find a high point, higher than any tree, to see if they could find any signs of civilization. Ulvama had climbed a tree when she’d first landed—and had her traumatic bird experience at the time—and seen nothing.
It might be a long journey, so Erin had thought about how to use color…and the limited things she had.
She had come up with a sword. Ulvama thought it was stupid; even if Erin cut a thorn to make a crude handle, it was more like a rapier, but Erin had given it an edge with Ulvama’s knife. The thorn-sword was probably fragile, and Erin suspected that if she tried to use it against the spear Mantis or another insect, it wouldn’t so much as cut them.
However! That was before she added color. Erin had very few colors to work with, actually.
Leaf green.
Berry purple.
Dirt brown.
Not exactly strong. Even the grey that made the Densecore Rocks and the Splinterwood Bat were, uh…suboptimal. Erin had offered to make the stones for Ulvama, but the [Shaman] had pointed out she could literally cast magic. And if she tried to make a sling, the odds were she’d hit Erin with the projectile.
Therefore, the sword. And the color? Erin reached up and finally caught it.
A slanting beam of morning light flickered, and the warmth bathing her and Ulvama—became stale and ordinary, like artificial light from Erin’s home. Not even as vivid as that. Ulvama’s eyes went round, and she spat out some water she’d been drinking.
“It worked?”
Pale yellow color in Erin’s palm ran down her thorn-sword as she smirked at Ulvama. Even as she raised the sword above her head like a heroine out of a real fantasy, Erin was beaming.
“I present—the Dawn Sword! No, wait, a light sabre!”
She grinned at Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin had actually seen the movie thanks to Erin’s [World’s Eye Theatre].
The Hobgoblin gave the sword a narrow-eyed stare that was skeptical. She held out a hand.
“Okay, fine. Give it to me.”
“What? No, this one’s mine. You said it was stupid.”
Erin teasingly held the sword close to her, and the [Shaman] glared.
“I know how to use a sword. I should use it.”
“Nuh uh. It’s mine because it’s awesome. I made it. Here, watch this!”
Erin lifted the sword, and it was incredibly light. She tossed it up, and it actually hovered in the air. Ulvama stared as Erin gasped, caught the blade, then executed a dramatic swing with it.
Or rather—tried. She made a showy, huge, whirlwind slash around her like a certain video game character.
“Hyup! Haaah!”
And, mid-swing, the Dawn Sword…
Vaporized.
The quality of light itself was, well, lightness. The light of dawn was lighter than air, gentle, and, uh—weak. Erin felt the sword actually disintegrate on contact with the air, and she finished her swing, stumbled, and stared at a mote of light in her palm.
“Aw. Poo.”
Ulvama snorted and gave Erin a mocking look. Erin stomped over to the fire.
“Okay. Next! Flaming arrows!”
 
——
 
The concept was simple. Fire was a universal power. Fire was hot. Erin took the cherry-red of some embers, infused it into the tip of Ulvama’s thorn-arrows, and they tested it on one of the black flies buzzing around eating the purple berries.
Erin did not feel bad about using the flies as target practice. Yes, they were mostly herbivores, but they had tried to take a nasty bite out of her twice before she punched one, and Ulvama said they’d eat anything they could. They weren’t really a threat to her, and Ulvama had gotten a few bites at worst—but both were eager for some payback.
“Take this!”
Ulvama missed two shots, then winged the third fly she saw. Her bow was weak, but it punched the wing of the bug, and Erin saw a flare of flames. The insect fell, and Ulvama loosed arrow after arrow at it.
“It’s working! It’s working! It’s—uh…”
The fire arrows did burst into flame the moment they struck the fly, who recoiled and backed away from the sudden bursts of heat and light. The problem was…the tips of the arrows that Erin had turned red became literal flames.
All well and good, right? The problem was the amount of flame was proportional to how much Erin had turned red.
It was probably like being hit by a matchstick’s worth of flame each time. Maybe it hurt a bit, but it was more alarming than anything else. The flames licked over the fly’s shell—and it seemed to decide Ulvama was less of a threat and more of a nuisance and buzzed at her, mandibles open.
Erin punched it in the abdomen and stomped back to the camp.
 
——
 
“Colors suck.”
Anything Erin turned red with flames became, well, flammable. But fragile. She could turn a piece of leaf red, and it made wonderful kindling; it would literally catch on fire if you broke a piece off, and it was warm.
…It did not make good weaponry. Erin didn’t even bother with a flame sword; it’d just break or burn up, and there wasn’t even that much flame. Ulvama finished cutting up two berries for their packs and critically eyed a crude canteen Erin had tried to make.
“This thing leaks if I tilt it wrong. We need hide or something better.”
Erin was poking at the ground with the last of her red, sulking. The worst part was that she had flames of her own, so there wasn’t even a need to keep an ember around. She just tossed the red down into the dirt.
A patch of cherry-red dirt expanded outwards as Ulvama closed the top of her backpack.
“You done? We need to get moving.”
“Yeah, yeah. Maybe we can find some coins after all. I can make a golden sword.”
“Sounds weak.”
“That’s because you don’t play Minecraft. I’m telling you—”
Erin kicked at the red patch of ground and yelped.
“Oh—Ulvama!”
 
——
 
Ulvama blinked, saw Erin kick the patch of red, loose grains of soil at her—and the powder turned into a storm of sparks. Heading straight at Ulvama.
A shouting, spark-covered Hobgoblin and one [Innkeeper] with a bopped head later, and they’d found the first use-case for Erin’s colors: Spark Dust.
“That’s what I’m calling it. See? You take a handful and fuff!”
Erin blew, and the cloud of red particles turned into sparks. It was colorful, alarming…and still not that dangerous, but it was definitely distracting.
“Give me that. I’ll take it.”
Ulvama demanded to have a small grass satchel of the stuff. She hadn’t gotten burned…much…from her contact with the sparks, but she was a bit sooty and annoyed. She led the way out of the bush maze, back towards the beach, and they had a use for the sparks almost instantly.
Kzkch.
The buzzing sound of wings and something rubbing its spear-claws together made Erin freeze. She saw a Spear Mantis peering at them through one layer of thorns and branches; it stepped over a low-hanging branch delicately, triangular head fixed on them.
“Uh oh. Ulvama, get back. I’ll handle—”
