They didn’t get as far as Erin would have liked, but the downpour did make things hard. They didn’t get that wet either; the tree cover kept them safe, and at least they had water for tonight’s meal.
The meal was coconut soup à la lizard tail.
As in, one of the lizards who’d decided it was time to feast on bugs went for them. It was some variety of giant gecko; after it found out Erin was too strong for it to bite and she punched it hard enough to give it a bloody snout, it abandoned its tail and ran off.
…Lizard meat wasn’t great. But with some bark, after they cut it up and popped it in a pot with coconut and some nuts and a giant thing of rosemary-like herbs that Ulvama had found, it tasted very good.
The first meat dish in a long while. By common consensus, Ulvama and Erin agreed to ration their food more strategically. Erin patted the delicious flakes happily.
“Okay, unless we’re down to rations, the coconut is for flavor. Same with this rosemary stuff. Salt…salt’s hard. Darn, we should have gotten some from the ocean!”
They didn’t camp in another tree den; they couldn’t find one. Instead, they spent several hours dragging leaves around some tree roots and creating an enclosed space. It was far less pleasant, which was probably why Erin had the idea to use her [Pavilion of Secrets] again.
Ulvama wasn’t happy. However, Erin assured her it’d be quick. She was tired and muddy again, and the [Shaman] used her magic to solidify their enclosure…and gave Erin the go-ahead.
 
——
 
Erin walked down the path towards the Pavilion of Secrets. Or some aspect of it? She didn’t feel the mud, or the water, and her full stomach became something of the rest of the world.
“…There it is.”
This time, the door was waiting for her in the center of the gazebo. Instead of the chess board, it just stood there.
Her bathroom door. Erin’s skin crawled as she walked up the steps. She clenched a fist since it was the only weapon she had.
“What would the last Harpy Empress put in here? Not anything too dangerous. This is my place.”
She told herself that, and the Key of Insight was in her grip when she looked down. Yet the door was unlocked already, and when Erin tested the doorknob…her [Dangersense] rang an alarm.
None she had ever heard before. No great tones of doom, no harsh alarm of imminent danger. This one?
It sounded like her alarm clock, and that nostalgia, combined with the door—Erin gritted her teeth and looked around.
“Is this you, you—system of the world? Because it’s not funny if it is. I still don’t know what the box does! If I control this place, if it’s mine, then I want some damn answers! Something to help me and Ulvama! What could threaten me in this place?”
She took a breath, and her heart palpitated.
“What could threaten me in this place?”
Her hand tightened on the doorknob, and it creaked just how she remembered it. Erin turned the handle. She swung the door open—stepped through fast—and then opened her shut eyes.
And stopped.
Erin Solstice stood in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. In the exact same spot she’d been. In the exact same location.
She had passed through the door…into the same room. That void around her. The huge gazebo, smaller now, but the same in nature, now intimate and close.
Only, the door was gone, and a chess table sat right in front of Erin Solstice. No pieces sat on it; it was like chess tables in parks. Bring your own damn pieces.
The exact same…yet the door lay behind her now, still open. And there was one other thing in this [Pavilion of Secrets] summoned by the door.
Another Erin Solstice sat at the chess board, hair turned almost white on the front of her head, falling out and revealing short hair regrowing, like a bad buzz cut on her left side. She had scars on her wrists, and her t-shirt was wet and muddy; it had been partially fixed with lengths of grass, and she had some soup on her cheek.
She was shuffling a deck of cards, the faces glowing, her hands rifling them together in a practiced manner. When she looked up, her hazel eyes glowed despite the lack of light.
Erin Solstice met the eyes of the [Innkeeper] sitting there, face pale with shock. When the other Erin spoke, it was with the real one’s voice.
“The only thing that can harm you here is you yourself. I warn you: this is the place where you will hurt yourself greatly. Take a seat, if you’d like.”
Erin, the real Erin, stared down at the copy of herself. The fake Erin was placing cards face-down in front of her on the chess board. The real Erin’s skin prickled. Her heart pounded. She took a step backwards.
“Nope. Nope.”
She grabbed the door as she backed out of the room. The copy of herself—the Erin Solstice sitting there—raised one eyebrow and smirked.
“I’ll see you later.”
Erin slammed the door, locked it with the Key of Insight, and stood there. Then put her ear to the door, listening.
Not a sound from within. No sound of…the other her trying to get out? Breathing? Was she there?
Was she behind Erin? The [Innkeeper] whirled. She looked around, but the [Pavilion of Secrets] was empty. She prowled around it, slowly moving around the gazebo, staring into the void…but there was nothing there.
Yet the door remained. Erin walked back to it.
“Get lost. I’m not doing this.”
She blinked—and it was gone. Erin sat down at the chess table instead—then popped up. She spun.
“Alright, I know it’s secrets. Show them to me. What else am I missing?”
She spun—and then there were four sets of doors spaced around the gazebo. The path back towards the entrance remained, but Erin saw her bathroom door at one entrance.
A jet black door with red hinges and a familiar symbol she remembered from Visophecin’s room. 
A pink door with golden hinges, neatly titled ‘Aleieta Reinhart’, just like her [Garden of Sanctuary].
And last of all, a door with a curious handle, not a doorknob, which Erin realized was adapted so a being without hands might open it. A Harpy’s door, which you landed on and swung horizontally so you could walk on through. So vast it made Erin stare upwards.
Moore could fit through Sheta’s door with ease.
Her skin was still prickling. Erin stared at her door again—then at the other doors. She took a step towards the door of the Harpy Empress—then began to head back to her door, fist clenched. Then she turned.
“Nope. I’m out.”
Erin strode back the way she’d come. She looked back three times.
Just to make sure the doors hadn’t opened without her.
 
 
Day 3
 
It was Ulvama’s professional opinion that Erin had done the right thing. However, she cautioned Erin.
“That thing in the room. Did you think it was you? Or sentient?”
“I—I don’t know. It didn’t feel like—I can feel what’s in my [Gardens of Sanctuary]. For instance, I know Mrsha’s in there right now with Nanette and Ishkr. And, for some reason, a bunch of gold.”
“Really? They’re not looking for us?”
Ulvama was slightly insulted by this, and Erin shrugged.
“I don’t think so. Maybe they hired someone. But, like, it’s a lot of gold. Just a ton of gold.”
“What, a thousand pieces?”
“No…how much gold would you have if you made a pile up to the hill? Like a second hill of gold?”
Ulvama tried to work that out.
“…Your instincts must be wrong. That’s too much gold.”
Erin gave Ulvama a long look.
“I know that’s true. So I knew…there’s nothing in that room, Ulvama.”
“But you said you saw a copy of yourself.”
“I know. It’s me. Or some—it’s not like Skinner or something else. I think. I hope. But those other rooms…I don’t know what’s in there. What does your, uh, [Shaman] wisdom say about that?”
Erin didn’t expect Ulvama to have an answer, but the [Shaman of the Old Ways] had actually slept on it. The two talked as they heated up cold lizard tail soup—not the best. But they had to eat something, and it was still raining.
They were only lucky their roots hadn’t flooded; they’d picked well. The one nasty shock was finding a bunch of pill bugs had crawled into the same spot when Erin went out in the middle of the night to pee. That wasn’t fun.
“There have been Goblins who had bad Skills before. Bad Skills. Crimson ones. Sometimes, they’re invisible in their head. But Goblins who own something—is different. One Goblin owned a powerful Skill. A bridge. The bridge. Like your inn.”
Erin’s head rose.
“An Inheritance Skill?”
Ulvama nodded as she chewed on some meat from her stew.
“Yah. It was a good bridge. A famous one. It had many powers. But it haunted them, sometimes. It never harmed them or anyone directly. That’s important. Skills you own don’t normally do that. But he was guilty.”
“[The Bridge of Lands, Teylas Donethil].”
Erin murmured, and Ulvama blinked.
“How do you—”
“Ghosts I met talked about it. How—how did it haunt this Goblin?”
Ulvama put down her bowl unhappily.
“He was a great [Builder]. It came to him, and he used it to bring Goblins across land and sea. Then—one asked him to use it for war.”
“Ah.”
Ulvama passed a clawed hand over her face.
“He used it, and blood covered the great bridge. It never did anything to him, but when he went to build on it—for it was never finished—the stone he used turned red. The section of the bridge he was so proud of was covered in blood and bones, and he was given bones instead of metal. Blood filled the waters. In the end, the Goblin threw himself in the sea because of the guilt.”
Erin stopped chewing and stared at Ulvama, no longer hungry.
“I—”
The [Shaman] opened her eyes.
“—And he landed on the great bridge. He couldn’t drown himself. He tried many times, then gave up and began to clean it. He made amends and refused to take Goblins to war. In time, he went back to building it with stone. An old Goblin helped build part of it. But it never hurt him.”
Erin blinked. Ulvama stared at her, then went back to eating, and after a moment, Erin found her appetite again.
So that was what a [Shaman] was good for. Erin spat out a tailbone into the fire after a second, where it sizzled and cracked.
“…So you think it’s not going to harm me.”
“I think it told you the truth. You harm yourself when you enter. Be careful. It sounds like there is danger.”
“But only what I can do. Got it. I’ll…try again. Soon. Tonight. Maybe. Want to keep moving?”
 
——
 
A threat emerged from the rains on the third day. An unpleasant one. The first hint over the thunderous downpour and flashes of heart-stopping lightning was the sound.
Riiibooooooooooot. Ribooooooooooooooooooooooooat.
“Great. It’s them again.”
Wailer Frogs were on the hunt. Now, Erin saw how the huge, four-foot plus frogs lived. Not in their little mud puddle; they lived for this.
They were big enough to ignore the rains sweeping animals away, and their hunting tactic was simple: they hopped to a spot with prey, inflated their lungs—and blasted everything with sound.
Birds fell out of trees. Insects were stunned. Animals went deaf. Erin and Ulvama weren’t even in the radius of the frogs at first, and the sound was deafening.
“[Deafen Ears]! Argh! It still hurts!”
Even with Ulvama’s spell, the vibrations alone made the two cover their ears. The Wailer Frogs sounded like they were heading through the forest in an organized manner, flushing out food—and there were dozens of them. Erin pointed wildly.
“We have to go across the river! Away from them!”
“What? How?”
The little stream had become a raging river—and it had already been too dangerous to just swim across before the downpour. But it was either that or break out of the Wailer Frog hunting grounds another direction that risked running into them.
In the end, it was Ulvama who saved them. Well, Ulvama’s magic and a crazy idea from Erin’s talks with Niers.
The animals not hit by the full force of the Wailer Frogs’ cacophony knew they had to run or die. It became a free-for-all as opportunistic predators and scavengers went for a quick meal while at the same time needing to escape the Wailer Frogs, who would kill anything they could find.
In fact, Erin swore she heard a pig screaming and the frogs ribbiting around it. She saw a tree shake and wondered if it was fighting back—then the squealing disappeared.
“Uh oh. I think they killed a pig. A big one.”
“What?”
Even the birds were taking flight, risking the rain rather than death by frog. Several went down, wings soaked, and Erin saw the river churning. Fish having their food delivered. But it did give her a desperate idea.
As the Wailer Frogs were closing in, Ulvama and Erin, anchored to a branch, watched as more birds made a break for it. One, a huge, plumed fellow with a bright red crest, leapt from a branch—then swerved as Ulvama planted her thorn-spear down and shouted.
“[Command Animal]!”
The bird slowed, fanning its wings, and Ulvama shouted.
“Land! Land!”
The bird didn’t want to. Ulvama could normally command some animals with her magic, but the size imbalance meant the bird hovered near a branch as the croaking below grew louder, landed, then began to fly off—that was where Erin came in.
“[Feather Hop]! [Flutter Run]…aha!”
She jumped, hovered in the air, and threw a loop of grass-rope around the bird’s talons. It snapped shut, and Erin yanked on the loop, and it tightened. The bird tried to peck at the rope, and Erin hung to it, swaying crazily.
“Ulvama! Grab on!”
The [Shaman] grabbed at the rope, swearing, and the two jerked around as Erin looped the rope around her arm. She was worried it might tear Ulvama’s arm loose if the bird jerked it too hard; her body was tougher, so she grabbed Ulvama and held on.
“Alright! Let’s go—aaaaaaaaa—”
It was the most terrifying three minutes of flight in their entire lives. The red-crested bird took off as Ulvama released the magic, and a frog hopped into view. The bird shot into the storm and instantly began to fly for the nearest refuge; the trees across the river.
Water soaked the bird’s feathers, and it flapped desperately. The two hung on for dear life. Falling didn’t scare them; falling into the water? That was death.
They’d gotten lucky, though. This was a magical bird, at least in some respects. It had a beak that could glow and brighten.
A magic-crested, glowing beaked warbler! Or something. It crossed the river, and Erin and Ulvama cheered! They saw the other trees coming up—then saw the bird turn its head and open its beak.
“Nononono, you stupid—”
Ulvama tried to cast a spell as Erin shouted at it, but the bird turned, raised one claw, and snipped the grass rope.
