—They landed in the pouring rain, across the river, as water rushed across a muddy bank towards the churning water behind them. Erin got up first; her arm was tangled in the rope. She hauled Ulvama to her feet, and they looked back.
Wailer Frogs were still raising hell from their side of the river. More birds and even insects were fleeing the forest, and as Erin watched, a second boar crashed out of the trees ahead of them and into the river.
“Holy smokes. That thing’s covered in armor. It’s a pig in armor!”
“Stelbore.”
Ulvama saw the fleeing pig being pursued by frogs. Without a word, she and Erin began to hurry towards the trees. Only when they looked back once did Erin squint.
“…Hey. Is that a giant beetle attacking the boar?”
A familiar, red flying dot was harassing the Stelbore, which was probably eight feet long and hundreds of pounds. The Wailer Frogs had stopped hopping after it and were returning to the forest. Ulvama and Erin stared at each other.
“…Nah.”
The [Shaman] sneezed. Then spotted something on the ground. She ran forwards, picked it up, and smiled despite their hair-raising escape.
“Erin! Look! Maybe this fixes your shirt, eh?”
Erin brightened up instantly. It was a giant, red feather.  Then she shivered and sneezed again.
 
——
 
The chill of the rain proved to be almost as deadly as the downpour itself. The soaked feather, Erin, and Ulvama all warmed by an emergency fire she conjured; when their shivering had stopped and they had dried off, the two set out, using the trees as additional cover.
That was thankfully the worst of it; Erin once again thanked Maviola for her fire Skill. Without it, they would have been in dire straits.
The two spent the rest of that day lightly hiking away from the river, plucking pieces off the feather and arguing how to best turn it into fabric or something close.
 
 
Day 4
 
On the fourth day, the rain stopped. The air was muggy and humid, and the forest was wet, but it beat the downpour. Erin was in a good mood; she had a new t-shirt.
Okay, it was mostly feather dander, grass strips, and her old t-shirt combined into one, but at least it covered her up, and she didn’t shiver every time the wind blew. In fact, it looked to be a far better morning.
“I bet we got at least a hundred feet from the beach. Whaddya think, Ulvama?”
“Eh. Maybe fifty at least.”
Four days of setting out, and Erin was optimistic. She inhaled as she looked around for food this morning; they’d found a mushroom that Ulvama had deemed edible, and it hadn’t been great, but the coconut had helped.
Today was all about food and maybe finding that high ground! Erin took a deep breath of the forest air. Then sneezed. And sneezed.
“Oh no. Whut’s dat.”
She stared upwards, and Ulvama poked her head out of a leaf tent and stared upwards. She instantly began making a feather bandanna for her face.
“Pollen.”
 
——
 
“Ib blew my face off.”
“No, you didn’t.”
Ulvama turned her head as they hiked up towards a large boulder and changed her mind. She paused…gingerly produced a leaf ‘handkerchief’, and wiped. Then she tossed the handkerchief away, found another, and wiped again.
“I hayt pollen.”
“Is pretty bad.”
Ulvama had to agree to that. Her skin itched. Erin? Erin got the full works. Ulvama had never actually known what ‘blew my face off’ meant in regards to nose blowing, but Erin had managed a few sneezes that had redefined the phrase for Ulvama.
Dehydration was an issue. Erin’s nose was red and raw, and it ran constantly. She was sneezing without end—you’d imagine you’d stop—and she’d drunk three canteens of water.
Ulvama herself was surprised to be suffering herself, albeit far less than Erin. One of the reasons Ulvama had been a good [Shaman] was because she had never had any allergic reaction. But when the Hobgoblin grimaced upwards, she could see pollen literally floating downwards.
Huge globs of it, some as large as their heads. Yellow dandruff from some damn plant shedding in such profusion it was driving them insane. Ulvama eyed what might be hives on her arms and legs and applied more mud as a protective coating.
[Reinforced Structure] or not, Erin was suffering bad. They were hiking despite the pollen falling, though, to try and get out of range of it. Or at least, Ulvama reasoned, they might climb this boulder and see a spot clear of it.
They had more problems too; Ulvama checked her coconut shavings after their second rest stop by the stream to let Erin wash her face.
“There’s pollen in the water. Is my face puffy?”
Ulvama turned, and Erin grimaced at her. Erin’s face was indeed swollen up. The Hobgoblin’s wince made Erin go back to washing her features. Ulvama, meanwhile, chucked some of the coconut flakes into the water.
“Coconut’s gone moldy.”
“Damn. So fast?”
“It was rained on for two days. The backpacks aren’t waterproof.”
Erin blearily stumbled over to the backpacks.
“I can fix it. I just need…tarp stuff. Or better wood frames. See how these shift?”
She rattled the thorn-frames held together only by lengths of rope, which had frayed already from transit. Erin knew, instinctively, that a more solid frame would work. They might even make one if they used Ulvama’s stone dagger and a bit of creative work with flame and whatnot…but she had no nails or anything else.
She knew there had to be something—but a sneezing Erin was not in a good position to figure it out. Ulvama unpacked the rest of the coconut flakes, hoping they’d dried in the sun; she’d spread them out on a rock.
Erin kicked one with a boot.
“That’s bad.”
“How can you tell?”
Ulvama chucked it as Erin sneezed, thankfully avoiding their half-a-pack’s worth of food.
“[Advanced Cooking]. I think.”
She was half-blind as she followed Ulvama onwards, and the sneezing, coughing [Innkeeper] was so miserable this day that Ulvama tried her best to distract Erin.
“We’re almost at the boulder, Erin. You follow me and climb. Um…so. What new Skills do you have besides the box, the [Aspect of the Inn], and the [Pavilion of Secrets]?”
Erin sniffed mightily as she half-crawled up the rocks. Ulvama had to own, she was curious. Erin was a Level 55 [Innkeeper]; she’d gotten more than just a capstone Skill, and powerful as that was, Ulvama wondered what else you got from that many levels.
The [Innkeeper] didn’t reply at first, and Ulvama continued as they saw more of the world around them. She glanced back and frowned.
“…If it’s a secret, it’s okay. Hey, we’re further than you thought.”
“No, I was just doing a reverse Pisces.”
“A wh—gross.”
Ulvama handed Erin another grass handkerchief. Erin wiped her nose, then finally took a look the way they’d come.
“…That’s a lot farther than a hundred feet.”
“Yup.”
The sea was faintly visible on the horizon. Ulvama calculated they’d gone around five miles, if the Fraerling biology wasn’t playing havoc with her instincts. Erin looked cheerful at this, though.
“Hey, at least we’re making progress! It’s not super fast, but…huh. Look at that.”
She pointed in the other direction, and with the advantage of height, the two finally got a good look around them.
If Ulvama had to lay out the general geography, she’d start with the ocean, which met a long, seemingly endless beach. Past that was the jungle, but it wasn’t all treeline. There were areas, like the Wailer Frogs’ mud pond or her thorn bush patch, that broke up the terrain.
However, their road north had taken them mostly along a stream that ran into the Wailer Frog pond. When the rains fell, the stream became an inlet to the sea. They had gone to the right side first, using the trees as cover during the rain, but crossed over onto the other side to avoid the Wailer Frogs.
Now, ahead of them, the tree cover began to, if not subside, then change in nature. The more temperate trees that the two were used to, albeit more densely packed and covered with decent greenery, began to spread out. Huge, wide, wide trees with massive root systems sprawled out along terrain that Ulvama thought was grassy.
Then she realized: they were lily pads. They were staring at a huge damn swamp dead ahead.
“Great! That’s where all the water’s come from. Darn it, is it bad water, then?”
“Maybe not. We boiled it most times.”
Ulvama was dismayed by the swamp. She liked them for ingredients, but only with a bunch of other Goblins to run security, thanks. It seemed to her it was a bad place to go as a Fraerling; the treacherous terrain would also let predators hide.
The only other spot ahead that wasn’t swampy was a clearer patch of forest on the left side. It seemed only natural to head that way; the trees were broken up in a few places by tall deadwood spires. Erin pointed them out.
“Huh. Those are some big trees that died. Let’s head that way?”
“Mm.”
The two picked a path heading away from the marsh, swamp, or whatever the term was and set out. After half a minute of walking down the boulder, Erin spoke.
“They’re not good Skills for exploring or surviving out here.”
Ulvama’s ears perked up. She casually glanced at Erin.
“So they’re…inn Skills?”
“Sorta. I want to keep them secret.”
“Okay.”
“To surprise you.”
Erin glanced at Ulvama and relented after a second.
“Oh—fine. I’ll tell you a few, okay?”
She was a private person, and Ulvama wondered who actually kept more secrets between the two of them. After a few more minutes of walking, Erin muttered.
“—good if we’re actually at a place. I didn’t even get a chance to use ‘em. I think they’re all related to what I did at the Solstice or after.”
“Mhm.”
Ulvama tried to not look excited. Surely, everyone had gotten new Skills, but Erin’s? What did a Level 50+ [Innkeeper] get?
“…Gotta ‘nother handkerchief? Tank you.”
Erin walked, blew her nose, kicked a pebble, and spoke.
“[Lesser Authority: Buildings].”
Ulvama twisted around. She saw a furry shape duck behind a tree but stared at Erin.
“What does that mean?”
Erin did a Pisces.
“Dunno. Definitely doesn’t work here.”
She glared balefully around at everything. At least the pollen seemed to be blowing towards the sea. Ulvama hopped up and down on her toes.
“Give—give another.”
“‘Mkay. How about, uh…uh…achoo! I have one for <Quests>!”
“Quests?”
Suddenly, that rang a bell. Ulvama grabbed Erin’s arm.
“Erin! Why didn’t you post a <Quest> telling everyone in the inn where we are and to come get us? Tell them to come find us!”
Erin sniffed.
“Can’t. It doesn’t work if I don’t know where I am. I can’t make it say, and I can’t lie.”
“Well—then—just say to come help us! Rescue us!”
Ulvama was astonished Erin hadn’t posted a <Quest> all the time she’d been drifting at sea. But snotty face or not, red, puffed up skin or not—Erin’s expression hardened.
“I don’t need help. I des—I’ve got you, Ulvama. We’re fine, and we don’t need to draw trouble down on us.”
The [Shaman] blinked.
Let go of Erin.
After a second, they kept going.
 
——
 
After about fifteen minutes, Erin realized she was sneezing less. She’d spent the entire time thinking, though. She broke the silence.
“I can ask for help, I guess.”
“Mm. Might be a good idea.”
Ulvama’s face was neutral. Erin nodded too-carefully. What the [Innkeeper] didn’t say was that she’d post a quest…for Ulvama’s sake.
She deserved this.
Erin went on after a moment, trying to avoid the eyes of a [Shaman].
“So one of my Skills is <Quest>-based.”
That drew Ulvama’s attention. Erin waited a beat.
“Wanna know what it is?”
Ulvama chopped Erin’s forehead with a palm, and Erin saw the Goblin wince. The [Innkeeper] grinned ruefully, drew out the suspense, and said:
“[Quest: Impossible Deed, Impossible Reward].”
This time, Ulvama’s silence was weightier. Erin herself felt the words provoke a memory. Colth going over the railing into the sea with a snarling Iert.
Don’t come back up until he’s dead.
“…What kind of reward…?”
“Dunno. Sounds cool though, right?”
“Yah. How impossible is, uh…impossible? Can you give me a <Quest>?”
That was a fun question, so the two tried to craft a <Quest> as they marched out of the world of pollen. Erin’s voice got scratchy, and they had to stop and boil water twice so she could wash her face and drink—Ulvama kept on the lookout for anything to eat, and they found something in one tree.
“Hey. Is dat a kiwi?”
It was not. It resembled one; it had a fuzzy shell like a kiwi, the only fruit Erin knew of that was like the strange object, but it was larger, mango-sized. Several had fallen, and Ulvama announced most were rotten—but not all. They found a freshly-fallen one barely damaged from the rainstorm and carved past the tough exterior to find food.
The fruit was, again, sweet, and Ulvama claimed it was delicious. Erin, grimacing, sucked up the juice and munched on the fruit after they’d roasted it over a fire; they’d seen worms going for the other fruits, and neither one wanted parasites. Then they set out with new packs full of fruit, though some damn fruit flies kept buzzing around them; Ulvama cast a charm, and they backed off, but hovered ten feet away, buzzing hopefully.
“Okay. How about…<Basic Quest: Get Dinner!>”
“Yah, yah. I can do that. Now make it impossible.”
“Okay. Basic…no. Rare—hrm. Heroic—wait, I think I can do rare?”
Erin struggled with it for a while, then read out a quest before she actually assigned it to Ulvama.
 
<Rare Exclusive Quest – Get Dinner, Ulvama!>
Limits: Only Ulvama!
I’m hungry! Blah blah description here…
 
“Hey! This is my first quest. Make it good.”
Ulvama poked Erin with the butt of her thorn-spear. Erin was about to laugh at her, then realized Ulvama was actually glaring.
Sometimes, Erin forgot that what was still like a game to her—mattered to the people of this world. Even Mrsha had done almost every <Basic Quest>, come to it. Erin tried again.
 
<Rare Exclusive Quest – Get Dinner, Ulvama!>
Limits: Only Ulvama! No bugs.
I’m hungry! Erin Solstice is down for the count because of allergies and stuff. She needs food! Good food! Any food! Not bugs. Get something nice in ingredient form!
Posted Reward: Erin will cook it up! Her undying gratitude! A meal for you, probably!
Quest Reward: Dinner! Experience in <Exploration>, <Hunter>, <Cooking>, applicable to [Shaman] class.
Optional Condition (Impossible): I see a huge bird of prey in the swamps. Kill it by yourself for food within a day’s time.
 
Ulvama stopped. She replayed what Erin had said in her head—and followed the direction of Erin’s gaze.
