“We have countless buried soldiers, Erin Solstice, and the treasures of ages. The Arrows of Razzimir themselves are a suitable deterrent to any immediate reprisals from Roshal or Rhir.”
He refused to answer. They were just words; anyone could speak words. He refused to say it, even though he knew she knew.
But she could compel him to talk. Suddenly, Erin was certain of that. Fetohep would never say it. Not in the real world. But here?
Give and take. Ah, now she saw it. This place was dangerous. The [Innkeeper] took a breath.
“Tell me, Fetohep. Please?”
“There is nothing to say, Erin Solstice. What else would you have me do?”
His head slowly turned to her, and now they both were waiting. To find out how this place worked—the [Innkeeper] closed her eyes. Then she told him a secret.
Something true.
“…Fetohep. I will not be your heir. Even if you disappear, and Pewerthe, I will not be the next Queen of Khelt. If you send the class for me now, on the moment of your death—I will turn it down.”
The words filled the air and swallowed what had come before. A truth she had told him before, or intimated by her deeds. But in this place?
Fetohep of Khelt went still. His golden eye flames flickered. He didn’t question her. He didn’t deny it. He felt the truth in every word and realized—she meant it. She was not lying to him or herself.
Then, his voice was quiet and pained.
“Why? I had always thought you might, if you set foot here. When you had need of Khelt’s might. Pewerthe has been prepared to assist you and wait for that hour, even if she must take the throne.”
[The Wandering Innkeeper] looked at him and shook her head.
“That day won’t come, Fetohep. I do not know them. I do not love your people. I do not want to. I do not want to be Khelt’s Queen, because I would send them to their deaths. Or change them from a paradise. I do not want to be that person.”
He said nothing. She looked him in the eye, and try as he might, he could not pretend that she was lying to him or herself. The King of Khelt sat there, and Erin felt the weight of this room pressing on them now.
This terrible place. Sheta’s weapon against her enemies.
She had given something to him, just like he had to her, but this one had a cost.
—And yet he still said nothing. Or rather, when he spoke, his voice was husky, and the words were true.
“I shall put all the might I am capable of behind your deeds and the promises from the lands of the dead you honor, Erin Solstice. As long as needed.”
—But it was not what she wanted, and the weight remained. So, mercilessly, painfully, she added to it. For he had to know.
“There is no plan, Fetohep.”
This time, he jerked. The King of Khelt’s head rose.
“…What do you mean?”
Erin looked him in his eyes.
“Just what I meant. I don’t have one to save Khelt. I don’t have a way to restore the lost souls of Khelt. Or restore your kingdom’s power.”
“You are Khelta’s chosen successor. She has acknowledged you.”
He was trying to deny it. But Erin shook her head. And her voice was cuttingly gentle.
“Khelta did everything she could to just return me from the dead. One little ghost. She didn’t give me any way out for Khelt. No secret plans beyond putting souls in the dead bodies. None of the others had a scheme. There aren’t any orders. I haven’t given you any secret instructions or Skills or…because I don’t have any. There isn’t anything.”
Now, the corpse of a man sat there, flames dim in their sockets. Unmoving. His voice was quiet as she rose, putting her hands on the table.
“Surely one did.”
The [Innkeeper] shook her head painfully. She had told him, not in so many words, but told him of the plans for the world. Hopes, dreams, wishes—now she saw what he had told himself she had to have: a plan for his nation.
It was easy to lie. But this place was for secrets. And truth.
“No. All the might of Khelt, the weight of all their souls and deeds—it was enough to protect Chandrar in death. Enough to make a stand. They left it all to you, Fetohep. They know…they knew what they were leaving you with. They were ashamed, I think. I don’t have anything for you from the dead.”
Secrets. She had given him two, so painful and heavy—that they balanced invisible scales. Only Fetohep knew the cost of what she wanted. So. When Erin said that, the King of Khelt went limp a second. Then he sat straight upright and stood. He walked past Erin, down the steps of the gazebo—and into the void.
They became the sands of Zeikhal where they met Khelt’s border. A setting sun bloomed orange and heavy behind him. The King of Khelt stared into the unending desert. Then he turned to her and told her what she wanted to know.
Secrets for secrets.
“…They call themselves the People of Zeikhal. A cult, as many I have seen upon Chandrar. There are more numerous tribes. Raiders exceedingly better-armed and trained. Yet these ones have little fear of Khelt. They throw themselves into battle with my undead soldiers when nations would not. And they have a weapon I have not seen before.”
“Which is?”
“Faith. It would appear it is a natural weapon against the undead.”
Erin’s head bowed. Fetohep lifted a hand, and for a second, behind them, she saw his cities appear. But he did not show them to her. Instead, the King of Khelt stood with his back to the setting sun and spoke, voice ponderously heavy.
“My cities have rats, Erin Solstice. A plague of insects is growing.”
She said nothing. He went on, voice halting.
“I will do all I can. I am not Queen Xierca, let alone Khelta. I have yet great allies. I may deflect the animosity against me from Rhir. Roshal’s reprisals I could match; even Terandria and the Claiven Earth are humbled. But when I stumble when catching rats—I cannot stop the world from seeing that, Erin Solstice.”
He looked at her, and there were tears in her eyes. They ran onto the sand as Fetohep of Khelt raised one hand. The wind blew, and there was a door waiting for him. He regarded it. Then turned back to her and smiled. His voice echoed with the majesty of his kingdom. All the truth he had. He met her eyes and bowed slightly.
“…Khelt’s walls are made of crumbling sand. I shall take responsibility for what happens next.”
Then he gently opened the door and walked out. And Erin Solstice stood and wept a while.
