Ulvama eyed the Spear Mantis, which was a threat to the local wildlife, and tossed the entire bundle of Spark Dust at it.
“Run.”
The shower of red sparks made the mantis recoil and stab at them wildly. It backed away, unnerved by the heat and motion, and Erin and Ulvama dashed in the opposite direction. The mantis hesitated, but declined to give pursuit.
“Hey! I could have taken it!”
Erin protested as she jerked a thumb over her shoulder. Ulvama eyed their thin thorn-spears.
“Maybe. But what would be the point?”
“Uh…we could use its spear-things instead?”
“Too much work. Why do we fight things if we’re not going to eat and we don’t have to? That makes no sense. The Spark Dust is good for distracting things. Make more next time we start a fire. But even if we kill something—we’ll just attract more animals, right?”
Erin opened her mouth as the two tromped through the bushes, Ulvama poking a fly in the face that got too near them. They had…different approaches to survival, she realized.
 
——
 
Ulvama was all too content to avoid conflict. And she found the way Erin walked around the forest unnerving.
“What are you doing? Walk closer to tree roots!”
“I am!”
“No, you’re not! You’re in the open! Like this! Under the root! Now nothing can see you from above!”
Erin had to stoop to crouch-walk under a root jutting above them, giving them aerial cover. Then Ulvama pointed.
“See that dirt ledge there? Now we look around—and run to it.”
Erin was incredulous.
“Is this how you moved all the time? How’d you get anywhere?”
“Safely. How did you get anywhere safely? You didn’t! Come on.”
It took them longer to get to the beach than Erin liked, but even here, Ulvama proved she was more oriented than Erin. She pointed out a stone she’d written a simple rune on.
“See? I put a tiny bit of magic into this. So I know where it is. Ocean’s just ahead.”
“Oh. Smart!”
Erin nodded approvingly. Ulvama gave her a long look.
“…You didn’t do that. Did you?”
“Well, I, uh, didn’t have any craft until now—”
“Not even a fragment of power?”
Erin shaded her eyes, staring across the bright, hot sands of the beach.
“Hey, I can’t see any good detritus. Damn. How far do you want to check for stuff?”
The [Shaman] rolled her eyes. Then she began to add more magic into the stone.
“This will last…eh, a few more days. I won’t sense it if we go too far, but until then, we can use it as a direction. You want to put your magic in it?”
Erin doubted she could with the same ease as Ulvama. Witchcraft wasn’t the same as [Shamanic] magic; it had to matter or relate to something Erin was making to work. She eyed something on the stone, though.
“Hey, it’s another word. What’s this say?”
“Hm? Oh. ‘Water’. I wrote it just in case. Do you not mark things?”
Erin ignored that second jab as she stared at the word written in the English alphabet—but an entirely different word.
“Shu. Is that ‘water’?”
“Yep.”
Ulvama went hiking along the place where sand met soil. She took a few steps onto the sand with her own sandals, cursed, and hopped back.
“It’s hot. Too hot. Let’s walk and see if we can spot anything. Put that back.”
Erin tossed the stone down and strode along with Ulvama. Now they were actually here, walking along, Erin realized they hadn’t done this.
Oh, they’d had morning dance-exercise, and she’d gotten to know Ulvama. But it wasn’t even like Numbtongue where she’d gone shopping or hung out with him. Ulvama was often around when they had movie night or things were happening at the inn.
But she still wasn’t like—like Lyonette, who Erin could just pull aside and talk to. Or Selys, who would come over for a chat or to complain to, or whom Erin would find whenever she went to Liscor—
Tekshia’s dead.
Erin slowed a step, and her face fell. The pavilion, the survival—it had put those thoughts out of her mind for the first time in a month. Now, she gave Ulvama’s back a guilty glance. The [Shaman]’s words with her were fresh in her mind, and Erin knew it was wrong.
Even so.
[Aspect of the Inn: Garden of Sanctuary]—
It was like a compulsion. Erin walked forwards, and an old Drake leaning on a spear emerged from the forest, her faded, grey-green scales covered in blood. Tekshia Shivertail raised her head. Then shouted.
“She’s doing it again, Goblin. You stupid girl.”
Ulvama nearly leapt out of her skin, whirled, saw the statue, and stared at Erin. She stormed over as Tekshia vanished, mid-smirk. Erin lifted her hands.
“I was just—”
Ulvama seized Erin’s ear and twisted.
“Ow! Ow, that really hurts—”
“Put it back to reinforced structure, stupid! Stop doing that!”
 
——
 
Twenty minutes later, Erin broke the silence.
“Um. So…”
Ulvama hadn’t let Erin out of her sight. She made Erin walk ahead of her, and the two were giving up hope of finding either bag of holding. She grunted.
“Time to go into the forest?”
“Sure. But, uh—so. You know, I never really picked up Goblin. It feels stupid, but when you told me how to say ‘help’—naefoma—I remembered that. Shu means water.”
“Yeah.”
Ulvama peered at Erin. Not exactly hostile—she seemed definitely unhappy about how Erin had used her Skill if her thunderous glare was anything to go by. But she didn’t hate Erin. Or so Erin hoped.
They were the only two people around. If anything, Ulvama seemed concerned and worried about Erin. Which made Erin feel bad because Ulvama was the one who needed help.
They were going to get out of this. Erin gave Ulvama a sidelong glance. In the distance, she could see the sand fleas bouncing around and the tide slowly hitting the beach. It was bright; water flashed with sunlight, and the temperature was bearable. Erin didn’t want to imagine how hot the summer might be if this was still winter.
It would have been lovely if they weren’t so damn small or lost. Erin cleared her throat.
“I, uh—you know, even when the Redfangs were there. Numbtongue, Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Rabbiteater, and Badarrow—”
Her throat tightened. Almost, she went back to her Skill—but no.
Those statues didn’t talk. Erin went on.
“I never asked to learn to speak Goblin. I could have, but I was too busy.”
Ulvama snorted gently.
“You don’t have to learn Goblin. What…because you want to be called ‘Goblinfriend’? Just be a friend. Only Goblins speak Goblin. It’s hard to learn. It’s gestures and language.”
“I know. Body language and stuff. But I—do you think I could?”
Ulvama tilted her head.
“Maybe. Why, do you want me to teach you? It won’t help us.”
She glanced challengingly at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] waved her hands.
“I know that. But maybe it’s a good way to pass the time. If, y’know, you want to teach. It wouldn’t hurt, right?”
The [Shaman] was silent for a long time as they continued walking. She exhaled after a while, and Erin wondered if it would be smarter to go along the beaches—or head inland. She suspected inland. The beaches, as predictable as they might be, would eventually have a storm, and one wave dragging them out to sea was instant death. Far, far better to be away from high tide like that.
Ulvama broke the silence at last.
“…If you want to learn, I’ll teach you some words. Speaking Goblin is harder. But sure.”
Erin brightened up. They had their first Goblin lesson as they walked along the beach.
“Okay, what’s my first lesson?”
“Uh…how to say ‘I’? Va. Va is I.”
“Va. Va Erin.”
“Yep. Van is ‘we’. O is ‘you’.”
“Va Erin, o Ulvama?”
“Yup. What else? Eh, numbers?”
“Sure, sure. That’s how we did it in school with Spanish. I don’t speak Spanish. Lay it on me. One to ten? Or do you do it different—”
“We do it same. Ti, fa, sif, keta, mien, pru, hast, hax, chur, pir—-pir-i-ti is eleven…pir-i-fa…”
“Whoa, whoa, slow down! Let me try! Ti, fa, sif, keta…um…mean?”
Erin was doing her best to memorize the numbers, but Ulvama’s heart wasn’t in it. After correcting Erin, the [Shaman] shook her head.
“This is stupid.”
“Aw, come on, Ulvama. Please?”
“I don’t want to teach you like this. I’ll just…speak Goblin to you or something. Or teach you practical words. Okay?”
That made more sense, admittedly. Erin still insisted on doing the one-to-ten numbering, and then Ulvama pointed out something easier.
“Shu is water. Shuli is ocean. The same way shush means ‘wet’ or covered in water.”
“Oh, I get it. What’s the word for…drenched, then?”
“Eh…shush. Smak shush. ‘Very wet’. Or I’d just say ‘shush’ but do like this.”
Ulvama used one hand and made a quick gesture, palm facing towards her, running down her face. She saw Erin’s face and explained.
“That is how to show ‘all over’. So wet all over.”
“So you did the word…and the hand gesture?”
“Yah, it’s very fast. We don’t have a word for drenched. Or…what’s the point? Young Goblin don’t have time to memorize.”
That actually squared with Erin’s understanding of Goblin. It was an adaptive language that depended a lot on context and body motion. It made things easier for her in one sense: a few words would go a long way. In another sense, she had to learn the body language too, or the words became half as useful.
Even so, they began trading words back and forth. Ulvama quickly developed a somewhat tired, somewhat amused attitude, as one might teaching a child a language. But it kept them busy.
“How do you say tree?”
“Kopo.”
“River?”
“Hairó. We should find one for water.”
“Right, right. Um…rock?”
“Kos.”
“Coconut?”
“Uh…we probably just say coconut. Because it isn’t a thing Goblins—wait, what?”
Erin pointed at something off to the right, half-buried in the sand, as Ulvama floundered. The [Shaman]’s head rose, and she stared at a brown object that made Erin begin walking faster. The [Innkeeper] and [Shaman] looked at each other.
“Coconut!”
 
——
 
“Coco-nut. Coco-nut. Coco-nut. What? Don’t look at me like that.”
Imagine, if you will, an [Innkeeper] squatting up and down to the rhythm of her chanting on top of a giant coconut buried in the sand.
Then imagine Ulvama’s expression. Everyone had their different ways of coping with a survival situation. Some, like Halrac, might become incredibly serious.
Erin went the opposite way sometimes. She was trying to make Ulvama laugh. The Goblin glared.
“Go figure out how to open it. You open them, right?”
She didn’t actually know about coconuts as much as Erin, who assured her that it was not only okay to eat, but had water and was a delicacy. Ulvama waited until Erin had her back turned and was energetically trying to stab it with her thorn-spear to turn her head.
Snrk. She was straight-faced when Erin turned back suspiciously.
The battle of the coconut took twenty-seven long minutes to conclude. First, Erin broke her thorn on the coconut. Then Ulvama suggested using [Blazing Hand] to bore through the shell with fire. Then Erin began using [Minotaur Punch].
After that, they tried to hammer a stone through the shell. Erin tried to use [Drain Color], but coconuts were technically alive.
…And hard as hell. Erin knew people had died when coconuts fell on their head, but she hadn’t realized just how damn hard this one was. She almost set it on fire, but they were making progress.
A combination of magic, punches, scraping at a part of the shell, and fire eventually cleared a patch of shell. Erin’s [Drain Color] Skill had less effect on living things, but the seed was enough of a plant for her to ‘bore’ a hole through it. When Erin finally punched a hole into the side and was rewarded with white flesh and liquid, both she and Ulvama cheered.
Then they began to eat.
Coconut was not one of Erin’s favorite dishes, actually. She’d had coconut before and didn’t really see the appeal in having it on rice or on most things.
At this moment? Coconut was her favorite food. It had a decadent taste to it after so long eating sweet berries or honey or just nuts—and it wasn’t the sweet that triggered her memories of the Ashfire Bee honey.
“This would be so good on rice, actually. And the water!”
“Don’t touch it with your stupid hands! We need to save it for drinking!”
Coconut water! The two greedily dipped in their little flasks to drink as much of it as they wanted; and it would be perfect travel rations! The only thing that could drive the two to tears was actually the knowledge they couldn’t haul the entire coconut out with them.
Nevertheless, they ate their fill, and Erin understood again how much energy they were burning; they ate a good chunk of the coconut’s flesh, then stuffed their packs full of more slices and made more leaf-canteens and filled them up with the water.
Then they set out. Erin gave the beach where she’d washed up one last look and waved at a crab inspecting the coconut for morsels.
“We took almost all of it! See you, beach! I hate you, now.”
The crab jerked, stared at Erin, and then sideways-crabbed off into the distance. Ulvama grunted as she stared ahead into the forest.
“We going then?”
“It’s that or sit for rescue. Which one do you think is safer?”
“Sit for rescue.”
Erin nodded amiably.
“Which one will get us out of here in a month’s time?”
For answer, Ulvama sighed, then cast a spell. She looked around, narrow-eyed.
“[See Heat]. Is a big something over there. Follow me. And stop shouting so loud.”
 
——
 
The first day of real travel went smoothly, at first. Mostly because Ulvama, who had at least a working knowledge of this area, steered Erin away from the Wailer Frogs’ swamp and through the bush area.
“The beetle doesn’t patrol this spot. We’ll go through the bushes as long as they’re here—then past that is part of the stream. It’s too long to cross here; there are stones we can use, and it doesn’t get too fast. We go past that—and we’re further than I know.”
“Got it. We’re looking for anyone civilized.”
“Mhm. Unless they’re looking for us. Like Roshal.”
That drew Erin up—metaphorically speaking since they were hiking while talking—and she began to seriously consider survival prospects.
They wouldn’t get far at Fraerling size. They had to move; if they just stayed put, they might have a chance of rescue. If they weren’t so small and hard to spot.
And if Silvenia hadn’t enchanted us to be invisible. 
In fact, Erin felt like the Death of Magic had given them a double-edged gift. They were unbeknownst to the rest of the world, who might assume they were dead, but that meant help was not coming.
“If Nerry’s out there…”
“Maybe Silvenia cast a different spell on her. She is a lamb.”
“Maybe. I’m just thinking.”
