The [Innkeeper] smiled. The Hobgoblin seemed unconvinced, possibly by the nature of the oath on unreliable Mrshas, but she did lie down. She kept peeking at Erin as the [Innkeeper] made soothing, go-to-sleep motions and stepped back. In the end, Erin had to turn the key as Ulvama shuffled from side to side.
Click.
 
——
 
You could argue that the experimentation and the many return trips to this place took away from the grandeur or ominous nature of the moment.
You could argue that. But when Erin Solstice pulled back that door and the air billowed around her, she felt her heart skip each and every time.
The air was heavy around her. Filled with dust and time. The air moved as the door opened and pressure changed, but not with an inrush of more air. It whirled like a breeze—and blew past Erin, ruffling her hair and torn clothes. Flashing inwards into the Pavilion of Secrets.
Then there was no more air at all. For the law of basic physics was that oxygen and other molecules of the air loved to go where there was more space.
And the Pavilion of Secrets was a great void. 
The [Innkeeper] realized it was well that she had never managed to take Ulvama with her.
“I’m not breathing.”
She said that and inhaled, but it was more like an idea of doing these things. When she stepped into the Pavilion of Secrets, perhaps it was more like the concept of Erin Solstice herself that crossed that threshold. When she stared ahead, she saw…
Well, what was a pavilion in the end? Erin knew the word, but she’d never bothered to look it up in a dictionary. In her mind, it was something you found in garden-like areas. A structure of sorts. Like a gazebo, but…maybe less pretentious?
Maybe a gazebo was the structure within a pavilion’s auspices. A pavilion was a location; a gazebo was the singular structure.
“Maybe that’s a gazebo.”
The [Innkeeper] paused, one foot through the door on a paved path of faded, ancient stone. Red brick, neatly set into the ground, paving the way through…nothing at all.
The void. Literal emptiness; the black abyss. Where the path slowly led up to the rounded structure a hundred feet away, Erin saw a straightforward incline. When she looked left, right, ahead—nothing at all.
“Like the void of space. But even space has stars. Where is this?”
Her voice didn’t echo; an echo implied there was anything to even bounce off of. It just vanished into the distance, like the air. The [Innkeeper]’s skin, or imagination of skin, prickled as she stepped onto the path, testing her weight. It was firm, solid; when she bent down, it was even coarse, the bricks…brick-like.
When she felt at the void to either side of the path, Erin’s hand dipped into the nothingness. She reached out, hoping there was ground or anything—nothing.
Then she overbalanced and fell off the road.
“Oh sh—”
Erin twisted, trying to grab onto the road. She splayed out, cursing—and paused.
She was twisted up in the air, having fallen off the road—and suspended where she fell. Not floating; that once again implied gravity.
Slowly, awkwardly, Erin got up. She stood in the empty void, then gingerly stepped back to the road. Erin walked onto the road, and gravity reasserted itself. She stepped off the road, and gravity vanished.
Up and down became relative. There was no falling sensation or floating; she could step away from the road into that empty landscape. But she did not want to.
“Dead gods.”
How far could she ‘walk’? If she kept going, would she find anything? Erin took off her shoe, perhaps to throw as far as she could and see if it went anywhere.
Voyager III, Erin’s sandal, went flying about one foot from her and just sat in the air.
“Right. No physics. That was a stupid idea. I nearly lost my shoe.”
Erin grabbed it, put it back on, and felt at her heart. It was still beating way too fast from the falling incident. Okay.
She took another look at the actual structure itself standing in the void. Waiting for her. Her own Pavilion of Secrets. Erin squinted, shaded her eyes as if that would help, and stared around.
“No light. But I see it all perfectly. Hm.”
She eyed the steps leading up to the rounded structure—octagonal, she thought, with stairs allowing someone to exit eight different ways. Thin support beams of wood held up a round roof; there were no windows. She saw benches inside along the walls. It was just…a gazebo or something. A place where you could walk in, sit, perhaps chat, in the middle of a garden or park.
Sitting in the void.
This place was filled with secrets. Erin knew that from the Skill’s name. It was not sanctuary; she didn’t know if she could be hurt here, but she knew it was not…protected by the same laws as the other place. And sanctuary could end.
Only three people before Erin had ever been worthy of this place. A Dullahan [General] of ages past had not been; every other owner of the [Garden of Sanctuary] had not been.
Erin eyed the pavilion. She swore she saw a table in the center of it, and she had a feeling she knew what was on it. She hesitated, took a step along the brick road—
She decided to go check on Ulvama.
 
——
 
Ulvama’s experience of Erin’s forays into the [Pavilion of Secrets] was not a pleasant one.
She’d just found someone else, and now Erin was vanishing from reality. Albeit in ten-minute chunks, but the idea that Erin wouldn’t return or run into something…else…was terrifying.
Ulvama kept trying to sleep, but the first time Erin came back, she was literally counting down the seconds, trying to tell herself that ten minutes hadn’t passed—when Erin popped back.
“I don’t think there’s air there. Ulvama, you good? It’s not been ten minutes yet, right?”
The [Shaman] gave up on sleep. She stared at Erin and then made the [Innkeeper] explain…with proper words…what she was seeing. It took Erin a while to explain the concept of the void. Ulvama gave her sage, [Shaman]-level advice, as if Erin were a Goblin Chieftain.
“Don’t go into the void.”
“Right, I was just—”
“Don’t. Go. Into. The. Void. Don’t shout at it. Don’t throw anything—you threw something.”
“Wh—nuh—it didn’t go anywhere.”
The [Shaman] covered her face. After a while, she stopped massaging her eyelids.
“What is this…gazebo? What is a gazebo? Stupid word.”
“I know, right? I hate gazebos. Pavilion—now, that’s a good word. But that? I don’t think I designed that. Because if I did, I have no taste.”
“Erin, explain.”
The [Innkeeper] did, vanishing in chunks of ten minutes. The first time, all she could do was describe how it looked.
“It’s just—a round dome, eight entrances…stairs leading up to it. You sit in there. A waystation, y’know?”
That was such a terrible explanation the [Shaman] stared at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] gave her a shrug.
“What? I was busy seeing about the road. I’ll go back and check—”
“Erin. What color is it? What is it made of? How big is it?”
“Oh. Uh…white? It’s got that painted white wood look to it. I think. I’ll go re-check. And it’s pretty big? I think?”
Thereafter, she vanished, and Ulvama paced around until Erin came back. This time, she was somewhat breathless.
“Okay! Turns out it’s a lot farther than I thought. It’s not a hundred feet away. How long was I?”
“Eight minutes?”
“Damn! I ran there and back! Why do I keep getting put that far away? Maybe next time I’ll ask to be closer. So remember how I said ‘pretty big’? You could probably fit two hundred people inside of it. It’s…it looks small, like it’d fit a dozen people comfortably. That’s a trick. And it’s made of wood. Simple, wood flooring, wood benches around the walls, painted wood—not bad quality, but the bricks? Sorta average. Not Versailles.”
“What’s Versailles?”
“Uh, some palace in France.”
Ulvama stared at Erin. Before Erin could launch into an explanation of what France was, and Versailles—and that would be an interesting lecture depending on what Erin actually remembered of her world’s history—Ulvama interrupted.
“Is this gazebo…normal?”
The [Innkeeper] had to think about that. She tried to pace around too, but winced and felt at her legs. Ulvama was worried neither would get good sleep, but in her case, she had at least explored and survived a month.
Erin looked a lot worse than the Goblin did. Erin’s hair had greyed in places, and while she hadn’t gotten a good look at herself in the mirror…she had to know her hair had literally fallen out on parts of her head, right? It was regrowing—but the scars on her wrists and even her pallor looked off.
They needed to get a [Healer]. At least Erin didn’t seem to get tired in the [Pavilion of Secrets]. After a second, the [Innkeeper] frowned.
“Hm. Perfectly normal. Actually, it’s like what I’d…picture a gazebo would look like. Exactly like that. And I think I may have made it or the…the thing that assigns Skills did.”
“Why’s that?”
Ulvama didn’t like how Erin talked about the very nature of the world that gave classes and Skills as if it were a thing, an actual thing or person. She did not like how knowing Erin sounded. Erin glanced at Ulvama.
“Well, because there’s a chess table in the center of it.”
“Ah.”
Erin prepared to head back and actually check out the gazebo, requesting a twenty-minute time slot. Ulvama was yawning, but, sure she’d be incapable of sleep, she asked a favor from Erin.
“Can I use a Skill on you, Erin?”
“Me? Um…sure. Go ahead.”
The [Shaman] nodded. She touched a claw to Erin’s forehead and whispered.
“[Shamanic Memory: Other Peoples].”
Her crimson pupils expanded. A memory flashed into her mind. Erin Solstice stepped back and vanished. And Ulvama…experienced France.
 
——
 
A [Shaman of the Old Ways] had great power. Power that Ulvama had not unlocked or made use of in Erin’s inn. Arguably, here, it was not the best, but it had helped Erin by showing her a vision of her family.
In Ulvama’s case? It let her see through Erin’s people like she could do with Goblins. Memory, not anything as grandiose as what the [World of You and Me] was supposed to be.
It made her unhappy, too. At least insofar as the memory of a bright, safe-ish city of Humans could be. It was still better than a thorn bush in the jungle at Fraerling size.
She also had control over her power; when Erin popped back into reality twenty-three minutes later, Ulvama was grateful for the reprieve.
“Hey. It turns out I have to go there each time. No getting real close…at least not yet. The gazebo’s definitely wood. I knocked on it; I couldn’t break it.”
“…You tried to break your Skill?”
“No! I just punched it a few times. You know? Maybe I could harvest some of the wood, and—it’s impossible. I smashed through one of the pieces of wood, but every time I grabbed some, or looked away, it was just repaired again.”
“Huh.”
“How was Versailles? Did you see through my eyes or something? Or was it like—you were there, eating croissants or baguettes or stuff? I hear Paris isn’t actually that fun for tourists, though.”
Erin waved her hands, trying to grin and be reassuring. Ulvama just folded her arms and grunted.
“Seems nice. Your mother liked it.”
Erin’s mouth opened, and she stood there, genuinely shocked for a second.
“My mother…”
“She was young. Maybe younger than you by a year or two.”
The Goblin took no pleasure in Erin’s expression—okay, maybe a little. It made her a person, not a force of nature. And she was half of both these things at Level 50.
Nevertheless. Erin Solstice exhaled, and her expression revealed that, newfound power or not, she was becoming more aware that she had become less a big fish in a small pond and more someone who had just found the ocean.
“…I might call the exploring done today, Ulvama. Let’s get some sleep; I can’t take anything back from the pavilion, and we’ll need our energy tomorrow.”
That was true. But Ulvama eyed Erin, wondering what the sudden change of heart was about.
“You don’t want to use it? Find secrets? What’s in the pavilion?”
Erin shrugged.
“Nothing. The chess board has no chess pieces. There’s just the structure. Even some grass growing around the support pillars—and no, I can’t take it either. The void. The path leads up there…nowhere else. There’s no plants. No objects. No secrets. But I did find…a door. Another door.”
The [Shaman]’s skin began to prickle again.
“Another door?”
Erin nodded slowly. She walked forward, as if showing Ulvama how it looked.
“You walk into the pavilion. Then you look around, and—the door’s there. In one of the eight ways out. Just…a door. Not like the [Pavilion of Secrets]’ door, mind you. That one’s pretty grand. Stone. Got that harpy emblem on it and everything.”
“I remember it. What’s this other door?”
“…Wood. Beige. It—has a brass handle. Beveling on it. It’s sort of old.”
Something about the way Erin spoke made Ulvama’s neck hairs continue to rise. The [Innkeeper] took a deep breath.
“It, uh…it has a stupid set of letters on it. A sign. It says…‘bathroom’.”
The [Shaman] at this point couldn’t stare harder, even if Erin grew ram’s horns and started dancing.
“…Bathroom?”
“Yeah. My dad put it up because he wanted to make it obvious…it’s the door I went through when I came here, Ulvama.”
The [Innkeeper] looked disconcerted. Now, Ulvama was getting that tingling on her arms and down her spine.
“Did you—”
“I was about to.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Ulvama a thin smile that revealed her own fear. Fear at least of her Skill. Her eyes flickered, and those hazel depths shivered.
“…But then my [Dangersense] went off.”
 
——
 
Day 1
 
You know what was great? Jungle survival. Sure, you might wake up with four hours of sleep, or in Erin’s case, eight, thanks to her Skill.
True, you had no toothpaste. Yes, breakfast was some dried berries that tasted like mush. Maybe you’d slept on the hard ground with a leaf for a blanket—and they were not that nice.
True, true, the bathroom was a stinking hole in the ground. Yes, there were giant bugs buzzing around overhead, and you were lost with no idea where you were at six inches tall.
But you had a Goblin/Human for a companion, you were high-level, and you were not staring at a door in the middle of a void marked ‘Bathroom’ that was setting off your personal [Dangersense].
Survival. Nothing like it.
By common consensus, Ulvama and Erin decided the [Pavilion of Secrets] could wait. At least, until nightfall.
“Totally. I can’t tell what’s going on, so only when I’m camped. Or, like, about to die. Would it even work if I was in danger?”
