Click.
It was the softest sound in the world, but it felt like it echoed for a hundred miles. A great reverberation that ran through her bones. Significance; the very sound of it. Something had just been opened. Something tremendously valuable.
Something dangerous.
The very nature of secrets waiting to come to light. Erin Solstice was not surprised by the sound the key made as she turned it in her chest. Her fingers trembled as they held the tiny key, the Key of Insight, which had been hidden to even her. The tip of it was inserted into a gap in her chest; a keyhole just below her chin, above her breasts.
Nothing moved in the world around her. The thorn bush didn’t rustle. No clamor arose from the insects or jungle around her; even the Goblin, Ulvama, didn’t stir as she slept, curled up next to the embers of a fire.
Erin felt that they should have all reacted to the sound. Therefore, only she had heard it. The sound would have woken anything sentient up.
[The Pavilion of Secrets]. One of her new Skills. Erin’s breath caught as the key kept twisting. Then she sighed.
“I am my inn.”
She repeated the words, finished turning the key, and something groaned inside of her. Not her stomach. A melancholically ancient door, inscribed with the regrets of the three beings who had ever been worthy of it, opened as the key turned the lock. But it warned her, and the [Innkeeper]’s fingers trembled.
For a door, like an inn, had a purpose. A door was meant to be opened. An inn was meant to house people. But this door…had broken at least one of its owners. Erin Solstice recalled the three messages written there:
 
“To those that follow after me, I was the last Empress of Harpies. My name was Sheta. This [Garden of Sanctuary] is the last thing I will ever leave. Only the immortal will remember my name, I hope, across these endless ages.
The gardens welcome you, wherever and whenever they are needed. But they are not the only remnants of my legacy. I built them upon the rest. So, if you are worthy, find what came before me.
This door leads to the [Pavilion of Secrets]. If you continue, if you choose to explore onwards, understand this. It is not necessarily a gift, these Skills.
Sanctuary provides. Secrets empower. Fate illuminates.
But remember:
Sanctuary can never shelter enough. Secrets grow vast unspoken. And Fate mocks us all. But I was glad of it. May my key help you protect what matters.”
 
The last of the Harpy Empresses, Sheta, who had known Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flame.
 
“I was worthy of Secrets. But what lay beyond I never achieved. I was truly honored; upon Secrets and Sanctuary, we built a House. May it endure proudly forever. Aleieta Reinhart.”
 
Aleieta Reinhart. Erin had never known much about her, but the House that she had built? Oh, yes. Erin knew that.
 
“Secrets broke me. I gained this, as none of my kind ever have. It was no kindness. Cormelex, the Infernal Court.”
 
And last of all, Cormelex of the Lucifen. Another being whose very species Erin had barely known of until recently. A member of the Infernal Court of Rhir, which predated the Blighted Kingdom and Demons.
He, of the three of them, had regretted opening this door. It was warning Erin now; she could see it in her head.
Erin knelt in the center of the little campsite in the thorn bush, a small patch of embers burning beside her casting long shadows, Ulvama sleeping, her magical paint restored, crude tools made of thorns piled around this primitive shelter.
Erin stood in that long hallway, staring at the glowing messages written in the void. There was no door behind her, no [Gardens of Sanctuary]. Only the Pavilion of Secrets with the key in the lock. Waiting.
She was simultaneously in both places. For a moment, she hesitated again. This door was dangerous, and if any object was sentient—it was warning her.
Her [Dangersense] was not going off. But [Dangersense] was a silly thing. Every other instinct Erin had was telling her…she might live to regret opening this door.
Nevertheless, the [Innkeeper] closed her eyes. She had wanted this. Earned it in a way only the creator could articulate. Slowly, Erin finished twisting the key.
Click.
Then—there was a campsite, a sleeping Goblin, a small campfire, but the young woman was gone.
In that long corridor filled by nothing but words and the door, the [Innkeeper] pulled the door open. She turned her head and realized something.
“Oh. There’s no sanctuary past this point, is there?”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had vanished. Ulvama slept on, restlessly turning every now and then. But every time she’d woken up in a panic, she’d seen Erin and calmed down, checking the glowing paint sigils on her arms and body and relaxing.
It wasn’t exactly time-manipulation. But it was close enough. Ulvama looked like she had before being kidnapped by Roshal; that was to say, she had her own, custom-made shamanic paint applied to her skin.
It looked in most cases like pale, white markings, akin to a [Mage]’s runes, decorating her shoulders, the exposed skin on her legs, cheeks, and even stomach under her shirt with different enchantments. It was what armor was to [Warriors]; with it, she was far safer in this jungle hellhole than before.
Of course, what made her even more secure was having someone here, especially Erin. The Hobgoblin lay there, unaware of the key turning or the [Innkeeper] vanishing. Then her eyes fluttered, and she began to wake—
“Ulvama. Ulvama!”
Erin shook Ulvama. The Hobgoblin [Shaman] screamed, twisted, and kicked Erin in the stomach.
“Gyah!”
The reactions of a Goblin who’d had to survive for a month in the wild caught Erin off-guard. She went tumbling and almost hit the flames.
“Erin!”
Ulvama snapped, eyes wide, breathing heavily. She had a thorn-spear in one hand and was ready to impale Erin before she caught herself. Erin popped up.
“Sorry! Ow.”
She felt at her stomach. It had been a real solid kick, and she’d turned off her [Aspect of the Inn: Reinforced Structure]. Ulvama lowered the spear.
“Sorry. What is—?”
She looked around, thinking they were under attack. But Erin just hurried over, lowering her voice. They were not wholly safe from larger predators, even in the thorn bush.
“Ulvama, we’re not under attack. But I think—I think I just found a door back home. I just opened the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Come with me!”
“Whuh.”
The Hobgoblin had just gotten into a proper slumber. It was probably past midnight. She gave Erin a bleary look of confusion, then her crimson eyes widened with hope and surprise.
“Your door?”
“Yeah! It’s not the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It’s the second one—the [Pavilion of Secrets]. I opened the door, and I was gone.”
Erin knew it. She’d taken one step through—then come back. Because of Ulvama. She tried to explain as Ulvama stared at her, then the Key of Insight.
“You have a door in your chest? You’re a door?”
“Yes—and no. It’s more like I can channel the Skill through me. I’m not Liska. But it’s definitely a place. I didn’t want to go in without you. Here—let me show you.”
Erin stood back, and Ulvama twitched as she saw a tiny keyhole in Erin’s chest. It was visible through Erin’s torn t-shirt, and the Goblin saw Erin insert the key gingerly. All the [Shaman] did, though, was plant her spear in the ground and rub at her face.
“…Couldn’t this wait till morning?”
Erin gave Ulvama a long, somewhat indignant look.
“If this works right, we could be in our beds in the inn tonight!”
The [Shaman] thought about it.
“You’re right. This is a good idea. Okay, what do I do?”
“Um—first, tell me what you see. I’m just gonna go back to the door and come back. All I have to do is—”
Click.
This time, Ulvama saw the key turn, saw Erin’s face go slack a second—but she heard nothing.
Erin Solstice vanished.
It wasn’t a poof of smoke. It wasn’t even a noticeable ‘blip’ of sound or even seeing Erin vanishing. She was just gone, and it took the mind a moment to even process how subtly she’d slipped from the world. Ulvama’s eyes went round in shock. Then she felt at the air.
“Erin? Erin!”
She began to panic. Ulvama paced around, trying to find any trace of where Erin had gone. She looked around, began to tremble and shake—and Erin reappeared, grinning and staring ahead.
“—working! I definitely felt like I wasn’t in two places at once. But maybe I was just standing—Ulvama?”
The Hobgoblin threw her arms around Erin. It had probably only been fifteen seconds, but she seemed terrified.
“Don’t do that.”
“I just—”
Erin stared at Ulvama, then her face twisted up.
“Sorry. Sorry. Come on, let me take you with me. I can’t see a door back to the inn. But even if I can’t, it’s probably safer than here.”
She eyed the thorn bush. Ulvama shuddered—then grabbed her spear and some of the berries.
“Okay. Is it safe?”
“My [Dangersense] didn’t go off.”
That wasn’t the kind of answer you liked to hear. Ulvama turned to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] tried to clarify.
“Okay, so there’s that long passageway where the [Gardens of Sanctuary] are supposed to be. You’ve been there, right? You remember?”
“…Lots of doors?”
“Yeah, yeah. But there are no doors. Then there’s the door that leads to the Pavilion of Secrets…I just took a look beyond, and it’s, um. Well, there’s a pavilion. Looks sort of run-down.”
“Is it a garden? Is there food?”
Ulvama was trying to establish how much she should carry; the few devices she’d made to carry objects weren’t great. She took two spears, handing one to Erin, and awkwardly held as much of the berry-slices as she could. Food and weapons; it wasn’t like there was much more valuable.
“Maybe we wait and get all the berries from the bush—no, let’s go. Unless it’s dangerous? How big is the pavilion? Can we forage? Any…living things there?”
The [Innkeeper] was trying to explain, but it was hard.
“Um. No. It’s…it’s easier to show you. Just be prepared for some vertigo. Or something like that. There’s a lot of nothingness out there. There’s a path…it’s big, I think. Or maybe there’s just not much there. It’s nothing, Ulvama. The void. It goes a long, long way, I think. The Pavilion of Secrets is all I saw. A road leading up to it. No garden; no walls or dome. Just blackness. Not even blackness, really. I think that’s just how my mind perceives it.”
A pavilion in the middle of the void? Ulvama hesitated. Her [Shaman] instincts were aligning with her Goblin instincts and her common-sense ones.
That sounds like bad trouble. But compared to this hostile world…she looked at Erin, weighed the odds of finding a way back to the inn, or something valuable, and then just asked herself if she wanted to be alone while Erin explored this place.
“Okay. Take me.”
Ulvama took a deep breath and held out her arm. Erin linked arms with her and, one-handed, turned the key in her chest.
“Got it. Let’s g—”
Click.
Ulvama was braced for disorientation. Danger. A change in scenery. But nothing happened, and again, it took her a beat to realize Erin was gone.
“Oh no. Nonono. Erin—”
“—drat!”
This time, Erin came back almost instantly. She seemed alarmed and disappointed. Ulvama grabbed her again.
“Only you can go through?”
“Uh oh.”
They both looked at each other, and Ulvama had a sinking sensation in her chest. Then, Erin took Ulvama’s hand.
“Okay, you turn the key, and, uh—I’m gonna will you into coming along. You’re my guest. Wait, we could try the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Huh. I can’t turn off the [Aspect of the Inn] with this key in my chest. Let’s try you turning the key first, huh?”
They began to experiment, and Ulvama thought, in the back of her mind—
This really could have waited for morning.
 
——
 
Analysis. About an hour later, Ulvama and Erin had a lot less sleep than they wanted, a lot more disappointments and worries, and a decision to make.
“Okay. I can’t take you with me.”
Erin was reluctant to admit it, but nothing they’d tried had worked. No combination of holding hands, Ulvama using the key—it didn’t even work for her—or Erin trying to use her [Garden of Sanctuary] let Ulvama come with Erin.
The [Innkeeper] would just vanish, and while she could take objects with her, it turned out even that was limited.
Ulvama’s spear would vanish with Erin if the [Innkeeper] was holding it, but when Erin reached the [Pavilion of Secrets], it would be missing. Similarly, anything in her pockets would vanish, and only when she returned to the exact same place she’d been would the objects reappear.
“Okay, so we can’t use it as an infinite storage room. And, uh…time passes about the same here as there.”
Erin had made short hops back and forth, and a very tired Ulvama was holding her head in her hands.
“You sure there’s no door back to the inn?”
“Nope. I tried calling for a garden’s door, but none appears. I bet it’s because I’m not at my inn. If we were there, I bet I could take you with me.”
It seemed Erin’s [Aspect of the Inn] was letting her access some of her powers—but only for herself. Thus, any exploration of the [Pavilion of Secrets] would have to be done by her.
This checked out. Erin glanced around the campsite.
“Sorry, Ulvama. I didn’t want to alarm you, but I guess there’s no easy way out after all. My [Door of Portals] Skill doesn’t work either…why don’t you get some sleep? I could explore the [Pavilion of Secrets] then use [Twofold Rest] to get enough rest?”
Get some sleep? Now? Ulvama’s eyes were always red, but the bloodshot Goblin’s glare made Erin flinch. Still, Ulvama was exhausted, and she probably could sleep. But the anxious look she gave Erin…
“Maybe you wait until I wake?”
“I could just do it in the night. Unless you think something might come by?”
Ulvama did not. She chewed on her lip.
“If you go, only for half an hour?”
“Sure, sure. I can do it in ten-minute chunks. Shame I don’t have a watch or Ryoka’s smartphone. Wait, she lost that.”
Erin soothed Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin didn’t seem convinced, but she nodded.
“You bring back anything useful. But Erin—if—”
She stopped, and the [Innkeeper] saw that fragile expression appear again.
“What?”
The [Shaman] hesitated, then the words spilled out of her in a rush of terror.
“If—you find a door back to the inn. Don’t take it? Because maybe—maybe you won’t come back here.”
Erin hadn’t thought about that. She saw Ulvama’s face screw up with worry at being left alone, and Erin strode forwards and grabbed Ulvama’s hand.
“I won’t. I promise.”
“Swear on Mrsha?”
“Swear on Mrsha.”
