Honestly, rereading The Rune Forge with Mato’s earlier observation in mind completely upended her perspective of the path. An item dungeon was what this was. She had read about such things. Likely, her monsters wouldn’t be nearly as strong, but she would be able to equip everyone with the most powerful artifacts and runic magic. She would be a ridiculously powerful crafter, able to forge armor and magical items for battle, and presumably, her class would even provide bonuses for using them. It would be a rather big change in focus for her, but not nearly as extreme as the first two. She would have to fight through others and rely more on her minions, but that was how she fought anyway.

“What about your last option, Ali?” Malika asked gently, her fingers tracing the visible tattooed runes along her collarbones. “Runesage Ascendant. You love runic magic, don’t you?”

“I do…” she answered, swallowing hard against a surge of bile that burned in the base of her throat. After all I’ve been through, these are the options I got? She could not help but feel cheated. I need more than this – we all need more, or we won’t survive!

In truth, Runesage Ascendant seemed underwhelming, especially when placed side-by-side against three class paths. The class options would radically change her entire class, while Runesage Ascendant seemed like it would mainly just benefit Runic Script. While she loved her Runic Script skill, it was not really the major center point of her class’s combat abilities. “It just… doesn’t seem all that strong.”

Scratch that. It would be downright insulting – if I wasn’t so tired, so weary… she rubbed her temples and gnawed at her lower lip. I must be missing something. Surely. This one’s a keystone. There’s – but just look at it! It’s just so little, like me…

“Perhaps I may offer a different perspective?” Val’korr interrupted her downward spiraling, meantime digging what appeared to be a bug out of his ear with a fingernail and flicking it to the side. When Ali nodded for him to continue, he said, “I think you should pay attention to the last trait: Mana Inscription.”

“What exactly is that?”

“You are currently able to inscribe runes by imbuing your mana into metal, stone, and ink. Mana Inscription does exactly what it says – it is a rare ability which allows the caster to use constructs of their own mana for inscribing runes – without needing other materials.”

“Are you saying…”

“It’s impossible to say exactly where this path might lead, but that trait implies it stands opposed to The Rune Forge. Instead of focusing on tangible items, Runesage Ascendant will likely have a focus on spells using only mana.”

Ali studied the description yet again, trying to get a sense for what it might imply. It seemed to reference every method she had for understanding the magic of spells and focused on the breadth of knowledge. And with Val’korr’s perspective, the line about having it all ‘at her fingertips’ was far more significant than it had sounded at first.

“While being an item dungeon might be extremely valuable for the guild and the town, you still have all of us to make items,” Lydia said, gesturing to herself and Thuli, who were standing off to the side. “That is, if you want to choose personal magic instead of crafting.”

And that’s the heart of it, Ali suddenly realized. The Rune Forge would make her and the entire town extraordinarily wealthy, and possibly greatly accelerate her crafter friends along their paths, but it would be a way to do something that she could mostly do on her own anyway. Perhaps she would have far more item imprints in her Grimoire, but she could already manufacture wands, hearthstones, and all sorts of useful items just with access to her library and her Runic Script skill. For the most challenging crafting tasks, she would always rely on Lydia, Thuli, and the other crafters. While she didn’t know exactly what it might bring, selecting Runesage Ascendant seemed like the best way to unlock something unique – and against the might of Nevyn Eld’s armies, she needed every advantage she could get.

“Runesage Ascendant then,” she said, hoping she wasn’t about to make a massive mistake. If it’s terrible, I can just wipe it out and start over, she told her mounting anxiety, and her doubts eased. I’ll focus on this one. Maybe it’ll open something better.

There were two accessible nodes, but increasing her intelligence attribute was not something Ali found hard. In this particular case, the path was of limited length, and she had a substantial haul of Authority to spend, so she spent the four to empower her Knowledge skills. It was expensive, but on her first evolution, she had been required to spend five points and five nodes to obtain a similar boost.

[Runesage Ascendant 1/10] +50% spell power to Knowledge skills.

The nodes remained the same, so Ali spent the same Authority twice more.

[Runesage Ascendant 2/10] +50% spell power to Knowledge skills.[Runesage Ascendant 3/10] +50% spell power to Knowledge skills.

When she checked after the third node, something had changed:

Reachable Nodes:+50% spell power to Knowledge magic. Cost: 4+50% spell haste. Cost: 5

“Lost the intelligence node,” Ali noted. “Haste for five points instead.”

“Didn’t you say haste was important against Sunstrider?” Mato asked.

“It really was,” Ali noted. It cost an extra Authority point to buy, and she wasn’t exactly complaining, but she frowned. A knowledge trait boost was understandable for a path that focused on runic spells, but why spell haste? Still, it didn’t really matter; spell haste was an incredible bonus for her class, so she spent the five points happily.

[Runesage Ascendant 4/10] +50% spell haste.

This time, when she looked at the reachable nodes, she found a keystone ability. Aha!

Reachable Nodes:+50% spell power to Knowledge magic. Cost: 4+50% spell haste. Cost: 5Runic Script gains Elegant Synergy (Your skill level in Calligraphy, Sculpting, or the most relevant general skill is added when determining the maximum level of the runic formation you can create, and for overcoming the defenses of your target.) Cost: 8

It was a keystone node that uniquely improved her skill, but it was uncertain exactly how much it would change. “What do you think of this?” Ali asked.

“Looks nice,” Calen said. “What’s your concern?”

“I’m not sure how relevant it will be to fighting the Lich,” Ali said.

“Traps,” Mato offered, in his usual blunt and direct manner.

“The bear might have a point,” Lyeneru said. “You like bosses a lot, but what if you trapped the entire forest around Lirasia’s tree? You wished to help protect her, right?”

“The town, too,” Vivian said, growing more excited.

“Ok,” Ali said. It was true that traps were not her primary strategy, but even without any further advancements, she had all the tools to make them far more effective. She selected the ability and spent the points.

[Runesage Ascendant 5/10] Runic Script gains Elegant Synergy.

Her nodes returned to a choice between haste and knowledge, so she chose her favorite twice more.

[Runesage Ascendant 6/10] +50% spell haste.[Runesage Ascendant 7/10] +50% spell haste.

While she was spending a lot more Authority than her prior evolution – understandably – the effects were far stronger, and it didn’t seem to be letting up. An additional one hundred and fifty percent spell haste, and she had only explored seven of ten nodes along this path so far. This time, when she examined her reachable nodes, she found a new surprise.

Reachable Nodes:+50% spell power to Knowledge magic. Cost: 4+50% spell haste. Cost: 5Runic Script gains Fully Supported (Any runic magic powered with your mana gains the full effect of all your support skills, masteries, aptitudes, and buffs, as if cast by a skill) Cost: 10Sage of Learning gains Inscrutable Insight (Any runic magic may be understood with study) Cost: 9

“Oh, I have two choices,” Ali said, sharing the nodes. Technically, there were four, but by habit now, she always considered keystones to be superior to regular nodes, and she had yet to be proven wrong on that account.

“Those are both good,” Malika said. “How are you going to choose?”

“Fully Supported, I think,” Ali said. “I think Inscrutable Insight is leading toward a more scholarly path, and I can likely only pick one. Fully Supported would allow me to apply my passive boosts from my support skills to wands, and I could get more support skills crafted onto gear.”

Lydia immediately perked up at her strategy thoughts.

“Seems like a good plan,” Malika nodded.

Indeed, if she wanted something that would help her fight, this one would be a good step in that direction. Applying all that spell haste and the Arcane Recall mastery to whatever she made would make her items far more valuable. Not to mention, she was almost certain some dungeon shenanigans would be possible given that the keystone referred to ‘runic magic powered by your mana,’ and her domain was her mana, too. My new traps just got even stronger.

[Runesage Ascendant 8/10] Runic Script gains Fully Supported.

As she’d expected, both keystones vanished, and for the ninth node, Ali picked haste again.

[Runesage Ascendant 9/10] +50% spell haste.

“Sheesh, two hundred percent to spell haste so far,” Ali murmured.

“Watch out, world!” Mato chuckled.

“I hope so!” Ali said and then inspected her final node options.

Reachable Nodes:+50% spell power to Knowledge magic. Cost: 4+50% spell haste. Cost: 5Runic Script gains Mana Inscription (You may cast any known runic spell directly by creating the formation with your mana.) Cost: 12

“Seeker, it appears your wisdom is infallible,” Ali said, sharing the final keystone while deftly circumventing whichever variant of ‘I told you so’ he might spout.

He puffed out his chest, preening blatantly at the praise, then smirked. “I told you so.”

Mato snorted in amusement.

[Runesage Ascendant 10/10] Runic Script gains Mana Inscription.

Ali barely had to consider it. Excitement bloomed within her heart at the sight of the final keystone. Mana Inscription. It was just like Val’korr had suggested, and, given how much runic magic she now knew, especially considering how much she had studied to prepare for effective use of Disruption, it was likely to be a pivotal advancement for her. Well worth the cost. Considering her Grimoire and the Tithe enchantment built into her domain, not to mention the Grand Library Arcana, her ability to acquire new runic magic was exceptional. Even if she restricted herself to her own affinities for the purposes of casting, she would still have a giant repertoire. More than Nathaniel himself, she realized.

Here, at least, was something concrete she could wield against the Lich’s armies. Something with the kind of scope and versatility the Archmage had wielded.

She had greatly envied Nathaniel Sunstrider and his ludicrous spellbook, and while she still had a copy of it in her storage ring now, she knew without a shadow of a doubt that this skill would prove to be far superior. Not to mention, she wouldn’t even need a book for her spells.

“I guess I need to level Calligraphy and Sculpting now,” she said. The shrine reacted to her completing the path with several notifications.

Runesage Ascendant path completed.244 Authority remaining.The Tree of Knowledge path removed.Dungeon of Enlightenment path removed.The Rune Forge path removed.

As the chimes sounded and the shrine’s notifications paused, Ali shared her gains with the waiting group, triggering an impassioned debate among the more scholarly of them. In particular, Calen and Val’korr began to have an intense debate on the finer points of the wording of her keystones, which she was certain she could resolve in an instant, later, when she was able to just try it out.

4 new paths found.

Ali quickly dug into her new options.

Edict of DenialRequirements: Disrupt (tier two), Intelligence greater than 7000, Spell power to knowledge skills of at least 150%.You fight your battles with strategy and planning, choosing to allow or deny your opponents’ magic. You exert unparalleled control upon the battlefield with your prodigious understanding of the nature of magic, spells, and your insight. Now ascend the path of control, developing your understanding of magic, perception, insight, and disruption until even the most powerful archmagi will fear your name.Traits: Arcane, Knowledge, Magic, Haste, Intelligence, Perception.Path Length: 10Reachable Nodes:+50% spell haste. Cost: 5+15 Intelligence. Cost: 1+15 Perception. Cost: 1Quality: UniquePath – Keystone

Doctrine of the Withered GroveRequirements: Have summoned more than 100 greater undead or rot affinity minions.Embrace the inevitability of death, enhancing your armies with undead and your magic with the power of decay. This path unlocks powerful specializations rooted in rot magic and greatly expands your summoning abilities and the power of your minion armies. You will wipe your foes away in a deluge of the dead and return them to the earth through decay.Traits: +Death, Nature, Minion, Intelligence, Wisdom, DomainPath Length: 15Reachable Nodes:Gain an affinity with death magic. Cost: 15+50% to spell power for minion rot-affinity spells. Cost: 3+15 Wisdom. Cost: 1Quality: UniquePath – Class, Affinity

“Oh, heck no!” Ali blurted out as soon as she saw it, her body shuddering at the implications. Hastily, she read the next one.

ElementalistRequirements: Learned the imprints for elementals of at least ten different affinities. Built a domain with more than ten different affinities. Imbued numerous affinities using a shrine.The path of the Elementalist is pure and focused. Your specialization in elemental monsters grants you incredible magic versatility and power. Elementals enhance your domain, and your domain empowers your elementals. Your magical affinity is expanded, allowing you to wield all types of magic. Use the power of your elementals to expand your domain and conquer the world.Traits: +Affinity (All), Minion, Elemental, Domain, IntelligencePath Length: 20Reachable Nodes:Gain universal mana affinity. Cost: 25Quality: UniquePath – Class, Affinity

