The Path of the Verdant HostThe prolific Verdant Host is a summoner without equal, commanding vast armies of minions. You specialize in the quantity of minions, relying on the bounty of nature. Exchange your Fae heritage and bloodline and embrace the Sylvan instead. Lose Magical and Tiny, and instead gain the language of plants, a far greater affinity with nature, your summoned minions, and your domain.Traits: Nature, Minion, Domain, Plant, +Sylvan, (-Fae, -Bloodline)Path Length: 12Reachable Nodes:-50% to the mana cost of nature-affinity minions. Cost: 8Quality: UniquePath – Class, Race Choose your path.

Without a word, Ali shared her four new path choices with her friends. This set was both far easier and simultaneously uniquely more challenging for her. She discarded the Doctrine of the Withered Grove with a wrinkling of her nose. It was perhaps inevitable that death magic hounded her at every opportunity. She mentored a necromancer, after all. But it was likely due to her continual exposure to death magic in all its variety that drove her paths to offer something like this. A unique path based on her exposure to the blooming rot, and no doubt influenced heavily by Nathaniel Sunstriders’ Well of Corruption. As any good dungeon, she had taken the best monsters her foes had thrown at her and made them her own, but summoning undead and rot minions had resulted in this.

It was a path that didn’t require her to sacrifice anything, but she still had nightmares about the deluge of rot monsters Lira’s specter had unleashed upon her, and the idea of becoming that filled her with shudders of disgust.

Besides, any death affinity will make it harder to fight him.

The Path of the Verdant Host looked like the kind of dungeon path she needed. Leaning heavily on the strengths of her nature affinity and the ability to summon hordes of monsters it would give her a big boost in power. Even the first node would make any summoner salivate – half-price for minions meant twice as many. But – and it was a big but – giving up her race and bloodline felt like giving up an important part of herself, her identity. She mentally marked it as her last resort. Better than the death and rot, but she’d pick anything decent over it.

Fortunately, Elementalist and Edict of Denial both seemed extraordinary. Unfortunately, it seemed to be for entirely different reasons.

Ordinarily, restricting her scope to a heavily specialized type of monster would be quite limiting and expose her to serious vulnerabilities. Granted, those kinds of specializations were supposed to come in exchange for substantial power increases; however, Elementalist offered something truly extraordinary. Something well beyond anything she had expected. The ability to wield every affinity. That simple fact more than covered the weaknesses of specialization.

The Edict of Denial, on the other hand, was a path that would take her in a completely different direction as a mage; a path that built upon her perception of magic and her ability to disrupt it. It would seem that her intense struggles to overcome Nathaniel had substantially affected her evolution choices, and this was the culmination of all that work.

“Those all look very strong,” Calen said, his eyes a little glazed and unfocused, obviously studying the options she had shared.

“I don’t like the Doctrine of the Withered Grove, for obvious reasons,” Ali said. “Same with the Path of the Verdant Host.”

“Why not?” Calen asked. “They both seem to be extremely powerful summoner-based paths.”

“Doctrine of the Withered Grove reminds me too much of the Blooming Rot,” Ali said, and besides, rot was just gross. She loved how beautiful her Forest Cavern had turned out, and it had wounded her deeply when she had seen what the Blooming Rot dungeon had done to it. “I don’t want to be a necromancer.” Although technically, some might consider her to be one already, given the sheer number of undead she had roaming about on the second level of the ruins of Dal’mohra.

“I’m sorry, dear,” Lira said, grimacing.

“It’s not your fault,” Ali said. “Besides, there’s another, more important reason. No matter how strong it is, death affinity will be a liability against the Blind Lich and his armies.”

“What about The Path of the Verdant Host then?” Calen asked. “That’s not death affinity, and it looks like it would give you an enormous increase in your minion armies.”

“Didn’t you say your dad was a nature summoner, too?” Mato asked.

“He was…” And Ali had loved his summons, and growing up in the grove. “But I’d have to give up being Fae.” While she was sure some folk – even some present – would claim that to be poor reasoning, it felt far too much to ask for a shot at power. “Why do you think it’s so strong? It’s just a bonus to summoning. Elementalist seems far better.”

“If you lose the Tiny debuff, can’t you use the Eye of the Lich all the time?” Calen asked.

“I… didn’t think of that,” Ali answered. Currently, she had to trade out rings, effectively sacrificing her melee fighters and archers every time she needed some extra boost in magical potency, but Calen had a point. Without her aptitudes pulling strength and vitality down, she would have no reason to ever take the legendary ring off. It was by far the most powerful item she owned. “Still,” she said, weighing it up carefully. “I don’t think I want to give up my heritage and bloodline.”

Lira settled a sad gaze upon her and said, “I think that choice is once again my influence warping your paths.”

“It’s ok,” Ali consoled her again. It seemed she was struggling with guilt about the way her circumstances were warping the choices offered. It made sense, though, considering what the quest had taken, and the entirely unexpected result of Lira’s ascension. Not everyone had a four-mark deity attending their class evolution.

“So, you are set on choosing between Elementalist and Edict of Denial?” Malika asked.

“Yes, they both seem very strong. I’m really liking the unrestricted magical affinity from Elementalist.”

“You don’t mind the restriction on your minions?” Lyeneru asked. “That seems like a very narrow specialization.”

“Well, being able to use any affinity combined with the Runesage Ascendant path I just took is an incredible combination,” Ali said. Runsage Ascendant’s last keystone allowed her to cast anything she understood using just her own mana, but it would necessarily be restricted to her own affinities. Chances were, she might be able to wrangle other spells if cast inside her domain, due to the unique adaptability of her domain mana. However, Elementalist would grant her all affinities, and she would have access to a vastly larger repertoire.

“It does, but I know at least three adventurers who have Elemental Slayer as a class perk,” Lyeneru answered.

“That’s a good point,” she conceded. Making class decisions based on three people out of the entire continent was not particularly smart, but she suddenly realized what must have happened to Azryet. Undoubtedly, he’d been offered a path much like this one, something with an extremely attractive addition, and he had chosen to take the specialization and was still paying for it after thousands of years. Besides, most dragons were notorious for holding firm beliefs in dragon-kind’s superiority, so he had probably not even considered it a limitation at first.

Too bad I couldn’t have shown him the power of that Devouring Consumption before he chose that limitation.

“What about all your healers?” Malika asked. “If you chose Elementalist, you’d lose them, right?”

“I still have the Sacred Guardians that my Divine Archons can summon,” Ali said, pursing her lips, but the truth of Malika’s meaning was glaringly obvious. She would lose the ability to summon the Divine Archon itself. She was allowing herself to dream about the unfettered freedom of being able to cast any spell, but the true power of her class was in the versatility of her minions. If she wanted to be strong enough to stand against the Lich’s armies, she would need every scrap of that versatility and more.

“You need your minions,” Malika said, completing her thought for her.

Ali nodded. “Edict of Denial, it is, then,” she decided. The path seemed to also be quite specialized, but she was certain that disrupting someone’s core spell would never go out of style, and she always had minions to stand behind when she needed to face swords or arrows. Anything that had a perception trait was bound to improve her ability to detect sneaky assassins – and that had always been a big plus in her books. The only downside was that it was a second mage path, and she had yet to find something that would tie into the strengths of her summoning and domain, at least without unduly limiting her.

“You’re going to be a royal pain in the ass for any mages, Ali,” Mato said, grinning broadly.

“I sure hope the Blind Lich appreciates that,” Ali said. With one last wistful look at the ‘universal mana affinity’ she would be passing up, she began spending the points to follow the Edict of Denial path. And for her first choice…

Can’t go wrong with more spell haste! It was a good sign, though, in her book. Summoning monsters became dramatically faster with spell haste, and her battle with Nathaniel Sunstrider would no doubt have been easier if her magic worked just a little faster – certainly faking spells to draw out the disrupt would be vastly more effective if she had more time to draw out the fakes. Yes, this can work.

[Edict of Denial 1/10] +50% spell haste.

On the second node, she discovered she had no alternative choices. Just a single keystone node.

Reachable Nodes:Arcane Insight gains Mana Drain. Cost: 9(Recover the mana cost of any disrupted or dismantled magic. Mana recovered in this way can be distributed amongst your minions).

This is nice, she thought. Although not a particularly amazing advancement, it was rare that she had too little mana, given her regeneration and enormous mana pool. Still, it was one more trick to recovering mana besides potions, deconstruction, and inspiration, and wouldn’t go to waste. The option of feeding her healers every time she disrupted something might be her strongest tactic, but if nothing else, she could always feed the excess mana to Empowered Summoner and make her minions stronger. Although she couldn’t imagine how much mana she might recover from dismantling a construct as large as the Lich’s Death Knight array. Something to test, for sure. She spent the points.

[Edict of Denial 2/10] Arcane Insight gains Mana Drain.

For her next node, she was presented with a spell power increase for four Authority points, so she took that.

[Edict of Denial 3/10] +50% spell power to Perception skills.

This time, when she opened her reachable nodes, Ali found another keystone awaiting her decision.

Reachable Nodes:+50% spell haste. Cost: 5+50% spell power to Perception skills. Cost: 4Arcane Recall gains Alacrity of Mind. Cost: 14(Spell haste affects your mind. All mental processes, reflexes, analysis, and perception are quicker.)

Expensive! But the moment Ali read the effects, she spent the points without second thought.

[Edict of Denial 4/10] Arcane Recall gains Alacrity of Mind.

Now this is incredible! Ali’s arcane disruption skill required understanding the spell being cast – something that was rather unusual, as she had discovered after a ton of research in the library. While disruption magic was quite rare, almost always the exclusive domain of arcane mages, most mages who did have it got an automatic disruption. Initially, she had been a little bummed out by that, but hers had the advantage of being adaptable to any kind of magic imaginable. In theory, she could even learn to disrupt World Magics and Domain Magics – provided she outleveled them by enough. But Alacrity of Mind would speed up every process involved in a mage battle – identifying the spell faster, learning the formations faster, the logic and reasoning behind the strategy and decision making. This skill advancement would have most certainly made Nathaniel Sunstrider, if not easy, at least far more controlled.

Following the node paths, Ali picked the next two quickly, prioritizing spell haste when available and perception spell power when it was not.

[Edict of Denial 5/10] +50% spell haste.[Edict of Denial 6/10] +50% spell power to Perception skills.

Ali’s eyes widened when she saw the next nodes available. This time, a choice between two that both looked incredible.

Reachable Nodes:Arcane Insight gains Deflection. Cost: 14(Modify a single-target magic, while it is being cast, substituting a new target of your choice. Recharge: 30 seconds).Barrier gains Spell Block. Cost: 14(Block a single spell with a specially constructed barrier. Recharge: 30 seconds).

“Wow, difficult choice,” Ali said, sharing the options.

“Those both look great,” Calen said.

“Can you get both?” Mato asked.

“Unlikely,” Calen countered, and Ali had to agree with him – she’d never seen a keystone offered twice.

“This looks like a second recharge to stop something important,” Ali said.

“A second way to wreck the plans of any mage, you mean?” Mato grinned.

“Yes,” Ali said. Technically, it would be her third, given that she had Spell Steal on the staff they’d looted from the archmage himself. “Either I can block it or redirect it.”

“Block seems applicable to a wider range of spells,” Calen said, rubbing his chin thoughtfully. “But Deflection could really screw something up if you can turn his spell back on him.”

“That’s what I was thinking,” Ali said. “I think Deflection is slightly better, then. The strategy is less predictable.” And, in her experience, predictability was something to avoid at all costs during a mage duel – even if there might be several spells it couldn’t apply to because they had no targets to adjust. At least the Edict of Denial was providing a healthy dose of spell haste and perception boosts to help her cope. She spent the points to buy Deflection.

[Edict of Denial 7/10] Arcane Insight gains Deflection.

The next two nodes were simple ones, and again, Ali picked haste as her highest priority, biasing strongly toward the path she favored based on her experience with Nathaniel Sunstrider.

[8/10] +50% spell haste.[9/10] +50% spell power to Perception skills.

“Last one,” she said, pulling up the final node in her path.

