Ali led the group of her friends out across the densely forested cavern and past the blue-glowing lake of mana-purified water, enjoying the sight of the energetic nature wisps blithely ignoring the Glitter Dragonets that occasionally mistook them for dinner. They always looked so cheated when their little teeth found nothing but mana and light. Ali was in no particular hurry, but she was surprised to find out just how many people had wanted to come. It wasn’t even like there would be much to see! Just a few glows and surges of mana, and the noisy notification at the end.

Her forest cavern had changed rather dramatically. The ancient, blackened tree trunks holding up the roof of the cavern – judiciously reinforced with domain-enhanced barrier magic – were now overgrown with countless species of climbing plants and an artist’s color palette of orchids in an eye-catching testament to the continual work of her tireless Treants and the smaller nature elementals tending to her plants. The ground was covered with lush green grass and moss, and interspersed with the glowing golden light of countless arcane-affinity glowcaps. The green light from the wisps darting among the tree branches, and the yellow from the floating motes of light emitted by the glitter dragonets, turned the whole forest into a mystical wonderland.

At least, she thought it was beautiful.

But now, though, giant roots burst through the rocky walls and roof, reaching down to the ground below, bringing with them the flow of Lira’s dense, divine mana. She could feel them stretching through the breadth of her domain, pushing through the compacted soil and rock, only to emerge again many layers below in the underground ruins of Dal’mohra, where the Dwarves of Thorel Moldur had taken to decorating them with little stone sculptures or ornaments.

Even further, the roots burst out into the jungle level, bringing with them a fresh infusion of wisps and strange, transient magical manifestations as the chaotic wild mana and Ali’s own domain met with the calm, powerful currents of Lira’s domain.

“I’m sorry, dear,” Lira said, breaking the silence as she walked beside her.

Ali paused her sedate flight and turned to look at her aunt. It still felt unreal to her: that she was even there. Every time she saw Lira, she couldn’t help but remember fighting her undead apparition and being forced to listen to her taunts. Every time she heard Lira’s kind, soothing voice, she feared that she would wake up from this beautiful dream into a fresh nightmare.

“Sorry for what?” she asked, pushing the intrusive thoughts away.

“It seems my roots have made a bit of a mess here,” Lira answered with her typical understated manner.

It was perhaps a significant understatement, but honestly, Ali did not mind the roots. They did not feel intrusive, even extending throughout her domain. If anything, she felt their presence to be quite soothing; a reminder that this was real. Her minions had already begun to decorate them with flowers and mosses, incorporating them into the natural balance of the ecosystem. “I like having them,” Ali said, smiling away Lira’s worries. “I’ll work around them.”

“I worry. The last time you so generously shared your domain with me, it left you vulnerable to Nevyn Eld’s attack,” Lira reminded her. “Yet you didn’t hesitate to throw yourself upon that vulnerability again as soon as I needed it. I am grateful, but I am concerned that he will use it as a lever against us once more.”

It was true, Ali hadn’t hesitated to open herself to Lira’s domain. “You needed the mana,” she answered.

“I did,” Lira answered. “Without it, I would be a mere sapling out in that blighted forest.” She left it unsaid just how fragile she would have been in the face of all those invading Death Knights. “But I worry for your future, Aliandra. What will you do when he comes?”

That, really, was the heart of the matter. The question that still sent shivers down her spine. It was no longer a question of whether he would come, but when. Ali had no doubts about it. The strangely impervious barrier Calen had discovered that barred the entrance to the Crypt of Kings would presumably come down when the Lich resurrected his avatar, and when that happened, he would be coming for them. They had wiped out his Death Knight factories at Aman Rak and, more recently, those at Telim Gor and Meere Kada. They had reclaimed the Well of Souls by retaking Ciradyl and restored the Well of Divinity, and they had even revived Lira and manifested her ascension. When he came, they would need to be ready.

Ali’s delicate crystalline lattice of arcane and nature mana suddenly hardened. Diamond edges and sharpened mana bristled throughout her domain, and the dungeon rage returned in force for the briefest of moments before she allowed it to relax, returning to normal.

Lira sucked in a breath.

“He will not find me defenseless next time,” Ali said.

“You’ve studied The Calamity’s methods of domain warfare?” Lira asked, her eyes wide with surprise.

“Yes,” Ali answered. There would be time enough later to catch Lira up on all that she had survived, but she would need to broach it with some sensitivity, given that Lira clearly still felt responsible for nearly killing her and her domain.

“You really have grown so much, dear,” Lira said, recovering her normal, unflappable composure. “I am proud of you.”

“Thank you,” she smiled. While the future was uncertain with the specter of the Blind Lich looming, there was one thing she could do immediately to increase her strength. Her ability to defend her friends and family. Ali descended slowly, alighting on the cleared stone path that encircled the shrine. It towered above her – above everyone – humming audibly with the vast well of mana stored within it.

“Good luck, Ali,” Malika said, joining her beside the shrine. Slowly filing into the grove, all her friends wore similarly encouraging expressions.

“Thanks,” Ali said, turning back to the shrine once again. It wouldn’t be polite to keep all of them waiting, but as she stared at the giant obelisk of smooth stone and the glowing runes lighting up its surface like a beacon in the middle of the forest, the full weight of this moment crashed down upon her.

Her hopes and dreams from her past life bubbled up, colliding with the urgent need to be stronger. The need to protect herself, her friends, Lira, and even the whole town. Her hand paused just above the surface of the stone, trembling under the chaotic onslaught of emotions crashing together inside her.

A small flicker of soul magic flared out beside her.

You have gained Clarity.

She glanced gratefully at Malika, who simply nodded and smiled, and her emotions quietened. They did not vanish, nor even change. Nor did she really require the buff, but somehow, she felt her perspective rising above it all as if she had taken wings or grown taller and could now look down upon the turmoil from a little further away. She needed to be stronger, and this was the most obvious way.

She took a deep breath and closed the small sliver of gap between her hand and the stone.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Reserved mana reduced by 10,000,000Gathering Authority based on your actions, achievements, titles, reputation, and influence. +306 Authority.You may buy 10 attribute points per Authority point.4 paths have been found.

Ali frowned at the amount of Authority she had earned, but the magnitude had no meaning for her until she saw what paths might have been offered. Hopefully, there’s something I can use to get stronger. With a little trepidation and a lot more mounting excitement, she examined the paths.

The Tree of KnowledgeRequirements: Touched by the World Tree.Give up the summoning of other monsters in favor of a vastly expanded domain focused on trees, plants, and the generation of mana. This class excels at understanding, wisdom, and the accumulation of knowledge, and specializes in plants and plant- and knowledge-magic exclusively.Traits: Plant, Nature, Wisdom, Intelligence, Arcane, Mastery, Knowledge.Path Length: 10Reachable Nodes:+50% spell power to Knowledge magic. Cost: 420% reduction in the cost to summon or maintain plants. Cost: 5Quality: RarePath – Class

Dungeon of EnlightenmentRequirements: Mentored by a book. Owner of the Grand Library Arcana.Your domain is your library; books are your power. Eschew combat and instead gain experience from imparting knowledge to others. Traits: Intelligence, Arcane, Knowledge, Tithe, Domain, (-Combat).Path Length: 12Reachable Nodes:+100% spell power to Knowledge magic. Cost: 6+100% spell power to Arcane magic. Cost: 6+15 Intelligence. Cost: 1Quality: RarePath – Class

The Rune Forge You have created many items and restored ancient artifacts of great power. Reforge your domain to fully embrace your passion for runic magic and the crafting of things. Be it forging armor, inscribing scrolls, or fabricating artifacts of extraordinary power, all will be within your domain. Traits: Arcane, Knowledge, Intelligence, Domain, Runic Magic, Crafting, Artifacts, Forging, Construct. Path Length: 14Reachable Nodes:+50% spell power to Runic magic. Cost: 5+15% increase in efficiency and spell power for artifacts attached to your domain. Cost: 12Quality: RarePath – Class

Runesage AscendantRequirements: Runic Script (tier two), Barrier (tier two), Sculpting or Calligraphy.Your relentless study of runic magic has shown you the beauty of a thousand spells. You have created countless wands, scrolls, runic circles, and tattoos, and understood and disrupted hostile magic of every type and affinity in combat. Now take your runic magic to the next level, bringing the breadth of your knowledge to your fingertips. Traits: Arcane, Knowledge, Intelligence, Runic Magic, Haste, Mana Inscription.Path Length: 10Reachable Nodes:+50% spell power to Knowledge magic. Cost: 4+15 Intelligence. Cost: 1Quality: RarePath – KeystoneChoose your Path.

Hmm, that’s… disappointing. Ali studied her paths closely, not quite grasping the theme being presented. Three of the paths were class paths that appeared to be offering her an assortment of dungeon specialization without combat options, with the one clear outlier being the Runesage Ascendant path – an unusual mage keystone path that seemed to be oriented toward boosting her runic magic.

Ali glanced up, finding a lot of expectant faces staring back at her, and yet everyone politely refrained from asking.

A second opinion might not hurt, she thought. Generally, sharing the details of one’s class was never recommended, not without an enormous amount of trust. If the details got out, weaknesses could be exploited and planned for, and for a class like a dungeon, which was often considered a universal target, it was an extraordinarily terrible idea. Unlike her first evolution, there seemed to be no clear choices, nor did any of the paths truly speak to her. She needed something to prepare herself for the coming showdown with the Blind Lich, and none of these options seemed to be that.

Ali took a deep breath. She owed her life to everyone present in some form or another, and many of them owed her the same. More to the point, most of their lives would be radically altered based on the decisions she made here today. With surprisingly little anxiety, she shared the four paths with the small group that had come to support her. There was a long moment of silence before anyone spoke.

“The abilities are more expensive than the first time around,” Malika noted.

“The payoff is bigger, though,” Val’korr offered.

“Seems like they’re all related to knowledge in some way,” Calen observed.

“I guess so,” Ali said. “I just don’t know why I’m getting so many non-combat paths. A vast plant dungeon of wisdom? A dungeon library? A crafter dungeon? And whatever this runic mage path is supposed to be. I’m a bit lost.” At least the library dungeon might have captured her heart in a previous life, but she couldn’t throw books at Death Knights. Well, maybe Clarence, but she was loath to risk something so close to her heart.

“Oh dear, that seems to be related to me,” Lira said, frowning.

“It’s not your fault, I just hope I didn’t mess this up,” Ali answered. The last thing she wanted was for Lira to feel guilty. Even if Ali had known for certain she would be ruining her evolution, she would still have saved her aunt without hesitation. She knew she would never have been able to live with herself if she hadn’t done absolutely everything in her power.

“They’re not all non-combat options,” Mato said. “Only Dungeon of Enlightenment. You can fight with all the others.”

“That’s a good point,” Calen agreed.

“Wait, what?” Ali quickly reread all the options, finding that, surprisingly, the big bear was right. “How would I fight without monsters?”

“The Tree of Knowledge looks like a plant dungeon, perhaps Sylvans and Treants count? And you have the Forest Guardian elementals, too,” Mato said.

“I guess so,” Ali murmured, studying the wording again. It seemed she would have to give up other monsters and specialize in plants. “So, this is like Azryet’s specialization in dragons?” If that were the case, she would likely get some substantial bonuses to trees or plants in exchange for the specialization.

“That’s quite a narrow specialization,” Lyeneru said. “It will make you vulnerable to blight.”

“And fire,” Ali added. Lira had been wiped out by blight and undeath, and they were facing a Lich. Mentally, she pushed The Tree of Knowledge to the bottom of her list. “The Dungeon of Enlightenment is a no for sure,” she added, wincing. It sent a pang of longing through her heart as she let go of a childhood dream. A dungeon’s power combined with a Librarian class would have made her extraordinarily happy for most of her youth, but giving up on combat skills was a hard no for her – how would she protect Lira from Nevyn Eld and his Death Knights? How would she help her friends? She wouldn’t even be able to protect the Wells, leaving the entire continent to the mercies of the Lich’s corrupt magic.

“The Rune Forge could be quite strong,” Vivian said. “It would certainly be an enormous windfall for the guild and the town.”

“The Corrupted Well of Souls had flying constructs,” Calen said. “Maybe Rune Forge will allow you to fight with artifacts, too?”

