Reachable Nodes:Arcane Insight gains Critical Advantage. Cost: 14(On spell critical with Arcane Insight, all recharges on Arcane Insight are instantly refunded).Arcane Recall gains Mana Quickening. Cost: 20(One fifth of spell haste affects the speed at which your magic recharges.)

“Goodness, this is ridiculous!” Ali exclaimed at the sight. Quickly, she shared the choices with her friends, and they all reacted.

“That’s unfair,” Calen said.

“Third tier,” Val’korr said, with a smug smile.

After a long list of support magic and advancements, the final keystone looked incredible. “Two ways to get more use out of my disruption spells,” Ali said, studying the options. “A random refund, or faster recovery?”

“Seems that way,” Calen said.

Disrupt or dismantle did not do damage in the normal way, so spell criticals were not even typically noticeable. Now, she could gain an immediate second use out of disruption any time it happened. More if deflection counted, and Ali was fairly sure it would. It was the kind of surprise that turned duels and broke stalemates.

Mana Quickening was more even – all her disruption recharges would recover faster, and she could stack more spell haste to improve it.

“They seem about the same to me,” she said. “I just can’t figure out why the second one is so much more expensive.”

“Aliandra, pay attention to the wording on Mana Quickening,” Val’korr said.

“What do you mean?” Ali asked, but then she saw it. “Wait, it affects everything?”

“Looks that way to me,” Val’korr said.

“Oh, Korr, well spotted! I do believe you’re right,” Lira said. The aged Troll Seeker’s blue-skinned cheeks darkened as he stammered something awkwardly, but Ali wasn’t paying attention anymore.

“Everything recharges quicker?” Ali said, her mind racing. Teleport? Arcane Recall? Does that mean my bosses respawn faster, too? Val’korr’s sharp eye had just shown the true value of the keystone offered, explaining the higher cost, and Ali immediately spent the points to buy it.

[Edict of Denial 10/10] Arcane Recall gains Mana Quickening.Edict of Denial path completed.169 Authority remaining. Doctrine of the Withered Grove path removed.

Elementalist path removed.The Path of the Verdant Host path removed. 3 new paths found.

Ali took a deep breath, a second one for good measure, and then shared the next three paths with her friends before starting to read them for herself.

MakerRequirements: Mentored by Azryet, The Calamity. Gained significant experience from dungeon traps, puzzles, and constructs. Used a domain array to defeat a champion boss.Supercharge your domain mana with an intoxicating allure, drawing your victims into your clutches, wherein they will be made to succumb to your devious construction. A specialist in traps and deadly puzzles, your dungeon will be filled with fantastic constructions, devious mazes, extraordinary artifacts, and impossible challenges. Traits: Dungeon, Domain, Crafting, Rune Magic, Constructs, Traps, Puzzles, Intelligence.Path Length: 6Reachable Nodes:Domain Mastery gains Dungeon Allure. (random attractiveness-oriented domain enhancement) Cost: 6Runic Script gains Domain Array. (random rune-construct domain enhancement) Cost: 6Runic Script gains Dungeon Trapper. (random trap-oriented domain enhancement) Cost: 6Quality: UniquePath – Keystone

Color drained from her face as she re-read the description. Victims? Oh no, that’s not me… yet in a flash, she understood how powerful, how lethally transformative, her evolution process could be. This was not underwhelming anymore. No. This was horrifying – and it grew worse as she read on.

BreakerRequirements: Mentored by Azryet, The Calamity. Initiated more than one hundred dungeon breaks. Successfully applied champion-level domain enhancement to a summoned World Boss.Some dungeons may wait patiently for the unwary to step within their halls; not you. You go to flush your victims from their own lairs and holes, destroying them in their hiding places. A specialist in dungeon breaks, your dungeon will be feared across the land. Traits: Dungeon, Domain, Minion, Wisdom, Intelligence.Path Length: 6Reachable Nodes:Martial Insight gains Minion Survival. (random survival-oriented minion enhancement) Cost: 6Martial Insight gains Minion Aggression. (random attack-oriented minion enhancement) Cost: 6Martial Insight gains Minion Defense. (random defense-oriented minion enhancement) Cost: 6Quality: UniquePath – Keystone

DestroyerRequirements: Mentored by Azryet, The Calamity. Destroyed multiple dungeons higher-level than yourself. Survived the complete destruction of your own domain. Experienced the dungeon rage of a god. Not content to fight with mere mortals, you set your eye on the supreme prize. Your prey are dungeons – the top of the food chain. You specialize in dungeon rage, gaining powerful bonuses to inter-dungeon combat while enraged. You are a dungeon assassin with a vast repertoire of expanded anti-domain and dungeon-infiltration skills. Traits: Dungeon, Domain, Combat, Magic, Intelligence.Path Length: 6Reachable Nodes:Domain Mastery gains Domain Resilience. (random resilience-oriented domain enhancement) Cost: 6Domain Mastery gains Domain Conqueror. (random attack-oriented domain enhancement) Cost: 6Domain Mastery gains Domain Expansion. (random growth-oriented domain enhancement) Cost: 6Quality: UniquePath – Keystone

“Those sound terrifying,” Vivian said when Ali shared the three paths before her.

“Those… those are definitely dungeon paths,” Lyeneru said. She seemed uneasy – more uneasy than before. Yet she nodded slowly. “Still, I trust the person considering these options.”

Ouch. The plain-spoken rebuke nonetheless steadied her. She’s right. Power is one thing. What matters is how I choose to wield it.

Ali, studied the offerings closely as she fought down her fear and disgust. This is obviously Azryet’s influence. She glanced over at Lyeneru and then suddenly recalled the Night Elf rebuking her for not thinking – fighting – like a dungeon. At once, her path options transformed in her mind as she saw them in a new light. Here she would find a way to become the strongest dungeon she could imagine – she just had to pick well. Just that. No pressure.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
