Despite the lack of ability to identify items, Explorer knew exactly what this was. A barrier dome of glittering diamond encircled the altar, conducting pure domain mana within its surface. Hovering in the air were runic wards the likes of which he had never seen, humming with immense power. All of which had been spelled invisible; revealed to him only under his True Sight.

“I found it! Run!” he shouted, firing a volley of arrows at the urn, only to have them shatter upon the wards.

Devan vanished right as Artur Dragonsworn’s flaming greatsword flashed downward, passing through the space she had occupied and burying the blade deep into the stone.

The Death Knight growled in fury, whipping his head around to glare directly at Calen. Singlehandedly, he drew the sword from the now-burning stone and advanced. “Let’s dance, boy!”

No way he was waiting around to see what dark power or skill Artur was summoning to the fray. Calen teleported instantly, grabbing onto the traces of Devan’s escape spell, and he suddenly found himself back at the Novaspark Academy locus. Hadlis and Brielle shot up out of their seats at the sight of his arrival, their faces brimming with expectation and hope, while beside him, a laughing Devan lay bleeding on the cold stone, still quivering from the aftereffects of the adrenaline.

“You got it?” she asked.

“It’s right there in the chamber,” he said. “On the altar. But we will need Ali to dismantle the wards, or some other way to retrieve it.” To prove it, he shared what Explorer had uncovered with them.

“Oh, shit! I just leveled,” Brielle yelped.

“Me too,” Hadlis echoed.

“Come, let’s go to report to Lyeneru and Vivian,” he said, offering Devan a hand. “And find you a healer.”

“I have potions,” she said, but she leaned on his arm as she limped along with them.

Eagerly, Calen directed his thoughts inward.

You have greatly increased the reputation of your patron. Realm Hunter has reached level 172 (+2).+20 attribute points.Motes of Light has reached level 67 (+2).Explorer has reached level 102 (+5).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 71.Eclipse has reached level 49 (+3).Eyes of the Archon has reached level 71 (+4).Azrael's Wings has reached level 44.Mirage Armor has reached level 67 (+2).Cartography has reached level 37 (+2).Explorer has reached a base skill level of 100.Explorer has advanced to tier two.

He sucked in a breath at the sight, suddenly understanding how it had happened. Explorer had reached tier two. That must have been what had allowed him to identify the phylactery deep in the core chamber of the Crypt of Kings.

Well, now… that’s something else, isn’t it? He could tell it wouldn’t allow him to appraise normal items, but mythic relics of great significance? Perhaps he would have an advantage!

His racing heart was beginning to calm down as he carefully allocated seven points each to dexterity and perception and then put six into intelligence.

I can’t wait to tell the others!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
