Chapter 513

Matt lifted the tip of his longsword, preventing it from drooping as he looked around at the floating body parts that surrounded him. That glance didn’t reveal any still active combatants, but that didn’t mean the fight was truly over. They were tired, which made it a prime time for an ambush.

When he found nothing, he checked for a fourth, then fifth time before trudging back to Aster and one of the Lizzes.

“Ready?”

His one word question didn’t even get much of a response, with only a single swish of her tail from Aster as she continued to scan the remnants of the latest battlefield. The general troops had fled and scattered after the elites had been dealt with, but that had still necessitated them fighting two high elite teams while under constant bombardment.

While winnable, such battles had occurred near weekly as the Collective forced them to run from battlefield to battlefield as they tried to brunt the wave of this newest attack.

The war had been going on for close to a decade at this point, and everyone's war machines were in full swing, with armies arriving to the front lines in waves.

Word was already spreading amongst the general troops that once they’d repelled this onslaught, they’d be going on the offensive. Matt knew of the rumors, since they, as Ascenders, were asked by General Raven to spread them. That in itself didn't make them true, but Matt assumed they were more likely accurate than not, since there was little upside to having them spread full on lies. There might have been a small short term morale boost, but any ground gained would be lost when the rumors inevitably got disproven.

That didn’t mean he understood why they were told to do so. Even unofficially announcing such plans wasn’t typically something the Great Powers, littered with spies, would do. Not that they’d have time for such niceties in this world.

[Portal] retrieved their ship from where it lingered in the void between the central inhabited planet and the fortress world at the edge of the star system. Personally, he’d much rather have opened the aperture inside the ship. He didn’t necessarily care about breaking the protocols restricting that, but tripping the anti-assassination early warning triggers to save just a few moments would have been plain stupid.

Without Allie bouncing around, they’d both needed to protect against such intrusions, as well as be prepared for others to abuse their familiarity with teleportation to create a gap in their defences. That meant the defences weren’t reactivatable, and would require their ship to reroute to a Tier 35 shipyard for repairs.

General Duran arrived with a burst of dust, overflowing with gratitude for them salvaging her position, but they didn’t have time to play the hero and lounge around after their victory. Not today. They were in an even larger rush than usual and had to continue moving.

Only two years ago, the Empire suffered two back to back defeats on the far edge of their border with the Collective. They’d been redirected in an effort to stem or, if possible, reverse the tide and return the fighting to the border region. They’d raced along the battlefront, but the closer they got to the Collective’s breach point, the more they were called upon to help stabilize the surrounding Tier 35 battlefields.

The part of his mind that was already tired of the fighting wanted to complain that their efforts weren’t having any appreciable effect, but that would be a lie. With each fight they took, with each elite they captured, killed, or put on healing cooldown, and with each battlefield they cleared, the incursion slowed its advance.

Matt analyzed the latest reports as they reentered chaotic space and started picking up new messages. He was almost surprised to not be surprised at the latest news. He’d expected some last minute change by the Collective. Now that they were only a few worlds away from their most defended location, the Collective’s Tier 35 troops had ceased their advance and seemed settled in for their arrival, preparing defences.

They’d known their stops to plug the edges of the battlefield would cost them time, but he hoped it had been a worthy exchange.

By preventing the breach from expanding, they’d minimized the defensive line, which in turn reduced the amount of reinforcements that the Empire would have to redirect.

There were already three armies on the way, with the open possibility of two more that could be redirected their way should the need arise. Hopefully it wouldn’t be necessary and they could continue to assist the Empire breach on just the other side of the battlefields, but the armies were prepared to step in should the three of them fail to push back the incursion themselves.

Matt tapped a discreet area on his chair and activated the privacy function after reviewing the data. “We are looking to be facing at least four armies, though they’ve spread throughout nine worlds. Five are only being held in the loosest terms, with a squad or regiment holding down the fort that will probably retreat the moment we or Empire reinforcements arrive. The final four positions are where they intend to make their stands. Beyond the normal contingents of elites sprinkled through the army, we know that Traxix and Redfur’s team helped in the initial push, but the Empire suspects Hali’s team is waiting in the wings for our arrival. That’s two pinnacle teams between Redfur and Hali, and while Traxix was only a peak elite in the last war, he’s either on the edge of promotion and here for experience, or has already crossed that threshold and is here as a trap. They haven’t updated his public designation but he was holding himself back in the battles to take the system. If I had to guess, I’d wager the trap is more likely. No way they risk one of their chimeras against us if he's not already pinnacle. That is, if there isn’t another team or two in the wings waiting for our arrival, which also feels likely.”

The three of them had access to the same information channels, but he was faster at distilling the pertinent information.

“Any word about the enemy reinforcements?” When Matt shot Aster a questioning look, she clarified with a shake of the head. “General troop movement. Sorry, I did hear you about the elites. Have those reinforcements arrived yet? And if not, when are we expecting them to do so?”

“In the Tier 30 and lower brackets there has been a constant trickle, but the highest Tier battlefields have been silent. Likely, they are waiting for our arrival before committing more Tier 35 armies. If we arrive and defeat their elites and make a move on their armies, they will likely pull back to the border region. If we fail… well at that point I’m sure those same troops will move in and entrench themselves further.”

Liz managed to keep herself collected as she tapped away at her own information streams. “So we are either walking into a trap, or going to kick up enough of a fuss that we bring the same thing down on us. Joy. Have there been enough sightings on the other battlefields that we have any guesses on who might show up?”

They didn't, but that was mainly because most of the way most pinnacle elite teams were handled. They were either attached to an army for a long term assault, or held in reserve between missions. This early in the war, the current ratio leaned heavily to the latter category.

As they reached the breach in the defensive line, they started getting scanned by more and more enemy ships. One and all, the moment they were identified, the enemy ships changed course. They either fled into a real space world of an appropriately low Tier, or they broke away from the safe paths the teleportation tethers created and braved the corrosive winds of open chaotic space.

Settled space may have been the safest layer of chaotic space, but it was still chaotic space and deadly to any and all life. High Tier materials would last longer in the corrosive miasmia, but even most military ships weren’t rated for more than small jaunts away from the safety of the tethers.

The enemy pilots must have considered the risks worth it, because every Tier 35 ship they encountered had the same reaction. Flee at a hard angle at max speed and keep running until they were firmly out of sight.

While Matt didn’t mind the temporary lack of fighting, he also knew what each encounter really represented: information. Each and every time they were seen, their position would be relayed back to the Collective’s information network. Unlike last war, they didn’t have Allie and there was precious little they could do about it.

It was one of the main reasons Ascenders went rogue during wars. If even their own side didn’t know what they were going to do, neither could the enemy. They could do so now, but that would only allow their enemies free reign in the Empire’s kitchen. So while they could tackle the problem how they wanted, they still had a job to do.

One that the enemy was watching them approach with every battle and report.

It was the bane of every Ascender team, as he knew from the others complaining about Allie and their war stories.

As such, Matt wasn’t shocked when only a few hours away from one of the Tier 35 battlefields, the ship’s interior flashed red as the ship's shields flared to life.

Matt’s initial reaction was to teleport out of the ship, but he held himself still as he purposely bottomed out his mana pool. The ships mana batteries were eighty seven percent full, but the shielding could burn through that reservoir in short order if their opponents decided to focus on the ship.

It was a good thing too, as not even an instant later, another dozen impacts landed in a tightly controlled burst on their starboard flank. With unlimited mana, the shields quickly shed the strain, but everyone noticed the well coordinated attack and took note of its implications.

The crew immediately sprung into action, preparing for a battle, while Yvette and Halfords teams did the same by moving to a hatch.

Their ship turned to face their attackers, but the moment they did so more, larger explosions transmitted through the ship as they ran into a veritable wall of mines.

Eyes flicked to him from all over the command center and Matt shook his head. “Spatial locks are active. I can’t open a [Portal] large enough for the ship.”

Matt could feel the lock’s current strength and he placed it as a suped-up anti-elite lock rather than one of the specific anti-Allie devices they’d had to fight around during the last war. He wasn’t sure if he was being insulted by the lack of true top level blockers, or if they hadn’t comprehended the implications of his [Portal] usage.

Until he had an answer he intended to assume it was a trap, but even if he was right, their trap would still have to be strong enough to contain his blade.

Aster was already walking to the door as she spoke. “You handle the shields and I’ll get us through the mine field. Once we are through, we can say hello properly.”

“Why couldn’t they have waited to fight in real space? Don’t they know it burns my feathers almost instantly if I don’t concentrate? It's not fair. No one wants to see a half burnt bird. It's undignified.” Liz joined Aster after putting away her perusal of possible elites with a question to the Realm rather than any of them.

The minefield was well placed and so stupidly dense that the explosions were constant; it nearly sounded like they were inside a bag of popcorn being cooked. That made more sense when they identified the type of hunter-seeker mines the Collective was using.

They were fantastic for targeted attacks without overly risking the uninvolved like indiscriminate mines would have caused. Mines in chaotic space were already hard to identify and harder to keep protected before they were broken down by the everpresent corrosive energy that was chaotic space.

The treaties were worded in a way that limited how long the mines last via two metrics while leaving other innovations possible. They were only allowed to last a week through purely physical means and an additional three with magical shielding. That both ensured that mines remained disposable by preventing an arms race for the longest lived disposable items, and ensured shipping lanes wouldn’t be disrupted for long, even during a war.

The explosions continued until Aster cast her new merged skill, a combination of [Cross Wind] and [Dispelling Wind] she’d named [Dispersing Squalls]. Though he knew she was mainly relying on the [Cross Wind] portion of the skill for the moment. Even before the merge, the upgraded spell had reached the point where it could deflect more than typical physical projectiles thanks to the first upgrade orb, which expanded its coverage to magical effects. Its second upgrade had included more esoteric things, such as passive effects and obscuring them from enemy targeting, which was exactly what they needed.

Chaotic space mines weren’t casually used in wars, but like talismans, they allowed massive amounts of damage to be imparted without expending the combatant's mana pools, which gave them a place. In an ideal world, this move would have forced them to drain their own reserves, which was exactly why seeing the tactic took a small weight off Matt’s shoulders.

So long as they kept running into plans that proved his enemies didn’t comprehend his Talent, he had confidence that his secret was safe.

When they cleared the densest part of the minefield and their ship could use its active sensors, they identified three previously hidden ships. Not through their own efforts, but rather because their own engines and shields came online as they prepared for active battle.

