Not that Matt wouldn’t help her. He cast [Hail] off to the side to give her some more ice to work with. It wouldn’t last long in chaotic space, but even just its casting helped distract Traxix, who now had to wonder if that’s where the real Aster was hiding.

Traxix abandoned chasing Aster, instead turning back to Matt as Liz gave the curse mages a taste of their own medicine.

His spiritual perception watched the show even as he went on the offensive, chasing down the hippo as Liz started moving. [Thalassemia] hit first and stopped the mage’s blood from carrying oxygen. Even in space, most immortals didn’t override such functions. And for the underprepared, let alone the unprepared, the sudden loss meant they needed to divert attention to managing it.

Which was exactly when [False Wound] made it look like they were bleeding or injured in some way. Many resisted the urge to believe not only what their eyes, but bodies were telling them, but some failed.

One or two dug at their own skin to try and get her out of their blood, but that only let her start casting normal spells. Like [Blood Sprites]. Swarms of red sparrows silently screamed as they attacked anyone around them.

Which was when [Blood Debt] sealed even more fates.

Left with a source of enemy attacks in their midst, the enemy elites did what they were trained to. They turned on their comrades and killed them before they could do more damage.

That act was as logical as it was callous. Better yet, it caused an astronomical amount of hate and anger on both sides. Then, as the unwitting beacons were killed, [Blood Debt] transformed all of those feelings into phantasms that lashed out.

Those were far more troublesome than the earlier sprites. A curse themselves, the summons were nearly immune to any purely physical attack and were resistant to energy based ones. Purely magical effects had the best effect, but as they flowed through Collective elites, their claws attacked their spirits directly, making landing those spells nearly impossible.

To their credit, they held their ground and sacrificed their closest comrades, which saved far more people than if the phantasms had been allowed to run amuck.

Still, it worked as their distraction bought the three of them time. Time they needed, as another Aster illusion was destroyed and she’d been forced to reveal her actual body.

Worse yet, Traxix seemed to know it.

With Liz in the fight, they pressed the attack. But anytime they did so, Traxix transformed into his fish form and landed impossibly fast wounds on Liz, and when he could manage it, Aster.

Matt did his best to block what spells he could, but even he struggled to see [Fin Flick]’s projectile, let alone intercept it.

As Traxix came in at an oblique angle away from Matt, he cast [Cracked Air Slide], shooting himself forward and only able to control the movement thanks to his courtly warfare boon.

It allowed him to intercept the bite meant for Aster with his chest.

Instead of slowing down, Traxix sped up, as if hoping to punch through Matt’s chest.

It hurt. He could say that without hesitation.

However, the move hadn’t worked.

Matt had to grip reality itself with his Domain to stop himself from being flung across the battlefield, but he wasn’t run through, to Traxix’s evident shock. The fish tried to turn away, but his head was embedded a few inches into Matt’s chest where [Cracked Phantom Armor] and his augment reinforced sternum came together to make an incredibly strong protective shield.

It was one of the most defended places in his body, just in case he was attacked when he had a skill manifested.

Matt had to admit that the [Mana Beam] Traxix cast through the mouth as a digging implement was inspired, and he added it for future contemplation. It just hadn’t worked against him.

His left hand tried to grab the fish’s tail, but as he darted away, Traxix tried to impart some extra damage with [Fin Flick]. Against Matt’s right hand the move might have managed to take off a finger or two, but it only caused white lines to appear on his left as he grabbed a fin.

It wasn’t a good grip. Not enough to stop Traxix from fleeing, but it ensured he did so at a cost.

The fish darted around and down through the winds of chaotic space and the snow spells Aster cast, but none of them seemed to have any effect on its speed. They did hinder the fish in other ways, with his reaction time slowing slightly, but his movement remained undiminished.

As he darted in and transformed at Liz, the hippo twisted while following some invisible current that let him circle around her spear thrust and bite down on her spear arm.

Unlike Matt, Liz's arm, armor and all, exploded in a way that he knew meant she’d taken actual damage from the man's Aspect.

She’d heal with blood and time, but she didn’t require that. Liz used some of her stored ichor to simply regrow the arm and armor. Her spear shaft, on the other hand, presented more of a problem as it was shortened by half.

Instead of letting Liz take the hit for nothing, both Matt and Aster tried to capitalize on the time he was slowed by making the attack.

Aster hit him with an illusion that obscured his senses. It wasn't subtle in the slightest, but it was effective. At least well enough to let Matt get in close.

It just hadn’t worked well enough to stop the elite from correctly predicting the angle of Matt’s attack and landing a heavy [Stomp] on his chest.

The hippo sacrificed a limb and most of his chest to do so, and Matt felt his chest nearly cave in as the spell empowered blow landed. However, instead of trying to redirect his blade back around at Traxix, he swapped the weapon's forms to one he’d prepared beforehand and let it go. In that same movement, he also cast [Sword Twin], using the hidden apparition of his blade to subtly shift its trajectory as it soared into the darkness of space, right at his collapsing barrier of [Bullwark]s just in time to slip through under the latest wave of spells.

With his hands now free, Matt flared his Intent, locking Traxix in place as he landed a hit on the now human man's upraised forearm. Bones snapped and flesh tore, but Traxix managed to use his last limb to protect his head.

Liz followed up the strike only a heartbeat later, her now shorter spear cutting a thick line on his face, but Traxix used the move to forcefully halt Matt’s forward momentum.

Aster’s spirit space finally made its appearance, as now that she’d been given a moment of reprieve, she started forcefully overlapping it with reality. It was slow as she pushed through all of the spatial locks, but inch by inch, ice and winter started to replace the swirls of chaotic space.

Traxix tried to dodge, tried to leave, but it was already too late, and he must have realized that as he transformed back into his hippo form.

Towers started to appear out of the snow and wind already fully charged and unleashing their attacks not worrying about Matt.

The large mouth blurred with amber light as it clamped down on Matt’s right arm with enough power to crack a battleship’s armor.

The second outermost layer of [Cracked Phantom Armor] shattered almost immediately, but the layer woven through his augment proved a much more challenging hurdle to overcome. The damage started to accumulate, but it wasn’t the disarming move Traxix had clearly expected.

Matt drove his unoccupied left hand forward, using the additional leverage provided to him by his opponent to drive a heavy blow into the man's skull, backed by both spiked knuckles grown from [Cracked Phantom Armor] and further strengthened by [Fist Blast].

A spell of sepia and silver Matt didn’t recognize halted all of his blow’s momentum, both the physical and magical, but he suspected it was like [Phantom Armor] and had spent its lifesaving charge. Wanting to test that, he reared back and slammed his fist forward again.

Traxix let go, seeing that no matter how hard he bit and chewed, he wasn’t getting through Matt’s augment before Matt or Liz’s follow up attacks landed.

The moment his mouth was free, Traxix swapped to his fish form in a smooth, fluid motion that only cost him another fin and some scales as Liz’s golden [Blood Sickle] nearly severed his head from his body.

After that engagement, all of them were forced to relocate as the bombardment from outside finished clearing enough of his [Bulwark] barrier that they could interfere with coordinated attacks once again.

Matt ignored them as he spun to track the fish, even as it tried to weave between ever growing gusts of wind, ice, and spell projectiles. However, despite his appearance, most of his attention was following his sword.

A moment later, the battlefield paused as his blade finally reached its destination.

Thrown with all of his might and accelerated with [Sword Twin], the weapon had been moving at incredible speeds. If it weighed less, it would have still been a problem, but there might have been some question in the outcome. When his sword met the ship, the ship lost immediately and without opportunity for a second chance.

His lattice longsword punched through the ship’s shielding, its armor, and the entire width of the vessel before hitting something volatile enough that it caused the explosion that captured everyone's attention.

Aster’s spirit space didn’t rapidly expand, so Matt targeted the next.

Using his connection to his blade, the moment it got far enough away from the spatial lock, he activated the formations he’d carved on it under Allie’s guidance. They were simple, insofar as such things went, as they were only there to give him an anchor point to focus on during a hectic battle.

It still tore at his spirit to rip open even a sword sized [Portal] right in front of his blade with the spatial locks, but he managed it, just as he had in practice.

The exit aperture was farther away than he’d have preferred, but it didn’t matter given how fast his longsword was still moving. It had lost a small portion of its momentum passing through the first ship, but there was still more than enough to pass clean through the second a moment later.

That ship didn’t explode, but the crew did evacuate en masse, understanding a follow up strike was likely. Not that one ever came.

Matt’s blade came out of a portal only a foot behind him, already moving at a perfect angle to fall into his waiting hands.

At the same time, Aster’s spirit space started to rapidly expand even as the first two ships’ crews retreated to the third. He could have targeted them as well, but without protection, even Tier 35s would find it hard to traverse large distances of chaotic space before running out of mana to protect themselves.

Traxix landed a glancing blow that managed to break a few ribs with one of his massive legs, but he paid for the distraction as Liz landed a [Bloody Spirit] and [Heartpiercer] empowered [Heart-Piercing Stab]. A second copy immediately followed, thanks to [Pulmonary Echo], and for the first time, Traxix slowed down after taking a hit.

Matt knew it wasn’t only from the two attacks, but the bevy of curses Liz had slipped into his body with those attacks.

[Analgesic], [Fever], [Embolism], [Hematohidrosis], [Thalassemia], and to top it off, Matt saw the telltale spores that [Scarlet Plague] left behind as its infections set in and tore at the hippo’s admittedly resilient body.

Then, to close it out, the illusionary spear [Pulmonary Echo] created hardened into a more solidified form as [Ischemic Harpoon] summoned a mixed chain of golden ichor and red blood between herself and Traxix.

One Liz split into three as she pulled with all of her might, stopping the rampaging pinnacle elite in his tracks.

It only lasted a second, but that was the second Matt needed as he brought his blade down directly on Traxix’s head.

That most vital organ vanished, but the lack of an essence burst told Matt the other man had moved his brain somewhere else. However, before he could start attacking secondary locations such as the chest or pelvis, the pinnacle elite took the opening to attack.

Traxix’s next [Mana Beam] caught two of the Lizzes, destroying one while severely wounding the other, but his hooves’ main target was Aster, who disappeared behind a wall of snow deeper into her ever-expanding spirit space.

Sensing his attack fail, Traxix activated a lifesaving measure.

The burst of wind that carried the man away told Matt exactly how he’d escaped, but he still cursed himself for making the aura escape talismans. One day, he’d find a way to block those stupid things, and he didn’t care if people hated him for it. The damn things were a menace to ending a fight permanently.

However, instead of following the injured elite into the distinctly empty region of chaotic space, the three of them turned their attention to the rest of the battlefield and their teammates.

Liz and Aster were both wounded and Matt was a little low on willpower, along with the spiritual damage he’d done to himself, but their contributions would still be enough to turn the other fights, which meant they had no time for revenge or rest.

Their pinnacle teams had done their job and allowed the fight to remain a one versus one, but their enemies weren’t stupid and had made them pay for that. All of their people were wounded and two were missing, but without corpses, which Matt hoped meant they’d escaped with a lifesaving measure instead of indicating their deaths.

Thankfully, the moment they started moving to assist Yvette and Halford, Redfur, and Angela’s teams disengaged and boarded the final remaining ship, along with the rest of the ambush, choosing to leave rather than fight on.

With one third of their top level combatants down, they knew the attempt had failed and preferred to retreat with their forces as intact as possible.

