Standing from his chair, Matt stalked off the bridge and to one of the nearest hatches, where he slipped outside.

Inside the shield's protection he was safe from the corrosive swirls that was chaotic space, but he wasn’t there for sightseeing. He raised his longsword like an oversized wand and aimed. Because that’s exactly what it was.

At least, temporarily.

Half a million mana a second could turn [Mana Beam] into a deadly arm thick bar of death and discontent, but other Tier 35’s could manage something similar with either the same spell or a different one. Fewer could cast with a full million mana second, even if they had a large enough mana pool to sustain such a cost for more than a moment or two.

The groups who could cast such a taxing spell at a quarter of a billion mana a second could be counted on one hand, and Matt was confident that none of the others could double the number yet again.

He did exactly that.

Half a billion mana into [Mana Beam] turned the bar of mana into a train, with more than enough energy to burn through most defences in only a few moments. And against most cultivators and monsters, a train of damage was more than enough size for what they needed. After all, the concentration damage was the most important factor of the spell, with its size being a byproduct of greater throughput rather than the intended goal of [Mana Beam].

And that was fine most of the time, but not today.

[Diffusion Shield] was a defensive spell that weakened attacks by forcefully widening beam attacks into ever expanding cones, wanting to spread that damage out as much as possible.

Matt quickly and forcefully carved new mana channels into his sword as he cast both spells, using his weapon as a casting implement.

His longsword’s lattice structure left the liquid mana gem visible, which he hoped they took note of. It let anyone watching see the deceptively slow build up of mana.

When the mana reached the halfway point, he fired the [Mana Beam] with [Diffusion Shield], widening the scope of his attack to from a dozen feet to miles.

It wasn’t strong enough to kill anything except the weakest of Tier 35 soldiers, but it was more than enough to clear the battlefield of any remaining traps. Mines exploded either from direct damage or the chaotic space energy that found a way in, and the miasma was finally able to do what it did best and tear the material asunder. The mines weren’t the only thing they discovered, as a fourth, yet to be detected, ship had to raise its shields as it was caught in the edge of the attack.

One glance later, he decided not to target the ship. It wasn’t a concern. Not only did it have all of the hallmarks of a spy vessel, small, stealthy, and packed with sensors, it fled the moment it was discovered, aiming for the nearest Tier 35 battlefield.

Its presence also confirmed this was far from a random encounter, if the mines hadn’t done so already.

Matt was confident that if he used that same trick a few more times farther out, he might find one or two more spy ships, but he didn’t bother. His job wasn’t to stop spies from gathering information, it was to make their information useless by being so strong they had no recourse in place.

Or, that was the idea.

Traxix must have had the same thought, because the clearly pinnacle elite exited one of the three ships with a swish of his tail. The chimera was in his fish form, which let him dart through chaotic space as if it was normal water, but he stopped midway between the cluster of ships, declaring that their battlefield.

That could have been a trap in and of itself, but Matt personally doubted it.

Traxix was strong, and from the brief demonstration, in excellent control of said power, but he was far from subtle.

Redfur, on the other hand, was exactly that. The kitsune stepped into chaotic space before splitting into half a dozen copies of himself, each one keeping a single tail from the original body.

His typical team of lesser elites followed him out, but the kitsune himself was the biggest threat from that ship.

From the third vessel didn’t come Hali, as Matt had expected, but Angela Fortune and her team that qualified them as pinnacle elites.

Three pinnacle elites was quite the investment to take them on given how each Great Power usually had around twenty at the breakpoints. Under normal circumstances, it would be more than enough to force them to retreat without their Aspects. Normally. This was the reason they weren’t alone.

Yvette and Halford’s teams came out the same hatch Aster and Liz had while everyone squared off. They’d prepared for this, or some variation of it, but that didn't mean it would be an easy fight.

Matt half expected some sort of color commentary from the way all three teams were idling, but any such notions were put to an immediate end as an ink black and nearly undetectable arrow punched through Aster and slammed into their ship’s shielding in a spray of blue sparks.

A new copy of Aster reappeared a few steps away in a swirl of ice without any apparent injury, but the fight was on.

Matt and Liz accelerated in a burst, each aiming for the same opponent, Traxix.

At least that was the clear plan.

Yvette and Halford moved to intercept the remaining two teams, but that didn’t mean the three of them could enjoy a leisurely one on three fight. Far from it.

Traxix wasn’t an ideal fight for them, as he was a fast moving hit and run fighter. In theory that was a counter against Matt’s new heavy fighting style and Aster, with Liz being the only one he’d struggle against. At least until she was alone, where he’d be able to wear her down bit by bit.

The minute they were distracted, troops poured out of all three ships and set up portable defensive platforms that protected them from chaotic space. That, in turn, let them attack without having to worry about defence from the ambient danger.

Matt idly highlighted the anti-Liz defences he saw which aimed to prevent her from using the weaker troops as sources of blood. But they were just far enough away that it would be a difficult tactic to employ, giving the troops a solid lead time to either run or attack her.

All in all, it was a good ambush.

Traxix darted forward directly at Matt, and he prepared to take the charge head on. However, as he got within darting range, the fish’s attention shifted to Liz instead.

The moment the chimera reached melee distance, his form warped as the small and speedy fish grew into a fully armored hippopotamus. At the same time his Aspect flared and he tried to pen them in and keep them contained.

They threw their Domains at his general working which was enough to keep them mobile but it was costly. Matt suffered comparatively less with his Meld but it still strained him to keep moving under the pressure.

He tried to activate the swapping function on his and Liz’s ring, but the battlefield was still being locked down by what he assumed was one of the ships. It had been a longshot at best, as it wasn’t strengthened to work under such conditions, but he already knew how he’d handle it when he identified which ship was doing so.

Liz raised her shield, taking the blow on the growth item with a silent but still resounding boom. Her shield stored a portion of the kinetic energy for later use, but she was still sent flying backwards from the impact.

Matt used the opportunity the attack created to bring his sword around, aiming for the larger creature's flank, but Traxix blurred forward, chasing Liz with a burst of speed that should have only ever been possible in his fish form.

His second strike was clearly aimed for Liz’s head, but she transformed into liquid and split into two. One body welcomed the attack darting from his mouth, while the other skirted around and drove her spear into his shoulder. The newly advanced pinnacle elite, for it was clear he’d taken that step and was confident in his power well before this battlefield, bit down on the mass of ichor without fear as a stupendous crushing force obliterated anything and everything in his mouth.

Liz’s second strike on the armored flank was backed by [Heart-Piercing Stab], which punched through his side and deep into the rotund chest.

Traxix roared in pain but didn’t stop his charge as he finally reached his real target, Aster.

As he got close, the Tier 35 shot forward, blurring with an incredible speed, only to run into a wall of wind and snow as she activated [Dispersing Squalls] once again and started to unfold her spirit space.

His maw of a mouth still managed to close around her head and snapped down in a mirror of what he’d done to Liz. The difference was Aster wasn’t able to split herself the same way to dodge the attack.

Her head vanished, and unlike with the earlier bolt, her body spasmed before exploding into a wave of ice that tried to trap and encase Traxix. It worked, but not for long as the hippo shattered the binding ice with his continued charge through.

Aster reformed another illusionary clone a few feet away, just as Matt and Liz arrived in front of him.

Traxix took another spear thrust from Liz, accepting the hole her spear caused rather than try to block Matt’s longsword.

The moment he got free of the ice, he transformed into his fish form and tried to dart away, but Liz managed to hit him with [Congeal]. The blood that caked his flank from the earlier attacks hardened and prevented the fish from accelerating at his normal pace, which gave Matt just enough time to bring his sword back up from his earlier attack.

Traxix attempted to twist out of the way, but his back half exploded in a spray of white flesh and ultra thin bones. His body twisted as the man finally transformed into his humanoid form.

The damage was still there, but his style shifted seamlessly and he dodged both the spear strike and the follow up sword slash. That bought him just enough time to heal his legs, and Matt could read the desire to transform and reengage on better terms in the man’s expression.

Neither were happy with the current battle, which meant they were about even.

[Gravitic Bolt] tried to put an end to that plan, but before Matt was able to follow it up, he had to change course as the first wave of attacks from the general troops arrived.

A well placed [Bulwark] blocked the first wave, but each of the following ones came from a different angle. They also came with a carefully curated variety of styles, mana types, and physicality that made it hard to defend against everything with a single spell.

Solidifying and recasting the spell to create a large hyper dense dome of interlocked [Bulwark]s, Matt temporarily cut off the rain of attacks.

That still left them vulnerable to one type of attack. The curses that had been hidden among the flasher spells slipped through almost unhindered. They landed on them, which forced Aster to dispel the ones that hit her, even as Matt forcefully purged any that landed on him. As he did, he tried to grab Traxix’s attention while the other two were busy.

Where Aster needed to protect herself from the curses before they did serious damage, Liz, on the other hand, went still as she pulled the curse deeper into herself.

Traxix saw that and moved to stop her, but her wings formed a cage of golden ichor that crystallized as she used one of her oldest spells, [Blood Crystal Armor], to hold him back.

The man transformed mid-move back into his hippo form and recklessly bit at her wings, trusting in his innate protections and Aspect to keep her from using his mouth as a weakness.

His bite didn’t immediately penetrate the barrier, but the cracks told Matt her defenses wouldn’t last very long. He also knew she’d need a few more uninterrupted moments to trace the curses' connections to their casters and keep them occupied with a few curses and plagues in return.

Liz had felt compelled to push her expertise with the darker side of blood magic after her evolution from normal blood to ichor, where she lost access to a number of spells. She hadn’t regained all of them, or even most, but she had gotten a few to work that had become nasty when cast with her particular blend of Talents and abilities.

So long as she had enough time.

Matt’s arrival immediately forced Traxix’s attention off Liz and onto himself.

They’d already seen his other form couldn’t handle Matt’s sword, and the Collective elite didn’t seem eager to test his hippo form’s durability.

Once more Traxix ducked, sliding along with unfathomably agile movements. As he circled under Matt, his jaws snapped around his left leg in a sudden, fierce spell reinforced [Chomp].

Matt’s outermost layer of armor, one of his army provided temporary sets, crumpled under the spell and its Domain reinforcement. The rest of his leg didn’t fare much better.

His skin was obliterated, revealing the blue of his augment. Fine cracks were visible but already healing. The worst of the damage had been his foot, which had been crushed, as the thinner bones failed to handle being that deep inside what amounted to a giant pair of angry scissors.

And that was it.

By the time the hippo had moved further, hoping to sneak another bite at Liz, he’d realized he would need to use his very best to even inconvenience Matt, but it was already too late.

Matt was next to Liz and Traxix knew stopping her was a lost cause.

Instead, he went after Aster, but Matt left him to it.

That Aster wasn’t any more real than any of the others the Collective had attacked. In fact it was one of her ice golems in disguise. Her [Ice Manipulation] skill pretending to be her in fact which was a trap in and of itself. He knew she’d be fine for a few more seconds.

