“The young ones would face the beast and die a glorious death, but I refuse to accept there is no path forward. Even when things were bleak, my brother and I never gave up, always sought hidden salvation. I believe it could be you. I have to. There is nobody else.”

He blinked furiously a few times, so Viv pretended she couldn’t see the raw despair in his expression.

“Please. Help us.”

“You have a deal.”

***

Viv hovered next to her luggage. The royal couple had provided a rare magical item to mask her appearance, an amulet that must have cost an arm. It was gold, and looked like leaves strung together around a large ruby. She put it on and checked a nearby mirror.

She now looked like a Viziman. A Viziman with the face of Viv but dark, wavy hair, warm brown eyes, dusky skin, and no magical weirdness. Her hair was her normal length as well which was slightly over the shoulder for practicality. In many places of Nyil, long hair was a status symbol because only the upper class could afford the time and energy it took to care for it. She was, for anyone who would meet her, the wife of a merchant, most likely an artisan herself because she was fit. Her northern accent would mark her as an inhabitant of the coast and not even an Helockian. It would be a vertiginous drop in social status she would need to get used to when interacting with other people. Even the dresses she would bring had been made on demand in Frostway, using a northern pattern, because she simply didn’t own anything that wasn’t either war gear, lounge wear, or just really fancy.

It was supposed to block inspections as well, though she would also need to keep a tight leash on her mana. Anyone inspecting her would be informed she was an arcanist journeywoman, a crafting path with the ability to cast spells as a byproduct of their skills rather than a dedicated caster.

It felt strange, but also, in a way, exciting. She was going to go incognito and explore a new part of the world. There might be a dragon fight! She was also escaping her responsibilities!

Well, no. Her job was to go after every major crisis and hopefully kill them in the egg, so to speak. New Harrak could survive without her for a long time. She’d made sure of it.

Viv made sure everything was properly tied up before leaving her quarters through a backdoor. A few people frowned when they noticed her, which was normal in a small town where everyone knew each other, but their attention faltered when she boarded the ship. The sailors made a point to ignore her while Captain Kass briefly gave her a glance over.

“Very fitting, Majesty. You could be one of my nieces.”

“I think you shouldn’t call me by any honorifics if we are to keep my presence a secret. How about a fake name? Sai?”

“Sai will work very well. If you are ready, we can depart with the tide.”

“I have done all I needed to do. Let’s go.”

Viv nodded to herself. Let the adventures of Sai the Undercover Dragon Slayer begin! She was sure it was going to be great.
