The mountain cave’s entrance was cleaner than she remembered, or expected. It was a good sign. She gently pulsed her mana at the entrance as a courtesy. Young dragons tended to be territorial even with their allies. There was no need to provoke Gale.

Is one of the spawn with you?

The mental message came with a hint of concern.

“Nope. I’m alone.”

Oh good. The little twerps keep trying to contest my cave.

Especially that annoying white one, with the weird small borgling that reeks of fate magic.

And sister dear keeps complaining about bad examples if there is one rib left unburied.

“You know proper hygiene is the mark of a great dragon.”

I know.

He emerged from his cave. Gale had grown as well thanks to good exercise and regular, non-stolen food. Viv was trying to help him regain confidence after he’d spent years playing second fiddle to his sister, spellcasting wise. She got the impression the big lug was a bit brittle when it came to self-confidence and Arthur was apparently really, really good at mana manipulation so it was an uphill battle.

“How’s the fish sauce export business treating you?”

Your words are always arranged in a strange fashion, human.

The mountain dragons still see our collaboration as an unnatural thing.

They do not conspire, but they do not approve.

They wait.

Judgment is coming back.

“He is?” Viv asked, suddenly a bit worried.

He has traveled the world, or so I have been told.

He will be back soon.

I do not think he intends to kill you.

“I sure as hell hope not.”

Then all is well.

***

After piling on select belongings and ordering what she didn’t have yet, Viv took one of Harrak’s four warships north towards the autonomous enclave of the End of the World, Old Harrak’s most prominent luxury resort destination. It had been built at the northwest-most tip of the continent and abandoned after the catastrophe. Now, the Azure Lady’s collection of exiles had taken it for their own with Viv’s blessing. Her ships were pretty cool and named after the light gods for maximum power of flattery.

Her initial idea was to have one fuck-you cannon per ship. Unfortunately, the carpenters informed her that it would have been too heavy and cumbersome, so instead they had a gun deck and a rather imprecise mortar. It wasn’t too bad! The ships themselves were repurposed Viziman designs with cores and arrays for enhanced performance. While they wouldn’t win her any war for now, they were fully capable of stopping raiding ships, as some pirates who had unexpectedly attempted to steal the silverite ore shipments had found out. She stopped the ship along the first half the coast to visit the northern remnants villages. Those had been the poorest places she’d ever come across before and even now, they kept a parochial, isolated mindset that made development difficult. Loyalty wasn’t an issue. Getting them to ask for help was. In the three days Viv spent there, she killed seven monsters who’d been harassing villages yet the villagers themselves hadn’t thought to call for help. They treated Viv like she was an envoy from one of the light gods after she brought them the carcasses for processing.

It made her sad to see the sort of harm the remnants had caused to their citizens, a scarring of the mind that persisted long after those who’d oppressed them had fallen. At least, VIv told herself, she was here for them now. Sidjin was also doing his best by making sure they had the metal tools they needed but… it was definitely still a work in progress.

After that came the full wilderness. Even at the height of the empire’s power, that strip of land had been sparsely populated. Now it was a landscape of wind-swept moors and highlands caught between the Endless Sea and a mountain range tall enough for eternal snow. It was perpetually gloomy, and the smell of rain was ever present in the cold breeze. Viv could only languish against the ship’s railings, looking at the stormy horizon and thinking that fuck, if this was life in Scotland, then no wonder they’d gotten so proficient at making whisky. It mercifully got better as they neared their destination right until the point they got attacked by some kind of white, nail-covered aberrant worm the size of a smuggler’s tunnel that could apparently swim as well. It was covered in spines and an absolute bitch to locate but it was also dumb as a rock so she managed to isolate it after it attacked the same spot of the hull for the third time in a row. They still lost two people in the initial assault, as well as one flooded compartment that would need to be repaired by someone with water powers.

Viv was forced to slowly annihilate the carcass because they didn’t have enough flammable shit around to roast a corpse of that size.

“May Neriad have mercy,” one of the sailors said. “And to think we could have come across the creature without you around.”

Viv nodded sagely to herself. The End of the World’s mysterious depopulation might have found its explanation after all. She just hoped it was the only one.

“Lucky I was aboard, and lucky we were facing a midgame optional boss with a late game build,” she said, remembering a quote by her friend Gevaudan.

“What?”

“I mean it’s lucky I got experience killing aberrants and the power to face such a mighty one before we came across the creature.”

“Oh, yes of course.”

There were no more worms from hell until they reached the city the next day, finding the old resort’s fancy houses now well-lived in, its dusty roads repaired and lined with flowers. The weather here was amazing, which explained why it had been such a favored tourist destination back in the day. A concerned Lana rushed towards them on top of a mighty wave like a very prim surfer queen. She jumped on the deck in a pirate-like manner that Viv conceded was cool as hell.

“Quick, move alongside the pier! There is a horrible beast on the prowl. Only the Azure lady has the power to destroy it, for it is an aberrant worm of…”

Lana faltered. Viv’s placid face must have betrayed what had happened.

“I’m aware,” Viv commented laconically.

“How did you kill it in the water?”

“I used a large scale push spell to cleave the water and then it was easy to decapitate it once it was revealed. Horrible thing. It bled in the water a bit so I hope it won’t poison anything. We lost two people as well, before I could reach the deck.”

“It is fortunate that you were on board. The Azure Lady just left so we were concerned we might have to wait until spring.”

The Azure Lady had moved most of her people in The End of the World, only leaving a skeleton crew in her floating city which had been downsized to a more reasonable villa. Her den now floated up and down the coast following her whim and the direction of her meditations. She had decided on a very Persephone-like approach to the human detachment problem: she spent half of the year fully submerged somewhere in the abyss, and half of the year fully human on land or near the sea. It apparently helped her process her experience better as well. Viv avoided her most of the time because the human archmage had proven to be a lackluster conversationalist and a rapacious card shark who won nine games out of ten.

“Well I’m here now. You know. The second elemental archmage around, the living conduit of annihilation. The dragonslayer. The Empress. That woman.”

“Perhaps I was hasty in imagining that this creature could only be slain by a blue mana caster,” Lana conceded. “So you are here because of our visitors?”

“Yes. You will keep it to yourself, but I will be leaving with them while the Efestar’s Redemption sails onward to Zazas.”

“More adventures?”

“I’m afraid so.”

“I will start war drills for our mages as soon as I am back.”

***

The ship that had brought the message was not what Viv expected. Travel between the continents was still an affair of several weeks across a hostile ocean, so she was thinking about either an old, magical frigate like the one who’d carried her to Sardanal’s Cradle, or a thick caravel like in the early days of exploration back on earth. The ship awaiting her was called the Opportunity and it was closer to a catamaran complete with side hulls than the sort of frigate she had seen the Vizimans use. It had a light build obviously designed for speed, and inspired about as much trust in Viv as a gasoline-soaked piece of tissue in the hand of a teen arsonist. That thing hit a small rock and it would fold like a badly screwed Ikea chair with Viv still in it. She frowned. The garish colors and the well-worn triangular sails spoke another tale, even with minimum enchantments. She approached it. There were despondent sailors on the deck cleaning it under the scowling vigil of a bearded old man wearing a fancy turban. They, too, wore colorful clothes dulled by the sun. The captain had a saber resting on his side. His eyes met hers, and widened. She nodded.

[ Blockade Runner Captain, not dangerous: Fourth step of a hybrid path that focuses on sailing, leadership, and combat. Decent Close Quarter Fighter. Expert captain. One with the Wind.]

He breathed a prayer to the light gods, the entire patheon if his quick hand motions were any indication. Viv still made for her guest quarters as soon as she landed, if only because it was one of her last opportunities to be on stable ground for a while. She invited him to visit immediately. Leaving people to wait was for dominance games.

The old man entered her secluded salon with a respectful bow. The most easily visible emotion on his face was disbelief. She invited him to sit and waited while he conspicuously checked her out. At least he didn’t try to inspect her. She talked so they’d get to the meat of the matter before nightfall.

“No need for an introduction on my end. I received your liege’s message. I’d like to know more about the situation.”

She helped herself to some kava while he composed himself.

“Your Imperial Majesty. Thank you for receiving me. I didn’t… I didn’t dare hope! And this setting? I am honored.”

“Sandsong’s royal couple made it clear they wanted to keep things discreet, so I assumed it would be best to welcome you in private. Now tell me, what is this about?”

The man straightened up, though disbelief still made him pause midway towards his preparation. A gnarly hand brushed against his neat beard.

“Sandsong, that is, I am Kass Tilaperisi, the queen’s uncle. I am also a ship captain for the royal Sandsong Navy. The ship you saw is the Opportunity. It was designed for speed. But I should start at the beginning. What do you know of the Golden Coast?”

“It’s the main Viziman population hub, a fertile crescent at the southern tip of the continent. The dominant power is the Sheem kingdom to the east.”

Kass nodded. He continued himself with a calmer voice.

“They have been slowly expanding west into the central Principalities over the past decades. We, the Sandsong, have started to organize a resistance but we are meeting with difficulties. It is the season of storms, and a terrible one it has been as well. Worse, and that is why we beg for your help, a dragon is pillaging our northern cities. It is black, large, its breath is like a volcano, its claws and teeth like rocks in a storm…”

“I’m familiar with dragons. You can skip the flying and mana control parts as well.”

“They say you adopted one …” Kass whispered.

“That’s correct. I get why you would need a specialist when dealing with a dragon, but that doesn’t explain the need for secrecy.”

“Sheem is only waiting for an excuse to invade our nation, since the better part of our army is busy being used to deter the creature. We are divided and afraid. We have lost… fields, soldiers. Workshops.”

His face darkened.

“Family. The dragon has been without mercy, or pause. Sheem will wait until it is either bored or slain, then they will only need to pick up the pieces. If they learn of your presence…”

“They will move immediately because I would be an unknown variable. Do you know why it suddenly attacked?”

“Do dragons need a reason?” Kass said as if talking about a hurricane.

“Yeah, actually, they do. It would help to find out.”

“I could not hope to comprehend such a monster,” Kass whispered with the face of a hero of tragedy.

Viv refrained from telling him she’d backhanded Gale with a cow femur for forgetting to clean his prey heap — again! Dragons were sometimes alien in their thought process but that didn’t mean they were smart. Except Arthur, who was sharp as an Excalibur, bless her silly little head.

“I guess I’ll have to ask her in person. Are you aware of what the kingdom offered me as a reward for my assistance?”

Kass suddenly looked embarrassed, for some reason.

“They offered… allegiance, Your Majesty?”

“The allegiance of a nation on the verge of being invaded, to a sovereign whose presence will trigger a war with the Sheem kingdom. I will be immediately forced to defend you. That wasn’t mentioned in the letter, was it?”

Kass was less afraid than Viv had suspected.

“The Sandsong kingdom rose thirty years ago from a collection of cities that refused the rule of the Sheem. The present queen’s father was the first to put his powerful magic on the line for the sake of independence. It is a young and hopeful nation. You should not expect that we would relinquish our prized sovereignty for anyone but a true savior. We have heard of your kindness in the way you treat your own people. I trust you would extend this kindness to mine, as well.”

A few connections lit up in Viv's brain.

“It was your idea,” she said.

Kass nodded.

