The train track from Kazar to Frostway had taken four years to complete. It relied on five portal jumps, and was the second most vulnerable logistical hub on the continent. First, Viv traveled south along what used to be the fertile strip, now well-protected farmlands expanding to a large temple of Neriad, then full west through reclaimed fertile plains at the edge of the southern wildlands. It was a lush place, rich, but left at the mercy of ravenous tribes who had raided it without pause for centuries until finally, the remnants had fully abandoned them. Now, the rich location soaked up tens of thousands of refugees and immigrants, even more than the deadlands. It helped that this place at least had as much water as it wanted regardless of witch arguments. There were also plenty of local crops that thrived there without effort including some that were used for alcohol.

This influx of wealth had attracted the attention of some of the southern tribes that had long since given up on raiding their neighbors. It was something Sidjin had fully anticipated and prepared for. Once again, Viv’s lover boy had earned his moniker of the ‘Red Mist’. At the head of the Zealots and the Remnants’ hunter corps, he had scoured the tribes and exacted a terrible price on anyone who dared send raiding parties. It was a war of subjugation Viv had not involved herself with, not just because she didn’t want to throw shade on the authority of her paramour, but also because, fuck, those people weren’t nice. The civilized nations of Param had least had a code of war that encouraged taking prisoners and sparing civilians. The tribes had none, and the Zealots, in return, offered little mercy. Her only demands were that they not kill the children and the thralls which they’d respected, but — Viv suspected — only because those were brainwashed and reused.

Sorry. ‘Indoctrinated’. The Zealots were incredibly good at that.

Viv looked out the window to see a large statue erected on the top of the hill looking south, near one of the hot spots that still saw regular action. Her eyes widened when she spotted grisly trophies left at its feet: ears, but also the ivory remnants of broken bone weapons, tattered flags and some really suspicious skulls. An iron Zealot standard was planted nearby showing the pyramid and dragon wings of New Harrak in forged metal. It was a Zealot specialty since they recruited heavily from the Remnants who had an almost religious respect for steel.

“What the?”

The train turned a bit, revealing the statue to be a smirking, foreboding figure in dark armor.

“Hey that’s me! Ugh, I told those fuckers to stop it with the statues.”

“It is not exactly worship,” Bird Tongue claimed.

Viv gave the demure woman a dubious look. Bird Tongue was unnaturally pale, favored white clothes, and would have looked pretty harmless were it not for tribal tattoos and the outline of powerful muscles under the taut cloth. She was still a decent spearwoman even if she’d switched paths.

“Or at least this is what they told me. Furthermore, Cerus, commander of the Guardian Hunters, claims that the statues scare the locals. Some of the bone weapon offerings are theirs, Your Majesty. They ask for mercy.”

“Don’t you see that it just reinforces the thing?”

“May I be blunt?” Bird Tongue patiently asked.

“In private, always.”

“Have you tried not being a monstrously powerful half-elemental war caster with false wings and abyssal eyes?”

“This has nothing to do with my appearance. You can make anyone intimidating by taking liberties with a statue.”

“Indeed, however few of those people also defeated a dragon in full view.”

“That was a decade ago,” Viv grumbled.

“Twice. And then commanded an army of mechanical men to destroy the capital and its rulers for their arrogance.”

Bird Tongue smiled dreamily. She hadn’t been there when it happened, Viv knew.

“It’s dangerous,” Viv insisted anyway. “If it keeps happening I might become like one of them,” she said, pointing up and away towards the faraway mountain where the gods were said to reside. “Then I’ll be a supremely confident and insufferable powerhouse with no ability to self-reflect.”

Bird Tongue kept a carefully neutral expression. In the next carriage, someone choked on their tea.

“I hate it here,” Viv eventually grumbled.

“Is that so, Your Majesty? Shall I have someone flogged?”

Viv refrained from giving the obvious answer.

***

There was a ceremony when Viv arrived in Frostway. It wasn’t very pompous but it still happened most times she visited. Guards and zealots would line the streets while Sidjin waited at the end, standing majestically in decorated robes while citizens took a break to come see her. Frostway was the only place in Harrak where Viv bothered aside from official events, and that was because Sidjin cared. He was the viceroy here, in charge of handling a piece of the nation so different from the frontier, so twisted by decades of tyranny that an entirely new approach had proven necessary, and against all odds, Sidjin had succeeded.

Oh, of course, there were still odd trials for bribes, intimidation and the like, but they were sporadic and usually limited to the lower rungs of the city’s administrative and manufacturing ladders. Sidjin and Abe’s rehabilitation efforts had borne fruit. Frostway was no longer the den of nepotistic incompetence it had been under Arana and her ravenous clan. Even that clan had been discreetly given a chance to redeem themselves. Viv was proud of Sidjin and it also gave him a lot of confidence to be given leeway in the leadership of his corner of New Harrak. Viv wasn’t worried about a schism or rebellion for promoting someone else with this much power. After all, she had a secret weapon.

She used that secret weapon by dragging Sidjin to their private quarter for ‘an audience’ and then jumping straight to bed.

***

“Not that I’m complaining, of course, but what prompted this?” Sidjin asked with a smile.

“I’m leaving on mysterious adventures across the ocean.”

Sidjin paled.

“The Endless Sea?”

“No, I’m not sailing off into the horizon. I’m talking about Vizim. Look, I got a message and a feeling that I’ll be needed over there.”

“I heard the Azure Enclave has a visitor. Lana is there right now… ignoring her duties at the university.”

He frowned.

“You are implying you are going alone.”

“And undercover!”

“What do covers have to do with this?”

“It’s an expression that… ugh nevermind. Yes I’m going alone, but I need you to do something for me.”

“It’s graduation soon, Viv. We are sending twenty-five mages and witches to the Academy. I need to be present there.”

“I don’t mean right now. I have a feeling that our long period of peace will be over soon. I need us to be ready, but I can’t oversee it in person.”

Sidjin slowly nodded.

“I will order some maneuvers to field test the armies. Perhaps a few expeditions. Is there anything that prompted your belief?”

“Both Arthur and Lak-Tak believe things will get interesting soon enough.”

“Lak-Tak said interesting?”

“Unfortunately, yes.”

“I will prepare funds to hire the Red Tribe mercenaries as well. We will need everyone.”

“Yeah. Maybe. I’ll visit the university before I sail north, but before that, I want one last intelligence report.”

Sidjin nodded before growing a bit serious.

“Viv. We have not exactly grown apart but… we have had little time for each other recently.”

“I know. Sorry.”

“No, no, I understand. We have duties. We are helping our people. I just want you to remember.”

He bumped her head with his own. His eyes were very close which would have been comical except they were very earnest.

“You’ll be far from us but you’ll never be alone, right? Remember that.”

“I will never forget.”

***

Viv had struggled for a long time to find a person capable of building Harrak’s spy network from the ground up. She had gone so far as to check foreigners, just like she had with Strategist Sahin. It had therefore come as an immense surprise when Irao himself had volunteered for the job. Viv remembered the conversation like it was yesterday. Well she remembered all her conversations like they were yesterday thanks to her stats. But she was pretty sure she would have remembered that one anyway.

“I thought you wanted to leave your career behind you?”

“This is not my career. I was an assassin. This is spying.”

It was frustrating how he was right. The second hurdle came from the fact that spying required, as far as Viv understood, a devious mind and a deep understanding of human nature, two qualities that she didn’t associate with poor Irao. In retrospect, it was really stupid of her not to realize an assassin would know how to spy. How did she think he prepared his attacks to begin with?

Irao didn’t go for a slow and patient method. He claimed, and he had been proven right, that New Harrak already had an untapped source of agents.

The victims, sorry, ‘customers’ of the Golden Scale Bank and Exchange — which incidentally also managed the portal network payments in the spots where New Harrak collected them itself — were those agents. They just didn’t know it yet. The Harrakan spy networks didn’t do honeypots. They didn’t grab people by the balls. They grabbed them by the wallets, and they knew exactly how to squeeze.

It had honestly come as a shock to Viv to see how willingly some people were to sell their nation for not exactly the price of a sandwich, but like, maybe a sandwich stand. Information kept coming from even the highest of places. Irao didn’t take them at face value, of course. Instead, he sort of put them all together in a net of sorts, and then calculated the likelihood of any of them to be true.

He’d often been proven right so far which didn’t make her last briefing any more comforting.

“Oleander is on the move. His ships have been sighted in Vizim. I estimate the chance that those were scouts for an invasion at: very high. I estimate the likelihood that the invasion will occur within the next two years at: even.”

There were three continents in close vicinity to one another. Well, four, depending on if Viv considered the Nemeti continent as separate from her own. There was Param in the south, fairly big, Vizim to the north, perhaps even bigger but too arid to sustain a large population, and finally the smaller Shadowlands to the east of Vizim. The Shadlowlands were more an archipelago and they, too, couldn’t sustain a very large population.

As for the Nemeti continent, nobody knew how large it was. Even the refugees Viv had collected didn’t have much information because the Nemeti ate explorers.

“I was under the impression that Oleander was still rebuilding and uniting the Shadowlands. He has the wood to build an invasion fleet?” Viv asked.

“The Shadowlands’ remaining naval tradition is strong, second only to the old Viziman one. Out of all rival entities, it has the strongest current fleet. We are still far from matching them numbers wise.”

Viv nodded. Harrakan dry docks for ship building were, well, there were two of them and they were finally getting their feet under them, with a focus on merchant ships for monetary reasons. Harrak’s war fleet was barebones at the moment.

“They do not need to build a fleet. All of their clans already have sufficient ships, should they decide to unite. They do not need larger ships either.”

“So he will unite his people by leading them to war?”

“I deem the possibility of this to be very high. The text version of his speeches indicate he wishes to unite mankind. The possibility that he will eventually attack us is: very high.”

Oleander with an army and companions at his back? That didn’t sound very good.

“Any news on the embassy mission?” she asked, hoping there might be a diplomatic way.

“The mission returned a week ago. Our embassy proposal has been refused. Our envoys have been refused access to Oleander, apparently by his order. The stated reasons for refusal were the nature of Harrak’s government.”

“What do you mean?” Viv asked, surprised.

“Elaborating. The main causes mentioned were that, one, we are a tyranny.”

That was the pot calling the kettle black. Viv had more democratic institutions across her kingdom than any other political entity she knew of.

“Two, we have a history of slavery and expansionism. Old Harrak does, that is.”

“Okay?”

“Please do not aim your frustration at me, for I am merely the messenger.”

“Yeah sorry it’s not against you. And three?”

“There is no three. Those conditions were deemed sufficient, according to the stark refusal we received.”

“Then it’s a good thing I’m going to Vizim now to forge some alliances.”

“I will have a report ready. There is also the matter of Baran. I estimate the likelihood that Baran made contact with Oleander as: plausible.”

Viv frowned.

“They would cooperate?”

“I do not have enough information to reach a meaningful conclusion, however, we should take it into account in our defensive plans.”

“Even if they invade, it will take a while. They seem to have their eyes set on Vizim first.”

Irao nodded.

“It is likely, yes. If you create an alliance, you should consider bringing troops over later. You also need to take into account the fact we probably cannot match their fleets for a very long time.”

Viv considered it, but this was all hypothetical for now. Her first task was to defeat a dragon. It wouldn’t be easy at all.

“One thing at a time,” she concluded. “First I defeat the dragon and assess the situation, and then I decide if I want to bring our precious army across the seas.

***

