Standing atop my floating log adrift in the Citadel basin, I smile and wave to the crowd while wishing I stopped to take off my decorative armour before heading out onto the water for a fight.

The weight and discomfort aside, I’m pretty sure Yong-Jin is strong enough to shatter the gilded steel plate with his bare fists, to say nothing of what will happen if he brings out his sword and gauntlet. It’d be a different story if my armour was Runic like Shen ZhenWu’s, but while Taddy offered to look into crafting me a set, I turned down his generous proposal so he can focus on his life’s ambition instead. He’s been dreaming of having his very own Spiritual Garden and researching the medicinal properties of various Spiritual Plants for as long as anyone can remember, though Husolt mentioned that my whimsical Teacher was once obsessed with Spiritual Beasts as well. That phase has clearly passed, and while he has been known to steal Pong Pong away to study whenever he can, in my Teacher’s heart, his garden comes second only to his beloved daughter.

Who is currently waving her scarf from the main stage and looking oh so beautiful as she cheers for my victory, so I should probably focus on winning this match so as not to cast a shadow over our wedding day.

Sparing a moment to respond to my wifey’s enthusiastic support, I grin and wave back before turning to study my opponent. Standing comfortably atop his floating foothold less than ten metres away, Yong-Jin seems perfectly at ease before the cheering crowd, the very picture of the virtuous and upright young hero he supposedly is. Unlike me, he thought ahead and shed his fancy outer robes before leaping off of dry land, though in fairness, I can’t exactly slide out of my armour like he can with his fancy, formal wear. It’s clear man-bun came prepared though, as hidden underneath said robes was a thin hide breastplate, a light, sleeveless affair made from dark leather and covered in glimmering etchings which can only be Runic engravings. These markings cover every square inch of the light and flexible armour, lines and squiggles without any apparent symbolism on their own, but as my eyes unfocus on the details to take in the bigger picture, I realize the lines converge over the centre of his brawny chest to form a stylized depiction of his taloned metal gauntlet, with fingers bent and claws extended in obvious threat. Fancy threads to hide even fancier armour, these are the trappings of power which Yong-Jin traded his freedom and independence to obtain, and for a moment, I wonder if I made the wrong decision in refusing.

...No, definitely not. Things would’ve been easier if I’d accepted the Legate’s offer, but I was never great at taking orders. Besides, I’ve seen how Imperial Nobles treat their underlings, and there’s a good chance I would’ve just ended up like poor Kuang Biao, enslaved for no better reason than to make a god-damned point.

After flexing his armoured gauntlet in a remarkable likeness to the Runes upon his armour, Yong-Jin strikes a pose at full attention with head raised and arms folded behind him. Combined with his confident smile and what some might call conventional good looks, this makes him look the perfect part of home grown hero of the Empire, a man so nondescript he might well be the definitive portrait of your average citizen, a feat which I, with my lean frame, amber eyes, and angular features, could never achieve. I can see why Shen ZhenWu picked Yong-Jin over Hideo, Wu Gam, Tam Taewoong, or any other young Imperial, though if the world was less sexist, I’d argue Ryo Da’in would have made for the perfect cat’s-paw.

Then again, I suspect he had other plans in store for her and still might, so while I worry I’ve invited the fox into my coop, I cannot in good conscience abandon my support of her and her family. Even if the Ryo’s are deeply in Shen ZhenWu’s pocket, and I have no proof that they are, I will consider them allies until such a time as they prove themselves otherwise.

That being said, it would appear that the former Legate was not stingy with his support for my supposed replacement, and given the presence of this Runic hide armour, I make an extra effort to inspect Yong-Jin’s jewellery. The only piece that really stands out is his thick silver circlet, which as I mentioned before, looks more like a head protector than fashionable accessory. Then again, the Tyrant has plenty of Runic Jewellery with the Runes inscribed on the inner band, which means any one of Yong-Jin’s gem-studded accessories might well be hiding a nasty surprise. Removing his robes also revealed a bracer on his left forearm which might also be Runic in nature, but as he stands with hands behind his back, I don’t have the right angle to study it. His loose white pants appear as if they’re made from silk, but the material is so thick with such heavy stitching that I suspect it’s some unknown blend of fabric that is probably both expensive and defensive in nature. Lastly, though his boots look fancy in design, they’re made from tough leather and look fashionable, comfortable, and serviceable, though neither leggings nor footwear appear to be Runic items.

As stated before, Yong-Jin appears to be the perfect model of a mighty Martial Major, the rank he currently holds under Shuai Jiao’s command. I will note that aside from their shared Blessing, it’s difficult to see any similarities between the Commander General and his one and only Disciple, with the younger Warrior bucking all of the trends set by his ascetic Mentor. Even if his jewellery is Runic and functional in nature, it’s appears as if Yong-Jin knows how to appreciate the finer things in life, and his full head of long, luxurious hair tied up in an elegant and fitting man-bun, something he had long before he entered into the Legate’s employ, shows that he loves to preen for the crowd. What’s more, Shuai Jiao is infamous for not possessing a Spiritual Weapon, and while I now suspect he uses Domain Plating to make up for this deficiency, Yong-Jin clearly did not follow suit and has two Spiritual Weapons of his own. I suppose it’s possible he already obtained both of them before becoming the Commander General's Disciple, which would beg the question of why Shuai Jiao would wait so long searching for the perfect candidate before accepting a Disciple so very different from himself.

Truth be told, on paper, it feels like Yong-Jin and I should be the best of friends. Unlike most Warriors who make it into the Hwarang, he comes from humble origins and earned every accolade he’s ever received, and perhaps a few more he was passed over for on account of his lacking background. An orphan and career soldier who started from the bottom and is now here, this exemplary young man stands at the forefront of his peers and is on track to become a pillar of the future, provided he survives the trials and tribulations ahead. There are no rumours about any darker desires or gossip regarding sordid drunken antics connected to him, because unlike so many young men his age, Yong-Jin is a boring bastard who spends his days serving in the army and the rest of his free time training. Everything about him just screams ‘Good Person’, which is so rare to find in the world of Martial Warriors, because most let their own power get to their heads.

So why do I hate him so much?

...

Whatever. I don’t need a reason. Fuck him and his stupid man bun. I bet he doesn’t even like dogs. Stupid jerk.

Stifling my irrational ire for a man I don’t really know all that well, I take a deep breath to calm down before trusting myself to speak in a cordial tone. “So how do you want to do this?”

Too casual and impolite considering our difference in status and public location, but unlike me, Yong-Jin knows how to mind his manners. “In light of your considerable skills, this one is not arrogant to think himself a match for the Legate,” he begins, his voice rough, but not unpleasant and rather fitting for his stalwart image, but his decision to broadcast his part of the conversation for everyone to hear only irks me further. “However, this one still yearns to experience the Legate’s might firsthand and truly appreciate the skills of the Number One Talent in the Empire, a genius seen once every ten-thousand years. As such, in order to best display your Martial skills for all to see, this one suggests we have an exchange in the truest sense of the word, by taking turns to attack and defend with the end goal of knocking one another into the water, though this one humbly asks for a handicap of three defeats.”

...Ah fuck. I walked right into their trap. He buttered me up so good it sounds like my victory is an absolute given, and thus there is no benefit for me to accept his terms. If I win, then it’s only as expected, but if he wins, it becomes a black mark on my reputation for others to use against me. The problem is, I waited too long to ask how this match would go, and now everyone has heard his proposal, so I really have no choice but to accept, else it makes me look scared and weak.

Well, at least he didn’t ask for a higher handicap. I just gotta knock him into the water three times before he knocks me down once. On land, it might be a different story, but here on the water, I am literally in my element. Besides, from the way he was skipping along all the logs, it’s clear he has yet to learn how to Cloud Step, and that alone is a huge advantage for me in this match up. I could even afford to offer him a higher handicap, since I doubt his pride would allow him to accept and the offer itself would sting more than a little, but then I run the risk of finding out he’s every bit as shameless as I am if he unexpectedly accepts. Better to just pretend like I don’t care and just go with the flow, a decision I come to almost instantly despite my long internal considerations. “Sure,” I reply, striking a more casual pose and leaving Peace and Unity on my hip rather than making preparations to fight, a move meant to show how little I think of my foe and provide myself a valid excuse if I should lose in the first exchange. “Let us proceed as you suggest.”

I mean, what’s the worst that could happen? I lose and laugh it off, no big deal. My rep takes a bit of a hit, but I’m young and talented, not almighty and undefeated. I’ll just roll with the punches and see how this goes.

“Then this one will make the first move.” Doing away with all pretenses, Yong-Jin attacks without any further preamble, bounding forward in a spray of water as he launches himself headlong towards me with metal claws extended. Tiger Pounces Upon the Lamb, but he will find I am no helpless lamb frozen with fear. Leaving my weapons to hang where they are, I deploy my Domain and compress it down to my skin while lining up my airborne opponent for the easiest counter ever. Aiming to knock him out with a palm strike to the chin, I ready to Deflect past his offensive reach and palm his face with just enough force to shatter a few teeth, but then he suddenly accelerates in mid-air and grabs my wrist before it can connect. Not a problem, as my Domain and Spiritual Heart combined are tough enough to withstand his iron grip and leave me firmly in control as he tries and fails to wrench my arm aside, his Earthen-Blessed Reinforced muscles proving no match for my combined Internal and External Reinforcement. Though his clawed talons find purchase in my flesh, Yong-Jin surprisingly neglected to Hone his weapon, else he could’ve taken my entire hand off at the wrist, likely because this is supposed to be a friendly exhibition match, so he can hardly act so ruthlessly from the get go.

Doing what I do best, I go with the flow and throw myself back, purposefully falling away so as to avoid a headlong crash. Though this sounds like a dumb move, retaining control over our descent is critical at this juncture, an advantage I use to good effect as my foot connects with his inner thigh and hurls his entire body up and over my head. Following this up immediately with a backflip in place, I cleanly reverse our positions so that he is below me and will most certainly fall into the water first. Belatedly remembering I gave him a handicap of three defeats, I realize that if we both fall into the water, then it would probably count as my overall loss. Best not to risk it, so I use my free hand to grab Yong-Jin’s thumb, twist my captured wrist towards the weakened appendage, and lift my knees to my chest before stomping down on his stomach with both feet and Cloud-Stepping ever so slightly away, forcibly freeing myself from his grip through a combination of finesse, skill, and good old fashioned brute strength. Even as my opponent crashes into the water below and takes my foothold with him, I execute another backflip mid-air and scour my surroundings for a floating log to land upon. The symmetry of switching starting positions is just too tempting to pass up, so I Lighten and gently Cloud-Step in a manner that makes it look like I’m floating back to Yong-Jin’s initial foothold, all the while wasting copious amounts of Chi to Heal the minor wounds along my wrist and hoping my sleeve isn’t too torn up to cover up the minimal amounts of blood.

God, there’s so much to consider in these exhibition matches when fighting from a position of strength. Well, it’s my turn next, so I guess I’ll just beat the shit out of Yong-Jin and leave him unconscious in the basin.

