Without even looking back, I lock eyes with Shuai Jiao in the distance, sitting so arrogantly on a chair in the middle of nowhere which someone brought out for him. Eyes burning with anger, I cast Peace behind me without looking away, and take great delight in watching him shoot to his feet so quickly that his chair topples behind him. The Commander General stops himself short of leaping out to save or avenge his Disciple just as the log explodes under Yong-Jin’s feet, smashed to pieces by my sword as it delivers a Guided Mountain Collapsing Strike from afar, something I’ve been practising in secret for some time now. “There. One attack, as you requested, and now I’ve entertained you long enough.” Though supposedly spoken to the water-logged Yong-Jin, my words are actually meant for Shuai Jiao as I slowly Cloud-Step back to the dock. “Today is my wedding after all, and there is still much to be done, so you’ll have to forgive my abrupt departure.” Courteous as the words might be, my tone is cold and domineering and Oration inadvertently blazing with heat, which clues the audience into the fact that all is not as it seems.

The hushed whispers and growing rumours are of no interest to me however, nor do I care to keep glaring at Shuai Jiao, because waiting back on the docks is none other than my sweet wifey herself, ringed by her guards and looking oh so lovely in her red silk dress and veil. “Good job hubby,” she says, greeting me with a smile so bright it shines through the sheer silk face-covering. “You kicked his butt good, but you were too nice about it like always.”

“Glad you enjoyed the show wifey. Anything for you,” I reply, and as I take her hand in mine, I realize that my words are absolutely true. I would do anything for Lin-Lin, anything at all, so long as I can keep her by my side. “C’mon,” I say, pulling her along behind me as I head back to receive my next guests now that the Commander General has left to retrieve his shell-shocked Disciple from the basin. “Why don’t we go welcome guests and accept gifts together? It goes against custom, but you’re probably bored to tears sitting up there for everyone to gawk at.”

“Presents are nice, but there’s nothing to open, which is half the fun of getting gifts in the first place.” A woman after my own heart, Lin-Lin hugs my arm tight as if daring anyone to try and pull her away. “Still, if you’re bored, I’ll keep you company, ya?”

“Perfect.”

And I mean it. Today is my wedding day, and nothing can ruin it.

...

Okay, plenty can ruin it, but that wasn’t a challenge, so please have mercy, Mother above.

Chapter Meme
