Standing in place because my foe has yet to act, I am so focused on Yong-Jin’s presence that I almost fail to notice my surroundings. Startled gasps from the crowd catch my attention, and only then do I notice the floating logs converging towards him, carried over on unseen currents directed by his Chi. Though the logs move slowly and I could do better, the fact that he can even do this much is impressive considering he’s what? Twenty-five, maybe twenty-six years of age, which is fairly young for a Martial Warrior to exhibit such fine control of External Chi, much less Elemental Chi. Mila, Yan, Dastan, and maybe a handful of more names, there are not many people his age who can match Yong-Jin’s display, though I suppose Tenjin probably had both of us beat when he was twenty-five, a mere four or five years ago.

Hang on... I can feel... something off about this whole thing, a wrongness in the air which stems from Yong-Jin’s bracer. When Martial Warrior’s use Chi, there’s rarely ever a discernible disturbance in the surroundings Heavenly Energy wise, but I can feel Heavenly Energy gathering about that Runic bracer. Maybe it’s some sort of focus to help Yong-Jin utilize the Blessing of Water, similar to the Runic bangle the Legate gifted me during my wedding with Mila that helped with Lightening ever so slightly. If so, then I can only look on in envy and wonder how much face it would cost me to steal that bracer away, though if this is the full extent of what it can do, I’m not sure it’s even worth taking. Needless to say the crowd is impressed, because Yong-Jin has just shown us all his ‘true potential’, a man seemingly destined to follow in his Mentor’s footsteps to become a Living Legend in his time. Though it pales in comparison to the power I demonstrated out on the Azure Sea, I had the help of an Elemental Spirit who provided me with the means to Bind the entire sea and carried out my Intent. What Yong-Jin is doing here and now is probably under his own power and control, not to mention happening in front of an audience that massively outnumbers the soldiers who witnessed my feats.

There’s a saying that holds true in this life as it did in the last: Pics or it didn’t happen. Alas, there are no cameras here, so unless I can control the Azure Sea on demand, there will always be a sizable number of doubters out there. As for Yong-Jin, even though this is his first time displaying any skill at all using his Elemental Blessing of Wood, he’s almost able to match the skills that I’ve shown off to the crowd, which is essentially limited to moving logs around in the water. I could swim real fast for everyone to see, but somehow, I doubt they’ll be all that impressed by my aquatic acrobatics, and while I can conjure up a pretty long stream of Water Chi, I’m not shameless enough to do my imitation of a fountain in public for all to see.

Useless skill though it might be, it’s pretty fun to do in the bath, and it’s hilarious using it to scare Jimjam away. Poor kitty. I should stop teasing him so much now that he’s going to be sleeping in my bed with Lin-Lin and the bears.

While I muse about my sweet, water-phobic kitten, Yong-Jin finishes gathering up all the wooden logs left floating in the basin. Laid out side by side to form a floating platform, he stands at one end of the ‘stage’ and sets it to drifting in my direction, extending a wordless invitation to join him which I cannot refuse. Even knowing he could ostensibly use his Wood Chi to interfere with my movements, I must rise up to this challenge and overcome it with relative ease, else tomorrow, the common people will be left thinking I am not all that far ahead of my peers. Ridiculous is what it is, in more ways than one, but I got myself into this mess, and only I can get myself out.

Suppressing the urge to berate and chastise myself for being a big stupid dumb dumb, I smirk and step onto the platform without hesitation. Again, I extend my Domain around me in order to better guard against Yong-Jin’s tendrils of Wood Chi, because I will know if his Chi stirs within my Domain. It’s not much of a Domain as far as distance goes, extending maybe ten centimetres from my skin, but it’s more than what most can match, which means Yong-Jin won’t account for this in his attacks. Without Domain Plating to protect me, the time has come to draw my weapons, but an errant thought strikes me as I lament my inability to beat Yong-Jin with bare hands alone. Couldn’t I just partially Domain Plate myself, like just my hands? Giving it a shot on a whim, I find success as easily as breathing and crack a small smile as I ready to face my foe.

Focusing on nothing, I find everything and become aware of nothing but awareness itself, my mind detecting everything and anything that might be of use. The logs are not equidistant, nor are they bobbing in concert, but rather shifting and jostling about as if trying to fight free of Yong-Jin’s control. Not out of conscious intent, but rather because he cannot actually control all the logs at once and is simply maintaining the perimeter. The rest are merely trapped and floating in place, which is both good and bad. Good because I will sense if Yong Jin tries to take control of the log beneath my feet, and bad because I have to be more careful about where I step, since one wrong move can set into motion a domino effect of unintended consequences. If he takes control of a log before I set foot on it, then he could catch me off guard at an inopportune moment. I could also take control of the water and move the logs indirectly, but I don’t have the fine control to pull off anything useful. At most, I could send a few logs shooting out in various directions, but only the outer ones since they’re not blocked by other logs, a card I’ll keep in my pocket for later.

Honestly, I could just Cloud-Step up into the air and leave him no avenue of attack, or Mountain Collapsing Stomp away the entire makeshift raft, but that would probably be frowned upon as unsportsmanlike behaviour or something. Whatever. I’ll beat him at his own game and force him to acknowledge my strength, and if that’s not enough, I’ll slap him around a few times for good measure. Fuck him and fuck his games. It’s all meaningless in the face of overwhelming might.

Oh no...

That’s essentially saying ‘might makes right’, except using more words. I’ve become everything I’ve ever hated...

Launching into an offensive the moment he sees my attention slip, Yong-Jin dashes across the floating platform with claw extended. Thrusting his gauntlet towards my face, he uses this ineffective charge to block my peripheral vision and brings out his hidden blade for a surprise attack, but I expected as much and have been Scrying on him from above. Dad thinks it’s a bad move to watch someone from two different perspectives, but I see it as something similar to using a mini-map and find it easy enough to pay attention to both. A casual step and spin moves me out of the way of both attacks, and I glide over the floating platform while barely ever touching the logs, Lightened to the extreme so as to avoid having the proverbial rug yanked out from under my feet. Unwilling to give up just yet, Yong-Jin continues his offensive as well within his right, seeing how we never agreed to limit ourselves to a set number of moves each turn, only that we would alternate between offence and defence.

Another oversight on my part, because if I hadn’t thrown him into the water both times, his turns would not have ended. Be better Rain. Be better.

Happy to play along and throw him into the drink once more, I slip away from his flurry of attacks with remarkable ease, given how my mobility is hardly hampered at all by the unstable terrain. If he thought his floating platform would offer him an advantage, he was sorely mistaken and I am more than happy to show him why. What’s more, much like me, Yong-Jin is accustomed to fighting opponents from inside their range, getting up close and personal where their swords, axes, and hammers are unable to easily reach. However, given my familiarity with this particular style, I know exactly what to watch out for and how to deal with whatever might come my way. Where others would falter when presented with unfamiliar angles of attack, I don’t even have to think twice before batting Yong-Jin’s weapons aside, with the only caveat being that I have to be careful not to let him grab onto me again. It’s child’s play putting up a whirling ring of defence using only my Domain Plated hands, the absence of Peace and Tranquility meaning nothing as I abandon myself over to the movements and trust my body to know what to do. I only need to perceive and identify the threats as well as my counter opportunities, and my body knows exactly what to do with the information.

A lesson I learned long ago and tried so hard to forget, because I could never have done this without Baledagh.

A surge of sadness and longing lifts the veil upon my mind as I finally identify what’s been bothering me. The real reason why I hate Yong-Jin so much is because he reminds me of the little brother I lost but never had. My opponent here is the native born Warrior I so desperately wanted to become, so much so that I created a second persona for that very purpose. Things would’ve been so much easier if I could’ve let Baledagh take over and just become him for the rest of my life, but I never could surrender control to this alter-ego of mine. Now, I’m faced with Yong-Jin and his stupid man-bun, who is so similar to me minus the perversion and floof dependence. He even has the Blessing of Wood, which is like my Blessing of Water, but better because it comes bundled with Earth, and the two can then be combined to make a whole third Blessing. Seeing him is like looking at a better, happier, more sane version of myself, the person who I envisioned was more suited for this world and could never live up to, all because I am a stranger in a foreign land.

Well fuck him, and fuck me too. I’m here to stay, which means this is my world now, and nothing can ever change that. I’m not suited for this world, so I set out to make it better suited to me, and look at me now. I’m Legate of the Outer Provinces Falling Fucking Rain, and I’m not going to let some prissy, man-bun, Captain Empire wannabe of a stinking brat disrespect me.

Yong-Jin’s hands are unable to even touch the surface of my armour as I ward off his flurry of blows with ease, my mounting displeasure emanating out in an Aura of barely restrained fury. Slowly but surely, I ramp up the pressure against him, pushing forward and cutting off his path of retreat even while remaining firmly on the defensive. Hooks and uppercuts, kicks and sweeps, slashes and thrusts, and more, every attack he throws at me is blocked, parried, or brushed aside in a display of absolute dominance, but still he will not give up. My patience running thin, I deploy my Domain further around me, not equally in all directions but unevenly in outstretching tendrils which allow me to reach further than the mere ten centimetres my base Domain affords me. Pushed to my utmost limits as my Domain struggles to carry out my Will, this phenomenon lasts only for a fraction of a fraction of a second, but even this momentary effort is enough time for me to eradicate Yong-Jin’s control over the wood logs and currents around us. The platform comes apart and I send the logs shooting off in every direction, some hard enough to splinter as they impact against the bridge or docks in the distance, but even then, my foe continues to persevere, right up until his clawed gauntlet closes in around my forearm as my fingers curl around his throat. “You lose,” I whisper, reining in my anger to offer him a chance to accept defeat with grace, but I can see that he is not yet convinced, his eyes filling with anger and disbelief. Alas, with him in my grasp like a chicken bound for slaughter, he has no choice but to concede, because he knows just as well as I do that I can easily pop his head like a pimple before he can break my Domain Plated arm, which means this match is over.

The crowd bursts into applause as I release Yong-Jin, who lets go of my arm a half-second later. As I turn to leap back to the docks, my opponent’s voice cuts through the cheering. “Legate is truly mighty,” he says, speaking over the quickly quieting crowd, “But alas, the Legate has yet to show the true extent of his strength. This one is to blame, for he is lacking indeed, but might this one be so bold as to request the chance to experience a single attack from the Legate? Treat it as if this one had the courage to decline Legate’s earlier offer to pass on his turn, for this one would truly live in regret if he were to come so far and not experience the Legate’s strength firsthand.”

