“Well fought, son,” Dad Sends, his pride and approval enough to set my cheeks aflame, both from embarrassment and the strain of keeping the stupid grin off my face as I land lightly atop my opponent’s abandoned foothold and wait for him to emerge. “Your mother was almost disappointed when she thought there were no more contests to be had, so it is good you had this surprise event planned. Be careful not to lose face though, as being perceived as weak is worse than actually being weak, so tread carefully. A bit of advice. You allowed yourself to fall into a prickly predicament by forgetting your opponent’s favoured fighting style, but you extricated yourself cleanly there. Good to see you have picked up the knack of Domain Plating as well, but we will speak of this later. For now, concede your next move and allow Yong-Jin to attack again, but this time, remember that he favours close-quarters grappling and act accordingly. Do not neglect his sword either, which he left unused this time as he did not expect you to give way so easily, but know that he could have opened your throat had you stood your ground instead of giving way as you did.”

I knew I made good decisions under pressure, even if I don’t always understand the reasoning behind them. Wait. “Concede my next move? Why?”

“Because not only are you stronger than your opponent, you are also higher ranked, and therefore must appear magnanimous.” Sending an amused chuckle for added effect, he continues, “You erred in countering instead of defending, as the rules dictated you were supposed to. Every Expert present will have seen this, and while none might care to ever bring it up, they will remember your actions and keep your cunning ways in mind when dealing with you in the future.”

God dammit. I’m not used to seeing things from this side of the fence and keep forgetting that I’m not the under-dog this time around. The best defence is a good offence, but Dad’s right. I was supposed to defend against Yong-Jin’s attack, not knock him out before he delivered it. Thankfully, my two-footed stomp sent my foe plummeting into the basin depths, giving me time to chat with Dad and digest the fact that my compressed Domain is actually Domain Plating. It’s a lot easier than I thought it’d be, but a quick attempt to extend this Domain Plating to my clothes instantly falls through, as the fabric resists and overcomes my attempt to merge the physical and metaphysical together.

Why? Merging my Domain with my body takes almost no effort at all, but trying to Domain Plate my clothes feels like putting together a 3-D puzzle blindfolded while having no idea what I’m building. Ah, probably because the clothes aren’t... I dunno, Spiritual? And lack the proper... connections for my Domain to adhere to? Which means I would need to manually affix my Domain to my clothes in order to merge the physical and metaphysical together, a feat which I’m not entire sure how to do.

Long seconds later, I put my testing aside as Yong-Jin emerges from the depths looking none too worse for wear, surging out of the waters to land lightly upon a wooden log with man-bun somehow still intact. Though wet and soggy, his ruffled clothes make him look more sympathetic than downtrodden, and his smile is so modest and self-deprecating it could’ve come from my own face. “It appears that the Legate saw through this one’s desperate attempt to seize victory through surprise and deceit,” he says, his eyes flashing with a hint of roguish charm that seems all too genuine to be faked. “A failed gambit and deserved loss, but this one will not concede just yet, for though the Legate has travelled far along the Martial Path in so short a time, this one still hopes to one day catch up.”

“It matters not how quickly or slowly you proceed, so long as you arrive at your destination in the end.” Offering him some fortune cookie wisdom as a response, I flick my fingers in a beckoning gesture as per Dad’s advice. “Come. We’ll count that last exchange as both of our first turns, as I forgot myself in the moment and countered, rather than strictly defending. My apologies for that, but old habits die hard.”

Clasping his fist in a martial salute, Yong-Jin bows ever so slightly to show his respect. “This one thanks the Legate for his profound words of wisdom, and though none would dare fault the Legate for his actions, this one will also gladly accept the generous offer, lest this match end too soon for everyone’s tastes.”

I gotta admit, he knows how to put on a good show for the crowd, who cheer and applaud at his statement. To the average observer, it truly appears as if we’re having a friendly exchange and competing as young men are wont to do. It annoys me that he’s so good at this and further aggravates my inferiority complex, but there’s nothing I can do except be better to prove to everyone, myself included, that I deserve to be called the Number One Talent in the Empire.

After Mila, with her crazy laser beams. Oh, and Yan with her giant tornado of slicing death. Possibly Lin-Lin too, considering she redirected an attack from the Ancestral Mammoth, half-hearted though it might have been. An argument could be made for a few other stand out talents, but even if I’m not number one, I’m at least in the top five, right?

...Top ten for sure. I deserve that much at least.

Focus dude. Even though it looked like an easy victory from the outside, it actually took a fair amount of skill, luck, and effort to avoid losing so disgracefully in the first exchange, not to mention how you used several of the advantages you were keeping in your back pocket. Maybe it’s time to pull out the trusty sword and shield, yea?

Alas, the thought comes too late as Yong-Jin almost instantly launches into his next attack, leapfrogging over wooden logs to avoid a head on approach. As I turn to face him, something snags my foot and I stagger in place, not quite enough to stumble but more than enough to stop me in my tracks. Inwardly reeling for balance of the mundane variety, I recover just in time to defend against Yong-Jin’s low kick, or so I thought. As I move to raise a foot and avoid the scything sweep, I falter yet again as my foot gets caught on something again, and all too late I remember Yong-Jin’s Blessing, something he has yet to publicly display but is well known all the same. Emerging from the wooden log beneath me is a thin tendril of Wood Chi, seemingly planted there in advance by my devious foe. It’s hardly the most impressive working of Chi and not at all worthy of his Mentor’s sobriquet ‘the Grasping Vine’, but even though the tendril breaks with little more effort than lifting my foot, it has already done its job in slowing down my response.

The problem with moving on reflex is that you have no control over what those reflexes will do. Everyone has experienced it before, walking along when suddenly the ground drops out from under you as your foot finds a step down you didn’t expect. Even though you land firmly and are in no danger of falling, your mind panics and your body fights for balance you already have because you’ve encountered something wholly unexpected and can only move on instinct. So too is my response both times when encountering this tendril of Wood Chi, and even though I recover in less time than it takes to blink, the two combined pauses allow Yong-Jin just enough time to land his devastating kick. Bear’s Stepping Grasp, except while most Martial Warriors interpret this movement as an instep to follow through with a punch, Yong-Jin executes it with his right foot alone, using his sole almost like a hand to cup my left ankle and sweep it out from underneath me, which looks and feels a little like I’ve slipped on a banana peel. At the same time, Yong-Jin’s armoured hand shoots out to push my right shoulder hard and throw me off balance, while his unarmoured hand latches onto my right sleeve and pulls in the same direction. My balance broken, he follows through the moment his left foot touches down on the wooden log beneath me, his entire body moving in concentrated effort to twist me about and bend me backwards in a valiant effort to use his strength and momentum to throw me into the water and secure himself a much desired victory.

So simple a motion, this grappling throw, but one that uses opposing forces to good effect. One hand pushes, the other pulls, while the sweeping foot keeps my weight on one foot that makes it easy to pivot me about. The world spins as I struggle to keep my footing and avoid a public dunking, the rotation due to our bodies’ movements and the actual log twirling about underneath us. Pushing my body’s flexibility and the seams of my pants to their absolute limits, I wrench my raised foot down and back until I am no longer bent over backwards and fully upright again, all the while carefully making sure my foot doesn’t go into the water. At the same time, I latch onto his arms at the elbows and pull him in close, breaking his hold and giving him a taste of his own medicine as I use my upper body strength alone to fling him aside. Cartwheeling through the air in a display of phenomenal agility, Yong-Jin gamely clings to my arm and uses it as pivot point to swing around and try to attack me from behind, but I am not yet done.

Feet planted firmly on the wooden log, I give up on trying to move them for fear of more Wood-Blessed shenanigans and use my own Blessing in response, taking control of the currents and forcing the wooden log to bring me out and away from Yong-Jin’s aerial grab. Momentum and gravity do the rest as he is unable to Cloud-Step and maneuver in mid-air, leaving him no choice but to let things play out as I extend my arm and lower it until his feet sink into the water below. “I believe that makes it two points for me now,” I say, making it impossible for him to take advantage of my poor posture with another attack and claim ignorance after the fact. “I’ll pass on my turn again, so do your best and leave no regrets.”

His brown eyes flash with anger for all of a millisecond, disappearing so quickly I’m almost convinced I only imagined seeing it there, which Blessing aside is the first similarity I’ve seen from Yong-Jin and his Mentor. Shuai Jiao is similarly a master of controlling his emotions, and his Disciple only a little less adept at hiding them. Releasing his grip on my arm, which would be sporting blackened bruises if not for my Domain Plated defences, Yong Jin allows himself to fall into the water with a nod and swims away towards the nearest log. This time, I’m able to appreciate his aquatic skills as he dives under the surface only to launch himself out of the water shortly after, rising into the air head first before landing lightly on the wooden log reminiscent of how Pong Pong sometimes exits the water.

Or a penguin, except they tend to land on their bellies, which is real cute. Do penguins exist here in the Empire? God, I hope so. Where would I go to find them, and would they survive back home in the mountains? How come I remember penguins and how they leave the water, but can’t remember what my parents looked like?

Glancing down at my feet to study the log beneath me, I extend my Domain not to Plate it, but merely to block any Wood Chi from entangling my feet again. I could switch over to a different log, but considering Yong-Jin hopped over a good number of them on the way out here and I didn’t keep track of which ones, it’s better to work with a known quantity and just expect the worst. Besides, changing logs would make it seem like I’m worried about his Blessing, which I am, but staying shows my disdain for his skills to everyone who noticed. As Dad only just reminded me, appearances matter more than facts, because so long as appearances are kept up, face must be given. If I lose here, it doesn’t matter if I am technically stronger than Yong-Jin, because no one will care. All they will focus on is how I lost, and until such a time as I can regain face, they will treat me as if I am weaker than I truly am.

Hey look at that. After almost an entire decade, I’m finally getting a grasp of this face thing. Wooo, go me.

“This one thanks the Legate for his advice,” Yong-Jin declares, putting a bit too much oomph into his words to suit his subordinate tone. “As such, this one will no longer hold back.”

Implying he has been holding back this entire time, which is bullshit. God, I hate this guy.

Then the time for flippant thoughts is over as Yong-Jin takes his stance. Right hand extended forward with taloned claws pointed in threat. Left hand behind his back and ready to draw his sword, but hiding how he intends to hold it, either normally or in reverse grip. His feet shift to shoulder length apart, knees bend ever so slightly, all with a posture which is neither wholly rigid nor entirely slack, but somewhere in between. A tree bending in the wind, so to speak, and I find it impressive how well he’s incorporated this singular adage into his style, one that is strong and flexible without sacrificing strength or stability. The Blessing of Wood is not just something he uses alongside his Martial Skills, but part and parcel of the whole. There is no differentiation between him and his Blessing, no divide between a Wood Blessed Yong-Jin and one without, a level even I have yet to reach. My fighting style is an aggressive one in which I rush in and overwhelm my opponents at a range they are not accustomed to, yet when it comes to the Blessing of Water, I’m trying to establish a style in which I hang back and blast my foes from afar, two distinct and wholly dissimilar method which have little in common, something I should reflect upon when I have the time.

