“Excuse me.” Stella said to the cop and turned to Mary. “Security will see you out when the police are done with you.” She said. “The cops have evidence of what really happened, so there's no point in lying about it.” She reminded her and followed Elise out of the living room. The police and Mary watched them go and no one tried to stop them.

*

“Lisa, I...”

“Shh. Don't talk, Ren.” Lisa said. “You heard what Stella said.

“But...”

“If you keep talking...” The female paramedic sighed. “...I'm going to ask what you said to that man to set him off like that.”

“That's what... I want to say.” Ren said, and Lisa held his hand. “I was... being stupid.”

“Ren, don't.” Lisa said and wiped at her eyes.

“That's... great mascara.” Ren smiled. “It hasn't... run or... smudged yet.”

“You know I can put you to sleep.” The female paramedic said without taking her eyes off the monitoring equipment. “Stop talking.”

“Lisa, I... it's not my secret to tell, but... I know...”

“I don't care what you know, Ren.” Lisa said. “I don't care if you goaded him, or kicked his shin, or even spit in his face.” She said. “All I know is, no matter what you did, he couldn't stop himself from hurting you. He knew how easily you could be hurt, Ren. You told him that... and he manhandled you anyway.”

“Lisa...”

“Even if all he did was bruise you by picking you up, that was still too much, because he did it intentionally.”

Ren heard the confidence in her voice and only a trace of anger.

“The guard said to put you down gently, because Dad had you up off the floor... all he did was let you go.” Lisa shook her head. “With the cops there now, I hope that he does something really stupid.” She said, and leaned over to give him a kiss on the lips. “No one is allowed to hurt you, Ren.”

“I was... going to say... the same thing... to him... about you.” Ren panted.

“I'm picking up the needle with the anaesthetic.” The female paramedic said and Ren's automatic physical response kicked in. The machines beeped loudly and he started to tremble in fear and gasp for breath, which was really bad for his current injuries. “What-” She started to say.

“SHUT UP YOU BITCH!” Lisa yelled at the woman and cut her off. “He's afraid of needles!”

“I... I'm sorry. I...”

“...didn't know. Yeah, that's a great excuse!” Lisa said. “You just sit there and keep your mouth shut, okay? Do your job and stop trying to be funny! It's not helping!” She turned to Ren and put her mouth by his ear and talked to him. Ren's breathing slowed and he stopped shaking as he calmed down and the machines calmed down as well. She kissed his cheek and pet his hair, and kept whispering sweet nothings to him for the remainder of the ride to the hospital.
