“Well, everything,” she said. “This is supposed to be a safe area, only spawning low level monsters that couldn’t even hurt a child, and yet a warg was living here. And on the night of the attack, we detected a dimensional anomaly.”

“A dimensional anomaly?” asked Penelope, looking shocked. “What does that mean?”

“It’s less serious than it sounds,” she said. “It’s just a term to refer to a long-distance teleportation spell being used. Three people were transported away on that night.”

“To where?”

“We don’t know,” she said. “That’s another thing that makes this case unique. In fact, I was just about to start reaching out to friends and family to see if anyone had news about their whereabouts. Have you heard anything?”

“I haven’t,” the knight said, shaking her head. “That’s why I’m here.”

“Do you know who else might know? Someone else they might have gone to first? Maybe some of their family?”

“Family?” asked Penelope. “I don’t know. Nick never told me about any other family. I don’t know if he had any. I’m pretty sure he said that his mom’s family didn’t talk to her. Oh, but Bianca’s might! I tried to get in touch with them before I left, but they never responded to any of my letters.”

“You sent letters? Then you know where they are?”

“Doesn’t everyone?”

Not me!

Elise panicked for a moment, wondering what to say. Apparently Bianca’s family was well-known enough that Penelope didn’t even feel the need to say their names. That meant that Elise should have known who they were too. Did she get caught? No, there was still a way out.

“Who exactly is Bianca?” she asked.

“I thought you were supposed to be investigating this,” said Penelope, her eyes narrowing.

“I am,” said Elise. “I knew that the Gray family lived here, but I did not know who the fifth person here on the night of the attack was.”

“Ah,” said Penelope, not looking totally convinced. “Well, the fifth person was Bianca Lappin, youngest daughter of the Lappin family.”

“Oh, I see.”

Elise immediately knew she had made a mistake. She probably should have known before she opened her mouth, since Penelope wasn’t exactly being subtle about her suspicion. Elise took a few panicked steps back as the other woman drew her sword.

“You’re not an investigator. Who are you really?”
