Holy shit, it’d been a second since he’d looked at this. Not only was Intensity II giving him a +50 in three stats because his Spirit was 250 now and it gave him 2 points in those stats for each 10 he had in Spirit, but those bonuses would quadruple to +200 when he was under severe turmoil.

Combined with Dark Knight’s spell bolstering and Empower and some of his other tricks, Markus was beginning to envision that he might be capable of some pretty fucking baller feats when under duress, assuming he used his Malichor Blade as a conduit.

He needed to put more points into his weapon. He dumped more into Core and Control.

Core was integral to increasing the weapon’s mana. It had a powerful core and he wanted to be able to generate more mana within it. 20 more points in Core raised the weapon’s Mana Capacity to nearly 1400, effectively bringing the weapon’s capacity to more than that of an F Grade Essence Stone, ignoring the fact that his weapon generated its own mana.

Control was needed if he was going to be able to use the weapon properly. Unfortunately, Malichor Frenzy I dictated that while he gained Control and Sharpness in spades for attacking with the weapon, putting points into the weapon’s Control attribute cost twice as much. That meant that sticking another 20 points into Control only brought his base Control up to 30, and that was even including points he’d spent increasing the weapon’s control while he’d been grinding the dungeons below.

Looks like he was doomed to be a slow starter for now, and ramping up with a flurry of attacks was the name of the game if he wanted to gain access to his weapon’s full benefits in combat.

10 more Affinity brought the weapon’s Affinity up to 100, but an unmodified 50. Even still, this had an immediate effect:

[Scornful Strike I unlocked! 45 Versatility required to slot this skill. Please increase your Versatility, or unmark an existing skill in order to affix Scornful Strike.]

Okay, shit. What did this even do?

[Scornful Strike I: Every 4 minutes, you may channel 50 F Grade Frost Mana and 50 F Grade Spirit Mana into your weapon, causing your next strike to deal bludgeoning damage and knock opponents back, also inflicting Freeze I on opponents no more than twice your size or lower. Durability of weapon affects skill cooldown, while user Affinity and Arcana each affect potency and threshold or freezing opponent.]

Huh. One big attack, and a guaranteed Freeze on an opponent, assuming they weren’t completely massive.

Maybe a situational pickup, but so far, Markus had fought about as many massive things as he had small, so there was a decent chance it could be useful. If he had to guess on his next opponent, he’d assume ‘big’, as even though the papers he’d been given on the creature didn’t specify size, it sounded big, but the knockback and damage themselves might be a crucial extra thing to have on the battlefield, regardless of the Freeze status.

So it was that he grabbed that shit and invested the necessary points to slot it straight away.

That said, he immediately got a prompt the second he learned the skill:

[Forget existing skills Scornful Strike I and Acid Slash I and forge a new Compound Skill? 85% chance of Common Compound Skill, 13% Rare, 1.6% Epic, 0.3% Legendary, 0.1% Transcendent.]

Yeah, no. Those odds sounded dogshit. Even the 13% on a Rare compound was a total crapshoot. He never used Acid Slash, really, but that didn’t necessarily mean it was bad, and he hadn’t even gotten to try out Scornful Strike yet.

That being said…

He remembered the factors that increased his chances of getting rarer compound skills. They included his Arcana and Affinity, both of which had gone up, as well as his existing levels within a skill…

He decided to pull up a previous option for sake of comparison, now that his stats had increased. He was curious.

[Forget existing skills Detonate I and Triple Strike I and forge a new Compound Skill? 65% chance of Common Compound Skill, 24% Rare, 8% Epic, 2.7% Legendary, 0.3% Transcendent.]

Damn, 1 in 300-ish chance at a Transcendent ability, huh? Who was feeling so generous all of a sudden?

Markus wasn’t gonna cash that in just yet, he could increase the odds further before he span that wheel. Hell, part of him was intensely aware of the fact that his Sharpness, Affinity, and Durablility bonuses DID quadruple if he was under enough stress, and considering that, he almost wondered if it were possible to artificially engineer a combat situation in which he was able to max out his Affinity and then from there roll to combine skills.

Sounded incredibly risky if he fucked it up, but he’d been put in a hostile and unfair world with nothing to go off but the exploits he could come up with. It was something he was more than willing to give a try once.

And, well, once was probably all he needed to either find out it worked or get murdered.

Hmm. Maybe he could trick his passive into activating during training. He’d rope Cyrus into that later if he got a chance.

When Rika popped up again later, it was in the middle of Markus filling a couple of his remaining Essence Stones.

“Hey!” Rika started, waving with her right top hand as she strutted in, looking sweaty. “I worked double-time to get all my deliveries sorted. Wanted to see you before you fought next.”

“Hey…”

Markus thought about it for a moment. He looked at her. Could he…

No.

There was something better he could do than talk.

“Hey, can you do me a favour?”

“Probably. I’m pretty good at favours.”

“Okay…” Markus scrawled down a handful of words on a piece of paper, making sure to make them nice and big and as legible as he possibly could.

On the back, he hesitantly scrawled down some more words, hurriedly forcing them onto paper.

What had started as a few seconds soon turned into a couple of minutes, then a few. Rika raised an eyebrow, peering over him.

“What’s that say?”

“Don’t worry about that. Just look at the big words on the front.”

Rika nodded. “Okay. Can do.”

“Good. Now, go look around in the library for any books with words on them that look like this. Grab them and bring them to me. As fast as you can, okay?”

She didn’t need telling twice. She grabbed the piece of paper and legged it.

Markus had written six words on the front of the paper.

Those words were ‘magic’, ‘contract’, ‘demon’, ‘mana’, ‘soul’, and ‘summon’.

With those words, Markus was hoping he could learn at least something about how the fuck to get out of his predicament, assuming Rika could grab the right books.

On the back of the paper, he’d written her a note.

It’d be a long time until she was able to read it, he was sure. But if he did die today, he hoped she’d keep learning to read just so that she could.
