Once there, the giants lined up in front of the table Ren had left there, and he made another curtain for them to get changed behind. When the female giant handed him her clothing from around the curtain, he repaired them, stored them, and took them out.

“Can you wait for a moment?” Ren asked her, and she thought about it.

“What are you going to do?” She asked. “It's not some perverted ritual with my underwear, is it?”

Ren laughed. “No, Ma'am.” He said and made her a quick robe to wear. “I'm thinking you might want a bath before wearing clean clothes.”

“I... yes, I would.” She said. “How are you going to do that?”

“If I could get a hand from a few men, to help dig?” Ren asked.

A few of the giants picked up the shovels by the large oven.

“Thanks.” Ren walked around the curtain and picked the empty unused tent he had designated as the changing tent. He stored it, thought normal size, and took out his hammerpick. He marked out the size of the hole he wanted, and the giants got to work. With 4 of them working, it only took a few minutes for the large square pit to be finished. He used paving stones to line the pit, and since they interlocked, he figured there would be very few leaks. When he was done, he took out his forge, and made a long thin mold, 30 feet long and 2 inches thick. He melted more ore, and then poured out the very long mold.

The giants gasped when Ren picked up the smelter with his bare hands, and went along the whole mold to make sure it was evenly distributed. The last thing he did was take out a steel square and enchanted it with a double glyph that contained 8 runes; 5 of which were Water, and the last 3 were Fire. He attached the enchanted square to the top of the long steel bar, and then Ren built a large wooden brace for it. With a giant's help, he stood it up and embedded it into the ground beside the pit. Ren waved to Laurelia, and she came over.

“What can I do?” Laurelia asked.

“Say 'Activate'.” Ren said.

“Activate.” Laurelia said, and the enchantment activated. Water and Fire gushed out of the steel square, and everyone gasped. “Good god!” She said. “Is that... no, it can't be!”

“Steamy hot water.” Ren said as the pit started to fill up. “I got the idea the other day when you said you couldn't clean yourself up.” He said. “I'm glad that it worked.”

“You didn't know it would?!?” Laurelia asked, surprised.

Ren laughed. “This is all guesswork.” He said and enchanted a steel square with a double glyph (8 runes total) of anti-water. He knelt down and stuck it into the water. Activate. He thought, and it started to suck up the water. Perfect. He secured it near the top of the pit, then made several more of them and placed them around the top of the pit on the other three walls, to make sure the water wouldn't overflow and possibly flood the camp.

“It shouldn't take long for the pit to fill, and you'll have nice hot water to take baths.”

“Oh, Ren.” Laurelia said and knelt down. “Thank you so much.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “Things are definitely going to get better once I start getting the supplies to replace your tents with houses.”

“Wh-what?”

Ren smiled at her shocked expression. “I made a deal with the Chancellor. I won't tell the world what a miserable bastard he is, and he'll send food and supplies for you.”

Laurelia picked him up, nestled him between her breasts, and hugged him. Ren couldn't really do anything about the situation, except hug her back.

*

“Out of the way!” The female giant who wore the robe said, and the male giants that had helped dig the hole stepped out of her way. She tossed the robe aside and waded into the makeshift hot water bath.

“Oooohhh! This is bliss!” She said, leaned back against the side of the pool, and looked at Ren. “You're a godsend, little person!”

“You're supposed to wash and let someone else take a turn.” One of the male giants said.

“I will.” She said. “In a minute.” She closed her eyes and sighed. “I needed this. I really did.”

Another female giant chuckled. “If you can stand having someone else in there, I'll join you.”

“Grab the soap and get in here.” The one in the bath said as she moved over slightly. “I don't mind sharing.”

“Thanks.” The other female giant said, and started to strip. Most of the men turned away so they wouldn't see something they shouldn't see; but, a few others watched her intently. “Oh, my god... you were right.” She said as she sat in the water beside the other female giant. “I needed this, too!”

They both sat there for a minute, sighed at the same time, and started to lather up with the soap.
