Florence dragged a hand down his face.

"The man was an accountant, lawyer, judge, and auditor, yet you've given him the right to decide who is the winner? You might as well announce that you never intended on winning in the first place."

I beamed with confidence.

"Tera was able to take over an entire planet without spilling a drop of blood. What makes you think his entire species can't fix a wound on one measly world?"

Helios let out a long, grating sigh.

"Once more, boldness without caution. I suppose we should simply embrace the insanity."

I put my hands on my hips.

"You just wait. They'll handle this with ease. Just watch."

Chapter Begin

"There is absolutely no way we can do that."

Tera's baffled exasperation and befuddled tone left me scrambling. Helios pinched his brow and let out a long sigh.

"If your plan was to ease the tension between our species, then perhaps you should've foolproofed your idea first?"

Florence took a breath of the Moajave air, the scent like dry stone. Our diplomat smiled.

"From my research through the Empire's archives, the skeptiles have operated a ritual like this many times. Why would the ritual on Blegara be any different?"

Tera's tail flicked behind him, his nervous energy and suppressed animosity finding an outlet. Tera glared at the other albony before the skeptile murmured.

"We're a proud desert people. Emphasis on desert."

I picked up some sand with gravitation.

"You mentioned adding water here. You'd be doing the same there."

Tera took a steadying breath.

"We've worked with rituals at a regional scale but never something planetary. The difference is enormous."

I moved the sand into a tiny dust storm above my palm.

"The scale won't be a problem. I can offer as much mana as you could possibly need."

Tera stepped over and moved his hands through my dust storm. It fell apart. I pursed my lips.

"Hey. Lame."

Tera shook his hands at me as if strangling my neck.

"Our magic has never been performed like this. Why did you sign your secrets up for something this trivial? What's the point?"

Sensing how serious he was, I straightened up. I met Tera's eyes.

"It's to smooth over relations between the different peoples under my rule. At the very least, we can show the albony exactly how valuable the skeptiles are while giving you guys a valuable economic niche in the future."

Tera winced, but the rigidity never left his eyes.

"That's...That's a pretty solid set of reasons, I suppose. I don't think we're going to be able to do this on our own, however."

Helios panted in the sun.

"Then perhaps we should get to solving this problem instead of discussing its merits?"

My gaze sharpened, and many of my psyches moved into the conversation.

"What are the limitations?"

Tera held up a scaled hand, the plates polished from a recent molting.

"We're trying to perform our sacred rituals, but we can't manage a ritual of such size. The mana goes berserk, and we will unleash a god of destruction onto the land, not a healing spirit as we intend."

I put my hands on my hips.

"Mana management. What else?"

Tera's tail flicked until it dug a trench in the loose soil.

"We'll also require more specialists than we have. We've managed to transform the Grand Canyon into a more hospitable place, but we don't have the land or area to take a break and help Blegara or the moon. It's too much of a burden on my people."

Helios tilted his head to Tera.

"Your people have been given an enormous number of resources. Daniel's cities and golems guarantee that no eldritch can kill your kind. His runes give utilities such as fresh air and water, and you're able to level using the gear he provides."

Helios took a step to the skeptile's leader. A tense silence passed over us, and Tera's horns flared over his skin. Helios glowered down at him, and he said,

"Daniel asks for one favor in return, and you have the gall to deny him. Is your gratitude such a meaningless thing? Or are the skeptiles so lethargic that they can't muster up this much activity?"

Tera flashed his spiny teeth.

"We are a kind that you've suppressed for centuries. It takes more than a few months to undo that kind of indoctrination and cultural destruction."

Florence walked between the two. He put a hand on Tera's shoulder.

"Both our peoples have seen our share of hardship, and I know we're the source of your kin's suffering. That makes assisting us a difficult prospect-"

Tera's voice seethed as he slapped Florence's hand away.

"Difficult? You oppressed us for your own gain so that your ruler could harvest more treasure. I've walked past the corpses of my kind for decades, knowing you all grew fat off our labors. I watched members of my family dehydrate and have their blood filtered for us to drink."

His words left the two albony stunned. Tera's words were like a lashing as he continued.

"We want nothing more to do with you and your ilk. We've seen where that road ends: in slavery, starvation, and death. If you ask me or any skeptile, we say you and your kind deserve your fate as tools of Elysium. You reap the bad karma that you've sown over the centuries under Obolis and his cruelty."

His pain was a palpable thing. It settled over us, and it unveiled the true source of the skeptile's reluctance. He and his people could handle the ritual. That much was evident from how well and quickly they reconstructed the American Southwest. It wasn't something Tera had been shy about during his weekly reports either, and I'd seen the results firsthand.

Instead of a lack of ability, this was a struggle for willingness. As with any deep wound, the skeptile's scorn festered from a lack of care and constant reopening by the albony. It would need someone to heal it, and even Florence wasn't that person. He stayed silent, and for once, he lacked any words of recourse to stifle the fallout.

Florence gave Tera a bow before stepping away. Helios did the same, though he lacked the same defeated slump of his brother. I let them get out of earshot before frowning at Tera.

"We need your help with the spirits."

Tera took a breath.

"You will have them. As many as you could ever hope to have, but not for them. They were a plague, a destroyer of my people's will. Why would we forgive them? Why would we help them?"

I turned a palm to him.

"Our first priority would be Blegara. The Vagni haven't done anything to your people. In fact, they're victims of the same systems your people suffered from under the albony. You can help them heal a scarred world, and that may, in turn, help heal your people."

Tera's tail cracked into the ground.

"We can help you with Blegara, but not the moon."

It was one hell of an inconvenience, but considering their history, Tera was being more than reasonable. I offered him a hand.

"I only need Blegara to get my deal handled anyway."

Tera shook my hand.

"Thank you for not forcing us. You could've, but you chose not to. That benevolence isn't going unnoticed, not by me or my people."

I smiled.

"Good. Would you mind if I had some people learn about the spirit magic as you performed it?"

Tera's eyes narrowed.

"I'm no fool, Daniel. You intend to take our secrets and use them to help the albony anyway, and I cannot allow that."

I pinched the brow of my nose before mana flared in my runes. They shifted from white to red.

"Look, Tera. I fully understand that you and your people aren't willing to help the albony. That makes sense. They used you. They killed your people for their greed. It's something that, like you said, takes time to recover from, let alone forgive."

I shook a hand in frustration.

"But you're not just your people or the skeptiles any longer. You exist under my banner. That means something. While under my order, I will protect you with my life, and I have given you access to everything I have. I'm not asking you to serve under me but just to share your knowledge and let me do what I want with it."

Tera squeezed his hands to fists. His claws dug into his palms, and blood dripped from them.

"It's a gift we would give willingly, but I can't stand by and watch it be used to help them after what they've done to us. It's as if we're giving our last piece of bread to those that starved us. The humiliation...I cannot accept it."

I gazed up and considered my position. As I did, I took a long breath before peering at him.

"I freed your people from the albony, gave you a home, and have protected you with everything I have. You and your children will never experience indentured servitude until I draw my last breath, and I will continue to help your people with my legacy, guild, and infrastructure."

Tera's hands loosened. I frowned at him.

"Despite all I've given you, I haven't asked for anything in return. So this isn't about the albony. This is a request from a friend. It won't be a command from the albony, either. I will be gaining plenty of resources from the exchange, and I can easily pass most of that onto the skeptiles."

Tera peered one last time at the set of albony brothers standing in the distance. They argued back and forth, Helios's arms crossed and Florence pacing back and forth. Tera closed his eyes before raising his hand.

"I will do this for you and to respect what you've done for our people. Know that this is not something done lightly, and if we're put into a position under the albony again, I will not be able to suppress the rebellions. You understand that will be the consequences if the albony so much as mock us as we give them air to breathe?"

I scoffed.

"Of course. By the time this entire arrangement is finished, the skeptiles may even be richer than the albony."

Tera's eyes widened, surprise smattering his face.

"Are we going to steal from them?"

I shook my head.

"Of course not, but they'll be paying fairly for both my cities and your terraforming. That's an enormous debt that'll leave the skeptiles with more than enough to rebuild and then some."

Tera's hands shook.

"You promise me and my people that we will not be shamed when we help them?"

My runes flared red.

"Oh, I can assure you of that much."

Tera clenched his hands to fists.

"Then we will do what we must, but it is with a heavy heart."

I put a hand on his shoulder.

"And heavy pockets, eh?"

Tera peered at me in confusion.

"But credits are weightless?"

I gave him a slight shake.

"Oh, come on man, we're going to get more than credits. We'll be walking away with relics and ancient treasures, too. Not only that, but techniques, knowledge of trees and perks, and all kinds of useful bits and pieces for building a people up. For building the skeptiles up."

Tera perked up.

"It...It will be helpful for bringing our people out of their poverty."

I waved my hand over the sky.

"Exactly. There's opportunity abound. Now, I have one more serious question."

Tera's face grew grave.

"What is it, guildmaster?"

I stepped back.

"So, what's going on with the tarantula hawks here?"

Tera shivered.

"They are the fiercest predators that exist in the Mojave."

I swung a fist.

"That's good. Very good."

Tera blinked.

"They are a danger to any that walk these lands."

I nodded.

"And they have the coolest name of any living thing on Earth. I mean, come on. Tarantula hawk? That's awesome."

Tera gazed with wide eyes. He raised a scaled hand to reply before grabbing his jaw. After a moment, he nodded.

"It is an impressive name."

I smiled.

"Right?"

***********************************************************************************

Before heading out, I built several cities for the skeptiles. I left them more gear than the albony since the skeptiles hadn't received my radiant cores at the center of their settlements. They didn't need as much passive power for their atmospheric restoration or to block out ambient radiation, but it felt wrong to leave the skeptiles with less.

So, I gave a supply of rings, armor, and weapons to bridge the gap between the core types, leaving the skeptiles plenty to work with for establishing their territory. After finishing my setup, we waited at the Grand Canyon for Tera to finish grabbing his elite spiritualists. This gave us ample time to see the changes in the landscape as we traversed the Mojave.

Unlike the northern portion of the desert, the Southern Mojave had been remade in a different image. The skeptiles evolved the orange-stoned and sandy desert into a verdant paradise covered in greenery. Colossal, semitranslucent spirits roamed the land, each of them covered in runic tattoos and imagery matching primal gods from their belief structures.

Those giant mana constructs planted seeds from different parts of the skeptile's homeworld. These plants were taken from a seed bank the skeptiles stored with magic. Generation after generation, they held onto the hope of restoring what life had once been like for their people. With time and resources, they remade the best parts of their old world on Earth, turning the desolate landscape into a thriving oasis.

The only reason they hadn't lived that way up until now was because of strict quotas and unreasonable rulers. Seeing their impact gave me a better idea of how much loss the skeptiles had experienced. That understanding grew as we learned more. In their altered landscapes, fruit trees rose from the ground in batches, each of them surrounded by beautiful, towering trees.

Vines and ivies branched across each of them, and they glowed from ambient, absorbed mana. These batches of greenery framed the enormous orange stones that dotted the landscape, seamlessly blending the beauty of the desert with the lush, magical forest. Different native species had fed on these plants, the vast majority derived from the native wildlife of the area.

