The mana evolved the native species, the energy resulting in them taking on different forms. In many ways, the skeptiles made the legends of the Mojave into a reality as the ecosystem upgraded into a magically imbibed version of its old self. I had worried about invasive species when they proposed this plan, but the results were hard to argue.

Unlike most portions of Earth, these upgraded lizards, insects, and birds could fend off most eldritch. Better still, the upgraded wildlife lacked the eldritch's deadly virulence. If they ever left the plants, they would die, pinning these creatures to a specific area. That didn't stop dungeons from needing to be cleared, but it reduced the chance of some stray eldritch running amok and turning into a planet-eating horror.

The mana-absorbing fruit was a wonder of bioengineering, something breeding and research hadn't solved, yet somehow, the skeptiles had. Their entire understanding of terraforming relied on the trees they planted as the fruit carried mana's potency without its inherent malevolence. It spiked my curiosity, and as a favor, Tera took Helios, Florence, and me by one of these forests.

We landed near one of the clustered trees and spent a while trying out different fruits, each of them carrying wild flavors. Most of them weren't just wild in taste or texture. They held physical sensations as I ate them, from a pleasant chill to a zapping electrical surge. Some held pleasant emotions, like bursts of nostalgia or a warm sense of belonging.

These imbibements gave the fruit a depth of experience that Earth's fruit couldn't match. Yet. I held a fruit mirroring a swollen leaf with red streaks crisscrossing it.

"How are you clearing out the energy? The mana in this is so-"

Florence swallowed his own bite of a different fruit.

"Clean and crisp."

I pointed at him with my own fruit.

"Exactly."

Tera walked over to one of the trees. He dug up the roots, pulling them out until he reached a cluster where the roots merged into a swollen tuber.

I leaned down to it.

"Ahhh. So that's what's going on."

Tera pulled one of the black, miasma-ridden tubers from the ground, its malevolence leaking like a poison. Tera took out a sharpened eldritch tooth and cut the tuber from the bunch, and using the makeshift blade, he diced the bulb apart. From his dimensional storage, Tera pulled out a mortar and pestle made of shining, enchanted diamonds.

The stark beauty of the artifact contrasted with Tera's other gear, but he wielded it in the same manner. He crushed the tuber into a dry, pasty substance before taking out a jar, funnel, and curvy pipe.

Helios peered down.

"You need a chemistry set now?"

Tera smiled up at him, his grin menacing.

"Of course. We know more than simple rituals of spirits."

The funnel was smothered in sigils, and Tera covered the mortar with the wide part of the tube. It caught all of the dark smoke rising from the tuber, and it flowed through the curvy pipe. Connecting the narrow end to the jar, he funneled the mana into a vial before stoppering it with a kind of cork made from the roots.

He handed it to me with a smile.

"Does it look familiar?"

From years ago, a wave of nostalgia passed over me.

"This is the same kind of vial you gave me when we first met."

Tera's smile widened.

"It is. I'd been carrying quite a few supplies of the ambient mana, and I'd been trying to find the right place to dispose of it. You happened to need it at the time."

I pulled the cork out and siphoned the mana, its old potency gone yet lingering as a potent memory.

"This nearly killed me then. Now it's barely more than air."

Tera nodded.

"We're storing the ambient energy we harvest to give to you for disposal. Considering your abilities, it shouldn't be too strenuous a demand, and we can help show your guild this process once we're finished."

We continued chatting while Helios and Florence watched on. Helios kept his arms crossed, one of his hands digging into his forearm. He bit his tongue before Florence put a hand on his brother's shoulder.

"We held a guillotine over the skeptiles' necks for centuries, yet we never uncovered these secrets."

Helios narrowed his eyes.

"They hid them well."

Florence scoffed.

"More likely, they tried sharing this with us when our species first made contact. We probably treated them like savages in the meantime. In essence, this is where an open mind leads."

Helios glowered down at us.

"But we know the secrets now. We can use these gifts to help us tame the moon of this world. It will save lives that would otherwise be lost fighting the eldritch."

Florence lowered his arm.

"This is the price we pay. Kindness would've been a far more rewarding approach, but we chose our path. We followed a tyrant who led our people to ruin."

Florence glared at his brother.

"Will you walk that same road, or will you choose a different path?"

Helios peered down. He dragged a hand across his face.

"I...I know he was a fool. He had so much history and time to develop us, and yet he turned our empire into a glorified slave trade. At one point, I loved him. I admired him. I wanted his validation; no, needed it. Now I know how little he truly accomplished, and it makes me feel as if I followed a lie."

Tera stood before squishing a fruit in his hand.

"You don't feel that way. You did follow a lie."

Florence gnarled his hands while mana surged from Helios's gauntlet. Tera turned to them and paced over. Tera held a hand dripping the mana-enriched juice.

"You know nothing about us, do you?"

Florence put a hand on Helios's shoulder. Helios turned before taking a calming breath. Florence turned a palm to Tera. The albony diplomat smiled.

"We would like to know more if you would share it with us."

Tera's horn flexed over his brow and elbows, stiffening.

"Then listen. You see the spirits that traverse our lands? These were made by us, but we did not create the magic they come from. We were found by powerful spirits in primordial times. They were known as the eight autarchs, and they ruled over our homeworld in harmony. We worshipped them as deities."

Helios murmured.

"I've visited your home world on occasion, yet I have never seen any inkling of this magic."

Tera's voice rose like the temperature of a kettle on a stove.

"That is because we extended our hand to your people. When we met, we sent envoys and wanted peace between us. After months without contact, Obolis raided our world. He killed all eight of our archons. Kuhlshasa, Iora, Illiac, Leomna, Tra, Gih, Mahsora, and Vixahshio. They had ruled over different parts of reality, and we owed them everything."

Florence's hands dropped.

"That is why Obolis was called the Carnage of Olstatia - the albony to kill the gods...A monster among us, yet covered in silken fur and honeyed robes."

Tera snarled.

"He killed the benevolent spirits that once turned our world into a veritable paradise. A world rich in resources turned to nothing to satiate the madness of one ruler. And for that, I wish for you all to burn, but our savior, the man who gave us a second chance, has asked better of me. I will give it to him, but know that our people will never forgive you for what you've done."

Helios stood as stone, unmoving and cold. Florence walked up to the skeptile, and he bowed. Florence's tone carried the richness of his background.

"Words cannot convey the regret that comes from bearing a stained lineage. I wish I could take back what our uncle has done. I wish we could rewrite the wrongs of our old ruler and bring your people prosperity. However, there is no turning back the track of time. We are left scrambling for a recourse for such wrongs."

Florence raised enough to peer at Tera. The diplomat carried absolute solemnity.

"Helios and I will do all that we can to turn a piece of our past into something less excruciating."

Tera bared a clawed hand before lowering it. He howled out.

"I'll believe it when I see it."

Tera walked off, stepping into the dense underbrush. It was a wise decision. He needed time to cool off, and honestly, what he said upset me as well. I'd understood that the albony took over races, but the fact they had dismantled them so thoroughly and for nothing...That carried dark implications of what Obolis had done as the Emperor.

Interrupting my thoughts, Florence stood up, his hands squeezed into fists. Helios pinched the bridge of his nose and said,

"That was an abysmal failure in diplomatic relations."

For the first time, Florence's voice carried venom.

"And why is that, brother?"

Helios lowered his hand, peering at his brother like a wild animal. Helios frowned.

"What has upset you to such an extent?"

Florence turned.

"Our history has it written differently. It was told that the skeptiles attacked us time and time again before we finally retaliated. They had arrogantly underestimated us, and we won off our military might. The reality was an underhanded sneak attack against a nation that held no animosity against us."

Florence growled.

"It's not a question of what upset me but of what hasn't upset you."

Helios grimaced.

"I held no part in those battles. I fought in no wars nor supported those conflicts. I understand the history of our race's progenitor, but I also understand that we are not what he has chosen to be."

Florence put a hand on his chest.

"Yet we grew rich and wealthy on the blood of people. You graduated from universities, lived in palaces, and enjoyed the finest of runic augments. Who and what paid for those lavish luxuries?"

Helios's teeth cracked in his mouth from clenching his jaw. He muttered,

"The starvation of those under us."

Florence walked over and grabbed Helio's cape. Florence squeezed until the fabric stretched.

"And you ask me what has me upset. You see, unlike you, I was never blinded by the idealogy or propaganda. I understood that there was a price being paid elsewhere, and it made my skin crawl. That's why I hate the blood that flows in my veins. It is that of a cruel, abyssal beast. It flows from a heathen with no consideration for anyone or anything else. From cruelty incarnated."

Helios grabbed one of Florence's wrists. Helios met his eye.

"I remember when I was a child, and I was blind. Other albony would mock me relentlessly. They would torment me, dump water on my head, and spit in my food. It was Obolis who came to me and taught me how to see mana in the world. He gave me the ability to see those around me and exist within this world."

Florence's grip slackened. Florence turned down before Helios leaned forward.

"So yes, I admired him. I idolized him. He gave me everything, and I appreciated him for it. I understood the price, and I worked hard to change it. I wanted to make the empire a better place from the inside. You can call my efforts misguided, but I put everything I was into that effort. I watched it all burn, and every day, I learn that the man who gave me eyes was a monster."

Helios's voice cracked.

"So, of course, I know why you're upset. I've always known."

Florence gulped before stepping back.

"I'm...I'm sorry."

Helios blinked his glassy eyes.

"Don't apologize to me. Apologize to the skeptiles for your actions. We'll do so by building a better people. That is all I want now - to move on from a bloody history and make something we can be proud of."

Helios stood tall, and he was the image of a leader.

"And one day we will see the world we saw as children, but without the blood that held it together."

Florence blinked away tears. I watched in silence, proud of them both. Florence gave Helios a nod.

"Of course, brother. We've faced bleak circumstances before. This should be nothing by comparison."

A smile traced Helios's lips.

"Then let us begin."

Tera stepped out of the underbrush, his gaze still cold and unmoved. He murmured,

"Have you both finished your coming together? I want to finish this trip and be done with you both."

Helios nodded.

"Thank you for the time."

Tera frowned.

"Don't mention it. Now, Daniel, let me show you a few of the best fruits we've made. These play music in the mind when consumed."

Tera showed us several more fruits, though the conversation stayed muted and lacked the same vivacity. It gave me time to reflect, and I understood all sides. To my surprise, I related to Florence the most. I guess that was because I hated my heritage, too.

Despite the tense atmosphere, I found a way to enjoy the fruits and safari experience before we headed back to the skeptile's main settlement. There, we split up and finished the last bits and pieces we needed for the Blegara mission. Tera organized their spiritualists, rallying their shamans and sorcerers. In the meantime, I crossed the moon and created over twenty cities.

They mirrored the ones I erected on L-7 since the celestial body lacked an atmosphere. We'd change that in time, but it required a diligent effort to keep everything in balance until then. At the very least, my cities gave the albony plenty of time to handle the terraforming. Considering how vast the barriers for the towns were, hundreds of thousands could occupy a single settlement as well.

Despite that scale and scope, we needed space for hundreds of millions of them. It would take a long time to get them adjusted to their new homes, and their civil planners didn't help matters. Regardless of the strain on their resources, they refused to keep the cities tight, efficient, or vertical. They gave each albony plenty of living space with generously sized roads, parks, and recreational areas.

On the one hand, it made their cities a sight to behold, and my guild could learn a thing or two from the designs. On the other hand, they were squandering over half their space in each domain of public works. It racked them up a debt they would need to pay. Alfonso kept track of the exchanges and value transactions, understanding the terms dictated by my guild.

