In fact, Alfonso gauged whether the deals were fair or not, and he concluded they were far from equal. Not for the albony, mind you. He argued our guild was the one being taken advantage of, and he rallied to have the terms remade and restructured for our benefit. That was something I learned about Alfonso.

He reveled in fairness like a gambler throwing their money away at a casino. Alfonso didn't want equity. He needed it, and that's why he held his people to account. Even in the short time I dealt with the albony, I came to rely on him to track the endless number of deals, transactions, and promises between us.

He did so within the confines of our guild's legal system, something he learned while trading with Earth over the last few years. That was when we traded with Caprika and her city. Knowing she passed during the lottery left a lasting sting even now. She had helped smooth over our initial contact with the Empire, and she was a good friend of Althea.

Althea had wept after knowing her friend had passed, and it left me hurting as well. She'd been good to us. Althea still wore gifted pendants from Caprika on occasion, and they always carried melancholy in their shine.

My heavy feelings aside, our dealings with Alfonso omened how competent he really was, and it made our wager seem fairer than I first anticipated. By the time we got the ritualists established on Blegara, I genuinely wanted Alfonso on our team. He'd help take the vast majority of legal and economic stress from us while being more trustworthy than I ever expected. We'd still keep tabs and doublecheck his work, but the guy knew his business.

It made the mission on Blegara carry more weight than I expected. To ensure its success, we took a few weeks working with the skeptiles to iron out a few kinks. Within that time, it was ingrained in my head how true Tera's initial statement was. The skeptiles had never succeeded with a ritual on the size and scale required to heal Blegara. It simply outmatched any machinations or magic they'd ever worked on.

With time running short, we needed the project to change trajectory and fast, so I sent out a few messages to my guild asking for help. A quick, curt reply came back.

Torix Worm, the Harbinger's Erudition | Class: Archmage | Lvl 21,000 - It would seem as though you've stumbled onto a problem that I may assist you with. Considering the sheer volatility of the situation, I'd be more than willing to set my current assortment of tasks aside. I'll be there soon.

Within minutes, Torix stepped out of a dark portal of his own making. I waited for him from above Blegara's oceanic surface. As Torix's portal closed, I leaned forward.

"What...No way."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"In fact, yes way, my disciple."

"Did you just?"

"I did."

"When did you learn long-range warping magic?"

"Centuries ago. I've only been able to exceed my limits due to the Artificial Intelligence you bought me quite some time ago. With it, I can construct spatial maps to help me traverse the cosmos. It takes time as it did with my other process, but a few hours is far more doable than the weeks my warping once required."

I gave his shoulder a pat.

"That's incredible, man. You're killing it."

He eyed my armor with his sharp, intelligent gaze.

"You seem to have changed as well. You're still channeling mana, then?"

A small smile ran up my lips.

"A little here and there."

Torix nodded at me.

"Every day and night, I presume?"

I waved the comment off.

"There's not much difference between the two nowadays. My perception has gotten to a point where even starlight is enough to see clearly. For miles, actually."

His eyes flared green.

"You simply must find time for my next body. It would enable me to do great things, given the sheer volume of stats you work with. Ah, what I could accomplish given time."

The menace in his voice was heartwarming, the old lich sounding like his good old lich himself. I put my hands on my hips.

"It's on the to-do list and high up on it. I'd of done it already if other problems could stop popping up out of nowhere. Speaking of, we'll need your help to polish the ritual below."

His eyes flared purple.

"Or have it function at all by the sounds of your messages."

"Ok, maybe...Alright, absolutely. We're about to create a giant spirit for Blegara, and I'm worried it's going to be a demon at this rate. You know, the kind that melts your ice cream and clogs your toilets."

Torix's rolled his fiery eyes.

"Terrifying."

"Torix, we're up a paddle with no creek."

Torix gawked at me. I took a moment.

"I mean a creek with no paddle. Look, it's been a long day."

Torix tilted his head at me.

"That state you're in...It seems painful."

I channeled enormous amounts of mana, my minds bending time all the while. I held dimensions and studied runes all at once. It left me distracted, and Torix saw through me. I frowned, letting go of my facade.

"Sorry. I didn't mean to lie."

He shook his head.

"Oh, I know that full and well. Still, I'd like you to describe it to me. What is that like? Living that many ways at once?"

I peered up.

"It's...Letting go. It's not painful, though I suppose one could argue that change can be worse than pain. Honestly, humans don't really have words for this kind of ascension and the sense of loss that comes with it. You know, it's wild. People think that reaching the zenith is a growing process that's full of excitement. I thought that too when I first began my path to power."

My eyes hardened.

"It's not. It's simply one sacrifice after the other. By the time I'm finished, I'll have sacrificed everything I am, and that's hard to accept."

Torix peered at me, his eyes piercing and his mind imposing. His eyes flared.

"We all change, disciple. You simply chose how you change while most of us are beholden to time and destiny."

"But you don't believe in destiny?"

Torix gazed into the sunset, making sure it glinted on his dark, metal frame.

"Of course not, but it makes for one hell of a line."

I rolled my eyes.

"Let's go fix a planet."

His eyes flared a bright blue.

"It's quite the novelty. I'm far more used to breaking them."

Several of his skeletal and decaying minions walked out of portals around him. They carried various waterproofed ritual supplies. Torix descended into the depths below.

"I'm quite looking forward to the new experience."
