“And then, there’s the idea that mana is also Melemizargo, therefore it is possible that Melemizargo is already on many different worlds, and he just doesn’t know it.” Jane asked Tenebrae, “He is the mana, isn’t he? That’s what I’ve heard.”

Erick and Tenebrae both listened to Jane, but while Tenebrae’s eyes turned distant and fearful, Erick was just proud.

His daughter had independently come to a lot of the same conclusions he had; Erick had just never expressed them, for those were terribly scary thoughts, as Tenebrae was currently demonstrating. Erick had hoped to never give those thoughts a voice, but there they were, suddenly, out in the open, and put out there by someone other than himself. He didn’t want his daughter out there on her own though, so—

Erick said, “I’ve heard that Melemizargo is the mana, too. I’m pretty sure that your ideas are exactly close to what might have happened, Jane, or at least I’ve had the same ones. I just… Didn’t want to voice those thoughts.”

Jane sat back in her chair, looking triumphant, as she playfully chided, “Can’t be scared of the magic, dad.”

Erick laughed. “I guess you’re right.”

Tenebrae startled. He declared, “This lesson is over.”

The older archmage rapidly walked away, visibly disturbed, and silent, back through the door at the base of his tower. The door to Tenebrae’s tower slowly closed shut, all on its own.

Erick and Jane, and Poi, watched that happen.

A moment passed.

Uh. So. That just happened.

“… Huh.” Jane said, “I did not expect that reaction from him.”

Erick stared at his daughter, and laughed, nervously. He calmed, but not really. “Giving a voice to the fearful thoughts is not always a good idea.”

“Eh.” Jane said, “Try not to worry about that stuff. Let’s just enjoy the adventure of it all.”

Erick smiled, and he just had to hug his daughter, so he leaned over and wrapped his arms around her. She laughed over his shoulder as she hugged him too, and patted him on the back.

“Love you.”

“Love you, too.” Erick released Jane and went back to the chalkboard, saying, “So! The Elements. I consider Force an Element, but I guess not everyone does. You’ve been reading that book Syllea suggested, right?”

Jane said, “Yeah. It’s in the room. It’s a bit juvenile, but it’s interesting.”

Erick nodded. “So! The Elements—”

Tenebrae’s door slammed open again. “Nope! We’re doing gridwork! Force is not an element!”

Erick sighed.

Then he stepped away from the chalkboard.

Tenebrae retook his position as professor.

A minute later, Erick and Jane watched as Tenebrae stepped away from the chalkboard, looking triumphant over his drawings, or rather, his gridwork he had placed upon the board. And it was a lot of gridwork, and each tiny space was filled with the Ancient Script symbols for various Elements; mostly Fire. He had even had to summon another chalkboard to write out all of his ‘gridwork’.

Ninety-nine, hundred-by-hundred grids, written out over three boards. There were 99 100x100grids because each of those 100x100 grids was a slice of a 3D magic construction, exploded out into exacting detail. When placed next to each other in the proper way, and if you had a hundred, then you wouldn’t have had an exact-center box, which was necessary in about half of magic, since a lot of magic needed a ‘central tenet’, where the Ancient Script symbol was that would hold the whole working together; if it needed such a thing.

Tenebrae explained the basic overview of it all as he cast the gridwork upon the board, but he did not explain everything. Mostly, he just told them what he was doing, but not the ‘why’ of it.

Erick had seen smaller grids like these in his short time in Oceanside, but he had never truly understood them, or even tried to understand them. But now…

This was complicated. And written small. Small enough to require most people to use [Ultrasight] to read the boxes from three meters away. Erick, almost uncomfortably, found he could read all of that just fine without any spells. Jane had had to squint, and then activate [Ultrasight].

The idea of all these grids was simple, though, once you understood that the grids corresponded to individual slices of a spell, taken at the moment of casting. Each box had a symbol that corresponded to An element, or a direction, or a shaping of the magic inside that box. Putting all of this sliced-gridwork together into a 3D lightward, and a mage could see what they would need to do to make the spell therein.

The problem with spell matrices, and why Erick had not seen many of them, was that even a 99 by hundred by hundred matrix could only describe the most basic of magics. No one used this methodology for anything over tier 3, except as a general guide, because gridwork failed at higher densities of spellwork.

But gridwork was great for learning basic magics.

“There! Now you know what you’re looking at.” Tenebrae asked, “So what is this spell? Jane.”

Jane’s eyes went wide. Erick frowned. Was the old archmage picking on Erick’s daughter? All Tenebrae had done was explain a bit about the gridwork in front of him; not what he was actually putting in that gridwork. Was he pouncing on Jane just because he could, just because she had no experience, at all, with this ‘gridwork’? He probably was.

But Jane was smart; she could handle this.

Jane guessed, “Fire… Something. An individual spell. So not… Wave… [Fireball]?”

Erick smiled. That was going to be his guess, too, except—

“Incorrect!” Tenebrae said, “Erick! Now you try!”

Erick frowned, complaining, “What you made has all the hallmarks of [Fireball] what with the majority of the gridwork looking like what I do to manually cast [Force Bomb]. That tiny bit of [Force Wave] you have in there is not a large enough part of the spell to make my daughter necessarily wrong.”

Tenebrae smiled wider. “So what would you name this spell?”

Erick guessed, “[Firewave] or [Fire Spreader]. The purpose seems to create a conflagration at the detonation point that spreads outward, putting all of the damage of the initial spell into the ‘over time’ part of the magic, with almost no damage in the initial effect. A common way to use Fire spells.”

“You have fallen into my trap!” Tenebrae gloated. “It’s [Extinguisher]!”

“What! There’s no Destruction mana anywhere in that—”

Tenebrae pointed at box 50, the center box, at the very center of the spell, and Erick fell silent. Tenebrae had left that central spot blank. Erick had assumed this was because he was not focusing on the explosion part of the spell… or… Actually. He didn’t know why the man had left it blank. The spell had lots of blank spots in its gridwork. None of them really meant anything, except for directions for the surrounding mana to flow, or transform, or…

Erick wasn’t too sure about gridwork, actually. It was one step removed from math and useless for higher level spellwork, so what was the point of learning it?

… To trick people who thought they knew everything? Seemed like a poor way to use a teaching tool.

Okay. Okay. Erick admitted, and only to himself, that he had no idea what was actually going on here.

Poi snorted a laugh to the side.

Tenebrae ignored Poi, and instructed, “A proper [Force Bomb] spell is a 100x100x100 grid. If you knew your gridwork, you would have known that. This one is 99x100x100 to enable this central square in box 50. You can shift around the gridwork as necessary. You could even do 99x99x99 and make it all symmetrical in a different way, if you wish. This blank spot, and all the others, are for Destruction to occur. If you look upon the structure here, and here, you can see that the Fire mana is sucked into the blank spaces, and nothing comes out. In actual casting, this would create Destructive Fire that would nullify any fire in the area. This is how you properly create a Destruction-based spell, since you never use Destruction in itself. You always have the desired Element you wish destroyed to flow into Destruction, or, in some rare cases, for Destruction to overtake the targeted Element. The first instance is normal application, as we see here. The second instance is almost Propagation, and unless you limit the spell most severely, it will not work due to the Propagation Ban of the Script. Don’t use the Propagation-Destruction except in applications of war. This second type of spell usually has ‘Destruction’ in its name. [Fire Destruction], for example.” He said, “It is with gridwork like this, that you create a perfectly-made [Extinguisher] spell, which will be named whatever Rozeta feels like naming your spell, but if you have a name you’re working with, your spell will likely get that name, unless you run counter to the Naming Conventions of the Script, in which case Rozeta will name your spell without your input. Questions?”

Erick had a few, but—

Jane instantly asked, “So circling back to the idea that math is representation is sympathy is magic: If you were to create a [Ward] with this gridwork, what would happen? And if a spell was not created, then why not?”

Erick almost said that nothing would happen. Lightwards were not spells… Right?

Tenebrae’s eyebrows scrunched. He said, “Nothing would happen if you made this out of a lightward. You have to make it out of [Force Bomb], Mana Altering for Fire and Destruction, and [Force Wave].”

Jane asked, “Okay. But. How? How does this translate into all of those things you just said?”

“It just does?” Tenebrae frowned. “I’m not sure what the problem is, here.”

Jane clarified, “Where is the gridwork for [Force Bomb] in the spell [Force Bomb]? I never see grids when I cast.”

Tenebrae frowned, then pointed upward. Erick watched, as the air around the man flickered, twisting inward upon the tip of his finger. A grey dot launched from his digit to soar past the roofs of the castle and detonate with a spack upon the [Air Shield] of the estate, grey light briefly glittering in the explosion. Tenebrae said, “The gridwork is right there. In the manual casting. It’s not actually a part of the spellwork. Gridwork lets you understand how to Shape and Alter the mana while you are casting the spell.”

“Oh!” Jane said, “Manual casting! Okay. Yes. I get that.”

Erick nodded. “That makes sense.”

“… What did you two think I meant?”

“I thought you meant inside [Force Bomb]s blue box.” Jane shrugged. “Somehow… inside that box. I didn’t understand that. How is magic inside the blue box? That makes no sense.”

“I was confused a little, too.” Erick said, “They spoke a little about gridwork in one class I took at Oceanside; that it was somehow in those boxes. I didn’t understand it at all, and the professor never properly clarified. I didn’t even know about manual casting till Kiri looked it up and showed it was possible.”

“Ah. This problem.” Tenebrae said, “Oceanside trains warriors that work for the Headmaster, or other powerhouses around the world. All Arcanaeums are like this. They train warriors, even if they call themselves mages. And they were not wrong to simplify manual casting to the blue boxes. The same thing happens in the manasphere when you activate magic using the Script, but you cannot feel that shift unless you manually cast your magic, but many teachers are forbidden from explaining about the Remake Quests and about aura work. Students have to come to that on their own. Most do, eventually, unless they’re purposefully kept from those lessons when they are deemed a risk to themselves or others. That happens quite a bit, too.” Tenebrae said, “The blue box for [Force Bomb] is one slight step above the truth of manually shaping the mana; it is an automated process to use that box. Meanwhile, Mana Altering is one slight step above the truth of aura altering for the various Elements; it is an automated process to use that box, too. Understanding these deeper truths of Shaping and Altering, through the process of gridwork, will allow you to properly visualize and then work both [Force Bomb] and Fire Altering in the best possible way. Do you understand?”

Jane said, “Okay! That makes a lot of sense!”

Erick understood quite a bit more, now. Gridwork was like the difference between drawing using freeform, or using tools. He begrudgingly admitted, to himself, that this ‘gridwork’ held possibilities.

He liked his own song magic methods, though.

But Jane was rather analytical. Maybe she would do well with this method? She probably would.

Tenebrae asked, “Do either of you have experience at all with using your aura to cast magic?”

Jane said, “I can cast with [Greater Shadowalk], and some of the rest. I have never learned aura control.”

Tenebrae sighed. “Elemental Bodies are shortcuts to aura control, and you need to learn how to properly control your aura.” Tenebrae zeroed in on Jane. “You have [Prismatic Body]. You need to work on turning that into [Greater Prismatic Body], either through remaking it with every Greater Elemental Body, or through aura work and great aura control. I suggest you choose the path of aura control, since this will allow you to mimic much of the smaller aspects of [Greater Prismatic Body] while that particular spell is not active, as well as allow you to cast smaller magics outside of the Script Second. You will be able to cast [Fireball] or any other low-tier spell whenever you wish. This will also save you on mana costs, since you will not need to be constantly running an Elemental Body if you want to simply pick up a cup of tea from the other side of the table. Save your Script Seconds for when they are needed. Never waste them.”

