Jane’s eyes went wide. “Casting outside of the Script Second, for everything?”

“No no no!” Tenebrae said, “Low-tier magics, only, that will have full mana costs. It’s not as good as using the Script to cast. Clarity does not work for manually cast magic. But for you, with all of your Elemental Body experience, there are fewer time constraints when you use proper aura control to cast your smaller spells.”

Erick was too busy thinking about the need for better aura control, himself, that he almost missed when Tenebrae rounded on him.

The glowering archmage turned to Erick. “And what of your aura control?”

“Ah…” Erick admitted, “Non-existent outside of [Greater Lightwalk].”

“… What!” Tenebrae exploded, “What travesty is this! And you made it to Archmage with—! How has this happened! What the f—!” He suddenly calmed as he closed his eyes and gripped the bridge of his nose between a thumb and forefinger. He opened his eyes, dropped his hands, and said, “You have given me a headache, Erick Flatt, because you are technically an archmage. You’ve even got a tier 9 spell. You are qualified. And yet, you astound me.” He stared at Erick. He asked, “Are you a Wizard?”

Erick’s response was calm; measured, even. He saw what was coming, and he answered as best he could. “What is a Wizard, exactly? I know they produce their own mana and have a core, but that’s about it. Why does the possession of a core mean that they’re able to overcome the Script?”

Jane seemed unable to help herself as she stared at her father, and then at Tenebrae, then frowned a little, and tried to turn her face unreadable. She mostly failed.

Tenebrae bargained, “I would not be nearly as hostile with you if you were a Wizard. We could work together to achieve something that should have been done a long time ago, for Wizards can truly cast magic outside of the Script. They can remove curses that gods themselves have placed upon lineages, or individuals. They can travel through time, with perfect accuracy, and without Phagar’s limitations. They can create new Elements.” Tenebrae seemed genuine, and sad, and desperate, all at the same time, while trying to appear as none of those. “I ask again. Are you a Wizard?”

“No.”

And it was the truth. Erick had none of the hallmarks anyone had ever said should be there. So what if other people called him a Wizard? That didn’t make it true.

Erick asked, “Should I bring a truthstone with me, too, when I deal with you and your possible ‘lessons’? You claim the Headmaster is purposefully hindering the magical growth of the people of this entire world, and that seems like something I would have been better served to hear while a truthstone was present.”

He didn’t know where it was, but there was no doubt in his mind that there was at least one of those truthstones somewhere around here.

Tenebrae scowled, but the heat was not there. He spoke the truth, “I would never use one of those against you.”

“Ah.” Erick understood. “Because you can just cast the base spells yourself. I should have guessed as much.”

“Exactly!” And then softer, “Exactly.” Tenebrae should have been triumphant; he had won a fight that he thought they were both fighting. But Erick was not fighting, and Tenebrae was not triumphant. He was just sad. “You should have guessed as much. Learn all the magic there is, yourself. Learn to cast as much of it as you can, outside of the Script Second; manually. Delve into the deepest Soul Magic. Explore Mind Magic, and don’t mind the Mind Mages; they get uppity, but you’re beyond them. Rip apart a million monsters to learn Blood Magic. Enchanting is a fine pastime, or a way to make some yellow on the side, but an archmage with need for trinkets is not a true archmage. Even those rings on your fingers… Well. I would have called them useless and a waste of time and even a detriment. But it appears you’ve made artifacts…” He tried again, “And you’re sure you’re not a Wizard?”

“As much as anyone can be sure.” Erick said, “I ask again: How is a Wizard able to overcome the Script?”

Tenebrae sighed, then said, “Okay. Now I’m done.”

And then he walked off. The door to his tower gently shut behind him.

Erick asked Jane, “Do you want to try out some of that ‘gridwork’?”

“Yes!” She said, excitedly. “Do you have any books on that?”

“Nope. We’ll both have to muddle through it together.”

Jane hummed, then looked toward the closed door to Tenebrae’s tower. “… I’ll ask him if he has any books at lunch, maybe.” She turned back, eyeing her father. ‘Are you a Wizard?’

‘Nope.’

Usually, Erick would have felt bad about lying to his daughter, but that was only ‘usually’. This was not a usual case.

‘Okay… Well. If you were… Which type would you want to be? I read all about them. If you picked ‘Time Wizard’ I would tease you relentlessly by calling you The Doctor.’

‘So you’d pick the Paradox Wizard?’

‘...They have a better name for them?’ Jane’s eyes went wide. ‘Paradox, you say! Oh! Okay! Paradox is a lot more varied than I thought! You could do—’

Erick cut in, before Jane got on a roll, sending, ‘I’m going to give you a bit of advice, and I urge you to consider it: Gifts of Time are useless in the face of absolute power. There’s also the Destruction Wizard, and the Creation Wizard. Together with the Paradox Wizard, you have the three archetypes. It’s my understanding that you can only pick one, and that you have to produce your own mana and take that mana and create a core, from which you then cast all your magics. I am almost a hundred percent sure that Wizards are like Shades in that regard. I’m not sure of the connection to Melemizargo and to monsters, but there is one there, for sure.’

Jane listened, then said, ‘I thought I had read about Wizards, but I guess not. That’s a lot more on the subject than I ever found. All I ever found were horror stories.’

‘What sort of horror stories? I never sought any of that out.’

‘Oh… There was that one Wizard Pirate a while ago that terrorized Archipelago Nergal. Hullbreaker was his name, I think. Made a lot of artifacts and stole from every ship he passed as well as created some still-hidden island that no one has been able to find. They say all of his stuff is still there. But I bet the Headmaster found it all. Every Wizard has some hidden caches around the world; that’s how the stories go, anyway. What sort of Wizard do you think Hullbreaker was?’

Erick thought, then said, ‘I don’t know of him. But… Creation— No. I’m not sure.’

‘Creation, eh?’ Jane started to silently think.

Erick changed the subject, speaking aloud, “So? Gridwork?”

Jane went with it, saying, “What does [Force Bolt] look like as a grid? And does it look like what I think it looks like? When I manually make a few hundred at a time with [Greater Shadowalk], I make it like— Well.” She held up her hands and sort of did a spiky, gathering motion. “That’s how it usually happens. Oh! You know what?” She stood, saying, “Let’s make some 3D lightwards for [Force Bolt], and then compare! I’m going to make mine over here.” She rushed into the blocky house and stepped behind a wall, saying, “No peeking!”

Teressa spoke from inside the house, “What are you doing now?”

“Gridwork!” Jane answered.

“Magic stuff. Got it.” Teressa promptly ignored Jane and went back to reading.

Meanwhile, in the courtyard, Erick held a hand up and cast a lightward that was representative of what he did with his [Greater Lightwalk] in order to manually cast a [Force Bolt]. It was a simple design, really. Just gathering mana then linking that mana toward the idea of touching a target in the distance—

Ah.

Erick ran into a problem. How to represent that ‘touching’ aspe— Oh. Put the Ancient Script designation for ‘target’ in the center of the ‘gridwork’. Obviously. But then…

Jane mumbled, “This is more difficult than I thought it would be.”

Teressa absently said, “Mm’hmm.”

Erick heard Teressa flip another page in her book.

Erick concentrated on his own working. He recast his gridwork several times before rapidly abandoning the ‘grids’ after only a few recasts. When he was happy, he dispersed his working, then recast it, attaching the working to the chair beside him. Jane seemed to still be working on hers. Erick waited.

After five minutes, he said, “Okay. Come on back. Let’s check.”

“One sec! It’s taking me…” Silence. “Ah. Blast it all. This is good enough.” Jane walked back into sight, carrying a cube of light that had been divided into smaller and smaller cubes, each with a speck of notation inside of each tiny cube. She held it up, then looked to Erick’s, attached to the chair. “What!”

Erick looked at his own representation of [Force Bolt]. It was fully clear, with no smaller, inner gridworks.

Jane said, “You didn’t even divide that tiny thing into grids!”

“I don’t understand the need for that.” Erick held up his perfectly fine representation, saying, “This is fine! It’s only a 5 mana spell. How complicated do you need to be?”

While Jane’s gridwork was a bunch of arrows and boxes filled with Ancient Script for gathering and targeting, Erick’s spell representation more resembled a bit of glasswork in the shape of a spiral galaxy. The center of his spell had the ‘target’ part of the spell, while four spiral arms contained all of the inexorable and ethereal parts of the spell which were prepared to crash into the center, whereupon the whole thing would then take off and impact the target. The ‘target’ itself was a variable that could change based on need.

Erick’s and Jane’s representations were different in another way, too. His lightward gridwork was a handspan across and a singular construction. Hers was half a meter across, and made of several overlapping lightwards; the ‘grid’ itself was a single lightward, possibly so that she could recast the central ‘work’ pieces as she refined her idea of [Force Bolt].

Erick gestured to the chair next to him, and the accompanying gridwork.

Jane handed him a stone with its attached lightward. She likely kept that stone in her pocket for just such a necessity such as setting a mobile [Ward], for there were no useless stones anywhere in this estate; the place might be boring, but it was immaculate. Erick should keep a useless rock in his pocket, too.

She said, “You should keep around something to attach mobile [Ward]s to, dad.”

They began reading each other’s gridwork.

- - - -

Tenebrae watched them from his position in the Lighthouse. He mumbled, “It’s like giving new toys to deprived children.”

He couldn’t help but smile.
