“Well, this mess isn’t going to explore itself,” he muttered. He flared his wings wide and donned the mantle of Mirage Armor, unleashing his decoys and hiding the emissions of his mana. He shrouded himself in the invisibility of Eclipse despite his doubts as to how effective it might be in the storm and then masked all signs and sounds of his passage. “Here goes,” he said, and took off, flying into the teeth of the storm.

Explorer has reached level 120.

Calen circled aimlessly for quite some time before he found anything of interest. It was nearly impossible to maintain his bearings in a world of constant change. The howling winds whipping saltwater spray everywhere drastically reduced his visibility, and he was forced to rely solely on his Explorer’s sense of direction to avoid getting entirely turned around.

His Wind Resistance elixir was everything he’d been promised. Unfortunately, there were boulders. Rocks flew like leaves in the storm, anything and everything from gravel-sized chunks to tumbling blocks the size of houses, somehow levitated and tossed about by the roiling, chaotic magic powering the endless storm.

It was here that Mirage Armor proved its worth.

While flying through the turbulent winds, dodging rubble and avoiding boulders, a strange, steadily growing roaring caught his attention. Carefully, he reoriented himself, shifting angles and following the sound until something broke through the haze of water, but it wasn’t until he’d drawn much closer that it fully revealed itself to his eyes.

Calen gasped at the immensity of the giant pillar of water he found flowing upward, carried upon an incredibly potent updraft of wind-affinity mana. The howling was deafening, and as he approached, even he began to be sucked upward as the stream of air and water began to overpower his elixir. He backed off a little, but by the time he had extricated himself from the stream, he found himself flying beside an enormous chunk of floating rock. The water fountained off the side of it, turning itself into more spray, but the flat top of the floating island seemed to have formed an oasis within the storm. Long-bladed willowy green vegetation covered its surface, and there was even a small, stunted, windswept tree clinging to the rock with gnarled roots and impressive tenacity. Clumps of reed-like grass filled the air with mournful sounds as they swayed in the strong winds.

Calen approached slowly, testing the winds every step of the way, but he found he was able to land safely on the bizarre oasis floating within the storm. The roiling tempest within the rock made absolutely no sense to his perceptions. Chaos seemed to flow directly forth from a levitating, glowing alabaster boulder that hovered somewhere near the center of the island.

Is that holy mana? How is that possible? Explorer quivered at the sight. The mana affinity was fiendishly tricky to decipher, given how warped it appeared, but it was clearly the source of the oasis effect, somehow providing shielding to the island and blunting the worst of the storm’s raging violence. On the other hand, it seemed to be a beacon attracting elementals.

Wind Vortex – Elemental – level 68-83 (Wind) x16

Hmm. Explorer didn’t consider the elementals to be enough of a threat to even prickle, even though there were many of them. He studied the elemental vortices colonizing the island, memorizing their paths and learning their patterns, and then, he summoned his bow.

Ok, let’s see what you can do. For his first victim, he picked a level seventy Wind Vortex, briefly isolated on its own on the near side of the levitating rock that was so fascinating to his Explorer skill. His arrows blazed as he unleashed them in rapid succession. At his level, and with the legendary Lunaré’s Lament, the elemental didn’t last more than twenty seconds, and by the time it expired, Calen had fully replenished his mana and stamina.

Not much of a challenge, he decided, rolling his shoulders. Then he summoned a full array of conjured arrows and unleashed a swift volley, quickly wiping out the remainder of the lurking elementals before he stalked forward to study the anomaly.

Something about the mana in the area around the island and the boulder in the center bothered him, but even studying it closely for a few minutes, he found himself none the wiser, so he collected all the elemental cores and launched himself back out into the raging storm once again, alert for islands or rivers of water. And boulders, always the boulders.

After the fifth island, Calen began to fully appreciate why Old Bailey said there were no maps. Even in the interminable haze, he could tell that these islands were drifting around randomly, at the mercy of the currents. A few more islands explored, and he realized something altogether more ominous – the higher he flew, the stronger the elementals were getting. He’d already seen a few past the second tier, and he was here on his own.

It was an hour later that he encountered his first apparition. A far larger island than most loomed out of the mist, large enough to support a small forest and a hill, which seemed to be more a collection of boulders that had smashed into the island than anything else. Similar to every island he had explored so far, this one came with a floating rock that glowed with the strange aura of holy mana.

Ryn had been unable to unearth much on the nature of the Well of Divinity, but just going by the name, Calen suspected it was either related to light or holy magic. Aalion, after all, had been called the City of Light. These strange floating rocks had to be related somehow to the city, or the Well itself. If the well had indeed possessed a holy affinity, then perhaps these remnants had touched it? Or were they the shards of Aalion, or crystallized fragments of whatever spell had destroyed it?

Atop the hill stood something that shone with a far more powerful radiance than any elemental. He identified it without delay.

Fractured Archon – Celestial – level 253 (Wind / Light)

[Explorer]Category: Spawned MonsterThreat Level: Third TierMonster Type: Celestial, ArchonDamage: Wind, Light.Known Abilities: Unknown.

The figure that hovered in perfect stillness was vaguely humanoid with brilliant wings of yellow light, but it had to be at least twelve feet tall. Calen’s brow furrowed at the bizarre sight of what appeared to be missing pieces – like whatever had assembled this monster had run out of parts. A circular hole was bored clean through the center of its chest. It had no waist, and its limbs had slices that appeared to have been removed from existence at random locations. There was even a vertical slice missing through the side of its head, as if one of Azryet’s void dragons had disintegrated it, and yet, somehow, it appeared to be entirely unaffected by these ailments.

It turned its head suddenly to the side and flicked a hand, releasing a volley of near-invisible blades of air that shot forth to smash into a Wind Vortex with no effect.

Not too smart. Attacking an elemental with its own affinity was never a bright idea, but the radiance of the Fractured Archon suddenly intensified, concentrating around its eyes. Before Calen could even blink, a pair of beams of searing light shot out, incinerating the Wind Vortex and a sizeable chunk of the rock beneath it. In the aftermath of the potent beam attack, orbs of similar radiance were left drifting in the air, strange little elementals that shone with light and flew over to circle the Celestial’s head like a crown of brilliant glowworms for several moments before they dispersed, flying off into the winds.

But powerful. Note to self, don’t pick a fight with one of those. Instead, Calen studied the dappled, shimmering of the mana in the area, again finding it to be strangely twisted and chaotic. Somewhere in this crazy storm, Ryn was certain the ruins of Aalion could be found, and, while he had encountered many encouraging clues, he had found not one single solid lead.

It must be here, he thought, but Explorer seemed to prickle at the back of his mind, urging him to ascend even higher, and so he continued, spiraling ever upward, despite the rising danger.

It was several hours later that the biggest island emerged from the mist and winds. He had been growing worried as the light faded, but it turned out that he was merely in the shadow of a floating chunk of rock more than large enough to comfortably support Myrin’s Keep. He flew up around the side and gazed down upon a strange scene. Grasses and other plants grew wild across the expansive surface, while elementals of both light and wind cavorted in the air above, a strange, chaotic dance amid the floating Storm Blooms that might have been battle or a celebration. Several smaller hills and rocky outcrops jutted out, with small streams flowing from the collected mist and rain. They pooled together and eventually spilled out over the precipice of the island’s jagged edge, only to be churned into spray and mist by the winds. Dozens of strange celestials flew over the surface, many of them trailing dozens of orbs of light, seeming to revel in the warped chaotic mana.

Suddenly, his chime sounded in the back of his mind.

Explorer has reached level 122 (+2)Your actions have greatly increased the reputation of your patron.You have gained the Blessing of the Wanderer.

Okay… why? Clearly, there was something significant about this place, and he could tell Explorer was prickling with redoubled fervor or energy. But he had no idea why.

He studied the island again. Whatever was going on here felt like that forgotten word stuck on the tip of his tongue, a sliver away from being remembered.

The only thing out of place that he could see, other than the now-familiar chaotic swirls of mana, seemed to be a ring of shattered stone, hovering above the earth in a small clearing toward the center of the forest. By now, the levitating, glowing holy boulders were nothing new, only this time they seemed to be in something of a roughly circular shape.

It was a detail that screamed out its uncanny artificial nature to his senses. They were clearly ruins of some sort.

He flew lower, swooping in for a closer look while paying careful attention to his mana and stamina, and maintaining his concealment skills with supreme focus. Many of the monsters on this island were already at a higher level than he was, and he had no desire to prove his skills without reason.

Eventually, his circuitous path brought him closer to the center, where he finally set himself down on the ground. The roiling mana was so thick, it was causing his hair to stand on end, and strange flames of light and wind dashed out to dance across the nearby grass and treetops.

What is this place?

He studied it from the concealment of invisibility while the elementals cavorted overhead. The mana seemed to be projecting a strange, impossible pattern that confused his eyes, as if there was a second world out there, barely visible, superimposed upon the real.

Wait… And then it flickered.

He froze and stared. Just like the spirit realm! And yet it was so close to this realm that his senses had failed to distinguish it. In that moment of inspiration, he really looked, focusing his sight beyond the veil.

Like he’d been peering intently at a scene beyond a window and then suddenly became aware of his own reflection in the glass, he finally saw it. What had been there all along.

Brilliantly superimposed upon the view of the island was a grand city of magnificent buildings. Out in the distance, tall mountain peaks overlapped with the storm winds and the mists. Over the ring of fractured stone shimmered a well – no, the Well – a clear double image of the ruins overlapped with the pristine echo imprinted on the spirit realm. An image of the former glory of Aalion and the Well of Divinity.

It’s here. Right here. He had to be miles above the sea, and everywhere below him on his journey upward, the spirit realm had been showing him the inside of the Thousand Celestial Peaks – a mountain range that had been entirely vaporized by the cataclysm. But here at the summit, almost three miles above the lashing waves below, he could finally see the image of Aalion – the echo imprinted upon the Spirit Realm. When it flickered and vanished, it was replaced by ruins and rubble, but the Well of Divinity remained – an image so powerful it seemed burned into the very nature of existence itself.

Eyes of the Archon has reached level 92 (+4).

He did not whoop with joy out loud because he very much liked living, but his heart leapt with excitement and his veins thrummed with triumph. I found it!

Carefully, he backed away, retracing his path while his mind was left ablaze with questions. It was clear that the Well of Divinity, and indeed all of Aalion, had been wiped out, obliterated by the disaster that had sundered the world, spawning this crater and unleashing this eternal storm. But was there anything they could do? All that remained of the Well in the real world were these strange, chaotic mana-enriched stones.

Ali needs to see this, he decided. If anyone can figure it out, it’s her. Ryn had led him to this place, and he had tracked it to its source, but now it was time to pass the banner on to the next hunter.

He set down upon a relatively safe spot, devoid, for the moment, of monsters. From within his storage enchantment, he retrieved the artifact Ali had given him. A four-foot-wide slab of granite and densely inscribed with her most potent runic magic.

He set it down upon the grass and then retrieved a Scroll of Greater Sending.

Pulsing a little mana into it, the scroll turned to ash in a flash. “I found it,” he sent.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
