The village of Blackwell huddled in the valley, squat houses hunkered down, braced against the elements like a relic left behind while the world had marched on by. No more than two dozen houses – several not much more than huts – clustered there, fenced in by a rough stone wall with a rickety gate that likely offered more peace of mind than actual protection against monsters. Thin wisps of smoke curled upward from the soot-blackened tops of brick chimneys only to be violently dispersed by the strong winds as soon as they cleared the calmer air in the valley.

His teleportation into Blackwell had required an extremely expensive reagent to compensate for the lack of a receiving Locus, which he had purchased at extortion-level pricing from the auction house. The Blind Lich’s war had upended the entire economy, and nowhere was that more obvious than in the prices and restrictions on magical transportation. There were regions, like the entire surroundings of Southport, that were entirely inaccessible due to the constant disruptions caused by war magic and warding spells. On their side, Donella Novaspark’s mages had been working hard, and their exceptional level growth was already proving its worth: the wards protecting Myrin’s Keep and its locus had become strong enough to rebuff even the power of the domain-enhanced teleportation array in the Crypt of Kings, forcing Haverron to choose teleportation endpoints well outside of the city to restock or bolster his unending siege of undead armies.

While Donella had blithely laid much of the credit on having free access to all the accumulated knowledge within Ali’s extensive library, and creative use of the enormous mana battery linked to the dungeon buried under the academy, Calen still shuddered to think of the carnage that might have ensued had the Death Knight general been free to transport his forces directly inside the city walls.

But Donella’s mages had honed their craft well, not only able to protect the city from incursion, but also having achieved sufficient mastery to send Calen the full length of the continent, and he’d arrived on this hill not far outside of Blackwell without the aid of any locus.

Feels like cheating, he grinned privately, while his eyes lingered on the village, studying the rickety carts coming and going from the outlying, terraced rice paddies and the occasional tiny field carved out of the scant sections of arable land scattered throughout the valley floor.

Blackwell, it seemed, existed. It exuded a sense of ageless tenacity, and he could already guess that its inhabitants would probably not even recognize prosperity if, by some miracle, it one day descended upon them.

Miles beyond the tiny town, the land simply ended. It was like looking over the edge of the world – the barren, rocky plains ceased at a jagged edge, beyond which raged the legendary storm. Winds howled, tossing about boulders and rubble that never seemed to fall. Water sluiced upward from the hidden sea below, bathing everything in an upside-down deluge of never-ending rain. Even with his Eyes of the Archon focused at his maximum, he could barely penetrate the veil. Still, his enhanced senses were sufficient to be able to make out several of the promised floating islands with their inverted waterfalls gushing upward from far below.

The Sea of Fractured Dreams. He could not help but shiver lightly, staring out at that impossible vista. Majestic but very, very dangerous.

This was his destination, Ryn’s best theory as to the original location of Aalion, and Explorer was positively prickling with anticipation. It seemed he shared a calling with the resourceful librarian – Ryn was a tracker, relentlessly hunting her prey through the realms of dreams, divination, and the endless halls of ancient libraries by tracing the footprints of history left upon the pages of those moldering books. He had read every passage she had unearthed, feeding his Explorer skill with her uncovered knowledge, and while he could follow the esoteric path she had taken, he would never have been able to match her prodigious feats of skill.

Still, while she’d been able to track their prey through millennia and countless pages, it was his skills that would be needed to walk the lands and uncover the final secrets. While the trail was ancient, the impact of it on history had been incalculable, and now, thanks to her efforts, he had a starting point. His gaze returned to Blackwell, and he stepped onto the meandering dirt path leading past his vantage point, walking briskly toward the town. He had memorized every map of this area that Ryn had managed to lay her hands on, but nobody in their right mind actually entered the Sea of Fractured Dreams. It was a perilous place, by all accounts, and unfortunately, that meant that much of his information about what might be found within the storm was based on conjecture, fairytales, and rank superstition.

Calen approached the gate to find a portly, balding man in worn leather armor passed out in a chair beside it, snoring rather loudly.

Warrior – Human – Level 43

While Calen’s skill identified him as human, the shimmery silver thinning hair and the slightly pointed ears spoke to some significant Elven heritage in this man’s ancestry. Sun Elf, if he were reading the signs correctly, and even his Explorer skill concurred.

“Excuse me,” Calen said, having to repeat himself a little louder before he got a reaction.

“Aah… hrmph… Ahem. It’s two bits to enter Blackwell,” the man muttered blearily as he stirred, but as soon as he looked, his eyes shot open, wide enough to show white all around the iris, and he scrambled to his feet, stammering, “P… Pathfinder! Welcome, sir!”

“I’m sorry for the surprise. I forgot to disable my stealth skills,” Calen said, offering a white lie to cover for his napping on duty. “I wonder if you might be able to help me?”

“What do you need?” the man asked, collecting himself as best he could.

“My mission is to scout the outlying edges of the Sea of Fractured Dreams. I’m looking for information before I head out. Do you have a map, or know someone who might?” Calen asked. The townsfolk of Myrin’s Keep had grown used to seeing Pathfinders dressed in their distinctive cloaks, and so he had mostly forgotten how impressive many people found them to be out in the world. Still, he didn’t mind leaning on the reputation afforded by his cloak to gain quicker access to information.

“Aah. You want to talk to a wind runner. Ask for Old Bailey at the inn, he can tell you everything about the Hole,” the guard offered, still shifting about anxiously.

“Thanks,” Calen said, smiling as he dropped a silver piece into the guard’s hand. While the man gasped at the shine of silver, Calen strode through the gate toward the most likely building.

“Ah… Thank you, sir! You just let me know if there’s anything else you need!” the man called after him.

Calen raised his hand in a friendly wave and approached what must be the inn. There was no sign indicating as such, but the saloon-style doors and the scuff marks of dozens of boots in the dirt outside were as much of a dead giveaway as the faint odor of stale ale.

Calen pushed his way in through the swinging doors.

The ground floor of the inn seemed to be a single, dingy taproom with a stairwell at the back that presumably led to rooms for rent on the upper floor, although, given the size, perhaps it was just the innkeeper’s apartment up there. Calen wrinkled his nose at the reek of sweat and the sour notes of spilled ale. Several pairs of eyes glanced up as he entered, followed by muted exclamations and whispers. Calen ignored them and approached the barkeep.

“I was told I could find Old Bailey here?”

“Aye, Pathfinder. That be him over in yonder corner. He’s not in trouble, now, is he?” the barkeep answered.

“No. I’m just looking for information from a wind runner,” Calen reassured the man. “What is he drinking?”

Without a word, the barkeep filled a wooden tankard from the tapped barrel on the rack behind him and placed it on the counter, smiling happily when Calen overpaid.

Grabbing his bribe, Calen approached the table tucked into the dark corner. The man sitting there was definitely a half-elf, of the Sun Elf variety, just like himself, but he seemed far older. This Old Bailey had the weather-beaten look of an old trail.

Herbalist – Half Elf – level 87

“May I join you for a few minutes? I have a few questions,” Calen asked.

“Is that for me?” the man responded, eyes glued to the fresh tankard in his hands.

“Yup, I took the liberty, I hope you don’t mind,” Calen said politely, placing the ale on the rickety table and sliding it over to the herbalist. At a nod from the man, he sat down.

The old half-elf took a deep pull from the fresh tankard before setting it back down again with a loud thump and a satisfied sigh. “So, what does a fancy-pants Pathfinder want from Old Bailey?”

“What is a Wind Runner?” Calen asked. He had a pretty good idea already, but it was a fine place to begin the conversation.

“Those of us who do not work the rice paddies or the fields gather Storm Blooms from the edge of the Hole.” He took another swig from his ale, burping in satisfaction.

“Storm Blooms?”

“Wind-affinity flowers,” Old Bailey answered with a nod. “They fetch a decent price on the open market. Helps keep us afloat during the winter.”

“I am scouting for something lost in the… Hole,” Calen said, using the local name for the massive crater. “I was wondering if you might have any decent maps I could look at?”

“No maps,” Old Bailey said, shaking his head. “Everything changes all the time, but I can tell you what you will find in there and then, perhaps you can reconsider your mission. Around the edges of the storm, you will encounter wind elementals. The little ones are easy enough to run from, but it’s the bigger ones that you need to be wary of. Further in, near the islands, you must worry about apparitions.”

“Apparitions?” Calen asked, his senses already prickling at the new information.

“Yes, apparitions. Beings of light. Everyone else will tell you they’re just stories, but they haven’t seen what I’ve seen,” Old Bailey said, and then he leaned in closer, and his voice dropped to a whisper. “I have seen two in my lifetime, and I count myself fortunate to be alive. They are the ghosts of powerful Elves, cursed to forever haunt the storm. If you see one, you should run, but it will probably be too late.”

“I see,” Calen said, nodding along. The signs certainly supported Ryn’s crazy deduction. Several of the patrons scattered around the taproom had obvious signs of Sun Elf heritage. Some, like Old Bailey, still identified as half-elves many generations down the line, and if these ‘apparitions’ really were the ghosts of the lost Sun Elves of Aalion, then all he had to do was survive to find the secrets within the storm.

Easier said than done, he told himself, resolving to take the intelligence seriously. He needed to be prepared for powerful enemies.

Old Bailey seemed all too happy to continue talking, regaling him with numerous stories of close encounters, things to watch out for, and all kinds of superstitious advice – at least, as long as he kept the ale coming.

“Ay, yup,” Old Bailey said, finishing his ale, now in high spirits. “You’ll probably want some of these then, if you’re set on venturing into the hellhole.” He fished out a vial with a swirling white liquid sloshing around inside of it.

“Wind resistance?” Calen guessed, judging by the wisps of mana he could see swirling about the glass container.

“Yup. Expensive, they are, but worth it. Go next door and ask for Cophira, she’s the alchemist. She can sell you as many as you need.” Then, he chuckled morosely, suddenly seeming sad. “Collect the Storm Blooms to make the wind resistance potions. Drink the potions to collect the Storm Blooms. It’s a never-ending cycle, just like the storm.” He raised his tankard, only to find it empty.

“Here, take this,” Calen said, dropping a gold coin on the table. “Thank you for your time.”

The man brightened and gave him a decidedly skew salute. “Too good, you are. Too good.”

Calen nodded, leaving the oldtimer to call for a refill from the barkeep. He was obviously overpaying again, but with the kinds of dungeons they’d been delving lately, a single gold coin was not going to hurt him in the slightest, and Old Bailey had provided him with several excellent leads. He left his newest best friend to purchase all the ale he wanted and headed across the street to find the promised alchemist.

***

An hour later, Calen hovered above the mile-high crater’s edge. Storm winds lashed against him, turning the edges of his cloak into whips, while the salty spray of seawater drenched him, rendering his armor and clothing uncomfortable and cold. There was a note in the wind not only of roaring, but almost… wailing. It set his nerves on edge.

I’m going to have to watch out for that spray, he thought, focusing on practical measures. It looks vicious. Wild wind-affinity mana snaked through the storm in thick rope-like strands that whipped the winds into a lashing frenzy of vortices and gusts. He could already see several of the promised wind elementals, almost invisible against the clouds as swirling funnels of violent energy. Stealth, he decided, would be of little use here in the heavy, salty rain that even at the boundary of the maelstrom pelted him from all sides. Storm Blooms – for they could be nothing else – sprouted in clumps from the rugged cliff face far below, but by far the majority seemed to have shed their earthly tethers, riding the blustering winds on broad, sail-like leaves.

He retrieved one of his newly purchased elixirs and downed it.

You have gained Wind Resistance.

Instantly, the buffeting force of the tempest died down. His cloak settled down, resting on his back once again, and his hair ceased tying itself into knots. The wind itself hadn’t abated. Instead, it seemed somehow to ignore him, as if flowing around him were suddenly preferable to trying to rip him apart.

Not bad, he thought, studying the now-empty vial in his hand before stashing it. He’d gone out on a limb and purchased several from the old herbalist, and it seemed his trust had been well placed. Hopefully, they would afford some measure of protection against wind-affinity magic, too. He eyed the roving knots of violent wind lurking within the storm.

