“There are eight council seats,” Mieriel explained, pushing her glasses up on the bridge of her nose. “Killing Roderik is one of our biggest problems, and ironically, a substantial advantage too. He would most definitely have voted against us, and now his seat is vacant. But his death will scare some of the council members.”

“How did you manage that, by the way?” Vivian asked. “He was strong, well above your level, and he had plenty of experience with duels.”

“He kept reminding me of his experience,” Ali answered, grimacing at the memory. “He claimed to have killed over a thousand people.”

“I don’t doubt it,” Vivian answered. “But most of them were probably vagrants and drunkards in the slum district that he hunted for sport. It’s a good thing for the town that he is dead – he hid his crimes behind his nobility for far too long.”

“I summoned one of those and had it charge him,” Ali said, gesturing to the Forest Guardian.

“That wouldn’t kill him, he would just teleport away. And doesn’t your summon magic take a while?” Vivian seemed full of curiosity, but Ali was loath to spend much time on the gruesome memory.

“I waited till his teleport was on recharge, swapped a skill for an instant cast support skill, and put some of these behind him,” she said, summoning a barrier shard to demonstrate. “The guardian used Rush as soon as it was summoned and –” she brought her hands together, unable to voice the result.

“Well, that’s terrifying,” Vivian answered, looking meaningfully at the enormous Forest Guardian.

“Why does the council have eight seats?” Calen asked. “Doesn’t that cause a lot of tied votes?”

“Bastian Asterford is the crown executor, and his vote is the tie-breaker,” Mieriel explained.

“Well, that’s a problem,” Mato said, and Ali recognized the name from the boy she had had to deconstruct under the rock pile.

“Bastian will vote according to the crown’s interests, which likely means he will vote against you because of the crown policy on dungeons. But even without that, killing Roderik has certainly turned him into our enemy.”

“Counting Vivian as for and Bastian against, we have five uncounted votes which will require leverage,” Mieriel said. “Without it, we can assume they will vote against our side just because Aliandra is a dungeon. Major issues affecting the council are the deaths of the Town Watch and Roderik, who was a noble, and the sudden food shortage and reports of monsters to the south. There are also the Torian troop movements. They have moved a spatial suppressor class into range of the town, and most of our long-range teleportation and communication is down. And then, whatever you did yesterday with the advancement of the Lirasian Oak – a new grove, right? That got the attention of the entire town.”

“Well, that’s the reason we wanted to talk to you in the first place,” Ali said, collecting herself. “This is Lirasia, the Dryad of the southern forest, and my aunt,” she introduced. “We just got back from there, and we can report that the Necromancer, Alexander Gray, has wiped out the entire Lirasian Forest from Toria, across the Myrin River, and all the way to just south of Myrin’s Keep. There is a huge undead blight across the land and armies of skeletons and zombies, and they’re just a few days away.”

“What?” Vivian exclaimed, her eyes flying wide.

“The Torians must think New Daria is to blame,” Mieriel said softly.

“We’re going to have to get Commander Brand involved immediately! Why didn’t you mention this before?” Vivian nearly shouted. “Here we’re arguing about a council vote… tell me everything you know! Now!”

***

“I’m scared,” Ali admitted as they all reconvened in the library for dinner. It had been a long and stressful conversation, and they had parted with more questions and unknowns than when they had started. All Ali knew was that she faced a trial at the hands of the council – a group she barely knew, and who were likely to condemn her to death for being a dungeon. And she still wasn’t sure of Vivian’s motives.

“We’ll do it together,” Malika said, echoing her own earlier resolve. And yet somehow it did soothe her fears. The others were facing trial with her, and at least she would not be alone.

They had parted ways with a working plan. Vivian would discuss calling the council with the mayor, while Mieriel did some information gathering. Calen was to produce the scouting report of what they had seen, and he was already hard at work, drawing out maps and writing up the details.

“Aliandra dear, what will you wear?” Lira asked, coming up beside her.

“What do you mean? I’ll wear this?” Ali asked confused, looking at her perfectly serviceable adventuring gear.

“Oh, no that won’t do. Trials are at least as much presentation and confidence as they are evidence and leverage. You must present a strong presence. Do you happen to know a good tailor?”

“Lydia,” Ali said, and Calen perked up immediately at the mention of his mother’s name. As it so happened, Ali did know the best tailor in town, and with a sudden whirlwind of activity, Ryn was dispatched to Lydia’s Allure with an emergency order for all of them and a small, but heavy, pouch of gold coins. But that was not enough for Lira, and Ali was subjected to a crash course in court politics, presentation, reading a room, and stage presence by the highly motivated Dryad.

How did Lira learn royal court etiquette? she wondered when she finally emerged from the lessons in a daze.

“What do you guys think?” Calen asked, presenting the final draft of his report, complete with exquisitely drawn maps, estimates of travel velocity, distribution of forces, details on the undead they had encountered, and the progression of the blight into the town’s outlying farmland.

“We probably need a copy for each council member,” Lira suggested.

“You’re probably right,” Calen said, his shoulders drooping in response. He had been working on that for hours.

“Hey, Ali, you were able to write my name on my calligraphy workbook. Can you do more?” Malika asked, producing the book to emphasize her point.

“I’m not sure,” Ali answered, staring at Calen’s report. She had just been messing around with Malika’s book when she added the runic script to the cover, but she had been able to suppress the writing in the book too. And what Malika was hinting at was possible in theory. But Calen’s book had detailed notes and maps and all sorts of stuff.

Can I even do it?

But now Malika had stuck the idea in her head. “It can’t hurt to try,” she said. Borrowing Calen’s report, she activated Sage of Learning, and paged through it slowly, memorizing every single detail. She took substantially more time on each map, trying to capture every little nuance. After she repeated the process twice, she felt her memorization was as good as it was going to get.

She opened her Grimoire to the book imprint. Pouring her mana into it, she focused on her memory of the report, trying to stitch the maps and text into the customized construction of the book her spell was creating. She struggled with it, twisting and pushing, coaxing and forcing, trying to get the two to connect.

With an audible thump, a small brown bound book dropped into her lap. She opened it curiously, but the first several pages were entirely garbled.

I knew it was too hard, she thought, mouth twisting in frustration. But, to her surprise, when she reached the final page, she found it was a perfectly rendered copy of the last page of the report.

How did that happen? She cast her mind back to the experience, trying to recall what she had been thinking at the end. But other than the struggling, all she could remember is that near the end she had sort of given up, and simply let her intuition take over.

Even more curious now, she channeled her magic once again, but this time she strove simply to keep the image of what she wanted present in her mind while she worked, available, present, but unforced. It was a lot harder than she had expected, like trying to pour water from a big bucket into a small glass vase. She faltered several times, but she recovered quickly after each misstep.

For some reason, the entire process reminded her of Malika’s lessons on meditation.

The second book dropped into her lap, drawing an approving grunt from Mato. She picked it up and excitedly opened the cover. The first page was correct, but as she slowly flipped through the book, she found that wherever her concentration had slipped, there would be a section of garbled writing, or jumbled lines on the map.

Third try! It felt right there, within her grasp. This time when the book dropped into her lap, she knew it was correct. It was made to the perfect size, with exactly the right number of pages – something she had just figured out – and every single page was a perfect replica of Calen’s original report.

It worked!

Overjoyed, she handed it to Calen to inspect. “What do you think?”

“Sure beats copying it by hand,” Calen said, a big grin forming on his face as he paged through Ali’s creation.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
