Primary effect: Light and Fire spells are 50% stronger when channeled through Stjolna

Secondary effect: Stjolna’s Light and Fire enchantments are 50% stronger

Tertiary effect: Light and Fire spells are 25% weaker when not channeled through Stjolna

Quaternary effect: Light and Fire enchantments from sources other than Stjolna are 25% less weaker

Stjolna. That was the name of her Artifact. Her companion.

The Realm would have to make way for the two of them from now on.

***

Kelsey Tur swallowed as she looked up at the Headmaster of Barstock Academy. The man was impeccably dressed as he looked down at the students seated below him.

“My name is Leonard, and you are the newest students of Barstock Academy. That means you are better than your peers. We take the best of the unawakened nobles and craft you into the perfect ruler. We will teach you how to fight. We will teach you how to learn. We will teach you how to lead. As the offspring of nobility, you have a great burden. Even if you don't inherit your parents' fiefs, you will be expected to be an example of your noble lineage. Succeed, and opportunities will be opened to you. If you keep succeeding, the entire Empire will open to you. Many of our top graduates are among the strongest in the entire Empire, second only to those rare few Ascenders. Fail, and you will still be far better-equipped than any of your peers.”

At the murmur that ran through the crowd, Headmaster Leonard glared at them. “That is two demerits for all of you. Remaining quiet when being spoken to is a matter of simple manners. For those of you who didn’t speak, you should have silenced your neighbors.”

Kelsey grit her teeth. Two demerits meant more work in the coming weeks, and she was sure she would be earning more from the idiots around her.

Before she could complain more, Headmaster Leonard continued. “Now, if you feel under your chair, you should find a packet of information. It is not your own. Your first mission is to find your correct packet. You all have five minutes.”

Just as everyone was about to explode, he added, “Oh, yes. For every time someone speaks out loud, everyone gets one demerit.”

As if to punctuate his words, the massive clock behind him chimed its warning of the new hour.

Kelsey and everyone else earned seven demerits trying to finish their tasks in the short time they were given, but thankfully, people listened when a boy stood up and gestured for them to get into two lines where they could walk past each other quickly.

It was a good idea, and she wished she had stood out first, as he earned an approving nod from a woman next to Headmaster Leonard in the teachers area.

Being noticed was a good thing.

If not for the idiots among them who exclaimed when they found their packets, they would have made out perfectly.

Kelsey sat down with everyone else as Headmaster Leonard resumed his place at the podium. “Acceptable, but not perfect. You will learn. Of that, I am sure. If you open your packets to the first page, you will find your room assignment. That is the one place where you will not be tested. Be warned and informed. Everything outside the door frame of your quarters can and will be a test, but inside your room, you will never find a test or an instructor unless our AI reports you are in danger. That is your single place of solitude.” For the first time, Headmaster Leonard smiled. “I recommend you not spend too much time there. Safety is a trap, and tests as much as danger.”

Kelsey had already memorized her information when her eye was caught by a slight change in the weave of the paper.

She’d always had something of a knack for noticing things, and that served her well here. She split her attention between listening to Headmaster Leonard explaining more of the rules and inspecting her paper, trying to figure out what it said. By turning it and angling it correctly, Kelsey found a second message on the paper. ‘At midnight, come to the Albatross quad. By the third bush, you will find the next hint revealed by the moonlight - The Circle.’

Seeing that, Kelsey thought hard. Everyone was meant to be in their rooms by ten at night, and being caught outside was risking far worse than demerits, but like the Headmaster said, everything was a test. From what she knew, The Circle was a group of advanced students who acted like a shadow student council.

If she could join them, she would be able to secure herself an even better position in the school.

While they didn’t publicize their members, The Circle was rumored to never have had a member not make it to a Tier 15 academy.

Kelsey wanted to be even better than that. To do so, she needed their resources.

She just needed to plan everything perfectly so as to not get caught.

Risk and reward.

As they walked through the halls, she noted all the wards and security measures. They were surprisingly lax, which she supposed made sense. This school was a test, after all.

That night, when she was supposed to be asleep, she slunk out of her room and stalked down the halls, covering her face with one of her shirts.

Not exactly a foolproof measure to conceal her identity, but the best she could do on short notice.

It turned out to be a good choice, because she saw three others sneaking through the halls in different directions.

She wasn’t the only one to see a hidden test, but each seemed different enough that no one was on her path to the quads.

Right before midnight, she was hidden inside the shadow of a bush when she saw it.

In a topiary of a man holding an orb, she found a thin panel of what she thought was glass, but seeing the liquid dripping off the leaves, learned it was ice.

As the clock struck midnight and the moon shone through it, she found a second message written in the shadows spread across the grass field.

‘Right, left, right, left, back, back, forward, forward.’

Seeing nothing else, Kelsey furrowed her brows. But hearing steps behind her, she ran into the nearby hedge maze.

Following the pattern, she found herself not in the center, but a dead end.

As panic started to set in, she saw a root that seemed slightly different than the others.

Throwing caution to the wind, she bent down and pulled it— and almost cried out as the ground dropped out from under her feet.

Landing on her butt, she looked up to see the sliver of sky disappear as the trap door shut.

Then, as if on command, the room lit up with torches.

Standing around her in a Circle were six people with dark robes and masks covering the top of their faces.

“Kelsey Tur. We, The Circle, invite you into our hidden society. The strongest weapons are the ones you don't show. Mystery and our minds are our strongest weapons. Would you like to make them yours?”

Kelsey stood up and brushed her dirt covered hands on her outer coat before looking around the circle of people.

Having gathered herself, she calmly answered.

She didn’t have to think about it after all.

The answer was obvious.

“Yes.”

***

Serhan Tasci sat in the classroom and poured over the fragile pages of parchment.

Not that they were old, despite trying to appear ancient.

They were forgeries made for this exercise; the ink still had a smell that gave the game away. If they were as old as they appeared, they wouldn’t have such a metallic scent.

Serhan was in the middle of his Tier 15 practical exam in one of the Republic's best academies.

He didn’t even know exactly which academy he was testing for, but the initial Tier 15 academies numbered only a dozen. All of them were good, and if he graduated from any of them he would qualify for admittance into Evermore Academy, the highest of education.

If he failed to discover the answer to which school's test he was taking, his academic career would end here, like ninety five percent of his schoolmates.

The weeding out of students, first as they Tiered up, then through decades of academic rigor, was how the Republic found the best of the best to nurture.

The academies were a comprehensive learning environment, and anyone who made it as far as he did was considered truly elite. Any company or political movement would salivate at the thought of roping his classmates in, but Serhan had bigger dreams.

He wanted to graduate from Evermore. Even qualifying for Evermore was sufficient to have one’s career prospects set for life, but once a millennium, someone would graduate and become a living legend.

The Everborn. Stronger, smarter, better. Only Gladiators could be considered their peers or superiors, and there was only one Gladiator Maya. To be Everborn was to be a national hero, beloved by all and given everything they ever needed or wanted.

And Serhan wanted.

He studied harder than his classmates, practiced when they goofed off, challenged himself when they accepted mediocrity.

Serhan’s Talent made every one of his skills more powerful, and had set him apart ever since he first Awakened. The resources he earned through his academies had only pushed him further ahead of his peers.

That was the point, after all.

Round after round of culling the students meant those who kept improving would be able to move to higher Tier academies, where the training got better with more, higher Tier resources.

He just needed to figure out this test.

It took him nearly a week and three false starts, but he eventually found a permutation cipher hidden in the whitespace of the document, and after running it through a translator to convert it into Republic standard, he got his message.

A simple date and time set for three years from when he got the task and a name. Blue Stone Academy.

He had his ticket and knew his destination.

Or, at least the name.

The Tier 15 academies weren’t public in their locations. Even their names were little more than rumors, but he had at least heard of Blue Stone Academy. If said rumors were correct, he was accepted into the third ranked academy of this bracket.

Not as good as he wished, but better than he hoped.

He had started at one of the worst Tier 1 academies in the Republic and clawed his way up the ladder, until the third out of fifteen offered him a position.

When Serhan entered Evermore, they would then know their blunder. The schadenfreude he would taste would be sweeter than any victory champagne.

***

Tian Hai sat in the pressure room and endured.

He had dealt with far worse during his training to become a Dao Child.

When the pressure let up, he looked at the army leader in front of him, who panted.

“Dao Child, we can't continue. Our willpower is insufficient for your needs.”

Tian Hai frowned but got up. “Imbeciles. Return to your rooms, recuperate, for you shall need it in the morn.”

As Tian Hai swept away, he clenched his fist.

He was surely one of the greatest water mages in the Sect, perhaps the entire realm. His Silver Carp bloodline, Flowing Water Revelations, even his Talents all supported that simple and unassailable fact as his simple birthright. The Sects had seen that within him, and supported him all the more, with rare treasures and powerful skills. He had surpassed the might of others ten times his age, meditating upon the nature of water since before his grandfather had been born, learned the secrets of the Elders, and been clothed in treasures with majesty unmatched.

Yet the Drowner approached. The man who dared to challenge Tian Hai for his title. His blood may as well have been mud to Tian Hai’s purest springwater, and he was more a thug than a true artist of water. He was a mockery of the millennia Tian Hai had spent truly mastering his craft, lacked the elegance inherent to the element.

He dared to challenge the heavens, and Tian Hai was prepared to show him the folly of his challenging the Dao Child of Rushing Streams. Other Dao Children had fallen to the Drowner, but he would not join their ranks today. The Imperial would regret his challenge, and Tian Hai had spent many years preparing himself to withstand the crushing pressure the Drowner relied upon instead of proper technique.

But then again, that should have only been expected from a Young Master. They thought that simple power and sheer stubbornness was sufficient to overcome the inheritance and right to victory the Dao Children carried from birth.

Tian Hai flew into space around the moon and tore a small hole through the veil, trying to see if the Drowner was nearing.

With no ripples in the flowing streams of Chaos indicating the monster was approaching, he returned to his meditation room and steadied himself. The Drowner was a capable combatant, no matter his personal feelings on the barbarian. It would not do to bring anything but his best against the man.

He was interrupted not long thereafter by a soldier flying to his balcony, pulling him from his meditation, “Dao Child! The Drowner was just reported as back in the Empire, he has turned tail and fled!”

Tian Hai scoffed, “As to be expected of the barbarian. He must have learned who he would be facing, and preferred to turn tail and flee than to face this one in honorable combat! I must teach him proper respect the next time we meet upon the fields of battle! Rejoice, for your Dao Child has turned back the wrath of the Drowner!”

As the soldier left, leaving Tian Hai alone with his thoughts once more, he allowed himself a smirk. Clearly, the Drowner must have been wiser than he’d given him credit for. He’d restrained himself to fighting only those who were too weak, giving the illusion of strength, yet turning tail once he foresaw true resistance. Undoubtedly, when they met upon the fields of battle next, Tian Hai would emerge firmly victorious. He should feel triumphant, secure in the knowledge that today’s fight would have been an utter farce, his own millennia of skill firmly capable of outmatching the brutish, unrefined techniques of the foreigner.

