Chapter 213

Seasaìdh MacMhunna walked down the hall with all the other scions of the noble families and tried to repress her exuberance.

She had fought for this opportunity amongst the peers of her lineage and had come out on top after all of the tests and challenges. They didn’t look just for combat prowess when selecting the candidates, though that was certainly part of it. Puzzle and problem-solving skills, personality, athleticism, test scores, and a dozen other things she couldn’t quite claim to understand were all evaluated as part of the process.

But now it was here, and she could hardly wait.

The Founder’s Armory was an ancient creation, from the early days of the Clans themselves, and had been the handiwork of the Founder’s firstborn and one of her race’s progenitors.

It was a place of legends, and the birthplace of countless more. Every year, the best dwarven children from across the entire realm- or close enough, anyway- were allowed entry into the armory, where they were presented with the opportunity of a lifetime.

Even the halls they walked through on their way to the Armory itself were magnificent, far grander than her Clan leaders' descriptions had led her to believe. He said they were grand and impressive, conjuring thoughts of gems and precious metals, but how wrong she was.

The halls were seemingly simple affairs of stone, metal, and wood, but the craftsmanship was exquisite. Materials blended together so seamlessly, she couldn’t quite tell where the stone turned into wood until it was already blending into the metal further down the hall.

And that was only the backdrop.

On the walls, a little higher than head height, were the murals.

She recognized each from her history lessons.

The first was the story of The Founder giving life to the Dwarves.

The Second Sun was also pictured, repairing their central star by replacing it with his personal forge after a battle during the Shattering had destroyed the first one.

Another depicted Vercatus single-handedly holding back an army of indistinct enemies while missing an arm, then the next mural pictured him again, forging his Goldhand from the grandest natural treasures.

The next showed Regula sacrificing herself to take down a dragon who had tried to burn a city.

On and on, her ancestors were represented in the murals, and she was astounded at their proud legacy.

The legacy of a people who forged themselves out of common metals and into something greater.

Seasaìdh had always known Dwarves were special, but today was the first day that she truly felt it.

Felt it in her metal bones.

When the older woman leading them through the twisting halls reached a recess in the wall where a room tucked away, Seasaìdh almost walked right past the entrance in her trance.

At the slight clearing of a throat, she came to herself, and while trying to hide her blushing, rushed into the room with the other heirs.

Once everyone was sitting down, the old woman spoke.

“Good evening, children. You have proven yourselves, the five hundred best of your peers from across the Clans this year, standing unmoving before all your compatriots. The grandest fighters, the cleverest scholars, the most dedicated to your studies. You have all distinguished yourselves, and that is worthy of celebration.” Pausing, she started looking around the room with a small smile that implied everyone she was looking at was special in some way.

Then, the woman turned, and an image appeared, projected on the fall wall.

“You may call me the Curator. It is both my title and position. A position I have earned through blood, sweat, and tears, and a position I have held for centuries. I have seen many of your parents, grandparents, and beyond walk through these doors, and I have no doubt that I shall someday see your children and grandchildren pass through my care.

“Now, I’m certain that all of you can’t wait for me to shut up and let you get on with this most exciting day of your lives, but I made your great-great grandparents wait while this old woman had her fun, and now it’s your turn. The Founder’s Armory is open to you today and today alone, the greatest treasure passed down from the Founder’s firstborn himself. Each weapon within is a masterwork unlike any the Realm has seen since. Some compare them to Growth items, but the Artifacts within are far more than a mere riftcraft could ever hope to be. No, these Artifacts are partners, not tools. They grow alongside you, yes, and should you be chosen, should you prove worthy, you will be Awoken and bonded to the Artifact. Your Talents will grow to complement your Artifact, even as it grows to complement you."

“Now, I speak of you being chosen. It is not I who will choose the wielder for each Artifact, but the Artifact themselves. They cannot be negotiated with, nor bargained for. Their bond is absolute and forever, their judgment final, and they are very, very picky with their choices. It has been twelve hundred years since the last time an Inheritor has been chosen, though we usually expect one every seven hundred to a thousand years. If you are not chosen, if no Artifact deems you worthy, then you shall simply be awakened at the end of the day."

“For you have a single day within the Armory, and during that time, you may do as you see fit with any of the weapons within, save to harm one another. The Artifacts do not approve of such things, nor do I, and to raise a blade against one of your fellow candidates is to be instantly removed from the Armory. I will be watching, and I will see."

“Now, should you be chosen as an Inheritor, should an Artifact deem you worthy, the Mountains shall pour out upon you. Your strength will in time be second only to the Grand Knights themselves, and you shall forever have the strength to defend your ancestral halls, your home, and your nation. For it is a boon to be chosen, and your power shall be manifold."

There was more, but Seasaìdh started to glaze over, seeing the projected image behind the Curator.

She wasn’t particularly drawn to the items inside, but rather the hall itself.

It was majestic.

Seasaìdh wanted to inspect the pillars that seemed to stretch up to the sky. She wanted to check her reflection in the almost mirror-like floor.

It seemed to take an eternity, but when she at last entered the Armory, she nearly fell to her knees.

Being inside was an experience she would never forget, though she was certain she wouldn’t be chosen. Luck was never on her side, and even that wouldn’t be enough for her here.

While the others rushed and started picking up weapons or pieces of armor, she just wandered, paying more attention to the tables than to the items on them.

The craftsmanship was beyond her vocabulary, so she didn’t even try to put words to her feelings.

When she was miles away from the entrance, she started paying attention to some of the items in the Founders Armory; they were also important items, and she wanted to see what made them special.

Seasaìdh quickly learned that not all the Artifacts were equal.

Each was treated with reverence, and each had its own place, but the weapons and places were far from equal. A rusty saber sat upon a velvet cushion, propped up like it was the most valuable thing in the room, while a golden axe studded with gems sat haphazardly upon a plain stone table next to it. A spear with a haft of ice balanced precariously upon its point, resting in a matching divot on the floor, while a plain longsword in a scabbard hung from a simple coat hanger.

It was all fastidiously clean, though there were a few places here and there where an Artifact had obviously been removed sometime in the past. A blade-sized hole in a stone, an amulet-shaped divot in a silk chest, a mannequin with nothing on it.

Checking her watch, Seasaìdh sighed as she realized she only had fourteen hours left. She wanted to spend the rest of her life here.

She wandered for another hour before she started to come down from her high and decided to lay down next to a glass case containing a jeweled scepter. The way it reflected the light was pretty, and she wanted to enjoy it for a moment.

Before she knew what was going on, she was already asleep.

If she had been awake, she might have seen The Curator and two others hovering just feet behind her. One was a tall human man, an oddity in many ways, while the other a confused-seeming dwarf woman.

“Curator, you said she was going to bind, but I don't see it. She’s just walking around, which is different from the others, but she doesn't seem drawn to anything,” the dwarf asked.

The man merely smirked as the Curator answered, “Saint-Heir Aoife, I have been doing this for close to sixty thousand years. I know one who will bind. She wanders without a path, but she is not lost. There are millions of items here, but she keeps walking. She could pause at any time but she does not. Her Artifact is calling her.”

It had been many, many long years since Aoife had first been in the Founder’s Armory, but it had never fully left her memory. What exactly the powerful artifacts within its walls were looking for was a matter of furious debate.

‘Worthiness’ of some metric was a common rumor, but the Custodian believed- and Aoife was inclined to trust- that perhaps the single most important factor was a compatible latent Talent, though just how much an Artifact could change a Talent was wholly unknown. Just as Ascension inexplicably improved the strength and Talents of those Awakened in its wake, so too were Artifact-bonded Talents substantially stronger than their peers. Though at the cost of usually being entirely focused upon their Artifact.

There were no Talents which merely provided Innate [Fire Manipulation]. Instead it would be the ability to use [Fire Manipulation] while bearing their staff, but with double the potency of normal [Fire Manipulation]. Those Inheritors nearly always developed their Domain around their Artifact, and when combined with the resources the Clan showered upon them, there were very, very few who could be said to be anything less than excellent.

Normally, only the Saint themselves was permitted entry to the Armory, but with just a few short centuries before his Ascension and her coronation, Hastor had invited Aoife to join him when the Custodian claimed a new Inheritor was to join their ranks. Her superior hadn’t said a word the entire time, but she had caught him looking longingly at some of the swords on display.

So, Aoife waited silently until the girl woke up.

These hallowed halls were impressive, and she understood the girl's fascination. They truly were some of the grandest under all the mountains.

Seasaìdh woke up after only an hour and kept meandering around, but Aoife noted that the Curator was correct. The girl always moved in a specific direction, even if she thought it was simply wandering.

Seasaìdh frowned as she noticed a morningstar with a thick layer of dust on its handle. Clearly, the Curator wasn’t doing her job if a weapon was so dirty.

The weapon was rather ordinary, a simple leather wrapped metal shaft bearing a ball of steel covered in spikes.

She went to wipe the dust off, but as the dust came off, so too did the weapon’s steel, revealing underneath a burning star. Then, like dust, the metal shuddered and fell off, replaced by the burning radiance of the star that had just been born.

Seasaìdh was locked in a trance as the weapon bound itself to her, Awakening both the dwarf girl and its own power.

Above the girl, Aoife was stunned. That weapon had not had dust on it before the girl got close. She knew for a fact. When she first entered the Founders Armory, she had inspected every inch of it and every weapon inside of it.

That morningstar hadn't had dust on it, until it suddenly did.

Even she hadn’t caught the transition.

Looking to the Curator, the Tier 49 saw the woman's smile. There was a trace of smugness, but Aoife could admit the woman earned it. The Curator had been correct even when she herself doubted. Hastor positively beamed, and the human stepped forward to study the resplendent weapon, taking in its majesty while being completely unseen by its Inheritor.

Aoife finally broke herself out of her amazement with a snort. “It's a little on the nose, isn't it? A morningstar being made from the core of a star?”

The Curator just shrugged. “Perhaps. I sometimes wonder if the Artifacts change themselves to be more compatible with their Chosen, just as they change those they choose. The Founder and The Smith are beyond my comprehension.”

Aoife turned to follow as the Curator teleported the girl out. The work of the Talented were always weird, but while beautiful, this place was odd, to say the least.

A living armory filled with weapons that chose their owners from the unawakened.

Frankly, her ancestors could have made things easier for her. But then, if Artifacts were simple, one of the many attempts to create more would have succeeded by now, and the armory would not be slowly getting emptier over the millenia.

Being able to produce Elites was never easy, by its very nature. The Inheritors of Artifacts were at least a marginally steady source of elite warriors, and they at least were set apart at awakening, meaning they could focus substantially more resources on them, without wasting time on candidates who ultimately fell short.

In another room, Seasaìdh slowly recovered from her stupor, and the reality of her situation began to set in.

She had been chosen.

It was beyond her wildest dreams, and she sat in a stupor for what felt like hours before she properly realized where she was.

A Talent scanner.

Armed with her new weapon, she waded into the pool of not-water and let its findings form themselves upon the reflective surface of the scrying pool

Tier 1 Talent determined.

