Jake just gave the two a deadpan look before sighing. “Now I’m reconsidering whether I even want to become the Chief Administrator.”

“Of course you do,” Villy waved him off. “As my Chosen, it’s something you should just do. In my glorious name and all that.”

“Yeah, now I’m definitely not bothering to-“

“And there’ll definitely be a title or other exclusive rewards available,” the Viper continued, hitting Jake where he knew it would work. “Such as that ring of yours with quite the unique effect. Doesn’t it even say you can upgrade it? Would you really wanna miss out on such an opportunity?”

Jake stared at the Viper for a moment before giving an exaggerated sigh. “Touche... but I’m not going to actually work as an administrator or whatever of the World Wonder.”

“See, if only you were as insistent on avoiding dangerous worlds full of A-grades as you were responsibility, things-“

“I already agreed, no reason to make me rethink,” Jake shut down the evil snake god. “And I am responsible. Responsible for getting stronger, and Miranda happens to get stronger from doing administrator-like things. I’ll just take on the burden of being the guy on the deed of ownership that is the primary target.”

“And reap the vast majority of the benefits in the process,” Artemis added, not sounding like she disapproved at all. “I should also add immediately that if there is a conflict between the different Seats, the Pantheon of Life and Order has entered into a temporary alliance.”

“That sounds good,” Jake nodded with a smile, as it would be good to at least have some allies in case fighting got involved. Not because Jake was afraid to fight, but because he wanted enough numbers on his side to allow him to target those he deemed worth fighting. The Nevermore top-scorers and other talents he’d been briefed about.

Hopefully, it wouldn’t be too long, either. The Administrator Test was set to end in roughly half a day, at which point Jake assumed he wouldn’t have much time before the Chief Administrator Selection began. At least that was the working theory.

“Should I bring any allies or assistants?” Jake suddenly remembered, assuming that if Administrator Candidates could bring allies, there was a chance Administrators would have the same ability in the Chief Administrator Selection.

“Would you need to if you could?” the Viper asked. “Not gonna lie, I figure that whatever the test will be, your chances of passing will be higher solo. Also, let’s not act as if the Milky Way has any competition worth much. All the noteworthy figures are spread across the universe, becoming Administrators themselves.”

“True, I guess,” Jake said.

“Well, that’s about It I think. I actually just came by to make fun of you a little and have nothing much to add,” the Viper shrugged. “I’ll let you catch up, just the two of you. Give you some privacy and all that.”

“Appreciated,” Artemis said with a nod, and without further ado, the Malefic Viper teleported away.

“And there he goes,” Jake said with a slight chuckle as he looked at Artemis. “How have you been?”

“Same as usual, though with more diplomatic work than I tend to care for,” Artemis said, returning his smile. “Let’s head inside. We still have plenty of time before it’s time for you to be summoned to the system event.”

“Let’s,” Jake nodded as he walked over, and just as he was about to reach out, a head suddenly popped out of a crack in space as the Viper looked at them.

“Remember, avoid children before-“

The bastard didn’t get further before he faced the wrath of Doomfoot as a boot kicked him in the face.
