“Ha ha!” Ren said as he put the pieces down, then picked the woman up and swung her around. She squealed, half in delight, half in terror, and Ren put her down. “Sorry!” He said in apology. “I broke so many pieces trying to do it myself.” He chuckled. “That was the first time it actually worked for me.”

The woman tried to catch her breath. “That.. that's okay.” She said and looked at him warily. “I'm glad you're happy.”

“I have to try it again.” Ren said, and laughed as he saw her reaction. “I meant cutting the glass.”

Relief passed over her face, and she smiled. Ren scored another straight cut, then repeated the separating process. It snapped cleanly, and he laughed. The woman braced herself to be picked up again, but Ren cut another piece instead and successfully repeated the technique. He turned to her expectantly.

“What else can you show me?” Ren asked excitedly, and she smiled.

“A lot.” She said, then proceeded to show him how to cut gentle curves, then hard curves, and then showed him a couple of special metal tools and pliers for working the glass, and for breaking apart the hard curves.

“You can use tools for that?” Ren asked. “I thought it was only by hand!”

She chuckled. “It is by hand mostly.” She said. “Sometimes you need the extra leverage, though; especially since hands can't reach some of the spots that need to be separated.”

Ren examined the tools she was using, and got the plans for them. He saw they were worn and well-used, and looked at her.

“I can repair them if you want.”

“Can you?” She asked. “I didn't know anyone even knew what they were, let alone could fix them.”

Ren chuckled. “That was true until now.” He took out his blacksmithing hammer and repaired the tools.

“First you show me a custom scoring tool you made, that I thought was only in my family's possession; then you fix all of the tools that my mother had since she was a young girl.” She shook her head and looked at Ren again with a smile on her face. “Who are you again?” She asked, jokingly.

“I'm tempted to say I'm a student of learning; but, I've been too busy to learn much of anything new lately.” Ren responded.

“I'm sorry to hear that.” She said.

“Me, too.”

“Ren, you've still got 4 more hours to work at the mines.” Teepo said.

Right! Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought and looked at the female dwarf. “I've got to get back to work. Thank you so much for showing me how to do things properly.”

“Learning to cut is just the start.” She said. “There's a lot more to this profession than that!”

“I know.” Ren said. “If I had more time to spare today, I'd stay and learn as much as I can.” He said. “Can I stop by for lunch tomorrow?”

“Are... are you asking me out?” She asked.

“I'm engaged.” Ren said.

“Yes, I know.” She said. “My question still stands.”

He opened his mouth to say that being engaged meant he couldn't date anyone else, then remembered where he was and the culture he was dealing with.

“Um... no, I'm not asking you out. I merely want you to teach me as much as you can, in as short a period of time as possible.”

She laughed. “I assume you mean only for stained glass working.”

“Yes, only glass working.” Ren said and smiled.

“Okay, as long as we're clear. Professional time only.”

Ren nodded slightly.

“Then I'll see you at lunch time tomorrow.”

Ren took out his icebox and gave her a plate of meat and vegetables. “I'm sorry you missed lunch today. Please accept this as a token of thanks.”

The female dwarf took the plate of food with a surprised look on her face, and Ren stored the icebox.

“I'll take the empty plate back tomorrow.” Ren said. “Bye!” He took off running, left the business, and ran back to the mines. He called Nathalia on the way, to tell her he was going to be late again today. She said that was fine, and he made it to the mines and went to the medical tent.

“You again.” Deresdra said. “I should restrict you to the mines for the rest of your sentence.”

Ren looked at her in surprise. “Please don't do that.” He said. “I've been doing my best to try and get everything done before I have to leave. The sentence itself is hard enough without having to stay here all the time, too.”

“Hard?” Deresdra said. “You only work 8 hours, and can leave whenever you want.”

“You can leave whenever you want, too.” Ren said. “You're not under contract, remember?”

Deresdra opened her mouth to say that she was under contract, then frowned as she looked at her wrist.

“I'm... not under contract.” She said.

“Of course you're not.” Ren said. “I bought it for you and destroyed it.” He said and looked at her in concern. “Are you feeling all right?”

“I thought I was.” Deresdra said, and looked at Ren. “I think I need a little time off.”

“Sure.” Ren said. “Let me just ask the owner.” He took a step to the right and looked left. “Ren, I think Deresdra needs a few days off.” He took a step to the left and looked right. “I think you're right, Ren. I'll get the mine foreman to bring out a temporary replacement.” He took a step to the right and looked left. “Why not just hire another healer? Then they can split the shifts and not have to work so hard.” He took a step to the left and looked right. “That's a great idea, Ren! I'll do that right after the medical inspection.” He turned to face her. “You're all set. The owner says you can take a few days off.”

Deresdra had her hands over her mouth and tried not to laugh. Ren smiled as he walked by her and stepped into the curtained-off area. She followed him and gave him the medical inspection. Her fingers seemed to linger a little longer on his muscles than they had the day before; but other than that, she was completely professional.

“Thank you.” Ren said and equipped his clothing. “I'm sorry that you have to keep inspecting me; but, I am going to keep leaving and coming back.” He said. “There's no getting around the fact that I have to leave every day.”

Deresdra sighed. “Yes, I know.” She looked at him. “At least you don't complain about having to do it.”

Ren frowned. “Is someone else complaining?”

She shook her head. “I won't discuss other patients with a patient.”

“Then discuss it with the mine foreman.” Ren said. “He won't be happy about someone complaining, either.”

Deresdra nodded. “I'll do that.”

“Good.” Ren said. “If there's one thing that both I and the mine foreman agree on, is having a dedicated healer available. If you're not happy, then we aren't happy.”

She smiled. “Thank you.”

Ren nodded slightly and went back to work, after making the appropriate arrangements with the mine foreman for Deresdra to have some time off and to hire another healer. Ren worked another 4 hours in the mine, and went home just in time for supper. He told Nathalia he needed to make a delivery to the shop that night, and wouldn't be back until late. He sat down on the couch to log out, and once again, was disappointed that Elerlyth hadn't messaged him in the game.

********

Ren took off the VR headset and checked his emails, deleted the spam, and still didn't see a message from Gloria. He ate lunch quickly and logged back into the game.

********

Ren left the house, went to the workshop to meet Tee-one, and picked up the orders for the store. He took Princess and the cart on the hour long drive to the warehouse, and Teepo dissolved into the ring as Ren went through the portal to Aurora. He dropped off the customer's orders after apologizing to Anabelle for waking her up. He picked up a new list from her desk downstairs, then went back up to the apartment and asked Anabelle about hiring a delivery Adventurer. When she stopped laughing, she discovered that Ren was serious.

“You're joking.” She said. “You want to hire an Adventurer, just for deliveries.”

Ren nodded. “They have to be strong, though. I want them to be able to carry several furniture pieces without a struggle.”

“That's going to be an odd job posting.” Anabelle said.

“I know.” Ren said. “I was going to say it'll be an easy job most of the time, but that all depends on if everyone wants their things delivered once they find out that we do deliver.” He chuckled. “And you know they will.”

Anabelle smiled and nodded.

“See you in a couple of days.” Ren said.

“Just a minute.” Anabelle said. “Now that you're here, can you... kiss me... goodnight?”

Ren looked at her and saw that she was blushing slightly. He walked over to the bed and she slid the blanket off of her, to reveal the see-through nightgown that she always wore. It left nothing to the imagination; and he noticed she wasn't wearing underwear, either. He stood beside her, and she looked at him expectantly as she raised her nightgown slightly with her hands. Ren smiled as he leaned over her, took her face in his hands, and gave her a gentle kiss on the lips.

“Goodnight, Anabelle.” Ren said, and walked back around the bed to the cabinet that held the portal.

“That... that's not...” She tried to say, and reached a hand up to let her fingers touch the lips Ren had just kissed. “I didn't mean...”

“I know it's not what you asked for...” Ren smiled. “...but, it's what you really wanted.” He closed the cabinet, nailed it shut, and stepped through the portal.

*

Anabelle stared at Ren as he closed the cabinet. She let her hand drop and sighed. I wanted you to kiss me like you did before. She thought, and pulled the blanket back over herself and snuggled down into the bed. A moment later, she licked her lips and smiled. At least, I thought I did.

*

Ren summoned Teepo, ran downstairs, and fed Princess some food. He hooked her to the cart again, and was back at House Neram Keep an hour later. He put Princess back in the stable, and went into the house to go to bed. He climbed into bed under the blanket, and fell fast asleep.

The next few game days passed by quickly. Ren worked the mornings at the mine, learned about stained glass for a few hours at lunch, then finished his shift at the mine. He barely had an hour to spend with Nathalia each day; but, she never complained. She was almost as busy as he was, however. The restaurant was coming together nicely, and since she had two of them to set up and run, it was taking up twice as much of her time. Ren helped her when he could, with job postings and setting things up; but it was all hinged on her decisions, so she had to shoulder most of that burden herself.

The healer Deresdra had to wait those same few days for another healer to become available so she could take her time off; but she didn't complain, either. She was happy to know that she could take time off and wouldn't have to worry that her job wasn't being done.

********

Ren logged out to eat breakfast and to do his physical therapy session. After a quick shower, Bonnie helped him dry off and he got dressed in one of his new pajama sets. He climbed into bed and relaxed, then Bonnie came in with a delivery man behind her.

“There's a package here for you, Ren.” Bonnie said. “They said they need your signature.”

Ren nodded, and the the guy handed him a small electronic device and a thin plastic stick. Ren signed the little screen, passed them back, and the guy handed him a 1 foot square box. He nodded and left the room, and Ren looked at the box closely.

“What is it?” Bonnie asked.

“No idea.” Ren said. “There's no return address.” He noticed small puncture holes near the top of the box, and that made him really curious. “Any chance there's a sharp knife around?”

“Sure.” Bonnie said and left. She was back a couple of minutes later with a steak knife from the break room. Ren cut the tape that held the box closed, and saw that the edge went all the way around. He used the knife to cut it open all the way, and when he was done, he let the hand holding it together go. The box flopped open, the sides fell down, and the contents were revealed.

Bonnie screamed as a hand-sized tarantula flopped out of the box and landed on Ren's chest.
