It hurt to watch. Stop. Stop it. Trey kept playing the videos. He’d seen them too many times.
 
The next time the camera came on, the people were shouting at a caravan. The viewpoint captured a flying figure. A Garuda spotting them. The others shouted or stared. Some looked wary, but the caravan was kindly. Humans rode towards them on camels, shouting. In English—
“Are you hurt? What was it? [Bandits]?”
“Where are you from?”
Bewildered answers. Confusion—and already, as some of them eyed the swords and wands—cautiousness. The travellers from Earth lied, and the caravan, after some swift bartering for a colorful scarf, a water bottle, and a few trinkets—took them in.
 
The battery had begun running low. Trey saw only three more videos. He clicked on the next one.
 
“I have—I have a Skill. Green. [Extended Battery]. I think it will save me some battery. I think. But this is another…world, yeah? A game. That’s what one of us said. We are getting close to a city, now. For food. Shelter. We’re going to…stop there…”
The young man looked worried. But optimistic. He smiled. He was always smiling.
“We’re headed towards it. It is a nice place. Apparently? I will show you more. The battery is running low. I can’t recharge—so this is Davi, signing off.”
 
Darkness. Two left. Trey’s finger shook.
 
“A’ctelios Salash. Welcome, welcome to the Carven City! All are welcome here! Food, drink—all free!”
A laughing face. A demon wearing a Human’s skin. Davi eagerly filmed…Athal. Welcoming them inside. He began taking images of the interior of A’ctelios, after the outside.
Some of the Earthers saw what the city was. Some—refused to enter. The Russian man walked off, after arguing bitterly with his group. He pointed at the eyes that had become entrances and shouted that it was madness.
Some followed. A girl. A young man from Canada named Rémi. But fifteen entered. The young man from Portugal, Davi, was unsettled. He filmed the inside. The cavernous room, the smiling people.
The strange cries of a baby. The meat they were given, succulent, free of charge by Athal, who grinned as Davi and the others scarfed the food after a long time on the road.
 
“Stop.”
Fetohep was touching Trey’s arm. The young man didn’t know it, but he was crying. His finger shook. But the last video—
 
“Something. Wrong.”
A voice. Cracked. In pain. Davi’s face appeared in the frame. In darkness.
In the background, someone was crying out. Rhythmically. In pain. Davi was clutching at his stomach.
“The meat—it was—a trap.”
He whispered to the camera. Someone was moving in the corner. Davi looked up. He saw the man from Cameroon. With a knife, stained red. He reached down, his body jerking. He was already…transforming. Davi shook his head as the knife lowered—the man staggered away.
“What did we do wrong?”
That was all Davi said. He tried to say something else, but the broadcast continued. As he jerked—the others fell silent, given a last mercy or…too far gone.
They changed, and a young man picked his way across the ground, ignoring the Pakeil as they screamed. Athal picked up the camera, investigated it eagerly.
“Look! An artifact! They had an artifact! Tell my father—we can sell this—how does it work? Why is that thing flashing red? One? 1%? What—”
 
That was the last. Trey saw the screen go dark.
There were a few…pictures. Of Athal. Of a few people, blinking stupidly into the camera. He must have used it. But the camera had run out of power. And Athal must have thought it was just junk. So he’d put it in the bag. And the Pakeil—Davi—had remained.
Until he’d attacked Trey. And then—
“He’s still there. In A’ctelios. He’s probably alive, even after he was—nothing dies there. He’s alive. And he’s—him.”
Trey wept onto the camera as it turned off. Fetohep sat next to him. Staring at the dark screen.
He had witnessed it all. The [King] was silent. And Trey?
He had tried to kill Baosar. He had failed, but Gazi had done the job. Trey wished, now, he’d killed Athal. That he’d had the power to burn A’ctelios Salash to ash.
But they’d run, and Davi was still alive. Part of Trey wished he’d never known the young man’s name. Because it was his face Trey saw in his nightmares. Eating down the meat and remarking how good it was. Thanking the inhabitants of Tombhome for their generosity.
“I will never forgive them. I won’t. Someday. I’ll come back. And I’ll bury Tombhome again. I will kill them all.”
That was his vow. Trey looked up at Fetohep. And the undead ruler looked at him with sympathy.
“Trey Atwood. This evidence of wrongdoing by A’ctelios’ inhabitants I cannot forgive. Nor will I ever forget it. The Carven City will be held to my justice. Khelt is not weak.”
“It has to be erased.”
The young man reached out. He grasped at Fetohep’s robes, speaking pleadingly. And Fetohep—hesitated.
“There are things worse than A’ctelios’ depravity, Trey Atwood. I do not ask that you understand. But I rule Khelt. And I have seen Crelers and worse. A’ctelios is madness. But it is a weapon to be borne against all foes. It is—”
“Madness? Madness is a weapon? What enemy do you use it against?”
Trey looked at Fetohep, and the undead ruler’s fiery eyes dimmed. But he replied.
“Dragons. And far worse. When they are needed, A’ctelios’ mad legions will fight.”
“So you won’t destroy them.”
That was all he cared about. Trey met Fetohep’s gaze. The [King] shook his head with true regret.
“A ruler cannot always be moral, Trey Atwood. Nor do I know if A’ctelios can be destroyed with all of Khelt’s power. Buried, perhaps. But the Tombhome was slain by the original inhabitants of A’ctelios. And they were heroes. They felled a nightmare. That excuses none of this generation’s offense. But it is a reason…”
He trailed off. Trey looked at him and turned away.
“Trey Atwood. I would do much in my power for you. But I am still a [King].“
The voice was quiet. Trey shuddered.
“I know, Your Majesty. Thank you. But—”
He brushed at his eyes. And felt as if he’d wept all his tears. Slowly, Trey Atwood rose. And he looked around. At Fetohep, resting in his seat, unchanging. At Khelt, this perfect place.
“I have to go. Don’t I?”
Fetohep of Khelt paused. His undead gaze flickered.
“No. Not if you do not wish to. I have told you: Khelt welcomes you, Trey Atwood. Stay as you wish. My subjects will offer you every comfort. My treasuries will satisfy your wildest imaginations. Ask what you will. And it will be granted to you.”
Like…a friend. A grandfather. A kindly ruler, offering Trey anything he wanted. And the young man was so tempted.
A night with the most beautiful woman. Food and drink unlimited. Magical treasures. Safety, comfort, riches.
It was all here. Here, waiting for him. Fetohep would give it to Trey, and not even Flos would be able to take Trey away.
That was the truth. But the young man turned. He looked Fetohep in his undead face. And he did not flinch. That was part of why Fetohep loved him. Trey inhaled, once.
“Your Majesty. Do any of the King of Destruction’s vassals seek me?”
The undead [King] hesitated. But then he nodded.
“Lord Venith Crusland has brought five thousand of Reim’s [Soldiers]. He is attempting to cross the border. None of his party have sustained more than superficial injuries. Yet.”
Loyalty. Trey closed his eyes. Venith would try Khelt, even if it meant fighting all of the undead.
“I have to go, Your Majesty. I have…a mission. I can’t speak of it, truly. His Majesty has orders for me.”
“Must you go? You owe that boy nothing.”
The ruler of Khelt almost reached for Trey. And the young man stepped away. He smiled at Fetohep, and he bowed deeply. Gratefully. But he still left. Trey walked towards the door, and as Fetohep rose, he spoke.
“Your Majesty. You are too kind to me. You have given me every comfort in this world, and I am eternally grateful. And you are wise. Wiser than I. But—that is why I must go. Because I am mortal. And flawed. And I see A’ctelios’ horrors. And I cannot forgive.”
He pointed. Fetohep looked at the camera, sitting on the little table. Trey had left it behind, with the backpack.
“You see why A’ctelios is needed. The lives of a few can be sacrificed for the good of all. And that is—a [King]’s wisdom. But I serve the King of Destruction. And he would go to war for a single child. He will give me vengeance if I ask. Thank you. And—goodbye. I fear it might be some time before we meet again. If we do.”
“Trey—”
Trey bowed again. He turned and left. And then he was gone. Riding north. To his fate. To serve the King of Destruction.
Fetohep felt him go. He sat still, unmoving, until Trey had left his lands. And that took hours. Only then did the [King] rise. And he walked listlessly out of his room.
His treasures awaited him. His people. But the [King] was suddenly alone. And he stood awhile, on a balcony overlooking his magnificent city.
Pondering what he had lost.
 
——
 
Now.
The army of Jecrass was marching on Sadomere. A battered thirty—no, closer to forty thousand plus reinforcements. A hundred thousand to pit against half that number.
Numbers. But even so—Teres was aware of how vulnerable they were. The city of Sadomere was not Reim. It wasn’t built as strongly, had no secret weapons.
And only one of the King’s Seven was here to defend it. Mars was also, arguably, the worst person to defend a city. She could hold a hallway until the entire structure came down around her. But a wall where there was only one of her?
No. And the walls were exposed. The [Builders] had made the city well, but not with an eye for sieges. Proper siege architecture was usually ugly.
It had also been a strategic move. Denying an enemy a useful foothold on the border between both nations meant that it was disadvantageous to actually rely on the city. Like in…moments like these.
“Milord. We’re surrounded.”
“Hm. Hm. Hold on, I have a message from Venith. I think it’s good news.”
Flos Reimarch was checking a [Message] on the magical scroll he carried. He smiled as Teres, Ytol, and Mars inspected the army.
They were surrounding the city, and they had no siege weapons as Teres understood them. No ballistae, or trebuchets, let alone cannons or the high-tech weapons from her world.
They had a few primitive catapults that could hurl stones a decent distance. But that was all. Jecrass’ forces didn’t really need conventional siege weapons.
They had [Mages]. Ulyse, Mirin, and Esiela of Parasol Stroll approached Flos.
“Your Majesty. The enemy has a number of high-level [Mages]. Grand Mage Esiela counts a number of Claiven Earth’s high-level [Mages]. Not the highest-level. Thirty plus—but they could punch a hole through the walls.”
Ulyse, the leader, reported. Esiela, the former Grand Mage of Belchan, ducked her head, hiding her face as Flos turned towards them. The King of Destruction’s gaze paused on her for a second.
“I see. Can you fend them off, Ulyse?”
The [Mage] hesitated.
“I suspect they will attack from multiple sides, Your Majesty. To prevent our own from being sniped, we will have to concentrate on one wall. We will do our best, but only a single [Geomancer] need collapse an unenchanted wall to create a breach.”
“I see. Well then, I will take it into account. Deploy to the northern wall, Ulyse.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
It was a measure of the [Mage]’s trust that he only bowed without asking…questions. But there was nowhere to run.
“Ah. Trey has left Khelt! Of his own will. Venith is escorting him to Germina. And Gazi will ride south to meet them. Good, good. We may be able to arrange a meeting, Teres, but the plan is still going ahead. I had feared…Trey would seek Fetohep’s mercy. And I would have been unable to stop him.”
The King of Destruction laughed in genuine relief and good humor. Teres looked at him.
“If we meet him.”
The [King] glanced at her.
“Well—it may be hard to arrange. Or did you mean this battle? Orthenon’s taught you well, Teres. What do you think our odds are?”
“…Shit?”
Teres heard another laugh, but Mars wasn’t really laughing. The enemy had them outnumbered. And worse—Jecrass’ elite cavalry had taken to the field. And yes, they were terrible at sieging a city until the gates fell, and you could still create walls of pikes to stop them coming in—
But going out? Sortieing meant you’d be charged, and you’d never outrun them. If Flos was confident in defending, Teres wouldn’t have worried.
But the Claiven Earth had sent their troops to support Jecrass. Oh—‘mercenaries’. And the half-Elves were good [Archers].
They were even able to hit Sadomere’s defenders from a thousand paces away. The longbow [Archers] would trade out, use a Skill, and launch arrows that hit the defenders hiding behind the battlements. Only Maresar or similarly skilled [Archers] would have been able to counter them.
And the [Mages]—Teres knew that Parasol Stroll was good, but she didn’t have much hope. Even if Flos’ army repelled Jecrass’, it would be a brutal siege. And Jecrass could just pull in more troops if they were losing.
“You’re right, Teres. It’s not good. These walls were never built to counter enemies like this. Let alone the fact that we’ll be dealing with breaches. Once they enter the city, Jecrass’ cavalry will have an open battleground. Not nice alleyways.”
Flos glanced over his shoulder at the city. Teres nodded. Damn wide streets and efficient municipal planning. But the King of Destruction was smiling.
“Milord. They’re advancing.”
And here they came. Flos Reimarch’s head snapped up as the [Archers] advanced within bow range. Infantry moved forwards, screening and hiding the vulnerable [Mages].
“Mars. I’m relying on you. Use your ranged weapons. Force those [Mages] back. For…ten minutes. Ulyse has the north wall—take the east. The west is the Rustängmarder—only idiots would concentrate on them. Teres! You and I will stand on the south walls. Perhaps that will dissuade them. Grab a shield. And watch for those high-level shots. Nuisances.”
The King of Destruction strode forwards. He raised his shield casually as Teres kept a distance behind him. Every now and then, Flos would swat an arrow meant for him out of the air, even if it curved or tried to vanish.
Jecrass’ army was advancing. Their [Archers] threw up hails of deadly arrows as Flos’ tired army tried to return fire. It was technically in Flos’ favor; even with elites, his army had range and protection. Only the numbers favored the attackers.
