And the fact that they would cause a breach and allow their army to make it a more even fight. The King of Destruction reached the southern wall. There he stood, waving at the enemy army. Teres swore she could see General Lael hesitating as she saw the King of Destruction facing her.
“Flos. What’s your plan?”
“Wait. We have to let them get closer, Teres. You know I have a plan?”
“You’re not a complete dunce.”
The King of Destruction grinned toothily at Teres.
“Thank you, Teres. In truth—a Drake or Minotaurian army would be worse. They have siege weapons along with [Mages]. But this is fine. And I do have a plan.”
“The [Army of the King]?”
He smiled at her and angled his shield to block an arrow. Flos winced as it detonated and swore as both his and Teres’ ears rang from the fireball.
“Damned explosive arrows! Not yet. That must be used for a battle where it cripples my enemies. Or else it is wasted for a month. No—watch.”
The enemy army was charging the city. Teres saw Ulyse and the other [Mages] exchanging fire with the northern wall’s attackers. But soon—far too soon—there was an explosion.
From the southern wall. Flos swore and grabbed at Teres as the wall began to collapse near them. A [Geomancer] had caved it in. And the army, realizing the King of Destruction had few [Mages] there—was charging at the gap.
“Pikes! Get below and prepare for a charge!”
But then the wall rippled. And Teres saw another section cave in on the eastern side. She looked at Flos.
“[Mages]. One cannot fight without them. And my armies are light on [Mages]. Don’t fear, Teres.”
He heaved a sigh. The King of Destruction looked out as more parts of the wall began to collapse. There were fewer defenders on it than Teres realized. Perhaps anticipating he’d lose the walls, the King of Destruction had pulled his forces back. But they were getting ready to clash with fresh Jecrassian troops and the other army’s elites soon.
“Flos. What is the plan?”
The King of Destruction stood on the crumbling walls of his city as Jecrass’ army began to charge. He spoke casually to Teres.
“Just this, Teres. You had no way of knowing. Nor Raelt, or my enemies. But they might have considered it if they remembered that I am just a man.”
He looked at Teres. And she, holding his hand, saw him let go. Teres stumbled. Flos Reimarch turned to the walls.
“King Raelt of Jecrass is a worthy foe. He leveled up after challenging me and winning. In his way. That battle turned him into a force to be reckoned with. But no one in this world wins singlehandedly. General Lael!”
He bellowed. The distant [General] saw Flos raise his arms. The King of Destruction laughed.
“Congratulations on your [King]’s new levels! And yours as well, no doubt! And might I add one more thing?”
He pointed at her, and the [King] smiled.
“I leveled up too.”
The man raised one fist. Teres saw him point.
“For you, my glorious [Architect]. This—Skill is for you. [The King’s Architect]!”
He bellowed the Skill. And Teres saw—the King of Destruction disappear.
For a moment, time slowed across the city of Sadomere. Which was—when you got down to it, a shitty name for a city, wasn’t it? And what terrible architecture!
“Sadomere. What is that, a name of a horse? Maybe a horse designed these walls.”
Teres heard a man’s voice. And she saw an old, grumpy man walking across the walls. In between the galloping horses’ hooves hitting the ground, he strode, looking around the broken rubble. And beside him strode a man.
“Yes, yes. The name is bad. I’ll rename it something appropriate. Drevish’s Posthumous Masterpiece, or some such. Can we fix it?”
“If you name the city that, I’ll design a guillotine so you can kill yourself. Come on, we have work to do. [Riders], huh? And [Archers] and [Mages]. How do you get yourself into these messes?”
For a moment, the old man’s annoyed voice passed Teres. And she saw him glancing past her, through her. Seeing only the city. What it was and could be. And the [King] walked with him.
But he too was—a memory. The real King of Destruction stood on the walls a heartbeat later, staring after him. Teres breathed.
“Drevish?”
The [Architect], a memory of him, turned. And Flos Reimarch raised a hand.
“Drevish! My [Architect]!”
His voice was pained, and he cried across the wall to the man in the distance. Reaching out at an illusion. Teres saw the white-haired figure bow. And the city changed around them.
Time snapped back to reality. Jecrass’ charging [Riders] saw the gaps in the city. They charged through, screaming, upon the unprepared army of the King of Destruction. And saw—too late—the angled ramps poised in the gaps to break their charge. Stone itself had reshaped to create the barriers, wide enough to allow infantry to fight, but perfect to halt any number of horses.
The [Riders] tried to stop, but they crashed into the barricades as the infantry swarmed them. And the walls—Teres turned.
“Arrows! Take cover!”
Someone screamed, but the arrows that rained down on the walls from the elite [Archers] all missed. The young woman lowered her shield. And she saw—along the walls, now with rebuilt defenses that provided total cover from above and the sides for archers, more like tunnels with crenellations than battlements—another addition.
Statues. They were huge, imposing, rising along the walls, practically drawing the eye. They drew more than that. Arrows curved through the air to smack the statues in the face rather than the defenders. Magical interception. Flos’ [Archers] rained down on the other army.
The King of Destruction blinked at the statues taunting their foes. He leaned over the battlements for a view.
“Is that—are they all wearing Orthenon’s face?”
Teres stared, and her jaw dropped. They were, indeed, larger-than-life versions of Orthenon, scowl perfectly captured. The [Stewards] stood amid the rain of spells and arrows, bits of the magical stone being blasted away. And the skill had done more than that.
“General Lael! The city’s changed! We’re receiving fire from—”
One of the Jecrassian [Soldiers] shouted at the [General] commanding the siege. She stared up at some impossibly high towers.
“What in the name of unicorns is that?”
Flos turned. A number of insanely high watchtowers had been constructed. As tall as skyscrapers. And the [Archers] on top—after getting over their acrophobia—were raining down arrows on the enemy with unparalleled range.
“Those are Drevish’s experimental Skytowers! He swore they’d be the best thing for [Marksmen]! Orthenon and I told him they’d be knocked over in an instant!”
The King of Destruction and Teres looked around. The city was transformed. Gone were the wide streets; they were now narrow, with choke points. The gates had been reinforced and given a second layer of portcullises just to stymie attackers.
And all with the stone available. As if the [Architect] had simply moved stone and masonry around, enchanted a few objects. Flos looked about his city. Teres stared at the Skytowers, jutting out from the sides of the city, inordinately high and casting shadows, the tight houses, the weird horse-traps. She was the one who said it.
“This place is a nightmare of a city to live in!”
Flos Reimarch began to laugh.
“It is! But it’s the perfect thing to beat an army, isn’t it? Especially this army?”
Indeed, the [Mages] were sending tremors into the ground and finding the city’s foundations were beyond solid. The two gaps in the wall were turning into kill zones. And—the King of Destruction looked about. His laughter ceased. And he looked at Teres.
“Drevish. One of my Seven. Immortalized in my Skill. It is beyond fitting. The other two—I would like to see them again, Teres.”
He quieted. And as the horns began to blow a retreat, the King of Destruction stood on his battlements. Remembering a man Teres had never met. And as she looked at the crazy architecture, all the experimental designs, like the slanted bowl the enemy army would have to run down and up to get to the inner city, the statues of Orthenon—and the ones with the stupid faces the [Steward] would have never made—she wished she’d met him too.
The war continued. King Raelt’s armies fell back, as Sadomere, rechristened Drevish’s Madness, became a linchpin of the King of Destruction’s defensive line. But the King of Challenges refused to retreat. And his nation refused to surrender to the King of Destruction. Either way it seemed like Flos Reimarch won.
 
——
 
The largest port-city of Pheislant was known as Phel’s Light. After a [King] who had created…
A lighthouse. Or rather, a citadel whose tallest, central structure was a lighthouse. The magical beam illuminated the sea. Guiding ships to shore and helping them navigate the dark cliffs and treacherous shoals at night.
Phel’s Light was, like Zeres, Lailight Scintillation, First Landing, and the other port capitals of the world, a very important place. For it was where goods flowed through. And having good relations with Pheislant was thus important.
Terandria had a few big ports. Among them—the Lord of the Dance’s city. Lord Belchaus was famous for keeping his waters free of marauders. Even in wartime.
But his port wasn’t the best for, ah…illicit cargos. Or [Slaves]. Or a lot of things. If you were at odds with Lord Bel, or his nation, it was wise to steer clear of his waters.
And Pheislant’s harbors were frankly better. On the southwestern edge of Terandria, they permitted easier access to Baleros, Chandrar, and Izril. Lord Bel’s harbors were further to the east. Why stop there if you could go to Phel’s Light?
All that meant simply that…Phel’s Light had all kinds of business for anyone who was anyone in Terandria. And as evening fell across Pheislant, a particular group was awaiting a very special ship.
Knight-Commander Calirn of the Order of Seasons stood on the docks. Keeping a vigil. He had personally come from the Order of Seasons’ headquarters—which was not very far as they were headquartered in Pheislant, technically on their own lands, but allied with the Terandrian kingdom—to attend this somber gathering.
He was not alone. Some members of the Order of Spring were there, and a few keepers from the Order of Fall, to record the moment. No other Knights of Winter; but theirs was a small and solitary season. They would pass the vigil alone, mourn alone.
The most populous group was the Order of Summer. The Knights of Summer stood on the deck, nearly forty of them. They had all requested it. They were waiting.
Not just the Order of Seasons either. Six other Knighthood Orders were waiting on the docks. The Order of Ram, the Thronebearers—from Kaliv and Calanfer respectively—had greeted Calirn when he arrived on the docks. They were small orders. Not nearly as vast as the Order of Seasons, which was one of the largest in Terandria, part of Pheislant’s might.
The other orders were smaller too—but for one. The Order of the Thirsting Veil. They stood opposite the Order of Seasons, and Calirn had not greeted them. Not out of any personal enmity but because they were Ailendamus’ [Knights]. And relations were—strained between the vast kingdom of Ailendamus who was threatening war and Pheislant, one of their enemies.
Normally, Calirn would have warned the hotheads of his order—the [Summer Knights] and young, impetuous [Spring Knights] not to start a conflict. But there was no fear of that today.
The [Knights] waited in silence. They were all here waiting for the same ship. A special ship that only [Knights] used, really.
A funeral barge. It was shared among [Knights]. And it collected their remains at every port. Sometimes bodies; usually ashes. Calirn awaited ashes. They were easy to transport, and a Courier could be hired to take them. As in this case.
If circumstances required it, [Knights] were buried where they fell. Their armor and belongings might be recycled in times of war, gifted to those in need. But generally, Knight-Orders attempted to bring back their remains for honorable burial and for their loved ones. People needed the closure. Sometimes, it was an honor, or just the practice of the order—like how the Thronebearers insisted on it.
In this case, it was both. The man who had died had perished in a quest to avenge his love. And he had asked—she had asked Calirn—that they be buried together. Even though the man had failed, Calirn would honor their request.
In ash, he sailed across the waters. A fallen [Knight]. An extinguished flame. Ser Raim of the Season of Summer had tried to burn away the Spider of Terandria, the [Witch]. Belavierr.
He had failed.
There was nothing more to it. He had come so close, but his mortal body had betrayed him before his radiant soul. Calirn bowed his head.
Raim was the highest-leveled [Knight] who had died here, by far. He could sense the other Orders looking at him, wondering who had died. Some probably knew. Raim had been powerful. A [Knight] of his level could change the course of battles. Defeat the greatest of monsters.
Once upon a time, Ser Raim’s death would have attracted far more notice. He had been—over two decades ago, now—a rising star in the Order of Seasons. Almost every fully-fledged [Knight] was over Level 20; it was a rare [Squire] or [Page] or individual who achieved the class before that. It was why it was regarded as an advanced class, above [Warriors] or [Soldiers] or the like.
Yet, by the same token, not every [Knight] would pass Level 30. Few passed Level 40; Ser Raim had been one such man two decades ago. Of course, Calirn and the other Order of Seasons’ heads were equally high-level or more so…but Raim had been a force to watch back then. He had been eyed for candidacy into the Thousand Lances of Kaaz, the most prestigious knight-order in the world. He had been famed within his order and abroad.
Until the Stitch Witch had stolen the life of his beloved. Until Raim had sworn vengeance and devoted decades to hunting her to no avail. Until he had become a weary ember of the great man he was, another lost soul dedicated to hunting down a lost legend.
Raim had been a sad tale that had weighed on Calirn’s heart and those of his Season every time he returned to their order, infrequent as it was. A tale that Calirn had feared would end in the depths of despair at worst, or a broken man at best.
Then…Raim had encountered strange events in the Kingdom of Shade, Noelictus. He had encountered something—what, Calirn had never gotten out of him—during the fall and winter of last year. It had transformed him so completely that, when Calirn had met him again, he had nearly mistaken the [Knight] who rode to slay the Witch of Webs.
