It was so hot. A burning, all-consuming heat. Teresa Atwood gulped water, but it did little to quench her thirst. She felt as if she couldn’t cool down.
Her blood was racing, and her heart wouldn’t calm down. The young woman kept drinking.
And then she threw up. The water she’d gulped down so fast came up as her stomach, unprepared, decided it didn’t need the hydration. Teresa gasped and spat, and leaned over the side of her horse to do so. But she didn’t stop moving.
“Lady Teres! Are you alright?”
An alarmed voice called out. Teresa turned her head and vaguely saw someone riding towards her. A man with only one half. Death Commander Ytol of the Rustängmarder came towards Teres, balancing despite his lack of limbs.
“I’m—fine.”
Teresa realized she was slowing. [Riders] rode past her as Ytol inspected Teres.
“Too much water, too quickly. Are you fit to ride?”
“I think so.”
Teres wanted to splash some water on her face, despite the waste. She needed to—just a bit. She cupped a palmful of water into one hand and splashed it onto her face. She was licking at her lips when she tasted the blood.
Ytol looked gravely at Teres as she recoiled. Then—she saw the water running down her face. It was red and dark. With blood and grime. Teres brushed at her face.
The young woman stared at her hand. It was red. A bit of flesh had come away. Not hers. Her stomach—moved. But only because she’d drunk more water. The sight of someone else’s blood was just numbing.
“Lady Atwood. We must keep moving. If you are unwell, please fall back.”
The Death Commander spoke, not unkindly. Just briskly. Teres looked at him. The leader of the company of the Rustängmarder paid no attention to the blood. And she—just stared at it.
She knew it was wrong. But Teres didn’t cry or weep or wonder whose blood it was. She had the first time she’d killed someone with a sword. After the battle at Reim—Trey used magic, but Teres had been taught the sword. She’d felt the times she killed someone. And they had haunted her.
They still did. But she didn’t dream any longer. She just rose, rode her horse, and fought. And this last battle had been the sixth major engagement she had ever taken part in.
The Realm of Jecrass. Teresa Atwood turned her head and saw parts of it burning. Across Belchan’s border, the King of Destruction’s armies had set the grasslands ablaze. But the River Wardens were fighting the fires. While Flos Reimarch’s forces had marched on Jecrass, they had been halted at the border.
Rather—both sides had withdrawn after tearing each other to pieces. Jecrass had gotten the worst of it, but they had more soldiers to throw into the conflict.
And they had refused to give ground. Even in the face of Mars and Flos Reimarch—they’d held to the point of slaughter.
For one man. King Raelt Leysars, the [King of Challenges]. Also known as the ‘King of Duels’, as he’d been dubbed. Now, Jecrass fought for their [King] against Reim. And the incredible part was—they were holding the King of Destruction at bay.
“What’s wrong with Teres?”
Another voice. Teres saw someone galloping back towards her. Mars, the King’s Champion, the famous [Vanguard], didn’t look tired. But she’d fought without rest during the battle. She must have killed hundreds. Perhaps over a thousand soldiers by herself. Her armor was red.
And despite it all, they were retreating. Pulling back. Teres wobbled as Ytol turned towards her.
“Lady Teres is feeling the fatigue of battle.”
“I got it. Teres, come on. Ride on my horse.”
“I can ride.”
Teres protested. She clutched the mare’s reins. She liked her horse. She’d named her Frecklehooves, because of the white-yellow hair around her legs. Flos had been offended at the name.
“Then ride with me.”
Again, Mars wasn’t unkind. Just—insistent. Teres nodded and dug her heels in. Her horse followed Mars, mostly without Teres’ help.
“His Majesty insists we get back to Sadomere by nightfall. Sadovere? Sadere? I don’t know.”
Mars was speaking to Ytol. The Death Commander nodded.
“Sadomere, Lady Mars. Is the city fortified for our defense?”
“It had damn well better be.”
That was all the [Vanguard] said. Her voice was terse. Teres found herself looking at Mars.
“What’s wrong?”
“We gave Jecrass a beating. I think it was that General—Lael? We beat her in the field. Shame I couldn’t get her. Those damn [Trick Riders]—”
 
Spurring their horses across the field, leaping over enemy [Soldiers]. Cut down, a few—but weaving, throwing ropes. Trying to drag Mars the Illusionist off her feet. She was strong—she yanked back and pulled one rider and their horse into the dust. But the rest were throwing nets, ropes, even creating illusions.
Stalling her advance, until Ytol ordered Mars to attack the enemy infantry rather than wasting time with the cavalry. Teres saw the King of Destruction ordering another charge. She plunged into the chaos, following him as the Rustängmarder warded the King of Destruction.
Teresa Atwood saw a face as she rode through an unguarded flank. She swung her sword down and felt another woman die—
 
“—might be in trouble. Depends on how well Sadomere is fortified. Flos hasn’t ordered for reinforcements, but even defending…”
Mars was speaking quietly to Ytol. Teres looked up. Ytol was nodding, glancing at the marching Rustängmarder. They were moving fast; their numbers hadn’t been largely depleted. The army as a whole…had. They had left over ten thousand dead behind. The enemy—four times that number.
“A bloody damn battle. Those Jecrass soldiers won’t retreat even when I charge them. They must love their [King]. Damn, damn. I hate when His Majesty’s right. ‘An honorable man’. Pah.”
Mars spat. Teres looked at her.
“Why are we retreating? We…won, right?”
She didn’t remember. She didn’t have a view of the battlefield. Teres had just charged and fought until she heard the calls to retreat or someone told her to rest. Mars looked at her.
“Sort of, Teres. We tore the enemy apart. We might have stayed, run them down, and taken prisoners. But His Majesty got word from Orthenon and Gazi there’s a second army moving to reinforce. Sixty thousand strong. Fresh.”
“They’re…not going to stop them?”
The forces of Reim were split. Orthenon and Gazi were circling, striking Jecrass with fast-moving cavalry and Shepard Zamea and her half-Giants, who could keep pace. At the same time, Flos commanded the largest of his armies, with Mars and the Rustängmarder protecting him, and Parasol Stroll.
They kept clashing with Jecrass, and Jecrass was usually the army that fell back or took the worst of the battle. Every time, actually. The King of Destruction’s army was just filled with too many elites, and he and Mars and his best vassals were higher-level than their opponents.
But they could not advance. Jecrass—and half of Belchan as well—were stalemated. For every battle Reim won, they lost a dozen smaller battles. Because King Raelt of Jecrass had managed to duel the King of Destruction even in war.
Raiding parties. Fast-moving Jecrass riders who attacked held settlements, overran garrisons, or threatened supply lines. Jecrass was famed for the speed of its riders, and it had proven that here. Flos’ armies couldn’t advance too far, or they’d be cut off, surrounded, destroyed.
By the same token, however, Jecrass couldn’t defeat the King of Destruction or his vassals in a pitched battle. Reim’s armies were nearly as numerous as Jecrass’ by now, and every engagement they won left far more dead on Jecrass’ side than Reim’s.
But Jecrass had reinforcements. Mars was cursing.
“Those were Silver-rank adventurers supporting from the sides. And Orthenon reported hacking up a team of Gold-ranks. So Medain’s supporting Jecrass. And Stitch-Soldiers from Nerrhavia…”
The other nations were backing Jecrass. Not officially; few had declared open war, like A’ctelios Salash. But they were sending gold, soldiers, and even artifacts to Raelt to help him push back Reim, weaken the nation.
So far—it was about even. Teres knew the dead numbers hurt Reim in the long term, but she and the [Soldiers] were also leveling. In time—the battle might wear Reim down too far. But survival mattered most.
“We have an army of sixty thousand joining the ones we just smashed. Some of those sands-cursed half-Elf elites from the Claiven Earth too. Insanely good [Archers]. They could tear us apart, and if the [Trick Riders] shield them—I can’t kill them. I hope this city’s good enough to help us repel a siege. Because if Raelt pulls all his forces—he could overwhelm us.”
Mars was looking ahead. Teres saw a distant city lying flat against the horizon on Jecrass’ border. Not one of the hill-cities with natural walls or heights to help fortify it. Even she knew that was a bad sign.
“His Majesty assured me reinforcements were not needed. We stand at Sadomere, Lady Mars.”
“Then we trust him.”
That was all Mars said. She rode ahead, and Teres saw they were catching up. A [King] rode close to the head of his vanguard. Flos of Reimarch was sitting thoughtfully.
He too had dried blood on his armor. His beard. Yet, he was calm. War was second-nature to him.
“Teres. Are you well?”
Flos of Reim turned his head and looked at her. Teres nodded.
“Worn out. Your Majesty. Sadomere doesn’t look defensible. And our army is worn out. They may level, but we’ll be outnumbered by those fresh reinforcements. And they have half-Elf archers. At least a thousand of them.”
Mars emphasized the words. Flos grimaced.
“Marksmen. Teres, you’ll keep back if we have to sortie. They can shoot through a gap in a visor. Any of them over a hundred years old who train for it, anyways. Half-Elves who practice war are nightmares on the field.”
“And we can hold Sadomere?”
“Perhaps. I believe so. I have a plan, Mars. Trust me.”
The Illusionist smiled. She tossed her head, and her perfect face and body—splashed by red—was radiant in the setting sun. A heroine out of a tale.
“Yes, sire. Although—Orthenon wouldn’t.”
“Well, he’s not here. Let’s get the army inside the walls. Teres, come. You’ll rest. I have no doubt the city will be besieged within the next…four hours?”
“Probably.”
Teres wearily slumped on her saddle. The two veterans spoke, talking of numbers and strategy. She looked up only once.
“Is this all to make Chandrar better? I thought Raelt was an honorable man.”
She saw the King of Destruction turn his head. He looked at her.
“King Raelt is an honorable man. A brave one, too. He clashed with Orthenon personally in battle this morning. And I bear him no ill will personally. As a [King]? Yes. But he is a good man.”
The [King] paused.
“But he sheltered that Prime Minister. He is backed by my enemies. This is Chandrar, Teresa Atwood. We shed blood like water over squabbles. Like the Drakes. Like Baleros. Like any nation. If you want peace, Chandrar must be united. And to do that, I have killed many good men.”
His eyes flashed in the twilight. Teres looked at him. Another man’s morality. A [King]’s logic. At the moment—Teres didn’t want to hear it.
“Where’s Trey?”
That was all she asked. Nawalishifra had gone south, towards Reim. She was no fighter. But Gazi had arrived on the battlefield a few days ago, after returning from her mission from A’ctelios. The half-Gazer’s eye was still closed, but Flos had been happy nonetheless.
It was Trey whom Teres longed to see, though. Her other half. Even apart, they were brother and sister. Twins. She wanted to see him.
But he had never arrived. Flos Reimarch’s brow darkened. He looked at Teresa and shook his head.
“I’m afraid Trey will not be meeting us at Sadomere, Teres. I had thought he was simply delayed, moving slower than Gazi. Or the Quarass had need of him. But it seems…I have sent Venith after him. I have need of him. Gazi may soon need to quit the battlefield as well. Just as well; her eye is closed, and it is her plan.”
“What? What?”
The young woman looked uncomprehendingly at Flos. So did Mars. As Sadomere’s gates opened and the King of Destruction’s army entered the city they had taken three days ago, Teres looked at the simple, short walls. The standard battlements. And she wondered if they could hold this place.
The [Warrior] in her asked that. But the sister looked at Flos.
“Where’s my brother? What’s wrong?”
The King of Destruction sighed.
“I’m afraid he’s decided to disobey my orders. He left Reim, but didn’t go north. He left.”
“For where?”
Mars looked at the King of Destruction. And she chorused with Flos.
“Khelt.”
 
——
 
Earlier that day.
Trey Atwood rode across the barren border around Khelt. Dead lands. This, of all of Khelt’s wonders, was undeveloped. Lack of tending and water had turned the ground fallow. Barren. Devoid of life.
But the undead lived beneath the soil. Armies and armies of Khelt’s people, ready to fight and be destroyed again and again.
They could and had overrun powerful nations before. Trey had read books in Flos’ library—Khelt was not long-lived compared to some kingdoms, like the Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar. But it was still ancient.
And it had killed vast armies seeking to plunder it. An army of half a million had marched on Khelt, filled with powerful magicians, Djinn, and great warriors.
They had been overwhelmed by the seas of undead that had risen. The ‘brave’ invaders had slaughtered a thousand undead minions for every one of their soldiers who fell at first. But what was that to an army that was uncountable?
That was the power of Khelt. And while their armies were far weaker away from the capital where they had died—Khelt was unsurpassable wherever its ruler reigned.
But Trey did not fear the undead beneath the hooves of his horse as he rode. Nor did he listen to the escort he’d left at the border. They shouted after him. One of them—a [Captain]—even rode after Trey, bellowing.
“Lord Atwood! His Majesty did not send Lord Crusland word that you should stop in Khelt! We have orders to bring you north at all speed!”
He had a movement Skill. Which was how Trey had reached Khelt so quickly. But the man hadn’t been prepared for Trey to ride across the border. And even now—he turned his horse, eying the ground.
It was moving. Undead warriors were rising around him, lashing out. The [Captain] rode back.
“Lord Atwood! King Reimarch expects you in Sadomere this evening—or tomorrow at the latest!”
Trey ignored him. He had no desire to ride for…twelve hours straight, drinking stamina potions even with a speed Skill. Or to listen to Flos. He called back to the [Captain], who was racing back to the border.
