But a few of them were actual musicians. The [Drummer], for instance, needed no help. He’d been an actual member of a band back home. The [Guitarist]…? Not so much.
The [Singer] was real, though. Before her band, she’d sung alone, with only karaoke music on an iPhone enhanced by a spell for backup. She had become the Queen of Pop, the beloved icon sweeping across Terandria, creating a wave of music and a new culture among young folk.
As the door closed, the Singer smiled at the awestruck young [Ladies], her fans. Then the door shut. The [Manager] locked it. And the [Guitarist]—winced as the [Popstar]’s smile vanished.
“Stop listenin’ to the plámásing cunts thats yer wan I wouldn’t let in here, you stupid fook.”
Cara O’Sullivan strode over and poked the [Guitarist]—Greg—in the chest. Hard. And her natural accent—Irish—came out. The rest of the band…looked at each other, trying to figure out what she’d said.
“Uh—what?”
Greg blinked at the young woman. She was dressed like a star. Literally. Her dress glittered. Sequins had been heavily involved, and her makeup hid natural blemishes, giving her that appearance that was usually only attainable with illusion spells or image-editing software.
Cara calmed down. She looked around and her accent disappeared. She switched over to the voice everyone normally heard.
A blend of American and British, heavier on the British side—very crisp, and quick. It was a disconcerting change. She smiled at Greg.
“I said—stop listening to those flattering cunts, you stupid fucking idiot. They don’t come in here. No one does!”
She snapped, and the young man backed up.
“It was just for a second, Cara—”
“Shut it. You’re a damn idiot, Greg.”
“Yeah, shut the hell up, Greg.”
The [Drummer], whose name was Thien, leaned over and scowled. He was Vietnamese. The others called out insults as well.
“Get laid somewhere else. And if you mess with those [Ladies] and one of them gets pregnant, her parents will have you killed.”
The [Manager] snapped. She was Nigerian. Almost every person in the wagon was from a different country; well, there were two people from Argentina. Cara nodded.
“You know your job. You strum on that guitar, and you don’t cause trouble. We can replace you. If you try to show off in a guitar solo again or crowd-surf when the guitar is still playing on the audio track, I will neuter you.”
She poked Greg in the chest. The young man backed up.
“Hey! I’m just trying to enjoy myself!”
Cara made a disgusted noise. She stalked over to the sofa and sat down. She grabbed a glass of water and began to hydrate.
“This isn’t about enjoying yourself. This is a job. We’re not rockstars. And this isn’t Earth. Greg, you’re new, so you don’t get it. I’m not a [Popstar].”
“That’s your class, though.”
The young man paused uncertainly. Cara rolled her eyes. She jabbed a finger at her chest, taking care not to mess the dress.
“Where’s the lyrics? Anyone?”
“Here. These are our songs—”
The [Singer] began to read as she spoke back, irritably.
“I’m not a [Popstar]. I’m a damn [Thespian]. This is an act. I have two classes. And as far as I’m concerned, I’m acting. I sing my songs—which are not mine—and we make money. But I don’t like those idiots out there.”
She nodded to outside the carriage. Cara paused, raised one finger.
“And by those idiots, I mean that [Prince], our noble ‘fans’, and the monarchy. From Pheislant to Ailendamus—it’s all [Kings] and [Queens]. We’re in a feudal system, and the rich stay on top.”
“Like home, you mean.”
One of the others joked. Cara sighed.
“I hate the social order that keeps people oppressed. I hate the nobility, the monarchy, and the poncing superior bastards like the [Lords] who step on smaller folk, even the nice ones. I hate their thugs, [Knights] in armor, feudalism and hierarchy and all of this shit.”
She looked around. And that was the [Singer] of Terandria. She had—opinions. Her band, all from Earth, had heard her rant on the monarchies of Terandria a hundred times.
Yet, despite her rant, Cara stopped. She stood there for a second, face twisted in indecision, and then kicked savagely at Greg’s knee.
“—Even if not all of them are bastards, the system is the problem. The system. There are good eggs in any place, but they’re rare on purpose. The system of classes and hierarchies makes them miserable at best. Brave [Knights] riding against monsters alone. [Lords] who do their job penniless while the corrupt ones stomp on people’s fingers. Weeping damn [Queens] and stupid, stupid bravery when we could just give up on all this and live happier.”
This, too, was familiar. Greg, newest to the band, glanced from face to face, uncomprehending, but a few of the oldest members nodded hesitantly. Cara stared out the window for a second, lost in some kind of memory.
Greg sat in a corner and tried practicing on his guitar. After a moment, Cara stopped ranting and shoved her hands in her pockets.
“Abebi, what’s this I’m hearing about a…ship? Some kind of funeral? I swore I saw some Thronebearers of Calanfer.”
Thien raised his brows.
“Who’re those? Damn, I forget how long you’ve been here compared to us, Cara. I barely know which nation we’re in.”
She snorted at him.
“Just be glad you didn’t have to get the ball rolling, Thien. I was dancing on a literal stage months to save up for this caravan. Thronebearers of Calanfer? Gold [Knights]. I thought I saw some of the Thirsting Veil, too. Those are the black-armored [Knights]. All female.”
“Hot damn. Do you think they like our music?”
Greg sat up fast, and Cara almost glowered at him until she changed it to a sweet, sweet smile.
“Oh, go ahead and chat them up, Greg. Ailendamus likes my music.”
“In that case, I will. Hot armored ladies, you said?”
“All female. And they use poison. And they like snakes.”
“Oh…uh…”
Cara ignored Greg and turned back to Abebi.
“I’m not sure about the other [Knights]. I’ve never seen so many different orders gathered together. Why?”
The [Manager] grimaced.
“Sorry, Cara. Apparently, some of the dead [Knights] are coming back by ship today. Right as we’re performing.”
“Fuck. Do we have to stop or something? Delay the concert?”
One of the others exclaimed. Abebi shook her head.
“No. But the [Knights] aren’t happy. [Prince]…whoever is in charge, though, so it’s fine.”
The Singer’s grimace was full on. She scratched at her hair.
“Damn. Another fucking complication. Let’s just move the venue so we don’t offend—dead [Knights], you said?”
She turned back to Abebi suddenly, and when the [Manager] nodded, Cara again wore that distant expression. She went pacing around the room, and then threw up her hands.
“—Damn it. If it’s [Knights], then…I’ll deal with it. Just follow my lead. No—Thien—listen up, change of plan. We could just ignore them, but I bet they have their metal underwear in a twist. They always do. What if we did this…?”
Cara thought out loud, and Thien and some of the older band members, including their electronics expert, Nicolas, hurried over to confer. Because this band really was something of a front. They had been recruited, given roles. But the phenomenon that was the Singer of Terandria had started and stopped with Cara.
She had been the one to find them. The one whose songs they’d heard, and the one who’d gathered them from across Terandria. They weren’t even the only Earthers. There were others, just not travelling with the band.
“…Okay. Okay, that’s the plan. If it doesn’t work, it doesn’t work. But let’s go with that.”
“Are you sure? We haven’t practiced playing on the move, Cara—”
The [Bassist] was worried as she checked her guitar. It was one from this world—enchanted to play louder and closer to an electric bass. She was also capable of playing it with most songs. Cara just nodded.
“Follow my lead. If you make mistakes, I’ll cover for you. Except if some idiot tries a shithead stunt!”
She shouted, and Greg ducked his head, turning red. Some of the others winced in sympathy for him; Cara was not kind when she was upset.
“I just don’t get it, Cara. I know we’re performing, but why try so hard? We could do an hour’s playing and walk off. You said it yourself; we are just making money. And looking around.”
The Irish [Singer] glared at Abebi. But she moderated her tone.
“Abebi. I mean every word I said. But did you see how many people came here? Forget that [Prince]; there’s a city full of kids and people who came to see us. Who pay for tickets even if they don’t have much. So when we bring it—when I go out there—I give it my all.”
The others looked at Cara. And they could see she was gearing up. The [Actor], the [Singer]—was wearing a look of utmost concentration as she read over the lyrics.
She was an interesting person, Cara. She’d found them. She was the highest-leveled among them. And she did have the [Popstar] class, along with her second class—[Thespian]. The combined Skills and her ability to sing and channel their world’s culture of stardom had given her this fame and comparative fortune. Everyone else rode on her coattails—if she’d worn them.
“Alright, where’s my plagiarism log?”
Someone tossed it at her. Cara marked down which songs they were going to use. She kept a record of it.
“Why do you have that, Cara?”
The [Bassist], Rae, from France, asked. Cara glanced up.
“It keeps me honest. Plus, if we ever get back to Earth—I can give something back. These aren’t my songs, Rae. We’re playing our world’s best hits. That’s why the ‘Singer of Terandria’ is the most famous person right now.”
It was true. Cara had sung everything from modern pop hits that had come right out right when she’d been transported to this world to classics, like Sinatra’s song, My Way. And she could sing.
“I’m a bit nervous, Cara. I’ve only done this—four times.”
Rae confessed. She wasn’t used to the crowds, and she was terrified of messing up. Her hands were shaking as she adjusted the guitar. Cara’s face softened. She reached out.
“Don’t worry, Rae. People have fucked it up before. I can cover for you all. If you’re not sure, just look confident.”
“But—I feel like a fake.”
The young woman confessed. Cara smiled crookedly. She took another gulp of water.
“That’s fine, Rae. We are faking. Just pretend. My class—all of this is fake. You think I looked like this when I came here? Nah. I was chubby. I lost weight when I gained Skills. Even my face changed.”
She gestured to her statuesque appearance. Rae’s jaw dropped.
“Really?”
“Absolutely. You just stick with me. And we’ll be fine.”
The [Singer] smiled, and Rae, relieved, nodded. She stepped back. As Cara stood up, her band looked at her. Thien, Nicolas, Rae—even Greg. The [Singer] turned her head; even through the soundproofed magic, she could hear a dull roar.
“Ladies and gentlemen. Our audience is waiting. Let’s not disappoint them.”
They drew inspiration from her. And as Cara threw open the door, she smiled. It looked genuine. Maybe it was. She raised her hand and became the Singer of Terandria.
 
——
 
“People of Pheislant! I am delighted you came out for me!”
The woman’s voice was audible across the city. People who didn’t know what was happening looked up as the screaming redoubled. Some of them grimaced. But the Queen of Pop didn’t waste time.
“I’m honored. And I hope you’ll listen to my little songs. My shining stars of Terandria.”
That was what she called them. The Singer walked across her stage, waving as her band took their places. The [Illusionists] began to cast their spells. [Darkness], literally dimming the sun shining down from above. Amplifying the other instruments—although the [Singer] had a Skill of her own. Even a reverb in her voice.
“Let’s get this started with a classic.”
The [Popstar] turned and pointed to Nicolas. He hit a button—and an electric piano began to play. The crowd cheered—then went silent. Rae began strumming the chords on her guitar.
And a familiar song began to play. The Singer began to sing into the magical microphone she used. At the right moment, Greg broke in with his guitar.
The music flooded Phel’s Light. Loud enough that even the [Knights] on the deck heard it, although too faint for exact words. But the people not in the plaza looked up. And the music spoke to them.
A song from Earth. One of pop’s greatest hits. Timeless, even if parts changed. A song about a boy and a girl on a train at midnight.
Cara’s voice rose, and the audience swayed back and forth, shouting as Greg took the center of the stage for his guitar. But the [Popstar] shone—especially as the [Illusionists] conjured magical beams of light to follow her.
From her position watching, Abebi saw Rae playing nervously. Greg had no nerves, but he was restraining himself from showing off. That was, sadly, what made him so good in the band, despite his inability to actually play.
The rest of the band was doing good. And Cara was as good as her word. She attracted the eye as she sang.
Of course, the famed song by Journey was a hit. The audience had probably heard it on the magical crystals already. But that was the thing—the hit of the year and possibly the decade or century was the song the Singer of Terandria opened with. And with just a short break, the next song began completely differently.
A pair of backup [Singers], native Terandrians, grabbed the microphone. They joined Cara and two members of her band. And she disappeared behind a screen. Came out strutting. With a hat and casual suit. She grinned as Thien began to lay down a fast beat.
This time, the [Popstar]’s dancing was all poise and swagger. But she wasn’t channeling the classic ‘King of Pop’ from her world.
“Bruno Mars…check.”
Abebi made a note on her clipboard. They’d already done a lot of classics, so they kept on adding new songs in. Different performances so the crowd always had something new, even if they were repeat viewers, like the [Prince].
Cara insisted. She cared about her audience, for all she claimed to hate the act. You could never tell, seeing her on stage, channeling all the showmanship into her dancing and singing with her crew.
The audience was going nuts. The [Illusionists] had to cast a blanket [Silence] spell just to give the music the volume it needed. Uptown Funk was new—they’d be selling the magical crystals after the show.
“Miss Abebi—that thing you wanted to watch out for. The ship’s coming in!”
One of the stagehands whispered to Abebi as the Singer of Terandria launched into another song she’d taken from home. Abebi cursed.
