“I am sorry, once again. If there is any consolation—the Quarass gave you a Skill most [Blood Mages] or [Artificers] would beg for. The power of lifesand is not inconsequential. Will you…show me one of your designs?”
It was a kindly offer, but Trey just shuddered.
“No, Your Majesty. I can’t. Not anymore. They—they want my blood.”
His creations. Fetohep lowered his head.
“The Quarass is young. And old. I shall send an expression of my displeasure to Germina. Now.”
One of his eyes glinted, and his servants shuddered. From across Khelt’s northern border…two thousand undead soldiers rose and began to march.
Trey had no notion of it. He was remembering the last. And he shuddered worst of all.
“I thought it was a dream. But I’m sure the eye moved. Your Majesty. Did you—do you think A’ctelios could be wa—”
The word caught in his tongue. He tried it again.
“Is it still al—”
Another pause. The [King] made a slashing motion with one hand, stopping Trey’s words.
“Trey Atwood. Some things we do not speak of. Lest they be heard by ears to which space has no barrier.”
Trey looked at Fetohep. And he beheld fear. And that terrified Trey. Just for a moment, Fetohep rose. He looked towards the open windows that let visitors gaze upon his city.
“If what you refer to is so, and I believe the Quarass is also investigating…measures would be taken. I will contact her. After my first complaint is received. The Shield Kingdoms will investigate. Quickly. Decisively, even if A’ctelios is hostile.”
“What could you do?”
Fetohep looked at Trey. And his fingers drummed quickly—then stopped.
“Put it back to sleep. If the…vision moves—there are ways. It has happened thrice.”
Trey’s heart began to beat faster. The masseur looked very afraid as she concentrated on her task. The teacup wobbled as someone offered it to Trey. He drank as much to pretend the world was normal as to quench his thirst.
“You mean it—”
He hesitated. Fetohep was raising a cautionary hand. Trey gulped and chose his words.
“Something happened thrice? More than—vision?”
Slowly, the [King] looked around. And he nodded once.
“A matter of trust, Trey Atwood. This is not to be repeated. Attendants—you will not listen.”
They all covered their ears. Trey saw Fetohep lean over. The [King] whispered.
“Thrice before. Vision is the start. Once—the first time—the solution was not found. Next came tremors all Chandrar felt. Movement. But it was stopped. It must be stopped. I promise you. It will be done.”
Trey stared at Fetohep. The [King] sat back and slashed with his hands.
“Attendants. Serve. Trey Atwood, enough. Khelt will aid Germina in investigating with all haste. But we speak no more of…unpleasant matters. Is that clear?”
The young man nodded. Fetohep relaxed. The attendants, shaken, looked at their [King]. And as he sought for conversation, his eyes brightened.
“Do not worry, Trey Atwood. You have been mistreated, but that has ceased since you are now in my domain. I know you have been occupied. But tell me…have you heard aught of the world’s news since you have returned?”
Trey looked up. His terror over what was being hinted at—began to fade. Fetohep’s gaze was forcing the very conclusion out of his head. As, perhaps, the [King] willed it. Trey would remember later. But for now, he and the people of Khelt relaxed. For Fetohep was almighty in his domain. His very presence was safety. Comfort.
Only the [King] bore fear and worry for the future. That his subjects and friends would not have to.
Trey was feeling a bit better—and how not, when the massage was undoing tension he didn’t even know he had? The Skill was literally soothing him—as Fetohep surely knew—and he could distract himself enough to respond.
“No, Your Majesty. I came back and I was—withdrawn. Has something happened? I know about the war in Jecrass—His Majesty, Flos, ordered me to go north. But…”
Fetohep waved an impatient hand.
“Not that. I…or rather, my treasures were recently uncovered. The Diamond Swords of Serept were found by a group of students. Adventurers. There was…a battle at sea. Among the major sea powers. You—you didn’t hear of it? I had…some role in the events.”
He looked keenly at Trey. And the [King] grew keenly disappointed when Trey shook his head.
“No, Your Majesty. How were you involved? Were you at sea?”
“As an apparition. The Diamond Swords forged by Serept were cursed by an enchantment. Among other things, it allows the ruler of Khelt to manifest themselves—it is of no consequence. It was—a minor affair. Yes.”
The [King] paused. Eying Trey. And the young man resolved to find out what a ‘minor affair’ for Fetohep looked like. After a moment, Trey thought to inquire.
“What of the Diamond Swords? Forgive me, Your Majesty. I don’t know anything about them. Would you be so gracious as to enlighten me? If it’s not too much of a burden, that is?”
Fetohep’s magical flames in his eye sockets brightened.
“I suppose I could enlighten you. Attendants! Fetch the magical recording of the events. You see, the six swords are treasures forged by Serept of Khelt, Trey Atwood. Each one possesses an unparalleled magical enchantment. And I granted half to the treasure seekers…ah, but the pictures should illuminate the events…”
For the next…two hours, Trey found himself watching an aerial blow-by-blow of the events surrounding Wil and the others at sea, with Fetohep’s associated commentary.
“I would have given the Pact of Termius to the Gnoll, and perhaps The Unfilled Cup of Cexila to the Minotaur had I had the choice. That would be the…blue blade and red blades respectively.”
“Why, Your Majesty?”
Trey stared at Wil as the young man duplicated himself and charged the enemy. Fetohep waved a lazy hand, freezing the recording.
“The Pact of Termius is a blade that calls upon the powers of nature and animals, befitting a Gnoll [Shaman]. And the Cup of Cexila is a blade which drinks the blood of those it slays, healing the wielder. Blood and flesh, really. But The Windblade of Serpisel is fitting too. I understand that the three remaining blades will return to me in time—although the carriers have been forced to take shelter at Zeres. A tiring development, but I had allowed them time to return the blades to me. Especially in light of their companion…”
He trailed off. Trey looked at Fetohep. But he wasn’t caught up yet. And this little…event with Fetohep actually had helped Trey. Distracted him.
But—not forever. As Trey rose, the massage done, he felt better. Fetohep glanced at Trey.
“Ah, you found the massage to your liking? Perhaps now we may retire to the…sauna. Or are you in need of other refreshments?”
The sauna was a popular way to ‘bathe’ in Chandrarian cultures. Hot stones and steam, rather than costly water. Trey ducked his head.
“Thank you, Your Majesty. But I’m…fine. I truly am. I’m just sorry for prevailing on you. I should have gone north. To my sister. She’s—fighting in the war. Against Jecrass. I had no idea it was happening until we got back. Well, the Quarass wasn’t happy.”
He bowed. Fetohep looked disconsolate.
“Ah, yes. The war. It was displeasing to me to hear the events as they unfolded. Let us discuss that, then. Cancel the sauna.”
He spoke to a servant, who bowed and hurried off. Trey sat in his chair, and Fetohep relaxed. This was all for Trey’s benefit; the humidity just made Fetohep’s preserved flesh rot faster. But he took visceral pleasure from watching his guests fulfilled.
“Do you…know the events that led to the war unfolding, Trey Atwood?”
“Sort of, Your Majesty. But please, I’m sure you have a more, uh, complete view of what happened?”
Fetohep nodded. He was, in some ways, easy to placate via flattery and acknowledgement of his status and vision. But perhaps—that was because he liked Trey. If he had a flaw, it was his kindness. Even in death.
That was one of the requirements to become a ruler of Khelt, though. Fetohep had told Trey that he had been chosen among others because he loved his people more than he was the best warrior.
“Indeed, I witnessed the events, Trey Atwood. It began with the foolishness of the Prime Minister of Belchan. But also—the cowardice of mortals. A single village’s misplaced prejudice. The death of Gnolls.”
He told Trey the events simply and with less commentary than his exploits at sea. Trey listened. His heart broke for the Gnoll tribe, attacked for no crime other than being Gnolls and seeking the King of Destruction’s favor.
He heard how the King of Destruction had challenged Raelt of Jecrass. And in so doing—the King of Duels had earned his name.
A tale of wrath, of sorrow. Of terrible deeds. Like Trey’s own. Fetohep finished simply.
“The King of Destruction would have slaughtered the Prime Minister. And his officials. The politicians, the Watch Captains, the rulers of each city and village responsible for the carnage. He put hundreds to death for his justice. What say you to that, Trey Atwood?”
The undead ruler’s voice was disapproving. Yet Trey Atwood looked at him, and his hand clenched on the bag that still sat at his feet, smelling of rotten flesh and a city of horrors.
“What do I say? I say—good.”
Fetohep glanced at Trey, surprised by the response.
“…Good? The slaughter of so many would be good?”
Trey bowed his head.
“Yes. Some people deserve to die. Some monsters shouldn’t live for what they’ve done.”
He clutched the pack to his chest and closed his eyes. Fetohep’s eyes flared, with that undead ruler’s perfect morality. But he looked at the young man who grieved and held his own tongue.
In the silence of Fetohep’s glorious kingdom, and his rich rooms full of artwork and treasure, the King of Khelt saw Trey shaking. The young man, the [Sand Mage], held the bag.
“I didn’t know. I couldn’t stop anything. They were—they tried to warn me. I couldn’t even help them. They’re still alive. They knew it was me.”
He looked up. His eyes were overflowing. Fetohep beheld dark rage. Fury. A young man’s grief. And he looked around, unsettled. Unsure of what to do.
Fetohep of Khelt, in his glory and riches…looked at his young friend. Shaking. And he gestured.
“Perhaps…the comforts of the flesh? You have witnessed a tragedy, young Trey. I was similarly unsettled when first I visited A’ctelios. I think. When I fought Crelers for the first time, certainly. You are young. You there. Summon a dozen of Khelt’s finest and willing. Drinks. Even such pleasures as dreamleaf—no, the Vault of Wishes. Procure it and—”
Trey didn’t listen. He was fumbling with the bag, drawing out the camera. Fetohep, meaning well, summoned Khelt’s most beautiful women—and a few handsome men and boys—trinkets of unsurpassed value. Drugs of every sort.
And it wouldn’t help. It didn’t help. A bevy of people willing to give Trey a night out of his wildest imagination—solo or in a group—stopped at the doorway. A magical vault containing one’s wildest imaginations halted on a pillow of silk. A hundred substances of various effects halted on their way towards the room, all legal in Khelt.
Because the young man wanted none of it. He showed Fetohep something, and the ruler slowly dismissed his thousands of expensive, worthless treasures. Because this was Trey’s grief.
“What is this, Trey Atwood?”
It was…a camera. Trey had found it in the bag that had belonged to the Pakeil. The person. And he had fixed it. With magic.
[Repair] was such a useful spell. And Trey had…recharged the camera. Given it new life after it had run out of power.
It was a good camera. The kind you’d take a semi-professional video on. To upload it to YouTube. It was, of course, capable of pictures. And video.
He wished he’d never found it. For…it had memories.
 
A young man standing in the sand. Surveying the landscape. He cursed—in an unfamiliar language.
“Where are we?”
The view included a group of eighteen. Staring about, shouting, trying to call on their phones.
 
That was what he asked, but in another language. Portuguese? That was the first video. The next few were similar.
 
A view from atop a dune. Surveying a vast, vast landscape of sand to the north. To the south? More habitable lands. A shout—someone screaming as loudly as he could behind the speaker. A voice—
“Hey! You—you with the camera! Come down here!”
 
Accented English. Russian? The next videos gave clarity. To Trey, they were as sensible as his appearance in Chandrar.
 
People milling about. Talking. At last, there was sense. The wielder of the camera turned it back to his face. Trey saw a worried, smiling face. Other people.
A young man from Russia. A pair of Taiwanese visitors. Someone who said they had been with their parents—crying. Being consoled by an older Chinese woman—and she was barely twenty-six. Still, oldest of the lot.
“We are somehow here, now. We don’t know how we got here. We were in an airport—this is going to be a record of what’s happened. Just—just in case.”
 
The young man had good English. And he began taking videos of each of the eighteen people.
Eighteen lives. Each one, who turned to the camera and told the viewer, Trey, and Fetohep their names. Repeating where they had been from.
 
“Travelling back home.”
“Going to visit Hong Kong with my—my parents. Are they okay? Do you think—”
“Some kind of plane crash. We’re all hallucinating. That’s what—”
“Water? We’re going to need—I’m—”
 
Young people, as young as Trey, older—but not by much. But a girl who was barely fifteen, who’d been standing with her parents when she’d vanished.
There was no logic to it. The Russian man had been holding his girlfriend’s hand. But she—despite being his age—hadn’t come along. And they were far from home.
Lost in Chandrar.
Videos. At some point after taking each person’s introduction, the Portuguese cameraman had realized he was going to run out of power. So he’d begun rationing it.
The next video was of someone yelling. One of them—the Russian—had leveled up. As an [Explorer] in the night. Someone else? [Survivor]. A third—[Traveller].
 
“I am—I’m a Level 3 [Cameraman], yeah? It was green. No one else said it was green. But I—”
The young man looked into the camera. Grinning, as people discussed what it meant. They all had Skills. One of them tried it out. Pointed.
“[Survivor’s Intuition]! There’s something that way!”
 
A short cut. And then—the others clustered around a small cactus plant. One of them—a fellow from Cameroon—had a knife. He was scraping at the plant, removing the bristles to get to the flesh. They were all talking.
