“Already? Fine—I’ll get to Cara. Get ready! Tell the [Illusionists]!”
She hurried to the side of the stage. The [Bodyguards], keeping the others back, saw Abebi and let her through. Cara noticed—somehow—and held up a hand after she finished her next song.
“One moment, please! We might have another new song for you all!”
She leaned down, and Abebi shouted up to her above the roar of the crowd.
“The ship’s coming in!”
Cara’s eyes sharpened. The Singer of Terandria rose, and she nodded at Thien.
“Hit it, Thien. My lovely stars! We have something new this time! If you’ll follow me—we have somewhere we need to be.”
Thien left his drumset. Terandria had a lot of the instruments that Earth did. Not the same, but close. No pianos, which is what Cara wanted, along with some brass instruments and electronics, obviously.
But they had drums for war. Cara looked at the rest of the band. Rae jumped. She left the stage as the audience, confused, looked at each other.
“Somewhere to be?”
But then the [Singer] began to sing. And Thien grabbed the drum and a large, rounded mallet. He hooked the drum to his front. Because he wasn’t using a normal drum, but a drumline. And he began a rhythmic beat that went through the ground.
Cara motioned, and her backup singers nodded. She pointed, and Thien stepped off the stage. The [Bodyguards] fought to clear them a path, but the [Singer] cleared the path herself. Her audience moved back as she walked with her band, following Thien.
They were playing a marching song. Marchin On—to the beat, as the [Singer] began to walk out of the plaza. And her audience followed.
 
——
 
“It’s here.”
Knight-Commander Calirn was in a poor mood. The music in the background had been echoing for a good fifteen minutes. And while some of the [Spring Knights] had begun tapping their feet surreptitiously to the music, it was noise from this far away.
And now—the funeral barge was incoming. And the music was still playing. The [Knight Commander] closed his eyes. The other [Knights] were shifting, looking at each other.
It was even growing louder. Calirn’s brows twitched. He was about to demand a [Silence] spell from his Knights of the Autumn, as disgraceful as that would be. Then he heard a voice.
“Knight-Commander! Look!”
Knight Zidele pointed. And Calirn turned his head as the distant ship drifted into the harbor. He heard a female voice, joined by a few others, singing energetically. To the beat of a heavy drum he felt in his boots.
“Why is that music growing—”
He snapped, and then stopped. Because the Singer of Terandria walked into the harbor. And behind her—came the city.
The marching band stopped. And the audience the Queen of Pop had lured out of the plaza halted, piling onto the harbor front, around the crews. The [Knights] turned and stared at the thousands.
And there was the Singer of Terandria. The catchy pop song stopped as the beating drum trailed off. Some people began to cheer—but she lifted a hand.
She had an aura. As strong as Calirn had ever seen in a [Singer]. The Singer raised her hand—and her fans, her audience, saw the black barge.
They fell silent as it drifted into the harbor. The [Knights] turned, and they saw the ship and knelt. Knight-Commander Calirn bowed as Ser Raim returned home. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw the Singer of Terandria copy the gesture.
She knelt. Her audience saw her take a knee and followed suit awkwardly. They bowed, or knelt, and realized what was happening. Most were laughing, at first, before realizing the solemnity of the moment. Even the [Prince] looked poor, trying to wipe a smile off his face.
But Cara, the Singer, knelt on the ground, face bleak, head bowed, and for all her hair was pink or she was a performer…when she looked up to stare at the ship, Calirn almost believed she grieved. Her eyes flickered as she spotted a single [Knight] in armor. Ser Dalimont. He bowed to her once, then turned to face the ship. And then Calirn could look no more, for it was his turn.
“Knights of the Seasons. Let the Season of Summer welcome our fallen brethren.”
Calirn’s voice was suddenly the only sound in the silence. The people of Phel’s Light, tens of thousands, looked on. Suddenly somber. Gazing upon the [Knights] as they were brought from the ship.
It shouldn’t matter. Not really. But it did. Calirn saw the ashes brought forth. He bowed his head as the [Knights] walked, bearing their comrade. They turned—and the tens of thousands parted slowly. Allowing them room.
It was the largest gathering for such a moment Calirn could remember since the war against the Drakes as a child. He saw the Singer of Terandria, the Queen of Pop, bowing her head. And he nodded to her, all of his objections forgotten.
In silence, the [Knights] escorted their own through the silent city. Greg, Rae, Abebi—all the others saw Cara keep her head bowed until the [Knights] had long since passed by.
“Cara. I thought you didn’t like the [Knights].”
Greg was completely confused. Cara turned her head as the moment of quietus passed. She whispered back, so quietly only the Earthers heard.
“I don’t like them on principle. I’ve met a lot of ones who’re worth the time of day. But even if I didn’t know any of them here—even if they were shit—just think of what they did. Those brave boys and girls died far from home trying to do the right thing as they saw it. So if you can’t respect that, grab a rope, tie it around your neck, and go jump off a chair. ‘Cause if you don’t, I’ll do it for you.”
She delivered the words grandly, and like the performer she was, even in a whisper. Then she straightened. Only a few of her band members noticed her flick a few fingers across her eyes. When her head rose, she was smiling—a fake smile, full of gentle grace and remorse. And she called out softly.
“Thank you, people of Phel’s Light. Let’s go back. This next song is for bravery.”
She turned and walked back. The [Violinist] took up his bow and began to play as the Singer of Terandria sang softly across the city. And the [Knights] listened, for the song was meant for them.
This was the Singer of Terandria. Calirn saw his [Knights] bearing Ser Raim away. He would meet them at the monastery. But he lingered for a bit. To listen to the [Singer] he thought he’d misjudged.
The average length of a concert from Cara’s world was two to three hours. Shorter, depending on the material. But the Singer of Terandria had a surfeit of music. Nor—did she quit.
 
——
 
Four hours later, Cara was still singing. She let one of her backups—a native Terandrian man, a [Bard]—take over for a few songs as she gulped a stamina potion and then a healing one for her throat. But she kept going.
“I think it’s time for the big reveal. Get into costumes, everyone. One last set of songs. And we’re done.”
The [Singer] encouraged her exhausted band. They looked up, and Thien grinned.
The last song by the [Bard] was met with cheers, but people were demanding the Queen of Pop. For one last song. The curtains were lowered, but the [Singer]’s voice was audible behind it.
“My shining stars. You’ve stayed with me for song after song. But for tonight—we’re going to change things up. With a new song—”
Wild cheering. She always had a new song. The voice paused and then went on.
“—in a new style. This one’s for you.”
The curtains rose. And the audience, cheering, saw the [Singer] standing on the stage. The cheers faltered.
Cara’s hair was swept back. It was dyed black, made spiky with hair gel. Her makeup had been changed to make her features even paler, and black eyeshadow emphasized her eyes and lips. The [Prince] of Pheislant, the noble fans—stared. The [Singer] adjusted the black jacket. And her band, dressed in another style from her world, began to play.
The music was more urgent. A piano played as the [Singer] began to croon into the microphone. At first, people began to nod along to the music, move their legs. But that wasn’t quite—appropriate. This wasn’t pop. This was—
Thien brought his drumsticks down hard, and the audience jumped. The backup singers shouted into their microphones. Cara’s voice went lower. Growling. Screaming.
“What is that?”
Calirn almost clapped his hands over his ears. He saw an excited fan pointing.
“She’s doing it again! It’s rock!”
“Rock?”
The [Popstar] became a rock-star. She laughed, eyes wide, channeling a completely different energy. Some of her fans recoiled. But the rest began to cheer wildly, and the world’s second mosh pit began evolving.
Rock. Pop. The [Singer] signed off to wild cheers, people shouting for an encore. The air around her was electric, and her [Bodyguards] had to work for their gold to get the cast into the wagon.
Some didn’t make it. Greg was swept away by groupies—mostly of his own volition. Rae was left behind as well. Abebi made it into the wagon with Cara—that was what mattered.
“Get everyone else to their wagons. If they go out—make sure they have someone with them.”
Cara croaked. Her makeup had run from sweat. The other band members were grinning, swept up on the adrenaline. The concert had been madly successful—even by their standards.
“Can do, Cara. That was wild.”
They left, some of them to their wagons to sleep or rest—others to enjoy their accolades.
The [Popstar] didn’t go out. She rested on the sofa, sweating, panting. Abebi looked at her.
“Are you okay, Cara?”
“Like a fucking fiddle. Just grand, Abebi. Give me a moment. And pass me some of that food, will you? We got any ice cream?”
The costly gelato was in a box of ice. Abebi passed it and some of the other preserved food to Cara. The [Singer] began to scarf the food without hesitation.
“Careful. You’ll burst out of your dress.”
The [Manager] was only half-teasing. Cara grabbed an entire meat pie made by the best [Baker] in Phel’s Light and began to eat it in huge bites. She shook her head.
“Don’t worry about me, Abebi. I don’t ever put on weight. Never have. I can eat, and it all burns away.”
The young woman from Nigeria frowned. That seemed—off.
“Didn’t you tell Rae that you used to be fat before you gained your class?”
Cara blinked. The young Irish woman looked up. She thought, and then replied casually.
“Oh, that. I lied.”
Abebi’s mouth fell open.
“But you said—”
The [Actor] sighed and stretched out.
“I tell people what they want to hear, Abebi. That’s my job. Rae needed the confidence. So as long as you don’t tell her, she’ll be fine.”
“But—”
The [Manager] fell silent. Cara glanced at her sidelong.
“Abebi. I’m acting. This—class. [Popstar]? I mean what I said. It’s just a class to make money. I don’t like pop songs. I sing them because it’s the most accessible music.”
“Is that why you had us play rock?”
Cara had pushed for that, ‘revealing’ more of her personality and giving them a new genre. It had stunned some fans, but the genre of rock was just as important. The [Singer] smiled crookedly.
“What makes you think I like rock?”
Abebi’s mouth opened and closed. She looked at Cara again.
“Do you?”
Cara didn’t reply at first. Wearily, she passed a hand over her face, smearing the makeup.
“Abebi. You’ve known me almost the longest out of anyone. Aside from Elena, and she’s at Wistram. Fucking Wistram. So I’m going to tell you this. Once. All of this is a mask.”
She pointed at her face.
“Mask. And below that’s another mask. Because we’re not safe. I pretend to be the flashy Singer of Terandria because we need money. The others need it to live, I need it to buy artifacts, that replacement inhaler for Desmond—we need money. And that’s why we’re touring.”
“To find the best place to settle. I know.”
Abebi nodded. Cara did too.
“Terandria’s safest. So it seems. But no kingdom’s perfect. And nowhere is safe. We’re being…hunted. We need allies. Those [Knights]? Maybe we can trust them. We need to trust someone. Because I’m just a [Popstar]. I can’t protect us if push comes to shove.”
“But you’re the highest-leveled among us! By far! You’re Level 40.”
Cara had hit that level last month. The [Singer] smiled crookedly.
“So what? Abebi. You think if Wistram tries to arrest us, we’ll get away?”
“The audience loves you! Can’t you hear them out there? A [Prince] wants to marry you!”
“Fuck him. Our fans will turn on us. I’m a celebrity, Abebi. A star. I shine—and then I’m forgotten in a year or two. We make the money we can, find good allies. Everyone says Samal is great, but I still haven’t managed to tour it. Maybe Avel, but the [King]’s a bit of an idiot.”
“How about Ailendamus? Back the winning horse?”
“Fuck Ailendamus, Thien. Not a chance, not ever.”
“Geeze, sorry. I didn’t know.”
Cara shook her head, waving a hand at him.
“We’ll back the winning horse and not be political if we can, but…not them. We need help. Reliable allies. Do you think I can stop a nation? Tell me—when has a celebrity changed anything?”
She sat there, smiling cynically at Abebi. The [Manager] hesitated.
“Are you sure? You’ve been so worried—why not go with those Wistram [Mages]? That Blackmage person?”
Cara grimaced.
“I got a letter back from Elena the other day. Want to see it?”
“You did? Why didn’t you tell us?”
Abebi eagerly took the letter. It was from Elena! She had volunteered to go to Wistram. Abebi read through it. It was filled with talk of Wistram. Aaron and the magical experiments—encouraging the others to join her. Her face—froze. Abebi looked up from the letter.
“It—this is from Elena, right?”
“Yup. And we have some of those [Mages] following us. Keep asking to speak to me, to escort us to Wistram. All nine of us. Which means Elena hasn’t told them about the others. Good thing we switched the hiding place, right?”
The [Thespian] leaned back, sighing. Abebi read the letter again.
“She didn’t use any of the passphrases we came up with.”
“No shit?”
Cara covered her face. Elena had been given a number of innocuous expressions she’d work into correspondence if everything was okay. That they weren’t there meant it wasn’t. The [Singer] spoke bitterly.
“It’s a trap. I knew it. They’re probably keeping her hostage. She can’t leave. Fuck those Illuminati-[Mage] cunts and their academy. And thanks to that jackass—Blackmage—they’re onto us. Don’t share that, Abebi. I’ll tell the others after this tour.”
The Nigerian [Manager] nodded palely. She put the letter down, hands shaking. Cara went on.
