The woman blinked. And some of the other [Knights] in earshot looked up. One of the other four orders drifted closer. This wasn’t exactly improper, but Calirn was being unusually direct.
And yet—the Order of the Thirsting Veil was known to Calirn. They used poison. Yes. And their armor was black. But their hearts were pure. They were [Knights]. If anything, the Thronebearers had a more sullied history of obeying the crown over their conscience. She nodded slowly.
“We are conscious of that fact, Grandmaster. But we serve Ailendamus. The Thirsting Veil is not as—detached as the Order of Seasons. A fact my fellow [Knights] and I have reflected on.”
In that they were tools of war to pursue conquest, not just defenders of the peace. Calirn and the other [Knights] nodded, hearing the words that would never be spoken aloud. It was as close to criticism as they would hear from Hevcla—her other [Knights] looked uneasy at even that.
“Nevertheless. If war threatens, each Order must stand with its nation. Is there no chance Ailendamus’ [King] will relent? His Majesty, Itorin the Second?”
The woman’s eyes flickered.
“…Little. As it stands, the southern kingdoms have past quarrels with Ailendamus. And the northern kingdoms are disinterested in further conflicts. Their eyes turn to crusades abroad.”
War with the Drakes or Chandrar or Baleros. Calirn grimaced. Terandria fought abroad; the Humans would unite against any invader and often put aside grievances to fight a foe abroad and establish lasting colonies. It was a practice the Order of Seasons, at least under Calirn, disapproved of. It made far too many enemies abroad, and he considered it a waste of lives.
Chandrar had been the last target, and the King of Destruction had liberated Terandrian satellite nations. But Hevcla had no reason to lie. The other nations were more interested in attacking other species than curtailing Ailendamus’ growing power. Calirn summarized the situation.
“Then Calanfer, Kaliv, and Gaiil-Drome will go to war against Ailendamus. And so will its [Knights]. Candidly—Pheislant has no reason to support Ailendamus and many reasons to oppose it. But I do not know if the Order of Seasons marches to war.”
Hevcla nodded, looking warily at Ser Dalimont. The Thronebearer was sizing her up as well.
“It would be regrettable. But my Order is bound by our oaths.”
“As is mine, Dame Hevcla. I can only trust Ailendamus has learned its lessons in invading sovereign nations of late.”
Dalimont replied stiffly. Hevcla’s reply was as fast as a viper.
“We have won ninety percent of the wars we have ever fought in.”
“For a nation of two hundred years, it is impressive indeed. Yet Ailendamus does lose. Or does the recent invasion of Ovela give no one in the Court of Masks pause?”
The Order of Seasons’ heads swung from Hevcla to Dalimont, and a faint murmur arose as Hevcla’s eyes narrowed. He was certainly the more poised, but Calirn’s ears perked up. The Thirsting Veil [Knight] forced a laugh.
“Noelictus was a mere border skirmish, Ser Dalimont. If you think that a true battle, I would hope you spend more time on the practice courts and less listening to rumor.”
Dalimont’s eyes flashed; for a [Knight] of such a diplomatic order, he seemed passionate. His tone roughened as his hand moved unconsciously towards his sword hilt.
“Having been there myself, I would have you listen less to whatever rumors you have been told, Dame Hevcla. Or was the Baron of House Ecte known for his mere ‘skirmishes’? And multiple Great Knights take to the field for a small border conflict? Let alone—!”
He broke off, conscious of all the [Knights]’ eyes upon him. Dame Hevcla’s reaction, and that of the female [Knights] in her order, was striking. She recoiled, then peered at Dalimont with as much interest as Calirn was trying to mask.
“You were at Ovela? Viper’s kiss! Then you saw the rumored…did you meet a Dame Eclizza, perchance?”
“The Pale Serpent of Ailendamus? I did. A fearsome woman.”
That would be the champion of the Order of the Thirsting Veil herself, a ‘Great Knight’ of Ailendamus. Calirn’s brows rose. This man has met multiple [Knights] of exceeding ability in a few months. What happened at Noelictus?
It appeared Dame Hevcla was just as curious. She slid forwards slightly.
“I understand Noelictus and Ailendamus have signed true accords of peace given the unfortunate incidents that took place. In the interest of civility between our Orders, even if our nations are at war, I would gladly speak of the events you witnessed, Ser Dalimont. Once our funeral rites are seen to.”
Dalimont’s response was a stiff bow.
“I do not believe the events need be readdressed, Dame Hevcla, though I appreciate your offer as it was given. If there is any will between our Orders, I hope it would be for the Order of the Thirsting Veil to oppose another costly war.”
—And they were back to politics. Though Calirn felt like Dalimont had driven them into that to avoid more questions being asked.
Calirn sighed. He was trying to…well, mediating between the two rival Orders would not be a poor thing, his curiosity aside. It was of little use he knew, but something had to be done. He interrupted the two before Hevcla could rebut Dalimont.
“It seems we have more common enemies than each other, Dame Hevcla, Ser Dalimont. The King of Destruction. The Demons of Rhir. I would be pleased if you could bear my thoughts back to your Grandmasters. At the very least, I ask that fewer [Knights] be sent to war. That we may have fewer occasions to mark such moments.”
He looked pointedly towards the waiting [Knights] on the docks. Hevcla and Dalimont looked at Calirn. And both bowed.
“As you say, Grandmaster. Perhaps there is time for dialogue.”
At least between the knightly orders. If they could agree to send less of their [Knights] to the frontlines, the war would be less bloody. Weaken each nation less. Calirn sighed.
So much for diplomacy. He was a [Winter Knight] and far less suited to political maneuvering or flattery. He was, like Hevcla, straight to the point. She, at least, appreciated that. The woman drew closer, and Ser Dalimont stood back with the others for a moment as she murmured to Calirn.
“One hopes the war will be an empty clash soon followed by treaties and ransoms, Grandmaster Calirn. Or a lesser forfeit. But candidly—Ailendamus has been approaching Izril’s Five Families for support. The Wellfar family for naval assistance—it is even rumored His Majesty may offer a lesser cousin of the throne’s hand in marriage. In exchange for aid, of course.”
The Knight-Commander’s brows snapped together. Wellfar? Izril’s nobility sometimes joined into Terandrian wars. If that was the case…Ailendamus wanted to win this war, not just capture troops and some land.
“Dire news, Dame Hevcla. Thank you for telling me.”
She nodded. In her eyes the knowledge that this might lead the Order of Seasons to oppose Ailendamus was forefront. But perhaps the Order of Thirsting Veils did not want to see the three Terandrian kingdoms conquered. An empire was a terrible thing.
Honor and duty. That was a [Knight]’s life. She stepped back to her order after bowing. And then Ser Dalimont approached.
“You do us a service, Grandmaster Calirn. My order agrees this is…disadvantageous. We hope the Order of Seasons sees it the same way. Frankly speaking.”
As close to bluntness as he got. The Thronebearers had to be worried about war. Calirn nodded, and then Ser Dalimont offered his private words.
“Candidly, Grandmaster…my order is prepared for the worst. As is Calanfer. I too may not speak of my errands, but I soon depart via ship with one of my fellow [Knights] on a mission of great importance after we welcome our fallen. Calanfer would not wish—enemies—in this war from abroad.”
He had been listening in. Calirn looked at the man, and Dalimont blushed. Thronebearers. They played too much politics. Stiffly, Calirn looked at Hevcla.
“One would hope Calanfer pursues its goals with dignity, Ser Dalimont.”
The man’s cheeks flamed. He bowed again.
“Of course, Ser Calirn. I offer this information as—a token of trust. We too are exploring alliances. But the waters are muddied.”
Odd. Did that mean the Kingdom of the Eternal Throne had issues formalizing their alliances? They did that in the most traditional way Calirn understood in Terandria—marriage. Why would that of all things be an issue for Calanfer?
Calanfer had three eligible [Princesses] they could marry off, out of the seven [Princesses] of the royal family. A veritable menagerie, though Calirn would never phrase it like that. Four eligible [Princesses] if you counted their youngest [Princess], but she’d only be engaged. That left plenty of ways for Calanfer to make ties, let alone marrying lesser nobility together.  Unless—had the 4th [Princess] remarried? So soon? But that still left two…
Calirn’s head hurt with the politics of it all. Still, Dalimont was giving the information in friendship. He nodded slowly.
“If Ailendamus should push—Pheislant will decide where it stands. Apart, perhaps, or with little aid. But the Order of Seasons will not let a sovereign nation fall so easily. That is all I may say.”
“Thank you, Grandmaster.”
The relief that came from Dalimont was palpable. It was a dangerous pledge, Calirn knew, but he would never have changed his mind. He murmured as he glanced at a Knight of Autumn for a privacy spell.
“In the interest of honesty, Ser Dalimont, I must ask. What did happen at Noelictus? For I have heard rumors in war of great deeds, exaggerated battles, but I cannot countenance the rumors of this latest strife. Did three Great Knights make war with the famed Baron of House Ecte? How was it then not a full-scale war? How was it avoided? And how was Ser Raim involved? If you would be willing to speak to me, I will swear any vows of silence you wish.”
It was now Dalimont’s turn to hesitate, and to blush again.
“I would that I could speak of it openly, Grandmaster Calirn, but I have been sworn to secrecy.”
“Is there nothing you can share? A [Knight]’s oath is of course not to be tested, but surely given this hour…”
Tell me about Raim. The [Knight Commander] was about to ask Dalimont more, push for more information before the barge arrived—when he heard a roar in the distance.
The Singer of Terandria had emerged from her carriage. She was…radiant. Her clothes, makeup, even the way she was poised as the wagon’s doors opened and it slowed to let her step out and greet her fans—all of it spoke to a different world’s culture.
But this world was learning fast. People flooded forwards and were stopped by the line of [Bodyguards] hired to escort the famous singer.
“Excuse me! I’m a [Prince]! Singer! Miss Cara, it’s me! Make way! Make—”
The [Prince] of Pheislant wasn’t getting through the crowd. The others were cheering wildly, asking to shake the [Singer] of Terandria’s hand as she went across the crowd, doing just that, smiling, laughing.
The air around her was electric. Personality, force of will—even people who didn’t know the Singer of Terandria felt drawn to her, like metal to a magnet. She was laughing, excited, blowing kisses and talking with her audience as her fellow band members did the same. One of the young men with a guitar saw the [Baroness] and began talking with her as she stared at him with admiration.
Dame Hevcla grimaced at the wild noise breaking the silence of the harbor.
“Outrageous.”
Calirn resisted the urge to clench his jaw.
It didn’t matter. The [Knights] had died, and their honor wasn’t tarnished by lack of attention. And yet—it did matter. Their sacrifice should not be overshadowed by…
“Cara.”
The word came from Ser Dalimont, a single breath. He alone, of all the [Knights], didn’t grimace or glare at the distant figure. He breathed a name and Calirn glanced at him, but Dalimont’s features were a world away. He stared at Cara not like some idol or figure to be chased or surrounded like a mindless addict, but with sincere admiration. With loss and memory and a profound respect that drew Calirn’s contempt up short in confusion.
The Grandmaster of the Order of Seasons stood there, waiting for the ship to come in, glancing at the distant [Singer]. And the [Popstar] brought the streets of Phel’s Light to a standstill.
 
——
 
“People, people! We’ll be performing in thirty minutes! The Singer needs her privacy! Thank you!”
The [Manager] of the tour, a young woman from Earth, bellowed into the crowd, her voice amplified by her Skill. They backed off—if only because it was true the wagons needed to set up. The Singer of Terandria had been given the largest plaza to perform in, and the wagons were moving into it.
Setting up so everyone could see her perform. The crews that came with her were experienced; they were already putting up a circular stage with bags of holding, and a pair of [Illusionists] were getting ready.
But the main star and her band were all in a single wagon. Oh, they had special effects. Makeup. Props. But the song was the thing. And while the [Singer]’s crew moved around the wagons, getting ready, no one, absolutely no one was allowed in the private wagon that belonged to the Queen of Pop without her permission.
As the self-styled ‘Queen of Pop’ disappeared into her wagon with her band, a group of eight sighed and relaxed. Well, all but one of them.
One of them, the young man with a guitar, was protesting at the wagon.
“Come on. Just a peek? She’s a [Baroness]. Just for a moment. Ask Cara if—”
“Absolutely not. You know the rules.”
The [Manager] snapped back at the [Guitarist]. She smiled at the disappointed [Baroness] and her friends, who were clustered around the young man. His cheeks were flushed, but the [Ladies] dropped the matter first.
“We hope we can speak with the Singer later?”
The [Baroness]’s friends looked at the young man with the guitar. He blushed.
“Of course! I’ll make it happen. After the concert…”
The noise faded as he climbed into the wagon. The entire vehicle was sealed against outside noise. It was also enchanted to be bigger on the inside.
There were even sofas, a kitchen in the back…it was a mobile base. Costly, but the Queen of Pop had bought it and renovated it. Now, the band relaxed.
And they were a band. Aside from the [Manager] and one young man from Argentina who was setting up their electronics—he had a pair of speakers connected to a laptop—the rest of the band had instruments.
A [Drummer], a [Bassist], the lead guitar…each one of them had an instrument they could play. Or…pretend to play. After all, the songs were augmented by actual music from the laptop and speakers.
