“You may tell His Majesty I am staying at Khelt. I am staying with King Fetohep as long as he will allow me.”
“His Majesty demands—”
Trey looked at the [Captain] as Kheltian undead rose, forming a barricade. Protecting Trey.
“If you want to come after me, go ahead and try.”
And the brave, living warriors of Reim hesitated. They looked at the undead rising out of the earth, and Trey, riding on. They turned back.
For no one demanded anything of the ruler of Khelt lightly. Not even the King of Destruction. The undead monarch, the [King] of Khelt, had known the instant Trey crossed onto his lands. And he gave Trey passage as Trey had hoped.
The young man clutched his horse’s reins, soothing the animal as it rode. It was nervous, but it had been here before. And he looked ahead. Hoping to see a…a friend. As much as Nawalishifra. Trey couldn’t march to war as Gazi had.
The young man clutched something as he rode. He halted in the dirt and sand as Khelt began to turn to green, fed by the vast supplies of water. Slowly, he dismounted from the horse and sat on the ground.
Ahead of him were villages. Cities tended to by the undead. Fields maintained by undead wielding hoes and shovels. A paradise built of the undead—sustained by them in a perfection that allowed hedonism and art to flourish in equal measure.
But Trey sat on the ground. And bowed his head.
He looked at something. In time, an escort rode towards him.
“Lord Atwood? We are to escort you to His Eternal Majesty, Fetohep of Khelt.”
A mortal man called down to Trey. He was leading a carriage. Kheltian. And the escort was living—some of Khelt’s few peacekeepers, high-level [Soldiers]. They respectfully bowed. And Trey looked up as his horse pooped next to him. He had been engrossed.
“Oh. Thank you.”
“Are you…well? Lord Atwood? His Majesty expresses his concern. A [Healer] and other aids will be prepared if you are injured.”
The [Lord Commander] of Khelt bowed slightly in his saddle. None less had been sent to Trey. But the young man just shook his head. He climbed into the carriage.
“I’m…fine. Sorry for worrying you.”
And he was. As the carriage rode on, Trey sat there. Well of body. Although his throat sometimes felt—cut. But that was phantom pain. He was just looking at something.
A grimy backpack. Trey had washed it as best he could, but it was still filthy. And the backpack was open. The [Lord Commander] had not known what Trey held. But that was because it wasn’t of this world.
It was…
A camera.
 
——
 
King Fetohep of Khelt was in a grand mood. As the carriage bearing Trey Atwood into the city rode forth, undead soldiers lined the walkway. His people observed the carriage. Not because he had insisted upon it; he seldom made his subjects do anything they did not want to.
No, simply because their ruler cared. And thus—status was awarded to Trey Atwood. For Fetohep of Khelt had few passions in death. And his people—some of whom loved only food, sex, and carnal pleasures, and some of whom took to art or other passions—followed their ruler.
This was Khelt. Paradise of Chandrar! And the capital city was ten thousand and one marvels of art. The people were content, never wanting for anything. Those that strived created wonders, became great visionaries, thinkers, writers, poets, artists—
And those who cared for nothing more lived and died in excess, eating as much as they cared, loving as they wished. Living. Dying.
Unable to reproduce unless that honor was awarded to them. Unable to leave except by forfeiting Khelt’s protections. Subject to laws some in Trey’s world would have called ‘unjust’. Violating ‘natural laws and rights’.
Fetohep would have laughed at those that questioned him. And had them executed. For his paradise was not made of any will but his own and that of Khelt’s previous rulers. It was not…a democracy. Those failed.
But Khelt lived in death. And the ruler, undead, a Revenant, had lived for six hundred years maintaining Khelt’s peace. He had been content, even if Khelt sometimes bent knee to those such as the King of Destruction. Passionless, even, a [King] who was slave first to his people.
Yet this boy had Fetohep’s favor. Trey Atwood was carried to the steps in front of the palace. Surrounded by a living bodyguard, flanked by the undead. People watched as the doors of the carriage were opened and Fetohep, the [King] immortal, waited for his guest.
No one left the carriage. After a minute, the [Lord Commander] hurried around to the side and spoke urgently. And then a young man appeared.
He was…normal. Not tall or handsome or elegantly poised, a genetic perfection such as some of Khelt’s citizens. Trey Atwood stumbled a bit as he came up the stairs. And Fetohep looked upon his face.
“Ah, Trey Atwood. Welcome once again to my kingdom.”
The ruler swept one emaciated hand out, grandly indicating the crowds, the welcome fit for another ruler. Trey looked at him and bowed slightly.
“You honor me, Your Majesty. But I’m afraid I’m prevailing on your goodwill, King Fetohep.”
“Indeed?”
Fetohep didn’t look put out by this. Trey nodded.
“I’m actually here without the King of Destruction’s permission, King Fetohep. He may want to…retrieve me. May I beg your hospitality until that happens?”
If it were possible, the magical flames in Fetohep’s eye sockets brightened further.
“Ah. Of course. That insolent boy-king has no authority in Khelt. By all means, stay as long as you would wish.”
His voice was triumphant, but Trey did not smile. He just clutched the ratty backpack to him as Fetohep gestured.
“Your arrival was—intriguing. Are you well? I have the foods you most enjoyed upon your last visit prepared. Sit, and we shall discuss the matters of the world.”
He swept ahead. Trey followed, and the servants picked for the day followed, bowing, offering to take Trey’s burdens. He refused them all.
The grand banquet room where Fetohep and Trey had first eaten with the Quarass of Germina was not the place where they adjourned to. Rather, it was a more intimate dining room.
As it had been the last few times. Fetohep had entertained Trey four times since their initial meeting, and he had taken to the rather plush private dining quarters where Trey could sit in a comfy chair as Fetohep—in a throne-like chair that had been ported to this carpeted room filled with soft lights, delicate water running across an indoor fountain, and even a sofa, hand-stitched and tailored after Trey’s descriptions—relaxed and bade Trey make himself comfortable.
“Trey Atwood. It has been long since you last came to Khelt. The King of Destruction uses you often. As is befitting of talent. But that you have come here of your will, I shall not begrudge. Nor shall the King of Destruction remove you save for your will or mine.”
The King of Khelt could be said to be…besotted with his young guest. So much so that his servants stared enviously at Trey for all the praise heaped upon his head.
Fetohep had, once, infamously witnessed a menagerie made of every single known animal and monster in all of Chandrar upon his sporadic exoduses from Khelt by a famed [Beast Master]. And he had pronounced it ‘adequate’.
Trey, though…a woman who might have been a [Beauty] in any kingdom but Khelt was serving the young man his choice of drinks stared admiringly at him. And the young man listlessly took a bit of orange juice and sipped at it.
“Thank you, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep noticed Trey’s mood at last. He paused and waved a hand. Servants swept forwards, with fresh-made food prepared by expert [Chefs].
“You appear…unwell, Trey Atwood. Are you truly well?”
“‘mfine. Thank you, Your Majesty. Fetohep. I’ve just had…a bad few days. I’m…I’m…”
Trey never finished the sentence. Fetohep shifted; not in outrage over the use of his name—the [King] preferred the informality—but rather, curiosity.
“What is wrong, Trey Atwood?”
“I went to A’ctelios Salash. With the Quarass. And Gazi.”
The young man whispered. Fetohep paused in accepting a magical drink that wafted green fumes he was taking care not to let Trey inhale. He gazed upon Trey.
“A’ctelios Salash? That…city?”
Trey nodded. He looked up. He had the camera in his hands.
“Yes. Flos—the King of Destruction—asked me to go. Because the Quarass was going. To…I can’t say.”
“To heal the half-Gazer. A’ctelios’ [Fleshshapers] are famed. Of course.”
Fetohep was no fool. Trey hesitated. But then he ducked his head.
“I was forbidden to talk of it.”
“Rest assured. The mortal squabbles of nations are of no interest to me. It is a confidence I hold.”
The undead ruler flicked one hand, and Trey’s state made more sense to Fetohep. The [King] tried to remember what he had known so easily as a man. Kindness. His voice softened.
“…The Carven City is not an easy place to visit. Even after death, I was struck by it in my visits. It is…how was your visit, Trey Atwood?”
The young man from earth looked up. And his eyes were haunted as [Soldiers] returning from war sometimes were. Those who had seen things that would stay with them forever. Fetohep froze, holding the green, misty drink in his goblet.
For that was not the young man he had bade farewell to a week ago. Mortals changed too quickly. And Trey? He just smiled, as if he too were dead. And he had been buried in the ground.
Alive.
“I visited Tombhome. With Gazi. With the Quarass. We went to a peace conference. They tried to feed me the meat. I had my throat cut and nearly died. I was attacked by a Pakeil. And it turned out to be someone from my world. Someone who had been tricked. I tried to kill a man. I tried to. And I killed others. Gazi got her eye back. And the city looked at me.”
He spoke with a rictus of an expression on his face, his voice trembling, torn by it all. Fetohep stared, his goblet held to his open mouth in shock. The attendants shivered and whispered.
“Attendants. Leave us.”
The [King] spoke at last, after a silence where Trey only shuddered. The King of Khelt looked at Trey. Then—he picked up his throne with ease, despite his emaciated arms, scooted it closer to where Trey sat.
“Tell me what happened, Trey Atwood. From the beginning.”
And Trey did. The words spilled out of him, unending. The long carpet ride, Gazi and the Quarass at odds—the city, terrifying, intriguing, and then horrifying all by turns. The friendly, duplicitous people, Trey’s guide, Athal, the meeting—
Gazi being healed. The Quarass slashing Trey’s throat open to teach him. And then the Pakeil. The realization. Confronting Baosar. Trying to kill him—
Fleeing the city. A’ctelios, the dead city’s eyes turning towards them as they flew away on the carpet.
An adventure. A nightmare. When it was done, Fetohep looked at Trey.
An undead ruler. A monster. A Revenant possessed only by his will as a mortal man. Ruling his kingdom as an eternal tyrant, monarch.
And yet—a friend. Because when Trey was done, shivering, Fetohep looked at him. He hesitated—and then put a hand on Trey’s shoulder. And his eyes flared with fury for his young, mortal friend.
“Unacceptable.”
That was all Fetohep of Khelt said. He stood and paced the floor angrily, reaching for a blade he no longer wore. Trey looked up as Fetohep turned to him.
“You have been given the greatest of offences, Trey Atwood. And A’ctelios Salash? Rot infests Tombhome! They were not this craven, this duplicitous, this small a generation ago. This Baosar deserved only death. And the King of Destruction—more fool he, for risking you.”
“They turn people into monsters. Don’t they?”
Fetohep hesitated. He inclined his head stiffly.
“Pakeil. Their…beasts of burden are no less than the members of their city. Warped by the flesh of their home. Visitors become Pakeil more than most. But—the flesh of A’ctelios is not offered lightly. It is a choice. It has always been a choice. Not a trick. A’ctelios has seldom become so…consumed by madness as what you described.”
“But it exists. People let it exist. Why? How could anyone…?”
Trey rocked back and forth, shivering. He had had nightmares. He hadn’t slept properly since visiting the Carven City. He woke up screaming. Until Gazi had grabbed him and shaken him awake, or the Quarass. And then—just with servants rushing to his door in Reim.
Fetohep beheld all of this on Trey’s face, and his voice softened.
“The—Shield Kingdom of A’ctelios Salash was not always so, Trey Atwood. A hundred years ago, when you visited, they would have told you all of A’ctelios’ dark gifts. At the very door. Offered you lodging, and food. Only if you wished it.”
The young man from England shuddered. Fetohep went on.
“It may be—difficult to envision. But A’ctelios’ people are—were—honorable. Tombhome was a place people came to by choice. To trade. And the gift of A’ctelios was a choice. A gamble. Pakeil should be respected. The [Fleshshapers] should mend all physical maladies. That is what A’ctelios was.”
“That’s not what I saw.”
Trey looked at Fetohep, and the undead [King] did not gainsay his words. He looked around. Clapped his hands.
“Servants! Provide the—frozen drink with sugar and cream. Also, a tea. Food for my guest.”
The servants flooded back into the room. Trey found himself beset with a milkshake, tea, creature comforts—as Fetohep insisted he eat and relax. In his classic way, the undead [King] spared no pretense at hospitality.
Soon, Trey was lying on his back, being fed grapes and sips of his tea by someone while a [Masseur] attended to him from above. Fetohep reclined, drinking his magical brew as he spoke.
“You have been ill-treated, Trey Atwood. And I will not soon forget A’ctelios’ offense. Nor the Quarass’.”
His voice darkened. The undead ruler drummed one hand on the armrest of his throne.
“She too I bear a grudge against. For her actions against you. I am old even as immortals, few as there are, reckon it, Trey Atwood. But the Quarass I fear is so old she forgets herself. She takes the most…optimal actions towards power and considers the cost only in lives, not pain. I am sorry.”
He looked at Trey. The young man clutched at his throat as the servants murmured. There was still the faintest of scars. Fetohep hesitated. He looked at one of his attendants and then at Trey. Trying to remember himself.
“Did it—hurt?”
“No. It was just so fast. And I was—dying. She gave me a Skill. But I don’t want it. Not to ever be like that again.”
Trey whispered. Fetohep’s burning gaze dimmed.
