No ember. No dying, weary flame, but a man ready to slay stories. A burning sun that had made the Summer’s Champion, the embodiment of his season’s flame—look lukewarm by comparison.
A Level 50 [Knight] who could challenge entire armies. An icon to rally behind, to inspire and shape Terandria for generations. That was the Ser Raim that Calirn had trusted to end a twisted legend.
—If only the other [Knights] knew of it. Then they would not stand, but kneel to weep. Calirn did not know how to tell that tale of Raim, for it was dark and tragic, a web of betrayal and lies and of failure. But he longed to.
“Raim.”
Cold frost crept across the ground around the Grandmaster of the Order of Seasons, and snowflakes fell near him instead of the spray of water. Doubtless, that kept many [Knights] away as much as his expression. Calirn could not help the cold in his soul; he grieved in his winter heart. Without Raim, the world was that much colder.
He would be missed. And Calirn would not forget the Stitch Witch’s further sin on her list of transgressions against his Order.
But today? He just stood here. Reflecting on his faults that had led to Ser Raim and the [Hunters]’ deaths. For he was Knight-Commander Calirn. He was responsible for leading his order to war. For making decisions that would lead to the death of his [Knights].
As he awaited the barge, Calirn was silent. But he was aware of a shifting in the ranks around him. At last, the [Winter Knight] raised his white-haired head—as white as the snow which he could call with the power of his aura—and looked about.
“What is it?”
“[Knight Commander], it was just a minor quarrel—we are ashamed to break your concentration!”
Shamefaced, two of the [Spring Knights] clasped their fists to their chests. Calirn looked at them.
“Speak.”
One of the Knights of the Spring hesitated. But the other, young, female, came out with it. Her cheeks flushed as she spoke.
“I—I mean no disrespect to the people of Phel’s Light, Knight-Commander! But I feel it is a—a disgrace!”
“What is?”
Calirn gave her a blank look. The [Knight] gestured around. The docks were mostly empty. Or at least—this berth was. It was reserved for the barge, after all, so the docks themselves and the walkway on the harbor front were empty.
The [Knights] were there—and their [Squires], a few others who had ridden with them or were related to their causes—and a handful of pedestrians. Calirn regarded them. The Spring Knight went on.
“We are gathered here to honor our [Knights]! They have died far from Terandria’s soil and return home now! It is public knowledge. There should be a crowd. There have been, but—”
She looked around, frustrated. Calirn understood. Usually, there was a large gathering of people, who would honor the fallen [Knights] even if they didn’t know who they were. But today?
No. Only the closest relatives. Calirn looked at the young [Knight].
“Knight Zidele, I understand your frustration. However—we have sworn an oath to perform our duties. Not for reward or fame or crowds. That we are here is what matters, do you understand? If people do not wish to join our occasion, what reason have we to begrudge them? Should we demand a [Baker] neglect his or her livelihood to attend?”
Zidele flushed at the reprimand. She bowed her head.
“No, Knight-Commander. It’s only—if it were that, I would understand. But as I understand it—they are attending another event.”
Calirn looked at her blankly. Zidele’s voice had drawn the attention of the other knight orders. He sensed them listening in, turning their heads as most without helmets waited for the barge.
“Other event? What is that, Knight Zidele?”
The young woman hesitated.
“The—concert. By the Queen of Pop, Knight-Commander. She arrived in this city not two hours ago. They are all there. Rather than here.”
Memory stirred, vague. Calirn turned his head, recalling a chance phrase said by some of his youngest [Knights], perhaps. The Order of the Spring. He frowned, searching his memory of the many kingdoms and bloodlines he knew, but nothing came to mind. He cleared his throat.
“The Queen of…Pop?”
 
——
 
The Queen of Pop. The Siren of Songs. The Baroness of the Beat. All of these titles were…self-proclaimed. She was not, in actual fact, royalty. Her true title, if she could be said to have one, was ‘the Singer’, often said as ‘the Singer of Terandria’.
But her followers treated her like she was actual royalty. In Phel’s Light, the streets were flooded. Visitors had come streaming into the city, and even the nobility and a monarch were in the city.
A [Prince], in actual fact. The 3rd Prince of Pheislant. And two young [Ladies]—an actual [Baroness], the daughter of a [Baron] from Calanfer—and so many more had arrived in the city.
Because the Queen of Pop, the world’s first [Popstar]—was coming to perform in Phel’s Light today. And the crowds? They were going nuts.
Much to the bemusement of anyone who didn’t get it, actually. People not in the know, usually older adults, shook their heads or just stared at the younger generations lining the streets as the first coaches pulled through. They cheered madly, screaming.
“Queen of Pop! Singer of Terandria!”
“Sing for us!”
“I love you! Please marry—”
That was the [Prince]. Besotted, he’d been to the last six concerts. The enigmatic, famous [Singer] had been performing her way south to Pheislant. And her fame was still growing.
She had changed Terandria. Her songs were reaching even the most refined of monarch’s courts in the form of ‘albums’, magical crystals that recorded sound and played them back. That wasn’t new, of course; people had recorded speeches, music, and so on before.
But the Singer’’s music was different. It had a…beat. A kind of flow and style and instruments this world had never dreamed of. It was pop, in a world that hadn’t even discovered rock, let alone funk or jazz or…
Instruments. The Siren of Song had an entire caravan, including wagons with her team and their belongings. She was known to have very strict requirements. And—she was also a private person.
The [Singer] wasn’t even visible, but some of her fellow performers, her band, were waving to the crowds. The crowds were shouting and screaming and waving at the young men and women perched on the coaches or staring out the windows. And—for the befuddled [Knights] or anyone else who saw it, that was amazing. Because a [Knight] was a minor celebrity in most places outside of a city. But this?
This was fame as the world had seldom seen it. Knight-Commander Calirn actually heard the cheering as the Baroness of the Beat rolled in. The other [Knights] grumbled.
“Disgraceful. Knight-Commander, perhaps young Zidele is right. This isn’t fitting for…”
One of the [Summer Knights] murmured. Calirn turned his head.
“Ignore it. Or would you like to lodge a complaint with Prince Tellsiv of Pheislant?”
The [Summer Knight] closed his mouth. But his eyes flashed, suggesting he would like to do that very thing regardless of the politics. The cheering was wild, noisome—
They were at a wake. The other orders shifted. The disapproval radiating from the [Knights] was palpable in all but one group. A small group of golden [Knights], nine, standing together.
Thronebearers of Calanfer. They looked impressive, and you would be forgiven for thinking they were some more important breed of [Knight] with their shining, aureate armor. In truth, they probably occupied a lower rung of esteem than most Knight-Orders. Not that Calirn shared the prejudice! The Thronebearers were incredibly skilled at what they did. It was just that their specialty was not generally, ah, combat.
They didn’t have the same distaste for the Singer or the crowds. Indeed, their leader, a man in rather more battered plate than the rest, kept glancing at the crowds and the shouting—and then at Calirn. After a few minutes of wavering, he walked over. He bowed stiffly but politely; his golden armor was polished to perfection.
“Knight-Commander Calirn, I am Ser Dalimont of the Thronebearers of Calanfer. The Thronebearers of the Eternal Throne of Calanfer greet you on this dark day. If it is not troublesome in this moment, may we speak of inconsequential matters before the arrival of our lost fallen?”
Calirn saw the [Summer Knight] turn his head to hide a grimace. The [Knight Commander] himself winced; the Thronebearers actually took lessons in flowery language along with actual combat training. But he rose from his kneeling posture and nodded.
“Of course, Ser Dalimont. Please, let us dispense with formality.”
Ser Dalimont relaxed and seemed relieved himself. He nodded and stepped closer. He was—probably—close to Level 30. So highest-level among the Thronebearers present by far.
Calirn could see the man’s natural aura. Not a trained thing, like the Order of Seasons’ higher-level [Knights]. But the Thronebearers had different Skills than the Order of Seasons, which used their auras in battle.
Calirn could turn the air that surrounded him into a freezing vortex. Make his blade so cold it would cause frostbite in any cut. Even make a shield of ice from it. He was a [Winter Knight]; his comrades from the other seasons could make flame, hasten their steps—it was the power of one’s aura, their embodiment of nature.
But Ser Dalimont was lower-level. And his order was smaller. He himself, though, had a warrior’s bearing, and his armor suggested he’d seen combat. So Calirn’s nod was a hair warmer than frozen.
Dalimont bowed again to the [Knight Commander], a grandmaster.
“I apologize for breaking your concentration, Grandmaster Calirn. However, if I may—is it true one of your champions has fallen?”
He looked at the large gathering. Calirn inclined his head heavily.
“Yes, Ser Dalimont. One of our best. Ser Raim. His prowess in battle was all but unmatched.”
Dalimont’s eyes widened, and he bit something back. Calirn noticed Dalimont’s look of naked dismay and pain. He knew Raim’s name? No—there was more than that.
“A terrible blow to your order. May I ask what enemy took his life?”
Calirn thought for a moment, cool thoughts running through his mind, and replied carefully, but with an impression of casualness.
“I regret that I cannot say, Ser. Only that it is a pernicious foe of Terandria. One who triumphed this day. But our war continues.”
The Thronebearer [Knight] bowed his head and shifted his feet. He clenched one hand.
“Only naturally. All enemies will one day fall. I…I apologize for interrupting your vigil. I had met Ser Raim recently. A great [Knight] of Terandria. I could not believe he was fallen.”
The Order of Seasons’ [Knights] turned with more interest. Calirn’s nod was calm.
“Indeed? He travelled far abroad before crusading to Izril’s shores. Whereabouts did you meet him? And when?”
“Noelictus, Grandmaster. Last autumn and a few times throughout the winter. I had thought…he was doing well.”
Ser Dalimont bowed his head again, and his expression was grieving. Calirn had no reason to doubt his sincerity. But the Grandmaster’s curiosity grew.
Noelictus. No one could tell him what had transpired there; the facts were that Ailendamus had been invading the smaller Kingdom of Shade on the pretext of a border war. But they had been repulsed so thoroughly the two sides had made peace.
But Calirn could not credit the rumors—among them that the very dead had come to life to throw back the invaders. The Kingdom of Shade did have a great amount of naturally occuring undead, but the rumors were ridiculous. Nor were there any [Knights] to question. Noelictus used [Hunters], grim-faced men and women who killed monsters with less honor, but no less determination than their armored colleagues.
Ser Dalimont was the first [Knight] that Calirn had met who’d been in Noelictus save for Ailendamus’ own champions, and they were close mouthed. Calirn decided this was a conversation worth pursuing.
“They have been dire times indeed. Ser Raim’s death hits the entire Order hard; I would have welcomed him with the entire Season of Summer, were it not inappropriate to the other departed [Knights].”
And because the Summer’s Champion might melt this very pier with his grief. Dalimont bowed his head again.
“I could scarcely imagine a [Knight] of Ser Raim’s caliber fighting abroad. Unless…”
Hesitation, and Calirn read the unsaid words.
Unless it were against the Stitch Witch. Dalimont knew far more than a [Knight] of his standing should. However, as if sensing the Grandmaster’s curiosity, Dalimont switched topics, casting a hand towards the sea.
“And on that topic—the news from Chandrar is dire, is it not? Another nation battles the King of Destruction. My Order has debated crusading to Chandrar, but we are too few to push against such a foe. Only if dozens of [Knight] orders were to join such an effort might we throw back the King of Destruction. And even then, we would need the backing of a number of nations.”
Calirn had been having those very thoughts of late. But he saw where Dalimont was going with this—as careful as a [Courtier], the Thronebearers. He nodded and cut to the chase.
“Naturally, that would be best for the world. But I fear Terandria is far from united, Ser Dalimont. The possibility of war with Ailendamus makes cooperation unlikely.”
Both [Knights] turned. The Order of the Thirsting Veil, in their dark armor and somber gear—smelling vaguely of the poisons they loved to use—stood at attention. Ailendamus’ [Knights]. One of three Knight-Orders the Kingdom of Glass and Glory had within its lands.
Dalimont’s brow darkened, but Calirn was a [Knight]. Besides, here was a good excuse to talk to another group that might know of Noelictus. He made no pretense, but raised his voice.
“Ser Knights of the Thirsting Veil. May we speak candidly, as befits those of honor?”
The [Knights] looked to their leader—a woman who used a long greatsword. She strode over. Like Calirn and Dalimont, her helmet was off.
“Grandmaster Calirn, I am Dame Hevcla. The Thirsting Veil greets you. Is aught the matter?”
Her words were clipped, precise. Very straightforward. Calirn nodded to her as Dalimont shifted uneasily. He was tempted to bring up the war between Ailendamus and Noelictus—but it occurred to him he had a rather more pressing duty given the presence of the two. Calirn exhaled a plume of frosty breath.
“No direct issue, Dame Hevcla. More concern for the future of our orders and Terandria. I speak with utmost informality; this pressing war with Ailendamus may lead to our orders clashing. Or do you disagree?”
