Without the regenerating bone armor, I could have taken these out by myself. As soon as the second mage died, Malika felt the pressure of the fight ease up. She took a moment to collect herself and breathe. One of Ali’s shamans lay collapsed on the ground beside the corpses of the two enemy rogues. The ones Malika had been supposed to take care of – at least according to their carefully laid plans which hadn’t survived past two seconds into the fight. The remaining shaman had already re-engaged, now attacking the Piercer Scorpion.

Malika checked on Mato first, but his health seemed fine even tanking the Piercer Scorpion. His fighting style had changed dramatically. Malika studied it for a few moments, deciding he seemed vastly more confident in himself compared to the last fight. His new skill must give him an enormous edge. Good combat perception skills had that reputation, she knew, after all, it was what her Ahn Khen bloodline was renowned for.

The Bear seemed to be moving with uncanny precision and efficiency now. Blindingly fast spear strikes that should have impaled him were blocked, leaving shallow gashes instead of debilitating injuries. Even the deadly tail strike that had nearly killed him while fighting the first scorpion now merely broke bones or left bloody gashes rapidly healing under the power of his restoration skill.

She settled in for the long battle of attrition against the giant bone monster, finally stepping back and watching it explode as Ali finished it off with her favorite strategy – filling its armor with fireballs. The soft sound of her notification chimed in the back of her mind.

Malika was quite low on stamina and breathing heavily after the fight. A couple of emergency heals, and a lot of frantic damage to try to kill the healer and the mage had really taken their toll on her resources. She walked across the now quiet battlefield and into the darkness where the golden Kobold healer had fallen. Grabbing the corpse by an ankle, she dragged it over to where the others sat recovering from the long, hard-fought battle. She dumped the corpse in front of Ali, earning a wide-eyed look of puzzled worry from her tiny friend.

“This thing was a real pain,” Malika explained. “You need to learn how to make them.”

Aliandra nodded, and chirped, “By which logic, I should make a few more of you?” Malika gaped at the unexpected, hilarious snipe. Her expression made Ali turn pink. “I’ll just get busy over here, shall I?” she muttered.

“You do that.”

Malika sat down with a sigh and began her Meditation. It would take quite a while to regenerate all the stamina and mana she had burned during the fight. At least I have Mato’s aura. As she relaxed, she took the opportunity to review the results from a day’s worth of combat.

Your group has defeated Acolyte of Azryet – Kobold – level 21.Your group has defeated Bone Mage – Kobold – level 22-23 x2.Your group has defeated Dagger Rogue – Kobold – level 19-24 x2.Your group has defeated Piercer Scorpion – Elemental – level 27.Soul Monk has reached level 18 (+2).+20 attribute points.

Getting closer! Ali had unlocked the next class skill slot at twenty, and the Guildmaster had confirmed that was the usual progression. Just two more levels… I don’t want to get behind.

Martial Artist has reached level 11 (+2).Soul Strike has reached level 14 (+2).Perfect Body has reached level 10.Soul Armor has reached level 12 (+2).Enlightened Evasion has reached level 10.Divine Step has reached level 8 (+2).Appraise has reached level 9.

Solid progress all around, Malika decided, particularly chuffed that Divine Step had leveled twice. She had used it a lot during this battle – she had needed to, because the amount of damage their enemies had been throwing about was no joke. She spent seven points each boosting her dexterity and endurance, and then the remaining six on wisdom.

Name: MalikaRace: HumanTitles: Street RatActive Buffs: Perfect Body, Soul Armor, Enlightened EvasionClass: Soul Monk – level 18- Martial Artist – level 11- Soul Strike – level 14- Healing Mantra – level 9- Perfect Body – level 10- Soul Armor – level 12- Enlightened Evasion – level 10- Divine Step – level 8- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Meditation – level 6- Dancing – level 4- Calligraphy – level 3- Lockpicking – level 5- Appraise – level 9Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Bloodline (Ahn Khen): Dormant- Mana (Affinity): Soul- Relentless (Class): +100% to Stamina Regeneration- Relentless (Class): You can pay for any abilities with stamina instead of manaAttributes- Vitality: 35- Strength: 10- Endurance: 85 (+30)- Dexterity: 106 (+37)- Perception: 15- Intelligence: 17- Wisdom: 75 (+26)Equipment- Ring: Bronze Guild Ring – level 10Armor: 84Physical Damage Reduction: 14.28%Evasion: 70Dodge: 12.19%Health: 350/350Stamina: 765/850 (85 Reserved)Mana: 525/750 (225 Reserved)

Ali sat on an uncomfortably lumpy rock, nursing a pounding headache, wishing she could have a bath. Her well-crafted Tailored Cotton Clothing clung to her skin, drenched in her sweat, with a big splash of crimson blood across the left sleeve – thankfully not hers. Everything stank of smokey flame and ozone. It was no wonder the Kobolds’ Tattered Robes always stank – they tossed fire about like nobody’s business.

The concentration and focus of constantly reacting to the Bone Mages with barriers for most of the fight had taken a toll on her. It had demanded so much of her attention that she hadn’t even noticed that none of the enemies were dying until Malika had shouted her warning about the healer. Not exactly keeping an overview of the battle, there.

She gazed down at the corpse of the yellow-scaled Kobold lying on the ground in front of her, the possessor of a Holy magic affinity. Acolyte of Azryet. Malika had been frustrated, but she was right. The healer had been by far the most dangerous Kobold in that group, and it would be incredibly powerful if she could learn to make it. Knowing Malika, though, she was probably most frustrated that she hadn’t figured out the healer quicker.

She reached down and placed her hand on the Kobold’s scales, now soft and supple after the bone armor effect was removed. She turned it into motes of mana with her magic. I’ll need at least two more before I can learn this kind. She picked up the bone bracelet and robes the Acolyte had been wearing and examined them.

Acolyte’s Bone Bracelet – level 14+5% spell power to Healing skills.+8 Wisdom.Requirements: Wisdom 49.Hands – CharmSimple Robes of Healing – level 15Resistance: 105+7% spell power to Healing skills.+17 Intelligence.Requirements: Intelligence 53.Body – Cloth

The Bone Bracelet was just like the fire one she had given to one of her mages. Its smooth surface was marred only by the runic magic inscribed upon it. Ali examined the enchantment. Using her Runic Script, she studied how the magical runes combined to create the healing enchantment – but it immediately became clear that it would be a matter of more than just a few minutes to understand. The Simple Robes were not as good as what Ali was already wearing, however, the enchantment might be useful if she ever learned to make the Acolyte.

No more Tattered Robes. The Kobolds inside the library seemed to be yet another step up in gear quality. I could do with some gearing up, too.

Ali got up and walked over to where Malika was sorting various items the other Kobolds had dropped. “Can you use this?” She handed Malika the Acolyte’s Bone Bracelet.

Malika took it, turning it over a few times before putting it down beside two other similar-looking bracelets. “Unfortunately, it’s too small for me. But perhaps we can keep it for later?” Malika pointed to the other two on the ground, “These are the same, only the enchantment is for bone magic.”

Ali nodded and began her task of deconstructing the remaining corpses. Her Grimoire flickered and pulsed with energy and runes as she worked her way through the Kobolds. The level twenty-four Kobold rogue was a particularly welcome addition, hopefully allowing her to make even higher-level rogues. If I get lucky with the random summons, she reminded herself. One more before I can learn the Bone Mage variant, too.

Ali deconstructed the second huge Piercer Scorpion.

“Do you think you can learn to make those?” Calen asked.

“I sure hope so,” Ali answered. The Piercer Scorpions were so devastating, that Ali felt they could certainly replace creatures like Bugbears in her repertoire. “I’d have to level up a bit first, though.” More than that, they would need to defeat at least a dozen more.

“You can ride one into battle,” Mato grinned.

Ali dutifully chuckled. No, she would not. She’d much rather keep out of the line of fire.

“Are these similar enough to learn?” Malika handed her three Simple Robes. The two gray ones had enchantments boosting the wearer’s bone magic spell power but were otherwise the same as the Acolyte’s white Simple Robes of Healing.

“I think so,” Ali said.

“Ok, worth a try,” Malika said.

Ali deconstructed the three robes, delighted to see her Grimoire react.

Variant: Simple Robes added to Imprint: Armor.

Malika smiled at the obvious light show. Clearly, she had gotten used to how Ali’s magic worked. “Do these next,” she said, handing Ali a set of four bone daggers, presumably looted from the rogue corpses.

Each dagger was honed to a fine edge, so sharp and polished that it gleamed. With the same technique as the bracelets, the polished bone blades were delicately inscribed with magical runes down the center of the blade.

Deadly Bone Dagger – level 20Damage: Piercing, Physical+11% increased critical strike chance.Requirements: 70 DexterityOne Handed – Dagger – Bone

Ali quickly deconstructed all four of them, getting the expected update to her imprint after she deconstructed the third.

Variant: Deadly Bone Dagger added to Imprint: Dagger.

Unfortunately, her level twelve and fourteen rogues would not be able to take advantage of her newest dagger imprint. I’ll need higher-level rogues – hopefully soon.

“I don’t have enough space anymore; can you carry these until we either get more or decide to sell them?” She handed Ali two sets of leather armor with bone splints sewn in to reinforce them, and the three bone bracelets. Ali nodded to Malika, storing the items in her ring.

“Ok, what now?” Ali asked.

“My mana is nearly recovered,” Calen answered, getting to his feet and hefting his bow. “I’ll go look for more monsters.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
