I nodded. "My first meeting with the augera formed the bond, but I had another face-to-face meeting with it. At that second meeting, it told me that it wants to be free. And the Demiurge was there, too. He explained that the untamed augera and the augera shackled in Spires have been conspiring and working together over a long period of time, slowly nudging things here and there to create the conditions that could bring about the collapse of the Fateweaver's system of subjugating augera. And I am sort of the product of that interference. But I am not bound by any prophecy. The way the Demiurge put it... I have the potential to help free the augera, but I am also perfectly free to not exercise that power."

"But you want to, surely," Emilia asked, although it came out more as a statement rather than a question.

"I do. Freeing them is the only way I know how to protect my family from the prophecies that they have been wrapped in. And doing that also means helping my friends."

"I shall hold you to that, Caden," Emilia said seriously, extending a hand, but this time she softened her declaration with a small smile. "And I will do what I can to help. Because honestly, I doubt I have any other choice if I don't want to be resigned to my fate."

I looked around at the six of them and suddenly understood the augera's final comment to me in a new light. Something else had occurred to me. The looseness of the prophetic links around all of them was likely a byproduct of the ensorcelment. After all, when I had ensorceled Ambrose, it was not the same as when I had ensorceled my father. The knowledge I had passed to Ambrose, which I had also spread to Kevan, who had spread it to the rest, was tinged with a desire for freedom, of repressed agency, of possible rebellion.

The augera had done what it had been forced to do in bringing five people together in service to the Prophecy. But through me, of its own will entirely independent of the Fateweavers... it had planted the seeds that could later bear fruit, and help to turn the whole thing upside down. And it had given me the tools to be a part of this scheme.

I took her hand and shook it. "We will not be puppets," I promised.
