Year 1

When she awoke, it was to the cruel hand of the Mother Superior.

Sweep flinched and yelped, scrambling to her feet, hands folded at her waist, back straight. She opened her eyes to the harsh glare of the Mother’s lantern, and had to blink back tears. The Mother Superior was dressed in her full formal church uniform; scarlet, floor-length dress with gold trim, hair pulled up tightly, rod of office snug between belt and waist.

Mentally, Sweep chastised herself for failing to hear the Mother’s footfalls. Hearing those distinctive footfalls, even while asleep, had saved her from such abrupt awakenings before. It had been a dream that had distracted her, a dream of purple eyes and storm-tossed chessboards. It had seemed important at the time.

Sweep kept her eyes on the stone floor, silently, awaiting the Mother’s command.

From the other bed, Temperance struggled to her feet and stood with her head bowed. The Mother didn’t spare Temperance a second glance, and Sweep was grateful. The Mother’s hatred for Sweep resulted in Temperance rarely suffering more than neglect, which was better than the alternative.

The Mother looked at Sweep as she always did, with disdain.

“Acolyte Weaver has taken ill,” the Mother snapped, filling the room with her voice.

“Yes, Mother,” both girls responded.

The Mother pointed at Sweep. “You’ll tend her today in addition to your other duties.”

“Yes, Mother.”

The Mother left without another word, brushing past the curtain that separated their room from the hallway, taking her lamp with her, thrusting them into darkness. Sweep gave a sigh of relief that Temperance echoed. Confrontations with the Mother Superior were often considerably less pleasant.

“Good morning, Temperance,” Sweep said lightly.

Temperance laughed nervously through the darkness, and Sweep heard her sit heavily on her bed.

Since the Mother had taken her lantern with her, Sweep navigated the small room by feel and memory. The small trunk between the two narrow beds held the girls’ clothes. Sweep retrieved a dress, the same grey dress all orphans wore. Despite the nearly two years age gap, both girls were short and skinny and mostly the same size. As such, they were unconcerned with keeping their clothes separate.

“You’re not going now, are you?” Temperance asked.

“If I’m going to have time to eat today, I’ll need to get my sweeping chores started early.”

Temperance sighed again. “Why does she always pick you for extra work?”

Sweep slipped into the dress she had retrieved, pulling the thin belt tight about her waist. She shrugged at Temperance’s question and ran a hand through her short, white hair. She would have preferred to have it long like the other girls, but the Mother insisted it be kept short.

“Why do I have white hair and use my left hand?” Sweep asked in return.

“It’s not fair,” Temperance muttered.

“You once told me that they’re the adults and we’re just orphans.” She bound her short, white hair in a grey handkerchief to keep it hidden. “Of course it’s not fair, it is what it is.”

“I said that?” Temperance scoffed. “Saint Weston the Wise warned against heeding the wisdom of fools.”

“He also said ‘Truth spoken by accident is no less truth.’ I’ll be fine. You should get some more sleep, I’ll see you later.”

Sweep pushed aside the curtain separating their room from the hallway, but Temperance stopped her with a hand on her shoulder. When Sweep turned, Temperance leaned forward and gave her a kiss on the cheek then hugged her tightly.

“Happy birthday,” said Temperance, “It’s Newyear. You’re twelve years old now.”

“Oh.” Sweep returned the hug. “I’d forgotten.”

Temperance released her friend and took a step back. “I know. I wish I had a better present for you.”

Sweep smiled. Neither Sweep nor Temperance knew how old they truly were. The Sisters of Sacred Heart recorded the day an orphan was taken in by the church as the orphan’s founday. Sweep and Temperance had chosen to consider their foundays their birthdays and celebrate as best they could.

Sweep made her way silently through the dark, cold dormitory halls to the sanctuary. It wasn’t any warmer in the sanctuary and barely brighter; the candles had burned down in the night, which meant some orphan had shirked her duty.

Sweep went to the cupboard where the candles were kept and gathered as many as she could without dropping them. Replacing and lighting the candles took nearly an hour, but by the task’s end, she was feeling wide awake and warm, and the sanctuary was well lit, as it was meant to be.

In an alcove at the back of the sanctuary was a small closet where Sweep kept a broom specifically for the sanctuary. The broom wasn’t special, but the Mother got cranky if she thought the sanctuary hadn’t been recently swept.

The sanctuary was a large room and so Sweep had developed a strategy—starting behind the dais, then sweeping the aisle, then between the pews, taking all the dust to the sides of the sanctuary. Once there, she’d sweep the sides until she was at the grand entryway to the sanctuary.

This job, too, took nearly an hour.

At the entryway, she put a hand on one of the great double doors and pushed it open. The doors were never locked; in fact there was no way to lock them as they were meant to always be open to any seeking entry to God’s house. The doors were large, made from solid wood carted from the coast where Kinswell, the capital of Khulanty, was. The doors were stained dark like the pews and carved with religious images. Prominently in the center of each was a large sunburst, the symbol of God. Along each hinge side, were the Eight Saints. Along the bottom of the doors were images of pious mortals, kneeling in prayer. Once a month, Sweep oiled the hinges and polished the copper handles.

Large as the doors were, they swung open easily and quietly. As soon as the door was open, a gust of chilled air pushed inside, carrying the scent of rain. It reminded Sweep of her dreams of the purple-eyed woman, and she smiled. The rain had stopped but the step leading from stone cobbled street to church door was still damp, washed clean.

Sweep slipped her slippers off, stepping out onto the cold, damp stone in her bare feet. She shivered and the hairs upon her arms and legs stood on end. The initial gust had scattered her careful dust pile from the sanctuary, but she re-gathered it and swept it out onto the stone step and then swept the step thoroughly, enjoying the wet stone on her bare feet.

When she was done, she made to move back inside, but stopped when she felt a raindrop strike her shoulder. The water soaked into her dress, and she relished the feeling for several moments before she looked at the grey sky and was graced with another droplet upon her forehead. That droplet suffused her with a tingly energy. It was a familiar feeling, the same she’d felt when first seeing the room in her mind. Just at the edge of hearing came the gentle chimes.

Sweep laughed and felt the power strengthen. She stared into the clouds as more drops pattered about her, streaks of water rushing toward the earth, and for a moment, her mind rushed to meet them, streaking away into the air.

She danced among the clouds, slipping between them, dodging and leaping about the cloudscape. Here, over the valley, the clouds dropped rain, but Sweep could feel that further up, where the clouds were piled atop the mountains in the west, snow fell in thick, wet flakes.

Below her spread the village of Appledel in the Valley of the Three Rivers, nestled in the Western Mountains of the Nation of Khulanty. Miles of orchards and farms hugged the threee rivers in an otherwise arid landscape. The farmland was fed by the three rivers, which eventually merged into the Grand River on the plains east of the valley.

All of this Sweep saw and knew from her place among the clouds. Then she fell, side by side with the other raindrops, she stretched to a streak of water and power. The ground neared at an exhilarating rate, but she felt no fear. She and the others struck but did not stop. They sank into the thirsty earth. Life, long since asleep, woke at her touch, stirred, and strove for the surface.

With a gasp, Sweep returned to herself, breathing hard and feeling as though she’d spent all day scrubbing every floor of Sacred Heart. The rain came more steadily now. She hurried inside, closed the door, and leaned against it. Her heart beat fast and her eyes were shut tight. She slowed her breathing, reminding herself of the meditation exercises used in prayer. Soon, she was able to breathe without gasping, and her muscles relaxed.

It was new and thrilling and frightening. Sweep had grown accustomed to the room in her mind, playing chess with her subconscious, and having access to books she’d never heard of. She had felt the tingly energy and heard the faint chimes since she’d been four years old. But leaping into a storm cloud and falling with the rain was a new development. Not for the first time, Sweep wondered if she was hallucinating.

Either way, there was work yet to be done. She took another breath to steady herself, slipped her slippers back on, and got to it.

Finished in the sanctuary, Sweep moved on to the dormitory hallways, acolytes’ first, orphans’ next. She swept methodically, gathering the debris into a dust pan and disposing of it at windows and side doors, trying to take refuge in the mundane task.

By the time she was finished sweeping the classrooms, the church bell sounded six-hour, alerting Sweep that breakfast was in five minutes. There was an entrance to the refectory near the classrooms, but that entrance was reserved for acolytes and sisters; orphans were forbidden to use it. To get to the orphans’ entrance, she would have to navigate the acolytes’ dormitories, through the hallway between the dormitories and the sanctuary, then through the orphans’ dormitories to the refectory entrance. However, the hour was early enough that acolytes and sisters might not yet be in the refectory.

For several moments, Sweep considered chancing use of the acolytes’ entrance, but she decided she didn’t want a beating so early in the morning. Instead, she walked as quickly as she dared on the circuitous route to the orphans’ entrance. To be caught running in the halls was to risk a beating as well.

Temperance was at the end of the line, looking anxiously down the hallway, when Sweep hurried around the corner. Temperance smiled with relief when she saw her.

“I thought you weren’t going to make it.”

Sweep tried to control her breathing. “You know I wouldn’t miss breakfast.”

The girls filed into the refectory and to the long wooden table nearest the orphans’ entrance. The other two tables were reserved for acolytes. Acolytes weren’t required to wake when orphans were, but even so there were a few girls at those tables. Sweep was relieved she’d made the effort to go the long way around. There was no one at the head table which redoubled Sweep’s relief. If the Mother saw her looking harried she might have decided to investigate. Further, it meant she could eat without worrying about having to use her right hand instead of her left.

The girls sat, Sweep and Temperance at the end of the table, a little separated from the others. The orphans who had kitchen duty in the early morning filed into the refectory from the door near the head table. They carried trays laden with bowls of porridge. The tray was set on the table and the girls each took a bowl. Sweep ate heartily, her early morning work awaking adolescent hunger.

Someone nearby sighed. “What I wouldn’t give for a taste of strawberry.”

Sweep looked up. It was Lillyfield, a petite girl who had the habit of staring off in a dreamy sort of way.

Another girl, Faith, leaned forward and whispered. “Yesterday morning, when I was in the kitchen…” she paused and looked around dramatically. Several orphan girls leaned in, and Faith played to the audience by raising her eyebrows dramatically. “I snitched one and gobbled it down.”

“No!” exclaimed someone further down the table.

“Wasn’t Cook angry with you?” asked Lillyfield.

“That fat old nag?” Faith dismissed Cook, “She didn’t even notice.”

“I tried that once.” Lillyfield said. “Cook rapped my knuckles with that spoon she carries.”

Some of the girls laughed.

“She did you a favor,” said Sweep. She knew she would win no friends by speaking up, but Cook, a recent addition to Sacred Heart, was a good woman, and Sweep didn’t like what Faith had said about her. Besides, it wasn’t wise to brag about breaking the rules. Though the other orphans were not her friends, Sweep strove to reduce the number of victims at Sacred Heart.

The other orphans quieted down. Sweep looked up from her bowl of porridge and down the table to see Lillyfield glaring at her.

“What do you mean?” Lillyfield demanded. “Don’t I deserve a berry once in a while?”

Sweep shrugged. “I wouldn’t know. But I do know that if the Mother found out, you’d have gotten more than a rap on the knuckles.”

“How would Mother find out?” Faith demanded.

Sweep shifted her gaze to Faith who looked about nervously instead of smugly, no longer proud of her burglary.

Sweep shrugged again, but then nodded her head to those few acolytes in the refectory. Several orphans looked at the acolytes and the acolytes hurriedly looked away.

“Thanks a lot, Sweep,” Faith muttered. “Now see what you’ve done?”

Sweep didn’t respond; she was used to being blamed.

“They’ll probably run straight to Mother,” said Lillyfield.

Faith groaned and shot another glare at Sweep.

“It’s not her fault,” Temperance objected. “You shouldn’t have bragged and you shouldn’t have stolen.”

“You don’t always have to take her side,” Faith snapped. “Sweep can’t do anything to you. She’s just unclean. It’s not like she has magic or anything.”

Some of the other girls giggled at the notion.

Temperance opened her mouth to speak again, but Sweep tapped her friend’s knee lightly under the table, the signal to let the confrontation pass. The other girls liked Temperance, they pitied her for having to share a room with Sweep. Sweep didn’t want Temperance to have to deal abuse from the other orphans just because of her.

The mid-hour bell tolled and the girls on kitchen duty emerged to collect the bowls from breakfast. Sweep finished off her porridge before standing. She and Temperance began collecting bowls as well while other girls made their way to morning lessons.

“I’ve warned them before about talking where the acolytes can hear,” Sweep whispered.

