Temperance nodded, but when she spoke, it was to change the subject. “I hate washing dishes,” she complained as they carried the bowls into the kitchen. “My hands get all wrinkly and gross.”

“It beats cooking,” Sweep countered.

“What was that?” snapped a harsh voice.

Sweep and Temperance jumped. Sweep spun around, an apology on her lips, when she saw Cook’s stern face. Cook was a large woman with butter-colored hair and eyes like the sky. Cook had been at Sacred Heart just less than a year, and Sweep liked her far better than the previous cook, a thin old sister called Dora. Cook had never hit Sweep for making a mistake in the kitchen, despite Sweep’s many, many mistakes. It was said she was from an island in the south where it was always winter, but Cook never spoke on the subject.

“Did I hear you correctly, young Sweep?” Cook demanded. “Do you mean to tell me you consider cooking beneath you?”

Sweep held her smile in check. “No, ma’am,” she replied and gave a bow, balancing her bowls. “I consider it beyond me. Besides, everyone knows that any meal I help cook ends up with twice as many dishes to clean. If they all haven’t been broken that is.”

Cook’s grim expression melted into loud laughter. Some of the other orphans even joined in. Other than Temperance, Cook was the only person at Sacred Heart who Sweep could relax around.

“All right girls, you know what to do, Sweep, Lillyfield, Midnight, and Joy, to the sinks. Temperance, Hope, and Charity help me at the counter.”

Sweep sighed. She had hoped she might have Temperance to talk to while she cleaned dishes, but she knew Temperance detested the chore and so could not begrudge her friend her minor fortune. For her part, she focused upon her task, ignoring the other girls’ chatter.

The dishes went slowly because the others were more interested in gossip than chores. Occasionally, those assigned to dish washing went out into the refectory to collect the dirty dishes of the sisters and acolytes finished with breakfast. When Sister Dora had been in charge of the kitchen, she made Sweep collect dishes from the refectory by herself, but since Cook had taken over, everyone on dish duty was required to take a turn.

When they were done, Lillyfield, Midnight, and Joy were all happy to have their hands out of the soapy water and went to Cook for further instructions. Sweep joined them slowly.

When Cook looked at her, the woman pursed her lips, considering the situation, then pointed at a mixing spoon and bowl of flour meant to be bread dough. Sweep bit her lip apprehensively.

“Don’t look at me like that, child,” Cook chided her, “You can mix without ruining it, I’m certain.”

Sweep looked at her warily. “Don’t you remember last time?” Cook made a face but pointed to the bowl and mixing spoon. Against her better judgment, but with determination, Sweep approached the bowl and began to mix.

When the next bell sounded, the girls finished the tasks they’d been assigned while Cook inspected.

“All right,” she hollered, “off to lessons with you.”

Sweep set her bowl upon the counter and dusted off her hands. But when she turned to leave she heard a crash behind her. Spinning around, she found her bowl dashed and bread dough splattered upon the stone floor. Sweep gasped and bent to clean the mess, instinctively bracing herself for a blow. Though Sister Dora would have hit her, Cook didn’t.

“No, girl. I’ll tend it. I swear you’re cursed.”

Sweep looked up at Cook. “I’m sorry.”

“Think nothing of it, child. The Weaver girl is ill I hear, and you’re assigned to tend her. I’ll take care of this.”

“But it’s my fault.”

“No. I should have known better than to assign you a cooking task. It never ends well when I do. Off with you. Hurry up.”

Sweep got to her feet and hurried from the kitchen and through the refectory. Temperance had waited for her at the entrance to the orphan’s dormitories.

“We’re going to be late for lessons,” Temperance chided.

“I’m not going to lessons,” Sweep reminded her. “I have to attend Acolyte Weaver.”

“Oh.” Temperance made a face. “I forgot.”

“Will you tutor me after dinner tonight?”

“Of course.” Temperance leaned forward and gave Sweep a quick kiss on the cheek. “For luck,” she said, then disappeared down the hall.

Sweep watched her go, then made her way to the acolytes’ dormitories and Lana Weaver’s room. The acolytes’ dormitories were not cold stone like the orphans’, but wood-paneled and well-lighted, swept clean every morning, usually by Sweep. Each door in the acolytes’ dormitories held a small metal plaque bearing the name of its resident. Sweep had heard of Lana, the girl was from a wealthy family, as were most of the acolytes. Lana was new, she had only been at Sacred Heart a month.

Finding Lana’s door, Sweep knocked once and waited.

“Come in,” Acolyte Weaver called.

The acolytes’ rooms weren’t much larger than those of the orphans, but they weren’t shared. Thick rugs covered the floors, and the bed was twice the size of those the orphans used.

Sweep closed the door behind her and bowed. “Good morning, Acolyte.”

Acolyte Weaver was sitting up in bed, propped by several pillows, reading a small book. She rested the book on her lap and looked at Sweep.

“Oh, hello. You’re Sweep.”

Sweep bowed again. “Are you feeling well enough for breakfast?”

“Yes,” said Lana. “I shall have fruit and spiced cider. And toast with butter and a small bowl of cream.”

Sweep struggled with her surprise. Acolytes were not allowed to order whatever they liked from the kitchen, and if Acolyte Weaver was too sick to attend classes, she would be receiving whatever breakfast Sister Clarice determined was best for her. Sweep wavered between warning the girl and letting her reap the consequences.

“Well?” Lana demanded.

Sweep steeled herself, and tried to help. “Acolyte, it is my duty as an orphan to tend you, but I can’t bring you a breakfast like that. Cook and…”

Acolyte Weaver’s face flushed. “How dare you defy me, motherless girl?” She threw a pillow at Sweep that flew far from its mark.

Sweep didn’t flinch. “I’m not defying you. I’m trying to help. Cook and…”

“I don’t care what that horrid giantess thinks. Bring me my breakfast.”

Sweep hesitated. How many times could her warning be rebuffed before the cause was well and truly lost?

Acolyte Weaver narrowed her eyes and took on a haughty look that Sweep recognized. “I have plenty of experience dealing with rebellious servants back home. Shall I take my hand to you, unclean orphan?”

Sweep shook her head. It was obvious her warnings weren’t wanted and weren’t helping. Acolyte Weaver was just like the Mother Superior, a perfect little tyrant certain of her authority and ready to demonstrate it with force on a whim.

Sweep bowed, departed, and made her way back to the kitchen, walking briskly so anyone who saw her would know she as on an errand and wouldn’t stop her.

When she reached the kitchen, she paused in the doorway. Sister Clarice was in the kitchen, talking to Cook. Sister Clarice was the foremost healer at Sacred Heart. She looked up at Sweep’s presence.

“What is it, Sweep?”

Sweep stepped forward and bowed. “Pardon me, Sister, but Acolyte Weaver has asked me to bring her breakfast.”

Sister Clarice nodded once. “Cook has prepared the broth.”

Sweep hesitated again. She could take the broth to Acolyte Weaver and suffer whatever frustration the other girl decided to deal, or she could tell Sister Clarice and let her deal with the acolyte. The former was likely to get her another pillow thrown at her, along with further verbal abuse. The other was likely to get Acolyte Weaver a scolding. A scolding, Sweep decided, wasn’t so bad. At least that way, Acolyte Weaver would know what was expected of an ill acolyte.

“Pardon, Sister, but Acolyte Weaver has asked for something else.”

The sister frowned. “I see. In that case, I shall tend to Acolyte Weaver for the morning. You tend to her chores.”

Sweep bowed. “Yes, Sister.”

• • •

“Sister Jayne said you must recite the whole poem from memory tomorrow during lessons.”

Sweep looked at the part of the Scriptures Temperance was pointing at, and groaned. It was Saint Lucius’ Winter Proclamation. She knew it, but not by memory. “Well, perhaps Acolyte Weaver will pretend be sick again tomorrow, and I won’t have to do it.”

Temperance looked dubious. “I don’t think Sister Jayne will consider that an adequate excuse.”

“No excuse is adequate for Sister Jayne,” agreed Sweep.

The bell tolled eighteen-hour and Sweep set aside the book. “Well, it will have to wait. I’m not going to miss dinner.” The girls left their room to join the others lining up in the hall to the orphan’s entrance to the refectory.

Dinner, as always, was hard bread and thin soup and plain water. Once dinner was in place, Mother Superior stood at the head table and the sisters followed her lead, prompting the girls to do so as well. When everyone was standing, the Mother bowed her head and everyone followed her example.

The Mother delivered a lengthy prayer, starting with the heresy of celebrating Newyear as though it were one of the Saint’s Holydays. None at Sacred Heart did so, but Sweep knew the villagers of Appledel did. Their celebrations would be heard late into the night. The Mother then moved to extolling the virtues of humility and disparaging petty theft. A few places down from her, Sweep noticed Faith and Lillyfield squirming uncomfortably, faces puffy and red.

“So be it truth,” said the Mother, and everyone in the room echoed her. The Mother sat, then the sisters, then the acolytes, and finally the orphans.

The soup was thin but lightly salted, and the bread wasn’t more than a day old; Sweep ate enthusiastically. No matter how bland the food, Sweep enjoyed eating and never wasted the opportunity.

She tried to focus on eating and ignore the conversation around her, but she still heard the chatter about Faith and Lillyfield’s punishment and blame falling at her feet. Twice today, first with Faith and then with Acolyte Weaver, Sweep had tried to warn someone, to help them avoid trouble, and both times she had failed.

Sweep was caught in her thoughts, so when Temperance nudged her, it was a surprise. Sweep looked around to see the Mother walking toward them. Once again, Sweep had let herself miss the sound of the Mother’s distinctive stride. Belatedly, she shifted her spoon to her right hand.

The girls around Sweep grew quiet as the Mother approached, rod of office held firmly in one hand. Sweep saw the woman out of the corner of her eye, but kept her gaze on her meal. She held still, her left hand flat on the table, her right clenched about the spoon, and tried to breathe evenly so as to keep from shaking. The Mother stopped behind her and just to her left.

When she felt the Mother move, Sweep tensed. The rod blurred as it arced toward her left hand, cracking across her knuckles. Sweep grit her teeth; barely a squeak escaped.

“Overuse of the left hand is a sinister omen,” the Mother declared in a voice that carried throughout the room.

“Yes, Mother,” Sweep replied. She cringed inwardly knowing the Mother would view the response as intractable.

The rod struck again, this time across her shoulders.

“Do not take that tone with me, orphan child.”

“Yes, Mother.”

Conversation in the refectory ceased; none moved. Those eyes not fixed to the table in fear, watched in anticipation. Sweep felt a familiar chiming in her ears and held to it tightly. It helped to ease the pain.

“Does it amuse you to disrespect me?”

Sweep bit her tongue, but the rod fell against her back, nevertheless. She sucked air between her teeth and held herself off the table with shaking arms and willpower.

“There is nothing about you that is not sinister and unclean,” the Mother proclaimed in the voice she used for sermons, and she struck again.

“You have never shown the proper respect,”

Again,

“You are a lazy child, ungrateful for my kindness,”

Again,

“And your unnatural, white hair is disgusting,”

Again.

Sweep leaned over the table, crying silently. Her forehead rested against the wood, tears pooling upon its surface. Still, her spoon was clutched in her right hand. She’d had worse. None of these blows, she thought, would add to the collection of scars on her back.

The Mother leaned down and whispered in Sweep’s ear. “I’d shave you completely if a girl without hair wasn’t worse than one with white hair. I’d beat you daily if I thought it would do any good. As it is, the only reason I don’t turn you out is my oath to care for any girl brought to me.”

The Mother straightened then and looked around the room. For several moments, none moved and all were silent. Then the Mother’s rod flashed.

Temperance screamed in pain and surprise. Many jumped at the sudden sound.

“Next time, stay out of it,” came the Mother’s merciless advice.

• • •

Night had fallen on Newyear, on Sweep’s twelfth birthday. Some few celebrants still tottered through the streets, but the village had largely fallen quiet. Though she appreciated Temperance remembering the date, Sweep was more grateful that no one had realized her founday coincided with the false Holyday.

Sweep stood upon the front step of the church, sweeping. Clouds obscured the moon, but it did not rain. The ache of the beating made her movements stiff. She wept. It was not the ache that humbled her; it was that Temperance had been caught in her struggle against the Mother Superior.

Sweep disliked the Mother, as did most orphans. The Mother belittled them and beat them, and that was reason enough, but Sweep also knew the Mother was wrong about a lot of things. The Mother hated, and lashed out, and was unfair. These actions, Sweep was certain, weren’t the will of God and his Eight Saints. The Mother was not as pious as she pretended.

“Sweeping isn’t so bad, is it?”

Sweep looked up to see a man clad in the rough and stained clothes of a wanderer. On a length of cord around his neck, he wore the sunburst, marking him a Son of God. His hair was grey and his face was lined where it wasn’t covered with a grey beard. He smiled at her.

He wasn’t the first man Sweep had ever seen, many of the villagers who attended the Mother’s sermons were men, but it was the first time a man had addressed her.

Sweep lowered her eyes. “No sir. In fact, I rather enjoy sweeping. It gives me time alone with my thoughts”

“Then why are you crying?” he persisted.

“Other things, sir.”

“You need not lower your eyes to me, child.”

