Star Song’s Clan Mountain was divided into roughly three sections, like a cake. The bottom section held many public-ish spaces, such as the Gathering Room that Ezekiel had attended a few nights ago, inner disciple dorm rooms which were cramped but not too badly cramped, and many cafeterias and other such ‘public’ spaces that Ezekiel had seen, but not visited. From what he had heard before now and gotten the chance to see only a few times, the inner disciples, located mainly here, were afforded a great deal more prestige and learning than the initiates and outer disciples who lived at other locations inside and around Eralis, at other, smaller locations.

The second layer of Star Song’s mountain held the main classrooms and a few Elder offices, as well as a few operational spaces of varying needs. Rooms full of weapons next to rooms without any weapons; armory and training space. Multiple rooms full of books; personal collections as well as an obvious library. Rooms which were blocked from his mana sense, layered with lead walls. There were also quite a few places in the center of the mountain that were blocked from his mana sense because of magic, instead of being hidden due to anti-magic.

The second layer was also home to many ‘public’ spaces located on the exterior of the mountain. The stone courtyard where Ezekiel handed out the Intelligence ring was on this second level.

The top third of the structure belonged to a few nice gardens and forests, and many smaller, private houses, but was mainly dominated by three wooden pagodas that rose from the three peaks of the carved-out mountain, like grand decorations on an even grander cake. The two smaller pagodas were each roughly twice the size of his own three-story mansion, back in Spur. Each of those pagodas looked exactly the same, with one pagoda located northwest of the central peak, and the other pagoda located south.

The central pagoda resembled the other two pagodas, but larger. It was a minor skyscraper at nine stories tall and half that wide, only decreasing a little in diameter with each subsequent upper floor.

Now that they were closer to the south pagoda, which seemed to be their destination, Ezekiel could mana sense the inside of the structure.

It was nice inside. Everything was made of wood and cloth and was the height of luxury. There were people inside, too. Servants, for sure, but also higher ranking people on the second and third floors. The place certainly had more room for more people than what it currently held, so Ezekiel wasn’t worried about being cramped. Which rooms were his? On the fourth floor?

Ah! And he knew those people on the second and third floor. Well that was interesting, but he’d meet them sooner or later, for sure.

But what was also interesting was the building itself.

Disregarding all the embellishments of wood, and paint, and strengthening wards, and everything that was not actually structural, Clan Star Song’s entire clan mountain was constructed mainly of stone. Probably. It was a dense stone at the bottom, but up here, it got denser. Some parts were incredibly dense, in fact, but up here, that density was made apparent in the structure of the ‘wooden’ pagodas. They were not wood at all; the pillars and rafters, floors, walls, and otherwise, were made of the same super dense stone as the rest of the place.

… But was it stone, at all? Ezekiel saw few anti-[Stoneshape] runes in the place, now that he started to really count and notice them. They were certainly there, but there weren’t many of them. Not enough for a mountain of this size, at any rate. Maybe just to protect the stone that was directly near to them?

Elder Arilitilo had explained most of what Ezekiel had seen, as she guided him through the mountain, and other people got out of their way. She even mentioned, a few times, that his accommodations would be his for as long as he desired. She pointed out her offices, and Xue’s offices, and a few other important locations. She pointed out the location of her house on the edge of the third floor; should Ezekiel need to find her and she wasn’t anywhere else, he could leave a message there with the staff.

But she didn’t mention the density of the stone at all.

As the southern pagoda loomed and the open archway ahead led to the first floor, Ari said, “Southern House is the guest house of Clan Star Song, and as such, we have a few people in residence.”

“I am happy to have neighbors. I wasn’t expecting to see the Scion of Devouring Nightmare again, or here, though.”

They stepped into the first floor of Southern House, and the foyer was exactly as opulent as Ezekiel had already seen. Dark wood floors that were not wood at all. Cream colored plaster that covered a stone-or-maybe-not wall. Red and gold running carpets. Round windows with nice views of the surrounding Alluvial District. Vases on pedestals. Running water in a central fountain that was surrounded by a coiling sculpture of Rozeta that reminded Ezekiel of the Rutherford model of the atom, but more stylized and not very atomic at all. Rozeta was chasing hovering pearls, though, so that was kinda funny in an odd sort of way.

Above the sculpture was open air; a hole in the center of the pagoda that ended at the fifth floor. Staircases to the sides of the fountain coiled up and down through the pagoda, twisting around in a double helix, to landings where bedrooms and other rooms waited.

The top two floors seemed to be relaxation spaces, or something like that, with the top floor completely open to the world, and lounges scattered around for people to sit on.

The main kitchen was down here, beyond the sculpture of Rozeta, and already filled with people who were putting together dinner and otherwise. It was evening already, and the operation inside that kitchen was an undertaking, with at least ten cooks already hard at it.

Looking up, the rooms had kitchens, too, but they seemed small. The kitchens of the current occupants on the second and third floor appeared small, and also in disuse. Nobles weren’t supposed to cook for themselves, and Ezekiel wasn’t comfortable with that, but he was glad his room still held the option.

Ari paused inside the pagoda, and Ezekiel paused beside her.

She said, “As you have seen, Scion Hangzi Devouring Nightmare is currently in residence, as well as his younger brother Warzi, his aunt Yorza, and their attendants and guards. High Clan Devouring Nightmare is in town to oversee our progress with chelation, and so they are rooming here, on the second and third floors. You will have the fourth floor to yourself.”

“Huh.” Ezekiel asked, “That kid who was outside our Healing Magic lesson? Warzi?”

Ari gave a small, polite smile, and said, “You may be as informal with them as you wish, Scion Ezekiel, but most of us would call our betters ‘master’, at the very least. Young Master Warzi was indeed in the hallway during our lesson. Scion Hangzi and his aunt, Mistress Yorza, are often found in our potion houses, or whatever other operations they desire to inspect, as is their right as High Clan.”

Ezekiel stepped back, bowed quickly, and said, “Thank you for your guidance.”

Ari glanced outside at the grey skies and the dimming light, then asked, “Do you have plans for dinner?”

“Not yet. Do you have any suggestions?”

“I do.” Ari said, “Our Cooks here are some of the best in the world. If you have anything specific you wish to have, let them know before and they can likely create whatever you wish. The servants in this house are here to see to your mundane needs, at any hour of the day. Please take advantage of our hospitality. It would not be bragging to say that the fare here has satisfied many members of High Clans long before now, and will continue to satisfy all those who come after.” She added, “Besides that, I recommend you try some of the restaurants in Eralis. I am fond of a place called the Open Kitchen, down on Tiralis Road. There is a small guidebook in your room that can direct you to other locations.”

“I look forward to whatever is offered, and whatever I can find.”

“Let me know if I can make something more comfortable for you. Do you have any questions before I go?”

“Yes! What is this dense stone?” Ezekiel tapped the floor with his feet. “It’s layered everywhere, but it’s highly present up here.”

“Ah!” Ari smirked, saying, “This is one of the many secrets of the Clans that I cannot tell an outsider, no matter how much they have assisted us. I can tell you that the stone you are seeing will not warp under [Stoneshape], or any normal application of that line of spells, and that it is much lighter than stone. Many people with a good mana sense say it is dense, but it is merely strong. It is actually rather light. Without it, we would never have been able to build our fortresses as high or as decorative as we have.”

“Oh! That’s… That’s fascinating. Interesting way around that [Stoneshape] problem, isn’t it? Just… Just make a spell that Shapes items that no one else can Shape! That’s some nice lateral thinking. Okay. Well.” Ezekiel said, “Thank you for the guided tour, and the lessons— Ah. What about [Teleport] and such? And [Ward]ing? Are those frowned upon? Inside my rooms?”

Ari smiled softly at Ezekiel’s exuberance. She said, “Now that you are a guest, entering and leaving your rooms is perfectly acceptable, but other than that, please keep the Spatial movements to a minimum. Protecting your rooms is also done at your own discretion. Thank you for coming to Star Song, Ezekiel.” Ari said, “I will be seeing you soon.”

“See you later.”

Ezekiel watched her go, then turned to his people, asking, ‘So that seemed okay?’

Tiffany snorted, then moved ahead, saying, ‘I already know which bed is mine!’

Paul just shrugged, sending, ‘We’re not in any immediate danger.’

Ezekiel smiled at that. Paul’s proclamation was good enough for him!

The three of them went upstairs.

The rooms were great. The neighbors were in their own rooms, but they were all doing their own things behind closed doors, and did not seem to care that other people had moved in above them. Maybe they didn’t hear. The floors and walls were damn solid, and well insulated. They muffled the sound well. Whatever material the walls and floors were made out of was nice.

Ezekiel guessed it was carbon fiber, or some other application of carbon.

Something with great molecular bonding, for sure, since that was one possible answer for how something that looked dense was actually light. Gems and crystals and such were denser than other solids, like wood, because of the structure of the item itself.

But Ezekiel recognized that he might be seeing something that wasn’t there. He wanted someone else to have invented this much Particle Magic long ago, without truly understanding what they had done.

Wouldn’t that be neat!

How would the creator have gone about making such a spell, though?

They’d have to isolate the parts of the 2 kilometer tall trees of the Deep Forest of Glaquin, for sure. Those trees were dense, like this, too.

… And that was where the dragons were.

Huh.

Okay. Shove that thought to the side for a moment.

The walls here were about as dense as trees of the Forest of Glaquin, which might have naturally occurring graphene or carbon nanotubes inside them, as those things were also super dense but able to grow that tall without collapsing under their own weight. Slices of those super large trees were everywhere in Treehome... But… They were heavy as stone. Hm. Okay. Dead line of thought there—

No. Wait.

The slices of trees still had water weight. Which meant that the living trees were still subject to weight concerns. Water was heavy, yo! Did the dried wood weigh less? It likely did. This was something to check out— He could just ask Tiffany.

But those trees were alive, and living things could make themselves lighter through magic, negating their own water weight. Ah. Yes. That’s that mystery solved. Those Deep Forest trees made themselves lighter with magic. Ezekiel saw a lot of magic in those trees all the time.

Gravity was strange on Veird in that once you got below the surface, many things that should collapse, did not collapse. Mountains even floated down there, like they did in the Brightwater, which was 30 kilometers below the surface. But on the surface, things got heavy and sank. Tenebrae’s floating castle was a big deal, because it existed outside of the Underworld. Other large structures on the surface were big deals, too, like this clan mountain under Ezekiel’s feet. Tenebrae’s castle was surely stone, though, wasn’t it?

There were many ways to magic, and many of them were not obvious.

So maybe this stuff here in Star Song’s clan mountain wasn’t carbon nanotubes at all.

Ezekiel discarded that train of thought, and tried another.

The stone here was not ‘stone’, and it probably wasn’t ‘tree’, not exactly, so then it had to be some [Stonetreeshape] spell, or something? ‘Tree’ had to be in there somewhere, since there were ‘root-like’ structures that went through the whole of the mountain… Though they certainly didn’t look like roots. They looked like rebar. But they could be roots, if one were to think outside the box.

Okay. He was getting way off track. And now he had another thought to occupy himself.

Ezekiel had the [Tree of Light] spell and Yggdrasil used that spell on himself all the time. [Tree of Light] made Yggdrasil practically weightless. The large trees of the Forest likely used the same sort of magic, but different. The arbors also used similar magic, for sure.

