Elder Mirizo Star Song leaned back in his chair, behind his desk, frowning.

Sikali wasn’t happy, either.

Mirizo was one of three Elders of Enforcement, and had been for the last thirty three years, but Sikali rarely ever saw this particular boss of hers. She usually worked for the other two Elders of Enforcement, doing exterior work. This was why Mirizo contacted her when it came time to find their lost alchemist, for that was both an interior and exterior job. Mirizo had himself been contacted by Elder Doniro, for Mirizo was the Elder in charge of ensuring smooth operations inside Eralis, and that meant when the branch families or lesser Clans needed some proper Enforcing done of their own.

Elder Mirizo was a politician, and for this reason, Sikali rarely worked with the man. She found the simplicity of proper Enforcing to be a beautiful thing, but not when it got mired in politics. She didn’t care about which son of whatever clan was summoning demons, or which baker on which street was cutting the bread they baked with plaster. All she needed to know was that her targets needed to die, and so, when she went out on assignment, the guilt of her targets was assessed, and then her targets were never heard from again. This was why Sikali had been tasked with finding Tadashi…

Elder Mirizo had it out for Sikali, but she still didn’t know why. It was infuriating.

This recent shit storm with Alchemist Tadashi had upset the grain carts of multiple intertwined assets of Eralis. Sikali had failed to pull Tadashi out of the proverbial fire before they all got burned, and thus, Mirizo was now deeply involved.

Thus, Sikali was punished for her failure to retrieve the alchemist, and thus, she was talking to Mirizo again, for the tenth time in three days.

This was all a punishment, for sure. But why, though?

If only she had gained that fortuitous encounter with Tadashi in the Tribulation Mountains, instead of Scion Phoenix. If only she skipped the play, like Xue had wanted, and they had investigated Scion Phoenix before the truth of his station was revealed.

… Sikali wasn’t quite sure how such an actual encounter with Ezekiel would have changed things, but something would have been different. She wouldn’t be working this closely with Elder Mirizo, at least, and that’s for damn sure.

With disdain upon his face, Elder Mirizo demanded, “Report, Enforcer Sikali.”

Sikali Star Song stated, “Alchemist Tadashi’s reintegration into the Potion House of Diligent Scribe has been a small scale disaster. He has only been back for a day, and the man has managed to break a dozen expensive [Ward]s and wilt three expensive treasures, including an Arbor Seed, a Thunder Nettle, and a patch of Radiant Grass. He claims the Arbor Seed was an accident, and it might have been, but the second and third were the result of a War Response and his own bad positioning. In his rush to rid the building of himself, he walked the quickest path outside, and thus killed the other two treasured plants. He is now near-inconsolable, and is being tended to by Elder Doniro’s servants.”

Mirizo said, “It seems you are capable enough when it suits you.”

Sikali did not respond to the barb. Of course she could subtly enforce certain events to happen, but most of the time it was beneath her to use anything except utmost force. She was an Enforcer; not a lackey.

It occurred to Sikali, that in addition to the obvious reasons for her current punishment patrol and assignment, she had overstepped herself the other day when she spoke of ‘butt boys’ to Elder Doniro and Mirizo. And thus, she was being forced to work for Mirizo, and forced to use underhanded means to ensure Star Song’s continued prosperity.

Elder Mirizo asked, “Are they working to make him a separate Potion House?”

“There have been whispers, but nothing solid.”

“What of his brother? Any news since his attempt to break through containment and get to Tadashi?”

“There is renewed talk of exiling Alchemist Wabi from Diligent Scribe, mostly centered around the fact that Tadashi was captured, but Wabi escaped, and no one has been happy with Wabi’s excuses. Since Tadashi’s return, both brothers have expressed desire to see the other, but Doniro is not letting that happen. Tadashi’s containment is well constructed and likely to deepen, and Wabi knows this. He is not happy about this, either.”

“Has Tadashi expressed words about his brother?”

“He wishes to see his brother if only to scream at him, though I doubt that portion of their conversation would last very long. The only thing standing in the way of such a meeting is Diligent Scribe, itself, for they strongly wish to acquire Tadashi’s invention.” Sikali said, “Unbeknownst to me until after I started this proper investigation—” If she had known, or been allowed to know, she certainly would have done a better job. For one, she wouldn’t have gone out to that damned play. “—Tadashi’s invention has thrown every single protocol of Diligent Scribe’s Potion House into complete disarray, and the truth of this full upheaval was revealed today when a man bypassed the usual chain of command and came right up to the Clan House and complained to Elder Doniro’s face about missing mana potions. They want what Tadashi made, and they’ve stopped everything they were currently doing in order to make this happen. Over four of their exterior Potion Houses are already working on what he pioneered.”

Mirizo narrowed his eyes. “How large is the information breach?”

“They are openly speaking of it within the Potion House. It is a matter of hours before the rest of Clan Society knows.”

And what a strange creation it was! The greater outcome upon high-tier society would be immense, if any other nation but the Highlands were to get their hands on it, but only if Tadashi could make it work. But if Tadashi actually could get his potion to work as intended, then…

The Highlands were sure to go through another bloody expansion period. Maybe to the north, into the Warring Clan lands. The Highlands would do well to control the headwaters of the Wanzhi river.

And wouldn’t that be fun! Now there was some proper Enforcing.

Elder Mirizo stood up from his desk, a look of scheming upon his face. “It is time for me to step in.”

Having easily seen through Mirizo’s plot and desiring to cut it down to something quicker, Sikali spoke up, “I can make the man come to Star Song if you wish, Elder. There is no need for this subterfuge.”

Elder Mirizo glared. “If I wish for several dozen swords to appear in the backs of the Potion Masters, Professors, Teachers, and Elders of Diligent Scribe, I will consult you, but until Diligent Scribe decides they don’t like being a branch family of Star Song, this is your punishment, Sikali. We do not raise our hands to each other. We do not harm our own—”

Sikali almost laughed.

“—Your bloodlust does us all a disservice at the moment, and until you learn that, or until I grow tired of hammering that into your head, then you will do as I wish, and nothing more.”

Sikali kept her mouth shut. She let her raging emotions flow through her, and away; she was a rock in the stream and would not be moved by her desire for blood. Not in the face of her Elder, anyway.

Mirizo waited for Sikali to say something, but she did not.

Mirizo said, “Let me know the second that Scion Phoenix attempts contact.”

Sikali briefly saw red, and then she let that go.

Mirizo noticed, and not only because he was purposefully baiting and waiting for such a response. He said, “You are a naked blade, Sikali, and no one has ever bothered to rein you in, but I have been given the opportunity to do so, and I will. Get used to this assignment. You will be on this case until either Tadashi creates his potion, or I deem the endeavor useless. Fuck it up, and you’ll get worse assignments.”

Yup. Sikali did not like Mirizo.

“Keep your watch. Keep your team active. You are dismissed.”

Sikali tapped her chest with her fist, saying, “By your command.”

- - - -

The day before yesterday, they had dropped Tadashi off with his people, had a confrontation with a few other Scions, and then went back to the hotel, since it was only a few hours since sunset, anyway. They ate dinner at The Sour House, and went to bed and got some good sleep in preparation for a large tomorrow. Ezekiel used a [Prismatic Ward] throughout the room this time, since that ship had already sailed once Tadashi saw them use the spell. 9000 mana from an Odin turned into a 54,000 point Solid Ward around their room. They’d be safe from most threats, which was good enough.

Yesterday began with shopping in the city of Darzallia, the suburb outside of Eralis, in order to turn their monster cores into gold. They tried to spend that gold on new clothes as befitting their stations, only to fail.

The robes, sashes, and accoutrements of Scions and the Scion-adjacent were well outside of their budget of 75 gold. It seemed that some things about the economy of the Highlands were the same as they were in Spur. Ezekiel and his people could have gotten clothes of almost any style for dozens of silvers, at the most, but the colors of such clothing would have been limited to browns or tans, or off-white. Actual good clothes, made in any color other than the ‘peasant colors’, would up the price to tens of gold for a single piece.

Going from cotton to silk, or to the even rarer spider-silk, was an even larger jump of, in some cases, a hundred gold per square foot of fabric used. At least in the case of spider-silk, Ezekiel understood that price, but everything else was the way it was because of the law of the land dictating certain price floors.

There was no law against wearing colors ‘outside of your station’, but from the hints the sellers gave Ezekiel, there didn’t need to be laws of those sort; wearing such ostentatious clothes would draw the eye of any noble he should happen to meet, which would likely not be a good thing.

Certain jobs with certain uniforms were exempt from this price increase, the most common exceptions being the blue and white clothes of various couriers, and any clothes one made themselves.

And so, Ezekiel ended up thanking every clothier they met for their time, but not buying a single thing. They did eat a nice lunch, though, spending little for food, before they killed the afternoon by going back to the Tribulation Mountains and killing more Mist Stone Gluttons. At the end of that excursion, they were now up to 162 gold, which was more than enough to give 40 to everyone for their own purposes. Maybe they would go hunting for gluttons when they got low again, but that shouldn’t happen for at least a few days.

And then they were back at The Sour House, for another night spent in Darzallia, where they got some good sleep in preparation for a larger tomorrow.

They woke up to birds singing outside, just as they had the previous morning. Nothing untoward had happened at all, for the second night in a row. This boded well for the future, and Ezekiel said so.

Julia stirred brown sugar into her bowl of congee as she said, “I’m almost disappointed we haven't been attacked.”

“Let’s not tempt fate quite so hard, please,” Paul said, also dumping brown sugar into his congee.

Tiffany stirred redberry jam into her white breakfast glop, saying, “If we see that green guy again and he says a single thing about me, I am going to punch him in the face. I’m telling you ahead of time so that you’re not mad when it happens.”

Ezekiel smiled as he cracked an egg into his congee, and then stirred the bright orange into the disintegrated rice. The egg cooked in the heat of the meal, as he said, “He expects you to punch him, you know.”

“Oh yeah. I know. Still gonna do it, though.” Tiffany said, “He looked thick enough to be a Juggernaut, so I bet he’ll test his Immovable Object against mine. Probably what he tried to do before White Boy interrupted him.”

Julia eyed her, and asked, “What would happen there? Immovable Object versus Immovable Object?”

“Heavy damage to both.” Tiffany smiled. “But I can take more damage than him.”

Ezekiel changed the subject, saying, “So, Julia? Want to try to weave threads into cloth and then into clothes, after breakfast?”

“Yes.” Julia said, “I can only make white thread, but we could go hunting for a specific spider called the Nacreous Weaver. Or more like, we could go hunting for an idea of where some hidden groves of them might exist. They’re impossible to keep in captivity.” She added, “But that’s for making threads of every color. For specific colors, there’s the Blood Weaver, for red, or— Heh. A Ballooning Spider for transparent. Don’t know about any others— Oh. There’s the Sand Weaver that makes tan and brown threads.”

“Should’ve gotten a Balloon Spider when they were falling out of the sky,” Tiffany teased.

“Yeah yeah.” Julia said, “I am reminded, once again, of that fact.”

“They have to have some spideries around here, somewhere.” Ezekiel asked, “Or? Are there?”

“They exist.” Paul said, “They’re rather guarded locations, though. You’d have to get an invite from a noble, for sure.”

“Maybe we can get one. We’ll check, anyway. Anyone else got anything specific they want to do today? Otherwise it’ll be weaving for a while, then we could try to find a spidery which sounds like a dead end, and then we’re going to visit the Void Temple inside Eralis.”

“A visit to a bookstore,” Paul said. “I need something to read in the downtime.”

“I want a veil before we go into the actual city. Can I get one of those?” Tiffany added, “And some books, too, if you’re going to be locked up studying magic again.”

