“I’m sure I can make a veil,” Julia said, “And if I can’t, dad can.”

“Works for me.” Tiffany said, “I also want to get some bottles of good liquor. That stuff we had the other day was great. That stuff we had last night? Not so much.”

“We will be doing all of that,” Ezekiel said, with a smile.

- - - -

Xue lounged next to the viewing mirror, watching his target teach his daughter how to weave spider silk into garments, as he spoke of history. The Scion was patient and thorough, while the daughter was enthusiastic, and yet reluctant at the same time.

Ezekiel spoke of traditional methods, where a captured spider was stuck in a holder, and the silks were teased out of the animal onto a spinner, and then the animal was released back into the garden where they lived. The process usually happened once every other day, for several minutes at the most, as gathering threads for longer would stress out the mundane, animal spider.

Monstrous spiders were different beasts entirely, in that they were captured as soon as they were found in the garden and then drained dry till they were dead, in a process that lasted several hours. You couldn’t let a monstrous spider back into the garden meant for animals, and a garden meant for monstrous spiders was an incredibly difficult thing to do, and not just because of the danger posed for the people who would be tending to the monsters.

But all of that process was circumvented because the daughter just turned the underside of her wrists into spinnerets and then proceeded to spin out pure white spider silk onto a large spinner. In minutes they had kilograms of the stuff, all ready to work with.

Xue was jealous. He glanced to the left, toward a wall he shared with a different Loremaster.

Loremaster Riri was not a simple Polymage, but she was not whatever kind of Polymage Julia was, either. Riri was an Arachnid Polymage, and she made all her own clothes, but never for anyone else. It was infuriating. She did run Star Song’s largest spidery, and Xue could have gained silk that way, but it would be mundane silk, and who wanted mundane silk when magical silk was an option? The level of enchantment that could be made with true magical silk, taken from a person with sapient blood in their veins, was a hundred times more stable than that made with the mundane shit...

Hmm.

Maybe he could ask Julia for some of her silk?

It was an… Option…

Xue lost some of his words, as he focused on the viewing screen in front of him.

Over the course of half an hour, he watched as Ezekiel, with some of the greatest [Greater Lightwalk] control Xue had ever seen, took threads and manually formed them into cloth. Julia failed to do the same. Ezekiel kept helping her, though.

Ezekiel then conjured a small, basic loom, to help his daughter. It was little more than two parallel pieces of wood with a hundred tiny dowels on each side, through which thread could be wound, but it was proof of what he was doing and Julia followed along. With more care, and the same amount of control already displayed, Ezekiel wove thread onto the loom, wrapping threads between dowels—

The loom burst from the pressure of the wrapped threads.

Five minutes later, one of Ezekiel’s magenta birds returned to the room carrying a real hand loom.

He had likely just made that, hadn’t he? Out of a tree somewhere? Well, they guessed that he already had [Treeshape] due to the basket with which they had delivered Tadashi, so this smaller magic here was no mystery, but the speed of which the summon had been sent out and then returned did much to show off a great amount of skill, and power. It also proved that Ezekiel had made Tadashi’s basket.

Xue wasn’t sure which person was more lucky to encounter the other, Ezekiel, stumbling upon Tadashi, or Tadashi, for having the fortune to be rescued by a Scion truly worthy of being called a mage.

This much magic happening in real time was proof enough to firm up some other theories that Xue had acquired in his time watching Scion Ezekiel. He wrote a few more of the truths he had seen down on a piece of paper to the side.

The Scion almost assuredly had the Class Ability Sculpt Spell, as well as Light Dedication. Xue had seen more than enough to prove this much. He didn’t know Ezekiel's Class yet, though.

Xue’s guess was currently tied between Warder and Summoner. [Prismatic Ward] pointed heavily toward Warder, as did the strength of his [Personal Ward]. But Odin’s existence pointed toward Summoner, for sure.

As for Ezekiel himself, he was a Scion of Focus. This much was known. He kept up ten Odin at all times, which meant a great amount of mana was either flowing into the summon at every moment, or else Odin was able to hold onto Ezekiel’s mana to a much greater degree than most other summons.

Another needle pointing toward Summoner was that Ezekiel had not cast [Personal Ward]s onto each of his people, which is what a Warder would have done.

But also, Tadashi, and Xue himself when he went [Witness]ing Tadashi’s rescue, had seen multiple Solid Wards cast at the same time, which pointed toward Warder—

All questioning vanished from Xue’s thoughts as he watched Ezekiel [Fabricate] himself an exquisite robe of pure white spider silk.

It was beautiful, dammit, with squared shoulders that came down in a V toward a nice waist wrapping, while the rest was a nonrestrictive robe with a full-leg skirt and full arm coverings. Sure, the arms were tight-wristed and barely loose-sleeved, but that was because it was obviously a warrior’s cut. Everything had perfect edging, and tight threading. The center V and waist sash even had decorative embroidery of geometric design. Sure, it was all white, and the embroidery was barely visible, but understatement was beauty, too! If color was needed, that could be fixed in another attempt. Just add some dyes to the damnable silk first!

Ezekiel’s robe wouldn’t look out of place in any part of the Alluvial District!

Gods dammit.

Fuck Riri, then. If that damned woman wouldn’t give him a robe that he had been after for a literal decade, then he would get one from Ezekiel!

He got up from his chair—

Nope. Wait.

… no.

… He sat back down. He watched the daughter fail a few times to get anywhere near Ezekiel’s competency. She was obviously not a mage (and she likely did not have Sculpt Spell, either) but to hear the four of them speak, Julia was the real danger on the battlefield. That was understandable. Polymages were like that. Especially Polymages with a Unicorn form. Impossible to hold down, and she obviously had the Class Ability of Shifting Form. Any single encounter against her would need to account for her [Beautification Aura]—

A knock came from the door to his rooms. Seconds later, Elder Arilitilo stepped into the room.

Xue stood up from his lounge. “Greetings, Elder.”

“Loremaster Xue.” Elder Arilitilo shut the door behind her, saying, “I have had an interesting talk with Elder Mirizo. He says your Sikali is bordering on unwelcome bloodlust with regard to this new Scion in our presence. Waking dragons is unwise, so rein her in before the rest of us do so.”

Xue’s heart skipped a beat at the mention of ‘dragons’. Of course he had considered that Scion Ezekiel was some pretender, and one of those considerations was of the draconic variety, but to actually hear it stated so openly?

He asked, “Is that… What he could be?”

Elder Arilitilo casually said, “It is only a saying, until it isn’t. Let us step back from any potential edges before we get too close.”

“I will inform her of her need to temper herself, and, if you will give me the go ahead, I may have just found a way to initiate contact with Scion Phoenix.”

“Oh?” Elder Arilitilo stepped around to Xue’s side of the viewing couch and took a seat in another nearby chair, saying, “Tell me of your idea, and then we can discuss what else you have seen.”

Xue retook his seat on his couch, briefly gesturing toward the still-active viewing screen, saying, “Yesterday Scion Ezekiel spent half of the day visiting various tailors and finding the selection inadequate for his personage. The other half of the day was utilized to gain cores, and then turn them into the Clan Exchange. This morning, Ezekiel began instructing his daughter on how to weave cloth out of her own spider silk.”

Elder Arilitilo’s eyes had glossed over the viewing screen as she listened to Xue, but then she really looked. She asked, “Is that a full dress robe made of spider silk?”

Xue could not keep all of his excitement out of his voice. “Yes. I wish to approach him about buying such a robe.”

“Do so. I also want one.” Elder Arilitilo’s decision was instant. “See if he will take commissions— Be circumspect about this, of course. And frugal. I would prefer a blood garment, if possible, but base thread of any sort is fine.” She asked, “What sort of spiders does Julia have?”

“They have spoken of scouting for a spidery for Julia. All she has is white thread. Her current goals are for a Nacreous Weaver, or a Blood Weaver, or a Sand Weaver. They spoke of Ballooning Spiders, temporarily, and Julia lamented over being reminded that she had missed out on that chance.”

After a moment, Arilitilo said, “Loremaster Riri has not been able to identify the spider silk used to create the pile that was wrapped around Tadashi, or else Riri is lying to me. It would not be the first time for her to lie when it came to her silks. I, personally, will see about getting those two together in some fashion, if Riri is amenable. You will stay out of that.”

Xue almost said that if Riri and Julia got together, then Riri would surely tell Julia not to sell her silk anywhere within the Highlands… But he did not.

Instead, Xue said, “I was planning on visiting the Void Temple today since that is a part of their itinerary. If Ezekiel wears what he has made, then it is through that garment and the opportunity of his access to spider silk that I will strike. If not, then I will find another way.”

“This plan is agreeable. Do it. According to what we have seen, and if you have nothing too egregious to add, then we will be allying with Clan Phoenix.” Elder Arilitilo paused to let that sink in, then said, “But, that letter from Clan Grey Cloud painted a dangerous picture of our new Scion, proving that Ezekiel and his people might be harder to take down than most, so a good reconnaissance will be important if we need to shift priorities. If you can get Sikali calmed before you meet with him today, and if she is available, take her with you. Having your capable Enforcer of a wife gain a closer look at Clan Phoenix will do well for all of us if we need to go down that dangerous path.”

Xue nodded in understanding. “It will be as you desire.”

“And now for this.” Elder Arilitilo picked up the pad of paper that Xue had scribbled his notes upon. She began reading as she flipped through, commanding, “Summarize.”

While Arilitilo read, Xue began speaking of what he had seen over the last day, and also what he had not seen, which was mainly any real clue as to where any of them had come from, aside from Julia. While three of them were from somewhere in the Tempest Forest, or nearby there, Julia was an actual adventurer from Kal’Duresh.

Elder Arilitilo interrupted, “Either hers is a fake cover story, or she certainly got out of there in time. Have you seen any instances of your usual assignment?”

“I have [Witness]ed none of the usual signs of Particle Magic. No airs of combining water out of thick air or any [Cleanse]s turning whole spellworks to mana. The man certainly uses enough [Cleanse] that I feel I would have. If he is using Particle Magic, then he has made none of the usual toxic or poisonous byproducts that are the usual results of such magic, or else he is on his best behavior and he has chosen not to use any Particle Magic, which is entirely possible, and rather likely.”

Arilitilo nodded. “You recall that Tadashi spoke of Ezekiel speaking of ‘particular magic’ and ‘antirhine being a particular’.”

“Yes. Tadashi was not convinced that Ezekiel used the wrong wording on purpose, but he was rather distressed by his own admission. As for my own opinion, I believe that Scion Ezekiel knows a great deal about Archmage Flatt, and if nothing else, Ezekiel has a great respect for the Particle Mage. His Odin occasionally has many more eyes than a normal bird and he shifts sizes all the time, which means the template Ezekiel used for Odin was stressed in a way that doesn’t happen if you’re emulating a true bird.”

Arilitilo said, “It’s a stretch to say every odd bird [Familiar] is an Ophiel.” She added, “And while I agree about there being something strange regarding Odin, and also something strange about Ezekiel’s understanding of Particle Magic, you must keep in mind that we have seen Copy Mages before.”

Xue sat up straight. “You think he’s a Copy Mage? I thought him a simple imitator.”

“Imperfect copies, for sure. It is a known phenomenon.” Elder said, “Continue with your observations.”

Xue gave a lighthearted jest, instead, saying, “But what if he isn’t a Copy Mage. What if he’s actually Archmage Flatt?”

Elder Arilitilo raised her eyebrows at him, then simply said, “If Ezekiel is actually Archmage Flatt then we will never speak of this fact. We will pretend that we are blind, for he obviously doesn’t wish to be found, and the Highlands would rather Erick Flatt move on, unmolested. If you bring the wrath of dragons down upon the Songli Highlands, then you will be offered up as a sacrifice to appease those same dragons, no matter which direction they come from.”

