Xue nodded. “But of course, Scion Phoenix. Are there other exports of Clan Phoenix that you would be interested in discussing? Clan Star Song is always open to new trade with those capable of such luxury products.”

Ezekiel considered and then decided that he wasn’t willing to go that far, but if his cover was blown, then perhaps Candlepoint could use some exports? Eh? Eh? Mmm. Maybe not. Not yet.

“Not at this time; no.”

“… We could also discuss magic,” Xue said, recovering from Ezekiel’s direct refusal. “I must confess: I was informed of your presence here and thus instructed to help you speak to the Songstresses. My Elder of Enchantment, Elder Arilitilo, wishes me to repeat that her offer to discuss magic is also open to you.”

Ah. Well. Yeah. They were here on assignment. For sure. That was why Ezekiel was willing to speak of spider silk trading, even if that would be his daughter’s choice, and not his. He didn’t expect Xue to just come out and say that he was here on assignment, though. That implied active spying, and though Ezekiel had been sure that everyone knew they were being spied on, and even though he had taken steps to ensure that the spying wouldn’t uncover anything too awful...

Ezekiel considered Xue. There were a great many nuances and hidden meanings to the man’s words and entire persona. He was dangerous. His wife was similarly dangerous, but in a much more direct manner. So far, by his estimate, they were mostly past the danger of the wife, but Xue was a deeper sort of danger that he had understood and verbally sparred with the second they started talking.

Ezekiel wanted to talk magic, though, even if it would expose his truth that much faster.

Hmm.

… He decided to forgo any more direct confrontation, for now.

Ezekiel said, “I would appreciate an introduction to the Songstresses, and perhaps, if Elder Ari is amenable to a tea shop chat, we could do that, first? In a few days, perhaps.”

Xue gave a tilt of his head, saying, “I will inform her of your wishes.”

“I still haven’t inquired after Tadashi, either, which is another thing to do before I then visit him. Would you be the person to talk to regarding either of these necessities?”

Sikali tensed a little. Her reaction flowed away from her features, but not before Ezekiel noticed, and thus Xue noticed as well. Ezekiel turned toward Sikali.

Sikali spoke, since she was under direct spotlight, “I have heard that Tadashi is not doing well under the care of branch family Diligent Scribe, but though Star Song was involved in regaining Tadashi, we are not privy to Diligent Scribe’s full inner workings. I have heard that they aren’t even letting his brother visit.”

Ezekiel frowned. That was bad news. “I promised to see the man again. I suppose I will need to contact Diligent Scribe myself.” He glanced to the Void Temple, then turned back to Xue and Sikali, saying, “How long would a meeting with the Songstresses take?”

“The first meeting is usually short; a mere set-up for what follows.” Xue said, “If you’re going after Tadashi, I could make inquiries for you, but he is under heavy surveillance. Do you know why he was captured in the first place?”

“No. I do not.” Ezekiel said, “All I know is that I saw him in a terrible state, and I want to know that he is being treated well. The man’s life as an alchemist is over, and that… That is simply awful. Is there truly no way to rid him of the Elixir? I have never dealt with such a… It is a horror that someone could actually do that to someone else.”

Sikali eyed him. “You’ve never heard of the Elixir before?”

“Of course not. It’s barbaric. We don’t do that where I’m from.”

Sikali continued to eye him. “The Punishment of Elixir is widespread. Surely, even your hidden Clan knows of such ultimate punishments?”

Ezekiel frowned. “We fight monsters. I must say that this idea that all Clans have had the same experience of this world is rather eccentric. I wasn’t even aware that you all sparred to the first sword-in-the-heart.”

Xue chuckled.

Sikali’s opinion of Ezekiel seemed to take a nosedive, but she kept her professional facade. “Fair.”

Ezekiel ignored the lost reputation, saying, “Loremaster Xue, Enforcer Sikali. Thank you for appearing before me. I will accept that introduction to the Songstresses, and then, if you could get me a way to speak to Tadashi, in person, I will also accept that. Whenever such a meeting might happen would be acceptable; today or tomorrow. I am currently staying at The Sour House in Darzallia.” He gestured to the Void Temple. “Lead the way?”

Xue bowed his head, saying, “At once, Scion.”
