The messenger and her girlfriend were dressed in woven bamboo tunics with colorfully dyed trim. As planned, Avyna tapped some of their (entirely too robust) alcohol supply and the four chatted over drinks until the first stomach growled—the messenger’s. Ranthia claimed the audible sound came from her own stomach before the girl could get too embarrassed and asked Avyna to help her bring some food out.

The dinner might have been meant for courses, but their table could hold the lot. They had cheeses and sausages for light fare, a honey-treated haunch of ham for the main course, and a variety of sides, including fresh salads made with produce sourced from the Remera growers. Avyna kept careful track of time and paced their delivery of the victuals so that the cakes would be ready to be brought out last.

Ranthia was in bright spirits as she sauntered over to the hot box, completely missing that Avyna had gone rigid and was staring at something on the counter.

“…My love?” Avyna prompted in a quiet voice, just loud enough to catch Ranthia’s ear.

“Yes babe?” Ranthia replied as she pulled on the thick gloves they used for hot containers.

“…Is that the butter that was supposed to coat the pans?” Avyna’s flat, unimpressed tone brought Ranthia up short.

Oops.

Dessert ended up becoming cake crumble served with honey.

Ranthia’s minor mistake aside, the dinner party went well. Their guests seemed to enjoy themselves and had high praise for the food that the duo had prepared. Not that the four of them were able to polish it off—Ranthia and Avyna had, quite intentionally, prepared far too much.

When the hour became late and the other couple began to make polite noises toward putting an end to the evening, Avyna smoothly convinced them to wait while she prepared a basket so they could take some of the leftovers. “This way everyone will have tasty food to enjoy for another day or three!”

That was planned, but Ranthia was a bit surprised when Avyna subtly indicated for her to follow while she ‘looked’ for the basket.

On the other side of the temporary curtain that divided their cooking area from the dining area, Avyna picked up the basket—the cheap one that Ranthia had gotten with eggs back in Coalition City—before she silently beckoned Ranthia closer so they could hold a whispered conversation.

“I want to invite them to shelter here if the base is ever in danger.” Avyna hurriedly explained.

“…Are you sure? We barely know them. And I might not be here…” Ranthia couldn’t help but feel unenthusiastic about the idea.

A single meal shared didn’t make them close friends. They seemed to be decent enough women, but some piece of Ranthia still rebelled against the idea of giving ‘outsiders’ full access to their home. It was ridiculous and selfish—Ranthia knew she’d come around eventually—but she wanted more time.

“My love, I am an excellent judge of character as you well know. They are both lovely people. I would like to have them as friends for as long as I am able.” A sort of preemptive sadness crept into Avyna’s final words.

It was enough to melt—and slightly break—Ranthia’s heart. Avyna knew better than Ranthia what it meant to befriend mortals. The elf had, in the space of that single evening, already come to terms with the fact that she would watch their friends grow old, even in the eighty years they had pledged.

She just wanted to do what she could to minimize the risk of their new friends being taken away from them prematurely. They couldn’t deny White Dove her due, but they could do everything in their power to stymie Black Crow.

“Alright, it’s your call love, I trust you.” Ranthia stole a moment to squeeze Avyna’s arm reassuringly.

It was meant to convey that she understood—even if she couldn’t truly understand, not just yet. Avyna favored her with a warm smile, after which they shared a quick kiss. But they didn’t linger, they needed to return to their weary guests.

In the end, the messenger and her girlfriend left with a basket full of delicious food and direct access to Ranthia and Avyna’s home. It hadn’t taken too long, but their responses convinced Ranthia that they each accepted simply due to a desire for greater safety for the other. It was an assumption, yes—she wasn’t nearly as adept as Avyna at reading people and what motivated them—but it was enough to raise Ranthia’s opinion of both women by quite a bit.

Not that it had helped her retain the name of either woman.

“Ah, it was so good to host again! I went far too many years without it.” Avyna cooed from where she was nestled into Ranthia’s lap.

The party had been fun, but Ranthia was relishing an opportunity to spoil the woman she loved a bit. Ranthia made her offer soon after they were alone and was happily rhythmically working her oily fingers over Avyna’s horns. The tender, quiet moment helped relax the subtle resentment of neglect that had started to creep into the core of Ranthia’s being in recent days.

“I’m glad you enjoyed it; I think it went well.” Ranthia had to briefly pause her light humming to answer, but it was easy enough to pick up where she left off. It wasn’t like she was humming any song she knew, she just let the tune carry itself wherever her heart desired—she was something of an expert at keeping the cadence in the range that was pleasant for Avyna.

“You are still forbidden from baking ever again!” Avyna (playfully?) chided.

“It was an honest mistake.” Ranthia answered the accusation in the spirit she assumed it was made in.

“It was not! You brought disaster to my dinner plans.” Uh-oh, Ranthia had misread—Avyna seemed to be genuinely grumpy.

Ranthia nodded, but she silently continued the horn massage until she felt Avyna’s body relax again.

“I am sorry. You know I didn’t mean to mess with your plans. I think we recovered well though, and the food we made was still delicious.” Ranthia finally offered.

“Mmm, yes. Everything we do together is better than I could have ever done myself… I am certain… that I have never… matched quite so well with anyone ever before.” Avyna’s reply came a bit late, her tone blending mollification with deep notes of drowsiness.

Ranthia, on the other hand, lost all traces of her own fatigue. Even as her heart soared within her breast—as if she contained a vast, endless sky within herself—her emotions blazed straight through her mind and overwhelmed her in an instant.

As Avyna nodded off, carried by the blissful vibrations of Ranthia’s fingers on her horns, Ranthia struggled not to let her tears drop onto the elf’s peaceful face.
