Better than half the night had already passed before Ranthia finally reentered Remera. With the immediate crisis at an end, there were myriads of other tasks that needed to be done. Scouting and securing the region around the base had been important and made a lot of sense. How she ended up getting stuck running messages for a while was a true mystery—certainly it couldn’t have been self-inflicted (okay, fine, volunteering to do something once never meant you only did it once; whatever). But, at length, Remera was deemed to be safe. The shimagu forces that escaped were still running and there was no sign that they were trying to meet up with reinforcements in the vicinity or distract them while another force closed in.

The hour was late, but their not-so-little base was alive with the sounds of celebration. Legionaries and dwarven combatants swapped tales of valor. Food was being simmered, seared, and roasted practically everywhere her eyes wandered. Instruments and vocals were plied with dramatically unreliable degrees of proficiency. Amorous sounds of passion were almost as common as the attempts at music—more than a few were disturbingly similar in volume and tonal range.

Ranthia wasn’t even trying to hide her own smile; the Adventurer in her reveled at the sight of men and women showing their zeal for life after facing death. It was familiar in the best of ways. Then her mood lifted even further at the wildly unsurprising sight of Avyna manning her stall outside of their home—the elf was finally peddling the alcohol that had languished in storage. Eager customers practically clambered over each other to trade escalating piles of contribution credits for a chance to get drunk and share with their comrades that they bled side-by-side with.

Ranthia didn’t want to interrupt—Avyna was making an incredible profit every few heartbeats—so she blew her elf a kiss—and received one in return—before she entered their home. She would have loved to have a bit of companionship, but she was a mature adult that strived to be a better person. For her lover’s benefit, she could wait patiently.

Mostly patiently.

“My love, can you help me for a few minutes?” Avyna poked her head in to call out before she withdrew.

Ranthia had, quite literally, just sat down with her plate of pan-roasted seasoned potatoes and sausage. She groused playfully, but she was quick to return to her feet and stick the food into the stasis enchantment so it would stay good. A quick adjustment of her mistweave tunic and one reequipped blindfold later, she made her way out.

Several nervous-looking legionaries—base defense personnel, not that Ranthia knew their names—stood at attention in their armor. One of them was ordering a crowd of displeased legionaries and dwarves to disperse. Ranthia tensed up as seven hundred and sixty-eight different worries tore through her mind, but no, the situation was stable. The crowd was dispersing peacefully and there was no sign that a riot had broken out or that Avyna—or her wares—had been harmed.

“Can you put away the rest of my wares for me? The commander has requested that I cease the selling of alcohol, but he agreed to meet with me to discuss it.” Avyna explained quickly.

How dare he try—

Ranthia’s brief indignant fury and plans to speak to the man personally died well before they reached her lips. Avyna wasn’t upset, nor was she just taking it in stride—excitement and anticipation danced freely in her eyes. None of it crossed her face, of course. Avyna looked the same as she always did while she peddled her wares, but Ranthia had spent an inordinate amount of time lost in those eyes—she knew how to read Avyna’s true emotions. The merchant’s professional mask was no match for Ranthia’s obsession affection.

Ranthia opened her mouth to assent to Avyna’s plans when a chorus of angry shouts pulled her attention away. Some instigator had the crowd turning ugly and the legionaries that were dispersing them were already raising their weapons defensively.

Of all the godsdamned immature… Ranthia sighed as she stepped forward and began to send images out between the guards and the agitated crowd.

“Stand down, you idiots! Remera is in celebration, and if you intend to waste the revelry by staying in the medical tents while you try to mend without a [Healer]’s touch, say so right now! Or you can see just what happens if you threaten my home and my lover over alcohol!” Ranthia didn’t shout, but she dipped deep into her best Sentinel Grace voice, even as she cracked her knuckles like a tavern brawler itching for an excuse.

The crowd hadn’t quite worked itself into a mob, but it deflated fast. Not everyone present had seen just what she could do, but between her level and her status as a Sentinel, precious few people on the base were willing to tangle with her (Xaoc knew she had enough trouble finding sparring partners). Humans saluted and escaped while dwarves nodded their apologies before they left.

The legionaries on guard duty were obviously relieved—one of them even went so limp his spear slipped through his fingers and clattered onto the dusty baseplate. With the crisis resolved, Ranthia waved the bulk of them off too, but she kept three on-site to watch the remaining alcohol while she made trips back and forth to stow it.

Avyna had, somewhat surprisingly, slipped away at some point during the distraction. The only explanation that Ranthia could come up with was that the elf really didn’t want to risk Ranthia interfering with whatever she had planned for her discussion with the base commander. But even if that was the case, Ranthia was fine with it—she trusted her amazing elf implicitly. She had no doubt that whatever Avyna was up to, it would turn out to be for the best for everyone.

Getting the remaining alcohol stored took a fair bit of time, especially since Ranthia tried to stack it similar to how Avyna had stored it beforehand. After that was done, Ranthia ate her food, before she knelt before her altar to pray to Xaoc until the last of her mana was consumed. Dishes were cleaned and put away, a single trip topped off their tent’s water reservoir, and Ranthia even finished writing a letter to Hunting to tell him about the ridiculousness that was her first true battle at her new post (she could almost preemptively hear the resulting laugh, whenever he finally read the damned scroll).

She was on the cusp of becoming dangerously bored and restless when Avyna finally reentered their home.

“The commander is truly not very capable, is he?” Avyna asked. Her voice was flat, but her eyes made it clear that she was trying to hide quite a large smile.

“This is kind of a dead-end assignment. Running a base doesn’t paint you in glory. Most likely he’s of middling ability and-slash-or he’s just a pawn for one of the generals, capable of following the script his superior provided while being incapable of handling things that deviate from it.” Ranthia replied seriously. She was happy to play along for however long Avyna could keep the game up.

Not that she had to wait long; almost the moment the elf finished processing her words, Avyna’s composure collapsed quickly enough that the laugh escaped her before she could conceal it behind her wrist. Shortly thereafter, the elf practically skipped over to Ranthia and embraced her.

“So, it seems that I shall not be selling alcohol anymore.” Avyna led with the ‘bad’ news, presumably.

“Mmm, want me to speak to him about that?” Ranthia offered. Avyna clearly got something she wanted out of the man, but there was still quite a bit of alcohol left.

“No. He made some valid points on that, on the problems with drunken soldiers. …Besides, the bulk of what I have left are beverages that we can enjoy over time.” Avyna sounded as if she was trying to convince herself with that second part.

“Mm-hm, I still can’t see you taking a loss so readily.” Ranthia teased.

“You see right through me, my love. But I am truly fine with this for two reasons. First, I have already made a profit on the alcohol, even with what is left unsold. Second… allow me to just say I have plans for the stock that we will not be enjoying ourselves.” Avyna answered after she rewarded Ranthia with a kiss.

“So what’s got you in such a good mood?” Ranthia whispered into Avyna’s ear while she nuzzled the elf’s horn affectionately.

“Third, I was candid about just how much unsold alcohol I would be taking a loss over. The man was quite willing to compromise and had finally taken the bait I had set out some time ago. He had a proposal of his own, you see…”

Avyna trailed off, her eyes alight with triumphant mischief. She tried to twirl Ranthia in an enthusiastic little circle, which Ranthia was more than just happy to play along with. Honestly, it was so cute to see Avyna in such a bubbly mood—totally worth the wait even.

“Tell me?” Ranthia put on her best begging face.

Avyna giggled and kissed the tip of Ranthia’s nose.

“For you, my [Sexy] love, I shall. That man negotiated quite poorly; I want you to keep in mind that I was ready to sacrifice some of what I asked for the important things…” In spite of her promise, Avyna went back to building up hype, with a grin that made it obvious that she knew exactly what she was doing.

Ranthia eyed the elf with exaggerated weariness—and promptly goosed her, which solicited a playful yelp from her lover. Following that, Avyna fell prey to a fit of giggles—worse, she couldn’t possibly hide them thanks to just how closely embraced they were—even as Ranthia continued to eye her.

“Oh, very well my love. I am truly done with the build-up.

“First, the fun one. I shall finally have my own shop! One of the tents near ours is currently wasted on unnecessary storage. I will soon have that entire space allotted for my own use. It will take time to adjust that tent into something useful—actually, I may be better off paying someone to bring me an elven tent to replace it with… But I am getting distracted; I will be able to build myself a full-fledged store!” Avyna preened once her giggles were done.

“Congratulations! I know you’ve mentioned before that you prefer to have a full shop when you settle somewhere, instead of the limitations of a market stall.” Ranthia offered cheerful encouragement after a quick celebratory kiss.

“It will be so nice! Variety is the spice of a [Merchant]’s life, so shelves and space are welcome. Also, no more hauling cargo back and forth every day! This will give me more time outside of my business hours to enjoy myself… and you, of course.” Avyna winked.

“But that’s not all?” Ranthia prompted.

“Not even close, my love! Second, well, I must do my best to avoid going mad with power and becoming a mercantile tyrant… because the commander asked me to represent Remera for all dealings with [Merchants] and traders! I will, of course, be paid a salary in points for my role, in addition to the many opportunities that this will open up for me. To summarize my new role: when Remera requires something that needs to be sourced from [Merchants] or wants something from a caravan that visits, the commander will notify me and grant me ‘reasonable’ access to the base’s coffers for negotiations.” Avyna visibly struggled to restrain her laughter while she explained.

“…He really is awful at negotiation, isn’t he?” Ranthia was floored. The man had to realize that Avyna was going to make plenty of money on the back end of the deals—even she knew [Merchants] well enough to realize that—which made the salary silly.

“And yet that is still not everything I walked away with! Third, he actually agreed with me when I commented that the base required more leisure activities and distractions that were… as he put it: less self-destructive for our forces. I have, more-or-less, free rein to resolve this! I had hoped to get permission to use some space in my shop, but with this, I have so many ideas! Even better, I was promised a fund for this.

“I do have multiple things to ask of you to go with this. For starters, you must introduce me to that ‘under’ bakery you found! I can hire Legion… people that are off duty for activities and I fully intend to make that bakery… ah, legitimate, so that I can sell their goods. They worked wonders with poor ingredients and worse facilities; I would see what they can do with proper support.

“…I do have a larger request though, my love.”

Avyna had been so energetic that she was stumbling on her words far more transparently than she usually allowed herself to show, but she suddenly trailed off into awkward hesitance.

Ranthia kissed her reassuringly and smiled at the lithe woman in her arms.

“Anything, love.” She pledged.

“I… do not currently have sufficient currency available for one of my larger plans. Would you be willing to loan me what I require?” Avyna was absurdly shy and visibly uncomfortable with having to ask the favor.

Ranthia laughed—Avyna had been skittish enough that she’d been a bit worried about just what challenging task Avyna was going to assign her, so it was a genuine relief to know there wouldn’t be a body to dispose of. Still, she was aware enough to realize that her beloved was feeling vulnerable—she was pretty sure that Avyna would have never even asked normally. At the risk of flattering herself, Ranthia chose to accept it as proof that the woman was truly starting to trust and rely on her.

“Babe, if I could give you equal access to my accounts, I would. I looked into it before, but even if we were married under Remus law, there’s still no good way to do it. So yes, I’ll sign over whatever you need. And don’t worry about repaying me, honestly!” Ranthia offered as she tried and failed to control the bright smile that overwhelmed her face.

“Mm, my love, I adore the sentiment, but please do not encourage my greed. It does not need any assistance! I will take the points as a loan and repay you as profits come in. And there shall be no argument on this!” Avyna countered.

“Ugh, fine, I guess I can receive more money I don’t know what to do with.” Ranthia faux-grumbled before she grinned. “Anything else from your successful negotiations?”

“Oh, just that I will be able to use the base to exchange your currency to contribution credits and vice versa with no fees or questions asked.” Avyna lilted her response with a sweet grin. Obviously, she believed that this was a very significant achievement.

