Oh joy, he remembered the name this time. How kind of him. Again, she stopped to carefully consider her answer, and Lord Husband didn’t rush her along. “Pride,” she finally admitted, fastening her cloak tighter around her shoulders. “And accomplishment. This one feels both while playing ‘Rise to Glory’, for it is a song of my own creation, one which garnered a standing ovation from the Emperor Himself.” Closing her eyes, she sank deep into the memory, one of darkness and breathlessness as she kowtowed before the Emperor with her eyes fastened shut, unable to believe what she’d seen with her own eyes yet unwilling to let it all be dream, as if she could will it into reality if needed.

Then came those long years of seclusion and solitude as the Imperial Servant too talented to serve, a lesson to the younger generation to not stand out too much. “Sorrow and misery too,” she added, for it was the truth now that she’d finished the piece. Opening her eyes, she took a deep breath and met Lord Husband’s eyes, so bright and beautiful while focused in thought. “But ultimately, triumph and joy.” Because she’d found her place in the world, firmly at Lord Husband’s side even if he did not want her. “Laced with hollow melancholy and bitter acceptance.”

“That... is... a lot of emotions.” Glancing around at his beloved brides-to-be and the sleepy animals around him, he asked, “Do you think your boredom with the first piece is what lulled everyone to sleep? It was a snappy song, but even the cattle are less enthusiastic than normal.” With an amused smile, he added, “Except Big Mac, of course. He’s still tippy tapping away.”

Tippy tapping, how oddly fitting. Taking a moment to appreciate Big Mac’s dainty dance, Luo-Luo fell silent to consider Lord Husband’s implication, that she’d once again poured her emotions into her music and thus rendered them... not quite comatose, but lethargic at the very least. She’d done something very similar on the first day of the new year, played a tune to shock and calm the mob Lord Husband had whipped up with his generosity, but it’d been a mundane effort then, something of music and timing rather than Chi and emotion. Then again, perhaps not, for she might have also inadvertently put her magical, musical talent to use. The problem was, whether it was while calming the mob then, playing for an audience many times since, or playing for the cattle and little Tali today, Luo-Luo never felt anything out of place. There was no sense of Chi billowing out from her Core or emotions being emitted out to the crowd, all she did was sit down with her zither and pluck out the proper notes, just as she’d done thousands upon thousands of times before, so how could she take pride in her inadvertent accomplishment? She felt nothing mystical or supernatural about it, yet there was obviously something going on while she played ‘Rise to Glory’.

Could it have happened once again while playing ‘High Mountains and Running Rivers’? Why didn’t she notice it herself? Then again, she never noticed when she inadvertently Reinforced herself for a strike or sent waves of Reverberation out from her mace, so perhaps this was more of the same. How odd. No wonder Lord Husband was so perplexed, for Chi was a strange and mysterious thing indeed.

Unable to provide a proper answer, Luo-Luo decided to test Lord Husband’s theory out instead. After coming up with a plan, she settled her fingers over the strings and smiled at her small audience. “Listen carefully,” she said, though she refrained from barking the statement at Lord Husband when she saw his hands straying lower along Mila and Yan’s waists. “And make note of your emotions while I play.” Else this would all be a wasted effort. It wasn’t quite ‘playing the lute for a cow’, because whoever coined the idiom had obviously never tried it themselves, else it would not have the meaning of taking action without considering one’s audience. Nor was it quite like casting pearls before swine, for she did not have so high an opinion of her musical talents that she would liken her Lord Husband and future sister-wives as swine, but there was no other suitable idiom which fit.

Realizing she was delaying for fear of failure, Luo-Luo took a deep breath to settle her nerves and started to play. A trilling, ascending chorus opened the song and set the tone of the piece, one of lighthearted whimsy and fanciful optimism. ‘Whispers of Change’ was a jovial tune, and much like ‘High Mountains and Running Rivers’, it was easy to play, making it perfect for this particular test. While the cheery and upbeat notes cascaded out from her zither, Luo-Luo stilled her mind and reached deep inside to free the self-imposed restraints on her resentment, restraints which until now had barely been keeping it all in place. Mother knows she had plenty to spare, from Lord Husband’s continued neglect and Sister Yan’s daily abuse, being barred from Lord Husband’s bedroom and subjected to Mother-in-law’s silent disapproval, putting up with leering dandies and Nian Zu’s calculating gaze, but now Luo-Luo intended to set it loose upon the world and share it with everyone listening.

As a test. Because it was the one emotion she had in abundance and it went counter to the song’s lively melody which meant it would be easy to identify as out of place. This was not at all because she wanted Lord Husband to feel the depths of her indignation or subject everyone else to what she’d been repressing all this time, languishing away in the shadows while they enjoyed Lord Husband’s love and affections. She’d come so close before leaving for Sinuji, had him literally reaching out to take her, when that damnable Abbot came in and ruined everything. Since then, there’d been no chance for Luo-Luo to try again, and even if she did it might not work now that Lord Husband was guarded against it. Doubly so with Sister Yan and Mila clinging to him like brazen harlots dragging a wealthy, would-be customer back to the brothel. Then there was Lord Husband himself, so utterly disinterested in Luo-Luo’s womanly charms that even in a fugue and instinctive state, he would rather cuddle his pets than take her as a man takes a woman.

It wasn’t that she wanted him to do that, out there on the battlefield in plain sight of thousands, but she would’ve been willing. Except stupid Falling Rain cared more about his stupid furry pets than his pitiful, unwanted concubine, a poor, unappreciated woman who only wanted to be loved. Was it too much to ask for her idiot Lord Husband to offer her a simple kiss? He gave so many to his pets, even making sure every rabbit got a kiss goodnight before bed, yet all Luo-Luo got was a kind word and polite smile, the same he offered to the household servants and restaurant waiters...

And then the song came to an abrupt end, or rather it felt abrupt to Luo-Luo who’d been playing with nothing but muscle memory while lost in her resentment. As she came to her senses, she was struck by a wave of panic and terror as she wondered what might happen if her efforts paid off and she’d somehow successfully shared her emotions with her listening audience. Little Tali and Tate might not understand, but even dense as he was, Lord Husband would surely realize where Luo-Luo’s resentment stemmed from, or at the very least wonder what she might have to resent. It wasn’t too far a leap in logic to think he might be offended by her displeasure, for even a man as humble and magnanimous as he had his pride.

Closing her eyes once more, she stilled her trembling body just as she stilled her thoughts, reaching for calm Balance to help clear her mind of turmoil. Her fears were unfounded; not only was Lord Husband immune to her musical Chi talents, the emotions imparted by them were not so specific. No one would know the source of her resentment or any details of her memories, only the emotion itself. Mister Rustram had said it best, that her ‘Rise to Glory’ had resonated with him and brought up memories of his own, memories of struggle and adversity, triumph and celebration, a personal experience not at all connected to Luo-Luo’s own.

Besides, even if Lord Husband knew everything about how Luo-Luo felt, he wasn’t the sort to punish her in a fit of pique. At most, he would ignore her even more, perhaps even force her to live in a different manor, which while cruel, would not be so terrible if only so she wouldn’t have to listen to him and Yan every night...

Having gathered her wits about her, she opened her eyes once more to find sweet Aurie directly in front of her. “Mwar?” he mewled, tilting his head as if to ask if she were alright, and Luo-Luo couldn’t help but giggle at his silly, concerned expression. Cupping his cheeks and smoothing his whiskers, she pulled him close for a hug and a kiss on the forehead. Jimjam was there too, seated with his back towards her while giving her a long suffering look, as if it were beneath him to allow her to touch him, but he would permit it just this once. Even Banjo and Baloo seemed mildly concerned as they watched with wide-eyed stares, though not concerned enough to remove themselves from their snuggled embrace and risk crushing the bunnies napping around them.

“Well,” Lord Husband said, grinning from ear to ear, “Care to share what you’ve discovered?”

Flushing at the sight of his smile, Luo-Luo stammered, “It’s... difficult to explain.”

“It always is.”

Reassured by his good humour, she briefly went over her thoughts and said, “This one set out to focus on one emotion and try to share it with everyone involved, but somewhere along the way... this one lost track of her emotions. Instead of merely thinking about the emotion, in this case my resentment, I submersed myself within it, and I experienced it all again as if reliving through those moments. It wasn’t just on my mind, but rather it became a part of my being and who I was, if only for a few short moments.” Flushing, she shook her head and raised her hands in a muted gesture of surrender. “This one lacks the words to explain it. It just... happened, as naturally as breathing.”

A quick query and glance around showed that only the animals had been affected. Not all of them were affected either, for not only were the bunnies and Guardian Turtle completely unmoved, even the sweet cattle were untouched by Luo-Luo’s dark mood. Auburn Wendy was still swaying her braids, Big Mac was still tip tapping away, and the rest of the cattle were similarly pleased by the bright and lively tune. Why only the wildcats and bears were affected, no one could say, but Lord Husband didn’t seem put off by the limited effect. “This is good,” he said, already deep in thought and she allowed herself to take satisfaction in the meagre compliment. “So now we know Luo-Luo can use her music like an Aura, which is something to explore. More to the point, the process sounds a lot like how I use my emotional Aura, which means Oration is probably related to Aura. Even the results are similar, able to tailor the projected emotion and even affect animals. Don’t worry about it not working on some, not all animals understand all emotions, so maybe the cows and bunnies are just too... I don’t want to say simple-minded, but perhaps they’re too direct and forthright to understand resentment.”

Considering she’d seen Mama Bun attack her children over having her food stolen away, Luo-Luo wasn’t entirely sure Lord Husband was right, but she didn’t want to bring it up for fear of spoiling his mood. Besides, he loved that vicious bunny something fierce and believed she could do no wrong, always coddling her in his arms and going on about her adorable actions. To be fair, he also loved his other rabbits almost as much, unlike how Luo-Luo was neglected and unloved while her sister-wives were spoiled for attention.

Hmm... perhaps letting her resentment out hadn’t been the best idea, because now she was finding it difficult to bottle back up...

Though a compassionate and caring woman, Mila was practical to a fault, as evidenced by her asking, “So how does this help?”

“Honestly?” Lord Husband replied, shrugging while absently staring off into the distance. “No idea. But it’s something. Aura has always been the piece that stood out on the Martial Path, and it’s always the exceptions that proves the rule.” Hearing Mila’s scoff, he snapped back to the moment and said, “It’s true though. In nature, the mere presence of an exception means a general rule exists. Then, by studying that exception and how it gets around the rule, you can better understand why that rule is in place.”

A... curious outlook, but not without its logic, twisted and peculiar as it might be.

“Aura is the key,” Lord Husband said, nodding sagely even as Mila and Yan traded doubting looks. “It’s the piece that doesn’t fit, so once I figure out why it doesn’t fit, I’ll be closer to an answer. Maybe. Emotion, visualization, intent, and faith. Hmm... respectively, I’d pair each one with Aura, Natal Palace, Domain, and Core, but that’s a weird order. If it’s Core, Aura, Natal Palace, and Domain, then it should be faith, emotion, visualization, and intent, but that doesn’t make sense either. And now I’m just looking for patterns where there are none, which isn’t all too helpful.” Shaking his head to clear his mind, he smiled warmly at Luo-Luo and said, “Thank you for your efforts. It’s given me plenty to think about. You’ve come a long way on the Martial Path and I look forward to your future achievements.”

