When the last plucked note rang out into chill winter air, Luo-Luo stilled her hands and sat up to accept her accolades with a smile. As far as audiences went, her current one was meagre and bizarre by any standards, but in recent times, she realized it wasn’t about the size of the crowd or the volume of applause, but rather the genuine appreciation and heartfelt enthusiasm of the individual listener, for their reactions made Luo-Luo’s efforts all the more worthwhile.

At least, that was the lie she told herself as she gazed out at the herd of curious cattle who made up the bulk of her attentive audience.

Truth be told, she rather enjoyed their company, for the large, shaggy beasts had their own sort of captivating charm once one acclimated to the smell. The large and powerful behemoths were a gentle and docile bunch, happy to gather at the edge of their enclosure and respect the boundaries laid out for them, whether it be the flimsy wooden fence or the personal space between each individual cattle. What’s more, though they were more subdued than normal today, they were usually extremely appreciative of her musical performances, often bobbing their massive heads along to the tune or grunting and bellowing for more when she stopped. Some were even downright adorable, like auburn Wendy with her crown of braids or hulking Big Mac currently tapping his hooves in excitement, and these charming and enchanting reactions were why Luo-Luo made an effort to come out and play for her biggest fans once every day.

Among her bipedal listeners, Sorya and Anrhi were always enthusiastic, and sweet Tali still loved to hear Luo-Luo play, all three clapping away with bright and cheery smiles. Polite Tate applauded as well, but his boredom and sleepiness was evident to all, barely able to keep his eyes open while seated listlessly in the grass. As for the others, they were less polite about their disinterest, not even bothering to applaud as they went about their day. The bears yawned, the wildcats lazed, and the bunnies burrowed wherever they pleased in their efforts to find somewhere comfortable to rest. Even sweet Ping Ping had lain her head down in the grass, her beak nestled as close to Lord Husband as she could without accidentally pushing him aside and eyes slowly blinking in complete and utter indifference to Luo-Luo’s performance.

All while Lord Husband snuggled his three brides to be, out on the open field where anyone could see.

So shameless, sitting there with Sister Mila in one arm, Sister Yan in the other, and sweet Lin-Lin nestled comfortably in his lap. They looked so snug and comfy in his embrace, with fiery Mila down to a smouldering heat and chipper Yan reclined in sensual leisure. Lin-Lin looked like she always did, bright and cheery as she leaned into Lord Husband’s chest, leaving his back as the only unoccupied spot, but while Sister Song hadn’t quite taken it for herself, she sat close enough to keep anyone else from claiming it in her stead. There was still some distance between them, but judging from the way the half-cat hugged sweet Sarankho in her arms, that distance might soon disappear in the coming weeks as Song came to realize her own feelings towards Lord Husband. It was almost adorable how no one else noticed, but having spent weeks alongside them on the front lines, Luo-Luo would be a fool not to see how well they got along, able to sit alongside one another in comfortable silence while going about their work or silently coordinate while grooming the animals. His interest was obvious from the way he smiled while watching her from the side, but for some strange reason, he would always look away when he caught himself, and even inwardly scold himself for his attentions.

So he wasn’t entirely without a conscience, just mostly, the heartless cad.

Finally noticing Luo-Luo’s performance had ended, Lord Husband gave her a brief smile before glancing around at his animals. “It didn’t work,” he announced, stating the obvious as if Luo-Luo might’ve missed it, and she choked back a strangled scream of frustration. “Aside from the cattle, the animals aren’t interested in your song. Did any of you feel anything?” Sisters Mila, Yan, Li-Li, and Lin-Lin all shook their heads, and Lord Husband blew out a long and unhappy sigh. “Well... why not? It was a perfectly fine piece.”

Luo-Luo wanted to ask him the same question regarding herself, but now was not the time. “This one does not know.”

Her reply came out tense and stilted, but he took her frustration in stride. “Weird.” Resting his chin on Lin-Lin’s shoulder, he sank deep into thought while cuddling with his three beloved brides to be and leaving his unloved concubine to languish in loneliness. “...Were you putting your emotion into the music?”

No, she was just an empty-headed little lady who’d forgotten to keep his one suggestion in mind, but allowances must be made because her large breasts were monopolizing all the sustenance meant for her brain. Keeping her pithy remarks to herself, she instead pretended to think as if he’d raised a valid concern and said, “Insofar as this one can tell, Lord Husband, but emotion is not a quantifiable substance one can simply insert into one’s music. If it were so easy, this one would not have taken the better part of a decade to complete her ‘Rise to Glory’.”

As soon as the words left her mouth, she regretted using such a curt tone. Her statement bordered on criticism and contempt, and while Lord Husband was not so unkind as to punish her for her insubordination, it was not a good habit for a despised courtesan to fall into. Smiling to show he took no offence, Lord Husband sheepishly nodded and took her statement in stride. “Yea, I don’t really understand it either. Those old fo– " Interrupted by a stiff jab from Sister Yan’s elbow, Lord Husband quickly corrected his statement. “Those wise and venerable warriors didn’t exactly come out and agree with me, but they didn’t disagree when I said using Chi was about emotion, visualization, intent, and faith. Those middle two I understand, but I have no idea how to consciously put emotion and faith to use. What’s more, I’m not allowed to talk about faith with anyone, because doing so might negatively impact their martial path, so the only option left is to study emotion. This is stupid. If you can’t discuss your faith for fear of losing it, then I’d say there’s a problem with your faith, not my views. Plus...”

While Lord Husband continued with his sullen tirade, Luo-Luo marvelled at how only he would dare refer to such esteemed warriors as ‘old fogeys’. That said, after seeing them interact today at lunch, Luo-Luo was fairly certain those dignified elders wouldn’t cut ties with Lord Husband over an off-hand remark, because their relationship was far more complicated than mere acquaintances. Her heart had skipped a beat when, in the middle of their meal, Lord Husband slammed his chopsticks down and clutched his head with a groan. “Please shut up,” he’d shouted, instantly silencing all small talk at the table and even the rest of the restaurant outside their private room. The outburst was hardly called for since no one had been shouting or even paying Lord Husband any mind, but then he continued in a more cordial tone. “For the love of all that is holy, if you’re all going to Send advice, please coordinate with one another and work out a schedule. I can’t listen to so many different lectures at the same time.”

Which put everything in a new light and filled Luo-Luo’s chest with pride. Her Lord Husband Falling Rain was being advised by some of the most powerful warriors in the North and Central, but it should hardly come as a surprise. Take Lieutenant General Du Min Gyu, for example, who was Sister Yan’s adoptive Grandfather. While gruff in demeanour and sharp of tongue, he had a vested interest in seeing Lord Husband returned to full strength, or failing this, keep his condition from deteriorating back to how he was before this last visit to Sinuji. Anyone with eyes could see the love and affection Du Min Gyu had for Sister Yan, and what doting grand-father would be happy to see his beloved grand-daughter married to a cripple?

Then there was Colonel General Nian Zu, whose roving eye landed on Luo-Luo far more often than she’d like, though his glances lacked the predatory intent most men had when looking at her. No, instead he studied her as one would study a puzzle or riddle, as if gazing upon a curiosity he couldn’t quite fathom. On the surface, his relationship to Lord Husband was merely that of Father-in-Law’s immediate supervisor, but the grizzled soldier behaved more like a stern, silent uncle instead, and Luo-Luo noted he had to hide his laughter more than once while they ate. The good Colonel General approved of Lord Husband, and perhaps even liked him, though only the Mother knew why. Lord Husband barely paid the Colonel General the respect his rank and reputation deserved, and even then it was only when reminded. Perhaps that in and of itself was the reason; separated from Clan and bereft of family, when was the last time Colonel General Situ Nian Zu had been so intimate and familiar with someone from the younger generation?

As for Major General Han BoHai, he was the least enthusiastic of the bunch, but much like he himself had opted to follow Colonel General Nian Zu, his nephew Han BoShui had chosen to attach himself to Lord Husband, and the Major General doted upon young BoShui like a son. The uncle and nephew duo were two men cut from the same cloth, both hulking, gargantuan warriors who walked softly and smiled brightly, yet their every action still radiated the threat of violence. It was simply steeped into their very being, a part of themselves they could never set down, unlike Sister Mila’s equally imposing yet jovial and reassuring father, who seemed harmless as a fly even while carrying two bears around with ease. Still, so long as the Colonel General commanded it and Han BoShui desired it, Han BoHai would stand firmly with the Bekhai, and in turn, with Lord Husband.

Then again, it wouldn’t hurt if her foolish Lord Husband was more gracious about receiving their aid. Perhaps Luo-Luo would have a word with Lord Husband and suggest he find some way to thank those esteemed warriors for the efforts. Wine or art perhaps, or female companionship for those three lonely, aged bachelors...

“Hello? Knock knock? Is Luo-Luo in there?”

Coming out of her thoughts with a start, it took long seconds for Luo-Luo to realize Lord Husband was still talking to her. “This one offers her most humble apologies,” she said, only belatedly remembering not to kowtow or cower. He didn’t like that, said it made him feel like a monstrous tyrant, though she could see he still took pleasure in being dominant. Most men did, for it was simply how they were. “Could you repeat the question?”

“On an emotional level,” he began, amused by her embarrassment but magnanimous enough not to tease, “What do you feel while playing... what was that lively song you just played?”

“Ah, the piece is titled ‘High Mountains and Running Rivers’.” Knowing her answer might help Lord Husband find his footing on the Martial Path, Luo-Luo stopped to consider her words carefully. It was too much to ask of her, for she knew nothing of what he spoke of. Her mastery over Chi was utterly nonexistent, unable to consciously use it to do even the most basic of tasks whether it be Reinforcement, Lightening, Reverberation or what have you. That wasn’t to say she couldn’t use Chi at all, because according to Sister Yan, Luo-Luo could do all of the above and more, albeit unconsciously during their spars and with nothing which even remotely resembled consistency. In her own experience, Luo-Luo merely felt the notes falling into place, a perfect harmony during which she could act in the midst of heated sparring, but outside of it, she had yet to succeed even once at anything.

Thus, without any knowledge or experience to draw upon, she couldn’t say whether her answer would be helpful or harmful to Lord Husband, but seeing how Sister Mila and Yan remained silent on the subject, Luo-Luo could only grit her teeth and answer honestly. “It is a relatively simple piece this one learned early on and my handmaidens and little Tali have been learning of late. Lord Husband asked this one to merely play, so – ”

Falling silent at the sight of Lord Husband shaking his head, she slumped in her seat and tried not to pout. “No, don’t tell me about the piece. Tell me about your emotions while playing it.”

Luo-Luo had been trying to before he so rudely interrupted, but throwing a tantrum would not get her anywhere. “As this one was trying to say, she does not feel much regarding the piece. It is simply something this one learned and practised, and since Lord Husband made no specific request, this one simply took the opportunity to perform the piece for those learning it.”

“So it’s not a demanding song to play,” Lord Husband stated, once again grasping the obvious. “Something you’ve played hundreds of times before, I assume?” Seeing her nod, he continued, “Would you say you felt bored while playing it? Frustrated maybe?” The latter perhaps, but not because of the song, yet she merely nodded again. “And how do you feel when playing ‘Rise to Glory’?”

