Cool, but unless he’s got a way to vary the intensity, that could be really problematic. Accidentally making yourself fall into the sky? No thanks. Pretty good as an attack, though. I wonder if Channel Mastery works. Also, would Arcane resistance block it? How would that work, exactly? It isn’t really dealing damage… Oh, and what counts as an object? Could he levitate a house? ‘Size matters not’ and all that? Damn it. There’s always more questions. Arcane Mysteries is right.

Rain spent the rest of the afternoon unlocking tier 1 for all of the trees he had access to. This was something he’d been meaning to do for a while, and it was a good way to safely exercise his soul without the sudden shock of a tier 3 unlock.

There were 144 trees in total, at least that he could see. He’d long since reviewed tier 0 for all of them, looking for anything that could boost his mana, mana regeneration, or his skills in general. There were plenty of interesting skills to be sure, but nothing that would synergize with what he already had.

He worked through the tier 1 unlocks slowly as his mana regenerated between bouts of rock punching. He managed to get everything, but by the end of it, he was starting to feel worsening spikes of discomfort with each unlock, warning him that his soul was reaching its limit.

Tier 1 as a whole held many interesting skills, but nothing that he considered immediately useful. There were a few elemental metamagic skills that might be worth a point far, far in the future, but there wasn’t anything that would benefit him enough to break from his plan, especially after the revelation about Specializations.

He pored over the different skill trees, thinking about potential builds that could be made and looking for patterns in the skills. He was able to glean a few things from his window shopping, but he couldn’t test his assumptions about how the skills would work in practice. Still, it was something to do while he was waiting for Winter to do its work.

I wish I did this ages ago. It’s just like reading through DnD sourcebooks. Fun for an afternoon, even if you never end up playing. I miss my old friends. I should have stayed in contact after I dropped out…

He sighed and rubbed at his eyes. It had been a long day, and all the experience he had spent had left him feeling off. Toward the end, the discomfort had stopped fading away completely with each unlock and started to build up in the background.

At least I’m getting a better sense for how things work now. I wonder if everyone does this? It’s not like there’s much else to do with your experience when you’re capped. Ha, maybe just not hundreds of trees at once.

The next day, Ameliah came up to Rain just as he finished his breakfast. He hurriedly swallowed and stood, wiping his hands on his pants before remembering that he could just use Purify. He activated the skill briefly as Ameliah watched him with an amused expression.

“Good morning, Ameliah. What’s up?” Rain said.

“Good morning, Rain. Let’s go hunting.”

He considered for a moment, then nodded. “Sure. We can do that. I just need to visit Tallheart this afternoon. He said he wanted to do some fittings for my armor.”

“We should be back then. We aren’t going far.”

“Sure then. I’ll come. I’m not sure why you need me though.”

Ameliah smiled. “Maybe I just want the company.”

“Ah. Right.” Rain fidgeted. Ameliah was staring at him intently with a small smile. Damn it. I’m bad with women. I can’t tell if she’s just being nice, or if she’s flirting with me. And what’s with that expression? Rain glanced around. “Do you want to see if any of the others want to come?”

Ameliah shook her head. “Come on.” She turned and started walking away. Rain hurried to follow, then stopped, swore, and turned around to grab his pack. He shouldered it, then jogged to catch up.

“Where are we going?” he asked as he fell into step beside her.

“Just a small circle around the camp to start. Use your Detection aura and let me know if you sense anything.”

Oh. Right. I can do that. That must be why she wanted to take me. I’m an idiot. She wouldn’t be interested in someone like me. She’s a badass veteran adventurer and I’m…

Ameliah looked at him. “So, I’ve been meaning to talk to you for a while now. I haven’t had a chance with the others around. I do want your help hunting, but I also wanted a little privacy for this discussion.”

Rain’s thoughts ground to a halt. “About what?” he managed.

Ameliah took a step closer to him. “You’re kinda cute when you get all choked up like that, you know?”

Rain stopped walking. He could feel his face turning a furious crimson. I…what?

Ameliah laughed and stepped away. “Relax, I’m messing with you. Sorry, that was a little mean, but I couldn’t resist. You make it too easy. You need to work on your confidence. Anyway, that’s not what I want to talk about, but now that I’ve gone and brought it up…”

She paused, then motioned for him to follow. Rain unstuck his feet and hurried to join her. She continued after a moment. “I’m not looking for a relationship, and I’m not the type to just have a casual fling. I can tell you’re not either. I don’t want you to get the wrong idea. It’s not that I don’t like you… I’m just not ready for anything like that…”

The silence stretched on. Come on, Rain, say something smooth. Anything, it doesn’t matter, just…

Ameliah broke the silence with a laugh. “Wow, this is awkward.”

“You don’t say,” Rain said.

Ameliah shook her head. “Sorry, let’s start again. I wanted to ask you a question without the others butting in with their inane commentary.”

Rain nodded. “Sure, go ahead.” I’m so confused. Does she like me or not? Is there an instruction manual for this that I can order?

“What do you want?” Ameliah asked. “In general, I mean. What’s your goal? What are you going to do when we get back to the city?”

Rain opened his mouth to reply, then stopped. He thought about it, then he thought about it some more. Ameliah waited patiently as they walked in silence.

“I…suppose. I suppose I want to make the world…better,” Rain said. He sighed. “Wow, that sounds cheesy… I don’t know. Since I’ve been here, I’ve just been…reacting to stuff. I mean, at first, surviving was all I could worry about. I needed money so I could eat. My plan didn’t really go a lot further than that.”

Ameliah nodded. “And now?”

“Now…I don’t know. I’ll get myself back into the guild, do some quests or something, maybe find someplace to live other than the bunkroom or Tallheart’s clearing. Maybe I can help him out there, too. I do actually know a bit about putting up buildings, assuming I can get the proper tools…”

“And after that? You don’t want to go home?” Ameliah asked.

Rain shrugged. “No, I don’t think so. There’s nothing there for me. Not anymore. As for what I’ll do here…I’m not sure. I don’t think I’ll have any money problems, not since I’m level 18. I could just take it easy, go into business recharging mana in the guild or something.” He shook his head. “I don’t think I’ll do that, though. I feel…responsible. I should be doing something more with what I was given. That’s another reason I don’t think I want to go home. Either I’d lose my skills and just be normal again, or…yeah. I can’t even speculate about what keeping my magic would turn into if I went home.”

Ameliah nodded, waiting for him to continue.

“I guess…I want to help people. I got lucky, getting such a high cap. I did this one quest to escort some workers in the sewer. The way they looked at me when they thought I could just magic the problem away…Well, I couldn’t. But now, now I could clear out every blockage down there all on my own. It wouldn’t even be hard. They were digging through literal shit, and an adventurer could just fix it like that.” Rain snapped his fingers.

“So you’d solve all their problems? Become some kind of caretaker?”

Rain shook his head. “No, that’s not it. Well, kind of. I suppose if that was all I wanted, level 18 would be fine. I could already solve a ton of problems in the city, assuming I could work out some deal with the Watch. Purify for cleaning, Winter for mana regeneration, hell, even Velocity. I could revolutionize the shipping industry. No, that’s not what I want. Fel Sadanis…sucks. I shouldn’t be able to do that kind of stuff.”

Ameliah tilted her head. “I’m not sure I see what you are getting at.”

“It should be better,” Rain said, gesturing with his hands. “Magic can solve so many problems, but not everyone can use it. The Watch is sitting on that lair to boost their own numbers, but I’ve never seen them actually do anything other than stand guard. I mean, that’s not nothing, but…”

Rain sighed. “Hell, even if I buy that essence monsters are really all that rare, there’s still a lot that you could do, even if you couldn’t awaken everyone. Enchantments, healing, all that stuff. That should be free. Do you know some asshole in the Guild tried to charge us for healing while Val was sitting there dying?”

Ameliah smiled. “I agree. It could be much better. It is better in some places, but others…others are much, much worse. So what are you going to do about it?”

Rain shrugged. “I don’t know. What I do know is that I’m not strong enough to change the world on my own. I need to be stronger, and I need allies.”

Ameliah laughed.

Rain blushed. “Hey, come on. You asked. I know it sounds stupid. Even I think so. I’m…just some guy. Where I came from, I was a nobody. But here…”

Ameliah held up a hand to stop him. “I’m not making fun of you. I’m laughing because you remind me of someone.”

“Who?” Rain asked.

Ameliah smiled. “Me. When I was five.”
