“They’re coming. Twenty of them. Straight ahead,” Rain said, tracking the slippery signals in his mind. “Get ready.”

He dropped Detection, preparing to use Refrigerate. The hounds entered the pool of light from Val’s orb, which was almost twice the size it had been the last time they’d been in the lair. Whatever metamagic he’d taken, it had made a significant difference. The hounds raced toward them along the uneven stone.

Rain activated Refrigerate with Extend Aura. He didn’t use any other modifiers, trusting that the base damage of the skill would be sufficient. The wave of cold that blasted out made him intake a sharp breath. He still wasn’t used to the new strength of the skill, and though it didn’t directly target him or his allies, the sudden plummet in temperature was worrying.

The wave of cold pushed outward, leaving a coating of frost along the tunnel as water froze out of the air, falling like snow. At rank 10, the effect was pronounced. He’d used it at this level of power before thanks to his modifiers, but he hadn’t been paying attention to how much frost the skill was creating. At the time, he’d been more concerned about being eaten alive by a pack of Kin.

As the wave struck the lead hound, there was a sudden yelp of surprise. The rest were quickly engulfed, the range of the aura more than sufficient to hit all of them, even those still in darkness. Rain registered a cascade of kill notifications after only a few seconds. He left the aura going for another moment or two, just to be sure, then dropped it. In all, the fight had taken less than ten seconds.

“Well, that was easy,” Rain said.

“No kidding,” said Jamus.

“No fun is what it was,” grumped Carten. He stomped toward the hounds, his metal boots making crunching noises as he walked along the icy ground. He tapped the lead hound with his shield. It toppled over and fell with a thunk, frozen solid. Counter to Rain’s expectations, it didn’t shatter into a million pieces.

Val laughed. “You’re going to have to let us handle the next group. We didn’t get to do shit.”

“Yeah,” Carten said. “Little Mouse ain’t so little anymore.”

Rain grinned. “See, this is what I’m talking about. Auras aren’t as weak as everyone seems to think.”

Ameliah shook her head. “These are level 5 monsters, Rain. It isn’t that impressive. The selective targeting is nice, though. I can’t think of another multi-target spell that would’ve been able to do that without damaging us as well.”

“Right?” Rain said, still smiling. “I hear you, though. I wouldn’t want to fight that ram thing. Not with this strategy, anyway.” He shivered. His breath was coming out in frosty puffs. The tunnel wasn’t getting any warmer, so he switched to Immolate, heated the air back up to a tolerable level, then canceled it. “There, that’s better.” He switched once more, this time to Purify. The corpses melted away, the tiny Tel falling to the ground and glimmering faintly in the light of Val’s orb.

“And he still has mana,” Jamus said, shaking his head. “We’re going to need to find another lair.”

Ameliah collected the Tel with her Attract skill and the group continued down the tunnel. They were in the cave-like area, not having encountered a single hound in the tiled corridors. The door that had opened onto the maze before had led them here, the lair apparently lacking the mana to generate the shifting hallways. Rain checked the completion percentage. It had dropped from 30% to 24% after he’d wiped out the hounds.

They ran into two more groups of monsters before they reached the chasm. This time, he just used Force Ward and let the others handle them. Carten, in particular, seemed to have something to prove. He launched himself at the hounds recklessly, heedless of their attempts to harm him. Rain’s aura seemed to be helping quite a bit, as the big man didn’t suffer a single point of damage, despite being bitten multiple times. Rain’s mana took quite a hit, though.

They stopped to rest before attempting the chasm. Rain used Aura Focus and Winter to recover. Nobody wanted to have a prolonged fight with the bats, so Rain decided to just deal with it. He used Detection first to confirm that the ram wasn’t lurking, then stood at the end of the tunnel and activated Immolate. He used Channel Mastery to reduce the power, but boosted the range to maximum with Extend Aura and Aura Focus. With the settings he chose, the intensity wasn’t any stronger than the base level, but the range was massive, just over 100 meters.

He held the skill for a good fifteen seconds, receiving bursts of kill notifications as the aura expanded to fill the chasm. When his senses returned, he immediately choked. The air was as hot as the inside of an oven and reeked of burning meat. He used Refrigerate to cool it down, then Purify to deal with the smell.

After that, Rain needed to rest again to recover mana. Ameliah took a quick trip down to the bottom of the Chasm to collect the Tel while the others complained about how boring the lair was now. All sense of tension was gone, though Rain was still wary. He periodically paused Winter to check for the ram with Detection. He didn’t want to be surprised again.

For Rain, the hardest part of clearing the lair turned out to be simply crossing the chasm. Logically, he knew that he was in no danger. The bridge was narrow, but not that narrow. He’d walked on sidewalks that were narrower. Force Ward was now strong enough to save him all on its own, and it wasn’t like Ameliah would even let him fall in the first place. Telling himself these things was only marginally effective. He fought to keep his discomfort from showing as they crossed.

The core room was cleared without any trouble, the remaining monsters barely making it into the room before being cut down. Val and Jamus were firing rapidly, with Carten intercepting anything that made it past the hail of magic with great prejudice. Ameliah hadn’t needed to get her hands dirty at all.

Once more, they left the core where it was and returned to the surface. Rain used Velocity at a low level to speed them on their way. All told, it had only taken them half a day to clear the lair, including the time spent walking to and from.

“How much did we get?” Rain asked as the group returned to the camp. Carten tossed him the loot sack and Rain crouched to dump it out on the ground near the remains of the fire. He used Immolate to warm the air, rather than further depleting their supply of wood by starting a new one.

These auras are just so damn convenient. I’ve got personal climate control from a pair of spells that are supposed to be attacks. Ha.

He picked out three Dark Crysts and set them aside, then started dividing the Tel into piles. “Sixty-four each,” he said, scooping up his own share.

“Eh,” Carten said, stooping to collect his as well. “Not bad for easy work. Still, I was hopin’ for more.”

Jamus laughed. “Don’t complain, Carten. Think about how many quests that is.”

Rain raised an eyebrow. “How many quests? Do you mean in terms of the rewards? It’s got to be pretty good. I don’t remember seeing that many high paying ones back in the guild.”

“It depends on your risk tolerance,” Jamus said. “This is quite lucrative, given how easy it was. Any quest paying this much would be quite dangerous in comparison.”

“Or annoying,” Val said. “There’s nothing worse than an escort quest.”

Rain laughed. “That’s funny. Everyone in my world would agree with you there. That’s just games, though. We don’t do quests in real life anymore. Or guilds, for that matter.”

“What do you mean, ‘in real life’?” Jamus asked as he started adding wood to the fire pit. Rain was about to stop him when he noticed that he’d also brought the griddle over. Aoaka steak was worth using up a bit of wood.

“Where do I even begin?” Rain said. “This is going to be tough to explain.”

“Give it a try. We’ve got the time,” Val said. “I’m curious.”

Rain shrugged. “Ok, here goes. We’ve got these things called computers. They’re like…machines that think. Sort-of. I was going to university to learn how to program them before...” He trailed off, then swallowed. It still hurt to talk about, but he forged on. “Before my father died. I dropped out of school and…sorry, you didn’t ask for my life story.”

“It’s okay,” Ameliah said. “You can tell us if you want. Or not. It’s up to you. I’m sorry about your father.”

Rain smiled. “Thanks. I’ll tell you about him later. Anyway, computers. Computers are, well, basically they follow simple instructions. You said lair cores are like that, right?”

Ameliah nodded.

“Well, I’m still not convinced about that, but it gives me something to work with. Hopefully this won’t sound too strange to you. A computer program is just a set of instructions. If this happens, then do that, otherwise, do something else.”

“What the depths does this have to do with games?” Carten asked. “Or with quests?”

Rain nodded. “Right, sorry. I’m getting to that. If you make a really complicated program, you can build a game. One of the popular types is called a role playing game, or RPG. You pretend to be someone you’re not, go on quests, have adventures, play with friends, that sort of thing. All without ever needing to go outside.”

“I…don’t understand,” Jamus said. “Not the game part. Children do that all the time. Why do you need one of these…computers?”

Rain rubbed at his chin. “Well, you don’t I suppose. There’s this game called D&D where…oh. Why didn’t I just start with that? That would have been much easier to explain.” Damn it, I’m an idiot.

“Rain,” Val said.

Rain sighed. “Yeah, yeah, I know. I’m really bad at explaining things. Cut me a little slack. The society I come from is very different. Honestly, this world seems more like a role playing game than reality.” He waved his hands around. “One of my theories is that this is all just a simulation and I’m stuck inside a computer.”

“Huh?” Carten said.

Rain shrugged. “Well, we don’t really have computers that can do that kind of thing, but we weren’t too far away. Fifty years, maybe a hundred? Every time someone made a guess about when a new groundbreaking technology would be invented, they’d always be wrong. That’s another thing about my world. It’s changing fast. A few thousand years ago, it would have been closer to yours, but now…”

“Humm, perhaps you could start with that,” Jamus said. “Tell us the history of your world, from then until now. That might help us understand.” He’d set up his griddle and retrieved the last of the fresh aoaka meat. He was looking down at his hands as he cut it into strips, but his tone was interested.

“Yes. That would help,” Tallheart said. Rain jumped and whipped his head to the left. The antlered man was sitting next to him on the log.

“How long have you been there?” Rain said. Ameliah laughed. Tallheart didn’t reply, but there was a smile in his eyes.

Rain shook his head. “Ok, why not? History was my worst subject in school, but I’ll give it a go. So there were these people called the Romans…no, wait, they weren’t first. Maybe Egypt or Babylon? Oh, and ancient China. That’s a really old civilization. Anyway…”

After lunch and his attempted history lesson, Rain spent some time training Force Ward. Rather than resume the punching game, he’d practiced on his own by hitting a large boulder. Force Ward didn’t work on the rock, obviously, but it did protect his knuckles. The timing was the only tricky part; he was using Aura Focus just as he struck to boost Force Ward, and thus the mana it consumed. He could already get his resistance to over 100% without that, but boosting it further made for faster training.

Jamus and Val hung out nearby, taking advantage of Rain’s Winter aura to do their own training. Val didn’t appear to have anything new, other than the fact that all of his spells were more powerful. He did seem to have a deeper mana pool, though, so Rain assumed he’d taken Intrinsic Focus.

Jamus, on the other hand, was practicing with a new skill called Levitation. The spell would let him temporarily modify the weight of anything he touched, making it float up into the sky, or so he said. Right now, he could only reduce the weight a little bit. Rain was curious, so he’d unlocked tiers 1 and 2 of Arcane Mysteries to have a look.

Arcane Mysteries

Tier 0

Arcane Bolt (0/10) (+)

Propel a burst of pure arcane energy

Deal 12-16 arcane damage (fcs) on hit

Range: 10 meters

Cost: 20 mp

Arcane Bulwark (0/10) (+)

Summon an immobile wall of arcane force

Blocks a maximum of 55 (fcs) damage of any type

Duration: 10s

Cost: 50 mp

Tier 1

Lightning Whip (0/10)

Summon a whip of arcane energy that crackles with electricity

Deals 5 arcane damage (fcs) and 1 force damage (str) on contact

Cast Time: 5 seconds

Cost: 30 mp

Sustain: 10 mp/min

Requires 5 ranks in Arcane Bulwark

Lightning Ball (0/10)

Charge and throw a compressed sphere of arcane lightning

Detonates on hit, dealing 215 arcane damage (fcs) in a 1 meter radius

Lightning has a chance to arc to targets near the orb, dealing 21.5 arcane damage (fcs)

Cast Time: 5 seconds

Range: 10 meters

Cost: 100 mp

Requires 7 ranks in Arcane Bolt

Tier 2

Levitation (0/10)

Alter the effect of gravity on the touched object or entity

Effect may be sustained with concentration and continued contact

Alteration: -20%

Cost: 100 mp

Duration: 5s (fcs)

Duration may be extended at an increasing cost of 0.1mp/s/s

Requires 23 ranks in Arcane Mysteries

Tier 3

Locked

Huh. Not many skills in here. Must be a lot of hidden ones. Looks like pure arcane stuff at tier 0, lightning stuff at tier 1, and gravity manipulation at tier 2. What’s tier 3? Time magic? Teleportation? Summoning of eldritch horrors? Hmmm.

Nah, I can resist. 1,100 experience for tiers 1 and 2 is all well and good, but 10,000 for tier 3 is a bit much. Anyway, there’s some interesting stuff in there. Assuming Levitation gets 20% per level, that’s weightlessness at level 5, and total gravity inversion at level 10. He looked up at the clouds, then down at Jamus, who was jumping around. It looked like he was falling to the ground just a bit slower than normal.

