Billy denied any wrong-doing on his part, and that it was all Ren's fault it happened. Clint and the guys tried to argue the point, but Billy wouldn't listen. When Clint threatened to cut him from the Reckless Rough Riders if he didn't at least try to explain to them what was going on, Billy finally relented and told them what his life was like.

None of the guys spoke as Billy poured his heart out about all of his problems, and how he couldn't deal with them until he had found Jennifer at the Pink Pearl. He fell in love with her right away, and it gave him the strength to face his life in the real world because he had her as his backbone in the virtual one.

He went on to say that he told her everything and she gave him emotional support, because she had similar problems in real life, and they were there for each other. When the Pink Pearl closed down, it was a stumbling block for them, because it changed their relationship slightly. When Ren had built them a new place and taken her away from the immediate area, it put a strain on their relationship.

When Billy found out that Ren had slept with her, it broke something inside of him. It was one thing to do that as a client; but, Ren knew Jennifer was Billy's and that he loved her, and Ren slept with her anyway. It made him so angry that he couldn't deal with it, and he had hit her. He had apologized profusely to her, then Ren came in and killed him.

Clint and the guys didn't know what to say. It was a sad story, and bad things had happened; but, it was a mistake and Billy freely admitted to it. They didn't think that was enough of a reason to end their years-long friendship, and they told him that. Billy thanked them over and over, and he said that he would try and deal with his issues before they got out of hand again.

Now that they were back together, Clint told him about the quest they were supposed to go on and had missed because they had to look for him. Billy apologized for it, and asked if it was a recurring one. Clint told him it was, and they agreed to try the quest when the availability timer reset. They all went back to the ranch to rest in the safe zone and got comfortable.

Billy had been worried that Clint would have deleted his spawn point, then felt relieved as he quietly checked and confirmed that his spawn point was still there. He sprawled out on one of the couches by himself, because he was so tall, and relaxed.
