"Whoa there!" Tabitha was thankfully still close enough to steady me before I could tip over myself. "What is it?" A slight hint of concern can be heard in her voice as I desperately try to control my breathing.

"I've—I've never seen anything like it," I shakily answer, still staring at the bracelet on my arm.

“Explain,” Tabitha calmly demands, gently grabbing my chin and forcing me to take my eyes off the piece of jewelry, though at this point, I'm unsure if it is jewelry.

It takes me a few minutes to get a hold of my thoughts, but once I do, it’s like a floodgate opens, and I can’t help but babble about what I saw. “It’s huge! It’s like a galaxy of runes,” I try my best to explain without hyperventilating. "I don't know how, but there are thousands of runes crammed into this thing." I hold the bracelet up, mere inches away from Tabitha's face.

It was the single most complicated enchantment I'd ever seen by far. It made Pacore’s armor look like a simple sharpening enchantment by comparison. The more I scan the material with Sense Mana, the more I uncover. It was almost like the material took up thousands of times more space than it did, yet somehow, it fit around my wrist and weighed nothing.

The bracelet changed size when I put it on, so does that mean all its mass is in a pocket dimension? Was space folded? How large can it get; how small? A million questions I had no answers to threatened to consume me.

“Aaliyah,” Tabitha snapped her fingers in front of my face, pulling me back to reality. “You started to space out again.”

"Sorry," I hastily apologize on reflex. “But you don’t understand, this might be the single most incredible object I’ve ever seen, and I still don’t even know what it does!” I can’t keep my voice from becoming heated.

My mind was already conjuring ideas on leveraging this new boon. I gained a level of Enchanting just from deciphering the door to this chamber, and that was nothing compared to the bracelet on my wrist. Could I gain five levels if I figured out what it did? Ten? More? It was impossible to tell.

“Get a hold of yourself,” I barely register Tabitha’s words before she flicks my forehead with all her Strength.

“Ow!” I yelp, bringing my hands up to my forehead, and rub the area until the pain fades. The power behind that simple flick was no joke; it effortlessly overcame my meager 100 Endurance.

“You let your guard down,” Tabitha chastises me, placing her hands on her armored hips. “Get a hold of yourself. Close your eyes and take a breath,” she instructs me.

“You can’t just,” I start to complain, but stop when Tabitha raises her fingers as if she will flick me again.

“What was that? I couldn't hear you?" Tabitha's eyes narrow dangerously, and I instinctively shrink in on myself. “That’s what I thought,” she nods approvingly. "Now close your eyes; I won't tell you again."

Without a second thought, I follow her instructions.

“You always become distracted at the worst possible times or focus on the wrong things," Tabitha says under her breath, but again, I can easily hear her in the empty chamber.

“I don’t,” I start to crack open my eyes in protest, but am stopped by a chop to the top of my head. Thankfully, Tabitha chose to hold back a bit this time, but that didn't mean the blow didn't hurt.

“I didn’t say you could open your eyes yet,” Tabitha’s commanding tone gives me pause, which I think was what she was going for. In a slightly softer tone, she admonishes me. "I get it; getting your hands on a new piece of gear is always exciting, but you can't forget about everything around you. You can take your time examining the runes later, but for now, you know what you need to do. Nothing is more dangerous than using a magic item and not knowing what it does.”

“You’re right,” I pause and take a deep breath. Once I have my head on straight, I slowly open my eyes, half expecting another hit from Tabitha. Instead, my mentor stands before me with her arms crossed in front of her chest.

Out of the corner of my eye, I catch sight of the greenish bracelet on my wrist, and I immediately want to jump back into examining it, but I resist the temptation. Instead, I bow slightly towards Tabitha as a sign of respect. Having such a complex enchantment literally within arm's reach was maddening, but Tabitha reminded me what was truly important.

“Watch over me while I work?” I ask with a cocky smile after I finally find my voice.

Tabitha rolls her eyes but does not attempt to hide her smirk. "Do I ever not?" She snarkily replies.

I don't answer her; instead, the two of us walk outside the chamber together so that I can sit on the floor without being covered in bone dust. Once outside, I plop myself down and cross my legs, trying to get comfortable. But before I closed my eyes and tried to figure out what my bracelet did, I asked Tabitha one last question. “Before I get carried away, how long do we have?"

“I won’t let you get carried away, but if you must know," Tabitha pauses, and I can practically see her running through our remaining supplies in her head. Finally, she looks like she has an answer, and I instinctively brace for bad news.

“Two days, maybe three,” Tabitha tells me with a solemn yet firm voice. “And that’s pushing it. We'll need our strength if we intend to take on a lesser dragon, and we’ll only grow weaker the longer we stay down here.” It didn't matter to her that the odds were stacked against us because, after seventy-two hours, we were leaving this place with our heads held high and our weapons drawn. We will kill the wannabe dragon trapping us down here or die trying. To Tabitha, it was as simple as that.

"Then I guess I'd better hurry, huh?" I try to project an air of confidence, but I wouldn’t be human if a small part of me didn’t shudder at the thought of dying. And yet, I wouldn't be me if I let those thoughts restrict me.

I wasn't alone; Tabitha was right here with me. We were in this shitstorm together. I had to do my best, if only for her sake.

That said, I'm weaker than Tabitha; I know that. If I'm going to help her and contribute to the upcoming battle, I need to give everything 110%; nothing less would do.

A dead god said the bracelet on my wrist was valuable enough to start wars over; I don't think he was lying. Whatever it does, I needed to figure it out yesterday. So, I pushed aside all thoughts of losing and didn't even entertain the thought of dying.

I've had my back against the wall before and came out stronger for it; now was no different.

It’s time I make this bracelet my bitch, and whatever it does, I’ll use it to help Tabitha slay a dragon. Hopefully, the first of many.

It’s time I got to work.
