Speaking of, I headed towards the refined chapel that the albony used for their politics. The marble church blended in with the white rock of the moon, and the stained windows framed the elegant building. As I reached the entrance, I waited for a moment. Alfonso opened the door, holding a suitcase filled with several storage rings and obelisks full of files.

He took a step back.

"Gah. You scared me, Daniel."

I raised a hand.

"I didn't know you were leaving. I just got here to let you know it's time to leave."

Alfonso adjusted his monocle before brushing imaginary dust off.

"I doubt that, given your level and attributes. You probably heard my heart beating within that building. Aside from the realities of your attributes, it would be more than enough to simply send a message. As you may surmise, I'm not in need of a caretaker."

I raised my brow.

"You've delayed your transfer to Earth for three months."

He put a hand on his chest.

"Delay my dealings? Why I never. The only time I've ignored my debts where when I understood the debtor would rather I not pay on time. In those situations, it was to deepen a relationship through multiple contacts. I've found that sometimes, debts are ways of tying people together instead of weighing someone down."

I narrowed my eyes.

"You think deeply about many things, don't you?"

He smiled back, standing tall.

"I do. I believe you do as well."

We walked towards the warp, and Alfonso gazed at the stars.

"There's little I'll miss on this white rock, but the view is certainly one of those parts I'd rather keep."

I peered at the stars.

"You know, you were a surprisingly good sport about this wager. I thought you'd try to worm your way out of it after seeing how much you emphasized fairness."

We walked across trimmed gardens and expansive parks. Alfonso admired the handiwork.

"It's a matter of etiquette. I'd hate to be seen as petty or unwilling to stand by my word. Just as well, you proved the worth of the skeptiles. It's something that needed doing for centuries, and you're the first to truly dent the upper-class albony's impressions of them."

"Didn't Tera earn Obolis's empire an entire planet single-handedly?"

Alfonso shook his head.

"No. He required the assistance of many merchants, my own staff included."

I tapped my chin.

"In that same vein, my guild assisted the skeptiles."

Alfonso adjusted his suit, ensuring its pristine fit.

"The difference lies in transparency. A deft economic manipulation isn't something seen - it's felt over the course of years. In that regard, economic history is only seen long after its fallout, and even then, biased perspectives often plague any accurate recountings of the events. On the other hand, this magic was palpable and, more importantly, seen."

Alfonso gestured a hand to the warp station we walked towards.

"It's a simple matter of ensuring that the relevant parties, those pertinent to important decisions, see what you wish them to see. You did so while providing a service to your own people. Excellent political maneuvering, I must say."

We reached the city's hub. Here, shops lined into a large circle surrounding the utilities Schema offered. Lines of people waited for their warping, many moving into the large capsules at a time, and most moved to Earth and back for business or for pleasure. Even with magic and monsters in the world, many people still ached to visit the moon, and this turned the albony's new planet into a hub of tourism.

We stood in line, having reserved our warping well ahead of time. As we did, I kept an eye on Alfonso. He stood tall, pleased, and content. If anything, there was an undercurrent of excitement to him. I sent out a bit of telepathy.

"You...You wanted to lose the competition, didn't you?"

The smile lurking under his lips surfaced, and Alfonso turned to me.

"And what could possibly make you say that?"

I gave him a slow nod.

"You wanted to start the competition in the first place, so you agitated the right people. You got the albony into a conflict so that you could secure the position of lead economist of my guild."

Alfonso furrowed his brow.

"You overestimate me, Harbinger."

I frowned, several minds moving into action.

"But there's more to it. You planned this out before we'd met. You must've researched the situation on Blegara beforehand while keeping in contact with merchants that supplied the planet. You knew that the skeptiles would produce spirit magic to assist the project, and you took advantage of that to secure the position."

I peered down.

"Even better, you created a situation where you couldn't lose. If you lost, you secured the position you wanted. If you won the bet, then you got a glimpse at the secrets of the Harbinger of Cataclysm."

Alfonso's grin could've lopped his own head off.

"Any good politician only enters arrangements where they may gain regardless of the outcome, but I'm no politician. I'm simply fortunate that these circumstances fell onto my lap."

I put my hands on my hips as we entered the warp station.

"Wow. You even wanted me to find out on my own so that you didn't tell me but instead showed me."

Electrically charged mana flowed into the warp station. Alfonso met my eye.

"I'll leave those assessments to your own discernment, but I will say that you're not as simple-minded as you initially sound."

I raised a fist.

"Neither are you."

He gave me a fist bump.

"As if anyone would assume I'm a simpleton."

I shrugged.

"You're a peer to a lich who lived for centuries, ancient hiveminds, and sun-swallowing avatars for unspeakable horrors. It's a tough crowd to impress."

We shuttled to Earth and stepped out onto the warp pad in Springfield. Alfonso stepped out, his expression almost exuding anticipation.

"It's exciting to be a part of something so large, isn't it?"

He headed through the streets of Springfield.

"It was good speaking with you, Harbinger. Good luck and good day."

Unlike most, Alfonso enjoyed the long walk across the streets, taking his time to soak the area in. Above him, citizens leaped across a few of the lamps that lined our streets, and they openly gawked at me.

Taking a moment, I turned towards the poorer side of town. Something drew me there, and like Alfonso, I walked and observed. Various ivies draped over the embroidered metal, giving it a worn yet decadent appearance. Cobble lined the streets, people enjoyed meals at different establishments, and people even walked with their children while talking.

It filled me with pride; the sounds of the new Springfield were music to my ears. Closing my eyes, I soaked it in. I stepped over past a variety of stations before finding a tunnel leading to Mt. Verner below. I darted in before changing into my old eldritch leather cloak. Wearing the dark leather, I paced out onto the streets before finding Joshua's bar.

Before I stepped inside, a fingertip poked my back. I froze in place before turning around. Althea waved her hand at me.

"So, watcha doing?"

I gulped.

"Visiting a friend."

Althea wrapped her arm around mine.

"Oh really? Why haven't you introduced me?"

I scratched the back of my head, a wave of nervousness overcoming me.

"Well, the thing is, I met this guy while injured. I hadn't stopped by in a while, so I figured I should-"

Althea put a finger over my lips. I went to grab her hand, but as I did, her expression froze my mood to ice. Althea's eyes widened as if she were searching for prey. She turned her head before my skin bristled. I blinked, and as I lost sight, the sounds around me ceased. In a flash, my eyes snapped open, and everything around me altered as a warping aura pulled over the entire town.

It distorted the shapes of peoples' faces, turning them into glitching mockeries of themselves. Shadows lengthened. An abyssal rumble expanded before the sound of a squealing pipe erupted behind me. I turned around, finding Kryya several feet away in the middle of Springfield.

The agent of Cygna carried a more combative form than before, its amber body carrying tiny cracks all over its surface. A rupture in spacetime leaked interdimensional energy behind it, and the corruption spread until I siphoned it to me. Althea moved behind me before she snapped.

"What in the hell is that?"

Kryaa waved a blurry, hard-to-make-out appendage.

"Ah, there you are. I've been searching for a while before I found your home."

Kryaa put two tendrils at the openings of the dimensional tear.

"Now I recall mentioning you would regret what you did to me."

He cackled, and his words ravaged my mind as if flaying my skin.

"It looks like I've found a suitable payment."
