"I think he's doing the best he can with what he has. The thing is, Schema's more broken than he lets on."

An unsettling gravity held us for a moment. Torix's eyes flared.

"Then I suppose it's time we help piece him back together?"

Mana flared into my runes.

"Let's get to it."

Getting into the swing of things, we finished constructing power grids with my golems. A few architect golems helped the effort along with a backup team from Diesel's engineering branch of the guild. It took a while to get everything in order, but the effort paid off. We erected communication lines mirroring the internet from old-world Earth.

This allowed quick, near-instantaneous communication on the planet without having to warp. The extra benefits from my perks and Schema's privileges were why this was possible. Otherwise, the AI would've sent a Spatial Fortress to wipe us. That wasn't even the worst constraint from Schema, either.

Schema's network held all the expected functions of a messaging app or cellular service. The primary problem arose from how mandatory and closed-off it was. The only people who could use the messaging system inherent to my guild were its members. Every guild was the same in that regard, each piece disparate and lacking a meaningful connection.

We were essentially using individual chatlogs that no one else could see. It was like comparing a continent to a bunch of islands. The islands would live on their own without other people to draw inspiration from. The continent would have many societies that all worked together to advance, whether that be from competition, war, or trade.

For my guild, I wanted that innate competition and spreading of information. I remembered how powerful the internet was in the pre-Schema era, and that advantage would set my guild apart. To really enable that idea, I also wanted people on the planet to have a choice in the matter. Therefore, since Schema didn't allow anyone outside my guild to join my guild's messaging utilities, we'd make our own.

This would give critics from outside our guild a voice, and having people fight against our guild was necessary in the long run. If we set the terms and conditions on what could be said about us, we'd establish echo chambers. Over time, corruption would take root, and we'd rot from the inside out. By giving people outside our guild a voice, we kept ourselves accountable for our effect on the people of our worlds.

This wasn't the best possible system for the idea, but this was a lot more effort than any other guild we'd seen. Even better, Blegara acted as a great testing ground since far fewer Vagni would join. This stress-tested the infrastructure far less than something on Earth would, and after an initial success, Torix sent detailed reports about the performance of the grid to Diesel on Earth.

We used Schema's messaging for that, but one day, we intended to achieve full independence from the system. We'd always rely on Schema like it relied on us, but we wouldn't be under its heel entirely. To me, this was essential, more so than almost any other priority. Why? Well, the next time Schema had an idea like the lottery, we would be able to say no.

That disastrous idea crippled the Empire and destroyed the albony's millennia-old culture overnight. We would not be hung up to dry like that if we could help it. Usually, Schema would destroy us for even attempting this, but Elysium's war and my trees gave us the leeway to pull this off.

And since we could, we would.

With that rudimentary grid established and colossal spirits fixing the shattered environment, we finished terraforming Blegara after only three months. At that time, duties piled up on Earth, but it was worth setting up Blegara for long-term success. The entire time, I kept my training up, my legendary skill Infinity giving me an unrivaled multitasking ability.

On the finishing day of the project, our ever-expanding team of terraformers surrounded the last untapped leyline on Blegara. An underwater mountain arose from the seabed, and trenches surrounded it. The glowing coral and life of the expanse flourished, a colossal spirit having rejuvenated the area. It left marvelous schools of aquatic life spiraling around us, their glistening bodies like moving silver.

In this area, we established various cables that connected rust-proofed wires. I offered my dimensional fabric in industrial quantities for the project as it would maintain itself even under the corrosion of a salty sea. A few of the leading project members got everything in order before turning the power on.

Patches of my dimensional fabric lit up with sigils sliced into their surfaces. The effective internet came online, and we connected to it using our obelisks. As the first few shared messages were sent, we celebrated the success. We were a long way from everyone having an obelisk or excellent coverage for the planet. However, this was the first step on that path.

During this finalization of Blegara's terraforming, many Vagni held a similar celebration to the spirit ceremony. They joined along with many of the races that had pooled their collective talents together. Gialgathens flew in the rich skies of the world with other eltari, the two races playing games together above the endless seas. The Vagni swam below with more aquatically inclined gialgathens, and the albony spoke with humans, each species protected from the pressure and water by magic.

In essence, this was Blegara's effective independence. The world had always been on the edge of destruction by Schema's system. The eldritch put it on a fringe world status, and the albony had left the people and their societies in a mess. The war with Elysium furthered that chaos, and I was given this planet as a gift at its absolute lowest point.

In that regard, this planet had been broken. To most, it would've been a toxic asset, something that rotted in the background before being subsumed by a Spatial Fortress. As spirits restored the seas, golems destroyed the eldritch, and our grid gave mass communication, I smiled at what had once been a burden.

It was time for Blegara to become a bastion for us all.

Torix, Plazia, and I watched our guildmates enjoy the celebration. Plazia rested on his basalt throne while Torix took a rare moment to stand still and rest. I did the same, enjoying the view.

Plazia let out a bored, telepathic sigh.

"Are we finally finished with this accursed world?"

I stood tall.

"For now, I think so."

Torix turned to us.

"I hope I am never forced to work underwater for so long again. It's so strange to communicate exclusively with telepathy. It dulls the senses to nonverbal communication."

I sent my thoughts over, but I kept placid overtones on them.

"But you can flavor the thoughts like this. If anything, it could be argued that telepathy has more depth than normal communication."

Torix shook his head.

"Ah, nonsense. Every part of said flavor is actually an intentional means of sending the message. Nonverbal communication can oftentimes directly contradict the words and tone used, and said obfuscation grants far greater range and depth to actual conversations."

Plazia rolled a hand.

"You may make nonverbal gestures when telepathizing. It's called using your eyes."

Torix threw his hands up.

"Then perhaps you should call me old fashioned, but there is a mystique to simply speaking that is lost here."

Torix walked off.

"Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm in need of a different company after so many months of working with this rude hivemind."

Plazia murmured, his whisper like a roar.

"Torix...Thank you."

Torix stopped midstride. He turned his head and gave the hivemind a nod.

"Anytime."

As Torix strode off, Plazia tilted his head to face me.

"And this could've all been avoided if you'd prioritized yourself properly."

I turned my eyes to him.

"Very true."

A quiet passed over us. Plazia leaned closer to me.

"You seem different. More smug, perhaps."

I gave him a gaze full of confidence.

"It's your imagination."

"Or is it? Your sorcery and flows of mana...They've deepened. How?"

"Multitasking."

"We've been working tirelessly to restore this barren world to some semblance of productivity and harmony. When did you act in your self-interest during this charitable endeavor?"

The runes over my skin glowed.

"I made time."

Plazia leaned towards me, his tone sharp.

"Time manipulation? At all times? It's difficult to discern. Most individuals who bend time are like beacons of mana. They must use enormous amounts of energy to sustain the practice, and the field they generate is readily apparent to anyone who knows where to look."

Plazia thrummed his fingers against his throne.

"You're technique is nothing like that. It's a thin layer over your skin, and I cannot sense any mana from it. How are you bending such a primordial force without using mana?"

I winced.

"My time manipulation isn't pleasant. It's very forced yet efficient."

"And subtle. Is it potent?"

I looked at Plazia, my eyes clear.

"I don't know the exact ratio, but I can access a time flow that's somewhere around six to seven times faster than normal."

Plazia took a moment, looking me over.

"I've traveled through the cosmos and found many weak and strong rulers. I've learned from them and seen their ways. It is rare to find one who is willing to suffer, but to find someone who will do so in perpetuity? They are near singular in number. Do you know why?"

I raised my brow.

"It's hard."

"It is, but it's also foolish. It divorces an individual from the society and standards they wish to propagate. It alienates all who know them. Strong time magic limits a person's experiences and warps their perspective. You widen the gaps between our words, each one floating off into an abyss like an island."

I nodded.

"Yup."

Plazia set his eyes on me, or what he used as eyes.

"You're taking a harsh path, one less traveled. There is a good reason for that. You should know you will not be who you were when you began this journey."

I gazed at him.

"That's kind of the point."

Plazia glared.

"We do not get to decide how suffering will change us. We struggle through, and we are left scarred by the journey. I've seen pain make monsters of men and mothers of mercenaries. It may do the same to you given time, of which you'll experience plenty."

I met his eye.

"Do I seem like a monster already?"

My armor grinned before I smacked it.

"Hey, stop that. Bad armor. Bad."

It pulled off of my face before Plazia let out a genuine laugh, not the kind where he hid some sort of pain nested within it.

"Let's hope you aren't lost in those little eternities you've found. We still require your dimensional stability to save the eldritch. If you are driven insane by your pursuit for power, then we'll construct the dimensional bridges out of your corpse."

I gazed at the processions below.

"I hope you all can kill me if it gets to that point."

Plazia stood from his throne.

"There are ways, though few in number. More importantly, when will we begin making attempts to cross those bridges to the shattered planes?"

I frowned while crossing my arms.

"Hm. After clearing a few openings on Earth, I'm carrying twelve mini-dimensions right now. It's been excellent for training a few of my skills, and it gives me a better idea of how I'll construct those bridges we've mentioned."

Plazia walked off.

"Ideas are where dreams go to die. They are a hunt without prey, so we will need a plan in place with actions to take. Otherwise, our desires will wisp away to nothing."

I raised my palms.

"It's all in due time."

Plazia hopped from the underwater cliff before stepping onto stone steps that formed with each step.

"Time that I hope we will have."

I crushed my dimensional wake down.

"I'm making sure of that."

Plazia floated down before I took a moment to breath. Figuratively, of course. We were underwater. After a few moments, I leaped down to join the others. A few hours later, the party died down. The gialgathens made beds by freezing patches of the water above, and they rested on their freshly formed icebergs. The Eltari took to the skies, sleeping one half of their brain at a time while gliding around heated plumes of air.

The humans packed their bags since most of our people were done with Blegara. A few specialists remained to check on the terraforming schedule, but that was about it. After they left, I headed towards the leyline and established one of my cities around it. The natural energy synergized with my plating's inherent mana production, giving a large surplus of power for all kinds of utilities.

After a bit of messaging, we got one of Schema's warps and currency exchange stations set up. I used it to warp toward one of the new cities on the moon. I reveled in the ability to actually move myself somewhere instead of relying on one of my warp specialists. As I walked out of the ionized haze, an idea popped into my head.

If I was ever warped into a void, I may be able to establish a city on a random world so that I could warp back to Schema's grid. I had no restrictions on where and when I could place down a city, and that meant I could build an asteroid before putting one down. It gave me some defense from being thrust into nowhere, though I didn't know if it would work between dimensions.

I shivered for a moment, remembering the battle with Kryya. I used to battle on the edge of death all the time. My opponents threatened what I loved and how I lived now, and usually, the fates they promised were worse than death. However, fighting would have to wait until after stabilizing my planets.

