Spurred on by the impurities, the curse power, and his mana, ignited. The darkness burned away, leaving behind a hyper-pure mana of an intensity and concentration Rhys had never seen before. He guided the new hyper-pure mana into his core and collected it there, winding it up into a tiny ball. The new mana thrummed with energy, at least twice as energetic as his ordinary mana. It felt compressed, concentrated, as though he’d burned away the empty space along with the impurities. Instinctively, Rhys sensed that this was a route to greater power. If he could empower all his mana like this, Tier 2, no, Tier 3 wasn’t a dream.

Faint wisps of black smoke rose from his shoulders, but at this point, he was too experienced at burning impurities, and burned too few of them here, so that very little smoke appeared. The curse power produced no smoke when it burned, evaporating cleanly into the atmosphere. Rhys looked up. He walked toward Hono, absorbing the curse power she sent at him and burning it down to concentrate more of his mana.

Hono widened her eyes in shock. “What are you doing? How are you still moving? My curse power should… you should be writhing on the floor in pain!”

“Can you give me more? This isn’t quite enough. It’ll take all day to refine my mana, at this rate,” Rhys requested.

“Wh-what? Refine your mana…?” Hono muttered.

Rhys continued to approach. Hono clicked her tongue and closed her hands, cutting off the beams of curse power. Disappointed, Rhys sighed and let the impurities burn out. It was a pity about Hono, but it was good to learn about curse power. Maybe he should go seek out a powerful curse later, to further refine his mana.

In his mind’s eye, he saw a city street. Bast stood beside him, and they stared at a poster. Beware! The Strawman possesses great curse power!

Rhys raised his brows. I need to find Straw.

Hono’s body blurred, and she vanished. Snapped back to the battle, Rhys barely made out her form flashing by him as she retreated. He reached out, but she was too fast. He raised his brows, actually impressed. It seemed they weren’t all total slackers like Victor.

Something wet and cold splashed on his side. “I’m not just a curse user. Now! Writhe!”

“I prefer the cool and calm goth type, not yanderes,” Rhys informed her. He looked at his arm. Black splotches appeared where the poison had struck him, but they quickly vanished. Not only was his poison resist too high for a low-tier poison to do him any harm at this point, but the potion simply wasn’t virulent enough to get past his impurity limits. Compared to the damage he’d learned to counter from handling impurities, this potion did nothing. He was sure the poison would have been deadly to an ordinary mage or martial artist, but to him? He could have bathed in it, and it wouldn’t even have been particularly good training.

Am I actually… strong? Rhys wondered, then pushed the thought away. There was no point getting a big head on the second fight of four. If he wasn’t a perfect counter for Hono, this would have been a tough battle. As it was, it ended up being a joke, through no fault of Hono’s. After all, she had no idea that she’d face a man who poisoned himself regularly for fun.

Then again, it’s a good lesson for her to learn. I’m surely not the only person with high immunity to poisons and curses. Rhys walked toward Hono. It had been fun, but she couldn’t hurt him, so it was time to end this battle.

Her brows furrowed, and she searched him, eyes darting back and forth over his body. “Why aren’t you in pain? What’s wrong with you?”

“A lot. A lot is wrong with me,” Rhys replied honestly, still approaching her at a slow walk. Abruptly, he slammed his foot down and sprinted toward her from a dead stop. It was a trick Ev had been fond of using against him, and now, he used it against Hono. Hono’s eyes flew wide. She turned to dart away, but Rhys had accelerated from too close, and she had no time to react. Lifting his knee, he hammered her in the chest and sent her flying off the stage. She landed in a pile of fabrics and a fwumpf of skirts.

Rhys dusted off his hands and nodded at Ernesto. “Next.”

Ernesto’s eyes narrowed. He stared venom at Rhys and said nothing.

Walter stepped forward, but Mae threw her hand out. “It’s my turn. Don’t get in my way.”

“If he bested Hono and Victor so easily, then you—”

Mae scowled. She shoved him out of the way and stomped ahead. “Stop underestimating me. Stand back and watch.”

Rhys nodded at her. She looked like a martial artist, muscular and powerful, which meant he was actually a poor match against her, when compared to Hono and Victor. When it came to physical fighters, he’d always been on the losing side, whether his opponent had been Bast, Straw, or Ev. Of everyone here, it was Mae he feared the most. His body was weak and slender; it always had been. No matter how much he practiced and reformed his body, he started from a natural disadvantage, and he’d never been able to overcome it.

A little voice at the back of his head whispered, Yeah, you’ve never been able to overcome it… against the ultimate super weapon multiple schools worked together to defeat, the guy who got picked up by the Sword Saint for his raw talent, and the girl who’s a Tier higher than you and can surge her power up a Tier higher… if she isn’t Tier 3 outright.

Rhys pushed the voice down. Even if his outlook was a little skewed, he still couldn’t take this fight easy. This would be the hardest battle yet.

He bowed. “Rhys Foundling greets fellow martial artist.”

“Shove it. You know my name, you know why we’re here.” Mae stepped onto the other end of the field and raised her fists.

Rhys snorted under his breath. He could respect someone with a one-track mind. He lifted his fists as well, and the two of them leaped at each other.
