That made everyone laugh, too; and he continued on with the story. By the time they arrived at the Main House in Gaugan City, he had just reached the part where he met the Marilith demon.

“Please, finish the story.” Frikara said, with her head rested on his shoulder.

“Xuunah? Do a lap around the county to show the guards the wall.” Ren said, and she turned the cart around to go back to the wall. He told them about the encounter with the Marilith demon, and then when he and the succubi went to the next chamber and met the trolls he had previously vanquished.

“I didn't have to do anything at all.” Ren said and turned to look at the succubi. “I just asked them to take care of it for me, and they did.”

“You're kidding!” Weston exclaimed and looked at Zunala. “You defeated that many trolls?!?”

Zunala chuckled. “Thanks to Ren's weapons and enchantments.”

“That's amazing.” Weston said with wonder in his voice and his emotions. “I always thought creatures like you would run from a fight, no matter what.”

“Oh, we do.” Zunala said and laughed. “It's much easier to run than fight.”

“But, you didn't.” Weston said. “Even when you were warned you would be hurt, you were still right there with him.”

“I think our time with Ren has made us an exception to the rule.” Zunala said.

Weston stood up and looked at Ren. “Sir, thank you for taking care of them.” He said. “With your intervention, not only did they escape that place with you; but, they have more confidence in themselves in actual battle than some of the trained soldiers I've worked with.”

Ren waved his thanks away. “I'm just glad we all made it out.” He said and pointed to one of the succubi. “Even her pet Dretch.”

She nodded and picked up the carry sack he had made for her. “He's a little hungry, though.”

“Oh, damn.” Ren said. “I'm sorry. What do dretches eat?”

“Corrupted dirt and rotted meat, mostly.” She responded. “Usually discarded dretch legs like we used to eat.”

“I can give you a pile of legs when we land, and I'll have a ton of corrupted dirt for him to feed on soon enough.” Ren said. “Once I make your living space.”

“Aren't we staying in the tower?” She asked.

“If you want to.” Ren said. “I had planned on making an underground sanctuary for you, though.”

“R-really?”

“I can't very well expect you to live above ground right off the bat.” Ren said. “You need a transition stage, at least.”

“How long will it take to build?” Zunala asked.

“I'd say about an hour, if I can convince a certain Earth Spirit to give me a hand.”

“Just make another offering, and she'll come to you.” Frikara said. “Then you can ask for her help.”

“You don't mind that some of her payment is hugs and snuggles?” Ren asked.

“Not at all.” Frikara smiled. “Because I know you won't ever go past kissing her, not without talking to us and the others first.”

Ren gave her a kiss. “You know me well.”

“You've never hidden anything or lied to us.” Frikara said. “You always tell us everything when we ask.”

“Well, I probably could have told you this story last night.” Ren said, and she chuckled.

“It was much more fun to just lay in bed and hold you.” Frikara smiled crookedly. “There was no thinking, or wondering, or contemplation needed for that.”

“You're right.” Ren laughed. “We didn't need any of that.”
