Mistress Rabetha got an odd look on her face as she strode into Stonia’s, heading straight for one of the oldest ones. A moment later, she barked a laugh. “I knew it!”

Everyone oriented on her.

“Her name wasn’t Stonia. That was just his pet name for her.”

Master Limmestare shook his head. “And she just adopted it through the centuries?”

“So it seems.” She hesitated, then. “I… I don’t think I’ll say what it was. You can look if you like, but he called her Stonia, and she went by it willingly.”

The find was rather overwhelming to the group.

Tala, herself, had known it was here, and it was one reason she’d not done anything with the storage. What could she do? Master Girt clearly hadn’t thought anyone would ever get ahold of this. It should have been lost forever.

Still, she couldn’t deny the absolute treasure-trove that this was from a historical perspective.

True, there were many alive who had memories spanning even longer than the period these journals covered, but each was a firsthand account, written in those times.

Tala cleared her throat. “I was considering giving this to the Library, so that their legacy could inform our own knowledge of the past. I’m sure at least some things have been lost to time and crowded memories.”

There was barely any hesitation before she got a round of agreements. Master Clevnis actually had a further idea. “I think that the whole hold could be turned over to the Librarians. Together with these journals? It’s a snapshot of centuries long past.”

Tala liked the idea, and everyone else seemed to as well.

They spent the rest of the day there, looking through the curios and peeking into the journals.

There were several times where those with longer histories with the couple let out exclamations of surprise or revelation at what they found, and that, of course, kept the storytelling and remembrances flowing.

When the day was drawing to a close, they went as a group to the Alefast Library. With great reverence, the Librarians accepted the dimensional storage, binding it to a doorway that they could maintain and use to study what was contained within.

As the group left the Library, there was a sense of closure around each and every one of them.

Rane pulled out mugs for each of them, already filled with a celebratory drink.

Together, they toasted their departed friends, draining the mugs dry. Then, with few, heartfelt words, they exchanged farewells and returned to their own abodes, hearts lightened by the honor they’d been able to show their fallen friend.
