He wasn't going to help save them, and neither could he defeat them, in a way that they wouldn't transfer their collected items to him, making him just another opportunist—

Matt froze mid punch and figured he could at least help the Federation team slightly. They had played fairly and been schemed upon.

Turning his sight onto their still mostly functional fortress, he launched himself forward, to the surprise of everyone else.

One of the paladins shouted at him, “What do you think you’re doing?!”

Matt felt it was very obvious what he was doing and so didn’t respond, but Allie was never one to let such an opportunity pass. She immediately replied in a taunting manner, even as she engaged the third wave of Corporation cultivators.

Instead, he landed on one of the inner walls and punched out.

Enchantments flared to life along the wall's length, but the wall didn’t crumble, so he hit it two more times in rapid succession.

A hole large enough for him to enter formed, and with his intentions clear, two of the nearest Paladins turned their focus on Matt instead of attacking the still rage-addled cultivators.

One was the woman from before, but the other's outward appearance was of a ‘simple looking’ male who would pass by in any crowd.

The man's armor was the physically largest of the Corporation team that he’d seen so far. Though the armor was unusually small and thin for their standards.

The official Paladins made countless variations of power armor every cycle of Minkalla, ranging from thin sets like the ones before him to ten foot tall humanoids that could expand even farther; their typical profile was more like the one Matt had fought with in the army.

Suits that, while still human sized, were a tad more bulky than all but the heaviest traditional armor.

That discrepancy, combined with the sheer number of power armor wielders, gave him a hint at what this group might be.

Despite that apparent armor frailty, they were strong enough Matt felt a small level of danger as the woman punched out at him.

Matt prepared to take the blow regardless, and just before it landed, he felt the battlefield freeze over. Aster's initial spell failed as all of the Paladins’ armors glowed an orange light, dispelling their various illusions and leaving them free from the suppressive effects that maligned everyone else, who could now hardly move faster than a typical Tier 28.

Another five paladins arrived, keeping Allie and Aster from immediately reinforcing Matt.

Matt took the blow with a raised eyebrow.

The blow was a good, strong attack that shattered most of his internals, but it had basically confirmed she and her group were just a privately raised mercenary company for a Corporation powerful enough to make decent growth power armor.

He further suspected they were someone's attempt to imitate the Pearlescent Paladin, Eli Taien, and create combat capable stealth-based power armor squads.

It also raised his expectations of the upcoming fight.

As he turned and deflected the next attack from the woman, she shouted, “If you don’t want to collect some rewards, don’t try and prevent us from doing so. If you—.”

Matt didn’t wait for her to finish her threat.

Instead, he raised his left pointer finger and cast [Mana Beam].

The arm-thick bar of mana was ink black as Matt activated his Intent, concentrating his mana.

The massive gem the Federation wanted to protect from onslaughts of monsters was layered in defensive wards. Layers of walls and as many enchantments as they could carve all shattered upon being struck by the empowered [Mana Beam]. The moment the gem broke, it ejected the few surviving Federation team members with their collected Natural Treasures, minus whatever the strange realm took.

There wasn’t anything Matt could do, or particularly wanted to do, for the Clippers, but his move had still infuriated the Corporation team.

One of them tried to say something, but the woman launched herself at Matt with a guttural scream that was amplified into a spiritual attack that tried to bypass Matt’s armor and hit his more vulnerable spirit.

Already on the spiritual defensive alert, it did nothing to him, but it signaled the true start of the fight. Seeing that Allie and Aster fully engaged with the possible mercenaries above, leaving Matt the two below.

Not that Matt minded one last romp as a Tier 28.

The man’s armor was only slightly bulkier, but it packed at least twice as much punch as it should have, showing just why he had so much extra suit to hide. Instead of dodging, Matt used the flat of his blade to deflect most of the physical force, letting the wash of poison mist settle harmlessly on [Cracked Phantom Armor].

The woman, in perfect sync, teleported next to Matt, her blow aimed at his heart, but Matt was already twisting low, dodging.

He used his position to bring his blade up and around, slamming into the Tier 30’s armor with his best triple layered attack.

The woman's armor protected her, but she was sent flying through the remains of the Federation team’s base. She wasn’t dead, despite the smoking and dented armor, but she was seriously wounded.

The man used the opportunity to reach out, his fingers spread and glowing, aiming for Matt’s head.

Feeling a palpable danger from the spell, Matt let out a large breath he had been holding, sending a wave of incredibly hot flames washing out with [Dragonflame].

The attacking man seemed to consider pushing through the damage, but almost immediately, his secondary magical armor layer shattered and his armor started to glow cherry red, changing his mind.

With a flash of silver mist the man vanished, his hands appearing from the ground, grasping for Matt’s ankles.

They tried to lock Matt down both magically and physically, ensuring he was an easy target for his squadmate who had recovered and summoned a glowing, oversized great axe from nowhere.

The blow was aimed directly at Matt’s head, further proving the team to be around the mid to high elite levels at a maximum.

He wasn’t particularly worried about the blow until the moment just before his own blade was ready to deflect the axe. In that instant before their weapons collided, the woman’s cultivation flared and she broke through to Tier 31.

Suddenly, a two Tier gap turned into a three Tier gap. Alone, that would have been bearable, but the woman's armor immediately advanced to Tier 31 as well, and that seemed to include her axe.

Changing his reaction mid-movement, Matt reached up and grabbed the descending blade with his left hand.

[Cracked Phantom Armor] lasted for a moment, but the blade, bolstered by its Tier up and momentum, cleaved through.

Matt felt like he had been hit with a descending moon, but instead of trying to redirect the power to better defend himself, he activated [Cosmic Pressure], increasing the gravity around him and further empowering the overhead blow.

Matt flared his Power, his river of stars glowing and empowering his arms catching the blade.

The mercenary below him shuddered as the increased gravity affected him most of all, given he was directly underneath Matt. To their credit, they didn’t let go, instead Tiering himself and his armor up, his grip growing even firmer.

Matt felt but couldn't pay attention to the other mercenaries, who quickly followed suit. Allie was protecting Aster well, and that was the limit to how much attention he was willing to pay when he had such good sparing partners.

Roaring, Matt pushed his Power to its limits. His nigh invulnerable left hand was left in a mangled mess, but he successfully blocked the blow.

For a moment, Matt wished [Cracked Phantom Armor] wasn’t opaque, but rather translucent, because it meant the woman couldn’t see the fierce smile on his face as he blocked the descending axe.

Laughing, Matt gave in and returned some of the earlier trash talk. “I bet you expected that to go a little differently, didn’t you?”

Before anyone could respond, Matt forcefully raised his left leg, ripping it free of the man's grip, and slammed it down into the ground, rather than casting [Mana Beam] at the woman who was already dodging that possibility.

His blow shattered the ground, sending cracks radiating outward for miles.

That, in turn, shattered the [Earthen Strangle] spell that had been preventing Matt from manipulating the terrain while the man was inside of it.

The male paladin knock-off was a second too slow to break free of the ground as Matt seized control of the earth around him.

Matt kept the leg that he caught, pulling it deeper inside the ground in case the armor proved unexpectedly valuable.

The axe-wielding mercenary-paladin didn’t let the initial failure stop her, and after wrenching her axe free of Matt’s already healed hand, she brought it up and back around.

This time, the weapon morphed mid-movement into something more similar to a sword-staff rather than a spear, its blade long and narrow to maximize penetrative power.

Matt met its blade with his own, aggressively advancing despite now being slightly physically weaker than his opponents, not letting her use her range advantage.

Undaunted, he took a blow from the man that managed to punch through [Cracked Phantom Armor]. The needle-like dagger pumping a massive amount of toxins into his body, but he ignored that in favor of rushing down the former-axe wielder.

Slicing out, Matt cut through the now harder armor, his own sword screaming at the force needed, but managing it nonetheless.

Along with the armor, a chunk of flesh was exposed, finally allowing Matt to scan the woman inside.

Matt was shocked by the amount of fleshly enchantments they were operating under, more reminiscent of Federation technology than Corporation. She wasn’t only using alchemical potions, but physical implants that boosted her body directly.

Matt stopped his follow up attack to deflect a blow that was aimed at his heart this time, and more importantly, the gem centered there.

They had devised a few ideas on how they wanted to protect their oh so important gems, but he didn’t want to be forced to use any of them.

Twisting, Matt took the blow on his shoulder blade, continuing his spin to drive a fist into the attacking man’s face.

Matt felt the armor try to dissipate his attack, but while it slightly compensated for the physical power, it failed to account for Matt using a tiny [Mana Beam], no bigger than a pencil.

The man jerked his head away upon seeing the beam of mana, but Matt had never meant the move to be truly lethal, instead aimed downward, cutting a clean grove into the gem in his heart.

A massive wave of Natural Treasures poured into Matt’s gem, but he wasn’t able to appreciate it as the man vanished, along with his buried leg, and the axe wielding paladin tried to avenge her teammate.

“How dare you defeat him! I’m going to tear you into a million little pieces! I’m going to…”

As her attacks rained down on him, she screamed out with enough emotion, Matt had to reconsider if she had been affected by the original emotional boost from the Monster Collective.

Her emotions were just too high for most kinds of elite groups, let alone one that valued discretion like theirs.

Not that he minded.

A fight was a fight.

Matt lifted his blade once more, grinning. Wanting to see if it was an act or not, Matt put on his best arrogant noble voice and said, “You Tiered up and that is the best you can do? Pathetic.”

Her words morphed into a single syllable scream of rage and hatred in such a way Matt was fairly confident she had in fact been affected by the earlier power. He could hear as her vocal cords tore themselves apart, and that wasn’t normal for anyone who could earn such armor.

Attacking in a predictable pattern he could easily block, Matt took the opportunity to scan Aster and Allie, but found the two of them chasing three of the five remaining paladins away, with the other two already expelled.

When he saw an opening, Matt rocketed forward, tackling the power armored woman and earning a hammer to the face in return.

Not flinching, Matt took the hit, blacking out for a moment but grabbing and taking the woman down to the ground.

[Cosmic Pressure] ended what little struggle there was, with Matt finishing the fight off with a fist driven through the woman's heart gem, feeling another burst of Natural Treasures transfer to him.

Matt realized that was actually, multiple people's month of effort, and better understood the nature of this strange realm.

The moment conflict broke out, it would undoubtedly escalate as people got a taste of the additional rewards.

Matt hadn’t expected it to escalate that far, that quickly.

At least one full team had already been fully removed, and at least two others, the Clippers and Monster Collective team, were seriously damaged, with the Corporation team losing at least four people out of their initial dozen.

The other Empire team was up in the air, but so long as they had stuck to their earlier intentions to stay in their base, they should be safe.

Standing up, Matt shook some of the worst dirt off of himself before cleaning himself with a proper spell.

Returning back to base, the three of them found everyone waiting. Together, they debated going to the Corporation team's base and finishing them off, but they decided not to bother. In fact, the only thing they did was have Allie go and check on the other Empire team.

Thanks to their warnings, they had in fact stayed home, which put them in a possible second or third place.

