Best of all, the next day they encountered bosses from the pocket space they hadn’t touched at all. Further testing showed that so long as more than half of the realm hadn't been cleared, the boss would leave and that an area that spawned a boss would need to be cleared a second time that day to prevent further breaks with the caveat that there were no Natural Treasures for the clear not letting them double dip.

The fights were more difficult, but not so difficult that they felt the need to prevent the outbreaks. Most interesting of all was that the Natural Treasures were all seemingly of a much higher energy level than what they usually encountered.

Zack postulated it was because all of the Natural Treasures' energy was concentrated into the single creature's body, but either way, they quickly settled on letting all of their pocket spaces turn into bosses.

That next day, all of them broke through to Tier 29, turning the difficult fights back into fairly easy ones.

The only one who would need more time was Rah, but even he was close, given the abundant ambient essence.

In the end, they lasted a little over three months before voluntarily leaving.

The Corporation team lasted the second longest, at two months and two weeks, their pillar falling to a wave of Tier 30 bosses who fought more like weak Tier 32s. They had lasted a full two weeks longer than the other Empire team, and possibly could have lasted longer if not for the fight with them reducing their numbers.

The seven of them didn’t find too many difficulties fighting the larger roaming bosses, even with the three Tier difference, and could have lasted another week or so longer. But they had decided to invert what they thought was the weaker of Liz’s two Ichor pocket spaces in the final days to see what they might get, and it nearly cost them the strange realm.

The boss, a wereboar, empowered day after day with more Ichor mana until it was allowed to break out, was a different breed of boss they hadn’t yet encountered. It was faster and stronger than everything else they had fought, even when it first emerged.

To make matters worse, its daily changes were nigh perfect, unlike the other monsters which seemed to be more random.

The second to last fight had been a slug fest, where the bulky wereboar regenerated from injuries thanks to the three glowing light sacks that looked like cancerous pustules growing off the monster's golden circulatory systems.

In the pocket space it had been a fairly simple empowerment method of the boss that had never changed since it formed. While the pustules were intact, the boar could recover from almost any injury in an instant at no cost. It had also been its own weak spot, and slow to recover if destroyed. Better yet, when they all were destroyed, the boss’s regeneration turned off entirely.

Except with a day's changes, they found the wereboar’s glowing pustules had the same regeneration as the rest of its body, making it that much harder to kill. It took Matt and Zack half an hour to kill the boss, but they had managed it.

The next day, they were prepared with everyone there.

From the moment the boss stepped out of the pocket space, Matt had felt a pulse of danger from his spiritual sense.

The major change of the boar was obvious, its pulsating light sacks were even more vibrant, turning from something grotesque into something almost ethereal.

At Tier 29 and fully boosted, Matt could keep up with the boss, but its strength tried to send him flying and forced him to use his Intent to lock himself in place. The monster was at least forty percent stronger than had been the day before, its light sacks pulsating in tandem with its heartbeat, empowering it further.

Liz slammed her shield into the wereboar’s back, her spear driving into its brain to little to no effect.

Instead, the boss tried to eat at Liz’s spell’s grasp at the ichor mana and blood alike, its regeneration a step above its previous incarnation.

At the same time, in perfect coordination, Susanne darted forward, a clone and herself both stepping past the boss, cutting through two of its pustules and dodging the tendrils of ichor that tried to entangle her.

They hadn’t yet been upgraded and were easy enough to force through, but the creature's regeneration meant a single missed drop of blood would let it come back. That had been Matt and Zack’s issue the day before, as the creature kept cropping back up just moments after they destroyed most of its body.

Unlike Liz’s ichor blood, which needed to convert some form of energy into new ichor, the boss could seemingly convert any matter it touched into blood, a single drop devouring rocks and trees alike to grow a new body, which would merge with and empower the boss or reform if it was the new largest collection of blood.

The only saving grace had been the boss didn’t try to collect new blood once it was at peak strength, once fully powered it only wanted to fight. Notably, it was also perfectly willing to fight in the air and it took time for the blood to fall back down, letting Matt and Zack destroy it all before it reached the ground.

The final things weren’t so easy, but they were ready for it.

Matt hit the boss and felt like he was hitting a wall of concrete with a stick, but at Tier 29 he had enough strength to cut into it, his blade burning its way through as it crackled with enough spells and enchantments to turn the metal red hot.

The body didn’t flow around the blow like Liz would, but the effect was the same as the wereboars flesh knit itself back together moments after the sword passed through.

Aster’s debuffing spell froze the burnt flesh and slowed it down further, but combined, it gave Matt an opportunity to punch the boss into the air.

It hardly worked.

Thankfully, Susanne adapted rapidly and her blade still cut through one of the pustules. At the same moment, Rah brought a sword down on the wereboar’s back, splitting it in half, similarly cutting through one of the glowing areas.

Allie teleported in and cut the final one, removing the other two and leaving just Matt and the boss.

Matt immediately flooded [Cracked Phantom Armor] with arcane energy from his ring, aspecting his armor arcane as a bubble of void from the [Cracked Mana Trap] beneath his foot appeared around them and shrunk.

Stabilized and contained by the arcane mana formations they prepared beforehand, they hoped the void mana would be a surefire way to kill the boss, but Matt had to be close to lay the trap.

As the bubble of void passed over him Matt was safely protected, but the boss wasn’t so lucky, its flesh melting away.

The bubble having passed him, Matt watched with the others as the void continued to shrink. But horrifyingly, the three pustules of light remained behind and pulsated mid air, creating Ichor out of nothingness.

They threw themselves forward, but the boss was already regenerating.

It took over an hour, bought in large part by Lizzes throwing themselves at the boss and fighting for domination of its very blood, but they finally stumbled upon the correct method to kill the boss. It required Matt and Rah to take the beast’s attention and together use his unbreakable earth constructs to create a talisman that could hold a sizeable portion of Matt’s mana generation, landing a blow that dealt enough damage that it instantly evaporated the boss’ physical body, leaving only the three energy pulses.

Zack then disrupted the magical energies while Allie, Susanne, and Liz cut the light pustules apart before they could start producing ichor once more.

Then, in the split moment when they were separated, Aster flash froze the light orbs, finally killing the boss.

Only one Natural Treasure light formed rushing into Liz’s gem, being the closest, and Matt cursed they hadn’t been able to inspect it beyond knowing it had formed from the light pustules which had caused them so much trouble.

They were in awful shape, all except Matt and Liz were injured. But with unlimited mana, they managed to get back on their feet.

That fight also signified the end of their time in the secret realm.

They could have possibly eked out another day or two, but they didn’t know if wounds would carry over. Given the contention in the beginning of the exploration, they didn’t want to risk being the victors while heavily injured.

That would only invite foul play.

When their pillar fell by their own hand, they were immediately ejected from the strange realm, which Matt was gratified to see hadn’t been destroyed.

He was less happy in seeing the fight between the Federation, Republic, and Monster Collective teams starting immediately. Each group was blaming the others for their early removal.

Before attention and aggravation could turn to them, they flew back to their ship to learn only three days had passed while they were inside the strange realm.

Seeing the other Empire team as well as the Corporation team. following their lead and entering their ships the moment they exited, Matt didn’t bother to look at the palm sized storage crystal his collected Natural Treasures had been given to him in instead watching out for a sudden attack.

The Unsparing’s crew were obviously eager for a detailed report, but were professional enough that they were ready to leave the moment they returned.

Instead of explaining, Allie pointed upward with a nervous laugh. “Get us out of here and quick! Our pockets are full and we don’t want anyone else getting ideas! Go!”
