“I was going to give you a two story, since I wasn't sure if you'd like changing how you live too much.” Ren said. “Then I remembered how hard it was for your grandmother going up and down the stairs of the Aurora Library and picked the closest two bedroom house for you.”

“You're always so considerate.” Rosie said, and her face flushed red. “I never imagined you would keep talking to me, let alone give me my own Library and somewhere to live.”

Ren reached out and took her hand, and she gave it a squeeze.

“You're one of the first people I became friends with when I came here.” Ren said. “I'll always do right by you.” He said and took out a Bracelet of Unbelievable Magic, and a Bracelet of Magical Balance. “I want you to have these.”

“R-Ren!” Rosie nearly yelled, and everyone looked at her. She waved to them and apologized for the outburst, then looked back at Ren. “I can't accept these.”

“I know it's not much.” Ren said and activated his Craft Wondrous Item ability and made another modified Amulet of Natural Armor and added the modified Amulet of the Spider enchantment. “But, it's the least I can do to protect you.” He said. “Do you think your grandmother would like them as well?”

Rosie's mouth dropped open at the thought of her grandmother having such things.

“Maybe just the amulet of natural armor?” Ren asked, and she nodded. He made another one and brought it over to the old lady, and she accepted it graciously.

“You don't have to keep giving me presents.” Rosie's grandmother said. “You already have my permission.”

Ren smiled. “If all I wanted was your permission, I wouldn't deserve your permission.”

The old lady cackled a laugh, and Ren went back to Rosie. She had on both bracelets and the amulet.

“Ren, these things are amazing.” Rosie said and caressed the gold metal of the amulet.

“The best part is you can put the books back on the high shelves without using a ladder.” Ren said and grinned.

“Yes, climbing the walls is the best part of getting expensive presents from you.” Rosie said and laughed.

Ren laughed, too. “I'll see you later, Rosie.”

Rosie came out from behind the desk and gave him a hug. “I want to kiss you to thank you; but, it's not appropriate to do that in front of everyone.”

“I'm pretty sure as the Head Librarian, you can set your own policy for conduct.” Ren said and wiggled his eyebrows.

Rosie chuckled. “Okay, but just once.”

“Once a day is enough, I agree.” Ren said and kissed her. They stayed that way for several moments, and then Ren broke the kiss. Rosie had her eyes closed and her lips were still moving; so, he went back in and kissed her again.

“Hmm.” Rosie moaned a few moments later when she broke the kiss. “Thank you for the gifts.”

“You are quite welcome.” Ren said. “I've got an appointment with the Sage of Ages in the back.”

Rosie nodded and Ren quickly walked over to the side door that led to the hallway. He went inside and down the hallway to the last door and went inside.

“Where have you been?” Lara, the Sage of Ages asked.

“I was a little late logging in, because Elise helped me relieve some of my tension.” Ren smiled. “I also stopped at the warehouse when I did log in so I could finish your gifts. When I came into the Library, I talked to Rosie and her grandmother for a few minutes, too.” Ren said and walked over to her. “It's a good thing I don't have to eat anymore, or you might have had to wait for a while longer.”

“You would have made me wait that long?” Lara asked.

“No, I would have told you to come and eat with us.” Ren said and put his arms around her. “As it is now, I've got a few minutes to spare before I head out to the High Elves Kingdom.” He smiled. “Is there any chance you want to hang out in your closet until then?”

“Well, I guess we could.” Lara smiled, and they walked over to the closet and went inside.
