For two seconds, Shiv just lay there, processing his wounded pride and going over the brief battle, a battle that ended with him on the verge of death, spared only by Jessica's offering of mercy. He looked at that flask she'd put on her hip again, that flask filled with Phoenix Fire.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Take her hand. Accept this loss. It's educational, and you now know a little bit more about her. The pride that doesn't serve us is pride that is worthless.

The Deathless let out a breath and reached up, clasping her hand. She pulled him up with ease, increasing her height to draw him back to his feet before shrinking back down.

"And that's what I said before," Jessica sighed. "You got too much too fast. Yeah, you are strong. Really, really strong. What do you got? Three different skills put together? A bit of Grappling? Physicality? Magical resistance? Real nightmare for most people. I'm not surprised you ripped your way through a bunch of Legendary monsters and a couple of other brutes in the prison. You're a bad matchup for them, and dying doesn't mean the same thing to you as it does for the rest of us."

Jessica stopped talking then and slowly looked to her left. Shiv realized she was staring at Adam, who had a Veilpiercer half-drawn. He was aiming at her, and only after Shiv gave him a nod did he lower his bow.

"And he's probably the other reason you managed to survive for so long." Jessica chuckled. "Yeah, you are plenty vicious. Monsters are aggressive, but that doesn't mean anything to you. You're about as aggressive as they are, and you still have that individual edge, that special bit of human ingenuity turned towards cruelty and violence. But it's not enough. Not enough against someone worth a damn."

"Not yet, anyway," Shiv said. "But after another week and a month, another year, how do you think this conversation is going to go?"

"Well, that depends," Jessica said. "Are you going to be alive that long? And who are you going to learn from? Because you need a lot of work if you want to stay alive. And who's to say if you get another week, month, year..." She paused. "Or even day. We're about to run up against a Legendary orc, aren't we? Might just end with you claimed for good soon. Your Path might be Deathless, but the end’s inevitable. Someone’s got all our numbers, boy. All we can do is keep delaying the void waiting for us at the end.”

"So, are you offering to train us?" Shiv said.

Jessica looked him up and down and snorted. "I think I can fix your flailing at least. That, and your inability to think even two steps ahead. But this was a good idea." She pointed at the surviving thugs. "The whole animate bread thing and blow people up from the inside using crumbs. Yeah, pretty tricky. I don't think I'd see it coming. And I doubt the Culturist will either. And I think that's your real edge: willingness to plan and to experiment."

She pressed her index finger against his chest, and suddenly he felt a cutting sensation glide through him. It was like Deepest Edge, but far greater, stronger. Her skill didn't even need a knife; all it needed was something that could cut.

"I'm telling you right now, though, the sloppy, easy days are over. You're done fighting as a monster. You're going to be more than that, more than just some brute. Use that brain of yours. It's there. I felt it myself."

Her words brought back memories of Valor. Shiv sighed. And he gave her a grudging nod.
