

“Wow.” Ren said. “I thought the dwarves were isolationist before.”

Nathalia chuckled. “This from a man who's literally being thrown out of the country he saved, and can't come back to it for a year.”

Ren hugged her. “At least when I go, I can take my home with me.” He said and kissed her. It turned into something more, and the hour he had before breakfast evaporated, while he and Nathalia were wrapped in each other's arms. They got up and went into the kitchen after getting dressed, then saw Ereka sitting at the table. She looked like she hadn't gotten any sleep.

“I'm sorry if we kept you awake.” Ren said as he served the food to her and Nathalia.

“I couldn't sleep, so don't worry about it.” Ereka said.

“It pains me to say this; but, you look terrible.” He said as he sat down to eat.

Ereka snorted a laugh. “If you say I look terrible, then I must look like a disaster.”

Ren smiled. “It's not quite at that level.”

Ereka turned to look at Nathalia. “He must have seen you at your worst.”

Nathalia nodded.

“Did he ever say that you looked terrible?”

She shook her head, and Ereka turned back to Ren and raised her hands in a 'I surrender' gesture.

Ren finished eating and chuckled. “I'm deeply and madly in love with Nathalia.” He said and took his dirty plate over to the sink. “So, all I really see when I look at her is that love.”

Nathalia froze at those words, and Ereka saw her reaction.

“Are you saying that you don't actually see her?” Ereka asked.

“I can see her just fine.” Ren laughed and looked at Nathalia. “I can even describe you with my eyes closed.” He closed his eyes and smiled as he spoke. “The slightly pale and flawless skin, the straightness of your nose, the curves of your cheeks, the softness and tenderness in your eyes, and hair that goes on and on.”

Nathalia blushed a little as Ren described every other feature that she had, with his eyes closed the entire time.

“I also love her too much to point out any flaws that she might have.”

“Like what?”

Ren kept his eyes closed and thought about it. “The only real flaw I think she might have, is that she forgives me for everything that I've put her through.”

Nathalia took in a sharp breath, and Ren opened his eyes. He walked over to her, knelt by her chair, and took her hand.

“Even though you say you're okay with the things I've done, I don't feel like I deserve to be forgiven for it so easily.”

“Ren...” Nathalia started to say, and he shook his head.

“You make me love you all the more, with how accepting about all of this you are.” He cupped the side of her face, and she leaned into his hand. “If I didn't think it would break the contract right away, I'd petition to move the marriage ceremony, so it could happen in 3 months instead.”

Nathalia gasped, and Ereka's eyes widened.

“You... you don't know what you're saying!” Nathalia said. “You can't possibly complete the requirements by then!”

“I know.” Ren said. “That's why I said it would break the contract immediately.”

“But...”

“That doesn't mean I'm not going to try, though.”

“Oh, Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed, and kissed him deeply. After a few minutes, he left the kitchen and then the house. Ren nodded slightly to the guards as Teepo landed on his shoulder, and ran up to the workshop. He told Tee-one what needed to be done for the day, gave him the restaurant plans, and told him to build it between the house sub-divisions and the Main House.

Ren left the workshop, concentrated on his personal Aura and House Neram pendant, and ran to the mines. The guard at the gate opened it for him, and he ran past and up to the medical tent.

“Come in, come in!” Deresdra the healer said. “How was your night?”

Ren looked at her with a single raised eyebrow.

“Are you that surprised that I want to share some polite conversation with you?”

“Actually, yes.” Ren said, and she led him to the curtained off area to give him an examination.

“It shouldn't be that surprising.” Deresdra chuckled. “You did buy my contract, and then freed me.”

“That was days ago.” Ren said. “Why is today different?”

“Can't I just be in a good mood?”

“Are you?”

“Yes.” She said. “I took your advice.”

“You did?” Ren asked. “What did you buy?”

Deresdra shook her head, and gave him the examination. When she was done, she told him to wait for a few minutes. She came into the curtained-off area with a small tray. On it was a small jar of some kind of creme, and a large paintbrush.

“What's that?”

Deresdra put the tray down on the chair, and turned away from him. “I've had complaints from several of the miners.” She said. “They've had some unexplained itching in their beards. It seems that something in the dust of the mine is causing a rash on their chins.”

Since she was turned away, Ren didn't see the slight wince she couldn't help let out when she lied.

“This creme will help with that.”

“Do you have to cover all of the exposed skin?” Ren asked.

“No.” Deresdra said and turned around with the open jar and some of the creme on the paintbrush. “I only have to put it on your chin, above your mouth, and up to your ears.” She smiled. “And a little bit on your neck.”

“That's oddly specific.” Ren said.

“Not really. It's the shape of a beard.” Deresdra chuckled. “Close your eyes.”

Ren closed his eyes and felt her paint the creme onto his skin.

“It may tingle a little; but, that just to show you that it's working.” She said. “It should stop after a few minutes, once I get the area covered.”

“Okay.” Ren said.

“Don't touch the covered area for several hours, at least.” Deresdra cautioned him as she put the creme exactly where she said she would. It was put on his chin, above his mouth, along his jaw with some on the cheeks, and up to the front of his ears. It did start to tingle a little; but since it wasn't a bad tingle, he didn't mention it.

“Tilt your head back, please.”

Ren did so, and she covered the underside of his chin to the top of his neck.

“There we go.” Deresdra said. “We should let that sit for a few minutes.”

“Do you have to wipe it off or anything?”

“No, it should absorb into your skin.” She said. “I'm pretty sure I got enough coverage, too.” She smiled. “You're going to look just fine afterwards.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, opened his eyes and watched her close the empty jar. “You used it all up?”

Deresdra nodded. “It's only a small jar.”

“What about everyone else?”

“Everyone else is fine.” She said. “You were the only one with a bare face that needed to be treated.”

“Oh.” Ren said. “Okay.”

Deresdra left him alone, and he stood in the curtained-off area in just his underwear, while he waited for the tingling on his face to stop. It took about 10 minutes, and when the feeling faded, he called out to her. She came back inside the curtained-off area, and Ren thought he saw her swoon a little bit.

“Are you all right?” He asked.

“I... I'm fine.” Deresdra said. “I probably shouldn't have stood up so fast.”

Ren nodded slightly. He had felt that sensation a lot, and knew that it made you a little dizzy.

“Am I cleared for work?”

“O-of course.” Deresdra said. “You can get dressed.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and equipped his Travelling Clothes. When he tried to walk by her, she put a hand on his arm.

“Before you go...” Deresdra said, and ducked her head slightly. “...I never did thank you properly for everything that you've done for me.”

“That's all right.” Ren said as he turned to her. Since she was only an inch shorter than him, when she lifted her head to look at him, their eyes locked.

“No, it isn't.” Deresdra barely whispered. “Even after I had my training, I've never had any man do anything like this for me.” She blinked slowly, and Ren could see her eyelashes, she was that close. “You treated me fairly, even though I didn't treat you that way. You built me a house to live in, then paid all of my debt, and released me from bondage.”

“Ma'am...”

“Please, let me finish.”

Ren nodded slightly, and she smiled.

“Even though you've never spoken it, you know my given name.” She said. “If you weren't already engaged, you would only have to say my name and I would be your fiance.”

Ren's eyes widened as he thought about everything that she said he'd done. Oh, crap!

“But... but...”

“You are engaged, though; so all of what you've done for me doesn't really count legally.” Deresdra smiled. “But... it does count to me.” She ran her hands up his chest and gripped his shirt.

“Wait-mwuh!” Ren tried to say as Deresdra kissed him.
