Tam and Den crawled back to the orphanage by nightfall, covered in filth and bites, and none the happier for their stint in the depths of the pit. They glared death at Rhys, and Rhys ignored them. Tam tried reporting what had happened to the matron, but she gave him as much time as she’d given Rhys, and simply clapped him on the ear for not listening to her when he wouldn’t stop whining. Injured and filthy, Tam tried to get back at Rhys in the usual petty ways. Rhys came back to a filthy bed one night, full of food scraps, and all the kids in the orphanage laughing and pointing as if he’d soiled the bed. Instead of reacting, he’d simply nodded at Bast. Bast carried Tam into the filthy bed, while Rhys claimed Tam’s clean sheets.

After that, no one laughed and pointed any more. The message was clear: the balance of power had shifted. No longer was Rhys everyone’s butt monkey, and Tam the feared school bully. Now it was Rhys who was feared, while Tam was derided as little more than a paper tiger.

But children’s politics were the least of Rhys’ concern. Instead, all his energy was focused on the tournament, coming up at the end of the week. He scrubbed his clothes, and Bast’s too, making sure they were as clean as possible, replaced all the miscolored patches with matching-color ones, and even shone their shoes. With the sword, he managed to give Bast’s unruly mop a bit of shape, though he refused to let Bast try cutting his hair.

In between his efforts, he chatted with Bast about mana. Bast had a slightly better grasp on the stuff than him, though his grasp seemed to be entirely instinctual. Most of their conversations ended with Rhys mulling in frustrated silence, while Bast displayed the results of his instinctive mana gathering through punching the bark off trees or blasting a brick into dust with a kick. Still, their conversations weren’t fruitless for Rhys. Slowly, he was starting to understand how to manage his mana, and circulate it without breaking a fever. He could handle three drops at once, now, and his face barely flushed when he used it to strengthen his body. He couldn’t punch the bark off trees or obliterate bricks, but if Tam tried to get physical revenge on him now, he could simply laugh it off. Under the influence of mana and not having to sacrifice parts of his meal to the older boy, he began to build muscle on his malnourished body, as well.

And of course, he didn’t stop visiting the trash heap, either. His twenty pennies grew into thirty-five. Bast followed him around everywhere, and thus figured out what Rhys was up to in the trash heap. Rather than trying to take his money or strongarm his way into controlling the operation, though, Bast simply fell in and helped him gather bottles.

“Why didn’t you take control? You’re stronger than me,” Rhys pointed out one day.

Bast simply shrugged. “You’re the brains of the operation. I never would have thought of this if you didn’t do it first. I could steal this from you, but what would that get me? I’d end up in hell, like Tam. Instead, aren’t I better off sticking at your side and continuing to benefit from your future plans?”

Rhys could find no fault in that logic, so he nodded and went back to gathering potions.

Between the two of them, only Rhys had the fine motor skills required to tease drops of potions from the bottom of vials, so it fell to him to continue filling his health and mana potions. He offered Bast a drop of the mana potion one day, half out of curiosity, to see what someone who instinctively gathered mana would think of its quality. Bast had licked his lips, then frowned.

“That’s… hmm. Like an hour’s worth of gathered mana? Are you really practicing on that little? You should try absorbing mana from the air instead.”

An hour’s worth of gathered mana was enough to fill his core? Three hours, now, but still! Rhys managed a fake smile, a little embarrassed. He really was reincarnated with trash stats, wasn’t he? Though, to be fair, he didn’t know the full effect of Less is More. Maybe it doubled the effect of the potion, though even with a doubled potion, that still meant two hours of mana gathering was more than enough for him to start out with. He shook his head at himself. No, he couldn’t let Bast know. He wasn’t bothered to learn his stats were as trashy as he’d thought, but he didn’t want the other boy knowing. Bast might not be as appreciative of trash as Rhys was.

He did follow Bast’s advice and attempt to gather mana from the air. Doing it like Bast, by simply walking and breathing, was outright impossible for him, but when he laid in bed at night and focused on nothing else, he could guide a tiny scrap of mana into his core. It wasn’t much, not even comparable to one drop of the potion, but it was better than nothing. Any extra mana counted in his book.

His mana manipulation skill hadn’t taken shape yet, nor had a mana gathering skill, but he leveled up Scavenging and Less is More to 10 each. Survivalist hit level 3, and Pain Resist hit 2, just from spending so long outdoors, scrambling over the trash heap. Hunger Resist didn’t level at all, but he didn’t mind that so much. Right now, he needed to focus on eating and growing. He could worry about leveling such a low-tier skill later.

At last, the day of the tournament arrived. He scrubbed his and Bast’s clothes one last time, and forced the other boy to bathe in the river, even if he had to do it at swordpoint. Once cleaned, Bast’s hair turned out to be a middling chestnut, while his skin turned out to be fairer than Rhys’—it was only the dirt that had darkened it. Only his dark, near-black eyes remained the same shade.

A bit curious, Rhys glanced in the river he’d forced Bast into, only to discover his eyes were a green-brown hazel. Taken together, they reminded him of the color of garbage, with dirt and plant matter mixed in alike. He snorted. Mousy-colored hair, green-brown hazel eyes. He really was perfectly colored to blend into the trash. Indeed, this body couldn’t have been picked better for a god of trash.

With both of them squeaky clean, their clothes as nice as they’d ever looked and their hair neatly brushed, he led the way to the arena.

The other children had started chattering about it as well, and a few of them crowded around the outside, climbing trees and perched on balconies to peer over the walls. He led the way past them, moving with the assured confidence of someone who belonged. A few of the kids cast him funny looks, but with Bast at his heel, no one dared say a thing.

The arena was small, compared to the arenas Rhys was used to in his homeworld, but compared to this village, absolutely enormous. It was a large, empty field surrounded by a tall wall, with stables on either end and a small hut in the center. Stadium benches lined the outside. Most of them were rough and wooden, and occupied by travelers or townsfolk, here to see the spectacle. However, at one end of the arena, a stone platform stood, tall and noble. It hadn’t appeared until a few days ago, when a team of four men had carried it in and installed it in their arena. This stone platform held fine seats, with three chairs in its center almost ornate enough to be considered thrones. This seating was empty for now, but based on the men who’d carried it in, with their supernatural strength and fine robes, it was reserved for mages. True mages, the kind who lived on the mountain and refused to interfere with mortal lives.

Rhys eyed it now. For people who didn’t interfere with mortals, they sure were interested in the tournament. Then again, even mages had to recruit, surely, and where better to recruit than a battle tournament? He turned away, uninterested. As much as he wanted to become a mage eventually, his stats were still too trash to catch a mage’s eye. His purpose here was entirely different.

“This way,” he muttered to Bast, and led the way around to the back of the arena. The contestants gathered here, a ragtag group. From leather-bound, sweaty martial artists, to adventurers dressed in armor forged from the rare monsters they’d killed, to mages, in their ornate and soft robes, all types of powerful sorts grouped at the arena’s rear entrance, waiting to be organized in the tournament. Rhys and Bast breezed past all of them, entering the tournament’s stables directly. One of the organizers glanced at them, but when Rhys showed no hesitation and didn’t even glance the woman’s direction, she simply turned her eyes away.

“Wow, you were right. All we had to do is pretend like we belonged,” Bast murmured.

“We do belong,” Rhys replied, absolutely sure of himself.

Bast chuckled. “That’s right.”

“Remember the plan. Even if we only get one before we’re thrown out, it’s still worth it.”

“Understood.” Bast glanced around, then picked a clean spot to sit and wait.

Rhys stood at the edge of the stables, watching the combatants gather. Even from here, he could feel the pulse of their mana beat against his skin. Different combatants had different types of mana, from the raging, brutal power of the martial artists to the gentle, yet powerful flow of the mages. Bast’s mana most reminded him of the martial artists, strong and straightforward, while his was more akin to a mage’s or adventurers’ mana, without the aggressive edge, but with a softness that allowed for subtlety and strategy alike.

His eyes sparkled. This was what his future looked like. These powerful beings, strong enough to slaughter this village without breaking a sweat—that was what he longed for. Magic. Strength. Power.

“Admiring the crowd?”

Rhys startled and spun. Behind him, Bast jumped to his feet. Both of them stared at the man who seemed to have materialized in the stables.

There was nothing remarkable about the man. His messy, straw-colored hair was covered by an equally messy straw hat. He wore a tattered outfit, and rather than a sword, a birch stick hung through his belt. Bright blue eyes, as clear as the midday sky, smiled at them. Both his body and clothes were covered in dirt, making both Bast and Rhys look like refined noble children in comparison. Looking at him, Rhys couldn’t help but feel that rather than a human, he looked more like a scarecrow.

Rhys nodded. Instantly on guard, he eyed the man warily, but put on a smile as if he had no cares in the world. “We’ve never seen such powerful people before.”

The man chuckled. “Powerful, huh? And yet they’d be considered weaklings, even by the standards of that tiny school up the mountain.”

“School?” Rhys asked, legitimately curious.

“Mages organize themselves into schools, much as fish do. There’s no deeper meaning to it, although a young mage could receive a decent education at a school, as he or she could at any gathering of mages. Ah, some prefer the term sect or clan, or even house or tower. It simply depends how they’re organized.”

Bast frowned. His brows furrowed. “Mages are like fish?”

Rhys, on the other hand, nodded. He understood what the man was saying. “Then, are you here to take part in the tournament?”

The scarecrow-like man let out a cawing laugh, as if he had swallowed the very crows he was meant to scare. “No, no. It wouldn’t do to let one such as me take part in such a tournament. Could you image? Filthy old me, fighting against these bright young upstarts?”

“You look young. And not only that, you called them weak moments ago,” Rhys pointed out.

The man chuckled. “Aren’t you a sharp one. I might look young, but look closer. This old man has wrinkles on his face.” He pointed to the corners of his eyes, which crinkled with crow’s feet, just as he’d said. Nonetheless, there wasn’t a single line on the rest of his face.

Unconvinced, Rhys nodded slowly. There was more to this man than he was letting on, but as long as he wasn’t here to kick them out, he didn’t mind sharing the stable with a mysterious stranger. He stepped forward and offered his hand. “I’m Rhys, and this is Bast.”

“It’s rude to offer to shake with a weapon concealed in your shirt,” the man countered, pointing directly at where Rhys had stashed his sword.

Rhys drew the sword and showed its broken blade to the man before stowing it once more. “I’m no threat to you, sir.”

The man chuckled. “What a polite young man. Indeed, indeed. And Bast, was it?”

“Short for Bastard,” Bast replied, lowering his head just an inch. Unlike Rhys, a glow of challenge glimmered in his eyes, daring the man to take offense.

For his part, Rhys stared. He’d always thought Bast was a strange name, but he’d never been interested enough to ask. Short for Bastard? Even if Bast’s parents didn’t want him, what kind of monster would name their own child a slur?

Laughing again, the old man nodded. “I like you. There’s some fire in your eyes. Good. Keep it that way.” He looked the boys over and offered one last nod. “I’m known as The Strawman, or sometimes the Birch Boy, or when they’re feeling less generous, the Birch Bitch. I wouldn’t mind if you called me Straw or Birch, but forgive me if I’m a little too weak willed to own my derogative the way your friend does his.”

A glow of approval appeared in Bast’s eyes. “Birch it is.”

“Mr. Straw, are you here to watch the tournament?” Rhys asked. Quietly, he probed the man’s aura. Unlike the contestants, it didn’t roil off of him, but was instead so weak he could barely feel it. Still, when he pressed his mana to its absolute limits, he could sense the man’s aura anyways. It had a strange feeling to it, unlike any of the contestants’ auras, as slippery and hard to grasp as an eel. From the look on Straw’s face, he was very aware that Rhys was probing him, but the man made no protest whatsoever, nor did he retract his aura.

“Mr. Straw? How polite indeed! Yes, yes. I’m here to watch. And much like you boys, I also prefer not to pay entry.” Straw’s eyes glimmered, and a small grin appeared on his face as his eyes flicked from one boy to the other.

Rhys held his head up high, showing not the least bit of shame. “We’re the tournament’s official cleanup boys.”

“Oh? The tournament has cleanup boys? I didn’t know,” Straw said playfully.

“Neither does the tournament, yet,” Bast replied.

Straw chuckled. “Well, I’ve never been the kind of guest to be invited either, so why don’t we share this stable together until the tournament starts?”

“I was just thinking the same,” Rhys replied.

