The three of them sat quietly for a time, waiting for the tournament to begin. Rhys glanced at Straw. He had no idea what the man’s intentions were, but they didn’t seem negative. In fact, he’d approved of the boy’s plan, if only tacitly. Still, he hadn’t given his name, just appellations, and his strange scarecrow-like appearance and odd mana signature spiked Rhys’ suspicions. This man was powerful, maybe even dangerous, but he seemed positive toward them at the moment.

He shrugged to himself. That would have to be enough.

Contestants and viewers alike filed in. The contestants took a series of benches in front of the first row of seats, while the watchers, mostly mortal, filled the stadium seating. The stone seats remained empty, except for one slightly ragged-looking mage, who sat at the very edge. Of course, compared to Rhys, Bast, or Straw, that man seemed the epitome of fine dressing. It was only when Rhys compared him to the mages he’d glimpsed up on the mountain, or even in the contest that he looked shabby. Still, the aura that rolled off of him was far stronger than anyone Rhys had met yet… maybe with the exception of Straw. He eyed the man beside him yet again. The aura he could sense was only at the level of the contestants, but the way the man dismissed them and the mage school up the mountain alike suggested he wasn’t revealing his whole strength.

Straw caught his gaze and waved. “Hello.”

Rhys quickly looked away. He didn’t need to annoy someone who might be very powerful. Better to leave him alone, as he preferred.

An announcer strode forward and cleared his throat, and his voice boomed forth, as if he spoke through a loudspeaker. He wore the clothes of an adventurer, although the brightly-colored leather of his armor was slightly faded, and the bear claw on his hip was colored with dust. Lifting his arms, he turned slowly, addressing the whole crowd. “Welcome, ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the tenth Varian Regional Mixed Tournament! No holds barred, no attacks outlawed. Magic, sword energy,  See the might of the sword up against the mystery of a mage and the tricks and traps of an adventurer! Remember, the winners of this tournament can move on to the country-wide tournament. We thank our generous hosts, the Snowdrop Mage School. Thank you!” He gestured up at the almost empty stone seating.

A smattering of thin applause sounded. For his part, the only mage who occupied the seating had the good graces to look embarrassed.

The announcer lowered his arms, turning back to the crowd. “So, without further ado, your first match!”

Two figures stepped forward. A muscular woman in simple robes cut for easy movement and lightweight leather armor stood on the far side, one hand on her sword, her eyes gazing straight at her opponent, while on their side, a slender man in purple robes stroked a thin beard and smirked back.

“In the left corner, the swordsmistress rumored to be next in line to inherit the Abyssal Depths Sword School, Analiis Rovaire!”

Some applause, mostly from the other martial artists in the crowd.

“To the right, the potion master of the Purple Mysteries Sect, Primm Horage!”

A few scattered claps, even less than there’d been for the empty stone seating.

Rhys looked at Straw. “Are potion masters not respected?”

Straw chuckled. “No, no. To the contrary, potion masters are some of the most respected mages.”

“Then… is this Primm fellow disliked?” Rhys guessed.

“He certainly isn’t well liked.”

Rhys glanced at him. “Why would that be?”

Bast inched forward as well, curious.

“One can do a great many things with potions. Heal wounds and replenish mana, yes, but paralyze, poison, and injure as well. Primm has… shall we say, a reputation for toying with his opponents? He prefers to steal opponents’ free will, then torture them to death at his leisure. Crippling someone or savaging their mana passages with a potion is all fair game to him. And you can only imagine the kind of damage a man with that kind of mindset could do, selling his potions to those who would do harm.” Straw spread his hands. “But then, what would a nobody like me know about that?”

“A nobody,” Rhys scoffed. He eyed Primm in a new light. No wonder no one had wanted to applaud for him. Even if there was someone in the crowd who approved of his actions, who would announce their approval for a sadist in broad daylight?

At the same time, excitement stirred in his chest. He glanced at Bast, who nodded back. A potion master. This was the kind of guy they needed!

The announcer blew a horn, and the battle commenced. Rhys watched, enraptured. The two combatants traded blows at a blistering pace. Even though Primm was a potion master, he could still match the swordsmaster’s attacks blow for blow. Or he could… at first. The swordsmaster laughed, and her blade moved faster than before. Blood flew, and Primm staggered back, a gash rending his body from shoulder to hip.

“Damn,” Rhys muttered.

Almost before the wound could bleed, Primm tossed back a blue potion. The wound began to heal, and he tossed the vial away carelessly.

“Bast!” Rhys snapped. He was too far away. He’d never make it in time.

Without hesitation, Bast darted out. He flashed up to the stage and lunged, snatching the vial in both hands. Prize secured, he retreated to the edge of the stage.

Rhys nodded to Straw. “We’ll be back.” He jogged up to the edge of the stage and crouched beside Bast, elbowing the other boy until he took the same stance.

It was a very specific crouch, one leg up, the other back, both hands curled in fists on the ground. He’d borrowed it from tennis tournaments’ ball boys, though Bast wouldn’t know that. It was, however, a very official-looking crouch, and one that was less likely to get them questioned by the authorities.

The announcer frowned at them, but said nothing. Rhys gazed ahead with clear eyes full of conviction.

Beside him, Bast leaned in. “There’s some good dregs in this.”

“Good,” Rhys replied. And it was made by a potion master. Doubtlessly it’d be more effective than an ordinary health potion.

In quick succession, Primm downed another three bottles. Both Rhys and Bast darted forth, snatching the vials before they hit the ground. Primm glanced at them, frowning slightly, but said nothing.

Primm’s body swelled. Muscle covered his frame, and he hunched forward as his robes tore from his might. Mana roiled around him, suddenly empowered. Letting out a fearsome roar, he charged the swordsmaster. She darted back, shocked, and defended desperately against his blows.

Rhys nudged Bast. “Keep those three separate.” They didn’t know which one of the three caused such overwhelming muscle growth and the burst of mana. Maybe they even needed all three together. Either way, he’d be investigating these later.

Bast nodded.

The battle raged on. Primm pressured the swordsmaster until her eyes abruptly began to glow red. Her sword glowed red in concert with her eyes, and she stepped forth, forcing Primm back. He screamed, taking her blows with his overgrown body and struggling to land a hit, but there was no blasting through her bladework with brute force alone. She forced him back, then raised her sword, poised to land a killing blow.

Primm’s body shriveled back to its usual size. He raised his hands. “I surrender!”

The red light dimmed in the swordswoman’s eyes. Her sword returned to its usual luster. She stepped back and sheathed her sword.

The announcer lifted his arm. “And there we have it! Analiis takes the victory. Primm has been disqualified!”

Primm stepped back. Instead of looking concerned, though, there was an easy smile on his face. He turned to the crowd and bowed. Again, almost no one clapped, but a few of the crowd’s nobles pinched their chins, thoughtful looks on their faces. Rhys could all but read their thoughts. If a weak potion master could be boosted to stand on even footing with a swordsmaster like Analiis just by drinking a few potions, what could that same boost do for them? Or perhaps, their loyal knights? Primm hadn’t participated in the tournament to win; he’d participated to advertise his wares.

On the far side of the arena, Analiis’ nose wrinkled in distaste as she realized the same. She harrumphed and turned away, marching back to her seat.

“She entered the tournament. She can’t be mad that she was pressured by a filthy potion master. It’s not her fault that this is all the Abyssal Depths Sword can amount to, but she shouldn’t be angered either that the path she chose to walk is so shallow. It’s ours to accept the end of the path we choose. To rage impotently against it is to choose the route of deviation and death.”

Rhys whirled, clapping his ear. Straw had all but whispered in it. “Could you warn a man before you sneak up behind us?”

“But where’s the fun in that?” Straw returned with an easy grin. He sat back, watching the tournament and the boys alike. “I like this plan of yours. Do you need my help?”

Rhys eyed him. “I can’t spare a cut for you.” As strong as Straw was, he could demand to take all the spoils. Allowing him any reward would mean giving it all up, if he meant to recompense Straw based on his relative strength to Bast and he.

Straw chuckled. “I have no interest in such things. I only offer to help out of boredom.”

Rhys considered for a moment, then shrugged to himself. At the end of the day, if Straw wanted his potions, he could easily take them. And as the man himself had said, why should he want them at all? They were incredibly valuable to Rhys, but to even the competitors in the arena, they were trash they had discarded, not valuable items. If Straw was more powerful than them…

He shrugged to himself. “Sure, why not? Bast and I have this end covered. You can go catch items on the other side of the field.”

“Empty potion bottles?” Straw asked.

“Potion bottles, pill wrappers, anything they discard is valuable to me.”

Straw touched the brim of his hat. “Consider it done.” With that, he vanished.

Bast shivered. “That guy gives me the creeps.”

“He’s got to be crazy powerful, right?” Rhys asked.

Bast nodded. “That’s the impression I get. Stronger than the contestants, for certain.”

“What’s he doing here?” Rhys asked, half to himself.

“Passing the time?” Bast suggested.

Rhys snorted. “Who knows. I don’t even understand normal mages, let alone mysterious experts like him.”

He peered over to the other side of the arena. He saw no sign of Straw, not his figure nor his shadow. Rhys shrugged to himself. He and Bast had their hands full catching potions on this side. He’d originally planned just to grab the potions from one side, then collect the rest after each match, and of course, if the matches were too dangerous, he’d simply wait for the end. If Straw did nothing, then he’d revert to his original plan.

He could have gone to the other side, and left Bast alone on this side, but he figured the two of them together looked more official and imposing than two of them apart. They weren’t actually part of the tournament, after all. Better to risk losing a few potions than to risk getting kicked out entirely. The more official they looked, the longer they’d be able to stay in the tournament.

The next contestants took the stage. These two were both adventurers. One wielded a weapon that looked more like a grappling hook than a blade, and the other carried a dagger formed from the enormous tooth of some monster. More evenly matched than the swordsmaster and the potions master, they sparred for some time, both of them sucking down mana and health potions. Rhys and Bast caught the ones on their side, while the ones on Straw’s side mysteriously vanished, with only the flicker of a pale form appearing from time to time. The grappling-hook equipped man moved on, and the next pair took the stage. This adventurer barely faced their mage opponent for a single moment before the mage drew a sword and, with some mysterious attack too quick for Rhys’ eyes to follow, took the adventurer to his knees, sword pressed against his jugular. The adventurer surrendered without using a single potion.

Rhys sighed. “How unfortunate.”

“Drawn-out fights are far better,” Bast agreed.

“We get more potions,” Rhys said.

“And they’re fun to watch.”

Rhys nodded at the field. “I didn’t expect mages to be swordsmen as well.”

Bast stared at him, confused. “How are they meant to best martial artists and adventurers if they don’t know how to handle a weapon? Of course they use the sword. Mages pursue perfection. To lack in martial skill would be to expose a glaring weakness to everyone they fought.”

Rhys opened his mouth, then shut it. Now that Bast had pointed it out, it was glaringly obvious. If mages really were squishy, unable to defend themselves against melee attacks, then how would they survive in a world where people could equally empower their bodies and weapon attacks as put mana into fireballs? “But then, what’s the difference between mages and martial artists?”

“Mages pursue magic primarily and martial skill secondarily. Martial artists invert that. They pursue strong bodies and powerful weapon skills, while putting ranged magics secondary. Of course, a sufficiently skilled mage can defeat a martial artist with the sword, and a sufficiently skilled martial artist could defeat a mage with magic, although… I don’t think any martial artist would be happy with that kind of exchange,” Bast explained.

“And adventurers?” Rhys asked. “All-rounders?”

“Basically. Though they often pursue monsters for the inherent advantages monster materials have over basic, or even enchanted materials. Really, what sets adventurers apart is that they walk alone. A mage belongs to a school, a martial artist to a sword school. Adventurers belong to no one and nowhere. There are guilds, but the guilds are more… er, friendly gatherings rather than hierarchical organizations. Guilds cannot control their members and have little political might, and little ability to recall members to defend the guild, for example… they’re more tavern halls than schools. And many adventurers don’t belong to guilds at all.”

Rhys nodded. “Makes sense.” Those who favored physical attacks, those who favored magic, and those who favored freedom, at the cost of the strong support a mage or sword school might offer. He glanced at Bast. “How do you know all this?”

After all, Bast hadn’t questioned his asking questions, which suggested it was something reasonable for someone of this world to ask about.

