While the three of them walked hand in hand, Mila’s enthusiastic story-telling melted away Akanai’s anger, her daughter every bit as charming and lovable as before. Perhaps Mila was telling the truth and Akanai was projecting her own past onto her daughter. Just because Akanai laid with her husband out of wedlock after their first real battle, didn’t mean Mila would do the same. She was an obedient child, raised better than Akanai had been. There was nothing to worry about.

Probably.

Finding the boy amidst the crowd was simple enough, they only needed to follow the flies. Officials and dignitaries of every faction swarmed around him, kept back by a circle of unfamiliar, disciplined warriors. These would be Dastan Zhandos’s retinue, and her first impression was favourable, picking the former Warrant Officer out with Mila's help. Sporting a wispy moustache he thought made him look dignified but only accentuated his youth, the rebel-turned-slave deftly managed the crowd of uppity nobles, giving Rain time to spend with his family. Spotting Mila, Dastan immediately yelled at the nobles to make way, clearing a path for Akanai and her daughters to pass through.

How intriguing. This one showed promise, accepting his new lot in life with grace and aplomb. Though labelled a rebel and traitor, he was now a Sentinel under her command and she liked what she saw thus far. Turning her attention to the boy, Akanai scowled as he remained crouched on the ground and ignorant of her presence until Alsantset tugged at his sleeve. Glancing up, he grinned and remained crouched while everyone else stood in her presence, waving like a gleeful child. “Hello!” he said before hugging the wildcat. “And hello to you too Sarankho.”

With his body yet to fully recover, Akanai couldn’t stay angry at the boy and took a seat beside him. At least he’d greeted her before greeting the wildcat. “Welcome back, my Grand-Disciple.” She hated saying those words out loud because it made her feel older than her years, but her nonchalance was for the benefit of those watching, making it seem like the boy’s disrespect meant nothing. Family didn’t put on airs, and the boy was family, both her grand-disciple and eventual son-in-law. Speaking of which, why wasn’t that hare-brained healer and his daughter here?

No matter. Giving the boy a rare smile, she patted his neck, resisting the urge to hit a little harder than necessary to vent her frustration. “This time, you’ve performed... adequately.”

Laughing in delight, the boy leaned in for a hug. “Thank you, Grand-Mentor. Your praise means the world to me.” There was no sarcasm or derision in his tone, only heartfelt sincerity, and her shoulders eased to hear it. She’d worried the boy would let fame get to his head, but he seemed the same as always, a kind-hearted child who meant well. That he infuriated her so often was merely accidental, though they would need to teach him manners soon now that he was a hero.

Glancing at the gathered dignitaries, Akanai raised her voice and said, “Thank you all for coming to greet my Grand-Disciple, but his journey was long and the hour late.” Most took her dismissal in stride and left, while the remaining flies were hustled away by Dastan, leaving them in peace and quiet. Once only trusted eyes and ears remained, Akanai turned to the boy and said, “Show me your Aura.”

Unwavering determination and daring courage filled her the second she finished speaking, the boy unleashing his Aura without delay. Wonderful, Condensed at the speed of thought and so robust and secure, Rain’s skills were above and beyond what she’d expected. Barely able to keep herself from clapping in joy, Akanai hid her emotions and nodded. “Acceptable,” she said, but from the looks of it, the boy discerned her true feelings. Why else would he be so delighted by her words? Condensing her own Aura, she said, “Take care, for I will now test it.”

Turning her Aura against him, she pressured him with a twentieth of her strength. Gerel sent word that Rain’s Aura held some surprises, but he didn’t elaborate in writing. Rather than ask him, it seemed better to test the boy herself, and he weathered it well. Of course, the boy withstood this much even without his own Aura, she needn’t be so gentle. Slowly raising her strength, the boy’s Aura finally shifted beneath her own once she released half her might, but still it held. Delighted by his resilience, Akanai immediately struck out with all her strength, which only made the boy blink and focus, seeming unfazed by her assault.

How absurd, if this was his strength now, what would he be like after given time to grow?

“Boy,” she said after a moment of thought, “try to break my Aura. Use everything you have.”

“Uh... Everything?” The boy looked around in confusion, as if searching for something or someone.

“Yes.”

“Have you spoken to Gerel yet?”

“No. I will speak with him in the morning. Enough hesitation, do as I say.” She tried to sound gentle, but she was too eager to restrain  herself.

“Okay... but um... be careful, okay?”

This time her smile slipped out. How endearing, a frog at the bottom of-

A raging storm of anger and despair crashed into her Aura from all sides, a whirling frenzy of emotions. Buckling beneath the pressure, Akanai focused everything on holding her Aura, unwilling to lose face before this preposterous grand-disciple. Everything from seething hatred to crippling misery, the depths of which she’d never felt before today, threatened to pierce through her defences and render her vulnerable. In spite of her best efforts, her Aura diminished and ebbed before the boy’s aggression, the seconds passing ever so slowly as she weathered the onslaught.

Then, without warning, it all faded away as the boy reeled in his seat, sweating and panting as if he’d just run a marathon. Grinning despite his weariness, he leaned against her and said, “That’s my Grand-Mentor. Sturdier than a dozen Yo Ling’s. Barely even made you blink.”

Swallowing hard, Akanai alternated between confusion and awe. By the Mother, even though he couldn’t break her Aura, if he struck while she was distracted or in the midst of a duel, she shuddered to think of the consequences. In a battle between experts, a single moment's delay might as well be an eternity. Grabbing him by the arm, she Sent, “Explain.”

Full marks. She had to give him full marks. Though she could never say as much. It’s not that he didn’t deserve praise, but she didn’t want his accomplishments turn him pig-headed and stupid. Arrogance and overconfidence killed more young talents than the Defiled ever could and the boy attracted danger like none other.

While listening to Rain’s disjointed explanation, Akanai’s smile grew until her cheeks ached with the strain. Given a little time and a lot of luck, this little son-in-law would soar into the Heavens.

She was certain of it.

Chapter Meme
