Ryul took a seat exactly where he popped into the classroom, saying, “I flit around Nelboor, up and down all day long. Let me know when I need to come to Spur to return the favor of today. I'd prefer a private lesson.” He asked, “If that’s alright with you?”

The Headmaster smiled as he looked upon Ryul, but he spoke to Erick, saying, “Ryul is a headstrong warrior, but he has quite a bit of honor for such a young man of 35. I have no reason to believe he would break this kind of promise.”

Erick said, “Sure. I suppose. Uh. What’s your specialty?”

“Force Mage. Pure Force, too. None of this Altering cow shit.” Ryul leaned back in his chair, to put his clawed bird feet onto the desk, saying, “Isn’t Syllea joining us today, Headmaster?”

“She is.”

“Good!” Ryul said, and left it at that—

Because two blips of two more people popped around the room. One was clear, like thick air, but not, revealing a tall orcol woman in leathers, with the most gorgeous long blond hair that curved around her shoulders, and rested upon her considerable assets.

The other blip was dark green. A wrought, human-shaped, but black with a green sheen. She appeared behind the front row, to the left side of the room. She immediately sat down in her seat.

Ryul instantly taunted the orcol woman, saying, “Syllea! Glad to see your sorry face again.”

Syllea completely ignored the bird man.

The black and green wrought, said, “Please don’t be an arsehole today, Ryul.”

The Headmaster interrupted Ryul’s response with a raised hand. The Headmaster spoke, “As you can see, Erick, this community tends to know one another.” He nodded nicely to the orcol, saying, “Welcome Syllea.” He turned and regarded the wrought, “Welcome Tasar.”

Syllea spoke, with a warm, rich voice, saying, “Archmage Erick. I understand you wish to push back the Crystal Forest. I would like to offer my Bargain of Trade to assist you with this endeavor. It has long been my goal to retake the land from those mimics, though the matter is too large for all the magic that has come before. Perhaps with this new kind of—”

Ryul interjected, “Come on, cheepo! A bargain of trade to do something you already want? That dishonors the entire idea!”

Syllea’s face scrunched, as she seemed to hold back a deep, deep anger. She let it go, and came back to herself, saying, “We can figure something else out, too.”

Tasar said, “I would also like to just ‘owe you one’. Though I will say that I want the Shades dead, too.” She asked, “Can we leave it at that, for now?”

The Headmaster said, “All honorable choices. But the matter of acceptance is up to you, Erick.”

Erick had plans for some of the archmages in attendance, but he had no idea what he wanted from these people, so he said, “Sure. We can leave it at that, for now.”

An orange blip interrupted further discussion. An aging, white and tangerine mottled dragonkin stood near the top of the room, near Erick’s companions. Poi visibly startled to see the dragonkin. The dragonkin didn’t seem to care about Poi, though there is no way he [Teleport]ed blindly into the room; he had appeared exactly where he wanted to appear.

“Welcome, Hocnihai,” the Headmaster said. “One of Oceanside’s truest friends, and a Warder of great respect.”

Poi’s eyes went utterly professional. His stance turned solid. He watched, and did not react, as the tangerine dragonkin blipped again to a different seat, five meters away.

Hocnihai said, “I almost hit the right seat.” He sat down. He said, “The Wasteland Kingdoms would like to pledge support to Erick, on my behalf. Not quite sure how long these bones are gonna keep grinding along.” He chuckled at his own joke, before coughing a bit, and straightening up in his seat. “Damn age.”

Erick said, “Glad to meet you, Hocnihai. I’d love to see your country some time and help with some of your toxic monsters. But I would like assurances of non-violence before I do such a thing.” He added, “And personally, I would like help with both a [Prismatic Ward] and the [Reflection] suite of spells.”

Hocnihai smiled, to say, “I would love to help an Avowed Pacifist with these spells. How’s your [Prismatic Ward] come along so far?” He added, “Variable multiplier, permissions, and size. But if you’d rather not say here, we can talk later.”

Erick looked around the room at the interested faces, and decided to just answer, mostly because Kiri had thought it impressive, and this seemed to be a test from the old mottled dragonkin. “Three-fold Variable, medium sized, and full range of permissions.”

Kiri cracked a chalk behind Erick. She quickly mumbled something small as she picked it up and went back to setting up Erick’s lecture; she was currently drawing water molecules on the blackboard.

“Ah ha!” Hocnihai laughed again, then said, “Good show. Too bad you’re not a Warder. I can work with this. Consider the bargain struck. I’m not allowed in Spur, so I’m afraid I’ll have to teach you while we’re both at Oceanside. I’ll be here for a while, maybe a week.”

“Sounds fine to me,” Erick said.

The air blipped five seats down from the Headmaster, revealing a small, floating opalescent orb.

Ryul frowned at the orb, saying, “Still can’t be bothered to leave Spur, can you?”

“I cannot.” Opal said, “I wish I could, but I can’t, and that’s all there is to it.” She said, “Erick. I’ll try to teach you that [Ward Destruction] skill.”

Erick said, “Accepted.”

Honestly, Opal had already helped him out of some pretty awful jams there in the final assault on Odaali and she was a trusted ally of Spur. Erick was happy enough to have her along for the ride, even if she wasn’t truly here at all.

The Headmaster nodded, saying, “One more person—”

The air near the third row of seats blipped with the color of dull stone; grey and brown and solid.

The Headmaster said, “Welcome, Tenebrae.”

A human man resolved out of the blip. He was pale with white hair, and wore slate-grey clothing. He sat down, silently, at his chosen seat. He frowned. He said nothing.

Erick said, “You already owe me a bargain of trade, Tenebrae.”

Opal laughed loud; a singular sound to grate against the tension in the air like a knife through a heart.

Tenebrae glared at Erick. “I owe you nothing. I am here to take my recompense from your fuckup by participating in this farce of magic and hopefully getting something out of your stupidity.” Tenebrae’s voice was a harsh thing, “I would have gained so much from that Queen Daydropper, but then you intervened.”

“There was another Queen.” Erick said, “You could have had that one all to yourself. In fact, that’s exactly what I bargained for you to do, but you failed to show up and claim that one.”

Tenebrae shook his head, saying, “Bah! Who cares about some lowly level 50 shit. I had that level 90 kill in the bag. Full Participation! On my own! And then you intervened.”

Erick stood stunned.

Now… Erick knew that Tenebrae was only after the experience gain from killing the Queen Daydropper; how else could Erick have gotten 0% from that fight unless Tenebrae worked after Erick’s intervention to secure himself a larger Participation. Mog had told Erick that it was possible, so that’s what Tenebrae must have done. But to hear it stated so openly, that Tenebrae was only in that fight for the Experience of it? Erick was appalled, down to his very core.

“You’re a rather sad person, aren’t you.” Erick immediately added, “I demand full technical and magical knowledge of your floating castle as well as a [Teleport Gate] or whatever it is that the wyrms guard in the forests north of you.”

Tenebrae glared at Erick, then said, “Agreed. Arsehole.” He added, “Maybe you can figure the damned thing out. I’m done fucking around with that piece of trash. And you’ll get the plans to my City, and nothing else! No tours. No help with your spellwork. You hear me?”

Talking to Tenebrae was like getting punched in the face. Erick rolled with it. He said, “Fine. Deliver the plans to me here, and the gate can go—”

“I can’t move the shitting thing. Idiot.” Tenebrae said, “I know where a good one is, and that’s all the help you’re getting from me.”

Opal’s orb vibrated, “I’ll help with investigating the Teleport Gate.”

Syllea stood up from her seat, her long blond hair flowing around her leather-clad body. “I too, would like to help with this.”

The Headmaster said, “I would be very interested in recreating a functional [Gate] network.”

Tasar’s green eyes seemed to glow amid her black, metal skin. “I want to be a part of this, as well.”

Ryul flicked his red wings out across the table, relaxing, saying, “Not me! I got enough stuff on my schedule.”

“Don’t count on me for any adventures.” Hocnihai scratched at his orange and white scales, saying, “Busy busy.”

Erick looked around the room, from face to face. Some of them were friendly, others decidedly crotchety. No one seemed overtly hostile, though.

This was good.

Erick said, “Okay. Sounds good.” He turned to the blackboards behind him. They were filled with the diagrams Erick had made, along with Kiri’s handwriting, listing parts of the pictures. Kiri stood to the side, patiently waiting. Erick smiled, then said, “Thank you, Kiri. Looks good.”

Kiri bowed ever so slightly, ever so quickly, before stepping further to the side, almost completely off of the stage. Erick turned back to the podium, to look over the notes Kiri put there, and grinned again. He looked up at the faces in the crowd. The Headmaster had no papers or pens in front of him, but everyone else did. They were all seated; ready and waiting.

Erick began, “I’ll answer questions near the end. This might take a while.”

It took Erick two hours to get through the lecture he had designed with Kiri’s help. They all took a break for lunch, and then came the questions.

The questions lasted two hours, and Erick's lecture soon became a round table discussion affair, with only Tenebrae opting to watch from the side. Rue, also, did not directly participate. Demonstrations were made of [Call Lightning] and [Exalted Storm Aura] and [Crystallize Diamond], which everyone was surprised to learn was not a Particle Mage only spell.

After that, the other archmages decided to show off their own spells.

Erick gained five new particle spells, but they were nothing special. The Headmaster had a water extraction spell that could dehydrate a monster, but was demonstrated on meat to make jerky, while Ryul had a spell that magnetized iron. Hocnihai had a spell that weakened walls or could tenderize meat, or monsters, while Syllea was able to make an object somewhat heavier than water, into something lighter than water, in a way that was not the levitate magic of a common [Prestidigitation].

The only spell Erick learned with immediate practical applications was from Tasar.

It was a spell that drew the oxygen in a medium space into a smaller, concentrated space, maybe a foot across. When cast on a burning object, the object exploded, rapidly burning up. But there was a problem. And Tasar already knew the problem.

When cast on a burning object, the object rapidly burned, sometimes fast enough to be called an explosion, but if the spell was cast on a free-floating fire spell, like on the tiny flame of a [Prestidigitation] fire held atop a finger, nothing happened. Only when something was actually burning, did this spell help to speed up the process.

Erick had no answer for why this was.

The Headmaster watched the nuances of fire and oxygen, and did a little rhyme to make a Hydrogen gathering spell. Hydrogen was, of course, the other main component of Water, the molecule and parts Erick had already talked about at length in the morning.

Now that spell made a fucking fire.

And Erick got a copy of that spell; his sixth new spell of the day. And then the day was done, for now.

By the time Erick was back at Windy Manor he was both exhausted and thrilled. As he patted a gently trilling Ophiel in his lap and channeled mana across the ocean to the farms of Spur, he considered the nuances of fire, oxygen, and hydrogen.

And then it came to him.

“Oh! Right!” Erick said, “Oxygen is an oxidizer. Hydrogen actually burns, though. Oxygen does not burn.” He paused. He said, “Maybe.” He grumbled. “Ah? I don’t know if that’s right.” He looked over to Poi, cooking dinner, saying, “And can you believe that the Headmaster just went and made that spell, right there?”

Rats walked in from the front yard, carrying freshly picked potatoes, saying, “I can’t believe there wasn’t violence.”

Poi deboned fish with a sharp [Telekinesis], saying, “Violence was never a possibility. The Headmaster had that locked down tight.” He looked over to Kiri, slicing lemons, saying, “You were right.”

Kiri shuddered, sharp knife in one hand, lemon slices on the table in front of her. “That was still terrifying.”

Rats agreed, “Hell yeah it was.”

Teressa yawned in her seat by the window, saying, “Glad nothing happened.”

Erick nodded, in complete agreement.

Kiri added, “At least not right then. I bet they’re all talking about a lot of dangerous stuff right now.”

Erick nodded, in complete agreement. Then he asked, “Why would a wrought want an oxygen creating spell?” He amended, “I mean. An oxygen extracting spell?” He added, “Well. Actually. If they can take the oxygen out of metal, it goes back to being metal and not rust. So I can see how that—”

“Holy fuck!” Rats said, “Really?”

Poi and Kiri stared at Erick, while Teressa giggled, looking off into nowhere.

Poi went back to slicing up fish, casually saying, “It wasn’t an oxygen extracting spell. It was an oxygen condensing spell. If oxygen makes rust, then what Tasar had was an assassination spell, sir. She had to know this fact about rust, though. Which means she knows a lot more about particle magic than what she showed today.”

Kiri said, “That’s unfair. It also extracted oxygen. It could very well be a spell that pulls rust out of a wrought.” She added, “If that’s really all Wrought Rust is. I don’t really know.”

Rats said, “Both sides are possible.”

Erick sighed out, tired and weary, as he channeled mana across the oceans, to silver clouds that dropped platinum rain across the only green land in the Crystal Forest. He said, “Syllea seemed nice.”

Teressa said, “She is. She’s the golden girl of the Wyrmrest Tribe in Treehome, you know?”

Rats looked to Poi, and asked, straight out, “But who the heck is Hocnihai?”

