This seeming contradiction between those was rectified by it being a thing of degrees. To any mundane sight, the room would seem positively austere, actually matching the main council chamber in its smooth walls and sparse furnishings.

This main room had a small dining table to one side with three chairs, all of tight-grained wood without even metal fastenings. A small buffet anchored the dining area, with dishes and other needed items tucked away behind simple, flat panel doors.

On the other side, differently angled wooden chairs gathered around a low table, clearly a space for relaxing and entertaining. Again there were three chairs.

A pair of bookcases flanked the seating area, each shelf only half filled with simple appearing tomes, held in place with ceramic and metal bookends.

Again, though, this was all how it appeared to mundane sight.

To Tala’s perception—all encompassing and enhanced as it was—things were very different, at least in kind.

The walls weren’t made to seem smooth, they were perfectly smooth to the point that she doubted dust would be able to cling to the surface. Even so, they were still somehow worked to not be reflective, which was something that she didn’t understand in the least. Regardless, she pitied any insect that tried to climb the surface. Most glass was rougher.

The chairs didn’t have metal fastenings because they didn’t need them. Every joint was a masterfully crafted interconnection of the various pieces of wood, designed to flex and maintain both strength and cohesion with the expansion and contraction of the material. That level of craftsmanship held for every wooden piece in the place.

Tala had seen things of this nature before, but generally, it was done with different colors of wood, or otherwise treated in ways to make the intricacy stand out and highlight the craftsmanship. In this case, that skill was required all the more to hide its usual hallmarks.

The floors were perfectly textured to allow both easy footing and easy cleaning, the grooves designed and laid out so that a bucket of water dumped in the center of the room would wash across most of the floor, seemingly to be diverted around the position of each leg of furniture.

I guess they don’t rearrange often?

As she looked closer in that long moment, she realized that the amount of wood on either side of the room was exactly equivalent. As she considered further—the idea of balance coming to the forefront—the number of boards used was equally divided between the sides of the room, the number of cuts seemed to be equivalent, and so many other things seemed to be in perfect balance.

Similarly, the books and bookends balanced the plates, utensils, and linens in the buffet.

If this room were balanced on a razor’s edge down the centerline, it wouldn’t tip either way, and as she noticed more and more symmetries like that, she suspected that what lay beyond the single door ahead of her likely contained similarly balanced aspects.

-He’s pushing for mastery. He’s trying to utterly suffuse himself within balance.-

So it seems, yeah.

The servant crossed the room—walking straight down the middle—and opened the other door, which swung in counterpoint to the entrance, again seeming to create balance.

Eskau De-arg had been sitting within, but his large round ears were already oriented toward the door, clearly both expecting and likely having heard her arrival.

Even so, he rose only after the servant spoke his name in hushed tones. They exchanged appropriate bows. The diminutive Eskau then picked up his long staff—the c-shaped end exactly as Tala had remembered—and walked her way.

The servant closed the door behind the Eskau, leaving them in privacy.

“Eskau Tala. I am told that congratulations are in order.” He bowed deeply.

Tala bowed in return, if to a lesser degree. “Eskau De-arg. They are.”

They both straightened, a silence falling between them for a long moment before he spoke again. “Congratulations.”

“Thank you. I hear you are nearing advancement?”

The bear-kin sighed at that. “I wish that it were so. I seek inner peace, but the birds flap so loudly.”

Tala arched an eyebrow, only now remembering how the little arcane liked his obscure, often seemingly nonsensical phrases. “You could… disable your hearing.”

He shook his head. “A thing destroyed is hardly in balance.”

“Fair, I suppose.” She considered. “Is it possible that in seeking inner peace you are missing an inner piece of yourself?”

He gave her a flat look. “Advancement is not about word-play, Eskau Tala.”

She shrugged, smiling. “That’s not been my experience.”

His eye twitched. “I suppose that we are all different. Truths that elude one can be clear to another. Your gated nature would make that truth more so for you than others.”

Tala grinned back. “Well, given your difficulty, perhaps that different perspective is what you need?”

He sighed. “This is going to be a long morning, isn’t it?”

“I have to balance out the excellent tea and treats I will be offering you somehow. That doesn’t even mention the secrets and revelations I will be sharing. After all, I wouldn’t want to hamper your advancement.” Her grin widened.

He closed his eyes and rubbed at his temples, his massive ears shifting with the motion as well. “To think, I actually thought I missed you.”

She chuckled. “Come. We’ve tea waiting for us.” She gestured and opened a portal into her sanctum, allowing some of the power to flow outward. “After you.”

His eyes widened, his mouth falling slightly agape. “What is that?”

“Secrets and revelations, Eskau De-arg. Secrets and revelations."
