Her voice was repeated 6 times as the rest of the Sending Squares had glowed and relayed her words. All of the girls screamed, grabbed one of the Sending Squares for themselves, and tried to talk. Their words were repeated from each of the other Sending Squares, and they laughed; which was also repeated.

“By the GODS!” The oldest one exclaimed, completely shocked.

“If you keep talking to each other, you can all still be friends.” Ren said. “Now let's get you home.”

They nodded slightly and Ren led them over to the cart. He helped them get inside, and there was plenty of room this time. They settled in, and Ren climbed up onto Princess' saddle.

“Let's get them home.” Ren said to Princess, and she turned the cart around and ran at a modest pace. She had delicate cargo to take care of now.

*

“By the gods!” Nathalia said as she read the scroll that the messenger had dropped off.

“What is it?” Ereka asked.

“The... the Queen... she...” Nathalia handed Ereka the scroll, and she read it for herself.

“By the gods!” Ereka said. “Is she serious?”

Nathalia nodded slightly. “She's having a celebration... and Ren is the guest of Honor.”

*

It only took half an hour to get the girls back to their families. When he dropped each one off, the reception was the same; screaming in disbelief at first, then crying, then laughter, and surprise that it was over. Ren had apologized to each family and said that he was sorry for not rescuing them sooner, then quietly asked the parents how much they had paid in ransom. All of them were reluctant to say, until the child was sent into the house at Ren's suggestion.

When they finally told him how much the ransom was, and how long they had paid it for, Ren gave them their money back. Each and every father vehemently denied the need for Ren to pay them for that, and Ren replied that it wasn't his money he was using; it was the loot from the Thieves Guild. When saying that didn't work, Ren told them that he was just going to leave the money on the side of the road if they didn't take it. They all shook their heads at his foolishness; but then, they accepted the money in the end.

Ren rode Princess all the way back to House Neram Keep, and had her take him up to the workshop in behind. He smiled as he saw that Tee-one outside and was in the middle of building wall partitions.

“That's great!” Ren said, and ran over to him. “Let me give you a hand with that.”

“Thank you.” Tee-one said, and they assembled the large one storey building in only a few minutes.

“How long have you...”

“Since you discovered the contracts were yours.” Tee-one said. “I put everything else on hold.”

Ren chuckled and pat Tee-one's shoulder. “I appreciate it.”

“I know you do.” Tee-one said. “Do you want to use their old furniture for now?” He asked. “I'll make replacements for them over the next few days.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Great idea.” He said, went inside, and unloaded all of the cabinets, dressers, and beds that he had stored. He took out the tables and chairs as well to fill out the space. “I'll be right back.”

When Ren ran out to get the female dwarves, he saw that they were still inside the cart.

“I'm sorry for not helping you get out of the cart right away.” Ren said and reached a hand in for the closest woman. “I was putting together the place for you to stay in.”

“You were what?” She asked as she took his hand. He helped her climb down from the cart, and she looked at the building in front of her. “We're staying in that?”

Ren helped out the next female dwarf. “I know it's not much.” Ren said. “I'll have Ereka order windows for it, and either Tee-one or I will install them when they get here.”

“Tee-one?” She asked.

“Yes?” Tee-one said as he came out of the hastily-made building.

“Ahh!” She said and turned around to look at him. “You startled me!”

“Please accept my apologies.” Tee-one said.

“What are you?” The third female dwarf asked. “You have a metal face.”

“I am Ren's Dedicated Servant Crafter.” Tee-one said, and the female dwarves gasped.

“How... how...”

“I'd say it's a long story, but it's not.” Ren said and laughed as he helped the fourth female dwarf out of the cart. “When I reached a certain level, I unlocked the recipe to make him; then I did.”

“You're right. That is a short story.” The last one said, and climbed down out of the cart. “I'd like to hear the full story sometime.”

“I'm sure at some time in the future, I'll be able to talk with you about such things; but, as it is right now, I have to get you settled and then I need to take care of some Adventurer's business.”

She nodded slightly, and Ren led all 5 female dwarves into the building.

“Like I was trying to say before, this is only a quick build and not where you'll actually be living.” Ren said. “It'll do for now, though.”

“We have to use all the old furniture?” One of them asked.

“Only for a few days.” Ren said. “Tee-one will make replacements in his spare time over the next few days.”

“What about you?” Another one asked as Ren walked around and repaired all of the metal furniture.

“I might be gone for a day or two.” Ren said. “I want to introduce you to my fian... ah... girlfr... ah... the woman I lo...” He sighed. “Well, dammit.”

One of them laughed. “A forbidden public relationship?”

Ren nodded slightly. “But, I really have to go... so it'll have to wait until I come back.” He said and started to leave.

“Wait!” One of them said, and he turned around to look at her.

“Yes?”

“Can... can you order us not to leave the room?” She asked, and the other women nodded. “We've had... all of the outside we can handle for a while.”

“Was it the cart ride, or the screaming girls?” Ren asked, and they all laughed. “I order you not to touch anything dangerous, and to stay in this room until I come back.”

They breathed a sigh of relief, and Ren took out his icebox.

“There's plenty of food in here, but it's cold.” Ren said. “I'll make arrangements for better meals when I get back.”

“Thank you.” One of them said and took a few steps over to him, and put a hand on his arm. “Thank you for everything.”

“Thank you.”

“Thank you so much.”

“Thank you!”

“My bed is really comfortable.” The last one said, and everyone looked at her. “What? I want to thank him.”

They all laughed, including Ren, then he left the building. He unhooked the cart from Princess, stored it, and led her down to the Keep. The guard there opened the gate and Ren took Princess into the stable. He got her settled, checked on Ruck, the dogs, and the fire elemental. They were all fine, so he went into the house.

“There you are!” Nathalia said, and walked over to him. “Guess what Narhilda did?”

“You can tell me later.” Ren said, and kissed her passionately for about 10 seconds, then broke the kiss. “I have to go. I love you. The maids are in a building beside the workshop, and I'll introduce you to them when I get back. I'll see you in a day, maybe two.”

“But...” Nathalia said. “You...”

“I promise I'll be back as soon as I can.” Ren said and sat down. “Have Ereka order 6 standard windows for Tee-one.” He said and sighed. “I am so late!”

“Logout.”

********
