While the outside of city hall was all dark metal, the inside was too, but all of that was covered up with a layer of off-white marble that was flecked with gold and mica and other shiny impurities. If it weren’t for the sound-dampening spells that hid in the upper corners of hallways, this place would be rather loud. It wasn’t as quiet as a crypt, but it was rather subdued. The place smelled of freshly [Cleanse]d air, while it was rather dry, and cool.

Soon enough, they reached their destination.

In an opulent, bright room at the top of city hall, under one of the larger domes, Erick sat down upon a plush cream-colored chair, across from Arakag, Barir, and Grosgrena. There were no guards in the room, though there were servants in dark livery. One of those servants set down teas and tiny cakes upon a short, round tea table between the small gathering. Then the servant went to serve Erick’s people, who hung out at the back of the room at their own table.

The general, Barir, got up and served tea. He did it a bit differently than they did in Songli, though, for first he asked Erick if he wished to cast a [Cleanse], or if he would prefer it if Barir cast the spell. Erick let the man cast the spell himself, since it seemed the proper thing to do. Apparently, it was, for Barir seemed to relax a bit at that. The [Cleanse] failed to produce any thick air.

Erick normally didn’t like to notice it, or even remark upon it, but when he was around civilians, and when those people knew who he was, everyone got really, really nervous. Heart rates soared. Sweat dripped. Mouths went dry. Two of the three people before him were both nervous and strong willed, with almost every servant and otherwise being both terrified and calm. Grosgrena, the old woman, was the only exception right now; she seemed like she had seen it all, and lived through it all, which was probably more true for her than for most other people in the room.

Barir sipped the tea followed by everyone else. He took a cookie, and had a small, polite bite, followed by everyone else doing the same for their own small cookie. It tasted better than fine, and Erick decided to say so.

“Lovely cookie. And tea. The honey is rather nice.”

Everyone flinched, but rapidly relaxed.

And then Arakag, Barir, and Grosgrena each set down their tea and their cookies. Erick reluctantly did the same; he actually wanted to finish the cookie, now that the taste was in his mouth. Grosgrena eyed him a bit hard, but she was not the one to speak first.

Arakag said, “I will be blunt, and ask you your goals in coming here.”

Erick answered without reservation, “I have come here with several goals in mind. The commissioning of a weapon or four for my people, with one for me. A suit of armor for my guard who likes to wear metal armor, to replace the one he is currently wearing. And to know of metals, as you know them, but for my own two uses. First: I’m trying to make some precision gears that need to hold up to a lot of long-term variable stress, but my own attempts fall short of the goal. Second: I’m also interested in the use of magical metals for large-scale enchanting. I expect I’ll need to go to the Headmaster to see about getting some [Duplicate]d metals to actually fulfill my needs, but I would like training in using those metals, first. I have come here for this because I have heard you are the best.”

Arakag sat a bit straighter, while the beating of her heart relaxed.

Barir gave a small sigh of relief, as his heart beat hard, and then soft, and then went all the way down to what was likely baseline.

Grosgrena had no change at all. If anything, she might be eyeing Erick a bit more, but that might be his imagination.

Grosgrena was the first to speak, her voice a raspy, eager thing, “I’ll teach, and we’ll go a lot further than precision engineering, but I won’t have you calling yourself an Adamantine Master Smith unless you trained and worked at this shit for twenty-five years, at least.” She relaxed a little, saying, “But you’ll be able to get the basics in under a week if you work hard and—”

Barir spoke to his people, “We discussed this. We can’t have—” He was briefly conflicted, and then he just said what he wanted to say, “We cannot take up that much of the archmage’s time.”

“It’s a single week! I’m gonna take it.” Grosgrena scowled at the man, then said to Erick, “As I was saying: I can teach you personally, but I got other Master Smiths who’d be eager to teach you, too. You might be able to stay awake for a week straight, hunting down the evils of this world, but some of us are old. I will warn you now not to expect to use the weapons and armor you make yourself, for even if you are the Savior of Light, from what I saw down in Ooloraptoor you don’t know shit about metal.” She relaxed a little, saying, “In exchange for this, you’ll pull apart metals for me like I saw you pull apart metal outside of Ooloraptoor. I got a whole junk drawer full of interesting samples and I want to know what they are, exactly.”

“Deal.” Erick asked, “But can you actually teach large scale metal enchanting? I see the adamantine out there, but I know your city is old, so I want to be upfront about these capabilities.”

Grosgrena nodded, and said, “Steel can take enchanting just as well as anything else, and that’s what I’ll use to help you learn large-scale enchanting, but the problem with steel is long term stability. That’s where magical metals shine, for they don’t rust. That’s the only real reason why you see all this gold and deep sky silver and other nonsense in wands and shit. But adamantium don’t rust either, and it’s a shit of a lot better than any of that other junk.” She added, “Though we can’t sell you that much adamantium for we only produce so much of it per year. If you want adamantium in the amounts you see in the chains and black buildings around here, you’re gonna need to go to the Headmaster for [Duplicate] services like our ancestors did; get yourself a bargain of trade.”

Erick nodded. “Understandable. What else do you need?” He looked to Arakag and Barir.

Arakag said nothing—

Barir said, “I would have you spread your [Withering]s throughout the entire city and the tunnels beyond. I want every monster in a hundred kilometers dead, and I want you to move around some beneficial monsters so that they can take over the dead monsters’ habitats, before something unwanted does.”

“Easy enough,” Erick said. “And about my desired weapons and armor?”

Barir and Grosgrena looked to Arakag, and then Erick did, too.

Arakag spoke, “As for your made-to-order weapons and armor, we will create the items for free, but you will pay for the material and the time of our Smiths.”

“Also agreeable.” Erick asked, “Is that all? I expected to be asked to counter-Hunt as well.” He added, “I offer this service with no expectation of reward or payment. A bonus, if you want it.”

Barir and Grosgrena kept their eyes on Erick, but their attention shifted toward Arakag.

Arakag announced, “It is the decision of Enduring Forge’s Council of Smiths that your [Cascade Imaging] may not be used by any member of our Council, our Guard, or our people. If you have a need to use your magics for yourself, then we wish you well in finding whatever you wish to find, but we ask you not to allow your magics to be used by anyone from Enduring Forge or nearby lands who may approach you after this meeting. If anyone does approach you asking for this boon, feel free to make your own decisions regarding if you will assist them or not, but know that our Council has officially decided that none of them will have access to your power.”

“… Something of an odd decision, that.” Erick asked, “Why?”

Arakag nodded once, in recognition of the question, then said, “Because we do not wish you to be involved in our criminal justice system. Our Guard is among the best in the world, for we’re always catching people trying to steal our secrets, or our items. We do not need, nor want, your help in matters of security.” She added, “In addition, we have no targets for you to search for, anyway. We have found everyone we have ever wished to find. People do not assault Enduring Forge and live, archmage.”

“… Okay.” Erick said, “Then I will not offer this service and will instead ask you how you managed to accomplish such a feat! That’s pretty amazing. I see the spellwork all around here and I like it a lot. The logistics of such a thing must be a headache and a half.”

Grosgrena smirked a little. Barir was trying to figure Erick out; was this some sort of probe of Enduring Forge’s defenses? Arakag sat briefly stunned, then relaxed in recognition of Erick’s genuine curiosity.

“Thank you for your understanding, but we do not discuss our defenses with outsiders. I hope you understand.”

“I do.” Erick added, “I suppose it was rude of me to ask after those details.”

Barir pulled back his concern from high to medium.

Arakag nodded, then said, “We have rooms prepared for you, if you wish to room here, in the city.”

Erick said, “Sure. Let’s go.”

“And then you’re mine, first,” Grosgrena said, smiling. “I won the coin toss.”

Barir’s frown deepened.

“Sounds fine to me.” Erick said, “But before we move on. Barir. You said you wanted [Withering]s upon the city. You’re aware that it will kill anyone with intestinal cores, correct? I would need assurances that you’ve already done everything you can to ensure that no one has intestinal cores before I would agree to do this [Withering].”

Barir said, “I am aware. This would have been one of the things we would have discussed later, but know that now that you’re here, and you’ve agreed to this, we’re going to put signs up about [Withering]. We’ll inform our people of the need to visit the Medical Halls, and we’ll have Healers go out and talk to every one of our citizens. We won’t proceed with [Withering]s for at least five more days, and only after our Guard informs us that every necessary precaution has been taken to ensure the citizenry is safe.”

Erick gave a small smile at that. These people were stiff and scared, but they were good people. They looked out for their own, and they did it well. Erick said, “Glad to hear that.”

- - - -

The room was located at the top of an adamantine tower named the Watchman’s Roost, located on the north side of city hall and attached to the building. There were no public spaces anywhere near this location, but the Roost did have one of the few entrances and exits to city hall. That entrance was on the roof, and it would be for Erick’s sole use while he was in the city, so he was free to defend his location as he wished.

Arakag asked that he not use [Undertow Star], though, for it might harm the spellwork on city hall. Erick agreed. After a smaller discussion with Arakag and Grosgrena about the logistics of moving in the city, and about some places that Erick might want to visit, they left Erick and his people to their temporary residence.

It was a luxury apartment, with plush beds and furniture, all off-white, which complemented the floors, walls, and ceilings. There was quite a bit of decorative goldwork all over the place, though it was kept to thin, decorative accents. This suite was very much reserved for only the most powerful or influential of guests. But, in contrast to how it was in Songli, this place had a well-appointed kitchen filled with fresh foods and all the goods that Erick would need in order to make more food.

Erick smiled as he saw that, and as he checked the recent past through his mana sense. He said, “Looks like they filled this place in a rush as soon as we appeared in the city.”

“Oh yeah.” Teressa agreed, adding, “They’ve got some good prognosticators.”

Erick asked, “So anyone want to go on a tour of the city? Or do you want to settle in for a little while? I’m partial to accepting a tour guide from the visitor’s center down in city hall and seeing the city.”

Jane said, “I’d like to visit the Weapon Smiths and the Beastmasters. Get a feel for the weapon I want and for the monsters of the Underworld.” She added, “And I gotta say, this place is much more accommodating than the grass travelers. A lot nicer upfront and— Oh?” She spotted a rack of brochures on the kitchen table and went right to them. “Visitor pamphlets! Ha.”

Nirzir said, “I thought Clan Pale Cow turned out rather nice. Waveni taught me a lot about cooking for a lot of people.”

“Well yeah.” Jane said, “They were nice. Just not upfront. They were more honest, too. These people are clearly hiding something.”

“Ohhh. So negative!” Erick said, “Everyone hides something, but that doesn’t mean these people are murdering babies in arcane rituals, or whatever.”

Jane shrugged.

“This place is a bit touristy, so they’re nicer on the outside than most.” Teressa said, “They get clients from all across the world and the Underworld, so they kinda have to be. But I got a weird feeling and I can’t quite place it.”

Poi said, “It’s probably the Underworld itself. I feel odd, too. Like something is watching us.”

“We are being watched.” Erick said, “Even if not directly, then I’m sure we’re being watched through our timelines.”

“Maybe.” Teressa said, “I still feel funny. So are you gonna put up the [Prismatic Ward]s and the [Undertow Star]? You know you can do what you want, right. They asked for no [Undertow Star] but you could still do it.”

Erick smiled and began having Ophiel layer dense airs inside their new, temporary residence. “No [Undertow Star], here.”

“Probably for the best,” Poi said.

“So how about we make our first outing Lunch?” Erick said, “I could eat!”

“I could very much eat,” Teressa said, patting her flat stomach.

Jane held out a pamphlet, smiling as she said, “Let’s go here.”

The pamphlet read, ‘Hothalls Chamber of Spice, a dining experience for the strong of heart, stomach, and tongue!’

“Uh...” Erick decided to go for it, saying, “Sure.”
