“I believe the Hippocratic oath includes not discussing patients.” Ren said. “It does not restrict you from telling patients information they ask for.” He looked at her. “Would knowing who it is, hurt me in any way?”

“I... no, I don't think so.”

“But, by not telling me, you are hurting me.” Ren said. “You're causing me emotional pain, and also denying me your professional care.”

Suzie took in a deep breath and let it out. She didn't say anything, however.

“If you change your mind, let one of the nurses know.” Ren said. “Goodbye, doctor.”

The desk nurse held the door for Suzie, and she left the room with the desk nurse close behind.

*

“Unfortunately, he's right.” Suzie said as she walked down the hallway. “I am hurting him by not telling him.” She shook her head. “I never thought he could turn my own oath against me like that, though.” She sighed. “He's got quite the brain in that skull of his.”

“Are you going to tell him who it is?” The desk nurse asked.

“I can't say, until I discuss it with...” She looked at the desk nurse. “I can't discuss it.”

The desk nurse nodded and went back behind the desk that was her normal station, and Suzie went into the break room and tried to calm Bonnie down once more.

“Oh, god! I have to kill it!” Bonnie yelled, as she searched for the rolled up magazine that the police had taken from her. “It's crawling over him!”

Apparently, Bonnie has an acute case of arachnophobia. Suzie thought as she tried to reason with the unreasonable, and Bonnie was having none of it.

*

Ren checked his emails, and didn't get any responses to the ones he had sent. He looked at his watch, and sighed. It was now 1 pm, thanks to this incident. He had missed an entire game day and part of the next night; and would probably miss the rest of this night and the next game day as well. Ren looked at the door to his room and climbed out of bed.

I wonder if I can find someone to get me lunch. Ren thought as he opened the door to his room and estimated the distance to the nurse's station. He sighed and walked down the hallway that was close to the same distance as his section of the walking track.

“What are you doing out of bed?” The desk nurse asked when she saw him. “The doctor said you shouldn't be up and around.”

“I... ah...” Ren wasn't sure what to say. He'd only ever asked the nurses that took care of him for lunch, and it seemed presumptuous to ask someone who wasn't taking care of him for food. “Um... I was wondering how Bonnie was.”

“You don't have to worry about that.” The nurse said and came out from behind her desk. “Suzie is taking care of her right now.” She tried to take one of Ren's arms to lead him back to his room, and he cringed away from her touch. “What is it?”

“My arms are sore.” Ren said. “Don't grab them.”

“I'm sorry.” The nurse said. “Please go back to your room.”

“I...” Ren sighed, and decided to throw caution to the wind. “I'm hungry, and with Bonnie in the state she's in, I don't have anyone to get lunch.”

The nurse looked at him in surprise, and then she looked at the time on the big clock behind her desk.

“Oh, dear.” She looked back at Ren. “I... I'm not sure what to do about that.”

“Me, either.” Ren said. “It's never happened before.”

“I'll ask the doctor what to do.” The nurse said. “You should go back to your room for now.”

Ren nodded and turned around, and when he was about halfway back to the door to his room, exhaustion hit him hard. He leaned against the wall and rested for a minute, took several breaths, then kept going.

I couldn't even take the wheelchair because my arms are so sore. Ren thought as he finally made it back to his room. He climbed into bed, and at the moment, he didn't care that his stomach was rumbling loudly. He was too tired to even think about food, and fell asleep with the blanket half covering him.

Half an hour later, a nurse brought up a small tray with pain medication and a jar of numbing creme for Ren, and after telling the desk nurse what the doctor instructed her to do, she went to Ren's room and saw the state he was in.

“Hey.” She said. “Hey, wake up. You need to take your medication.”

Ren mumbled something in his sleep, and she tried to shake him. Unfortunately, she had held onto his shoulder to do so.

“Ahhh!” Ren cried out in pain as his eyes flew open. He looked around wildly, and stared at the nurse, who had a shocked look on her face. “Wh-what are you doing?!?” He asked, shaking slightly from panic.

“You... you need to take your medication.” The nurse said. “For the pain.”

Ren took a deep breath to calm down, and nodded. She gave him the pills and a drink of water, and she held up the jar of numbing creme.

“Do you feel like having this applied?”

Ren blinked his eyes at her. “I... I don't know.” He said. “It really hurts.”

The nurse motioned to his shirt, and he watched as she unbuttoned his pajama shirt.

“Oh... oh, my.” She said, as she saw the multitude of bruises, and realized she had grabbed one of the large ones to wake him. “I'm sorry.” She said as she opened the creme and put a small amount onto the tips of her fingers. “This is going to be cold.” She cautioned him, and Ren nodded.

The nurse gently spread the creme over the bruises, and Ren couldn't help but let the tears flow as the pressure she had to use, hurt even more than the blows that had caused the bruises in the first place. It nearly broke the nurse's heart to hurt him so much; but when she was done, Ren relaxed on the bed.

“Is it kicking in yet?” She asked.

“I... don't... kn...” Ren stopped talking as he closed his eyes, then drifted off to sleep.
