Blessing Gained: Entombment of Tranquility — For the span of one month, no acts of force or violence will take effect upon or because of you. You are to be spared from all destruction, and severed from the ability to conduct your wrath.

Turn your gaze inward, Child of Strife, and repent, for a new heaven comes to overthrow your fallen paradise.

—Challenger’s notification screen

430

Immigration

For forty hours, the pilgrims flowed and never ceased. For forty hours, the orcs, children of bloodshed and darkness, ascended the ziggurat, stepping into a new god’s light as they allowed themselves to be burned and changed, purified by a light Integration had never borne witness to. For forty hours, they came, from across all Tiers, all cliques, all Paths. The orcs came and continued to come. Familiar faces and strangers alike arrived to pay homage to their new patriarch.

The Challenger stood true to his word. He offered his orcs a chance to decide for themselves: to stay their course or choose a new destiny, to shed the itch for something else, for something novel. In Adam, they found that novelty. The Pathbearer once deemed a frail victim for them to exert their influence over so that they could manipulate the Deathless was now their most unforeseen salvation. And that surprise suffused the orcs with a warm joy that Shiv had never detected in them like this before—it was genuine wonder.

The first to arrive were familiar faces, the original group sent to Shiv's side by the Challenger himself: Whisper, Mortar, and Tequila. They kept ahead of the masses as they reached the summit and paid fealty to their new Demigod. Adam, though broken in mind and unstable in spirit, refused to retreat back across the gateway. He said that he needed to make a stand here, that the symbolism had to endure, that light needed to pierce this benighted place and see it riven of war and horror, for Peace was Tyranny, and Tyranny's destiny was in imperialism. One could not usurp the System through purely defensive efforts, after all.

To claim the sky, one must overtake it and wrench the heavens free from their foundations, the Harbinger intoned.

And so Shiv stood guard, with all other matters coming second to his friend. The great dawn Adam cast beyond the horizon was made ever brighter by the new azure band that the System had bestowed upon him. Though the Paragon tried to pull it free several times himself, it wouldn't come loose. It was at once a blessing and a curse, a piece of equipment that wouldn't separate from him of his own volition. It empowered him, but it was a reminder on the System's part that he still reigned beneath the heel of a true sovereign.

Shiv was sure the System was taunting them all, and that filled him with a truer, colder loathing than he'd ever known. The Challenger, then, was as Adam had said: merely an expression of one of the System's pillars, the facet of war, strife, and cruelty. Perhaps the last was least among the many, but cruelty itself came naturally when one exulted in power and faced no consequence so long as they claimed victory.

The darkest part of the Challenger, however, was how dignified he was. There was a virtue to the God of Strife, and it could be seen in how the orcs marched forth orderly and disciplined, never once ripping into each other, never once using subterfuge or schemes to strike Adam down, though he was a prime target right now. It was clear how broken he was, even after his partial ascension. His eyes jumped, his gaze above flickered, and every few minutes, he would whimper and shiver as dark memories and deeper pain assailed him. He did not come out of his ordeal unscarred, far from it. He was closer to a permanent breaking point than ever before, and Shiv could feel it. Adam was more shattered than even the Harbinger by far. He was like a thousand grains of dust pasted back together, held firm by a higher power—a power that dwelled within Adam, a power that rebuffed the System sometimes, but not completely, not absolutely. That power, then, radiated from Adam, staining him in vapors of Tyranny and Heroism. The incandescence that he wielded was something different entirely from the glow of the Starhawk or any other god, for it was a dimmer incandescence, one that held traces of peace itself. It was an expression of order and power before even mana.

Or so Cripple claimed when Shiv questioned it. “I have never felt this Domain before. I have known Gods of Tyranny. I have struck down beasts that used the fires of Heroism to imbue their warriors and champions with might unsurpassed. But a combination of the two? This is unheard of. It should not be possible. The Domains should clash and cause the god that wields them to shatter. Yet he has internalized both, and both exist in harmony with each other. In fact, it feels like they are of a merged Domain rather than separate parts.”

“And it shouldn't be that way?” Shiv asked. His knowledge of Divinity was paltry, but even he could feel that wrongness within Adam. Truth be told, the powers that Adam wielded felt more eldritch than any outsider God Shiv had faced before. Even though the Stranger was powerful, even though it was hard to understand what the Dreamtaker could do with dreams and nightmares, even if the Eldest was an invasive entity beyond all others, they were not absolute. There were things a Pathbearer could do to resist them. There was a measure of self-determination one could take hold of.

Not the same with Adam. When his Zone of Absolute Dominion fell, Peace reigned, and it reigned absolute. There was no rebuttal, there was no rebuke, there was no way to break free, not unless someone had another body somewhere else. Even then, Shiv could feel it: the mists coiling over him, pressing against him, searing his Red Rider's hand.

It was like an intruder had breached this reality and installed their own laws—laws not of communal or political origin, but laws of natural order. Peace then became as true as physics, as true as biology, as true as the star would shine and the winds would blow. Peace became a fundamental force of the universe.

And those bestowed with that Peace became vessels to it as well. For as Whisper, Tequila, and all the other orcs reported, in turning away from the Challenger's Domain and stepping into Adam's, the orcs experienced their own evolutions. Where once their right arms were scarred and bloodied, then coated in enamel—like veins of blinding gold in a mirror of what wounds were sustained by their sovereign father—now that injury was shed as the scabs fell away, revealing pure limbs, unvarnished of the Challenger's mutilation. Instead, it was their right eye that was lost. Their right eyes burned away in flaring pits of incandescence. The ocular organ was dissolved, but what remained was not an empty socket exposed to the elements, but rather a channel for the vapors of peace to flow free.

“I gotta say, Insul, this feels bloody weird.” Mortar growled those words as he smacked the right side of his skull, trying to dislodge the awkwardness he felt. “Is like it got seared right out of me. Didn't feel that good, but can't say it felt bad either. Feels like I got part of myself snipped, and now there's something else, another hunger filling me. Just can't tell what that is yet…”

The huge orc artillerist regarded Adam's diminutive form, and his expression softened. Even so, Roland didn't trust the oncoming grayskins, and he stayed close to his son. Isabella and Rose arrived—and refused to be apart from Adam, though being in the Tutorial exposed them to great danger. Yet the Challenger held to his honor, as did the orcs. Shiv felt a thousand angles of attack made manifest. There were countless orc mages, archers, and shadows who could have moved in on the most vulnerable of the visitors, but they didn't. For the Challenger was inflicted with a month of peace, and that fast was to be shared by his fellow orcs. Though some of them radiated judgement and agitation, they held themselves to that higher discipline, while others of their race turned away from the itch into a land of new promise.

Helix and Bonk arrived as well, bringing with them the original orc rebels that had decided to stay at Gate Piety, mostly to feed their own desires. They, too, found themselves purged of the itch, but their responses were far more muted than their counterparts who arrived from the Tutorial. It seemed that the self-determination which guided Helix and Bonk had made them different from all the other orcs already. It wasn't like they were beyond cruelty, but it was something they put up with more than they indulged in, and perhaps that spoke volumes of what an orc could be even without the presence of a just god changing their fundamental nature.

“And here I thought I was going to witness something fantastical,” Helix muttered with a note of disappointment as he examined himself using his Biomancy. Strands of mana passed through his body as he analyzed his flesh in vivid detail. With a disgusted snort, he spun on his heel and strode back toward the portal, indifferent to the proceedings, with a trail of mist leaking out from his right eye. “I suppose being unburdened by the itch lends itself to my studies, but alas, this flesh of mine remains as it always has been. It would have been interesting if I was turned into something of a hawk.”

The image that conjured made Shiv laugh aloud. “With how much you squawk, Helix, I'd guess you wanted to be a pigeon instead, or maybe a parrot.”

Helix scoffed. “Do not demean me, Insul. I have no desire to turn into an avian. It's merely the fact that I might have turned into an avian that interested me. After all, all gods seek to inflict their own image upon the mortals beneath them.” But then he hesitated, and he looked over his shoulder. His eye gleamed bright and vivid red with biomancy mana, and he regarded Adam with a measure of hesitation. “Yet it seems different in his case.”

True to his words, it was, for it wasn't the orcs that were fully captured by Adam's image, though they took on aspects of his Divinity. Rather, it was Adam who slowly became more orc-like with every pilgrim who greeted him. His body grew larger. His original form, small and dwarfed by the gray-skinned brutes, extended. His bones elongated, his skin darkened and turned grey. His ears turned sharp and thicker. And while the glow remained in both of them, his eye sockets grew thicker and denser, like sunken tunnels.

Near the end of those forty hours, Adam stood transformed. He wasn't fully orcish yet, but he was close enough. His nature as a Changeling made him a mirror god, but his mirror was that of those he represented.

But according to the Educator, his transformation wasn't complete. For aspects of him remained human still, as his hands resembled fingers instead of claws, as his musculature hadn't changed entirely. The Educator pointed these facts out to Shiv as she made a quick draft of his changing form within her tome. For what purpose she didn't say, but the Deathless didn't press either. She was clearly as overwhelmed as the rest of them, and in hushed tones, she exchanged questions and theories with her fellow Ascendants who grew further and further from Adam, calling their Avatars to convene.

But Roland ignored the Starhawk—and the Ascendant of Justice pressed no further. Roland chose his son, and the Starhawk left with lingering shame and an unwillingness to humiliate himself further in this place of darkness where he shared in the Challenger's dismemberment.

That wretched fact didn't go unnoticed by Shiv. Even now, the Starhawk was deprived of his lower limbs. Gods were capable of regeneration, but there was something else beyond the physical that inhibited their reconstruction: Symbology.

Everything Adam did was beyond Shiv's experience, beyond his ability to conceptualize, but he was growing closer. Everything had significance when you were a god, and you did things to honor your own Domains. You embodied the traits that you were worshiped for, and the juxtaposition he composed in opposition to a high god many times his power, yet who recognized him as a true rival, fed the once feeble flames of Adam's divinity.

The acts of reciprocation, contrast, light and darkness, Peace and War. The invasion of Adam's mist into this realm of destruction and death. The supplication performed by the Challenger, who honestly and truly wanted a proper rival, all fed Adam's growing incandescence. It was through that that his godhood grew. It was only by that means that the incandescence which powered him grew brighter. It was much like any other attuned mana field, an expression of common beliefs and lore. The lore of Divinity was specific and higher still than the shared understanding of what made Biomancy or Pyromancy function.

But again, there was something more invasive and insidious about the mists inside Adam. For the mists wore him, took hold of him, and in those moments, he wasn't himself, but rather a vessel enslaved by his own divine power.

And thus, Shiv wasn't sure if he could trust the mysterious god that rested inside Adam—for did such a creature truly have his best friend's interests in mind, or was it just using him to further its expression of dominance?

It was at the twenty-fourth hour that Adam finally emerged from his stupor. He drew in a ragged breath, sucking in air as his left eye blinked. His fugue state came to an end, and he finally realized that everyone surrounding him, all the orcs, had come to greet him. Some of them left offerings, nothing of great material worth, but everything of great significance.

