The symbolism continued. Skulls taken from great foes, now abandoned, lay at the feet of the god of Tyranny and Heroism. Those skulls burned, but they were not dissolved. Instead, the cinders of Heroism imbued them with divine light, and thus they were changing as well.

Then there were cracked weapons, swords broken at their base with only the hilt remaining, slowly regenerating into a lattice of life-infused design, sprouting flowers instead of steel-lined edges. Then there were tomes whose pages were empty of text, placed down by scholarly orcs, now being filled with illustrations and words as if the System itself was inscribing lore in progress.

And as Shiv glanced upon the fluttering pages, he realized his assumptions were true. The struggle between Adam and the Challenger, everything that transpired in the Tutorial, was being burned onto the pages in rolling tides of scripture. He himself was mentioned and even granted titles: The Dusk that Guards the Dawn, the Shadow that Veils the Light.

Uva lifted one of those tomes and flipped through it. Many pages toward the back were still blank, so the testament was incomplete, but it was in progress, and it was filling with every orc that passed into the bunker beyond the gateway, quietly anticipating what future proclamations the Paragon might announce.

“We're being recorded by the System,” Uva declared. She swallowed, and though her posture remained stoic, Shiv could read her better than anyone else. The present moment unnerved her. Adam unnerved her. Though she was actively reconstructing his mind, there was nothing she could do for his soul, and that was the part of him that was undergoing the most drastic transformation.

“It's bloody taunting me, is what it's doing,” Adam managed to grind out after a full day of besotted silence.

The moment he uttered those words, everyone drew in on him like a swarm of piranhas lured by bleeding chunks of meat. His mother cupped his face while his father seized his shoulder. They needed to be in contact with him, desperate to cling to their boy, to know that he was alright. But Adam wasn't alright. Shiv could read the horror inside him from his very eye.

Despite this, he was himself again, truly himself. The mists remained with him, but the presence inside had gone dormant. Adam looked shaken. He had the expression of a man who'd struck a bargain he couldn't fulfill, made a pact with something greater and stronger than himself, that he couldn't defy or change.

The orc pilgrims formed an outer perimeter, each of them courteous enough to give the Paragon his space. But decency alone couldn't hold back the pressure they inflicted on not only Adam, but everyone else present. There was a dread that came with being watched. There was a wretched thing about being observed by the world, without escape, without privacy.

Here, at the top of the ziggurat, surrounded by thousands of orcs who never blinked, who observed their new Demigod, waiting to see how he would react. The weight that pressed upon Adam was enough to drive a groan of discomfort from him. Once more, his father tried to extract him from the scene. Once more, Adam refused. He stayed in place as he had to face the orcs. He had to face his followers, and he looked to Shiv, letting out a soft sigh as he tried to make light of his present circumstances.

"How long was I out this time?"

"About a day," Shiv answered.

Adam nodded slowly. "I see. How many Delves did you complete since then?"

Shiv snorted. "I came close to one. You have no idea how many levels I gained for my patient meditation skill. I actually killed myself a few times just to speed things along.”

The Paragon rolled his remaining eye—and his omniscient star above. That part was something Shiv would have to get used to. "I'm disappointed in you, Deathless. You should have pushed it to Legendary-Tier already. I should be seething now. Instead, I'm back, and you are what? Only Master-Tier?"

"Heroic," Shiv corrected, playing along.

Adam sighed and covered his face with a hand. "Pathetic. So close, yet so far."

Then he cracked his fingers open to peer at Shiv through them, and the two held each other's gazes a moment longer before both broke out into laughter.

“It's good to have you back, Paragon,” Shiv said, repressing the dread he felt toward the mists that continuously leaked forth from Adam. The new Demigod shared his sentiment, for he couldn't stop himself from looking upon the dread and null that whipped out behind Shiv as an extension to his dimensional cape.

“I can't quite claim it's good to be back,” Adam moaned. His eye flicked up and down now, and Shiv realized he was looking through a series of notifications. Uva linked their minds, and Shiv saw what Adam saw: a wall of updates from the System regarding completed Quests and incoming challenges. Adam's hand shivered, and for a beat, he turned his eye up. He reached up to feel at the band fused to his head, and a rasping growl of discomfort sang forth. "Well, I guess that wasn't a dream. I was mad enough to come here.” Then Adam shot Shiv an outraged look. “And you didn't even bother stopping me.”

Shiv did a double-take. "Huh? You practically begged me to let you come over! You used your palm on your dad and the Culturist. I stayed close to you to keep you safe all this time, and now you're blaming all this on me?"

“Of course I'm blaming all this on you. You're the only one I can rely on to stop me from doing something stupid."

“What the fuck, Adam? Your dad could've stopped you too. The Culturist. Valor. Anyone. Why are you just looking at me?” He waved a hand in the direction of his girlfriend. “You didn’t even try to blame this on Uva, and she was attached to your mind this entire time!”

She promptly narrowed her eyes at Shiv and threw her head aside with a loud 'humph'. "Do not drag me into your lover's quarrel; you bear the brunt of the blame, as the new god has spoken. This is your responsibility to atone for, Deathless. I was simply preoccupied with maintaining the Paragon’s mental stability. You had to be responsible for his body, and clearly you failed.”

“Shame!” Bonk bellowed from behind.

"Shame, shame, shame!"

The other orcs took on the chant, and for some strange reason, or maybe just because all orcs were fundamentally pricks, even those who did not give themselves to Adam's light took on the battle cry. A series of boos and jeers rained down upon Shiv, who pressed his lips together. Drowned in that deafening cacophony, Shiv looked at Adam with disbelief, and he caught the faint, weak smirk lingering on his friend's face.

A breath of disbelief slipped out from Shiv as he sent a telepathic message straight to Adam. “Seriously? You're turning into a felling Demigod, and the first thing you do when fully recovering your sanity is using that power to screw with me?”

Adam rubbed his now incredibly broad chin with a hand, like he was stroking a nonexistent beard in thought. “Remember Weave, and that time we were in the apartment? Remember what you made me suffer? How you told me that the Weaveresses and the Composer were planning to impregnate me with spiderlings?”

Shiv's incredulity grew three sizes that second. “You’re still holding on to that? That was like… two years ago!”

Uva shot him an incredulous look, one that Adam mirrored.

“It's most definitely not been that long, Shiv,” Adam deadpanned. “And besides, I'm a god now. My rancor and imperious nature will not be so easily satisfied. In fact, I feel like I'm sinking into my own legend. My identity is turning murky…” To complete the act of mockery, Adam gently placed the back of his palm against his temple, as if aping a feeble maiden about to faint.

Then, slowly, infusing the gesture with as much meaning as he could muster, he extended that hand and pointed his index finger at Shiv before declaring: “Shame! Shame the Shameless who calls himself Deathless! Shame him until he knows true shame!”

And somehow, for some stupid reason, this juvenile prank made Shiv feel like everything was going to be alright, despite everything they were going to face and everything that was changing among them. They might just make it out of this stronger than before.

***

“Holy felling shit, ram the Crown of the Anti-Savior back into my skull,” Adam moaned. “Cast me back into the pits of insanity. Spare me this labor…”

Rose frowned and lightly slapped Adam across his shoulder. Her fingernails rang against the metal, but she betrayed no hint of pain while the Paragon winced in apology to his mother. "Don't even fucking joke about that, son."

“I—I’m sorry, but…” His expression became desperate and overwhelmed, and he threw up both arms as if offering his submission to the heavens. "How can so much happen in just a month?" Everyone stared at Adam, especially Shiv. "Okay, forget I asked that. But still, how? The Gate nearly fell. You did a Delve and got how many new skills? You know something, Shiv? I have another bone to pick with you."

"Yeah, what is it?" Shiv asked nonchalantly, studying the dirt under his fingernails as he stood leading against the metal wall behind him.

Everyone was gathered in the bunker now. The orcs were overflowing. There were still long chains running outside the gateway, and a new inner encampment had formed upon that ziggurat that led to Gate Piety. There were thousands of orcs already packed into the bunker, allowed through dimensional magicks expanding spaces and allowing the highest-Tier grayskins to house themselves, at least on a temporary basis. This wouldn't be a long-term option. Not with the impending invasion down the line. They needed to make a decision, and thus Adam was faced with a series of dilemmas.

One of many. He had to be caught up with the coalition that was currently being built up inside his Gate, a coalition formed of major representatives from the surface nation and Abyssal Faiths. Powerful Pathbearers, known and unknown, had gathered here, and that was not even getting into the transformed nature of Gate Piety's mana core. It sported three Unique skills, three Unique mana types, all of them harvested from Shiv, Adam, and Uva, each one imbuing this place with a portion of their own nature.

Then there was the undying Tarrasque up north, and the Court of the Shattered Moon that held it. They would be part of the invasion along with the orcs, Lord Scorn, Compact, and the First Blood in the span of a month, if they were not dealt with.

Finally, there were the two million or so orc turncoats who were departing from the Tutorial and seeking immigration to Gate Piety long-term. Orcs that Roland and doubtless many others weren't keen on trusting, but who seemed to be purified by Adam regardless.

“Was it your plan too?" Adam said, his voice taking on a desperate quality. "Were you just waiting for me to wake up so that you could dump all this administrative suffering on me? Is this your idea of retribution?”

“Why are you still blaming me?” Shiv shot back, tearing his gaze away from his nails like he was making a great sacrifice in listening to Adam's whining. "When have I ever done anything administrative? Look, man, if you want to attribute blame, I'll take my share, but you know immigration was technically Uva's job. And you can thank your dad and Valor for the invitations.”

Three sets of eyes locked onto Shiv, and the glares they sent his way were anything but kind.

“Shiv, please perform the 'shut the fuck up' technique right now. Talk no more. Speak no more. You are dragging yourself into a pit of horror and pain.” The Harbinger's pleas were three-quarters playful and one-quarter terrified. Shiv slammed his mouth shut, but he failed to dodge a poke from Uva that threatened a specific kind of retribution later.

He barely managed to hide his gulp and accepted one of his physical vessels as lost.

“Whatever the case, this has only happened because you set all of us on fire. I'm not blaming everyone else. They're just dealing with this problem. You're the one who caused all of this. We're all burning because of you. You're the one who was originally favored because you couldn't stay dead.” Adam suddenly turned to Isabella, who flinched back in fright. She had been mostly a silent participant, glad to see her fiancé back but utterly overwhelmed and overshadowed by the incomprehensible developments taking place and all the Legendary Pathbearers and gods present.

“Isabella, I'm making sense, right? This makes a lot of sense. He's the one that caused all this. I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for him. Everything might just be fine. We might all be dead, but that would be fine too, as long as I didn't have to do so much work in the great beyond. All this! All this! The orcs! The horror! The constant torture! It's his fault! It's his fault!”

Isabella squirmed uncomfortably as Adam seized her by both arms. Rose approached and gently pried Adam away before he terrified the poor girl too much. However, Isabella showed her nature and her goodness as she looked upon Shiv and gave him an apologetic stare. "Well, I wouldn't say everything is Shiv's fault exactly. I mean, we can technically call him the cause if that's how this whole favor thing works, but it doesn't seem like he wanted to do this either, so he might just be the… patient zero of victims?"

Then she licked her lips, and her back straightened. A measure of steel entered her as she spoke from her heart and, to Shiv's surprise, defended him from the one she was set to marry. "Besides, if it wasn't for Shiv, we would all be dead. I would be dead. He came down trying to fix our sickness. He died for us over and over again. So, yes, maybe he is System-favored, and maybe we're all burning because of him, but without him, where would we be anyway?”

