The clarity of her gratitude cut through the air and actually made Shiv choke up a little. Just a little. Just a tiny bit. However, it struck Adam the most, and the performative outrage died as he turned and hovered past everyone to embrace his friend. Shiv found himself surprised, as Adam was about his rival to him in size now, for he exhibited the physiology of an orc. Shiv reciprocated the embrace, and he leaned forward to whisper in Adam's ear, "You know, I liked it better when you were a little guy."

Adam snorted. “Deal with it, you oversized sack of shit. I'm turning into a god now, you know? Someday, you're going to look up, and it's going to be me who's treating you like a toddler.”

The Deathless just sneered, and he thought of a great comeback.

"What, are you gonna develop the—”

“Shiv! No! Don't say those words!” the Harbinger wailed in desperation. But it screamed too late.

“—Domains of Mammaries and Milk and feed me?”

A harrowing silence settled over the room. Adam froze, and then he slowly lifted his arms from Shiv's back and took two steps backward. Practically everyone present cringed or audibly gagged, Rose especially.

A shudder of pure disgust escaped Uva; the disappointment she felt toward her lover was genuine. “By the Composer, why am I damned to understand language? Actually, no. We're not doing this, Shiv. I'm going to remove this memory from everyone's mind right now.”

A chorus of agreements followed, and everyone exposed their minds to Uva so that she could rend this horrific memory from them, and then herself, to pretend it never happened.

“The System should take levels away from you for saying that,” the Harbinger chided. “Perhaps a Feat or three. I know you're excited to get your friend back, but please think before you speak. Please stop just trying to jest with him thoughtlessly—you're turning back into your old self. You're torturing me. You're torturing everyone.”

"Okay, okay, I'm sorry—" Shiv's string of thought was cut off as he suddenly forgot what he was sorry about.

As everyone looked at each other and Uva frowned, unsure what had made her mutilate her own mind and shred a memory asunder, Adam shook his head and regained his composure. “Look, it doesn't matter what just happened. What we need to do is figure out how to solve our problems in an order of operations, starting with…” He looked around the insides of the teleportation anchor at all the orcs that were now sworn to him.

Below a hum of rumination, he looked to Uva. "Could we build something quickly? A large, open encampment for the orcs. Near the Abyssal gateway, perhaps? Or somewhere in the middle, somewhere away from everyone else for a time, so as to not cause a calamitous uproar?”

“Ah, you're breaking our hearts, Tyrant!" Tequila cried from the back of the room. "We came here to give ourselves to you, and you have no faith in us? You're still worried that we might carve and butcher our way across your Gate, is that it?"

Adam hesitated, but Shiv didn't. “Even if you don't, there are Lone Stars still in this gate. If you're going to be here, we're going to need to do this properly instead of starting a sudden war. I know Adam might have changed your natures, but that doesn't change your history. We let you all out, and I think there is a good chance you're going to run into some of your former victims and enemies. What do you think follows after that?”

The orcs understood. None of them raised their voices in protest. They knew what they were and they knew what they'd inflicted upon others. This was the best strategy going forward.

“It might take some time," Adam began—

Before Uva cut him off. “No, it won't. I've constructed a rudimentary coliseum. I've sealed the ceiling as well. I've built it around the top side of the bunker and I folded it around the perch as well. It's larger on the inside. To make a request, however: All orcs who enter Gate Piety must accept my presence within their minds. This will allow more mana production and grant me the ability to personalize their temporary abodes, but also ensure a measure of safety. Best for everyone.”

In an instant, Adam was struck speechless. "Wait, wait. How do you—and you fused your Psychomancy with a Geomancy skill or something?”

“We’ve all changed, Legend Arrow.” Uva smirked. “Some of us are just not as ostentatious as others. You've become a god, and I've become stranger. And Shiv continues to be Shiv.”

“And Shiv continues to be Shiv,” Adam agreed.

The man in question frowned. “Everyone’s out for my ass today.”

A fork of translucent lightning slithered out from Uva and brushed the back of his head in a gesture of amelioration.

“If she can ensure their pacification, the orcs might just be a boon to the Gate,” Roland suddenly said. “Isn't a population increase part of the conditions for your Gate Quest, Adam?”

Adam froze. “Yes! We have two million orcs, and we are almost at five new Gate-based skills! It's already Category Four, and the only thing we're missing is…”

Gate Quest: Increase Gate Piety’s population to 500,000 (Currently at 3,000,044), construct 10 districts, gain 5 Gate-based Skills (Master-Tier Minimum), and advance the gate to Category 4 within 90 days.

Success: Grants the Gate Lord a Master-Tier Elemental Dimension Biome they can select; grants 2 selectable Heroic-Tier Skill Evolutions; grants a unique piece of Heroic-Tier Equipment based on the Gate Lord’s Path

“...ten districts,” Adam finished.

“Only ten?” Uva muttered. “Well. It seems our surge of new immigrants might just prove more beneficial than dangerous.”

“Oh, that still remains to be seen.” Whisper winked. “But we promise not to be dangerous until the Insul or Tyrant begs it of us.”
