Rain looked, then swore. He’d thought all of the signals had just been the swarm, but clearly, that wasn’t the case. Two more monstrous rats had burst out of the bushes. Each had its own health bar, and the system identified them as level six ‘Plague Rat Trundlers.’ They looked like the smaller rats, just scaled up to the size of black bears. One of them was heading directly for Arlo, the other at the remains of the formation. Breggeh raised her shield, staying at his side and turning to face the rapidly approaching threat.

“Arlo, behind you!” Rain shouted. That was all he had time for before the Trundler was upon them. He swung his staff at it with full force. The metal pole caught the rat straight in the face, but it barely reacted, barreling into him. Its teeth scrabbled against his armored forearms as he fought to remain upright, failing to do anything against the metal. Breggeh stepped forward to flank it, then started pounding at it with her mace. The rat screeched, turning to face her, but Rain got its attention again with a full-bodied punch from his gauntleted fist. He’d had to drop the staff, the rat being right on top of him.

Again, the rat barely reacted to the hit. It seemed more angry than hurt. Shit, they’ve got physical resistance. Its health has barely moved. Suddenly, an arrow sprouted from the rat’s eye, and it fell back with a bellow of pain, clawing at its face with its paws. Blood and the ruins of its eyeball dripped down its face as it scrambled back, roaring at them in outrage. It didn’t sound like a sound that a rat would make, it was too deep, but then again, it was the size of a bear.

Another arrow followed the first. To Rain’s astonishment, it found a home in the rat’s other eye, despite the fact that the monster was thrashing around wildly. Damn, maybe she is as good as she says she is.

Breggeh moved forward, shouting as she pummeled at the creature with her mace. Each hit shaved off a tiny sliver of health, and the rat reacted more and more to each one, writhing and whirling as it tried to fend off the unseen attacker. Both of its eyes were completely ruined, but it was still a powerful threat.

Rain quickly checked on the progress of the others. Kettel and Bosco were almost done with the swarm, but he saw a third Trundler headed their way, coming from a different direction. Arlo was dancing around the one that had gone after him, seemingly unhurt. The beast had been poked full of holes, and its health was even lower than the one Breggeh was currently whaling on. Wow, okay, I guess he’s fine.

Samson moved forward to assist Breggeh with the first Trundler, and Rina was drawing back another arrow, trying to find a shot. They seemed to have it under control, so he retrieved his staff and dashed forward to assist Kettel and Bosco. Seeing that Kettel had just batted away the last of the swarm rats, he decided to risk a burst of Velocity, just on himself. Jump good!

He shot forward, leaving magical wisps of wind in his wake. Shit, I might have overdone it! He managed to get Force Ward back up just as he crashed into the rat like a train. He felt a small drain on his mana as the spell absorbed his accumulated momentum, but the rat had no such magic to protect it. He heard bones break and saw a large chunk of its health bar disappear as it went down under him.

Bosco stabbed it in the neck with his spear, killing it instantly. “Taste Mercy, vile beast!”

A chime sounded as it died, followed by two others in quick succession. There was a delay, then the thwip of an arrow and a final chime, signaling that the battle was over.

The forest was silent, save for the thundering of blood in his ears and the sound of Velika’s raucous laughter.
