Rain sighed. “Call me Rain, please, or I’m going to call you Costanza.” I can’t take this guy seriously at all.

“Cos…ten..sa?” Bosco said, struggling with the unfamiliar phonemes. “Why?”

Rain laughed, then shook his head. “You wouldn’t get it even if I tried to explain. Anyway, if a Dire Rat is a rodent of unusual size, then yes, a Plague Rat should be similar. Don’t let them bite you. They carry disease, but I can deal with that. How do you normally deal with Dire Rats?”

Bosco nodded to his spear. “With my Mercy.”

Rain fought down another laugh. He didn’t want to offend the man after he’d said it so earnestly. Of course, he named his spear. Damn it, we’re all going to die, and I can’t even work up the will to worry about it anymore. This party is a joke. “Okay then. Anyway, those two should be most of what we find in the Forest. The real danger is the sink pits. It’s not like quicksand, and you won’t float. They suck you down, but it’s slow and steady. If we’re in combat, try to stay on ground that we’ve already checked. If someone falls in, don’t panic. Get back, then throw them a rope. Who brought rope?”

Not a single hand was raised. Rain sighed again, reaching into his pack and pulling out two coils of rope. He handed one to Arlo, and the other to Kettel. “You two are on rope duty. Also, always bring rope when you go into a lair. That’s like the basics of the basics.”

“This is excessive,” complained Arlo, drawing his rapier and swishing it through the air. “Let’s go. Glory awaits!”

Rain ignored him. “Stay away from the trees. There’s a thing called a Fungiform Strangler that, well, it’s in the name. If one drops on you, get your hands up to protect your neck before it gets its tentacles around it. I should be able to tell if there are any around, but it pays to be cautious. They are more common in the Bog, but still. Always remember to look up.”

He heard a snort from Velika and turned to look at her. She was smiling. “Very good. Now, can we move this along?”

He nodded, turning back to the others. “Okay, form up. I’m in front, Bosco, you’re here, and Breggeh, you’re on my other side. Arlo, next to Breggeh. She’ll cover you with her shield, and you can strike back at anything that comes from that side with your rapier. Kettel, you’re by Bosco. You two have reach, so try and keep things back. Rina, you’re in the back. You’re sure you don’t want to borrow my knife?”

She shook her head. “My bow is all I need.”

Rain gestured with an empty palm. “And when you run out of arrows? How many did you bring?”

“Fifty,” Rina said. “Durability enchanted, each one. They won’t break. Slime acid won’t hurt them either.”

Rain sighed, then nodded. “We will have to make sure to recover them after each engagement. Don’t take a shot if it looks like you’ll lose the arrow. The Forest is more like a winding path through a swamp. There’s lots of open water off to the sides. No, I don’t know what would happen if you tried to swim off the path. You’d probably just hit an invisible wall or something. I suggest you don’t try it. If an arrow goes in the drink, it might as well be gone.”

“And me?” said Samson. “Rearguard?”

Rain nodded. “Yes, but be ready to switch out with any of the others if they get injured or need a break. Your first priority is to keep anything from getting to Rina since she doesn’t have a melee weapon. How good are you with that sword?”

“I am the best,” Samson said with a grin. Oh no. He’s like the others after all.

“Not likely,” said Velika, her hand resting on the hilt of the Odachi at her hip. “I’ll bail you idiots out when it looks like you’re about to die. Just scream like a baby when you need me.”

Rain smiled, then turned to look out of the door. Somehow, the lair doesn’t seem so dangerous anymore. The real terror is on our side. He looked back at the others. “What are you all standing around for? I said form up. We move slow, we move smart, and we move silent.” He retrieved the Quickstaff from where he’d tied it at his belt and extended it with a flick of his hand.

“Wait, a stick?” Arlo said in disbelief. “You fight with a stick? Like the peasant? Where is your sword, man?”

Rain sighed. “I don’t have a sword, and this isn’t just a stick. It’s a magic stick.”

“Bah,” Arlo said. “And I thought you were a warrior.”

Kettel laughed, grinning at Arlo. “Rain here’s a mage. And he don’t so much fight as just win. Without even liftin’ a finger. Saw ‘im do it ta a big pack o slimes. Ran at em and burned em all up, like that” He snapped his fingers. “They just sorta explode. I should o known ye’d not see past the armor. It’s obvious. Ye ain’t been payin’ much attention, have ye, ye daft clod?”

Arlo swished his rapier, then pointing it at Kettel and fell into a dueling stance. “Watch your tone, street trash!”

“Bring it, bitch face!” Kettel shouted, raising his staff.

“Enough!” Rain shouted, using a pulse of Refrigerate with Operation Heatsink settings. The lair didn’t resist temperature change the same way it did being cleaned, so the oppressively hot air instantly exploded into a snowy cascade of flakes as the moisture froze right out of it. He spun to look at the shocked faces of the unawakened. Velika broke out into roaring laughter, shattering the silence.

He spoke loudly, trying to ignore the Citizen and doing his best to loom. “This is not a game.”

Kettel looked queasy. His eyebrows and hair were rimed with frost. “Fuck, Rain. I didn’t know ye could do tha’ without… How ain’t we dead?”

Rain turned on his heel, whipping his cloak around him against the chill, then stepped through the door.

It was slow-going at first, but the group soon got the hang of moving through the treacherous terrain. The ground was soft and peaty, the gnarled roots of trees sticking out from the ground not doing much to stabilize it, merely presenting a tripping hazard. There were thick thorny bushes and other bits of ground clutter as well. There was no path, but the way forward was easy to find, even if it wasn’t easy to follow. Melka had said that there would be no need to cross open water in the Forest of the Drowned, so just by sticking to dry land, they could find the way to the next area. Rain was using his staff to feel for sink pits in front of them, mostly for show. Once he’d found the first one, he’d been able to tune Detection to find others.

The forest itself was as silent as the grave. There were plants, but no animals, not even bugs. Melka hadn’t mentioned this particular detail, but he guessed that it was because it was a lair, not a natural environment. He only had two examples to go on, though. It might be possible for animals to live in here, given the plants, but he’d need more data. The dark-aspect Everdeep Fortress hadn’t exactly been the kind of place in which you’d expect to find wildlife either.

Scans for entities returned nothing other than their party, even when he used the highest possible power. Doing that outside would have overwhelmed him with all the signals coming from rats and bugs and such. A scan for plants indicated that the mossy trees were real, as well as thorny underbrush.

If plants can live in here off the fake sunlight, why can’t animals live off the plants? He shook his head and set the question aside. They were in a lair, not out for a pleasure stroll. He had to stay on task.

After a few minutes, one of his pulses returned a signal coming from straight ahead. A second pulse with more specific criteria confirmed that it was the same slime he had felt earlier. Well, a slime, anyway. He wasn’t sure it was the same one, but it seemed likely.

He said nothing, watching for other dangers as they approached the monster. He wanted to see how the others would deal with it on their own. Rain kept walking as the slime slimed its way out from behind a fallen log ahead of them. It was the same greenish-brown color as the ones in the sewers. As soon as he recognized it, a red bar popped into existence above its head, indicating its health. Humm, I’m not sure if the unawakened will be able to see that… Shit, I told them they’d see the lair’s party display earlier. I’m not sure that they’d be able to see that either. I never did ask Stint.

“A slime!” Arlo roared. “Our first foe appears. A pity that it will prove no challenge for us. My Lord Rain, I will smite this foul creature, just say the word.”

Rain shook his head. “Not a lord. Stay in formation. When you see one, always expect more.”

“Nasty things,” Breggeh muttered from his right as they approached.

The slime locked on to them and started moving forward. He prepared to swat it out of the air with his staff in case it lunged at him, but that proved unnecessary. An arrow speared into the slime after flying past his shoulder, poking a hole in its membrane and causing its liquid insides to spill out. Half of its health vanished instantly, the rest quickly draining as the nasty fluid gushed out of the hole to sink into the soil. As far as the system was concerned, he’d had nothing to do with it, listing 0% contribution.

“First blood,” said Rina, “or first sludge, in this case. Slimes don’t really have blood.”

“Good shot.” Rain said. Praise where it’s due. “Samson, cover her while she gets her arrow back. I’ll deal with the mess.” Not waiting for a response, he activated Purify at full, unmodified intensity. The smell of the swamp vanished, and the remains of the slime dried out and evaporated, leaving Rina’s arrow sticking half out of the ground. The effect on the rest of the area wasn’t that impressive. The ground was still muddy, and the trees were still covered with moss and lichen, completely unaffected by the spell. He did note, however, that a small pool of water had gone from cloudy brown to crystal clear.

“Wow,” Breggeh said. “Even the smell is gone. I mean, I heard that you had a spell like this, but I never expected it to work on monsters like that. Would it have worked if it was still alive?”

Rain smiled. “It’s called Purify, and it’s the best spell ever. As for what it would do to a slime, I actually don’t know. I’ve been meaning to try that. It might kill them, or it might just turn them clear or something. I’ll give it a go on the next one we see, as long as it’s alone. For science.”

“Whassat?” Kettel said.

“Humm?” Rain said, scanning for danger as Rina bent down to retrieve her arrow. He’d switched to Winter and compressed it to just himself, recovering quickly from his mana use. I need to tone down the Detection spam.

“That word, science, was it? What’s that?” Kettel asked.

Rain shook his head, disappointed. The word did exist in common, but he’d only learned it from Staavo after asking him about it directly. It hadn’t been in the primer on common, and it wasn’t an exact translation. He’d never heard anyone else use it. “It is a process for understanding the world. You make educated guesses, then design experiments to test them. For example. Guess: Purify turns slimes clear. Experiment: Use Purify on a slime. Results: Either it turns clear, or it doesn’t. Simple. Publish your findings, or refine your experiment and try again.”

“That just sounds like common sense with more steps,” said Breggeh.

Rain barked out a laugh. The others looked at him, confused by his reaction. “Sorry, meme. Anyway, it’s just a simple example. Now isn’t the time for me to explain. We’re still in danger here.” He deliberately poked his staff into a nearby sink pit that he’d been planning to lead them around, then held up the muddy end of his staff to show them. He needed to keep them on their toes. Honestly, he was surprised that the lair was giving them such a gentle introduction.

Almost as if they had been summoned by overconfidence, his next Detection pulse returned a group of signals coming toward them, and quickly at that. They weren’t slimes. His ears picked out the rustling of the underbrush as the unknown monsters approached.

“Tighten up.” He said. “I hear something coming. More than one. Be ready.”

They didn’t have to wait long. A pack of large black rats burst out of the underbrush, heading straight for them. There were around ten of them, each around the size of a house cat. They had patchy coats of matted fur with diseased-looking bare skin showing through. The rats moved like a school of fish, swerving around obstacles as if guided by some shared intellect. Bizarrely, there was only one health bar for the entire group. When he focused on it, the system told him that this was a level five ‘Plague Rat Swarm.’

Shit, here we go. Rain set his feet, falling into the defensive stance Val had shown him. He activated Force Ward, setting the intensity to block exactly 100% of physical damage. Refrigerate would likely do a number on the rats, but he didn’t want to mageburn his companions, and Velika had said not to coddle them. This would be the real test.

The rats broke off to the side, trying to circle around them, but Bosco wasn’t having any of that. He lashed out with his spear, skewering a rat and shaving a sliver off of the shared health bar of the swarm. Kettel swung with his staff, but the rats darted away, tumbling over each other.

“Haa!” Arlo shouted, breaking formation and running at the rats.

“Damn it, Arlo, stay on your side!”

Arlo ignored him. “Ha HAH!” He lunged for the rats and even managed to hit one with a jab from his rapier. It squealed in pain and collapsed. The remaining rats leapt for his face, but he was already gone, dancing backward with light steps. “Nonsense,” he said, looking at Rain. “Formations are for the weak. I will deal with this myself. Just watch.”

Not to be outdone, Kettel likewise broke formation and started whacking at the rats with his staff. He chased after them, sending them flying whenever he connected. An arrow thudded into the ground by his foot.

“If I hit you, it’s your fault!” Rina said, drawing back for another shot. “Stop moving.”

“Something else is coming,” Breggeh said from his right, pointing with her mace. “A big one. No, two.”

