The Headmaster said no more. Instead, his right eye and his left flickered in oscillating frequencies until the translucent shimmer overshadowed the gleam of Divination mana. Shiv observed him, trying to figure out what kind of Psychomancy Skill Hymn possessed—if only as a means of defense, should they ever become adversaries. Then, without further warning, Hymn’s mana field collapsed inward instead of expanding out, and a series of shudders shook the dimension as the mana spilling out of his telepathic eye poured over into the other glowing with Divination. Hymn’s twin magics worked as one. Shiv tried to decipher what he was doing, but found himself empty of intuition or theory.

Then, just as fast as the process began, his eyes flashed once, and the glow between them equalized. The mana was balanced, and a commingled beam of violet translucence speared out, impaling Shiv with a flood of magic.

The spell diffracted from Shiv at first, skipping off his tides as a condensed beam of light would from ablative plating. Disregarding his paranoia, Shiv dropped his Magical Resistance and let the magic flow in. A second later, he found his mind filled with countless thoughts, harvested from thousands of minds. A wildfire spread through Shiv. Countless philosophies, beliefs, and perspectives were cast into the cauldron that was his scintillating Pyromancy, and the Nihilist roared to life like never before.

“So many flavors of understanding,” the Skill whispered, shuddering. “So many worldviews. So many constructed realities. So much kindling.”

Where once Shiv glittered like a spark at the center of the mana core, now he was a growing chasm of fire, and all the mana around him was rendered as strips of well-cooked steak. Yet despite the explosion of power tearing through him, he remained a man wrestling against the world, and soon the outsider energies washed over him and would have consumed him if not for the meal he devoured earlier.

The bit of corrupted Eldritch mana Shiv ate allowed his fire to adopt similar properties to Uva’s tainted essence. As such, he burned the tainted essence and functioned more as a junction for the threads that managed to push through rather than an entity to be re-woven into a creature born from a thousand nightmares.

“How long will your immunity last?” Hymn asked.

“A minute? Not sure.”

“Hm. Not ideal. Merrielmel’s telling me that the Slipgate is going to take a while longer to set up. Can you renew the effects of your meal? It might be better if you act as a carrier than a sacrificial vessel. I underestimated your frying pan—for it to confer such culinary benefits… The System must enjoy your ridiculousness.”

“Enjoy?” Shiv repeated. “The System's responsible for all this shit.”

Hymn laughed. “Quite so. Well. Make sure none of this corruption touches me, and I will see your Pyromancy reinforced; in the meantime, are you the only one capable of gaining benefits from the frying pan, or—”

Shiv acted instead of speaking. He folded a corner of his Pyromancy and allowed the eldritch entities to draw closer. When that happened, he lashed out using his frying pan and carved a chunk of mana away from the outsider infestation. This time, however, Shiv didn't just gouge a bit of his own glittering flame along with the tainted mana; he also carved the groove out of Adam's unique essence, and so, as he cooked a new meal, it was to carry aspects from all three of their souls.

Please don't turn out to be some weird shit, Shiv prayed.

Cook the Uncookable has activated.

Cooking in Progress: 28 Seconds.

As a lid fused over the Last Morsel, and a new emergency dish began to take shape. Shiv felt his current boost slowly unravel as his flames went from mirroring the surrounding strings of infectious mana to that of a baser flame. He felt his Nihilist grow tainted in an instant, and though his flames burned away some of the subversion, far more burrowed into him and drew closer at an alarming pace.

“Should’ve cooked a bigger chunk,” Shiv grumbled to himself. “Hymn. Get closer. This is going to run the wire.”

The Headmaster looked around and saw the shroud of Pyromancy sparing them from harm unraveling in layers like an onion. Creatures of pitch-black darkness flung themselves against the remaining mana fueling the Nihilist. Most were rendered into crispy-dark slabs of cooked matter that reminded Shiv of charred chicken, but a few pressed closer—forcing him to spend even more of his Pyromancy to keep them at bay.

And then came the fractured spiderlings. They began spinning lengths of invasive mana as they skittered around the mana core, bundling it tighter and tighter in a choking web that was actively digesting what few patches of azure remained.

Shiv needed to last twenty more seconds if he wanted to taste his new meal. At the rate the infection was progressing, he would be fortunate if he lasted just ten. “Hymn, if you got any more minds to draw from—”

“I am quite literally reaching across countless dimensions through the hijacked Fingerlings,” Hymn replied, his voice and mind quivering with strain. “A slight mistake will see me discovered and then unmade by the Stranger. And then there will be nobody to see you fueled.”

“We don’t have enough time,” the Nihilist whispered to Shiv. “I don’t have enough fire. Nothing will give me enough fire. You can see this. You know this. This Gate might be lost.”

“No,” Shiv shot back, emotional stubbornness enduring in the face of observed reality. His body cracked. Vitality hissed out of him, further diluting the insides of the mana core as his Harbinger destabilized.

“Shiv,” the Harbinger interjected calmly. “We are not without limit. Do what you can, but we must face the inevitable—there is no sense reaching your own destruction in futility.”

The mind knew; the heart refused. And so, Shiv felt himself tear, and bleed, and hurt as the world outside was covered by an overgrowth of strands, leaving the inside of the mana core darker and bleaker.

Warning: Gate Piety’s mana core is at risk of imminent mana overload.

Warning: Gate Piety’s mana core has been contaminated by [unknown] mana.

Warning: Gate Piety is at risk of complete dimensional collapse.

A section of the core cracked and burst in imitation of Shiv. His lost vitality went blasting out along with a flood of shredded mana. The instability was growing around him. His flame, once as wide as a large building, now barely extended three meters around Shiv, shrouding both him and Hymn from harm.

Cooking in Progress: 8 Seconds.

Fractured spiderlings danced upon the flames. A massive, flesh-coated centipede barreled into—and through—Shiv’s final aegis. The Nihilist broke and succumbed. Shiv didn’t. He split the Terrorspawn down the middle with ease. But then the corruption exploded out of its corpse and slithered into him. The subversive magic recoiled from his tides while spiderlings broke themselves upon his Scarforged shell, but though Shiv resisted for an instant, that single sting infected his shapeless tides with what was magical resistance, but a retaliatory bound field aping the architecture of hostile spells.

Shiv tried to ignite his Pyromancy, but it only gave a sputter of sparks—overwhelmed and unable to properly combust. Hymn fared better, but only just. He sacrificed Fingerlings in his stead, allowing them to take the brunt of the corruption while sparing his soul any harm. But he couldn't do that forever, and Shiv knew it. With every outsider he shed, Hymn’s body grew more human, his Eldritch nature dulling as he slowly reverted toward the mundane.

“Get out,” Shiv hissed. “We’re fucked if we stay here.”

Hymn chuckled. “We’re damned if we don’t finish this either. There’s no difference in our final fate if we don’t solve this now.”

“Well, then get close and try to last five seconds. I'll split this meal with you. If that ends up making a difference at all.”

With how fast the taint was eating through both of their resistances, Shiv really wasn't sure. But I guess I was wrong about him, though. I thought he was a coward for not fighting a challenger. Maybe he just didn't want to lose his life for nothing.

“Oh, don't misunderstand me now, Deathless. It's not bravery that compels me to linger, but the opportunity of something worth more than my life.” Hymn’s mind spoke with a dryness that hid his emotions well, but his core was like a transparent window to Shiv, who glimpsed an ocean of spite within.

Shiv grunted with understanding. “All this just to hurt the Stranger, huh?”

“Oh, I intend to do more than hurt.”

“Well, here is hoping that we last long enough to…” Shiv's mind trailed off as a radiant sunrise seared through the Eldritch web, burning a gap into the mana core—before promptly slamming into Shiv in the form of an arrow. The incandescent projectile detonated over him, shrouding him in another layer of Magical Resistance, and another such arrow followed, striking Hymn and conferring the same protections. Before the webbing could heal, Shiv stared beyond the wound and beheld the one who ensured his survival.

Roland hung high in the air, twin wings of flame extended out by his sides, but he wasn't alone. The Starhawk was manifested around him, wielding his own bow, firing in tandem with Roland. The Ascendant was still missing both of his right arms, stumps where the Challenger had torn the limbs away from his flesh with contemptuous ease.

But even maimed, a god was a god still, and Shiv was overjoyed to see another Ascendant come to his aid in this time of desperate need. “Never mind. Hymn—hold on with me. We just might be able to pull this off yet.”

Though Uva's Unique power allowed her to taint even divine mana, the magical resistance bestowed by the Starhawk bought Shiv and Hymn enough time for the Last Morsel to finish cooking. As its lid burst apart, evaporating in a rush of dark steam, what remained inside was a strange meal of ever-changing colors. It resembled a mess of noodles, but the strings were hair-thin and constantly shifting from color to color; however, its outside was outlined in a glow of azure energy. Finally, there was a glitter in the soup surrounding it. Shiv poured half of the messy meal into his vitality and then offered the rest to Hymn, who stared down into the frying pan and cringed in reflexive disgust.

“This won't give me the runs, will it? Because if that's a risk, tell me now. I'm going to switch into someone else's clothes before I shit myself.”

“Just eat the fucking food!” Shiv snapped.

It was with initial reluctance that Hymn obeyed, yet as he slurped down the food and his body began to shift, becoming as if a mess of tangled cords, much like the invasive eldritch mana, his consumption grew ever more enthusiastic. “I can't say the flavor is good, but I might just want to have this again, if only to reach a point where I can decide whether I like this or absolutely despise it.”

“Philosophy rendered into flavoring does strange things to a customer.” The Nihilist giggled weakly. “Sometimes it's better to veer toward an extreme, good or bad, rather than being forgotten for being mundane.”

Form of the Mana-Tainted Obtained

Both the Deathless and the Headmaster paused as the notification appeared before them. “I guess this means we're carriers of mana corruption rather than victims now,” Shiv concluded. He also examined his Last Morsel with growing appreciation. Being able to cook and assume the properties of whatever he ate was a powerful boon indeed, one he ignored too long and had not considered at length or in appropriate detail. “Yeah, you and I are gonna get a lot more acquainted from now on.”

A merged beam of Divination and Psychomancy slammed into Shiv, and once more an influx of philosophies was channeled into his mind from a thousand others. The Nihilist crackled and flared. What once was a murdered spark now resurrected as an explosion swelling around Shiv, raging with newfound vivacity.

Hymn's mind thundered with effort. “As heartbreaking as it is for me to delay this illicit love affair between you and your frying pan, the gateway is activating. Time to spark up that flame of yours and make our apocalypse someone else's problem.”

Hymn continued pouring his Legendary skill into Shiv, who mantled his growing Pyromancy. The scintillating flames swirled once and then condensed. Rather than spreading out, Shiv allowed the infectious magics of the Outside to fester along its exterior, and then he sent it forward, blasting free from the mana core, cooking all on its path until it broke from the surface. It cleaved through the air, arcing unnaturally as it groped for the surface gateway.

Though Shiv didn't have line of sight within the mana core, his Atlas allowed him to steal bits of perception from the organic entities that glittered around the gateway. Through their eyes and ears, he guided his fire—avoided frying anything he didn't need to and sent it spearing through the dimensional rift swirling at the center of the now-active portal. Some of the static mana was burned away as well, but Shiv sent his magics through, accelerating faster until it plunged across the other side into the Stranger’s Garden.

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 156 > 160

Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet 113 > 126

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 307 > 315

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 560 > 564

***

