A dimensional mana core is paradoxically incredibly powerful and absurdly vulnerable. In time, all dimension Lords find themselves faced with this paradox in one way or another. When utilizing a mana core's skills, the natural output usually far exceeds anything an individual Pathbearer can unleash, with special exceptions in the case of low-category cores compared to High-Tier Pathbearers and Unique Pathbearers, the latter being able to influence the world in ways an ordinary core might never be able to.

Aside from these special circumstances, however, a core commanded by a proper Lord can see entire armies stymied and cities reforged; it can provide healing to millions and agricultural bounties so great that billions can be fed. The reason for this has been stated in previous chapters: a core is not formed from its own legend. Unless the core is awakened, it possesses no true legend of its own. Instead, it is a gestalt legend provided by all its surviving inhabitants and their understanding of the events that have transpired within the core.

This ultimately is why the core is both powerful and vulnerable: a well-governed populace will see a core evolve new and powerful skills, gain useful and plentiful tools, and develop more districts for countless souls to settle. Meanwhile, a bad society or even a collapsing society will see the wrong skills develop, will see the core start to lose mana and become actively unstable, causing a series of destabilizing calamities to sweep through the mana core’s zone of influence, further putting everyone at risk and building on the disaster cascade already in play.

Such is why a metaphor cannot be wielded without care. Wisdom and skilled administration are necessities rather than recommendations. A society must run well. The people must trust their governing Lord. And the core is more like a garden to be cultivated rather than a building that can simply be remodeled; it must be cared for in exquisite detail.

But take note that vulnerability does not mean fragility. A mana core itself can possess any number of skills to protect and strike down detected dangers. And the magic it can channel is enough to annihilate entire formations of magi, even at a low mana category.

And to compound the paradox further, statistically, the strongest cores are those that have come closest to destruction, yet survived. The cores that have approached overload, yet were drawn back from the brink, or reinforced to resist the stream building from within. The reason for this is simple: a resilient society whose history and shared legend is rooted in surviving and overcoming impossible odds time and time again will simply come to think of that as the norm. And the core, meanwhile, will adopt the same philosophy and be honed in ways other cores cannot.

And so the old adage applies: "In strife we are broken, but from strife we are made legendary."

—The Lores of Lordship (Necrotech Education PsyTome; Banned in Yellowstone)

400Core

Maybe this wasn’t the best idea…

Like most of Shiv's regrets, the thought arrived too late for him to change anything. The eldritch column slammed into him and consumed him in the same instant. It pulled him along and drove him deep into the mana core. And now he found himself lost in a space consumed by clashing magics, delving into utter chaos.

Originally, Gate Piety's Unique mana core was like a sphere of azure-colored soup. Inside was a mana derived from Adam's Unique essence. But now it was infested by Uva's Unique nature, and her tainted magic spilled into the sphere like spools of ever-thickening noodles that forked and branched. Seconds passed, and the metaphorical soup was filled by spreading strands. Soon, Adam's sky-blue colors were diluted by a kaleidoscopic infusion of shifting hues.

And there, tangled at the epicenter in a weave of translucent threads, was Shiv. His being burned bright and with scintillating flames, his Unique Pyromancy standing as a third variant of unique mana that shone in opposition against the other two. Fibers of tainted mana linked and slithered through Shiv without corrupting him further. Adam's unique magic simply bathed the Deathless and inflicted no harm.

From Shiv spread a wildfire that ignited the surrounding corruption. The branches came ablaze, as did the strings and the fibers. All that was tainted was kindled by his being, and the metaphor of Uva's magic being like invasive noodles was made ever more literal as Shiv's Nihilist flame began to cook the taint.

But though he flickered as a cleansing flame at the heart of the core, Shiv's time was limited. The meal's heat was meager, and he had minutes at most to inflict as much damage as he could upon the intruding eldritch mana before the resistance granted by the dish fizzled out.

It wasn't a battle that he could win.

As fast as he incinerated the corrupting limbs coiling through and around Adam's mana core, even more Eldritch webs sank in and began bundling tight. The taint simply infected far faster than Shiv could burn, and so in a battle of direct attrition, he could only delay the inevitable usurpation of Gate Piety for so long.

Even so, he still unleashed his flames with wild abandon. Every second he gave was another moment provided toward the realization of a proper solution. Between him, the Educator, Roland, the Culturist, and all the others, there had to be a way to solve this crisis. Shiv didn't have the knowledge, but he had raw power. He had raw durability. He had lives to spend, and he had Unique skills to wield.

He might not be the solution, but he could still be the bulwark—

A shroud of pressure gripped and shifted the mana around him, bending inward toward a sudden singularity. The colors that defined the mana core diffracted, and a new presence manifested. A chasm of static mana opened within the core, and through that spatial tunnel came a humanoid presence. One that seemed all too human, yet not close enough. Fingers and hands sprouted out from its back like a cluster of malformed wings. Its body was defined by too many eyes: red along the exterior, but sporting golden crescents where the irises should be.

Shiv recognized the abomination in an instant. He didn't think; he acted. His Last Morsel glistened with ripples of severing power, and he split both Adam and Uva's commingled mana to cut the Fingerling from the tapestry of existence.

“Deathless—” the monster began, before flinching back in surprise. “No, wait—”

Shiv refused. He hacked into the Stranger’s minion with prejudice, his cutting aura grinding through magic like a machete through branches yet gliding smoothly through flesh, but the Fingerling he faced proved wilder than most. It ejected a cluster of lesser Outsiders, allowing them to stall Shiv's blow and die on its behalf. But Shiv wasn't done. He prepared to deliver a second swing when something halted him. The Fingerling's head shone bright, but it emitted twin colors from two eyes. Instead of being pools of red containing half-moons of gold, its orbs burned with violet and translucence.

Shiv halted his blow before his cutting aura could inflict any further damage. “Hymn? Warn me when you teleport in. And why do you look like a Fingerling right now?”

The parted remains of a sacrificed Fingerling cluster rolled away in opposite directions—and then were unraveled into novel horrors by Uva’s unconscious influence. Behind the bifurcation, Hymn regarded Shiv with a flat stare. “It's rather hard to survive the Outside when one is not fully attuned to it. Not all of us can return from death like you—and practically none of us are so favored that we are bestowed the privilege of becoming a Progenitor on the System's whim. But I do take your point about the pre-warning. Jumping in without sending you a telepathic missive was a foolish thing to do. But we have scarce time before this dimension unravels and becomes a breeding pit for nightmares and Dreamspawn, so let's save our mutual etiquette-based criticisms for now and see about resolving this matter.”

“Fine by me. You got any ideas? Because this is the best I could come up with off the top of my head.” Shiv gestured at the tainted threads burning around them, the only reason why Hymn himself was not infected right now. Ropes of cooked mana plunged down to the base of the core like noodles spooling at the bottom of a bowl. “I mean, maybe I can cook enough of Uva’s mana for everyone to eat and give them some kind of Outside resistance, but if the entire Gate collapses, then anyone who’s sub-Hero is still screwed.”

“Sub-Hero? Well, you are an optimist. I would say everyone who's not a specific kind of Legend is going to die. Dealing with the Outside is not a conventional struggle, and you, the Culturist, and I might be the only ones predisposed to survive this scenario with a high likelihood. But worry not, Deathless. I have a plan so cunning you can stick a tail on it and call it a weasel. But to see it come to fruition, I need a few things from you and to inflict a great deal of pain upon you.”

The shrug Shiv gave was reflexive and automatic. “So like every other crisis we had to solve before. Alright, tell me about it.”

“First, we need to evacuate this vessel of yours from this place. We need a series of sacrificial bodies, and from what I understand, your Severed Shadow is actually the central piece of your soul—can't afford to lose that now.”

“I can swap places no problem, but the moment another one of my bodies comes in, I’ll either need to cook a bit more tainted mana so that they don’t end up getting turned into whatever weird shit keeps popping out of Uva’s fields, or—”

“No, quite the contrary, in fact,” Hymn cut him off. “I need your bodies to be tainted—and I also need your Garden of Wounds and Broken Things to be active within this core.”

Shiv's intuition screamed that was a bad idea—as did the Unique Skill itself.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things refuses to risk any more of itself in a dimensional clash.

“Dimensional clash?” Shiv grimaced at the sound of that. “Yeah, Hymn, we might have a problem there because the skill doesn't want to come out. Actually, I can feel it receding inside of me, like it's pulling away.”

Hymn’s form went still with tension. “Pulling away? Like, your skill awakened?”

“Well, I think it's had some level of self-awareness from the start. It got mad at me when the Stranger wiped bits of it out of existence. It warned me not to do that stuff again. Honestly, sometimes it doesn't feel like the skill is entirely mine. It's just that I can call on it and I can nurture it, but part of it is its own thing.”

One of the hands jutting out from Hymn’s shoulder curved down to perform a third-hand facepalm. “And this is why I love and loathe Unique skills. You can never predict what manner of madness results. Alright, we pivot. You have more than one unique skill, and you have more than one mana type that can correspond with the eldritch. Your new Cooking skill is interfacing with the taint right now. It can burn bits of it away. I think we can use that—you said it kindles from philosophy?”

“Seems so. Listen, if you got a way of giving me a lot more fire, then maybe I can fry all this eldritch mana until it all becomes edible.”

“As utterly ridiculous and amusing as that sounds, I have another design in mind: we're going to ignite you like never before. As your flames are contained in the place of the mana core, you will project that fire through the nearby gateway and into the Stranger's dimension, thus making this his problem.”

And all of a sudden, Hymn's schemes didn't sound bad at all. “Shit, why didn’t you start the pitch with that?” Shiv chuckled. “If you find me some fuel, then I'll pour as much flame out the gateway as you want.” But then something characteristic followed: Shiv considered the problem further, and tried to imagine what came next. “Wait, hold on. Is this gonna hurt Uva? All this is connected to her, right? I doubt the Stranger is going to be fine with us dumping all this waste into his Garden.”

“Oh, the Stranger will absolutely loathe this, but to answer your actual worry, the girl will likely be fine, I think. Probably.”

“I'm not doing this on a probably, Hymn,” Shiv growled.

“Oh yes, you are, because if you don't do it on a probably, then we’ll both definitely get to experience what it means to survive a dimensional apocalypse firsthand.” Hymn sighed. “She will likely be fine. Really. The skill is tied to her in a way that I don't fully understand yet, but it shouldn't be entirely rooted in her soul. There's too much mana. That's too much power. It's an entire dimension, something only a god might be able to contain. So short of your girlfriend suddenly exceeding Legendary-Tier, whatever retaliatory damage the Stranger inflicts upon the Dreamtaker's leftover realm should not carry over to Uva.”

Should. Probably. Likely. Shiv was starting to hate these words. But when everything was going to hell, sometimes a gambit and a probability were all he had to go on. “Alright. Light my wick if you got an idea. Let’s make this that hand-loving asshole’s problem.”

