“Hurts? Still hurts? Why? Why still hurts?” The Stranger's ragged voice echoed through his Garden, radiating from everything he invested himself within. His Supplicant was damaged. Its middlemost finger on the right hand had been shredded and refused to mend. Its length was a mess of shattered bone and spilling black ichor. The hand that struck it, that hand of strife, that hand of the hateful one, the raging one, the war-born one, one of the Riders, had left a wound that lingered beyond time, beyond power.

War was, and war scarred the Stranger.

The Supplicant remained maimed beyond the power of memory or time to mend. A strange emotion tore at the Stranger. His emotions had been growing noticeably odder with every passing day for a while now. He wanted to express something painful. He didn't understand what he wanted to do. It was like there was a heavy knot at the center of his being, and he wanted to push it out somehow. He wanted to describe how unfair everything felt, how wrong existing was. He wanted to vent or fight or hurt an enemy that wasn't here.

He wanted some manner of retribution, some kind of justice—for everything to go back before he was diseased with consciousness, ruined by this lesser intellect that now afflicted his state of being.

Grief.

The word came from nowhere yet resonated most truly. The Stranger grieved. He grieved the state of himself. He grieved his injuries. He grieved because he was losing more of himself. He knew what it meant to lose himself, and he knew he couldn't go back.

He would never be able to return to that point where he was whole, where he was more than just this limited thing, this Garden, this mess, this monstrosity of eyes and fingers.

He missed when he wasn't defined, when he wasn't bound by themes and skills, when he could have been anything, anything, when his potential was endless, when his godhood was endless. He missed being omnipotent and omniscient. He missed being totality unto itself.

“Hurts,” the Stranger sobbed, not like a god, but as a child who realized he was alone, an orphan, unwanted by whatever that came before, with no true children, only parasites or minions, forged of his design. Now he was under the care of a thing that cared nothing for it aside from what strife could be wrought from the Stranger’s struggles. “Don't want to be like this. Don't want to be this way anymore. Don't want to know. Don't want to remember. Want everything to be the same. Want to be time flowing. Want to be memory. Want to be. Was more than a garden. Was more than a monster. Was more… I wasn't just a story.”

And cruelly, tragically, nonsensically, there came a glitter, a glint, a chasm of scintillating flame that tore a gash into the Garden once more and carried with it threads that flicked and spread across the surface of this invading fire. Threads that were like infected veins, threads that spread from the flame to everything kissed and ignited, spreading through the Stranger's Garden and into the Stranger himself as the System inflicted another insult upon his wounded heart.

Warning: Your dimension has been tainted.

Warning: Your dimension is being invaded.

Warning: Artificial Incursion in progress.

“No!” the Stranger wailed. His Fingerlings raged with it, lashing and pouring tears of tarnished time from their eyes. “No, had enough, no more fighting! Give me quiet, give me peace. No more! No more! No more!”

***

Quest Complete: Stabilize Gate Piety’s mana core to prevent a total Ambient Mana Threshold collapse.

Attention: The Gate has gained 2 Unique-Tier Skills
