“Ah, Yvlon. Won’t you ask for something simpler like for Losve to spank High King Perric in full view of his courts? You and I both know I am loath to release Trey and Teres’ companions. If Elena is unhappy, that dratted Quarass or Fetohep may have to gloat over being better hosts than I.”
“Never more than you, Your Majesty!”
Jelaim shouted merrily, and Flos raised a hand at the cheers. He nodded at Yvlon.
“I shall hear her out, and you, at breakfast. If nothing else, I’d like to introduce Pisces to the finest soldiers to use death magic.”
That was a splendid exit for Yvlon to take and very adroitly done. Flos had practically rolled out the carpet for her.
Yvlon stared at the metaphorical carpet. Then she calmly—and metaphorically—began to stab it with a knife.
“I fear I must insist, Your Majesty. Elena is a friend of Erin Solstice’s. Thus, she’s a friend of ours. It would leave a sour taste in my mouth to let her stay imprisoned here.”
The jovial chuckles and listeners suddenly went silent. Slowly, the King’s Seven focused on Yvlon, perhaps for the first time, and Pisces saw the Rustängmarder, as one, slowly raise their heads and turn his way.
Yvlon Byres was worse than ‘Is it War?’ Ksmvr. Vofea had literally led the Horns into a battle at sea against Bloodtear Pirates. Yvlon was worse than both. Colth? Colth worked for Demons.
Yvlon was the absolute—even Ceria only wore Relics of cursedness. Yvlon didn’t even couch her language.
“—I object to ‘imprison’. I’m a forceful host. Not someone keeping prisoners.”
“I didn’t accuse you of making them [Slaves], Your Majesty. I can only say how things look to a foreigner to Chandrar.”
And she was making it worse. This time, Flos’ chuckle felt forced. Trey wore a look of delight on his face. And palpable alarm.
“This is Trey to the Horns of Hammerad. I don’t know what you’re doing, but he’s going to get mad.”
The [Chaos Schemer] put a finger to his temples, and Pisces heard his voice. It didn’t stop Yvlon. Pisces knew he should kick her, apologize on hands and knees, and flee into the distance at full speed.
He didn’t. Instinct told him to apologize and grab Yvlon. He stared at his hands. Amazing. They were only shaking, and he hadn’t become incontinent. Why the hell did he feel proud of Yvlon?
Perhaps because she had said what was in the back of his mind. In the worst way, but everyone had their foibles.
“Yvlon. Are you insisting I release Elena to head off…into the distance? To wander off that way, perhaps?”
Flos sounded slightly amused, but his eyes had taken a serious cast to them. Yvlon retorted.
“I could pay for a horse, Your Majesty.”
Laughter. Flos reached up and knocked a hand down. Orthenon had been about to point a spear at Yvlon. The Seven were getting—Mars still had that smile on her face, but Pisces’ knees were beginning to shake. The air felt oppressive, but the King of Destruction wasn’t mad. 
Yet.
“And what would you do if I refused, Yvlon?”
“I would insist.”
“Oh. Really. And if I refused?”
There it was. A glint. He might be a sociable [King] who loved audacity and bravery, but he was still King of Reim, once the ruler of all of Chandrar. Yvlon Byres narrowed her eyes, and her hands clenched at her side.
“I may get tetchy.”
That was the final straw. The King of Destruction threw his head back and uttered one bark of a laugh. As he did, his vassals moved.
They had been getting slowly angrier and angrier, if in different ways. Orthenon’s face had become a thundercloud; Mars had never stopped smiling, nor had Gazi, but the half-Gazer’s eyes had locked onto Yvlon, and Takhatres had shifted from one foot to the other, glaring at the Horns. Only Amerys floated above it all, less concerned with the insults.
No sooner did Yvlon finish speaking than two of them moved. Pisces didn’t even see the Lord of the Skies move. He saw Yvlon move—and the Garuda appeared, foot raised.
His kick sent Yvlon flying backwards; Mars was already behind her. She swung a shield into Yvlon’s back, and the crash of metal knocked Yvlon flat into the ground. Yvlon lay there a second, then tried to roll—Mars’ sword pointed down at her.
Flos finished laughing. Pisces jerked; Yvlon was down, and Mars had a foot on her chest. Her armor was badly dented in two spots.
“Mars. I just gifted her that armor.”
The King of Destruction sounded reproving. The world’s greatest [Vanguard] shrugged, face calm, but her eyes were cold.
“A small price for a lesson, Your Majesty. We’ll get her a new one.”
“I—insist—”
Mars took her foot off Yvlon and stepped back. Metal spikes rose from Yvlon’s arms, pushing her upwards, and her eyes blazed. But she didn’t even make it upright; Takhatres kicked behind her knees, knocking her onto her hands and knees.
“Yv—”
Colth started forwards and froze. The King of Destruction’s steward had a spear at his throat, barring his path. The [Ultimate Supporter] grinned nervously and half-raised his hands. His eyes flicked to Pisces.
What did they do?
“Whubuh.”
Ceria just swayed around in place. She took a drink of water as Yvlon tried to get up.
“Don’t get up. His Majesty might like you. But insolence deserves a lesson, and you are surrounded by your betters.”
The Lord of the Skies advised Yvlon, but he didn’t stand on her chest—he stepped back. Mars moved backwards too, and Death-General Losve drew her sword calmly.
They were waiting for her to get up. Colth was frozen, staring at Orthenon, and Ceria was swaying off to the side. Yvlon?
Yvlon was slowly collecting herself. She had blood on her lips; she might have bit her cheek or tongue when she fell. But one look at her eyes and Pisces knew—she’d get back up.
She had charged an Adult Creler with one of her arms as a club. She had to know they wouldn’t take mercy on her. But one look at Elena—the [Beautician] was calling out, horrified.
“Yvlon—don’t—Your Majesty!”
“Don’t harm her badly, Mars.”
The King of Destruction looked somewhat resigned to what was going to happen next. He was shaking his head, but watching Yvlon with a hint of approval in his eyes. As if he respected her level of stupidity.
No one was going to help Yvlon. In fact, Pisces saw the [Soldiers] around them were clearly hoping they could get in on teaching this woman a lesson. He looked at the King of Destruction’s Seven and felt them outlevel him.
Jelaim, Mirin, Zamea—they were probably more than a match for Pisces. It was stupid, all Yvlon’s fault for being hard-headed. The smart thing to do was to let her take some lumps, apologize, and get out of this in one piece.
They could kill the Horns. Pisces turned his head to Elena’s distraught face. She thought this was her fault, not knowing that it was, of course, all Yvlon. For some reason, her eyes widened as she gazed at him. In horror. Disbelief.
“Don’t—”
Why did she say that to him? Pisces was a sensible person. Oh. Of course.
He stared down at his hand as it grasped the hilt of his rapier and drew the ivory-steel blade. It made a satisfying sound as it left its sheath. The [Necromancer] saw Mars’ head turn incredulously.
She swung faster than he could have dodged—which was why he had already begun leaping back. The [Necromancer]’s feet struck the ground, and he raised a hand.
Why was he smiling? Perhaps it was that look of naked surprise on the King of Destruction’s face. Perhaps it was because, until this very moment, he wasn’t sure if he would do something so monumentally stupid.
You never knew if you were going to do the right thing until you had your chance. Erin Solstice’s voice seemed to echo in his ears. A smart [Necromancer] would do nothing.
But you’re better than they are. Aren’t you?
“Arise!”
Bones swirled out of his bag of holding behind him. Pisces lifted a flaming rapier and saw Death-General Losve gazing at him. She lunged—a greatsword piercing the air as his rapier moved.
[Joveln’s Parry]. The gathered audience saw a glowing tail emerge behind Pisces, and his rapier moved the tip of the greatsword. It—probably—hadn’t been intended as a killing thrust. It would have gone an inch into his chest. Parried, it passed by his right shoulder.
I think I just broke my arm. The shock of impact ran through Pisces as the Death-General reset her stance. She pointed the sword at him as bone swirled around him.
Orthenon snarled. He glanced at Pisces—and jerked away as two blades slashed through the spot his arm had been. Colth ate a kick and flipped onto his feet—he whirled the blades up, eyes gleaming.
[Imitation of Might: Iert, The Naga’s Hound].
His teeth grew, and black fur ripped up his arms. His blades lengthened, and Orthenon turned his head back to the [Ultimate Supporter]. He put his other hand on the spear, eyes flashing like death.
“Pisces!”
Yvlon stared at the [Necromancer], and Pisces was shaking. But he gave her a huge smile.
You didn’t think you were the craziest Horn, did you? 
Pisces was waiting for an attack from one of the King of Destruction’s vassals. They seemed more surprised than anything else. But one of them raised a lazy finger.
“Oh, enough with the posturing.”
Amerys, the Archmage of Lightning, aimed a crackling finger at Pisces, and he froze. The Archmage pointed as Death-General Losve pivoted aside smoothly—
—And Ceria tossed her entire pitcher of water over Amerys. The water clung to the Archmage of Lightning as the electricity fizzled out. It didn’t cling to her skin—rather, it ran down an invisible barrier spell around Amerys.
Just water. Amerys blinked, looked at Ceria—and ice started freezing as the running water hardened and changed states. The half-Elf gave Amerys an unfocused grin.
“Got you.”
Ceria drew her wand, and she had the Archmage of Lightning covered in water—a [Cryomancer]’s wet dream. Calmly, Amerys wiped some of the water trickling down her barriers away, then drew her wand.
The lightning crackled red as she aimed it at Ceria’s chest.
Yvlon was on one knee, and Mars was staring at Pisces. Straight at him. Pisces heard a familiar ringing sound, and when he looked right, Gazi the Omniscient had drawn her blade.
He had never had a nightmare like this. Nightmares were more survivable. They probably wouldn’t die. But why the hell were they doing this?
Because they’d kicked Yvlon. Because Flos had broken Ceria’s circlet. Because it was something Erin would do.
His pulse was hammering in his chest. Behind him, the bones were coalescing into something. Pisces didn’t know what.
Not a Skeleton Champion. Those were useless. His mind was racing at the speed of light, and Pisces didn’t know what he was doing.
Something else. Something far more powerful. Something that has a chance, even one in a million, of beating them. What?
A single piece of Stellar Ivory floated into the air and hovered behind Pisces. It floated into place, and the lesser bones swirled around it, as if a single true piece had formed the foundation for something—
New. Springing forth from the depths of the [Necromancer]’s mind. Perhaps his very soul.
Pisces didn’t see what was taking form behind him. He only saw the King of Destruction, face amused, surprised, widen his eyes. He looked at Pisces and then at whatever the [Necromancer] was conjuring.
An idea—half formed. The King of Destruction narrowed his eyes. He had his hand raised, forestalling his Seven. They feared nothing Pisces could create; only curiosity stayed their hands. But for a second, the rapidly moving whirlwind of bones and death magic coalesced—collapsing—trying to give form to something Pisces had not fully articulated in his mind.
But he knew what it was, deep down—no. It was as if the materials were too weak to give form to it. Only that piece of shining ivory stayed in place. Tracing the outline of something that…smiled at the King of Destruction. The [King] leaned forwards, a grin of a man who had killed monsters and legends on his face.
Then he jerked. His breath caught—and the Seven froze for one second.
They were waiting to crush the Horns. A contemptuous Orthenon holding his spear, Amerys slowly amping up the power in her wand as Ceria swallowed. Mars, not even bothering to look down at Yvlon as Takhatres and Gazi stared down Pisces.
Then it happened. The [Necromancer] was pointing his sword straight at the King of Destruction. His arm shook; his blade was steady. What was in his eyes? What was rising behind him? He didn’t know, but something hanging from the hilt of his rapier caught the light.
He was afraid. He was terrified. He was outmatched.
Nevertheless—
The Bell of Challenges rang once. Pisces saw Mars’ head jerk around, and Takhatres halted, mid-kick. The King of Destruction’s eyes went round as he heard the sound for the first time in his life.
All five of Gazi’s eyes met Pisces’. He waited for the agonizing pain as Death-General Losve put a hand to her helmet in confusion, keeping her sword pointing at him. He waited for the bell to ring again as the Horns of Hammerad tensed. Ceria was laughing along with Colth, and Yvlon’s body was beginning to shake with rage.
The King of Destruction laughed in delight. He reached out and grabbed Amerys’ arm. She jerked—Flos wrenched the arm, and a bolt of crimson lightning shot into the skies and exploded.
“Stop! Enough! Stand down.”
“Your Majesty—”
“I said enough.”
The King of Reim spoke, and his Seven lowered their blades. The Rustängmarder fell to their knees along with the audience—and Flos Reimarch looked at Pisces.
“I’ve come to a decision. Prepare my tent for an audience. Fetch me quill and paper for a letter. The Horns of Hammerad, Trey, Teres, and, eh, Nawalishifra and half the Earthers are to wait upon me. After breakfast.”
He turned his head, and the Horns stared at him. The King of Destruction pointed at Pisces and the bell.
“It was indeed worth meeting you.”
Then he turned away.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad stood there as people stared at them. But no one killed them. Some might want to, but the King of Destruction had spoken.
“Αμάν–oh my–τι είναι αυτό ρε–Γαμώ τη μάνα σου–I don’t have enough oaths.”
Elena was clutching at her chest after that. She was panting as if she’d run a mile. The Horns were visibly shaking. Yvlon Byres was on her feet, wincing, as she felt at her chest.
“That worked out well.”
Pisces, Colth, and Ceria all began kicking and punching her. The [Armsmistress] held up her arms.
“What possessed you all to join in? I was ready to take some lumps to prove a point.”
She looked at their incredulous faces, then shrugged and, wincing, looked around.
