“Anyone know where the armorers’ tents are? I think I need new armor already. At least my under-armour is good. I think it saved me from breaking a rib.”
She wandered off. Elena pointed at Yvlon—then looked at Pisces, Colth, and Ceria.
“She is the coolest person—even Cara would call her crazy!”
Her eyes shone with admiration. For once, Yvlon’s teammates didn’t have much to say.
“That’s our Yvlon. Haha. Ha-ha.”
Colth grinned, even his voice weak and faint.
Pisces took three paces and threw up behind a tent.
 
——
 
“You must punish them, Your Majesty. They challenged you to your face.”
“Orthenon, Orthenon, Orthenon, Orthenon—if I keep saying your name, will you leave me alone?”
The King of Destruction was reclining on his throne in good humor. His [Steward] was incandescent. Trey, Teresa, half the Earthers, including Elena, and the Horns of Hammerad were all standing before him in his tent.
Yvlon was still glowering, but she had both Death-General Losve and Mars standing so close to her that she didn’t say a thing. Flos spoke out loud.
“I like them. There’s a line between foolhardy bravery and the true stuff of champions. Don’t you think, Mars?”
The [Vanguard] raised her brows, skeptical.
“They’re nothing near good enough to make me even sweat, Your Majesty.”
He waggled a finger at her.
“Ah, but Mars, that’s the point of the young. Here we have a group of adventurers even more foolhardy than Teresa—and she has been nagging me nonstop about rising into her own right. We have Trey, a pain in my posterior, and Elena, who adds to his arguments, and Earthers yet to make something of themselves. What to do with them?”
“Execution?”
Takhatres said that deadpan. Flos Reimarch rolled his eyes.
“No, Takhatres. I think I’d rather do something else. Is Nawalishifra back there?”
“Your Majesty.”
He peered as Nawal bent to one knee, but Flos raised a hand. He studied his Seven, most of them fuming, and nodded to himself.
“They surprised me. You too, Orthenon.”
“Only by virtue of an artifact.”
The [Steward] shot Pisces a death-glare, but Flos glanced at Pisces and at his bag of holding, which held the bones that had collapsed after the tension had been released. Then he studied Ceria, who stuck her tongue out at him, Yvlon’s unflinching glare, and Colth’s fake smile.
The King of Destruction grinned.
“No. I have an eye for people, if nothing else. I’ve decided. Send all of them. Trey, Teresa, Nawalishifra since they seem to be good friends. Elena, every Earther with a mind—I’ll survive without—and the Horns of Hammerad. Send them all to Hraace!”
The proclamation provoked a stir within the tent. Mars’ head rose incredulously, and Takhatres cawed in a surprised laugh that became a noise of outrage. Orthenon just exhaled as Gazi stared at Flos; even Amerys sat up in the air.
“Hraace, Your Majesty? The Pedagogia has not declared for you.”
“I know. That was hurtful, but her reasons are her own; she still owes me this. Take one of those magical carriages from Wistram. Two or three, I imagine. And…yes. Gazi, escort the lot. Trey needs someone to safeguard him on his project, and the Horns know you. See if you can’t recruit a nation back to my cause while you’re at it. Coslere? They liked me well enough.”
The half-Gazer started beside the King of Destruction.
“Me? Your Majesty?”
She wasn’t sure if she should be dismayed, but Flos just nodded at her.
“Yes. Have the Pedagogia look at you too.”
“Me?”
This time, all the Seven seemed shocked, but the King of Destruction waved a hand.
“Her armor is broken, but do any of you deny she has as good a chance as the rest?”
“None of them have a chance in Rhir’s hells. I went to Hraace, and they turned me down.”
Takhatres snapped back, sounding upset. The Horns and Earthers, even Trey and Teres, were looking at each other in complete ignorance of what was going on. None of them were Chandrarian; only Colth’s eyes had lit up, and he was giving Flos the same look of pure surprise.
Colth—and Elena, whose head had come up at the memory of the Quarass mentioning the same spot. She listened intently as Flos argued with his vassals.
“Takhatres, you are not the right sort. Don’t throw that fruit at me. If a single one of them is even worth a week of their time, it will be a fine outcome. And so you see, Horns of Hammerad, we’ll call that a fine resolution. I think my vassals wouldn’t take kindly to your presence longer, anyways.”
Flos beamed down at the Horns, and Ceria had pulled out a map. She stared around, and Colth pointed. Pisces peered over her shoulder and groaned.
Hraace was to the northeast. Practically on the corner of Chandrar! It was a little nation along a coast with some islands—not where they wanted to be!
“Er. Your Majesty. We are honored by this…decision. But we really have to be going to Nerrhavia’s Fallen or Tiqr—”
Ceria had regained use of her tongue, but Flos just spoke over her, waving a grand hand.
“No, no. You can spare a week or two, surely. It’s a huge honor to get an appraisal out of season, and I insist. Anyone in Chandrar would love my recommendation—I’m fairly certain the Pedagogia will at least give you a chance.”
He sat there, looking so pleased with himself that no one knew what to say. Half the people in the tent were giving the Horns and Earthers glares that seemed envious. It was Teres who raised her head and eyed the Horns. She raised her voice.
“Flos! What has Hraace got to do with anything? You promised me a chance to prove myself!”
The King of Destruction’s smile grew strained. Mars made a slap to the back of the head motion, but Flos gave Teres a puzzled look.
“Hraace is the biggest boon I could grant, Teres. Didn’t you study them? Orthenon? No, wait—you’re not a Chandrarian.”
He sighed and put his head in his hands. The [Steward] gave his ruler a bland look.
“I respect their abilities—”
“Silence, Orthenon. You would ignore them. But surely the Horns understand—”
Flos smiled at them, then took in their blank expressions. Colth nodded, and Flos began to look outraged.
“Oh, come now. It’s Hraace. Don’t they at least tell stories of them? I know Chandrar has a bad reputation, but don’t parents promise their children that if they’re good, they’ll be taken to Hraace? It’s one of the few nations you’d hear about if you spoke of Chandrar! Like Samal or Erribathe in Terandria! Or Salazsarian pork!”
Salazsarian pork…?
Pisces mouthed the words. He stared at Ceria, and she shrugged. Flos looked genuinely upset, and he folded his arms.
“I’m almost of a mind to rescind that. But no—Gazi, educate them, would you, on the road?”
“As Your Majesty wills.”
She looked excited, and when she glanced at the Horns, resigned. Trey and Teres glanced at each other, and Elena peeked at the Horns, seeming excited.
“So…Hraace is a good thing?”
Teres asked suspiciously. The King of Destruction laughed. He sat back on his throne as if she’d told a huge jest and chuckled and chortled until he was out of breath. Then he gave them all a fond glance.
“Hraace is no great nation of war. It has few resources save for its people. It’s very balmy. But it is an honor to go, much less be chosen. I was, when I was a boy. The Pedagogia Araxia and the Mentorship of Hraace were among my first vassals. They helped make me into the King of Destruction. Do you really not know them?”
The name was ringing a bell in Pisces’ mind, and the King of Destruction’s eyes passed over him. Flos Reimarch stood and pointed a finger.
“Pray you are chosen—or rejoice that you are not. They are the finest instructors in weapons, etiquette, statecraft, and strategy the world knows. Take the detour, Horns of Hammerad—to the Heromakers of Hraace.”
He winked at them.
“—And if they choose you, you will be among Chandrar’s [Heroes].”
