The first thing the Horns did was make sure Ceria was actually okay. They hustled her off, trying to get anything out of her.
“Are you hurt? Ceria? Ceria!”
Yvlon shook her so hard that Ceria’s head rattled until Pisces and Colth stopped Yvlon. Amerys floated after them with more of a scientific interest in Ceria’s affliction. Pisces might have begun to panic save for two factors.
Colth, who instantly ruled out using a potion on Ceria, and the [Healer] who came running. Colth was talking urgently.
“If she needs expert help, I can raise a call, but it’s super risky, Yvlon, Pisces. We’d have to take her away from here and ditch observation, but—what about The Last Light? I’ve seen magical backlash from artifacts. Let me get a [Message] to Larracel. She might know what to do.”
However, the [Healer] forestalled that. She was, of all things, a Drake. She had pale, white scales with several pronounced war-scars, and she was tall and strong—strong enough to shove people aside.
“None of that. [Battlefield Triage]. Out, out of the way! You as well, Named-rank. I have [Potions of Tales]—and I have more than just healing potions. If you think you can do better or help, by all means.”
Colth leapt back respectfully and instantly bowed.
“I’m a [Supporter], Miss—”
“Lady Possive. Good with a needle and thread, are you? I might have you help with the Stitch-folk [Prisoners] under my care. Little call for this. Has His Majesty broken another relic? Lady Amerys?”
“Intelligence-boosting circlet. Might have been cursed. He snapped it while she was linked. Hello, Possive. I completely forgot to say hello.”
The Drake rolled her eyes and exhaled. A plume of ice came from her mouth, and Pisces realized she was an Oldblood Drake. She had no wings, and she was around Amerys’ age.
“Typical. Well, the good news is she’s not going to get worse. And the better news is that I’ve seen mind-boosting artifacts break in battle. Did she start bleeding out the nose or ears when it happened?”
“No…”
“Then she’s less likely to have been permanently damaged. If there were red or worse coming out her nostrils, I’d be asking if we had Potions of Regeneration. It looks to be a minor backlash, actually. Where’s the Relic? Is it actually destroyed?”
Amerys pointed, and Possive glanced down at it. The Archmage drawled.
“I don’t think His Majesty fully broke it.”
“Explains why she’s not that badly off. She’ll recover in two days. Sooner, probably. My [Gaze of Transparency] sees nothing bleeding in her head. If it’s mental damage, it could take longer, but that’s out of my purview. Wonderful arms, by the way, whomever you are.”
The Drake pointed at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] stared at her. Now here was someone new and off-putting. Pisces cleared his throat.
“Thank you, Miss—are you sure? She’s a dear friend to us.”
The Drake just snorted another plume of frost.
“Boy. I just triaged this entire area. My Skill would tell me if she were in need of my help. She’s not. She’s below the idiot who just cut their hand open over yonder. And as I said, I’ve seen this done. Someone splits a crown that makes a [King] smart as a snake, and he sits in his own stool for a week before snapping out of it. Happened twice on campaign in the old days.”
Amerys nodded happily, and the Horns realized this was another veteran of the King of Destruction’s wars. Relieved now that Ceria was going to recover, Pisces focused on the Drake.
“Are you Izrilian?”
“That’s right. I was one of the Drakes who was sent to ‘crush’ the King of Destruction and ‘restore order’ to Chandrar back when he was first here. About six disasters later, I wound up being recruited to his cause. Lady Possive, formerly of Fissival. How’s old Izril doing?”
Pisces’ jaw dropped. He shook her clawed hand, and the Drake favored him with a friendly smile. They spoke, briefly, as Amerys went off to tell Flos that Ceria would be alright.
She looked rather pitiful, sitting and holding her circlet together, and Possive did help them move Ceria to a tent. Pisces tried to get something out of Ceria, but the Drake advised him not to.
“She’s processing what just happened. Imagine you’re running a hundred feet a second and someone reaches out an arm and stops you dead in your tracks? Typical of His Majesty. Anyways, there’s a door from Pallass to Liscor? Incredible. I’ve never been to Liscor; it was still thought of as a bunch of rubes with an annoyingly good mercenary army when I left. All those Antinium didn’t exactly make me pine for home.”
“What did you do for the last twenty years?”
Possive snorted with amusement.
“I found work. I headed east; started a family. Had one annoying divorce. Ran into a [Pirate] group who thought a poor [Healer] couldn’t fight. Almost married their [Captain]. Then I was the chief healer for the capital city of Coslere—that’s a small nation on the coast—when I heard the call. It took me a while to get back.”
She said all of that, and Yvlon’s brows rose incredulously.
“Just like that? After so long?”
The Drake gave Yvlon a smile full of teeth.
“That’s loyalty for you. I wanted to see if he still deserved it. I haven’t been that disappointed so far. I’d love to chat, but I have some prisoners of Nerrhavia’s Fallen who need looking after. The important Silks get ransomed right back. Excuse me.”
Then she was gone. First that [Drummer], now her. Pisces wondered how many other people had stories like that.
“She had to be over Level 40.”
“At least.”
Colth agreed. He’d tried to see Possive’s potions and ask for tips, but she’d been too busy. The Horns looked at each other, and Yvlon blew out her cheeks. She was still angry—but she had a conflicted look on her face.
“Well—he just did the impossible. Snapped her circlet. I have a mind to—”
“Best not. If Ceria’s okay, let it drop, Yvlon.”
Colth cautioned her, and the [Armsmistress] frowned darkly, but Pisces agreed. In part. He felt as disturbed as Yvlon, and they all regarded Ceria.
“Circlet.”
She gave them a pleading look, and Yvlon folded her arms. Pisces stared at the circlet, and he wondered if you thanked Flos or punched him.
Well, he knew which one would lose him an arm. Even so…for a second, the Horns stood there until someone poked their head into the tent.
“Is the half-Elf good? Come along, the King of Destruction still wants to talk with the rest of you!”
Jelaim, the leader of the Serpent Hunters, grinned at the lot of them. The adventurers exchanged a glance, and after making sure Ceria had something to drink and eat, they reluctantly headed back out into the camp.
 
—-
 
To say that took Ceria out of the night’s festivities was an understatement. To say it ended the party was to lie outright.
The King of Destruction was in a fine mood even afterwards, and he dragged Pisces, Yvlon, and Colth around. He even talked about his desire to have the Mad Ones repatriated to him.
“Chemath Marble? I can’t see what the fuss is. Drevish would be breathing down my neck, but he is dead—I want my insane experts. Especially with everything Trey and Teresa tell me about…well, let’s not speak of it here.”
He gave the three a knowing look and gestured around the camp.
“I have a mind to make one more request of you, but should you head to Nerrhavia’s Fallen, I will consider it a boon if you could escort them safely to me. Your reward shall be…hm. Perhaps hiring Rasea Zecrew to ferry you to Baleros and then the [Innkeeper] and yourselves back to Izril?”
“Do you want to get them killed, Your Majesty?”
Mars put in, highly amused. Flos waved a hand at her.
“Shh. I’m trying to think! That’s the problem with adventurers. You can’t reward them without having more Relics lying around. And I, ah, may owe you one already. Is Ceria still doing well?”
“Staring at her circlet while eating Yellats, Your Majesty.”
“Good enough. Consider it, Horns. Or do you have something you desire of me?”
Flos gave them a hopeful look as, behind him, people continued to crack the comet. Pisces had, with permission, wandered over with several of his Skeleton Champions, but none of the undead had reacted one whit to the comet, even by night.
Another failure. Flos was glancing at the undead with clear interest, and he had already asked Colth to go a round with some of his vassals in the Serpent Hunters. He’d asked Yvlon too.
She had refused. She still wasn’t sure if she was grateful or enraged at the King of Destruction.
Colth had developed that cunning look in his eyes. Pisces didn’t know if that was a good thing, given how Ceria’s last attempt had just gone. But he leaned over and whispered.
“Your Majesty. There is one thing we might accept if we extracted the Mad Ones—”
“Colth. Colth—I think we’ve had enough of that, don’t you?”
Pisces tried to forestall his friend, but the King of Destruction was like a dog who’d sighted a bone.
“No, no. Tell me.”
Pisces hesitated and paled, but Colth wasn’t looking at Flos…he was staring at Trey for some reason. The young man who’d insulted the King of Destruction to his face. His eyes slid to Pisces—and the [Necromancer] spoke softly in the face of Flos Reimarch’s stare.
“It’s a sensitive subject, Your Majesty. If I may confide in private? I have a—situation you may be able to resolve.”
Flos’ eyebrows rose, but he retired to his war tent in good humor.
“So? What is it? Trouble with Raelt? If it’s Fetohep, he’ll scarcely listen. Though he won’t hold a grudge about the fighting in New Jecrass; frankly, I’m surprised Jaganismet got through to you at all, mighty though he is. Normally, even he would be halted.”
“No, Your Majesty. I…I don’t suppose you know how I ended up in Chandrar?”
Pisces was awkward, embarrassed, and nervous at once, and Yvlon grabbed his arm. He looked at her gratefully, and she gave him a jerk of the head. I can—?
He shook his head. Some of the King’s Seven were here, but most had gone off to party. Even Orthenon was checking on Ceria again. But Gazi had entered the war tent, and so had Amerys.
As if they knew something. Trey Atwood was not present. Flos raised his brows, taking Pisces’ nerves seriously.
“Something more serious, then.”
He sat forwards, pressing his fingers together.
“…I know there are ways to mitigate it. But it must be her will, and if the Arbiter Queen is with child—”
Pisces’ cheeks bulged, and even Colth stared. Flos gave them a blank look.
“No? Ceria told me they were privately dueling—hah!”
He sat back, laughing to himself ruefully, and Pisces spoke.
“I was a [Slave] of Roshal, Your Majesty. Unfairly enslaved. I have the scars to prove it.”
He caught the King of Destruction mid-laugh, like a sucker punch. The King of Destruction was still laughing when Pisces raised his robes and showed him the raised flesh of the brand on his chest.
It was the most daring Yvlon had ever seen of Pisces. Why? She looked around—then saw Gazi’s eyes on Pisces’ chest. Amerys had raised her brows, not exactly shocked, but surprised. Gazi…
Gazi saw everything. Pisces met Gazi’s eyes defiantly and seemed unsure of why she closed all five eyes briefly and tilted her head towards him. His glare became uncertain. And for a second, Gazi touched her neck.
Colth’s eyes shone like cold gemstones as the King of Destruction stopped laughing and stared. For a moment, Yvlon thought Pisces, Colth, and Gazi shared an unspoken sentiment.
Then she turned her attention to the King of Destruction and saw he had frozen on his throne. He sat there, lounging to one side, unevenly, but still with more decorum in him than she had seen in High King Perric. Face troubled. Brow dark.
“That—”
He began and looked at Pisces. Then stopped.
“Even during Sand at Sea?”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
“You did not tell Fetohep?”
“I—did not feel able to, at the time. Your Majesty.”
The King of Destruction gazed down at Pisces. His lips moved.
“Did you kill—? No. Tell me the full story. Orthen—Gazi. Seal the tent. Bring wine, water. Chairs. What will you have? Sit, Pisces Jealnet.”
Then he listened. Yvlon had heard Pisces’ tale many times—she stood outside the tent for a while, went for a walk, checked on Ceria.
She would have fought an Adult Creler if one emerged from the ground, barehanded. But she ran from Pisces’ retelling. When she returned, Pisces was at the end of it, and the King of Destruction sat on his throne.
Good humor gone. His face was dark, troubled. Anger boiled off of him, so palpable that the cup sitting on his armrest was actually doing the same. Yet it was not wholly righteous anger. He seemed to smoke, silently, before turning his gaze upon Pisces with a heat that made the [Necromancer] flinch.
“Milord, he is telling the truth.”
Gazi began, but Flos cut her off.
“I have no doubt, Gazi. No, be silent, Amerys. I have no doubt—just tell me one thing, Pisces Jealnet. I do not begrudge you…but he put you up to this, didn’t he?”
He?
The King of Destruction’s eyes blazed, and he spat.
“Trey!”
Pisces exchanged confused looks with Colth and Yvlon and shook his head. That caught Flos off-guard. He looked incredulously at Gazi, who gave him a shake of the head as well. Then he began to bluster for the first time.
“Ah. Well—in that case—I thought of something else, Pisces. Forgive me. That changes nothing, of course. Enslaved. For the crime of trespassing? What charge could…no. There is no charge. This was an injustice, and an Emir Riqre?”
He stood, pacing back and forth.
“And you are sure he is dead?”
He swung around, and Pisces nodded hesitantly.
“I trust he is.”
The King of Destruction did not ask to see Pisces’ scar again, but his eyes flicked to Pisces’ robes and then away. He strode to one end of the tent and stared down at a map. Eyes going to one corner of Chandrar. Then up to Pisces.
“Some men should die for their crimes. Roshal would answer for this in blood if you were my subject. They still might, if this were cried loud. I did not mention it, but I knew they had a claim on you, Pisces. Though I thought it scarcely surprising if you did slay the Naga’s servant at sea. What was he doing there, anyways?”
“Kidnapping Erin Solstice? Killing Earthers?”
Colth put in, voice calm and too bland. Flos’ head rose.
“Kidnapping—”
His head spun, and Amerys cocked her head.
“Strange. We had no word of that.”
That shocked Yvlon. Lyonette had given Ceria an account of the battle, and if that was so, the Five Families should have been screaming this attack on their own, if nothing else, across the world. Had Roshal done something?
