It was looking at another kind of Erin Solstice. Different in height, presentation, nature—Elena was a more forthright type of person, but she didn’t have Erin’s nuance; she had a bit more grace or something even Pisces couldn’t articulate. Her eyes held secrets. But Pisces instantly liked her.
How did you survive this far? What level are you?
A mystery. The Horns of Hammerad looked at Elena Othonos, and she ducked her head to them.
“I’m far from home. Well, we all are, but I was used to being in Terandria with Cara. She needed someone to check out Wistram. Now, here I am. Don’t worry. I volunteered for this.”
And Pisces changed his opinion again in a moment. Composed she might be in appearance, but Elena had to be tough.
So here they were, asking Elena how she’d gotten here. Telling her about The Wandering Inn. She sighed when she heard about the Earthers there…and the ones who’d left.
“You were the ones who started the plays? Cara flipped her shit. She loves the stage, and she kept complaining how it ‘should have been her’. Between you and me, she’s a better [Popstar].”
“Is that a new class?”
Colth was taking notes, and Elena winked at him.
“Earth-exclusive, baby. She’s got a bunch of us. I can’t say where, but since you are Erin’s friends, I can say that we really don’t like Ailendamus—and her warning about the six? Completely heard by Cara. Noelictus is pretty safe, but it’s got problems.”
“And you met Their Royal Majesties in Noelictus?”
Pisces was dying to ask more questions about the Kingdom of Shade, one of the few nations he had ever wanted to visit as a haven for undead. Why, he, Feren, Gewilena, and the others had always said they should move there when he was growing up.
Annoyingly, everyone else wanted to talk about the highlights of Elena’s life and the inn. Such as Mrsha the Attention Grabber, Erin’s stance on Goblins, and Elena’s makeup.
“It’s nothing actually revolutionary I can bring over from Earth. I just have a few Skills that take things from my world, and I know the look. I can do permanent dyes as well. If you want, I can style your hair before you go. That’s, uh, about all I can do. Cara had me doing makeup, but I’m not essential.”
The [Beautician] smiled. Soon, the Horns would have to go, and she was pleased to meet them. That was all. Pisces looked at Colth, Yvlon, and Ceria, and he had a thought.
We should stay another day, if only to talk to her and the other Earthers. He met Elena’s eyes, and for a second, he heard that clink of chains that brought a shiver down his spine.
It was not the same, he told himself. The King of Destruction wasn’t giving them a class. But it was another kind of imprisonment.
Would he always see the world in such terms now? Even after being freed? Perhaps the class and Skill he’d been assigned had done something to him, because now Pisces felt a burning outrage at all those…
“If we can do anything for you, Elena, perhaps speak to the King of Destruction?”
Elena flashed him a grateful look, but the Greek girl shook her head.
“It’s fine. I might go reside in Khelt, and the Quarass has made me an offer. She’s—persuasive. None of us chose to come to this world. We’re doing the best we can, even Trey and Teres. That’s the choice you make. You can coast around and die like George—”
Her throat closed up a second, then she swallowed.
“—Or do something. Or try. I tell you what…can I try the High King’s crown on and do a selfie? That would be fun.”
So forlorn was the expression on her face that Pisces couldn’t respond for a while. Ceria peered at Elena’s face and chewed on the circlet, clearly trying to think. Colth just patted Elena on the arm and began to produce something from his pouches. An alchemical concoction, perhaps.
It was Yvlon Byres who stooped over. Elena was tall, but she blinked at Yvlon and smiled uncertainly as the [Silversteel Armsmistress] met her eyes with her blue ones.
“Do you want to find your friend Cara, Elena? Or visit The Wandering Inn?”
She asked Elena directly, and the [Beautician] didn’t hesitate.
“Yes. But like I said. Just get me in touch with Cara and she’ll do the rest.”
Elena had a lot of faith in the Singer of Terandria. Pisces exchanged a glance with Ceria and Colth, but Yvlon Byres just smiled. She stood taller, rolled her shoulders, and nodded.
“I understand.”
Then she turned on her heel and marched out of the tent. Pisces’ head snapped up, and he felt a familiar sensation run down the back of his neck and tickle his stomach. That feeling he got when something classic to the Horns was about to happen—
Colth, the rookie, missed the signs. He blinked at Yvlon, then strode after her.
“Yvlon. Where are you going? Let’s talk more shop before we leave this spot. We should pull other Earthers into—Yvlon? Where are you going?”
“Uh oh.”
Ceria muttered, but she didn’t stop Yvlon. She just picked up a pitcher of water and drank from it as Pisces strode out of the tent. Elena followed, mystified.
 
——
 
The King of Destruction was in a fine fettle today. He was standing outside his camp, and Pisces had been so preoccupied with the High King’s antics and Elena that he had missed the biggest news so far.
More than the comet.
More than all the Skills.
More than his freedom—the most significant part of real news in Chandrar had just arrived. Pisces stopped, dumbstruck, and stared at a rank of kneeling [Soldiers] wearing dark, green-black armor.
A man with one leg was standing to attention as he introduced six kneeling figures, who rose as the King of Destruction’s voice boomed across the cheering camp.
“My vassals, the Rustängmarder, have returned!”
Then Pisces felt a chill run down his arms. He stared at the warriors and recognized them. One of the famous legions who fought under Flos Reimarch? Repentant warriors atoning for crimes in battle—famous mercenaries—
A group of a mere hundred had fought for Flos Reimarch. Now, their entire force had arrived. They knelt under the sun as one of them removed a helmet, revealing a half-shaved head and long hair. The woman had pale-brown skin, and Pisces started because one look at her told him she was a [Necromancer].
Or something close. The Rustängmarder were steeped in death magic. If they died, their corpses would continue fighting. The woman made a strange salute to Flos.
“We have returned at last from Baleros, our obligations fulfilled, Your Majesty. Commander Ytol upheld our honor as we fulfilled our pact. The Titan of Baleros is weakened.”
“I knew he held your contract. Take some drinks, Death-General Losve. How weakened do you mean? Purely from your absence?”
The woman had a stern, straight face. The rest of the Seven listened intently, arrayed around the King of Destruction, a meeting for stories, as she spoke in a clear, carrying voice. Yvlon was pushing through the crowd as Pisces tried to hear and get closer.
“In part from our absence. We were a valuable key to his forces; he trapped us well. If we had tried to march to your aid, he would have used our contract-breaking as cause to attack us. The first months, we were dogged by at least two of his [Generals] at any moment.”
“Clever. But you waited out his tricks. He’s at war with the former Great Company, isn’t he?”
General Losve inclined her head with a small smile.
“Among other concerns. I shall brief you fully on Baleros, Your Majesty. At this moment, we continue to disembark from the northeast; we were forced to skirt the Empire of Sands. Clashes at sea have devoured over half a legion.”
Flos growled.
“They’ve been far too quiet. I expected them to come charging at us by now. You’re not the first vassal to report clashing with them. Now you’re here, I intend to take battle to more fronts than just Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Are you ready to assail my foes?”
Another smile, and Pisces swore the others were smiling behind their helmets. The Death-General put her helmet back on.
“We did not have the honor the last time you conquered Chandrar. This time, we shall deliver—”
The King of Destruction was beaming in delight. Even his Seven appeared to be rejoicing; it was hard to tell on Takhatres’ face, but the Garuda seemed to acknowledge the Rustängmarder as worthy allies.
Orthenon was actually favoring the grim soldiers with a smile, and Mars was openly excited. Amerys was aloof, like a woman watching an excited child playing with toy soldiers, but Gazi had her iconic grin on her face. Zamea’s eyes shone as she, Mirin, and Jelaim waited to greet their comrades in arms.
The Earthers stared at a dread legion; Teres was vibrating with excitement. Trey with a kind of weary resignation.
King of Destruction. Let his enemies tremble. His Seven, his [Steward], the [Drummer], Medacium. Minizi. Yvlon Byres—
Wait.
The Horns of Hammerad were shoving through the crowd, trying to stop a blonde-haired woman pushing towards the front of the crowd. Pisces was trying to whisper-shout; he didn’t want to interrupt the moment, but he couldn’t reach Yvlon. The press of bodies was too strong, and everyone wanted to see their beloved [King]; in desperation, Pisces threw an elbow.
That was a mistake. Instantly, a [Soldier] threw one back, and Pisces realized shoving around a group of veteran [Soldiers] was not for the faint of arms. Even Colth was having trouble shifting people aside.
“Yvlon! Yvlon—”
The problem was that Yvlon Byres had no problem pushing a woman in armor into a group of comrades. She was on a path towards the King of Destruction, and she burst out of the crowd as Death-General Losve was mid-speech.
“Oops.”
The leader of the Rustängmarder pivoted, her helmeted face radiating cold outrage. Every head swung to Yvlon, and Pisces tried to sink into the crowd.
Too late. But the King of Destruction was in too good a mood to take offense.
“Ah, Yvlon. Someone, make room for her to stand here! Losve, these are adventurers I found myself taken with. Did you see the morning’s news? High King Perric…I’ve half a mind to have Nawalishifra turn his crown into a shield. But I’d ask permission this time.”
The Death-General nodded stiffly to Yvlon as she bowed apologetically. Her visor swung, and Pisces felt people moving back to give him space. He, Colth, and Ceria all came forwards, and a cold, clipped tone came out of that intimidating helmet.
“[Necromancer]. Greetings.”
Somehow, she recognized it without knowing his name. Pisces half-bowed and saw the six leaders all nod at him. This was uncanny.
Flos being Flos loved it and gestured in fine humor.
“They fought the Bloodtear Pirates at sea. Did you see that?”
“I did witness the affray, yes, Your Majesty. I desired to question the [Innkeeper] of rumor at that event.”
“Really? Well, these are some of her boon companions. You may have your wish. Behold some of my finest warriors, Yvlon. And Elena! Come, come—”
The Rustängmarder were going to murder them. Pisces didn’t know how outraged the soldiers were behind their helmets, but he shuffled together with his team. The King of Destruction seemed to have an odd fondness for Yvlon, though. She’d spoken to him least of all and frankly been somewhat hostile after he broke Ceria’s circlet, but he gave her a broad grin.
“Just as I told you, Yvlon. Dreams cannot match reality at times. I know your team must soon leave, and my favor—”
His eyes flicked to Pisces.
“Well, consider it since I have nothing to give. Unless, perhaps—! What if I had Losve and her Rustängmarder march on Medain? We could give the High King a proper lesson in what his Golden Ranks should look like.”
That made the Rustängmarder react. Losve’s head swung to Flos. Then she made a signal.
“If you will it, Your Majesty—”
Thrum, thrum, thrum—her warriors struck their shoulders with their armored fists, making a dull crashing sound of metal. Pisces swore their visors lit up slightly with green light. The King of Destruction’s smile grew deeper.
Send the Rustängmarder at Medain? It took the Horns a second to realize he was waiting for a response.
“How about it? It seems I owe your captain, Ceria, a favor for my rashness. Amerys talked my ear off about it. Do you have a request for me?”
Every head turned to the Horns. Pisces looked at Colth, who was mouthing ‘murder Perric’. At least he had his priorities straight. Ceria was swaying, still holding the pitcher of water in hand, and Elena was covering her mouth behind them.
She, at least, seemed to understand how dangerous the favor of the King of Destruction was. But Yvlon—ah—Yvlon.
She executed a polite bow with that fake smile on her face. A reasonable woman, Yvlon Byres. Good in manners. But as Pisces had once observed, she executed manners like someone who thought they applied to everyone without exception.
She was, in some ways, the most like Erin Solstice in that when she decided she had something to say, she’d say it. Not that they’d met many rulers before now, but Yvlon had a glint in her eyes. And Pisces saw her head turn, and she looked not at him, oh no.
The [Armsmistress] looked straight at Elena. Then she faced Flos and spoke.
“Elena would like to leave your service, Your Majesty. If we are owed a favor, I request that you allow her to go.”
That was not what the King of Destruction had been expecting to hear. Again, credit to his poise, his face didn’t go blank in shock. He just blinked, then raised his brows.
“Now there’s an unpleasant request. How did this come about? Elena?”
Suddenly, every eye was on the [Beautician]. She gave Pisces an agonized look, then gracefully bowed. The Seven were eying her hard, and Elena’s voice trembled.
“I—just wished to travel. Perhaps go home, Your Majesty.”
“Not just her. The other people from her home may wish to leave. If we have a favor, I request that they be allowed to go on their way.”
Yvlon Byres cut in, and Pisces saw Flos’ eyes flicker to her face, then his smile turned rueful.
Yvlon! Yvlon, are you insane? They’re from Earth, and he knows about them! All of them? Are you mad?
Pisces didn’t have the power to telepathically project his thoughts, but he was trying to gain the Skill in real-time. Flos turned to Losve and nodded at Yvlon.
“This is why I like them. And it is my fault for offering a boon.”
“Audacity has always had its place in your courts, Your Majesty.”
The Death-General offered neutrally. The subtext said that she was going to kneecap Pisces, [Necromancer] or not, the moment Flos was looking the other way. Flos turned back to Yvlon and tugged on his beard.
