Yvlon’s mouth was open the entire time. Flos had a thousand settings, complete with people, smells, even sensation. He turned to Yvlon expectantly, eyes shining with the pleasure of meeting someone with his abilities.
“And you?”
Slowly, the dreamscape changed. Flos Reimarch looked around, and the world turned white. White sky. White floor…he looked around. Peered under the table.
“Ah…”
A Mrsha fell out of the sky and landed on the ground. She almost blended in with the landscape. After a second, a single house appeared; Yvlon’s dream-home. The King of Destruction looked at Yvlon.
His mouth opened.
For a while, neither of them said anything. Then Flos Reimarch coughed.
“—Do you know how dreaming works?”
“No.”
“I see.”
 
——
 
Flos floated in the air over a city Yvlon had never seen. He flew down, racing a peregrine falcon, landed in a street of people, each one with a defined face who turned to him. Yvlon followed, and the King of Destruction turned to her.
“I do not forget faces. To me, they’re the easiest. Architecture is harder. Landscapes not as difficult—I can never remember furniture.”
When he pointed it out, she realized sometimes the chairs had no textures, but the King of Destruction remembered or could fantasize the rest. He strode through the crowd, and it became a melee where soldiers fought, shedding blood and screaming in the press of bodies.
“This is my dream. It can be most of anything I want. If you cannot picture it, then it will be half-formed, but within this place, you and I are safe. If we were at odds, it might be dangerous indeed. Stray beyond the confines of your dream and you fall prey to other dreamers.”
“There are hostile people with classes like ours out there?”
How many [Dreamers] were there? Flos shook his head instantly.
“Very few. I mean—anyone who has a dream has their own rules. If they have a nightmare, one might pursue you. Fighting a nightmare in another person’s dream can leave you with real scars. See?”
He pulled his beard aside and showed her a scar below his jaw running down his neck. Flos grinned.
“I earned that one as a boy. Interfering with someone else’s dreams can be risky for you and them. And there are…other things out past the realm of dreams. I don’t stray. It’s one thing to be in someone else’s dream. Far another to find somewhere that no one dreams of. Perhaps…such places dream of themselves? Neither your strength nor magic will avail you there.”
Yvlon nodded, and the King of Destruction sat in the air like Amerys.
“In truth, at some point I stopped being a [Dreamer] in the way I used to be. I became the King of Destruction, and my dream became a reality. I suppose that’s why I’m far weaker. I only returned to my dream during my slumber. Then I sat in memory and what-if for…well, you know how long.”
Yvlon’s eyes opened wide.
“Wait, you were in here the entire time?”
The King of Destruction looked around, a sad smile upon his face.
“Where else would I be? Do you think I just sat around and stared at nothing—I suppose that was how it looked to Orthenon. I praise him for keeping me alive, though I stayed healthy. [Superior Physique] was one of the gifts I gained as a [King], so it was impossible for me to go to seed, merely starve. It’s also why I struggle these days. There’s little point to training, and yet I am not strong enough to fight alongside my Seven. But enough about me. Why do you dream?”
He turned to Yvlon, and she had no good answer.
“I…I just wanted to think about the future, I suppose. I never had. I just kept running and running, and when I was sick, I wondered what the point was. Who I’d be.”
She flushed, and her dream-cottage appeared, the one thing she had ever made. Flos Reimarch stared at a rose in a jar of water and smiled.
“It is a small dream. But that’s how they start. It’s a good class; I don’t know if it can help an adventurer, but I hope you take some of the lessons I shared with you to heart.”
He’d given Yvlon advice, in the manner of [Dreamers], demonstrating ideas, things he’d learned, and imparting some wisdom to her.
Such as the fact that doing a million pushups in a dream wouldn’t help her or build any muscles. She needed to exercise her mind—to imagine. To, well, dream of new things. That was the only way she’d level.
“Thank you, Your Majesty. I appreciate you taking your time to instruct me, and I apologize for intruding.”
Yvlon bowed again, but Flos clapped her on the shoulder.
“Nonsense! We have time, us [Dreamers]. To meet someone else with my class is a delight. And remember—”
His eyes twinkled as Yvlon felt herself vanishing and knew day was coming.
“A [Dreamer] became a King of Chandrar. I wonder what you’ll be.”
 
——
 
There was a kind of existential dread to Flos Reimarch: even in dreams, he wouldn’t leave you alone.
Well, that was just Yvlon, and she didn’t reveal her encounter to her teammates. Not that they were up in the morning; both had killer hangovers.
It turned out that after the night of partying, the King of Destruction’s camp…was still pretty festival-like.
He didn’t stop after a single night. True, the goods on display were reduced, but you could still find plenty to do. Apparently, the King of Destruction would move between these festivities to battle, sometimes with no breaks in between.
However, even the constitution of Reim’s [Soldiers] couldn’t keep up with too much alcohol, so Yvlon, who’d had a good night’s sleep, had the camp mostly to herself. She checked on Ceria, of course, and found the half-Elf in her tent staring at a scrying orb someone had put in front of her.
“Muh.”
Ceria was watching Wistram News Network, Channel 1. She looked slightly better than yesterday, but was still largely monosyllabic.
“—And now sports. The Flood Crabs have scored another victory today, putting them in place to win the first Izrilian Cup. Of course, the Pallassian Innovators have yet to face off against them, and our team is looking mighty strong to start off the coming new year. We’ll go to our ground correspondent, Noass, for a piece on it in five. In the New Lands…”
Yvlon wasn’t sure if she should turn the scrying orb off for the sake of Ceria’s mind. She decided Sir Relz’s commentary couldn’t do that much damage.
The [Armsmistress] was wandering the camp with the rest of the people who’d drunken lightly when she heard a faint ringing sound. Intrigued, she headed to the place where the comet was still being broken open and saw an entire team of [Smiths] and [Mages] hard at work trying to process the ores.
In fact, some of them were already hawking their wares, for goods this time, or taking commissions from [Soldiers] of Reim. Yvlon couldn’t imagine what magical armaments might come out of this windfall for the King of Destruction.
Someone called out to Yvlon as she was walking past an open-air forge. A woman was gloomily hammering on a piece of glowing crystal material. When she saw a likely mark, she called out.
“You there! Foreign warrior! Yes, you! Do you need a good piece of armor?”
Yvlon had been given a set of better plate armor from the King of Destruction’s spoils, but she was keenly aware that the first time she ran up against even a Juvenile Creler it would develop holes. Yvlon stopped and trotted over and saw a young Human woman with dark skin and braids was waving at her.
She had a rather fierce expression behind the veil she wore, at odds with her smithing clothes, and she was working at an anvil and what seemed to be a portable furnace of some kind. What stood out to Yvlon was that the veil was pale white—that was usually reserved for funerals, an ill-omened color.
It was soot-stained, and the young woman wore plain clothing under her apron, at odds with the magnificent hammer she carried. She had a determined, worn expression that called to Yvlon. The adventurer approached.
“I’m not sure I have time for a commission; apologies. Yvlon Byres, Gold-rank adventurer.”
“Ah, the King’s guests.”
The [Smith] recognized Yvlon in a moment and stared at her arms in clear fascination. But then she jerked her head up and hurriedly made a gesture as she put the crystal aside to cool.
“Nawalishifra of Clan—Nawal. Just Nawal. Do you want to buy a shield? They are pathetic, ill-done works. I will sell them to you for a song, Adventurer Byres.”
That was…not how Yvlon would do a sales pitch. She saw a bunch of shields sitting on a rack. They didn’t look that bad. Yvlon picked one up, and if she were a Silver-rank, she thought she’d have been happy with each one.
“Nice material. What is this?”
“Steel-capped buckler with a Corusdeer leather frame and Carn Wolf fur. You like it?”
“It’s quite nice.”
Yvlon didn’t need a shield given how she fought these days; she barely used a sword. But Colth had said he wanted a buckler if she could find it.
“How much?”
“A copper coin.”
Yvlon hesitated, hand in her money pouch. The [Smith] glanced at her.
“Too much? I can give you that one as well for a coin.”
“Er. No. Is this some kind of joke I don’t understand? I don’t have much of a sense of humor.”
Nawalishifra smiled bitterly.
“None to you, foreigner. I sell these shields at a pittance. The King of Destruction pays for materials; these came from Izril. That shield there? Take it if you need one for adventuring. Mithril buckler. Unadorned, unengraved.”
Yvlon’s head turned, and her jaw dropped. It was indeed ‘simple’, but it was a buckler of pure mithril with a single handle on the inside.
“How much?”
“One silver.”
This time, Yvlon slapped down the coin and picked up the buckler, trying to see what kind of trick it was. It felt strong, and when she tried to flex it…Nawal watched with a slight smile.
“I forged it last night out of the metal of the comet. It will serve for a time.”
“I—are you certain? This is worth far more. You could sell it for thousands of gold pieces! There’s not even a maker’s stamp!”
Yvlon normally expected to see some mark indicating which smith had made the piece. Pelt had one, but this was unadorned. And it was incredible!
Even if it wasn’t more than mithril, it could definitely be enchanted! It seemed exceptionally high-quality, but Nawal just spat into the sand and shook her head.
“If you use it, it would be a shame to append this [Smith]’s worthless name to it. As it is, my name would sully any creation. It is a shield of mithril. No more. When I make one worthy of my name—Nawal—I will think of a crest.”
There was, simultaneously, so much pride and so much regret in her words that Yvlon had to engage. She turned back as Nawal swept the coin up.
“Are you one of the King of Destruction’s smiths?”
Again, it seemed like there was a bigger story here, and Nawal pulled over the piece of crystal again and began heating it up. It was the Dragonsblood stuff that Yvlon had seen.
“Yes and no. I smith for King Reimarch. Most shields will go to his followers, so it costs me naught. Say, what do you think I could make of this crystal? Dragonsblood has little flex in it, and it will break…”
“I’d rather have a sword, if I’m honest. A G—a friend of mine has one made out of that stuff, and it cuts through everything.”
Nawal’s eyes lit up, and she stopped heating the crystal again. She had called out to Yvlon for the sale and chatted, it seemed, out of obligation, but that drew her interest.
“Someone’s the talent to forge Dragonsblood in whatever wasteland of wet-soiled shi—wherever you hail from?”
“Yes. What about turning it into a sword?”
For a second, Nawal looked regretful, but she instantly shook her head.
“I cannot. Shields are my trade. Shields and armor. Damn…armor.”
She spat, and Yvlon saw she had a rack of leather armor that looked less well-made than the metal by far.
“So you’re an armorer?”
“In training.”
By the sounds of it, Nawal hated her profession, but she swept a hand over her display, showing Yvlon the fruits of her labor.
“I must learn all the trades. Leatherworking, laminate plating, stitching—it requires an entire clan’s worth of people to do, but Master Daiton—the King of Destruction’s [Smith] in Reim—has been allowing me to take lessons from other [Armorers].”
“Do you enjoy it?”
“No.”
Nawal scowled harder. If Yvlon wasn’t wrong, she was a superlative smith; from the way she was treating the crystal chunk, it was clear she thought she could make something out of it, and only Pelt had been able to do that. However—why was she—?
Nawal saw Yvlon’s curious gaze and sighed. She came away from the forge and leaned over the counter wearily.
“Since you bought a shield from me, I should tell you the story entire. It is no secret and the least of which I deserve. I was a [Smith] of Clan Tannousin. No longer. I have lost my name; my clan is known far and wide as oathbreakers and failures, and I labor only by the grace of His Majesty to redeem myself for my failures. I have sworn not to smith a single blade until I find what I search for.”
Yvlon would have let her avoid the tale, but it seemed like Nawalishifra was the kind of person to tell you her failings outright if she believed she had any. It was an incredible tale, and by the end of it, Yvlon and Nawal were eating sun-baked Yellats drizzled with oil and a bit of honey at her shop.
“That’s incredible. I can’t believe you forged a sword out of blood.”
“It was ill-done. From start to finish. I should have been executed for my failures. Instead? I must redeem myself and my clan’s honor, impossible though it is. So—a fairer punishment. Don’t mourn for me, Adventurer of Izril. I have friends who check on me more often than they should.”
Nawal’s mouth twisted for some reason, and she glanced at the tents around the King of Destruction. Yvlon felt bad for Nawal and impulsively tried to pat her on the shoulder. Nawal dodged.
“Eh—sorry. Don’t touch me with those arms.”
“They’re not dangerous.”
Yvlon assured her, and Nawal edged back.
“Sure they aren’t. They’re just moving silversteel. And you’re the one they call the Silver Killer of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Your entire team’s famous. The trickster Ice Squirrel who fooled the Siren of Savere, the Bane of Roshal who’s liberated ten thousand slaves and killed just as many [Slavers], Ksmvr of Chandrar, and the Silver Killer, who tore out ten throats with her bare teeth.”
“I did not.”
Yvlon was amused and horrified by her reputation. Nawal eyed Yvlon’s mouth uneasily.
