He was having fun. And he was one of Reim’s greatest warriors, even if he admitted he wasn’t nearly as adept as his Seven. Even when two came at him from both sides, the cheering soldiers and their [King] treated it like sport.
“I haven’t used two blades in a while. Hah—hah—damn, it’s always harder than it looks!”
Rapier on one side, dual blades on the other, and the King of Destruction was holding both off. He made a show of flailing his blades around, but the whirring sound they made as they cut the air and the way he deflected one of the skeleton’s blades so hard it jarred out of its grip told Pisces how this was going to go.
“They really are better than normal. See? That one feints—hah!”
The one with the rapier went in for a lunge and got a kick that sent it crashing backwards into a pile of bones. It actually began to reanimate, and Flos grinned.
“These are sturdier than most I’ve met. Are they made of something interesting, Pisces?”
“Gargoyle bones.”
The gloomy [Necromancer] reached for a fourth cup, but Mars slapped him on the back so hard it went all over his robes.
“Not bad! Your Majesty, do all four at once before you break the lot! Shame we can’t give him more bones from the battle, but they’re all Stitch-folk bodies. Mostly.”
“Four it is!”
Pisces did half-twist around to watch this next part. Yvlon had come out of a tent, and she saw the Skeleton Champions line up. Could undead look nervous? Colth was cheering on the King of Destruction.
That damn [Supporter] was using [Sycophant] Skills. He was doing his Colth thing—blending in, acting drunk and cheery. Pisces sighed as Yvlon walked over.
“Ceria’s alright. I think. She’s up to words. She was cursing the King of Destruction for a good ten minutes.”
“That’s good—”
The two broke off because it was instructive to watch Flos of Reim fight. He took his longsword and a shield, set himself as the four Skeleton Champions swung around him—and took them to pieces.
His style of fighting was to use his overwhelming strength. If you made the mistake of getting into the range of his shield, it would block you—then cave in your entire torso when he rammed it into you. If you tried to attack, he’d parry your arm off your body.
“And Raelt fought him?”
Pisces needed to rewatch that entire battle again. To their credit, the Skeleton Champions lasted longer than he thought!
Twenty seconds.
Flos whirled his sword through one’s neck, forcing another to dodge back. He was laughing.
“They’re almost as good at Khelt’s undead! Those bastards can do backflips. Hah! It got me!”
A roar of surprise arose, and Pisces’ head jerked up. Flos turned, and Pisces saw him hold up his arm. There was the tiniest of cuts on his clothing. The skeleton with the bow had given the one with two swords an opening by firing at Flos; he’d dodged point-blank, and Orthenon had caught the arrow before it had hit a bystander.
The King of Destruction casually tossed the shield he was carrying through the archer, then gripped his longsword two-handed.
“I never had many combat Skills. Alas—how does it go? Reduced to Ribbons!”
His sword blurred in a zig-zag cut, and Pisces winced as he saw his final Skeleton Champion fragment in a way he was pretty sure he couldn’t repair. It wasn’t a Skill—Flos shook his head and planted his sword in the ground.
“Damn. It looks far better as an actual Skill, you know. If only I had a dozen—but they’re hard to learn!”
He turned to the Horns, and even Yvlon looked slightly aghast. She muttered to Pisces.
“If he had Sword Arts, he’d be nigh unstoppable. With that strength, it’s cheating.”
Flos accepted some water, laughing, in great humor. He strode over.
“It’s like the Sand Golem miniatures Trey made all over again! You and he make life so much more interesting, pestilential as Trey can be, Pisces. I can never fight with my full strength against anyone but my Seven, and then I can never touch them!”
“That’s because if you touch us, you can break even our bones. Well, Orthenon’s at least, Your Majesty.”
Mars drawled, and Flos laughed. Then he beckoned.
“Colth! You promised us a bout! Hey, clear off the bones and let our [Necromancer] reclaim his minions. Ah. You can fix them, can’t you?”
Pisces estimated he had about two and a half skeletons’ worth left. He trudged over to the pile of bones, but the [Soldiers] were even helping pick them up and offering him drinks and food for letting their [King] have his fun.
At least they were jocular. Pisces raised the bones into the air, recreating two Skeleton Champions. He swore one of the skulls was glowering at him as green light flickered back into the sockets.
Yvlon had already refused to fight, but Colth was squaring off against one of Flos’ veterans. Strangely, he was barehanded, and then Colth said something astonishing.
“Your Majesty. In honor of our meeting, I feel I should share my new Skill, won from a <Mythical Quest>, no less! It might not be a Level 50 Skill, but it could possibly entertain even you.”
There was a roar of surprise, and Flos turned, eyes lighting up.
“A <Mythical Quest>? I’ve been toying with issuing one for months, but I can’t find anything I want done! What was the deed?”
Slaying Iert underwater without coming back up to breathe. Colth demurred, avoiding answering directly.
Pisces’ mouth opened as the bones rose around him. Colth had been practicing with it for a month! He had kept it secret—he never revealed his tricks.
Then, Pisces saw him take a stance unlike the two he’d been practicing, and he realized what the trick was. The [Soldier] across from Colth had put up a guard with two leather gloves studded with mithril—he was some kind of [Fistfighter].
In response, Colth set his stance low, as if he were huge, and made two gigantic fists. He spoke.
“[Imitation of Might: Mighty Jaganismet]!”
Flos’ shout was as loud as the others around him, and Yvlon blinked. But Pisces whispered back to her as Colth seemed to grow half a foot.
“It’s not going to fully work. Watch—”
Colth looked bigger, and the [Soldier] skipped back as Colth executed a full punch and kick, like the [King] of Heroph. However—when he turned to the King of Destruction, he gave him a rueful shrug.
“It doesn’t work unless I get the exact motions and fighting style down, Your Majesty. It’s more like [Lesser Strength].”
“Jaganismet’s strength itself! Now there’s a Skill worthy of a <Quest>! Let’s see it done!”
Flos pounded a table, and Colth and the other [Soldier] squared off. Pisces missed the fighting in full as people rushed to look, but he was almost done repairing his remaining Skeleton Champions when he heard the shouting.
“Colth lost?”
Yvlon had stood on her metal foot, which had elongated to make her a foot taller. She nodded as she stepped down.
“He lost the effect when he stopped fighting in whatever style that was. I think he held back after that. The other [Soldier] was very fast, though.”
Even Colth couldn’t beat an expert in their own setting. But the King of Destruction himself was in the ring next, standing next to Colth.
“Incredible. It’s a pale imitation of Jaganismet, but what a Skill for a [Supporter]! I think I see the problem—Jaganismet’s more canny a fighter than that. Hey, Mars! Show Colth how he fights. I think he’d stand like this—I used to wrestle him, you know.”
Then Pisces saw Colth grinning and copying the King of Destruction and other old [Soldiers] who were giving him tips on how to mimic Jaganismet. Pisces snapped his fingers.
“Of course. Clever Colth.”
If he mastered Jaganismet, that would make three people he could imitate, even if he had only achieved one form so far. The real [Imitation of Might] Skill was a lot more dangerous than this half-baked display. Yvlon glanced at Pisces, and he wondered if she could guess who the other two were.
“I need to keep training.”
That was all the [Armsmistress] said with a slight smile. Pisces grimaced as he pointed to his Skeleton Champions.
“And it would appear that I require more innovation with my undead. At least, at the level we’re approaching.”
“Is six your limit of Skeleton Champions?”
“I rather think I could do twelve, but it would be more tiring.”
“Maybe you should favor quality over quantity?”
“I can’t do more than one Skeleton Lord—I would do another warbear or some such, but they’re less adaptable in a fight.”
“What about something original?”
“Art takes time! Do you know how difficult it is to create something with functioning joints and skeletal structure?”
The two were bickering, and Yvlon smiled as Pisces hunted around in the sandy ground for any remaining fragments of ivory.
Strangely, he felt like he was missing a piece. But a shard of bone wasn’t going to exactly rebuild his undead stockpile.
There go my Gargoyle bones. I hope I can find something with actual skeletal structure around here. Friendly though he is, I doubt the King of Reim will let me use his people’s bones.
Pisces’ foot unearthed something in the sand, and he paused.
“Hm? What’s this?”
Pisces found a broken piece of one of the skeletons’ skulls that Flos had kicked into the ground. He bent down, and Yvlon blinked.
“Huh. Looks like a fragment of that meteorite—wait a second.”
She and Pisces stared down as he pulled more of the skull out of the ground. Yvlon’s first thought had been that Pisces had found a piece of the comet. But no—
It was just bone. But not regular bone. Pisces’ heart began to beat faster as he looked down and saw a different substance than all the materials he had ever seen before.
What he saw was a glimmering, bright white piece of ivory along the cracked jaw, clearly different from the rest of the skull. That had not been there before.
“Stellar Ivory?”
The exclamation drew Flos’ attention, and he broke away from Colth’s lessons to see what was going on.
“What’s this now?”
The rest of the skull fell away as Pisces found himself holding about a third of a jawbone; pristine, moon-pale material that made his [Necromancer] senses tingle. It was, without a doubt, exactly what he had wanted.
And yet, where had it come from? Flos peered at the bone with great interest, asking what it was, and Pisces’ eyes slid to the skull—then to Flos—and his eyes widened.
Wait a second—
This was the skeleton that had nicked the King of Destruction! At least, the skull had belonged to it! He waved the bone at Flos.
“It’s—this is something I’ve been trying to make for ages, Your Majesty. Stellar Ivory. Did you do something to the skeletons?”
“Not really. I tried a Skill on that one, but it certainly didn’t activate.”
Yvlon’s head was swinging between Pisces and Flos, and she rubbed at her forehead. Pisces was trying to give Flos a garbled explanation of what he thought the material and requirements were, and Amerys had floated over to listen. Then Yvlon’s eyes widened, and she pounded a fist into her hand.
“Oh, dead gods. It’s a pun. It’s a steel-kissing pun, Pisces!”
He turned to look at her, and it clicked in his head. Flos blinked at the piece of bone—then he threw his head back and began to laugh. Amerys rolled her eyes up in her head, and Pisces saw it.
Stellar Ivory. Stellar as in the sky—especially the stars—and the other meaning. Outstanding achievement.
“Nicking the King of Destruction under starlight. Outstanding ivory made by using undead to their full potential. Small wonder I’ve never heard of it. Indeed, what [Necromancer] would favor that kind of quality over quantity?”
Amerys’ voice was droll. But Flos’ eyes lit up as he stared at the piece of Stellar Ivory.
“So they have to do well at night? Pisces, Yvlon, Colth—you are a balm for my weary soul. Mars!”
The Illusionist sighed as she looked up, and Flos beckoned her.
“I need you to lose to a skeleton.”
 
——
 
Mars lay on the ground, dead, as a Skeleton Champion stomped energetically on her head. She stared at Pisces with a half-grin, and he swore the Skeleton Champion was sweating as much as he was.
“Alright, I don’t think it’s working.”
Flos conceded after twenty minutes of testing. Mars sat up, easily dislodging the Skeleton Champion.
“We could have it cut me, but I’d have to take my armor off, Your Majesty. And I’m sure the undead would swoon before my beauty before it hurt me.”
She blew a kiss at the Skeleton Champion, and its head pinged back slightly. However, it had no more Stellar Ivory than before, and several disappointed warriors of Reim were proof that making more was harder than it looked.
Pisces inspected the tiniest fragment of Stellar Ivory on the tip of a finger; one of his Skeleton Champions had won a bout against a [Soldier] in an honest duel. It had gotten about a fingernail’s worth of Stellar Ivory; the other matches had been rigged and resulted in nothing. Mars summarized the problem well.
“Hm. You can’t cheat and let them win. Nor are they able to put up a real fight. ‘Slike most of the ones I’ve seen in crypts.”
She meant against herself or the other Seven. Pisces turned to Mars, remembering she too had a reputation as a conqueror of dungeons.
“You’ve fought undead before I take it, Lady Mars?”
She chortled and crushed his head against her chest in a hug. She seemed to find it amusing to do on anyone who turned red. He knew she was wearing armor under the illusion, but true to Colth’s words, she just seemed like a tall, blonde-haired woman in ordinary clothing.
“Sure. Skeleton Captains. Skeleton Knights. Skeleton Mages, Skeleton Lancers—the really dangerous ones are Skeleton Generals. I had to smash through a thousand to get at one of them, once. Skeleton Lords are actually easier; they come to you, and they all think they’re the best. I’ve run into nastier ones too, but I never knew their names. Wish I’d been at your Village of the Dead. Now that looked like a fun fight.”
This was a high-level discussion. Pisces gulped as a hither-to aloof member of the Seven appeared. Takhatres, Lord of the Skies.
“You get rare ones that are either naturally formed or really old in the Zeikhal. When Flos was asleep, my tribe and I ran into some damn annoying ones made out of metal. Took days to break apart; they barely moved when we grabbed sledgehammers.”
“Really? What did they look like?”
“Hm. Like Garuda bones, which I suppose is unusual to you.”
“Really. But then they’d be hollow—and they were still that strong?”
