That was how Pisces ended up sitting under the night sky, watching people continue to break open the comet with hammers, the glow of magical gemstones and firelight playing off the camp—having a drink with Mars, Colth, and Takhatres. Flos had gone off to take his turn mining the comet, and the aloof Garuda spoke slightly condescendingly to Pisces while Mars traded jabs with him.
A strange night. A pleasant one? After a while, Pisces felt a hill sit down next to him and looked up.
Zamea of the Nomads of the Sky sat down. Tallest of the half-Giants. She had scars longer than he was tall, and she, like the others, seemed like a warrior of fables.
A half-Giant with a class. Pisces swallowed hard as she smiled down at him. Her teeth were in very good condition. Pisces wondered if anyone made a toothbrush her size.
“Look at the King of Destruction’s newest obsession! He takes to promising littlefolk well. Savor the moment, adventurers, for it’s not likely to come again.”
…She had no idea what their names were. But Colth instantly got up and bowed, and Mars introduced them. Zamea chuckled.
“If you had the bones, I’d ask to spar with that Bone Behemoth, Adventurer Pisces. Though it might be too small for me.”
Pisces realized that was actually true; even if he raised it, Zamea would still have a height advantage.
Dead gods, I need to learn to raise Skeleton Giants. Or is that too cliché? I wonder what Az’kerash would say about this group.
He almost missed being contacted by the Necromancer.
Despite their superiority, it seemed Zamea and Takhatres had deigned to at least acknowledge Pisces for Flos’ interest in the Horns. However, Pisces saw more half-Giants carefully wading into the camp, warning the smaller people to get out of their way.
Six sat down around him, cross-legged, and suddenly he was staring up at gigantic faces. Zamea had a single cup in hand.
“Rarely we drink, even on the King of Destruction’s hospitality. ‘Tisn’t like we need the same sustenance as you folk. I can quench my thirst and still be fine a week later. True, it’s a lot of water—do you know why we greet you?”
Pisces…had a sudden thought. He looked from face to face, and Zamea answered her own question.
“I have heard tell that one of our own, a child lost to us when we left Izril, has breathed his last. You knew him.”
“Moore.”
He would have been tiny compared to his brothers and sisters here. And yet—there were some half-Giants who were merely ‘taller than Jaganismet’ instead of living hills. Zamea’s eyes grew softer.
“Indeed. Though I know not who coined the term, I have heard him called ‘the last Giant of Izril’. Fitting and tragic; it is likely true. You are the only person we have met who knew him. Will you drink with us and tell his tale? That is how Nomads of the Sky grieve.”
Pisces swallowed hard. He rose to his feet and spread his hands.
“I was not there at his end, Lady Zamea. I was…elsewhere.”
The half-Giantess nodded slowly. She had necklaces of metal, giant links of gold hanging around her neck. He had heard half-Giants used to carry jewels and treasures like that; they’d tear off a link as payment. She peered down at him.
“Then—have you witnessed any of his triumphs? A moment of great victory—or defeat?”
Garen Redfang’s death? The Halfseekers at the Meeting of Tribes? Moore in the Village of the Dead? The moment he fought the Raskghar?
Pisces could do that. He looked around for Ceria or Yvlon, but both were absent. So Pisces accepted a mug that Takhatres had appeared with and raised it.
“I will do my best.”
Then he spoke to the last of the half-Giants of a kindly [Green Mage] who had too much heart for his profession. Of a team filled with people like him and a great, gentle warrior who could be terrifying in fury, but who really just wanted to let a little Gnoll girl climb around his shoulders and sleep in a bed big enough for him.
Pisces spoke until tears came to his eyes and fell from above. Rain in dry Chandrar.
A strange, long night indeed. Filled with relief from his burdens, revelations, sundered Relics, and stories.
That was, Pisces supposed—exactly in keeping with the King of Destruction.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres was angry at the King of Destruction. Just a bit. She was always a bit angry at something or someone, usually herself. But Berr had taught her to master that anger.
Part of that mastery was the ability to not do something she didn’t want to. Flos would have liked to see her fight and show off her metal body. It gave her satisfaction that he did not, and he was too good of a host to push the issue.
Colth and Pisces seemed to be enjoying themselves, if the sight of Pisces surrounded by half-Giants and Colth trying another drum-dance was anything to go by. Yvlon just went to check on Ceria.
“Hubwigh.”
“Are you sure you don’t need something?”
Ceria was still slightly cross-eyed as she sat, fiddling with the circlet. She stared up vaguely at Yvlon in the tents they been given and, after clear effort, spoke.
“Ths…fming King…muh mind opened up. I see inside it.”
“Good…?”
Ceria nodded a few times.
“Gonna eat his pants. Flos.”
“Don’t do that. Get some sleep.”
Yvlon patted Ceria on the head, feeling oddly protective of her friend, as if Ceria had reverted into the Silver-rank adventurer she’d been. Hopefully this would be for the best.
Yvlon pulled out her favorite pillow, went into her tent, and fell asleep, ignoring the noise outside. She could do that fairly easily, and it was all thanks to her new class.
[Dreamer].
 
——
 
“One, two, three, four—”
First Colth, now Pisces. Colth had a new Skill that seemed very powerful, and he was Level 49; on the cusp of whatever Erin had become. Pisces had just uncovered Stellar Ivory, and he was, well, Pisces. He already had a secondary [Fencer] class that could supplement his abilities.
She had to keep up. Yvlon knew that Ceria felt bad about being the ‘weakest’ of the Horns in Chandrar, but that wouldn’t last long in Yvlon’s opinion. In the same vein, Yvlon knew Ksmvr would continue improving. He was a genius as much as Pisces. Ceria was also gifted; she had [Cryomancer] and [Trickster] as classes.
Yvlon was the one who might be stagnating. If she couldn’t perfectly upgrade [Silversteel Armsmistress]—she was Level 44 after all had been said and done, and that was slow given all her adventures—she had to level up her other class.
[Dreamer]. Yvlon did another press up, and a hundred Mrshas hurled notes down around her.
Stupid! I can do more pushups than you!
Forsooth, I am Mrsha! Give me an egg!
I am going to do something adorable and stupid now.
Some of them hopped off her back and ran around in circles for reasons Yvlon couldn’t explain. Probably her weakness as a [Dreamer].
One thousand pushups, one thousand sit ups, and I’ll run for ten miles. If she had time, she might do some stretches. Normally, that was all the time Yvlon had in a single night’s sleep. She was conscious time was passing.
“Two hundred and twenty-three. Two hundred and twenty-four…”
Above her, the Mrshas had been joined by a flight of Apista bees. Sometimes her mind did things like that—the Apistas flew into the distance and vanished as Yvlon carefully restored all hundred Mrshas to their place. Lashed them to her back like a stack of furry pillows with some rope.
She was a Level 9 [Dreamer]. If this class did have any value, she needed to at least hit Level 20 soon. But it hadn’t levelled since the Crossroads…
Maybe I need more Mrshas? Yvlon’s dream arms trembled as a hundred and forty Mrshas sat on her back. There was a finite limit to her strength! Several hopped off and ran into the distance. Cursing, Yvlon wondered if there was a better unit of measurement.
What about Nanettes? She’s got to be a bit heavier and more well-behaved.
A Nanette landed on top of all the Mrshas and proclaimed loudly.
“I am a witch, even if I am not a [Witch]! I’m also quite cute, I believe.”
Yvlon felt this was a good approximation of Nanette. Wait, did she have pigtail braids or not?
With a sigh, Yvlon got up and stared at Nanette. She had to get the features right or the Nanettes would be incorporeal and weightless. The rest of the Mrshas ran off, scribbling nonsense. Nanette beamed at Yvlon.
“My mother is dead.”
“That’s depressing. She doesn’t always say that. What about Ksmvr?”
An Antinium in a bright red coat, with a fake wig of white hair and a gigantic grey mustache, appeared.
“Behold! I am Ksmvr, [Baron of the Trees]!”
Yvlon rubbed at her face.
“I need to focus.”
Nanette curtseyed to the [Baron of the Trees], who grandly raised a walking stick.
“Ah, Nanette. I must knight you.”
“Then I will become a [Knight]-[Witch].”
Dozens of Mrshas ran over and began tossing flower petals into the air, because they were Ksmvr’s loyal subjects—
Yvlon shook her head.
“Argh. It’s happening again!”
Every time she lost focus, silly things like this occurred. She banished the dream-Ksmvr and Nanette and tried to concentrate.
Something was different about the dream this time. Normally, Yvlon felt somewhat isolated, though she could ‘sense’ other dreams in the realm beyond her own. She never peeked at other people after her initial entry into her teammates’ memories. Mostly because it was rude, she felt. But as Ksmvr sat on a throne of Mrshas and ordered trees planted, Yvlon looked around.
“…What is that?”
She shaded her eyes, and the flat, plain landscape of her dream-world revealed something at the edges of the cosmos where oblivion seeped in, colorless. Yvlon stared at a bright, glowing world beyond her own.
A hundred thousand times larger than her dream. It shone like a prismatic marble. Then—Yvlon heard a voice, which sounded bewildered, amused, and utterly astonished.
“Sands of Zeikhal, what are all these little Gnoll girls doing in my dream?”
Her reality flexed. Yvlon felt something pressing in on her dream and tried to stop it, but a force burst through into her dream in a second. She stared as the white world of her dream popped—and suddenly she was standing in a vast, endless desert, and the hot sand blew over her face.
And standing on a hill, sword in hand, holding a Mrsha up as he faced down a legion of undead skeletons, was the King of Destruction.
Flos Reimarch. He turned—stared at Yvlon—and her mouth opened.
“Your Majesty?”
Skeleton Champions filled the sands. Hundreds were lying broken at the King of Destruction’s feet, but they were arranged in legion-strength beyond him. They had banners—Khelt’s, Yvlon realized—and a rain of arrows shot down.
She threw up her arms and felt a shock of phantom-pain in her arm, dream-pain, and dove to avoid more arrows. Her arms morphed to become shields, and Flos turned as a Skeleton Champion rode up the hill, armed with a lance, riding a steed exhaling ghostly fumes from its skull.
Hi, I’m Mrsha!
One of the Mrshas proclaimed, ignorant of the danger. Flos peered at the Mrsha, at Yvlon—then he laughed and dropped his sword and clapped his hands.
“Stop.”
The Skeleton Champion vanished. The fake Mrsha vanished. The entire dreamscape rippled—and when Yvlon looked up, the arrow in her arm was gone. Then Flos was just standing in the sand, eying her with the most interest yet.
“Yvlon Byres. It is you, not someone else pretending to be you, isn’t it? Of all the people I thought would share my old class—I never thought it would be you.”
He sounded astonished, but he wasn’t any more so than Yvlon herself. She stood, then bowed hurriedly.
“Your Majesty. What is—I apologize for intruding.”
She had no idea what was going on. Flos Reimarch just snorted.
“I drew you into my dream. Well, I kept seeing those things calling themselves ‘Mrshas’. That is that white Gnoll girl, isn’t it? They were interrupting my training.”
“Training?”
Flos gestured, and a rank of Skeleton Champions rose from the ground. Yvlon reflexively raised her fists, but they didn’t move, and Flos pointed at them.
“Trying to figure out how to improve myself. I admit, it’s just fun to fight them as well. If I’m truly bored, some nights I create entire armies to go to war against. I suppose that’s my idea of a good dream. What do you do? Replaying memories works too, but I grow too self-conscious. And dreaming of beautiful women—hah! As I told Trey, even that can get old.”
He laughed self-consciously and stroked his beard. He looked—younger, Yvlon realized. Thirty-some years old. So full of vitality and somehow in even more pristine shape than before. He wore armor that glowed, tracing a strange pattern across his chest; it was rust-red, Adamantium, and the sword at his side had a hilt that looked like it was fashioned of scales.
So this was how he remembered himself. Flos saw Yvlon’s disbelieving look.
“No armies? I grant you, they’re tricky. I’ve had decades of practice, and I was Level 36 when it got eaten by my [King] class. Your dream-self is very good, by the way. It’s practically as if you strolled out of the camp party.”
“I—I—thank you?”
The King of Destruction seemed quite pleased by the company for all Yvlon was aghast. He raised a hand, and a table and chairs appeared.
“Let’s have a seat, then. It’s rare for [Dreamers] to meet. I’ve met six people in my entire life, including you, with the class or ability. When did you get your class?”
“A few months ago, after a fever—wait, what happened?”
Yvlon was sitting, cup of tea in hand, sipping from it with the taste of honey and black tea in her mouth. Flos had a cup in hand, but didn’t seem fazed.
“Dream skipping. That’s what I call it. We flit from idea to idea. Months ago? Then you’re new to this. May I see your dream? I have so many—my castle, places I’ve fought, my ideal castle as a boy—don’t look at it—”
Places flickered around them. A gigantic palace’s throne room, a battlefield still strewn with bodies—a gigantic, half-crystal palace with huge statues of noble-looking warriors and gigantic swords hung on walls—
The last one was the most fake of all. And yet it was vivid and bright—Yvlon’s mouth dropped open as Flos continued.
“Argh, you never quite forget if you’re a [Dreamer]. I particularly like this one. I used to think Qualvekkaras, the Kingdom of Winds, would look like this. Dreams seldom can be outdone by reality.”
Then they were standing on a mountain, on walkways made of clouds, inconceivably high up. Below them, grand palaces filled with flying Garuda sat on the sides of the mountain, and great cyclones of air whirled up Garuda who danced about them in patterns.
