The King of Destruction could hardly get more unhappy, but he threw himself into his throne. He seemed—unwilling to say something. Twice he opened his mouth, looked at Amerys for some reason, then away.
Strangely, Gazi wasn’t looking in her king’s direction. There was a tension in the air, in Amerys’ half-smile that wasn’t really a smile, the King of Destruction’s fuming—the Horns merely stood there.
“It was a crime done by [Slavers] of Roshal, and that is without question. This Igheriz, Riqre, the others—I would put a bounty on their heads if they lived. That they are dead makes justice difficult. The Arbiter Queen would be better for this kind of thing. I can only state my outrage and grief that you suffered it, Pisces. Both as a [King] and as someone who thought of you as a brief companion.”
That was what Flos Reimarch said at last, meeting Pisces’ eyes. The [Necromancer] nodded, and Colth spoke.
“No one will hold Roshal to account for it, Your Majesty. Even Jecaina found herself unable to oppose the [Slavers].”
“…They are useful. The wealth of Chandrar escapes many nations. Jaganismet is not the only one. Even the Quarass battles the need for coins more than most foes, for all her wisdom. And I have been told to—I shall discuss the matter with the next representative of Roshal I encounter. More than that, I cannot promise. It will not be a pleasant discussion.”
For all his eyes flashed, and for all he sounded genuine, and she was sure he would keep his word—Flos reminded Yvlon, then, of Perric. Just for a moment. He sat there, clearly unhappy with his own words, and Pisces bowed his head.
“Thank you, Your Majesty. That is all I ask.”
“Yes. Think nothing of it for it is…”
The King of Destruction folded his arms. He glowered into the distance. Turned his head; both of his vassals looked the other way, and the silence loomed larger. At last, Flos Reimarch growled into the silence.
“Well then, kneel. That will be the end of it, and I will hear nothing from you two.”
Kneel? Yvlon glanced at Colth, who blinked suddenly, but Flos had directed the second part of his words at Amerys and Gazi. The first part—
Pisces stared at the King of Destruction.
“Me?”
Flos sat back on his throne heavily. He beckoned.
“It has been a long time since I’ve done this—but I was taught. The right of [Kings]. Or the rite of [Kings]. Araxia and all [Punners] should be punished. And hers do sting.”
That made no sense to the Horns, but Pisces was exchanging a glance of disbelief with Colth. Yet Gazi’s eyes had refocused on them and were glowing bright.
“You mean—Your Majesty intends to offer us the boon for rescuing the Mad Ones? In—advance?”
Colth began carefully, and Yvlon stared at him. Hadn’t the other rulers refused or insisted on…?
What were they getting themselves into? Was it too much?
It doesn’t matter. Don’t object. She looked at the King of Destruction, and he scowled.
“As prepayment? A boon for a boon? Do I look so miserly?”
He saw Yvlon open her mouth and snapped.
“Do not answer that. Kindly. An injustice has been done before my eyes. No, I do not demand it in exchange for anything. Approach me and kneel, Pisces Jealnet. I do not need your sworn service as a citizen or anything else. I am King of Reim. King of Destruction. Once, King of Chandrar!”
His eyes had grown brighter in the gloom, and then he seemed as large as Pisces and Colth had said Jaganismet looked, a towering, brooding man contained by mere flesh.
“I decree it unjust. If Roshal deigns to argue this—they may speak to me.”
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet had been here before. Kneeling before a throne this time, a hand placed on his shoulder rather than a sword. Twice, actually, once with Jecaina, once with Raelt.
The Quarass had not even tried. Whether or not she was capable…it was not a thing of strength. Jaganismet with all his might could have strained a thousand times, and Pisces doubted it would have worked without the understanding.
Dark waters rose around him, this time so real they clung to his robes. He looked down, and rusted chains were around his wrists, his neck. He couldn’t breathe—he was drowning, and the gates of a harbor opened.
Lailight Scintillation.
He would never be free. The [Slave] felt the weight of his class burning him now, like the scar on his chest. He was half-naked as the chains slowly clinked, pulling him link by link into that harbor. The city shone bright.
But in the depths of that city was a well. Jars. Pisces tried to pull away, but the class was in his very nature. Crimson like Cawe’s blood. Corrupting him—like barbs and hooks under his flesh.
He sank into an ocean made of tears, drowning out cries of pain, and there was no rainbow shooting across the sky, a true comet of hope.
But there was a [King].
Pisces’ head broke the waves as a hand hauled him up, and Flos Reimarch stood, a perfect image of him, beard blowing as he looked into the sea with distaste, then at Pisces’ chains. He reached down, and the ancient rust cracked and broke into the sea.
“I can do nothing about your scar. But even they have knelt to me.”
He pointed, and Pisces saw the gates of Roshal’s harbor begin to shake as they had when Raelt had tried to release him.
The authority of Roshal rose above the two: five great spires of power rising over the two of them.
Ancient chains of rusted blood rising from a deep harbor. Twining once more towards Pisces. Dragging him down. Anchoring him to some submerged path he feared. A road he had never chosen, never wanted. Connected by each link of suffering and agony—the weight of ages daring anyone to violate their will.
—a length of rusted metal. A glittering, golden chain. A Naga’s tail—
The King of Destruction reached out and slapped the will of Roshal like a man slapping a camel who had gotten too lippy with him.
The harbor rocked. The twisted gates rang, and the five spires shook with the invisible force of the blow. Pisces jolted forwards as the chains pulled—and the King of Destruction grabbed the chains.
“Will you hold onto him? Without recourse? Without justice? If so, you and I truly are at odds. Pull, Naga. I am already angry with you. Pull, strangers. Keep holding onto him. Or I shall claim this man and all connected to him. Like so—”
Then he began to heave, and Pisces felt the chain binding him pull the other way. Ancient metal rose from the sea and split a hundred thousand times, a million times, linked to countless other fates in the city. And the King of Destruction began to pull them out of Lailight Scintillation.
Just for a second. A single link moved back, and the King of Destruction grunted. His strength, the strength of a man who had conquered all of Chandrar, was near-effortless in breaking Ceria’s circlet. Pisces now saw the King of Destruction grit his teeth. He pulled—and the five towers pulled back.
The movement away from the harbor halted. Then the King of Destruction was locked in a strange tug-of-war with five figures. Five…forces built up by countless lesser towers, daring them to oppose him.
The world heaved. Pisces felt pulled in twain, but he could sense the towers shaking. 
What did they see behind Flos? Pisces turned his head and stared at the King of Destruction’s authority. Four towers above his city of Reim; three broken. A kingdom of rubble and yet-enduring majesty.
Then—one of Roshal’s towers cracked, and the chain holding onto Pisces broke. Someone refused to strive. A second one cracked instantly, then a third after a long delay. Two more held on, bitterly, but Pisces thought he saw the Naga let go first.
Then it was just one left, and Flos stared at a distant tower of Roshal’s might.
“Who are you now? You’re the oldest of the lot and the most prideful, even more than the Naga. Well. You seem weak to me, for someone with the ego of a single nation. Hmph.”
He heaved—and the last tower almost shattered, and something snapped. Pisces felt the world jerk—and for a moment, he was falling. Shouting in terror, rushing towards the sea—
A hand caught his. The King of Destruction pulled him up, and his face was calmer now. Triumphant. Regretful. Guilty, all in one.
“There.”
That was all he said. Pisces’ grip tightened onto that hand, and for a second, trapped in that world of authority and rules—he whispered something.
“What about the others?”
The King of Destruction’s look of triumph faltered. Pisces stared down into the dark sea. He looked up—but the King of Destruction merely pulled. And then—Pisces was floating, dreaming, in a void between the moments his eyes opened in the real world and this one vanished. And he heard a voice.
 
[Slave class removed!]
[<Slave> Skills removed.]
 
Thank you, Pisces thought. Thank you. At last…he wondered then and did not remember the thought when he woke. But he did wonder why that voice sounded almost as guilty as the King of Destruction.
However it was done, Pisces was glad of it. When he opened his eyes and found the King of Destruction calling for wine and out of this stuffy tent, he breathed out in relief. Colth grabbed his shoulder and hugged him, and Yvlon asked if Flos had succeeded.
Gazi nodded to Pisces, and he looked at her and realized who she had been.
He thought he would smile, then, or laugh. But he didn’t.
He was relieved. It was as if a great weight had been lifted from his shoulders. Even hours afterwards, at night, Pisces felt lighter. Free.
The scar on his chest remained, and he knew Roshal would not give up so easily. But his class was gone.
He owed the King of Destruction that. And it was enough to make Pisces balance the books with Flos destroying Ceria’s circlet; it mattered that greatly to him. But he sat by himself on a bench and couldn’t place what was wrong with him, why he didn’t leap for joy.
Then he realized what was wrong.
“The others. What about the others?”
The same words he’d said to Flos. The feeling in Pisces’ bones in this moment wasn’t just relief, joy at finally being rid of his class. But a desire so hot as to be burning to find Eloque, Droppe, and the others and give them the same freedom.
It wasn’t right. So long as they were out there, in danger—
Colth understood. The [Supporter] was all smiles, though, and he brought Pisces a mug of spiced ale.
“Take what you can get as a victory, Necrolad. Take it. Now you get me—for all he’s a Relic-breaking piece of Creler crap, he did this, didn’t he?”
“Yeah. Thank you, Colth.”
Pisces took a huge gulp of his drink, and the boot that kicked him in the stomach nearly made him spray it all out. He recoiled—until he saw Gazi, standing there, mug in hand.
“My liege is still my [King]. Mind your tongue, Pisces, Colthei.”
Her voice was level, and from the way Colth was swearing, he’d gotten a similar kick. Pisces almost snapped back something, but Gazi’s heart didn’t seem to be in her boots right now.
“They will follow you.”
“Thank you for the advice, Named-rank Gazi the Omniscient. I would have never guessed. Do you have more tips for a rookie like me?”
Colth eyed her balefully, and she favored him with a stare. Pisces had almost forgotten that Gazi was a Named-rank adventurer. But all the [Necromancer] said was—
“You too?”
“I was a child when he freed me. As he had every right to do. It was far easier, and he did it on impulse, as he always does. It does not change my loyalty to him, only my perception of certain things. Mind your tongues.”
Still, she raised the mug once before sipping at it. Pisces began to understand something of the politics in the King of Destruction’s court. It was not an actual court, but this was clearly a division between her and the other Seven.
“Anyone else on that side of sides, Lady Pathseeker? No. Rather, can we do anything to help?”
Colthei grinned, and she gave him a glower with two eyes. Some of the tips of his hair turned to stone, and he swore and brushed at them.
“Little you can or should do, Colthei. Giving my lord a chance to do this is enough. As for harassment—far braver servants than I have no fear, it seems.”
Gazi took another sip from her drink, and Colth and Pisces turned their heads to see the King of Destruction. He was striding away from, of all people, a platinum-green-haired young woman and that [Mage] Pisces had seen earlier.
Trey Atwood and Elena Othonos pursued Flos until Zamea of the Nomads of the Sky literally cut them off with a huge foot. From the way the King of Destruction gave Trey a baleful look, it was clear this wasn’t their first argument.
“The bravery of that lad. I’d be careful of doing that.”
Colth murmured, and Gazi replied with another, rarely genuine smile.
“He’s special.”
When she noticed the two looking at her and Trey thoughtfully, her face became her usual scowl. But then the King of Destruction headed their way.
“Enough! Enough, I say. Pisces, do me a single favor for the night’s entertainment! Just one! Maybe five! I want to see how I fare against these undead of yours! I need to practice real combat, not debate sophistry!”
Pisces looked up and groaned. He didn’t mind it, he really didn’t. And again, it was a small price to pay, and he didn’t care how it was done—this was a great day for him, at least—
But he really hoped he’d have a single Skeleton Champion after all this was said and done.
 
——
 
Skeleton Champions. Superior undead. A pair of them would have made the old Horns of Hammerad sweat if they had appeared in a dungeon somewhere. Add in a Lich, a Skeleton Mage? Then you had an offensive lineup that probably exceeded any ordinary Silver-rank team.
They weren’t…stronger than Calruz had been at Silver-rank. But they were tough, fast, and could use weapons well. Even Gold-rankers didn’t like to run into them.
Praise the Skeleton Champion. Admire them, just as you admired any [Necromancer] capable of raising more than one.
There were four of them. One had a greatsword, which it brandished one-handed; another had a rapier as it balanced on the balls of its feet, swaying back and forth. A third had a bow and backup shortsword; the final one whirled two blades around in a dance of death.
The King of Destruction met the first Skeleton Champion’s blow with his sword, and he sheared through the blade and skeleton so fast he called a time-out.
“Hold on! I need a worse blade! Time out!”
Pisces was having a drink. His third, rather. He wasn’t really that sad—but there was something inherently depressing about watching the King of Destruction slap a Skeleton Champion’s head off after disarming it with a longsword.
