“Why would I begrudge Ceria taking my circlet, Sir Relz? If it were anyone else, I would be incandescent with fury! Never allow it! But for my beloved consort, nay, a [Queen] of Medain in her own right should we go through with the wedding—it only fits. Yvlon too.”
At this point, someone began choking. It was Pisces. Yvlon’s face had gone slack. So had Sir Relz’s.
“…Consort?”
It was Perric’s moment. He turned, looking astonished and amused.
“So you really didn’t know. This is where the confusion is coming from! How amusing! You thought—no wonder I have been besieged by questions! I am so glad I took this interview. Of course. They are both very near and dear to my heart, and when Ceria begged for it as a little favor—she does love headwear.”
“They—they’re both your wives? Both?”
Sir Relz was frantically sorting through his notes. Perric winked at him.
“It’s called a harem, Sir Relz. I understand it might offend your Izrilian sensibilities—indeed. They were both inducted into the ranks of my concubines. You would probably call it a de facto marriage—I say. Someone bring over the contracts.”
“Contracts?”
That didn’t come from the scrying orb. Yvlon Byres was staring at the orb. Pisces and Colth backed away from her, and Ceria was half-grinning. But her skeleton hand was frosting over.
Both women looked at each other. And now they saw it.
High King Perric’s blue eyes were beaming into the scrying orb, and Sir Relz had not put a [Detect Truth] spell on this call; you couldn’t insult royalty like that. One of his [Ministers] hurried into frame amazingly quickly with a scroll, and Perric showed Relz a magical-looking contract.
“Sealed and witnessed—and filed with the Merchant’s Guild. I know it must not have reached you yet—it was a fast thing.”
“Incredibly fast. Weren’t they in Medain only a week or two—”
“I sweep women off their feet. It’s a hazard of my class. They were vivid nights, I must say. Highly enjoyable—I don’t think I can furnish our viewers with the details, but let’s just say they were unforgettable.”
Sir Relz flushed as High King Perric winked like a rogue into the camera. Then the High King grew serious.
“I would have kept them, of course, but adventurers will be adventurers. Hence the birds. You have to let them go free, and they’ll fly back time after time. Yvlon was most distraught, but I said to her, ‘my dear Byres, go, find your teammates, and they’ll all be there at our wedding’.”
“Amazing. And you let them have the crown—”
“I can’t have my darling ladies come to harm, can I, Sir Relz?”
High King Perric wagged a finger at the camera, tsking lightly. He turned, and now Yvlon saw his cocky, beaming smile. She leaned over to Pisces.
“I think we need to go back to Medain.”
“Absolutely not. This is bait.”
Colth hissed at Yvlon. Yvlon knew it was bait. She didn’t care. Pisces whispered urgently in her ear.
“You can denounce it, Yvlon. It’s not your name on that contract, and it’s his only move to save face. All he can do is spread rumors—”
The High King was sharing some salacious details that the two were trying to keep Yvlon from hearing, but she did catch the next part.
“—the statue should be up later this week.”
“Statue?”
Ceria started. Yvlon’s eyes narrowed dangerously. Sir Relz asked the obvious.
“Er, what statue, High King?”
“Oh, a few to commemorate the Horns of Hammerad. One of Pisces, Ksmvr of Chandrar, Kevin—and a central piece near to my heart to commemorate my relationship with Ceria and Yvlon.”
“Kevin?”
Pisces and Colth were staring at Yvlon, and she pointed at Ceria. The half-Elf was smiling—right up until High King Perric produced a rolled piece of parchment.
“I suppose there’s nothing but to show you the concept sketch. This will grace the main square.”
“Dead gods!”
Pisces leapt out of the way as metal spikes erupted all the way down Yvlon’s arms, turning her into a porcupine. Ceria made a sound. Sir Relz took one look at the picture and panicked.
“Oh my. I think—I think we have to—someone get a censor spell on that—in the main square? It’s rather provocative, Your Majesty!”
“Nonsense. It’s highly artistic. Nudity is common in statues—I think it’s inspiring.”
Perric brandished the picture closer, and Yvlon Byres stared at it. It was…well, it was a statue. Of High King Perric. He stood, arm raised, sword pointed to the sky—one of those classic statues you were supposed to have made of you after your death.
You could easily call it tasteless to have that image of yourself in your main square. But you know what was tasteless?
…Yvlon Byres. The artist had done a very good job of capturing her features, even her metal arms and foot. What was slightly unrealistic was the adoring look on her face. And the lack of clothes.
She and Ceria were clinging to each leg, staring up at the High King. Very…passionately. Very nude. Sir Relz was trying to censor the image with a piece of paper, and Perric kept moving it around to show the audience—
“Wow. What a gigantic piece of shit.”
Elena Othonos stared incredulously at the statue. Pisces was narrow-eyed now, not concerned for Yvlon, but ominously silent. Ceria was just staring—Yvlon was breathing heavily, and only Colth looked slightly impressed.
“He might be that, but you have to admit, this was the only way he could save face. It’s sort of commendable. Either we go back and he captures us—or he’ll keep claiming you’re married until he can grab the crown and us.”
Yvlon growled.
“Let him try.”
High King Perric was done. He stepped back and leaned on the balcony, throwing his head back to take in the breeze. And he winked at Yvlon.
You’ll be back. He looked fondly over his shoulder at where the ground was already being prepped for the statue. Then he finished with the final thing.
“Do excuse me, Sir Relz. This has been eminently enjoyable to clear up this little kerfuffle. But the auspices of rulership are unending.”
“Oh, of course. Busy day, Your Majesty?”
“Mm. Just a few executions. I think you can see the [Headsman] waving.”
Executions? Yvlon’s head snapped up, and Sir Relz swallowed.
“Really. Dissent in Medain?”
The High King laughed. He looked into the scrying orb, straight at Yvlon.
“Scurrilous rumors about their [King]. Cowardice in the face of the enemy. That sort of thing. Common citizens and even some of my own soldiers. Can you believe such a thing? But don’t mind me. Yvlon, Ceria. If you’re watching—I’ll see you both later, my loves.”
He blew a kiss, and the image winked out.
 
——
 
“Okay. What next?”
Yvlon led the Horns into her tent, and five minutes later, she was calm. Pisces and Colth eyed her, but the [Armsmistress] gazed around. Elena was staring at her, but Yvlon brushed at her hair as Ceria sat, Perric’s crown in her hand.
“It’s a trap. That’s obvious. We don’t go back. If he sends people after us—he can’t do it openly. Let’s deny it. Drassi has our back.”
Indeed, Drassi had raced onto Channel 1 to try to get High King Perric back on. He had refused, but Relz and Drassi were still arguing on a scrying orb.
“—Are you saying we don’t take His Majesty at his word, Drassi?”
“I want to see the contracts. I know Ceria and Yvlon personally, and they have taste. I cannot believe either one would okay that statue, let alone marry that man. This is a Channel 2 opinion—”
“You can’t do that. This is Channel 1.”
“My channel has integrity. Rémi’s right.”
“How dare you—”
The sight of two Drakes fighting on the scrying orb, funny as it was, wasn’t what mattered right now. Colth turned the orb off.
Yvlon turned to Elena calmly.
“I’m sorry, Miss Elena. You wanted to talk to all of us? Please forgive the interruption.”
She was so poised. So calm. So—cool. Elena stared at Yvlon in admiration. The rest of Yvlon’s team, who knew her better, were being very careful. Even Ceria.
“Yuh. Good to meet you.”
“I—thank you. Is this private? With magic and whatnot?”
“Private as you can get.”
Colth assured her, rolling the scrying orb out of the tent in case Wistram had a listening spell on this one. Someone shouted, and there was a scream of someone slipping. Colth winced. But then everyone turned to Elena, and the young woman didn’t know what to say.
“I—uh—”
She hesitated. She seemed nervous, or perhaps justifiably concerned was a better way to word it. After Trey and everything she had been through…Elena closed her eyes. She didn’t know these people. But she did know someone else, and when she opened her eyes and focused on them, there was a faintly pleading look in her eyes.
As if hoping she wouldn’t be proven wrong again, this time, for trusting someone.
“—Do you know Erin Solstice? Sorry—let me start again. I’m Elena. Elena Othonos. I know you’re regulars at The Wandering Inn. I—I’m one of Erin Solstice’s people. Kevin? Joseph? Imani? Those are their names, right? I’ve never met them, but—”
Pisces’ eyes opened wide. Ceria sat upright with a grunt of satisfaction, and Yvlon blinked. Colth frowned at all of them, and Yvlon turned her head to the other Horns.
“She’s from Earth.”
Elena stopped mid-sentence. Her face paled, then flushed with sudden excitement. Pisces felt a thrill. That was such a Yvlon way of saying it.
“Ώπα! No way. You know.”
The Horns jerked in surprise at the exclamation, but that was nothing to Elena’s astonishment.
The [Beautician] had been prepared for the Horns to have a clue of what she was talking about. She had been ready to talk in circles around the subject, but the Horns had a level of understanding that few people in this world had.
Colth was the one who looked the most confused, but he listened sharply, letting the three original members of the team talk.
“We do. You’re an Earther.”
“That’s the name! Yep. I’m, uh—one of a bunch of Earthers in the King of Destruction’s care. From Wistram.”
“From the breakout? Ylawes was there.”
Yvlon murmured, and Elena blinked.
“Ylawes? That [Knight] guy with the Gimli and female Legolas?”
“…Dawil and Falene?”
“Yes, yes! Do you know them?”
Pisces’ lips were twitching now, and Yvlon pointed a finger at her chest.
“He’s my older brother.”
“No way. And you’re Erin Solstice’s—she’s the one who contacted me. Everyone! Even Flos himself! That’s how I thought you all had to know about—”
Elena gestured with her arms to indicate everyone. Ceria was putting her head in her hands. She pulled out one of the two pieces of her circlet and began to chew on it, as if trying to get smarter.
“Trey. Teresa. Earthers.”
Pisces patted her on the head.
“Yes, very good, Ceria. I put that together already.”
She bit his hand, and the [Necromancer] cursed. Elena’s lips twitched as she looked from face to face. Yvlon was more focused on Elena, and she held out a hand with a smile.
“Any friend of Erin’s is a friend of ours. Don’t worry, we’ll keep your secret safe.”
Elena stared at the metal hand, which she’d just seen turn into a pincushion, but she gingerly accepted and shook it.
“Oh my. Your hand’s warm. That’s incredible! I’m sorry, I know that’s trivial, but this is amazing. You’re all so…I’ve never met adventurers like you, and it’s so incredible. I wish I’d gone to Liscor instead of Wistram for months.”
“So you were captive there for months?”
Pisces turned urgently to Elena, and she made a face.
“Captive is our word. Held for our own good is how the [Mages] put it. Multiple groups helped us escape, including Trey…you know the story, right?”
They all nodded. They had even been there when Amerys and Gazi had met them, sailing on Rasea Zecrew’s ship. Had Elena been on that vessel?
If so, she’d faded into the background, and Pisces felt guilty about that. But they had been sailing into a war. Now, the Horns properly introduced themselves.
“Pisces Jealnet. Ah, [Necromancer].”
“Pleased! Don’t worry, I’m not prejudiced, I think. I was in Noelictus when I came to this world, and I’ve seen undead—anyone who can stop them from munching on people is cool by me. Cara has a thing about [Necromancers], though. She ran into a bad one.”
Pisces stared at Elena. Noelictus? Of all the places—
“Colth Lacment. Your hair is a delight, Miss Elena. Did someone style it?”
The [Ultimate Supporter] held out a hand, and Elena beamed at him.
“I do it myself! I’m a [Beautician]. It’s the only thing I’m good at.”
“I know a Named-rank adventurer who is in need of your expertise with hair dyes, Miss.”
“Is it Deniusth? I looked you up, and his hair is the worst.”
Colth laughed in sheer delight, and she turned to Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] smiled.
“Hello, Elena. My name is Yvlon Byres. Some may call me—”
Everyone elbowed her, and Ceria tried her best.
“Me. Ceria. My words aren’t so good…the King of Idiots broke my circlet. I’m gonna freeze his pants.”
“I’d love for you to do it, but Orthenon might kill you. He’s intense. Most of the Seven are. Even Trey and Teres are totally on Flos’ side, although Trey’s alright for hating Roshal.”
Elena grimaced, and Ceria gave her face a quick once-over. She nodded.
“What…do you want? You want us to do something.”
The [Beautician]’s face instantly grew shifty, and she lifted her hands.
“No! Well, maybe, yes. I’m here against my will, but I just was hoping you could get me in contact with Erin. Can she, um, use her magical hologram to talk to me? If I could get in touch with Cara, that’s all I’m asking. Really. Honest.”
The Horns of Hammerad looked at each other, and Colth breathed a sigh of relief.
“Finally, someone with a reasonable request. Thank you.”
He took Elena’s hands and pumped them up and down, and Pisces had to give Elena a rueful smile. But Yvlon just frowned hugely.
“If you’re here against your will, does that mean he’s enslaved you? Flos?”
Pisces froze, and Elena held up her hands and shook them.
“No, nonono—we’re just ‘his subjects’ for now. The Quarass and Fetohep all want to shelter us. It’s not as bad as Wistram; at least I can travel around. Not ideal, but—he’s like an Alexander the Great, that guy. If I can talk some sense into him, it’s okay.”
Elena’s lips were colored slightly metallic, and she had a wry expression. She was indeed an expert in makeup if Pisces was any judge, and she seemed very adult. Composed. More so than Kevin, Joseph, Rose, and the others had been when they came to Erin’s inn.
Here she was, a forced guest of the King of Destruction. She’d sought out the Horns of Hammerad for the smallest of favors…he appreciated that.
