“Of course you didn’t. Your arms have blood etched into the steel. No offense; I’m a smith, formerly of Clan Tannousin, and it’s my job to know metal. That hand could turn into a ball of spikes in a moment, couldn’t it?”
Reluctantly, Yvlon showed Nawal her abilities, and the [Smith] picked up a shield with a huge smile.
“Worthy guests of the King of Destruction! I’m honored to sell you one of my worthless shields.”
Don’t shake my hand. Yvlon gave Nawal a rueful bow instead.
“At least my arms are worthy of a Smith of Clan—Tannousin?—of her recognition.”
The [Smith] gave Yvlon a beaming smile and nodded back.
“I never said that. It’s a shit metal. If I were to make arms out of anything, it wouldn’t be that. Good day to you.”
Yvlon’s smile winked out. Nawal innocently picked up her hammer as Yvlon Byres took a calm, measured breath.
“I think silver and steel are wonderful metals. I’m from House Byres. Izril.”
“Oh. Silver mines. Well met! Your armaments aren’t worth wiping my ass with.”
Yvlon twitched.
 
——
 
Someone found Nawal and Yvlon in the middle of an argument just past morning. It was a really stupid argument—Yvlon was wincing as she put her hand on an anvil and Nawal—smacked it with a hammer.
“See? It’s bad metal.”
“It’s my arm.”
“Well, get a better one. Because if I can do this—”
Nawal brought her hammer down, and Yvlon’s fist deformed into a pancake, for all she tried to make it tougher. Nawal pointedly watched Yvlon’s hand reform.
“—then the King of Destruction’s got better arms, and his are flesh and blood.”
“I didn’t exactly have a choice on which metal I got! Silver’s a pure metal!”
“Psh. For what? It’s not like it kills many monsters, and steel? Even Truegold is stronger!”
“Take back what you said about my House and my arms.”
Yvlon wasn’t attacking—but she did bar Nawal’s way with an arm. In response, the [Smith] tapped Yvlon’s arm with a hammer. Both of them stared at the right-angle bend. Nawal backed away.
“I may be a disgraced failure of a [Smith], but I won’t take back my words! Everyone knows the vaunted Byres warriors of old were quantity over quality! They armed tens of thousands with their blades because the metal was so cheap.”
“House Byres has a long and storied history of achievement in smithing, warfare, and mercantile ventures! We had a Dragon!”
Yvlon was chasing Nawal around the forge, and the [Smith] was speaking faster.
“The Silver Dragon Knight? I heard he was naught but another monster to Chandrar. Stop it. Don’t touch me or I’ll forge your hands together.”
“Try it.”
They were about to throw hands—or at least, one of them was—when someone cleared her throat. Yvlon turned, and Nawal stopped smacking her arm on her anvil. Instantly, Nawal turned red, jerked her veil up, and bowed.
“Lady Othonos!”
Yvlon saw a familiar young woman with her iconic hair and a slightly tanned face raise a hand in greeting. Elena was applying sunscreen to her face, but her eyes were fixed on Yvlon.
“Excuse me, Nawal. Can I interrupt? I was hoping to speak to Yvlon—Adventurer Byres. Do you have a moment?”
Yvlon caught herself, realizing that she had been chasing Nawal around and that the other people in the camp were watching with great amusement. She flushed, shot Nawal another glance—the [Smith] blew at her from under her veil—then put on a professional smile.
“Yes, how can I help you? Miss Othonos?”
“Elena. Elena Othonos. I’m—a guest of the King of Destruction. Do you have time for a quick word?”
Yvlon had thought they’d be getting on the road today, if Ceria was in any good condition. Flos had made his offer, and it seemed like the best idea was to head south with the carriage—a new carriage, rather—to Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
She needed a planning session with the Horns where they could sit, not be heading to or in the company of a foreign monarch, and just talk things out. She nodded at Elena.
“I can spare the morning. My teammates are either resting or asleep still, I think. What’s…this about?”
She eyed Elena. Yvlon hadn’t seen her with the Quarass, but like Trey and Teresa, there was a quality she had learned to notice around…well, what she suspected to be Elena’s true nature.
A kind of stare the Earthers had, sometimes wondering, sometimes nostalgic or just incredulous. A difference in vocabulary and expressions. A sense, like Nawal had of Yvlon, of being an outsider. But not just to this continent.
This world.
Elena was giving Yvlon a very careful look, and she glanced around.
“Do you have a tent? I can go to mine…”
“Of course.”
Yvlon had been shocked, but in hindsight, of course the King of Destruction knew about Earth. It probably had huge ramifications for world events. But she was just an adventurer, far from home. What could she do? What did Elena want of her, actually?
 
——
 
The two were on their way back to their tents, and Yvlon was glad to see the other Horns were awake.
A bleary Pisces was resting at a table and eating breakfast with Ceria sitting on the ground, still watching the scrying orb. Colth was drinking a hangover cure, and he eyed Elena—and the shield Yvlon tossed him.
“I needed this for my new Skill! Who’s our guest?”
“Elena. She wants a private word. Pisces, good morning. How are you?”
“Life is an endless wheel of suffering.”
The [Necromancer] was holding his head. Elena hid a smile as Pisces’ head jerked up, and his cheeks turned red. Yvlon nudged Ceria.
“This is Ceria, our Captain. She’s, uh…recovering.”
“I saw. That’s Flos for you. The King of Destruction, I mean. He does whatever he wants, and changing his mind is incredibly hard. Is she going to be okay?”
Elena was definitely…no one normal talked about Flos Reimarch that way. Colth gave Yvlon a significant look as he handed his hangover tonic to Pisces, and the [Necromancer] gulped it down. Yvlon jerked her head at her tent.
“I think so. Ceria, up.”
She tried to coax Ceria up, but the half-Elf just sat there, and Pisces glanced at her.
“What if we spared Ceria for a while, Yvlon?”
That might be for the best. The half-Elf was drooling slightly as she looked at the scrying orb, and Yvlon winced. The other three were heading to the tent when Ceria, eyes watching the low-intelligence news broadcast of the scrying orb, began to make an odd sound.
“Uh? Whuh. Whuuuuh…”
Yvlon turned back. Ceria’s stupor was fading. That faintly stunned expression she had worn all of yesterday and last night was turning into something else.
A faint…expression of concern. Then outrage. She gestured, but her mouth didn’t form the words quite right—she made a hooting noise of outrage, like Erek, and Yvlon exchanged a glance with Colth and Pisces.
“Something on the news, Ceria? Is it Erin?”
She hurried over, and Ceria held the scrying orb up urgently. Several people looked around; it wasn’t like Ceria was the only person who watched the morning news. And what was being broadcast on Wistram News Network was something very interesting. Something…pertinent.
Yvlon stared as Colth, Pisces, and Elena gathered around. Then her eyes opened wide.
“What. Him?”
 
——
 
High King Perric of Medain smiled into the camera as Sir Relz finished his introductions.
Yes, Perric.
Perric! High King of Medain. The one, the only. Accept no substitutes! He lounged in his chair in some kind of open topiary in his palace with a commanding view of his city behind him. A harborfront; it showcased his rich nation, and he was adorned in the finest of clothing for his interview.
Regal clothing emblazoned with the crest of Medain—his sword and shield displayed prominently at his sides, reminding everyone he was a canny warrior. His magical artifacts, jeweled rings on his fingers, an amulet around his neck.
…No crown.
His hair was splendidly combed, as if to give the impression his very hair was said crown, but his bare head was—notable. Perric seemed conscious of this fact, and he kept shifting, as if to slightly keep his head out of the center of the frame.
“Thank you for having me, Sir Relz.”
“Not at all, Your Majesty. It’s quite—quite an honor to have this interview. Ah. Um. Well, shall we get to it?”
Sir Relz had met royalty before, even if Drassi had the record for most royals in the news room, a fact that annoyed him. Normally, he was quite ingratiating with them, but he was a bit nervous today.
He shuffled his notes ostentatiously, trying to figure out how to lead into the news story that had been why they accepted the interview. Namely…he stared at High King Perric’s hair and wondered if the man was mad.
Relz based this on two factors. One—if he had lost his crown, the Drake would not consider advertising that fact to be healthy for his continued authority.
Two—Perric looked slightly unhinged today. There were little clues. The too-wide smile, the way he sounded overly jovial. And lastly, and this was a tiny clue—
He had about fifty partridges perched around him. There were bowls of seeds attracting them, and they were on his shoulders, legs, the table, the topiary sculptures…
The audience might not have been sold on some random [King]. But the sight of one covered by partridges without a crown? Now that was what you came to Channel 1 for.
“Proceed, Sir Relz. Don’t mind the birds. They’re merely—illustrative.”
High King Perric purred. He beamed. He had always wanted to be on the news, and circumstances hadn’t let him hog the lime-light. His one claim to fame had been being called a ‘rat-king’ by Drassi.
Well, they’d see who was laughing after this. Sir Relz swallowed.
“So—Your Majesty. I suppose there’s no way of broaching the subject delicately.”
“Broach away, my man—”
“Er. Yes. The rumor—and this was unverified until now—is that, ah, the High King of Medain had lost his crown. In a rather regrettable accident with the King of Destruction and some rogue adventurers. Now, I hate to name names, and Wistram News Network is a stickler for journalistic integrity, no matter what our detractors in the Chandrar International say—”
He was getting rather heated and distracted, and his producer signaled him off-screen to cut that out. But Sir Relz had to ask—
“I suppose the rumors are true? A—an artifact—a Relic, really, if you consider the national importance—stolen from Medain?”
Disastrous for High King Perric’s image. Rulers had been deposed for lesser embarrassments, and this was his crown. Give him credit; he hadn’t tried to make a fake, and he was taking the interview. Or was that just idiocy?
What was unnerving Relz and the viewers was that Perric just kept on smiling. He was nodding his head, and he broke in with an energetic, even eager, voice.
“That’s right, Sir Relz. My crown, the High Crown of Medain, is indeed gone. Purloined, I think I saw in the newspaper! I simply wished to give an interview on the topic. After all, the facts are the facts, and it’s highly entertaining.”
“Ye-es. Indeed. Can I—would you like to confirm who stole your crown?”
High King Perric beamed into the camera.
“Why, of course. It was Ceria Springwalker and Yvlon Byres of the Horns of Hammerad.”
Sir Relz had been taking a breath mint. He paused in chewing, and the studio fell silent. After a moment, a thirty-second delay of dead silence—Drassi’s voice audibly echoed from her connected studio.
“Whaaaaaaaaaa—”
 
——
 
This wasn’t good. Yvlon was not meeting Pisces’ or Colth’s gazes. Ceria was trying to shuffle behind the [Armsmistress]. Everyone in the world had just heard that. Including—
“I think I hear the King of Destruction laughing over there.”
Pisces weakly pointed towards a huge, guffawing voice in the distance. He couldn’t take his eyes away from the scrying orb, though.
High King Perric was beaming into the camera. And his eyebrows were doing something weird. He was raising one, then the other. As if they were bouncing higher across his brows.
“I think he’s lost it.”
That came from Colth. Yvlon had to agree. Was Perric having a meltdown? Sir Relz was trying to clarify.
“The Horns of Hammerad. Quite a notable team, if still technically Gold-rank. I suppose this means war. Aha. One can’t, uh, allow that kind of thing.”
“Oh, why not?”
The Drake was having trouble. He stopped again and cleared his throat.
“Well—it’s not the thing a ruler can let them get away with, is it? Then again, I suppose you’re the High King.”
“Indeed I am. Indeed I am, Sir Relz. And I say—why would I hold a grudge?”
Perric had a cup of coffee, and he raised it to his lips despite the fact that there was a good chance one of the partridges had pooped in it. A few fluttered off his shoulders and cape as he beamed at the camera.
“So you’re not putting a bounty on your lost crown?”
“Not at all.”
This was television. Everyone was staring at Ceria in the camp. Was this her new Skill’s doing? Could it actually addle Perric’s mind? Everyone had assumed [It’s a Joke, Not a Crime] let Ceria avoid criminal charges for her pranks. If this was her ability—Pisces was going to start putting on makeup and juggling pies or something.
“Well, Your Majesty, it sounds quite lenient of you, if you don’t mind me saying.”
High King Perric looked astonished as he patted his mouth with a napkin.
“Lenient? If this were anyone else, I assure you, they would already be dead, Sir Relz. Even if Mars the Illusionist were to steal my crown—that would be an act of war, King of Reim or not.”
“Wh—really. But for these two adventurers—I suppose the High King really does love adventurers that much? Then you’re expecting to have it back any day now. There’s japes, but this goes too far, Your Majesty!”
Sir Relz tried a grin as he leaned over the table, but Perric’s eyes twinkled. He beamed. He laughed—then he spread his arms, and the partridges began to fly up.
“Sir Relz, I understand your confusion at last! Allow me to illustrate my point. Yes, that Ceria is something of a scamp. And Yvlon, the Silver Killer—a forthright woman. True, they have my crown, a Relic of Medain. But why should I be put out? If you love someone—”
He stood, and the birds, alarmed, all took wing in a panic.
“—Then you let them go.”
Birds flew around the High King of Medain, shedding feathers. Sir Relz recoiled in his seat and stared at Perric.
“I don’t follow.”
The High King tapped the side of his nose with a winning smile.
