Scanning the ruins for small pockets of water mana was easier than expected, with all the death mana fading. 99% of what I sensed was earth-attuned mana that had slowly leached its way in from the ground, but there were traces of other mana.

The parts of the stadium near the surface now contained traces of the winged serpent’s mana zone, meaning the longer we waited, the quicker it would sense us once we were ready to leave— As if we didn't have enough problems to deal with.

No, don’t focus on the negative, I tell myself, turning my attention away from the sickly mana slowly penetrating down into the ruins.

Focus on what you can do.

Ignoring the serpent’s mana zone, I focus on the third and last type of mana I can sense— Water mana.

With the massive amount of water mana permeating the Endless Forest, you would think there would be more down here, but it was surprisingly sparse. Most of the water mana was spread out and not in any concentration that would indicate physical water, but there were a few exceptions.

I could sense a few rooms and hallways along the outside wall of the colosseum that had varying degrees of dense pockets of water mana. It wouldn't be a lot based on the level of mana I was sensing, but if we visited each location and gathered what we could, we might have enough to fill up our waterskins after boiling what we found and running it through my cleaning spell— and wasn't that exciting.

Finally, I felt productive. We didn't even have the water yet, and for some reason, I wanted to stand up and shout with joy. How pathetic, but you know what? I'll take the win.

After setback after setback, it was nice to think that I'd actually accomplished something of note.

Taking a few steady breaths, I calm my emotions and look at everything as it is. Okay, we had water, possibly. The question is, what should I focus on next? What could I do to help while Tabitha was recovering?

I could sit here and meditate until Tabitha woke up, but that wasn't a productive use of my time. There were better things I could put my mind to use, like thinking about how I would make Tabitha a new shield.

Yes, that's what I should be doing.

Opening my eyes, I stand up and glance at Tabitha. She was still fast asleep and would be for at least a few more hours— plenty of time for me to devise a plan.

But first, what did I have to work with?

I go over everything we have on hand in my head. For tools, I had my hammer. It's not the best for detailed work, but it would allow me to shape metal if I could heat it.

Alright, what metal did I have access to?

There was the water magicite in my bag and a few rock samples I collected here and there, but nothing I was confident experimenting with. Shaking my head, I turned my attention to the pile of scrap metal sitting next to where we buried the skeletons from the chamber.

The rusty pile was the last remnants of the undead we defeated. They were obviously exceptional since they lasted this long, but was that enough? If I could melt it all down, there might be enough usable metal to work with after removing all the oxidation, but that required a forge.

It sucked that the colosseum wasn't still intact. The section we were in was massive, but based on its dimensions and the mural inside the chamber, it was only a third of the overall structure. A stadium this size had to have had an armory somewhere with a forge; sadly, I never sensed anything resembling either during my many scans, meaning the armory was likely in a different section altogether.

All I could do was curse our terrible luck and move on.

Maybe I could fashion a temporary shield from the materials I have on hand?

I have a pile of roots as strong as steel; maybe I can use them?

Walking to the pile nearby, I gather the best roots in my arms and return to the hallway's center. First, I had to see how malleable they were.

Usually, examining new materials is fun for me. I like to find out how strong materials are and how well they handle mana and its internal structure. Normally, I could get lost in all the little details— Not this time.

For each root I picked up and examined, I had to mentally picture it being used to block a strike from the winged serpent, and the results weren't good.

After some scanning with my skills and a few simple stress tests, I quickly concluded the roots wouldn't work. Less than a day had passed since we removed the roots from the ground, and they'd already lost much of their durability.

Without being connected to one of the massive trees and, by extension, its mana, the roots were less flexible and more brittle than they were yesterday. They were still as hard as steel, but there was no telling how long that would last.

If I weaved a shield out of roots, there was a slim possibility that it may stand up to a single strike from the winged serpent— Heck, it may even last two, but a third? Not possible. Tabitha needed a shield that could last at least a dozen blows, preferably more.

Gritting my teeth, I pick up my test subjects and return them to the pile with the rest of the roots. "Back to step one," I mumble to myself.

It was quickly looking like I had no choice in the matter; if I wanted to make Tabitha a reliable shield, I would have to melt down the armor fragments and figure out how to mold them into a shield. And to do that, I'll need to build a temporary forge.

Glancing over my shoulder, I eyeball the stack of grey bricks we removed from the ground. At least when it comes to building a forge, I have materials to work with.

It'll take time, but I can't leave Tabitha's side and have nothing else to do, so— "Let's get started. You can do this," I try to psych myself up, and I'll admit, saying it out loud helps.

It's time to get building.
