“I did. I sent you and Bithe messages, too.”

“I know.” Emban’s smile was strained. “But you must have sent her something more than your gratitude and an invitation to throw paper flyers. She won’t show me what it said, but she appreciated it very much. She’s mentioned it. More than once. Thank you for doing it. Has she replied to you yet?”

“Not yet.”

“She plans to,” said Emban. “Or maybe she decided to wait until you meet in person again.”

“I’m glad. I wanted…” I wanted her to know me. Just a little. “I hope she’s well.”

Emban nodded.

If it’s her, if she’s not one hundred percent focused on her squad today, and if she appreciates that I reached out to Ryada, then…

He hadn’t finished the thought and worked out if it was wrong to say something before that scraping feeling took advantage of the moment to make him speak. “It’s sad that Stu spent this whole Welcome End with a human he met this year instead of his family and the people he grew up with. For me, it was very fortunate because I got to spend time with him, and he’s wonderful. But for him…it’s really sad.”

Six eyes looking at him. No smiles. No sound. The basket in his hand was heavy, the handle rough.

He focused on Emban. She was wearing the braid she must have slept in; it hung long over her shoulder and looked more frayed than a fresh one.

You get it, right? he thought. Say something. Say you’ll help somehow. It means a lot to him that you don’t completely doubt him. Do any little thing to fix—

“Bithe shouldn’t have said what he said to you by the o’odee field,” said Emban. “He was wrong. But in general, not talking so much about things you don’t have complete knowledge of is good advice. We all understand what Stu wants better than a human ever could. And we know the shades of his sadness better than you ever will. You are very welcome here as his guest, and his soon-friend. He cherishes you. But this isn’t your world. There will always be things you can’t know about us. It’s something you’ll have to become accustomed to.”

Oh.

“Emban,” one of the twins murmured, “the human was just expressing worry for our cousin.”

“I think she means…” said the other, “…that we appreciate…”

God.

Alden breathed. The air seemed to dive through his mouth into his lungs like a blade.

So.

“I apologize,” he said, “for interrupting your conversation. And for imagining that I could contribute to something this elevated with my weak human understanding. I thought saying, ‘Stu feels sad because he’s left out of everything,’ was basic enough for me, but I should have gone even simpler. Let me try again. My friend is upset. Everyone thinks they’re being reasonable, but to the human, it looks like a bunch of people have been pushing him just a little more day after day, so that they didn’t even notice when they stopped being reasonable and started being mean-mean.”

He fled before any of them could answer. And before more words could spill out of him.

Ouch.

I shouldn’t have said anything to the girl whose hoped-for soulmate is in bad shape.

Apparently.

But fuck.

He wanted to drop the basket and run. And run. On and on through the forest, until he miraculously found answers about himself under trees sacred to a culture that was not his own. Instead, he only walked swiftly down the hill in the dark, toward the safety of the cottage.

Emban found that part of me the spoon was scraping against and dug into it really good. That was so nice of her. Without her help, I might have gone on thinking I just felt sorry for Stuart.

Look at this gaping wound in my guts! It turns out the hurt is only half empathy for him.

The rest of it is all about me.

Welcome End wasn’t for Stuart.

And it wasn’t for humans either.

This isn’t your world. There will always be things you can’t know.

Seconds later, he entered the cottage a little too quickly and woke his host up.

“Hey! I brought you food.” He wanted to sound bright and unbothered. He thought he did. “There’s something called a crosswater noodle.”

“I like those,” Stuart said sleepily, looking up at him from the floor.

“You do? Great. I appreciate you looking out for me last night.”

“You’re talking fast.”

“I’ve been awake for a while,” said Alden. “That’s all. You want grain tea? I brought grain tea, too.”

******
