"I'd carry them to the room myself. Of course, that cost extra. They always passed out anyways. Heh. I wish I could live like there was no tomorrow like they do."

He took a puff on the cigar, holding it in. He let it out in a satisfied sigh.

"But I can't anymore. Life's funny like that. It shows you these fleeting, beautiful moments, and before you know it, they become memories. You can have something so valuable in your hands, but you only realize that after it's all gone."

Joshua gazed in the distance.

"And then, when the dust settles and you have time to breathe...Those memories become the most valuable thing you have left. Hah. They're just shadows of what you had, yet they're as good as gold compared to all this other trash we have to live through."

I frowned, but I listened. Joshua smothered his cigar before taking a breath.

"I shouldn't have said all that. I must be in one hell of a mood tonight."

I waved my hand.

"No, it's fine. I'm here to listen."

He nodded before turning to me.

"You know, you have something good with these three. Not going with them...It's a real shame to see you go out and waste the time you do have. Trust an old man that's wasted several lifetimes' worth of goodness in his life...Don't let these moments pass you by. You will regret it more than you know."

He spoke the words like a man holds a sick child. The worry, the care, it left me unable to find words to respond. After a while, a wave of guilt passed over me. I let out a sigh.

"I have something to tell you. Let me put these three down."

Joshua crossed his arms before putting his feet on his countertop.

"I've got all the time in the world. It's what happens when a man's waiting to die."

I walked the three adventurers back to their rooms before walking back to the tavern's main room. I leaned against the wood, a bit of fear creeping its way into my stomach. Joshua threw his hand up.

"What? Are you scared of little old me?"

I nodded.

"I am."

Joshua frowned.

"Oh."

He put his feet down before sitting upright. He put a hand on the back of his head.

"Well, son...I know you haven't been telling us everything, and that's probably for the best. After all, oversharing isn't good for anyone. Look at what I just did. That sure as hell didn't help anybody, did it?"

I shook my head.

"No, I appreciate it. I really do. You remind me of what I fight for."

Joshua flushed.

"I thought you just fought for money."

"I never have."

Joshua nodded.

"I figured as much. That cloak's worth more than those three combined."

I steepled my fingers.

"I...I haven't been honest with you all about who I am."

Joshua sighed.

"Son, you can tell me what you need to when the time is right. Don't feel like I'm going to kick you out because we disagree on something. You're still welcome here."

I peered up at him.

"Even if I make more ice puns?"

Joshua leaned back, his hands raised.

"Now wait a minute. A man has to have standards."

I laughed before gulping. I rolled the fingers of my hands, this moment becoming surprisingly difficult. After a few breaths, I stood tall.

"I'm not a wanderer from Colorado."

Joshua rolled his eyes.

"Any fool could tell that much. Like I said, that cloak alone lets me know you're not just some nobody."

I swung the cloak off my back.

"I'm a native of Springfield."

Joshua's eyes widened. He gawked.

"You're...You're from the first platoon?"

I unshackled several of the tightening belts over my arms.

"In a sense."

Joshua peered to the side.

"It makes so much more sense now why you're so strong. You faced Yawm and lived. Woah."

I nodded.

"And a little more."

Joshua scoffed.

"You fought in the Elysium Wars as well? Color me surprised."

My eyes glowed from mana. My presence leaked into the room, and Joshua's hair bristled. I nodded.

"I faced and survived Yawm. I killed millions on Giess. I slaughtered armies on Blegara. I faced and destroyed Lehesion across several timelines. I fought against the avatars of the Old Ones and won. I've even conquered planets in my legion's name."

Joshua's awe faded.

"Well, this was a pretty good joke, I have to admit. You had me going for a while."

I pulled the top of my leather armor off.

"It's no joke."

Joshua covered his face.

"My god, why in the hell are you undressing?"

I finished removing the leather pads, my dark metal armor forming over me the moment it could. I grew several feet taller, my head hitting the ceiling. My aura encompassed Joshua but not the others. The old man's surprise came back with vengeance, and he fell backwards off his chair. He scrambled back to the fridges, and his eyes opened wide.

"You...You're not who I think you are...Are you?"

I frowned. Mana glowed over my frame. It dolloped like glowing poison floating across space. My runes blurred the air in the room, and I molded gravitation to protect all that surrounded me. I sat down, my legs crossed, and my torso was still taller than the bar. A sad smile crossed my face as I loomed over the man as a titan of metal, violence, and potential.

"I am The Harbinger of Cataclysm."
