“I will.” Jhulune said and stepped close. She was his exact height, had similar fluffy hair except that it was red, and she wrapped her arms around his neck just like her mother did.

“I want to say goodbye; but, depending on your decision, it could only be a 'see you soon'.” Ren said as he put his arms around her, and she hugged him tightly.

“How about we don't say anything?” Jhulune said and leaned back. “Hey, I found a spot that mom missed.” She said and kissed him on the lips.

Ren smiled. “I'm kind of glad you found that spot and not her.”

“Hey!” Her mother shouted from the kitchen, and they looked to see her head as she peeked around the doorway. “My husband would kill me if I kissed you like that!”

That made Jhulune and Ren laugh, and they let each other out of the embrace. She went back inside the house and shut the door, then Ren and Xuunah walked back down the road to the main street, and followed it to the Housing District turnoff.

“You have had more successful encounters with women than anyone I have ever met.” Xuunah said, and Ren grinned.

“Yes, and none of these goodbyes have been influenced by my Prince Charming title.”

“Why does it bother you to use all the skills at your disposal?” Xuunah asked.

“It's overpowering.” Ren said. “If I went into every situation with everything on or activated, it would change the situation.” He said. “If I go in armed for bear, then I'm guaranteed to meet a bear.”

“I don't understand.”

“Look at it this way.” Ren said as they approached the street his house was on. “If you saw a normal man walking down the street towards you, with a smile on his face, what would you think?”

“He was a man who was happy going for a walk.” Xuunah said. “I'd probably like to meet him.”

“Now, imagine that same man coming towards you, except this time he's wearing a set of bright gold armor, with a glowing weapon just as big as him, riding a mount with similar armor, and his eyes glowing red from his abilities.” Ren smiled. “What would you think then?”

“That I was in deep trouble, and I would arm myself and prepare for battle.” Xuunah said as they stopped in front of the house. “You make an excellent point.”

“I know.” Ren said and grinned. “Do you have anything to pack or gather up?”

“No, only myself.”

“Then if you will kindly wait, I'll make us a suitable transport.”

Xuunah stepped to the side of the street to watch, and Ren opened the cart pattern he had. Rather than use it as is, he made it more like a bus with double rows of seats for people to sit in, and instead of the bus driver and an engine, he kept the normal horse attachment and doubled it as well. He thought he wouldn't actually need two horses to pull it, since the burden becomes that of the driver; but he wanted two, just in case. He added a large space in the back for Princess and the two dogs, and then got to work.

Ren didn't bother trying to make anything fancy, since the Phantom Steeds could fly and it was only going to touch the ground a couple of times. He made the seats comfortable and the sides low enough that passengers could see out if they wanted to. When he was done, he took out the Wand of Transport and cast two Phantom Steeds to attach to the harnesses at the front, then turned and held a hand out to Xuunah.

“Your ride awaits.” Ren said and smiled.
