Althea sighed, "At least we'll see them coming."

I nodded, “Keeping it positive. I like that.” I turned towards the edge of the mountains. Unlike the other rift, there wasn’t any obvious barrier. The red sky stretched endlessly, no white tendrils locking it in. The sand dunes stretched up high to the horizon, but we could see the end. It would take maybe a few hours to reach the mountain tops.

The goal was to reach somewhere with food, water, and shelter. Food and water was asking a bit much though. Outside of the immediate short term, the faster gained our skills, the quicker we could leave. With that in mind, I pointed out into the distance, “Can you fly high then check out the nearby area? Once we know what's around, we’ll go from there.”

Althea nodded, flapping her wings before shooting into the air. Her flight was a handy piece of utility, and maybe that was why she didn’t invest into constitution. It gave her a level of mobility I dreamed of. To be fair, I could tank at least 100 times more damage than her, so it was a give and take kind of situation.

She careened into the sky, flying with ease. I took a breath. I didn't remember it being so hard just to breath. With each breath, that difference in density became clearer. I adjusted my breathing along with my rolling my shoulders. A couple pops ran through my back. I swallowed, my ears popping, the kind of pop you get when rolling down the window in a car.

My body weighed into the ground more, my own body pulling me down. My extra constitution and strength minimized the difference between this world and the last, but my perception made the difference obvious. This planet was bigger than earth for one. By how much, maybe a third more gravity. I clapped my hands, wondering if sound traveled differently here. It did. The echo created a visible wave through the air, echoing faster than on earth.

If it wasn’t for my enhanced physique, I’d be breathing in a toxic atmosphere, denser than I could breath. Other planets may have environments too hostile for me. It would be hard to tell until I was there. Even if the atmosphere was corrosive, if it had oxygen, I’d be fine. I learned that during research some research with my obelisk.

I was curious about drowning, wondering what would happen. After all, if it inflicted damage, I might sustain that damage forever. Unfortunately, it worked differently. Drowning inflicted unconsciousness then growing % based true damage. I could sustain through about fifteen minutes without air, all while unconscious and underwater. Someone could resuscitate me during that time, but he true damage would eventually kill me though.

Seeing Althea float upwards, it made me wonder if the air was choking her a bit. She never complained, so I assumed she was fine. With how she drifted through the air, she didn't look like she was in pain. She looked free, circling higher and higher before taking a nosedive downwards. A few seconds later, she landed on my shoulder with her talon laden feet.

“The mountains are farther away than we thought. I flew up longer than I would need to on earth, which means those mountains are really far away.”

I frowned, “Well fuck. Might as well get started.”

She nodded, so I glanced at the sand surrounding us. No life teemed, not even the slightest wink of it. No wind slid through the valley either. Weird as it was, other marks in the sand stuck out more than anything alive. Vast, massive chunks of sand were missing from dunes in the distance. It looked like something took a bite out of the dune.

Those marks scattered about, once every ten or so dunes. It reminded me of the Freedom Fighters incident. More than likely, I could take on any dangers here. That didn't mean I should though. Being more away of my mortality, I kept cautious. I stomped the stone I stood on. Cracks formed underneath my feet, stone splintering up as my foot dug into the rock.

Grabbing a piece of stone the size of my forearm, I stepped forward and tossed the rock with all my might. It flew several dunes away before slamming on top of the sand. Sand erupted from the impact as Althea gripped onto my shoulder to hold on,

“What are you doing?”

My eyes narrowed, “Playing it safe.”

A few seconds later, the ground pulsed. A wave of kinetic energy shook through the sand before a monstrous worm monster flew up and out of the ground. Larger than a football field, it snapped up the stone. Even without Schema’s help, I could tell this thing was over level 2000.

As it passed, the jagged, coarse lining of its throat glistened with clear, crystalline teeth. They lined the monster's maw all the way down our line of sight. They shined red from the light, showing creeping parasites that lived in its throat. These bulbous, deformed, and horrible insects and slugs squirmed on the inside of it. Many of their eyes followed the sight of us, looking for prey.

Unlike the insects, the colossal worm shifted through the sand like birds swimming through the air. It took seconds for it to pass by.

Before it finished, Althea murmured, “Oh…good thing you played it safe.”

I nodded. I needed to cross the desert without touching the sand, so I jumped up, landing on a telekinetic pad I created. Instead of diverting the energy beneath me and into the sand, I shifted it behind me. I made this second panel massive, which gave me enough resistance to stomp onto the first plate.

Using the density of the air to my advantage, each of my steps created a storm's worth of wind as I bounced forward. My feet snapped off the telekinetic planes, letting me bounce across the air. If I kept up with this level of stomping though, I would run into the sand eventually. I needed to stay up and off the sand without touching it, otherwise I'd be worm's food.

To keep it up, I stomped on the pads with my ascendant mana coursing through my runes. Without the enhanced strength, I couldn’t keep up with the task. Creating new pads, each reinforced and stable enough to hold my stomping weight turned something that should be easy and turned it into something hard. The extra weight amplified the complexity of it. I adjusted to this soon enough, but the enormity of the task came down on me after a while.

Strengthening the panels for my stomping took a toll on me. For some damn reason, Althea freeloaded on my shoulders too, which sucked pretty bad after a few kilometers into the run. Her stamina wasn't like mine though, so reserving some strength was probably a good idea. Doesn't mean I wasn't a bit sour over the whole thing.

Once I got over myself, I learned that making a panel too strong wasted effort and mana. Making it just tough enough made the task much easier. Learning this required a bit of trial and error though. After reducing the strength by tiny smidgens for a while, I snapped through a plate. Before falling into the sand, I created another panel to prop myself back up with.

I stomped into the plate, struggling to keep myself from falling into the sand. Althea swung her wings, pulling me back upright. Once stable, I strengthened the panels a bit before heading out on my merry way. The only reason I even tried that was because Althea offered a safety net. As I got used to measuring the strength of the panels, it got easier and easier.

By the time the mountain grew in my vision, I was a certified pro at it. Glad to be near it, the immense mountain covered most of my vision by then. The whistling of wind glided across the top of the mountain. It looked like all the wind blew up high, near the top of the mountain. That explained why I saw bite marks on all the dunes.

Around the peak, a group of decaying birds flew across the sky, riding that wind. Metallic plates helmeted their heads, like their beaks never stopped growing and eventually covered them. Black drool leaked from their mouths, and a black aura radiated off their talons eyes. Black miasma created umbral contrails behind them, like black smoke that faded. As they flapped their molting wings, pieces of flesh and skin falling from them. Beneath the flesh, tumors grew.

They cawed at us, flashing their talons towards us. We had a few seconds to watch them dive towards us. When the group slammed into us, I side stepped them while shot off my shoulder. When she met them, Althea ripped them apart with her own talons.

Her strength in her form shook the enemies to their cores. Each swipe held a certain intention, like something changed in her. She used to just flay her arms around, more to get someone away from her than to kill them. These new strikes, while wild and inefficient, where loaded with a vitality and frenzy in them. With her absurd strength, she sundered the monsters apart.

As she slaughtered them, I bounced back and forth on my telekinetic pads while catching and consuming the corpses. On the last bird, one of my panels snapped. I gyrated in the air before flopping onto the sand. I pushed myself up, running forward and snatching up the falling corpse of the bird. After my armor absorbed it, I sprinted forward towards the mountain.

Althea flew above me, so I ran up to the top of a sand dune before leaping. Once flying, she gripped her claws into my shoulders. I stomped my feet into telekinetic pads, going upwards. Beneath us, a wave shifted through the sand. We rose higher and higher, the rumbling surging beneath us. The vibration of the rumbling shook my hands it was so violent. A growl like thunder roared beneath us, a sickening gurgle following. We needed to hurry.

Changing tactics, I let the force smash of the telekinetic pads smash into my shoulders and stomach instead of the wind. The blows hurt like kicking a cinderblock with your toe. Not bad with my pain resistance, but it ate into my health. After a few more stomps, an entire dune exploded out from beneath us. Panicking a bit, I smashed my feet into the pads, spurring me forward. The new feeling was more like kicking a cinderblock and peeling your toenail back during the process.

Thank Schema for pain resistance. Panicking a bit herself, Althea flapped her wings with a burst of effort, letting me speed up just a pinch more. The worm reached us. With teeth the size of trees, the mountainous mouth clamped shut. The wind off its bite blew on my back as it bit through one of my feet. Several of its teeth cracked, but my leg tore off like biting through aluminum foil. With its prize in its mouth, it dived back into the sand.

The shrieking of shredding metal ebbed from its insides, like a trash compacter crushing a car as disappeared. I hobbled forward on my telekinetic pads, struggling for a minute as my foot regenerated. Once my leg was back, I returned to jogging. I sighed with Althea, giving her a much-needed rest. I moment later, I lifted an arm up,

“Thanks. You saved my ass there.”

She clapped my hand with a talon foot, laughing at the absurdity of it all,

“Yeah, I didn’t think they were that dangerous. They’re a lot bigger up close.”

I shook my head, “Hell yeah they are. Those worms must be level 3000. Hard to say. No wonder Yawm and his followers aren’t coming close to them. They’re ridiculous.”

She nodded, looking up at the mountain, “Let’s hope the other monsters aren’t as dangerous.”

I agreed before we fell back into the smooth motion of running on the wind. Once over the mountain, Althea jumped off my shoulders and glided beside me. I turned to her, “Why did you make me carry you?”

A bit of shame in her voice, she murmured, “My stamina can’t keep up with flying. It's fun but exhausting.”

I nodded my head. She didn’t have the regeneration stats that I did, including stamina regeneration. That was something I took for granted often. Because of my endurance and the determinator tree, my stamina had never been and likely never would be a problem. Sometimes I felt the tug of exhaustion, but it never lingered for any meaningful length of time. Combine that with my high willpower, and I moved like a machine.

That may be what alienated Althea from me for so long. I kind of enjoy the thrill of fighting. She struggled finding any real reason too. Up till meeting us, her life was either being in a lab or bounty hunting. Battling twenty-four seven wasn't much better. Thinking back on it, the way we met and the lifestyle she had led up till that point was unbelievably hard. It must have sent her spiraling into depression.

I already knew about all the good stuff outside of the drudgery of Schema. Althea though, she didn’t.

A pang of guilt rippled through me. If I handled us meeting better, maybe even treated her with a bit more humanity, she’d be doing better. Not just more powerful, but happier and more content as well. I may could have saved Michael and Kelsey too if I gave it my all. The problem is, I would never know now. It was regret, and regrets have a way of growing with time. Maybe I wouldn't have heard that voice a while back either if I just thought things through more.

Those thoughts left a bitter taste in my mouth, so I vowed to think things through a bit more before acting. I may end up with better results with whatever I was doing, for me and whoever I was in contact with. Who knows, I might not end up falling into another eldritch's trap again either. Preserving my humanity was a plus too.

No matter how humane I acted in this rift, I doubt any of that would be given in turn though. We reached the mountain, landing on the hard stone with loud cracks. Althea's feet turned normal, her wings returning to arms. Since we met, those abilities turned from monstrous abominations into fully formed, working limbs. It looked like she studied the anatomy of birds and applied it to herself, making the transformations elegant and natural.

