Ren's momentum had carried him a good 40 feet through the air, and just before he hit the water, he took out the boat and positioned it below him. He hit the water with a splash, and slid through the water another 30 feet by the time he had grabbed the oars and started to row as fast as he could.

*

Princess felt really tired. Her berserk rage had worn off while she ran, and she stumbled and bounced off of a building. She had the distinct impression to go towards the docks, and felt like she needed to go there. She came to the road that led to the docks, and fell to her knees. She skidded to a stop and breathed heavily.

Must... get to... My Lord. Princess thought and forced herself to stand up. It was difficult, and she felt a small nudge on each of her sides. She took several deep breaths, pointed herself towards the docks, and started to run.

*

Ren could feel Princess as she struggled; but their mental connection was intermittent. I hope she's okay! He thought as he continued to row.

*

“The rowboats don't have engines, right?” One of the deckhands asked.

“Right.” The one holding the tow rope said.

“Then how is that thing going so fast?” The deckhand asked and pointed to Ren.

*

Princess' vision became blurry as she finally made it to the docks. She stumbled and almost fell when she came to the wood part, but she kept going.

He's near... I feel him... Princess thought, then she heard a shout and perked up.

*

“I'm right here!” Ren shouted to Princess as he arrived at the dock and turned the boat around to come to a stop. He saw her react to his voice, and then she put on a burst of speed. “You're almost there!” He said as she ran over the planks of wood towards the water. “Get ready.... JUMP!”

Princess jumped when her Lord had asked her to, but she couldn't see anything anymore and had no idea where she was as she flew through the air.

Ren felt her lose consciousness and saw her form falter, but she had jumped far enough and he stood up in the boat and braced himself to catch her. Her weight hit him and he felt the impact in his bones as his Health dropped down to almost a third of the total and he took nearly a thousand points in damage. Ren was grateful he was in a boat, because the water had helped him absorb the hit when it combined with his Shock Absorption ability. He had succeeded in his attempt to catch her, and sat down in the boat.

“You made it.” Ren said, and pat her neck. Princess was fast asleep, and now that he had the opportunity to see her up close, he examined her to see if the soldiers had hurt her. He could see her helm was bent and damaged in places, but the Intelligence and Protection enchantments had held. He unequipped it from her head, and saw the blood underneath it. One of her horns was cracked down to the core, and Ren tried not to let the damage she'd taken distract him from helping her.

“Oh, you poor thing.” Ren said, and took out a Major Healing wand. “Let me take care of that for you.”

Ren held the horn in place and used the wand to heal her. He then felt her forehead and traced a fracture along her eye socket and down to her nose.

“I can't believe you made it here with this much damage.” Ren said and healed it. “There you go.”

Princess stirred a little bit, but Ren knew she would be out for at least an hour. He checked her over thoroughly, and stored then repaired her armor as he went along. He found several bruises on her body and legs, and little dents in the armor.

Ren finished healing her and put her armor back on, then moved her to the back of the boat. With her condition stabilized, he sat down and rowed back towards the ship.
