“You're not even arrogant about that.” Tatya almost whispered as she took another step closer.

“I don't like to gloat or rub my abilities in people's faces.” Ren said. “That's not why I'm here.”

“Why are you here?” Tatya asked and took another step, which put her within an arm's reach.

“Do you want the truth or a lie so good that it sounds like the truth?” Ren asked with a smile, and Artemis covered her own smile and Teepo chittered in laughter.

“What I want...” Tatya had to stop herself from moving forward and thought about the question. “The truth.” She said as she decided. “The real truth.”

“I was told by the Sage of Ages that I needed to join your caravan and to go with you back to your homeland.” Ren said, and Tatya visibly shivered.

“Now... now the lie that sounds so good.” Tatya whispered.

“I remember your scent, too.” Ren said. “Not only do I want to smell it again, I want to taste it directly from the source.” He said, and her body quivered. “I came to the caravan to sneak away from the Human Kingdom and their idiocy, just so I can go with you to your homeland and experience what it's like there.”

“Oh, god.” Tatya whispered and ducked her head as she hugged herself to stop the low rumbling she was emitting. “That... is a... great lie.”

“That's not the best part.” Ren said and she lifted her head to see that he was standing right beside her. “Now you have to figure out what part I was lying about.”

Tatya's breathing sped up, because she hadn't heard, seen, or even felt him move, and she blinked her eyes at him several times.

“Who did you send to check out the Cathedral?” Ren asked.

“Zaerepis.” Tatya said. “Our healer.”

“I'll return with him momentarily and the caravan can get back on schedule.” Ren said and activated his winged flight and deployed his bat-like leathery wings.

“But... we are already so far behind...”

“I'll take care of it.” Ren said, and Tatya shivered again as his confidence flowed out to her. “Artemis.”

“Right beside you.” Artemis said and floated up into the air with him, then they both disappeared from sight.

Tatya whipped her head around to look at the cathedral and saw two little dots get smaller. “Good god.”

A hand touched her shoulder and Kenkoth filled her with strength and calmness. “Are you all right?”

“I will be.” Tatya said. “At least, I hope I will be.”
