“...True, but you twist this monk’s words to your own benefit and ignore the true message within. Though the goal is difficult and perhaps even impossible, what harm is there in striving for peace and harmony?”

“Would the world be a better place if we all followed the Brotherhood’s beliefs? Sure, if you ignore how millions would probably starve if we all abstained from meat without preparation, or that unscrupulous individuals would use our non-violent tendencies against us, or a million other aspects you haven’t even considered.” Suppressing the urge to roll my eyes, I gesture around at nothing in particular. “In a perfect world, the Brotherhood’s beliefs might be possible, but we live in reality, and it is far from perfect. Even without Spectres, Demons, and the Enemy, humanity is more than happy to slaughter one another without end, because where there are people, there will be conflict. You hid yourselves away in the Arid Wastelands to live lives of secluded meditation, but even then, a schism still developed amidst you and your brothers. Hell you even fell into conflict with your Senior Brother over the reins of succession. Conflict is inevitable, and hopes and prayers won’t change that.”

A low blow, bringing up Mahakala, but the words were out of my mouth before I could stop them. Thankfully, the Abbot takes it in stride and merely lets out another sigh.“Our way is not perfect, but your way only leads to endless strife and misery. The more you fight, the more Spectres are born, and the more power the Enemy wields over humanity. Thus has it been for millennia untold, but should things continue in this manner, then perhaps the cycle of Death and Rebirth shall end within the century once the Enemy makes use of Anathema.”

“Okay, so why aren’t you out there doing something about it?”

“What this monk does now,” the Abbot says, his expression grave and tone deadpan, “Is precisely what needs to be done.”

...Argue with me? Why? Even if he can convince me to leave with him, what does he expect me to do? I’ve asked him this same question repeatedly these past five days, but he refuses to give me a straight answer and only insists I leave with him to shave my head, say my vows, and join the Brotherhood as the First Wisdom, a title which supposedly means I’m second only to the Abbot and first amongst my peers, the other four Wisdoms. Three now, I guess, since the Old Healer who waylaid GangShu and the others defected to Zhen Shi’s side.

Not exactly a glowing endorsement for the Brotherhood’s teachings if one of their top talents decided a crazed, eight-hundred year old torturer made more sense than the Abbot. Hell, I’m not even convinced I disagree. If Zhen Shi’s goal is to eliminate life as we know it, his chances of success are significantly higher than the Abbot’s goal of world peace.

Besides, who in their right mind, would ever choose to be vegetarian?

Our argument comes to an end and we sit in silence for the rest of the short trip. Once through the gates of Fort Sinuji, the Abbot slips away to help with funeral rites, chanting a prayer in a strange language while hammering a slow and steady beat on his wooden fish-drum thing. Indecipherable as the baritone intonations are, the chant is oddly soothing and reminiscent of the stuff I heard in Mahakala’s Natal Palace, probably because they’re more or less the same thing. Jorani called them the Sutras and described them as ‘the Forms for the Mind’, but the Abbot refuses to teach me until I’ve said my vows so I have yet to have any firsthand experience with them aside from the brief interlude prior to Mahakala’s death. Had I known how useful they might be, I would’ve spent more time mulling them over, but now that my Core’s been shattered, my memory isn’t what it used to be and I don’t remember the specific Sutra anymore.

Then again, I’m not sure the Sutras are as miraculous as Jorani claims they are, considering the Brotherhood recite them every day and have yet to see how stupid some of their ideas are...

As much as I’d like to stop and help the weary soldiers with their clean up efforts, I’m no longer a Warrant Officer and lack the freedom which I once enjoyed. As an Imperial soldier, I’m supposed to report to the commanding officer as soon as I arrive, since I am technically the ranking officer in my regiment of one soldier, a dozen condemned slaves, and three-hundred and sixty some odd Death Corps. Being under Nian Zu’s command, Alsantset has no need to report alongside me, but she still comes along to keep me safe, and I bring Kuang Biao as well just for good measure. Signalling for Ping Ping to stay off to one side, I announce my name and rank to the two soldiers standing guard at the command tent and wait to be called inside.

And wait. And wait. And wait. A stupid power play I assume, because how could the commander be busy after Nian Zu took over his command?

After half-an-hour of standing outside in the cold, a sharp, effeminate voice screeches, “Send in Private Falling Rain.” As I make my way inside, the guards stop Alsantset and Kuang Biao, or at least they try to. Before my fierce sister can even scowl, both guards crash to the dirt as the former Royal Guardian summarily knocks them both onto their asses without blinking. Having been forewarned of his intentions during the lengthy wait, I hobble in without missing a beat and come face to face with the enraged glare of a face-painted fool wearing a puffy white jacket laden with jewelled accessories. “You dare?!”

Sticking closely to protocol, I bow and salute my new commanding officer, Lieutenant Colonel Mitsue Watanabe, son of the Obsidian Shadow, Mitsue Juichi, and uncle to Mitsue Hideo of the Hwarang. Unfortunately, this puffed up clown is sorely lacking compared to his father and nephew, a fifty-something year old silk pants who only made it this far due to his familial connections. “Private Falling Rain, reporting for duty,” I announce, before glancing at Kuang Biao and back at Watanabe. “Apologies for the injuries, but your guards should know better than to get between a Death Corps and his duty. Kuang Biao here is Oath-sworn to keep me safe, and without prior warning, this Imperial Consort could not stop him in time.”

Watanabe’s alabaster face twists in rage, not exactly unexpected, though I am caught off guard by his unexpected reasoning. “Imperial Consort? A mere private dares speak so highly in the presence of his superior?”

Great priorities there. Two injured guards and this idiot cares more about propriety. “Private this Imperial Consort may be, but to set rank above Imperial Peerage would be an insult to the Imperial Clan.” Probably. I might’ve been more humble if Watanabe hadn’t made me wait so long, but since he’s already antagonistic, then there’s no harm in reminding him that despite my low military rank, I am still his superior in social standing, and as such, cannot be bullied without repercussion.

Plus I have a Colonel General watching my back, so I can afford to speak highly.

When I heard the commanding officer came from a family I was already at odds with, I considered visiting a different area of the front lines, but Nian Zu convinced me otherwise. Even though the Mitsue’s hate me and Dastan because we ‘embarrassed’ Hideo on stage, I doubt it’s enough to ferment a life and death enmity between us, and since I’ll need every advantage I can get, we decided it was best to fight in an area my soldiers were already familiar with.

Bristling at the reminder of my Imperial Peerage, Watanabe glowers and glares for all he’s worth, but I’ve weathered worse during family dinners. When it becomes clear I won’t be intimidated by looming silence, Watanabe’s grimace melts into a smile as he unfurls a scroll and displays the Justicar’s seal imprinted at the bottom of the letter. “The Disciplinary Corps has warned this Lieutenant Colonel against showing Private Falling Rain any undue leniency due to his status as an Imperial Consort, so do not think your political influence or high-ranking friends can intimidate me. You will serve as a Private and obey every command given to you.”

“Private Falling Rain will obey.” So long as the command is reasonable, but I keep the addendum to myself.

Grinning like a cat, Watanabe straightens up and declares, “Heed my command. The traitorous slaves from Sanshu are hereby ordered to standby at all hours of the day and night, and at the first sign of Enemy attack, to make their way to the outermost wall. Once there, they are to hold and defend their position until such a time as they have paid for their grievous crimes against the Empire.” With their lives, no doubt, but it’s not over yet. “As their overseer, Falling Rain is to remain on standby beside them and subject to the orders of whichever officer holds command at any given time.”

Detailed instructions follow and my spirits dip with each additional restriction which shows Watanabe or his handlers have thought this through. Not only will I be standing in the thick of the fighting, he has valid reason to restrict most of my Death Corps guards from joining me on the wall, since he can hardly be expected to leave enough room on the first line of defenses for three-hundred plus soldiers at all times, nor can my Death Corps stand ready for twenty four hours a day, ten days a week. This’ll leave me highly exposed and vulnerable not just to attacking Defiled tribesmen, but also to any lurking Wraiths, Demons, or Imperial Assassins waiting to strike in the heat of battle. Not exactly a death sentence, but pretty damn close without overstepping his bounds, though things could be worse.

I mean, it sure as hell beats digging latrines with a spoon, so there’s that. Still, maybe I should send Kuang Biao to make sure Watanabe suffers an accident, like accidentally tripping on his sword and stabbing himself in the back of the head. A message of sorts, to show Jixing and his other lackeys I mean business. Bah, look at me, on assignment for less than ten minutes and already considering assassinating my commanding officer. Not gonna lie, I kinda enjoy abusing power and privilege, so I can see why people do it so often.

It’s morally wrong, but since we’re playing by Imperial rules, then might makes right, so technically, I’m in the right. Yea, it feels right, but maybe I should run the idea by Nian Zu first, just in case…

...Then again, Nian Zu is a stickler for the rules, and it’s easier to ask for forgiveness than it is to ask for permission...

Chapter Meme
