“[Spatial Movement]. This Skill has little practical utility, it simply allows me to move objects without touching them, to varying effectiveness. When I am manning my stall or travelling, I often use this Skill to train the class. The experience it provides is minimal, but it adds up over time.

“[Catch] allows me to capture a small incoming attack, such as an arrow or many types of spells. This Skill has its own spatial storage, though it requires both focus and mana to hold. This grants me a few seconds to either release the attack harmlessly away from my body or to use its companion Skill. I am less than fond that I must see the attack coming and wait until it is close to my body to even use the Skill though! It is highly unnerving, but it has saved me from harm more than once.

“[Return] is the companion Skill to [Catch]. It automatically returns the attack that I captured back along the same path that it came to me from. Wait, no, that is incorrect—I got an upgrade this cycle that allows me to track the target and adjust its aim, so long as I can see them. It does not impart any more… momentum behind the attack, however, so it may not strike true.

“[Hidden Hideaway] is my emergency Skill. It allows me to warp myself into a hidden pocket of reality—specifically my safe box. It is deeply unpleasant to spend time trapped in there, but it is a better option than being torn apart by beasts. This greatly limits the storage I can use for [Spatial Safe Box] since I must leave space for myself or I lose access to this Skill. Another flaw is that I am unable to see our world from within the box, thus I must use my own judgment for when to return. Another issue is that this Skill as of yet does not allow me to bring any objects with me that are not on my person. The prior cycle’s iteration of this Skill did not even include my clothing and personal effects—I am thankful that problem was resolved!”

Ranthia inwardly pouted, though she kept it off her face. She had missed the time when there was a [And Suddenly Naked Avyna] Skill! But no matter how confident Ranthia was in keeping the pout internal—Avyna knew her too well.

The elf gently bopped Ranthia with the side of a horn.

“[Spatial Counter] is meant to help protect my wares. The Skill should activate any time someone attempts to use a Spatial Skill to teleport or move something within my range to negate the effect. In practice, I have still lost some goods even with this Skill active, so I am concerned that it may be defeatable without alerting me.

“[Spatial Peek] is a Skill that supports my second class. It allows me to change the focus of my sight to any place within a certain range. I can use this to find misplaced goods, yes, but it is far more useful for seeing design documents that I was not meant to.” Avyna concluded primly.

“Wait, wait, waaaaait! You gave me shit over [Vision of the Void], but you have a pervert’s Skill too!” Ranthia wasn’t going to even try to resist the opportunity to retaliate with some well-deserved teasing!

“I would never! If I wished to see someone naked, no matter how [Sexy] they might be, I would simply ask to see them. It is remarkably effective.” Avyna swiftly retorted in entirely too stoic of a tone.

Alas, Ranthia could only imagine the cute blush that had to be affecting the elf she so adored! White Dove continued to take things from her.

“Mmhm, you never glanced into another stall while you were using one of those showers?” Ranthia still pressed her attack.

“There would be no reason to, there are no stalls. It is simply an open area. …But very well, I apologize, my love. Shall we agree to not levy such claims against one another? I can always rile you up in other ways, after all.” Avyna was—at least audibly—unaffected and retaliated with playful teasing.

So unfair.

Also, Ranthia was suddenly glad that she never asked to accompany Avyna to the communal showers. Remus’ baths could be bad enough, but without the steam and deep water, she would see … everything—with elves no less. She would have been forced to stare at the ceiling the entire time!

“I’ll agree, but only on the condition that I may have four kisses.” Ranthia magnanimously offered, completely devoid of ulterior motives.

“Perhaps I can offer you some pointers for negotiating in the coming days, but for now… very well, I accept.” Avyna answered after a brief giggle.

Ranthia had never expected to care about learning how to negotiate like a [Merchant], but she was more than willing to try anything that Avyna wanted to teach her. She could scarcely imagine a better way to spend her days—at least while the war continued to permit her personal moments of joy.

No, don’t think about that right now. Ranthia chided herself—she had enough worries without inviting more.

“On to my General Skills, I suppose. First and foremost is the skill that every elf requires and is encouraged to discover as soon as they are able. For me, it is [Chest of Experience].” Avyna began after their contracted kisses concluded.

The lovely elf trailed off when she realized where Ranthia’s unseeing eyes had drifted. Ranthia could only giggle unrepentantly when Avyna playfully swatted at her.

“I do not refer to those! This is my memory storage and retrieval skill. Immortals require one sooner or later, to prevent us from becoming ponderous or lost for ages in a flow of recollection. For me, it manifests as a vast chest of drawers, where I have my memories, experiences, and knowledge stored away. Wise elves take their first eight general skills related to their memory skill, then work to merge them together.

“[Elven Enchantment] improves my use of magic, including my [Enchanter] work.

“[Elven Experience] is a point of pride—I have met few other elves that managed to acquire this Skill evolution. It is a broad Skill that improves anything that I attempt to do, with greater benefits to any task that I have greater personal experience with.” Avyna enthused.

Ranthia, on the other hand, was stunned—once again. Elves got powerful Skills just for being elves?! She had never seen a ‘human’ Skill! [Elven Experience] was, quite potentially, the best jack-of-all-trades Skill that she had ever even heard of, too.

It… explained a lot and Ranthia’s brewing inferiority complex about her lover’s ‘talents’ was feeling somewhat soothed.

“My next General Skill, I must gloss over. Apologies, my love. There are those that would respond poorly if I shared the details.” Avyna spoke the words in an oddly pointed tone.

“I understand, love. I won’t pry.” Ranthia answered earnestly.

There was a brief moment of silence before Avyna continued.

“[System Perception] is my [Analyze] Skill, which functions similar to your people’s [Identify]. …Though I confess that I am somewhat peeved that your version is readily superior to my own.

“[Worldly Navigator] is a traveller’s Skill. It allows me to know the direction of any important landmark that I am familiar with, so long as I generally know my current position.”

Avyna paused in thought for a moment before she spoke.

“I will bribe you to lie about my next Skill and ‘unintentionally’ share the falsification with my daughter.”

“Oh?” Ranthia couldn’t help but to be curious.

“I used to tell my daughter that I had a Skill called [A Mother Knows], which allowed me to see through any lies she told me. She once attempted to threaten me to force me to drop a Skill that never existed in the first place. But it is a convenient mask to cover just how well I know her. She will understand by the time she chooses to have her own children.” Avyna explained conspiratorially.

Ranthia giggled.

“I may not be a mother, but isn’t that a bit mean?” Ranthia asked.

“Oh, my love, if I cannot tease my daughter, I would lose one of the ongoing delights of motherhood!” Avyna retorted.

Fair enough.

“Alright, but I should warn you that I am quite demanding when bribed.” Ranthia announced.

“Of course you are.” Avyna played along. “My actual Skill is [Enchanter’s Eye]. It allows me to notice and disregard numerous common methods to obscure enchantments, such as false details that are not properly incorporated.”

“My final General Skill is, as you no doubt figured out by now, [Make Ranthia Emotional]. It allows me—!”

Avyna’s words were lost in a sudden gasp as Ranthia went on the attack, joined rapidly by three other images. Avyna tried to hold out, but after a few wonderful moments, Avyna—somewhat winded—called her surrender.

“Okay, okay! My true final General Skill is [Eye for Character]. It works with my memory Skill to help me gauge people more easily and rapidly. To see who is good. To know who I can deal with. It is… a large part of why you caught my eye.” Avyna admitted once she caught her breath.

“Aww, that’s so sweet!” Ranthia cooed with feigned innocence.

After all, nothing about her current position—nor where her images’ hands still lingered—was innocent.

“It sounds like something you hope to merge into a class Skill.” Ranthia noted.

“You are correct, but perhaps not this cycle. And now that I am done, do remember that I am translating into your language, my love. I assure you, in my tongue the names have their own beauty, and I may have poorly described some aspects.” Avyna admitted, somewhat grudgingly.

“I don’t doubt it. Surely the most beautiful elf in the world must have the most beautiful Skill names.” Ranthia immediately replied.

Avyna made an adorable, pleased sound in response to Ranthia’s hopeless flattery-laden flirting and leaned closer.

Ranthia met her lips happily. White Dove might have stolen her sight for the night, but her other senses were still sharp. And she was trying to become as capable as possible, even while blinded. Hunting’s ancient lessons may not have been intended to be so broadly applicable, but Ranthia had a life beyond conflict.

And that was wonderful.
