A singed chunk of tennis ball bounced off his shoulder from Lexi’s direction, and Alden looked over at his roommate, beaming. Lexi was wiping sweat from his forehead with the back of his sleeve, and Writher’s gleaming chain was undulating in the air around him.


He caught sight of Alden and blinked. Writher undulated faster.


“Are you okay?” Lexi asked.


“I caught a ball!”


“I see that…why are you on the floor hugging the ball you caught?”


“Did he get hit in the head?” Jeffy called from behind them. He did sound concerned, so Alden couldn’t be too offended.


Dirt spattered them all as Maricel’s wedge took a strong strike directly to the tip. Big Snake’s follow-up shot smashed into her stomach, and she yelped. Leaving her dirt on the floor, she chased after the ball.


“I would be happy, too, if I caught one of these things!” she shouted. “Let him enjoy it.”


Thanks, Maricel.


Alden jumped up. “No. I really caught it,” he said to Lexi, who was still watching him. “Look!”


He considered the ball for a second more, rotating it until it pointed in the direction he wanted, then he let it rest flat on his palm. He stretched out his arm toward the instructor, smiled, and dropped preservation.


The tennis ball shot back toward Big Snake with all the power of the hero’s own throw. Alden’s aim wasn’t the best; it would have gone over Snake’s head if he hadn’t jumped to catch it.


But the speed!


It hit his hand with such a satisfying thwap.


There was a sudden pause in the activity. Lucille, standing as close to the instructor as they were allowed to, looked around to see who had returned the ball that fast. Haoyu, too. Everly, who had been collecting a trio of balls and had missed what happened, started to throw them back then stopped as Big Snake pointed at Alden.


“Hey!” he said in an enthusiastic voice that echoed across the gym. “I think I know what that was! Let’s see that again!”


Alden was thrilled.


And then he was taking a tennis ball to the collar bone.


“Gotta stay alert!” Big Snake called as Alden cursed in his head and ran after it. “If you’re gonna play the game that way outside of the gym it’s not safe to miss one!”


Over the course of the final few minutes of Defense, Alden missed five balls and caught one more that had been aimed directly at his chest. As the signal flashed indicating their session shift, Big Snake waved him over.


“You know you could do that?” the hero asked as he plucked damaged projectiles out of his bin and tossed them with uncanny accuracy into a separate recycling container behind him. “Get ahold of things with that skill of yours that maybe your target didn’t mean for you to keep?”


“I knew I could take advantage of people being nonspecific when they told me to pick something up, and I can make use of them being clueless about the fact that they’re my entrusters when they hand me objects,” Alden said. “I wasn’t sure about something like this. Weapons heading at you are meant for you but not in the same way…”


“Skills are funny things.” Big Snake was still sorting through the bin. “Gotta learn what they’re meant to be without boxin’ ‘em in. Or that’s my opinion, which I’m supposed to tell you is only my opinion, since everyone figures themselves out differently. Some people are analyzers. Others are feelers. I know a few successful levelers who consider themselves explorers…set out to discover something new about what the System has given them every day.”


He looked down at Alden. “Anyhow, you’ve had your skill longer than the other kids here, and you’ve used it for things more serious than gym class.”


“Yes,” Alden agreed after a brief hesitation. “That’s true.


“Leveled it a few times, too,” Big Snake said. “Can you tell when you’re on the verge of getting the hang of a new trick?”


“I’m not sure. Sometimes?”


“You think half an hour more of me attacking you might help you grab hold of it?”


Alden looked at him in surprise. “I think it might. It definitely couldn’t hurt. Except for my body. And my pride.”


Big Snake laughed so loudly that all other sound in the gym stopped for a second.


Well, now people are wondering what’s going on.


“Yeah!” Instructor Waker said. “I don’t like to send you off when you’re just getting your first look at something. If you’re not dyin’ to go have a stab at Torsten, stay in my section here for another round of defense training. Just join in with the next group.”


That sounded ideal. “Thank you. If you don’t mind.”


“Throwing things at eleven people isn’t any harder than throwing things at ten.” He lifted an arm and waved across the gym at Instructor Klein. Alden assumed the faculty had some mental texting going on, since the wave alone didn’t seem to be enough to convey information.


Klein stared at Alden for a moment, then he nodded stoically at Snake.


“Great!” The huge man grinned at Alden. “Now let’s talk about how to make the most of it.” 


****** 


The new group Alden joined contained Winston, and they had just come from Instructor Marion’s session, which was probably why half of them looked dead on their feet. The hunting game favored fast people; Winston was swaggering a little. Last week, he and Finlay had been in the same group, so Instructor Marion would have been able to split them between the two teams.


Maybe that’s part of the reason Winston’s still got such an issue with him, Alden thought, crossing the floor toward the position Big Snake had told him to take. Direct competition between the two speedsters in the maze would have been just a step below sticking them on a track and watching Finlay lap the A-rank over and over.


Mehdi was a step ahead of Vandy as the group reached Alden. His normally immaculate hair was a mess, and he was holding his side like he had a stitch.


“What are you doing over here?” he asked when he spotted Alden.


“More defense. Big Snake said I should stay to work on something.”


Vandy looked curious. Mehdi brightened. “We’ll get to go head to head! Watch me, and I’ll show you how an Agility Brute can move.”


“Thanks? But I’m going to be kind of busy watching Instructor Waker…”


Mehdi opened his mouth.


“Let’s see which B-rank has to chase the most balls!” Winston interrupted.


Max was bringing up the rear of the group. As always by the end of gym, he was walking like his legs hurt, and he was so drenched, he looked like he’d been swimming.


Alden frowned at Winston. “Max doesn’t have to chase many. He sets up zones to slow or stop them.”


Max glanced at him and shook his head. “Spell impressions are mostly done for the day. I’ve used almost all of my casts.”


“Oh, sorry.”


Max shrugged.


“I guess you and I could compete,” Winston said to Alden. Then he gave one of the girls in his group a smile, as though he’d said something hilarious.


I’m too busy for whatever his issues are, thought Alden. But then again…


“If you want to compete to see who has to chase the most balls, Winston, let’s do it,” Alden said. “Sounds awesome.”


Max raised an eyebrow at him.


“All right!” Big Snake called. “Get ready. You know how this works.”


Winston jogged toward the front.


“What are you doing agreeing to his challenge?” Max asked quietly, taking a position near Alden. “You don’t usually take him seriously.”


“I’m not taking him seriously. You’ll see. He thinks he was being so funny suggesting we compete.”


A dull black line in the shape of a semicircle appeared on the floor around Alden.


“Everyone, Alden’s practicing something specific right now. He’s got a barrier behind him so that he doesn’t have to chase after the balls,” Big Snake announced. “It’s transparent so it won’t affect visibility for any of you. Don’t cross the line on the floor or you’ll run into it!”


Winston whipped around to stare at Alden.


“See?” Alden murmured to Max. “I’m funny, too.”


One corner of Max’s mouth turned up. “You know he’ll say that’s not what he meant.”


“I don’t care.” Alden crouched and held his arms up, fingers splayed. He focused his attention on Instructor Waker. “I’ve got things to do.” 


****** 


So many tennis balls pelted Alden so quickly that multiple parts of his body were always stinging from the suit’s pain mimicry.


But there was something here, knocking on the door of his mind, waiting to be understood. Every time another ball flew at him, he grew a little more immersed in what he was doing. With no need to run or dodge, the sights and sounds of the gymnasium faded. He tuned out his classmates. He focused. And focused again.


Deeper.


He was attentive in a way he associated more with spell casting than with using his Avowed powers. He didn’t know how he’d gotten here, but now that he was, he trusted the feeling.


At some point, it stopped mattering altogether that the tennis ball was a weapon aimed at him. Thinking of it that way was wrong. Too complicated.


An object left Morrison Waker’s hand and flew toward Alden Thorn. No, that was still too complicated.


An object flew toward The Bearer of All Burdens from his entruster’s hand.


That was…closer. Not perfect, for some reason, but much closer. And the more Alden tried to hold onto that idea—the more he tried to meet it with himself—the more natural catching the incoming balls became.


They were still too fast. Too hard. Thrown at the most awkward parts of his body with the most awkward timing no matter what position he was in. He couldn’t see them coming properly, and he missed so many of them.


But sometimes his hands would wrap around one before he even realized he’d reached for it. And the more he did it, the more he doubted that it was just reflex.


When it happened, in the instant he captured the ball, the skill felt alive inside him. There was no particular twist or fold of the affixation that he suddenly activated, no burden-catching button he could find. It was both more total and more subtle than that.


And though his body moved without conscious direction, it didn’t feel at all like the robotic takeover that happened whenever he used his Haunting Sphere spell impression.


What is this exactly? What are we doing?


It was a shame his own skill couldn’t talk back to him because this felt really important.


That moment when I’m casting a spell with my auriad—the moment when it feels like reality parts to make way for me. That feeling Boe called self-affirmation and a success high rolled up into one. This feels more like that than using the skill usually does.


He caught. He caught. He caught.


Three in a row.


He was still sending them back to his instructor, but though the high speed return had been so exciting earlier, the catching was more important than the releasing right now.


Then, the pitches stopped coming.


For a long moment, Alden waited, still ready. The sounds of the gymnasium, so loud and startling, intruded on him very suddenly. They were followed by the urgency of his own need for air, his heaving chest, his body…


Did someone change the settings on my gym suit? Why does everything hurt this much?


The ground around his feet was littered with tennis balls. He was supposed to pick them up. He bent in half at the waist, and his back protested.


He straightened with a ball in his hand, feeling like he’d just managed something Herculean by not swearing out loud.


Max was walking back from the ball bin, the expression on his face thoughtful as he regarded Alden. He wasn’t the only one staring. Mehdi was frowning at him. Vandy looked like she was trying to x-ray him with her eyes.


Alden suddenly realized he didn’t have any idea what he’d looked like from the outside. He had no clue how many balls he’d caught or if he’d returned them all properly. He didn’t know how many had hit him.


His aching lungs and strained muscles said he hadn’t been holding still.


I just hope I wasn’t talking to my own skill out loud.


Instructor Waker was waving him over. He went, trying not to stumble over his feet.


“Hated to stop throwing at you when you seemed to be catching on to catching! But class is over, and you looked like you were about to pass out. I’d never hear the end of it from the principal if you did.”


“Thanks,” said Alden, getting the word out between breaths, “for the extra time.”


“I’d ask if you thought it had helped, but I don’t need to.”


“Did I…?” He had more than one question. None of them were easy to ask. Did I look like I was having a meaningful experience with a sense no other human possesses? “Um…did I return the ones I caught in the correct direction?”


The instructor chuckled. “Not sure, huh? I thought not. You were doing good, kid. Lots of improvement. Your footage will be in your inbox, same as always. You should give it a watch.” If you stumble upon this tale on Amazon, it's taken without the author's consent. Report it.
*
