Lexi was looking down at his third smashed balloon. He used Mind Writher very well when he was slicing something down to size so that he could move it more easily, or when he was pulling sturdy, medium-sized objects out of the pile. But it wasn’t good for heavy lifting, and when he tried to pluck trapped balloons out of the mess directly, they always popped. He kept trying, though. He seemed very concerned about his delicacy with the tool.


“Grab the particle board,” Astrid said helpfully. She was extracting what looked like half of a recliner.


Alden changed targets. “Tell me again, please, Astrid.”


“Take the board!”


The board was underneath a mound of bricks. Checking his footing to make sure he wasn’t standing on anything too precarious, Alden grabbed the board by the edge, preserved it, and lifted. The bricks all came with it, riding on top. He walked backward, careful not to tilt the heavy load.


It was satisfying to dump it all in his personal rubble mound, then dive back in to save the balloon he’d uncovered. It was barely visible, still trapped in a crevice under a heavy slab of concrete with twisted pieces of rebar sticking out.


“Astrid, do you mind—?”


“Rescue that pink dying man!”


The balloon was pink. And it was one of the really big ones that had been overfilled so that it would burst more easily.


Alden shoved his arm in, grabbed, and preserved. When he got the balloon to the exit, though, he realized he had a problem.


Pink dying man, you’re too chubby to escape this way. Well…it’s not like you’ll pop. As long as I don’t lose focus on protecting you.


Deliberately hitting things with his preserved burdens could be iffy. He assumed that yanking them through a crack they shouldn’t fit through would be similarly iffy, though he’d never actually tried this particular move.


He closed his eyes and concentrated. I’m willingly bearing the weight of this water balloon. I want to keep it safe from damage. Me dragging it out from under a big pile of heavy stuff and letting it scrape against some things on the top and bottom is part of that.


Moving all the heavy junk on top of it piece by piece would be another option, but it would be a less educational one.


Alden got into a crouch and gave the chubby balloon an experimental pull. His preservation held, but the rubble didn’t budge. It seemed to be wedged tightly together.


Hmm…maybe if I get my hand underneath the balloon and try to use more of a lifting motion to move the stuff on top?


He tried, only to have to stop immediately. The concrete slab had shifted, and its shifting had made a much larger quantity of rubble move and slide than Alden had anticipated. He didn’t know how many balloons he might crush if the pile collapsed.


“Are you really going to use the people you’re saving that way in the future?” Lexi asked.


“I have no idea what you mean,” Alden lied. “Besides, if I was trapped and a hero with my skill came along to save me, I’d be completely fine with them using my preserved body as a lever or a carrying device…”


“Maybe he’s going to go for one of those dark hero personas!” Reinhard called from the other side of the pile. “He’ll rescue you from the villain and then turn around and block the villain’s spells with your face.”


“Is that real?” Maricel asked. She was working with Lucille, moving ground element obstacles with her telekinesis while the quiet girl moved everything else. Their collection of saved balloons was growing fast. “People being heroes like that?”


“They’re not very common,” said Njeri. “Too controversial.”


“I noticed this last week. You don’t actually know much about superheroes, do you, Maricel?” Reinhard said.


The large, pale stone she was moving dropped suddenly, and Lucille caught it with a grunt before it could hit the cache of balloons they were trying to save. One handed.


Fine, thought Alden, raising an eyebrow at the girl as Maricel frantically apologized. Be epic like that.


He wasn’t sure he could have even made a boulder that size wobble without getting something coated in his magic underneath it. He wondered how she compared to Heloísa, a rank below her.


Lexi had come over to examine Alden’s problem rescue from closer up. His whip was in his hand.


“Do you want me to try to cut a wider opening?”


“That sounds like a good plan. I can keep the balloon preserved so if anything falls on it it’ll still be safe.”


“I might hit your hand,” Lexi warned.


“That’s what the gym suits are for.”


“I might hit the balloon.”


“That’s what I’m for.”


Writher’s thin chain lengthened and started to glow. Lexi backed up a few steps.


He’s backing up? Alden had assumed they were going for a close-range, delicate operation.


“Hold still,” said Lexi.


He’s going to really swing it. Alden tensed. Even though the pain setting on the gym was low again today, he still remembered what it felt like to be grabbed around the waist and stabbed through the leg by that thing during combat assessment. And that hadn’t been its full potency either.


Lexi moved. Alden’s eyes weren’t fast enough to make out the whip as anything but a blur of light, but there was a loud crack and some of the concrete around his hands crumbled. Writher phased out.


A thin slice of concrete and iron fell forward onto Alden’s forearms. It was heavy, but not enough to injure him.


His whip cut right through all of that, Alden thought as he lifted the water balloon free of the expanded gap. Well that’s neat.


Once again, he was convinced that the gym group he’d been assigned to last time had been made up of the least scary members of the class.


During the brief mid-class break, Alden set himself up for defense.


“Is that the shield of the day?” Haoyu asked, leaning over him curiously.


“Yep.”


Alden had learned last week that if he tried to shield his whole body, Big Snake just threw more balls at him harder. It fatigued him faster so that he couldn’t try out as many things in the next sessions, and hiding behind a magic wall for thirty minutes was lazy anyway. So his shield was going to be a more sporting size today. Shoulder-to-hip coverage was what he was going for.


“I thought a paracord zigzag would be easy to make fast even in an emergency, so I wanted to try it.”


He laid the cord out on the floor in the zigzag pattern, making sure that it was a little wider than his body and that the gaps were all narrow enough to prevent him from getting hit by Snake’s preferred ammunition, while still providing enough visibility if he raised it in front of his own face. When he was done, he unwound some more of the olive green paracord cord from the spool he was using and tied himself a handle.


“One minute shield!” he announced, lifting it up to show it off.


“It was closer to two minutes,” said Lexi from his seat on the bleachers nearby. “I timed you.”


“That was so helpful of you. Thank you.”


“I bet I could shoot through it,” Reinhard said. He was using some kind of spell on the tips of his arrows before stuffing them back in his quiver.


“You have arrows, not tennis balls. I would make a shield with smaller gaps to handle you.”


Big Snake was in the same boisterous mood he’d been in last week, despite the fact that he’d soon be leaving for some kind of assignment. He did up the difficulty of their game, though. Alden wasn’t sure if the instructor had always planned to increase the challenge, or if being in a higher powered group of classmates was what made the difference. Reinhard’s bow was no good for this, but he had fast reflexes and excellent vision. He was dodging well. Lexi was also great at dodging, though he seemed to have chosen not to. Instead, he was trying to use Writher as a blocking device with his mental control.


He’s totally trying to make his own version of the zigzag shield with the chain, Alden thought as he ducked his head and lifted his paracord to block a ball. He decided he was flattered.


Lexi was getting hit a lot—by balls and also by pieces of balls that had been sliced by the whip as they came in.


Haoyu’s tactic was to slap incoming balls out of the air with hands protected by the Boxing Gloves skill. And Maricel and Njeri both had element shields up. Rather than choosing to use a rock or one of the sandbags, Maricel was focusing on compressing and moving free soil.


At Earthbox earlier this afternoon, she’d seen someone making a wedge shape, and she was trying to use one of her own to redirect the projectiles. It was working well.


A flashing dot at the bottom left of Alden’s vision let him know the timer he’d set had just gone off. They now had around five minutes left in this session.


If I’m going to try it, now’s the time.


He’d wanted to attempt something last week, but he thought it might involve a lot of failure, so he’d elected to wait until Instructor Waker had seen him using his skill in the more obvious way. He was sure now that he wouldn’t look like he was phoning it in, and Big Snake wouldn’t mind him flailing around as long as he seemed to have a plan.


He repelled one ball with his shield, stepped over a dirty one that had just ricocheted off Maricel’s soil wedge, and focused on Snake. The man was smiling and calling out praise to Njeri, who’d finally managed to get enough water in the air in front of a ball to keep it from bursting through and hitting her anyway.


Alden flexed the part of his authority that was in charge of targeting and focused on the instructor. His sense of a pull toward Haoyu, off to the right and behind him, disappeared. His shield collapsed into a tangle of cord at his feet.


He no longer felt his authority protecting his second, secret object—the breath mint he’d been preserving in his stomach to make sure he tired out at a reasonable rate for someone who had a potent level four skill instead of a potent level eight one.


It’s nine now, he corrected himself.


“You hit skill fatigue, Alden?” Big Snake shouted. “Better get ready to run!”


Alden wouldn’t be running.


Just get your hands on the ball.


He’d caught things Joe had thrown. He’d caught things Kibby had thrown. The problem was that Joe and Kibby were throwing those things to him, not at him.


Of course Alden had wondered if he could snatch an incoming projectile. But retargeting meant he was powerless until his target gave him permission to hold something, so it was a risk to drop shields and go for it.


Was someone sending objects his way with intent to injure giving him permission to hold them? Maybe…if he thought about it right.


I promise to keep anything Big Snake throws at me safe until it leaves my protection again.


A tennis ball smashed into his knee before he could get his fingers near it, making the joint ache and sting. Irritated with himself, Alden chased the ball down. Those were the rules for ones that hit his body instead of the shield…the ones that didn’t burst anyway. Not all of the balls were rated for superhuman use, and even though Instructor Waker wasn’t using anything close to his full strength, some of them blew apart at the seams when they impacted. Alden captured the runaway and tossed it back in Snake’s direction. The instructor snatched it out of the air with his left hand while he flung three balls at once toward Lexi with his right.


Alden refocused his attention on his plan.


All right. This might take a lot of tries, and it might not work, and everyone’s going to think I’m weird. Who cares. Get the next one.


He watched the hero closely. Instructor Waker was trying his…Alden didn’t know what to call it. Sometimes he scooped a pile of balls out of the bin with both enormous arms and sent them flying toward the ceiling, then he kicked and punched them all joyfully at his fleeing students.


“Rain of Terror!” Reinhard shouted, lifting his bow and shooting one of the airborne balls.


I guess we could call it that.


Alden crouched and held his hands up in front of his chest. He splayed his fingers wide. He tried to pay attention to Big Snake’s motions and also that sense of something almost like weight that he experienced when he had a target. Like the world tilted slightly in the other person’s direction.


He’s my target. He’s the one who can entrust me with stuff. Anything he throws at me is meant for me.


The balls were coming down.


If Joe’s perception lessons are going to come in handy, now would be a great—


The swing of a massive arm at an angle that his brain said was dangerous.


Where?


And then he was toppling forward, unexpectedly thrown off balance by the sudden motion of his own body, and in his right hand, he was preserving the tennis ball.


His palm didn’t sting at all.


Got the ball! Didn’t kill the momentum! Alden thought excitedly as he knelt on the gym floor. He could feel his skill protecting it.


How did I catch that?


The ball had come in low. It would have struck his ankle. But there had never been an instant where he consciously thought, “It’s going to hit low.”


Just reflex?


Probably. It probably only felt like something mysterious had happened because it had been so fast and not enough thought could take place. And yet…that was a really great catch.


Look what I did!


Literally nobody was looking at him. Not even Big Snake.


Oh, come on!


He was sure it just looked like he’d gotten lucky and stopped a ball with his hands instead of the rest of his body. But this was so much more than that!


