Erick cut his sunform and turned on his [Physical Domain] aura, but kept it small and close by. “Can you sense this, Yggdrasil?”

“… Nooo? … Yes? No. Maybe. No— Yes.” Yggdrasil spoke solidly, “Yes. You are there. I see you.”

Seemed inconclusively affirmative of Erick’s hypothesis.

Oh! Erick had another idea; another way to get an automagic [Gate] system set up.

Erick asked Kiri, “Do you know if [Scry] can be used to call the sight of a particular person, or entity?”

Kiri and Teressa both had been standing to the side, watching and listening while Erick worked. Now, though, Teressa had absolutely no answer so she glanced down at Kiri, and Kiri blinked at the unexpected question.

“Uh…” Kiri said, “Not that I am aware of—” She realized something and instantly said, “You can call the Sight of a god by calling their name. Other than that; no idea.”

“I don’t want Yggdrasil to be a constant porter, but reflexes can be trained...” Erick paused. “The wording in the roots of the Twin Trees that held the [Gate] into the Twisted Vision was not Ecks, at all. It wasn’t any language I have ever seen. It was, in fact, just a way to designate that space as a place for the Twisted Vision to attach.” He paused. “… But that [Gate] was there to make an entrance into the Gate Space of Ar’Cosmos. What I want is point-to-point [Gate]s, and to bypass my own Gate Space completely.”

Okay. So.

If Erick continued along this line of inquiry, he could probably create a reflexive opening into the [Gate Space] of his [Gate]. This was not what he wanted, actually.

There was so much nuance to making a Gate; so much more than Erick had originally thought, way back when he was working with Tenebrae to understand that entrance to Ar’Cosmos, back before Erick knew it was an entrance to Fairy, to the land of the dragons.

And yet…

“I’m probably overthinking this.” Erick tried the first idea that came to mind; he tried to make a key. So he grabbed his adamantium knife and began carving into the runic tuning fork, slicing english words into steel-strength, balsa-weight wood. In two minutes he was 95% done. He looked it over, and it was good enough. And then he looked to Kiri and Teressa, sending, ‘You didn’t see this next part.’

They both nodded, mostly seriously, but Kiri had a small lilt to her lips; a tiny smile.

Erick added, ‘I mean it. This is a politically dangerous spell that might tank relations with Stratagold if they found out.’

Kiri lost her smile at that. Teressa just nodded, looking the same as she had before Erick added that next part. Teressa had known that Erick’s warning was real, and not just paranoia talking. It was probably ridiculous to still think of [Duplicate] as something to be kept hidden, especially since all the other stuff Erick was no longer hiding, but [Duplicate] was a political mess of a spell.

Erick [Duplicate]d the key.

And now, with two keys, he carved a few more English words at the bottom of the keys. For the original, he carved it with ‘to my other twin, beta’ and on the copy, he carved ‘to my other twin, alpha’.

This was good, for now.

Probably wasn’t going to work for any number of reasons, but this was just a test, after all, and the mana bridged many, many gaps. Some gaps were too wide to bridge, though.

Erick turned his attention to the large square of white wood, sitting on the ground in front of him. With quick Shaping, Erick tucked the branches into the square, and plucked off the leaves, smoothing out all the rough growth left by Yggdrasil. Then split the whole thing like he was cutting a bagel. Two halves separated left and right, and with a bit more Shaping, those two halves both gained enough stabilization to stand on their own, five meters away from each other.

Another Shaping opened up two keyholes for the keys, both at head height on the sides of the gate. There were many different placements possible for those keys, but this one felt right for now.

Standing between both Gates, Erick took both keys, put them in the holes, and took aim with both hands. Benevolence lightning shocked out of both hands and struck the keys, soaking into their runic inscriptions. The key with the runes Erick had actually carved began to glow brightly, those runes soaking up power, turning brighter white than the white wood of the key. The second key, the one which Erick had not directly carved, but which gained the majority of its runes through [Duplicate], looked a lot different. Only the final runes at the end of the key, deep in the hole, had gained any real brightness to them.

… And nothing happened.

Erick turned the keys a bit. He shimmied them back and forth. He felt a bit like a fool, but that was fine.

Because this particular form of this experiment was a failure.

Erick smiled brightly, saying, “Ah! I’m glad that didn’t work.” Erick left the keys to the side, and gazed upon the Gates, instead. For a long moment he thought.

And then he glanced over at the still-tumbling ball bearing tunnel. He had another set of thoughts, that were probably more correct than all the rest, and then turned back to the squares of eternal stonewood.

“I suppose… All I really have to do is ensure that the location where I cast the [Gate] is secure. That someone can’t poke at it with an antirhine knife. Eternal stonewood is very good at ensuring that no one can mess with it, for you have to have the special Shaping spell to get anywhere with it… But, Songli has that spell, actually. Perhaps I should make something that even the clans of Songli don’t know how to Shape?”

Silence stretched as Erick thought.

Yes. He would have to make some unique material and a Shaping spell to go along with that material.

But that could come later.

Kiri decided she had a very important question, so she interrupted Erick’s thoughts and asked, “Why is antirhine bad for [Gate]s?”

“Oh! Right; you don’t know. Uh.” Erick said, “When you touch the actual [Gate] of a [Gate] with antirhine the [Gate] explodes with magnitude 5 power… And I should probably test that, too.”

Kiri went, “Oh.”

Teressa gave a small, sudden, and ragged sigh. At that moment, Teressa’s sigh reminded Erick of Poi’s various sighs over the last year and a half.

Erick ignored it. “First I need to find some antirhine, though. Shouldn’t be that hard.”

It wasn’t that hard at all.

Erick had an Ophiel zip up to the lands north of Treehome, to search for the antirhine missile that had been shot at Syllea that one time when she was Raging and her brother, the Cultist Omaz, was attacking Treehome. That missile was exactly where Erick had left it; tucked into the crook of a tree about a kilometer from the ground, in the deep dark of the middle layer where all the trees were like gargantuan pillars, spaced far apart.

Ophiel opened a [Gate] from those dark woods to the surface of the lake, about a kilometer below his new workshop.

From there, Erick had Ophiel grab onto the back of the missile, where the thing had been enchanted for flight and direction and had no lead to it at all, and he dipped the lead head of the missile into the center of the [Gate].

The head of the missile came through the center of the [Gate] without issue. Lead could go through a [Gate]! Good to know! And then, Erick had Ophiel gradually move the lead-headed missile toward the lightning ring; toward the edge of the porta—

The ring popped like a soap bubble breaking, or a balloon experiencing explosive decompression. It shattered away from the embankments imposed, and let loose sparks of lightning everywhere.

Erick was not impressed.

The ‘explosion’ —and Erick was hesitant to call it that— was little more than a single second of exposure to Benevolent Lightning. This exposure had some side effects, of course, but it was nothing destructive.

In the Forest of Glaquin, a large, multitudinous spread of glowing flowers and mushrooms now grew up and down the side of the tree near where Erick had opened the [Gate]. Down below his workshop, at this end of the [Gate], a noticeable splash of greenery now floated upon the waters. They appeared to be water hyacinths, or something similar; floating, bulbous, lily-like plants, with small purple flowers.

Kiri’s Sunny floated by in the air near the water hyacinths, near another Ophiel that Erick was using to inspect the experiment. She came back to herself, saying, “That doesn’t look mag-5— Well. I mean… It could be? [Grow] is a deceptively high magnitude spell, too.”

And here now was yet another thing Erick needed to investigate! How could he have forgotten?

Too much on his mind, he supposed.

“I still don’t understand ‘magnitude’.” Erick asked, “Is it really the depth of change a spell has on its surroundings? Seems an inadequate explanation.”

Kiri shrugged. “I’ve had it explained tens of different ways and each explanation was basically what you said, but with only small differences. Apparently real Mind Mages can tell the magnitude of a spell by looking, though, so I assume that the amount of ‘mind’ that you put into a spell is really what makes the magnitude.”

Now that was a good avenue of inquiry. Maybe Poi wouldn’t be cagey this time. Erick said, “I’ll talk to Poi and have him look at a [Gate] explosion when I get a chance. Need to find some more antirhine, but that shouldn’t be too hard. Songli was going to be my backup source— Ah! Speaking of. I should make that spell too, while I have a chance—” He paused. “Later, actually.” Erick told Kiri, “I want to teach you how to make a real chelation molecule tomorrow, so don’t let me forget that. I already gave that magic to the Mind Mages, but you should have it too, long as there’s not a war, or something.”

Kiri stood straight. She nodded.

Erick went back to the problem of making a [Gate]—

“Oh.” Erick had a sudden, possibly-true thought. “I could ask Redflame the direct answer to this, but perhaps all the [Gate]s out there are cast one at a time; each a purposeful and unique working. Maybe there is no enchanting for automagical [Gate] creation; there is only protecting the [Gate]s that one purposefully casts…” He frowned. “That seems like a cop out.”

Perhaps Erick could look into standardized magic item creation, like what Kirginatharp taught at Oceanside. Wouldn’t that be funny! The solution to [Gate] would lie in the enchanting that Erick could not do with any reliability, and which he thought was bad practices.

The problem was that runic workings best allowed for pointed, close range targeted, or otherwise ‘set’ actions. Spatial Magic, the moving of items from one area to another envisioned area, required someone actually envisioning the area on the other side.

Solving the [Teleport] problem to allow people to blip back and forth a lot using runic devices, was an achievement of magic that Tasar and Riivo and Archmage’s Rest had invented a few centuries ago. The teleport stations.

… Okay. So.

Erick probably just needed to work with other learned people in order to solve these problems which had already been solved. Making an automagical [Gate] seemed very doable, just not by him. Not right now.

“But for now...” Erick looked over the squares of white wood, and said, “Leave the automagic for another day. I just need to make them truly immobile and invulnerable, cast the [Gate] into the wood, and prevent interference and disruption. I can manually cast [Gate] for a while.”

It wasn’t how Erick thought that he would be making Gates.

He envisioned portals, yes, and then someone knocking on a portal or empowering it somehow, in order for it to be connected to another designated portal in another place. He thought he would be making twin Gates where either of the Gates could be ‘called’, or whatever, and then the [Gate] would open between the two. And maybe there would be a key system to be able to turn it off and on as necessary, or to dial specific ‘Over Gate’s, or something…

And an Undertow effect, as well, tied into some runic working inside the [Gate], to allow everyone who stepped through to be able to pay the cost of their own transportation. Erick had thought that the Undertow Effect had been a big part of his Worldly Path, and it had been, but not in the way he originally imagined. Erick had baked that magic into his [Gate Space].

And moving people and goods didn’t actually cost Erick anything.

Erick had been speaking all of this aloud a bit, so Kiri could listen and learn.

Kiri asked, “Can you move your [Gate]s after casting them? Would the enactment of a [Gate] lock the Gate midair?”

“A nuanced question that I do not have the answer to. I was going to use Force Magic to emplace them. But maybe I don’t need to do that?” Erick frowned. “I could simply make something that [Gate] can attach to?”

… Erick went over to the squares of white wood that stood vertical on the workshop floor. He first Shaped both of the would-be Gates to normal, plain squares, and turned some of the cast-off wood into temporary holders to keep the squares vertical. With that done, Erick lightstepped to stand at the center top of the left wood square. With his rune knife in one hand, Erick precisely carved the symbol for [Renew] at the top of that would-be Gate. Under that symbol, and a bit smaller, Erick smiled a little as he carved the words, ‘Welcome all who wish to wander’.

He repeated the act on the second [Gate].

With a sunform grip, Erick hovered both Gates a meter above the floor, his lightning flickering upon both halves of what once was whole, soaking into the wood. Power glittered in the runic grooves he had carved, dancing within Erick’s simple message of welcome.

Yggdrasil’s separated wood remained bright white after being separated from him, but the actual glows that pulsed within the living summon had faded after that separation. And yet now, those glows came back. Small, at first, then brighter as Erick pumped pure Benevolence into the wood.

And then Erick cast [Gate] upon them both.

Lightning flashed inside the pair of Gates, and then settled down, to hide beneath glowing white wood, while the interior spaces became portals on both sides of Erick. He saw himself again, down an endless corridor. It wasn’t actually like a mirror tunnel at all. Erick turned left, and every single similar Erick also turned left, because that’s what was happening; there was no mirroring here, just some views from different angles.

Erick smiled.

With a bit of trepidation, Erick released some of his sunform grip on the Gates, hoping that they could float—

