The Gates slipped down as Erick let them move, their weight not at all supportable by the [Gate] inside. Those [Gate]s inside instantly flickered and died. Erick ensured that the Gates landed without falling over, once again securing them to their temporary supports at their bases.

He had learned a few things in that exchange.

Weight was apparently a problem. [Gate]s could not support the Gates they inhabited. But at least the [Gate] was very much attached to the Gate, and in the moving of the Gate, the [Gate] broke. This was good progress! Good information.

“Have you read anything about [Gate]s being able to be moved after they’re cast, Kiri?”

Kiri answered, “[Gate]s can’t be moved after they’re cast.”

Erick considered the Class Ability, Gatemaster. Perhaps that one would let him make [Gate]s that could move? That Ability read ‘Double the effective range of your gate space. Minor improvements to everything gate related’. Did ‘minor improvements’ mean mobile [Gate]s? Perhaps Erick did actually need that Class Ability.

Erick had a think.

Perhaps, this was fine? As is?

[Gate]s that popped when moved might actually be preferable to [Gate]s that remained intact, for mobile [Gate]s could lead to some unforeseen consequences, like someone dumping one half of the [Gate] underwater and making a flood come out the other side. That would be bad.

And yet… Slight movements with [Gate]s would occur all the time, mostly by accident, but especially if someone moved the land around the [Gate]s. So the Gates Erick made needed to be super stable?

Erick could do ‘stable’. People have been making things stable and unmovable ever since the invention of Force Magic, way back at the start of the Script, and Erick was no exception.

Technically there were ways to move Force after it had been emplaced, just as there were ways to move lightwards after being cast and locked to a location. That branch of magic was actually a constantly evolving competition between placers and movers, with the Shades and Cultists being the foremost authority on moving magic after it had been placed, and everyone else trying (and mostly failing) to make magic that could not be moved after being cast.

The Shades and Cultists of Melemizargo were the only ones open about taking down the magic of others, though.

Normal thieves and normal security mages in much of the world had long ago adopted those same sorts of magics, and on a much less life-and-death battlefield. Sometimes, the ‘battlefield’ was even inside research labs, with well documented and researched papers on the topic being published by the Arcanaeum Consortium every few years.

The methods used to move emplaced magic varied between Spatial Magics (the most prevalent and powerful by far) and pure manifestations of power, which mutated and moved emplaced spellwork (if it didn’t break that spellwork in that moving). Erick had seen many instances of the second occurrence, back when he was helping repair Songli from the Extreme Light bombs of Terror Peaks. In many locations, wardlights and other spellwork had been moved away from the epicenter of those blasts. This caused lightwards (if they had survived) and lightposts to be out of sync with each other.

Lightwards would be hanging out midair, a meter away from where they had been cast.

Erick had experienced this sort of movement of magic even more so, back when he watched Tasar blip objects around through her Spatial Domain, and when she taught him how to cast [Teleport Magic].

Now [Teleport Magic] could very much be used to move around a [Gate]…

The point to all these thoughts, Erick conceded, was that there was only so much he could do to prevent messing with his Gates.

Spatial Magic moved everything around at the command of the caster.

Pure power moved the very manasphere.

Erick could actually protect against Spatial Magic, though, by putting a [Spatial Denial] runic web into the Gate… And wasn’t that hilarious! He could Deny Spatial Magic, but his [Gate]s could still work normally—

Would that actually work, though? Erick thought it should work, but he hadn’t actually tried that particular experiment yet. So that’s what he did. With a quick cast, Erick filled half of the warehouse with [Spatial Denial], and then he cast a [Gate] inside—

And the [Gate] appeared. Both sides of the [Gate], too; the intake appeared in front of Erick, and the exit appeared to the right, exactly as Erick wished them to appear. [Gate] worked inside of a [Spatial Denial]!

Erick laughed.

And then he canceled that [Spatial Denial] and tried [Teleport Magic] upon one of the [Gate]s, aiming to move it one meter up into the air.

The [Gate] moved as commanded.

… A bit concerning, but that was fine.

Kiri’s eyes went wide. “Was that first one what I thought it was? A Denial with a [Gate] inside?”

“Yup!” Erick chuckled.

“And the second one was [Teleport Magic]?

“And the second one was [Teleport Magic]!”

“… Ignoring the security concerns of the second one for a moment.” Kiri asked, “Is [Gate] not actually Spatial Magic?”

“[Gate] is Spatial Magic.” Erick nodded. “But whereas normal Spatial Magic is all about choosing the place where an object/space exists, based upon imposing magical shenanigans onto that object/space’s Reality in the past, which has repercussions on the present, which is all we are actually able to affect…” Erick thought how best to summarize, and said, “[Gate] is shenanigans regarding the location of a Reality that is actually normal reality but of a different reality, which in effect links two different places in this reality together.”

Kiri looked at Erick. “… Okay.” And then she asked, “And all your Spatial Denial does is work on this reality, I take it?”

“Exactly right!” Erick smiled brightly, saying, “And of course the [Spatial Denial] I made only works on Spatial Magic cast in this reality; I wasn’t even aware that I needed to Deny other realities when I made that one… And now that I’m thinking of it, I don’t want to deny other realities, anyway.”

Erick felt a calm descend upon him as he gazed out at the mess he had made, for he knew exactly how to incorporate everything he had learned into making a proper Gate. It would be version 1, of course. Later versions would come and they would be better. But now Erick had a plan. Now, he knew exactly what he needed to do.

“Okay. This will be easier than I thought— I mean. Okay. I’m sure many different people are going to break these things many times and I’m going to need to remake them a dozen times till I get a version that is actually, mostly secure. But that will come later.”

And so, Erick ignored the rustless steel he had strung into squares, for that would come later. For now, he grabbed some of the platinum and hammered it into the same sort of shape as the rustless squares. Then, he took his knife and he started carving a rather simple runic web. This one included [Envelop Item], a spell Erick had rarely used, but which was perfect for encasing a working in Force, along with [Undertow’s Edge], the [Force Wall] version of Undertow which would create a continually-strengthening Force, based on the mana it Drained. [Spatial Denial] came next, along with [Renew] in order to make everything play nice with each other, and possibly make the Undertow spell support all the other spells inside the Gate. Erick placed a bunch of limiting runes and lines which would hopefully limit the ranges of the imbued spells. In the end, the Undertow should only extend into a roughly ten meter space around the actual Gate.

If this version didn’t work, then Erick would try again with the same style, but with perhaps some different structuring inscriptions. Theoretically, everything should play nice with each other and work how he told it to work, for runic webs were good like that, but this was all new magic. Erick had experience to draw upon, but not much experience. Not as much as an actual Runic Master.

Darabella would probably know exactly how to do this. Tasar and Riivo would, too. Erick could only put his best guess forward.

Erick made two runic webs, each as close to exactly the same as he could manage, and then he took those runic webs and Shaped Yggdrasil’s donated wood around them, forming a solid cover that could not be Shaped, and which would provide line-of-sight protection against Shaping of the metal inside. When he was done, he was left with two very similar squares of wood, both with a 5x5 meter square of open space inside, and around 7 meters wide. This last Shaping had ruined the runes Erick had placed on the Gates, of course, so he reinscribed those; a large circular [Renew] rune at the top center of the square, and the English words ‘Welcome all who wish to wander’ inscribed below.

With a sunform grip, Erick hoisted the Gates into the air, and kept them a good ten meters away from everyone else, and himself. With a twist of lightning threaded through a hole in the sides of both Gates, Erick touched upon the runic web inside.

The next version might be able to take in his Benevolent Lightning and start casting the runic spells inside all on their own. But that would make it very difficult for Erick to cancel the [Undertow’s Edge] if this experiment went wrong, for if he didn’t actually cast that spell himself, then he had no inherent canceling capability on that spell.

This way was safer.

Erick cast that first, most dangerous of spells upon the runic web inside one Gate, and then inside the other Gate. One right after the other, something stirred within the Gates, like a leviathan prowling through kendrithyst crystals. The Gates shook, vibrating a bit, and then they settled.

… He hadn’t even considered that they could have exploded, but perhaps he should have.

Gradually, Erick watched as [Undertow’s Edge] took hold of the air around the white wood, like an abyss shining behind a moon.

That abyss didn’t extend very far at all, only reaching about seven meters out from each Gate. Didn’t even reach the ground! Therefore it wasn’t anywhere near able to soak in Yggdrasil’s power. Erick smiled. Then he had two Ophiel float over and stand directly on top of the Gates.

The very second that Ophiel reached the abyss, that abyss began to soak him up. Ophiel had a lot of mana, but [Undertow’s Edge]’s Drain worked at a rate of twice Erick’s Willpower every second; around 450 mana per second.

Power thrummed into the Gates—

Suddenly, the Gates seemed to come awake with light and the abyss behind both white squares began to deepen. The Undertow soaked in mana and the runic web spread it out, [Renew] evening out everything, ensuring all the adjoining magic got as much power as it could handle. Force enveloped both Gates, and then deepened.

Into this power, into the primed, glowing wood of Yggdrasil, Erick cast [Gate].

A portal appeared, linking both Gates.

Just. Instantly. Appeared. No Benevolence escaped the glowing wood. No flowers or sparking lightning spread out. No mushrooms grew. The [Gate] held strong, the lightning ring hidden inside the glowing eternal stonewood, while the power inside the runic web began to seal everything under an [Envelop Item]. Erick let go with his own sunform, and the Gates did not fall. The [Undertow’s Edge] held both midair, and unmovable, while a spreading [Spatial Denial] would prevent the structure from ever being moved by easily acquired Spatial Magics—

“Ah.” Erick realized a weakness. “It’s actually weak to [Force Weaver].” He glanced through Ophiel to find Jane— “Oh good! Poi is done, too.” Erick rapidly opened a [Gate] directly from the warehouse to the kitchen at their house, where Poi and Jane were starting to make dinner. “Hey you two! Come see what I made! Won’t take long. I need to see if you can move this thing with [Force Weaver], Jane.”

Jane paused her washing of the potatoes.

Poi had been pulling fish out of the cold storage, but he put it back, then turned to Erick, paused, then said, “That’s tricky.”

Jane glanced over. “What?”

“Come see!” Erick said, “Come on come on come on.”

Jane dropped the potato, exclaiming, “Okay okay okay! It’s already so late, though. Dinner is going to be late, too.”

Jane and Poi joined Erick, Teressa, and Kiri in the warehouse.

Ahead of them floated two [Gate]s, inside their Gate-containers.

Erick gestured to both of them, saying, “[Force Weaver]. See if you can move them. You’ll experience a 450 mana per second Drain if you get too close, but that shouldn’t be too much of a problem.”

Jane moved in, paused as she entered the Drain range of the right Gate, and then she lifted her hand.

The Gate moved up, and the [Gate] therein popped like so much scattered magic. And then Jane let go. The Gate stabilized in the air, but now it was crooked, hovering at an angle and with streamers of white Force coming off of the glowing wood, hovering in the air like a scattered splash of glowing milk. That splash of milk continued to glow, and deepen the Abyss all around, for it was still the [Undertow’s Edge] and [Envelop Item], though they were now mangled together.

Jane’s [Force Weaver] was a hard counter to this spellwork.

Erick frowned. “I expected that, and yet, I did not.”

Jane stepped away from the Gates, getting out of the range of the Drain. “Was that supposed to happen?”

“It is a weakness I need to account for.” Erick tilted his head as he looked at the tilted Gate. “I need to include a [Force Denial]. Now that… That might be tricky, and especially since the Gate itself is constantly casting Force Magic itself.”

Kiri flinched. “That’s tricky.” With a bit of sarcasm, she added, “Might as well make a Void Song.”

“Force Magic is also hard to Deny; this is true.” Erick said, “Maybe I need to make a full-spectrum Denial, anyway. Something even more inclusive than [Prismatic Lullaby].”

“Or you could limit the Force spells to the inside of the Gate?” Jane offered. “I need Line of Sight to Weaver.”

“Wouldn’t work.” Erick said, “The Drain out here is still a part of the Force—” He paused. “Can you Weaver this Drain, by only touching the Abyss?”

Jane turned back to the tilted Gate. She wasn’t sure if she could.

She stepped forward once and reached out to the Drain hovering in the air. And then she ripped sideways. The Gate spun clockwise, rapidly turning almost a complete circle, splashing milky white Force outward from the entire structure. That floating Force held in the air like so much splashed paint. Some of it broke into broken mana. Most of it just stayed there, frozen in time, floating.

“Ah.” Jane said, “The Force spell is all over the place.”

