“Well. It’s only water.” Erick said, “I am aware how much water weighs, but I have a net of Force surrounding the intake [Gate], filtering out all the actual life that could go through the intake. So this is just weight testing; not ‘transporting creatures testing’.”

“I almost want to try plunging through that intake [Gate]. Jane would certainly be up for that.” Teressa asked, “If you’re interested in sending people through?”

Erick perked up. “Oh! She would. Wouldn’t she?” He glanced through Ophiel. “Ah. Poi is still organizing the exodus and the initial chaos, and Jane is still with him. A waterfall ride might be fun, though.” He turned his attention back to the mostly-quiet start of the waterfall right outside his window, saying, “But, I’ve already sent thousands of people through the other [Gate]s I have set up outside Candlepoint, and none of those have broken with all the thousands of people going through. Thousands is not the same as millions, though, which is what I expect to happen someday. This weight was just another test that I needed to run, to see where my limitations lay.”

Teressa paused, realizing that Erick was already on the case. “Huh. Yeah.”

Kiri postulated, “Maybe you’re only limited by someone actively breaking the [Gate]?”

“Maybe. I do need to ask around about how normal [Gate] functions, to see where my own [Gate] differs.” Erick scrunched his eyebrows together as he glanced around his workshop, saying, “Maybe these questions I’m testing have already been answered.”

He knew the broad strokes already, but these little nuances were piling up. They made him feel as though he hadn’t done nearly enough research into this whole thing.

Kiri shook her head. “I researched as much as I could while you were gone and all of these tests have already been answered by explorations of the Script-granted [Gate], but I’ve got nothing on self-made [Gate]s.”

Erick smiled brightly. “You did!”

“Don’t get too excited, now.” Kiri gestured to the ball bearing tunnel. “That should have cut out after maybe ten cycles.” She gestured to the very large [Gate] open at both ends of the warehouse. “That is way too large. The size of a normal [Gate], cast as large as it could be, is about 5 or 7 meters in diameter.” She gestured to the waterfall outside the window. “And that breaks everything I assumed I knew about [Gate]. Not to mention the ones you already have open at Candlepoint right now. People are still moving through those, too, and those don’t seem to be stressed at all; I’ve been watching.”

… And now Erick was a bit worried.

Perhaps the limitations on the Script [Gate] were to prevent a finite resource from running out?

He quickly opened a new [Gate] into Benevolence. A white lightning hole in reality led to a land of similar lightning… But it looked fine? Same size as before? A bit bigger, actually. Everything was slightly larger, in fact. Glancing inside, Erick noted that the stone fountain in the center of the land was about twice the size it had been last time he had looked, and the Yggdrasil inside the space was about 20 meters tall now; Yggdrasil had doubled in size. He was growing just fine.

And the space was naturally growing, too.

Kiri looked over Erick’s shoulder, asking, “Is that the [Gate Space]?”

“Yup!” Erick stepped away from the portal, closing it as he said, “That appears normal, so it’s not like I’m ‘draining’ some resource to keep these other portals open.” He looked outside again, and then back to his warehouse. He shut off the waterfall and the [Gate]s at the end of the building, but he left the ball bearing tunnel going. He refreshed the [Force Wall]s around that experiment, saying, “Keeping that one. As for making these Gates…” Erick shrugged. “Maybe all I need is some way to be alerted when a [Gate] actually breaks, and needs to be recast? Maybe I don’t need to care about the duration enhancing power of runes?”

Which made a lot of sense, actually.

Teressa offered, “Like what we saw with the Twisted Vision? It came back after being disturbed.”

Erick nodded, his thoughts already having gone that way. “I didn’t think it was that simple, but maybe it is? So how can blank metal do that…” Erick fell silent in thought.

And Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye, which had been watching all this time, began bouncing up and down in front of him.

Erick smiled. He and Yggdrasil had already had this small discussion before, but Erick hadn’t found a way to correctly inform Yggdrasil that what he wanted was not actually what he wanted at all. Perhaps today might be different? Erick tried, “I know you want to help, but I don’t want to make you into a teleportation service for everyone who asks. You don’t want to do that, either. It might be fun for a while, but long term, this is not a solution, not when there might eventually be thousands upon thousands of call requests every second, 24 hours a day, all year long.”

Yggdrasil paused his bouncing. Yeah. That didn’t seem like fun.

And then he resumed bouncing, and his voice came through the ground of the warehouse, “I still want to help. Use a branch!”

Before Erick could say anything else, a sudden branching spike of glowing wood erupted from the floor ten meters in front of Erick. Yggdrasil’s egress rapidly grew, and then twisted, forming right angles, becoming a 5x5 meter-thick square of white wood; the same shape as the Gates Erick had been making. Smaller branches curled up and out from the upper part of the main square, followed by flaming green leaves bursting out of those twigs, forming a scattered canopy with a faint rainbow crown glowing on top.

Erick lightly smiled.

Ah. This was going to be difficult, then? Or maybe Erick could use this, anyway. He had been wanting to experiment with wood from Yggdrasil, anyway, and now was as good a time as any.

Kiri and Teressa both stared at the floor, though. Both of them rapidly reassessed the danger of living on Yggdrasil, and then rapidly came to the conclusion that they were probably still safe.

“That’s wonderful, Yggdrasil.” Erick said, “I’ll see what I can do with it, but it might not look like this when I am done. I might need you to help in a different way, okay?”

“Okay!” Yggdrasil said, “I’ll help whatever!”

Erick reached over and touched the wooden square near where it still connected with the branch sticking out of the floor. “Can you break it here, Yggdrasil?”

“Yes!”

The white glows of Yggdrasil retreated from the square branch to end exactly where Erick pointed, and then, with a flicker of light, the branch snapped off right there. Erick supported the square with his sunform before it could fall more than a few centimeters. It didn’t weigh much; maybe only a few hundred kilos.

… And now he had a 5x5 meter square of meter-thick, rather light wood. Yggdrasil had pulled his light from the wood, though. It was still bright white wood with brilliant green leaves, but the crown of rainbows was gone, the wood was simply white without any light, and the leaves were no longer on emerald fire.

Erick pondered.

Strangely enough, Erick’s first instinct was to see if he could have Yggdrasil reflexively open up a [Gate]. Perhaps... Like how a doctor tested the reflexes of a knee by tapping the knee with a rubber mallet, perhaps knocking on a Gate made of Yggdrasil could open a [Gate] without active participation on Yggdrasil’s part.

Erick said, “I don’t want to hurt you by working on this bit of wood. Can you still feel this square now that it’s separated, Yggdrasil?”

“Nope!”

There went that idea. Of course it wouldn’t be as simple as having someone physically knock on a Gate and Yggdrasil reflexively opening the portal. Perhaps, though…

Erick had no intrinsic idea of where the [Gate]s were once he cast them, much like how he had no feeling for where all his currently-running spellwork still existed, across the globe. And yet, Erick was still connected, intrinsically, to all the magic he had running out there. He could still cancel every spellwork he had ever cast, just by willing all that magic to collapse.

Was it possible to train some sort of magic sense? In order to know when a particular magic that should be running, was not running anymore?

Perhaps Yggdrasil could gain that sort of sense, and if a [Gate] collapses, he could recast that [Gate].

Erick asked, “Can you tell where the [Gate]s I opened are?”

With a bit of wariness in his voice, Yggdrasil said, “… No?”

Erick smiled, and said, “I can’t tell where I put them either, so don’t worry about not being able to either, okay? I might need to work on a Magic Sense, or something like that, but I have never even heard of this sort of magic, so… I’m not sure.”

Kiri shrugged. She had never heard of a ‘Magic Sense’ either.

“Okay,” Yggdrasil said, a bit sadder. And then he excitedly tried, “But I can feel Benevolence everywhere! I can feel that! Flows like sticky air! I get spiderweb feelings.”

Erick was surprised, and happy.

But he was also suddenly, horrifically terrified of Yggdrasil getting spider feelings of any sort. How did he even know that phrase? Were there talking spiders inside a Yggdrasil somewhere, that Erick didn’t know about? Some spiders out there talked, after all—

Wait.

The Big Guy had likely heard Jane talking, or something.

Erick asked, “Has Jane ever visited you as a spider, and talked about being a spider? What it feels like to be a spider.”

“I got spiders at Holorulo! They talk sometimes.”

Terror.

Erick strangled that emotion away, feeling strange both for the power of that particular emotion, and for how it had caught him completely off guard. He let that go.

“… Okay.” That was a thing to be investigated, for sure. Erick asked, “How long have they been there? Are they in your canopy?”

“Long time. Swimming spiders. Root dwellers, fishy-catchers.”

“… Okay.” For now, Erick said, “Okay. Well. I’ll talk to them another day. For now, since you can feel Benevolence, that’s wonderful. That gives me an idea.”

Erick set down the square of Yggdrasil wood and used a concentrated blade of his sunform to trim off one of the smaller branches on the top. It was like cutting stone with a buzzsaw. He barely cut the white wood even with applying all his force. So instead of doing more of that, he used a very small cast of [Eternal Stonestreeshape] to turn that bit of white wood into a solid cylinder about a meter long, and ten centimeters thick. Another Shaping turned the wood into a tuning fork with the ‘tines’ actually being the rune for [Renew].

It held no power, for it was not an enchanted item, but maybe Yggdrasil could ‘feel’ it anyway?

… This was probably not going to work, and that was fine.

Erick held the ‘tuning fork’ in his right hand and zapped it with his [Pristine Benevolence]. Iridescent white lightning soaked into the ‘runic’ working to dance back and forth between the closest point where the tines almost touched, at the top. Erick asked, “Can you feel that, Yggdrasil?”

“… Yes.”

Erick was impressed.

Yggdrasil had lied, and not about something small like ‘being tired’.

“It’s okay if you can’t feel it, Yggdrasil.” Erick said, “I won’t be mad at all.”

With a deeply worried tone, Yggdrasil exclaimed, “I can’t feel it! Is something wrong with me?”

Erick smiled calmly, and said, “Nothing is wrong, Yggdrasil. But now that you have told the truth, I can put together some more advanced thoughts, and make some more advanced designs. Telling the truth is important when it comes to magic, no matter who you will make mad by telling the truth.”

With a questioning tone, Yggdrasil asked, “People ask if you’re a Wizard and I still say no?”

“Just don’t tell anyone about me, Yggdrasil. No need to lie, or tell the truth. Just don’t tell them about me when they ask.”

“Okay!” Yggdrasil happily said, “This is easier!”

Erick smiled.

And then he had another idea. The basic idea of a piece of Yggdrasil, soaked in Benevolence and then chiming off power, probably still had merit, if Yggdrasil could indeed feel all the Benevolence around him with ‘spiderweb feelings’. Perhaps the problem was one of scale? Or maybe strength of signal?

Erick asked, “Can you feel me, Yggdrasil? When I walk around?”

“Yes!” Yggdrasil said, “I know where you are, always. Very comfortable. Better that you live here now.”

“I like living here, too.”

Erick turned his attentions inward.

… He felt like he should be able to have such ‘spiderweb feelings’ as Yggdrasil. But he did not. Maybe he needed to actually experiment more with Benevolence to understand it better? The answer to that question came as soon as Erick had that thought: yes, you fool. You need to experiment more with Benevolence.

Erick had too many fun and interesting new toys and not enough time in the day—

And, he needed to get on with Time Magic, too! With Phagar!

— to learn about all of them, and what they could do.

Well. He was here and experimenting. So he focused again on the thought of ‘spiderweb feelings’.

And he got nothing.

“What do I feel like to you?” Erick asked.

“Like a river flowing. I feel you brush against me. I know where the river starts.”

Even though Erick wasn’t currently releasing Benevolen—

Wait. He was currently releasing Elemental Benevolence out into the world. His [Pristine Benevolence] and his [Lodestar]. Erick turned off his sunform.

He asked, “Do you still feel me?”

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye squinted at Erick. “Yes. But not like before. Something changed?” Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye stared at him. “What happened?”

Erick turned his sunform back on.

“There you are!” Yggdrasil said, “I feel you lots. You are here, father!”

Okay. So. Actively casting Benevolence caused his mana to flow away and he was fully sensible to Yggdrasil. Made sense. Mana that got used was often tainted with the magic that it was used for. In Erick’s case, his constantly-active sunform was doing exactly that. But since he was a Wizard, and all his mana was usually his own, unlike the vast majority of most people on Veird, would other constant magic allow Yggdrasil to sense him, even if it wasn’t Benevolence-based? His own mana was all Benevolence mana after his recent transformation, after all; that was his particular ‘flavor’ of personal mana.

There was the slight nuance that Yggdrasil could always feel where Erick was, anyway, but that might not be completely relevant to this sort of discussion.

