“Yes.” Erick frowned. “If I put a theoretical [Deny Everything] outside of the effect of the Drain— Oh. I’m overthinking this again. I have a Domain already. I need to put my [Lodestar] into this thing— Well. [Domain of Light].” Erick looked up that spell, to see if it had changed—

It had.

Domain of Benevolent Light, instant, super long range, 5000 mana

Harken unto your own Truth of Benevolence. Let no one diminish your brilliance.

Undispellable. Uncorruptible.

Lasts 1 hour. Effects last longer.

He should still be able to put that into a runic web.

“Like. Duh,” Erick said to himself. “Yes. It needs a Domain in there. I really should have considered that earlier. That solves so many small issues.”

Kiri smiled. Teressa watched.

Jane and Poi went back to making dinner.

The sun had set hours ago, and Erick made Gate Version Two.

Jane came back, well before dinner was ready, and tested the strength of Erick’s new Domain-enhanced Gate. Jane put everything she could into her [Force Weaver], and yet, she could not Weave. Success! Or at least as much ‘success’ as could be had under the Script, where there was always some way to counter other magic.

Erick breathed deep, then exhaled. This was good.

Twin Gates hung in the air before him, both of them looking like squares of pure light, hovering above a land of light, yet hints of abyss clung to the edges like a dark shadow. That shadow created darker lands to the left and right of the gate, forming a sort of tunnel that led to the hole in the world in the white wood.

Erick had constrained the [Undertow’s Edge] effect to the space around the actual entrance, so that people moving through the space wouldn’t actually have all of their resources stripped from them. Keeping the [Gate] stable was still important, though, so Erick made sure to carve some instructions to the side of each Gate, to make the people in both locations aware that while the space leading to the [Gate] was clear of the Drain, if they wanted the Gate to remain stable, then they needed to donate at least 3,000 mana per day to the Drain. More was fine. Less was not fine.

Technically, the Gate only needed 2880 mana per day, but a bit of extra leeway seemed good.

The backside had the full Drain guarding it, and thus it would drain about a thousand mana per second from anyone who was not defending themselves properly, or [Defend]ing themselves, in the case of most people.

Erick’s own Constitution, combined with [Unbreakable Form] for 500 absolute damage mitigation after all other defenses were taken into account, was enough to fully protect him from the Drain, apparently, which was a pleasant surprise to discover. This fact let him explore the backside of his [Gate] without issue…

Which was something he should have done before now, too.

Erick looked through the front of his left Gate, and saw the warehouse which lay in front of the right Gate. From there, he stepped left, into the Abyssal Drain, and went around back. The space on the opposite side of the [Gate] was little more than thick, white mist. Like touching near-solid fog. Erick stuck his hand into the fog and felt nothing particular about that mist at all. It wasn’t cloying, or wet, or warm or cold. It just was.

Back when Erick was working with Tenebrae, at the Twin Trees which held the [Gate] that led into the Twisted Vision of Ar’Cosmos, when Erick had touched the backside of that [Gate] it had disturbed the portal, breaking it apart. Once disturbed, that portal came back after a little while, without issue. Other peculiarities with that particular [Gate] allowed Erick to stand on the backside and look through the portal-space, to see the forest in front without issue, while anyone from the front side hadn’t been able to see Erick at all.

Here, in his warehouse, staring at the backside, Erick only saw a land of white fog.

What was going on here?

He probably could have experimented on this part a bit more stringently until now, but he just hadn’t thought of it. And now, here he was. So.

Erick sent an Ophiel into that fog.

Ophiel fluttered forward, into the thick mist, vanishing from sight almost instantly. One meter in. Two meters in. Four meters—

Like light unfurling in front of the [Gate], Ophiel appeared, ribbons of mist and gentle lightning flickering away from him, to fall back into the [Gate] behind and vanish like figments, to disappear into the portal.

Odd!

Erick tested it again.

And again, the same thing happened. After going a certain distance into the fog, that fog vanished from Ophiel’s form, pulling away, revealing that Ophiel had actually just been moving through a separate layer of reality, briefly, until enough distance was gained and Ophiel just popped back into this reality.

Kiri had a good suggestion. “It might not be distance based? It could be time based? Or saturation based?”

Erick had Ophiel flutter inside the backside of the portal, and just hover there, in the light. He didn’t go further in at all. Five seconds passed. Ten seconds passed. Twelve—

Fractured glows broke away from a heretofore invisible, intangible, unknowable Ophiel, hovering just on the other side of the [Gate]. Those glows washed away, falling back into the glowing square of the Gate like so much disturbed magic.

“I’m guessing saturation, though I will have to run more tests to be sure.” Erick said, “But it’s time for dinner, and then I have some meetings to take with Candlepoint. I told them I would meet them after sunset, but it’s way past sunset. I also need to… I’m not sure. Consider making a Gate that is open on both sides, and that you can go through both sides? A double Gate. Remove all possibility of someone going in the back.”

There was a lot of experimenting left to do! Too much, in too little time. For instance, Erick needed to know what happened when you shoved an antirhine knife into the backside of a [Gate]. Did it pop the [Gate] violently? Eliciting greenery from everything nearby? Or did something stranger happen?

While Erick wanted to get right on those important experiments because magic was fun! But there were a few facts holding him back from fully committing. First, he knew he’d be learning about how to work [Gate] for months, if not years. Added to that, there was the Class Ability Gatemaster to consider. What sort of ‘minor improvements all around’ could be lurking inside that Ability? Probably a lot! Enough that Erick wanted to know how to work [Gate] before he got that Ability, at the very least.

Mostly, though, the vagaries of Erick’s life demanded satisfactory answers to questions they had yet to ask, and that Erick would not know were questions until they showed up and tried to punch him in the face.

Or some other sort of attack.

Probably antirhine knives in the dark, or something. Or missiles. Probably missiles.

On the bright side, he wouldn’t have to go looking for antirhine if his assassins brought it to him.

“But that can come later.” Erick declared, “It’s time for dinner.”
