Cut off from the fort, Alsantset had lost the positional advantage, meaning the Enemy commander could wait her out or even order his garo and gajashia cavalry to turn around and surge into the fort almost entirely uncontested. While her retinue could easily chase down and pin them in, if the Chosen were willing to throw away their lives, they could easily clear the walls and allow the Defiled infantry unfettered access into the fort. A waste of resources in her eyes, since the infantry would have no trouble taking the walls on their own without the Sentinels harassing their flanks, which meant the huntress was left torn between a bad choice and a worse one. She could either sit here, do nothing, and hope the Enemy did the same, leaving Brigadier Hongji’s soldiers and Yan’s retinue to hold the wall without her, or she could order a charge against the gajashia cavalry, who outnumbered, out-muscled, and out-armoured her retinue, and pray that when the dust settled, she would still have enough Sentinels left to make a difference.

Heart heavy with regret as she readied to voice the order, she stopped short as pandemonium broke out amongst the Defiled ranks, with riders turning their gajashia’s about to face a new threat. Cursing her inability to Scry, she Sent word to Ghurda for information and received a reply shortly after. “Rustram and his cattle cavalry are riding to our rescue,” Ghurda Sent, chortling all the while. “Them gajashias are in fer a rude awakening, they are.”

A rude awakening indeed, especially as the huntress gave the order to bluff a charge. With threats approaching from both sides, the Chosen ranks fell into disarray as they scrambled to react for both and ended up defending against neither, making it all the easier for Ulfsaar to find a nice, juicy target for Moomie to drive into. The creaking abomination of a vehicle didn’t crash directly into the Enemy ranks, and instead struck them at a shallow angle, allowing the wheel mounted blades to scythe through muscle and sinew at ridiculous speeds. Clouds of blood and spurts of gore sprayed into the air as Ulfsaar’s Chi-infused roar rang out, striking fear into the hearts of friend and foe alike. By then, Alsantset’s Sentinels had long since stopped short to enjoy the show, as twenty-nine other chariots chased down the stragglers and drove straight over piles of fallen gajashias and Chosen in a symphony of death and destruction.

For a brief, heartwarming moment, all Alsantset could hear was the meaty thump and crisp crack of heavy iron wheels driving over steel armour and gajashia flesh, followed by the truncated screams of the dying. Hearing their abrupt ends sent a shiver of ecstasy down Alsantset’s spine, and she thanked the Mother for returning little Rain to the People.

More traditional cattle cavalry followed behind the chariots, ambling by slowly to make certain that every last Enemy soldier and beast died quick lest their suffering turn the Father’s foul gaze upon them and give rise to a new Demon. While they cleaned up the gajashia cavalry, the huntress brought her Sentinels to mop up the remaining garo outriders, and when all was said and done, they linked up with Ulfsaar a kilometre north of the fort. “Mister Rustram sends his regards,” the fearsome half-bear growled, and the huntress’s grip tightened around her spear and longed to challenge him for supremacy. Ulfsaar the Voracious was a formidable warrior, and though he’d only recently come into his Domain, Mama said his path to becoming a Peak Expert was both swift and inevitable. The former bandit was more in tune with his own nature than anyone else Mama had ever seen, a blood-thirsty maniac in battle, yet a kind, gentle, generous soul in all other aspects of life, with no conflict between the two diametrically opposed sides. How this was possible, no one even cared to guess, or at least they refrained from doing so within Alsantset’s earshot, and both her parents warned her against seeking Ulfsaar out for advice.

It wasn’t fair. Here was living proof that a demi-human could find harmony between beast and human, something Alsantset had struggled with all her life, but she wasn’t even allowed to know about his methods, much less ask him for advice. How did he do it? How did he find balance between the two conflicting mindsets and unleash his inner beast without losing his human compassion? How was it possible to switch between the two without yearning to indulge one set of instincts and struggling to ignore the other?

Oblivious to Alsantset’s envy, Ulfsaar said, “If it suits the Major, this one requests permission to lead the charge, when it comes time to do so, of course.”

“Granted,” she replied, flashing an easy grin which set most men, young and old, to swooning. Not to flirt, but being friendly never hurt, and if he so happened to offer her unsolicited Martial advice, she could hardly be blamed for not ignoring him. “You’ve more than earned it.”

Barely even acknowledging her smile, Ulfsaar nodded, flicked his reins, and set off at an easy walk. Moomie was barely even breathing hard after his arduous charge and showing signs of ascending to a Spiritual Beast, but the other more mortal cattle needed the time to rest, so Alsantset swallowed her displeasure, ignored Neera’s suspicious gaze, and set off with her Sentinels to pelt the Defiled with arrows while Major Sun Qiang’s force of light lancers kept the remainder of the Defiled cavalry tied up on the southern flank. Thoughtful as always, Mister Rustram had stocked the chariots and cattle cavalry with extra quivers for the Sentinels, and they rained death upon the Enemy for twenty straight minutes before finally running out of ammunition. At this point, the battle was all but won, for even crazed Defiled had their breaking point, and they passed it about ten minutes back. The final charge was more of a formality than anything, so Alsantset rode the high of bloodshed and victory for as long as she was able to, before finally giving in to reason and sounding the retreat.

This was some of the fiercest fighting along the front lines to date, yet it was not over, and would not end anytime soon. Pausing on the fields to finish a struggling Defiled tribesman, Alsantset wiped the blood from her eyes and glared at the neat and orderly Enemy lines, which swelled in number with each passing day. Today’s battle marked their most costly defeat in the past few days, especially in terms of Chosen, garos, and gajashias, but they had the numbers to spare, so now they slinked back to lick their wounds, fill their bellies, and once they found their courage again, they would charge at the walls again. Even as she watched, Defiled tribesmen dragged the dead and dying behind them, not to give them a proper send off or medical treatment, but to consume them as sustenance. The sight of still struggling Imperial soldiers amongst the crowd sickened her to the bone, but even she was not so hot-blooded as to charge out after them. It wasn’t right, letting their people be consumed like that, but they could not afford to give up the safety of their walls and take the fight to the Enemy, so all they could do was grit their teeth and endure this injustice.

This thought led her to a different topic of contention, one she’d tried very hard to ignore these past two weeks, and she happily did so again while leading her Sentinels back into the fort. Their return was met with scattered cheers and grateful smiles from the beleaguered Imperial soldiers, as well as a wink and a wave from a surprisingly energetic Yan. Now there was a young hero in the making, with her marriage to Rain and exploits on the wall bolstering her reputation into previously unseen heights. Already, there were whispers of Du Min Yan’s stunning command of the Blessing of Air, and even the most exaggerated rumours did not do her justice. Most assumed she was already an Expert with a Natal Palace, but Alsantset knew this was not so, had seen the girl work day and night to hone her skills with Wind Chi and admired her heartfelt dedication. Were she to master her Mentor’s mysterious Talent which allowed a single Wind Blade to cut through multiple opponents, then Yan might well become a one woman army upon the battlefield, slaughtering tens of enemies with every swing of her sword.

In contrast, little Rain’s other wife was not so beloved by the Empire, for fiery Mila had a hot temper and a sharp tongue, which had her butting heads with sycophantic peers who didn’t know well enough to leave her alone. Granted, the poor girl had more reason than usual to be in bad humour of late, but considering the Legate issued an Imperial Decree demanding they keep Guan Suo’s fate a secret, there were few able to sympathize with Mila’s bereavement. On that note, Alsantset brought the poor girl with her to wash up after the battle. Careful not to pester Mila with questions or offer unwanted advice, Alsantset merely kept her company and silenced the bothersome Tursinai. The cheery warrior meant well, but she’d been trying to raise Mila’s spirits for two weeks now to no effect and didn’t know when to leave off. In fact, Alsantset thought Tursinai might even be doing more harm than good by persisting with her efforts, and little Mila just needed some time alone with her thoughts.

She was much like Rain in that regard, so fond of introspection and averse to asking for advice. It was pride, in a sense, pride in their own strength, talent, and wisdom, for they believed they had all the right answers, or would eventually come to them if given enough time and information. Alas, there were few ‘right’ answers in life, and many times it was merely a choice between ‘bad’ and ‘worse’, but neither Rain nor Mila cared to accept this.

Seeing the distracted girl stuck in a loop, wiping her one cheek repeatedly and doing nothing else, Alsantset swallowed a sigh and gently took the hand towel away and set to washing Mila’s freckled face. Again, Alsantset said nothing, and from Mila’s sheepish expression, she appreciated the gesture. It was one of the hardest things Alsantset had ever learned, to give Rain the space and distance he so desperately needed, and it was no easier watching Mila languish in conflicted anguish and anger, but it had to be done. Eventually, they both finished cleaning up and returned to camp, where they worked together in total silence while carrying out their duties. Alsantset had taken Mila as her second, for the sweet girl was well-versed in command and the most suitable, willing candidate, so they tended to their quins and checked them for injury, refilled their empty quivers, water-skins, and ration packs, cleaned their harnesses, boots, and armour, then strode about the camp to speak with the Sentinels who were still on their feet, offering a kind word here, a gruff order there, and condolences wherever they were needed.

The butcher’s bill was heavily weighted towards the Defiled, but there were far fewer Sentinels than Defiled. Gathered here in Sinuji were almost four-thousand Sentinels in total, with Rain’s former retinue and Yan’s current one making up the remainder of Alsantset’s five-thousand strong command. Well, five-thousand no longer, but most still drew breath, and thus far, none had been dragged back to the Defiled camp, for she and the Sentinels under her command would never allow it.

Again, the contentious subject refused to leave Alsantset in peace, and it grated on her throughout the day and well into the night. Readying for bed after an unpalatable meal of dried meat, pickled vegetables, and hard tack, Alsantset was pleasantly surprised when Mila quietly asked to speak with her in private. Dragging the girl into her yurt before she could change her mind, Alsantset asked Yaruq to put up a Sound Barrier through Sending and asked, “What do you wish to speak of?”

“I wanted to thank you,” Mila began, hugging Alsantset tight enough to squeeze the air out of her lungs, which was the mark of a good hug. “For you know... giving me room to think.”

“Of course. Anything for you, little Aunt.” Jokingly using the overly formal form of address, Alsantset shared a warm smile with Mila as they took a seat on the bed. “But we are family. No thanks will ever be needed.”

“Thanks anyways.” Falling silent in her embrace, Mila struggled to find the words she wanted to say, so Alsantset stroked her ruby ringlets and waited. After a long silence, Mila Sent, “I don’t know what to think. About Rain and...”

Neither did Alsantset, truth be told, and she’d been doing her best not to. Think that is, about the bizarre circumstances they’d left him in. Mila was the only one present from start to finish, and even she didn’t understand what had transpired. One moment she was fast asleep, and the next, Rain was hollering for her to get combat ready and shouting about how they couldn’t have ‘her’, who in this case, everyone assumed was the Guardian Turtle. Then, in the blink of an eye, Ping Ping’s vast bulk melted away, as did Guan Suo’s corpse, and left in their place was an adorable, wide-eyed turtle who responded to Ping Ping’s name, and a grouchy, cantankerous red panda who responded to nothing and refused to let anyone touch him, even Mila.

