There were so many questions to be asked, Alsantset didn’t even know where to start, and it didn’t help that Rain had fallen asleep and refused to wake up. Her heart couldn’t take it if he went into a long coma like Mother had, because this time, Rain wouldn’t be around to wake himself up. Then there was the matter with Ping Ping and Guan Suo. Did Alsantset’s little brother tap into the secrets of Divinity? Was he responsible for Ping Ping’s new form and Guan Suo’s... reincarnation? Was that even Guan Suo? The little red panda didn’t appear to understand speech or care for pipes or alcohol, and he showed no signs of being able to use Chi in any way whatsoever. He could barely climb through the window to steal dried fruits to eat, and in doing so raised such a racket it had Papa scouring the manor for an intruder. All evidence pointed to the red panda being a red panda, and not Guan Suo returned to his previous form, but Ping Ping was undeniably still Ping Ping, only smaller, cuter, and far more willing to make friends than before.

It warmed Alsantset’s heart watching the happy turtle roughhouse and make friends with the quins, when previously she restricted herself to appreciating them from a respectful distance. A shockingly intelligent and considerate beast, and according to Taduk’s experiments with her collected excrement, Ping Ping was now a Divine Turtle in truth.

Of course, little Mila was more concerned about her progenitor, so Alsantset tried to focus on the topic at hand. “I can not tell you what to think,” she Sent, still stroking Mila’s hair. “Nor can I claim to know how you must feel. I too have yearned to meet my progenitor and dreamed of the things I would say, so I cannot even imagine what you are going through, but there is one thing I know you must do.”

“What’s that?”

“You must accept that Guan Suo is dead and gone.” Seeing how much the words hurt poor Mila, Alsantset knew she’d struck a chord. “Even if that red panda is him reborn, reforged, or what have you, the Guan Suo we all knew is no more, and nothing we do can bring him back.”

“But... what if that’s him?” Mila asked, her lovely eyes filled with hope and anguish. “How can I just ignore the possibility that it’s him inside that... furry form?”

“It might be him,” Alsantset replied, “In fact, I believe it is him, or rather his body at least.” It hurt seeing Mila’s conflicted hope, yearning to hold onto some scrap of the father she never knew, but Alsantset had to drive the knife home. “I think that when Ping Ping ascended to Divinity, she brought Guan Suo back, because he was her lifelong companion and she couldn’t bear to lose him. However, I don’t think she brought back the Guan Suo you and I know, but rather the one she grew up with, the gruff, red panda from inside her Natal Palace, who she no doubt knew for much longer than the Guan Suo we know even lived.”

“...But they’re one and the same.”

“No, Mila, they are not.” Looking her in the eyes, Alsantset shook her head and said, “The red panda Ping Ping brought back? He has never known the pain and anguish Guan Suo went through, for he is merely a beast, and nothing more.” Sighing, she added, “This is no real consolation, but I think Guan Suo would’ve preferred it this way. From what you have shared, it sounds like he was very unhappy in life, someone who hated himself for being neither man nor beast and turned to drugs and drink to escape from his suffering. He was a very troubled Divinity, but he tried to do right by you, and for this, I will forever be grateful.”

Sniffling in Alsantset’s arms, Mila cried until she had no tears left to her, but still Alsantset held her close. She was not so convinced as she sounded, but little Mila needed something to believe in. Alsantset too, for she clung to a single hope which she could not shake. When the Divine Turtle ascended to Divinity, she had been powerful enough to bring Guan Suo’s animal self back from the dead, and Rain had been right there with her, so was it too much to hope she somehow fixed his shattered Core? Perhaps even now, he was making ready to ride for Sinuji, with spear in hand and an army at his back to save the beleaguered front lines for the third time.

At some point, they both fell asleep like that, though for how long, she could not say, only that they both shot back to their feet at the haunting boom of a Defiled horn signalling yet another attack. Thankfully they’d followed protocol and were ready to ride into battle at a moment’s notice, but Alsantset’s fatigue from the first battle had yet to wholly fade, and little Mila was no better. Then, Brigadier Hongji’s Sending arrived to personally pass his orders to Alsantset, and her heart sank even further as she took in the dire news. While this morning had been some of the fiercest fighting yet, she suspected she would have to revise that statement soon enough. From what she could tell, there would be little room for tricky maneuvers or clever tactics during tonight’s battle, and they would simply have to rely on strength of arms and breadth of courage. Matters had grown desperate and all that was left was to kill or be killed, a clash of force in which only the strong would survive, and Alsantset worried that the Imperials might be in for a rude awakening.

For even as she stepped out of the yurt, she heard an inhuman cry which shocked the bustling camp into silence, a cry echoed by a chorus of Demonic throats to confirm what Brigadier Hongji just told her. The Father’s most foul minions were flocking to the battlefield and the Peak Experts of Sinuji were outnumbered and outmatched. Trials and tribulations indeed, as Alsantset had never defeated a Demon without assistance, but seeing as how she might have the chance to try her hand at it in the next few hours, she was more than eager to rise to the challenge.

After tonight, the Empire would know her as the Huntress of the Bekhai, and the Enemy would know her as death incarnate.

Chapter Meme
