As Alsantset rode out to meet the Defiled at a slow and steady gait, Suret’s low growl grew in volume and intensity until her entire body was trembling with barely restrained violence. Thousands of quins echoed her call, for this was their battle cry, their call to the hunt, and Suret led her fellow quins as surely as Alsantset led her Sentinels. With the scattered picket lines of garo outriders growing closer and closer, Alsantset readied her bow and spear before unleashing her animal instincts, for this was a job for the huntress within.

Deep down in her heart of hearts, she was loath to admit that these were the moments she lived for, these intoxicating seconds before joining battle and the freedom, violence, and bloodshed which followed. She did not kill or fight for the sake of violence or torment, but today, on the fields of Sinuji, she was ready to do righteous battle against the Father’s foul minions and throw them back from whence they came. There were no politics here, no social, civil, or communal matters to attend to, only bow and blade to wield as she saw fit. Out on the battlefield, she was wholly in her element, where everything felt natural and she rarely had to think twice, for this was the Mother’s holy work and the sole purpose of Alsantset’s existence.

As a demi-human, it was not within her purview to bear children or give them sustenance, nor was it in her nature to settle down and nest. She was a tiger, a predator, a killer, and here on the battlefield, she was free to unleash her true self. Make no mistake, she loved her husband and children more than anything in the world, but no matter how hard she tried to be a good wife and parent, it never felt easy or natural, not like it did on the battlefield. At home, she had to constantly refer to a mental checklist of societal norms to make sure she wasn’t crossing the wrong lines, and while it was easy to love and cherish her family, it was difficult to always remember she had to also nurture and support them.

But today, none of that mattered, for there was blood to be spilled.

As the scattered perimeter of Defiled outriders entered into bow range, the huntress felt the urge to draw her bow and let loose, but she stayed her hand and waited for a better shot. These Defiled were not the crazed tribesmen of the wastes who welcomed arrows and pain with bared flesh and crazed grins, but more dangerous prey in the form of self-styled Chosen. Their armoured frames sat in loose formation with spears and shields at the ready, and even treated leather was enough to ward off arrows at this range, to say nothing of iron or steel. Even if she could pierce through their armour or aim between the gaps to deal a killing blow, these Chosen were fast enough to bat arrows out of the sky, a skill many of them had perfected over the past few battles. What’s more, their bipedal garos were comparable to quins in terms of speed and explosive power, and while their ability to change course on the fly left much to be desired, this was more than made up for by their armoured scales covering their heads, hearts, and legs, leaving no weak points to target from a head-on position.

All this meant the Enemy had grown far more formidable over the past year of conflict, but just as the Chosen had improved and adapted, so too had the huntress. She was no cow or goat to charge headlong at her problems no matter the circumstances, but a powerful and cunning tigress, a creature who rarely exerted more effort than required. This was her nature, for it would defeat the purpose of the hunt to expend more energy than the sustenance her prey provided. Fight smart where possible, and hard when needed, but always keep something in reserve for a life and death situation. This was not a lesson taught to her by Mama, Papa or even Grandma or Grand-Mentor, but a lesson ingrained in Alsantset’s blood, and one she would always adhere to.

Thus, she waited until she was within five-hundred metres of the Chosen outriders before bringing Suret to a halt, at which point she turned the quin about. Ignoring the quin’s vocal complaints about turning her back to her prey, the huntress came to her feet and raised her bow while her fellow Sentinels followed her lead. In one fluid motion, she nocked arrow to string and bent her bow back as far as it would go, savouring the sound of so many bows following suit from behind her. Having long since picked her target, she loosed and smiled as the world came alive with the satisfying hiss of death delivered from afar. Thousands of arrows blanketed the sky, in the same general arc as her initial shot, and in the blink of an eye, a second wave followed, then a third, fourth, and fifth, all sailing through the air with ear-piercing shrieks full of the promise of doom and demise. The huntress hadn’t set a steep angle, nor did she set a shallow one, and though her first arrow had long since been obscured by its fellow comrades and she never saw it land, it was easy to visualize the path it took. There it went out into the night, over the heads of the waiting Chosen outriders and into the packed masses of the unarmoured Defiled tribesmen almost three hundred meters behind them.

Let the Chosen waste their efforts lugging heavy armour and cumbersome shields about, for all it did was waste their stamina and overburden their mounts. Despite all their training, equipment and discipline, the huntress saw the Chosen as less dangerous than the Defiled tribesmen, whose crazed disregard for self-preservation made them difficult to guard against. Strange as it was, the Chosen were almost no different from elite Imperial troopers and actually a more familiar foe for most soldiers of the Empire, herself included. Thus, she was happy to put her limited arrows to better use thinning out the Defiled numbers, because there were easier ways of dealing with the Chosen.

This plan had been built upon another lesson she’d learned these past few days, that the Chosen were so disciplined they couldn’t even think for themselves. Were the huntress in their place, she would have ordered her skirmishers forward to meet the aggressors in answer to the obvious challenge, but the Chosen outriders had been ordered to screen for the Defiled tribesmen surging towards Sinuji to the east, and they were doing just that. The opposing commander was a controlling one, and foolish to boot, seeing the soldiers under his or her command as pieces on a chess board, but true battle was not carried out in alternating turns. Twenty volleys she loosed over the course of a minute, and only then did the outriders receive their orders to move out, but the huntress was ready and waiting with a response.

“Hold fire and fall back,” she bellowed, even as her blood burned to close in with spear and fang. “Ghurda takes lead!”

This was one aspect of leadership which neither Imperial nor Defiled commanders could grasp, and this was a lesson taught solely by Papa himself. A good leader knew when to lead, and when to follow, even if it meant turning command over to another. Where she once rode at the front, the huntress now rode at the rear and was in no position to guide them across the battlefield, so this was a task best carried out by another. This was the way of the wolf and quin pack, because while they followed a strict hierarchy, their favoured hunting method was to work in groups and shifts to wear prey down and run them to ground, which meant there was no feasible way for one leader to manage the hunt from start to finish.

Of course, this meant finding other leaders you could trust, but the huntress was spoiled for choice with so many Peak Experts and experienced veterans under her command. When she rode out for the front lines, Grandma requested she bring little Mila, Yan, and Huushal under her wing and offer them the guidance of her years. In truth, this was merely so Grandma could keep all her beloved younglings together and allow the hidden guards to look after all of them at once, so while the huntress chafed at the supervision, after almost a dozen engagements packed into a handful of days, she was grateful for the extra assistance.

True to form, Ghurda took the reins of command and immediately split the three-thousand riders into smaller, separate packs. Sumila took command of one, and Huushal another, and when they rode off with their retinues, the opposing commander demonstrated his inability to learn from his previous mistakes as the Chosen outriders followed suit. There were far more than three-thousand garos chasing them, but Alsantset’s Sentinels had so much empty space to work with and the unflagging endurance of quins on their side. Scatter the enemy, wear out the garos carrying their heavy burdens, then pick off tired, isolated enemy groups with overwhelming numbers. Such was the tried and true hunting method of the People which worked well against Defiled, Chosen, and Imperial alike, a tactic learned from their beloved roosequin partners, and Alsantset had mastered it well under Father’s demanding tutelage.

In some ways, she felt like they spoiled Rain too much by not putting him through the same rigorous training regimen she’d gone through, but her little brother was too brilliant to risk colouring his perceptions or stifling his creativity with preconceived tactics. No point asking the quin to teach a dragon to hunt; better to let the dragon learn on his own.

Mila’s retinue was the first group to close in for the kill, turning without warning to pounce upon their flagging pursuers. In the huntress’s eyes, her Aunt turned sister-in-law was a tad overeager in her decision, but the results spoke for themselves as Mila led the charge against her unsuspecting foes and ripped through their ranks with ease. The fiery red-head skewered Chosen after Chosen upon her short spear while Tenjin and Tursinai rode at her flanks, and Mila’s borrowed mount, Zabu, demonstrated how even the most vicious garos were no match for the full fury of an alpha quin. They made a good team, and while it pained Alsantset to see the gruff, grizzled quin without her little brother upon his back, Mila had acclimated and adapted to his aggressive and frankly terrifying attitude with startling ease.

Next it was Huushal’s turn to show off his skills, seizing upon an opportunity to outmanoeuvre his pursuers and leave them trailing in his wake. Now free to join forces with his mother, they set upon her newly outnumbered pursuers with ruthless efficiency, and there was almost no sport in the ensuing skirmish. Honed spear tearing through mundane armour, the huntress’s heart sang as Suret pounced upon one foe and then the next, ripping into the throats of Defiled and garo alike until her jowls dripped with crimson blood, and then there were no more Defiled close enough to pounce upon. Pursing her lips as Ghurda ordered them to split and retreat, Alsantset eyed the dead garos littering the ground and wished her husband were here with her. Garo flesh was an acquired taste for quins, and Suret did not much like it, but her mate Pafu and his litter-mate Mafu loved it dearly. Neither were present on the battlefield today, so Alsantset had a large stash smoked, packed and ready to bring back to the Citadel as a treat, though she still lamented at how she couldn’t share this glory with the father of her children.

Each skirmish did not last long before they were forced to turn tail and run, but as the Chosen numbers dwindled and their garos grew sluggish, Alsantset’s Sentinels grew in courage and daring. Mila angled her retinue to fire into the flanks of Huushal’s pursuers, while Ghurda led her pursuers to crash into Mila’s, sowing chaos and confusion amongst the enemy ranks. By the time both Sentinel groups were away, the Chosen were still milling about in confusion and arguing about who crashed into whom, which freed up close to two-thousand Sentinels to draw their bows and let loose on the huntress’s command.

This battle was a slaughter by any measure, yet no matter how many Chosen they killed, it seemed like there were always more to follow. Despite all their efforts to even the odds, the Sentinels did not escape without cost, and every skirmish cost them the lives of a few good men and women, a price they could ill afford to pay. These outriders were merely the appetizer, a distraction to keep Alsantset’s people from tearing deep into the Defiled flank with arrow and spear alike, so the sooner they dealt with these troublesome riders, the sooner they could get to the meat and bones of the battle.

Or so the huntress thought, for she was about to order her retinue to close in for the kill when she felt an inkling in the back of her mind warning her of impending danger. Sweeping her gaze across the battlefield, she narrowed her eyes and made sense of the milling chaos before realizing what she missed. “Incoming from the southwest!” She shouted, not caring if anyone caught the hint of panic in her voice as she spotted the sprung trap. The Chosen outriders were a sacrificial goat, here to hold the mobile Sentinels in place while the black-armoured gajashia cavalry circled around to cut them off from the fort. Their barbed lances gleamed in the morning sun as they walked their mounts into position, lining up their beasts shoulder to shoulder in a solid wall of equine hooves and leonine muscle. Built for repeated bursts of power, their armoured brows and razor-sharp tusks made them a force to be reckoned with, able to match roosequins kilo for kilo while almost treble the size.

