Charging into the assailants, I smash them aside and create an opportunity for Lin to escape. Without hesitation, the four guards break through, their quins soaring past and leaving only myself and the dead in their wake. Lin's plaintive cries fade quickly as her quin breaks away from me. The circle quickly closes around me, no one leaving to chase her which fills me with relief. Well, it would have been nice if her guards hesitated a little, I mean, I'm sort of important too...

Lin's safe, that's all that matters.

Riding in a tight circle, I lash out with both weapons, cleaving through flesh and bone, killing any who come within reach. More assailants stream out from the meandering streets, converging on my position and I fight my way back to the bridge. Silent and relentless, dozens of them come at me from both directions only to be cut down, but there are too many, the bridge too wide for a proper choke-point. Two swords can't block four, and they surround me slowly and methodically. After minutes of desperate fighting, Mafu and I are bleeding from a dozen gashes. Arms numbed from repeated blocking and striking, still more assailants continue to arrive, throwing away their lives to chip away at me.

Soon, the bridge is covered in corpses and the black-garbed assassins finally showing signs of hesitation as they glance at one another. My body covered in blood and back to the railing, I stare out at them in challenge, mouth stretched in a grin. “What's the matter children? Step forward and die, I've other people to kill in the morning.”

Mafu's pained murmur pierces my heart and my anger rises once again. He's not like Zabu, bloodthirsty and tough as nails, Mafu's just a sweet little quin, happy to run around and have his fat belly rubbed. Swallowing my anger, I snarl at my assailants. “Run and tell your masters, Falling Rain of the People is not a man they should have crossed. I will find them and teach them the error of their ways, this I promise.”

With one last burst of strength, Mafu charges forward and leaps through the air before splashing into the canal below. The cold water engulfs me and shocks me into clarity. Submerged beneath the water, Mafu begins to paddle away from the bridge, the water turning red around us as the gore and viscera sluices off our bodies.

Thankfully, the canal has no dangerous animals lurking beneath the murky waters and after a minute, Mafu surfaces for air, our assailants choosing not to pursue us. Sputtering, I find my bearings and direct Mafu to keep swimming. Before long, we emerge from the canal onto land, calling out to my torch bearing retinue. Rustram barks out orders as he approaches, setting a guard around me. “Officer Rain, Lin made it back safe and unharmed. For thieves to dare target you, this one asks you give the order. Send us out and paint the streets with their blood.”

“No, my quin's injured and needs treatment.” Already, Mafu's head is drooping as he mewls quietly, seeking comfort from me, and I get him moving back towards the barracks. Patting him gently, the little quin seems miserable over his injuries, exhausted by his efforts. Men choose to fight, but quins don't get a choice, trusting in their riders. I failed little Mafu, let him get hurt, but I'll find who did this and make them pay for attacking my quin and wifey. “Send someone to inform Officers Fung and Huushal of the attack, have them gather with us. Set a round-the-clock guard and hunker down. We wait for Major Yuzhen to arrive. These weren't common thieves, the city doesn't have any. Whoever ordered this attack lives inside Sanshu, there's no doubt in my mind. I want to talk to all the bandits we've oath-sworn, find me someone who knows the city.”

Thinking back, I realize this explains Ping's weird attitude. I must have stepped on someone's toes, either by keeping something or killing someone. Probably some angry old rich bastard, and Ping thought I was doing it deliberately. I guess bandit hunting is a little more complicated than I thought.

Nothing is ever easy.

Chapter Meme
