“They have the clean soil of our Mother world between their toes. Here we go with the love! You didn’t just hurt Baby Stu’s feelings by telling him something everyone else in the house has already tried to force on him until he screamed them down. He will forgive you quickly without expecting an apology. He doesn’t like Human Alden more than you right now. He will gladly share whatever food-drugs they’re playing with in their cottage. And telling adolescents they can’t have contract tattoos with their favorite fellow adolescents always works.” Her pink eyes held his. “Well..are you comforted?”

“Not at all.”

“I must need practice.”

Jozz cast one eye in the direction their youngest sibling had gone. “Is he all right?”

“I’ve been thinking about it a lot over the past few weeks,” Evul said. “He likes me.”

“Well done.”

“He talks to me. Or he did. I think he’s getting tired.”

“What does that mean?” Jozz asked.

“Just that he’s getting tired. We’ve all been fighting him for a long time. If he were a demon, I’d have listed him for capture so that his stamina could be studied.”

“Don’t call our family members demons. It’s obscene.”

“I said if. Your squads must go lighter on the jokes than mine do if you aren’t calling each other demons regularly. Our brother seems to be slowly wearing out. And maybe everyone else sees that as an opportunity, but I’ve realized that I don’t know what happens when Stu gets tired of fighting. We’ve never been here before, and I don’t think I like it. It’s all so far away from where it’s supposed to be. I was going to find you and tell you to let him have some air. I heard you came home late last night. I should have found you then, before you were mean to him.”

Jozz frowned. “He’ll be fine…I didn’t say anything new to him. Apparently.”

“You’re closer to his age. That makes whatever you say louder.” She lifted a hand and placed it on his shoulder. “Which is why, after hearing that your mission ended in failure and that you go soon to your torment, he responded by telling you that you were unworthy of speaking to Human Alden. Don’t you dare let your breath fall upon the cottage where he studies human things!”

“I did notice a certain harshness uncommon among votaries… ”

“He and Alden attempted to have someone beheaded a few days ago.”

“What?”

“A wizard made a nuisance of himself while Emban was trying to have fun with her squadmates at a Here-to-There. Stu and Alden fixed the problems the nuisance had caused, tucked all the knights safely back in the Rapport, and then went directly to an executioner to demand an aggressive response. Veln thought Stu would spend a week immersing himself in legal processes and considering options, thus gaining confidence as a young wizard and a votary. But Stu had Alden watching the nuisance wizard for crimes all along, and so as soon as he nuisanced, they had plenty of evidence and they dragged him to the nearest person with a ring of death. Veln seems surprised…but proud.”

“Something about this story sounds untrue,” Jozz said slowly. “But I don’t know enough to argue with you.”

“Watch your back. They’re thirsty for blood.”******
