Erick left the Adventurer’s Guildhouse, feeling slightly down.

- - - -

On the way back home, Erick stopped to pick up lunch from ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’ Jane really did love the place, and it was growing on Erick. The place itself was growing, too. The husband and wife team of Rendar Skytouch and Julli Skytouch had needed to expand the business a week ago, to take advantage of the increased popularity of Spur, and the addition of fries to their menu. Erick felt that they pulled off their expansion quite well. Huge new glass plates separated a grilling station with three different cooks from the people waiting for their meals, while huge vats of hot oil simmered with [Heat Ward]s, already bubbling with fries held in metal baskets.

Noon was minutes away, so the place was starting to get packed. But the sit-down area of the restaurant wouldn’t get full until after the farmers came off of the farm; a lot of places were like that these days. People had started to plan accordingly. Erick stood in line with people who were not farmers, but likely merchants or adventurers, based on their clean business-like clothing, or their armor and leathers.

When it was Erick’s turn to order, Julli Skytouch, the bluescale wife half of the husband and wife team, who also manned the register, instantly joked, “Shouldn’t you be raining out there?”

Erick smiled. “I got it covered.”

“What’ll you be wantin’ today?”

“Seven sandwiches, two baskets of fries.”

Julli smiled. “That’s what I like about you. Always buying for other people. 1 gold, 2 silver.”

Erick paid her two gold, saying, “No change.” He asked, “How are you liking the fries? Have you tried out the method I told you about, yet?”

Julli took Erick’s gold as she smiled, saying, “Yes. It works well. Fry them once, freeze for the next day. Fry again. Crispy fries!” She smiled, “Thank you, Archmage. People love these fries in a way I don’t really understand.”

“That’s easy to explain!” Erick said, “Everything tastes better fried.”

Rendar, husband to Julli and co-owner of the establishment, and currently cooking up a storm of meats on the grill, called out over the glass divider, “Everything tastes better fried!”

Erick smiled.
