

It turned out he needn’t have worried.

As Edmund kept up his cautious advance through the overflowing hoard, a kobold rounded the bend ahead to face directly at him.

The kobold let out a muffled hiss of surprise and slipped its loot bag through a loop on its belt.

Edmund’s mark burned.

The creature drew its club in the same moment as it transformed from wood to steel, lowered its stance, and charged.

Edmund stood his ground, unable to flee or otherwise start an assault of his own.

The kobold bore down.

A plan materialized.

Edmund disassembled his spear, its pieces floating through the air to attach to his various limbs as he drew his sword.  He gritted his teeth.  He’d only have one shot at this.

Edmund conjured a Smoke Lash in his left hand and leapt into the air, taking a windstep to build as much altitude as possible.  His second step landed on the kobold’s shoulder.  In the same motion, he raked the edge of his sword across the kobold’s throat and swung his Lash around its torso. He vaulted overhead, adding spin as he kicked off his foe to turn midair.

At the last moment before he hit the floor, Edmund spent his second windstep, halting his momentum against a platform of air to silence his landing.  Barely a drop of blood coated the edge of his cutlass.

The force of Edmund’s kick sent the kobold stumbling forward, only to stop short forty-five degrees from the ground as the Lash around its torso went taut.  Its feet scrambled fruitlessly against the floor, their padding failing to find purchase.  Taking the opportunity, Edmund yanked on his Lash, swinging the destabilized kobold back past upright and towards Edmund.

Edmund caught it with open arms, cushioning the monster’s fall and holding its metal armor and sack of loot up off the ground.

Without bothering to sheath his weapon, Edmund cast a second Smoke Lash around his other hand, swinging it out to entangle the creature’s mace.  He gulped, and waited.

Even as the rotflesh venom crept to its heart, the kobold kept its flailing contained to the path, too accustomed to working in the cavern’s imposed silence to dare disturb the hoard around it.  Its tail flailed about wildly, managing only to thump against the floor fruitlessly.

When it finally went slack, Edmund was ready.

He jerked hard with his right hand, yanking the mace free from the kobold’s loosening grip.  He’d expected it to fall, to very nearly clang against the ground before the upward tug of his Lash saved it.  Instead it took a direct path, the Smoke Lash acting as a tendril rather than a rope.

Edmund blinked.  That was new.  He supposed it made sense.  The Lash was made of smoke, after all.

The smoke was his.

He caught the mace in his left hand before tugging at his second Lash, pulling the slackening kobold upright.

Edmund darted in, supporting the dying draconoid with an arm on each side of its breastplate as it sank to the floor.  He lowered its body gently, keeping the loot sack at its belt hanging down the width of its waist.  A muffled clanging rang out from within.

Edmund froze.  His heart raced.  His hair stood on end.  He swung his head around towards Vlaevia’s.  The stream of smoke from her nostrils grew thicker.  The cavern grew stiflingly hot.

Then nothing.  The heat remained; the restlessness remained, but the Dreamer slept on.

Edmund let out a breath.

He sheathed his cutlass and set down the kobold’s mace before setting his eyes on its feet.  The claw-shaped foot pads didn’t entirely cover the soles of his blackbone boots, but as long as he refrained from kicking anything or walking on his heels, they’d serve well enough.

At last properly equipped for the level’s terrain, Edmund pushed on with renewed confidence.  The next three kobold’s he dispatched with relative ease, able to avoid overcomplicated maneuvers and simply run them through with his spear now that he had the freedom to move quickly, quietly.

He nearly flinched when he rounded the final treasure mound to come face to face with the slumbering dragon, only to actually flinch when a chime echoed through the cavern.

Vlaevia didn’t react.

Edmund allowed some of the tension to drain from his shoulders as circled the Dreamer’s massive snout to find the exit standing open beyond.  A small chest, trimming in gold and crafted of the same dark crimson scales as Vlaevia’s, awaited him.  He swung it open.

Inside sat two coins, one leaning atop the other as if posed for a portrait.  No smoke drifted off them.  No enchantment made itself apparent.  The way their pale green seemed to capture the torchlight and glow as if from within told Edmund all he needed to know.

Mithril.  Real, pure, mithril, not the diluted alloy in his shield and bracers.

With a gulp, Edmund picked up more wealth than he’d ever dreamt of holding.  The coins were worth a thousand gold a piece, a veritable fortune.  He clutched them tight, the cool metal a seemingly infinite sink for the warmth of his palm.  He offered Liam a silent thanks in spite of himself.  Any other time he might’ve preferred something he could use, but with a hub floor coming up next, Edmund would have the perfect opportunity to spend his newfound wealth.

More than satisfied with his prize for defending Vlaevia’s hoard, Edmund slipped the coins into his bag and brought up his constellation.  A number of options presented themselves.

If he dared, he could combine Wrath with one of his low-resonance Aspects with the intent of mixing in Madness later to improve the resonance of the higher-tier result, but that meant weakening himself for several floors to come in exchange for little more than future potential.  It also meant going at least another floor without upgrading his Madness, a questionable decision given the Aspect’s importance.

Alternatively, Edmund had access to four potential tier five Aspects, each of which would level up several others, Madness included.  He’d lose a bit of resonance on them, but gain the power he’d need for the immediate future.  Edmund didn’t like the idea of wasting precious levels forming confluences between two gray tier ones.

He settled on Rebellion, the most resonant of his tier fours.  Its bonus damage to enemies above his level wasn’t particularly exciting, and its other effect was redundant with that of his bracers of the resolute, but it would theoretically offer a more resonant confluence.

Mind made up, Edmund selected Wrath and Rebellion and formed his newest Aspect.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Insurgent - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Collateral Damage active ability.

Edmund nodded in satisfaction.  He’d always appreciate more tools in his arsenal, even ones he couldn’t test on his current floor.  There was no world in which he activated a skill called Collateral Damage with Vlaevia right there.  He’d have to save it for the hub.

A quick scan of its components showed no changes to Wrath, Rebellion, War, The Island, Perseverance or Madness, a disappointment that lasted only until he checked the two that had changed.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 6 - Provides access to the Savage Rend active ability.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 11 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.  Provides a lesser increase to celerity while fighting alone.  Provides a lesser increase to perception while alone.

Rend, his oldest and most dependable active ability, had a new name and in all likelihood a new effect.  The word “savage” gave him some pause, especially as far as testing it out in the Dreamer’s lair, but he’d accept any and all boosts to damage output.

Solitude, in turn, had picked up yet a third effect.  Banishing his constellation and glancing around the room, Edmund didn’t notice anything particularly different, but he supposed that’s what “lesser” meant.  It seemed like the kind of skill he wouldn’t notice, even as it saved his life.

Level cleared and winnings claimed, Edmund set down his bag and returned to the greater cavern.  It’d been a while since he’d cleared a floor without any rush to depart, and he intended to take his time.

First up came a thorough sweep of Vlaevia’s hoard, a meticulous search that covered every inch of exposed wall and floor between the various heaps of gold.  He eliminated some dozen kobolds as he searched, using and reusing the same spear-propping technique that’d worked so well in his first encounter.

He returned to the exit empty-handed.  No secret panels, hidden doors, or concealed chests had made themselves apparent to Edmund’s eyes or the smoke.  If Liam had left anything to find, it was buried in the treasure mounds, features Edmund steadfastly refused to disturb.

He supposed if he’d had a month to burn he could’ve painstakingly unstacked and restacked each pile to search through them, but over such a long period the odds of him eventually slipping up and dropping something approached a hundred percent.  Dungeon secrets or otherwise, Edmund didn’t fancy the idea of rooting through a dragon’s hoard.

That only left taking whatever combat practice he could from the roaming kobolds, a limited but certainly useful task he resolved to undertake tomorrow.

As he unfurled his bedroll, Edmund wondered how long it’d been since last he’d slept.  Tracking time proved a difficult prospect in the Eternal Depths.  It felt like an eternity since that restless night in Amelia’s tent.  Since then, he’d only—actually, did getting knocked unconscious on the twenty-first floor count?

Not bothering to stifle his yawn, Edmund lay back before turning onto his side and propping himself up with his helmet to keep from rolling onto his back.  It would’ve been agonizingly anticlimactic if he’d made it this far only to die by rousing Vlaevia by snoring.

Wrapped both in the joy of victory and the calming comfort of the smoke, Edmund let his eyes drift shut and joined the Dreamer in her slumber.

His Majesty Francis Gluhmbridge Morathian, High King of Linaria, the Songwalkers, and the Southern Cities, had had about enough of this gods-forsaken city.  He stormed through the halls of Duke Chiron’s palace, his aide scurrying at his heels, as he departed yet another fruitless update.

“It’s been six months, your majesty,” Carlyle sputtered behind him.  “Perhaps it’s time to consider—”

“I’m not leaving without my daughter,” Francis snapped.  “Westfield can manage well enough in my absence.”

“Minister Westfield has dispatched three missives requesting your return this past week, your majesty.  If you don’t return to the capital soon—”

“And what do you suppose will happen if Amelia dies down there?  How do you suppose the realm will fair if Humphrey has to take the crown instead of securing our relationship with Fyriax?”

“I assure you, I’m more than capable of overseeing the rescue efforts in your stead.”

“No,” Francis said plainly.  “You aren’t.  Not of negotiating when her captors finally come forward, nor of going to the same lengths I am.”  He shook his head.  “That they’ve eluded us this long testifies to their skill.  I’ve no doubt they intend to delve deeper into the Depths until our men can no longer match them before they come to the negotiating table, effectively removing rescue as an option in a bid to force my hand.”

“And what of this dark-haired stranger?  He wasn’t one of the traitors that stole her away, yet he told us Amelia wouldn’t be leaving the Depths until he’d finished what he’d come there to do.”

“I can only assume he’s the ringleader behind this entire plot.  As you’ve mentioned, he’s outright declared he won’t negotiate until they’re beyond our reach.  Whatever hooks he has into my daughter, I’ve let them fester long enough.  Consequences be damned.  If I have to tear that hillside from the earth, I’ll do i—”

King Francis cut off as he swung the door open to his borrowed study to find a sandy-haired man—scarcely more than a boy—dressed in pauper’s rags, sitting behind his desk with his filthy feet up on the gold-trimmed mahogany.

“Your majesty, what’s—” Carlyle stepped past him to see the intruder.  “Who are you?  How did you get in here?  I’ll have you know this is—”

The stranger flashed a sly grin, his eyes trained past Carlyle to focus directly on the king’s.  “I was just wondering how long you intended to linger in my city.”

“You address his majesty, the high king of Linaria, beggar.  I’ll have your head for this disre—”

“Leave us, Carlyle,” Francis spoke, his voice unnaturally steady.

“But, your majesty—”

“I said, leave us.”  Francis flared his Aspect of Authority, stilling the air in the ornate study.  Carlyle froze.

The intruder simply smiled and tilted his head, somehow unaffected.

But Carlyle didn’t obey.  He neither bowed nor blinked nor took his leave.  He simply stood, paralyzed as if bound by invisible chains.

Only as the stranger smirked once more and made a shooing motion with his hand did the aide depart.

Even behind the mask of The Stoic, Francis gulped.  “I take it you represent the Eternal Depths?”

“Take it how you will.  I’ve been going by Liam lately.”

“Liam, then.  To what do I owe this… delegation?  I can’t imagine the Eternal Depths cares much where I spend my time.”

“No.  I care what you intend to do with it.”  Liam folded his hands together in his lap.  “I believe your exact words were ‘you’ll tear that hillside from the earth’?”

The king didn’t answer.

“Now, Francis, I think we can agree that neither of us wants to see that happen.  I do so like the exterior decorations as they are, and I’m sure you’d prefer if this city stayed where it was, wouldn’t you?”

“I want my daughter back.”

Liam raised an eyebrow.  “And you believe antagonizing me is the way to accomplish that?”

“I believe ten minutes ago you weren’t sitting in my office.”

The grin reappeared on Liam’s face.  “Clever boy.  Alright.  Here I am.  What’s your real leverage?”

Francis stepped around the mahogany desk to reach a drawer to Liam’s right.  From within, he withdrew a sheaf of paper.  “I have here a royal decree to implement strict ability testing before allowing entry into the Eternal Depths.  With the wave of a pen, I could cut you back to only the most talented delvers.  In exchange for keeping the floodgates open, you’ll return my daughter to me.”

Liam leaned in to peruse the first page before sitting back once more.  “Go ahead.  I’m hardly dependent on your dregs.  In fact, losing them might help address another problem of mine.”

The king leapt onto the opening.  “This other problem.  Is it something with which I could assist?”

