Edmund emerged from the dark between levels and glimpsed annihilation.

It seemed, at first, as a wall before him, scales the size of the festival platters he’d seen bear an entire roast pig every year on Bounty Day.  They glimmered dark in the torchlight, a crimson so umbral it toed the very edge of black.

Only as Edmund averted his gaze could his mind even begin to fathom the enormity before him.  Above, it curved in beneath the cavern ceiling, spines taller than he narrowly slipping between the stalactites.  Below, golden glimmers peeked out from beneath its mass, distorted shapes that sparkled in the dull light of the smoldering braziers that flanked the entrance.  As Edmund squinted, he recognized one such piece as a golden chalice, bent out of shape by the weight of the monstrosity atop it.

Though fear so frequently failed to pierce the haze of smoke that encircled Edmund’s heart, here it sent a shiver down his spine.  He didn’t need his Madness, nor even much thought, to identify the beast before him.  He’d heard legends enough.

Much as the various guilds and guides and institutions of Harrowed’s Hearth aimed to keep information on the Eternal Depths locked away behind the nebulous barrier of payment—ostensibly to disincentivize the unprepared from taking dangerous risks, but in reality as a particularly effective form of extortion—loose tongues and open ears left cracks through which the dregs could slip.

Along the gutters and alleys did rumors best spread, rumors that found Edmund as they did all others, with a grain of salt.  The tales conflicted in number and kind, yet they spread with such consistency that their shared kernel of truth had taken root in even Edmund’s skeptical mind.

Somewhere, hidden in the Eternal Depths, at least one dragon had made its hoard.

That Edmund still drew breath meant he’d yet to draw the attention of the force of nature beneath which he stood, a curiosity explained simply by the wooden sign that sprouted from the floor before him.  In crudely scrawled black ink, it offered a single instruction.

Don’t wake the Dreamer.

Edmund exhaled.  He knew by the accords Liam couldn’t put him up against a dragon, not on the twenty-fourth floor.  Thrax, probably not in the first two hundred floors.

For perhaps the first time since he’d set foot in this accursed place, Edmund decided without hesitation that he would follow Liam’s instructions to the letter.  No amount of smoke would keep him alive against a dragon.

It did, if pointlessly, offer him a name, one that shone a deep and all-consuming black.

Vlaevia, the Dreamer

Liam’s part of this seemed clear, a show of force, as if the whales of the last level hadn’t been enough.  Vlaevia alone could raze Harrowed’s Hearth to the ground, and here she dreamt, under Liam’s roof.

Edmund refused to be cowed.

Rather than dwell on the insurmountable might in front of him, he set his focus on the smaller details, the ones to which he could adapt.  The floor beneath his feet shone black and shiny, ripples running through it in conflicting paths as if it’d been melted and resolidified a dozen times.  It made for a hard and uneven surface with unpredictable bends and divots treacherous to unsure feet.

His blackbone boots offered the agility to keep him steady, yet their solid soles tapped against the stone with a volume that echoed across the vast cavern.  For a moment, Edmund mourned the loss of his shadowhide boots, their muffling enchantment a boon he’d sorely miss.

Satisfied no traps nor lurking fiends nor waking dragons would take advantage of his distraction, Edmund turned his attention to the next pressing matter: his right hand.

Already the ache of the urchin sting had crept past the second knuckle of his pinky, the skin at its tip turning a disquieting black as the venom necrotized it.  Edmund grimaced.

He’d yet to come across a toxin that could overcome the health regeneration from his Aspects and Sigils, especially combined with The Island’s resistance.  He supposed the immense regen the slumbering deep offered while sleeping might’ve fought it off, but he dared not unfurl his bedroll on an uncleared floor.

Luckily, he’d come prepared.

From his satchel Edmund drew a boiled-leather vial, one he’d purchased from the market back on the fifteenth floor.  He pulled the cork and downed the cloyingly sweet potion of curing in a single gulp.

Nothing happened.

Edmund scowled, staring down at his rotting finger as the minutes ticked by, searching for any sign of change one way or the other.  The darkness seemed to retreat slightly, but he couldn’t say for certain.  If the potion was doing anything, it was doing it slowly.  Edmund sighed and returned the empty vial to his bag.  He’d have to take another look at the wound later.

In the meantime, he looked to his newest piece of equipment, the sword he’d claimed in those final moments before the flood of mindrot dominators had driven him to flee the previous floor.

Rotflesh Cutlass

Inflicts major rotflesh on blood draw.

Edmund nodded in satisfaction.  He’d expected as much.  Thus far Liam had gone three for three on poisoned blades, Rat’s Fang, Scorpion’s Sting, and his newest sword simply different form factors of the same basic concept.  The saber’s curved blade would make it less suited for thrusting attacks than its predecessors, but Edmund could afford that adaptation.  His spear would always be the superior thrusting weapon either way.

One more glance at his pinky reaffirmed the potency of the toxin.  Anything that could push through his regeneration, resistance, and still survive a potion of curing for as long as it had had to pack a punch.

Edmund spared a thought of gratitude that this sword had come with a sheath.  He strapped it to his belt.

For his final preparations, Edmund pulled his shield off his back, slipped his arm through its straps, and assembled his spear into his other hand.  He’d have to take care which pieces of his arsenal he utilized, immediately eliminating skills like Brutalize and Firestorm for fear of breaking the level’s only rule.  Thrax, even Challenge was out, the vocalization it required too much a risk.

Weapons equipped and stock taken, Edmund turned to follow the only path available.  While to his left the dragon’s flank sloped in to meet the wall, to his right it curved away to allow him passage.

He made it four steps before rethinking his footwear.

Even progressing at his usual glacial pace, the tap of his boots against the stone floor resounded through the space.  It obviously had yet to disturb Vlaevia, but Edmund knew he couldn’t keep up such a careful pace.  Sooner or later, he’d have to run.  Sooner or later, he’d have to fight.

He knelt, placing a palm against the melted and remelted surface.  He put weight on it.  He ran it laterally across, managing a few inches before a jagged edge tore through his skin.

Edmund cursed.

He’d tear up the soles of his feet if he tried to go barefoot, a hindrance, but not the end of the world by any stretch.  He worried more that he’d wind up breaking an ankle attempting to run across the uneven surface.  He couldn’t take that risk.  Injury notwithstanding, any fall would bring his metal armor clattering against the ground.

He’d have to depend on the rigid soles of his boots to bridge the twists and crevices of the cavern floor.  Edmund wondered if Liam had designed it like that intentionally.

With a silent sigh he pushed himself upright and set off once more, following the curve of the wall and the dragon’s body as the two slowly diverged.

Loose treasures cluttered the path, forcing Edmund to carefully step around gold and gems and other precious trinkets to which he held no claim.  The accords were strict about what did and didn’t constitute loot.  Instead, they served as gilded traps, items ready to clatter their owner awake at a single misplaced foot.

He’d walked for some thirty minutes before the wall of dark scales began to separate from the ceiling above, its spines growing shorter and its curvature greater as Edmund progressed along what he’d realized to be the creature’s tail.  Even at its thinnest point, it reached several feet above Edmund’s head.  It ended at a massive spade, black as night and sharp as an axe along its edge.

Only as Edmund peeked his head past the brutal weapon did he get his first glimpse of the cavern as a whole.

Unimaginable wealth greeted him.

Vast heaps of priceless artifacts and precious metals left little space for the winding path between them, a path Edmund imagined only existed to leave space for the braziers that lit the room.

Vlaevia encircled it, her body curled in a great crescent that left her snout opposite Edmund.  Even across the vast expanse, he could see the tendrils of smoke drifting from her nostrils.

The ceiling domed as it separated from the wall, vaulting high overhead until even the tips of the stalactites faded into shadow, far beyond the reach of the braziers below.  Edmund scowled at it through his helmet.  He’d seen several such darkness-shrouded ceilings, but ever since the seventh floor he kept keenly aware of what threats such gloom could conceal.  He’d have to keep an eye trained above.

Potential dangers would have to take a back seat to certain ones as a hulking figure rounded a bend in the path to appear from behind one of the golden heaps.  It stood some nine feet tall on two legs, its back thankfully turned to offer Edmund a chance to watch it unseen as it stooped over to pick through the pile of treasures before it.

Dark leather armor protected the thing’s chest and legs, leaving its arms, feet, and tail exposed.  All three bore dull green scales in lieu of skin, confirming the creature’s draconic origin.  On its clawed feet it wore thick leather pads that deformed along the contours of the floor, a silencing measure that somewhat vindicated Edmund’s own paranoia about keeping quiet in Vlaevia’s presence.

Its pointed tail swished dangerously behind it, counterbalancing its upper body as it leaned over the hoarded wealth.  Before Edmund’s eyes it identified a loose ruby and snatched it from the pile, stuffing it into the sack in its left hand.  How it managed to spot which items it could take without disturbing the pile, Edmund couldn’t guess.  He could, however, guess its purpose.  The smoke confirmed it.

Kobold Pilferer

Before he could even finish reading the name, Edmund’s left shoulder burned with the activation of his challenger’s mark.  In front of his eyes the kobold’s armor changed, melding into itself and taking on a distinct sheen that flashed in the brazier light.  The wooden club at its waist followed suit, morphing from a misshapen branch to finely-crafted flanged mace of gleaming steel.

Edmund let out a breath.  If that thing hit the floor, he was done.  Thrax, he couldn’t even hit the damn thing without the metal of his weapon clanging against its plate mail.

The kobold seemed not to notice the change, content to continue burglarizing Vlaevia’s hoard.

Edmund had no intention of letting the distraction go unpunished.

He crept around the tip of Vlaevia’s tail, keeping low as he navigated the slim path between treasure mounds.  As he moved he readjusted his equipment, returning his shield to his back to grip his spear with both hands.  He might’ve managed to stop a swipe of the kobold’s claws, but any attempt to block that mace would’ve rung the shield’s mithril dome like a bell.  Edmund couldn’t risk the noise.

A plan solidified in his mind as he approached, one that, with any luck, would keep the noise to a minimal level.  There were two problems to Edmund’s eye.  The first was the mace.  If he gave the kobold an opportunity to bring that thing to bear, Edmund had no defense.  The second was the sack of loot in its hand.  If that thing hit the floor any way other than extremely gently, the precious metals inside would make a racket.

As he entered striking distance, Edmund raised his spear, its tip pointed just shy of straight up, evened out his stance, and marked his Target.  With a final breath, Edmund leaned in, and tapped the kobold’s tail.

It jerked upright and whirled about, oh so nicely removing its center of mass from above the treasure heap in time for Edmund’s hyper-magnetic spear to meet the base of its snout.  Rebellion, The Tactician, The Target, and The Warmonger piled on their bonuses to force the spear tip past the tough scales and into the soft tissue beyond.

The kobold twitched and froze.  Its claws went slack.

Edmund lurched for the loot sack with his left hand.  It fell over a foot before he grabbed it, then another as his outstretched arm absorbed the momentum of the heavy metals within.

With his right hand, Edmund carefully lowered his spear to the ground before the kobold could fully collapse, a soft clink ringing out as he nestled the butt of the weapon into one of the floor’s crevices.  He exhaled.

The kobold sank under its own weight as it breathed its last, further skewering itself until the top of its skull came to rest against the spear’s point.

Edmund waited.  Sack held aloft in one hand, spear balanced on its base in the other, he counted out the seconds as the minutes dragged on.  It took six, in total, for the dungeon to reclaim the kobold’s corpse, leaving only its head impaled on Edmund’s spear.

Unbidden, the image of Liam’s—the real Liam’s—cocky grin from atop the spike trap popped into Edmund’s head.  He swept it away behind a veil of smoke.

Dealing with the severed head was a simple matter of inverting his spear to rest the kobold’s horns against the ground, holding it down with his foot, and yanking the weapon free.  Dealing with the loot sack was another matter.

For safety’s sake, Edmund opted against just setting it down, too unsure about what would clatter against what to take the risk.  Instead, he let the sack’s mouth slip open and peered inside.

Within he found a hodgepodge of valuable goods meticulously packed so as not to shift with motion.  Deforming the flexible sack would’ve broken the equilibrium within.

With a sigh, Edmund reached in, removed the ruby he’d watched the kobold loot, and set it gently on the ground.  One down, a hundred to go.  Piece by piece he unpacked the bag, diffusing the sound bomb with the power of tedium.  Minutes later, he discarded the empty burlap and looked to the path ahead.

He only realized his mistake as he took his next step.

The foot pads!

The kobold had been wearing leather padding to mute its steps, padding Edmund desperately needed if he wanted any semblance of maneuverability.  He cursed as he rethought his battle plan, wracking his brain for some way to neutralize a steel-clad kobold without the dungeon reclaiming its footwear.