“My dear Francis, it sounds like you’re approaching something resembling a deal.  I like deals.  They’re something of a specialty of mine.”

“So I’m aware.  What will it take to get my daughter back?”

“I’m afraid I can’t just hand her over.  I need her, for the time being.”

Francis scowled.  “This problem of yours?”

“Indeed.  She’s been such a great help.”

“What about this man who’s taken her?  This dark-haired stranger?”

Liam let out a laugh, a sharp and disbelieving thing that rattled Francis down to his bones.  “You don’t want him.”

“He’s taken my daughter.”

“Oh, don’t get me wrong, he’s certainly the key to your daughter’s survival.  He’s just not a key you can turn.”

“And you can?”

Liam sighed.  “If only it were that easy.”  He pushed himself to his feet, looked up at the taller king with those mischievously cocky eyes of his.  “Here’s my offer.  I’ll give you a chance.  At your daughter, at the man who took her, at anyone else currently hiding in my depths from those soldiers of yours.  It’ll be up to you to take it.”

“And what’ll it cost me?”

“Nothing too objectionable, I assure you.”  Liam stepped past the high king of Linaria, his ragged foot wraps dragging across the priceless Byresian rug as he made for the door.

Francis refused to turn around, keeping his eyes fixed on the desk in front of him.  He’d dance on no prince’s string.

No trace of pleasure or annoyance at the gesture colored Liam’s voice as he stopped within the doorway to add his final comment, his great task for which he dangled the princess’s life.

“There’s someone I need you to find.”

Edmund awoke to a faint buzzing along his left ring finger, a thrice-pulsing vibration that tore him from sleep’s tenuous grip.  He’d already come to full attention by the time Amelia’s voice echoed through the quiet cavern.

“—ope this works.  Edmund!  I’ve made it to the hub.  It’s crawling with guards, so I’m hiding out a bit off the beaten path.  Once you lose them, come to the northeast bank.  There’s a hollow in a tree that—”

Edmund bolted upright, his heart pounding for a terrified moment as he looked to the Dreamer.

The room grew no warmer.  The smoke grew no thicker.  Vlaevia’s eyelids didn’t budge.

Edmund exhaled.  The message had played for only him.

He ran a finger over his ring of twinned souls.  Cut off as they’d been, Amelia’s instructions hadn’t left him much to go on.  Thrax, Edmund hadn’t known cardinal directions worked in the Depths.  He’d have to track down a compass if he even wanted to find the northeast bank.

The thought of sending a reply didn’t even cross his mind.  Amelia’s voice might’ve come through silent, but Edmund’s wouldn’t begin like that.  Better to finish up here and get back to her on the twenty-fifth floor.

Before setting off, Edmund’s gaze dropped to his right pinky.  The rotflesh had retreated, leaving just the very tip of the digit a dull gray.  He sighed.  It’d taken both a potion of curing and a full night’s sleep with his sigil of the slumbering deep to fight the toxin back.  He hoped it wouldn’t start progressing again now he’d woken.

Shoving that grim worry aside, Edmund thought through his plans as he packed up his bedroll, considering how Amelia’s message may have changed them.  He had already killed more than enough kobolds in his sweep of the level.  There was certainly more to learn about fighting under this floor’s unique limitations, but how often would Edmund actually need to fight without making noise?

He sighed.  Lately it’d felt like Liam had been driving him deeper and deeper at a breakneck pace, always providing some reason he had to keep moving.  For once, Edmund wanted to take his time.

Amelia could wait one more day, right?

Leaving his satchel and shield stashed by the exit, Edmund ventured into Vlaevia’s hoard once more.  His Smoke Lash had behaved oddly in one of the prior day’s encounters, and he’d yet to successfully replicate that tentacle-like level of control.

Edmund made it three steps before his plan changed.

Obscured in the smoke and the shadows, hidden betwixt the stalactites and spines on Vlaevia’s back, a flash of misplaced color caught Edmund’s attention.

Like a beacon amidst the black and brown and deep dark red, shined a smudge of azure blue.

Edmund’s breath hitched.  What in the hells was it doing up there?  He stood and watched it as the minutes dragged on, silently willing the smoke to part long enough to offer a clear view.  When at last it did, Edmund suppressed a groan.

Perched atop the neck of a Thrax-damned dragon, the azure fox had curled up to sleep.

Edmund decided to leave it.  He didn’t trust his own ability to climb along the Dreamer’s back without waking her, and the fox would have to leave eventually, right?  Resolving to keep a lookout, Edmund singled out a kobold and settled in to work.

Hours passed in dull repetition, kobold after kobold falling to his blade as Edmund practiced various methods of silent execution.  Only twice did he manage to recreate his Smoke Lash’s articulated motion, both times in moments of desperation as a loot sack threatened to clatter against the ground.  He dared not intentionally cause such desperate instances to solidify his theory.

The fights proved far easier without his mark covering his foes in metal, the increased difficulty failing to apply on the cleared level.  Edmund found challenge enough without it, limiting himself yet further to finding victory with only his cutlass or only his Firebolt, all the while catching each corpse before it could collapse into the heaps of treasure.

It was not the azure fox that broke Edmund from this pattern, but a set of hushed voices that echoed from the entrance.  Their source had clearly read the warning sign out front, the dull whispers only just registering to Edmund’s sigil-enhanced hearing, but that wasn’t what gave him pause.

Distorted by distance and the dragon between them, most of their conversation reached Edmund as little more than a muffled mess, yet the final two words, from a different speaker, came across decipherable enough to send a jolt down Edmund’s spine.

“Yes, sergeant.”

Shit.  The kingsguards were here.  Edmund spared a glance for the exit, knowing full well he could make it to the next floor before the soldiers so much as laid eyes on him.  That’d be the safe option.  The smart option.

It’d also mean foregoing an opportunity to upgrade his sigil of the azure journeyman.

The fox seemed unperturbed by the guards’ appearance, at least so far as Edmund could tell from his limited view of the beast.

His mind racing through his options, Edmund sped back to the exit, carefully listening for the soft tap of metal sabatons against the stone floor.  He had time.  The guards couldn’t move quickly armored as they were, and a full group of five would have to take down as many kobolds before they could plunder enough foot pads to muffle their movement.

Edmund circled Vlaevia’s snout, stepping past the exit to align himself with the fox’s perch on the side opposite the hoard.  With any luck, the guards would never spot him.

He started by stripping off his footpads and boots alike, the latter too hard and the former too smooth to claim much purchase against the sheer scales.  He’d do this barefoot.

Next came the Smoke Lash, swung precisely for the lowest point of his targeted spine to minimize the leverage of his climb.  It took three attempts to properly wrap the spell around the thick base of the spike.

Then, Edmund ascended.

Hand over hand he pulled himself up, his bare feet walking up the surface of Vlaevia’s side in gentle, deliberate steps.  The air grew warmer and the smoke thicker as Edmund rose, though whether by the Dreamer rousing from her slumber or simply his increase in altitude, he couldn’t tell.

The duration of his Smoke Lash ran out as he neared the top, forcing Edmund to expend both of his windsteps in a hurried bid to reach a stalactite around which he could wrap his arms.  High enough that Vlaevia’s back had become a steep slope rather than a vertical incline, Edmund continued in bursts, darting from stalactite to stalactite and stabilizing himself between.

The air had reached sweltering by the time Edmund could glimpse over the dragon’s back to see the hoard below, the entire cavern stretching out before him.  He tracked the kingsguards for a few moments as they progressed, taking out kobolds in clusters of three or four in the tight pathways between golden heaps.

They moved with expert efficiency, communicating in sharp and silent gestures as they methodically eliminated their foes.

Edmund had to admit, the soldiers knew what they were doing.  He supposed their veterancy helped—the five had probably been fighting and training together full time for years.

A chill ran down Edmund’s neck as he realized he wasn’t the only one reaping the dungeon’s bounty.  The guards earned boons of their own, similarly growing more powerful the deeper they delved.

Edmund’s edge lay in his willingness to take risks they wouldn’t.  His current vantage proved that well enough.

He crept along Vlaevia’s spine, the blanket of smoke that’d pooled around the ceiling providing cover aplenty for his approach.

Sweat dripped down his brow, his back, the palms of his hands as at last he reached the azure fox.  Edmund knelt, hesitantly reaching a hand out to stroke the sleeping vixen between its demonic horns.

It rounded on him, snapping bloodstained teeth at Edmund’s outstretched hand.  He jerked back.  A hideous scrape echoed up Edmund’s arm as the fox’s fangs crashed against the pointed tip of his crimson finger armor.

Edmund reached for his cutlass, but before it could leave its sheath, the fox turned and darted off, running down the dragon’s neck, along her snout, then across thin air for a dozen steps before disappearing into the darkness between levels.

Edmund gulped.  Whether by its nature or its pact with Xe’orinoth the Fury, the azure fox was growing aggressive.  He hoped it wouldn’t be a problem later.

For now, he had another problem.  Stealthy as the fox could be, azure fur made poor camouflage.

“Did you see that?” a guard’s whispered voice drifted past Edmund’s ear.

“It looked like—”

“There’s someone up there!”

Edmund darted behind the closest stalactite.

“Are you sure?  I don’t see anything.”

“He’s hiding, now.  Just wait.  He’ll come out.”

Edmund’s breath quickened.  The damn fox just had to take the most direct route out.  He had to move before the guards got between him and the exit.  Powerful as he was, Edmund had little hope of besting five kingsguards, especially with the Dreamer to worry about.

A quick glance at his constellation confirmed at least his climb hadn’t been in vain.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Adept

The fifth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Grants ten feathersteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Edmund wasn’t entirely certain what a featherstep was, but he could guess well enough.  Given how confidently the fox had run across Vlaevia’s face, their use seemed apparent.

He had no intention of testing that theory on the Dreamer.

Driven by haste as he listened to the guards hurry through the floor, Edmund wrapped another Smoke Lash around one of Vlaevia’s spines and began his descent.

He leapt out in broad arcs, repelling down several yards at a time as he featherstepped off the dragon’s side.  The steps did little to boost his momentum, but allowed him to jump hard off Vlaevia’s scales without disturbing her rest.

This time, his Lash lasted more than long enough to see him to solid ground.

Edmund waited for a breath as he snatched his boots from where he’d left them, letting his feathersteps replenish before he darted towards the exit.  Again he utilized his newest ability, this time to silence his footsteps and keep the uneven stone from cutting up his feet or twisting his ankle as he dashed along the Dreamer’s side.

The thought occurred as he reclaimed his shield and satchel that he could shout just before he departed, leave the kingsguards a rudely-awakened dragon to deal with, but Edmund dismissed the plan before he could even fully form it.

The guards were just doing their job.  They didn’t deserve to die.

So, with a hidden destination in mind, with an upgraded sigil to his name, with a hub floor ahead and guards on his heels, Edmund let the Dreamer sleep and stepped into the darkness.

Hivemaster Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 25

Tier 1 Aspect: Wrath - Red Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Brutalize active ability.

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 11 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 9 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 11 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.  Provides a lesser increase to celerity while fighting alone.  Provides a lesser increase to perception while alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 12 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 19 - They’re watching you.

Tier 2 Aspect: Vengeance (Madness and Wrath)  - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Reveals all enemies that have damaged you in the past two minutes.  Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt to such enemies.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 7 - Grants greater resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Challenger (War and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

