“Honestly, why are you mad at me?! I got you the permission you wanted!”

Ranthia was more than just relieved to have found Clover safe and sound, but the rabbit’s mood was unambiguous. Instead of hopping along at Ranthia’s side merrily, the bunny was several strides ahead of Ranthia and was refusing to look her way. Sure, Clover had been unusually standoffish when Ranthia found her in at some art lecture, but she’d naïvely assumed it was just her Bond manipulating her to get permission.

Honestly, she should be the one that was mad! Litil had dropped Clover off at home, yet the bunny just left! By herself and without telling anyone—okay, that bit could be forgiven. …Ranthia released another frustrated sigh. She’d been so worried! She had solicited assistance from everyone that she knew that she could find—Litil, Sunny, and two Hunters she was acquainted with—only to finally get a lead when she checked the very last entrance to the Heart of Arts and Learning.

It was remarkable just how few elves bothered to notice a (relatively) gigantic bunny.

But there were no worst-case scenarios at play, it was ‘just’ her Bond misbehaving in an especially brazen way. So why was Clover the one that was angry after all of that?! Ranthia’s own fury hadn’t forced its way through her relief, but Clover was clearly pissed off enough for the both of them!

Also, Clover had what looked like a cute little leather backpack scaled to her body size strapped across her back and Ranthia was more than a little curious about what was up with that. But she’d really prefer to have her Bond’s cooperation to investigate instead of just peeping with her Skill.

“Clover, come on. Look at me!” She was really, really trying not to yell at her bunny. But as Clover continued to snub her, she found herself struggling to quash problematic urges to shout or make use of her superior stats. Just… honestly! What in Xaoc’s glory had she done to deserve so much stress?!

But no matter what she tried, Clover refused to acknowledge her throughout dinner, pre-bed prayers, and the bit of reading Ranthia did before she called it a night. Clover even stayed on the padded bench in another room when Ranthia swept the hay out of her bed and settled in for the night.

“Perhaps she’ll be over this by morning…” Ranthia tried to salve her emotions with a platitude before she closed her eyes—she was getting used to her [Divine Eye] watching over her while she tried to fall asleep—and relied on her old habits and training to help guide her path to slumber.

Ranthia awoke to a bed bereft of bunny, but she did have hay digging uncomfortably into her cheek. That was… something. Possibly.

Clover remained absent until Ranthia finished her morning exercises and other preparations for the day. It was only when she was dressed and ready to leave her rooms—her home—that the bunny finally materialized. Clover was once again completely nude and Ranthia had no idea where the cute little bunny backpack had gone.

But Clover was once again refusing to look her way, so Ranthia just let out a defeated sigh and opened the door. The fast still needed to be broken.

There were far more options for food than there usually were thanks to the festivities. Restaurants and pop-ups aside, there were twice as many meal services running and—more surprisingly—each was proffering something different. Most of the crowds went for the sweet or the meaty options, which suited Ranthia just fine. She followed her nose to the fruity choice and accepted a generous bowl of mushed grains laden with wild berries. The deliciously tart flavors helped to wake her up and Clover seemed to be enjoying her pair of strawberries—even if she was making quite a mess of herself.

Clover garnered far more attention than she had the previous night, once they set out again. A bunny with a red, dripping visage was somewhat noteworthy, it seemed.

Clover was still snubbing Ranthia, so Ranthia just followed her Bond while they checked out the various displays, stands, and performances that were scattered across the city. In one field, a group of performers had an elaborate juggling act going that involved eight people in colorful costumes and sixty-four balls rapidly flying between them in complex patterns. In another, sixteen elves were hunched over a variety of surfaces while they… wrote text across paper? Okay, seriously, who even has a live competition involving writing a short story that revolves (somehow) around the word ‘potato’?!

Yes, there were weird things going on, but a lot of it felt familiar too. Town festivals were far less common in Remus—and Ariminum seemed to lack any except when the government tried to win over its people—but Ranthia had always enjoyed them. Sure, the City of Arts was always full of laughter and wonder, but the anniversary celebration had magnified that by more than a little. Giggling gaggles of elves slipped by as they rushed to some display of artistry or other, while Ranthia and Clover examined exquisite pieces of jewelry, finer than anything that had ever graced Ariminum’s markets.

They wandered for a couple of hours, with no particular destination, before they found themselves waylaid.

“Hi there! Would you like to buy a stick? Pull the one with the green ink and you win a free massage from myself and my friend here—we’re the Rank 11 and Rank 7 in Massage!” A man called out to them, rattling a can full of sticks in front of Ranthia.

“To fill in the details my idiot friend left out: they’re four small arcanite each, with savings for buying more than one at a time. The proceeds go toward buying a new type of scented oil for the massage studio most of us share. You can either get a four-handed massage from both of us or split us between you and a friend or lover. And because my idiot friend is, as I’ve carefully established, an idiot, feel free to use any Skills that you might possess that can help you draw the correct stick. We’ll take as many winners as we end up with! And if you successfully cheat, he has to buy me a pastry of my choice. Again.” Another elf leaned in and yanked her idiot friend out of Ranthia’s personal space with a smile on her face.

“I still didn’t agree to the pastry thing.” The idiot grumbled.

“You boasted that this is cheat proof—and no, that’s not an invitation for you to repeat your entire thing about why you think that—and since I have to dole out extra massages every time you’re wrong, you’re continuing to bribe me with sweet, golden shells stuffed with enough cream to drown a gnome.” The other elf kept her smile while she menaced the idiot.

Ranthia just laughed and glanced Clover’s way, before she fished four small arcanite out of her pouch and tossed them to the woman. With that done, Ranthia took a half-bow and drew a stick from the can.

The one with the green tip, of course.

“H—how?!” Unsurprisingly, the man seemed to be stunned at the feat. “I dyed the other sticks in there with a red dye derived from the same plant that has the same scent! Every stick is cut to the exact same length and is indistinguishable from the bit sticking out of the can! And—”

“I looked through the can.” Ranthia answered, tapping her blindfold.

“By the fiddler’s fiddling sticks! I was so sure this can would be peep-proof!” His lament was unexpectedly childish—shrill tone included.

“Pastry number four, from his foolishness to my lips. But for the moment, congratulations dear winner! It would be helpful if you could accept your massage now—we have a room reserved. Four hands for you, or do you have a lover or pal you can get super quickly?” The same smile remained fixed on the woman’s face, though her eyes spoke of a greater level of amusement.

“Actually…” Ranthia glanced down at her Bond. “How are you two with non-elvenoids?”

Were there limits to the sacrifices that Ranthia would make for her Bond? Apparently not. Somehow—and she couldn’t explain why or how—she became convinced that Clover preferred the woman. She was the higher ranked masseuse and, to be fair, she had begged to be the one to massage Clover.

So Ranthia suffered a man’s touch, and left bliss to her Bond. To his credit, the idiot was a perfect gentleman. There was no discernible leering, his hands never wandered at all, and he even checked with her to establish comfort before he touched any new areas of her body. But no matter how skilled he was at the art of massage, Ranthia couldn’t claim her muscles felt more relaxed than they were before the process began. Which was probably terrible of her, it was just… massages were intimate in her mind. Probably because there were only a couple of women that had massaged her without Ranthia bedding them.

Clover, on the other hand, was so boneless and blissed out that Ranthia had to carry a snoring bunny out of the studio. Not that she stayed asleep for long. All it took was the aroma of lunch to revive her Bond.

“Okay, okay, we can grab a bite!” Ranthia laughed after Clover willfully snubbed the hay that Ranthia carried in one of her pouches. She was starting to get a bit of an appetite herself anyway.

Be it by Ranthia’s sacrifice, the bliss of a massage, and/or the healing power of a nap, Clover’s mood was undeniably improved as they continued to spend the day together. They explored the aquatic exhibit—Clover seemed far more vested in the exotic lifeforms than Sunny had been—then watched while the Rank 13 challenged the Rank 12 in Singing. The challenger was ultimately unsuccessful, but both of their voices were incredible!

And as Ranthia explored, laughed, and snacked alongside her Bond, she couldn’t help but to marvel at how far Clover had come. Sure, they still struggled to communicate their wants or wishes from time to time, but… gods and goddesses, Clover had just been a wild animal barely more than half a year ago! Yet there she was, barely shrinking away from a boisterous crowd at all. It was probably ridiculous, but Ranthia chose to take no small amount of pride in her rabbit’s progress.

“No, you can’t have a pork chop!” Ranthia scolded her greedy bunny as she carefully carried three plates away from the service line. They’d been prepared by the Rank 16 in Cooking using the pork she’d brought in, and the man had generously allowed her to take three portions once she explained what she intended to use them for.

Clover, on the other hand, insisted that she deserved at least one of them.

Ranthia grunted in feigned distress every time Clover kicked her, though she still kept the plates balanced until she reached the shrines that had been set up in front of miniature replicas of the city’s great trees.

“Hush for a moment Clover, this is important.” Ranthia chided the agitated bunny, before she set the first plate on an altar and knelt.

“I make this offering to the God of Arboriculture, out of gratitude for the shelter that your creation has offered me. I am a newcomer to the elven lands, yet your wondrous tree has become a home unlike any I have ever known. The dish that I offer includes the pork of wild beasts that I hunted with my own blades, as prepared by the Rank 16 in Cooking. I hope that this offering is to your liking. And sincerely, thank you.” Ranthia made her prayer out loud, as she opened her mana to the unfamiliar deity.

In general, she had… somewhat less respect for the ascended gods, but she felt somewhat dutybound to offer her gratitude to the man that created her home. She hadn’t been familiar with him beforehand, but the city’s populace seemed to hold him in high regard. And a god dedicated to the growth and tending of trees certainly sounded rather wholesome.

The dish disappeared with a twinkling glow and the sound of a warm breeze (how Ranthia knew it was meant to be warm was just one of those mysteries of communing with divinity). A few leaves were left in its place, and they soon flitted away on the gentle wind that continuously flowed throughout the city. He also claimed twenty-five thousand mana, but that wasn’t exactly a problem—she had plenty.

But Ranthia couldn’t offer another deity a boon without offering the same to the god she was pledged to. She stood and walked a respectful distance away from the shrines to the local deities and set her personal serving down on a nearby table. Then, she raised the remaining dish over her head. Sure, there were a few unaligned altars available throughout the town, but she was Xaoc’s [Priestess]. And she was reasonably certain that she had no need to make the journey.

“Xaoc, great god of Chaos! I have offered thanks to the one that granted me my current home, but now I offer thanks to You—He who granted me life and purpose! I will forever be grateful to You, and I make this offering not just out of gratitude, but out of both love and respect. The pigs brought chaos to this forest, true, but they were little more than agents of destruction that left a lifeless and sundered space wherever they went. And I will never accept such senseless devastation—never again. I hope that this dish offers You a modicum of pleasure, though I doubt it can equal the splendors that You enjoy as You watch over our world.” Okay, so she hadn’t meant to include the aside about destruction and her refusal to accept senseless devastation ever again, but that was how prayers went sometimes. And it probably was important that she accepted her complicity in far too many of the horrors that the war had wrought.

Just when Ranthia began to second-guess her theory that she could serve as her own holy altar when praying to Xaoc, He acted. A shift in weight denoted the food vanishing off the plate, moments before said plate shattered into a deluge of colorful fragments that poured down her body.

More than a few elves jeered and chortled while Ranthia sputtered and generally did what she could to get irregularly shaped shards of colorful crystal out of her mouth and nose. She was aware that she could feel His amusement, but she had space for little else other than getting the finer flecks of the former plate out of her mouth. Why had she prayed out loud?!

Naturally, He had drained much of her mana. But that was fine, He could make better use of it than she could while she was idle. Besides, she had a hearty meal waiting for her…

“Gah! Clover n—” Her rebuke fell prey to a coughing fit after she inhaled plate dust in her efforts to stop her greedy bunny.

Clover continued to ignore her plight and hurriedly tore chunks off the pork chop to down them before she could be stopped.

