“What do you...ohhh!” Nathalia moaned and closed her eyes.

Ren fed her the feeling of his lips on hers, from both of their perspectives, that he'd remembered from the last time they had kissed and shared their feelings.

“S-s-stop.” Nathalia whispered, and Ren eased the feelings away. “How did you...”

“The last time I saw you, something between us clicked.” Ren said and leaned back to look at her eyes. “That gave me the idea for a kiss without a kiss.”

“Ren, if you can do that with just a kiss...”

Ren smiled smugly at her, and her eyes widened.

“R-really?” Nathalia asked. “You mean we... we can...” She licked her lips. “We can... without...”

“Now that I know it works, I can share any sensation I can remember with you.”

“Oh, Ren.” Nathalia said and sighed. “We... we really shouldn't be teasing each other like this.”

“I remember teasing you, too.” Ren said and gave her a taste of that. Nathalia gasped and gripped his shoulders as she felt what they had both felt then.

“By the gods.” Nathalia said.

The kitchen door opened and Ren and Nathalia let each other out of the hug. The woman who sat people at their tables came out of the kitchen with several servers, and they carried several plates each.

“Here are your 10 dinners, sir.” The woman said. “The others will be done in about an hour.”

“That's great.” Ren said and stored the 10 dinners. “I'll be back then to pick the rest up.” He said, equipped his Travelling Clothes, and turned to Nathalia to take her hand. “It was nice seeing you again, Ma'am.”

“It was nice seeing you, too.” Nathalia said, then gasped when Ren kissed the back of her hand. He smiled at her because he knew the cultural significance it held for dwarves, that she was above his social standing; then he nodded to the other three women and left the restaurant.

*

“I wish he'd kiss my hand like that.” One of the servers said. “He's such a gentleman to treat a woman like a Lady.”

“He's really short, though.” The other one said. “I wonder how he measures up.”

Nathalia turned around and glared up at them. “One more word about his height... out of any of you...” She looked at each of their surprised faces. “...and you're fired.”

The three women stared at her, because they had completely ignored the fact that she was their boss.

“I'm sorry, Ma'am.” The server who had made the comment said. “It won't happen again.”

“See that it doesn't.” Nathalia said. “If there's one person in this world you don't want angry at you, it's him.”

The three women watched as Nathalia stalked off into the back room behind the counter.

“I think she meant '2 people you don't want angry at you'.” The server said as Nathalia stepped through the portal and disappeared.

*

Ren ran down the street a short ways and went into his business, then walked over to the counter. “Hi, Anabelle.”

“Hello, My Lord.” Anabelle said. “There's a customer in the back with Holly.”

Ren nodded and took out the step ladder. Anabelle smiled as he climbed a couple of steps and gave her a kiss, then stepped off and stored the ladder again.

“Have you eaten yet?” Ren asked her.

“I was a bit too busy to-”

Ren took out a plate of food for her, and cut off what she was about to say.

“Thank you.” Anabelle said and stored it.

“This is fantastic!” A woman's voice said as she came out of the change room with an armful of bras and panties. “I can't believe they have something like this here.” She said and came over to the counter with Holly right behind her. She was about a foot taller than Ren, had bright blonde hair, and a slender body. “In a starter city, no less!”

Ren stepped out of her way and let her purchase the goods she had. Anabelle put the clothes in a sack and handed it to her when the woman paid her.

“Oh, hello!” The woman said when she turned and noticed Ren; then she did a double take and looked at him again. “No.” She said. “It... it's not possible.”

“It's true.” Ren said. “I really am this short.”

Anabelle snorted a laugh, and Holly laughed out loud.

“You're so funny!” Holly said and bent over to give him a hug. “Cuddly, too!”

“She wouldn't say that if you still had your armor on.” Teepo said.

Ren chuckled and hugged Holly back.

“We're closing for the night in a couple of minutes, Holly.” Anabelle said. “You can head out now.”

Holly stood up and held a hand out, and Anabelle dropped several gold coins into her hand. “Thanks, Annie!” She said and stored her pay, then ruffled Ren's hair. “Bye, Ren!”

“Bye, Holly.” Ren said, then watched as Holly half-walked and half-skipped out of the shop, then down the street and out of sight.

“No matter how many times I tell her my name is Anabelle, she always calls me Annie.” Anabelle said and chuckled. Ren smiled and looked at the woman who was still standing there.

“You really are him.” The woman said. “You're Ren.”

“I was the last time I checked.” Ren said and looked down. “Yep, I'm still me.”

The woman chuckled. “I really like your show.” She said. “You're why I started playing.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said. “I hope you're having fun.”

“I am.” She said. “There's so much to do, it's hard to know where to start.”

Ren chuckled. “I hear that.” He said. “I'm still having a hard time trying to decide what to do first, and I've been playing for a long time.”

The woman smiled and nodded. “I better go. I have to get to my safe zone before it gets too dark.” She said and held a hand out to him. “It was nice meeting you.”

“Likewise.” Ren said and motioned towards the door, then escorted her out of the shop. “Goodnight.”

*

“Goodnight.” The woman said as Ren shut the door to the shop. She walked down the street and around the corner of the next building, then stored her bag of purchases. “Logout.”

********

Officer Holly Stonewall slipped off the VR headset and sat up from her work station. She looked around at all the monitoring equipment and smiled. She had tagged Ren's Player ID on her display and the monitors tracked his movement. That hack had cost her a pretty penny, and it had taken her a long time to finally find him. She wasn't worried about the money, though; because there was room in the budget for her to add it in under miscellaneous expenses.

Holly picked up her cell phone and typed furiously for several seconds. She sent the message and waited patiently for a reply.

I really hate that 'Holly' working in that store. Holly thought. She's the perfect example of what's wrong with how men see women these days.

The cell phone beeped and she checked the display.

Okay, John. Holly thought and sent a reply. I'll work this end and you work that end. She put the cell phone down and watched the monitor. For now.
