The fighting in Shi Bei came to a halt as Imperial and Defiled alike stood frozen in fear and reverence both, their mortal minds overwhelmed by the majesty of the Heavens as it heralded the birth of a new Divinity.

A much-appreciated balm for the senses in these most tumultuous times, especially given the wolf’s personal stake in all this. This marked the second mortal Ascension he’d born witness to, though he’d seen a handful of Spiritual Beasts Ascend as well. He much preferred the latter, since the process felt more complete, more natural and unrestrained as far as his unnamed senses could tell. When a Spiritual Beast Shattered the Void, it signalled the start of its rebirth and reincarnation, a new beginning in a new life only loosely related to the last. By harnessing the twin powers of Creation and Destruction, a child was born, a product of the four elements whose parents were the Heaven and Earth themselves. A miracle was what it was, and though the end result was mostly human in form, it couldn’t be considered a new-born, not in the way humans had them. Human offspring were born weak and helpless and remained that way for far too long, but Ancestral Beasts were born as what humans would call toddlers, developed enough to crawl within minutes and walk with only a few hours of practice.

The wolf never understood why these powerful Spiritual Beasts felt the need to do this, to be reborn so young and helpless. If they were able to avoid the earliest stages of development, why not skip ahead and be reborn as young adults instead? Why even become human in form and retain bestial instincts and characteristics? This last question vexed the wolf greatly, especially after discovering the presence of an actual Divine Turtle and seeing a second ascend to the same status. Why had the wolf chosen to become a weak human when he could have remained a wolf instead? A more powerful wolf at that, one unbothered by the bothersome philosophical musings of a human mind, but there was no cure for regret. That was the end of it in his eyes, but the hare so loved to go on and on about the implications of this decision. The wolf cared not for these sorts of discussions, which did nothing to stop the hare from talking his ears off, and after enough repetitions, some of those words stuck. The long-eared eccentric believed the decision to become Ancestral Beasts instead of Divine Beasts had something to do with those same philosophical musings the wolf so loathed, because only the human mind suffered from such an affliction, one which the hare believed was necessary in order to Ascend to True Divinity and move beyond the Heavens. That was the theory at least, that upon coming into contact with the secrets of the Heavens, a Spiritual Beast would realize it’s limitations and choose to reincarnate as an Ancestral Beast so that it could Ascend to True Divinity in the future, but the wolf was not so sure if that was the case.

Because if the human mind was uniquely equipped for True Divinity, then why was the little doe’s Ascension so lacking in comparison to that of a Spiritual Beast?

Old and frail though he might be, the wolf’s mind was still sharp as ever, and he remembered the day the stupid rabbit first brought the little doe to meet him. “This is Akanai,” the rabbit declared, as if the doe’s name was supposed to mean something. Technically it did, but the wolf didn’t speak their language, and he never cared much for names since he could keep track of individuals just fine without them, though he supposed names were useful in some ways. “She has a proposal,” the rabbit continued, taking the wolf’s silent glare as permission to continue, even though she knew it was the exact opposite. “Listen.”

Allies or not, the wolf would’ve thrown them both out then and there if not for curiosity, an interest directed not towards the doe’s proposal, but at the girl herself. Blue eyes, like his own, but she was not one of his, a tall, athletic girl with hair of golden wheat and the bearing of a leader. A soldier trained and tested too, standing at full attention while glaring as good as she got without showing a single scrap of fear. She reeked of it though, terrified out of her mind while standing before him, and the wolf could hardly blame her, for he’d spared her no mercy while radiating foul displeasure over being rudely woken from his midday nap. The girl had fire in her belly and steel in her spine though, that was for certain, speaking her mind without so much as a stutter and loud enough for him to hear. What truly held his attention however was the new and unfamiliar scent she brought with her, the scent of her sire whom he’d never crossed paths with.

Which meant an Ancestral Beast had come close to or even into his territory without his notice in the last century or so. Unforgivable.

“What sort of half-breed are you?”

The wolf remembered interrupting the doe mid-rant, and how the question sparked her ire, though not for the interruption itself. “Demi-Human,” she responded with a scowl, explaining, “Half-breed or half-beast implies I am less than human.” To her credit, she didn’t balk at the wolf’s glare or silence, and she waited long enough to make her point clear before answering the question. “My sire was a caribou, or so Old Sumila tells me, though she only suspects as much due to my antlers.” Antlers she’d filed down and hidden beneath her hair apparently, since said antlers weren’t visible, though they would’ve been distinct enough to leave no question of her heritage. She didn’t smell like one of the stag’s daughters, and she wouldn’t have grown antlers if she was, so the wolf accepted her answer and decided he’d go for a quick jaunt later and tour the province to see if he could find her sire and teach him a thing or two about boundaries and respect.

Course, the wolf never found the caribou, and to this day, he still didn’t know where the doe’s father had gone off to, as he wasn’t one of the neutral Imperials nor was he one of the Enemy’s turncoats. Maybe the Uniter killed him already, or maybe the caribou was still in hiding, but either way, the doe was one of the wolf’s now, for she’d brought him a pack to oversee and defend. That was the doe’s proposal after all, an alliance between all the various villages of the mountains, and the wolf approved of her plan wholeheartedly. Not at first, but the stupid rabbit hadn’t brought the doe to ask for permission, since she hardly needed it. The Saint’s Tribulations Mountains was his territory, but he hadn’t invited the rabbit and other Divinities to come live here with him so he could lord over them all, nor did he care to manage the humans either. No, he just liked having them around for company, and he didn’t mind the mortals either so long as there was someone around to keep them in line. The doe was a fool for volunteering for so thankless a job and he would be a fool to reject her, so once she said her piece, he patted her on the head and sent her off on her way with express instructions to never bother him again.

Instructions she readily ignored, since she returned more times than he cared to count just to bother him since, but he didn’t mind it much. It felt as if that exchange had taken place only a few years back, but centuries had passed since, and now that doe was Ascending to Divinity. Proud and pleased as a peach, the wolf noted how every eye in Shi Bei was drawn to the doe, even the eyes of commoners without a Core. Strange that, for the Energy of the Heavens ran wild all throughout the city, but even their limited senses could tell that the greatest upheaval was centred around the doe, and the wolf was curious how this might look from a mortal’s perspective. Oh how he pitied them for their lacking perceptions, for though the doe’s Ascension paled in comparison to the rebirth of an Ancestral Beast, it was still a beautiful and sensational miracle to behold. Glowing with a soft, radiant light that did nothing to hamper his vision, the doe stood firm amidst the chaotic swirl of Heavenly Energy as she prepared to bring down the walls between her and the Void. Reality shimmered in place as two worlds overlapped and the doe Manifested her Domain around her, and though it was not clear enough to see, the wolf was none too surprised when his senses caught a hint of familiarity and nostalgia embedded within. The doe loved her home and her people both, so much so that her very identity was tied to them, a Warrior of the Empire hailing from the Saints Tribulations Mountains. Much more complex than the wolf, whose home was wherever he made it, but only because he’d seen too much change in all his centuries of life. To mortals, much of the world appeared fixed and immutable, but only because their lives were so fleeting, hence why they placed so much value on birthplace and background.

Not that the wolf didn’t love his home in the mountains, but only because he’d made it his. If there ever came a day when he could no longer stay, then he would find a new home to live in, and he would cherish it all the same. It wasn’t the place that made it a home, but the people, and so long as they remained, then home was wherever he cared to lay his head.

That was the main difference in Ascensions, as far as the wolf could tell. Spiritual Beasts were willing to give up everything in order to secure a better chance in their next life, while humans were too fixated on what they were to open their minds to what they could become. This was a burden upon the doe, the red dust of the mortal world as it were, a burden she shouldered willingly in spite of the hindrance it proved to her Path, yet at the same time, she might never have come this far if not for it. Even now, as she stepped one foot into Divinity, she kept one foot firmly rooted in the mortal world, for her motivation for doing so was still the same as always. The doe was a leader born, someone who brought the denizens of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains under one banner and made their lives better for it, without ever asking for anything in return for herself. She was no predator, but a guardian, a protector of the mountains, the Empire, and humanity as a whole, all of which was made clear in the blink of an eye as she laid bare her Dao for the Heavens to judge.

And in all his years of life, the wolf had never met anyone more worthy of Heaven’s Blessings than Akanai of the Bekhai.

The Energy of the Heavens surged through her in quantities unmatched, and the wolf envied her this renewal and rejuvenation. Physically, there was no visible change taking place, for the doe largely remained the same as before. She didn’t grow taller, or younger, or more beautiful, nor did her clothes change even one whit, still stained with sweat, dust, and blood from hours, if not days of continuous battle. Not much washing going on here in Shi Bei even before the siege started, which made for a ripe bouquet the wolf had long since learned to ignore, yet could still smell even under all the blood and death. Despite all this however, the doe was fast becoming more… significant, to the wolf’s senses, her presence growing to become more solid, more consequential, more… more. There was no other way to describe it, because to the wolf, she became more anchored in reality and the Void both, a shining beacon of life and soul that made her feel more substantial than before.

It was almost disappointing in some ways, so lacking in mystery and majesty. The Ascension of an Ancestral Beast was a process of rebirth or reincarnation, yet there would be none of that here today, no new life breathing its first breath in an unfamiliar body filled with strange and unsettling thoughts. He almost pitied the doe for not getting to experience the miracle of rebirth, for a body reforged was not the same, similar to how wearing someone else’s clothes never felt entirely right. She would be weaker for this, distanced from the Heavenly Dao compared to a natural born Divinity, but still beholden to its whims all the same. While others might look down on human Divinities for being weaker and less in tune with the Heavens, this had its advantages as well, namely more freedom to act on emotion without drawing the Wrath of the Heavens down upon them. Sure, a human Divinity’s total strength was inferior to most Ancestral Beasts, but usable strength was nothing to sneeze at, for the wolf was respected not just for his presence alone, but also because he could beat most of them bloody without incurring the Wrath of the Heavens.

As for the doe? She was both brilliant and hard-working, a woman comfortable in her own skin unlike so many humans, half-beasts, and Ancestral Beasts alike. You could see it in the way she moved and fought, wholly in touch with both human intellect and bestial instinct while keeping a fine balance between them. This served her well as a Martial Warrior, and it would serve her even better as a Divinity. It might take centuries, but he expected her to eventually overtake him in usable strength, at which point she would stand at the forefront of all Divinities. Granted, now that the boy had discovered how to counteract Heaven’s Wrath, usable strength might not matter much anymore, but that was neither here nor there.

