Opening his clenched fist felt like the most natural thing of all as he swung down at his long-time rival. His arthritic fingers ached as he jammed them against the stag’s sturdy flesh, but only for a moment before a foreign yet all too familiar destructive energy surged forth from his hands and delivered unto him the sweet and almost forgotten sensation of claws carving through flesh. Claws of Domain, Heavenly Energy, and more, but the wolf cared not for the details, because for the first time in living memory, he felt whole again. Eyes wide with fear and fury, the stag panicked at this unexpected twist, for they’d been fighting for centuries without real injury and he'd forgotten what it was like to be prey. The stag of old would have stood and fought, forced the wolf to pay a costly price in exchange for his life, but in his fear, he sought to slip away instead. Driven by the scent of blood and victory, the wolf refused to let his quarry escape so easily and clung grimly to his foe while shaking off all manner of errant attacks, the stag’s allies lending a hand as he circled about the city like a chicken with its head cut off.

Oh how sweet his terror tasted on the air, manifesting into power that threatened to draw Heaven’s Wrath down upon them both, but the wolf’s Domain held firm to reinforce reality and uphold the Treaty even as the stag did away with all pretense in his desperate last bid to escape death. Snarling with guttural delight, the wolf sank his heaven-forged fangs into the stag’s shoulder while all four claws raked through flesh, scything across the stag’s back, ribs, and belly all at once and washing the wolf in a spray of sweet blood. Overwhelmed by the heady rush of the kill, he clamped his claws around the stag’s spiked antlers and pushed off with his legs, letting loose with a howl of ravenous victory as he wrenched his quarry’s head clean off with most of his spine still attached. Holding his prize high overhead, he howled a second time and licked the blood from his lips before launching himself at his next target, the formidable prey that was the mammoth. Settling into a loping, wolf-like gait, he moved faster than he had in centuries as he crashed into his hulking foe with claws brandished, fangs bared, and destructive energies coursing through him.

Even this most ponderous of opponents could do naught but give way before him, for there was no stopping the wolf now that he’d found his fangs and claws once more. Calamity had come to Shi Bei, and only the blood of his foes could appease him, so give him victory, or give him death.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Du Min Gyu thought of himself as a Warrior first above all else, but there was no denying the truth.

As a young boy, he’d succeeded at Core Creation and catapulted to the front of the line with regards to inheriting the family fortune, and with it the heavy responsibility of being the Du Family Patriarch. A title he never cared much for, since his father loathed it so, which was why it had been so easy to leave it all behind after the love of his young life broke his heart and refused to elope with him. Despite this setback, he still left home to escape the heartache and survived by using the only skills he possessed, a meagre ability with saber and spear. While he could not be considered a talented Warrior by any measure, even a middling Warrior like himself was capable of earning more than he needed to survive as a caravan guard. For five years he lived like this, working when he had to and practicing only enough to get by until the hour grew late enough to drink his sorrows away, right up until he was thrust headlong into a war because he was too foolish to see the obvious consequences of his vagabond lifestyle. A good thing too, for he found new love on the field of war, one he courted with sabre in hand, a love of battle and bloodshed unmatched. From lowly third-grade Warrant Officer, he fought and survived long enough to rise through the ranks to become a storied Exarch of the Empire, the high-point of his career at the tender age of fifty-five.

Then he fought the Butcher of Kun Lun and was left crippled for his efforts, at which point he had nothing left to do but teach.

By then, he’d reconnected with his family and put aside past grievances, but his injuries meant the title of Patriarch would forever be denied him. Not that he cared, for his elder brother who inherited the position never acted against his wishes regardless, because ‘Great Teacher Du’ still had power and connections aplenty. Though it irked him to admit as much, Min Gyu was a far better teacher than he was a Warrior, because while stood at the forefront of his peers in terms of Martial strength, there were only a handful who could compete with his achievements as a teacher. One that he knew of, in fact, namely Jeong Hyo-Lynn, a brilliant woman who raised three fine young Warriors and a cadre of elite household guards, but Min Gyu had long since lost count of how many Field Officers credited him for their success. While his students previously were unable to compare to the dazzling brilliance of Ryo Da’in, little Yan’s star was on a meteoric rise and the Sanguine Whirlwind might well overshadow Central’s Sword Princess soon enough, meaning at the end of the day, Min Gyu’s contributions as a teacher were second to none.

A point he took great pride in, but today in Shi Bei, he realized the folly of his hubris far too late.

There was an oft quoted idiom that few used in his presence, for reasons he knew all too well. Indigo blue is extracted from the indigo plant, but the dye is bluer than the plant itself. What this meant was that a good teacher would produce excellent students, and in time, the students would surpass the teacher, but commoners and nobles alike knew that Du Min Gyu had never produced a particularly exceptional student. Yes, his students all went on to excel in the Martial Path, but none showed promise enough to outshine his accomplishments, none until Yan at least. Even Kyung was somewhat lacking in talent, but he would rise to the top in time, for he bore a love for the Martial Dao and a tireless work ethic which all but guaranteed success.

That being said, the lack of an exemplary student had always been a sore point of contention for Min Gyu, because he’d wholeheartedly believed that Kai would be the student to one day surpass him. That dream came to an abrupt end when Kai died in the North, and while subsequent discoveries and events changed how Min Gyu felt about his prized pupil, it still pained him to think about what might have been. Then again, if not for Kai’s death, he would never have met Yan, his precious grand-daughter who brought so much joy and love into his life. If not for her, he might never have acknowledged Kyung as his grandson even though he’d always looked fondly upon the boy, to say nothing of how she’d turned his life around by bringing him into contact with the Medical Saint. Five years had passed since then, a half-decade in the blink of an eye wherein his life was turned upside down, but years which he would not trade away for all the wealth in the world.

Now, if he were to go back in time and change one thing in his life, it would no longer be the duel which left him crippled and broken. Min Gyu’s fall from grace and everything that followed was all part and parcel of his Path, the vicissitudes of life necessary to teach him everything he needed to know in order to become the man he was today. Not a Warrior first, and not even a teacher, but a grandfather who loved his grandchildren more than life itself. No, if he were to change one thing, he would go back five years and tell himself to let go of pride, because only then would he be capable of truly learning from Falling Rain.

Shame and regret welled up from within as Min Gyu watched Akanai Ascend, for he knew beyond the shadow of a doubt that the boy was somehow involved. Not because he didn’t believe her capable of doing this on her own, but because the Heavens were in such turmoil that he found it difficult to even breathe with so much Energy surging about. This was clearly the boy’s work, though at a scale never before seen, for even the storm in Sinuji had not churned the Heavens into a tempest threatening to overturn the world itself. All around him, Warriors Developed their Domains while Peak Experts immersed themselves in Insight to comprehend the secrets of their Path, yet Min Gyu stood alone without so much as a spark of wisdom to be found.

Because despite having recognized little Rain’s brilliant genius and benefitting from his discussions, Min Gyu had yet to wholeheartedly accept that the boy had anything to teach him.

A matter of misplaced pride, as events in Shi Bei proved quite readily, and even then, he did naught but watch Akanai as she Ascended to Divinity. Long seconds passed without so much as a thought passing through Min Gyu’s mind, for these matters were far beyond his meagre comprehension. Even though he was familiar with all of little Rain’s very plausible theories, he saw none of it here in Shi Bei. Not because it wasn’t there, but because Min Gyu lacked the ability to perceive any of it, a truth he waited far too long to even acknowledge. Heaving a heavy sigh at his foolish ways, he spared the boy a quick glance and saw him ready to fall over on his face in yet another coma. There he was, exhausting himself once more in order to give the Warriors of Shi Bei a fighting chance, and Min Gyu here was too proud to accept his help.

A fool is what he was, for there was another idiom he’d paid too little mind to, that there was no limit to learning in life.

The moment he accepted this truth in his heart, his whole world was overturned. Little Rain’s Natal Soul was a wellspring of love and devotion, but beyond the familial affections was a deep-seated respect and veneration which he only rarely expressed. To think, the boy admired this old fool so much that he held Min Gyu to the same standards as Akanai and his father. Little Rain challenged their understanding of the Dao and questioned their perspectives, but only because he respected them, as others were not even worth challenging, and he found great delight in Min Gyu’s interest because few others cared to engage him. To make matters worse, as Min Gyu put aside his personal affairs to immerse himself in Insight, he discovered that the Heavens had little more to add to what the boy had already said, for the answers had been right there for months now and Min Gyu never gave it a second thought. It wasn’t some brilliant advice or dazzling instruction from little Rain or the Heavens, merely a recollection of a conversation they shared in passing regarding Primal Blessings and opposing forces.

“But a Primal Blessing only offers us control of one of those fundamental forces, so how are we to utilize its opposing force?”

That was Min Gyu’s question, and the boy’s answer was simple enough. “Easy. You’re thinking of opposing forces as two separate entities, like push and pull, but if you need to oppose a force pushing left and cannot pull, you can always just push right instead.”

It wasn’t that Min Gyu discarded this information immediately and forgot it until now. He’d taken this information and used it to perfect the Explosive Wind, driving air into an encapsulated sphere of Domain while simultaneously drawing air out of it at the same time, albeit at a slower rate. This allowed him to build up the necessary pressure within the sphere in the blink of an eye before unleashing it upon his foes, but he always went about it in an exceedingly careful and restrained manner. The reason was simple, for his Domain was unable to withstand the staggering pressure even a tenth of his full power could bring to bear. The results of the Explosive Wind were impressive enough even at a fraction of his power, but now that he thought about it, why did he need the sphere of Domain to begin with?

The point of the Explosive Wind was to explode, so why go to all the effort of stabilizing it first? Sure, it made for a useful ranged delivery system, but he could do so much more by simply directing the force.

Rather than the palm of his hand, Min Gyu directed his Blessing of Air around the tip of his Battle Fan, which he twirled about without even thinking to keep himself in tune with the wind. Rather than two directions, he drove the air out in all possible directions, pushing his abilities to the extreme while simultaneously maintaining a careful Balance so no singular direction was greater than any other. At the same time, he exerted his efforts to pull along in the same directions, opposing forces working towards the same goal to exert more force in a singular moment than ever before, an Imbalance born of extreme Balance which left behind a singular point of null pressure that collapsed upon itself the moment his efforts were spent. Rather than a Domain sphere to contain it, he merely created a cone to direct the resulting explosion outward, one which shook the walls of Shi Bei and left his ears ringing with pain. It also cleared out a wave of encroaching Half-Demons and rendered them into little more than a pulp of flesh, chitin, and bloody mist, a sight which had Min Gyu cackling to the high heavens in spite of his deafened hearing.

