No, the important thing to focus on was that the wolf finally had a proper successor to take his place. It wasn’t just his strength that kept the Ancestral Beasts of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains together, nor the safety that his presence offered, but his willingness to keep them all in check and ensure their well being outside of battle. Who else would keep the tiger from tearing off the bear’s head every time he came home reeking of some other woman? Or stop the monkey from taunting the neighbours and stealing their most precious valuables? What about Ling-Lu, who was still a child at heart yet yearned for a family of her own? In spite of all his best efforts, she’d managed to slip away some decades back and bear a child against his better judgement, and it almost killed her to give the girl up after she was born. Then there was little Lin-Lin, who had yet to come into her own, but would similarly need a guiding hand to keep her from becoming a slave to her instincts. Who would help her? The Hare? Ha. He loved the girl like his own flesh and blood, but he had the attention span of a flighty bird and the patience to go with it, to say nothing of his eccentric obsessions and whimsical emotional outbursts which made him seem like little more than a child himself.

For centuries now, the wolf worried that everything he’d built up would fall apart the moment he drew his last breath, for keeping so many territorial Divinities together without conflict took more than mere strength. Alas, the rabbit was too stupid for this job, the hare too capricious, the monkey too irresponsible, the tiger too domineering, and the bear too lazy. Little Ling-Lu wasn’t even in contention for the job, so young she had yet to even master her own instincts much less help others restrain theirs, but the doe? She was an industrious one, and a mortal to boot, or at least she was one until just now, meaning she would not be plagued by the same unreasonable demands instinct and inner nature imposed upon Ancestral Beasts. This made her the best candidate to keep the wolf’s ramshackle pack filled with mortals and Divinities both from falling apart after he died. Brimming with satisfaction now that the future was secured, the wolf immersed himself in the present as he watched the little doe take her final step to becoming the first Half-Beast Divinity in history.

…Demi-Human Divinity. The little doe had a temper to her and courage enough to box his ears if he stepped out of line, even before she had the power necessary to stand against him. A good thing he was on his way out, because the doe was a domineering girl even at the best of times, and the wolf had no desire to be brow-beaten like the blue-eyed pup she’d taken under her wing.

A single second passed, then another as the Energy of the Heavens continued to pour into her while all of Shi Bei watched on. Brows furrowed in concern and confusion, the wolf tried to make sense of these unexpected developments, for most Ascensions were already over and done with by now, but the doe had yet to even Shatter the Void and was already struggling to proceed. The Heavens continued to pour into her yet her presence stopped growing long short of where it should be, with still a long ways to go from even matching a human Divinity. If his presence was a mountain, and normal mortals a pebble, the doe was merely a brick when she should at least be boulder too large to lift. So strange, especially in light of how her Ascension continued in spite of her lacking progress, and for a moment, he feared the worst. Failure was not without consequence, for Ascension demanded more than merely Heavenly Energy. The boy called it Life Force, which was as good a name as any, but the wolf knew there was still more to it. It was more than just lifespan, but vitality and spirit, the energy that kept a person young and vigorous until old age came to rob them of it. The wolf felt its absence keenly, in his back, his shoulders, his hips, and everywhere else, for despite there being nothing physically wrong with him, he felt as if he had the weight of the world sitting on his shoulders which made even getting up in the morning a feat of strength and determination.

As for the doe? She was barely more than a child in his eyes, but in truth, she had less than a century of life left to her. If she succeeded, then the Heavens would reward her with vigor and vitality both, alongside a lifespan better measured in millennia rather than centuries, but failure would result only in death.

Though never one to pay much mind to uncertainties, the wolf was beset by doubt and apprehension as he watched the doe’s Ascension unfurl. Three more seconds passed as the wolf watched with bated breath, and still the girl’s presence was only slightly more significant than a Half-Step Divinity, yet there were no signs of rejection from the Heavens Above or indication that the torrential deluge of Heavenly Energy would slow any time soon. Another second passed before the wolf noticed something else amiss, for though the doe’s presence remained unchanged, she was beginning to give off the scent of danger and threat. Not the befouled threat radiated by the Uniter hovering nearby, with eyes fixed on the doe’s transformation and expression brimming with fury and envy both, nor was it the threat of challenge and power the wolf sensed from the stag, the monkey, the rabbit, or the hare, to name a few.

No, the doe’s presence was insignificant, but it threatened him all the same, similar to how a hunter threatens a wolf with bow in hand.

It all came together in an instant as the wolf touched upon the doe’s Dao and what made her so formidable a threat. She was no mere brick, but a bar of steel, one being forged by the Heavens themselves into a weapon unlike any other. It was a difference in perspective, a Path taken by no other Divinity in existence, not even the boy who’d diverged from the norms so long ago. Or at least not yet, for the doe forged ahead alongside a Path built upon the same general concept. Only a human could take this Path, because though it followed the same general steps, they were rearranged in a different order to better suit a human’s needs. Where other human Divinities Ascended in pursuit of personal strength, the doe sought strength in order to Ascend. Though these two paths appeared similar at first glance, they were fundamentally different in almost all ways, for while most Refined their bodies enough to withstand the stress of Shattering the Void, the doe put off Shattering the Void in order to continue refining her body at great risk to her chances of success. How long could she hold fast to Balance beneath the ponderous weight of the Heavens? How long could she endure the turbulent storm of Creation and Destruction without losing focus of her Path? How far could she push her body, mind, and soul, yet still have enough strength in her left to complete her Ascension?

Nine full seconds. That’s how long she lasted, from start to finish. Not a long time by any stretch of the imagination, but an eternity when enduring the full weight of the Heavens, yet her efforts were not without benefit. The moment she stopped holding herself back, the doe Shattered the Void and Ascended to become a Divinity in truth.

A weak Divinity, the wolf would have said, with a presence so meagre she seemed more like a candle than beacon in the Void. He would have been wrong, for the Energy of the Heavens stilled around her for an instant, then rose up once more as she launched an attack without warning, one wherein her body was the bow, her weapon the arrow, and her target the Uniter hovering across the way. An attack the wolf intended to stop before she broke the Treaty in her excitement, but even as he arrived at her side to hold her in place, she disappeared before his eyes. Though unable to track her movements, he felt her arrive before the Uniter with a clap of thunder, her passing collapsing the air itself behind her, and as her weapon collided with her foe’s golden, shimmering robes in a resounding clang of steel, the wolf felt a flash of fear as he considered how he might fend off her attack and realized he had no recourse but to die.

For the doe’s Ground-Shrinking Strikehad been executed without deviation from her Dao, and thus the Heavens saw fit to make it so, empowering her attack with a similar deadly force to what the boy and the Uniter wielded, a destructive energy that reeked of death and violence which the wolf was unable to replicate or withstand.

Reality threatened to unravel around the doe and her opponent as they collided in the air. Not because she’d drawn the Wrath of Heaven, but because the Uniter had almost done so in his haste to defend, enacting a Domain-Plated shield that left an invisible but palpable scar in the world itself yet still failed to protect him from the doe’s superlative attack. As the Uniter hurtled head over heels through the skies while reeling from the attack, the doe stood tall and shattered the silence hanging over Shi Bei. “Where there is life,” she proclaimed, speaking not to her opponent who righted himself only after tumbling more than a hundred metres away, but to the soldiers below and behind her. “There is hope,” she continued, before settling into her stance once more. “So fight on, brave Heroes of the Empire, and together, we shall seize victory or death.”

“Victory or Death!” A single voice took up the call in reply, then thousands more joined in as the battle began anew, with Akanai leading the charge against the Uniter. “Victory or Death! Victory or Death! Victory or Death!” Emboldened by the doe’s counterattack, the soldiers of Shi Bei fought with renewed hope and vigour, their bodies no stronger but their spirits restored as they gave their all to hold just a moment longer. For the first time in recent memory, the wolf hesitated to act, unsure if he should put an end to the doe’s pursuit as she surged forward to do battle with the Uniter once more. Eyes widening in surprise, he turned his focus to the walls of Shi Bei where the Energy of the Heavens began converging once more, marking yet another human beginning their Ascension to Divinity.

Then another.

And still a third, before the chaotic torrents of Heavenly Energy became too muddled to read.

That settled it. There might still be good reason to endure if it was only the doe, but with so many of the Imperial Army’s best and brightest Ascending one after another, then the battle between mortals was all but lost. Treaty be damned then, because now this war would be decided between Divinities, and all their hopes lay with the doe now that the monk and the boy were too tired and spent to keep fighting. Shooting out to support her, the wolf intercepted the stag from attacking the doe with fist raised to strike. They’d fought many a time before, but they’d never once decided a victor, for they each lacked the ability to pierce through the other’s defenses. That might change here today, for the wolf felt a stirring within his mind which he’d previously ignored, and in his elation, he let down his guard against the boy and accepted his aid in this battle for the ages.

The boy was a tangled jumble of emotions which were impossible to read, so the wolf made note to give him a pat on the head and focused on his own thoughts instead. The Energy of the Heavens flowed through him as he remembered how the doe embodied her strike and the sensation it impressed upon him, a deadly threat tied directly to the doe and her weapon. Stricken by Insight in this moment of dire need, the wolf laughed at his foolish self even as the world made sense once more and he locked eyes with his rival and foe. For as long as he could remember, they’d always fought with fist and foot, because even something as minor as a gauntlet or a boot never seemed to sit right with either of them. Better to fight with fang and claw in his opinion, but as an Ancestral Beast, the wolf lacked those natural weapons and had to make do with punches and kicks instead, while the stag still had his spiked antlers to threaten the wolf. This alone made up for the disparity in usable strength, and the wolf had never been able to overcome it, meaning their matches always ended in a draw with neither one suffering any sort of grievous injury. Even after millennia of practice and growth, he still never liked fighting bare-handed much, though he disliked fighting with weapons even more, and he’d long since resigned himself to the satisfying but less than euphoric sensations of sinking his fist into his foe’s flesh, one which paled in comparison to the joys of rending apart a worthy foe with tooth and claw.

But while his human form was sorely lacking these most vital of wolfish traits, the Heavens would provide if he should so demand it.

