“Don't be afraid.” Railyse said as her hair changed from its camouflage into small water tendrils, that extended out to hover near the maid's faces to gather their tears.

“Is everyone ready?” Ren asked, then he thought about finding the water elemental inside the engine.

“By the gods, that poor thing!” Navruth said, and tears came to her eyes. The water tendril by her dabbed at her face softly and gathered them.

Ren remembered pulling the poor thing out of the engine and despaired over its mangled shape.

“No!” Andrela said, as tears poured down her face and the water tendril by her split into two and continuously dabbed her cheeks.

Ren let the first of his tears escape as he remembered watching the water element's last moments, and Railyse kissed the tear away. Another followed it, and she licked his face to get it all. Everyone was crying at this point, and the water tendrils moved almost faster than the eye could see, in order to gather all of the shed tears.

Railyse licked and sucked Ren's tears away, and her heart was overjoyed that he would share such things with her. Her body started to glow with all of the accumulated energy, and Ren ended the memory with the water elemental's death. One final burst of sorrow came out of him, and the personal maids sobbed at the memory.

*

Lylyth was glad that no one else was around at the moment, because she had collapsed to the floor and clutched at her chest. It's the same pain as before, only slightly weaker. She thought, slightly relieved. He's only remembering something.

Lylyth took several deep breaths and stood up as the deep sorrow feeling went away, then was replaced with satisfaction.

I will have to ask him what happened. Lylyth thought and sat down on her throne. She looked at her hands, and saw the old familiar web designs were starting to emerge on her skin. Oh, Ren. She thought. More, dearest one! Give me more!

*

Railyse couldn't believe the bounty she had received from Ren and his personal maids. It had recharged her powers and abilities even more than several days of floating in the Jacuzzi did.

“Oh, Ren!” Railyse said and kissed him on the lips. “Thank you so much!”

“You're welcome.” Ren said, and tasted a bit of morning dew.

Notice!

You have been anointed by the heir to the Water Realm. You have gained a temporary 5% bonus to all water-based or water-related enchantments, spells, and abilities for the next 24 hours.

“I'm not the only one you should thank, though.” Ren said and smiled.

“Yes, you're right!” Railyse said and turned to the closest maid. “Thank you, Frikara!” She said and kissed her on the lips. Ren felt Frikara's shock go through the Aura, and he added his amusement to it. Railyse went around and kissed all 5 of the maids, and they all received the bonus popup.

“What... how...” Frikara finally managed to say, because she was still reeling from the kiss.

“You've all been anointed by me.” Railyse said. “It's a blessing of Water, bestowed upon those that give of themselves to those in need.”

Andrela put a hand to her lips. “But... a kiss?”

“It's the quickest way.” Railyse said. “Although, I suppose I could spit on you...”

“NO! No, that's okay.” Frikara said. “I definitely prefer a kiss instead of being spit on.”

Ren snorted a laugh and flooded the shared Aura with his amusement. “Don't you just love different cultures?”

Railyse chuckled as she slid back into the Jacuzzi, then the personal maids went back into the large cabin. Ren on the other hand, went down into the hold to see how Tee-one was doing.

“Hi, Tee-one.” Ren said.

“Long time, no see.” Tee-one said, and Ren chuckled.

“I've been meaning to ask. Do you get things from me right away, or only when I think about it?”

“I think it depends on if it's relevant to me.” Tee-one said. “With you being away and increasing your skills so much...” He smiled. “...I got it all as soon as you came back from the Water Realm.”

Ren looked at him. “Could you still access my skills as if they were your own with me gone like that?”

“Not at the new levels until you were back in this realm.” Tee-one said.

“Huh.” Ren said. “Then, if we get separated, I can increase things; but, you won't get them until I come back.”

“It's the same with any new skills you acquire while away.” Tee-one said.

“So... you get a copy if I'm here, but...”

“Just like when you go on Adventurer's business.” Tee-one said. “I can still access your last skill numbers.”

“I don't know if that information will be useful or not later.” Ren said. “It's still good to know, though.”

Tee-one nodded.

“How's the back stock coming along?”

“I've got a lot built up now.” Tee-one said. “I'll fill the second floor of the shop when we arrive.”

“That's great, Tee-one.” Ren chuckled and pat his shoulder. “You've done a wonderful job.”

“Thanks, Ren.” Tee-one said. “What do you want me to do now?”

Ren took out 6 bracelets like the Bracelet of Magic that Tee-one wore to enhance his casting ability, that increased his Intelligence, Wisdom, Mana total, and Mana production.

“I've finished enchanting these bracelets into Bracelets of Magic, but I haven't added the 6 jewels like I wanted to yet.” Ren said. “I tried adding more than that, but the Durability of the metal drops significantly if it's overloaded with too many jewels.”

Tee-one nodded slightly as Ren took out a small crate full of diamonds that had already been sorted into 4 groups.

“I want you to use my mastered Enchanting ability to enchant this set of jewels with Intelligence, this set with Wisdom, these with Mana Boost, and those with Mana Production.” Ren said. “That's 5 glyphs of 10 runes each, or 50 runes.”

“You really must have missed being able to Double Infuse while you were gone.” Tee-one said, and Ren nodded slightly.

“I can't wait to double up on these enchantments and put these Bracelets of Magic together.” Ren said and took out a Level 5 Wand of Major Healing so he could top up Tee-one's and his own Mana when they needed it. “Let's get to work.”
