The chime that woke Rain was not the vaguely electronic tone of his interface, but the sonorous tone of a real bell. At least, as much as anything could be real in this place.

Rain sat up as Stumps-6, yawning as he glanced over at the grandfather clock that had woken him. It was still sounding out the hour, its pendulum swinging steadily. After seven bongs, it stopped, and Rain nodded to himself.

Tossing the covers aside, he got out of bed, arching his back in an enormous stretch, before running a sausage-fingered hand across his bald head. Fingers were difficult. Stumps-6 was the first to have them.

Fighting off another yawn, Rain took a look around the opaque dome that he’d furnished as a bedroom. It was cozy—like living inside a golf ball, though the decoration was lacking other than the clock and the shaggy carpet.

Walking across the room, Rain luxuriated in the feeling of his bare, stumpy feet against the carpet. When he stepped from it onto the pressure plate in front of the door, an electronic circuit was completed.

A motor whirred, and the door whisked open. Rain smiled.

Good, that’s still working.

Pedal power had had its day, but that was so two weeks ago. Since then, he had found much better ways to spin a crankshaft, and electricity was by far the most convenient. The key realization had been that making a battery was fundamentally no different than altering the pull of gravity. Energy was free in here; it was will that was in short supply. The trick to getting stuff done automatically was to set up systems that relied on previously established rules while requiring no agency. This door was the culmination of all of his research.

Stepping off the pressure plate, Rain walked through, entering a catwalk that looked a bit like a glass hamster tube. Outside, chaos roiled, but not so thickly that the Bastion was obscured from view. His fortress was no simple sphere any longer, but a multi-lobed structure more reminiscent of a space station. Only the central chamber was still spherical, being the original Bastion, though he now called it the Hub. The other rooms were domed-over lily pads resting at the ends of catwalks like this one, radiating from the Hub like the spokes of a wheel. There were four for now: his room, Dozer’s habitat, the airship hangar, and the cargo bay—the cargo being essence.

Behind him, Rain heard the door whisk closed, the motor reversing direction automatically. The timer responsible for that had taken a bit of doing, but he’d already had most of what he’d needed from his earlier construction of the grandfather clock.

The heavy airlock at the far end of the tunnel was an older model, so Rain had to haul it open manually with his brain, like some sort of peasant. There was no gravity in the Hub and nothing to stand on besides, so he lifted himself through the opening with his will before pulling the door shut behind him.

The center of the Hub was filled by his core room, the ground having been removed now that it was no longer needed. The core room was larger now, supported from below by the same tree-like adamant structure as before. From above, the adamant scaffolding had been replaced by a large, singular pipe. That was an intake, allowing fresh chaos in for purification through several heavy adamant grates. The core room was adamant now too, the thickened shell solid save for a few portholes. The armoring served a purpose beyond making it look like a reactor out of science-fiction. That was just a side benefit. The way Rain saw it, his core needed protection. Dozer had gotten into Rain’s soul through the Tear. There was nothing to say that something less friendly couldn’t do the same.

Rain used his will to set himself on a trajectory toward the tunnel that led to Dozer’s habitat, then left Stumps-6 to drift as he shifted his consciousness into his core. Immediately, his senses expanded, giving him a vague awareness of the entirety of the Bastion. The flood of information was only moderately overwhelming, and it took his tired mind a few moments to adapt. By the time he’d finished digesting his status and determined that there were no glaring issues, Stumps-6 had reached the tunnel. Rain switched back into the avatar, reoriented, then sent himself drifting gently down the passage before switching back to his core.

I need to put a door there. Todo: Inner door to Dozer’s habitat.

Rain narrowed his focus, his view growing sharper as he concentrated on his immediate surroundings. There was gravity in the core room, pulling gently inward from all directions, resulting in the layer of liquid essence bathing his core like an ocean. Liquid essence was clear now, Rain had decided, no longer opaque. It had a slight blue tint, like liquid oxygen. It also glowed with its own light, making it look either magical or radioactive, depending upon your perspective. His core glowed too, just as it had always done. At the moment, it was a deep sapphire, shining from below the surface. The remaining volume of the core room was filled with so much mist that it would have been impossible to see much from outside other than the glow escaping from the portholes.

Rain had modified the crystalline surface of his core, forming two flanges. One of those was bolted to the intake pipe, while the other wasn’t connected to anything at the moment. Bubbles could be seen rising from it, proof that his core was busy working to purify more essence. A slight hum could be heard, evidence of the electric fan responsible for drawing chaos in through the intake. The conversion rate was still excruciatingly slow, but faster than it had been, thanks to all the changes.

It’s still too slow. Maybe I should add more pipes? Rain glowed uncertainly, feeling the chaos burning against his core at the intake. It wasn’t exactly pleasant. Too risky. This will have to do.

With a mental sigh, Rain switched back to Stumps-6 just in time to slam into the sealed hatch to Dozer’s habitat.

“Ow.”

Rubbing his head, he grabbed onto a handhold, then concentrated on the hatch, breaking the seal. Dozer had opened it once—Rain still wasn’t sure how—flooding the entire Hub with chaos. Since then, Rain had taken to welding it closed, but that wasn’t a permanent solution.

Todo: Proper airlock for Dozer’s room.

Once he got the hatch open, Rain flew himself through, suddenly having to fight against gravity to keep himself airborne as he crossed the threshold. He closed the door behind himself, welded it shut again, then turned, taking in the scene.

Dozer’s habitat was about the same size as the Hub, though it was a dome, not a sphere. It was done up like a forest clearing, complete with green grass, almost-realistic trees, and a painted blue sky with white fluffy clouds. Dozer couldn’t appreciate the color, but that was beside the point.

The slime’s crate sat over to one side of the room, the size of a house from Rain’s current perspective, sitting beside a tidy pile of smooth stones. Rain willed himself upward, flying smoothly until he came to a stop hovering above the slumbering slime in his crate. Through their link, he knew Dozer to be oblivious to his presence.

“Time to wake up,” Rain said, lowering himself down. When Dozer didn’t respond, he reached out, then drummed gently on Dozer’s membrane with his palms, sending waves spreading across his surface like ripples on a water bed.

[Rain-King!]

Dozer exploded into motion, engulfing Rain’s avatar and rocketing up out of his crate, toppling it over in his excitement. He began bouncing happily around the room, making the entire chamber shake and the connection to the Hub creak alarmingly.

Todo: Reinforce tunnel to Dozer’s room.

[Hey, Dozer. Good morning.] Rain sent, unable to speak with his avatar presently drowning in slime. [I’m happy to see you too. Calm down, would you?]

Dozer calmed down, luckily before breaking anything, and Rain spent the next thirty minutes or so just playing with him. They played fetch, tag, count to three, and a few other silly games designed to help with Dozer’s comprehension. Eventually, though, Rain sensed the slime starting to become antsy. The dome was opaque, but Dozer could still sense the chaos on the other side somehow.

Before the slime could grow too upset, Rain flew up to the ceiling where a valve protruded like a fire hydrant. He opened it, allowing chaos to rush in. Dozer, far from being alarmed by this, became ecstatic instead. He set himself to purifying with a will, hoovering up the chaos with enthusiasm. Rain just watched him go, a smile on his face as the slime oozed around, occasionally returning to his bed to deposit pearls of collected essence.

[Have fun at work, Dozer,] Rain sent, setting Stumps-6 down beside Dozer’s bed where he’d be out of the way. [I’ll be back tonight to shut the valve when it’s time for sleep.]

[No sleep! ⟬clean⟭ forever!] Dozer sent, fiercely determined as only a Crystal Slime in a midden could be.

Rain smiled. The trick to managing Dozer was keeping him to a somewhat normal schedule. It was oh so much easier on both of them when they were awake and asleep at the same times. He felt a little bad about keeping him cooped up in this room all the time, but he couldn’t exactly let him outside, not when there was a risk that he’d be sucked out through the Tear. That was why Rain had spent so much time on making the environment as realistic as possible.

Leaving his avatar where it was, Rain switched to Stumps-5 in the airship hangar, then confirmed that neither of the two Kludges he’d left docked there had broken free from their moorings. That concluded his inspection of the Bastion, so he cast his mind further out, finding Snek-2, stationed in a barometer buoy.

There were six of these, tethered to the Bastion by thin adamant wires in each cardinal direction. They were way, way out there, but still not even a tenth of the distance to his paling. Each one was a tiny adamant sphere, split internally into four quadrants by two bulkheads. One of those bulkheads served as the floor, while the other separated the pressurized section of the buoy from the half that was open to the chaos. Through that barrier passed a U-shaped tube filled with mercury. Technically, this made a manometer, not a barometer, but the alliteration of ‘barometer buoy’ justified riling up the pedants.

Slithering his way over to the instrument, Rain checked the height of the liquid against the markings on the tube, then hissed to himself in satisfaction.

Zenith at -4.6.

He swiftly hopped through Sneks 3 through 7, checking the pressure at each of the other buoys. As always, Snek-4 had the lowest reading at -5.8. That buoy was closest to the Tear, in the direction that Rain had designated as north. Each buoy had an internal pressure of 24, calibrated at the equilibrium point in the Sparkscale Deep. The readings were simply the deltas from that. Given that his physical body was in the cave in the Ashen Jungle, the values he was getting were perfectly reasonable and in line with his past measurements.

Good, good.

In the Barnacle, Rain sat up in Stumps-2, the avatar feeling clunky and stiff compared to the newer models.

I need to upgrade this guy. Not now, though. Todo: Upgrade old avatars.

There was a barometer here as well, this one much larger than the others. It was the absolute kind, a basin of mercury with a glass tube rising above it, containing a vacuum. The level currently read 24, just as it had since Rain had first calibrated it. He nodded, planting his hook-hands on his hips.

I don’t know why I keep checking this one. It hasn’t changed in weeks. The paling stops bringing in chaos once the pressure reaches my class level.

Sitting Stumps-2 down for safekeeping, Rain left him there, shifting his mind into Stumps-3. Stumps-3 was stationed in an outpost very much like the Barnacle, except notably louder. Rushing wind could be heard outside, owing to the station’s proximity to the Tear. This was Anchor-UW2, or ‘Upper West 2’.

There were eight anchor stations in total, split into two groups of four. Each station was tethered to another by a heavy adamant cable, hence the name. The cables were strung across the Tear like shoelaces, UW1 to LW1, LW1 to UW2, UW2 to LW2, and similar on the eastern side. The idea was to reinforce the corners and thus prevent the Tear from ripping further. Rain would need to build several hundred more stations at least if he wanted to sew it closed. With how thick the cables needed to be to survive the forces here, that was a lot of essence. The Tear was enormous, covering fully a third of his soul’s circumference.

Standing, Rain stumbled unsteadily across his paling, the ground rolling beneath his feet like he was sailing the high seas in storm. Reaching a window, he hooked a handhold to steady himself, then peeked out. The darkness of soulspace was visible beyond the Tear, clouded by the plume of escaping chaos. The other stations were visible in the distance, the cabling taut between them as it stretched across the gap.

Still holding. Good.

Sitting back down, Rain switched to Stumps-4 in UE2 on the eastern edge, then repeated his inspection, finding everything in order there as well.

Good, good. I need to build more of these. I don’t think this is enough.

Lingering for a moment to think, Rain stared out the window, watching the ragged edges of his paling flag and snap in the wind. It was too dangerous out there for more construction at the moment. He’d come back tonight when they were camped in the Sparkscale Deep. He also wanted to inspect the edges again to see if they’d healed at all.

The barrier had layers, he’d discovered—two of them, their thickness corresponding to his two awakening events. The first layer, his level-18 paling, was thicker and a slightly lighter shade of blue. His level-24 paling was thinner and darker, covering the first like a second coat of paint.

Here at the eastern corner of the Tear, the two layers were well-bonded to each other, as they were to the west. At the Tear’s center, however, the outer layer extended far past the inner one. That told a story. The original damage had not been healed; the second layer had simply been stretched across the open wound like plastic wrap. It was no wonder it had blown out.

Sighing, Rain sat, then cast his mind back toward the Bastion, finding Stumps-7 in the cargo bay in a small area that doubled as his workshop.

Let’s see here.

Walking over to his workbench, Rain awkwardly picked up a pencil with his sausage-like fingers, then jotted down the various new tasks he’d identified, adding them to an already sizable list. That done, he paused to scratch at his earlobe with the pencil, considering where to begin.

