I don’t have enough time to finish anything big. I need something I can start and continue later. Time for a new avatar series, I guess. I’ve been putting that off long enough.

Rain clicked his tongue, still thinking.

I need to figure out bones. If I was a doctor, maybe my subconscious would just sort it all out, but I’m not. I’ve seen pictures, sure, but I don’t know how it all goes together. Not really. I’m going to need to do some experiments before I’ll be able to get the structure right. Once I do, though, everything should just work without me needing to think about it. At least, that’s the theory.

Nodding, Rain set the pencil down on the workbench with a click.

Skeleton first. I’ll worry about ligaments later. Also, I’m scaling up. I’m tired of being smaller than Dozer.

Turning to look at the heaping pile of raw essence behind him, Rain began humming to himself. Then, with a bit more effort, the actual song became audible, coming from a speaker box mounted high on the wall.

♫ Spooky, scary skeletons, send shivers down your spine… ♫

The speaker was a simple thing, just a membrane, a magnet, and a small coil of wire. There was nothing so complicated as an amplifier to drive it. Using it to play music like this was an active application of will, fundamentally no different than controlling his avatar’s vocal cords to speak. He was simply overriding the current in the speaker coil with the remembered melody. It worked better the less he thought about it.

Rain set to work, but he’d barely fallen into the groove before an actual, physical signal to the speaker overrode his control. The grandfather clock’s chime came through loud and clear, carried throughout the Bastion by the wires trailing along the outside of the structure. Making the clock audible everywhere had been why Rain had constructed the PA system in the first place.

“Damn it.”

Rain heaved a sigh.

Either I need to spend less time playing with Dozer, or I need to give myself more than an hour in here each morning.

Propping the gargantuan femur he’d been working on against the wall, Rain closed his eyes, then willed himself into the real world. It was all he could do not to groan in discomfort as his body pointedly informed him of the rock that was digging into his back. He took a deep breath, grimacing. It felt like he was attempting to inhale through a waterlogged woolen blanket. He could also feel a slight sourness in his stomach, promising the occasional flashes of heartburn that would strike throughout the day, a side-effect of piping undiluted chaos straight into his core.

All systems nominal, unfortunately. No headache, which is nice.

macro cold_boot

With the command, Rain’s HUD flicked on, and Detection fired as part of his script layer’s initialization sequence. The scan came back clear of monsters, and thanks to linksight, Rain was already aware that his friends were both nearby and in good health. Detection pulsed a few more times, the script scanning for other high-importance items before it defaulted to Winter, bringing the spell up gradually. The mods were set such that Rain was excluded.

I should adjust that. I can probably sustain myself at a low setting now that I’ve upgraded my plumbing. Not today, though. Too risky.

Sitting up, Rain glanced at the time, then yawned, reaching down to massage his back—or more accurately, the back of his armor.

That rock wasn’t there when I went to bed, I swear.

Tallheart had added some new enhancements. One of those was called Tactile Transference, and it was perhaps the greatest example of Arcane bullshit that Rain had heard of to date. Essentially, it let him feel through his armor, as insane as that was to think about. The sense was slightly muted, as if he was wearing cloth instead of solid metal. Still, compared to what he’d gotten used to, it was night and day.

Not without its downsides, though.

Rain sighed, pressing harder. The knot was only in his mind, he knew, but so was the feeling of his fingers rubbing it away. His clenched muscles loosened after a moment, and he looked up to see Ameliah watching him. She was fully armored, seated against the wall near the cave entrance, with the darkness of the Ashen Jungle behind her. He waved to her silently. She waved back, and he smiled, getting to his feet.

Stepping carefully over a slumbering Tallheart, he made his way over to the strongroom to gather materials for breakfast. While he was at it, he activated Purify, letting the spell spread out into the cave to wash over his friends. He kept the level low to avoid generating too much light, letting it run for a good ten seconds. He was more concerned about waking Tallheart than drawing in monsters. His soul did that just fine. If not for essence depletion, they’d be under heavy assault right now.

Carrying a pot filled with raw ingredients in one hand, Rain exited the strongroom and walked softly over to Ameliah, stopping beside her to give her shoulder a friendly squeeze. Her armor bore the same enchantment as his, and the two worked even better together than they did alone, making it feel like the metal wasn’t even there. He could feel the texture of her shirt against his fingertips and the warmth of her skin below.

“Hey,” Ameliah said softly, laying her hand over his and sending fireworks of sensation through his mind.

“Hey,” Rain managed to reply.

Ameliah took her hand away to raise her visor, then tapped a finger demandingly against her lips.

Rain grinned, raising his visor as well. He bent down, juggling the pot as he leaned in to kiss her. He smiled as their lips met, Ameliah biting at his playfully. Before he could be tempted to just stay there for the whole morning, he pulled away. Unfortunately, there was work to do.

“You’re up early,” Ameliah said, sounding slightly disappointed.

Rain nodded, shifting the pot against his hip. “The clock I built is still running a bit fast.” He declined to voice his suspected reason for that, not wanting to jinx it. He needed to be sure before he allowed himself to get his hopes up. Testing his hypothesis was going to be annoying, now that Ameliah no longer had Message. With it, she could have sent him the time from outside, but now, he was going to have to do it himself with scheduled essence exchanges or something.

If I could just get the system working in my soul, this would be a non-issue. Near the Tear, I can almost feel...something...just out of reach. It’s infuriating.

Rain stepped out of the cave. The dim light of the lava illuminated the island well enough, but beyond it, it was too dark to make out the trees. Setting the pot down next to the cold remains of their cookfire, he straightened, speaking to Ameliah over his shoulder. “Any trouble?”

“No,” she replied, fighting through an enormous yawn.

“Good,” Rain said, fighting off a yawn of his own. Bending, he set about rebuilding the fire, then began making breakfast—spicy vegetable stew. They seemed to eat a lot of stew these days, but usually without much in the way of flavor. Today would be different. He’d found some decent chilies out in the jungle and had been waiting for his turn at cooking to use them. It was a shame, but he’d need to moderate how many he added out of respect for the others.

Wimps.

As he worked, he chatted with Ameliah about this and that, mostly food, somehow getting onto the subject of Cadbury Creme Eggs. Ameliah liked sweet things, and Rain was convinced that a supermarket candy aisle would blow her mind. There was simply no way she’d be prepared to handle that much weaponized sugar. She found supermarkets in general unbelievable, which wasn’t that surprising in retrospect. There were just so many things in his old world that he’d taken for granted.

Soon enough, the stew was bubbling away merrily, already filling the air with a delicious, peppery aroma. Leaving it to boil, Rain plonked himself down next to Ameliah with a sigh, then gestured to the pot. “Keep an eye on this for me? I’m going to check my status.”

“Sure,” she said, shifting herself so she was leaning against him instead of the cave wall. She yawned again, then rested her head on his shoulder. Rain smiled, feeling the soft skin of her cheek through a tear in his Forceweave. He extracted the arm that she’d pinned between them, then wrapped it around her waist. In response, she snuggled against his chest, making herself comfortable.

This enchantment is the best. I owe Tallheart so much.

Rain sighed contentedly, then sent a quick warning to Dozer before triggering an essence exchange. He wasn’t worried about anchor stations breaking loose when his paling contracted. That was one of the first things he’d needed to fix after his early experiments with the Barnacle. It had taken him several days of trial and error, but he’d managed to make the glue holding the structures in place both flexible and strong enough to resist being dislodged.

Setting a marker, Rain pulled up his progress since they’d began mining for fish. They’d be moving on today—for real, this time—and he wanted to make sure he was ready.

Progress Report

marker_1: deeper [3060 Fallow 30 08:00]

marker_2: spicy_breakfast [3060 Breaking 15 06:49]

Span: 17 days

Character

Total Exp: 1,961,992 -> 1,971,992 (+10,000)

Skills

Shroud: 4 -> 9 (+5)

Chemical Ward: 1 -> 5 (+4)

Suppression: 1 -> 4 (+3)

Tolerance

Recovery: 39 -> 55 (+16)

Vigor: 57 -> 93 (+36)

Attribute Buff: 190 -> 238 (+48)

Speed: 2 -> 4 (+2)

Synchronization

Strength: 11.3 -> 14.6 (+3.3)

Recovery: 5.0 -> 5.5 (+0.5)

Endurance: 4.4 -> 6.0 (+1.6)

Vigor: 6.9 -> 7.7 (+0.8)

Focus: 27.6 -> 44.3 (+16.7)

Perception: 8.7 -> 9.3 (+0.6)

Is this normal?

Rain smiled wryly, surveying the paltry increases to his skills. They had been mining fish for a long time. Over two weeks, and yet he hadn’t maxed everything out. Far from it. Without Winter, he simply didn’t have the mana to throw at his new skills. Most of his regeneration went toward Mana Manipulation. Keeping everyone’s enchantments running was becoming a non-trivial challenge. Higher-tier enchantments came with proportionately higher costs.

Mana Manipulation wasn’t the only way to charge stuff, of course. Ameliah had dumped it when it had failed to reveal any hidden skills, given that she now had access to Recharge Bound Item. The latter skill had the advantage of bypassing intake inefficiencies, though only for her own gear. She didn’t have a place for it in her final build, but her class let her get around that problem. She could simply swap the skill in as needed, allowing her to charge stuff in bursts every few days.

Tallheart, too, had an alternate method, but it was problematic. Energize Runes was a tier-0 Runecrafting skill that converted Tel into item charge directly. Unlike Ameliah’s skill, it worked on other people’s items just fine, bound or not. The downside was the cost. Leveling the skill only made it faster, not more efficient, and the exchange rate was one mana per Tel, which was atrocious. It could certainly solve the charging problem, but only if they were willing to light all their money on fire.

We could afford it, but it just seems like such a waste. Ascension is going to need heaps of cash going forward, what with all the recruiting… Just how many members are we going to have by the time we get back, I wonder?

Rain shook his head, tabling such concerns and returning his attention to his status.

He’d finally unlocked his last tier-3 skill tree, as indicated by the general experience he’d earned. There had been no fanfare from the system, but it wasn’t like it had released confetti when he’d finished off tier 2, either. Naturally, he’d done a before-and-after check on his soul, but it had proven unenlightening. His core had seemed unchanged by the unlock, and if his paling had expanded, the change was too small for him to measure. The paling seemed to vary slightly in size from day to day anyway, being flexible and all that.

The failure of his experiment was disappointing, but he was over it. There were plenty of other things to get excited about. For example, despite not working himself particularly hard, Rain had found his tolerance and synchronization rising by leaps and bounds. Through some experiments, he’d determined that this was a side-effect from bathing his core in purified essence. Finally, he’d discovered a real, tangible benefit to all the time he’d sunken into exploring his soul. Sure, there was linksight, but that wasn’t something he’d earned. It was just another symptom of the damage, albeit a beneficial one. No, this was something that he’d discovered himself through dedicated investigation, experimentation, and effort. And if his intuition was correct, it was only the first benefit of many.

When its fuel is clean, the body grows stronger. Pure essence is the key to bringing the soul and the body into alignment. This is the kind of edge Ascension is going to need if we’re going to survive. I’m not the only one who can benefit from knowing this stuff, either. Ameliah’s already close to a breakthrough. I can feel it.

Rain looked down, then smiled, seeing that Ameliah had closed her eyes. She had a few freckles across the bridge of her nose that were almost too faint to notice from a distance. From this close, he couldn’t help himself from getting captivated by them as she breathed softly, completely at peace.

She is so adorable, I can’t stand it. What did a scrub like me ever do to deserve someone like her?

After a few more seconds, Rain reluctantly tore his gaze away. He fixed it instead on the darkness, squinting at it suspiciously.

Well, if she’s sleeping, that means I’m on watch. What is it with her and using me as a pillow, anyway? Not that I mind.

With his free hand, Rain gently closed Ameliah’s visor. She stirred slightly at the motion but didn’t wake. Closing his own visor as well, Rain took one more look around, double-checked that his Detection macro was running, then returned his attention to his interface. It wasn’t like his eyes could tell him anything important that his magic couldn’t anyway, and he wanted to finish what he’d started.

Inventory

Slot

Item

Charge

Saturation

Durability

Head

Chest

Legs

Hands

Feet

Offhand

Myriad Plate

Bound

Durability

Hardness [12,047]

500 Heat Resistance

500 Cold Resistance

375 Chem Resistance

350 Force Resistance

5,000 Arcane Resistance

Lightness

Compression

Thermal Regulation [ON]

Tactile Transference [ON]

Facade [OFF]

Obfuscation [OFF]

Arcane Regeneration [OFF]

Kinetic Conversion

1,213 / 185,500

0 / 154,209

258,226 / 602,044

Ring[0]

Ring[1]

Ring[2]

Ring[3]

Ring[4]

Malleable Ring

Bound, Unity

258/287 Attributes [˃]

97 / 226

0 / 1,907

102 / 102

Ring[5]

