Jake’s arrows were relentless, each shot precise and calculated to maximize the spread of his toxins. He maintained a steady rhythm, weaving through the air with practiced movements, and every so often, he’d exploit a momentary gap in the Elite Guards’ formation to drive a piercing arrow into an exposed foe. The battlefield was a chaotic dance of arrows and bullets, but Jake’s constant assault kept them one step ahead, ensuring the Elite Guards never had a chance to fully regroup or press an advantage against Casper or close in on Jake too much.

Eventually, they seemingly gave up entirely on attacking Jake as nothing they tried worked, while they at least dealt damage to Casper. Not much, though, and as the seconds passed, Jake landed several more arrows on unprepared Elite Guards.

Alas, despite the progress made, this relative downtime, where Jake and Casper were both taking a slow and steady approach to slay the guards, had allowed the Guard Captain to recover somewhat from Jake’s devastating opening attack.

The Guard Captain stood up and forced himself to move closer to the guards he was meant to captain. While running, the man’s aura started to change, making him emanate a powerful energy that rushed through the room.

It affected all the Elite Guards, who were infused with newfound power. The many guards began breaking free of the traps set by Casper, whatever buffing skill the Guard Captain unleashed making them noticeably stronger.

They regrouped, and with high morale, the Elite Guards prepared to rejoin their captain and-

Suddenly, the Guard Captain stopped running, his movements frozen. The B-grade didn’t even have time to turn his head as a second Protean Arrow Jake had just gotten done making descended upon him, the result unsurprising considering how damaged the Guard Captain already was.

His head was blown off, and for good measure, Jake raised his hand and used Touch of the Malefic Viper while also detonating his Hunter’s Mark. Touch didn’t prove necessary, as the detonation of Hunter’s Mark proved enough to annihilate the final vestiges of life within the B-grade.

You have slain [Aginian Guard Captain – lvl 366] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

The headless Guard Captain fell to the ground, already fully dead before he hit it. With his death, the aura he had permeated naturally disappeared, and all the Elite Guards seemed to experience a temporary moment of shock from their leader dying, allowing Casper to quickly impale two of them with large, cursed stakes.

Jake smiled, preparing to just start killing the remaining Elite Guards… which was when a powerful aura erupted from atop the ziggurat as a beam of pure energy shot into the sky. The beam sent a pulse of power through the room, creating a wall of gray sand, as whatever had just happened seemed to shake the entire Grand Labyrinth.

Exchanging a quick glance with Casper, they both understood.

It was time for the second phase of the encounter.
