BoShui didn’t answer her, which was an answer in and of itself. More and more she learned of her own weakness. Only a few minutes earlier, she’d been ready to give her life for theirs, but now that she’d found safety, she felt no remorse for their deaths, only the sweet relief of survival. How disgraceful. Hiccuping, she hunched down in the saddle and glanced warily about, imagining hidden dangers in every shadow. “Then how will I get back to Master?”

“You won’t.” Sounding strained as they rode, now clenching her hand so hard it hurt. “Everyone will expect you to go south, it’s too dangerous. I’m taking you home to the Bridge, to see Uncle. He’ll move heaven and earth to keep you safe, and I’ll speak with-- no I’ll demand my father fight on your behalf. We’ll claim this whole mess as a misunderstanding, don’t you worry about a thing.”

At the thought of seeing Papa, her whole world went white. Reminded of Master’s prediction, a shiver coursed through her body as pins and needles ran across her skin. Sweat trickling down her spine, her breaths came in pants as she imagined Papa’s disappointment, the pain from his rejection of ‘the Shrike’ so palpable it made her heart ache. Wrenching her hand free from Shui’s grip, she let out a strangled cry and tried to bolt, but he was ready, snatching away her reins and holding the horse in place. Scrambling from the saddle, her foot caught in the stirrup and she tumbled off, her head bouncing on the hard, packed dirt. Barely registering the impact, she sprinted off into the darkness, searching for an escape.

Her flight measured in breaths before Shui caught up, riding her down and tackling her. Tumbling across the ground, she kicked and scratched, shrieking as she fought to escape his grasp. Bucking her hips, she freed her arm and elbowed him in the jaw, rushing off to sweet freedom. A pained groan stopped her in her tracks, her heart seizing at the sound. Running back to his side, she checked his injuries. Blood trickled down his lip, swelling as she watched. “I’m so sorry Shui-Shui, please be all right...”

“I’m fine,” he slurred, holding her wrist tight. She could easily escape, but instead she helped him sit, leaning him against a tree, gently stroking his cheek. Still woozy, he refused to let go and pulled her into a hug. Unwilling to leave him like this, she trembled as he whispered, “Don’t run away again.”

“I’m sorry.” Her check pressed against his chest, she let loose all her fears. “I can’t go see Papa, he won’t understand why I left.”

“He will, he’s your father and loves you dearly.”

Shaking her head, she sighed. It was so warm and peaceful here, tucked in his arms. She missed him so much, but there was always work to be done. “I’ve had to do things Shui-Shui, horrible, terrible things. I have nightmares about them every day, but it was all necessary. My path is righteous, my actions just, no one understands, not even you. I saw your fear, felt you tense when I embraced you. I’m nothing but a burden to you and Papa, only Master understands. Don’t worry about me, Master will make things right, I know he will.” Sniffling, she whispered, “Please, you have to help me get back to him.”

“You won’t go back to see your father?” His chest shuddered as he pleaded once more. “Just come with me to see him, he misses you so much. I promise he’ll understand and keep you safe, I swear it.”

Tensing, she readied to flee before shaking her head. “I can’t. Only Master can help me, only Master understands me.”

Shui-Shui’s arms tightened around her, stroking her back gently. “Okay, okay, don’t run. I’ll help you.” His voice choked and resigned, he uttered those three simple words and all the tension drained from her body. Falling against his chest, limp and exhausted, she closed her eyes and stilled, listening to him speak. “I love you cousin, you’re family. I won’t let anyone hurt you ever again.”

A jolt of pain radiated from her lower back and she stiffened and gasped. His body wracked with sobs, Shui-Shui’s trembling arms clutched tightly around her as he whispered, “I’m so sorry. Oh Mother, what did he do to you? I wanted to rescue you the moment I heard he took you away, but father wouldn’t let me.” Still shuddering, Shui-Shui continued to mumble, holding her close as she bled out, his dagger having done it’s work. Poor thing, he was always so cheerful and sweet, how this must pain him so. “He said it was good to leave you at his side, roping in a strong ally for the clan. Clan first, family second, he sold you off and I did nothing to stop him, I’m so sorry.”

The pain faded as she lay there, smiling at a distant memory. “Oh how things have changed. I remember when you used to lay in my arms, but this is nice too.” Her words brought another wave of sobs and she shushed him lightly. There was so much to say, but so little time. “It’s okay little cousin, don't cry. This is for the best. Don’t blame yourself. Tell Papa I’m sorry and I love him.” With a small quiver, she added, “Love you too.” Closing her eyes, she snuggled against his chest with a smile, clutching him tight as she breathed her last.

Even if the Mother spurned BoLao for her sins, at least she would die in Shui-Shui’s embrace.

Chapter Meme
