Ripped from my peaceful slumber, I find Baledagh’s hand wrapped firmly around my throat, his words echoing in my ears. Heart hammering in my chest, my head throbs in tandem as my feet dangle off the ground. Utterly confused, my body reacts on instinct. Grabbing his wrist with both hands, I pull my legs up and kick out with both feet, the shock reverberating up my legs as if I tried to shift a mountain. Tightening his grip, he throws me to the ground, where my body crashes and skids. Gasping in pain, I inch away on my back before his boot lands on my chest, squeezing the air from my lungs as he roars, “Is it true?!”

“What?” The word comes easily, sounding calmer than I’d have expected under the current circumstances. Oh right, this is in my head, I don't need to breathe here. The moment the thought crosses my mind, the pain fades and the pressure eases from my chest, though my headache remains in full force. Leaving his boot on my chest, I raise my hands in submission. “In case you didn’t notice, I was sleeping, so you’re gonna have to talk me through this Baledagh.” He doesn’t know it, but I’m fairly certain he can snuff out my existence with a minor effort.

Baring his teeth in a snarl, Baledagh’s primal fury radiates from him, leaving me wishing I could tuck my head into my neck and hide. His breath comes in pants, speaking every word as if it costs him greatly. “Am. I. Defiled?”

Oh shit.

My involuntary reaction is enough to substantiate his suspicions, his body crumbling beneath the weight of the truth, falling to his knees with the look of a defeated man splashed across his face. Sitting up gingerly, I ease myself into place beside him, shoulder to shoulder should he need someone to lean on. “To be fair, it doesn’t seem to be... complete? For lack of a better word. There’s hope for you yet.”

“Just kill me.” His voice is steady, his tone calm as he stares out into the void. “End my misery brother, I’ve done nothing right. Those Spectres, I devoured them thinking it would help, invited them into me. Now that I know, I hear their whispers, eating away at my control, urging me to kill you and take your place.”

Well, that’s... not good. “We’ll figure something out. You’re still here, don’t give up.”

He chuckles, shaking his head. “Why bother? What is there to live for? Why should I continue to struggle only to emerge with nothing?” Gathering momentum, he continues his rant, coming to life before my eyes. “Less than nothing in fact. I live half a life at best, hidden away deep in our mind. No one knows me besides you. Who would mourn for me should I die?”

“I would.”

Shoving me aside, he stands to loom over me, his anger feeding him. “Why? Because you’ll have lost your ‘precious little brother’? Why even care? You only keep me around because my misery amuses you, reminds you there’s always someone worse off in the world.”

This is not going well... “Calm down Baledagh.”

“EXACTLY!” He screams, eyes wide and face flushed. The veins beneath his tanned skin bulge, giving him a discoloured red-greenish hue. “Baledagh! That is who I am, yet no one knows me. You are Falling Rain, you live my life, leaving me with nothing but scraps.”

Crab-walking away, I swallow my fear at his transformation, the defeated dog turned into stalking predator, angry, hurt, and hungry. “Relax okay? Let’s talk this through calmly.”

“Yes, let us talk,” he sneers, his form rippling before my eyes, growing and warping as he continues to advance. “Falling Rain, Hero of the Empire, what did he do to deserve it? Winning four duels against the Society, how heroic. Except you didn’t win them. I did. Baledagh’s glory all falling neatly in Falling Rain’s lap. How nice. For you.”

“It’s not-”

Ignoring my words, he smashes me with a vicious backhand, my body sent reeling into the void. His voice enters my ears as if he’s standing beside me, reverberating in my mind. “You’re a coward, a weakling. Why should I give my life for you?” Another blow lands, this time on my back, sending waves of agony shooting through me. “Without me, you’d be nothing and you know it, seeking to win with your clumsy toys and worthless tricks.” The world stops spinning as Baledagh stands before me, armed with grotesque facsimiles of Peace and Tranquility, the weapons fusing into his flesh as he smiles in challenge. “Come brother,” he taunts, holding his arms wide. “Come fight me. If you won’t live like a warrior, then at least you can die like one.”

Holding my hand out to stop him, his figure blurs as his sword lops off four of my fingers. Staggering back, I try to reason with him again, but before I can speak, his shield slams into my face, snapping my head back. The sword slices once, twice, and again, each stroke taking an ear, a hand, and then half my foot, setting my nerves afire with agony. Booting me away, he grins as I lay helpless, barely able to lift my head as he gathers my severed parts in his hands. Holding my finger like a grape above his head, he drops it into his mouth and chews loudly, taking delight in my horror. “This is hardly a challenge. Come, show me Falling Rain’s great prowess.”

Gagging from pain and revulsion, I push myself to my feet, panting with exertion. God dammit, you aren’t breathing and you aren't really injured. There is no fucking spoon. Clearing my head with a deep breath, the agony fades and I glance down at my body, hale and whole. With a howl of anger, he charges and unleashes a flurry of strikes. Standing stock still, I watch dispassionately as each strike passing harmlessly through the air around me, guided away by an unseen force.

Leaving Baledagh to flail away, I study him carefully, confused by his abrupt change. Is it the Spectres driving him to this? If so, why did he get weaker? Theoretically, he should be able to tear me apart with a thought, this is his mind, his body. What do the Spectres even want? He told me they kept asking him to surrender, over and over again, even after he begged them to take him. So why didn’t he turn full Defiled? Is it because I arrived first, when he gave up in the mines?

I guess even souls have squatter’s rights.

“Does this amuse you brother?” His face twisted in an ugly grimace, Baledagh stalks around me promising torture and misery. As he lumbers about, shoulders hunched and head hanging low, all sinew and muscle as his arms deform and elongate to drag behind him, I’m struck with a strange sense of... wrongness, a disparity in his appearance. The first time I saw him, I hated him for his confidence. Regal, proud, and dominant, it irked me to no end, everything I wished I was and would never be. A tiger pacing in his cage, graceful, powerful, and even beautiful in a primitive manner. Now, all I can see is an ugly, misshapen thing, lumbering around in a mockery of that once proud warrior, a corruption of who he was.

Huh... I guess that’s why they’re called Defiled.

“You know,” I say, interrupting his rant promising pain and terror, “The Baledagh I know, the Warrior, would have acted by now. Talk is cheap.”

With a howl of rage, the aberration lunges for me and once again, I hold up my palm to stop him. This time however, he stops, his body hanging in the air as if held by a giant, invisible hand. Ranting and raving, he struggles to free himself to no avail, resuming his endless tirade of threats. Ignoring his words, I study him, going over everything Baledagh ever told me. Something’s wrong here, but I can’t quite place my finger on it. Cocking my head, I step forward and raise my hand to strike, watching his reaction.

Not fear, but annoyance, a small huff like someone on the verge of losing a game of chess. Narrowing my eyes, I say, “You aren’t Baledagh.” He's too chatty, to passive. Baledagh likes to taunt, but only a little before striking to kill, and this... thing hasn't truly tried to kill me.

My words have a startling effect, the aberration displaying mild shock followed by a smile, relaxing in my mental shackles as his voice changes to an unfamiliar tone, each syllable stressed in a grating manner. “It matters not who we are. We are here, we are eternal, and you will submit.”

...Well fuck. How many personalities are sharing this body?

I should start charging rent.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Panting as the blood coursed through her veins, BoLao rode through the darkened forest, her mind reeling from the attack. Mouth dry and heart racing, she fought for calm and implored the Mother for aid. Too much, this was too much, how could She treat her devout servants with such disdain? Trials and tribulations were the norm but even She must leave a path to victory, else all this suffering would be for naught.

Glancing back at Falling Rain laying comatose behind her, she spurred her horse faster, moving dangerously through the trees. It was obvious she was being herded by those brats, and with only a handful of surviving Aspirants at her side, she held no confidence in breaking through. Who was waiting for her here in the forest? The Bekhai, most likely, those harbingers of the Father, but how had they followed her on their quins? Why was Major Yuzhen willing to devote so many resources towards retrieving a single Warrant Officer?

Her palms ached from gripping the reins, and she threw aside all errant thoughts. Calling for a stop, she steadied her breathing before speaking, glancing around at her remaining Aspirants. So few of them, all lost to infighting when they should be united against the Enemy. “We’re trapped. Split up, break in different directions, and go to ground or escape. They’re after Falling Rain, so I will distract them. At least one of you must make your way back to Central and warn Master of this new threat.”

“Priestess, that would leave you unguarded!”

“I do not fear death. To meet the Mother in your company would be an honour.”

“Give me the apostate, I’ll distract them in your stead.”

A chorus of refusals answered her, but she was adamant in this. “The Mother has given us all this trial, not only myself. Only through my sacrifice will you all live on to further her will. This is my final order: warn the Empire of the Enemy’s new ability to hide among us. May the Mother guide you true.”

Turning her mount, she sped off into the night, yelling as she drove her horse onward. Resisting the urge to look back, she choked down her panic and tears, continue to make as much noise as possible. She didn’t want to die, there was so much left for her to do, but what course was left to her? The Behkai wanted their corrupted young master back and she was the most eye-catching bait to go along with it. Ten years of lonely, heart-rending, arduous service, rewarded with what? Dying at the hands of the Enemy wasn’t enough, now she’d be branded a traitor, her years of holy work discarded as the labours of a madwoman. Worse, her opponents would use this to turn opinion against the Purge and Master.

Too difficult Mother, your humble servant begs for guidance.

Minutes after separating from her Aspirants, BoLao spotted movement in the shadows before her. Releasing her reins, she clenched her fist and turned to strike Falling Rain in the head, to kill this minion of the Father’s so well positioned to cause strife. One last act of defiance before killing herself, denying the enemy the satisfaction.

“Cousin!”

The familiar voice stayed her hand, filling her with something she’d all but abandoned: hope. Emerging from the trees, his face was barely visible in the dark. “Shui-Shui!” She exclaimed, immediately wincing at her gaffe. He was a grown man, with soldiers to command, even though there were only a handful here with him. She couldn’t keep calling him a child’s name in public, it was ill-mannered. “Sorry cousin, don’t be upset. Thank the Mother you’re here, you have to help me.”

“Of course, just don’t do anything rash.” Even in the shadows, she could pick out his handsome face, seeing the vestiges of the young boy she used to look after, an impish scamp who always found trouble. After Papa took him in as a disciple, they became a happy little family living together at the Bridge, the two of them more like siblings than cousins. Oh how she wished to return to those carefree days...

Eyes filled with concern, Shui rode up and took her hand. So warm, she’d forgotten how nice it was to be held. “Lucky for us they trusted me to block your escape. Leave Rain with my men and I’ll get you to safety, I swear it.”

Weary from her lengthy flight, his words brought tears to her eyes, gratified to know he still trusted her. “Shui, I need to keep Falling Rain as proof. He’s Defiled and a danger to the Empire.”

“Impossible.” Sending his men away with the unconscious apostate, Shui lead her through the forest, leaving only the two of them.

“He is, I felt his baleful Aura myself. If you let me-”

“No, you don’t understand.” Shaking his head, Shui looked her in the eye, his desperation plain to see. “I mean it’s impossible to keep him. Fung has a tracker attuned to his blood. I guess the Bekhai didn’t want to lose him again. It’s how we caught up so quickly. You shouldn’t have split your forces or laid all those false trails, we’d never have caught up if you’d ridden straight towards safety.”

“Then take me prisoner and bring us both to see Major Yuzhen.” Panic set in once more, the thought of failure unacceptable. “She’ll understand once Rain wakes. Laughing Dragon said Rain didn’t even know he was Defiled, which explains the disparity in his behaviour, but he knows now and he’s turned. So much rage and madness in him, it was terrifying to see.”

“Cousin, forget Falling Rain and forget the Empire. If he’s turned, let someone else deal with it. I’m here to save you.” Shui squeezed her hand, offering small comfort. “Major Yuzhen has laid charges of treason, says you’re working with the Defiled Laughing Dragon. It’s all nonsense of course, but she ordered us to kill you on sight. What’s more, she’s sent messengers to bring word of your actions to the cities. She’s decreed that anyone caught aiding you will share in your sentence. If you’re captured, you will undoubtedly be tortured to death before anyone can save you.” Offering a thin smile, he turned back to the forest. “I barely even trust my own men not to turn you in, Rain’s betrothed offered a hefty reward for your head. Bloodthirsty little girl, that one.”

“What about my Aspirants?”

