“I'm going to force you to regrow something that's not supposed to regrow. It's going to hurt a lot more than that.”

“So, you don't lie.” Drikon said.

“No point in that, sir.” Ren said. “If you tell the truth all the time, you don't have to remember all the lies you told or have to keep track of who you told them to.”

“Ha!” Drikon barked a laugh. “Good point.” He said and braced himself. “Do it.”

Ren nodded slightly and held the hand steady, then cast Full Regeneration on him and his whole body glowed for a moment.

“AGH!” Drikon yelled as everything that was wrong with him reformed instantly and healed at once. “Goddammit!”

“I told you.” Ren said and let the hand go.

“You hurt our father!” Several of the men at the table said and drew their swords.

“How do you feel?” Ren asked and ignored the unnecessarily angry children.

“I'm sore all over.” Drikon said and used his reformed hand to rub the scratches on his chest that were no longer there. “I can still feel the wounds.”

“It's regenerated, so it will be sore for a day or two.” Ren said. “It's new growth and your body has to adjust to it.”

“It feels weird.” Drikon said and looked at his hand that used to be missing a finger. “Looks weird, too.”

“You already accepted having the wound, so adjusting back to not having it will take a while.” Ren said with a smile.

Duyu reached out and took her husband's hand and felt the regrown finger. “It's real.” She said in wonder. “There wasn't enough skin to cover the hole where the missing finger was, and I wasn't sure how I was going to sew it closed; and yet, you have the whole finger back now like it wasn't missing at all.”

“What spell was that?” Dilseffa asked.

“Full Regeneration.” Ren said, and her mouth dropped open in shock.

“But... but...”

“Yeah, I know. It doesn't exist officially.” Ren smiled. “I created it.”

“You... created... a spell.” Dilseffa said in disbelief, despite just seeing the evidence.

“I've been combining spells for a long time and only recently discovered how to edit them myself.” Ren said.

“Who are you and why are you here?” Drikon asked as his wife carefully pawed at his previous wounds that no longer existed. Even ones he'd had for years were now nothing more than a memory.

“He's my Inamorato.” Dilseffa said, confidently.

“Is he, now.” Drikon said. “I don't remember approving it.”

“It's already done, dad.” Dilseffa said and pulled her bodysuit down to show off the dire wolf mark above her heart. Drikon saw the same mark on the back of Ren's left hand, and he automatically looked at the right hand.

“What's the skull one for?” Drikon asked.

“It's the Ghoul Kissed mark.” Ren said, and everyone gasped.

“You've been infected by a ghoul and lived?” Duyu asked, surprised.

“No. I claimed the mark as my own to save people that were.” Ren said.

“A noble sacrifice?” Doth, the eldest brother asked.

“No, they were going to be killed and I stepped in to stop it.” Ren said. “When I touched the mark, I had the option to claim it, and them, to make them a part of my domain.”

“Just noble, then.” Drikon said. “Sit down Adventurer, and tell me the tale of how you stole my daughter from having a future husband.”

“I didn't actually steal her, and she can still get married.” Ren said as he sat down. “That was the first restriction I lifted when she accepted the position and became my Mistress.”

“You lifted...” Duyu started to say and her husband held up a hand to stop her.

“Continue.” Drikon said, and Ren started to tell him the story.
