“To harvest the grain, you must grow and cut the wheat, my child. Fertilising the soil is not a pleasant task, but the farmer knows that it must be done. Take joy in this. Soon you will not be priestess of Knowledge but a priestess of God. Your experience in the other world will be invaluable in the days to come. You can help make the transition more peaceful. You can help rule when it is done.”

“Rule?” Gabrielle rose to her feet. “Goddess, I am a priestess of Knowledge. Not of Deception or Conquest or Dominion. Not of God. I… tell me that this is wrong. That I don’t understand.”

“You understand, child. You simply fail to hold the right perspective. I knew you would not accept, the moment you returned to this world. The doubt inside you. The fear. You need to change the way you see things, and then you can find the joy in it. I am going to be more than what I am.”

“I LOVE WHAT YOU ARE ALREADY!” Gabrielle screamed, tears pouring down her face. “You don’t have to be more! What is wrong with knowledge? With learning and wisdom? Why is that not enough?”

“You do not understand the limitations upon me. For all your powerlessness, mortals are free in ways that gods are not. You do not see the chains upon me. I am one of many, child. And one day, I will die, despite the supposed immortality of gods. Becoming the one true god of Earth is the first step. The next will be finding a way to transcend one world, one universe, to be something greater.”

Gabrielle floated back, shaking her head.

“This isn’t you. Something happened to you. Were you replaced, like Purity?”

Knowledge turned to Lucella.

“I knew it would be hopeless, but I had to try. She was one of my beloved children, once.”

A cube emerged from Gabrielle’s chest and vanished into Knowledge’s outstretched, hand. Gabrielle immediately had a seizure, foaming at the mouth as she flailed helplessly in the air. Travis rushed out of Onslow’s shell on a hover platform and grabbed her.

“Lucella,” Knowledge commanded. “Take them away.”

“No,” Jason said. “Send them to the Storm Kingdom with the others. You’ve taken what was yours from her, and broken what mattered to her most. She’s neither asset nor threat to you.”

“My priestess already explained that you do not dictate terms here, Jason Asano. You know that—”

Knowledge looked up as another dimensional vessel appeared in the sky. This one was larger than Jason’s, looking like a massive industrial ship forged of dark, crude metal. Her lips pressed together in distaste as figures with diamond-rank auras came pouring out.
