Mila reached out to grab Pran's horn and tossed him aside like a wet blanket. Kicking out, her boot slammed into Saluk's gut and the half-bull soldier collapsed to the ground. Around her, nine half-beasts lay about, beaten and subdued by her in less than a minute. Sighing dramatically for effect, she fought the urge to grin, doing her best impression of Mama, standing tall and aloof with a sneer on her face. “Pitiful. Again.” Since Rain's disappearance, she bruised and abused the soldiers, pushing them to become stronger through spars and field-exercises. After all, if they'd been more competent, then perhaps this mess wouldn't have cropped up in the first place.

Her stress building from inactivity and worry, sparring with the half-beast soldiers was also a great way to decompress. They were more durable than the human soldiers and she disliked watching them flounder in spite of their natural gifts. With still no word from Rain despite Gerel combing the area for him, she continued to imagine worst case scenarios, such as Rain stranded on an island, slowly starving to death, or being tortured and beaten by bandits, or worse, holed up with some woman somewhere, having forgotten about everyone who cares for him.

That last scenario was unlikely, but still she worried. Lin was no help at all, Mila's cheerful and mischievous best friend having been replaced by a mopey, weepy little girl, unable to cope without her 'hubby'. Honestly, no good came from their association with Rain, an endless source of misfortune and heartache. All the kisses in the world were hardly worth the distress and she refused to go through this again. When he returned, she'd keep him on a shorter leash, no more free rein for him to run about. Perhaps she should see about obtaining a field-command and have Rain attached to her cadre. After all, she had her own dreams of greatness; she wouldn't follow him about like an obedient quin.

Lost in her thoughts, she almost overlooked the fist flying towards her face, reacting on instinct. A cross-counter smashed into Saluk's jaw and a loose tooth sailed through the air as he collapsed like a puppet without its strings. Cursing herself for her distraction, she carefully elbowed another soldier in the sternum. “You're too fragile, too weak. Out of sixty-seven, you nine are the only half-beasts, and I pity you.” Backhanding her next attacker aside, she tackled another soldier and body-slammed him to the ground. “Each born with prodigious strength and all the Mother's gifts laid before you, but you make use of none of it.” Her fist jabbed lightly into Pran's throat and she grabbed his belt and shoulder, tossing him into two soldiers. “You've no talents, wholly unimpressive and exceedingly mediocre.” The last two soldiers fell to her strikes, and once again all nine lay strewn about, groaning in pain. “And mediocrity is a heavy burden to bear. Without talent, all you can do is work harder. Remember, the Forms are flexible guidelines, and not rigid rules to follow. Experiment and test yourselves while it is still safe to do so, pain a better teacher than death. Rest, heal, and meditate we begin again in twenty minutes.”

As the half-beast group staggered off and the next group arrived for their beating, Mila resumed her teachings, brutally scattering them before her like a flock of startled pigeons. There were no uncut gems among these soldiers, their only advantage being the healing method Rain imparted to each of them, so there was nothing to do but continue pushing them to succeed. Off to the side, Tursinai stood watch while the former sentinels practiced the same healing method with Lin instructing them, but her heart wasn't in it, the poor thing.

Even Rustram, the best of them all, was failing Mila's expectations. She thought to groom him well, as without herself and Song, Rain would only have Rustram left to watch his back. So far, he was more burden than shield, still using his rapier like a club, unwieldy and clumsy. He didn't understand the Forms, none of the former soldiers did, their routines and patterns from the army drilled into their bones. The army trained soldiers well, but good soldiers made piss-poor warriors. They lacked heart and determination, their aspirations and individuality beaten out of them, meaning her only option was to toss them into the furnace and continue to hammer away at them, hoping to reforge them and praying they hold together beneath the stress.

After hours of arduous training, the sun dipped below the horizon and Mila called for a stop. Sweating profusely from the work, she found Lin and Song and took each by the hand, leading the way to the bath-houses. Under the protection of three Warrant Officers, the sleepy little village had transformed into a burgeoning township, with new buildings going up each day as the villagers settled in. Huu helped with the labour, his sparse knowledge of carpentry a great help in setting up defensible homes, following the guidelines set by Rustram. The man was hopeless in combat, but his administrative and bargaining skills were top-notch, organizing the town into several districts for ease of living. Many of the unwed village women had set him as their target, swarming him with offers of food and company as he returned from the training fields. A shame he couldn't stay and live a comfortable life as a town mayor, but Mama would never allow it, not while he had knowledge of Rain's healing method.

After their bath, they shared a quiet dinner outside her tent, eating in silence while the quins and kittens milled about, begging for scraps. Their guards ate with them, Lin's four sitting silently while Tenjin and Tursinai flirted about. Mila was still upset Tursinai hadn't taken steps to protect Rain, but it wasn't wholly her fault; she was only one person guarding two people, as Rain had convinced Tenjin to separate from them and oversee the beach defences. Then again, if not for his presence there, the villagers wouldn't have stood firm and precious time would have been lost. Stupid Rain and his stupid strategies, why didn't he get stronger and overwhelm his enemies with pure force? Why did he have to be so scatter-brained? How someone could be so smart and so foolish at the same time was a mystery.

Mother knows where he was, perhaps stranded on an island devoid of food and shelter. How would he return? The lake currents were a mystery to most villagers, the Butcher Bay Bandits working hard to keep it secret. The only boats that travelled the lake belonged to them, fisher-folk and divers keeping to the calm, sheltered bays. What if he'd been horrifically injured and lacked sustenance to heal properly? Or he suffered a head injury and lost all memory? It'd happened to him once before and she'd heard stories of it happening to other warriors. Maybe that's why he wasn't coming back, he couldn't remember who he was. What would he do? Waking up in a strange place, lost and alone, how would he proceed from there?

He was always good at making friends, his lack of pretenses and filthy jokes endearing him to a certain crowd. Even all of his soldiers fit the type, low brow, brutish, near-criminal personalities like Ravil and Bulat. Rain would fit right in with most bandits, likely taking a stupid thuggish name for himself like Crusher or Mad Dog. The thought of him pillaging and extorting villagers with that stupid leer on his face was enough to drive her to madness. Who knows what horrid schemes he would concoct to exploit those poor people. Repressing a sigh, Mila shook her head to clear her mind. This was why she kept busy all the time. How did Papa stay so calm with Mama out campaigning and defending the People all the time? Is this what it was like for him?

Lin's sad sigh interrupted her forlorn musings. Staring up at the starry sky, little Lin looked so wistful and charming, tiny tears welling in her eyes. “Do you think Rainy is also looking at the moon? Is he thinking about us, like we're thinking about him? I hope he's safe...”

“Silly girl.” Forcing herself to smile, she wrapped her arms around Lin. “What happened to the sweet, happy-go-lucky girl I grew up with? You can't have been like this the entire time we were separated, now were you? Enough moping, we have his sword, we know he's alive. Have faith, he will return.”

“It's not the same Mi-Mi. I can't be strong like you, I need him here.” Sniffling, Lin snuggled into her embrace. “Ever since I was a little girl, I knew I wanted to marry him and he finally agreed to after all this time. We were supposed to be together forever after that, but he's already missing...”

“Hmph.” With a snort, Lin's guard interrupted their chat, speaking with a lilting, soft voice, a woman, judging by the sound. “Foolish child. You've been betrothed for little over two months and already you've been reduced to a snivelling mess. Worthless brat, what will you do after that idiot Rain dies?”

“Shut your mouth!” Mila's fury consumed her, and if not for Lin grasping her tightly, she would have charged the insolent guard. “How dare you speak like this?” No wonder they kept their mouths shut the entire time, they had no manners at all.

The guard tilted her head like a questioning child, her face hidden behind her veil. “Why would I not dare? He's nothing but a mere human, short-lived and stupid.”

Where Taduk had found such arrogant and mysterious guards was unknown, but Mama didn't bother to pry, so neither did Mila. “Rain is a rising dragon, his name fated to spread across the Empire. The youngest Warrant Officer in a thousand years, a brilliant duelist, tactician, physician, and herbalist. An Awakened Warrior and soon-to-be a renowned healer, his star rises meteorically by the day.” Looking down her nose at the guard, she sneered. “What accomplishments have you to brag of, nameless guard?”

Contrary to her expectations, the guard merely shrugged easily, showing no anger. “Oh, I admit, he's impressive for a little foundling, but what of it? Not even twenty years of age and one cannot count the times he's come close to death. The brightest candles burn the fastest, such is the way of the world. Even if he survives to a ripe old age, which is unlikely, you and Lin will still be young and fresh-faced when burning his corpse. See how distraught you both are with only few weeks of separation? In the end, you'll only spend a fraction of your life at his side. Is it worth all the heartache? ”

The harsh declaration struck her like a hammer and she choked back her tears of fury. A scathing retort on her lips, she readied to fly into a rage when Lin's hand covered Mila's lips. “Don't Mi-Mi. Let it be, ignore her. Let's go to bed.” Tugging at her arm, Lin tried to pull her away as Mila glared at the insolent bitch, who sat easily at the fire, legs crossed and hands folded as if without a care in the world.

Tursinai and Tenjin appeared next to Mila, their hands restraining her as they pushed her back. Tursinai's voice sounded in her mind. “Easy little Mila. Mere words. Ask Baatar if he regrets marrying Sarnai, or Alsantset marrying Charok. No sense in fighting amongst ourselves.” The entire time she spoke, Tursinai backed away from the guard, her eyes never leaving the relaxed mysterious warrior. Mila swallowed her anger and turned away, disappearing into Rain's tent with Lin and Song.

Irritated and vexed, Mila pouted as Lin and Song brought two more beds into the tent, Lin cheerfully chattering about having a sleepover. Her lighthearted act confused Mila, but she let it lie, knowing there were things she couldn't ask and Lin couldn't speak of. The guard was probably some decrepit warrior who owed Taduk a favour, sour over her own losses in life. Bitter old hag, how dare she speak of Rain like that? So what if he wouldn't live as long? Mila still wanted to marry him. Should she throw away her feelings because Rain might die? What sort of life would that be? Everyone dies, but a flower cannot blossom without sunshine, just as a person cannot live without love.

She should have used that as her retort, but anger clouded her mind. Fuming, she replayed the argument over and over in her head, winning with wit and tact and putting that guard in her place, a childish act but one that calmed her anger. Snuggling between Lin and Song, Aurie and the she-cat soon joined them, the three cots comfortably packed. Burying her face in Aurie's fur, she hid her tears and silently cried herself to sleep. Please Rain, return soon. Everything is forgiven, so long as you survive whole and intact.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Blinking lazily, he stretched and yawned, glancing over at Qing-Qing's sleeping form. The hut was still dark, his blindfold unneeded, her body outlined in the gloom as his mind filled in the details. She was so warm and kind, he reminisced of the touch of her hands as it stroked his face, her nervous smile as she fed him soup, her titter and snort as she laughed. He'd never been cared for by someone like that, tender and gentle. Mila was always so rough and brusque, while Lin preferred to be cared for, spoiled by brother.

Although they were two sides of the same coin, he was growing more resentful of their positions. Brother was in charge, the Outer Rain, and everything was done according to his will. That left precious little for himself, only now realizing it once their roles had switched. So many minor things he'd forgotten about, like eating real food and interacting with people, feeling cold or warm, or smelling the pleasant scent of incense. Why was brother the only one to enjoy all the niceties of life?

