Closing his eyes, he focused his mind and sought out his inner sanctuary. It took a great effort to reach it, calming his mind enough to slip in. Brother always made it look so easy, entering with the blink of an eye, yet another stark difference between them. The door to their bedroom was still ajar, brother's astral form suspended in the void within as the spectres floated about his body. Pacing back and forth, he watched brother and tested the entrance, an unseen force keeping him out. Not like a wall, his hand easily passed through the doorway, but once inside, he would inevitably be turned about, standing outside the door with no idea how he arrived there. The spectres moved the same way around brother's body, guided by an unseen force in meandering paths, unable to touch claw or tooth to skin. So long as this continued, brother would be safe, but it seemed to take all his efforts, unable to wake. He wanted to help brother, but after countless efforts, he gave up and opened his eyes, laying in the darkness and muttering of his impotence.

While checking on brother, Qing-Qing had awoken and was bustling about the hut in preparation. Greeting her cordially, he grimaced to himself as she cringed in reply, eyes fastened to the floor as she hurried over, bowl and spoon in hand. “Apologies great warrior, this lowly one could only scrounge up more clams. Please have mercy.”

“It's fine. Delicious, really.” Choking down the slimy, chewy flesh, he sipped at the pungent soup, bitter with the taste of the sea. This village was more rustic than expected, unable to make simple change for a gold bar. Worth only a measly hundred silvers, the total monthly income of the village would not exceed five, meaning brother had stored a hundred months of their profit in a single boot. With greed such a powerful force, Qing-Qing feared to display the gold and was too weak to make the trip to a larger village, so they continued to dine on what she scavenged. Brother would have come up with some clever solution to fix all their problems, unlike his useless self who only ever made things worse. Like in the duel. Why did he open his mouth and say those foul things? The stories had spread and now Qing-Qing was terrified of him. Courtesy truly cost nothing and he would think twice before speaking publicly again. Better to keep your intentions hidden anyways.

Her hands trembled as she fed him, much of the soup falling back into the bowl as she tried to spoon it into his mouth from as far away as possible. No more gentle touches or shy smiles, for days she only quivered and cried in his presence. When his meal was done, he grabbed her wrist before she fled. “I'd like a word with you before you go.”

The terror in her eyes was visible even through his blindfold. “Y-Yes great warrior.”

“You've never travelled outside the village, but surely you know the surroundings. Is there any place you can turn to for aid? Even bandits are fine, so long as they oppose Butcher Bay. Pay them the fifty gold upfront and offer more upon arrival.”

“Impossible great warrior. None of the gangs would dare opposed the Spectre. Not only is he impossible to capture, his net spreads wide, with ties to every group. A reward like the one you offer would reach his ears and bring his people down upon us. No one travels the lake without his knowledge and tacit approval, no one. Even by foot we must take care not to draw attention.”

“Tch. Fuck, I don't know how you people survive... why even live here? This place is a shit hole.”

Her voice hardened at his declaration, showing the fire that burned within her. “This is a sacred place, great warrior. There is work nearby in the Golden Highlands and Treasure Lake, and with luck, one might find valuable heavenly treasures or rich deposits. You can even find nuggets of precious metals in the streams if you search hard enough. Although we are closer to PingYao to the south, we rely on Sanshu City for our living. Their merchants visit once a year to trade for any treasures or rumours of the mystical Waters of Restoration. The person who stumbles across them would find their name echoed throughout eternity.” Her eyes shone as she spoke, her fear forgotten in her excitement.

“Waters of Restoration?”

“Until I learned... who you were... I thought you'd found them yourself, which was why I wanted to know about your route.”

He needed a new name, at least until he was safe. She called him great warrior, and he rather liked the moniker. “Call me Baledagh for now. Accustom yourself to saying it so you do not mistakenly give out my name in company. A former bandit with the... Freebooters.” The name meant warrior in the language of the People, that would do nicely for now, and if his companions heard the name, perhaps they'd come searching for him.

After repeating the name a few times, she continued her tale. “For millennia, stories have been told of the healing waters of Sanshu Grove. People travel from all around the Empire to bathe in the streams and pray to the Mother for healing. The three sacred trees are said to have been nourished by Her tears and the guardian turtle of PingYao is rumoured to have drank a single drop in her infancy, resulting in her massive growth and power, guarding the city for centuries.”

Gold flowing in rivers, healing waters, and now giant guardian turtles. Qing-Qing was so adorably naive, he wanted to embrace her and protect her from all who would take advantage. “I guess that's why there are so many bandits here, they started as treasure seekers and turned to banditry after finding nothing of value.”

Seeing his skepticism, her mouth twisted in a frown, upset he didn't believe her. “It's true Baledagh, there must be some Heavenly Water flowing about. Countless ancient beasts and heavenly ores have been nourished by the lakes which is why they're named so. Eastern Prosperity, Western Treasures, and Southern Bounty, the amount of wealth found laying in their depths is staggering.”

“Wealth, what wealth? If you ever found anything of true value, you'd be killed in a heartbeat. Strength is all that matters, the power to take what you will and kill any who say otherwise.”

She grew quiet at his declaration, her eyes welling up. After a long silence, she whispered, “My father was a simple physician who lived quietly in this village, helping anyone who needed it no matter if they could pay. He was good at his work, and although he was no healer, he fixed injuries with nothing more than herbs and tools.” Her voice caught in her throat, but she pushed through, her head bowed as tears dripped from her face. “When I was ten years old, bandits came for him. They'd heard of his skills and their boss was grievously injured, so they brought him away. After two weeks, they returned with his head on a stick, waving it about as they raped my mother and tortured my little brother to death in front of the village. Retribution, they called it, for my father's failure. I only escaped because I was out playing with friends, the bandits lacking knowledge of my existence. Perhaps you're right, strength is all that matters, but I detest that sort of thinking the most.” Kowtowing before him, she kept her face pressed in the dirt. “Is there anything else you need of me, Baledagh?”

Sheepishly sending her away, he wallowed in self-pity at having screwed things up again. Lamenting his choice of words, he settled back in his bed and closed his eyes, his mind working endlessly for some method to win her over. It would be nice to have a wife of his own, as Mila, Lin, and Yan all loved brother, with little left for himself. What was life without love? Ah Qing-Qing, perhaps you detest me now, but he would not stop until she was his. If only he hadn't given his word. Take her by force now and love would grow in time. All women loved powerful men, despite her words otherwise, but perhaps it was better this way. As brother loved to quip, joyful bride, joyful existence.

It didn't roll off the tongue, but the words were poignant, wise beyond his years. How brother knew so many things was the real mystery. Drifting off to sleep, he dreamt of a joyous wedding between Baledagh and Ai Qing. Brother deserved a rest, and so what if he used the time to find a wife? Brother already had two with a third all but promised. One more couldn't hurt.

Chapter Meme
