Something in the leyline flickered. It felt a connection brush against its core, not great enough to form a permanent tether but enough for a whisper of Dark intent to enter its soul. It guided that intent to the spell loaded in its [Grappling] mechanism, and yet as the spell began to take shape, it realized something.

This couldn’t work the way it had planned. It couldn’t sacrifice a simple [Pebbleblast] to the Dark and create a spell strong enough to pull Sisyphus back. The spell it imbued had to be a spell that was an integral part of its core.

Syphus thought back to the lessons it had learned in the Bitter Path. There was power in symbolic meaning. If it was to mark one of its spells with Darkness, losing all the advantages that spell’s connection with the Gift offered, it had to be a spell with meaning.

For that, only one spell sufficed, and so it drew that fragment of the Dark to [Advanced Spellfist Arts], instead.

It hurt. The spell was integrated thoroughly with the Gift, and the Gift was integrated thoroughly with its core. It didn’t have Sisyphus’s power to soothe the paradox, so the spell was ripped away from the clutches of the Gift and forced into a different part of its core.

But now power was roaring through its form. The stone of its transformed arm darkened to near-black, but the raw, empowered magic it contained visibly distorted the air around it.

Syphus aimed at Sisyphus, its creator and father, and fired a spell.

What emerged from the cannon, however, was not a spell it had in its repertoire. It was more like a ghostly image of itself that soared through the air and grabbed hold of Sisyphus, who let out a startled yelp. Then it engaged the Reel, drawing Sisyphus back, fighting against the currents and the forces of the universe that demanded the Named serve his sentence.

Cale did something, then. Syphus didn’t know what he did, but there was another expression of mana that seemed almost like it briefly isolated them from the rest of the Great Realms. Sisyphus snapped abruptly back to Syphus, long enough to re-establish their fading bond.

What spell did you cast? Sisyphus asked, incredulous. I was expecting you to stab me with a hook, not hug me.

Well, that was just silly. Why would it stab Sisyphus with a hook?

We both know you would’ve stabbed me with a hook, Sisyphus said.

That was patently ridiculous. Syphus had no idea what Sisyphus was talking about.

Cale asked the same question moments later, though he was less convinced that Syphus had fully intended to stab Sisyphus. He was more interested in what sort of magic Syphus had used.

The only problem was that Syphus had absolutely no clue. It had simply reached for the first spell that came to mind. When it admitted this, both Cale and Sisyphus—probably justifiably—scolded it for being too reckless with how it cast about its magic.

Syphus was fine with that. It was far too pleased with itself to be upset about their rambling.

It was probably going to have to figure out how to change back at some point, though. Its new spiky boulder form, as dark and terrible as it was, was probably too intimidating for most of the other students at Brightscale.
