“ARRHH!” Charles yelled, then an Obscuring Mist covered the space between them. “I said you aren't getting away!” Charles said, clenched his fist, and cast Gust of Wind when he opened his fingers. He directed it to where Ren had stood, and the Obscuring Mist was blown 60 feet down the street to the extent of the spell, and it dispersed. He saw Ren was farther away, but in the same fighting pose, and ran closer.

“Take this! And this!” Charles said, and cast Lightning Bolt twice. The tower shield made of Mana appeared in front of Ren both times, and the Lightning destroyed them. “Stop defending!”

“You're not killing me!” Ren said again.

Charles was enraged and ran forward to engage in hand to hand, and another Obscuring Mist covered Ren.

“Dammit!” Charles yelled, waited for a moment, and cast Gust of Wind again.

*

Do you think he's getting low on Mana yet? Ren thought to Teepo.

“I'd say so.” Teepo said. “Cast them again, just in case.”

Ren cast Ghost Image, Magic Mouth, and Shield just past where the Obscuring Mist was. Ren had cast the spells from his safe perch, which was on top of one of the one storey buildings at the end of the street.

He still thinks its really me. Ren thought in amusement as he shot Grease onto the ground right in front of his perch, and cast ghost image of a clean street on top of it. He's gonna love this. He thought as the Obscuring Mist was blown away again.

*

“You're not killing me!” Ghost Image Ren said. Charles bellowed angrily, brandished his sword, and ran towards Ren. Charles had used up nearly all of his Mana casting those spells, and was left with just pummeling the idiot until he agreed to let the scenario play out like it was supposed to, or died.

Whichever came first.

*

Charles hit the hidden grease spot and his feet flew out from underneath him. He flipped backwards uncontrollably, and slammed into the ground. His head and shoulders hit the street and it knocked the wind out of him. Despite his enormous Strength, and the Durability and enchantments on his armor, he still took quite a bit of damage from the fall. He had been dazed, and dropped his sword somewhere. When he tried to roll over to see where it was, he stopped and stared as a 5 inch long tarantula landed on his chest and crawled up to stand on his chin.

“You know, I'm getting really tired of you guys coming in here after me.” Ren said and put his foot on the guy's chest. “What happened to just sending me a text message? Or explaining what was happening? Or even just asking me to listen?” He asked, and put some of his weight on Charles as the spider crawled over Charles' face. “You think you can do what you want to me, and nothing's going to happen to you?”

Charles couldn't catch his breath because he didn't want to scare the spider, then Ren leaned more of his weight on him and cut off his breath completely. He heard the metal of his chest plate groan, but it didn't break.

“I figured I'd have crushed your chest by now.” Ren said, and used Enchanted Eyes. “Ah, I see.” He took his foot off of the guy's chest and he heard a large drawn in breath. Ren touched the armor and used his Retain Essence skill. It absorbed the enchantment on the armor, and Ren saw a small window appear under his Mana Pool that said he had an Essence to transfer.

“That's better.” Ren said and put his foot back on the guy's chest. The armor, no longer enchanted, was now only plain iron with a high Durability. He smiled as his foot went right into the metal as if it wasn't there. Charles grabbed the foot and tried to stop it before it crushed the metal into his chest. Even though he'd put nearly all of his available stat points into Strength, he was having no success in stopping the foot's progress. The tarantula on his forehead wasn't helping things, either.

“It's not my fault you messed things up.” Ren said. “Why did you put access to special content in the game, when you don't want people to access it?” He shook his head and looked at Charles. “It's not like you didn't know I was in the dwarf lands.” He said. “I've been there for months. I would have seen or heard about attacks on the Garrison.” He stopped talking, and then smiled. “Boy, I bet you wish your buddies in the tech department had installed the logout protocol on PVP.”

“Please... don't...”

Ren chuckled. “You were going to kill me, just so you could alter the storyline, or fix the storyline, or whatever... and you want me to not kill you now?”

Charles nodded, and Ren leaned on him more. Charles' Health dropped steadily as he bled.

“You do realize that in PVP, one of us has to die, right?”

Charles nodded again.

“You want me to spare you and then let you kill me?” Ren asked, incredulous. “I knew you were stupid for starting this with me, and without set conditions; but, you are really god-damned flipping stupid!”

“Would have been... quick... if not for... Mana shield.” Charles sputtered.

“Yeah, you're definitely stupid.” Ren laughed. “I hope you have lots of loot!” He said, and pushed his foot to the ground.
