Demonic Noble Wyverns are falling from the sky.

Some fall straight into the sea of corruption.

Others are skewered by the edges of sharp citadel parts.

Over half even fall down onto the battlefield between Arie, Raven, and the Demonic Berserkers.

The first collision of energy between this final wall is Raven jumping out from her pocket dimension and slashing through the bright red and purple flesh of one of the old Scarlet Clan's members, turned into an undead Demonic Slave.

Unlike the 2nd and 1st Class Orcs, Ogres, and Cyclopses she was fighting moments ago, the monster she tries killing was already capable of fighting near the level of a Noble Demon before it died.

The demonic energy and Vibrations surging through it multiply its strength much higher.

Instead of being sliced to pieces, all that remains is a deep gash in its side.

Raven disappears into a stealth veil as its keen senses pick up where she's attacked from, and it swings its sword down toward her.

She reappears near the Scarlet Berserker's neck and slices through it again.

Roars come out from the monster as it grows more enraged, and flickers of its past life as a true berserker push its instincts to attack once more and not back down.

Yet, the natural ability to grow stronger after every injury does not translate to its current form. The dense waves of Demonic Energy and Noble Vibrations strengthening it have saturated it to its limit. It makes the reincarnated version of this Berserker Giant far stronger than it would have ever been in its past life, with its own mind, but has taken away the ability for it to improve.

Raven, on the other hand, is getting stronger with every passing second, flying around the monster with her two white swords that vibrate and react in strange ways with this familiar scarlet aura.

The very aura these relic-class soul weapons were created with.

Arie runs into a similar problem. The first full-powered arrow he sends toward a wall of Obsidian Clan Berserkers does not slice through dozens of them in an instant like the enemies he was fighting before.

In fact, his first shot is deflected without landing a single kill.

It shatters one of these massive black berserker's soul weapons and blows off its arm, but the demonic beast is not fazed.

It continues to run forward, even as Arie sends his next arrow its way.

Both of their Vibrations are very similar.

Dense, black, sharp, and deadly. They have very different twists to them, but something about the Obsidian Clan and the dark elf's leftover resonance in Arie's bow remember each other from the past.

These energy sources were never meant to touch each other again, yet here they are.

Arie pushes this sense of familiarity to the back of his mind and lets another arrow ride.

The berserker without a weapon doesn't back down. It still runs forward with no fear, with only pure intent to kill the threat. This lands it an arrow straight to the chest.

The monster's demonic energy-infested core cracks but doesn't shatter all the way. It's held together by its mutated aura.

Arie lets a third arrow fly, splitting his last shot in half and breaking through the weak point in this monster's core. It explodes in a massive burst of white, purple, and black light, making a deep crater in the ground and even blowing away half a dozen berserkers behind it back a few hundred kilometers.

Raven manages to stab the Scarlet Clan berserker she's fighting with both of her blades deep into its infected core, then dipping away into a stealth dimension while it explodes.

Neither of them look back, and surge forward toward their next opponents.

Yet, a brand new notification pops up in their minds after this kill:

[Target Level High Enough to Activate Experience Share][i][Select User][i][YES] [NO]

The details flash through both of their minds, outlining that if the user kills an opponent of higher level than both themselves and one of their generals or the rising emperor himself, the user of this buff may split the leveling experience equally.

Meaning, they will gain half as much from each kill, but others can grow stronger without even having to be on the battlefield.

Deep in the consciousness of every general, spectate feeds for everyone's fights are showing. There is only one person that appears to not have the upper hand.

Both Raven and Arie choose [Jay Soju] as an option in their select menu without thinking twice, and both send full-powered attacks forward at the next berserkers in their way. A few hundred level-up notifications ring in their inner ears once it's accepted.

––

Outside the Grand Citadel, there is a Scarlet Clan Berserker that has still not lost the ability to grow stronger.

In the last few seconds, its pride as a warrior has been restored, killing four Noble Grade Demons with ease after his loss against a Noble back in Ellipsia.

Now, with a Freedom Avatar and his ancestor's Vibrations unleashed, he faces one of the elite commanders of Morvale's old army, left behind to guard the Grand Citadel while the Vermillion Family slowly built their own forces up over time.

Yet, this commander has to activate the gift his family head bestowed upon him after watching the knights under his command all be killed without even a chance of fighting back.

The cyan-colored M on the base of his horn glows brightly and pulses once, rippling through his entire greater form.

The M fades away, but covering his body, a shimmering cyan barrier forms.

Quite similar to the purple ring the Rising Emperor wears, but this one glimmers with a white-hot celestial light as well..

When Zashen lands two direct hits on this Demon's neck and chest with his blades, the expected instant kill does not occur. Instead, it feels as though he's slamming against an impenetrable wall. The glistening white and cyan energy is denser than almost everything in the green zone of the upper realm.

The satisfying slicing through flesh that would finish this movement never comes, yet Zashen is still able to follow through with his attack, and his momentum is not halted.

He may be hitting a barrier impossible to break, but it is not rooted in space.

In fact, when the Demon is sent flying upward, the visual of his arms and legs frozen in space makes the Scarlet Berserker laugh extremely loud while racing upward to slam it across the chest with his blades again.

"You coward! To place yourself in a prison until help arrives instead of facing me like a warrior! I thought you said Berserkers were nothing but Lower Races to you? What is this?!"

The Demon is sent flying even further up into the air.

His eyes twitch beneath the cyan barrier, and he can hear this berserker's taunts as clear as day.

They make the proud Demon's stomach drop and heart ache. This may be a life-saving technique, to create an impenetrable barrier that beings of lower zones cannot break, but it is meant to be used in large-scale battles when there is an opponent you cannot defeat, but an ally can when they arrive.

The user may be trapped in an unbreakable prison that does not allow movement until it's lifted, but no physical attacks can penetrate it.

Massive streaks of scarlet light, paired with the occasional cyan and blue glow, fill the sky as Zashen grins wider and wider; like a cat that has cornered its mouse and is just waiting for the perfect time to strike.

His hot red blades bash against the outer layers of this cowardly prison over and over.

At first aiming for its core and neck, hoping to break through as a weak spot, but eventually coming down to slamming his blades against every single layer of the barrier. The Demon's legs, arms, eyes, back, horns, even the layering around its soul sword.

Zashen slashes relentlessly at everything.

Thousands of attacks per second are thrown. There is no visible progress at all. The barrier looks completely identical to the instant it was summoned.

Yet, this is exactly what a Berserker loves about the essence of battle. No possible chance of victory in sight, yet a clear goal, one that must be met by rage, persistence, and a sprinkle of insanity.

The terror in the Demon's eyes inside its self-made prison is another driving factor of the monster's pursuit into the sky.

Zashen's aura grows hotter and hotter, staining the sky a darker and darker shade of scarlet.

His greater form expands by over a kilometer every second as his intent and goal grow with every slash.

Even the final words of this Demon, that called him a true descendant of the Scarlet Clan,this echoes in the back of Zashen's hardly conscious mind and fills him with even more belief and confidence.

The Demon's face is full of confusion, terror, and fear—mostly at the thought of reporting this battle to his family head, at the fact that he lost four knights to a single Berserker...

Yet, it begins to twist with an even more horrified emotion once it begins feeling heat seeping through the barrier as a whole. It is not any one point that has been weakened, it's the entirety of the structure, being struck over and over relentlessly with Vibrations close to that of a High Noble.

What is happening shouldn't be possible. Yet, even this change in expression dooms the Demon even more. Zashen realizes what he is doing is working, and it only makes the red light around him surge larger, blasting them off higher and higher into the air.

The Demon is spinning so fast from the countless hits, and the Grand Citadel disappears from either of their visions below.

–

They even leave behind the only other Morvale Demon that is occupied with his own battle above the Grand Citadel.

It is on equal fighting terms with Ava, the Goblin Queen.

Their hammers strike against each other again and again, yet neither backs down or lands a solid blow on the other.

They clash over and over in the sky, sending shockwaves down into the dome and outward into the rest of the green zone.

"What are you doing protecting an elf...? I can smell that creature all over you! They even taught you their path? A Goblin? What happened while we were asleep? The Lower Races are being allowed to roam free far too much up here!"

The Demon yells out, completely baffled by the strength of a Lower Race, and senses the inheritance left behind in Ava's soul as well. This is the first time she's hearing of the concept of a path, so she only assumes this Demon is talking about the fact that she is protecting Ren below her.

She doesn't reply, in order to stay focused while swinging her next hammer hit upward to block, and a loud echoing twang ripples through the air.

At the same time, the air pressure shifts, and both the Demon and this goblin open their eyes wide at the strange sensation vibrating through them.

It comes from far below, under countless barriers of suppression, down at the center of the Grand Citadel.

Something horrific is awakening.

A force that just by merely existing has started to exert dominance on the entire green zone of the Upper Realm.

The Demon that bounces backward from their clash smiles and laughs.

"There he is... My concerns were for nothing. The Newest Royal Family Head has finally decided to show his face and clear up this mess..."
