Erick smiled, and with a clip of hard light, he sheared off a few decimeters of the coated wire and set the rest to the side. “We won’t have those sorts of ‘conventional current’ versus ‘electron flow’ problems here. North and south are what we say they are, and I’m only telling people about electron flow, negative to positive, and that’s going to be synonymous with conventional current. What I said about the left hand rule is not actually what you learned in class years ago, but I’m making it the rule. I will have to make adjustments, of course.”

“You’ve already lost me.” Jane sat down beside her father, shifting her left hand back to normal as she said, “But that’s fine.”

“I didn’t explain it all that well, either. But anyway! We begin with this wire. Let’s see if it short circuits!”

Erick explained to Jane what he was doing as he grabbed a hunk of iron with a [Metalshape], turning it into a thumb-sized item. He twisted the small section of Jane's wrapped wire into a jumble, then, exposing two ends of the wrapping, he cast [Small Spark] onto the iron bolt, and put the two ends of the wire onto the two ends of the gently sparking iron bolt. Sparks latched onto the copper wire as the conductive path was much easier to flow through the wire than through the air. Erick watched for short circuits in the coil, where the only thing stopping a short was Jane’s coating. He expected sparks, but he only got heat, and not much of it, either.

And soon enough, a minute passed.

“And the coating works great!” Erick smiled wide. “No shorts. No heat failures! The copper wire is actually hot, but I can’t tell by touching the coated part. The coating is fantastic insulation!” Erick got up and hugged Jane. “Awesome. This is fantastic.”

Jane hugged her father back, happily saying, “I’m glad I could help.” She laughed as she pulled away, saying, “Now show me how all the rest of it works.”

“Of course! Let’s start with this:” Erick floated an iron bar into the air before them, and with a [Metalshape], burst it out flat and thin. One 5 kilogram bar became over a meter square, with a half millimeter thickness. “Now, we take this and cut out flat circles, then pinch those circles so they have a three raised Ts on the edge, with the top part of the T facing outward, each of them 120 degrees off of the next. We take a bunch of these and affix them in a series on a wooden dowel, with thin bits of wood separating each section of iron. This, and a bunch of wires wrapped around those T blocks, will form the basic armature, which will be the drive shaft of the motor; the rotor. We also have to have specific sections of metal sticking out from this rotor, where the metal brushes will touch, and thus form a continually shifting circuit as the whole thing spins…”

Erick spoke as he assembled a motor, right before Jane’s interested eyes. Some parts of the motor were less than well done. For instance, permanent magnets would be nice to have, for at least this prototype. But… It shouldn’t be too much work to make electromagnets out of the same power source that fed the rotor? That would be having a series electromagnet rotor… Right?

Yes. Erick could do that, too.

OH! And using electromagnets, set in parallel with the rotor, will make everything a lot better, as there will be no need for permanent magnets!…

That would be version 2. For now [Magnetize] and the resultant semi-permanent magnets would serve for this first prototype…

Oh. Wait. He could make actual permanent magnets with [Magnetize]. Probably? Oh. Yes! He could.

Erick showed Jane how to take a bit of metal, cast [Magnetize] upon it, and then heat and hit the metal to force the magnet to retain the [Magnetize] effect long after the spell actually wore off. He wasn’t sure if his demonstration was going to work as he expected it to work, but it should have. And then, it did; once the [Magnetize]d bit of metal cooled down, and [Magnetize] wore off, the bit of metal retained its magnetic properties. Exactly how Erick thought it would.

Erick held up the now-permanent magnet, and smiled, telling Jane, “I have ‘enchanted’ [Magnetize] onto a bit of metal, with a bit of heat and hitting, I have affixed this spell to this bit of metal; permanently!” He joked, “It’s an artifact!”

Jane sarcastically said, “With all these accomplished capabilities, one might think you an archmage.”

“Hey now. Permanent enchantment is a big deal!”

Jane went back to the motor, pointing at the coils wrapped around the rotor, “I need you to explain this part again, with the electromotive forces and the left hand thing. How can you tell where the force goes?”

Erick pointed with light as he spoke, “By seeing how the polarity is induced in the coil, and based on where the magnets to the sides are, this is how...”

While Erick taught Jane, he also leveled his new spells to 10. Each one changed in the expected way; to last ten minutes per cast instead of one.

Small Spark X, instant, touch, 5 mana

Electricity flows in an object of small size. Lasts 10 minutes.

Insulate X, instant, touch, 10 mana

Prevent the flow of electricity in an object of medium size or smaller. Lasts 10 minutes.

Superconductor X, instant, touch, 50 mana

Electricity may flow freely in a conductive object of medium size or smaller. Produces a myriad of effects. Lasts 10 minutes.

With his magnets set on opposite sides of the motor’s housing, and his three-coil rotor sitting between those magnets, Erick put the final touches on the brushing setup which would transfer [Small Spark] onto a varying circuit. The whole thing was about the size of a large coffee mug. Where the axle came out of the rotor, Erick placed a tiny fan, more for looks than to do anything impressive.

And then he cast [Small Spark] on a prepared block of copper the size of his thumb, and placed the block into a holder connected to the brushings—

The rotor rapidly spun the very moment the copper got near the terminals. Erick smiled, snapping the copper firmly into place, ensuring a good connection. The rotor spun even faster; the tiny fan kicked up a mighty, tiny gale.

And then the rotor broke. The coiling innards lodged themselves sideways in the engine while the fan took a trip across the yard.

Erick laughed. “Okay! It works!”

Jane, wide-eyed, said, “I guess it does.”

Erick started troubleshooting, saying, “Ah. See here? The brushings melted.” He said to Jane, “Brushings are a failure point anyway since they’re constantly rubbing and that’s bad. This can be fixed by making a different type of motor, called an induction motor, but that requires AC current, and all we have is DC current. I need to make transistors in order to change DC to AC, and I’m not able to do that right now.” He added, “I could make a brushless DC motor if I had actual electronics, or even just some simple parts like transistors and diodes and resistors, but we don’t have any of those right now, either. I’d need all of that to make AC current out of DC current, too. So this is the bottleneck now; transistors.”

Jane poked at the broken rotor with her shadows, frowning. “This seems more complicated than enchanting.” She looked at the other coils of wire, asking, “Want me to web the rest?”

“Yes, please.” Erick asked, “You want to make your own motor? Try it out? I want to grab lunch before it’s time to talk to people.” He glanced across the way, to where groups had been gathering near his platform for the last hour. There were maybe a hundred people today, and Erick had not taken a moment to inspect any of them. Between what it took to create this motor, and Bless the cultists up north, and teach Jane the basics of electromagnetism, Erick’s processes were full. He eyed some of those people now, though, and studied them as they studied Erick and his experiment from afar. “I think some of them are only here to watch me work.”

“They’ve been staring at us for the last few hours.” Jane nodded.

Erick’s gaze lingered on a few rubberneckers as he devoted some of his attention their way. “I see a few people with requests I completed after I told everyone to go home. Maybe they just want to thank me?”

Jane ignored all of that, and looked to the clump of eternal stonewood on the ground, saying, “I’ll find my own source of wood.”

“Ah! I can fix that. Here.” Erick had an Ophiel near the Blessing site in the mountains take a detour for a moment, to find a tree with some seeds. In the work of another three moments, that Ophiel lightstepped back to Erick, at his yurt, carrying a seed. He planted the seed in the ground, away from the pond, and cast [Living Petrified Treeshape] on the seed, rapidly raising a twisted, stony tree out of the ground. The tree continued to grow as Erick said, “That’s [Stoneshape]able wood. It might be too dense, but I know it’s electrically non-conductive. Or, you could just use more webbing, for the whole thing.”

“I’ll try both.” Jane asked, “Have you tried casting [Small Spark] on the wire in the motor, itself? That way, you wouldn’t have brushings.”

“Well. The only way that the motor turns is because the shifting electrical current constantly shifts the north-south polarity around, thus turning the motor.” Erick said, “Of course, there could be a way to make your suggestions work, but I haven’t thought of it. Anyway, it’s almost noon.” He saw Poi standing on the yurt, then turned back to Jane. “I’ve got to get to work. Love you. Have fun!”

Jane waved him off, saying, “If you need me, I’m here.”

“I know; thank you.” Erick waved, and walked away from his daughter and his projects, toward the edge of the dense air surrounding— He hooked a right, toward the yurt, and walked to Poi. “A quick lunch, first.”

Poi had a hearty sandwich and a cheesy stew waiting for him. As Erick ate, he had Ophiel glance over the various petitioners waiting outside his temporary property. Most of the people out there had large concerns that were only easy for an archmage, or for a team of highly skilled and high-leveled people. Erick would dismiss the rest of them, but all of them could wait a few more minutes. This food was delicious!

As Erick headed back out of his protected space with Poi following at his side, he felt good.

Helping people felt great.
