As Erick guessed before he started his search, the various alchemy labs here and there were filled with more plants than metals; the Lightning Mages were the only ones he actually needed to speak with, but it was always good to be diligent. Perhaps Erick’s perfect target was obscuring their work behind various [Ward]s and whatnot, but Erick didn’t need the perfect target; he just needed any target at all.

Erick rapidly found two people with workshops filled with iron and copper and all sorts of conducting metals. One of the Lightning Mages was not home, so Erick went with the other.

In a wide open back yard, a conglomeration of five-meter tall steel rods arced electricity from tip to tip, while a female mage stood between them all, under a cage made of thick wires and wearing thick, dark glasses. Her off-white tunic and pants were singed, while her black hair was cut as short as a crew cut, and her exposed skin was as little exposed as it could be. Flickers of lightning occasionally burst from the surrounding poles to strike at the cage, but the mage seemed unworried. She was trying to do something with the lightning, and though Erick saw something unnatural shift in the arcing bolts, he had no idea what the woman was actually doing. Or trying to do.

However, the goal of ‘Zolique Diligent Scribe, age 46, Lightning Mage’, as listed in her one page information sheet, was to make metal armor obsolete through the application of perfected Lightning Magic. So she was probably doing something related to that. Something to make lightning target metal better than it already could.

Ophiel floated down into the side of the arena, near the house, equipped with an [Animadversion] to keep the electricity away, though he was already nowhere near the danger zone.

Zolique didn’t notice. But her helper, a young man who barely seemed old enough to Matriculate, did notice. Ophiel had descended to float only a few meters away from the boy, after all, so he darned well better notice. Experimenting mages had watchers for reasons, after all; to look over them while they were in the throes of magic-making. The boy even had a rod of [Treat Wounds] in one hand, and another rod of [Dispel]. The second rod was rated for 100 mana [Dispel]s according to the words on the side; an expensive one, for sure, but likely not too useful. Perhaps it was all they could afford? The house/workshop behind the boy was filled with scattered metal experiments, but very little in the way of comforts.

The young man started yelling, “Ma! Ma!.”

Son and mother, then.

Zolique yelled without turning to look, “I’m busy!”

“MOTHER! LOOK! NOW!”

Zolique whipped around, saying, “Wha— OH.” With a wave of her arm, the lightning stopped. She raised her dark glasses and shoved open the metal cage, rapidly taking off her gloves and letting them fall to the ground as she said, “Oh my Bright Gods. It’s you! Well. Your [Familiar] but. Hello, Archmage Flatt. What brings you to my humble home?” She brightened, her eyes glittering with bright blue-white light. “It’s my breakthroughs, isn’t it!”

Her son calmed immensely and became almost a background figure, now that his mother was in the moment.

“Hello, Zolique Diligent Scribe.” Erick said, “I’m not too sure about your specific breakthroughs, but I have heard that you have managed to do some work with Particle Magic, and lightning, in particular. I’d like to know about a few of your spells, if you’re amenable.”

Zolique’s smile brightened. “Yes I am! I would love to talk about that!” She gestured to her house, saying, “Would you like to come here in person? I can make some tea.”

“Perhaps another day. I’m in the middle of one of my own experiments, and I’m sure you wish to get back to yours, too—”

“Oh yes! Of course of course.” Zolique went with the flow. “Which spells are you interested in?”

“I have a sheet of paper here that says you have [Small Spark], [Insulate], and [Superconductor].” Erick said, “I’d like to see you perform those three spells, as well as any smaller ones you have that are at the power level of [Small Spark].”

“Sure!” Zolique said, “All I require is the answering of a few questions and three grand cores, so that I may fund more of my own research.”

Surprisingly direct.

Erick approved.

“I have the grand cores; that cost will not be an issue. The questions might be problematic.” Erick said, “Ask three questions.”

“How do I make [Call Lightning]?”

“Be a Particle Mage; It’s Particle Mage only.”

Zolique’s joy died in that moment; a sudden death, for sure.

“… Fuck!” Zolique scowled as she stomped her foot— She pushed her hands down and out, slowly exhaling, calming with every passing moment. When she was done with that, she paused. She thought. She said, “Okay. Question two of three: Your world ran on lightning. How?”

“I’m working on replicating some of that right now, which is what prompted this visit in the first place. All my spellwork is too strong to be useful, and truthfully, I’m thinking that even [Small Spark] might be too strong, but I won’t know until I actually have the spell myself.” Erick said, “The short, inadequate answer is ‘copper and other types of wires carrying electricity to various tools that work on electricity’. The longer answer would be a full university education, of which I know only the basics. Someone besides me would have to put that together for you, so check back in a hundred years after this stuff gets around enough. Or figure it out yourself, and found that school.”

Zolique stood straight, hanging on every one of Erick’s words. She didn’t speak for a while after he finished, her eyes trailing off into the distance as she thought. And then she looked to Ophiel, and said, “I wish to save my third question. I will show you the three spells I have— I didn’t actually make them myself— I mean. I did. But what I tried to make was not what came out. What came out was the standardized spells of the Script.” She rushed, saying, “I have no other Particle Spells that I am comfortable showing.”

“Understandable.”

Zolique gestured to her iron pole yard, then walked that way, saying, “I can cast all the pieces here.”

Ophiel followed.

Zolique went to the side of the yard, to a bin that was [Ward]ed with some sort of magic. Most of the space around here was [Ward]ed, and Erick guessed that it was [Insulation Ward], since the lightning in the large rods hadn’t jumped at much, besides each other and Zolique’s metal cage. Zolique opened the bin and pulled out a small block of shiny red-orange copper—

She stopped.

She retrieved the gloves she had dropped onto the ground and slipped them back on her hands. She held the block of copper, and said, “[Small Spark].”

A single, tiny flicker of blue-white electricity sparked from the metal block and flowed into the air, but went nowhere. The sparks did not touch her gloves, for the gloves must have been insulated, perhaps even [Insulate]d. Well [Small Spark] was a rather simple spell, wasn’t it. Erick saw how it worked, too.

Erick checked himself, and, yup! There was the blue box for [Small Spark]. He spoke through Ophiel, “Okay. Thanks. I see how that one works. Next?”

“[Insulate] is easy.” She walked over to a metal pole sticking out of the ground and cast a spell upon it, then moved the charged copper block close to the pole. Small sparks jumped away from the bar, but didn't touch the pole; it was insulated. "There we go. The pole is protected from Particle Lightning. No singeing." She held up the gloves, saying, “I enchanted these with [Insulate] a while ago, so that’s the only reason they’re not singed, either. Do you see?”

“I do.” Just like that, another blue box was added to his Status.

“[Superconductor] seems to make all Lightning Magic ineffective against a metal target, but in a way I’m still trying to understand. It does other odd stuff, as well.” Zolique cast the spell in question on the metal rod, then held the sparking copper next to it. Sparks arced from the copper to the metal rod, like someone had opened the tap on a water faucet, and then the sparks died, for the copper was out of power. She tapped the metal rod where the sparks had touched. “No lightning damage in this case, either. Usually there’s some when you’re using Lightning Magic, but not here. And yet, when you cast [Superconductor] on the copper bar—” She did so. “And then you cast [Small Spark]—” She did so. The copper bar sparked with twice as much intensity as before. “I think it heightens the [Small Spark]’s transferal of electrons. Is that what is happening—” She shut her mouth. She said, “That is not my third question.”

Erick smiled as he checked for his new blue box, and yup, there it was. [Superconductor]. With a thought, and a bit of action, Erick laid five grand cores from his recent kills onto the ground next to Zolique’s house. Zolique’s son noticed the new wealth much faster than his mother. The kid’s mouth dropped open as he stared at the wealth in front of him. He almost dropped the rod of [Treat Wounds] but he caught himself before the life-saving item slipped too far out of his grip.

“Thank you, Zolique. That was most instructive.” Erick gestured to the house, to the pile of grand cores. “I’ve included 2 extra grand cores because I felt like it.”

Zolique whipped around. She saw. “Oh! Oh my gods! Yes!” She wanted to rush over there and put her hands on the darkly glittering cores, each of which was the size of her own head. Her son was already poking them with a finger like he had never seen so much money. Zolique reluctantly turned back to Erick’s avatar, though half of her words were thrown in the direction of her new wealth, “Thank you, Archmage! My grand core was lost in the fires, but this is! This is great! I can sell two and fund everything! Thank you!”

Erick said, “Thank you for your bit of assistance in gaining these basic tier spells. And because this has gone so well: here’s some hints about electricity. Have you tried using [Superconductor] metal around magnets? Do you have the Basic Tier spell: [Magnetize]? Do you know how to make a magnet? You should learn. Have you tried running [Small Spark] through wires? Through coiled wires? The wires have to be insulated against themselves, of course. You might need a mundane solution to see the effect, though. Anyway. Lightning is very dangerous. I’m glad to see you’re taking the danger seriously.”

Zolique was speechless. Her joy over the grand cores was completely overshadowed by her drive to experiment with electricity. And then she snapped her fingers at her son. “Paper! Pen!” She asked Erick, “Could you? Uh. Repeat all that?”

Her son rushed Zolique’s way with a pad of paper and a pen in hand.

“I’m not going to repeat that.” Erick said, “But I will say that the only thing that fueled my world’s need to tame lightning was so that we could have lights at night. You don’t have that need here. It might take longer for any sort of electrical revolution to happen on Veird, so I might drop in sometime in the future, if I feel like it, and if you would be amenable to another visit.”

Zolique instantly said, “I understand! Thank you, Archmage. I would graciously accept your visitation at any point you wish to return.” She bowed.

Her son stopped where he was, and bowed, too.

Erick departed.

- - - -

Small Spark 1, instant, touch, 5 mana

Electricity flows in an object of small size. Lasts 1 minute.

Exp: 0/100

Insulate 1, instant, touch, 10 mana

Prevent the flow of electricity in an object of medium size or smaller. Lasts 1 minute.

Exp: 0/100

Superconductor 1, instant, touch, 50 mana

Electricity may flow freely in a conductive object of medium size or smaller. Produces a myriad of effects. Lasts 1 minute.

Exp: 0/100

When Erick checked on the same spells in the Open Script, both [Insulate] and [Superconductor] had their sizes listed as ‘small’, while [Small Spark] was listed as ‘minor’. Erick guessed that his Class was responsible for the obvious increase in power. This was probably fine. It probably meant that his [Small Spark] was more like a ‘[Medium Spark]’, though.

This was fine!

It was time to experim—

Ah.

He needed copper.

And paper and mineral oil. And enamel to coat the wires; something flexible and yet resilient enough to last for a while without flaking— No. Wait. It wasn’t actually enamel that coated wires. It was polymers… Which came from oil, which Erick already knew would be a problem.

Finding the paper and copper itself was easy enough. The paper came from the papermakers, and was of butcher-paper quality. Erick got a whole cylinder of the tan-colored stuff.

The copper was a bit more difficult. Enchanting material shops (which doubled as wrought-quality metal diners in a few locations) only had wrought-quality copper. Erick needed the plain stuff. This sent Ophiel skipping off to some mines in the foothills of the Tribulations. It was there, directly from the source, that Erick got his copper. It wasn’t of the purest quality, but he could refine it himself, if it needed refinement.

If he had wanted, he could have gone to the bank and withdrawn a thousand gold worth of copper coins, but that was wasteful, technically illegal, and the copper content of coins was rather suspect to begin with. Erick wasn’t sure what copper coins were cut with, but such testing was unnecessary, anyway.

Finding oil was impossible. Not just any oil would do; it had to be mineral oil, which was usually a byproduct of crude oil refinement. In fact, all crude oil byproducts were non-existent. There were lots of organic oil products, though, all of which were derived from plant-based sources. But plant-based oil would eventually go rancid. Mineral oil did not go rancid.

