A bit of further exploration led to the happy discovery that someone had invented ‘eternal oil’, which Erick was almost 100% positive was just their name for ‘mineral oil’. He found it at a paint store. Eternal oil came from a variant of the oil vine, and it had a shelf life of ‘forever’. There were a few warnings on the metal container that it was not for consumption, and would cause loose bowels when taken orally, but otherwise it was great for mechanical lubrication needs, for it would allow the [Alter Friction] of even the most middling of mages to achieve near-zero friction capabilities, and for [Control Machine] to work with even less scraping and breaking. Mostly, though, eternal oil was used to mix oil paints. From the display set up in the paint store, Erick got the distinct impression that the seller was trying to sell their product in other markets, but they were having little luck.

At the same paint store, Erick picked up a few different varnishes and enamels, to see if they worked for his insulation needs, but he doubted they would; they all dried hard, and brittle. Some applications of heat and specific cooling might change that, though. But the better bet was to get some rubber insulation, so Erick went around looking for rubber vines, and he eventually found some at an alchemist's shop. He purchased a bucket of the stuff, fresh from the vine, as well as instructions on how to harden it using a packet of provided yellow rocks. The alchemist called the rocks ‘yellow mold’, though Erick knew them as sulfur, and he knew the process the alchemist spoke of as vulcanization.

He had actually used rubber before when he made his gramophone, but with that project, Erick had used preformed rubber that would resolve to stiffness under gentle heat. This stuff was baseline; pure. Erick would need to do the whole vulcanization process himself.

He was ready to make some electric prototypes!

Erick organized his new materials, sat down, and smiled.

Buckets of oil and rubber and a dozen different types of enamel and varnish rested on the table before him, along with some last minute resin purchases that might work well for specific applications. The roll of butcher paper was off to the side; Erick wouldn’t need that right now. He also grabbed a clump of eternal stonewood from his mountain down south; that would be useful for casings and other stuff like that. For non-wire metal needs, Erick had the steel bars from the elders of Ooloraptoor, sitting off to the side, while directly in front of him laid 12 bars of copper, each weighing in at 5 kg apiece. All of everything here was a lot more expensive than Erick thought it would have been, with the total costs coming in at 79 gold.

Erick chuckled to himself. This was so, so much cheaper than enchanting materials!

This made so much more sense to him than enchanting, too, though he was probably going to end up incorporating some magic to this project somewhere down the line. If the varnish/enamel/rubber/resin proved to be a failure point for creating insulation on his wires, then [Insulate], combined with some specific Shapings, would be the next plan. Short circuits would likely be the largest failure point of this whole project.

Then again, short circuits were the largest failure points for all electrical devices, weren’t they?

Jane came by, looking at his stuff, and declared, “You’re trying to put insulation on wires, right?”

There was something about her tone that made Erick worry.

He gave a tentative, “Yes?”

“Why not use spider silk? I might be able to make it conductive on the inside and insulated on the outside. No need for wires, at all.” Jane paused, then went, “Err… Or, if that didn’t work— It probably wouldn’t work because of overheating concerns. Probably too many points of failure there to make it a repeatable thing, too. Which, in that case, you can just cover copper wires in silk which I know is non-conductive, stable for a long time, heat resistant, and able to fully envelop something as small as a copper wire. It’s also non-sticky as soon as it dries, and it dries in moments.”

Erick stared at his daughter, watching as she slowly grinned, wider and wider.

For a long moment the last few hours seemed like a waste—

But then Erick considered the needed complexity of wires and polymers when it came to actual electronic devices, like a solid state drive—

Nope. ‘Solid state drives’! He was kidding himself thinking that far down the line. He had seen more than enough engineering videos about electricity to know the basics, so he had no doubt that he could build an electrical engine as soon as he gathered all the pieces, since he had made a small DC motor when he was a teenager. In a similar fashion, cars were easy. But Erick barely understood how a computer actually worked, and, as his thoughts solidified, he found he didn’t care how a computer worked, either.

All Erick wanted to do was experiment with electrical motors and other fun engineering projects. Building a car was fun. Shaping houses out of eternal stonewood was fun. Making the yurt was fun, too. Making Veird’s first electrical motor would be super fun!

But the tiny stuff? Let someone else figure that out!

… But he would have to figure out how to make a transistor himself, soon enough. Maybe next month.

Erick asked, “Want to try some engineering with your old dad? Make an electric motor?”

“Yes,” Jane said, without reservation.

Erick gestured to the chair sitting beside his own, asking, “How do you know your silk isn’t conductive?”

“When I was with Riri; we went over all of that stuff.” Jane sat down on the second chair. She flexed out her left arm, her shirt sleeve fluttering and then bulging with extra flesh as her arm shifted underneath. Her hand became a bit larger to accommodate some sort of central structure, while her fingertips changed, flattening out and then becoming grippers all of their own. “She taught me a lot. See?” Her hand was now a collection of precise pedipalps, while spinnerets filled the base of her palm; a good 15 tiny extruders, each capable of their own silk production. She made a grabbing motion, smiling as she said, “I need a wire, dad.”

Erick’s attention lingered on Jane’s hand; her whole arm, really. It was impressive. Jane had what appeared to be a few hundred biological systems laid down in her flesh, each working alongside each other. It was also completely terrifying. Erick tried to keep that emotion to himself, though, as he said, “That’s an impressive [Polymorph].”

Jane smirked. “I know it freaks you out.”

“I mean… Yes. But it’s still impressive.”

“Copper wire, please!” Jane said, making a horrific, yet playful grabbing motion with her left ‘hand’.

Erick ignored all that and grabbed a bar of copper. He began Shaping it out into a wire, drawing the metal around with both his light and an intentful [Metalshape]— He stopped. He had produced maybe a meter of wire before he realized just how much 5kg of copper would make. Erick took his 5kg blob and divided it into three.

“How much polymer do you think you could wrap around a wire?” Erick asked, “Going for minimum thickness and maximum distance?”

“Thin as a hair and I can probably coat a few hundred meters before needing to eat.” Jane said, “[Thread Control] speeds up metabolism, forcing silk production, but that material does come from the body.”

Erick nodded. He grabbed a third of the copper wire and [Metalshape]d it with the spell and with his own solid light, rapidly extruding the metal through a pinhole a bit larger than a millimeter. A minute later, he was done. The wire was probably 16 or 18 gauge; he wasn’t sure. Once it got a spider silk coating it would be much thicker, but hopefully not too much thicker.

He could use solid-bar copper for larger motors, but he wasn’t sure if that would work for a prototype size, and he wanted actual wires, anyway.

Erick moved the large spool to Jane, saying, “That’s about 125 meters of copper wire. Get coating!”

Jane laughed, then she grabbed the wire.

While Erick spun the next two copper bits into two more 125 meter-long sections of wire, he watched his daughter work. She took one end of the copper in her spinner hand and began by manipulating it through her spinnerets, using her pedipalp-like fingers to guide the silk onto the metal. A few twists of her hand and a bit of repositioning later, and Jane had perfectly white silk spinning around the wire, coating it in a layer… Jane looked at the pile of copper wire in front of her.

Jane paused. She said, “I need to reposition this whole thing. This angle is not going to work”

Erick offered, “I can make you a machine that can hold it for you?”

“No no.” Jane extended her shadows into the air, grabbing the wire and holding it tight, “I can do this, too— Or!” Her shadow retreated as she flickered; a brief solidness taking over her flesh, before that retreated, too. And suddenly, Jane had control over the metal wire. The coil lifted into the air as Jane stood up, and moved away from the table. With concentration showing on her face, the large coil of wire hung suspended around her right hand, where it gently turned, feeding a length of wire across the air, to Jane’s spinneret hand, where she layered silk around the wire. The coated wire continued on, to gently arc through the air, into a large loop. It was kinda graceful. Jane smiled, saying, “I got it.”

Erick asked, “[Stone Body]?”

“Yup.” Jane said, “I’m not stressing the wire into deformation territory, either, since it’s just [Stone Body] and not [Metal Body].”

That was a really nice application of that Elemental Body. Perhaps Erick needed that one. Except…

Erick asked, “Do you feel like you could deform the wire? Or that you might accidentally?”

“Oh yes. I definitely could. But I’m just holding it and guiding it. This is not the delicate balance of holding and not crushing a wardlight, while in [Lightwalk]. This is more like holding a solid marshmallow; I could bend it out of shape, but that would require effort.”

“Huh. Good.” Erick said, “Stop when you get to 50 meters. I want to try out a coil… If it’s dry enough?” He glanced toward the coiling wire, watching it hang in the air next to Jane. Parts of it were already touching itself. “I guess it is?”

“Fast drying silk.” Jane said, “I tested electrically insulating silks with Riri for applications on anti-lightning charms, and webbing, in general. Lightning Magic likes to flow along a surface and webs are way too vulnerable to that sort of disruption, so it’s important to preemptively guard against that sort of thing.” She added, “When your engineering brings you to make a lightsaber; I want one, dad.”

Erick laughed. Then he paused. “Would you like a plasma based one? Or a lightning based one? Or one that cuts really well?”

“Yes.”

Erick smiled. “I already swore off making weapons, so you might be out of luck. How about I make you a go-kart, instead? You always wanted one of those growing up, and I can finally get you one!”

Jane laughed. “No thanks, but tell me how you plan on making an engine.”

Erick began, “It starts with the left hand rule. Do you remember anything about that?”

“Nope!” Jane said, “Explain it to me.”

“Well. The first thing is that you don’t have to remember the left hand rule from Earth, because I’m changing how it was taught.” Erick nodded. “Take your left hand thumb up, pointer finger extended forward, middle finger extended to the right. The current flows from negative to positive; from the base of your pointer finger, to the tip. When in the presence of another magnetic field, which is indicated north to south based on the direction your middle finger points, the force that acts upon the flowing current moves the wire the direction of your raised thumb.

“Now, curl your hand like this, with the thumb up and the fingers curled into a fist.

“The direction your thumb points is the direction of electron flow in a wire, from negative to positive. The curl of your fingers is the direction the magnetic field spins along that wire, and along that field, you get north and south poles. We’re always going north to south, here.

“You already know that north repels north, and is attracted to south, and vice versa.

“Taking all that together, you can make a system of wires that turn into electromagnets, and when the system rotates, you turn some circuits on, and some circuits off, depending on the path of least resistance between the negative in flow and the positive out flow, creating a constantly rotating system of north and south magnets.

“… We’ll go over that part a few times, so don’t worry about that.

“The whole trick is about putting these electromagnets around real magnets, and with a bit of engineering, you can make the switching-electromagnet constantly try to align itself with the permanent north and south magnets of your machine. It is like Sisyphus, constantly rolling the boulder uphill.” Erick said, “But all of that is just the engineering parts, and I might have told it wrong. I’ll have to do actual experiments to see if I can combine these jumbled ‘conventional’ and ‘electron flow’ ideas into reality.

“In this way, you create an electric motor. The only limits to the power of a motor is the engineering fidelity, the materials used, the load you place upon that spinning motor, and inertia and all that.” Erick knew he had lost Jane, but that was fine. “We can make a small motor together. It’s really quite easy once you get all the pieces together. I made one when I was a teenager. I tried to make one with you when you were in highschool, too.”

“Yeah… I… Was not good with that.” Jane went a bit further with her wire coating, then flicked the metal with her pedipalp fingers, cutting off the coated section from the rest. With a gesture, the completed wire floated up, into her hand. “I think that’s ten meters.” She handed it over, saying, “You know, I always screwed up conventional current versus actual electron flow. I barely passed that whole section of science class.”

“And now, we have the makeup exams!” Erick grinned as he took the wire.

“Ha,” Jane deadpanned.

