Serindell was structured into two distinct sectors. The nobility lived in the taller buildings in the center while the outer perimeter held everyone else. The area by the main gate was one of the wealthier parts of the Outer Ring, so it was quite busy, but the same couldn’t be said for everywhere else.

The group made their way past short wooden huts scattered about the city outskirts. This area lay just outside the bounds of the titan’s curling wings, literally and figuratively cutting it off from the more affluent parts. Significantly less people traveled along the road here, and a lot more eyes followed them as they moved.

They ignored the gazes and proceeded through the eastern gate, exiting Serindell proper and instead making their way towards the coastline. According to the shopkeeper, Llyr lived somewhere on the shore just outside of the city.

Pyre scanned the coast, eyes falling on the vast ocean beyond. The smell of salt was at its strongest here, and the wind danced along the jagged rocks. The ground sloped downwards, soft grasses giving way to boulders and sand. She turned, but she didn’t see any buildings. The uneven ground and bluffs made it hard to see everything, though.

“Think that shopkeeper lied?” the demon said, squinting under the sunlight. It wouldn’t surprise her. The woman had been very reluctant to tell them the healer’s location, after all.

“Maybe.” Callan looked hesitant.

Slowly, the ghost descended closer to the water. He’d slipped back into his solid-color incorporeal form again, allowing him to float past the rocks and boulders. Pyre and Daphne had to be a lot more careful navigating past them. Their surfaces were still wet and slippery.

“I feel like we’re doing something wrong,” the ghost muttered. It wasn’t the first time he’d said something similar since they’d exited the store with the class crystals in tow.

“Technically we are patients,” Pyre drawled. She glanced at Daphne. “Or, one of us is. We’ll be fine, kid.”

The demon hopped down from a particularly large boulder, landing on the soft strip of sand sloping down to kiss the waves. The ocean spray added a pleasant coolness to the otherwise hot day.

She paused for a moment just to breathe in the crisp air. From here, she could see the city port further south, the ships at the docks dark silhouettes against the clear blue sky.

“It’s beautiful here,” Daphne murmured, her own eyes fixed on the sparkling waters. One of her hands drifted close to her chest before dropping down again. She’d avoided explicitly mentioning her ichor poisoning since learning about the healer, as if she was scared to get her hopes up.

“Still no houses, though,” Callan said. His brows furrowed. “Maybe she really did lie.”

Below them, the vibrations shifted slightly.

It was faint—the loose sand made it significantly more difficult to pick up on differences. Still, Pyre immediately spun around. Daphne and Callan quickly followed suit.

There, several feet away, a man stood at the water’s edge. He was dressed in plain, flowing robes that covered most of his body, and his arms were wrapped around a basket filled with various plants and herbs.

His hair was so black that it appeared blue in the light. It was short in the front, wavy bangs falling into his eyes, and long in the back. Dark strands billowed like rippling water in the wind behind him.

Pyre spotted two glassy teardrop-shaped earrings swaying slightly, the sole bits of ornamentation to his otherwise simple attire. They were the same clear blue shade as his eyes, which were now watching the three of them with mild curiosity.

The man smiled when he noticed them staring. He tilted his head. His voice was soft, serene, and perfectly calm.

“Are you looking for me?”
