“I think it's best I leave, before things get... out of hand.” Ren smiled as she blushed. “Thank you for seeing me today.”

Diana opened her eyes to look at him longingly. “Any... any time you want to...”

Ren smiled and cupped the sides of her face this time and gave her a chaste kiss. “Happy Birthday, Diana.”

“Th-thank you.” Diana responded.

Ren let her face go and walked over to the wall.

“W-wait!” Diana exclaimed, and he stopped and turned back to her. “What about all your things?” She asked and motioned to the items covered by the Full Illusion spell.

“Well, since you can only choose one thing to trade for the device... why not trade me for the one collection of things I made for you?” Ren asked, then cast the Pass Wall spell and stepped out of the room through the wall. Diana watched him until the wall reappeared between them, then the banging on the Iron Wall in front of the soldiers stopped because it had disappeared.

“Where did he go?” Samuel asked as he ran into the room, hit one of the hidden tables, and bounced off. “What... what is this?” He asked and put a hand out and touched the invisible table.

“You are touching my things.” Diana said in a tone of voice that let you know she knew she was entitled to have you listen to her.

Samuel quickly moved back and stopped touching the table. “P-Princess! I'm sorry!”

“You will be if you don't leave my room right now.”

“I... we... we were just...”

“...driving away someone I wanted to visit with.” Diana said, and let her anger show on her face. “Do you know how long I've waited for him to see me?”

“N-no, Your Highness.” Samuel said. “But... but he...”

“...probably would have stayed longer without your interference.” Diana finished for him. “Now get out.”

“But...”

“If you think it will make a difference, you might be able to catch him... if you hurry out the servant's entrance at the back of the castle.”

“Y-yes! Yes, we'll do that!” Samuel said, extremely happy for a reason to leave. He and the other guards left in such a hurry that they didn't even close her bedroom door.

Diana walked over to the door and shut it, then turned around and leaned against it. Before her eyes, the Full Illusion spell faded and revealed all of the things Ren had left there for her. She glanced at the window that looked out the back of the castle, and saw Ren give her a little wave. She smiled warmly at him and waved back, then he was gone.
