With a chuckle, Dain grabbed the front and pulled it toward the surface. “You’ll get there.” He paused. “If you make the right choices.” He smiled widely.

“I get it. I get it.”

“Most don’t go artificer, in truth. The intelligence has limited use.”

Kindra winced. “Why?”

“Because it just helps you memorize and remember. It’s great for study and analysis, but it’s better to have something like strength. Then you can pick it as you need it.”

Oh. Makes sense. “So you still get it?”

“Yes. All crafters do, but we can balance things easier.” Dain turned and smiled. “But it’s a solid choice; just remember to boost strength, too.”

“What class are you?” Kindra asked.

“Right. I’m a weaponsmith, which is a blacksmith class specialized in weapons.” Dain turned around a corner and waved at a group of dwarves. “Morning.”

Peering around his large body, Kindra waved.

The group of three turned and waved. The woman with them grinned. “Is that your new daughter?”

Dain nodded and nudged Kindra forward. “Yes, though quite young.”

“Not even level ten?” The woman’s expression shifted to shock.

Kindra flushed. And apparently, I’m super behind. She followed Dain past the group, waving and turning back to him. “Friends?”

“Aye. They’re a good lot.” Dain wheeled the cart around another corner. “Just run ragged. We all are.”

“Why?”

“Supplies. We have to make deliveries, or else they show up.”

Kindra grimaced. Right. So the necromancers are in charge… Were my dreams real? Is that a necromancer? She mused on it.

“Kindra.” Dain stopped and moved closer. He leaned down. “When you get your second class, do not take that one,” he whispered. “I’m begging you.”

“You get a second?” Kindra asked, shock spreading through her. I didn’t know that.

“At level fifty, you get the option, but you can’t free cast if you do.” Dain sighed. “It’s an endless debate if that cost is worth it. You do get a few skills to help with free casting, but you don’t get stats. That hurts.” He pulled the cart forward.

“Did you take a second?”

“Yes, fighter. Most take a second.” Dain stopped. “If you take one, try to get one that works well. We’ll give you some advice when you get closer.”

Kindra nodded and saw the light of the sun piercing the tunnel. Hmm. Wonder what works well with artificer. I’ll add it to my list of things to figure out. She moved up the tunnel.

Emerging from it, Kindra squinted and looked at the two undead dwarves standing beside the mine. “Why are they here?”

“Watching the metal,” Dain replied.

There is no way someone’s sitting here doing that all day. Kindra conjured runes into her mind, walked forward, and tapped one. The glowering magic in the dead dwarf snuffed out, and it dropped like a sack of rotten flesh, slumping into a pile on the ground.

The other undead stood there stiffly. Dain turned, and Kindra brushed her fingers against the other. It dropped like a cut puppet.

Dain stared, his mouth hanging open. Shaking himself out of it, he shoved the cart. “Hurry along, Kindra.” His pace quickened.

Practically sprinting, Kindra raced after him. He shoved the cart up the road, moving quickly toward a large smithy. Large chimneys protruded from the top of the stone dome. A large door sat up front, and a square structure was melded into it.

Supply room? Kindra followed him to the front door and into the forge.

He shut the door. “Care to explain that?”

Kindra looked around the stone room. Two anvils were near the forge, the coals dead. A small layer of ash and soot dusted the fireplace. Bellows were built into the fireplace.

To the side, a shelf of tools lined the wall, and a few barrels sat on the far wall. She looked back at Dain and shrugged. “Just a test.”

“You just killed two undead like that.” Dain snapped. “Gone. Instantly.”

“I used the counter runes.” Kindra smiled at him.

“The counter runes,” Dain muttered, shaking his head. “How did you get counter—“ He cut himself off. “Kindra, that’s very dangerous. Don’t do it again.”

“Don’t they die all the time?”

“Well, yes. But it’s usually in defense or if they do something stupid.” Dain paused. His brow quirked. “Don’t do it unless we can hide it,” he amended.

“Deal.” Kindra chuckled softly.

Dain groaned. “How did you get the counter runes?”

Kindra shrugged. “I don’t know.”

“We’ll discuss it later. Remember, people and things are listening, so be careful, okay?” Dain gave her a stern look.

Kindra nodded and followed him outside. He grabbed the cart and moved toward a strange, tall clay chimney.

Oh! Right... What are these things called again? Kindra blew a hair from her face and walked up to it.

“Kindra, this is a bloomery.” Dain gestured. “You put the ore, limestone, and charcoal into the top. Pump these bellows to blow air through it. If something gets stuck, you need to break it free.” He gestured to a hole at the very bottom. “The metal gathers here.”

Kindra nodded. “Makes sense.”

Dain poured a little charcoal inside. Gathering some wood and grass, he sparked a small fire.

“Why not use magic to refine it?” Kindra asked, gesturing and repeating a few words to get the right one.

“You can’t,” Dain replied, shaking his head. “We’re turning the iron ore into steel. They aren’t the same thing. Transmutation requires the same thing.”

“Can you upgrade it to not use the same thing?” Kindra asked.

Dain studied her, surprise spreading on his face. “Yes, but that requires a great deal of study… Is that what you have?”

She nodded.

“Of course, you do… Do you remember anything?”

Kindra turned and looked out at the town. An undead bird flew overhead, and she looked at it.

“Right. Some other time.” Dain turned his focus to the fire.

I wonder how much it would cost. Kindra focused on her mana.

[Your mana increased: 1005 → 1119.] ‎ [Your actions have caused your mana to increase: 1119 → 1130.]

Nice. Aika must have been busy. Gathering a handful of the ore, coal, and lime, she placed it into a pile and burned ten mana, willing it to make steel.

The entire thing burned. The charcoal ignited in fury. Smoke billowed, and Kindra lurched back.

Dain turned to watch, a smile on his face. Kindra watched, and the ore turned bright white, flowing out into a piece of steel the size of her thumb. Right. Expensive. Still, that’s not too bad. I could make a nice chunk.

Reaching down, Dain picked up the metal and felt it with his thumb. “We’re having a chat when we get home.”

Kindra nodded and followed him to the cart. He grabbed stones and crushed them, turning them into a powder that he dropped into a barrel.

Kindra picked one up. He’s crushing it with his hand? She looked at him.

Dain smiled and handed her a hammer. “Start crushing.”

Grabbing it, she set the stone on a clay brick and pulverized it. Dain used his bare hands, and the two slowly worked through the cart, slowly pulverizing the stone and placing it in the barrel.

The tedious task only became more tedious as Kindra worked. I wish Aika were here; she could entertain me. She crushed the stone and paused, reaching for her connection. “Aika, how are you? Are you doing something fun?”

“Kindra, Gleon is insane!”
