Except for a single twitching finger.

Humans, Flia decided, were ridiculous.

Elizabeth had not had any time to think or react. The idea that she had reshaped the bloodbarrier into an artificial heart and was manually pumping her own blood was—it was too ludicrous to imagine, really, but apparently that was what she was doing. She had been conserving her strength through the fight, since it took everything she had to keep herself alive.

It was a temporary measure, though. All of them knew it. The damage was too severe, and this sort of treatment would last only until she could no longer keep up the spell. No one else could take over that duty. The moment she failed, she was dead.

But it reflected an incredible determination. Elizabeth, apparently, absolutely refused to die until she had at least been given the chance to say goodbye to Erik and her students.

"You're ridiculous," Erik said, teary-eyed. Elizabeth rolled her eyes, but she was too exhausted to make a snide remark, and instead let her head rest on his shoulder. Flia saw Erik trembling at the gesture, doing his best to hold back his tears.

"Your spell," Elizabeth said tiredly, and Flia started a little when she realized Elizabeth was talking to her. "Why... did it work?"

"The Dragonstorm is resentment," Flia answered after a moment. "It's being empowered by all this... chaos and fighting, I guess. That spell was a spur of the moment thing that Sabri cast with my magic, and it's not really war magic. The only reason they attacked Hakon was because he wanted to hurt me."

"Could I... see one of them?" Elizabeth asked, her voice pained, and Flia nodded. A small, shadowy butterfly flew up to land on Elizabeth's finger, fluttering just in front of her.

"Dreamwing butterfly," Flia said, feeling strangely awkward. It seemed like such an intimate moment for the two of them. "Their wings are made of dreams collected from all sorts of creatures. You'd normally be able to see more, but this is just a silhouette."

"It's still beautiful," Elizabeth said softly. She reached up to brush a finger over one of its wings. "Thank you... for showing this to me. You don't mind if I keep her and show her to my students, do you?"

Flia nodded, her throat tight. "The spell should last for a few days," she said. "You're free to take care of them. Ask me anything about them you want."

Elizabeth nodded weakly. She seemed entranced by the butterfly. Her finger brushed gently over its wings, one stroke after the next, in time with the pumping of her blood. Erik whispered something to her, soft and broken, and she whispered something back.

Flia saw, then, that Elizabeth was already slowing. She saw also the privacy of the moment, that this was something just for the two of them. The corridor was empty, and she doubted anything else was coming—somehow it felt like the Dragonstorm itself had been purged from here. Its grip had been loosened with Hakon's death.

"I'm going to check on the others," Flia said, her words soft. "I think this place is safe for now. Just... stay here and rest. I'll catch up after we beat the Dragonstorm."

Erik nodded, just slightly, and she thought she saw him whispering a thank you. It was hard to tell.

It was hard not to feel like she had failed in some way, too. But she made herself stand tall and move regardless.

"It's like Cale says," Flia murmured to Sabri, who had shrunken back down to shadeling form and was now purring happily in her arms once more. "Sometimes you fail, and there are people relying on you anyway. Can't let this stop us, am I right?"

Sabri let out a little chirp, and Flia gave her a faint smile, petting her head. "Thanks, Sabri."
