[Level Up] x254,180

[Use Absorption][Skill: Demonic Energy Manipulation][Upgrade: Primordial][YES][NO]

[Use Absorption][Buff: Primordial Defense][YES][NO]

While I press yes to accept all of the absorption notifications that pop up in my vision and watch my level surge to [Lv. 836,232], I have the experience sharing perk activated too, and feel the burst of levels rising beside me as Maria gains roughly a quarter million levels all at once too.

Waves of extremely dense purple divine threads flow through waves of aura that pour into me and begin filling up my divine core.

There isn't a drop of mana in this Demon, but the Demonic Essence and pure ether stored in all of its purple glyphs flow through my tendrils of corruption, making bulges in each strand, like a million snakes swallowing and digesting their prey.

All of the oily tendrils vibrate with Primordial Aura and Royal Vibrations that are not their own; however, with the state of disarray this Demon was in the moment it died, I'm able to suppress and conquer it with the help of all of the other resentful demons' wills.

Trillions of Demonic Glyphs are siphoned through the strands, and all of the residue in the air that was its Greater Demonic Form shatters to dust in a sparkling diamond display.

Source Resin fills the air and rotates around us as it pulls back in to settle on Maria's wings and back into her sword.

All of the black glyphs and growing corruption pull back into my chest and seal themselves away into my Royal Demon Core.

The force of the impact keeps us floating in the air, but all of the residue from the blast is gone.

All that's survived are two massive purple demon horns that fall to the ground below us.

My true core burns so hot in my chest that it feels like my grip on gravity and reality around me just increased by tens of times.

When my Royal Vibrations finally settle around my Demon's core and it is allowed to fully digest the corruption inside, another massive shockwave ripples out of me.

It is of pure white, high-quality ether.

This happened plenty of times before, giving us a boost after every Outer Guard's Core I devoured, but this one is far different.

It's thousands of times stronger.

When the wave of ether pours out, so does my newly assimilated Primordial Aura.

Not only that, but my vibrations all tighten and ripple through the air with far more purpose. Instantly, I start to understand how this First Blood was able to use so much less effort in its every movement to create a far more potent effect.

The inklings of what it means to be a High Royal start to dawn on me.

Every single Demonic Glyph Imprint that was on the outside of that First Blood's soul was crushed to dust, and its knowledge absorbed. I feel many more of both mine and Maria's Legacy awakening as this shockwave of pure, high-quality ether rushes through us.

My vision blurs to white the moment it does, carrying my mind away into this First Blood's memories.

Instantly, I feel the weight of time crushing my mind as I try to comprehend everything it's seeing.

Unlike many more simple beings in the past that have their life of memories stored neatly from the day they were born to the moment I kill them, this Demon's mind is completely jumbled up.

I can physically feel and even see mental manifestations of massive purple, white, and silver arrays holding its memories together, and even deleting parts before my eyes.

There is something inside this Demon's consciousness, like a virus left behind, actively destroying everything in sight just in case of an event like what is happening now.

My initial reaction is shock, but as bright flashes of light fill my vision and ringing in my ears begins, I start to realize I don't remember anything I'm seeing. All I know is every memory in front of me is out of order, and it's getting scrambled and destroyed.

I mentally focus and link these feelings to the times something similar like this has happened to me in the past.

Ember's curse he put on me, the golden and silver light that deletes my own memories just like this.

The moment I become conscious of what's happening and understand the mechanisms behind it, I feel all of the timelines that shift around start to fall into order.

I begin to gain control of some of the fractured memories that are left once I understand the mechanism that is deleting them. It really is a crude copy of the version that has been plaguing me for years.

"You even tried to copy this?!" I yell into an empty void of memories. No one is here to hear it, but the action alone cements my mind in place.

Images of the Lower Realm flow into my mind.

The only reason I know this is what I'm looking at is the divine energy density of the stars.

If I were to look at any other factor, I wouldn't be able to tell it apart from the zone I'm in right now.

The ether purity, mana density, and abundance of resources is nothing like the Lower Realm I know today.

There are massive clouds of Celestial energy that cover millions of solar systems at once.

I see high-quality ether arrays powering transportation across the galaxy for a variety of races more diverse in a single field of view than the entirety of the Lower Realm connected to my world-wide connectivity system right now.

There is not a single being that comes across this First Blood Demon's senses that is not at least a 1st Class Elite. The majority are Nobles or higher. It is a standard way of communication, to let your intentions flow out through vibrations first before even speaking to one another.

It is an extremely high-tech era, but at the same time, it is far more chaotic.

Time flashes by in pockets of millions of years.

I begin to see wars start, and sections of the galaxy being divided. However, all of the important figures and decisions behind how these wars begin are clouded out. All that is left in the space where the memories start is filled by a black void crackling with silver light in this tampered memory bank.

Though, I do get to watch this First Blood Demon in combat with other Royals from an ancient era.

It battles thousands of civilizations strong enough that today, they would be the undeniable rulers of the Lower Realm. Some snippets I get to see are of Hydras, Tortoises, enormous Dryad Clans, a race of extinct metallic humanoid creatures, an extremely strong clan of Beholders and Mind Flayers. There are many other unrecognizable races I've never even seen in dungeons before.

Even more strange, I don't see Elves or Wyverns, or any of the races many of the other Demons had to deal with in the past. This is truly an ancient era, hundreds of millions of years ago at least. The more years and wars that pass, I realize the events I'm watching may even be from over a billion years ago.

What is strange though, is that this Demon does not try to ascend.

Despite holding a fully saturated True Core, being over level one million, and wielding High Royal Vibrations, it stays below to dominate pockets of the richest energy-dense areas of space.

There are a few zones near the center of the galaxy it never visits. These, I'm certain, are where in current times are the Origin Worlds, and star systems of elites still rest.

It is far more focused on the vast wealth with less control of them on the outer edges of the galaxy. In these regions, this First Blood can take on entire races alone, one versus trillions of Nobles and low-grade Royals without an issue.

There are small fractured memories of it communicating with other First Bloods, but they never meet face to face in the Lower Realm.

Also, instead of infecting the worlds with thrones like I've witnessed in today's Demons' conquering tactics, they only gather the ether in massive spatial regions and separate them based on grade. Low, Medium, and High-Quality ether are grouped up, and high-quality ether arrays are used to transport them away.

Massive areas of dark, barren space are left behind.

These memories have no details left on where the pure ether goes... but considering the disparity between this Lower Realm and the Upper Realm's wealth I see today, it becomes quite clear.

Over and over, this is all I see. The First Blood works like a robot, manually clearing out the outer edges of the galaxy and carrying out orders.

That is, until new generations of Demons begin to show up. Just like any other race, the elders and the strongest call the shots, and this First Blood begins giving out orders to the weaker beings that must be what are now Outer Guards.

I see the imagery of an extremely familiar world passing by and hold on tight to this memory.

I do not want to see anything else or have it be lost in the wave of more I feel piling up behind it.

This world is a massive planet with no life at all on it, but its enormous size and red-orange colored dirt give it away.

The imagery of many Demons from all over the galaxy suppressing their power and standing at attention in a wide open desert on this world makes my skin crawl.

The fact that many of the present Demons look like dark shadows, when I try to look closer they are just blurs of silver, like their presence has been torn out of these memories.

I realize this is the founding of their home base, what in modern day is known as the Demonic Realm.
