Sure, she didn’t get to see the others quite as much as she’d like. Allie offered and did teleport her or them when asked, but it wasn’t the same, as none of them wanted to really lean on her. Allie never complained about helping them out, but Melinda knew the teleporter really truly hated to be taken for granted, and the others just weren’t familiar enough with her to feel comfortable to ask her unless it was important.

At least Mathew was generally kept near her and given rift slots when she was busy, when he himself wasn’t busy running his training hall.

He was actually Tier 24 and equipped with an Intent, ready to step through that barrier whenever she was, but he was willing to wait for her.

She considered trying to get him to advance further once more, but suspected it would be a futile effort, even with her making appreciable progress on her Intent.

Melinda well knew the Empire, or rather Moon, would be shoving her into another cleared out Tier 47 rift the moment she completed her Intent so she could pack as much medical advancement into her spirit as was possible, and she was not looking forward to the extended time again.

She couldn’t deny its usefulness, but it was brutal work that drained her.

Hopefully, she could argue for a slower pace to Tier 25. She knew the Emperor was hoping her Tier 25 Talent could heal spiritual damage, and was in a bit of a rush to find out without ruining her Tier 3. It wasn’t that she didn’t agree and didn’t want to reach Tier 25 herself, but she doubted her Talent would be so convenient.

The more she learned about overhealth, and her Talent in particular, the more she learned that it was about reading a person's spirit to heal the body, rather than interacting with the spirit itself.

A pity, but Melinda secretly relished the idea of a limit to her Talent.

She was constantly surrounded by great healers who were astounded by what she could accomplish, but the reality was they weren't impressed with what she could do, just her Talent. She wanted to heal, she liked healing, and she was grateful that her Talent let her do more with less. But she also wanted to show her own abilities.

She was a damn good healer. She had not only pushed her Talent, she had learned every skill that could be expected of a healer ten Tiers higher than her. Yet it was often overlooked or just entirely unneeded because of her Talent.

And so, a part of her wanted her Talent to be something else less perfect.

Melinda wouldn’t be mad if her Talent ended up being spiritual healing, but she wouldn’t be upset if it didn’t either.

Still, she kept that part to herself, knowing how selfish that desire was.

Even just the unfortunates Matt had sent her medical records of could use the help, let alone the countless others who had spiritual damage they either couldn’t heal or would take hundreds or thousands of years to repair on its own.

That had been a bit of an eye opening experience, even beyond the inspiration to her Domain, but seeing the reports of the other healers and their results had been inspiring. And once her Intent was created, she intended to leverage her efforts in the direction of less direct spiritual damage.

Still, none of that answered Mathew’s concerns. “I don’t think it's a bad thing. We are friends with them despite them being, well, Ascenders.”

Mathew nodded. “I just sometimes feel like we can’t repay what they give us. I know the arguments about it being easy or not costly for them, but I still feel bad sometimes. I know it doesn't make sense and they don’t see it that way, but any time I hang out with them I can’t help but feel they are wasting their time doing so, and could be doing something more important. It’s dumb but I… I just. Ugh.”

Melinda understood, as Mathew had said such things before, but she didn’t see it that way. Matt, Liz, and Aster, let alone Allie, Zack, Susanne, and everyone else of higher station than themselves, were their friends because they still treated them like normal people, despite their status. Mathew tried to understand, but having not really lived with that experience, didn’t realize just how valuable that was.

She deeply understood, but that might be part of the problem.

Rubbing his arm, she prompted him on one of the ideas he had been bandying about.

“What about your idea to expand the training hall with a skill creation branch? Dedicated trainers help a ton over self-study. At a minimum, the time savings are valuable for the kids and you might discover something yourself. How cool would that be if people started using a skill upgrade path thingy that you yourself made?”

Mathew shook his head slightly.

“I have b—”

Melinda knew what he was going to say and shoved her head into his broad chest, groaning playfully.

“Please don’t say you're not good enough.”

Laughing, he let himself fall to the ground where they were able to cuddle.

After considering her words, she said, “You're underselling yourself, honey. I won’t force it, but I really think you ought to pursue it.”

Mathew sighed. “Love, I know it's impressive I made all five skills in just seven years, but that's not the fastest. It's decent, but there are thousands of decent people with the new skills. Why do they need me to throw my hat into the ring? It’s better I keep quiet and ensure there is more space for the truly exceptional.”

Sitting up, Melinda gave Mathew a hard look. “Stop selling yourself short. I want you to go for it. I—” he opened his mouth to interrupt her, but she put a finger to his lips so she could finish. “You’ve gotten in your own head. I need you to trust me and just go for it. You have a lot to offer if you would just try. You don’t need to be the best, that's not what the people you help need. They just need help, and you are head and shoulders above that standard.”

Seeing him force out a grin, Melinda retracted her finger to replace it with a quick peck.

“Maybe you are right. I just sometimes feel like I’m out of my depth, you know?”

Melinda blew a raspberry on his neck, causing him to squirm. “Yes, doofus. I do know the feeling. And if you’d open up to Matt and the others, I’m sure they’d say the exact same things.”

“They would jus—” stopping, Mathew caught himself. “I’m doing it again aren't I?”

“Yes, but you are learning.”

“Maybe I should expand the school. I do think the skills will be impactful. Even now they are making waves, but I think it's only the beginning. In another hundred years I think things will really start to change, and I can’t even predict what low level delving will look like past that.”

Poking him in the rib, Melinda encouraged him more. “Then rise with the tide. Push the limits and then maybe you can even teach the guild something about the skills.”

Mathew cackled at the idea. “Now that would be funny. Could you imagine Matt’s face if I was giving a lecture on the skills when he came back.”

Together, they relaxed for a few more hours before she had to go back to working on her Anchor.

Her vain hope that she’d just run into the perfect monster or something like that hadn’t panned out.

All of the monsters felt partially right, but none of them were perfect, which told her she was once more close to the right idea, but not quite there yet. With that in mind, she had recently been considering different Anchors.

Her current idea was a seed that blossomed into whatever she needed, but it still wasn’t quite right.

The second half of the idea, her Anchor being malleable, felt right. But the first half, the seed, was only close— not exactly what she needed.

Flying down to Palustris and donning a mask to conceal her identity, she visited random seed and flower shops, just trying to see if any of the new stock called to her. But despite visiting over fifty shops, nothing clicked.

She contemplated visiting Aster’s capital, weighing the discomfort of the architectural designs the Federation had made with her effort levels.

Eventually, she forced herself forward.

Aster’s capital was objectively fine, and neighboring Palustris, as well as five other Empire worlds, was leading to distinct changes, even less than a hundred or so years into the integration process. But everything still felt slightly alien.

Making her way to a local flower shop, she was distracted by a small healing clinic with half a dozen people inside waiting to be seen.

Unable to stop herself, she entered the clinic and stepped into the back, waiting for the healer, a Tier 8, to finish with their current patient before introducing herself.

She was looked at with suspicion, as she didn’t show her Tier or real identity, but rather one of the many false healing identities she had, not wanting to get too entangled.

After proving she was competent and able to prescribe the proper medicine to a father and his daughter who had both come down with a variation of whooping cough that had lingered for two months already, she was given leave to see patients so long as she ran her diagnosis through the healer.

Internally amused, she didn’t complain and just fell into the rhythm of being a local healer.

It was nice. She wouldn’t say she preferred it, but she didn’t mind it. Hospital work was frantic, with something new every day as injuries and rare cases were sent to them, which kept things interesting. But it was sometimes nice to just help people by prescribing a new diet, suggesting a new workout regime that would be less impactful on their aging joints, or just walking a young teen through the embarrassing facts of puberty and how best to handle all that was coming.

While she wanted to be able to heal the worst of the injuries, this was also an important part of being a healer.

When the backlog was cleared up, she quietly slipped out, looking while she went to check a few flower stores.

In her walk, she paused as her gaze was caught by one of the Federation playground devices. Someone had gathered a tube of algae that absorbed sunlight and released it at night for a soft but inviting glow.

She had considered algae before and discarded the idea, but seeing the functional art piece, she reconsidered.

Still not perfect, she continued on until her eyes were drawn to the small expansion joints in the sidewalk, where small amounts of life thrived even under the feet of thousands. A few hardy grasses, but mainly the fungi and mosses.

Both were part of the ecosystem just as much as flowers and trees.

Why should she choose?

She wanted life, not a specific kind of life. She had seen the many things life could form from death in the rifts Matt was kind enough to build, but it was as varied as the real world.

Maybe her answer was as simple as that?

Life was life and propagated and spread in all manner of ways and forms.

Stepping to the side, she held out her hand and pictured a seed— not a particular seed, but a generic one, the idea of a seed, which could birth anything from a creeping moss to a towering tree.

Melinda didn’t instantly form her Anchor, but she felt—no, she knew— that she was on the right path.

It was now just a matter of time and effort.

She had never been afraid of those though.
