Ren did it in 2 seconds and handed it to her. She set up the wood braces and pointed to the glass forge. Ren reached in and picked up the crucible with a bare hand and he remembered how much she had used on the other pane. He used his Fire Manipulation skill to keep the glass from getting hot and poured the silver-steel over the back of it and used his fingers to spread it around and made sure it covered everything as he absorbed the heat from it.

Janice had watched in fascination and shock as he did in seconds what had taken her almost 10 minutes to do. Ren put the nearly empty crucible back into the glass forge and moved the wood braces out of the way and picked up the mirror to show Janice her own reflection.

Notice!

You have unlocked a new sub skill under Glassworking: Mirroring Level 1 (Beginner 0%)

This skill allows you to apply various metals to glass to make mirrors. Higher levels will allow faster crafting and application of it's effects to much larger pieces of glass with less warping, and can make mirrored effects on other materials.

Cool. Ren thought. “How does it look?”

“It's... fine.” Janice said, and Ren felt sadness from her.

“Hey, don't feel bad about this.” Ren said and put the mirror down. “I can pick up skills pretty quickly, but having the ability to use those skills still takes time.”

“But... you just... in seconds.”

Ren chuckled. “That's only because I can absorb the heat.” He said. “Look at the mess on the back because I used my fingers.”

Janice picked up the mirror and flipped it over, and Ren was right. His fingerprints were all over the back, and it was streaked all over.

“Now look at yours.” Ren said and she flipped hers over to compare them. “It's going to take me a long time to get to your expertise.”

Her mirror was perfectly flat and you couldn't tell where she had added each set of drops and used the tool to spread it out.

“But...”

“Janice, you're a fantastic glassworker.” Ren said and went to touch her with his hand, saw the fingers were covered in silver, then switched hands and touched her with his clean hand instead. “Don't you dare be discouraged by my ability to pick skills up so quickly.”

Janice nodded.

“By the way, while you were huffing and puffing and blowing on the silver backing to cool it, I was trying to not imagine that I was a little piggy that wanted you to blow my house down.”

Janice snorted and then laughed out loud.

“On that note, I better go.” Ren said and turned around to leave, then Janice's arms wrapped around him. She leaned down to hug him from behind.

“This she-wolf needs to check if your house is made of straw.” Janice said, and her hand slid down and over his crotch. “Mmm. It's made of bricks.” She said as she rubbed him, kissed his ear, and whispered. “Little pig, little pig. Let me in.”

Ren took in a deep breath and let it out. “N-not by the h-hair of my chinny-chin-chin.”

Janice stopped rubbing him and moved around to his front. “Oh, you silly little pig.” She smiled, leaned in, and kissed his chin. “You don't have any hair on your chin.”

Ren stared at her as she knelt down in front of him. Janice looked up at his face and didn't see a 'no' there, so she used her hands to undo his pants and pulled them down.

“I'm going to huff.” Janice said as she looked at how excited he was and put a hand around it, then moved her hand up and down once. “I'm going to puff.” She said and took a deep breath to prepare herself for what she was about to do, and looked back up at him. “I'm going to blow your brick house down.”

Ren didn't say no, or even shake his head; mainly because he was really turned on by their little word play, and how she had so easily twisted his joke around to her advantage. Janice took his silence as permission and tried her best to blow his house down.

********

“I guess Stella was right.” Barbara said as the Blue Screen Protocol once again engaged. She sighed and looked at Ren's inert form on the bed. “Once that can of worms was opened, you really can't get enough of it, can you?” She pat his immobile hand. “You poor thing.”
