"There are no known ways to do so. Even those who unlock knowledge magic are extremely rare, mostly because trying to is generally considered suicide." he thought about something for a few moments, "The only time I've heard of it succeeding was in a young man from a noble house who couldn't manifest his own. In desperation he bought the reagents and did the rituals. It worked and he gained the ability to do magic, but he died not five years later. I've heard of many similar cases where the person in question blew up or caught on fire when the magic was forced into them though."

I wondered for a bit if that was what had happened to me in my previous life. If the fruit had tried to force magic into me and that had been the end. I stared at my hand and shuddered. The pain was something I never wanted to experience again.

"Alright. That's enough for today, off you go." and with that Mystien shooed me off to my other chores.

As was his tradition, the mayor came by just before the first snow fell. He found us at the little area our hamlet was using for training. I'd come by to watch, it was a good place to sit around with Sara and talk. It was such a good place that almost all of the older girls had made it their usual habit to sit out of the way and chat while they did a bit of handiwork. With only pure intentions I'm sure.

The mayor came up to my father and began to speak, "Verren, as I'm sure you know, things haven't really improved..."

Dad cut him off with a wave of his hand, "Malke, you've had years to come up with a solution to this, or at least plan something earlier. You're not getting it from us this year."

Huh, I guess the mayor's name was Malke. Everybody always just called him 'the mayor' as far as I'd heard.

The mayor paled, "Now wait a moment, please be reasonable...""I have, and I have thought about it enough, we cannot spare her this year, and that is final." his tone was hard.

The man looked to me for only a moment, almost like he wanted to ask me. He then thought better of himself, "What am I to do then?" he asked.

"You are the mayor, it is your duty to figure that out." dad was being a bit harsh in my opinion, but he did have a point.

And so it was decided that I would stay at home for the winter this year, and hopefully for the years to come. Going to town for the whole season was frankly a bit grating.

"Dad, why did you tell the mayor we wouldn't help him this winter?" I asked at dinner. I was happy, but I still thought there were things I was missing.

"I told him, he's not worked to come up with a solution yet, it's irritating." he said, then continued, "I've also heard that people are starting to learn about you, and we need to put a stop to that, not going this year will help."

"Did you actually want to go?" asked Rod from the side. He was ever the peanut gallery.

"No, it's a pain," I told him, "I'd prefer to stick around here."

"That's good," added in peanut gallery number two, "it's a lot less running for us."

"You boys are missing the point." mom piped in, "The whole operation will be easier on your sister, us, and all our neighbors."

"What do our neighbors have to do with it?" Rod asked, "I get Alana and us, since she can keep the house warm, but how them?"

She flicked him on the forehead, he was getting a bit big for a spanking now, "If she's not using all her mana to heal up those soldiers for the idiot mayor, she can make more bread to feed them. You can also do group magic can't you dear?" she asked me, to which I nodded.

"Oh! we can invite a couple of the girls over to join in, and it'll be a great time!" I was excited to actually enjoy my winter for once.

"Hey, I have a friend or two that could help, you don't have to only invite girls." Rod boldly jumped in again.

It was my turn to flick him on the forehead. As I did so I had to appreciate that my brothers were truly growing, he had to be pushing six feet. "Girls are more fun to talk to. I was going to invite Sara and Sandra, but I'll just tell them you don't want them around."

"Oi oi! I never said that!" he panicked.

Dad leaned over, clamping him on the shoulder, "Son, you've lost this one, it's important to know when to give up." that got a few laughs.

Winter was a wonderful affair. A couple of the local girls would join us every day for a singing craft circle, with breaks to talk about whatever local gossip was flying around, which mostly concerned how much of a wreck the village was at the moment, and discuss our projects. Sara came almost every day, and in that time I managed to make myself a nice little woven belt. It was long and doubled over, so I could use it for years, and sew little pockets for things like hidden coins and spare bobby pins into it. I privately named it my utility belt, a joke that nobody on this world would get.

Sandra ended up coming by quite a bit too. Her excuse was to spend time with her sister, but from where I sat it looked like she just wanted to make puppy eyes at Rod. She even volunteered to fix up one of his shirts when he ripped it. Mom even nodded her approval at that. Rod for his part became a clumsy, absolute mess when she was too near, and had to be monitored by more responsible adults. A list which included everyone.

It wasn't all wonderful, my main complaint was our diet. It consisted of bread, bread, cheese, bread, yogurt, bread, bread, and bread. Winter had always been a bit tight, but this was getting out of hand. There was also the fact that we had less lamp oil, most people were converting any edible fat into food, so it was a no go this year. I could have used a light spell to fix our lamp problem, but doing that all the time was not really feasable.

As the winter wore on there were a few arguments about who was allowed to come over to our house every day, and how much food everyone got from me. It was tense, but it boiled down to the fact that my close friends were getting some real preferential treatment. A couple of the families who didn't have kids that could come play with us got a bit cross about being left out, and a deal had to be brokered to keep everyone happy. That deal boiled down to a series of food deliveries from those who did visit us often, all monitored for fairness by my father. I'm sure some of the people didn't really trust that he was going to see to it that things were distributed fairly, but all seemed to agree that accusing him of not doing so was a stupid act.

Relief washed over me as the snow finally started to melt and the first green sprigs poked their heads out. Relief and the desire for any possible variety in my diet.
