Admittedly, Jake did get the feeling this was a skill he would have to use sparingly and only when really stuck, and ”praying” to Villy definitely felt weird, but this wasn’t a good reason to write off the skill.

Needless to say, out of all the ones offered so far, this was the best, and Jake wouldn’t have been disappointed if he ended up with this one. Just reading the description, his head was already full of ideas.

Alas, he had one final skill remaining… one that proved to be slightly familiar yet also different from the one he’d just mentally gone over.

[Heretic-Chosen’s Invocation of the Malefic Viper (Mythical)] – What’s his is yours, and yours, his. At least that’s how you see things. Allows the Heretic-Chosen to invoke an aspect of the Malefic Viper to temporarily inhabit your body and soul and empower any Malefic Viper Legacy skill of your choosing. If crafting while under the effect of the Malefic Viper’s aspect, the chance of activating Malefic Viper’s Poison is enormously increased. Any skill empowered will become temporarily unavailable and only retain a weakened version of its passive effects after use. Upon embodying the aspect of the Malefic Viper, the empowered Legacy skill will grow increasingly unstable, dependent on exertion. The longer a skill is empowered, the longer it shall become unavailable afterwards. While using this skill, you gradually absorb Records from the Malefic Viper, but in return, you also echo back far more Records than usual to your Patron, equalizing the exchange. When invoking an aspect of the Malefic Viper, the Primordial will know, even if he cannot stop it. Due to the strain this skill puts on your soul and body, it cannot be used in concert with any boosting skills. Through invocation of the Malefic Viper, allow power surpassing your wildest imagination to enter your grasp.

As mentioned, many parts of this skill were similar to the one before, seeing as both dealt with infusing himself with an ”aspect of the Malefic Viper” as the system called it. Jake assumed this was some sort of Record Fragment or Record funnel, but either way, both would allow him to absorb Records and use them, albeit in two very different ways.

Invocation allowed Jake to empower a Legacy skill, which made the skill full of potential and with immense future possibilities as Jake received more skill upgrades to his Legacy skills. Not to say Prayer didn’t also have insane potential.

This skill also didn’t have any restriction of not being able to use it in combat, though it did say he couldn’t use it together with a boosting skill, which definitely made it far less effective when fighting. Like Prayer, Jake was fairly confident that Invocation was primarily intended to empower his crafting for a limited period, effectively allowing Jake to overcome barriers when he got stuck.

Double-checking the Invocation description, he also saw that this one didn’t include any experience penalties, though it did say that Jake would send back more Records to Villy while the skill was active. Sure, he would absorb some, too, but he had no idea if those two canceled each other out or who would benefit. Perhaps they both would.

When it came to obvious downsides, there was the part about the empowered Legacy skill becoming unavailable for an unknown period after use, though it appeared they would retain some of their passive effects. This seemed to be the only backlash he could suffer from the skill. Alright, there was also the part about the Legacy skill becoming unstable if empowered for too long, but Jake didn’t really view that as a downside, just what’s to be expected.

Needless to say, Jake only saw the two mythical skills as valid options for this selection, with both having obvious upsides and downsides while also remaining very familiar. He had many ideas for how both could potentially be exploited or cleverly used, simply from reading them. When it came to helping him become better at crafting, Prayer seemed the best option, as it provided him with instinctual knowledge; however, he disliked the fact that the skill was called Prayer. With Invocation, it seemed a lot more unrestricted and full of possibilities, but he would have to find these possibilities himself.

Both were extremely good, and he wanted them; however, he could only pick one. So, the question was… which one?
