“The wizards are still using Shapers of Water to overwhelm the Submerger’s—”

“I heard on the news.”

“It is more important than our club.”

“I know that!” Alden said. “I just…forgot she was a Water Shaper temporarily.”

He pressed his finger to the green ring and pointed it at the ground. There was a rustling sound and a yelp as a one stray teenager fell out of the bottom of the tree and one Nine-edge Son emerged from the top.

Andrzej stared while Alden beckoned his ride.

“Do you want to come with me?” Alden asked.

<<No,>> Andrzej said, turning his head to exam the tree again like he thought another one might pop out. <<I can walk.>>

******

[Heading to the Convo class meeting, Lute], Alden texted as he hurried up the stairs behind a girl with canary yellow hair. She was scattering loads of Anesidoran Forever stickers on every landing.

That slogan seems to be taking hold fast, he thought, leaping over some of the stickers and landing on his squishboot so hard that his ankle actually complained for the first time since he’d started wearing the thing.

Shit.

It was easy to forget he was injured when walking didn’t hurt. And he’d gotten so used to the boot already that the lack of feedback from the foot trapped inside it no longer called his attention.

Better slow down.

[Are you logging in to the class online or something?] he asked Lute.

[I’m supposed to be,] Lute answered. [Rao hasn’t sent the call-in link though. Guess she’s going to be late like usual.]

A second later, he video called Alden. He was still sitting in the blanket fort, minus one F-rank Rabbit girl.

“Emilija had to head to Franklin,” he said, plopping himself back onto a mound of mismatched pillows and sofa cushions.“They don’t have classes today, but she does have some stuff to take care of this afternoon. It’ll probably take her ages to get there with the way travel’s going right now. How are things?”

“Okay,” Alden said automatically. Then, he paused with one hand on the banister. He did have a little bit of unwanted tension in his chest. It had been there ever since he’d told the guys about Thegund.

Just leftovers. Telling hadn’t been that hard. But deciding it was time to and wondering about what they’d think had been.

“I’m good,” he said. “I told Lexi and Haoyu about it. The thing I told you about on the day we had our big wordchain learning session.”

“What did they say?” Lute was walking a round snack cracker across the backs of his fingers the way some people did coins. At a very high rate of speed. Without it crumbling.

“I wonder if I can do that,” said Alden.

“They said that? About getting an award like yours? They’re even more ambitious than I realized. Has it occurred to you hero brain people that you’re not immort—”

“No! I meant I wanted to do what you’re doing with the cracker. Haoyu and Lexi were great about it.”

“Ohhhh.” Lute popped his toy in his mouth and crunched it. Without bothering to swallow, he said, “I told you. Didn’t I? Haoyu’s a classy guy. And Lexi’s got class, too. He just hides it underneath his personality.”

“It’s nice to have it out in the open with you three,” Alden said, continuing his ascent. “And everything else is fine.”

School exists. Lots of happy alive people here.

A minute later, he reached the classroom, grabbed an ass-abused cushion for the hell of it, and knelt to wait for Instructor Rao. Almost the whole class was present. Most people had been on campus on Friday night, so they hadn’t gotten stuck in F.

The volume of the chatter increased as time passed, and Alden started to wonder if the instructor was going to make an appearance at all.

“She’s ten minutes late to a meeting that only lasts fifteen,” Lute pointed out. “If something had happened to her, the school would have told us, wouldn’t they?”

A painted wooden ball smacked the floor at the edge of Alden’s cushion. The object was someone’s craft project, and a group of students had been tossing it back and forth for a while now, trying out different tricks on it with their magic. This time, when it impacted, it didn’t make the sharp sound he would have expected from wood on wood. And it bounced up and over him like it was made of rubber.

“Hey, is that a property transfer spell!? I didn’t know you had that!” the boy to his left called jovially to the thrower as he stepped forward to catch it and toss it back to the other side of the room.

The class had gotten so loud that Alden was honestly surprised none of the faculty members from the neighboring rooms had come in to tell them all to knock it off.

“Hey, knock it off!” a girl sitting in the back corner said.

I guess she’s thinking the same thing.

About half of the students turned to look at her.

“People died,” she said severely. “We shouldn’t be playing around today.”

“She’s right,” a guy agreed. “Let’s show some respect. Like Daikon in the uniform.”

Alden raised a hand and waved. “If you don’t mind, it’s Alden. Not Daik—”

<<Something bad happening doesn’t mean we’re all obligated to be miserable 24/7.>>

“Yeah, some girl acted like I was a traitor for asking her to turn the common room television to anything but the news last night. But we’ve all been watching the news for two days straight. My family is living in a dome. I want to be able to sit down for an hour with my friends and not think about the attackers and the fact that the place where I grew up is ruined.”

They started bickering, Alden failed to get another word in, and Lute shook his head sadly. “You’re Daikon forever now.”

“Yeah probably. I’m taking Lexi and Kon down to F later. Do you want me to pick you up while I’m there? We’re planning to leave as soon as we’re all done with our—”

“Hey! Little kids!” someone suddenly shouted over all the other voices in the room.

Alden and everyone else looked up to see a heavily freckled girl in a university t-shirt and shorts strolling into the room, flip-flops slapping her heels. She cracked her chewing gum and looked around at them all.

“Sorry I’m late,” she said. “But I was asleep until twenty minutes ago when the head of the language department called to ask if I’d take this job. Been doing clean-up with the uni volunteer corps. I’m Kelly, and I’ll be your teacher until the end of the quarter.”

She made finger pistols at them.

“I like her,” said Lute.

“Is Instructor Rao all right?” someone asked.

“Oh my gosh, she didn’t…!”

“She’s fine,” said Kelly. “I mean, her priorities are a little…but she’s healthy as far as I know. She resigned. She’s chasing her dreams and giving up on teaching.”

Her dreams? Alden wondered.

He wasn’t the only person wearing a confused expression.

“Soooo…” Kelly interlaced her fingers and stretched her arms over her head. “I’ll just tell you if you don’t already know. Everyone in uni’s gossiping about it anyway. Instructor Rao’s one of those people who wants to get off of this rock. She wants to live on one of the Artonas and not come back. But she doesn’t get summoned a lot, so she’s taking her shot now by trying to find a wizard who wants to carry her back home with them.”

Nobody said anything for a few seconds, and then everyone started talking or laughing at once.

“She wants to be the poacher lady who gets together with the farmers!”

“Maybe she just wants to work for them full time?”

“If they find out how checked-out she is as a teacher they’ll never let her near one of their planets.”

“I can’t believe she’s abandoning the school in the middle of a crisis.”

“Go get ‘em, Rao!”

“She’s doing exactly what the culture advisor just told us all not to do.”

“There’s a guy in my parents’ apartment building who’s trying the same thing!”

Alden was busy thinking about how crazy it was to give up a stable job to chase after an extraterrestrial lifestyle that was not at all a sure thing.

Well, it’s less crazy if you’re Anesidoran. Losing a teaching job and not being hired back wasn’t as big a deal if you were guaranteed a decent quality of life even without the work. And there were a lot of wizards running around. But he’d gotten the impression most of them weren’t at all what Rao was banking on.

On the video floating in front of him, Lute looked amused. “This is kind of funny, but it seems like a terrible choice on her part.”

[I’m pretty sure most of the new wizards who are here right now don’t even have summoning rights for our species,] Alden texted him. [I think a lot of them are here to prove they deserve those rights. Probably there are a few who could invite her to come live on the Triplanets, but how’s she even going to know which ones they are?]

Kelly clapped her hands together. “All right. Everyone turn your Artonan translation off real quick for me.”

“We’re having class?” someone asked. “There are only a few minutes left.”

“I said turn ‘em off. Or you fail.”

A couple of people looked petrified. Kelly laughed. “Man, maybe I do want to be a teacher. Okay, kids. System not helping you anymore? Good good. Here we go. I’m going to tell you all a serious, sad story about three Artonans.”

She cleared her throat and started speaking in Artonan, in a low and serious voice: “The three of us pass now along a high and narrow branch. Though our hands cannot be joined, I see your braid before me. I hear her steps behind me. I am like a river in its ————. The ———— you make for me will keep me on my way. Let us go now and thrust the stones of fruit we already digested into the nostrils of that guy over there.”

Alden burst out laughing.

Which ended up being awkward because everyone else was nodding along in sympathy, apparently taking her at her word that the story was serious.

“Only one of you?” Kelly said in a depressed voice, swapping languages. “Man, you guys suck. When did the high school language classes get so lax? Uniformed Kid with Good Cushion Manners, summarize what I just said in Artonan, then translate it for the room.”

“Oh…really…?”

“Choppity chop,” said Kelly.

Alden summarized then translated it, guessing that the words he hadn’t understood were “riverbed” and some version of “path.” A few people guffawed, including Lute. One boy looked offended for some reason.

“You said it was a sad story!”

“It was sad for the nostrils,” Kelly answered with a shrug. She looked at Alden. “On your honor, are you using any disallowed spells or recorders or anything to make you better at the language?”

“No,” someone answered before Alden could. “He actually speaks Artonan already.”

“Yeah, Alden’s the moon Rabbit.”

Kelly gave them all a blank look.

Alden opened his mouth to explain himself.

“He was stuck on a moon,” someone else offered.

“Oh!” said Kelly. “That kid. Wow. Nice to have you back on Earth.”

“Thank—”

“He’s got one of the general’s flying devices! He’s just riding around campus on it.”

“What?”

“Seriously?”

“I heard someone did! It was him?”

Every eye in the room turned to him. Alden stiffened on his cushion and felt a polite smile fix itself on his face.

“That is interesting.” Kelly tilted her head as she regarded him. “But not relevant to Conversation class. Alden, right? You can neglect to show up for the rest of term. Come for your final, and we’ll make it your grade.”

People gasped like she’d just pulled a ribbon-wrapped pony out of her pocket.

“What about the rest of us?”

“Give us another chance!”

“That’s not fair!”

“It is fair,” said Kelly. She swept both hands toward Alden “This person speaks Artonan.”

She waved her arms to indicate the rest of them. “These people do not. I’m going to be one of the fairest teachers you’ve ever met!”

“Can I still come to class if I want to?” Alden asked.

Lute groaned. “Take the win and run, you fool!”

[You don’t like me as a convo partner?] This was the class where he’d been socializing with Lute and learning his wordchains.

Of course it will probably be different with a teacher who actually seems to care about student progress on an individual level.

Kelly’s eyes scanned him. “I guess the vibes you’re giving off are accurate.”

“I don’t need you!” shouted Lute from inside his blanket fort. “Run! Be free!”

“Sure. Show up if you want,” said Kelly. “Or not. But I figure I should spend most of my time focusing on the people who are actually in need of instruction. To the rest of you: I’m excited! Pumped! See you all on Wednesday. Don’t be late.”

******

“What are you doing next?” Lute asked while Alden stood on the roof of Forthright, calling the nonagon to him.

“Going to the administrative building. For the personal advisement.”

“What personal advisement?” Lute’s fingers swiped through the air. “Balls. Did I miss something? I wasn’t extraordinarily focused when I first got the schedule. At least not on the schedule…no, I don’t see that on mine.”

Alden frowned as he tossed his bag onto the flying platform and then jumped aboard to join it.

“I didn’t mention it to Lexi and Haoyu. I was more focused on all the other stuff, too. Do you think it’s only me?”

“That would be odd. Maybe it’s just because I’m not on campus,” said Lute.

“You never said if you want me to pick you up this afternoon or not.”

