“I do,” said Lute. “Cyril’s apartment’s been cleared, so I don’t need to stay here to give him an ‘in’ into the Velra property and buffer him. And I really don’t want to hang out with him for much longer. While drunk and nearly hypothermic, he shoved my head under his armpit and told me he didn’t want someone named Polly to talk shit about me. As far as apologies go, that might be the best I could have hoped for, but I’m still ready for some peace and quiet.”

“What about your…” Your mom, thought Alden. But he changed his mind before he asked the question.

“What about your family’s boat?” he asked instead.

“Random question.”

Alden had actually been wondering because of Kabir’s story about being rescued from Libra.

Almost by accident, he had thus far avoided telling his roommates he was staying at Matadero. It felt like the kind of thing they could all figure out if they tried, but conversation just hadn’t gone there yet. And there had been so much other ground to cover.

“Libra survived,” said Lute. “I heard it was on the other side of Matadero when everything happened. That Submerger stuff almost all headed in the opposite direction. The mansion did get flooded, but if the Grandwitch doesn’t have some poor Avowed locked up in there casting drying spells already, I’ll be shocked.”

Alden lifted off the roof and headed toward his next stop.

“You look so proud of yourself,” Lute said.

“No I don’t.”

“You look like you’re enjoying the breeze in your hair as you soar above—”

“I’ve decided that if I’m going to be the caretaker of this fine flying forsaken son, I’m going to appreciate it. What else is there to do?”

Lute looked thoughtful. “A barrel roll.”

“Yes.”

“I see you’ve thought of it already.”

Alden had a couple of minutes to spare, so he didn’t rush his flight toward the gray-shingled roof of the admin building. He watched Lute shake cracker crumbs off one of the cushions in his fort.

There was a question he wanted to ask, but he felt like he needed to be careful how he asked.

At Benjamin Velra’s birthday party, Lute had offered to give Alden a “free” Peace of Mind. But Alden didn’t think free meant free for Lute, and he didn’t want to lean on a friendship that was only a few weeks old with something like, “Will you take a three-hour-long dose of bad emotions for me?”

Huh. If Boe was here and he didn’t hate using his powers how would he interact with something like that?

“Hey man,” he said, trying to keep his voice casual, “I’ve been wondering. What kind of wordchains do you hate paying back the most? Like…which ones absolutely suck?”

Please say you hate something physical. Something physical.

“The Gloss,” Lute said dryly.

He pointed at his false eye, then cackled at the look that appeared on Alden’s face.

“This reminds me of our first class together!” Lute crowed. “The eye jokes never get old!”

“Your sense of humor is so wrong!”

“You walked into it.”

Alden groaned.

“The thing about paying back debts is it’s so situational,” said Lute. “Anything that has two potentially positive halves is good. Anything I can sleep off is okay. It changes when you start talking about stronger chains, too. A low level skin sensitivity chain can be fine on both halves. But as the power increases it becomes problematic. In general, the negative sides of mental improvement chains are tough, of course, and—”

Dammit.

It would’ve been perfect if Lute had confessed that he loathed paying off strength chains or something like that. Alden could’ve offered to swap debts.

But nobody’s going to tell me they like the wordchain that makes them feel nervous, depressed, or afraid. It was crazy of me to ask anyway. I’ll pay for my own decisions.

He had the whole day off tomorrow, and he could use that to pay off one of the Peace of Minds. He’d lie in his hospital bed and have a nice anxiety attack with his nonjudgmental snake friend.

Better to do it when his only roommate was a reptile.

“—right now I’m kind of worried about myself,” Lute was saying. “I might have been just a tad over the top with my usage. Do you think we get in trouble for breaking public property if it was during an emergency and for a righteous cause? Because I…”

Suddenly, Lute’s expression changed. He got onto his feet, crouching so that his head didn’t hit the blanket above him.

“Is something wrong?”

“Nah,” said Lute, his face distracted. “I mean, probably not. Roman’s mom just yelled something about Aulia murdering Orpheus in public, but she’s a bit of an alarmist.”

“Do you need to go?”

“No. It’s fine. I don’t care what they’re all doing. I worried the Grandwitch would appear and bother me while I was here, but she hasn’t been around. She hasn’t been on television either. I would have expected to see her all over the place, sticking her face in front of cameras for the public show.” He cocked his head. “Yeah. There we go. She’s live-streaming herself now. The family is all dutifully tuning in. She’s probably delivering sympathies and gently reminding everyone that she has her love for Anesidora tattooed over whatever organ pumps your blood when you’re an evil creature of the darkness masquerading as a human.”

“I thought Orpheus was your cousin with the personal struggles?”

“That is such a sweet way of saying he’s been willfully obliterating his own mind and body since he was barely older than us. Every time he gets healed up, he goes right back to it.”

“Does Aulia usually stream with him?” Alden asked, trying to fit the new intel into his increasingly convoluted mental map of Velra relationships.

“Noo…she doesn’t.” Lute smiled. “Okay. Now I’m a little too curious not to look. Let’s see what the Grandwitch is scheming. I’ll send you a link.”

When it arrived, Alden opened it with a thought, planning to just take a quick glimpse before his advisement session.

Aulia Velra stood on a wharf with a container crane in the background. She wore a black sweater and a single strand of pearls. Her blonde hair was in a tight, high ponytail, and the look on her face was so piercing it was almost as if she could see across space to meet every viewer’s eyes with her own.

“Anesidora,” she said, her rich voice devoid of its usual note of cheer, “we are facing one of our more difficult trials now, aren’t we? So many of you have been so brave, and I won’t betray that bravery with cowardice. Even if it costs me a piece of my own heart.”

She looked down, and the camera shifted to show a clearer view of the thin, dark-haired man who sat sobbing at her feet.

“The Submerger was in my care. And it was stolen and sold to those who ultimately caused all of this tragedy by my own blood.”

She held a hand to her chest. “I cannot make amends. All I can offer you is my confession.”******

******
