Loudly identifying himself to the first scouts to arrive, Goujian scowled when he realized the primitives didn’t understand the common tongue and took him for a lone Imperial Expert, intent on attacking him despite obviously being outmatched. Less courage and more blood-lust, but such... single-mindedness would show its value when directed at their Imperial foes. Still, one less soldier would hardly lose them the battle, and it’d been some time since Goujian stretched his muscles. Without bothering to even draw his sword, he advanced on the bloodthirsty scouts until they were close enough to recognize him as a Chosen of Heaven, though the leading rider was moving too fast to avoid him. Leaping over the gajashia’s snapping beak and swinging horns, Goujian stomped lightly on its head and kicked the impudent rider in the chest with full strength, ousting the Defiled tribesman from the saddle with the crack of bones. Twisting about in mid-air, Goujian landed atop the gajashia’s back and pulled the reins, squeezing the creature’s midsection with his Reinforced strength until it accepted his commands. Bringing the creature around, he rode towards the army, Goujian intended to trample the Defiled rider as he laid crippled in the grass, but the gajashia had other ideas. Lifting the dying Defiled in its gnashing beak, it raised its head to the sky and swallowed the still-living warrior whole. Kicking and screaming for a whole half a minute, the scout finally fell silent and lifeless with half his body sticking out of the creature’s beak, his feet still pointed skyward as his body sank into its gullet.

Perhaps Goujian’s worries regarding their mismatched cavalry forces were unfounded. Gajashia’s were far more fearsome than mere horses, which should be more than enough to make up for their rider’s deficiencies...

Riding unchallenged through the Defiled horde, Goujian took a measure of pride in the wary glances thrown his way, the mindless savages possessing just enough acuity to understand his place above them. Such was the Will of Heaven, the Chosen standing high above all else, as evidenced not only by the Defiled, but also by how wild or untrained animals balked in his presence. An oversight considering his work as a farrier could have easily exposed him as such if he had been working with draft horses and the like, but luckily the poor deceased patriot had found Goujian a posting working with battle-trained warhorses, which were vicious creatures who snapped at everyone aside from their rider. A lesson learned for the next time he sought to infiltrate an area, but it was rather inconvenient since working with animals was the easiest way to avoid Experts in general. Few men of wealth and status would ever visit sheep pens or horse stables, but they often came in contact with servants, cooks, coolies, and other menial labourers whilst going about their day.

An issue to solve another day. Keeping the gajashia firmly in check, Goujian nodded at the Chosen as he rode past, spouting inane niceties and platitudes to the marching soldiers. Not that his encouragement was needed, for what use was there for the approval of a man when the Heavens themselves guided their actions? Focused, disciplined, and well-armed soldiers wielding the true power of the Heavens, this all-conquering battalion of Chosen was merely the first of many to come, so long as young Gen remained alive to convince reasonable and open-minded Imperial citizens of the Truth. Another reason why Goujian thought the Uniter a fool for risking such a talented young treasure, but considering the mysterious puppeteer’s many accomplishments, perhaps a more insidious motive was at play here. In light of his meteoric growth, it was clear the Heavens favoured young Gen, so it was likely the Uniter felt threatened and intended to remove the threat before it grew to match him. As such, this meant it was up to Goujian to keep young Gen safe, but the issue was how?

Offering a martial salute as he brought his mount in line, Goujian greeted young Gen with a smile. “So good to see you here, young warrior. A fine army we’ve assembled here, one fit to run roughshod over the misguided fools of Sinuji and perhaps even raze the burgeoning citadels themselves.”

Though young Gen acted indifferent to the praise, Goujian could tell he was pleased. “A fine army indeed, though it irks me I’m not in command. He wants to speak with you when we make camp.” Narrowing his eyes, he continued, “But enough small talk. What news of Falling Rain? He still lives, yes?”

Pretending not to notice the nine Transcendents closing in around him, Goujian replied, “He does.” With no need to feign disappointment, he added, “This old man failed to take the pretender’s life.”

“Good,” Gen snarled, his teeth bared in a grin as he almost imperceptibly ordered the Transcendents to stand down. Had Goujian succeeded, it seemed young Gen had intended to vent his frustrations by killing the bearer of bad news. Not a man to stomach disappointment, yet another fact to keep in mind for the future. “Falling Rain is mine to kill, and mine alone,” Gen declared, sitting tall in his stylized, silver and green plate armour, a unique set which had been custom tailored for the radiant young hero. “In a mere three days, I will ride at the head of the army as we come upon Sinuji, and then I shall challenge him to single combat. Let all in Sinuji bear witness to my might as I slaughter their Number One Talent with ease.”

If only things would be so simple, but the Will of Heavens warned Goujian of impending danger should Gen follow this course of action. Why the boy refused to heed Heaven’s guidance, Goujian couldn’t say, but it seemed like the young warrior was too obsessed with Falling Rain to care. He had already tried telling young Gen of his suspicions, but alas, the boy was too headstrong to listen to wiser heads, which meant convincing him otherwise would require a more subtle approach. After a few minutes of banal conversation, Goujian bid the boy farewell and fell back to speak with Yuanyin and the army Commander, though who that might be, Goujian wasn’t sure. Out loud, he spoke of happiness at their reunion and inquired about his disciple’s progress, but whenever he sensed the telltale signs of Sending, he transmitted his orders to Yuanyin. “Drink and make merry with young Gen while plying him with tales of great heroes and overwhelming victories. At the same time, stress the importance of morale in battle and how great generals have used it in history. Tell him stories of the other young talents of Sinuji, of Situ Jia Zian, Han BoShui, Wu Gam, Quyen Dienne, and most importantly, Falling Rain’s lover and betrothed, Du Min Yan.”

Yuanyin nodded along, though Goujian saw the question in his eye and explained, “Small steps to guide young Gen towards the proper decision. Convince him of the need to make Falling Rain’s death more dramatic, for the legendary duels in history heralded the end of a battle, not the beginning. Persuade him to let the army crush Sinuji first, to ravage their defences and trample over their hopes, then once they are at his mercy, he can offer them a chance at life by proposing a duel between young talents. It will allow us to showcase our own talents, and you can even profess a desire to test your own skills. Tell him of how glorious it will be to kill Falling Rain’s allies, friends, and lover right in front of his eyes, before culminating in a grand duel to the death between the Emissary of Earth’s Fire and the Number One Talent of the Empire.”

As they rode side by side, Mentor and Disciple shared their thoughts on how to best convince young Gen to take a different course of action. If Falling Rain survived the initial battle, then his protectors would no doubt bring him away, as losing their pawn would set the Imperial agenda back too far. Best if Rain disappeared before the battle was even fought, which was why Goujian left the Imperial scouts he’d come across during his travels untouched. While giving a competent commander like Colonel Hongji so much time to prepare would cost them dearly, Goujian would much rather lose this entire army of Chosen and Defiled than see young Gen slain before his time.

All of this seemed a little extreme to avoid a single Falling Rain, which was how Goujian stumbled across a question he had yet to ask. While he had his reservations about young Gen facing Falling Rain in single combat, those were merely suspicions without confirmation, which begged the question: why were the Heavens so opposed to this duel of young talents? If he didn’t know better, Goujian almost suspected the Heavens were afraid of Falling Rain, but that was an absurd notion.

...

Wasn’t it?

Chapter Meme
