While the games were going on, Shawn took over as the leader of the group, and one by one, Sucri pulled the newbies aside for some one on one conversations. Elise assumed that she was asking about whether they wanted to join the club or not, so she had a brief conversation with Sophie where they both agreed that they wanted to join. When Elise’s turn came, her assumption was proven more or less correct. Sucri did indeed ask how she enjoyed the meeting and whether she wanted to join, but she had a few other things to talk about afterward.

“Do you have time this Wednesday evening?” asked Sucri.

“Yeah,” said Elise. “I thought the next meeting wasn’t until Saturday though.”

“It’s not,” she said, nodding. “But remember how I mentioned that I could have you in the Dungeon by this week if you joined? I’m making good on that promise.”

“Oh!” said Elise happily. “Yeah, I have time.”

“Great! You need staff approval to enter the Dungeon, and since I run one of the clubs that participates in the Dungeon competition, I have the authority to give you that approval. Of course, I need to see you in action first though, so on Wednesday, I’ll take you into the Dungeon and supervise you on the highest Floor. The monsters are weak there, so they shouldn’t pose any issue, and assuming you perform well, you can have your Dungeon permit by Friday.”

“That sounds great!”

“Perfect!” said Sucri. “How does 8 o’clock sound? It’s a bit late, but we won’t need much time. It shouldn’t be more than an hour or two.”

“Sounds good to me,” said Elise.

“Then I will see you then. Make sure you eat first though. Or don’t, if you’re squeamish. But it’s best to enter the Dungeon on at least a partially full stomach.”

“Alright.”

“I’m looking forward to working with you this semester! Let’s see if we can take first place in the rookie competition!”

“Okay!”

Elise returned to the group and joined in a few more games before Sucri announced the end of the official part of the meeting. About half the club members left almost immediately, while the rest stayed to hang out and chat. Elise and Sophie stayed behind for a bit longer, but since they didn’t really know anyone there very well, they left about half an hour later.

The rest of the weekend, Elise made minor progress on all her goals, but nothing of note, which was mildly disappointing. Her progress in her soul realm was accelerating, it wasn’t all disappointment, but she didn’t achieve anything noteworthy. Still, she had a lot to look forward to for the week now that she had finally gotten out of the awful Basic Unattributed Spells class and had the prospect of further leveling on the horizon.

The first day back at classes was pleasantly boring with nothing particularly important happening. It was another lecture day in Aetheric Illusions, so she unfortunately didn’t get to practice her soul defenses more, but she did get to talk to Jessie, who lamented that she still hadn’t figured out how to get permission from the church to have some more freedom. Elise gave her some encouragement, and also wondered if perhaps there was still something she needed to do on her end, despite Titania’s reassurance.

The whole way to her new Intermediate Unattributed Spells class, she ran through possibilities in her mind of what would happen if she revealed herself as the white rabbit to the church, but all thoughts of that were quickly wiped away when she entered the classroom and saw a familiar face. An unpleasantly familiar face. It was Liam Grane, the young noble from registration day who had tried cutting in line and threatening Sophie. And he looked just as happy to see her as she was to see him.
