Currently, she was undercover as an ordinary laborer, but through the recommendation of one of Otto’s contacts, she was on a highly unusual job, which was cleaning up the Blood Syndicate’s mess in the Jungle. A powerful earth or nature mage could likely have cleaned up the entire place in days, demolishing the buildings and leveling the ground, but that was not an option. While there was no doubt that the Blood Syndicate had fallen, they had been a scourge on the continent for decades, and their connections and crimes didn’t fully vanish. There was still much to uncover, and much to be investigated, so they were instead going slowly and methodically, clearing each building carefully and recovering whatever documents or items still remained for evidence.

The reason that Penelope in particular was there was that Otto had heard a rumor that there was a secret vault somewhere in the site that was only accessible to the Lady herself. Kaia’s vague recollections of her time with the Syndicate confirmed that such a thing existed, and Otto’s network confirmed that nothing of the sort had been found yet. That meant that it was still hidden somewhere nearby, waiting to be found, and ideally, Penelope would be the one to find it.

Maia and Kaia were in the vicinity as well, though neither of them had any cover stories. They were simply camping in the Jungle, and providing support whenever Penelope needed it. Maia had stolen a few things that the laborers uncovered, and Kaia was there in hopes that being at the site would jog her memory, and something would come to her. It hadn’t been all that effective, but she assured the other two that she would know something was important if she saw it.

Penelope wasn’t so selfless as to say she wasn’t at least a little bitter about being stuck with the brunt of the work, but her job wasn’t something the other two could do, so she really had no choice. Besides, being the go-to person for lifting heavy objects let her get a very good idea of the state of the camp, and where things were located.

She completed her boss’s task of helping the other workers lift some heavy wooden beams from a collapsed building, and was immediately assigned to moving some fallen rocks, after which they put her on wheelbarrow duty, carting tons of debris out of tunnels they were re-excavating. It was only close to sunset that she finally got assigned to a task in the area she thought was the most promising.

It was right around the area that Kaia said the Lady lived, and the workers had uncovered a fairly extensive network of tunnels beneath it. Many of the tunnels contained living quarters for the vampires, but a few led to other places around the Syndicate headquarters. A lot of the tunnels had been collapsed in the raid, but they were slowly being dug out and re-opened. Penelope and the twins all agreed that if there was any such vault, it would be in this area.

Her task in this area was, of course, lifting and moving some of the heavier stones out of the way. Penelope grumbled about the investigators’ poor planning and lack of earth mages as she worked, but she also kept an eye out for anything that could possibly lead to a hidden vault. There was one place in particular that she was mildly suspicious of, but hadn’t gotten a chance to look at closely. Not until now, at least.

After she finished moving the debris, she was finally told to get some rest, and that she was done for the day, but on her way out, she took a slight detour, ending up alone in the tunnel system and faced what appeared to be a perfectly blank wall. There was nothing particularly special about this section of wall, but Penelope had the vague sense that it was odd. She had no idea why, but whenever she passed by it, she got the feeling there was more to it, and only after staring at it for a few minutes did she realize why: the airflow here was messed up.

No, I’m just imagining things, she told herself.

She sighed and turned to walk away, then stopped.

Wait, hold on.

She turned back to the wall, then reached out her hand to touch it. Her fingers passed right through the stone. Her eyes widened for a moment, but as she pulled her hand back, her face settled.

I must be tired, she thought. Fingers can’t pass through walls.

She turned to leave again, and again stopped, frowning.

Something’s not right.

For nearly ten minutes, she went back and forth, studying the wall, then dismissing it, then turning back to study it again. Each time, she stepped closer and closer to it, until finally, she got suspicious enough that she took a full step into the wall, then another taking her past it. As soon as she was through, the illusion was broken, and she realized what had happened.

Dammit! She thought. How many times have I passed right by this stupid wall without even touching it? Shit!

She cursed at the wall for a few seconds longer before turning her attention down the tunnel that had just been revealed. It looked identical to all the other ones, but the fact that it had been hidden meant it must have been important. And hidden and important sounded like exactly the kind of thing that Penelope was looking for.
