Kaffi seemed mournfully happy to have one final lesson plan. She spoke with the easy air of a private tutor, saying, “It’s rather easy. Physically, you understand. All it takes is some skilled applications of [Polymorph] to get rid of the wrinkles or add or subtract color to the eyes. Horns are more difficult, but if you’ve ever experimented with [Polymorph], you can get them mostly right.” She got a far off look in her eyes, then she turned her attention back to Erick. “And then it’s a year living as a different person. Sometimes less. Oftentimes more. You have to separate yourself from your previous versions, too. Play-act as a different person. Different spellsets. Different accents. Different lives. When it comes time to shift, then you erase your previous Familiar Form, and if you did it right, you gain a new one; the one you’ve been pretending to be for so long that seeing your new name show up on your Status is like seeing a truth manifest. Erasing your primary Familiar Form is always emotionally difficult, but that’s the only way to make the new one real.”

“You erase the previous— And you do this? All the time?” Erick was surprised. Erasing a Familiar Form was a big deal. Erasing your primary Familiar Form seemed even larger.

“Not all the time.”

“Are you going to switch right away?”

“I want to…” Kaffi said, “I probably should stay as ‘Kaffi’ for several more years, until this latest trouble settles down, but… This life has become too damaged for me to salvage and I’m just an Enforcer; I don’t make the decisions around here. Last time I switched was 40 years ago, and ‘Kaffi’ was 25. Kaffi has become comfortable… But. No. It’s time to switch.”

“What about your soul, though?”

Kaffi smiled. “My previous soul was pink. It’s red now, but I might go purple; mana altering a color away is easy enough. You were on the right track with your magenta coloring; all it would have taken you was more time along the paths you already laid down for yourself.” She went silent, then offered, “If you ever feel like leaving behind your old life, I can teach you how. Void Song always knows how to contact me.”

Erick felt a small swell of joy in his heart. A part of him wanted to accept. But.

“Thank you for the kind offer. I truly appreciate it, but I’m not dropping out of this life just yet.”

Kaffi smiled softly, and shrugged. “The offer remains. Maybe after you get that [Gate] network up and running, you’ll want someone to help you find a new life. Look me up.”

Erick saw the future stretch before him.

He came back to himself before he went too far down that escape tunnel.

He said, “Maybe I will.”

Kaffi nodded.

Erick escorted Kaffi out the front door. She stood upon the stone walkway for a brief moment, looking up to Erick.

Kaffi vanished in a blip of red.

Erick stood on that porch for a moment, watching as ruby light faded back into the manasphere. When it was gone, he went back inside, [Cleanse]d himself instead of taking a bath, and hopped into bed. He was asleep in minutes.

- - - -

When he woke up, in the cold light of a new morning where everything was better than the day before, Erick felt like a new man. He wasn’t sure why he felt better.

Maybe he was getting used to horrors being out there, and then eradicating them.

In the moment of horrors, it was hard to look at people like Divider, to witness what they were capable of. But afterward, after Divider and all the rest were gone… And after a good night’s sleep? Erick felt better. He had done something good.

Killing Shades. Killing Hunters. Killing face stealers.

These were good things.

He was getting used to this.

But more than that, it was seeing that he was doing good in this world, that made him feel better. He had seen a lot of minor horror stories back on Earth, too— Nothing like there was on Veird, though. But he had seen bad things. On Earth, Erick had worked through minor pains that he thought were major pains. And now, seeing true major pains, he had some perspective.

He had no doubt that he would see even worse events in the future. Awful things that would make the Chelation War of two weeks ago and the purge of Hunters of yesterday look like an easy event.

But he was acclimating, in part because he was able to get up in the morning, and know that he had done Good.

He still felt a bit weird about the ‘Points: 213’ sitting in his Status, though. Raidu’s words about ‘eating the souls of initiates to power oneself’ (or whatever that crazy man had said) had caught in Erick’s mind yesterday when he debated where to spend those points. That catch still existed this morning, even though Erick was feeling a lot less melancholic about what he had helped Songli do. These points were pieces of people’s souls. Small, malleable bits that weren’t really a part of a person until they spent them, sure, but still… potential parts of people’s souls.

And Erick had...

213 of them.

Sitting in his Status.

Waiting to be spent.

Erick was still going to spend them, no doubt. He was under no illusions that he was invincible; that he didn’t need more defenses and firepower. Certainly not after seeing how so many hidden killers were systematically taken down and executed by Songli. All someone needed to kill a target (him) was to know the target’s location (here) and be prepared enough to do so ([Chaining Ward Destruction], [Harmonic Counterspell], Void Song, or whatever it would take to erase the rest of his defenses, [Spatial Denial]).

More assigned points would go a long way to making that not happen to him, specifically because he could spend more mana on a spell and overpower someone else’s counterspells, or deny their Destruction spells.

… Er. Well. It wouldn’t work against people like the Headmaster, if that were to occur.

Higher Mana and Health would certainly work against Soul attacks and other spells, though.

So he considered where to put his new points. He had two plans. One, was for a balanced build. Another, was for all-in on Willpower.

For the balanced build, he was going to put 15 into Dexterity, because ‘Balance’ meant 25 in everything, for that was the cuttoff for the ability to gain Scion of Balance, and even if Scion of Balance didn’t mean the New Stats, it might. That was only the barest rationalization for the balanced plan. Erick could have enacted his ‘minor entity of the Script’ status and just asked Rozeta the requirements…

He probably could have asked her a lot of questions about a lot of things he had recently seen. She might even answer his question about the requirements for Scion of Balance, but she had told him that all of his other questions would be answered at the Orrery in the Splinter Mountains.

Erick didn’t really want to get involved in that right now.

Mostly, he knew that 25 in Dexterity might make him a barely-competent melee fighter, or at least mobile enough to survive contact with an assassin. Yeah. That was the more honest answer. He had seen how good some people were at the whole ‘fighter’ thing, and though Erick was never going to get there, he could at least cheat some with better Dexterity.

Anyway.

15 points in Dexterity. And then 5 points would go into every other Stat besides Willpower and Focus, to get them all up to 25. He considered not putting any points into Intelligence, but his rings already gave him +61 to that Stat, and the difference between 81 Intelligence and 86 was minimal. The remaining 160 points would then be split between Willpower and Focus, maybe, bringing both of those Stats up to 170, without the rings, and 231 with the rings. That plan would put him at 13,860 Mana, and 58,020 Health and Mana Regen. That was before Scion of Balance, though.

The ‘all in Willpower’ would put him at 21,060 Mana, while keeping his current Health and Mana Regen of 38,670. That was before a theoretical Scion of Willpower.

Either option could benefit from a switch of Scions. He was already getting ‘Immune to Mana Exhaustion and Health Fatigue’ from Rozeta’s Recovery, so Scion of Focus was a bit redundant. Scion of Vitality gave ‘Immune to Health Fatigue’, and that stacked with Rozeta’s Recovery for a x4 lifespan, but Scion of Focus’ immunity to Mana Exhaustion did not stack. Or, if it did, then there were no indications of something happening.

… If he did switch Scions, he would find out if there was a x4 effect happening somewhere in his current Status, before he switched.

With the balanced option, and with Scion of Balance, if he undertook that Quest, whatever it was (he had yet to look it up), that would double his Health from 2,600-ish, to 5,160, and even more importantly, it would double his mana from 13,860, to 27,720.

His Regen would drop considerably, though, from 38,670 to 18,960. A reduction of his current 10-11 Mana per second, to 5 Mana per second. With Intelligence helping out with costs, 5 mana per second was still good enough for most applications, but in this recent war with Terror Peaks he was using all of his mana, all the time.

Shifting your Scion was supposed to be rather difficult, too. Registrar Irogh had called that Quest one of the most difficult Quests that anyone could do. Teressa once told a story about how an uncle had switched from his Scion of Strength to Scion of Vitality, and it had taken him a year to do it.

That was just a nuance to the switch, though; something to be considered for the future.

If, instead, Erick went with the ‘All in Willpower’ option, he would then switch to a Scion of Willpower.

His Mana Regen would drop to 6,960 per day, or per hour when meditating. This would not be enough at all for applications like fighting a war on ten fronts at the same time. But he would have 84,240 mana! This would mean every Ophiel would have that much mana. With every 75 mana he used to summon one Ophiel, he would be gaining 84k mana.

Currently, every Ophiel was summoned with Erick’s own 9k mana.

But! Switching to Scion of Willpower would mean it would take Erick 12 hours to regenerate one mana pool.

… Erick instantly nixed that idea.

Scion of Willpower was tempting for the mana alone, and for what it would mean for Variable cost magics, but holy crap, Erick could not afford to be waiting around that long for his mana to fill. Willpower-focused mages had it rough, for sure!

So the only option was the Balanced option, actually.

… Or maybe he could just throw a hundred points in both Willpower and Focus and call it a day.

The only reason he didn’t do that was because he was likely never going to get this many points ever again, and so he needed to plan, and think.

… He could go around the world picking up Quests, if he wanted. Not many people did Quests like Songli did Quests, though; giving them out for every problem, making their clans rather mercenary at the higher ranks. Most places did Quests like Treehome; specific Quests that they did not mind the public having, for they had exhausted all of their governmental resources, and maybe a passing archmage (or whoever) was better equipped to handle a specific problem.

Even still…

Erick was not going to count on gaining nearly 200 points like this ever again.

And besides that, he wasn’t going to shove all his new points where they needed to go all at once. That was a recipe for a Bad Soul Time.

After a while of thinking, laying in bed, and generally doing nothing, Erick decided that if he ever wanted to be Balanced, this was a good time to plan for that possible future. In the course of that decision, he decided that life was about more than min-maxing, so he wasn’t going to throw points into Willpower and Focus and call it a day.

Life was about solving problems, and a balanced approach was usually best.

Slowly, he started putting points into Dexterity. He would go to 25, and then stop. He’d do all the rest of his Stats over the next few hours, slowly but surely getting them up to 25.

Perhaps he could shove Strength and Vitality to 50, both for more Health to help against soul attacks, and more Vitality to help with repairing the body from soul attacks. Erick held off on committing to that, for now. He had most of a plan, but more of that plan could come later.

Erick got up, out of bed. With a twist of light, he made the bed, and changed his clothes. Ophiel twittered on the headboard, watching until Erick was done, and then he fluttered down to take his place on Erick’s shoulder. Together, they went to the kitchen.

On a whim, Erick decided to teach Ophiel how to cook. He spoke about what he was doing, as he did it, and not only did Ophiel pay close attention, Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye followed Erick’s every move, too. Yggdrasil wasn’t too interested in breakfast, though.

But soon enough, Ophiel was fluttering off the flour and giving a perturbed flute whistle. He decidedly didn’t like baking, no sir! Chirp chirp chirp! As Erick laughed, Ophiel contented himself with watching from a perch, offering music instead of pancakes to start the day.

Erick stopped adding points to his Status when Intelligence, the last of them to be raised to 25, hit 25, and some sort of odd, solidness happened to himself. As though he had crossed a threshold. He had no idea what to make of that, but before that, the addition of 15 Dexterity was massive. He didn’t know when he started doing it, but he was practically dancing through the kitchen, moving with a grace that he didn’t possess an hour ago. A knife chop here, quick as a snicker snack to turn potatoes into diced potatoes. A battering of eggs in one hand, while flipping a pancake with a twist of the other, causing the pancake to fall perfectly back on the griddle. He wasn’t even using his lightform. This was all him.

