Erick gasped, for he had guessed what would happen the second he heard the lead agent say those words. He knew what would happen when he saw the grin on Divider’s face. He understood that the capture team, and everyone else involved, had already written off the hostage as dead. It wasn’t till then that Erick realized what was going to happen to the hostage. Some people in the audience caught on almost as quickly.

Erick said, “Let me—”

He was too late.

Divider was a Polymage of an extreme sort, with a hundred lifetimes lived across way too many centuries. He had a lot of time to accrue power in the form of [Perfected Body], like the one Jane had gotten from the Queen Blood Weaver, including whatever other Polymage Abilities there were out there. He probably had dozens of other abilities he could stitch onto his base Form.

Divider tossed the knife at the iridescent bubble like he was flinging a toothpick. That knife clanged off of the bubble, then fell, its inertia completely gone. Divider laughed at that, then said something about how they finally got a good spell to trap him this time.

And then he grabbed the arms of his hostage and ripped the man apart, quick as the snapping of a hundred bones at once, reveling in the death and the pain of a man he had been joking with not minutes before. The hostage was still alive when he smacked into the ground, but he was nothing more than a broken arm and the upper half of his body. Divider crushed the man’s skull under a heavy boot, splattering red all across the interior of the iridescent bubble.

Erick didn’t get a chance to voice his offer of help.

It had ended too fast.

Erick sat back in his chair, stunned. Kaffi glanced his way, then turned back to the [Viewing Screen].

Divider stood covered in blood, laughing about one final separation.

The lead agent declared a request for summary judgment while his agents watched on, passionless. Some of the normal people in the warehouse puked again, or for the first time, while one woman porter fainted, and others stood stoic, like this wasn’t the worst thing they had seen in the last month. Maybe it wasn’t. One woman roared out in pain upon seeing the hostage die.

The lead agent spoke the verdict.

Death.

Erick got the distinct impression that his declaration was for the benefit of others, who were also watching this final tragedy unfold from the safety of their houses, or offices, or other assorted mostly-safe rooms. Or maybe the agent did it this way because the law required it be done this way, and [Witness]es upon the area would need proper words spoken, to ensure justice was carried out.

The lead agent and his four supporters took out other talismans and pressed them to the bubble.

The bubble began to shrink.

Erick watched, but he let the image of compression and the sounds of crunching laughter pass him by. He was a rock in a river, and though the river was rising, he was still, and calm; He would not be moved.

The bubble became a single centimeter across.

The lead agent nodded, then pulled out a Kill Notification, declaring justice as served. Divider was level 93.

Another far off part of Erick woke up, informing him that if he had killed that man himself, he might have actually gained a level. Mostly, though, he watched as the lead agent cast a [Cleanse] over the tiny bubble, and highly condensed gore turned to thick air that spilled out from the bubble like an imaginary explosion. With a wave of the lead agent’s hand, the bubble dispersed with a tiny pop, and not the actual explosion that Erick had been waiting for.

Erick heard Kaffi sniff. He turned his attention back to the woman sitting across from him. Kaffi wiped away a tear, and smiled. She breathed out, still smiling; a sad, happy expression. A finality reached. A box of horrors finally closed. Someone had been avenged.

Probably a lot of someones.

Kaffi dispelled her air of heavy emotions and her [Viewing Screen] as she turned to Erick. “Moving right along?” She rapidly added, “To vial 7. To make sure that the Divider was working alone. We think he was working alone, but it is better to be sure about these things.”

“Of course.” Erick put back vial 6, and took out vial 7.

Vials 7 through 15, all of the rest of Divider’s possible bodies, revealed only one more positive result on a living person; a young woman who was caught alone, in another iridescent bubble, and who instantly broke down crying. A Sin Seeker came in and touched the iridescent bubble, revealing the woman’s soul as bright white; Not a hint of murder upon her at all. In figuring out what was going on, exactly, a closer [Cascade Imaging] highlighted its blue target, revealing a ring with a glass gem upon it, where drops of blood had been stored. Rapidly, the story of the ring came out.

The ring had been bought 80 years ago in an estate sale, and then passed from grandmother, to mother, to daughter. It was engraved with the message, ‘I will always love you’.

Originally, the ring had belonged to a woman who had said those words as Divider looked on, and she held her son’s hands, along with a knife, pointed at her own heart. She helped her son to kill herself, and when it was done, Divider took the mother’s body away, leaving the son with the bloody knife. While Divider killed more people in the skin of the dead mother, the son had turned the gold and the glass gems and the blood of the knife into a ring.

Eventually, the son died of old age, and the ring went into an estate sale.

The young woman wearing the ring didn’t even know that the ring was glass and blood and the expensive parts of a knife until Kaffi revealed that story to the young woman, through the enforcer on scene. The young woman just thought that it was a nice ring with a dark-centered but otherwise clear gem; a gift that had been passed down through her own family for a while.

Kaffi called for a break, after Divider’s case was closed, so that they could evaluate how it went down, and so some kinks could be worked out of the capture system. She had probably only offered as much because at that very same time—

Poi said, “The representatives from the banks are available. I am told that Doctor Tsung is also ready to make the transfer.”

Erick shifted modes like a manual car with a broken transmission, but he shifted modes, nonetheless. “Of— Of course. Have them [Teleport]… [Teleport] outside and walk in.” He stood up, gaining control of himself. “I’ll receive them in the other room.”

Poi nodded.

Two minutes later, and with an accompaniment of four guards in white armor who all stayed outside, a woman from Clan Exchange and a man from Grand Bank of Songli blipped onto the front lawn. Not one second after that, Doctor Tsung and his security guard blipped in, as well. The guards stayed outside, while everyone else walked into Erick’s temporary house, then to the other side room.

The room with Kaffi has a lightward curtain drawn across the archway, preventing anyone from easily looking inside.

It was a simple affair to conduct a trade between Erick’s international account at the Clan Exchange, otherwise known as the Mage Guild, and the Grand Bank of Songli; to deposit 2.5 million gold into Clan Red Ledger’s various University-affiliated accounts.

After the bankers exited, Tsung remained for a minute longer, overjoyed at everything.

Tsung said, “We must have dinner sometime soon. Perhaps tomorrow? We can discuss anything you wish to know of Healing Magic, for I am quite proficient.” He rapidly said, “I must apologize for my actions yesterday. I was not in my best form. I surely know answers to many of your possible questions for I’ve been at this for nearly 50 years, and teaching for much of that time.”

“I would love to, but I am, unfortunately, extremely busy.” Erick said, “I will have to accept your invitation some other time. I will have my people contact your people.”

Tsung rapidly said, “Of course! Of course!” as he started walking toward the door. “I have much to do, myself. I have to look into repairing the clan mountain and that’s a pile of paperwork—”

“Don’t spend money on that. They’re going to tell me the spells and then I’m going to repair your mountain. It won’t get done for a few days, though.”

Tsung’s face lit up again. “My good man! I—! … Really? No no. I have to go through the proper chan—I wouldn’t want to impose upon you.”

“I insist. It will be good to put my mind to a nice relaxing building project, once the day’s events are over.” He added, “If I fail to learn whatever spell they use, then you can look into normal repair protocols.”

“… Very well. Then I thank you, Archmage Flatt. I will have blueprints ready for you, whenever you show.” Tsung walked out the door, then bowed one final time.

Tsung and his security guard vanished in a blip.

Erick returned to the shadow war.

He didn’t pay too close attention to the rest of the searching, opting instead to content himself with knowing what was going on, but to let the deeper truths of these horrors pass him by. He watched. He knew. He understood what the Hunters and face stealers were doing inside the Highlands; inside this land where it was easy to get lost in the population, if only you didn’t mess around with the nobility, or stand out too much.

He didn’t absorb much of the horrors of the killing, and of the reasons that these people needed to be killed.

Or at least, he tried not to.

Songli, and Erick, uncovered body traffickers and their wares. They uncovered Hunter hangouts, where dozens of killers were captured in one quick swoop. They uncovered atrocities in the act of being committed. They rescued people. They condemned others to death.

No one got Blessed.

A dark part of Erick decided that these people did not deserve it.

There was little collateral damage. Most of that collateral damage was unavoidable. Erick didn’t count property damage, of course. He only counted damage to people. Sometimes, there were too many targets in one location to take them all safely. Sometimes there were hostages within reach of people pretending not to be killers.

Sometimes, Erick was able to lock down a face stealer with Ophiels counterspelling and [Prismatic Lullaby] and other spellwork, while hostages ran away or were forcibly [Teleport Other]’d away. Those were the good captures, allowing the agents of Songli to come in and give their decrees without complications, for Erick had already removed the complications.

There were a lot of Quests.

Most of those Quests were worth 2 points; one point for finding, one for killing. By noon, Erick had gained fifty four points. The Sin Seekers which confirmed the nature of the murderers got the other points, for they were the executioners.

By dinner time, which was a small affair of foods laid out on the front room table for Erick and Kaffi to pick at when they desired, Erick, Kaffi, and Songli had destabilized all Hunter activity in the region. The Hunters and otherwise were running scared. In those last hours of sunlight, killers were found in the process of fleeing, or hidden behind ineffective [Ward]s. Some killers chose to leave this life doing what they had wanted to do, which was kill more people. By then, the full news of Erick’s searching and Songli’s targeting was already being spoken of by Clan Elders, and initiates, and members.

Commoners were whispering to each other over low tables at darkened bars, where drug smoke hung in the air and no one was actually as dangerous as they looked… Except for the bartender, who had been replaced not hours ago in #173’s attempt to hide in plain sight. He was filthy with cross contamination. When the agents of Songli captured him, and a Sin Seeker pronounced his guilt, Erick set the vial of blood in his hand back into its place in the cold box.

Then he picked up another. It would take several more hours to get the last of the vials.

Or…

It would have been.

As had happened a few times during the day, Quests were being posted by more Clan Patriarchs, Matriarchs, and Enforcers. This was just a matter of course. More posts came in all the time. But now, new Quests were coming in every ten minutes, and then every five. And then, 4 more Quests, all at once. And then twenty three. And then came more.

Erick watched the new Quests rolling in, in real time; blue boxes falling down his vision like a river flooding wide.

After a 5-pointer Quest appeared at the top of the local list, calling for the eradication of some killer and his team, Erick could not ignore the new Quests any longer. Erick looked to Kaffi. She had not seen it yet, for her eyes were on the [Viewing Screen] in front of them, watching the cleanup of the latest kill.

She had noticed the stream of Quests, though. She had specifically not spoken of them.

There were more Quests in the area than there were when Erick had started.

Erick had to ask about the 5 pointer, though. “Who are the Green Spikes, and why does Clan Tarip Grove want them dead this badly?”

Kaffi eyed the air. She frowned, and another tendril of thought went out. “They’re not part of our agreement.”

Erick let that thread of conversation drop, and moved onto the next vial. It was marked ‘Subject #174: Wallower QUEST TARGET’. Erick searched up the Quest, and accepted it.

Three minutes later, he had another point to his Status.

He was up to 79.

Hours later, it was midnight, and he was up 103 more points than when he started. He hadn’t spent a single one, for he was sure that this was not the end of the day, even though it was late and they had gone through all the targets. He wasn’t really sure how he wanted to spend them, anyway.

Erick slipped vial #423, of Subject #301, back into the case. He closed the lid. They were done. That was the last one.

