Suddenly, Mato was hit by a surge of relief and release so potent that he stumbled forward a step, barely stopping himself from crashing down to one knee. Confused, he glanced around as if he could find a tangible cause, but the change had come from within. That spot near his heart where Lira’s mana touched him, a spot that had been clenched so tight for so long it had become background for him, had finally released. The soft pulse of gentle magic he remembered from the first time he’d taken her mentorship suffused him from within, no longer warped and corrupted by death.

He breathed in, marveling at the new ease.

“It’s gone,” he whispered, lowering his hand for Ali to see. “The curse is gone.”

Her eyes widened, glistening with tears that threatened to spill over.

Then sensations began to spill in, in the language of the oaks. A desire for soil and water. Sun and wind. The image of a still, beautiful forest and a powerful desire to grow.

“I can hear her. She wants to be planted,” he said, the awe from within spilling over into his voice.

Ali flew along with the procession as they headed deeper and deeper into the blighted forest that had once been Lira’s home.

Half the guild’s gold and silver ranks had turned out for the occasion, kicking up such a fuss that Vivian had finally relented and let them come, despite the constant threat of Death Knights. Many of the guild’s platinum ranks were still off in the Dol Kerriadh peninsula, clearing out the dungeons of Meere Kada and Telim Gor, and so Ali had brought a full complement of her most powerful minions to help guard the procession.

Even Val’korr was there, grumbling as he stumped along, relying on his staff to walk as usual, even though he definitely did not need it. He had complained loudly about the walk, but Ali could tell a thousand horses couldn’t have dragged him away.

Up at the head of the line, Mato led the way, responding directly to Lira’s guidance. It was unfair of her to be jealous of him, but Ali couldn’t deny the pangs that gnawed at her heart. Lira was her aunt; she had known her since childhood. Why was she talking to Mato and not her?

She pushed the invasive thoughts down. Lira’s Acorn had been purified, and now they were looking for a spot to plant her. Deep in the heart of the blighted forest would hardly have been Ali’s choice, though, and so, she had brought a veritable army of Sylvans and creaking Treants that plodded along behind the procession, leaving a green swathe of freshly spawned trees and sowing flowers like confetti in their wake. And expanding Ali’s domain, just in case she needed a champion defender again.

They finally crested a hill and slowly descended into what had once been a beautiful grove. A murky, polluted stream trickled through it, while the blackened husks of blight-rotted trees lay collapsed on the ground. The stench of rot and death reminded Ali of Blooming Rot, and she wondered why Lira had wanted to come all the way out here. They were already several kilometers south of Myrin’s Keep.

Mato stopped by the stream and transformed back into his Beastkin form. “Here,” he said. “She likes this spot.”

“Are you sure?” Ali asked, unable to help herself. She couldn’t think of a more miserable-looking spot in the world. It was a grave of trees.

“I’m certain.”

“Let me at least clean up a little so it doesn’t look so morbid,” Ali said, and Mato just nodded and waited while her minions sprouted a circle of Lirasian Oaks like sentinels around the grove. As her domain washed through the area, she sprouted grasses and deconstructed the blighted trees, purifying the river and soil in the process.

There. I wish it could be a nicer welcome, but that’s going to have to be good enough. She glanced over at Mato, letting him know she was as ready as she could be. It’s a tiny island of hope in a sea of death… is this hope I’m feeling? Hope laced with nothing short of terror.

Without much ceremony, Mato produced a small trowel and dug a little hole, and gently laid the acorn inside. Then he heaped the dirt back on top, burying it.

Ali inched closer, watching without daring to blink.

Basil produced a small watering can and sprinkled some water over the freshly turned earth while his gentle mana reached out and wove the magic of Ali’s domain into the ground.

For a long time, nothing happened. Long enough that dread and worry gnawed deeply into the roots of her soul, but then, a tiny flicker of green sparked beneath the ground, and something moved. A minuscule tug on her domain. A small shoot pushed upward, breaking through the freshly watered dirt, and a tiny green leaf unfurled. It stretched a little longer under Basil’s gentle care, and then a second leaf unfurled, both rotating slightly to catch the sun.

Ali gasped. Lira!

Ali stared at the tree. How tiny and fragile it seemed, sprouting in the middle of a blighted graveyard filled with monstrous undead. How am I going to keep her safe?

Her worries were interrupted by a tiny spark of green mana flaring around the minute sapling. A spark that reminded her of the smallest spark of her domain that had been all she had left after being stranded in the Abyssal Realm. A spark that burned with a tiny prickle of dungeon rage.

Instantly, Ali bent her domain, shifting it to match Lira’s fledgling domain, and the rage dissipated. As if in response, the green glow of Lira’s mana pulsed slowly, as if waiting for something.

What do you need, Aunt Lira? Her memories of Lira’s kind face flickered through her mind. The way she had always seemed to understand Ali’s pain without even needing to pry. The way she never pushed, even when she was right, always allowing Ali to discover the truth of her wisdom on her own if she needed. Ever since Ali was a child.

She’s waiting for me. How she knew, Ali couldn’t tell. Perhaps Lira really was communicating with her, too. But she knew it for certain. The tiny sapling was asking for permission. With a minute and subtle adjustment to her mana, offering a trickle to the seedling, Ali granted it.

The sapling began drawing on her domain.

It was the tiniest trickle at first. Almost too small to be noticed, but then another leaf sprouted, and the stem grew a little taller. More mana soaked into the tree, and the tiny pulsing domain stretched, just a little – almost as large, now, as a New Darian silver penny.

Mato crouched closer and whispered, “She’s so small…”

But the sapling began to draw more hungrily on Ali’s mana, growing up past her knees, sprouting leaves, and splitting off branches. The folks clustered around began murmuring and pointing, but the tree continued growing – and so too, her hunger. A minute passed, and it was as tall as Ali, the distinctive leaves of the Lirasian Oak already easy to identify. Roots shifted beneath the soil, and the dryad’s domain stretched further out into the clearing.

Then, as if reaching a new threshold, the trickle drawing upon her domain turned into a flood. Wood creaked with a sound so lifelike that Ali had to stifle a cry of her own, and the ground split as roots dug deep and the trunk stretched upward, growing rapidly into the sky. Ali stepped backward cautiously, and, as if the tree had been waiting for her to move to safety, the growth exploded. The trunk and branches shot upward into the air until the tree towered above even the other Lirasian Oaks.

Mana whistled across the full expanse of Ali’s domain. In the far reaches of Ciradyl and Aalion, both Wells suddenly pulsed with fervent energy, and their mana gushed out into the domain, drawn across hundreds of miles, through Gates and twisting tunnels to burst forth into the forest and drawn into the rapidly growing tree. Branches reached for the skies, already thicker than Tol’brekk’s torso as the trunk thickened.

The soil shifted, shoved aside by the sheer immensity of the roots digging downward. The stream twisted, flowing free as the trunk, now expanded well past the size of a building, pushed it out of its banks. High overhead, the towering tree reached the lowest clouds, and entire branches vanished within.

Lira, oh Aunt Lira! You’re beautiful!

Through Ali’s domain, the domain of the dryad Lirasia poured, and with it came the roots of the tree. Already she could feel them reaching past Myrin’s Keep, digging down through the forest cavern and into the mines far below. They sprouted from walls, pushing downward through rock and boulders, always seeking, searching for the sources of mana. Through the central portal they burst, flooding out into Ciradyl, and entwining with the giant soul magic trees there while circling the Well of Souls. Another rush, and the roots wreathed the underground Gate to Aalion, sprouting through to cross the entire continent to reach the Well of Divinity. Roots pushed through the rift and into the Abyssal Realm and into the strange realm of nature and earth below Naia’s dungeon: Zulkora.

When the roots finally reached Azryet’s domain, it seemed like the very realms paused.

Ali held her breath, but a few moments later, mana surged down through the roots, a torrent of mana so powerful and so dense she could scarcely look at it. Holy and Void, a donation from vast treasuries of the Dragon God.

The giant tree, already large enough to boggle the mind, underwent a sudden explosive surge of growth. The trunk tripled in width, and the branches thrust up through the clouds far higher than Ali could even see, a vast surge of creaking and groaning from the wood, and cracking and buckling of earth and rock.

And finally, everything stopped.

The mana quietened down, and the clearing grew still. The branches that hung there in defiance of reason were wide enough to build an entire town on. Leaves waved softly in the breeze.

Then a gentle pulse of nature mana burst forth from the trunk as Lira asserted her domain. It rushed through the land like a ripple, passing beyond Ali’s sight in an instant, and behind the tsunami of mana, everything grew. Grass sprouted in waves. Trees burst up from the ground, going from sapling to maturity in less than a minute, and as far as the eye could see, the forest was reborn.

A loud chime sounded throughout the newly verdant clearing.

[Zone] Lirasia [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] has advanced to the fifth tier.

“Fifth tier!”

“The heck?”

“What’s that?”

“Wow!”

But the commotion among the adventurers was interrupted by the deafening gong of the realm notification.

[Realm] Lirasia [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] has achieved divine ascension.

The silence that filled the grove as the gong faded was filled by a serene and familiar voice.

“I’m so glad to see you, Ali,” Lira said.

Ali nearly fainted. No! She would not, but that voice, oh – oh, her voice was the most beautiful sound in the whole world. It filled the forest with resonance and Ali’s heart with warmth and kindness. To say nothing of the sparkling green mana leaves and wisps that spontaneously manifested from the power thrumming through her voice.

Ali looked up to find Lira emerging from the trunk of the tree exactly the way she remembered her aunt, and yet, somehow more.

Lirasia [Great Mother of the Deep Woods] – Spirit of the World Tree – level ???? (Nature).

“Aunt Lira!” Ali flew across the clearing, her wings buzzing like a hummingbird, and wrapped her arms around Lira’s neck like she was afraid of losing her.

Losing her again.

Ali couldn’t bear the thought, but Lira was real, and she was hugging her back. And laughing.

“Ali, Ali, you’re going to choke me,” she said.

“How?” Ali managed, but she loosened her hug just a little and sniffed back the tears. “Aren’t you, like, level a million now?”

“Oh no, dear, I’m barely over a thousand,” Lira said serenely.

“That’s still four times my level,” Ali complained. “I couldn’t possibly strangle you with a hug.”

“We can still have tea.”

“Tea? You’re talking about tea, Aunt – and oh, you’re really, really here!” Should I be giggling? Or screaming? I’m so, so happy…

“I am.”

“But what’s this ‘divine ascension’ thing all about?”

“I guess I’m a deity-class now,” Lira answered, her focus shifting, briefly internal, before reconnecting. “And it’s thanks to you all.” By her own admission, Lira had not been even close to the fourth tier, let alone the fifth. How she had achieved emerging from her Acorn as an ascended four-mark class was something Ali was keenly interested in. Was it due to the mythic spell she had wrought? Or was it the Elixir made from the ancient waters of the Wells? Regardless, she realized dazedly, this was a subject best kept for later discussions, when they were not surrounded by half the guild.

Ali opened her mouth to respond, but her knees gave out as the unexpected weight of mind-rending insanity bore down upon her from the hundreds of black orbs that popped into existence above them, eyelids tearing open to reveal the disturbing gaze of eldritch crimson.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
