My second Awakening forced me to face the truth, but true to my nature, I ran away to hide. Baledagh is the warrior, and me... I’m the coward who was so scared he detached from his own consciousness to escape. The first step to fixing a problem is to admit you have one, so I admit it. I’m fucked up in the head. I’m a schizo, a nutbag, a crackpot who’s cuckoo for cocoa puffs. Now what? What do I do next? I’ve been stuck in two extremes for so long, I don’t know what to do anymore. Whose instincts do I follow? Do I sit in my yurt and cry, or should I scream and rage about how worthless I am?

Crippled with indecision, I sit and review every single decision I’ve ever made and imagine what would’ve happened if I wasn’t insane. If I hadn’t charged onto stage, Mila would have fought in my stead and probably overwhelmed her opponents with ease, which meant she would’ve been asked to spare her opponents from death. Fewer deaths means maybe the Society backs off early and we bury the hatchet, not quite friends, but not enemies either.

If I hadn’t beaten and humiliated Gen, maybe he wouldn’t have turned Defiled and I would have escaped with Qing-Qing and been beaten to near-death by Mila. If I’d accepted Blobby the first time around and revealed it to BoLao, then maybe I could have saved everyone from the Purge and BoShui would have reunited with his long lost cousin. So many ifs, hell, what if my first Awakening hadn’t failed? How strong would I have been by the time I reached Sanshu? I’ve wasted so much time and energy catering to my madness, too frail to accept the truth, too scared to own up to my mistakes, and still I’m left with the same question.

What now?

Falling back with a thud, I lie flat on my back and stare at the ceiling, trying to clear my mind and failing miserably. Seeing Peace beside me, I reach out and grab its hilt, studying its keen edge and pointed tip. With a flick of my wrist, I toss it up into the air and watch as it spins end over end in a perfect circle, the hum of metal on air a soothing balm for my soul. Higher and higher it goes until gravity rears its head and my sword suspends itself in space for one perfectly still second, its tip positioned to land directly between my eyes.

Peace plunges downward point-first.

I close my eyes and enter my Natal Palace.

The empty replica of the village is a familiar sight, so still and lifeless it hurts. It’s not real and it never will be. No matter how much I want to, I can’t return to those early years in the village and change my plans. Reflecting on memories of better times, they spring into life around me, creations of the mind tempting me to stay behind and forget my problems. Soothing the twins while their teeth grow in, hearing them speak their first words, or laughing as they chase the pups across the courtyard, the best of friends at first sight. Studying with Taduk or reading with Lin, cooking dinner for everyone to give Charok and Alsantset a break, all memories I hold near and dear to my heart.

If I could go back in time, would I change things? Would I give up on my Martial Training and throw everything I have into herbalism? Where would I be now? Sitting at home in the village, worrying about my family who are off fighting the Defiled, probably still resisting Lin’s efforts to marry me. I wouldn’t have made friends with Fung, Huu, BoShui, Dastan, and (sigh...) Zian, Song wouldn’t have come to live with us, Mila and Yan would’ve never been interested in me, and I wouldn’t have met Qing-Qing. No wildcats, bears, birds, or Ping-Ping either, not if I stayed home for all those excursions. I might’ve still gotten some bunnies, but definitely not Mama Bun, the timing wouldn’t have been right. Plus, without Martial Training, I’m fairly certain Mama Bun would’ve murdered me in a heartbeat, a bad end if I’d ever seen one.

Ignoring everything else, would I be happier as an herbalist?

Maybe. Maybe not, but that path is forever lost. I’ve chosen my path, my Dao, and now I must see it through to the end. Conjuring up a copy of myself, I study him at great length, staring into his cold, dead eyes and hoping against all hopes that my little brother will look back and say, ‘Psych!’, but he won’t. This copy is just like all the other soulless automatons I made to populate my fake village, he only does what I make him do. That’s why the others always made me uncomfortable, they showed me what I was trying to ignore, that the ‘other me’ I was talking to was just a fake, a conjured up facsimile of myself. I role-played myself while puppeteering another version of myself so I could converse with... myself.

Fucked up right?

...Who am I talking to?

Resolving to be mindful of talking to myself, I reach out and pat my facsimile’s shoulder. Thank you little brother. You weren’t real, but I wouldn’t have made it this far without you, which makes you real enough.

Goodbye.

The other me fades from existence as does the rest of the village, leaving only the little white room Baledagh... I, always loved to stay in. Fake though it may be, leaving a copy in the Natal Palace makes it easier to sustain and helps me multitask, but I’d rather not have to look at myself for the next little while. It’s not a big deal, this room easy to sustain and more than enough for my needs. Climbing into the bed, I stare at the intricately carved ceiling filled with scenes of courage and glory. I copied them off the pagoda in the village and each one tells a story, something to inspire and encourage future generations, but today, all they do is bring tears to my eyes.

I chose these carvings for Baledagh for that very reason, because they gave him... us... gave me something to aspire to. Baledagh isn’t real and he never was. I made him up, a shield to hide behind, a crutch to stand on, a figment of my neurotic psyche.

So how come it hurts so much knowing he’s gone?

A knock on the door interrupts my mourning and Rustram’s voice sounds out. “Boss? Sorry to wake you, but Jorani came back and he’s got something for you.”

“I’ll be right out.” Opening my eyes, I stare at the hilt of my still-shaking sword, the blade buried in the floor a hairsbreadth from my cheek. Whether my sigh is one of relief or disappointment, I’m not entirely sure, but it doesn’t really matter, not right now. There will be no Peace today, no Tranquility to be found. I don’t have time to work through my mental issues or make sense of my twisted life, I have a retinue to lead and duties to attend to. Jorani’s late, which can’t be good, and I need to prep for my public meeting with the Legate. Before that, I should give Mila a proper welcome, bind my new weapon, and get Blobby back, which means there’s no time like the present to get started. I’m still not entirely sure where I stand on the Brother-Baledagh personality scale, but I’ll need the best of both if I want to survive. I faked confidence for years now while pretending to be Baledagh, so I don’t see why I should stop now.

Fake it ‘til you make it, right?

With sword and shield in hand, I step out to face my first day as Warrant Officer Falling Rain, Warrior of...

The Bekhai? Nah, I doubt they’d want me representing them.

The North? Can’t say I really care for the province as a whole.

The Empire? Eh... Politically correct yes, accurate, not so much.

...

Whatever, I’ll figure out the specifics later.

Chapter Meme
