I was falling, but I couldn’t bring myself to care. I had won, and the corpse of the giant bird falling with me was proof of that. Besides, I had time before either of us hit the ground; we were hundreds of feet up in the air, after all.

I watched below me as the last remaining bits of the bird’s soul left its body. And once the leading soul was gone, the experience once cradling the soul started to dissipate into the surroundings.

For a brief second, I hesitate to activate Soul Devourer. I was still wary of using my skill after running into the remnants the other day and wanted to make sure I was activating my skill on my own accord and not just being manipulated into doing so.

It hurt to see my hard-earned experience fading into nothing, but I had to be sure. Better safe than sorry.

I don’t know what I expected to happen; maybe I'd have a nearly uncontrollable urge like with the remnants, or hear a sinister voice in my head, perhaps?

But after a second, I’m surprised to feel nothing. There was no urge to devour the world or sith-like voices telling me to follow my instincts. So was there something different about the remnants, or was it because I was expecting something and overcame the urges without realizing it?

I had no idea, but what I did know was that I was in control at this moment, and that meant I could use my skill. Of course, I would still be careful, but that was no reason to hesitate.

Three Ghostly hands spring from my body as I activate Soul Devourer and greedily begin plucking strands of experience points out of the air. The hands couldn’t grab all of it, but I was still absorbing many times the amount of experience I would've initially gotten for the kill. The hands were manifestations of my soul, so Tabitha wouldn't see them even if she was watching me. I couldn't use it on the remnants because Tabitha would've noticed them disappearing.

There is, however, still one conscience of using my skill. I’m forced to grit my teeth to keep myself from audibly moaning. I could feel myself blushing as the pleasure of absorbing tens of thousands of experience points washes over me.

Momentarily, I want to devour all that I can, but Mental Resistance quickly helps me squash those feelings before they can grow and fester. I would absorb what I could and nothing more.

This internal dispute only lasts a few seconds, and it isn't long before I've either absorbed all the bird's experience or the rest has dissipated completely.

Perfect timing, too, because I see the ground growing closer past the bird's corpse. I'd fallen almost 300 feet in four seconds, and it was time for me to activate Air Walk. I could use this moment to test how I’d fare against fall damage, but something told me doing that when I’m falling at roughly 150 feet a second wasn’t the best idea.

Using my Mana Threads still deployed from holding onto the bird, I spread them out to catch the mana in the air around me to slow my descent. Then when my velocity had dropped to something less strenuous on my legs, I pushed off the air with Air Walk, reducing my falling speed to almost nothing.

Below me, the bird's corpse crashes into the forest floor with all the momentum of a runaway truck. I expected it to turn into paste, but I saw it was primarily intact as I drop-down next to it. Its wings were now crooked, but the body was in one piece other than them and its skull. So even if it didn't have the same defense as the dino-rhino, it seems that it could still take quite a beating. Too bad for it; my hammer did more damage than the crash landing.

Still feeling the glow of absorbing experience, I stand next to the dead bird clasping my hands and offering a short prayer. It isn't to the gods; I just ask the universe to peacefully guide its soul to its next life. It may have chosen to fight rather than flee, but that's life. It made its decision, and I made mine.

"Now, where is Tabitha?" I ask myself after delivering the bird its last rights. I glanced around where we landed, but my guardian was nowhere in sight. I stare at the spot we were initially hiding, expecting to see her pop out of hiding at any moment, but she never appears. “Where in the hell?”

“Looking for me!?”

Startled, I try to pinpoint Tabitha's location by following her voice, but I don't see her.

“Up here!” Tabitha calls out, giving me a clue where she is.

“What are you doing up there?!” I finally spot Tabitha making her way down the nearest tree.

I don’t know why she was up there, but I don’t particularly care at the moment. As soon as her feet touch the ground, I fall backward onto my ass. The total weight of my fight with the bird had finally caught up to me. Once I knew Tabitha was close by and I could safely catch my breath, my legs went out on me.

Seeing me fall, Tabitha rushes over to my side with a worried expression.

“Are you ok?” She asks me, her stone-faced expression nowhere to be found.

“Where was all this concern while I was fighting? I’m fine, by the way. Did almost die at one point,” I sarcastically snap at her.

"I know; I was there," Tabitha smiles down at me. "You asked why I was up in the tree; obviously, I was up there watching your fight. I started to rush in when you were flung against the tree, but you reacted better than I expected, and I decided you could handle yourself at the last second. It was a wise choice to counterattack when you did rather than try to flee. If you had tried to dodge in your position, I would've needed to step in and help you, but you got it to back off by yourself.”

Tabitha revealing that she was close to me the entire time left me speechless. I could only guess that I didn't see her because my vision was blurry during that part of the fight. Apparently, she doesn’t realize my counterattacking was completely improvised and was in no way planned. But hey, I wasn’t going to correct her.

Hearing Tabitha praise my battle decisions was bittersweet. After absorbing all that experience, the pain in my head had started to fade, but my back was still killing me. I know I won, but I knew more than she did about how bad I messed up. “You followed me?”

Tabitha rolls her eyes at me. “Did you expect me to send you up against your first real opponent by yourself?”

“Kind of,” I admit. I mean, that sounded like something Tabitha would do.

Tabitha’s smile slips, and she frowns, “Don’t be getting a big head just because you won. You may have done a few things right, but don’t think I didn’t notice you making multiple mistakes. You were creative in your approach, yet let your target get the drop on you.”

"How was I supposed to know it didn't produce any sound?” I grumble, trying to come up with at least some semblance of an excuse, not wanting to admit I took my eyes off my target.

“Alright, fine,” Tabitha’s readiness to change subjects doesn't bode well for me. "What about after you dodged the bird’s initial attack? You rushed it without evaluating properly. Didn’t you tell me your new armor would last longer than your old set?”

Tabitha points at my breastplate and makes an excellent point. Three large scratches were marring the surface of my new armor. They weren’t deep, but they starched from one side of my armor to the other.

“I told you to expect anything; how did you interpret that to mean rush in?” Tabitha berates my decisions one after another, but I can see the concern she’s trying to hide behind her lecturing. Even if she thinks I counterattacked when I needed to, she probably realizes that things could’ve turned out differently.

“I almost died,” I whisper under my breath.

Tabitha must have heard me because she stopped pointing out everything I did wrong and lets out a tired sigh. “You could’ve, but you didn’t.”

“And if I didn’t swing when I did?” I ask in a hollow voice.

“Then I would’ve had to save you,” Tabitha confidently tells me.

“Save someone with a hole in their neck?” I raise an inquisitive eyebrow.

“It would’ve never come to that. I had a skill ready if you dodged or froze. You would’ve been heavily injured, but you wouldn’t have died.”

“You’re sure about that?” I ask skeptically.

Tabitha and I locked eyes, and I note there wasn't a hint of deceit there.

“You know, you could've told me you would follow me,” I groaned, trying to get back to my feet. I couldn't stay sitting forever, no matter how much my body wanted me to.

“And stifle your first big hunt, not a chance," Tabitha responds, sounding proud of herself.

No matter how much I was trying to appear annoyed at her for not telling me her plans, I understood why she did it, and I couldn’t help but smile at how happy she looked that her plan had worked out for the better. Tabitha may be a little crazy, but then again, I just rushed a giant magical bird, and for what, a place to sleep? I’m pretty sure that makes me just as crazy, arguably more so.

“So, what happens now?” I ask after stumbling to my feet, now knowing how that dino-rhino felt earlier today. “My mana’s down to 20%, and I need to rest."

“You can rest in a moment," Tabitha tells me before turning to the massive bird corpse. "First, the important part.”

I watch Tabitha examine the corpse, and I admit, it took me a minute to realize what she was doing.

She plucked out multiple feathers, examining them for some hidden quality I didn’t understand. In doing so, I got to see the various types of feathers, from the wedge-tipped flight feathers that made up the bird’s wings to its long rounded tail feathers. Tabitha even pulled out a few downy feathers, which kept the bird insulated.

Tabitha examined and discarded one feather after another until eventually, she found her prize, or should I say, my prize. Finally, she settles on a single feather from the very tip of the bird’s right wing, where the red and black colors meet each other.

Thankfully, the feather Tabitha picked out for me was one of the smaller ones. The more giant feathers are impressive to look at, but most of them were over a foot long. Heck, one of the tailfeathers Tabitha examined was over three feet in length; to say it would've been challenging to wear a feather that size was putting it mildly. Something that size would stick out too much, so I’m happy about Tabitha’s decision on a relatively smaller feather.

“Here,” Tabitha offered me the beautiful quill, which I gratefully accepted. Half the feather was black while the other side was red. The feather radiated wind mana, and it was so good at catching the breeze. Just holding it allowed me to see which way it was blowing. The large trees around us acted as giant wind barriers. Though it was quite windy up in the canopy, there was minimal airflow down here on the ground. So, the fact that the feather can catch an almost nonexistent gust was impressive, to say the least.

“Do I have to wear this now?” I hesitantly ask while memorizing every inch of my prize. Ideas of what I would do with it flooded my mind. I could turn it into a hair ornament like Tabitha had, or maybe have mom sow it to my sleeve. From what Tabitha told me, as long as I displayed it, I was free to do with it as I liked.

“If you want,” Tabitha shrugs. “Though I don’t recommend it.”

"That's surprising; I thought you'd want me to wear it immediately.”

“I’m not saying you can’t,” Tabitha clarifies. “I’m just saying if you wear it now, you’re likely to drop it, or worse. Think of the feather as a new piece of armor. Sure, you can throw it on, and it'll do its job….”

“But I won’t be able to use it properly without practice,” I finish Tabitha's sentence, demonstrating I understand what she was getting at.

“Exactly; for now, I suggest you put it in your bag. You can start wearing it during our sparring session when we get back to the village. Once you're used to it, you can wear it all the time.”

For once, I followed Tabitha's instructions to the letter, stashing my feather in my pack by wrapping it in the material I brought with me should I need to make a tent. Of course, it wasn't as fragile as a regular feather, but that didn't mean I would chance bending it.

Once my feather was secure, I turned my attention to the rest of the bird. There were a few bald spots from where Tabitha ripped feathers out, but there were still thousands more. Tabitha may have looked through the feathers for a trophy to claim, but I saw something more; crafting materials!

I had never worked with wind-attributed materials before, but it didn’t take a genius to realize the bird’s tailfeathers would make great fletching for arrows. While the feathers on the wings caught the slightest breeze, the tailfeathers were utterly still.

Reaching down and picking one up, I smile at how easily I can wave it through the air. “Yeah, I can work with these.”

Now the only question was, how many do I take?

I could stuff my bag full of them, and it wouldn’t weigh me down that much, but then I won’t have room for anything else. Maybe….

“Hey, Tabitha, if I stashed some feathers for later, what do you think the chances are they’ll be here when we get back?” If I could tie a bindle of tailfeathers together and stash them somewhere, like up in the tree where we’ll be staying tonight, I could retrieve them on our way out of the forest. Even if I have a full bag by then, carrying a bundle of feathers wouldn’t be that much of a stretch.

“Anything is possible," she shrugs.

By her expression, I’m guessing she doesn’t think they’ll be here when we get back. But it doesn’t hurt to try. I’ll bring ten feathers with me, so I'll still have some to play with later if she's right.

