“Hmph. Mere sophistry.” Though clearly unconvinced, the aged monk had no rebuttal for the young upstart, and even Goujian was impressed by the boy’s clear argument. This was not the first time Gen’s logic had rendered Vyakhya speechless, and Goujian suspected it might even be the Uniter coaching him on what to say, which meant he had a way to communicate over long distances without causing the receiver untold agony. Pain was but an annoyance to Goujian, but he would still rather avoid it whenever he could, and this discovery irked him to no end.

“Call it what you will,” Gen drawled, clearly enjoying putting the monk in his place, “But the truth remains. Probability is one matter, and facts another. The Brotherhood’s end goals are admirable, but considering the facts, has it not occurred to you that you might be going about things the wrong way?”

“Speak not of what you know nothing about.” Bristling with indignation Vyakhya gestured at his fellow monks and asked, “Why do you think we are here? The Brotherhood has rejected its own precepts and refused to acknowledge the truth even when presented with indisputable evidence. The conflict between Empire and Defiled has been revealed for a farce, but still the Abbot meddles in muddied waters. The Uniter holds a tool to end all suffering and provide a form of permanence to so many who might never achieve it on their own, yet the Abbot still chooses to work against him. He is a fool who cannot see past his affection for this imperfect existence, no matter how often he secludes himself away from it. We here are the true Penitent Brotherhood, those who have held fast to our core beliefs while our supposed leader strays from the path our predecessors set.”

“And therein lies the crux of the issue.” Interrupting Vyakhya mid-rant, Gen hissed, “You call yourself a man of truth and claim you are willing to reassess your judgment when new evidence is presented, yet you still adhere to the precepts and teachings of your predecessors, monks who were unsuccessful in achieving their ultimate goal of ascension to Nirvana. Everyone knows that one must forge their own Path, yet you hope to succeed by following in the footsteps of failures. Do you not see the fallacy present in your logic? Or are you so blinded by your Sutras and precepts that you too fail to recognize the truth laid out before you?”

Exiting from his litter for the first time in days, Gen leapt out the window and glided weightlessly to the tiger’s back. His presence elicited a bone-shaking growl from the ferocious beast, but a single glance from the boy was enough to quiet it. Looking resplendent in his Runic armour, the metal had fused so seamlessly to Gen's flesh that it was difficult to tell where one began and the other ended, and his strength had progressed by leaps and bounds in the short months since. A true Dragon among men, young Gen had finally grown into his power, and while Goujian would have once puffed his chest with pride, he knew he had nothing to do with the young hero’s progress and even feared his growing prowess. With Falling Rain crippled, no young Talent could match this peerless warrior, one who’d embraced the Truth and had seemingly been blessed by the Heavens as its one, True Son.

Perhaps Goujian had erred in turning against young Gen, but it was too late now. Their bonds had been severed, but their goals remained aligned, at least until they toppled the Emperor from his Jade Throne.

And afterwards? Well... Goujian would survive, for that was what he did.

With head held high and hands clasped behind his back, Gen looked the very picture of a patient scholar lecturing a difficult student as he dismantled the Brotherhood’s logic with casual ease. “Though your predecessors uncovered the Imperial lies of Balance, their revised methods were still based upon a single erroneous assumption, one which has plagued the Brotherhood since its inception. Imperial Balance is a lie, so why use it as the foundation of a new Path? Tell me, what is the single greatest barrier between humanity and Divinity? True Divinity mind you, ascension to Nirvana or whatever else you might call it, not the false Divinity claimed by Ancestral Beasts and other pretenders who still walk amongst us.”

“The final step,” Goujian answered, the words torn from his mouth in his thirst for knowledge. “Shattering the Void. Not much is known, except few survive the process.”

“Incorrect.” Grinning to take away the sting of the correction, Gen explained, “A monumental hurdle, but considering how few ever come close enough to approach it, hardly the greatest barrier to Divinity. No, like the raindrops which cover the earth, so too must humanity approach this final hurdle if we are to have any hope of success. For this reason, the greatest barrier is not the final step, but the first: Core Formation. More Martial Warriors in existence means more rolls of the dice, and eventually, they will fall in humanity’s favour, but the Brotherhood’s system of beliefs, and the Imperial’s which it was based upon, are both fundamentally flawed from the first step, and therefore doomed to languish in eternal failure.” Launching into his lesson with practised serenity, young Gen began revealing truths Goujian had never even considered before. “Imperial success rates of Core Formation stands at a pitiful one percent, while most Defiled succeed before their eighth birthday, so long as they survive long enough to reach it. Why? Because Balance, True Balance, is not about restraining emotion, but embracing it, and the Defiled have mastered this beautifully. The tiger beneath my feet also understands this well, a born killer who draws strength from his prey and ekes out a solitary existence. It will fight, mate, and kill whenever necessary and think nothing of it, but it will not hunt when sated nor will it mate when circumstances are not right. It adheres to its instincts, and for this reason, it has access to more power than most humans will ever wield, as will every other tiger in existence. If humanity wishes to rise above the beasts, then we must learn to embrace our true nature, noble courage and base desire alike. Only then will they be set upon the True Path. Why, under the right conditions, a base commoner can even progress from Core Formation to Domain Development in a matter of heartbeats, so long as the subject wholeheartedly accepts the Truth.”

Raising a metallic hand, Gen flourished his bladed fingers with a smile. “The flaws goes deeper. Take your Spiritual Weapons for example. Forged from Spiritual Hearts formed by beast or nature, the Imperials plunder these natural treasures for their own use, and in order to do so, must bind them as one binds a slave. One with the Weapon? How can you become one with something which you have stolen? Beasts understand this and forge their bodies into weapons, and thus they are one by nature without any binding required. What of One with the World? How many Imperial Martial Warriors ever reach this milestone along the Martial Path? Develop a Domain and you join the ranks of the true elite, one percent of one percent of humanity, that is one in ten-thousand. While there are a fair number of them in the Empire due to its prodigious population, these elites are a piddling portion of the whole, which is only to be expected. How can you expect to become One with the World while suppressing one’s own nature? That is not True Oneness, and any power derived from such is built upon a lie.” Sneering at Vyakhya, Gen looked the monk up and down and said, “You’ve touched upon the Truth, but still you chant your Sutras and flagellate your flesh to repress your true selves, even going so far as to mutilate your bodies to repress your natural desires. You live a lie, so how can any Oneness you find be True?” Shaking his head, Gen concluded, “As I said, difficulty has no correlation with value. Anything worth doing, must be done, and sometimes, a task is difficult simply because you are going about it the wrong way. Embrace the Truth laid out before you, and join me on my crusade to better humanity as a whole. Many will fail, but success... success is inevitable.”

By now, Goujian would’ve been a fool not to realize Gen was utilizing his Talent of Oration, proclaiming his message to every Chosen within this conquering army who cheered for their young hero and leader. Vyakhya and the other monks were all poleaxed with shock, unable to contain their agitation as they argued silently amongst themselves. Many, including Eyebrows, were looking at Gen with near reverence and Goujian feared the gangly young monk was lost to him now, as were most of these exiles from the Brotherhood. It mattered not though, for Goujian was a man who devoted his life to uncovering the Truth, and it was clear to him now.

After his setback in Sinuji, Gen had stumbled across the Truth, but Goujian’s Imperial-tinted preconceptions had blinded him to the facts. This young hero had blossomed into the man Goujian had hoped he would become, the Divine Son of Heaven Shen Tian Zi, and therefore, deserving of his unwavering loyalty.

From now, until the day the Heavens demanded his death, even if by Shen Tian Zi’s own hand.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
