

She stepped up to the brawler Mato was trying to hit, unleashing two rapid kicks, and following them with a high-speed dodge-and-block exchange as it retaliated with whip-strikes of the powerful tentacles, and the grinding snap of its giant maw. She pushed her body to the absolute limits of her speed, barely able to hold her own against the onslaught. But despite how much her skills had grown, as soon as the third brawler entered the fray, she began to fall behind. Lashing attacks struck her arms and legs, drawing blood that arced through the air in slow sprays of crimson droplets as the monsters’ magic clawed at her mana. She ducked and weaved, but the brilliant flares of the beam attacks seared through her muscles, burning her to the bone, disrupting her rhythm and speed as she was forced to heal her body in order to even move.

I’m losing.

The thought which should have been one of absolute terror, drifted across her calm mind. She was experiencing the emotions that came attached with the dark thoughts, but her Clarity kept her mind still and focused during battle. She was effectively on her own against three elementals, all of which were higher level, more powerful, and faster than she was. The only help she was able to rely on was the consistent pulse of holy healing magic Ali’s minions were sending her way. If she let the brawlers reach the little Kobold Acolytes, it would all be over in a flash.

An incandescent arrow trailing a chain of light whipped past her left ear, but the Brawler it had been aimed at effortlessly avoided it. Calen’s unimpressed hiss clearly rued the waste of mana.

She dodged again, spinning on a tight axis, before landing on one foot and ducking, avoiding the scathing beams before blocking a rapid set of lashing strikes.

If only I had even one of the others to help.

She glanced over at Mato who usually took the tanking role for their team. If only he was faster. The swipes with his claws and his attempts to reach the monsters appeared ungainly and slow – useless against the incredible haste of these glowing brawlers with their instantaneous beam attacks and flurries of whips and bites.

She took another beam, this time to her back, unable to react to the brawler appearing behind her after a teleport. As the searing pain shot through her body, she desperately tried to turn to face the threat while healing herself. But she had left herself open and was instantly punished by the crunch of teeth through her arm as the nearest flanking monster’s maw bit down, shattering bone.

As she realized her mistake, she suddenly saw the glimmer of a way out.

He has Battle Master…

“Mato, stay put!” she yelled, seeing his surprised expression growing on his bear face with comedic slowness.

This had better work! She unleashed a vicious low kick, with all her strength behind it, connecting with the nearest brawler’s knee, and sprinted sideways, drawing the monsters with her, aiming carefully to draw her target right past Mato, while trying to recall the specifics of his potent retaliation skill.

His retaliation is instant, and I think it triggers when something moves past him…

She drew the hasted elemental up to Mato, right past his face and still, it was too fast for him to connect with. But as she ran by, the monster kept its focus on her, ignoring Mato. His paw suddenly moved with unbelievable speed, blurred in her perception even under the influence of her haste, accelerated reflexes, and perception, connecting solidly with the brawler. The power of his strike drove the heavier monster bodily to the ground, causing it to stumble, and sending blue glowing blood spraying across her face from the sheer force of ripping claws. Roots sprang from the ground, ensnaring the monster, and in that instant, it blurred, teleporting to escape.

Despite her dire circumstances, Malika grinned. This changes everything. All she had to do was draw the monsters past Mato and she could abuse his retaliation skill to get more damage.

And the best part is he won’t mind me using him. He hates being useless in a fight.

The brawler that had teleported to escape the roots charged across the sandy lake shore, directly to Mato, laying into the slow bear with a fury of attacks that he was powerless to defend against.

Now to try my new skill. Malika charged in behind the monster, drawing the other two with her, hoping to use Mato’s retaliation strike again. But this time, she unleashed her punches at the brawler attacking Mato, choosing to use her new Mana Strike advance. An electrifying rush of energy filled her mind as her punches connected, her magic no longer doing damage, but instead attacking the mana of the elemental directly, and leeching some of it away to replenish her own. The rush of new mana felt exhilarating as she immediately turned it into more stamina to fuel her Divine Step, and her punches and blocks.

The Radiant Brawler reacted instantly, furiously rounding on her with lashing strikes. You didn’t like that, did you? And the instant she drew the furious attention of the elemental away from Mato, his Battle Master retaliation struck again, blurring with speed and power and leaving the brawler trapped in the roots – this time unable to teleport away until its escape skill recharged.

Calen lost absolutely no time, peppering the pinned monster with incandescent arrows as Ali’s swerving Arcane Bolts all homed in on the suddenly pinned monster.

Malika sprinted away, drawing one of the other brawlers through the area of Mato’s reach. He struck a second time, provoking the teleport to escape. Here we go! Give us a big bear grin, Mato!

But as the afterimages faded, and the teleporting monster manifested right into the path of a radiant arrow trailing a chain of light. Calen’s binding magic wrapped around the monster, tethering it to the ground in an instant and suddenly the slippery elemental had to contend with the full onslaught of Ali’s mages. Wow, he learned to predict the teleport!

Unexpectedly finding herself enjoying the encounter, she ducked and dodged as she worked on circling back toward Mato’s position, weaving in her most cunning blocks and sidesteps as the monster chasing her caught up. Keeping her eyes on the greater battle, she ducked under a beam attack and rolled to her right side, seeing it slicing through trees in the distance. She felt the pressure, but it was clear that her discovery had greatly lessened the volume of attacks on her. Mato seemed to be enjoying walloping the pinned monster in front of him while it was unable to escape. She dodged a second beam but stood firm, taking the third aimed for her friends on her chest, healing against the searing burn that threatened to punch right through her.

I can force the teleport, and I can lock them down in front of Mato for a short time once their skill is on recharge. And Calen can pin one until their teleport recharges. She took a brief moment to survey the battlefield, noting the slow-motion firebolts, arrows, and other magic flying around. Only Ali’s arcane magic seemed to hit with any consistency.

What if I can run them out of mana? She decided it would likely be her most effective strategy. Something about her Mana Strike attack was threatening enough to the monsters that they were willing to ignore Mato to attack her when she used it, which gave her a good idea that they needed their mana and were willing to fight to keep it.

I can use that response too, she thought, considering how she might use every detail to her advantage.

She launched herself toward Mato, drawing in a new target for him to hit, just as the first one finally teleported out of its entangling roots. As soon as Mato unleashed his retaliation, she chased down the escaped brawler, unleashing a flurry of punches, each strike sipping from its mana pool and provoking its ire. It worked almost like a Taunt.

She continued ping-ponging the brawlers into Mato’s reach, quickly becoming more proficient at timing their teleport recharge so that they couldn’t escape as easily. Each time she had a few extra moments, she attacked the mana of the brawler that was still leaking blue blood from Mato’s initial strike.

It was a good ten minutes before she drew her target into Mato’s range, punching it relentlessly, but as she did, suddenly the monster’s glow dimmed substantially, and its movement slowed. Malika’s punch landed, but she came back empty – no exhilarating rush of stolen mana surging through her mind.

Got you. She knew how it felt to have her own mana pool drained till her enhancement skills dropped, and it was satisfying to turn the tables on the brawlers. She didn’t know how Mato was coping with the loss of mana, but he seemed to be doing just fine. He does have a lot of regeneration.

She dodged out, seeing Calen’s arrows easily tracking the no-longer hasted brawler, followed quickly by a host of magical attacks from Ali’s minions.

Done with you… She turned her attention to her next opponent.

***

Malika was exhausted after going all out for so long, but she smiled happily. The battle had required speed and tactical problem-solving, and she had quite enjoyed pushing her class to the maximum.

“That was a great idea,” Mato exclaimed happily as he grinned at her.

“You like being used like that?”

“Hell yes, I got to fight because of you!”

He’s so easy to please, she thought. But it did feel good to be critical to their little team’s success, so she totally understood him.

“Nice work on anticipating the teleports, Calen,” she said.

“There’s a bit of a trick to it, the way the afterimages flicker has a detectable pattern,” Calen said.

“You’ll have to teach me how to see that,” Ali said.

“Me too,” Malika agreed. “Either way, it took a lot of the pressure off.”

As Ali finished deconstructing the monsters, several small motes of brilliant light floated out from the dispersing mana of the brawlers.

Lesser Radiant Essence x5Light-affinity crafting reagent.Mana: Combine 3 Lesser Radiant Essence into one Radiant EssenceValue: 5 goldReagent – Mana Essence

Malika quickly collected and stored them in her ring before they floated away. Belatedly, she remembered to check her notifications.

Your group has defeated Radiant Brawler – Elemental – level 37 x3Soul Monk has reached level 35.+10 attribute points.Martial Artist has reached level 18 (+2).Soul Strike has reached level 21.Healing Mantra has reached level 21.Soul Armor has reached level 20.Enlightened Evasion has reached level 20.Divine Step has reached level 20 (+2).Second Wind has reached level 9 (+3).Clarity has reached level 6 (+2).Appraise has reached level 12.

Wow. Her class skills had grown dramatically from just one fight, and some of her lesser-used skills too. Huh, even Clarity got two. Very nice! But she supposed it made sense – it had been a long fight, and she had been going all out the entire time – and using haste, she attacked vastly more frequently. Divine Step and Second Wind had been crucial to her strategy, and they had grown the most.

Keeping to her usual distribution, Malika assigned three of the points to dexterity, two each to wisdom, vitality, and endurance, and put the last point into perception. As soon as she finished distributing her points, her notification chime sounded once again.

Making a hiss of satisfaction between her teeth that drew knowing grins from her companions, she checked the details at once. Yes!

Requirements met for skill advancement.Divine Step has reached level 20.Wisdom has surpassed 150.Fought at maximum haste for over ten minutes.Killed an opponent with a strike from above while airborne.Divine Step gains Infinite Lightness of the Soul.Divine Step – level 20Stamina: Channel your energy through your body and to the immediate environment around you to control your momentum, significantly increasing your combat and movement speed. You can step, push, or jump off your own energy extended into the space around you.Soul, Movement, Haste, DexterityAccept this advancement?

“Oh, this looks nice,” she said, sharing her Divine Step advancement with her friends. Fighting at maximum haste must have been unlocked in this fight just now, but the overhead strike kill had to have been her climbing the wall above Ali’s fireball and dropping down to kill Edrik.

“Is that an air-walk and double-jump skill?” Calen asked, arriving at precisely the same conclusion she had.

The way she read it, this advancement built upon the movement trait of her skill, allowing her to perform her acrobatic feats without necessarily requiring a wall. If she could jump off the air, she would be able to reach fairly impressive heights. But she presumed that with some practice and advancement, the ‘step’ part meant she might be able to run for short distances without any support.

She quickly accepted the advancement, and then took a step, channeling her stamina into her new skill. Her foot found purchase in the air a little above the ground as the energy of her magic infused the space, and she stepped onto it, surprised that it didn’t let her fall.

“Oh, that’s impressive,” Ali exclaimed. “Now you can fly, too!”

“I have to channel stamina into it continuously to avoid falling, so I can’t do it indefinitely.” But she could run on air. She sprinted around for a few moments, getting used to the effect, finding the skill surprisingly intuitive to use.

This is awesome! she thought, her mind already throwing dozens of ideas at her for how she could enhance her fighting style.

“Ali, are you alright?” Mato broke in, sounding worried.

“Feeling pretty woozy, actually,” she admitted.

Malika grimaced. “Woozy? You look terrible, actually. How about we get out of here? I could use some downtime too.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
