I read over Grick’s stat screen, and while I couldn’t have predicted the outcome, I wasn’t exactly surprised by it either.

Name: Grick

Race: Goblin

Level: 10 (+3)

Path: Bonded Wolf Rider

Stage: 2

Body Development: 0%

Vitals

Health: 130 / 130

Mana: 65 / 95

Stamina: 102 / 144

Attributes

Strength: 27 (+13)

Dexterity: 36 (+17)

Vigor: 26 (+12)

Attunement: 19 (+11)

Guile: 47 (+24)

Active Skills

Clean Cast lvl 3 (inactive)

Flensing Run lvl 2 (+1)

Execute a rapid flanking sprint that applies a “bleeding” status ailment. The effect becomes greater based on the length and depth of the cut.

Mounted Strike lvl 1 (new)

A precise attack from atop your mount.

Vault Strike lvl 1 (new)

Launch yourself from your bonded mount to deliver a powerful strike.

Pounce and Bounce lvl 1 (new)

Your mount slams into an enemy to stagger them, allowing you to follow up with your own attack before a quick retreat.

Tip: Combos well with Vault Strike and Quick Mount!

Passive Skills

Mining poise lvl 2 (inactive)

Knife Fighting lvl 2 (+1)

Mounted Stability Lvl 1 (new)

Quick Mount lvl 1 (new)

Traits

Good memory lvl 3 (+1)

You don’t forget things easily.

Danger Sense lvl 3

You have an innate understanding of when it is best to just turn tail and flee.

Pack Bond lvl 5 (+2)

You gain experience from anything killed by a member of your pack during a hunt in which you are involved.

You and your packmates regenerate mana and health 5% faster while resting together, the bonus stacking for every nearby pack member other than yourself.

You and your packmates now take moderately reduced damage while hunting together!

You have an innate understanding of your pack members’ stats and abilities.

Mentally signal your intentions to pack mates.

Momentum Fighter lvl 1 (new)

While mounted and moving, your attacks grow more lethal, dealing increased damage and piercing deeper into your target’s defenses. The faster you move, the stronger this effect becomes.

Bonded Mount lvl 1 (new)

You form a permanent bond with a single chosen mount. This bond cannot be easily replaced.

While fighting alongside your bonded mount:

Your movements and intentions synchronize, increasing combat efficiency.

You gain increased experience from the foes and prey you kill together.

First of all, I was in awe at his stat growth. He had gained 3 levels since last time I checked—which don’t get me wrong, that’s always worth a lot—but some of his attributes more than doubled! That was a good sign our training has paid off. Surely, those attribute growths didn’t come from gaining levels alone but also from achievements by taking an active role. I wonder just how many he has been getting?

While things have been pretty easy on me combat-wise since we left the vale, it has been the opposite for him. He and Lily had been fighting things the same level or even higher, while most of our targets have been below me, other than the many bandits we’ve fought.

But putting those amazing growths to the side, his new path and the abilities it brought truly excited me.

His three new active skills all had to do with fighting from atop of Lily.

Mounted Strike, Vault Strike, and Pounce and Bounce.

While he had used her to help with mobility, they couldn’t exactly use active offense like that—but now that looked like it was going to change.

The passives and Momentum Fighter trait seemed practical, but Bonded Mount was quite exciting! At level 1 it seemed it would give them a way to catch up to me in experience while also improving their synergy. Based on how Pack Bond has only improved more and more as we leveled it up I could only imagine how many more bonuses Bonded Mount would end up giving them!

He did lose his mining and fishing skills, but that was expected when going from a “Cave Dweller” to a “Wolf Rider.”

Lily let out a yip as she finished bouncing circles, lowering down so he could pat her head while he tail wagged. “Grick picks Lily Path! Good Path!” He then yelped as Lily pounced him playfully, pushing him down to his back so she could assault his face with her tongue.

I huffed out a quiet breath, watching the two of them for a moment before returning my focus to our surroundings and using {Pulse Sense}. Yeah, we were still safe, but now it was time to plan how to finish off this quest. We still had seven bandits to kill before we could unlock the next teir of the quest, and hopefully even greater gains while also earning the Empire’s favor enough to aid in rescuing our family!

I let out another longing huff as I thought of the day we could all be reunited. I wondered how they would all react to Grick? I would surely have to give Luke a very stern warning about proper play practices, as well as Ben and Jerry. But then again, with how much stronger Grick was becoming, he could probably handle himself pretty well against the rambunctious Hell Hounds!

My heart ached, wishing that day were here already.

Grick scrambled to his feet with a laugh, still half-covered in slobber, then swung himself up onto Lily’s back. The motion was smoother than before—faster and cleaner, and not just thanks to his increased height, and as he straddled her and sat tall, he looked like he belonged there. Lily seemed very pleased as she looked over her shoulder at him, tongue lolling and tail wagging.

“Good puppy!” Grick said, scratching her scruff.

I looked to the sky to consider the time of day. The sun was beginning to go down, and I preferred fighting at night. Knowing it could also be a long night, I didn’t want to do it on an empty stomach. I turned to Lily and Grick.

“You two go hunting for dinner. I’m going to scout. We will attack tonight.”

Lily instantly yipped, “Hunt!”

As we went our separate ways, I looked back at them once more as Lily prowled deeper into the woods, Grick atop her back. I considered the dagger at Grick’s side. It didn’t really seem like the best weapon to use for a mounted fighter. It could surely still have its uses, but I’d have to suggest that he learn to wield a sword or maybe a spear. He was a little bigger now, so it was a little more viable, and that would only become more and more the case as we continued to grow.

Once they were gone, I focused my mind’s eye back on the sentry I had marked. He seemed to be gesturing around, waving his arm with wide sweeping motions as he explained something. Then he nodded along as though he were listening to someone.

It was hard to get a concrete idea of exactly what was going on and precisely where he was, but one thing I was sure of was that the bandits would be on high alert now, and Death Mark at least helped me find their base again fairly easily.

Once I was close enough to visibly see the red silhouette bleeding through the trees, I took my focus off my mind’s eye. He was surely inside their little compound where dozens more bandits resided. But we only needed to kill seven more of them.

Using {Pulse Sense}, I noticed other sentry duos here and there throughout the trees. There were four such groups. That couldn’t have been any more perfect! Well, I suppose if they were all solo, that would be a little better. Killing two humans silently was infinitely harder than just killing one silently.

Then the sun came down further as I continued to prowl around the outskirts of their base. I focused on one of the sentry duos, not planning to attack yet, just continuing to work on gathering information.

Once I spotted them crouching together, dressed in forestry green tunics over their leather armor, I used {Analyze}.

Human - Level 15

Human - level 14

If the rest of the sentries were similarly low leveled, I was starting to have a good feeling about finishing this quest tonight. But I couldn’t just assume as much, so I prowled away from them and focused on the next group.

This time, one was hiding up in the trees while the other took a lower position.

{Analyze}!

Human - Level 17

Human - level 13

Darn, level 17, and he was the one up in the trees too. I hunkered down, focusing on him. He was equipped with a bow and a quiver of arrows at his side. Considering his level, I had to assume he had some good arrow skills and could be quite the danger if we were not careful. I decided keeping my eye on him was of the utmost importance, but my Death Mark was already placed on that bandit hanging out in the compound, not doing anything.

I decided to try anyway.

{Death Mark}!

The previous sentry disappeared from my mind’s eye, and the new target hiding up in the tree appeared there instead.

Huh… I thought I couldn’t change targets? I wasn’t able to cancel the one I put on Fox back when we first met that way.

Just how did this thing work anyway?

The System decided to clarify things for me, popping a somewhat lengthy screen in front of my face.

[Death Mark Rulings Section 4: Usage Restrictions]

A. Manually applied Death Marks cannot be canceled or replaced before expiration or target elimination—with some exceptions.

Exception 1: Death Marks applied passively through other skills or traits (e.g., Apex Ambush) may bypass this restriction and allow any relevant Death Marks to be replaced upon skill activation on a new target, or dismissed upon user command.

Exception 2: [Redacted]

Exception 3: [Redacted]

Oh—

Okay, thanks system! What the hell was that, though? Some kind of rule book? I didn’t realize I had that.

Hmmmm… and that says section 4. Does that mean there is even more information on the skill I can look at? How do I get it? How about…

System! Show me Death Mark Rulings Section 3!

[You do not have appropriate permissions to make that request.]

Okay, uh… section 2?

[You do not have appropriate permissions to make that request.]

Show me all available Death Mark rulings!

[Unrecognized command.]

Geeze, not even any 'please' or 'thank you' this time?

[Unrecognized request. See the help menu for available functions.]

Whatever! I’m done!

I couldn’t afford to get caught up with my System-related frustrations right now. I was able to Death Mark a very dangerous scout, and that is what was important!

Though the wording also implied a few interesting things. Did “relevant Death Marks” imply that there were ways I could have more than one active at a time? Maybe I could get the System to help?

Well… considering it usually seemed to respond better to unintentional thoughts…

Hmmmm—oh gee, I do wonder what level Death Mark has to be before I can use more than one at a time?

I waited, and nothing happened.

I wonder how I might get to use more than one Death Mark?

Nothing.

System! Tell me how to use more than one Death Mark!

[You do not have significant privileges to make that type of request]

Yeah, it really did seem to have gotten rid of the please, sorry, and thank-yous…

I wonder if it was mad at me?

Were we having a squabble? I don’t even know what I did!

In any case, I really needed to get refocused on the task at hand!

I slunk away from my current position and sent out a fresh {Pulse Sense}. I focused on the next duo and prowled towards them. I just needed to get them in sight so I could use Analyze, but as I approached, something bothered me. It was a vague feeling in the pit of my stomach at first, but my instincts were alerting me to something…

I stopped moving and just watched their pulses. The two I was headed towards were moving, and their hearts were beating ever so faster. Then I heard a quick whistle, one that I might have missed had I not stopped moving. It could have been a bird, but…

I looked around, scanning each of the nearby pulses, and all of them were moving now—moving towards me!

I didn’t waste any more time. I spun around, keeping myself low, but quickly moving away from the bandit’s compound. When I looked back to see they were all coming at me faster now, I gave up on stealth and just broke out of hiding and made a run for it.I sprinted for a good long while until I felt safe again, then used another {Pulse Sense} to make sure I was in the clear.

Sure enough, I was perfectly fine.

I also did a check on that one specific target in my mind’s eye. It seemed he had jumped down from his tree before, as he was now climbing back up.

The question was—what had alerted them to me? It had to be someone in that third group who had noticed me somehow.

I huffed in frustration. If I couldn’t entirely rely on stealth, then going around picking off these bandits was going to be tough! I also didn’t like that I got scared away before really finishing my scouting mission. What if there were more archers in the tree than the one I had marked?

Hmmmm, well, at night archers would be less of a threat…

…Or would they?

I looked up. It was getting dark now, but checking my Death Mark, I saw that the archer was climbing back into his tree and taking his perch anyway.

Yeah, that was a very good sign that he would be confident enough to hit a target in the dark. Why else would he even bother going up there with his bow at this time?

What made the whole thing even worse is that we would be completely helpless against anything up in the trees.

Unless…

Well, now that it was getting dark, that meant the 48-hour cooldown on changing Paths was near.

Whisperfang Juvenile excelled at two things: quick, clean, stealthy kills and picking off prey one by one. It felt far more powerful than Arcane Nightstalker, but it is not as though Arcane Nightstalker didn’t have its own advantages.

For one, Arcane Nightstalker was far more versatile, and in this particular instance, it provided my only options for ranged combat.

“Sister!” I heard Lily call through Pack Bond. “Meat!”

“I’m on my way!” I called back.

I headed in the direction I felt them from and soon found Lily sitting on her haunches next to a slain Mossgrazer. Grick was cleaning the blood from his dagger on some plants before returning it to its sheath.

“How did the first fight with your new Path go?” I asked.

Grick flexed an arm, actually able to show off a little muscle this time. “Grick and Lily powerful! Lily chase prey, Grick jumps and stabs! Lily finishes!”

I gave a wolfy grin. He had certainly come a long way in not too long of a time, but I supposed the same could be said of all three of us.

I went ahead and started digging into our meal, along with Lily, as I thought over how to deal with the bandits. We had to watch out for arrows, and we also couldn’t take stealth tactics for granted. I didn’t even manage to finish scouting, so it is possible they had more of those Drakewolves taken on scouting patrols.

But… We couldn’t just give up here. Who knows how long it would take to find a different group of bandits, and it’s not like we had to kill all of them. We just needed seven more…

I ripped open the Mossgrazer’s belly, being a little more selfish this time as I went for the organs. They were Lily’s favorite part, but I liked them a lot too!

As I chewed on the squishy meat, I thought it over.

The other disadvantage of Arcane Nightstalker is that it would require collecting Elemental Essences, which Rin said I could recharge at a statue in the Capitol, but we didn’t have any of the crystals from the caves anymore, and mana in general did not seem to be in great abundance in this forest. I suppose worst-case scenario, we’d have to run back so I could change Paths and recharge—maybe even snag Grick a longer-reaching weapon.

But as I squished the Mossgrazes kidney between my jaws and ripped it free from the creature’s guts, an idea struck me.

When they spotted me earlier, the archer jumped down from his tree to join in chasing after me…

If I had Lily act as bait again, have her go in for the first attack and then flee, I could ambush the archer.

We still had speed and mobility on our side, so if things got too hairy, we could just make a run for it again.

With the plan beginning to take shape, I turned to my pack and used Pack Bond to start communicating my ideas.
