The library must have been a chokepoint connecting the upper caverns and residential level to the industrial level of the city. The Bone Wights had presumably been in the densest part of the dungeon, which was why that part had survived – either because of the raid boss or, more likely, the shrine artifact itself. She hadn’t exactly been paying attention to that specifically, but her recollection of the look of the domain mana seemed to fit with her conclusion. The mostly cleared section above had broken, triggering a partial dungeon-break. It’s a good thing it didn’t happen the other way around. It had been one thing to mop up the Kobolds ejected from here, but she hated to think of the destruction that might have been wrought if the Wights had been set to rampaging around the countryside.

From her own observations, Ali’s domain mana originated from herself, radiating outward. If her domain were split, likely the part of the domain she was in would be the one that survived. When the Town Watch had come down to burn her domain, she had split it herself by disconnecting the ventilation shaft, and the part that had survived was the much smaller expanse in the ruins and the library.

If she didn’t want to suffer a similar loss of her domain in the future, she needed to defend it. But according to what she had just read, she also needed to make her domain denser and much better connected.

I should claim much more space. Losing the forest cavern had cost her more than three-quarters of her domain, with a commensurate loss in her mana capacity in the process. If she expanded her domain well beyond what she needed for her mana, even losing a large area like the sewer system and the Forest Cavern, she could still maintain her full mana pool, which would be essential for her defenses. It was not like she lacked space to expand into – there was a lot of area in the ruins and the jungle she had not claimed. Presumably, there was even more area where the water and slimes had come from when she blew the lake out on top of the Goblin siege. Then there was the passage she and Mato had used to escape the ruins – now caved in, but that had connected to a series of unexplored caves too – something Calen had speculated was the path the Kobolds had used to reach the farmlands.

She turned the page to reveal a simple checklist called ‘The Dungeon Survival Guide’, in which Lyeneru spelled out several important concepts for surviving in a dungeon. It was remarkably similar to Vivian Ross’s advice from the first time they talked with her, highlighting the value of teamwork, being prepared, knowledge and perception skills, and having an escape plan.

What’s my survival guide? She considered all she had read so far, her most difficult experiences and challenges.

Expand. It was crucial for her to expand her domain to defend against splitting and burning. She must make her domain more robust and retain her mana and the power of her domain magic.

She picked up a pen and began to jot down the beginnings of a plan.

Think with monsters. Lyeneru had explicitly pointed this one out. Her monsters were her biggest asset, her strength, and the source of an endless variety of skills and abilities. She needed permanent defenders in her domain or she would always be struggling to defend herself.

Of course, there were limits. She only had so much mana to reserve for monsters.

Knowledge and the value of Perception. In adventurer groups, perception skills did not always add to raw power – but the information gained could easily spell the difference between winning or dying. She had personally experienced just how important her Arcane Insight was for understanding the dangers presented by boss monster abilities.

And Lyeneru told me to use my slimes for their anti-stealth Tremor Sense.

Bosses and Traps. Dungeons grew in power proportional to the defenders they could wield, and every dungeon that had challenged Lyeneru had used difficult traps or boss monsters with powerful combinations of abilities.

Is that it? She considered her list carefully, but as she did, she realized something – perhaps the most important thing – was missing. She had been saved again and again by her friends.

But it wasn’t just them, she realized, recalling Vivian Ross’s efforts to help her, Donella Novaspark’s Chain Lightning from the battlements, and the support of Lydia and Thuli who made their gear. She struggled for a while to encapsulate the idea in a simple phrase – in Lyeneru’s guide it was labeled ‘teamwork’, but she wouldn’t call Vivian, Donella, or Mieriel friends or teammates, but they definitely had been…

Allies.

The word seemed to fit what she wanted, so she wrote it down. If she had strong friends, they would help her. If she was useful, people would protect her. As a dungeon, she would certainly not have many, but the more allies she could win to her side, the better her chances of survival would be.

Perhaps I should reconsider Vivian’s request. The idea of opening her shrine up to the general public again left her palms clammy. However, it had definitely helped to secure Vivian Ross’s support, and she was beginning to see the value in the Guildmaster’s vision: a strong guild would be a potent stabilizing force in the town, and that would definitely help her. Not to mention, the people who had earned classes from her shrine might be more likely to view her favorably. At least Havok thinks I’m cool.

A mental picture of Havok’s face made her smile.

Ali picked up the pen again and wrote her title above the list.

The Dungeon’s Survival Guide.

1) Expand.

2) Think with monsters.

3) Knowledge and Perception.

4) Bosses and Traps.

5) Allies.

She studied it carefully, but there was nothing else that came to mind. She would add to it if she discovered something important later but, for now, she was quite happy with it. The fact that it mirrored Lyeneru’s guide but was aimed at the survival of the dungeon instead of the adventurers tickled her sense of irony. I wish Calen was here, she thought, finding herself wishing she could pick his brains for new ideas.

The list, however, did highlight how little she knew about being a dungeon. She still had no idea how to make bosses and, other than the cobbled-together contraptions her Kobolds made, she had a single trap. She was already working on growing her knowledge by reading Lyeneru’s book, but although her list item ‘allies’ was nice and trite, she had no idea how to quickly find powerful allies.

But I can expand. It was one of the few things she knew how to make immediate progress on. “Come,” she called, reaching out with her mind to connect with every Moss Creeper, Spore Spreader, and Floral Menace, and drawing them to the top level of the ruins – the residential zone of the ancient city.

“Expand my domain.” The area was vast, and it would undoubtedly take them some time to complete, but they could make continuous progress on it while she was busy. “Err, don’t go outside the ruins,” she added, recalling belatedly that there were a number of unexplored caves. It wouldn’t do for her minions to disturb anything lurking in there.

***

Ali sat at her table once more, this time poring over the Monster Compendium. Her biggest fear was stealth and being ambushed by invisible attackers. She simply did not have the skills and health to deal reliably with that threat.

But Lyeneru had given her the solution in the form of free, but harsh advice. I guess that’s to be expected of the premier Pathfinder.

Her own rule-three indicated she needed knowledge and perception, and her rule-two encouraged her to think with monsters. She was taking it perhaps a trifle too literally though, paging through the compendium, searching for monsters with unusual and potentially useful perception skills like her slimes.

Although I’m not sure where I would find one of those, she thought, staring wide-eyed at a beautifully detailed picture of something called an ‘Earth Wyrm’. According to the compendium, these monsters were earth-affinity flightless, legless dragons, but having neither wings nor legs did not hamper their movement in any way. They had earth magic to burrow through solid stone at the speed of a flying dragon, and they could sense through rock.

“Hi Ali, what are you doing?”

She glanced up from her studies to find Mato walking up to greet her with Ryn hovering beside him on her pretty magical butterfly wings.

“I made a dungeon’s survival checklist, and now I’m trying to find useful monsters to help my defenses,” she answered, though her success so far had been mediocre at best.

“Can I see?” Ryn asked.

“Do you want breakfast?” Mato asked, simultaneously.

“Yes, to both!” she grinned. Pushing her notebook toward Ryn, she offered the Dungeon Survival Guide from Lyeneru’s book, and then her own version, The Dungeon’s Survival Guide.

“That’s funny!” Ryn giggled. “You flipped the meaning entirely. What kind of monsters are you looking for?”

“I’m really worried about stealth and assassins, especially since I’m a dungeon and there’s already a bounty on my head. So, I was looking for monsters with perception skills that could defeat stealth and invisibility to help defend me. But they need to be common enough that I can actually find some, not like this guy.” She flipped the compendium around so Ryn could see the Earth Wyrm.

“That’s big,” Ryn said.

“Also, it would be very handy if I could find some higher-level monsters that prioritize wisdom or intelligence as their highest attribute for my Empowered Summoner skill,” Ali added. She had two imprint chapters she could sacrifice if something useful showed up. Even though food was still scarce in town, she wasn’t certain she needed the Black Bean and the Potato imprints anymore. She could always just plant some rice, wheat, or some more fruit trees if she wanted to fill some of the food collection jobs on the guild board. She even had some edible mushrooms.

“Wolves have good noses,” Mato called out from where he was stoking the cookfire.

“Oh, yes! I have some Timber Wolves,” she said. She also still had the Starving Wolf and Alpha variants if she needed something easier on the mana – but they were lower level and presumably had weaker senses. He was right, though, the wolves were one of her best options right now – scent was hard to mask.

“This sounds like a fun project,” Ryn said, pulling up a chair and placing a hand on the Monster Compendium. “Give me a second.” A complex formation of golden mana formed in front of her eyes as tiny sparks of violet played in her pupils. Her eyes flickered back and forth rapidly as if reading something at high speed.

One of her Librarian skills? Nice!

“Ok, here we go,” Ryn said. She took the Monster Compendium from Ali and flipped the pages halfway through the book. “Here’s one option to consider. The compendium says that spiders are very common, and most species have interesting visual senses, highly sensitive to motion. Some of them also produce webs which they use in conjunction with various kinds of tremor sense. Here, read this.” Ryn pointed to the chapter describing the many and varied abilities of monstrous spiders.

“I used to know how to make spiders,” she mused. “But I had to give it up because I didn’t have enough space at the time.” She left unsaid that a major contributor had been the fact that they creeped her out a bit. On the other hand, they were most assuredly common – spiders could be found anywhere. The challenge would be finding one with the right sensory skills. Is it too much to ask for it to be cute also? she wondered, grimacing at some of the pictures in the book. I’m not supposed to be ‘cuteing’ enemies to death!

“Here’s another option,” Ryn said, flipping to the front of the book. “Bats usually have exceptionally acute hearing and sonic echolocation. An active sonic perception skill might be just the thing for flushing out sneaky creatures and people!”

“Oh, that’s a good idea,” Ali said, grinning at Ryn’s mounting enthusiasm. “There were some pretty scary bats on the second level of this city, maybe there are still some left that I can hunt.”

“For the creatures with high intelligence and wisdom, I will try to find some more information and make a list,” Ryn said, brusquely, pulling out a notebook and a pen. “I was planning on visiting the library at Vertias again this afternoon. I can search their collection for anything interesting.”

“Oh, if you’re going to Vertias, can you look for any books on arcane trigger magic?” Ali asked. She needed to make some progress on traps, and none of her ideas had panned out so far, but the discussion of the library had reminded her that magic tomes existed – and also reminded her of the niche branch of arcane magic related to trigger spells and metamagic.

I should hopefully be able to use them to make some traps with Runic Script.

“Ok, I’ll look.”

“Oh, can you also search for more books detailing dungeon dives?” Ali asked, meeting Ryn’s gaze as she glanced up. “I need descriptions of the traps and monsters, and any tidbits on how the dungeon was constructed. Or grew… whatever.”

“Got it,” Ryn said, scribbling down more notes. “Anything else?”

“A fun story?” Then Ali grimaced. “And a replacement for the couch.”

“I got those on the list already.”

“Hate to disturb your furniture shopping, ladies, but here you go,” Mato interrupted with bowls of hot oatmeal seasoned with crushed nuts and strawberries. It smelled divine, and Ali immediately dug in.

“How was your job at Sigurd’s farm? Did you finish?” she asked, talking around a mouthful of food, and then immediately feeling bad for forgetting her manners.

“Yes, his farm is cleansed,” Mato said, joining them at the table for breakfast. “He was so happy that he told all the other farmers, and now they all want me to do their farms too. I had to stop them trying to outbid each other to buy me with money.”

“Why did you stop them?”

“Well, it’s my duty to cleanse it. I would do it for free, but Mieriel told me we must charge at least the minimum fee because it’s the Town Council that is sponsoring the cleanup.”

“Well, if you’re going back out there, do you remember that cave with the Kobolds we cleared? There were some cave bats in there –”

“Ugh, flying rats,” Mato grumbled.

“If it’s not too much trouble, would you collect some for me? I think I’ll go hunt some of the giant bats from the ruins, too.” At least she knew where the bats were, and if she could add them to her Grimoire, she would hopefully have access to a potent defender with a new powerful perception skill.

