With three, 2-centimeter spherical gems in a bowl of platinum water and a Focus-Cyan maskward in the air, Erick channeled mana through his Focus, producing a cyan glow. He put his hand entirely into the water, making sure he touched each gem under the reflective platinum surface, to infuse them directly. He pulled his hand back, but still fed the experiment with Cyan resonance, hopefully still charging the gems out of his sight. A quick activation of [Crystallize Diamond] locked in the glow, as platinum soaked into the gems. Erick turned on [Cleanse Aura] and thick air escaped into the tower. Erick cut [Crystallize Diamond] early, with a push of his own mana to disrupt the ongoing spell, only 20 seconds into the experiment.

At the bottom of murky water, rested three octahedral, platinum diamonds.

The outsides of the gems didn’t matter when they were this thin, so Erick picked up one gem and placed it into an iron crown. The crown gave him 21 Focus. Erick quickly [Metalshape]d the other two gems into the crown. He felt as the gems connected to each other; as the enchantment in all three began to resonate, and then calm.

It did not explode.

Erick breathed a sigh of relief. And then he put the crown on his head.

QUEST COMPLETE!

Enchant an item, or items, that give you twice as much Mana Regen, then wear those items, consuming them in the process. 1/1

Reward: Double your Base Mana Regen

Erick saw the blue box as he felt the crown disintegrate around his head. There was no opportunity to inspect his Status before the crown vanished, because he fell backward, onto the stone floor of his tower. And then he sat up. He blinked a bit. There was a shadow looking down at him.

With her blond hair flowing over grey armor, Teressa grunted, “Hm.”

Erick said, “I’m good.”

“Massive Stat swings are not great. I would advise against continuing to experiment in this way.”

Erick smiled. “You sound like Poi.”

Teressa grinned as she held out her hand. Erick took it, and was suddenly placed on his feet by the very tall, very muscular, armored woman. She said, “You should go to bed early.”

“Another great idea!”

There were a few chores before bed, though.

Erick renewed the Air Conditioning [Temperature Ward] in the house. Then he used 2100 mana to create an 8400 point [Absorption Ward] throughout the whole place. Sculpt Spell proved itself valuable, yet again, making the [Ward]ing process much easier than before; he didn't have to use Mana Shaping X for 500 mana. And because it was so easy, Erick redid all the [Alarm Ward]s and several lightorbs that looked a bit dull; they were not up to his standards anymore.

By the time Erick had [Cleanse]d himself and the rest of the house, he was feeling quite mentally exhausted, but he was still able to spend 2300 mana on a [Personal Ward] before he went to bed, giving him 4600 points of protection, on top of the 8400 point [Ward] already inside the house.

Erick hadn’t felt this secure in a while; there was still the [Solid Ward] to learn, though. He’d chase after that tomorrow, along with several other valuable pursuits.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 39, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 4,257,054,608/10,233,415,500

Class: 5/6

Points: 5

HP

600/600

600 per day

MP

1031/2400

12,000 per day

Strength

20

+0

[20]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

40

+0

[40]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

Particle Mage

Spend 100 mana to discover if a Particle spell is possible, greatly reducing the risk of Errors.

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

Major Mana Shaping applies to all Spells. Altering ongoing Auras is considerably easier.

Double Base Mana

Double Base Mana Regeneration

<empty>

- - - -

Erick briefly woke up when Jane touched his mind.

‘Huh. Whazzat. Sleeping.’

Jane laughed, sending, ‘Early night, eh?’

‘Class Quest completion. Wiped out.’

‘Then I’ll keep it short: Neutrinos.’

Erick woke up a little; enough to think, and to send, 'A scanning spell attached to neutrinos that goes off when it touches the thing I'm scanning for.'

'Exactly! You can use the neutrinos from the sun, too. Just need to stand with the sun at your back.'

'Maybe. I'll work on it. Love you. Good night.'

‘Love you, too. Let me know how it goes!’

- - - -

Erick had forgotten to put his Strength ring back on last night.

When he put it on in the morning and his HP started to tick up, it crackled. The ring dropped from plus-10, to plus-3.

Well that was shitty!

Erick went to his tower and promptly made a plus-23 Strength ring with the technique he had created yesterday. It barely looked different from the red one, but when that platinum thing slipped on his hand! Oh man! He was a college frat bro pumped up from the gym and ready to PARTY. It took a hot minute for Erick to realize he was not, in fact, a college frat bro. He forcefully calmed himself. He smiled.

He made several other enchanted objects and tested them out with Poi and Teressa's help, swearing both of them to silence because it was more fun that way. When it was time to go to the farms, Erick put several of his new items into his shoulderbag.

- - - -

The walk through Spur was different today than it was yesterday, or even the day before. People seemed quieter. [Weather Ward]s had been erected all over. The blue signs that had read of random [Withering]s happening throughout the city ‘two days from now’ had been replaced with signs saying that random [Withering]s would be happening today, and for the foreseeable future.

Erick wondered if this mass preparation was the kind of reaction Silverite had hoped for.

- - - -

An hour into the rain, and one more failed attempt at [Familiar], passed without remark. Erick read about enchanting while the cows mooed, the bees buzzed, and farmers farmed. And then Silverite and Mog showed, walking up the temple steps.

“Uh!” Erick said, “Hello, there! What brings you out here?”

Mog smiled, about to say something else, but she paused, and said, “You look different.”

Before Erick could answer—

Silverite said, “Kal’Duresh is asking for you. It shouldn’t take long, but please leave the talking to me. But for now, can you please [Withering] Spur, first?” She added, “I’ve already informed Apogough; there is no need to worry about the cows.”

She wanted to do this in the middle of farming time? It wasn’t a problem, not with Erick’s new massive stats, it just seemed odd. Erick took care of the maintenance of his [Exalted Storm Aura] first, by popping out a pair of parakeets with [Conjure Force Elemental]. He transferred the storm to the one not on his shoulder.

He said, “Okay. Sure. But everyone knows to put up [Weather Ward]s now. Won’t that stop potential Daydropper hideouts?”

She smiled. “You’re not the only archmage in Spur, you know.”

Erick had a moment of inspiration. “… Can you [Scan] specifically inside [Ward]s?” He added, “It would decrease the area your [Scan] needed to cover by quite a lot.” He asked, “But how do you punch through antirhine?”

Mog chuckled. “Finding it is the hard part, and Mana Sense just isn’t enough.”

Silverite said, “There are better ways.”

Erick had another moment of inspiration, but he kept it to himself.

He nodded, asking, “Right now?”

Mog asked, “Can you reach the whole city from here?”

Erick frowned at her, saying, “Of course I can.”

Mog smiled; she was teasing him.

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

A white sphere formed around Erick; thick air spilled into the sky. Shadowolves died as the Withering Slime crashed across the city, like a hyper, intangible tsunami. Pushing the spell east caused Erick a bit of a drain, but not enough to actually dent his 12,000 regen; seriously, he had so much mana now, looking back to a month ago…

Erick was a completely different person.

The first mimic came through Erick’s notifications, and was immediately followed by twenty more.

After two minutes of crashing, intangible air, Silverite said, “That’s enough, Erick.”

Erick cut the Domain, while maintaining the rain. White ash flaked away from the core around him, as he said, “56 mimics, 81 wolves. I expected more mimics, honestly. There’s quite a bit more people killing mimics around town, aren’t there?”

“It’s pretty great.” Mog said, “Four times as many people in Spur now as compared to same time as last year.”

Silverite said, “Preliminary results are good. Merit has been informed—”

Mog frowned, deeply.

“—about several interesting locations we did not know about before, but that is her job, now. We have another task, in another part of the world.” Silverite held out her hand to Mog. “If we could all please depart, with all possible haste.”

“I didn’t see anything, though?” Erick asked, “What happened?”

“Your Domain is great for hiding a large [Scan].” Silverite beckoned with one hand; her other already in Mog’s. “Let us be off.”

She seemed in a hurry; she had probably timed all of this precisely.

Ah. She was doing this while Erick was at the farms because everyone expected him to be at the farms.

Erick put his hand in Mog’s—

- - - -

Erick reappeared in Kal'Duresh in the garden he had visited before, about ten feet from the gazebo from before, while the white castle and its hugging tree loomed close by. Baroness Pirazel Xelxex stood inside the airy white gazebo; two guards flanked her outside of her regal space. In any other time, Erick would have taken a long moment to notice that Xelxex’s magenta skin was beautifully offset by her lovely green dress, but he was on the clock.

Silverite stepped away from Mog, saying, “Greetings, Baroness.”

Xelxex said, “Please proceed.”

Silverite looked to Erick, who took his cue well. Soon, Kal'Duresh was filled with crashing, thick air. Erick watched Silverite with Meditation active the whole time, trying to see if she was casting anything, or if any strong magics were coming off of her. And then he saw it. A pulse of dense magic, heavy but super thin, radiated from Silverite at roughly the speed of a blink; if Erick had blinked, he would have totally missed it. And now that Erick saw the spell, he saw that it did not actually come from Silverite, but from her belly.

Something was inside of her, casting a spell.

Xelxex asked, “Anything yet?”

Oh. Right. Erick was cleaning Kal’Duresh right now. He looked over the notifications.

He said, “Wolves. Mimics. If there are Daydroppers then I’m not seeing any.”

Xelxex nodded, but she did not seem relieved. Erick gave a bit of thought toward his parakeet back on the farm, still providing rain; the chain of mana and spells flowing from Erick, to bird, to other bird, seemed stable. Erick gently prodded his ongoing spells, making sure all of them remained stable, as he turned back to Silverite.

Now, Erick wasn’t about to hold his growing theory up as a surefire answer, but he was sure that inside of Silverite was a [Familiar] or a [Conjure Force Elemental] from one of the other archmages she had mentioned.

Silverite spoke, “My sources tell me that there are five likely spots where someone could be storing Daydroppers.” She held her hands out into the air. An intricate blue [Special Ward] appeared, looking like a miniature map of the Kal’Duresh, but with large red spots here and there. “These are the culprits.”

Xelxex took a step off of her gazebo, inspecting the map Silverite had created.

After three seconds of looking at the map, she said, “Pop them.”

Another blast of invisible force rang out from Silverite’s belly.

Erick stilled as twenty four new notifications came into his view. “I just got notifications for 24 Daydroppers.”

Xelxex did not have to turn to her guards. They were already moving. Erick saw dozens of telepathic lines come off of all three of the incani.

More notifications came.

“Uh.” Erick said, “Seven shadowcats.”

“Fu—!” Xelxex turned a shade of darker magenta, spitting, “Why are there still cats!” She forced herself to calm. If he hadn’t seen it, Erick would not have guessed Xelxex was spitting mad just a moment ago. She said, “One problem at a time. Silverite. Thank you for your assistance. And also, thank you, Archmage Opal. Archmage Flatt. You may turn off your spell, now.”

Archmage Opal? At least Erick had a name, now.

While the white sphere around him disintegrated into the breeze, Erick checked his Kill and Exterminate Quest, just to make sure his next question hadn’t already been answered. It hadn’t. So he asked, “If someone is purposefully doing this… Growing Daydroppers to use on a population... Why haven’t their names been added to the Kill and Exterminate Quest? They’re actively working with a systemic threat to Veird, right? This seems pretty weird to me that no one else has been added to the list, now that we've uncovered someone preparing for a killing.”

Xelxex looked to Erick. Silverite turned her gaze to Erick as well, but the Mayor's look was one of slight displeasure. Baroness Pirazel Xelxex looked like a cat who had found a new toy.

Erick continued, “Or is it weird to find it weird?”

Xelxex innocently asked, “Who do you think should get added to the list?”

The Silver Star on Erick’s chest suddenly turned warm. He touched it. The metal didn’t burn, but it would burn if given enough time. Erick frowned. He said to Xelxex, “Whoever is guilty of planning mass murder via Daydropper should get added to the list.” The star got hotter. Erick clutched it, then said to the sky, “That’s just fucking stupid, you know. It’s probably not the humans. It has to be a Shade. There were cats down there.”

The Silver Star went cold in Erick’s hand, like a switch had been flipped.

Xelxex harrumphed.

Erick looked to her.

