Xelxex's eyes were narrow, her lips taut. She sighed out, then said, “You’re probably correct. This might not be the work of Helix and his ilk. You can’t hold shadowcats against their will and you can't control them unless you're a Shade.” She frowned, looking away to the east. Far, far in the distance, laid Ar’Kendrithyst, looking a tiny raised portion of all the other brown land. “Kill and Exterminate Quests don’t add new people to the list unless they've used the plants to purposefully harm sapient beings; accidental killings have a much higher threshold for inclusion on the list." She paused. She said, "Now that you mention it: I’m surprised Planter hasn’t already been added, but this would explain why; he would want the debut of whatever new evil he’s made to be world news. What better way to accomplish that than by killing one of Ar'Kendrithyst’s connections to the greater world and putting himself on the Kill and Exterminate Quest.”

“I assume ‘Planter’ is some Shade?” Erick asked.

Xelxex said, “He likes to seed Ar’Kendrithyst with Changeling Vines to see what grows, while he keeps his Arbor full of the nastier stuff, like Sweeping Angel mushrooms and Onyx Rain trees. He also maintains some of the rarest medicinal herbs on the entire planet, like Sword-Spike and Radiant Lilles—” She paused, listening to a tendril of intent coming off of her head. “We’ve just gotten confirmation that an uncovered Daydropper has appeared in the Arbor in Ar’Kendrithyst.” She paused again. “And everywhere else.”

Silverite was scanning the sky while Xelxex spoke. She pointed, saying, “There it is.”

Erick looked up.

A white [Scry] eye, rimmed in darkness, floated far, far above, barely visible against the blue. Erick would have never noticed it if Silverite hadn’t pointed it out. But now that everyone had seen it, it floated down.

Erick popped it with a smash of Focus, scattering the spell like so much ash, saying, “Fuck that guy.”

Xelxex laughed once, then she stilled.

Erick went still, too; probably for the same reason as Xelxex. A familiar notification appeared and then changed, right before Erick’s eyes.

Atunir has identified a global danger to Veird!

Kill and Exterminate!

Arrox Geller of the Halls of the Dead,

Parox Geller of the Halls of the Dead,

Denutha Odaari of the Halls of the Dead,

The Shade known as Planter, of Ar’Kendrithyst,

and the plant:

the monstrous Daydropper Vine.

Fully grown, the Daydropper transforms living air into dead air at an unprecedented rate.

Reward: 10 ability points, to each of the 1000 people who most contribute to completion of this Quest!

Mog asked, “I wonder who he killed?”

Silverite said, “People go missing all the time, unfortunately.”

“From here, as well.” Xelxex frowned, then said, “Well! I'm glad I don’t have to lead a purge against Frontier.”

Silverite produced a glowing pink truthstone.

“Bah.” Xelxex turned her nose, saying, “Allow a Baroness her little lies, Silverite.”

Silverite said, “We’re leaving.”

Erick looked through his notifications, quickly adding up what he saw, to say, “105 mimics, seven shadowcats, 24 Daydroppers, 181 wolves.”

Silverite held up the now-green truthstone, saying, “Quite an infestation you have here, Baroness.”

“When you have a city as large as mine, Mayor, these are problems to be mitigated.”

Silverite smirked, putting a hand in Mog’s. Erick gave a nod to Baroness Pirazel Xelxex; he was met with a gentle smile in return, as he grabbed Mog’s other hand.

- - - -

Back in Silverite’s office, the very first thing Erick did was activate his daily [Divine Scan]. Silverite and Mog noticed; they waited for the results. Sure enough, the Scan returned several dozen results, all of them to the south, between 20 kilometers and 160 kilometers away. The Shade called Planter must have been standing out in the open, too, because the Scan showed him to the south as well.

Erick started off with, “So these Daydroppers in our neighborhood were not part of some machination from Frontier. It was just another Shade.” Erick stressed, “That we should kill.”

Mog looked at Erick, her eyes slightly squinted, her mouth in a frown. Then she turned toward Silverite.

"What?" Erick asked.

Silverite kept her face completely calm. “Frontier had Daydroppers.”

“What!”

“They were experimenting on them.” Silverite said, “Several hours ago, in the early morning, several agents of Spur infiltrated an antirhine-shielded laboratory under the streets of Frontier. Inside, they discovered mature Daydroppers and mages researching the plant. When Helix was confronted with this proof, and when I threatened to deny him any help with further Shade attacks, Helix decided to turn on the researchers. I remain completely unconvinced that Helix was not completely aware and complicit in the acts of these plant mages, but the fact remains that Helix chose to play the part of an honorable man.” Silverite added, “Since he will be administering his own justice to those plant mages, I fully expect many of them to disappear into the Greensoil Republic, never to be heard from again, but fully involved on other projects.”

Erick listened. He said, “Okay. So. The only problem we have in front of us now is this Shade called Planter?”

Silverite frowned, shook her head a little, then nodded, saying, "Correct enough to be true, as far as all the information we have tells us."

“Then...” Erick said, “We should send out an expedition to murder this Shade for what he has done to whoever he killed, and for whatever he threatens to do to us outside of Ar'Kendrithyst.”

“It’s not that simple.” Mog said, “We can’t kill a Shade without—”

“Without angering the rest of them. I know, I know.” Erick said, “But this is different. This is a problem. Not some nebulous threat that needs to be worked around. Planter needs to die.”

“We cannot send someone directly against Planter.” Silverite spoke, “But I basically agree with you, Erick.”

Mog protested, “I wasn’t disagreeing! But there’s complications, you know?”

“There are always complications, but Planter is visible to the Divine Scan as long as he isn’t behind antirhine.” Silverite said, “Killzone has already sent a team to investigate one of the nearby Daydroppers. We will know more in the coming hours. Right now, my preliminary plan is for you, Mog, to gauge the people walking through your door, to see if they could actually kill a Shade.”

Mog said, “I already know several people I can tag for this.”

“Good. Then the plan will be to assist those people; Spur will not be taking on this fight directly.”

Erick said, “I would like to be included in this, somehow.”

Silverite stared at Erick; not harshly, but methodically.

Erick waited.

Silverite said, “Okay. What can you do?”

“You mean besides a Staff of the Withering Slime?”

Silverite frowned a little. “You can already make one of those?”

“Not yet, but I’ve made—” Erick picked his shoulderbag off of the ground by his seat. He started pulling out a few small items and setting them on Silverite’s desk. “I’ve made some really nice Stat items.”

He set out four rings; one of each Stat, for 25 points in that Stat. Two bracers; one for 35 Strength, the other for 36. A crown for 51 Willpower, and a chain link belt for a whopping 55 Strength. Not a single one looked good; Erick was not the best [Metalshape] artist, but he was getting better. The problem was, was that every one of them had prominent, spherical platinum gems, central to their designs, and Erick was not proud of that vulnerability.

“Before you try one out,” Erick held up his platinum ring, saying, “This ring is 22 Strength. I, personally, can’t handle the higher Stats. And there’s another problem:” He held out the Strength ring he had bought from Ruby’s Reds; it was blackened, fully cracked and useless. “The Stat items I made seem to destroy all the other Stat items you’re wearing, except for other Stat items also made with platinum gems.” He held up his ring again, saying, “Poi and Teressa helped me strain this one before it was time to leave for the farms. I did 4 full HP iterations, Poi did 4, and Teressa did 4; Rats would have helped, I'm sure, but it was his turn to sleep. This ring was 23 Strength before all that testing. It’s 22 Strength, now." Erick added, "I will not be making a Staff of the Withering Slime; I am very aware of the danger posed in creating something like that. But you tell me if Stat items have the same issue.”

Silverite picked up the Willpower ring; Erick only recognized it as the Willpower ring because he had put a tiny Ultramarine blue [Ward] mask onto the stone. She put it on her finger. It slid into her skin, but only slightly. She hummed, probably looking at her Status.

Mog picked up the belt, smirking, saying, “I could use it as a bracelet.”

“That’s 55 Strength, Mog. It will break any other items you’re wearing and make you feel funny.”

Silverite paused. She and Mog locked eyes, then both of them looked at the belt in Mog’s hands.

“55!” Mog asked.

“Yup.” Erick said, “And let me tell you, testing that thing was an embarrassment for everyone involved.”

Mog laughed, holding the belt with a bit more reverence, saying, “I got nothing on me to break; I don’t wear Stat items around town,” as she wrapped the belt around her wrist. She gasped. She breathed hard. “Ohh.”

Silverite picked up the Strength ring and slipped it onto a different hand than the Willpower ring. Her silver skin fluttered under her clothes for a brief second. “That’s a heady experience.” She took both off, and turned slightly stiff, saying, “Ouch. That did not feel good.”

“They don’t play well with each other. One is good, two is not great,” Erick said, still looking mostly at Mog. “Higher Stats feel really weird.”

Mog flexed her arms; her clothes stretching with the motion. She said, “It feels… pure.” She looked at the belt on her wrist, then slowly took it off. She blinked hard as the item fell into her other hand. “That’s some adjustment, alright! I gotta take a nap. Ha!” She set the belt onto Silverite’s desk, saying, “That’s a quarter-million gold item, right there, but people don’t buy or sell these. They kill for them.”

"What!" Erick exclaimed.

Silverite decided, “This is what I’m going to do. Firstly, you’re not allowed to sell any of these to anyone—”

“Buh!” Erick said, “What!”

Silverite, disbelieving Erick’s sudden outburst, added, “Mog just said that people kill for these! So! Firstly: No selling any of these items. Instead, you will be assisting Spur in the indirect killing of Planter. Mog can set this up with a quest from the Adventurer's Guild, but what we will do is have one of... something… I don’t know. A crown for 55 Willpower or this belt for 55 Strength— which is all quite absurd, mind you.” Silverite jabbed her finger at the chain link belt, saying, “Any one of these losing 1 point every 12 iterations is even crazier.” She continued, “We will have the items you make as rewards for the team that kills Planter. I was already planning on a gold reward, but this is much better, and should attract much stronger people. Are you amenable to this idea, Archmage Flatt?”

Erick was very amenable to that idea, but... He frowned. He said, “I was thinking I could make some smaller things, like rings or whatever, for the Army. What do you think about that? Poi says they don’t usually use Stat items because they're so unreliable, but these seem pretty tough… So?”

Silverite thought.

Mog seemed to be thinking, too.

“Maybe.” Silverite said, “Strength rings for the mages, Willpower rings for the warriors. If they fall into the hands of the Shades, I don’t think it would matter much, considering the Shades would have to give up all their other...” Silverite stood up and went to the shelves at the side of her room. She plucked a tiny red-jeweled ring from from an open box. She slipped the red ring on one hand, then went back to the desk and picked up the Strength Ring, to slip on her other hand. The second she was wearing both rings at the same time, the red ring cracked; smoke escaping from a blackened jewel. Silverite hummed. Then she took off both rings, and said, “This is a wonderful trap.” She smiled wide. “I love it.”

“Good! That’s what I was thinking, too.” Erick added, “Like anti-cursed items.”

Mog laughed. “Do you think they’d break cursed items, too?”

“I’m not even sure what a cursed item is. The books didn’t say much about them.”

“They’re items that drain Stats, or Health, or Mana, which cannot be removed except with the help of a priest or a doctor.” Silverite said, “They can be very deadly because when you drop below Stat multiplying ability thresholds, those abilities turn off.”

"Yup." Erick said, “That's all the books said about cursed items, too.”

“I have some cursed items I can test,” Mog said, picking up the Strength ring. “I’ll let you know.”

Silverite picked up the Willpower ring, saying, “I will give this ring to Darenka for testing, as well.”

Erick smiled wide, saying, “And I’ll go home and start making some more rings.”

Mog asked, “How are you making these, anyway? I’ve never seen silver gems.”

“They’re diamonds.” Erick said, “I invented a diamond making spell and the rest is technique.”

Mog laughed loud, like Erick had said the funniest thing she’d ever heard.

Silverite just smirked, saying, “You should not answer that question ever again, Erick. That’s why I did not ask.”

Erick grinned, calling her on her bullshit, “Don’t pretend you didn’t already know.”

Silverite laughed.

- - - -

In the middle of grinding diamonds with [Stoneshape], as the evening sun painted the sky outside of Erick’s mage tower in shades of pink and gold, Poi appeared in the archway leading to the rest of the house. He cleared his throat. Erick turned toward the sapphire dragonkin.

Poi said, “Your rings destroy cursed items, but they are lessened and eventually consumed in the process, turning to naught but dust.”

Erick smiled. “Awesome.”

Erick went back to grinding diamonds.

He had already ground out [Stillness] to level 10 by throwing the spell into the sky and dismissing it, over and over, hours ago. [Watershape] was also level 10, just because he could; it made working with water much more fun. [Crystallize Diamond] got powerleveled to 10, too. The only thing left to grind was diamonds and higher tier magic.

So Erick ground diamonds into spheres, preparing to outfit an army.

He paused.

