Valor chuckled like a grandfather being asked too many senseless questions. "No such thing. I've simply cast the mana-body formation spell too many times. It's practically scarred into my memory. All the many steps are there. Every little shape I need to form is also ingrained. By now, it is practically reflex."

Jessica shook her head, unwilling to abandon her disbelief. "Me taking a back step so some drunken giant barely misses me and then running them through using Rusty is reflex. This is some other shit altogether."

"Should you live longer and dedicate yourself to the magical lores completely, you will find that a few spells that most might regard as extremely complicated come easily to you. We are beings shaped by practice. Everything we do carves more knowledge into us. And every act we perform makes what was once difficult routine and what was impossible merely a challenge. Do not be overly impressed by this. It is most achievable with time."

With that said, Valor turned away from Jessica and smacked his lips. "I agree with young Gone here: the marrow might be the finest part. I must confess that despite all the times I've faced the orcs in active combat, I have never truly feasted on them. They seemed more monster than prey to me, and they also had a habit of lacing themselves with venoms that poisoned the land and animals which fed upon them while invading hostile worlds." Valor paused as he tapped a digit against his chin. "Of course, the Canids had the habit of eating the dead. It was their way of honoring those who passed."

Shiv tried the marrow himself. His eyes widened as the taste spread across every centimeter of his tongue. It was like he was being lathered in overwhelming flavors. However, if he were to criticize it, it was a bit too salty-sweet, and the aftertaste lingered too long, becoming almost tangy, like a sticky feeling you couldn't quite spit out.

"Need something to nullify that a bit, maybe," Shiv muttered under his breath. From there, his thoughts descended further into the question of what kind of meal he was going to make of his orcs.

Everyone could accept the flavoring of the meat. That was the least contentious part. However, humans, elves, or any Pathbearer who lacked the proper teeth needed to rip through the rugged tendons and gristles lining orcish biomass likely wouldn't enjoy tearing into such a steak. Comparatively, goblins and other semi-bestial races—including the orcs themselves as well—enjoyed a bit of roughness when it came to their meal. Simply removing all the rugged tissue would probably leave them disappointed. And it felt like a waste to Shiv as well. A bit of hardened tissue in the right place did appeal to him as well.

And finally, there was the issue of the marrow. Everyone else enjoyed it, but Shiv thought it could be even better. He just needed to blunt certain flavors and make sure the aftertaste didn't overstay its welcome.

A list of complicated problems to handle.

"If you wish to hear my suggestion," Adam began, "I think you should make two separate sets of meals: one for the people inside the Gate and one for the orcs out in the Tutorial. Monstrous and individual tastes don't really mix well."

But Shiv wasn't sure he agreed with that statement. Georges had a philosophy about certain meals. Those were meals of choice. Individuals liked complicated, pain-in-the-ass kinds of food if it appealed to their tastes. Clams that someone needed to pry open to suckle at the juicy substances were considered an extraordinary delight by many, but other Pathbearers despised the texture and didn't see the point. Then there were those who liked ripping crabs apart, spending time and effort breaking through the hardened shell just to get a few strips of meat.

There were key factors behind why people liked those meals: satisfaction, texture, flavor. So many different things to consider.

But something nagged at Shiv. A phrase came to his mind, almost unbidden. It was "having his cake and eating it too." He found it a hard concept to fully conceptualize. But now, he was getting an idea. What if he could make everyone happy? What if he could sell everyone on a highlight and avoid inflicting any inconveniences on them?

With that came another word, one Shiv knew all too well: "evolution."

Skills evolved, people evolved, things progressed and advanced. There were levels, Tiers, and layers between things. Shiv knew this all too well, especially considering the relationship between his Severed Shadow and his physical bodies. Just thinking about that inspired him. He could make something with that. He could create something wonderful, something perhaps no other chef could.

And it felt like different parts of his mind started moving in tandem. His neurons fired, and one idea was bridged to another.

"I need to try something," Shiv breathed. "Just give me a second. I need to do a few tests. Echoes, with me!"

"Do you need anything from the rest of us?" Uva asked.

"Can't reply, thinking hard," Shiv said.

She pressed her lips together. "I suppose we should all give him some space."

Everyone watched as Shiv retreated to the other side of the grill. He began using his Biomancy to separate different portions of meat, and then his Psychomancy spilled out from his mind in lashing streams of translucent mana. He ordered the orcs possessing the various ingredients to reshape themselves, and soon he separated the animated ingredients into four different groups.

The lean meat, devoid of any hardened tissue, became an amorphous blob, a little bit like a mashed mess of meat paste. The gristle and hardened tendons were connected to one another. It looked like a set of interfused wires, and the pale tissue that lined its exterior glinted bright in the light. Then there was the bone, turned hollow as Shiv siphoned it dry of marrow. And speaking of marrow, it made up the final group. Shiv had it compressed into a swirling mass that hovered above all the other parts which made up an orc's meat.

"So, what are you thinking, Insul?" one of the dead orcs possessing a portion of the lean meat asked Shiv. "What sweet and happy ideas are taking shape in that head of yours?"

"Sections," Shiv whispered. He thought hard, thinking of how he wanted to make this meal. Right now, he was imagining an onion. At its core, the marrow could be there, a dense, concentrated mass. That was the final reward for anyone who chewed all the way through. Then, in front of that could be the gristle and all that other hard tissue. The soft meat was on the outside. An easy invitation. Yeah, that might work. That might…

But the Chef Unwavering made Shiv instinctively consider another problem: What if the gristle was too concentrated, too hard? If it became a dedicated section within Shiv's Manifold Orc Meatball, then maybe it might not work. Someone might end up chipping a tooth.

And the Deathless forced himself to think even harder. He was close to something. Close to something glorious. He could feel it. The breath of inspiration was on the nape of his neck. He just needed to reach out. He just needed to keep pushing. The idea was right there—satisfaction, taste, effort, all in one package. Shiv just needed a bit more inspiration, a final—

“Peanuts,” Shiv said suddenly. “Peanuts. That can work. That can absolutely work. Peanuts are the way we do this. The second layer is peanuts!”

Everyone else just stared at him like he was going mad.

Shiv didn’t reply—he didn't have the capacity. All of him was consumed by a cooking frenzy. The room was aglow with pristine radiance, but the brightest light shone within Shiv’s mind. He was on the verge of discovering something wonderful. Forward. Think harder! More satisfaction. More! They’ll see! I just need to make it first! They’ll see!

His Psychomancy began pulsing out in all directions as he began commanding his orc echoes to shape the outermost layer of his Manifold Orc Meatball.

The Chef Unwaving 77 > 79

***

“So, does he do this every time he cooks?” Jessica whispered to Uva.

The Umbral side-eyed her with a cold look. “Do not mistake my compartmentalization of your presence to be forgiveness, Legend Hawgrave. I accept your presence here because Shiv has decided to trust you—and because I owe you a lesser debt of gratitude for aiding in my rescue as well. But make no mistake, there is blood between us. That of my mother, on your grandson’s hands. That is all that needs to be said between us until that is settled.”

The Giantsbane blinked and looked away. “Ah. Well. Yeah. So… Look. War makes ugly and tragic shit happen. And there’s a lot we don’t know sometimes, so, you know… Uh…”

Despite all the years and an entire Tier of power separating them, Jessica found herself disquieted by the ever-growing intensity of Uva’s glare. The Umbral said nothing more, but managed to convey the sheer weight of her scorn all the same.

Adam nodded vigorously on Jessica's left. A bit too vigorously. “Indeed, indeed. We should live and let live, yes? I’ll be sure to tell my father the good news. It is a brave and noble thing you’ve done, Legend Hawgrave, forgiving my father for what happened to your daughter.”

Jessica stopped talking immediately and committed to gritting her teeth instead. “Fuck. You little piece of shit. You little fuck. Stabbing me with my own hypocritical—did your mom put you up to this?”

“No,” Adam replied tersely.

“Well, she’s still with you in blood, clearly.”

“Ahem,” Valor cleared his throat. He eyed the trio with a faint hint of tiredness. “I understand that many grave grievances exist between us, but for the sake of our mutual comrades’ peace and labor, might we please keep silent for now and see things addressed properly with time and dedication?”

Uva and Adam continued to glare silently at Jessica while Shiv devolved into a frenzied, fugue state, trying to perfect his new meatballs.

“What is a little more patience after a lifetime of doubt and hopelessness?” Uva answered. “I will keep my peace for now. I understand your presence. But know what is to come.”

“Right,” Jessica said with a sigh. She took a step away from Uva and settled on the other side of Valor. “Thanks for putting things straight with me, girl. Hope I don’t end up killing you after all this.”

Silence served as Uva’s reply, and her stare grew sterile of emotion and cold of fury.

“Peanuts,” Shiv babbled on, ignorant of the cold war building between his lover and his newest mentor a few meters away. “Gotta make it crack like a peanut.”
