"Oh, Aaliyah!" Mom bent over and kissed my forehead.

"What happened to the goblin?" Anastasia wasn't as easily distracted.

Now, I have a very important decision to make. I could use this chance to tell people about my mana skills or lie—

I chose to lie. I know, I know, I'm weak, but after everything that happened, I didn't want to add on the pressure of telling everybody about my skills and the myriad of questions that would come with it. And judging by how it sounded, the goblin's body fully disintegrated before anyone found me.

"I managed to fend it off before collapsing." I couldn't hang my head in shame while lying down, so I closed my eyes, doing my best to look sad, hoping Acting was coming in clutch.

"Oh, Honey," My mom was convinced immediately, but she wasn't the one I was worried about. Thankfully, it seemed my luck was turning around, at least partially.

"Sounds like both you and your father got lucky today," Anastasi half congratulated—half berated me. "Must have been a pretty weak goblin if it ran away from a child."

"Anastasia!" My mom shouts in outrage.

"What, it's true," Anastasia didn't care about my mother glaring at her; she just shrugged and continued to heal me as if she hadn't said anything. "We'll have to tell the headman," she added as if an afterthought. "The karhu was bad enough, but if goblins are skulking this close to the village, we might have a problem."

Mom didn't look like she wanted to, but she nodded in agreement. "They're growing more bold every year."

"Good, then you can do that while I take a nap." Anastasia dropped her arms suddenly, before turning around and began walking away.

"And where are you going?" My mom asked incredulously.

"I see where your daughter gets her listening from," Anastasia sighed, rubbing her face tiredly. "I said I'm going to sleep," she repeated grumpily. "Your husband is out of critical condition, your daughter is awake, and I'm running low on mana. I won't be useful to anyone if I don't rest and recharge my mana reserves. Not unless you want me to pass out, too."

"That can happen?" I ask, trying not to seem like I was fishing for information.

"Worse," Anastasia crossed her arms. "If a person expends all their mana, there's a chance they can die. Passing out is nothing by comparison. Also, I'll have trouble absorbing mana for a time if I do, making recovery even slower."

"That sounds bad." I tried to sound like a dumb kid, but inside, I was trembling. I always knew you got tired when you used too much of your mana, but I didn't know you could die from it. Yikes!

"Anyway, there isn't much more I can do," Anastasia tells us. "What both your daughter and your husband need now is rest. Depending on how she feels, she can leave tomorrow," she says, pointing at me. "Your husband will need a few more days, but a big guy like him with his physical stats? He should be able to walk out of here in a few days. So go on and report about the goblin to the village headman," Anastasia waved my mother away.

For a second, Mom looked like she wanted to throttle the healer, but then her eyes turned to me, and her murderous expression slackened. "Are you sure?"

"Why does everyone feel the need to second-guess me?" Anastasia complained to herself before turning to my mom. "They'll be fine," she assured her. "Let your daughter rest, and you can visit again around dinner time. Bring her some soup with soft vegetables and no meat," she instructed.

Mother nodded, but she didn't immediately leave. "I'll be back soon," she leaned down and whispered to me before giving me another kiss on the head. "I love you."

"Love you, too," I whispered back as she pulled away.

Anastasia didn't stick around for our teary goodbyes. So, after one last wave from Mother, I was left alone in my recovery room with my thoughts.

I almost died three times today between the karhu, goblin, and overusing my mana. I dwelled on that thought for a long time before I distracted myself by pulling up my status page.

LV: 38 Experience: 20,721/ 48,950

Health: 829/1000 Stamina: 54/666 Mana: 117/500

Vitality: 100

Endurance: 50

Strength: 50

Dexterity: 50

Senses: 50

Mind: 50

Magic: 50

Clarity: 50

Status Points: 106

Skills: Sense Mana (LV43), Acting (LV25), Meditation (LV40), Expel mana (LV27), Charm (LV32), Running (LV31), Cleaning (LV12), Mathematics (LV26), Writing (LV12), Mana Manipulation (LV5), Wood Carving (LV6), Drawing (LV3), Axe Skills (LV2), Inject mana (LV1)

Wow, I guess nearly dying three times was good for something, after all, I cynically think to myself.

Ignoring the fact that I had two new skills, Sense Mana, Expel Mana, and Running, all leveled together— two of them multiple times.

If this were any other time, I'd be jumping for joy, but I could only sigh at my status page. All these skills and status points, and I nearly died to a single goblin. What a joke.

I had no idea what grade my two new skills fell into, but whatever they were, they weren't worth nearly dying over or losing my father.

I needed to do better— To be better.

The next time my father needed me, I wasn't going to run; I was going to fight.

To do that, I was going to need to do some training, but first, I had to heal. My Health wasn't as bad as I thought, but my Stamina and Magic were practically at zero compared to how many days I had to recover, but I guess it's better than dying.

I should use this opportunity when no one is around to check my mana network. Closing my eyes, I activate Meditation and feel out what little mana I still had, and boy, was it bad.

My mana network was a mess, to put it lightly. My mana was flowing chaotically at not even a fourth of its usual capacity. It was naturally straightening itself out and returning to how it was, but it would take time until it returned to its usual flow. That meant no practicing with my mana skills, damn.

I was going to have to fill that time with something else productive. But that could wait until tomorrow. Anastasia might have terrible bedside manners, but she was right about me needing to sleep.

I would need to heal first, but it was back to the grind once I did. I also never met Dad's Stone Kin friend, which was a shame. I would have to remind him that once he was better. I never liked leaving a job unfinished, and I wasn't about to start now.

But first, rest.
