Dwarfs were real—I meant Stone Kin. Shoot, that sounded bad even in my head; I was going to need to change how I referred to them fast.

It sucked because I was conditioned to call them that, thanks to all the fiction from my previous life, but at least my Tolkien fantasies were alive again, even if I could never use the term dwarf again— Probably for the best, really.

Regardless, I could hardly believe I'd been reborn in a fantasy world and forgot to ask if other races than humans existed. I wanted to kick myself for my stupidity, but that would have to wait until after Father introduced me to the man in question.

Now, if only we could get there sooner. Glancing behind me, I watched Dad walk at a pace that made me want to tear my hair out. I wanted to yell at him to hurry it up and put some pep in his step, only to be reminded of the humongous backpack of wood he was carrying and why we were heading toward the Stone Kin's house at all.

We weren't on a field trip; this was my father's job, and he had to be hauling at least eight hundred pounds of firewood on his back, maybe more. It's just he made it look so easy that I forgot why we were out here in the first place.

Dad wasn't moving faster because he couldn't; he was conserving his Stamina. And judging by the goofy smile he was giving me, he thought I was silly for not following his example but was too nice to say anything about it—

That, or he was waiting for me to collapse from exhaustion and make fun of me for doing so.

Yeah, that sounded like something he would do.

And now that I stopped for a moment and actually watched him, he wasn't actually moving that slowly; he just looked like he was. I hadn't noticed it because I was always looking forward while rushing ahead, but for every three steps I took, Father only had to take one to cover the same distance, and it made me feel even sillier for trying to rush him.

"Finally calmed down, eh," Dad playfully smirked at me as he easily caught up to me. "This isn't a race," he reminded me.

"If it were, I would've won," I hang my head and grumble childishly in an attempt to hide my embarrassment, suddenly much more aware of the weight I was carrying.

I wasn't carrying nearly as much as my father, but that didn't mean what I was doing wasn't impressive by Earth's standards. If I had to guess, my backpack had to weigh over a hundred pounds easily, and I could barely feel it other than a slight tugging sensation when I moved. I was ten, carrying more than a modern soldier in head-to-toe gear like it was nothing.

I couldn't have been able to do this a few days ago before I distributed my points. Back then, I already felt like a star athlete due to my skills; now, I almost didn't even feel human.

I've grown up seeing adults perform superhuman feats thanks to their stats, but now that I was experiencing it for myself, it felt almost otherworldly— It was amazing.

"It feels good getting out of the village. Stretching out the limbs. I'm happy you decided to come out with me." It was physically impossible for my father's smile to get any bigger.

"Me too, Dad." I lovingly grin back at him while reaching over to hold his hand, and I swear, I don't think I've ever seen anyone happier in either of my lives.

Everything seems to fall away as we walk together hand-in-hand. I don't think about my father's Stone Kin friend or the people who were rude to me yesterday back in the village. I just enjoyed my time with my father, making small talk while we walked.

"So, what will you do with the rest of the wood we didn't bring?" I ask, referring to the neatly stacked pile we left at the base of the tree he cut down.

"Oh, nothing much," my father shrugs his massive shoulders without jostling his cargo. "I'll make another trip tomorrow, possibly two if necessary. Either way, I should be done before dinner time," he confidently tells me.

"Because you'll be faster without me," I pretend to pout as if offended.

Without missing a beat, my father smiles at me playfully. "Exactly; who knew our little rabbit was so slow?"

"Ugg," I groan loudly and roll my eyes. "You know how much I hate that nickname."

"Why, it's cute? Though you're not as small as you used to be." He teases me some more. After that, Father takes a moment to collect himself before giving me a more honest answer. "In all seriousness, we're actually making really good time. I thought because this was your first time in the forest, you'd have a harder time with it—I was wrong," he smiles proudly before informing me that I was a natural.

"As for why I'll be able to make two trips tomorrow, it's because we've already cut down and processed the tree. Which also went a lot faster thanks to your help," he added.

"Makes sense," I smile along while enjoying the view. Even though it was fall, most of the trees in the forest stayed green long into the season. The sun was still having difficulty piercing the canopy, making it feel later than it was.

We'd been walking for what felt like a few hours now, and I was afraid to admit that I'd lost track of time. Also—where the heck were we?

"Hey, Dad?"

"Yes?"

"Out of curiosity, where are we? I mean, how far from the village are we, and will we make it home on time? I know you said that we were moving faster than you thought we would, but will that be enough?"

While camping could be fun in certain situations, I preferred the comfort of my bed over roughing it in the woods. Plus, I'm sure Mom would be pissed at both of us if we missed dinner.

Thankfully, Dad didn't look worried. He just continued to smile as if everything were going to plan. "You don't need to worry," he reassured me. "If we continue following this path, we'll make it to Del's in a few hours. That gives us plenty of time to unload and make it home before the sun goes down."

Path: what path? All I see are trees and plants littering the forest floor. "And how could you possibly know that?" I give him a skeptical look. "You aren't just making this all up to sound cool, are you? Let me guess, it's a skill."

"I wish," my father boisterously laughs as if I told him a funny joke. "Sadly, your old man was never that lucky. Some woodsman skills let people naturally sense directions or familiar landmarks, but I never unlocked one myself. No, I never had any talent for skills like that." He smiled self-deprecatingly.

"Then how do you know your way so well?" I ask him, genuinely curious.

"Mainly, hard work and a lot of skill—The old-fashioned kind," he tells me proudly. "There are signs everywhere if you know where to look. For example, our village is in that direction," my father points confidently a little ways to our left.

"Del's house is next to it, that way," he gestures in the direction we are heading. "Then you have north, south, east, and west."

For a good minute, I stared at my father in amazement. As a former city kid who didn't know the difference between East and West before reincarnating, what my father did just now was tantamount to performing magic. I was hooked immediately.

"Can you teach me?" I blurt out without thinking, causing my father to pause mid-step.

For a second, neither of us says anything to the other; we just stare at one another with mixed emotions. Finally, the moment is broken when I watch my dad wipe at his eyes emotionally.

"I would be happy to," he finally tells me when he lowers his sleeve, his voice cracking as he does so. "I'll do my best to teach you everything I know."

"Thanks, Dad," I lean in and give him a quick hug.

"But first, we should get moving. We're wasting daylight, after all, and neither of us wants to piss off your mom," he chuckles, but I can hear a slight twinge of fear in his voice.

"Agreed, we should hurry."

"Now, there's no need for that," Dad says, stopping me from running ahead with a firm hand on my shoulder. "First lesson: When in the forest, it's best to ration your Stamina as much as possible. Everything might seem peaceful at first glance, but you never know what you might encounter around the next tree."

"Match my pace the best you can, and if you need to, we can stop for a break whenever."

I nod my head while doing my best not to blush. My habit of running everywhere was backfiring on me, but Dad was right: slow and steady wins the race—At least in this situation.

"Come on," Dad waves for me to follow him with a massive grin on his face. "Let's keep chatting while we walk."

"Okay, about what?" I follow his lead.

"Well—" My father hums thoughtfully and scratches his stubble. "Considering we're talking about passing down knowledge, when are you going to let your mother teach you about housewarming skills? From what I hear, they're pretty useful," he leans in leadingly.

"Did Mom ask you to say that?" I deadpan.

"What! Of course not! I would never," he reels back nervously, refusing to look me in the eye. "It's just that they're good skills to have," Dad does his best to deflect, but we both know better than that.

"I'd rather get stuck in the woods," I joke.

"Careful what you ask for." My dad smiles back at me. "Now, about your mother—Perhaps you could...."

Maybe running off into the woods alone wasn't a bad idea after all. Please, gods, if you're out there, send a distraction. Anything will do.

I take it all back!

I don't need a distraction. I swear I'll listen to my dad and take Mom up on her offer!

But my pleas don't do anything to change the situation we found ourselves in.

I should've known better than to jinx us, and the massive monster in front of us was the universe's way of getting even with me.

I was, of course, referring to the staggering twelve-foot-tall furry monstrosity standing a couple of dozen feet in front of us. The beast looked like something out of a horror movie as if a mad scientist purposely fused together two fully grown brown bears in an amalgamation of teeth and claws.

The bear-taur creature's spine visibly perturbed out of its back like spikes while its beady black eyes zeroed in on us with laser focus.

We had just crested a small hill, and there it was in all its monstrous glory.

The beast in front of us made bears back on Earth look like Winnie-the-pooh by comparison, and judging by the way it was drooling in our direction, he was hungry for something other than honey.

Just looking at the beast made me weak in the knees, with my instincts screaming at me to run as fast as I could and not look back.

"Why is a karhu this close to the village?" I could hear my father curse under his breath as the bear monster took a tentative step toward us. I could see its massive muscles tensing under its thick cloak of fur. I knew practically nothing about the animal licking its monstrous teeth in front of us, and even I could tell it was moments away from charging at us.

"Follow my lead and back away slowly." My dad gently pulls me backward with him before I can process what he whispered to me. If it weren't for him, I would've crumbled to the ground in fright then and there if he wasn't supporting me with his big, strong arms.

The last thing I wanted to do was cause problems for my father in this situation, but my legs seemed to refuse to work by themselves.

Under the supporting weight of my father's titanic grip, we manage to take a few hesitant steps back. Unfortunately, we only managed to increase the distance between us and the karhu by a few feet before it started huffing loudly and clawing at the ground with its four hind legs like a bull ready to charge.

"Damn," I don't need to strain my ears to hear the panic in my father's voice as he was no longer bothering to remain quiet.

"Aaliyah, Sweety, I need you to listen to me carefully. I want you to drop everything and run as fast as you can. We're maybe thirty minutes from the village, but I know you can get there faster than that without me slowing you down." I didn't like the tone of my father's voice. He was telling me to run, but to my ears, it sounded like he was saying goodbye.

"Tell the hunters a karhu is close to the village," he instructs me calmly, and with that, he steps in front of me, shielding me from the bear monster's hungry gaze.

"But what about you?" I ask dumbly, already knowing the answer.

"I'll hold it off until the hunters arrive," he proclaims proudly, sending a shiver down my spine.

I knew immediately that he was lying; what he was saying was he was going to sacrifice himself so that I could escape.

"No, you can't," I try to say, but my words are drowned out by the loudest roar I've ever heard. The karhu's cry shakes me to my bones, and I can't help but bring my hands up to my ears to try and get them to stop ringing. That had to be a skill.

Then all hell breaks loose.

In one swift, practiced motion, Dad flings his log backpack to the side and draws his axe with both hands.

I don't even have time to process what's happening before the karhu sprints up the slight incline towards us like a fury, murderous, runaway car.

How was something that big able to move that fast!?

I try to follow Father's instructions, I really do, but I can't even shake off my pack before the beast is towering over Father with its massive frame, swinging its dagger-like claws at his head.

My ears were still ringing, but I could clearly hear Dad screaming at me to run over the high-pitched whine in my ears as he blocked the karhu's swipe with his axe.

The karhu seemingly takes my dad's screaming as a challenge and roars back in his face even louder than the first time and much closer.

I wanted to say so many things to my father in that moment. I wanted to tell him how much I loved him and thank him for being such a good father figure to me and Richard. I wanted to say it should be me sacrificing myself; after all, this was my second life.

