I wanted to say so much to him, but I was already running. With tears streaming down my face and ruptured eardrums, I sprinted toward the village, my body moving on its own.

Instead of telling my father I loved him, I left him behind to die alone.

It was impossible to describe how realizing that fact broke something in me, but I didn't stop running. I couldn't.

I cursed myself for being weak, for not having the courage to stand by my father's side when he needed me the most.

I don't know when, but I started to shout for help at some point. Pleading to any deity to save my father at any cost. I couldn't hear myself due to the damage to my ears, but I kept shouting even as my voice grew hoarse.

Faster.

Faster!

FASTER!

I had to get close enough to the village so somebody could hear me. I needed to tell somebody to save my dad!

But the world isn't a kind place.

While in my manic state, I missed the figure jumping out of the nearby bushes to tackle me, sending us tumbling across the forest floor.

"What was?" I groan as I struggle to get up once I finally stopped rolling.

A few feet away from me, a similar-sized figure does the same thing, but unlike me, it isn't human.

Large round red eyes, disproportionate to its face, stared back at me with a viciousness I wasn't accustomed to.

I had never seen a goblin before, only heard them described to me by my parents, but it wasn't a stretch to match the description in my head to the greyish-green, pointed-eared creature in front of me.

Its skin saged like old wrinkly leather as it bared its sharp, pointed teeth at me with a disturbing grimace. I barely had time to process the fact that the goblin was naked, with his grotesque bits dangling for all to see before he lunged at me with what I assumed was a war cry.

The goblin leaped on me like a demonic monkey, scratching and clawing at me with its yellowed fingernails.

Instinctively, I raise my arms to protect my face, but that doesn't stop the sharp, discolored nails from digging into my flesh.

My eyes dart around for a weapon, but it quickly sets in that I messed up big time. In my haste to run away from the karhu, I not only threw away the wood I was carrying but also the axe father lent me— A mistake that could very well cost me my life.

I could feel my arms bleeding and my shirt soaking up the blood as I tried to wrestle the goblin off me. That's when I felt something hard poking against my leg.

Was this little shit getting aroused by attacking me?!

OH, HELL NO!

A strength I never knew I had begun bubbling up from deep within me. I had no idea if goblin stereotypes were the same here as back on Earth, but I wasn't about to let myself find out.

With a strength born out of desperation, I bucked my hips like a bronco and, at the same time, dropped all pretense of protecting my face to shove the savage goblin off me.

To my immense relief, my desperate struggle worked, and the goblin was launched into the air, flailing its arms desperately.

I could've used the chance to run away like I did with the karhu, but I didn't. Not this time.

I was done running!

This little green shit thought it could kill me! Me!

Dying once was enough, thank you very much.

I could feel my mana churning violently, along with my emotions. I was seeing red, literally. In the brief moment it took me to throw the goblin off myself, it landed a lucky slash across my forehead, which was now dipping copious amounts of blood into my eyes.

But none of that mattered.

With a ferocity backed by two lifetimes, I flipped the script on the unsuspecting goblin. Now, it was my turn to be the attacker.

With my 50 Strength, I threw myself against the goblin before it could regain its balance, and now that I was the one on top, I went for the throat.

I wrapped my ten-year-old hands around the goblin's spindly neck and began squeezing with all my strength.

Of course, the goblin didn't lie there and let me strangle it without putting up a fight. It tried to throw me off as I did to him, but I refused to let go, no matter how hard it scratched and shoved me.

When that didn't work, the desperate creature clawed at my chest in an attempt to stop me from squeezing the life out of it, only—It wasn't enough.

I didn't let go, but I could feel the goblin slowly overpowering me. Its stats were a mystery, but it had more Stamina than I did, meaning I was fighting a losing battle.

In my fevered state, ears ringing, my mind desperately searched for a solution. There weren't any rocks or sticks big enough nearby to bludgeon him with, so finding an impromptu weapon was out.

The next thing that came to mind was my skills, but at first glance, nothing could immediately help me. All my best skills were mana-based, but none had anything to do with physically damaging anything. The only thing I could do reliably was release my mana in a concentrated burst, but would that be enough?

It had to be!

With no other options in sight, I gather as much mana into my tiny hands as possible. Once it is all concentrated there, I start expelling it from my hands, which are still wrapped tightly around the struggling goblin's neck.

At first, nothing happens. The mana just slipped between my fingers and dispersed into the air, but I didn't let that stop me.

Using Mana Manipulation, I do my best to hold onto control of my mana as it escaped my grasp and force it into the skin of the goblin under me. And finally, I get a reaction.

It felt like I was shoving my mana against a barrier of some kind, but it was slowly giving way as the goblin's skin under my fingers became hot, and he started screaming, though I couldn't hear it through the ringing in my ears.

Slowly, the veins under the goblin's leathery skin started to turn blue as I channeled more of my mana into the struggling monstrosity. The goblin's face was writhing with fear, but I didn't hesitate to continue. I continued to force-feed the goblin my mana until I felt lightheaded before channeling more for good measure.

Eventually, the goblin under me stops struggling and goes limp in my hands, but I keep squeezing long after that, even though I don't have any more mana to spare.

After who knows how long, it finally registers to me that he was dead. Even so, I still hesitate to remove my hands from the corpse's throat, half expecting it to be some goblin trick.

It wasn't.

Once I finally let go, it became obvious the goblin wasn't getting back up. Half its neck was burnt away, with the rest turning a deep shade of blue and flaking away like woodchips in the wind. The affected area was spreading quickly, and with it, the goblin disintegrated faster.

I won. I could hardly believe it.

Sadly, the sense of accomplishment never came because I still had a job to do. I still needed to make it to the village with word of the karhu so they could send somebody to rescue Dad. That was the only thing that mattered—

So why wouldn't my body move?!

"Move, damn it!" I shout in my head, but the words refuse to leave my lips. Even my tongue was too tired to form syllables.

No matter how hard I struggled, my body refused to listen to me as the edges of my vision grew blurry and dark.

The last thing I remember before everything faded away is falling head-first into a pile of goblin ashes, knowing I failed.

For what feels like an eternity, I'm trapped, teetering on the edge of an abyss. On one side was light— warmth; on the other, there was endless darkness— death.

The light was calling to me, but the sinister voice from the darkness was louder, telling me I didn't deserve it. The voice loved pointing out how I let my father down, how I was his only chance at survival, and that I threw that all away to kill a single goblin. Pathetic.

Worse of all, I couldn't argue with it.

How was I supposed to face my mother or Richard after this? They would say that they forgive me, but I would know the truth.

It would be so much easier to fall into the abyss.

But in the end, I couldn't bring myself to do it. Despite all the pain that would come along with waking up, I wanted to see them again, even if they hated me.

So, I stepped back from the edge. Someday, I will be back here, but not today— not like this.

I let the light wash over me, and suddenly I was awake. And what was there to greet me when I did but a very startled healer standing over me.

"Gods, I hate it when they do that," our village healer Anastasia grumbled above me with glowing gloves, infusing me with healing magic.

It took me a second to realize I was no longer in the forest but back in the village, and when I did, I immediately tried to sit up.

"Stop moving, you stupid child," Anastasia hissed at me while pushing me back down with one of her gloved hands. "The more you move, the longer this will take, and I'm not made of mana."

I wanted to push back, but a single hand was all it took to keep me in place. Just trying to sit up had drained what little energy I had. I felt empty— weak—Just like I had before I passed out.

At least now I could hear again and hopefully talk. "How long was I—" I try to ask, but apparently, even that counted as trying to move in Anastasia's book.

"I said, don't move; that includes your jaw muscles," she hisses with the worst bedside manner I've ever seen.

"But I have to ask," I try again, defiantly, only to be cut off again by her.

"I can't deal with this." Anastasia loudly complained before looking over her shoulder and yelling. "Silvia, wake up and tell your daughter to follow my orders!"

"Mom!" I couldn't help but call out in a panic. She was here? The way Anastasia stood over me blocked my view from most of the room, but I could hear someone jumping up from a chair in a hurry behind her.

"Aaliyah, thank the gods. I'm here, Baby. I'm here," My mother wailed as she ran to my bedside. She immediately started brushing my hair reassuringly with her hand as tears formed in her eyes.

"I'm so happy you're safe," she smiled down at me in a way that broke my heart and made me start crying, too.

"But I failed," I sniffled and twitched to Anastasia's dismay. "I left Dad to die," I whined.

Mom looked like she wanted to say something heartfelt, but Anastasia beat her to the punch. "Your father isn't dead, brat," she shouted over me. "He's fast asleep in the other room, very much alive."

"Really?" I could hardly believe my ears, like doing so would lead to more disappointment later.

Anastasia rolled her eyes at me but answered nonetheless. "Yes, I should know; I examined him just a few hours ago."

"But, he—The karhu?" I stammar.

"Thankfully, a group of nearby hunters were returning for the day and heard the karhu's roar." Mom expertly pieces together my murmurings and answers a few of my many questions. "They also heard you shouting for help but figured because you were heading straight for the village, it was better to stay and help your father."

"If they weren't nearby—" Mom left the rest unsaid.

A miracle, that's what it was, plain and simple. I know I should be happy, but I can only feel disappointment in myself. Everything worked out this time, but what about the next?

"How bad was it?" I ask after a moment of silence, causing Anastasia to groan and throw her hands into the air in defeat.

"Sure, nobody listen to the healer," she ranted, but Mom and I ignored her.

"Your father suffered some deep cuts to his chest and about a dozen broken bones," she said solemnly. "He's more bruise than man at the moment, but he's alive and getting better by the day, thanks to Anastasia."

"Just doing my job," Anastasia grumbled loudly, looking slightly embarrassed at being praised. "I usually deal with skinned knees and common fractures. I rarely get to set broken bones."

"And we're incredibly thankful to you." Mom bowed her head deeply. She may not have been Anastasia's number-one fan after the other day, but she was grateful—We both were.

Anastasia focused on me to avoid looking at Mom, and that's when I administered the finishing blow. "Thank you for saving my dad," I sniffle at her, making her turn slightly red.

"It's just my job," she repeats in a much softer tone than last time, looking away. "And I told you to stop talking."

"Doesn't matter," I tell her firmly. "You saved him, so I owe you one."

My proclamation made my mother smile, but Anastasia just rolled her eyes. "And what could you possibly do for me?" She huffed.

"I don't know, but I'll think of something," I tell her proudly, and I meant every word. She might not think saving Dad was a big deal, but it was everything to me.

"How about you recover enough to stand on your own first before you go making promises you can't keep," Anastasia spat, but there wasn't any real heat behind it.

"She has a point," Mother added. "You've been out for two days."

"That long?" My eyes widened in surprise.

"You pushed yourself too hard," Anastasia tells me simply.

"After the karhu incident," Mom continued emotionally. "People noticed you weren't yet back in the village. You scared a lot of us."

Mom had to wipe her eyes with her sleeve before continuing. "The hunters tracked you from where they fought the Karhu. At first, you were running straight towards the village, but you slowly veered away from it and ended up running parallel to it." She tried to make it sound like a joke, but she couldn't hide the worry from her face.

"Where did they find me?" I ask, not really sure if I wanted the answer.

"You were ten minutes outside the village," Mother brought her hands up to her chest worryingly. "They said you didn't so much as twitch when they found you and that you were covered in your own blood. They thought you were dead until one of the hunters noticed you were still breathing. What happened?"

"I thought I was running toward help," I admit, mentally kicking myself for missing the village as I did. "I wasn't paying attention, and a goblin tackled me to the ground."

