Calen sat beside his unconscious friends, feeling like all the juice had been wrung out of him, but he could not be happier that they, and he, had survived the harrowing battle. It was one thing when he could easily pinpoint strategic or tactical mistakes so that he could learn to be better – but in this fight, he couldn’t imagine a way he should have acted differently. There was no doubt that the Forest Guardian would have trampled Mato and Malika to death in seconds, and so his attacking the monster to gain its attention had been a necessary move. Everything from there on had flowed from the simple need to stay alive. Still, he had needed to rely on Ali’s crazy plan working.

“You know, we can’t keep doing this,” Calen said after his breath began to steady.

“Doing what?” Ali asked.

“So many close calls.”

“But we won, does it matter?” Ali asked, pausing her efforts to clean up the battlefield to look his way.

“Even with fair dice, if you throw them often enough you will get snake eyes,” Calen said. “The odds were definitely not in our favor for that last battle. Sure, we might be getting strong faster, but we can’t be so reckless.”

“I see what you mean,” Ali answered, sitting down again. “What can we do? It’s not like we can control the circumstances, and we do need risk to grow.”

“I think we can be smarter at anticipating problems and having a plan to deal with things that come up,” Calen said, but Ali was right – planning for the unexpected was fraught with difficulty. “At least we should each carry enough recall potions to save the whole team,” he said, gesturing at the still-unconscious Mato and Malika. “We can’t be forced into fights because someone gets knocked out and we can’t access their rings.”

“That seems smart,” Ali nodded. “And I’m sure Malika will have thoughts when she wakes up.”

“Good idea,” Calen said, and then turned his attention to his notifications.

Your group has defeated Spore Spreader – Fungus – level 12-19 x3.Your group has defeated Forest Guardian – Wood Elemental – level 40.

“Did you get them?” Calen asked, watching Ali deconstruct the corpses they had defeated.

“The Spore Spreaders and the Violet Dreamcloud, but not the Guardian yet.” She seemed saddened by the last one, but Calen knew the Forest Guardian held a lot of significance for her, and he also knew it would just be a matter of time.

Her class is terrifying. Knowing that she was a dungeon was one thing, but seeing her walking around, systematically adding every challenging monster they fought to her repertoire had a much deeper and more visceral impact. The guardian and the spreaders together had been extremely dangerous, and Ali could already make half of the combination.

I’m really glad she’s on our side. He turned his attention to the rest of his notifications.

Archer of Light has reached level 34.+10 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 23 (+2).Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 25.Explorer has reached level 21.Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 18 (+2).Eclipse has reached level 17.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 20 (+2).Righteous Fury has reached level 10.Azrael's Wings has reached level 4.

It was a substantial number of skill levels gained for one fight, but it seemed appropriate. He had run himself out of both mana and stamina desperately using everything to gain advantage. He divided his points; four into dexterity, three to perception, two into intelligence, and the last point he put into shoring up his lowest attribute: strength. Immediately, a further notification made him sit up straighter.

Oh, what’s this?

Requirements met for skill advancement.Patron deity: The Wanderer.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 20.Perception has surpassed 150.Intelligence has surpassed 100.Identify a target in combat further than 500 yards.Eyes of the Archon gains Sniper Sight.Eyes of the Archon – level 20Greatly enhanced visual acuity, able to see in extremely low light.Mana: Your vision is enhanced for long-distance viewing or aiming. Enter a state of focused awareness which enhances the range and acuity of all Perception skills. Movement cancels the effect.Light, PerceptionAccept this advancement?

The Wanderer again? He studied the advance offered to him, noticing that, for the second time, his skill growth was being strongly influenced by his chosen patron deity. He could decline it and wait for a different direction, but he now understood why patronages – deities, mentorships, or even commander tithes – were so important, and why many scholars recommended not accepting anything that wasn’t exactly in line with your goals. Choosing one that was poorly aligned with desired class growth and direction could be a disaster.

He accepted the advance. While he hadn’t really thought through the compatibility, and simply had gone with his feelings when he accepted it, the traits and focus of the Wanderer’s patronage seemed to be an exceptional fit for what he wanted. Sniper Sight was already exciting, and he immediately tried it out.

His vision immediately telescoped out into the jungle, creating a dizzying, disorienting sensation that he had suddenly moved a lot closer. While his vision scoped in, he could sense the stillness and calm of his focus being enhanced to an almost frightening intensity. His breathing slowed, and he could even hear his own heartbeat through the tiny blood vessels in his ears. On the branch of the distant oak, nestled among the fronds of damp moss, he inspected a tiny tree frog, moisture-beaded green skin blending perfectly with its surroundings, and only the red of its feet standing out as they clutched at the moss and bark. It twitched, and Calen followed the rapid unfurling of its tongue lashing out to snag a bug back into its mouth. The sudden twitch through its body caused a few droplets of water to fly off its head in a glistening, ephemeral spray.

Red-toed Treefrog – Frog – level 2[Explorer]A frog, well adapted to this chaotic mana-rich environment.Category: CreatureThreat Level: NoneCreature Type: FrogDamage: Negligible

He released his focus, vision snapping back to normal in a dizzying rush. Even his Explorer skill had been enhanced by the new advance – while he was scoped in with the new telescopic sight advance, he was able to use it to Identify the frog as if he were standing right beside it.

On its surface, the advance seemed ideal for a sniper-style stealth archer with ambush skills, and while he still hoped to unlock an ambush skill to use with his Eclipse, he knew he would be using this new perception skill advance for many things. Scouting or tracking from a distance, or even the air would be simple. Making long-range shots like the ones he needed against the Coruscant Rays became a lot easier if he could see further.

Practical, and useful in several important scenarios, he thought, happy with his choice – both the skill advancement and the direction his patron deity’s influence was showing him.

***

Name: Calen AveryRace: Half-ElfActive Buffs: Blessing of the Dawn, Blessing of the WandererClass: Archer of Light – level 34- Radiant Archery – level 23- Arrows of Brilliance – level 25- Motes of Light – level 12- Explorer – level 21- Blessing of the Dawn – level 18- Eclipse – level 17- Eyes of the Archon – level 20- Righteous Fury – level 10- Azrael's Wings – level 4- [Locked] General Skills- Bowcraft – level 7- Wood Carving – level 3- Cartography – level 9Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Mana (Affinity): Light- Perceptive (Racial): +11 to Perception- Quick (Racial): +5 to Dexterity- Timing (Class): You have an innate sense of timingPatrons & Tithes- Deity: The WandererAttributes- Vitality: 39- Strength: 10- Endurance: 25- Dexterity: 243 (+117) - Perception: 156 (+62) - Intelligence: 146 (+58) - Wisdom: 44Equipment- Weapon: Hunter's Bow – level 10- Body: Leather Armor – level 20- Hands: Bracers of Accuracy – level 10- Feet: Simple Boots of Swiftness – level 15- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30Evasion: 240Dodge: 20.13%+5% to Accuracy rating.+13% to Movement speed.Health: 390/390Stamina: 250/250Mana: 352/440 (88 Reserved)

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
