The giant elemental let out an earthshaking roar, wheeling and suddenly accelerating to high speed as it used a rush skill to charge him, closing thirty feet in an instant, and leaving Calen facing the suddenly much closer monster.

Oh shit!

He could feel the high-speed thump of his heart over the sound of the monster’s roar and the shaking of the earth as he stared down several thousand pounds of fury which would most certainly turn him into paste if it connected.

He had been intending to draw the ire of the monster, to lure it away from Mato and Malika. The problem was that he had succeeded, and in his urgency, he hadn’t thought through the rest of his plan. He didn’t have the resilience, durability, or defense skills they did, so he didn’t stand a chance.

He turned and ran for his life.

He managed to reach the edge of the rocky outcropping when he felt his mana calm down, and the world around him sped up to normal.

Righteous Fury is down, I’m slower. It was obvious, but explicitly thinking the words to himself had the effect of letting him catch up to the enormity of the runaway disaster he was participating in. If he was to survive, not only would he have to outrun the monster, and figure out a way to escape or kill it, but he would also have to outrun the aura of plant growth. Leaving aside the unimaginable possibility of actually killing it by himself, he simply needed to survive.

I don’t even have enough mana left to fly.

Well, that’s a problem I can solve, he thought, barely slowing as he retrieved a mana potion and downed it in a single gulp, his mind slowly calming down to a high state of panic. It would take a bit for the potion to restore enough mana, and he just needed to survive till then.

It’s really close. What sick joke were those mushrooms?

He could feel the ground shaking with the insane weight of the monster behind him, and the sharp reports of branches snapping and splinters flying did nothing to ease his mind. The only thing that was keeping him out of reach of his pursuer was the Blessing of the Wanderer and the increase in his movement speed.

But that’s not enough, he realized as his mental warning told him that the guardian’s Rush skill was probably close to recharged.

Almost precisely thirty seconds after the guardian had used it, Calen heard the thunderous roar of the Rush and the sudden burst of branches ripping and tearing not far behind him – not far at all. Risking a glance back over his shoulder, he found the roots and vines reaching for him, missing by a scant foot or two.

What can I do? His mind raced frantically, desperately searching for any ideas that had even the slightest chance of working. He veered in a long slow arc around the rocky outcrop while the monster continued to pursue him. When the recharge is up… he knew he had less than thirty seconds before he would be crushed under the trampling feet of the giant elemental.

His frantic, frenzied over thinking mind threw progressively more and more ridiculous and improbable ideas at him until suddenly something clicked. Without waiting to think it through, he took a step onto a boulder, leaped into the air with a spin, and as his body faced backward toward the now terrifyingly close monster, he loosed an arrow, choosing the Grappling Shot skill. He had been using this magic to ground wyverns and bats, and he was under no illusions that he could actually trap something of such powerful brute strength and weight, but he didn’t need much – gaining a few yards would be something.

His chain of light shot out, striking the Forest Guardian in the shoulder between the heavy plates of bark and wood, while the gnarled roots and vines reached toward him from the ground as his body arced through the air. With a flurry of activity, the chain wound itself around the huge elemental, and Calen was treated to the sight of it being yanked to a sudden stop as his body barely cleared the plant growth magic, and his foot touched down on the ground. He was sprinting away even before he had completely landed, and within seconds there was a great commotion as the Forest Guardian freed itself by ripping his magic out of the ground through sheer brute strength, tearing up huge chunks of earth and rock in the process.

That was close. There were several moments when he was certain the vines would reach his flying feet, but he had made it, and he had bought himself a little more than ten yards. He was not out of the woods, so to speak, but at least he had a little breathing room.

He turned the corner again and saw Ali up ahead on the rise, crouched beside the prone forms of Mato and Malika, her Kobold Acolytes actively healing. Somehow, in the intensity, he had lost track of the fact that he was running around the rocky outcropping, and he had come full circle, leading the elemental straight at his friend. Genius.

“Watch out!” he yelled as he continued sprinting by.

His mental warning alerted him just as the roar of the guardian’s Rush skill ripped through the clearing. Calen dodged to the side reflexively and darted away.

Shit, I should have gone toward the rock. His dodge had placed him out in the open and now he was vulnerable to being cut off, especially as he couldn’t cut through the aura of plant growth without being trapped and trampled.

Quickly he checked his mana, which was still being slowly regenerated by his mana potion. Maybe enough. He waited for another second before he activated his Azrael’s Wings skill. Mana poured into the skill, and his glowing white wings of ephemeral light erupted out from his back, lifting him into the air. Desperate to take advantage of the few moments of mana he had, he cut across the path of the guardian, aiming for the rugged rocky wall he had been running alongside before. The guardian roared a challenge and gave chase, but he was high enough to avoid the aura, landing as soon as he was clear, conserving just enough mana that he would be able to use his Grappling Shot again.

Calen would never have imagined he would find himself running for his life, while simultaneously computing relative trajectories, tracking a thirty-second recharge, and calculating optimal mana usage. His brain felt like it was on fire. But the monster was still behind him, and he was – somehow – still alive.

He sprinted around the rocky outcropping – a large hill-like collection of boulders and overgrown trees – settling into something of a pattern. He leaped again, spinning in the air and using Grappling Shot to gain a few seconds before sprinting away.

This can’t last. While he was able to keep ahead of the monster with his movement speed, dexterity, and the occasional use of his other skills, he was slowly running out of stamina. He had made absolutely no progress on figuring out how to escape or, even more improbably, killing the monster. The biggest issue was if he escaped, it would likely return and kill Ali, who could fly away, and Mato and Malika, who could not.

I need help. Something to get out of the situation, or to overcome the charging monster’s regeneration. His mental warning told him the Rush skill was almost ready, so he angled away from the safety of the rocks. So far, every time the monster used Rush, it traveled insanely fast, but in a straight line. He was banking on it not being able to turn due to the physics of momentum, but wary of any other magical trickery that might come into play. The thunderous roar shook the ground, splintering trees as the monster used its skill right on time.

Calen dodged back towards the rock wall. He felt a rush of raw satisfaction as the giant elemental charged away from the rocky outcrop while he ducked the other way and the gap between them widened dramatically. It wheeled and turned, sending clods of dirt and grass flying as it redirected its considerable momentum in an unbelievably short distance.

That went a lot better. He had managed to gain a moment of breathing room by faking the monster out, causing it to charge away from him with its Rush skill, and saved his mana, which he might need for his Grappling Shot or wings. He downed another mana potion right as the first one expired, sprinting around the corner and firing his Grappling Shot backward as the monster cleared the turn.

“I killed the mushrooms! Can you keep that thing busy for a bit longer?” Ali shouted, catching him by surprise as he rounded the rocks and found himself back at the starting point once again. His glance caught sight of Mato and Malika lying on the ground beside Ali and some of her Kobold healers. They were not stirring, but to his great relief, even at this distance he could tell they were both breathing and most of their injuries seemed to have been healed already.

“Sure, no problem!” he yelled back as he dodged out away from the rock, preempting the guardian’s Rush skill and drawing it out so that he could dodge the other way at the perfect moment and still be on his circuit.

What am I saying? One wrong step and I’ll die! But he knew that whatever scheme Ali was cooking up was his only chance of getting out of this with his friends all alive. He just hoped it would be ready before he ran out of stamina or made an unrecoverable error. Come on, Calen. Focus, give her time.

As he began the next circuit, he reflected on his strategy. Timing the Rush skill with a fake out gained him the most distance for the least cost – only the little stamina needed to run full speed. Grappling Shot was his next most effective tool, costing almost as much mana as he was regenerating from his potions. Flight was his least effective – requiring him to channel mana in quantities he couldn’t afford, but it was also likely his most powerful escape tool, provided he could recover enough mana before he ran out of stamina, and Ali could do something to save Mato and Malika.

Maybe I can give her my recall potions to send them back and I can escape with flight? He finally rounded the rock again, and saw Ali up on the ridge, surveying the battlefield with focused attention.

“Drag it under the outcrop!” she yelled down at him, pointing.

Following the direction of her small hand, he found a rock that was jutting out over the path he would be taking. He likely wouldn’t have passed directly under it without Ali requesting it, but it didn’t seem that far out of his way. As he approached, his eyes picked out the oozes stuck to the rock in various positions, softly wobbling and writhing as they hung there, most of them on the underside of the rock.

Oh, clever. Ali wasn’t thinking of a way to escape, she meant to kill the monster. Her choice of the Scalding Slimes looked like a perfect strategy. Calen sprinted closer to the rock wall, passing directly under the overhang, and, judging the timing precisely, he executed his leap-and-spin tactic, firing Grappling Shot at the Forest Guardian, pinning it directly below Ali’s trap. Hope this helps.

Ali didn’t hesitate to take advantage of the window of opportunity, and he heard several squelching splats as the slimes fell from the overhang, landing directly on the Forest Guardian, followed by the hissing of high-pressure steam jetting out of the slimes and roars of fury.

He glanced worriedly at his stamina as he began his fourth circuit. A bit more than one left, he decided. At that point he would be at the mercy of fate, if Ali’s slimes could do enough damage during the circuit to kill the monster, overcoming its regeneration, he would be safe. If not…

By the time he was halfway around, he knew Ali could not have picked a better monster for this job. As he spun in the air, firing his Grappling Shot, he could see the Scalding Slimes had torn great holes in the wood-and-bark armor and the Forest Guardian looked decidedly worse for wear.

By the time he reached the final stretch, he knew it wasn’t enough. He just hoped Ali would be able to survive it when his stamina finally ran out. He had used every single trick he had learned to eke out the last of his resources, but he was running on empty. He rounded the final corner with zero mana, and only five points of stamina remaining.

But the sight that greeted him almost made him falter. Up on the ridge, Ali stood with an expression of absolute concentration, sweat pouring from her face as she discarded an empty potion vial on the ground. She was shooting her Arcane Bolts into the air, but instead of a normal stream of three, there was a brilliant cloud with hundreds of magical bolts zipping across from the ridge where she was standing toward the overhang, where a lone slime still clung to the rock.

Just before the bolts hit the slime, they all flipped around in midair and shot back the way they had come, straight for Ali.

The enormity of what she had done sent a jolt of hope through him as he burned the last remnants of his stamina to kite the wounded Forest Guardian to the overhang, and the trap Ali had laid for it.

Right before he reached the spot, all the bolts flipped again, tearing across the battlefield toward the slime hanging high above, like a demented horde of angry golden hornets, but this time, instead of turning around, they suddenly all took a rapid curving dive, and thousands of bolts slammed into the Forest Guardian in a glorious golden tornado of destruction.

Amid the roar, sizzle, and shuddering of the ground, Calen’s notification sounded. With a final heave, the ground bucked as the huge Elemental collapsed, and Calen’s knees buckled as he sagged into a heap of his own, his breathing ragged, completely spent.

***

“How are they doing?” he asked, looking down at Mato and Malika as they lay there unmoving. There seemed to be a lot of drying blood, but they looked otherwise unharmed.

“I think they’re going to be ok,” Ali answered. “The Dreamcloud spores seemed to act like poison with the side effect of knocking you out. I had to keep healing them the entire time, pretty nasty stuff.”

“I think we should camp here for a bit, at least till they wake up. I don’t think I can handle another fight like that.” While his mana and stamina were regenerating, it would certainly be a while before he was back in fighting shape.

“Shouldn’t we recall back?” Ali asked.

“I can’t get the potions out of Malika or Mato’s rings, and I don’t think we have enough between the two of us,” Calen said.

“It was lucky you got that movement speed on your blessing,” Ali said, looking at him thoughtfully.

It truly was good fortune, and while he was certain that could not be how the Luck trait worked, if he didn’t know any better, he would have been one hundred percent convinced all the stories and legends about the patron deity of luck were true after today.

