Which was silly. It was temporary, and it wasn't like he was opposed to being close to the gods. He'd tried to explain exactly how close he'd been to gods before, but the apprentice he had at the time had assumed it was more blasphemy and then tried to set him on fire.

Granted, his standards for apprentices at the time hadn't been very high. He'd mostly been looking for people to ramble at. Now he had mages he could raise into some real monsters.

"Cale's doing that creepy smile again," Damien noted. Flia and Leo both nodded, as if that was to be expected, and Cale groaned.

"I'm starting to think I should've stayed with the nobles," he grumbled. "You know half my fun is being unpredictable, right?"

His apprentices grinned at him. "It's pretty much your fault Akkau summoned eleven gods at once, so I think you still have that covered," Flia pointed out. "But you did say a true mage should be prepared."

"I did say that." Cale brightened. "I think Akkau's almost done. There's only one god left. Any idea who that is? She looks like she's sticking around, so I'm assuming he's got something planned."

Leo squinted down at the stage. "I think that's Astiviya, the Goddess of War?" he said. "I don't really know what Akkau would want with her—"

As if to answer his question, Astiviya chose that moment to step forward and speak.

"Your headmaster tells me you are untested in the ways of war." Her voice rang out across the hall with enough force to make several students flinch and sink back into their seats; others responded instinctively, launching battlespells toward her and looking horrified the moment they realized what they'd done.

Not that she seemed all that worried about it. She batted the spells away imperiously without pausing in her speech. "He tells me that you know little of the ways of the gods. That I must speak gently, with kindness, to explain what will soon come and of how you will be tested."

There was a coldness in her voice—a coldness Cale recognized, mostly because he harbored it himself. He had his locked away and surrounded with warmth, though, and for the first time in a long time it felt like it was slowly thawing.

Astiviya had not. Instead, she wore that ice like it was armor.

"I will do no such thing," she said. "Utelia will need battlemages in the days to come. The dark lord will invade. That little tournament of yours will not stop. him."

She surveyed them all, her eyes narrowing; she didn't pause for even a second on Cale, much to his amusement. "Worthless," she declared. "Produce a worthy mage by the end of the week, or I shall end your little academy. If this pitiful state is all you can offer, you will only hinder our defenses."

With that, she spun and vanished. Akkau stepped up to take the center of the stage, looking surprisingly unruffled, all things considered.

"To understand the true purpose of the Fettered Divinity tournament, this is where we must begin," he said, sweeping his gaze slowly across his students. "At the most difficult truth: that the gods are neither friend nor foe. They are forces. Some may be friendly, but not all will be.

"They are not all-knowing. They can be wrong. They can lie, if they believe it worth their time. Do not expect them to subscribe to our beliefs of right and wrong. They are both ruler and subject, master and servant to their domains. For Divine Studies, this is your second but most important lesson."

The silence in the lecture hall was a horrified one, broken only by the sound of Cale clapping. Every single other student in the class turned to stare at him, including his apprentices.

Cale blinked. "What?" he asked. "It was a good speech, and he's right. Most gods need to actually hang out for a while before they learn how to be people. Either that or it's the prismatic mana. I never figured it out."

"Incidentally," Akkau said. "I will, of course, require you to show our worth in a week's time."

Cale beamed. "I was hoping you'd say that."

Akkau shot him a stern gaze, but Cale saw the way amusement flickered in his eyes. "Regardless," he said. "We come now to the importance of the Fettered Divinity tournament. It is a competition between those who have proven themselves to hold great potential, and its reward is custody of the greatest artifact ever crafted."

He paused there. Cale raised an eyebrow slightly when Akkau proceeded not to add a single qualification; he didn't even say the artifact was the greatest one in the realm, and like him, Akkau knew more of other realms than most. What exactly was this, and why hadn't he heard of it before?

"The specifics of this artifact is Utelia's greatest kept secret," Akkau said. "You may have heard that it is simply a token that represents Utelia's strongest magic academy. This is, of course, a lie. It is simply a lie enforced by ancient magic—a lie that must be told until the time of the tournament is almost upon us. For that small window, the truth is allowed to propagate."

Akkau smiled wryly. "Suffice to say that Professor Imrys will be quite disappointed if we do not manage to win."
