The Sword Saint’s rate of improvement and ability to adapt far surpassed his opponent, allowing him to read the other party and learn his fighting style fast enough to start finding openings. Of course, it wasn’t that easy, as whenever Miyamoto felt as if he’d gotten a major advantage, the wood elf shifted, the great oak turning to a willow as his blade became more flexible and harder to read.

Alas, it was not enough.

Blood spurted into the air as the two swordsmen parted, the wood elf taking several steps back with a cut on his left shoulder. The elf looked at the wound and tore off the sleeve of his robe as he smiled and nodded.

Miyamoto returned the smile and nod before throwing a glance at the two other core disciples, who looked surprised at their companion getting wounded. However, rather than surprise, he saw greed and desire in their eyes. Rather than treasures or experience points, they craved the experience of facing a worthy sword far more, and who was he to deny them?

“I have warmed up,” he spoke, looking at the two of them while still smiling. “I admit that in terms of sheer swordsmanship, I’m equal if not inferior to all of you. For now, anyway. That does not deter me, though. So come. Let me experience your swordsmanship as you experience mine and let us compare our Paths.”

“Do you truly believe you can take on all three of us at once?” she asked with a raised eyebrow. “I also recognize your sword and rate of improvement, but potential is a concept of the future, not an expression of the present.”

Miyamoto chuckled a bit as he raised his sword and pointed it at her. “To me, the present and future have always seemed a bit... mixed. So please, do entertain my invitation.”

The human woman took a second before nodding. “Very well.”

She slowly drew her blade alongside the beastkin standing beside her as both of them slightly leaned forward. “Prepare yourself.”

Both disappeared, with the wood elf also engaging once more. Miyamoto reacted as best he could to the three swords, and in an instant, nearly a hundred exchanges were made before the Sword Saint was sent sliding backward, blood dropping down on the ground in his wake from the seven cuts left on his body.

Despite this, his smile only grew as, rather than defend, he stepped forward to attack, wishing to truly immerse himself in the swordsmanship of three people who’d climbed further up the endless mountain that was the Path of the blade, intending to surmount them all.
