Then the spell crunched down an infinitesimal amount more, and they achieved fusion. Stella had cut a small wedge out of the magnetic and light shielding, though it was still protected by the force spell. A wedge of the valley was illuminated with a stark, blinding light. The reflected photons burned Nathan’s eyes, and he didn’t see the first force spell failing from the bleed-through of secondary radiation.

He did feel it happen through his magical senses, the same senses indicating that the shielding held a cauldron of magical fury. It never would have held without the electromagnetic spell containing most of the power. The reaction was done, but the immense energy trapped inside needed an outlet. They’d planned for this too, and the second layer of force barrier had a flaw in the same place. The sun-hot plasma punched through that spot like a truck barreling through tissue paper, and the concentrated power speared through the third and final layer of shielding with barely a pause.

The jet of stellar fire sent out its own shockwave as it bored into the side of a mountain, the edges of the flame melting the stone for a hundred feet in every direction.

The effects of the spell counted as magical enough for Nathan’s abilities to protect him from the worst of the effects. But he was still tossed about like a leaf in the wind by the shockwave, and the radiant heat pushed through his aura to scorch his skin and set his clothes smoldering with flame. He worriedly sent his senses backward to check on the Heirs, but they were fine behind their multilayered shield. They likely would have been safe without the shield, though with popped eardrums.

Once the spell petered out, they emerged from cover and joined Nathan. Stella used wind magic to clear out the dust in the air and they all looked down on the ruined mountainside. The site of the spell was a blistered crater, and it looked like an angry giant had taken a plasma torch to the side of the nearby mountain. The rock still glowed from heat, and Nathan was the first one to break the silence.

“That might be hard to scale down to something usable in combat. That was the smallest you could make it, right?”

Stella looked at him like he was crazy. “Don’t smother my fire. I just need to learn to do that from afar.”

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina: 84400/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 572

Regenerative Focus: 5519/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 6

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 5

Veracity 2

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 6

High-tier Disguise 7

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
