Fung struck out with all his might, chopping the arm off of his final opponent. The onlookers gasped and cheered, the bloodthirsty crowd delighting in his display as the judge stopped the match, healers running out to save his opponent. Stalking off to the side of the stage in a foul mood, he stood beside his teammates, fuming in anger. The competition had been a farce, all the strongest opponents eliminated in the preliminary match, leaving only dregs and cocky nobles. He had Rain and his comrades to thank for that, but he could not face any of them at this competition.

After the event with the carnugators, Fung had refocused his efforts towards training, driven forward to gain strength, acknowledging for the first time that he was truly too weak and did not know how high the sky was. A frog within a well, thinking himself impressive. He had always enjoyed training, but since turning 16 he allowed his indulgence in pleasures of the flesh to supersede his training, since he was stronger than his peers of the same age. After meeting Rain and the other Bekhai, and chatting with his curious minded friend about how to truly become strong, Fung no longer slacked, and began desperately training. He had injured himself over and over again, feeling his wounds knit together stronger than they were before, suffering through the pain and agony, all for this moment when he could face someone of true strength without embarrassing himself.

Instead, his opponent had been chased away by the greed of the Society, and Fung had loosed his anger upon the worthless remaining competitors, taking a limb from each competitor he faced, to the delight of the crowds and the anger of the Society. Hmph, those bastards deserved no face, and Fung would not pretend otherwise, whatever the cost.

“You frown too much, Young Master Fung.” He could hear the sarcasm in her words. Ong Jing Fei, a lovely and venomous young lady, she terrorized him just as her mother terrorized his father. She smiled and waved at the cheering crowd, jubilant and contented with their new champions. “You'll lose those handsome looks you're so proud of. Why are you not strutting about like a peacock, celebrating our victory?” She fluttered her eyelashes at him, the urge to throttle her rising in him. The bitch knew why, she simply enjoyed needling him. “We are the champions of this contest, to be bestowed with wealth and honor. You should be happier. It must be difficult, without your little barbarian here to celebrate with you. You aren't as much fun when he isn't around.” She patted his arm, sending shivers down his spine. He loathed her with every ounce of his being and she knew it, still playing at being the dutiful wife-to-be. Her voice lowered as she leaned in close. “Could it be true, the rumors that the consummate playboy Tong Da Fung has succumbed to the pleasures of another man? A shame your little barbarian cock-boy will be dead soon.”

Fung backhanded her across the face. The silence of the crowd was deafening as she tumbled to the floor and lay sprawled on the ground, her pitiful cry reaching the heart of every watcher. Immediately, he regretted acting on his anger. The bitch was a thespian, faking the extent of her injury. He could strike at her with all his might for an hour and she would emerge unhurt. He felt her twist away from his strike, throwing herself down, playing at the maiden in distress. Ignoring her antics, Fung signaled for the Master of Ceremonies to continue. The damn Society, he spit on their honor, and when he returned home, he would have their growing factions in Shen Huo stomped out. Then, once he was personally strong enough, he would divorce the horrid bitch, and have her exiled from his city as well. Fools without ethics is what they all were, and he would have none of that in his home.

He could only pray to the Mother that Rain and his family still lived and would make it home safely, as he cursed at his own helplessness.

He needed strength, and playing at these games of war were of no help.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Situ Bolin sat still while the healer tended to the little Patriarch, his own wounds stinging as he slowly mended it. Such humiliation, to be injured by these damn pups, to have suffered so much from worthless savages. They had dark magics, to allow them to control such fierce beasts like the binturongs and their unholy two-legged mounts. He would capture the damn witch that protected them and have her flayed alive, bit by bit, until she revealed her tricks. To dare use such evil, they were likely half Defiled as it stood, the reports placing their village north of Shen Huo, a desolate and cold place to live. That area was a zone of death, the territory of a powerful Ancestral Beast, and if not for dark magics or sacrifice, how else could they live there? Their unholy practices had made these barbarians strong however, and the Situ clan had sorely underestimated their opponents.

No matter, they would fall before the might of the Situ Clan in the end. As much as it shamed him, he had sent out several Elders to chase down the slave girl. There had been no sighting of her, so it was likely she was with the others, the weaker members of their party. While Bolin wanted the combatants alive, he now also wanted all of them alive, so that he could vent his frustrations on the families of those who vexed him so. It would not end there, no, he would torture the location of their backwoods village from them, and take his warriors there for a visit, wiping their tribe from the continent, letting them fade into obscurity. Only then would his rage be sated, the fire within him quenched.

The little Patriarch moaned as he was treated, his injuries severe. The little horned cunt had trampled him with her beast, breaking bones without killing, intent on crippling the boy. Such viciousness, if only Bolin could stride backwards through time and snap her neck when he first lay eyes upon her. The boy would be weeks in healing if they meant to keep him whole and strong without overtaxing his body. In such a time of strife, to not be able to send the little Patriarch to battle, allow him to be seasoned in combat, it was truly the shame of the Situ clan, something that would be talked about by his peers within the Society for years to come. Unforgivable, for them to be so remorseless, humiliating them time and time again. Better if they had killed him, so that the Patriarch could act himself, sparing the boy this shame.

“Uncle.” Little Gulong spoke through his pain and Bolin rushed to his side to hear his words. His heart rent at the sight, the boy's face fractured and swollen, missing a large patch of skin, an ugly sight to behold. “Uncle, it hurts.”

“Hush now, little dragon, you will heal and the pain will fade. You are strong enough to bear it, do not shame the Situ name. This Uncle here has raised you from birth, and he will not allow this insult pass without vengeance.” He smoothed the boy's hair, careful not to exert too much pressure on the poor child's wounds. The healer continued his work, but he was just an incompetent half-beast slave, the more skilled, human healers having left with the army or remained in the city. It would be days before the little Patriarch could be healed enough to be moved comfortably. He had sent messengers back to request for one to return, but it was unlikely the Patriarch would allow his only healer to leave his side, especially with all his enemies watching for weakness. The competition results had been disastrous for the Situ Clan, one of the three great powers of the Society, unable to have a single group pass through the preliminary event, a black mark on the face of every Situ clansmen. The vultures were circling, sensing weakness, and the Patriarch would be hard at work keeping the pot from boiling over.

Bolin needed these savages in hand, so that their broken corpses could be shown to the Society, so that all would know the Situ clan was still strong, able to lead them for centuries yet. He had used his authorities to command all the elders present to chase down those barbarians, with Guardian Chilok leading them. If they failed, then Bolin would need to answer to the Society as a whole, but these barbarians would not escape from so many experts.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Mila stayed as still as possible, ready to flee at the first sign of trouble, watching the Society clansmen move through the trees. She had already dealt with one group of clansmen this night, while Alsantset brought Rain and the others to attack the camp. Now they were already being chased by a second group, far sooner than expected, less than an hour of rest attained. Song crouched next to her, an ever silent presence at her side since she'd taken the chain away from Rain. She felt her face heat up at the memory of her misunderstanding with him, the horrible thoughts she had of him. She had wanted to make up with him, her earlier anger at him seeming foolish, and they had sat so nicely together to watch the sunset, a romantic atmosphere. She had lost her head when he mentioned Song, mad with misplaced jealousy at the lovely young woman. While Rain had his flaws, he was, at his core, a kind person. He has seemed so worried and frantic when he was treating her wound, it had brought a smile to her face. He normally seemed so indifferent, but at that moment it seemed he truly cared about her, as he worked quickly and gently, cradling her as he saved her life.

Almost everyone she had met at the contest was even worse, all entitled trash, snobbish and prideful. Why did they all refer to her as a barbarian or a savage? Just because she wasn't dressed in silks, or didn't have her hair elaborately done, or lacked the painted lacquer nails, that was grounds for insulting her? Worse were the calls for rape and torture. They were the savages, for how they treated people. They had made a game of this hunt, disrespecting both Mila's people, and their own by sending out these weaklings. Outer branch members who had yet to truly be accepted, expendable, unskilled, and hungry for advancement. The inner branch members would be sitting back and laughing at the other groups failures, expecting things to be different when their turn would come. Fools, all of them.

At least Alsantset would bloody them tonight, wound them, madden them. The Society would learn they dealt with true warriors, not easy prey. Then again, they may have learned that already, her current pursuers movements far more skilled and graceful than any who had come before, silent spectres in the night. It was still easy to track them, since they chose to move above the treeline, their dark outlines easily seen against the light of the moon. Warriors they may be, they lived in cities, lacking the proper field-craft or skills for mountain pursuit. They also lacked numbers, with only a handful of warriors this time. Perhaps more would be coming, but once again, their pride drove them to ruin.

Things had already gotten too far out of hand, escalating into what would soon erupt into a legal feud, requiring Justicar intervention. Mama would have many headaches over this in the future, but it was all the fault of the Society. While perhaps Sumila had gone a bit too far in the competition, giving no face to any of her enemies, but they were just all so foul of mouth. She had her fill of listening to spoiled fops offering to buy her during the days leading to the contest, unable to even walk about the market without being leered at. Worse was the memory of her time at the park with Mei Lin. They'd had no time to themselves at all, continually being approached by servants, with demands, offers, and propositions from their dog masters. It was infuriating. She could see why Mama didn't want her to travel, especially alone. The world was a terrible place, wild beasts and Defiled only a part of it.

“Master, they approach. Your orders?” Song whisper brought Mila out of her trance. Song would not change her form of address, no matter how much Mila asked her to. An order would be needed, but that defeated the purpose of changing it at all. Song rode awkwardly on her own quin, still bouncing in her seat, too accustomed to riding horses. Roosequins did not jar their riders like those grass-eating, bony-backed herbivores did, but the habit was ingrained in her.

Mila rode off atop Kankin, making enough noise for their pursuers to notice, but not enough to be obvious. It was bothersome, being inept enough to be tracked, but not too much so that they grew suspicious, a skill taught to her by Mama. 'Let the enemy think themself clever, rather than think you foolish'. The darkness of the mountain forest hid her from their gaze, but the noises she purposely made giving away her location, a small jangle of her harness, an errant gasp of breath, a light impact onto stone, all done to lead them to the slaughter. Without her careful hints and pace, she would lose them in the forest and be unable to guide these idiots towards the others.

