Their pursuers caught on faster than any before them, the sounds of cloth whipping through the air as they followed, abandoning 'stealth' for speed. Most likely Elders of the Society, a position earned with skill and service, like the members of the Iron Banner. The best warriors, although even among themselves, their skills varied. The ones chasing them could not be among the most talented, for with true skill came great pride, and what true warrior would find pride in chasing and killing children, or being bodyguards to a group of fops, out for a 'pleasure hunt'? No, these would be the scum, the dregs, the lap-dogs of the Society, and she would take great joy in seeing them dead. Better that they slaughter the younger generation and destroy the future of the Society, but that would likely bring down harsh Imperial Justice upon them. The Emperor protected the young, deeming them the 'future of the Empire'. The Elders would have to do.

Mila increased her pace, Kankin easily outrunning the other quin despite his old age. Mila had fond memories with Kankin, being carried around in his arms as a child, napping with him in the warm afternoons, learning to ride atop his wide back. Now she could add memories of battle with him, of her first true martial confrontation. While not as warm and friendly as the other quins, Kankin was still her oldest companion, a trusted friend.

A piercing whistle was heard, and Kankin dodged without even needing a prompt, leaping sideways down the mountain, his sure footed claws finding easy purchase. Song's quin was not as well trained, one of Taduk's cart pullers, but still agile enough to avoid the incoming attacks, thrown weapons of some sort. Kankin huffed as he moved ever forward, tiring from the days of being chased, eager to sink his fangs into flesh. Rain had fed him too well on human flesh, and Kankin was growing far too zealous in the hunt. She patted him on the shoulders soothingly, urging him forward, keeping him from turning on her pursuers. The point was up ahead, a clearing in the forest with a cave that looked capable of containing all their people. Guiding him to leap into the cave, she rode a short distance in before leaping off, taking shelter behind a boulder, loosing arrows towards the entrance. Song stood beside her, firing away as the quins settled in beside them, ready to kill any who approached.

Their pursuers had stopped at the entrance, unwilling to venture into the dark cave, finally wary of an ambush, noticing the trip wires. She knew they would be conversing with one another, silently arguing among themselves, none willing to die for the others. Not a simple thing, to watch for traps while blocking arrows. Smiling to herself, she waited with her bow in hand, firing arrows at the empty entrance in a calm, orderly pattern with Song, allowing them to grow accustomed to the sound of being shot at. They had already stepped within the trap, their deaths soon approaching, and still they hesitated and argued at the front of the caves. Fools.

A piercing scream was heard, followed by more grunts, the sounds of arrows raining upon them as their pursuers tried to fight free. She could hear the movements of the fighters, crisp and clear, the power behind each action apparent from the sound of air breaking as they moved, but it was not enough. Held in place, they could do nothing but die. She could see nothing in the gloom, only a sense of moving shadows, as a fierce battle raged in near silence, experts falling like overripe apples. Soon, there was only the sound of gurgling blood and falling bodies, before silence consumed the night once more.

Mila waited patiently, arrow at the ready, until she heard the whisper. Lighting a torch, she brought it out to the cave entrance, illuminating the scene. Three elders were dead, pin cushioned with arrows, an ugly death for a warrior, but these scum were not deserving of the title. She studied their faces, trying to match them to a clan or sect, but there was no memory of them in her mind. It was not the Society as a whole that fought them, but rather a few factions acting in self-interest, and each would have sent nameless, faceless warriors. If they were caught assassinating citizens in good standing, it would strike a heavy blow to their reputation, and the Society would face Imperial Justice.

One was still alive, croaking and gasping as he slowly bled to death. Alsantset was the first to arrive, the others filing in slowly from their hidden perch. Rain crouched down to stare in the eyes of one of the dying, a disturbing habit of his. Why stare at death so closely? Rain ended the man's suffering, a mercy this worthless trash did not deserve, to die by the blade of a true warrior.

She crouched down and searched each body, rewarded with two tokens of wood, shaped like an arrow, with carved runic symbols stained in blood. Song's blood. Burning them with her torch, Mila prayed that these were the only ones. Hopefully, the Society no longer had a means of tracking them, and they could lose themselves in the throngs of civilians in Feng Huang, so long as they hid the roosequins. She could finally see an end to the chase, a path towards survival. She picked up a spear, a heavy weapon, ornately carved, belonging to one of the dead. Rain had been complaining about a lack of a longer weapon, although he did just fine with his sword.

Mila grimaced at Yan and Huu's injuries, both looking like death warmed over. Rain wasn't much better, grim and haggard, his armor long destroyed, dressed in bloody rags as he always was after a battle. His eyes were sunken, his muscles withering, the lack of food and overtaxing of his body costing him dearly. They all needed rest and food, but they were unlikely to find it soon. Despite his obvious exhaustion, Rain looked... hungry for more battle. It was unsettling, not the joyful desire for challenge, but the fatalistic urge for it to be done with. Either kill all his enemies or be killed.

Once he lost his hesitation, Rain was a fearsome opponent. He fought almost recklessly, closing in without fear, every strike of his threatening to kill, ready to trade heavy injury for a death-blow, something few warriors had the determination to accept. To even find a warrior willing to trade their life for their opponent's was a rarity, how could they be willing to give their life to cause a mere injury?

As she listened to Alsantset's report of the situation, she smiled as Rain studied his new spear and silently praised her. Their situation was dire, but no matter. The Society had already paid dearly for a harsh lesson. The People were not to be treated lightly, and even if Mila were to fall here, Mama would crash through their gates and burn the grounds, salting the earth behind her. The thought warmed her as they rode in the darkness, forwards towards another day of battle.

They had been riding for less than 15 minutes when a voice rang out in the darkness. “By Imperial Order, the People tribesmen are to appear before this Justicar. Make yourselves known within the hour, and you will be collected.”

Mila felt her fear creeping down her spine, an urge to vomit almost overcoming her. A Justicar. That meant this was no longer a private battle, that it would be a public feud brought before Imperial Justice. Without Mama's protection, they were simply civilians in the eyes of the law, doomed to be sentenced to execution for killing members of the Society. Tears welled in her eyes as she despaired. All their hard work, the desperate attempt to escape, all of it was for nothing.

They could not run from Imperial Justice, for that would bring extermination down upon the People. They could only accept their fate, and pray for Mama to avenge them.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Situ Chilok fled from the ambush, arrows digging into his flesh, hampering his movements as he stumbled down the mountainside. It had gone disastrously, the five of them stepping into the trap so easily, fools all of them. Those worthless branch family elders were useless. He cursed his idiot son Chiang, and that idiot little patriarch Gulong. Those children had brought disaster upon them. He needed to return, to warn the Clan. If they were forewarned, then they could prepare and fight accordingly. The Situ Clan still had strength to call upon, they only needed to be aware of the need.

He hurried as quickly as he could, falling as much as walking, crying as he moved, knowing death had already arrived for him, but still he struggled. He was an Elder of the Situ Clan, a guardian no less, he could not die in vain. Hearing his opponent arrive, the sound of cloth breaking through the air, Chilok turning to face his enemy. If he was to die today, then he would at least die fighting. Leaping towards his opponent with weapon in hand, he died well before he could come within reach, never truly sighting his killer.
