“Too much a politician, but with enough effort, I might make a soldier of you yet.” He gestured her to fill his cup while he loosened his collar, and she mechanically obeyed, pouring tea while hanging on his every word. “You declared war against corruption itself. You faced down the Council, Butcher Bay, and the Crossbone Corsairs all at once, something not even your father dared do. Careful now, you’re spilling the tea.” Lifting the teapot, she mopped up the puddle with her sleeve while Jukai continued. “You believe forcing Yo Ling to strike works against you? By the Mother, you uncovered a cancer growing in the heart of the Province. Butcher Bay has been around for decades and you scared them into action, which is a success by any measure. The people love you. Even should Sanshu fall, the blame will not rest with you, but on the Council. Though not commonly known by the populace, those in power will remember how the Council rose to prominence in the first place, paying bandits to attack their rivals. This is merely reaping what they have sown.”

Though they spoke of the same events, the way Jukai listed them filled Yuzhen’s chest with pride, her jaw still agape as she thought things through. “What about my failure here? I lost so many soldiers, if I’d been more careful, perhaps...”

“What do you think soldiers are for, girl? Parades and escorts? You’re riding to Sanshu’s aid, not out on a lark. You need to be more pragmatic, that you survived at all is a testament to the Enemy’s pitiful numbers. A garo is built for raids like this, power and speed unmatched in short bursts, with sharp vision on even the darkest of nights. Unless your sentry line is kilometres out, you’ll never wake in time to defend against it. They number four or five thousand at most, we’ll chase them down and give them a taste of Imperial steel before day’s end, problem solved.” Fixing her with his steely gaze, Jukai spoke carefully. “I know little of politics and can stomach even less, but you’re the only qualified candidate endorsed by the current Marshal. If the Society is smart, they’ll throw their weight behind you and pray you’re as reasonable as your father. In recent years, the Society’s popularity has waned and they need the goodwill that will come from your appointment, a Society affiliated half-beast in a position of power.”

The more she thought about his words, the more reasonable it seemed, but she couldn’t get over how Jukai referred to her old man. Her father. For so long, she’d called him her ‘old man’, unable to publicly refer to him as ‘father’ because of Clan politics. Such a small thing, but it was enough to send tears, real tears, streaming down her face. As Jukai explained their next move, Yuzhen, for the first time, started to believe. In a few years, she could be Shing Yuzhen, Marshal of the North. It could really happen...

Truly a matter of not knowing whether to laugh or cry.

Chapter Meme
