I felt good—emotionally speaking.

Physically and spiritually, I could sleep for a few more days, but nothing would get done if I did, and where would we be then—still smack dab in the middle of a mana-dense region.

LV: 92 Experience: 1,995,780/ 2,417,735

Health: 2,816.49/3,000

Stamina 1,742.71/2,000

Mana: 795.61/1,300

After a quick rest, I had almost fully healed from yesterday, and my stamina had recharged entirely. Understandably, my mana was slow to recharge, but that was to be expected. After all, during our fight with the winged serpent, I depleted it not once, but twice.

If I were anybody else, I would be in a mana-less coma right now, but thanks to the careful distribution of my many status points, I was able to move about, even though I still felt drained mana-wise.

But I was powering through it, smiling, and why wouldn’t I be? I was still riding the high that came with slaying a lesser dragon and substantially reaching level 92. I'd have had trouble falling asleep if I weren't utterly exhausted after the fact.

I felt weak and untouchable at the same time, so as usual, the universe had to find a way to keep my ego in check.

“Damn it!” I loudly curse as the rope I was trying to weave came apart in my hands. The earlier boost to my Strength helped against the winged serpent, but now that I was trying to do something that required more finesse than raw power, let's just say I was having problems.

Sewing was never, and never will be, my best skill. I could do amazing things with metal and monster parts, but for some reason, whenever it came to fabric and other weaker materials, I was all thumbs—which should have been impossible given my high dexterity, but somehow remarkably was.

The small bit of tree-root-rope I made for Tabitha’s shield was strong enough that I could pull on it all I needed to, and it wouldn't break, but now that I was working with weaker plant fibers from the surface, I was struggling.

“Can’t I help you instead?” I whine over my shoulder, knowing full well it made me sound like a child.

Tabitha, who was elbow-deep in the guts of the winged serpent, didn’t appreciate my interrupting her for what was probably the fifth time in as many minutes, stopped for a second to shoot me a frigid look. "No," she stated firmly before returning to the monumental task of skinning the 300-foot snake. “Now stop asking and get back to work. Or was all that about you wanting to hug your family just lip service?”

“Meanie," I grumble, just loud enough for Tabitha to hear me clearly. That said, I do as she instructed and continue trying to weave a semi-decent rope.

I could make short lengths without problem, but the segments needed to be longer if we were to use them to secure everything down, which I sucked at. I'd much rather be helping Tabitha, but I knew it was for the best, even if I didn’t like it.

Besides, even if I wanted to work beside her, I couldn't; I didn’t have the tools. Tabitha's sword was the only thing capable of skinning the winged serpent without butchering its hide to hell and back. And considering that the hide was the most important part of the snake, not to mention that it was supposed to eventually replace Tabitha’s current armor, it was no wonder she wanted to handle things by herself.

Meanwhile, here I was, slowly carving interlocking parts out of fallen tree limbs and failing to make a decent rope.

While Tabitha was playing butcher, it was my job to build a sled, one big enough and strong enough to endure our trek home. I briefly considered carving wheels and making a cart, but quickly decided they weren’t worth the hassle. Besides, a sled would better distribute the weight we needed to pull and would be less likely to get caught in any mud.

Either way, getting home was going to be a slow affair. I figure we will have to take turns pulling the sled, but it will all be worth it if we can bring even a quarter of the winged serpent back with us.

Neither of us wanted to leave any part of the beast behind after everything we went through to kill it, but at the same time, taking everything with us would be an impossible task. The snake was too big and weighed too much for us to bring all of it with us, so Tabitha had to be selective in what she harvested.

Off to the side, Tabitha had already placed its heart and other vital organs in a neat pile. They were sitting on a blanket of leaves I had gathered and laid down for sanitary reasons.

Part of me wondered why I even bothered taking the time. The clearing still held traces of the winged serpent’s mana, and it would be a while longer before any garden-variety insects were brave enough to return.

The bigger issue was the larger scavengers that would inevitably pass by and smell our kill, like the massive beetles we encountered early in our adventure. Tabitha told me point-blank that she had no idea when other beasts would start investigating the area again, now that the winged serpent was dead, but that it wouldn't take more than a couple of days.

We had to get moving as soon as possible....

Now, only if this damn rope would stay together!

I continued to struggle as Tabitha flayed the lesser dragon like a dead fish. Periodically, I would have to stop and take a breather before my anger overtook me and I accidentally ripped up all my hard work in a fit of rage. Thankfully, watching Tabitha work was oddly soothing and was enough of a palate cleanser to keep me on track.

She dissected the snake like a surgeon, and each organ she pulled out was more interesting than the last. All its innards were shaped differently from a human's, but I could make out its lungs and kidneys easily enough, even though they were all elongated to fit inside the snake’s serpentine body.

The only organ I couldn’t place was the twin bits of flesh she removed from its ass end.

For some reason, I felt a shiver go down my spine every time I looked at them.

“Hey, Tabitha, what are those?” I motion at the weird, twin, fleshy cylinders, draped over the snake’s heart like a messed-up Christmas stocking.

“Hm?” Tabitha looked over her shoulder again at me and followed my gaze to the pile of organs. “Those?” She gave me a look that said, 'Really, you have to ask me about that?'

“Yeah, what are they? Is it the snake’s appendix or something?"

For a split second, I see Tabitha begin to blush faintly before she quickly looks away. "Those are its reproductive organs,” she finally tells me, refusing to turn away from her work, unable to hide the embarrassment in her voice.

"Wait, are you telling me those massive things are its—" I couldn't bring myself to say it.

“Indeed, it was a male snake,” Tabitha informs me matter-of-factly, still hiding her face from me, but seeing how the back of her neck was bright red, I could only imagine how hard she must be blushing right now.

For what feels like forever, I find myself unable to look away from the large twin organs as the horror inside me mounts, until eventually I somehow find my voice. "Why in the hell are they in the ‘keep’ pile?” I cry out in alarm. I hadn't thought about my past life as a man for many years now, but still, I couldn’t help but subconsciously reach down and cover my crotch and wince in pain.

“Don’t be childish,” Tabitha berates me calmly. It was too bad for her; I couldn't take her seriously when she, in turn, refused to look at me.

“I’m being childish? You’re the one who wants to drag a dragon dick through the forest.” I knew I was being crass, but I felt it was warranted.

"Oh, please," Tabitha finally turned to face me with a scowl, crimson as a tomato. “Grow up, it’s a valuable resource to alchemists. In fact, out of all the lesser dragon’s organs, pound-for-pound, its genitals are the most valuable.”

“I know I’m going to regret asking this, but what in the gods' names are dragon dongs used for?”

For a moment, Tabitha looks like she’d rather be back down in the ruins than have this particular conversation, but that doesn’t stop her from answering my question, albeit hesitantly. "It's not just the male parts," she clarifies as if that made things any better. "If it were female, I would've removed its womb and other bits.”

“Why?” At this point, I was disgustingly fascinated now.

“Isn’t it obvious? Both are key components in fertility potions,” Tabitha patiently explains. "You know how it's harder for higher-level individuals to have children, right?” She cautiously asks me, obviously hoping that she didn’t need to explain the birds and the bees to me.

As much fun as I think it would be to lie and say I didn’t, I nod. "Yeah, Del told me. It's why stone-kin aren't as numerous as humans; they live longer and are genuinely at a higher level than we are. Though he didn’t go into any specifics.”

Tabitha coughs awkwardly before forcing herself to remain serious. “Yes, well, that’s the basics, but I suppose it’s my duty as a woman and as your senior sister to educate you further. You’re an adult now, and because of your rapidly increasing level, it’s only right that you be made aware of the challenges of finding a partner and starting a family.”

“Ours is a lonely road,” Tabitha states solemnly. “If you already know how children are conceived, I won't go into the nitty-gritty of it, but basically, because every part of our bodies is stronger, we naturally reject foreign substances….” She trails off leadingly.

“Then you mean?”

“That is correct,” Tabitha nods. "When sperm and egg meet, often, one or both reject or outright destroy each other. There is a longstanding belief that two people of the same level are more likely to conceive than couples who aren’t, but that is merely hearsay. I don’t suppose I need to explain to you why?”

No, she didn’t. It wasn't the levels that were the problem; it was people's individual stats. At lower levels, the difference was minimal, but at higher levels, people became more specialized. We essentially became different subspecies of humans.

“And potions help?" I logically infer.

“Indeed.” Tabitha glances at the large sex organ draped over the winged serpent’s heart. “Overall, the lesser dragon’s hide is worth more, but if we’re going by weight, then its genitals are worth many times more than that.”

“And that’s not even factoring in that it's from a lesser dragon. You thought my potions were expensive; if brewed into a proper fertility potion befitting the material, they could go for thousands of gold coins. Maybe even tens of thousands at auction.”

“And people would pay that?” I gape in shock and wonder.

“It’s only money,” Tabitha says flippantly, spoken like a person who has never once had to worry about money in their lifetime. "Money can buy many things, but it can't buy you a child….” Tabitha suddenly frowns awkwardly. “At least not one related to you….”

I give her a dubious look.

“You know what I mean.” She scowls before pouting.

I see how that made sense; typically, people with higher levels were richer than everybody else.

It was really quite sad when you think about it. Imagine a person spending their whole life trying to reach the upper echelon of society, extending their lifespan by leveling, only to realize you’ve made it harder to start a family and enjoy life. You could outlive your spouse, and even if a person did manage to have a child, there was a very real possibility that you might outlive them, too.

Was Tabitha right? Was I doomed to live a lonely life? Would I watch my family waste away and die long before I did?

Was that why Pacore acted as he did?

Tabitha made it sound like he was actively looking for a place to die—would that be me in a hundred years? Two hundred? Longer?

I'm only fifteen and already level 92; who knows how long I’ll look like I do now?

“Aaliyah, are you okay?” Tabitha’s concerned voice pulls me out of my spiraling thoughts.

Looking up, I lock eyes with her. “How do you do it?” I ask her hollowly.

Tabitha doesn’t ask for clarification; she simply flicks her sword to remove the blood clinging to it before sheathing it and walking towards me. “That is not an easy question to answer," she says, placing a comforting hand on my shoulder.

“We all cope in our own way. The trick is to find purpose in your life. Some slowly fall into depravity, thinking themselves above it all. Others, like myself and Master, dedicate ourselves to battle. A select few find a partner who can keep up with them, which is more impressive when you remember that only people with strong personalities reach our level.”

“You have to hold on to what makes you…. you, lest you find yourself corrupted by time,” Tabitha smiles sagely. “Also,” she added with a hint of hope in her voice. “With luck, you’ll make friends along the way to keep you centered."

“Like you?” I smile brightly at her.

“I am foremost your senior sister,” Tabitha’s eyes narrow briefly before quickly softening. “But, yes, we are friends,” she nods proudly before jokingly poking my side. “Even though you’re still practically a child.”

“I love you too,” I snark back before a mischievous smile splits my face. "So, how long does a dragon dick keep for before it starts to spoil?"

Tabitha reels back as if slapped, and her face once again turns bright red. “It’ll keep just fine, so long as we keep it covered with leaves to keep the insects off it. And so long as you don’t take forever making a sled,” she playfully retorts.

"Then we both should get back to work. No more dicking around,” I wag my eyebrows suggestively.

"Another joke like that, and I'll make you carry it out of here in your arms,” Tabitha quickly threatens.

“Hear you loud and clear,” I hold my hands up in surrender.

“See that you do,” Tabitha huffs before turning around to get back to work.

I watch her stomp away with a smile on my face. I suppose a few hundred years with people like Tabitha didn’t sound that bad—But then again, when have I ever taken the easy way out?

I felt too young to even consider settling down with someone, let alone having children myself. What I was sure of was that I wasn't going to leave my family behind.

So, what if they can’t keep up with my leveling speed? I'll just have to work twice as hard and earn enough experience for all of us.

I still wasn't sure if my soul skills were meant to be a blessing or a curse, but I'd use them all the same. And I knew exactly where I'd gain the strength to accomplish my goals.

Pacore wanted to take me on as his 42nd apprentice. Fine, bring it on! I’ll take everything he wants to teach me and grow even stronger than him.

But first….

I'm going to weave a proper rope if it kills me!
