“She said she wanted to think about it.” That was the thorniest problem. Aliandra had single-handedly contributed to the bulk of the guild’s recruitment in that one event – and, if she counted by quality, rather than quantity, the ledger was skewed even further in Aliandra’s favor.

“I imagine she wants to talk with her friends, and two of them are out of town right now. Give her time.”

“I wish I knew what she wanted.”

“Don’t force her, she has been through enough already.”

“Oh, no, I wasn’t planning on forcing her. I… I’ve learned that lesson.” It was just that the idea of forming a working relationship with an actual real dungeon bent and even sprained several long-held expectations and truths she believed – had believed, she admitted to herself. “It’s just hard. We need to increase recruitment. You know how dangerous the initial levels are.”

“Well, about that…”

“Oh, no, what did they do this time?” She sighed. A few of the probationary members seemed to think that their guild membership conveyed rights and entitlements that they had no business demanding. She had only accepted them into the guild because of the dire state of recruitment, and, of course, it was now backfiring. I should have trusted my instincts. I miss the days of simple adventuring…

“Is that enough?” Ali asked as she sealed the last bottle and stored it. Even removed from the lake the mana-purified water glowed a brilliant blue – far brighter with mana sight, but even to her mundane senses it still looked impressive.

“Yes,” Basil answered. “Eliyen doesn’t have enough money to buy all this back from Weldin, so we’ll have to make potions first and work our way through the stock.”

It was perhaps an overly complicated system, Ali decided, but it seemed to check all the legal boxes. As a member of the guild, Basil could harvest the water and legally sell it to the guild store. As a registered herbalist apprenticed to Eliyen, he could purchase it back, paying the additional guild markup and taxes – which was how Hadrik Goldbeard was kept happy – and Ali would get paid.

“How long till you can have the potions made and distributed?” Mato asked. “Some of the farmers caught the blight.”

“It’s our highest priority,” Basil said. “We can have the first batch ready in a couple of hours.”

“How about I come with you?” Mato said. “I have a job to cleanse Sigurd’s farm, and he will want one of those potions – I could take it with me.”

“If we’re done here, let’s head out,” Ali said. “I want to work on the sewers, so I can walk with you for a bit.” Chatting amiably, the three of them headed back together.

“Oh!” Basil exclaimed. “You replanted the flower garden!”

“I missed it,” Ali said. There were more Mystic Bluebells than perhaps strictly necessary, but she still thought it had been worth it to make a point to Lyeneru. Silly perhaps, but it still made her feel better.

“Where did you get peacebloom?” Basil exclaimed.

“Bakahn Village in northern Toria,” Ali said. She had planted a fair amount of it in the bamboo forest Malika loved, but it had also gone really well in the flower garden.

“Can I take a sample?” Basil asked. “I’m sure Eliyen knows how to use it.”

“Sure,” Ali nodded. It was not her goal to turn it into a resource, but if Malika’s flower helped, she wouldn’t begrudge them gathering some.

“You know, I can ask Eliyen for some cuttings from her roses,” Basil said, quickly gathering some of the flowers and storing them. “Maybe we can add some of those to the garden? Also, I know where to find some chrysanthemums in orange and pink – I think those would go nicely off to the left side over there.”

“I’d love that!” Ali said, and for the rest of the way to the passage up to the sewer level, Basil continued gushing about his favorite flowers, what he might be able to find, and how they might enhance the garden.

She smiled to herself, finding that his contagious enthusiasm never seemed to get old. When they reached the location of the old rockfall and the glowing golden staircase she had made, Ali bid the two of them goodbye and summoned her Grimoire, calling a couple of Kobolds to guard her in case she encountered any loose zombies.

The mana from her domain below didn’t quite reach the sewers – she hadn’t been that interested in reclaiming them until Vivian had requested it, so she hadn’t planted anything that could reach nearby. With just a few minutes’ worth of work, she planted a stand of Living Bamboo along the cavern wall, reaching up till the tips of their stems brushed the lower cavern roof along this edge. She turned to the next imprint and spread ivy and several species of creeper from the jungle below across the craggy wall and through the hole into the sewer above, careful to avoid splashing herself with the foul-smelling effluent that poured out from above. To bolster the arcane portion of her domain, offsetting the density of nature mana beginning to spill from the Living Bamboo, she planted several thick patches of blue mana grass around the base of the spiral staircase and nestled up in the hollow spaces between the rocks.

It was easy work, but as she got into it, her mind returned to Lyeneru and her sudden appearance in her domain.

“Dungeons don’t think like that,” she had said.

This is harder than it seems. Ali paged through her Grimoire for a bit and then summoned a Luminous Slime. The slime blobbed and wobbled, casting long shadows from the massive bamboo stems with the bright yellowish light of its amorphous body.

She took a moment to reacquaint herself with the bizarre, alien senses of the ooze monster, but it wasn’t nearly as disorienting as she remembered. She could feel-hear the vibrations of the Kobold guards nearby, accurately pinpointing their position by the sound of their heartbeats tickling the entire membrane of the slime’s body.

That’s so weird, she thought. Her skills had leveled up – that had to be the explanation. She had more intelligence, more perception, and her Martial Insight skill had grown. She still struggled to correlate the strange senses to what she perceived with the more familiar senses she had been born with, but she sat with it patiently until it progressively resolved in her mind. Then she added the senses of her Fire Mage.

It took several minutes to get used to the second pair of eyes. The Kobold’s vision was different than her own, seeing much better in the darkness, but it was maintaining two points of view that were the most disconcerting. She took some time to wrap her mind around the extra stream of information, deliberately not favoring one or the other.

I need to get used to this if I want to get the most out of my skill.

She climbed up the stairs and into the sewer, calling for her monsters to follow. Her Kobolds scampered up the spiral staircase, triggering an explosion of vibration senses from the slime while it simply flowed itself up the ivy-draped wall and along the rocky ceiling before smooshing itself into the sewer room, through a little crack.

Her domain mana was already beginning to percolate up through the bamboo and ivy and seep through the brick floor of the sewer chamber, propagating far faster now, partly due to her class and skill growth. The biggest boost in speed, however, had come when she had added Arcane Recall – the Mastery skill benefiting her other skills in many surprising ways.

First the domain, then monsters. Ali opened her Grimoire, and then, ironically, summoned a monster first. Her Moss Creeper bobbed gently on the ground in front of her.

“Plant moss everywhere,” Ali said, sending it scampering off into the darkness. “Verdant Moss.” She summoned a few more and then did the same with Spore Spreaders. Delegating filling the gaps to her summoned minions, Ali spent the next couple of hours walking through the sewers with her Kobold bodyguards, channeling enormous amounts of mana through her imprints, laying down moss carpets and golden glowing mushrooms everywhere.

This is so much faster than last time.

She took the time to add variety. Psathyrella mushrooms in the sewage channels were a must, the place reeked – but she planted those by proxy, more willing to let her Spore Spreaders get dirty than stick her hands in that foul stream. Here and there, she added jasmine for its pretty white flowers and the distinctive scent of their perfume and instructed the Spore Spreaders to be liberal with the kinds of mushrooms they grew. If the adventurers were going to level up in these tunnels, they might as well do some good harvesting ingredients for the Alchemists or Herbalists. Or perhaps even the Chefs, given how scarce food seemed to be. If they earned some coin doing so, Ali imagined they’d probably spend it buying armor or weapons from the store, which would help them grow.

Content that her minions could finish filling in the vast network of smaller passages, she stopped and paged through her Grimoire. Ok, which monsters?

Slimes for sure. It was a sewer after all – even if it was beginning to smell much better. Too cramped for wolves. She stopped and considered the Goblin imprint for a while. She had felt rather uncomfortable about making Havok fight Goblins, but he hadn’t seemed to mind at all.

Goblins and Slimes it is, she thought, deciding not to be squeamish about it if Havok wasn’t. Her Kobolds were mostly way too high level to be an appropriate challenge.

She began summoning, idly studying the cascading runes as they swirled off the pages, enjoying the familiar sense of the slow tick of Sage of Learning as it helped her understand the magic construction. She kept particularly close tabs on the class level of the monstrous Goblins, making sure to keep everything below level ten as Vivian had wanted a bronze rank training ground.

She didn’t particularly wish to optimize the gear of the Goblins she was summoning, so she simply fed her Grimoire the extra mana and let her Customization choose random appropriate gear for them – mostly the worst quality daggers or leather armor, but her skill at least seemed to make generally ok choices. As she studied her magic, though, something of a pattern began to emerge. She paid closer attention, and after a half-dozen new summons, she was certain.

So that’s how it encodes the class level!

With mounting excitement, she pushed on the skill and quickly discovered she could influence the level within the range of the variants she had deconstructed. This is going to save so much time! Fully absorbed in her momentous discovery, she forgot all about the sewers and immediately tried to summon a maximum-level Kobold Acolyte – but although she tried everything she could think of, she was unable to influence the Grimoire to surpass the highest-level Kobold she had deconstructed. It doesn’t seem to be a matter of control, she thought, pondering the problem. Arcane Recall gave her enough control to influence the runes with a substantial amount of precision. It was more like having too few pieces to finish the puzzle.

Wait… can I go the other way? Far less useful, of course, but if she could downlevel monster summons, that might add a lot of variety to her sewer, combatting the problem of diminishing returns that came with killing the same variety of foes repeatedly.

With her excitement returning, almost as strong as before, she channeled her mana into the Kobold imprint, choosing an archer, and while it was in the process of being created, she spent mana to customize it, suppressing the monster’s power. The lowest level archer she had recorded in her imprint was a level eighteen, however, when her spell completed, she knew she had been successful.

Archer – Kobold – level 4Your reserved mana has increased by +8.

Perfect. Her archer came equipped with some crude leather armor and a shoddy-looking bow, but for what she was trying to make here, he was perfect. She immediately created a horde of friends for him, mixing in rogues and warriors, letting her customization pick the gear to save time.

“Guard the sewer against all intruders,” she said, addressing the Kobolds as they stood in a line awaiting her orders. As one, the rogues all faded into the shadows, and though she couldn’t see them with either her mundane or mana sight, she found she could still hear their heartbeats with the tremor sense of her Luminous Slime. She smiled, happily, as the Kobolds scattered to explore their new domain.

As she organized her space, a rough order emerged. She populated the areas nearest the sewer entrance tunnels with the lowest level Goblins and Toxic Slimes, reserving the downleveled Kobolds for her mid-range threats, giving them tunnels and nooks and permission to construct crude traps with whatever they could find – even going as far as to create some extra weapons for them to use as materials.

Retreating progressively through the sewer toward the passage leading down to the forest, she steadily scaled up the level of her minions, summoning Brine Oozes and Kobolds in the level range of five to ten. This should give a nice ramp. It didn’t hurt that the highest-level Kobolds would be able to hold their own against the vast majority of the zombies and skeletons that still seemed to be trickling in, drawn by her domain mana.

When she reached the final room, she paused. This needs a little work, she decided. The decrepit brick floor looked like it might be about to collapse, shot through with cracks. And this room would be a good space if it were bigger. Maybe I can think like a dungeon after all! Ha! Setting to her task wielding Domain Mastery, she removed several walls, merging the room with some nearby smaller ones, and widening it into a sizeable chamber. She widened the sewer channel, now flowing with clear water, thankfully, giving her Brine Oozes some more space to lurk. She left the crumbling brick but reinforced the foundations below with granite to forestall any possible accidents. Then she finished up by populating the room with several level ten Fire Mages, warriors, and rogues.

Domain Mastery has reached level 15.

After considering it for a few more moments, she summoned a swarm of stinging jellies and dropped them in the wider water channel. The swarm monsters were a ridiculously cheap way of filling space, six being summoned for the cost of a single normal monster of the same level – and they made a good water threat.

And finally, my traps. She spent the next half an hour inscribing Runic Circles of her old favorite Grasping Roots everywhere to serve as traps. Attached to the rapidly propagating domain mana, those cost nothing to maintain, so she was rather liberal with them.

Vivian should be happy with that.

