It was late afternoon by the time she and Mato reached the Adventurers Guild. Ali paused and stared at the heavy oak doors with their distinctive heavy brass handles gleaming from the reflected rays of the mid-morning sun. It had been quite some time since she had entered the guild – so much had transpired. A complex knot of emotions twisted around inside her. The last time she had entered through these doors had been before the business with Alexander Gray, before Roderik and the burning of her forest, and even before much of their exploration of the jungle level below Dal’mohra.

“Are you ok, Ali?”

She collected herself with an act of will and nodded to Mato. It was just nerves. She straightened up and followed him into the guild hall.

“Hi Aliandra, hi Mato,” Mieriel called out from her desk, her typically delighted lyrical voice guarded and laced with an undercurrent of uncertainty. She was elegantly dressed, as usual, in a creation that Ali would have bet had started the day in one of the many boxes stacked up in Lydia’s Allure earlier.

“Hello Mieriel.” She had avoided the guild for a long time mainly because she had gotten such a bad vibe from Mieriel – reinforced by Malika and Calen’s suspicions of memory tampering – but, now that she knew what had happened, she knew she no longer had any reason to be afraid of the Sun Elf. Her emotions, however, did not subscribe to direction from her rational faculties, insisting on doing their own thing.

“Sorry,” Mieriel said, looking awkward and apologetic, clearly catching the tone of her emotional state with her potent perception skills.

Spy – Sun Elf – level 53 (Mind)

“It’s ok,” Ali answered, willing it to be so. It should be ok. “You leveled up,” she said, trying to shift the conversation to something a little more comfortable.

“I got three levels from the preparation and the Town Council trial,” she answered, inclining her head. Then she continued, “There are some personal quests for you guys.”

Personal quests? Someone wants us for a job, specifically? Ali reached out and took the envelope Mieriel offered her, noting, curiously, that there was a separate one for Mato.

Your minions have defeated Mage – Skeleton – level 9

Ali dismissed the distraction.

“Also,” Mieriel continued, “If you have the time, there are a lot of new general quests and jobs up on the board related to the undead. You might want to check it out. And, Aliandra, the Guildmaster would like to talk to you, if possible.”

“Busy day,” Mato quipped. “Thanks, Mieriel.”

“Yes, thank you,” Ali answered, tearing open her envelope and peeking inside. She found an elegantly hand-written letter in Elvish with a simple request from Eliyen asking if she could escort Basil to the lake to collect more mana-purified water. Apparently with the blight and the undead, her elixirs were suddenly in much higher demand.

Easy enough. Spying a curious footnote in the letter, Ali asked, “It says here that Eliyen made some sort of arrangement with the guild store to pay me for mana-purified water?”

“Oh, yes,” Mieriel said, smiling. “The guild percentage for mana-purified water has been increased by fifteen percent for every sale, and the difference is to be paid into your account. Is that acceptable?”

“That’s good,” Ali said. I think. Without Malika around to confirm, she wouldn’t know for certain, but it sounded generous. So far, Eliyen had been conscientious about keeping her end of the bargain and she trusted the herbalist. Depending on how much water she needed, Ali might soon refill her bank account. She could, of course, just make the gold directly, but Hadrik Goldbeard would probably be suspicious if she suddenly deposited a whole lot of ancient Dal’mohran currency again. I could palm it off on delving, I suppose?

“What did you get?” Ali asked, changing the subject as she turned to Mato.

He offered her the note, and said, “Sigurd saw me using Tree Form from the city walls and he’s offering to pay me to try to cleanse the blight from his farm.”

“Will that work?”

“Yes, I’m pretty sure I can help him,” Mato answered.

“Maybe you can practice your plant growth skill on his fields?” Ali was pleased to hear Mato thought he could help. Sigurd had been very nice to them, even when it had become common knowledge that she was a dungeon. Some people simply had remarkable integrity.

“Yup. Let’s check the job postings while we wait,” he suggested. He seemed to be quite excited about his personal quest – which was not much of a surprise. Mato always wanted to feel useful.

The jobs board was a bit of a surprise – there were many more jobs posted than she had remembered from the last time she was here. “Most of these seem to be fallout from the Necromancer,” Ali observed soberly.

“Yep, seems like it,” Mato said. “Lots of requests for food, it must be scarce still.”

“I can help with that,” Ali answered. The zombies hadn’t destroyed any of her fruit trees, and she could always plant more wheat or rice. “Maybe ask Sigurd if he wants to stop by and fill up from the fields again?”

“I’ll let him know,” Mato said.

The blight and destruction were still causing problems for the surrounding areas. There was a general bounty on culling undead. “Wish I’d seen this before we cleared the cavern,” Ali said, adding the quest to her guild ring by touching it to the parchment pinned to the board.

“Mhm,” Mato said, still scanning the board.

There were quests from the logistics department at the Garrison requisitioning arrows, weapons, potions, and bandages, some of which Ali noted as things she could help out with immediately.

“Ok, I’m going to go see what the Guildmaster wants,” Ali said. “See you later.”

***

“Thank you,” Ali said, choosing one of the comfortable seats around the coffee table opposite Vivian Ross in her office.

“What for?” she asked, looking a little surprised.

“I understand it was you who pointed Calen and Mato in my direction when I was facing Alexander Gray,” she explained.

“Oh, that… yes.”

“I assume the council didn’t approve,” Ali said.

“They don’t know. Well, besides Donella. They can’t disapprove if they are not aware of it.” She quirked a wry smile.

“Did you put her up to helping too?” Donella Novaspark had been a devastating force with her Chain Lightning, suppressing the undead army with covering fire from the battlements. Every time Ali had been able to draw undead back into the range of the Gnomish mage, they had been obliterated instantly. Without her support, they would have surely been surrounded and overrun. Her involvement was one of the things Ali still hadn’t figured out, and if Vivian had been involved she finally had her explanation.

“I might have suggested she stand on the battlements and do some target practice,” Vivian answered with a grin on her face. “I hope it helped. Bastian really had our hands tied, and if Donella wasn’t so influential, she would probably be in a lot of trouble with the crown right now. As it stands, he can do very little to her because she controls all the advanced teleportation into and out of Myrin’s Keep, and the flow of information with the rest of New Daria.”

“It was a big help, thank you again,” Ali answered. The woman was not only powerful, but she was smart and politically savvy. I suppose she would have to be in this town.

“It is me that should be thanking you for taking care of that thorny problem. Bastian and his friends lost quite a lot of political capital in that debacle, especially having earned the disapproval of the Pathfinders. I find myself in your debt, and yet I must ask you for some big favors.”

“What do you need?” Ali wasn’t certain how to read Vivian. On one hand, she had been the one to order the invasive interrogation. But she had also stood by her during the council trial, and even though bound by the council rules, she had found ways to help Ali with the necromancer.

“I just wish I were still–” Vivian said, but she stopped and cleared her throat awkwardly as she caught Ali’s eye. “I was hoping to convince you to use your shrine again. William Turner indicated he is close to having enough candidates to run another set of class trials.” Vivian paused for a moment.

“And… you think you can convince them to use my shrine?” A little shiver passed down Ali’s spine.

“Convincing them won’t be an issue. Word got around from last time, and some people are deliberately holding off in the hope that your shrine will be available soon,” Vivian said. She took a deep breath. “You see, I’m struggling to recruit good people for the guild. The news that this ‘silent assassin’ is targeting our members has begun making the rounds. There aren’t that many people gaining combat classes, and the good ones are often snapped up by the garrison, or they leave town for more attractive or profitable jobs in Southport or one of the other larger cities. I recruited those that have been interested – on probation, of course – but they’re weak or have poor attitudes, and I think I will need to weed them out soon. The only strong guild members are your party and those in Teagan and Aiden’s groups – more than half of which you’re responsible for unlocking with your shrine.”

How do I say no? Ali had been overjoyed to help people like Havok, Basil, and Ryn gain their classes, but she had no personal investment in the people this time around. The last class ceremony had been followed almost immediately by assassination attempts and the burning of her entire Forest Cavern, wiping out most of her domain in the process. But she helped me with the Necromancer… and paying it forward is always good, but…

“Can I have some time to think about it?” She really wanted to talk it over with Malika, but she was still in Kezda recovering with the elder.

“May I ask what’s causing your hesitation? I thought you enjoyed giving them strong classes?” Vivian asked, surprise flickering in her eyes, but it didn’t sound like she wanted to force the issue.

“I am certain that the class ceremony is how Roderik Icecrown discovered I was a dungeon.” She grimaced at that memory. It was hardly the only reason, but she didn’t want to go there right now.

“Aah… well I understand. Just let me know when you decide. In the meantime, would you consider repopulating the sewers? We’re being swamped with undead from the southern forest, and most of the quests and jobs are too high level for the guild as it is right now. If Aiden and Teagan’s groups were all bronze rank, I think we would stand a much better chance of cleaning up the mess left behind by Alexander Gray. Your sewer was the perfect training ground for them.”

Your minions have defeated Warrior – Skeleton – level 11

“Why are there still zombies and skeletons? He’s dead. When I got back, the sewer and my cavern were crawling with undead,” Ali said. She checked her ring, noting that the quest counter for the undead bounty increased by one, even though the notification had come from her minions making the kill without her.

“The forest is still infected with the blight,” Vivian said. “That miasma is spreading, and everything it kills is raised as undead. Without expensive potions or high-level cure skills, the lower-level beasts and people are dying like flies. I’m hoping your friend, Mato, can help out, but the scale of the problem is immense.”

“Ok,” Ali said. “I’ll reclaim the sewer and populate it with appropriate monsters. It shouldn’t take more than a day.” This request was easy enough. After all, she was going to need to become a real dungeon, and that meant monsters and traps, and figuring out how to dungeon.

Actually, Vivian is an experienced delver.

“Vivian, you spent a lot of time in dungeons, didn’t you?”

“I did, but I’m retired after losing the rest of my team,” she answered, a shadow of some old pain crossing her face briefly.

“Lyeneru Silverleaf paid me a visit.”

Vivian cocked an eyebrow.

“She told me I was a terrible dungeon,” Ali said, grimacing at the embarrassing, blunt assessment she had been subjected to. “I had no monsters or traps or anything like a real dungeon. I can populate the sewer for the guild members to train on, but I’d like to do it like a real dungeon. Do you have any advice?”

“I… Well, that’s a request I never expected to hear in my lifetime.” Vivian’s brow furrowed for a long moment before she continued. “Bosses – you need boss monsters. I don’t know how it works for your class, but dungeons are powerful, and terrifying because of the bosses they wield. And you need to invest in some kinds of traps. Just… nothing too diabolical for the training area, please. I’d rather not send our best guild prospects to their deaths.”

“Ok, I’ll have to do some research. I don’t know how to make bosses yet, but I have a few things I can study. I mean I didn’t even know my class was a dungeon till recently. I’ll do the sewer and keep the monsters and traps under level ten. Do you think that will be sufficient?” One side benefit would be that the monsters and traps in the sewer might provide a safety buffer preventing the undead from reaching town.

“That’s perfect, thank you, Aliandra. I really appreciate it. And please let me know about the shrine whenever you decide. Even one more Havok, Kaitlyn, or Devan in the guild would be a huge success. With a strong set of people reaching bronze rank, we should be able to start pushing back the blight and the undead monsters.”

“How did it go, Vivian?” Mieriel asked her.

How did it go? Vivian reflected on her life as part of an adventurer delve team and what had brought her to Myrin’s Keep and her desire to form a guild. Nothing in there had prepared her for Aliandra.

The appearance of Alexander Gray had nearly undone her. Vivian grimaced. With what had happened to her class upon her evolution… She was easily able to deal with incidents like the Goblin dungeon-break, but the necromancer might have been beyond her abilities now. If Aliandra and her friends hadn’t been up for the challenge, her precarious situation might have been unmasked – and with Mori, Bastian, and Jax all arrayed against her, that would have been an unmitigated disaster. She needed to accelerate the guild and the development of their classes. Somehow… before everything unravels.

“She agreed to repopulate the sewer. You can let Aiden and Teagan know they should be able to use it by tomorrow morning.”

“But not the shrine?”

