She paused to admire her work, taking a moment to add a mushroom here or there as needed and placing a few clumps of Blue Mana Grass for Basil to find.

There, Miss hoity-toity legendary Night Elf. Is this dungeon enough for you?

Obviously, her minions were not going to keep someone as strong as her out, and she nearly fell over laughing as her imagination served up Lyeneru’s mildest sneeze clearing this level in a hurricane – but her level ten kobolds should be more than sufficient to keep most of the zombies and other random monsters, or even townsfolk, from passing through.

How else can I think like a dungeon? Deep in thought, Ali made her way out of the sewer, flying down into the Forest Cavern, but a flash of red and the distant thump of a Fireball detonating snagged her attention, even before the chime sounded.

Your minions have defeated Warrior – Skeleton – level 6

Keeping a healthy height among the trees, Ali flew over to find two of her Kobold Fire Mages running from several skeletons and dodging behind trees to avoid the ice bolts of a low-level skeletal mage.

This won’t do. She dropped a waist-high barrier between the skeletons and her Kobolds with a gesture and a flash of her mana. The two mages chirped their approval, instantly launching a pair of Fireballs that instantly turned the bunched-up warrior skeletons into a pile of smoking, blackened bones on the ground and then unleashed a flaming barrage of Firebolts at the hapless ice mage.

But before the chime even sounded, Ali heard moaning from the lake’s southern outlet tunnel and two zombies emerged. The very same tunnel she and Seri had blasted open so long ago to release the fury of a waterspout on the Goblin siege.

So, that’s where they’re sneaking in… She spiraled down and landed beside her Kobolds, ignoring the heat and flashes as they turned their magic upon the newcomers. Fixing this hole would be some work, but nothing she couldn’t handle with Domain Mastery – her mana in this area was easily strong enough – but then she paused. Hmm… If I close it, where will all the water go? Visions of flooding her Forest Cavern did not appeal to her.

Worse still, another skeleton clambered out of the tunnel to the delightful welcome of a Firebolt in the face. Where will the zombies and skeletons go? If Lira was right – and it certainly seemed that way – they were being drawn in by her mana. If they couldn’t get to it, they would probably go searching for another way in. And that might take them around to the farms.

More Kobolds, she decided, but when she checked her current mana reservation, she winced. It was all well and good for Lyeneru to tell her that dungeons thought with their minions – but the Night Elf didn’t have to deal with spending the mana to support them. How am I going to defend this area? It would take a large squad of Kobolds to reliably hold the undead while the mages destroyed them. At least a couple of warriors for the frontline – and a few Acolytes due to the Fire Mages’ penchant for blasting everything with no regard for friend or foe.

Ali sighed. This was far harder than she had imagined.

Wait… what about traps? Lyeneru’s book mentioned traps, but she hadn’t needed to read the book to realize that dungeons used traps – they were notorious for it. Everyone associated dungeons with traps and monsters. And treasure… but Ali didn’t care too much about that last part right now. She had an invasion to deal with.

She flew down till she was right beside the offending tunnel, drawing her Kobolds with her for protection. “Protect me,” she said and then ignored the sounds of combat as she set to inscribing a runic circle.

Grasping Roots – level 25 (Nature)Summons Grasping Roots on anything entering the circle.Runic Circle

Perfect, she thought, attaching the glowing circle to her domain mana. It couldn’t move, or think, but it would defend her cavern – and more importantly, she could use her domain to power it instead of reserving her own precious mana. Just like the sewers. Except, she didn’t need to be careful of killing the newbies down here and she could make a far higher-level circle. She stepped away, studying the glowing green runes on the ground, spanning nearly two meters in diameter. Except, from the eyes of her Kobolds, the effect was nearly invisible. Without mana sight or another specialized perception skill, her traps were perfect.

She didn’t have to wait more than ten minutes before a skeleton emerged from the tunnel. With bated breath, Ali watched it clacking its loose jawbone and surveying her forest before it took a few steps forward shambling right across her runic circle. Thick roots burst from the ground, entwining the monster rapidly.

“Shoot it,” Ali said.

“At once,” the Kobolds hissed, and fire rained down on the struggling skeleton.

Your minions have defeated Warrior – Skeleton – level 8

The quest counter recorded on Ali’s ring ticked up by one. Perfect.

Besides, she had another idea brewing – but first she should finish this part. It took about half an hour for Ali to inscribe enough Grasping Roots circles to satisfactorily cover the entire channel of the outflow stream on both sides. When she was done, she summoned a handful of lower-level Kobolds. “Make more traps in this area, especially different ones,” she instructed. They set to with devious grins and the enthusiasm of a cohort of overexcited squirrels.

Huh. She obviously needed to challenge her creatures more often!

The Kobolds had proven to be resourceful trap-makers when she and Mato had been forced to creep through the ruins of Dal’mohra. Some had poison skills – not that poison darts would be effective against skeletons and zombies – and there had been rock-fall traps and tripwires. Ali grew a stand of Living Bamboo up against the far bank, some handy vines clinging to the wall, and a few assorted patches of poisonous mushrooms for them to scavenge for materials.

I think that should do it, she decided. She would need to check in on them regularly, but for now, she was happy with her solution to the problem.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
