But Reim in the north and the angry nations of the west? Those wars were vicious and more often than not resulted in a loss for Nerrhavia’s Fallen. The cost in lives to common [Soldiers], especially Hemp who had no ransom and were used as expendable fodder in each battle, was immense.
Nerrhavia’s Fallen had the numbers to recruit more armies without overtaxing any one region—for now—but death or slavery still ripped lovers apart or left families grieving. The late General Thelican had openly dismissed entire regiments of Hemp-caste as ‘necessary sacrifices’. Desertion or evasion of conscription was high in conscripted cities.
They were not happy. But, then, that begged the question: when had they been content to be the lowest caste? If there was discontent, say, from deserting [Soldiers] on a larger scale than the Court of Silks knew, then it was still simmering. Nerrhavia’s Fallen had ways of putting down perceived rebellions that they had kept from the Immortal Tyrant herself. They would make examples of entire towns if they felt like obedience to the order of the kingdom was at stake.
All of this presented a rather prescient image of the kingdom that even a [Strategist] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen might be surprised by. However, you could read it—it was in the journal the man was writing in. Not in so many words; it was in his personal style of notetaking and perhaps more elegant of phrase. Certainly, his handwriting was superb; each first letter of a sentence was a flourish of stylized cursive.
The same for the man himself, really. He sat amidst the peacocking nobility and lesser royalty about him, and he wore simple clothing for such a gathering. A plain white tunic, thin given the heat, and embroidered with Nerrhavia Fallen’s sigil on each arm, tucked into dark britches of silk. Costly, but plain. Simple black and white. His belt carried a visible sword, a bag of holding on one side, a potion bottle and money bag on the other, but the sheath of the sword was simple leather.
Even his features weren’t remarkable amidst the gathering of Silk Stitch-folk. He had tanned skin, whereas those around him had every tone of skin ranging from pearl to ebony, even skin tones like red or faintly blue, though that was highly experimental even for Stitch-folk. He had faintly purple hair, perhaps, but age had turned it grey in places. The long strands of it were tied back in a bun and the rest hung behind his head—oh, and he was Human. So he’d done well with his appearance given he could not shape his features to look like anything he wanted.
Perfect jawlines, shaped noses—be they flat, round, or pointed—or beauty in imperfection, a subtly placed mole here, gaunt cheeks if you thought that was beauty, a rosy heart-shaped head—he was ordinary where they were works of art.
And yet, two things made this man stand out. Made the gossipers sometimes glance at him, or those who fancied themselves rich, powerful, and important turn their heads and give him an annoyed look, as if wishing he would come to them or trying to think of reasons they should come to him and not seem like they were trying to get his attention.
One of these things wasn’t even visible; it was merely a case slung on his back that he rested against, brown and travel-worn as he was. Innocuous, nay, offensive given what it carried. If he brought that instrument out, every eye would fall upon him. But he refused to play, that [Bard]. No one, not even the [Queen], could force him to perform. Like the Horns, he was a foreign story and older, grander, than most.
The thing that marked this Human man in the court, that kept him from being a pauper unfit for their presence, was the half-cloak he wore across one shoulder. It was shabby compared to the pristine dresses hand-tailored for each court appearance, the fabric new and gleaming. It wasn’t even silk, but cotton.
Rich cotton, dyed crimson, true, but faded with age despite the enchantments. A little loop of golden thread secured it across his neck, and it was more important, more valuable than all the clothing in this room, including Queen Yisame’s dress.
You see, it was the little sigils upon the cloak which mattered. Each one was a patch. Just a rounded circle of cloth upon which was sewn a crest. An emblem. The heraldry of a nation.
Each nation he had visited. They were not large, these crests. Barely larger than a gold coin, but they had to be so small; his half-cloak was covered in them. Each time he came to a new nation, he bought or was often given a little crest.
There were nations upon that cloak that had died and fallen into ruin, their flags burned, their memory lost save for the emblem he wore. That cloak had seen more wars than any [General] present. It had been witness to more heroism than any adventurer in the Court of Silks could name. It was no Relic-class item in enchantment, yet it stole the eyes of all who knew it as if it were made by an [Archmage] of old.
It was his cloak, and the Human who closed the journal he had been writing in had a name that eclipsed any other. He was an adventurer. A legend. A purveyor of stories. An entertainer and warrior, guide and mentor all. That was no exaggeration. Not for him.
Barelle the Bard had visited the Court of Silks many times before, and the emblem upon his cloak was the one that Yisame’s grandfather had given to him. He had refused every offer to replace it or add another emblem to the cloak as the seats of power changed hands, and no ruler of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had dared press the point.
Again, not with him. He was a charming man when he wanted to be; his name could pack any theatre in the world if he were playing, and when he spoke, that resonant voice would fill even the Court of Silks, as if he were speaking to you from a stage and up close simultaneously. But he was also the [Bard] who had visited every continent. Seen every great Named-rank adventurer. Fought in so many wars. Witnessed horrors and triumphs alike.
When Orchestra emerged from Chalence with the treasure of a lifetime, he was there to call the news across Izril.
When the Lightning Thief’s final adventure came to a close, it was a young [Bard] who had played an elegy to the weary [Thief].
When the King of Destruction met the Hero of Zethe in battle and fell back, time and again, Barelle the Bard sang Zethe’s defiance for a hundred and thirty days until the [Hero] wearied and vanished. And not from the sidelines, either, but with sword in hand.
He took sides, you see. Not always the winning ones, but mostly. It was why the late General Thelican had thought himself marked for greatness when instead it was Barelle who had witnessed the Strongest of Pomle’s victory.
Stories often worked like that in Barelle’s experience. He never claimed to know who was to win or that a great deed was taking place. People had begun to assume he predicted such things when the truth was he simply looked, listened, and went where his class called him.
It was not as if he’d been present for many of the greatest events in recent history. Not for the Meeting of Tribes nor the Winter Solstice nor this latest incident with the Goblin King. If you asked Barelle, he would unhappily list the many, many events he had failed to be there on time for or just not realized were happening.
But that was his point of view, and he had also found that most people couldn’t understand what he truly meant when he was honest. So he kept his council, and they thought him wise and mysterious.
For instance, the Court of Silks had it in their head that he was here to witness their great triumph in the wars they were fighting. Why else would Barelle the Bard grace them with months of his presence now? In fact, one of the gossipers turned to him, seizing on another excuse to draw him into conversation.
“Sir Barelle. If we speak of famous adventurers, then surely you yourself will be here to witness the Horns of Hammerad’s entrance into the Court of Silks? Will you perform for such an occasion?”
Everyone listening stirred; they had heard Barelle perform a dozen times now, but he had no end of songs, and he was the highest-level [Bard] in the world. Their eyes stole to the case of his magical harp, whose melodies could produce magic.
Barelle sipped from a canteen at his side. This was no insult; poison was often used in the Court of Silks. He spoke, his voice carrying yet mild, devoid of the grand resonance they longed for.
“I do not believe so. My business takes me out of the Court of Silks momentarily.”
He had what he needed; the journal was stowed in his bag of holding. The speaker faltered; the young [Lieutenant] seemed shocked.
“But the Horns…surely if there are adventurers worthy of Barelle the [Bard], it would be them! Or is opening the Crossroads of Izril and challenging the Village of the Dead not enough?”
The [Lieutenant] was surely a fan of the Horns; a few glowers made him flush, but he held his ground as Barelle stood. The [Bard] reached out, and the noblewoman with the indigo fan halted, mid-drink from a goblet she’d taken from a servant’s tray. He touched the bottom of her cup, and she blinked—then offered the cup to him. He took it; handed it to a servant, and she opened her mouth, confused.
Only then did Barelle address the young Stitch-man. He brushed a lock of hair out of his eyes and smiled gently. His eyes were brown and mellow, the color of polished wood, which surprised many who fancied that such an important man should have eyes like the Hero of Zethe, something that marked his level and fame. Barelle shook his head.
“The Crossroads of Izril are no light thing, Lieutenant Felyer. Nor do I make little of their deeds. But the Horns of Hammerad are not the adventurers that I think will make a song worth playing. At least, not here.”
“Not here?”
The dismayed [Lieutenant] was amazed Barelle knew his name. The [Bard] half-smiled as he bowed towards Yisame on her throne, who seemed visibly displeased or dismayed by his answer.
“I mean no disrespect, of course. Yet who or what, in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, could offer such adversity or challenge to such a team with the favor of the crown? Doubtless, they shall have exploits and be worthy of stories to enthrall the kingdom for a month, perhaps a year. But not a lifetime, I think.”
Ah. A sigh ran through the Court of Silks. They understood, then, that his criteria was like theirs. Queen Yisame’s fingers flashed on her throne, and her Speaker voiced her opinion for her.
“There are few stories worthy of such acclaim indeed, Barelle the Bard. Even the King of Destruction himself merits but two such songs. We must content ourselves with passing diversions, however pleasant. You have our leave to pursue the tales worthy of your craft.”
He bowed deeper, and though there were some murmurs of regret, the Court of Silks liked that reminder that the King of Destruction himself was but one more story in Barelle’s saga of the world.
Barelle turned on his heel to go. Of course, he had said what was most expeditious to avoid strife. What he had not said was that there were reasons he was in Nerrhavia’s Fallen after all these months—just not the Horns. He had no doubt they would find trouble and excitement here.
Yet as he’d said, what adversary or challenge would they find in the Court of Silks worthy of singing? Plenty to trouble them. Little Barelle would think worthy of a great song. If the Court of Silks understood what he’d actually meant, they might quickly turn on him. But few had understood the meaning of what he said, and they were content not to make enemies. Not of him.
As the [Bard] strode out of the Court of Silks, the woman with the indigo fan realized he hadn’t done anything with her cup. She searched around for it, but the [Servant] had borne it away already.
“What did he want with your drink, Emira Otelline?”
“I don’t know.”
That was what the Emira said, or tried to say. But she never got the entire sentence out. She was reaching for another cup when her face turned red, and she began to cough. At first, the noblewoman addressing her swayed back, covering her face with a fan. Then she realized the red rash swelling across the Emira’s face was no mere coughing fit.
“Poison. Poison!”
She cried out, and everyone leapt backwards. The Emira collapsed as her servants and bodyguards rushed forwards. Everyone in earshot put down their cups and plates and backed away from the refreshments.
Was that Roshal’s vengeance? If so, how fast! Or some supporter of theirs? Or was it coincidence, an enemy using her statements as bait?
The [Queen] upon her throne barely paid any attention to the flailing Emira; the Emira was not high-ranking, and she would live. If she had downed the entire cup, she would have been dead in seconds. Queen Yisame’s eyes were on Barelle’s back as he walked out of the court.
Even in small ways, he changed fate as it pleased him. A meddler; the sort of man who would draw a blade for the Wind Runner of Reizmelt and challenge the fae to a duel.
Witness and storyteller. A historian the likes of which Satar Silverfang could only aspire to, and whose tales, both sung and written, Yisame herself had read over and over. He rarely penned works, but when he did, the world read them. He rarely made new songs, but his Ballad of the Lightning Thief had been part of what made the series about him so famous.
Why…would a man who had gone into retirement leave his retirement only to spend months here? For the King of Destruction’s war, to record his victory over a great foe, or failure? Some other reason?
It was a worry for any sensible ruler, and Yisame had not lived as long as she had by ignoring such things. But before she could focus on him, another [Message] came in stating the Horns of Hammerad would be at the palace in less than two hours, and Yisame stood from her throne in excitement, forgetting her worries.
Barelle the Bard vanished as the Court of Silks focused on their heroes of the hour.
 
——
 
It was a shame, he felt. Nerrhavia’s Fallen remembered legends, but only as a way to diminish new ones. It grew bored too quickly and let the true stories, the old ones, fade, as if they didn’t matter.
Why was he here? Several reasons, the King of Destruction being the least of them. Prince Zenol’s tale ranked higher than that of Flos Reimarch, if only because Barelle had known his father.
In fact, it was the [Prince] himself who caught up with Barelle as the [Bard] left the Court of Silks, albeit in disguise.
He did not do it well; he wore a hood and concealing facemask, but the bevy of his servants and bodyguard around him gave him away as someone of rank to anyone except his peers. Already, the [Cutpurses] had slunk away from such an obvious danger and the [Spies] taken note. Not that Barelle was avoiding them.
