“Yes. Those ones. And that was wise of him. Let me…allow me to continue. I missed her. Regardless of what we believe she is, I could have been there when she took the [Prince of Men]’s life on that ship. I might understand more of what is going on.”
“You are here instead. The King of Destruction is a boring choice for a story, Barelle. Even Nerrhavia’s Fallen makes for poor song.”
What did she mean by that? But here, Cognita was slightly dense, because Barelle just gazed at her.
“I have followed what may not be the greatest story of our age, but the one I care about, Cognita.”
She glanced past him at Zenol, then blinked and realized who he was looking at. The Truestone Golem took a drink from her cup. She didn’t speak for a moment, so Barelle went on.
“I confess, I am also annoyed. Annoyed at not being able to split myself, at missing great events. The Dyed Lands, the Crossroads, all call to me.”
“You will not find a story here, Barelle. Merely another note in a song that will outlive your ability to sing it.”
Cognita whispered, and the [Bard] dipped his head.
“Allow me my indulgences, Cognita. If I must, I will leave. But I have long since made my peace with failing to capture each story as it is told in the moment. I will not make the mistake of losing another to impatience. Besides—travelling a continent away is no easy task, even with these new teleportation spells.”
She nodded after a moment, relaxing slightly.
“If they are based on old magic, they have a 0.0004% chance of failure. The risk rises exponentially with magical power or the level or strength of aura of the user.”
“Disheartening. And I hate flying on carpets. Ah, well. Perhaps I’ll buy a magical carriage. My point is that I am content to wait here. Though I do find the use of the television irritating. As I do the legend of the Horns of Hammerad.”
His eyes glinted as he leaned upon his harp, and Zenol sat up at the bar. Here, Cognita was surprised and again, curiously, defensive.
“Their team is respectable.”
This time, Barelle raised his brows and leaned forwards.
“I have never heard you defend a team of adventurers in my life, Cognita.”
“I am…merely acknowledging the two [Mages] who are part of the team. Ceria Springwalker and Pisces. I declared them graduates of Wistram.”
That gleam was back in Barelle’s eyes, of sudden interest.
“Ah. Then perhaps I’ve truly misjudged them. You see, I found their legend inflated by the scrying orbs and television. I myself have refused every offer to perform for so many eyes despite the temporary fame. They cannot capture my performance with [Scrying] spells alone. It cheapens the act. Part of that may simply be the convenience, I admit.”
“[Scrying] spells as translated to current magical mirrors do have a loss of sound and visual quality that is perceptible to the mortal eye.”
Cognita offered, and Barelle laughed.
“Yes, well, I am also a [Bard], and I have great sympathy for my struggling class. It is hard to beat the Singer of Terandria’s music. So, my discontent with the Horns…”
Here, Zenol had to break in to defend the team he considered friends, though he had barely met. Comrades, at least, he hoped they might say of him.
“Barelle, I can attest to their bravery. I journeyed with them. You complimented me upon my leap once. I did that and was saved by Ksmvr—and it was in the very same raid the Horns organized!”
The [Bard] nodded at him evenly as he pushed his cup across the counter and the mysterious barman came to fill it.
“I am aware, Zenol. I’m simply referring to truth and lies. My class is [Bard]; I am able to find the truth in ways [Historians] often malign. For instance, the lie King Perric chooses to spread about his marriage to the two members of the Horns?”
“Of course it’s a falsehood!”
Zenol growled. Barelle sighed.
“No, it’s true legally. I have no doubt Medain is capable of manufacturing a way of marrying someone against their will…but of course they never shared a night with him, nor are they infatuated with him. It is a lie Ceria Springwalker once slept with Alchemist Irurx. A lie that makes up the Silver Killer’s reputation for bloodshed. These are not faults of theirs; adventurers attract rumors, and they have been on the scrying orbs more than any other team. It’s just…”
He leaned against the bar and stared at his drink for a while. Cognita and Zenol both leaned in—when she realized she was doing it, she sat upright and glared at Zenol. He tried to hide a smile; her eyes flared red for a moment. He didn’t understand what she’d done until he felt trickling on his lap; there was a hole melted into the side of his cup.
Barelle broke the silence as Zenol got a rag from the [Bartender] and a proper drink.
“Call it arrogance or pride. But they are still not quite the Named-rank team I would choose to follow to see the world shifting. They might well be in time. I’m far more interested in their teammate that isn’t present. Ksmvr of Chandrar. But I…I have been an adventurer, a soldier, a wandering idiot, and a foolish mentor. I know Colthei. He does deserve his rank. But I also remember the day Orchestra emerged from Chalence.”
He ran his fingers across the harp, then, and plucked at a chord of gold. It was in the middle of the harp, and when he plucked it, just once, the room seemed to shift and wobble. Zenol saw Barelle pluck another chord, higher, red like the flames of the Maviola El’s hair, and then a pale white string, short and glittering.
Then, though he sat, though he had no stage and his voice was not a song, Barelle was the [Bard] of stories, and he conjured a vision before Zenol’s eyes. Silver eyes shining like a mane of moonlight. A pair of metal gates that Zenol had seen himself, leading down, down amidst a dredged riverbed—the flash of blonde hair and a weary smile of a man on his knees, then the artificial fake color of dyed hair and a far less graceful smirk.
Barelle spoke, almost like a song.
“The lightest string I play was a gift, neither won nor made of great deeds or mastery in our Waning World. It was given to me by a lonely drinker, a Unicorn fair, though he stopped only long enough to drink a distillery’s worth of brew. To listen to my poor songs, correct them, laugh, and weep. When I talk of true tales, songs worth scribing, that is of which I speak.”
He gestured, and the gates of Chalence opened, and a team stumbled out of it, six strong, not a single part of them unscathed, covered in their own blood, and Zenol saw Deniusth the Violinist falling to his knees.
“I was there when Chalence was conquered. Orchestra was one of the teams that overcame that dungeon and the first to see the sky. I remember the Violinist’s face. That glory he captured here—he never found again. But for a moment, he held it. A battle to end a dozen Named-rank teams, and they dared it. They delved deep and earned that legend and never…never again equaled that day. I’ve played with Orchestra across the years for friendship, for memory, because it is politic among my peers. They never played as well as the music I heard from Chalence that day.”
He played lower now, on that blue string that could sing sadness, and lower still on a black note that hummed and made the floorboards rattle. Zenol’s lips twisted as he remembered his onetime visit to the Adventurer’s Haven when he’d met Deniusth himself and listened to the man’s condescension. The only thing that had taken the magic from that beautiful inn was the guests.
“I was there. By luck, by chance, yes, but I was still there. So perhaps it’s vanity. Perhaps it’s age. Perhaps it is my own failing memory presaged. But I was there when the Forgotten Wing Company was first made. I saw the Labyrinth of Souls’ final test. I have journeyed with Niers Astoragon, Foliana, crewed the Lightning Thief’s ship. The bravest, the best.”
Another flicker of visions. Zenol saw a [Bard] swinging his sword at a Naga, turning as Lizardfolk broke and fled—something. Following a team of adventurers only two of which Zenol knew, only two of which were still living, through a pair of stone gates.
Even Cognita made a sound when the vision cut off, refusing to show what lay beyond. Barelle stopped playing then. He put down the harp in its case and turned to them.
“I suppose I don’t wish to admit a single team has seen more, done more than those old stories. But then, I didn’t see what lay in the heart of the Village of the Dead. Nor do I doubt it was a true legend of the sword that assailed your teams, Zenol. Perhaps they are the sort who will define the stories of adventure for this coming era more than my poor songs. But I don’t see the song I can sing of them. Not yet.”
Zenol looked towards Cognita, hoping she had something to say in the ensuing silence, and she murmured.
“You were one of the auxiliaries of the World’s Founding team?”
“Niers Astoragon treated it like a true company and less an adventuring team. There were hundreds of Gold-rankers who might fight alongside their regulars. Was it a surprise that a [Bard] would tag along? I wasn’t ever a full member of their team, though I did make Named-rank in my own time. Just as well; Jungle Tails and war killed every core member of the team who survived the dungeon aside from the last two.”
Barelle clicked the buckles shut on the harp’s case and slung it onto his back. Silently, the [Bartender] came out to refill his cup, though the [Bard] really didn’t need it. Barelle sat back in his chair, as if nothing had happened.
“Good songs are made of that sort of thing. Deniusth’s bitter triumph, the desperation that made the Titan of Baleros—it isn’t just the heroism or bravery. I think, even now, the Violinist doesn’t understand my song about him is a tragedy. My audience does, but he is willfully, deliberately ignorant. I’m banned from playing it in The Adventurer’s Haven.”
Zenol got his mouth working after a few tries.
“I can assure you, the Horns aren’t merely exaggeration, Barelle.”
“I know. Especially Pisces. And especially if Colthei joined them as a serious member. But I don’t understand them, Zenol. I’ve missed the key, the story that makes their actions make sense. From Albez to the Village of the Dead to the battle at sea…there is a common link. And I only met her once, briefly. Then she died.”
Barelle spread his hands, and there was his frustration written plainly across his face. That of someone who saw the pieces of a puzzle, but was unable to make it work, who missed the key part. He gave Cognita a remorseful look.
“I have failed her tale. And that gnaws at me, Cognita. My guilt is not for the Horns. They’re young. My guilt is for…”
He hesitated.
“Maviola El. Not just her. Torishi Weatherfur. Great women both. No, Shaman Theikha, I am told, also died and came back from the dead, albeit far more quickly  than Erin Solstice. They say her heart beats like the earth itself. These are stories. Even if exaggerated, and part of me doubts they are—in my age, I find myself wishing more and more to capture the weight of a life. Certainly, those two among many I should have captured. Could have.”
“You have never sung of Maviola El? She was certainly the subject of over a hundred different poems and songs over her life.”
Cognita’s eyes flickered as she calmly produced all she remembered of a [Lady]’s entire lifetime. But there was no passion in her eyes, no respect. Barelle was the one Zenol hungered to hear, and the [Bard] ruefully smoothed his hair.
“I confess, no. It’s a funny thing. As a younger man, she was more the subject of romance than a story I thought worth telling. Lady Firestarter playing with hearts like flames, and Gresaria Wellfar.”
“Ah, yes. ‘The Lady of Brine’ by Barelle. A popular sea-shanty at the time. It seems you may have been biased as well. It was not well-received by Lady Gresaria, I believe?”
Zenol had seldom seen Barelle turn red, but he did, and brushed again at his face ruefully before taking a drink.
“It did not endear me, no. Yes, perhaps I was biased. Only later did I have the respect for the long lifetimes both women led, and—and it was her ending that truly made Maviola El’s a story I wanted to tell. The sight of her riding with a burning flag in her final days. Who would not want to tell it? Or to bring a voice to the Doombearers of Izril? To shout how the lies spread about them were wrong, to scream their tales?”
He clenched a fist and then relaxed. Smiled at his clenched fist, as if seeing every wrinkle and spot of age suddenly.
“I can never be everywhere at once, but those are my regrets, Cognita.”
For just a moment, the Truestone Golem wore the faintest of smiles. It vanished after a moment, and she turned her head.
“Your class records history in its own biased ways, but I have always respected it, Barelle. So, you mourn your failures.”
He nodded simply.
“Keenly as I have any other such time I failed to be there. Worse, because I had so many chances. I should have known when I met the Wind Runner’s guests that there was a greater story at play. I thought she had failed. Failed when I met strangers who left my hands quaking and shivering after locking blades with them for but a minute.”
“I do not know…I am familiar with this ‘Wind Runner’ in conjunction with her appearances and relationship with Archmage Eldavin. What guests?”
“Folk like the Winter Sprites, but far more…personable. Far more of everything. I’m surprised you had never heard of them, Cognita.”
Barelle lifted his brows, and Zenol sat forwards again, fascinated. But the Truestone Golem just gave Barelle a long, level stare.
“Winter Sprites? They are a figment of magic. I have never seen objects or creatures matching their description in my existence. My master has issued the same claims as you, regarding these beings, and I must accept they are visible then. But whatever you see, I do not.”
Barelle blinked.
“You don’t see Winter Sprites? Truly? Has one never played a prank on you or…? They’re not magical phenomena, Cognita.”
“I have observed rogue ice magic moving at speed. No…‘sprites’.”
“I swear there have been some on the scrying orb, haven’t there, Barelle?”
Zenol put in, and Barelle nodded. Cognita rolled her eyes.
“I am aware of what you refer to. The Wind Runner is followed by a protective cold spell. It moves erratically, but it is the blessing of a superior [Cryomancer]. Or Archmage Eldavin. If that is what a ‘Winter Sprite’ is, then, like Armored Crawlers, they are a byproduct of old magic.”
