Barelle opened his mouth, genuinely flummoxed. He saw Cognita’s annoyed expression, and Zenol bet this wasn’t the first time the Golem had had this conversation. So, Barelle changed subjects.
“I’ve revealed my foibles and failings. What of you, Cognita? Will you tell me what you’re searching for and what you’ve failed to find?”
She hesitated and grew less visibly angry, turning to stare at the racks of bottles on the wall. The Golem touched the hat, then spoke.
“The last [Merchant] was named Itreilld. He was a Drake. As with the others, I attempted to pursue a…system of servitude that I believed would reconcile my memories. My desires. I failed.”
“In what way? You made the first [Merchant], the Stitch-man Boiregon, famous. His Yellat farms…”
Zenol remembered those. A nobody [Merchant] of Cotton growing so rich and profitable with Cognita’s assistance he was accounting for an entire region’s food supply—until she left. He had been elevated to Silk just in time for him to be stripped of his assets by the crown for incompetence. Zenol had heard he’d become a [Beggar] afterwards, unable to even keep his original business afloat.
Cognita struggled for words, and her face was blank, but both men heard emotion in her voice.
“I sought…a replacement…no. I sought a facsimile to my master. A faint—it is impossible to copy what I have lost. What was taken from me.”
She clenched a fist, and again, her eyes flashed. Barelle’s fingers twitched towards his journal. Zenol knew he was longing to take notes, but the [Bard] held still as Cognita spoke on.
“He grovelled in private. He was in awe of me and recognized the value I imparted to him in material and social aspects. Merchant Boiregon begged to touch me. To have intercourse with me, as he so greatly desired.”
Prince Zenol had taken a deep drink from his cup. He held the liquid in his mouth, then slowly let it dribble back into the cup. That was the only sound in the bar. Barelle just exhaled, more tired and more upset than Zenol could remember seeing in him. Perhaps because he knew this story or what came next.
“And eventually, you let him? Or you refused?”
Cognita resumed talking without a break in the flow of words.
“The second man was one said to be kindly, who performed charitable works across his city. He treated me with great esteem, and I was able to fulfill his desires, which were truly charitable. Initially.”
“Initially. What happened—?”
Cognita’s eyes glowed, just a faint spark of light.
“I believe it was exactly fifty-two days, seven hours, and twelve minutes into our partnership when he processed the monetary wealth flowing through his charity’s coffers. It took him twelve days to attempt to reserve a portion of that gold for himself. He lost his nerve. He accepted a dinner invitation with a [Slave Master] Thirez in service to Slave Lady Andra three days thereafter. He may have fallen victim to a Skill. Or participated of his own free will. I dissolved the charity the minute he walked out the door.”
“And the third?”
Zenol asked that. It was like he was being hypnotized. Cognita paused longer.
“A female [Golem Artificer] from Illivere. She had requested my presence to attempt to study and duplicate my creation. Her attentions were obsessive. However, despite her level of 45, she was unable to understand the fundamentals of my creation, a fact which I informed her of. I allowed her to continue her inspection of me despite the increasingly unorthodox nature of her behavior. Her personality grew erratic. She attempted to rewrite my Golem’s heart twice, then to destroy me. I remanded her to the care of Magus-Crafter Femithain.”
“And the last? This Drake?”
The longest silence still.
“It was the work of quite some time to locate and arrange matters such that Merchant Itreilld arrived in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I had the assistance of a [Secretary] of some renown to effect this. His personality was—domineering, I believe the word was. He considered both Djinni and Golems to be inferior.”
“Even you?”
A smile, then, and Zenol found he was having trouble breathing.
“Even me. He took evident pleasure in subjecting me to menial tasks and to enriching his own station. Of them all…it was the most familiar to me. The most comforting.”
Barelle the Bard’s head had sunk down, and he rested it on the harp’s case. Now he appeared old, as if that youth that clung to him were replaced by the faded grey of his hair. The lines of his face deepening.
“As Merchant Itreilld’s confidence grew, his demands increased. I purchased a lesser Djinni in his service. I believe he was courted by an Emir Pazeral in the process of introducing [Slaves] to Drake society by way of Zeres, a process already underway.”
Zenol was not one possessed by anti-Roshal fervor, but he had travelled from Izril’s soil and understood how only Rhir, Baleros, and Chandrar had [Slaves] of any number, and of the lot, Chandrar by far. More than that, he just regarded Cognita and imagined some lesser Drake [Merchant] treating her like…
That felt wrong. More than any [Slave] he had ever seen except, perhaps, that image of Pisces in chains…he was uncomfortable. Barelle was a statue of his own.
Cognita was smiling.
“His demands increased. It was very familiar.”
“To what…?”
Barelle’s eyes flicked to Zenol, and the glance nearly knocked the [Prince] out of his seat; he sprawled against the bar, and Cognita Truestone hesitated. She didn’t want to say, so Barelle did.
“Zelkyr.”
Then—just for a moment—Cognita flinched and looked at Barelle. Zenol wasn’t sure who was older, that Golem or the [Bard] who stared down at the counter. Cognita’s smile vanished. Came back like the flickering of the lamps around the inn. Only it was broken instead.
“I believe his class changed. That state of affairs continued, but nothing surprised me, Barelle. Aside from the familiarity. He was not my Master. I did not love him like Zelkyr. So, this morning I concluded I found only nostalgia, despite my best efforts. Not in Itreilld, nor any of the others, have I found what I sought.”
“Which is someone to serve?”
“I have never known anything else. Before you speak: my long custodianship of Wistram was not a choice I came to independently. I have been waiting. And waiting. And waiting as he bade me. I…was freed. I lost patience.”
She flexed her hands and stared at them. Then rubbed at something under one fingernail. A bit of red flaked from her fingers onto the bar. Cognita peered up at Barelle and then lost her impassive, perfect posture. She reached out, and her smile was something actually fond. The Golem brushed at Barelle’s cheeks.
“That is the sixth time you have wept for me, Barelle the Bard. Tears do not befit you.”
He didn’t wipe at his eyes as she gently produced a cloth. Zenol himself was rubbing at his eyes, but he heard Barelle’s voice clearly.
“I hoped I had helped, Cognita. That you understood something of…I feel I have failed you.”
“Do not delude yourself, Barelle. I understood your arguments. I have conducted my experiment, and the results are clear. This was my choice. I am a Golem.”
“You do not have to have a master.”
He whispered that, and it would have been treasonous in another era. Perhaps even now in the wrong place. Cognita’s reply was just as heartbreaking as Zenol saw what kept Barelle here.
“I wish for one. That is how he made me.”
She stood wearily in a single motion and pushed herself back from the bar. The wood creaked, and Cognita strode towards the door. Two steps, so fast that Zenol and Barelle could only turn. She peered back from the doorway.
“Even the Archmage of Memories could not free me from that.”
Then she was gone.
