“Lord Barelle. You don’t wish to stay for the Horns? They are not as simple as gossip would have you believe.”
“I could ask the same of you, Prince. Leave your bodyguards, please. I wish not to have every eye follow us.”
Barelle slowed his stride as they proceeded down the thousand stairs leading towards the palace’s heart. Once, it was said, the Palace of Tyrant’s Rest had been many times higher, but it had been shattered during the de-throning of Nerrhavia and the rubble reconstituted into this. It was still a pillar of marble to cast all buildings around it into shadow, lofty spires with rounded domes stretching skywards like the hand of a giant.
Zenol motioned a hand at his servants as a wave of [Slaves] and [Servants] came up the stairs, bearing provisions and supplies by hand. Barelle stepped sideways to avoid them; the [Prince] continued onwards as they split around him, then hurried back to Barelle.
“My people, begone. Attend to House Isphel and inform me when the Horns of Hammerad reach the palace. Doubtless, I have time; the greeting will take at least an hour before common conversation can be made, if Her Majesty does not spirit them away.”
“But Your Highness, if you are alone, House Quarein may—”
Zenol colored slightly as one of the cloaked figures protested. He snapped back.
“If I am in danger in Barelle the Bard’s company, I am not safe in any part of the world! Go!”
They fled, bowing, and Barelle raised his brows.
“You were not so royal on Izril’s shores or at sea.”
Zenol flushed deeper. He touched the scimitar at his side and tried to walk like anything but what he was: a [Prince] who had become a Gold-rank adventurer. Still, the two of them were less notable than a group.
“When in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, I am a single lion amongst a vast and bloated pack. Alone, in other lands, I felt freer. More gracious with my entourage. Here they fall into their ways and I mine.”
“Ah, so scarcity of your servants makes them more valuable?”
The [Prince] bit back a quick reply, and Barelle saw him struggle with the sentence before ducking his head.
“—If I embarrass myself in your esteem, then I shall amend my ways, Lord Barelle.”
“Is it because I am Barelle the Bard? If so, that is a poor reason. A [Prince] is arrogant, superior, and above others. It is your class. You did not exactly challenge that here or abroad.”
“Should I have?”
Zenol’s eyes flickered, and the [Bard] shrugged. He whirled his famous half-cloak, swirling it around Zenol as eyes followed the two’s progress down the steps and towards the street. Zenol shivered with longing as the fabric touched his shoulders. Barelle glanced at him.
“Whatever you wish to do, Prince Zenol. I have known [Princes] and [Princesses] who fought every aspect of their class and those that leaned into it. Neither one guarantees a story worth telling. I merely suggest you do not act in order to impress me.”
Zenol was half-nodding as he took a step downwards—then stumbling, his feet suddenly on flat ground. He smacked into a weary Stitch-folk man bearing a stick with two baskets filled with grapes, and the man tripped.
“Watch it, you cottonheaded fool!”
The man snarled, swinging the baskets slightly so they buffeted Zenol, and the [Prince] nearly drew his sword in a snarl. Then he realized he was in the middle of a street and froze.
“Drunk idiot.”
Spit followed the buffet, and the man walked off. He was Cotton, and another man with a similar burden followed him.
“Careful with that temper. He might have been Silk—”
“Not wearing that. Just another idiot with more coin than sense.”
At least the disguise worked. Zenol adjusted the plain clothing he wore and saw Barelle striding around the [Vintners] or perhaps apprentice winemakers. He hurried on, casting around. Then he saw the palace in the distance, miles away.
Zenol refused to let his jaw drop; he strode after Barelle, trying to sound levelheaded. He was a Gold-rank adventurer, even if he had not the time nor the circumstances to adventure in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. But Barelle had ever been his reminder that there was a greater level than even Gold-rankers, nay, even than Named-ranks could dream of.
Though it had been thirty years almost since last they’d met, and Barelle’s current level was far higher than Zenol remembered…even then he’d had powers like these.
“That—was to avoid spies? A clever trick, Lord Barelle.”
“More to speed us on our way.”
“May I ask what Skill it was…?”
Zenol was not quite sure how to address this man, who claimed friendship with him; Barelle had known Zenol’s late father the first time he’d come to Nerrhavia’s Fallen. He did not throw his weight behind Zenol and House Isphel in the Court of Silks, but even his company was an honor that Zenol personally appreciated, and he was loath to ask for more, despite his House’s insistence they needed every hand.
It seemed Barelle was also troubled by the odd relationship they shared, because he frowned as he swept his crimson cloak into his bag of holding and replaced it with a simple traveller’s cloak that made him truly innocuous. Despite his silk shirt and leggings, they somehow appeared to be plain cotton unless you looked closely.
“You needn’t worry about offending me as you would another adventurer or Stitch-man, Zenol. I am not a staunch ally of yours nor someone beyond approach. I am just a [Bard]. If I do not care to answer a question, I will not. The boy who begged me to play upon my harp was easier to speak to than the [Prince].”
“Of course, Barelle. Then your Skill?”
“[Advancing the Narrative: A Swifter Journey].”
A twinkle in his eyes; Zenol’s own widened in disbelief. A Skill like that used to cut a walk in…?
They were almost at their destination, and if anyone could follow them, they were well and true masters. Barelle skirted around a group of children. They had brooms and baskets on their back; street urchins. Zenol watched his pockets around them, noting their coarse skin and ‘rough’ features. It was hard to shape Hemp, so you got blunter features, even if they were sturdy and resistant to damage.
This group of three was combing the streets, sweeping up debris—not to deposit it anywhere, but to churn up the dirt and trash for their true prize. Zenol grimaced as he saw a glint of metal; one of the children pounced on it instantly and swept their little rakes together like claws.
They trapped the buzzing, steel Oresect beetle and tossed it in one of the other children’s baskets. Another child found one of brass and caught it with swift motions.
“For all the Oresects are said to be ‘contained’ in Tyrant’s Rest, there are too many if children earn coins for each. Then again, perhaps it shows there are not so many; it is still a silver coin per bug. It would beggar even our coffers if there were a full plague of them.”
Barelle nodded as the children skirted wide of the adults.
“I have seen entire swarms by the hundreds of thousands in the mines. Locust swarms are deadlier, but only because Great Sage Etrikah has managed to keep a true swarm of Oresects from reaching any city.”
“Something else I fear Yvlon Byres may be forced to answer for. There is no proof, of course, but her arrival and the plague are too similar. Whatever business they have in Chandrar, I hope to help them finish soon.”
The [Prince] said nothing of his own woes or those of House Isphel. Nor did he imply they might help him, that they might owe him a debt for his aid to them in Nerrhavia’s Fallen or from the Village of the Dead.
He was best when he spoke or acted on other’s behalf. In that, he was his father’s son. Believe it or not, but Prince Zenol was far humbler than his father, Prince Ziwar, had been. Barelle was sympathetic to Zenol’s plight, but he was loath to become entangled in politics here.
House Isphel’s woes were nothing as dramatic as a blood-curse or the hand of destiny marking them. They were merely a fading royal bloodline whose last direct scion was Prince Zenol and a handful of fading heirs. His father had made too many enemies, and his death had marked their decline. Now, Prince Zenol was under pressure from his House’s enemies, such as House Quarein, and he had made more by aiding the Horns of Hammerad.
The [Prince] did not complain of that. Not to Barelle, not to anyone, the [Bard] suspected. But he had not seen Zenol smile often since they had landed upon Chandrar.
That was why he allowed the [Prince] to follow along. Barelle reached his destination: a bar that was completely empty of people and, in fact, locked. Barelle tried the handle as Zenol glanced at the ‘closed’ sign.
“If you were looking for a place to sit or listen, I could—”
Barelle knelt down with a pair of lockpicks, and the [Prince] shut up. He heard a click almost before Barelle had finished kneeling, and the [Bard] rubbed at his back ruefully.
“Every time I bend over too long, let alone do something more strenuous, I am reminded why I retired.”
“I had heard you were quite happy in Gaiil-Drome. What possessed you to leave…?”
Barelle smiled ruefully as he pushed the door open.
“I was. Negotiating my way into the half-Elven villages to perform for them was entertaining. In time, I hoped I could work my way through half-Elves’ curious hierarchies to visit the oldest villages. I wished to meet stories older than I.”
“Like the Bladesmaster who cuts but once?”
Zenol grew excited, and Barelle raised his brows as they entered the bar, which was not dark, but lit. It seemed ready for customers, but even the [Bartender] was absent. There was only one guest, and when he saw her, Zenol halted with recognition.
He alone understood something of what kept Barelle here. The woman who moodily sat at the bar, an untouched drink before her, was so tall that she was still of a level with Barelle and Zenol when seated.
Cognita Truestone, the finest creation of Archmage Zelkyr, half-glared at the intruders, but her expression of wrath ameliorated when she saw Barelle. It returned full-force for Zenol, and he halted and bowed deep, but even she listened as Barelle spoke.
“You are referring to the story of the [Bladesmaster] who cut each object with a single slash and bested a Named-rank team? No, I meant older stories than that. I know the story of that half-Elf.”
“Then he is real? Lady Truestone, greetings—”
Zenol haltingly approached Barelle as the [Bard] smoothly sat at the bar. Cognita’s glare made Zenol switch from the seat he intended to sit in next to Barelle. He stood instead, and Barelle nodded to Cognita. He found a glass under the bar and poured his flask into it; it transpired that it was a peach fruit juice. He sipped and spoke.
“It was a Gold-rank team who became Named-rank. As for his mastery with a sword, it was indeed great, but again, it is not the kind of thing I wished to put to song. When I was younger, I think I would have. I become so picky with age. It did not appeal to me to make a story of that half-Elf against his wishes, despite the fact that he could slice a boulder in half with neither Skill nor enchanted blade. It would have sold well, but there was no spark of inspiration in me for it.”
Cognita’s voice was low as she interjected into the conversation. She gave Barelle no greetings; she was, by now, used to his presence.
“Any [Bladesmaster] may cut a boulder with a blade. A child with a Dragonblood crystal sword could do the same. Yet one without Skills is more miraculous than both because…?”
“Because it does not square with our understanding of the world, Cognita. And we are infinitely more forgetful and limited. To a Golem, is it not extraordinary nonetheless?”
Barelle nodded at her, and the Truestone Golem moodily lifted her drink to her lips. She took a sip of the liquid, and Zenol had to wonder if she could even process it. Did she have a stomach? A throat?
He could see the marble of her throat working like real flesh just as her dress, a white gown, moved with her every action. She seemed as mobile as any woman—albeit she was eight feet tall, made of marble-grey stone, and had emeralds, literally emeralds, in her glittering eyes. A sculpture without equal created by the greatest [Golemmancer] of the era.
Zelkyr, the Archmage of Golems. She had been Wistram’s custodian for over a century until she had just…left. Left, ceded it to Archmage Eldavin, and come to Nerrhavia’s Fallen for reasons Zenol didn’t understand. Perhaps Barelle did.
Whatever those reasons were, they had not made Cognita happy. A huge wicker hat sat next to her drink on the bar. Zenol had seen her wearing it often, and she also had…a pot. A clay pot from Khelt. She sometimes stared at it.
Between the pot, the hat, and Barelle the Bard, they seemed to be the only things in this world Cognita acknowledged. And she was a legend as much as Barelle, but, er…not one the Court of Silks would wish to be amongst them as long. Certainly, they’d made overtures to her when they’d first heard of her, but she wasn’t quite as charming as Barelle.
Case in point, the Golem woman placed her cup down at a forty-five degree angle and held it there for a second. Then she left it balanced, somehow. Zenol stared at the liquid, waiting for the cup to move, but it did not. Cognita’s eyes flicked to him, then Barelle.
“This astonishes you, but it is simply perception and movement elevated to its natural conclusion. I can slice a boulder in two without using undue force, for I have seen it done by another ‘master’ who needed no Skills. The levels you take for granted are the extraordinary, the impossible, the unobtainable.”
Barelle did not take offense to her blunt tone. He smiled as he took a sip from his cup; the moment it left the counter, the perfectly-balanced cup Cognita had placed began to tip. She put a finger under it and let it rest normally before a drop could spill out.
Zenol had no words for what Cognita was. He had dealt with Djinni, if sparingly, and even they were more people than she was. Truly, of all the beings in the world, she was unique.
And…alone. Barelle murmured as Cognita waited for his reply.
“So then. Golems envy us what they lack, and we envy Golems what we cannot achieve without great effort. Is that so surprising, Cognita?”
She paused for half a second, but only, Zenol suspected, because that fit a natural style of conversation.
“I have spoken philosophy with [Sages] upon the nature of Golems. This conversation will reveal nothing new to me. Which half-Elves did you wish to meet, Barelle?”
