Without missing a beat, Barelle sighed. He gestured, and Zenol took a seat four spaces away from the two. Surreptitiously, the [Prince] checked the bar for a drink and wondered how one mixed a drink. He sloshed a bunch of rum into a cup and added some pale liquid that turned out to be Moonlight’s Kiss after a moment. He took a sip and understood why [Bartender] was a class.
Both Barelle and Cognita stared at Zenol and exchanged a glance before returning to their conversation.
“Ah. Well…Queen Yahne sor Elwyhas of Erribathe, Glade Knight Leila, and Zleyvhas would be my first three. If not them? Perhaps Harpist Sonalei for her songs or Forest King Ellowhil.”
Zenol knew…absolutely none of those names, and he did study foreign nobility. He was familiar with Erribathe, of course, and ‘Forest King’ probably meant Gaiil-Drome’s monarchy. Cognita didn’t miss a beat though.
“Queen Yahne sweeps the capital of Erribathe. She does not require invitation into a Timeless Village. A predictable choice, as is Harpist Sonalei and Forest King Ellowhil. Their age does not make any one of them more intriguing except from a historical sense.”
Barelle nodded evenly. Cognita hesitated, then, just for a second. Her eyes glowed momentarily.
“…I do not know of a half-Elf named ‘Zleyvhas’. A Glade Knight Leila is listed as a member of note in Erribathe’s kingdom in case of emergency, and there is an extant marker on her identity by the Blighted Kingdom. That documentation is only accessible to the Burnished Court, however.”
“How did you happen to see it then?”
Her chiseled brows crossed, and Barelle lifted his cup.
“Please, indulge me Cognita.”
“I read the page with her name on it when I was left unattended for eighteen seconds in a high-ranking [Clerk]’s office in the Blighted Kingdom a hundred and twenty-six years ago. My master bade me read their plans to ensure they were sending their finest warriors to cover our advance.”
“And you remember that perfectly with but the name to prompt you?”
Zenol had to burst out then in awe. He knew Golems were different, but this…! Cognita’s withering gaze made him sip his wretched drink in silence. Barelle smiled.
“Thank you for indulging me, Cognita. That is my mortal uncertainty, I fear.”
“You are welcome, Barelle. Do me the kindness of extrapolating any further conclusions of similar nature. Who are those two half-Elves?”
The [Bard]’s eyes lit up faintly, much like Cognita’s own, and the polished brown swirled with a hint of something more. Cognita glanced at Barelle as she copied him, taking a sip simultaneously with him.
“Older than even Forest King Ellowhil.”
“A boast at least a hundred half-Elves can make in Timeless Villages. My master once estimated the population of half-Elves with ages over a thousand years to be—”
“Older and highly placed, Cognita. At least, I believe Glade Knight Leila to be old enough to be at least four thousand years old. And no shrinking violet or ornamental title either; she was a heroine who fought in Rhir against Demons as well as across other continents.”
“How have I not heard her name?”
“They were purged.”
“Ah, the Ettertree Purge. Intriguing. And the other?”
She didn’t miss a beat. Whatever conclusions Cognita came to were so effortlessly fast that Zenol couldn’t keep up—he was writing down words and keyphrases desperately on the inside of a sleeve; he hadn’t a journal, and Barelle had tossed him a magical quill purely out of sympathy.
The [Bard] was keeping pace with Cognita, which of course meant their conversation was too fast, unnaturally swift without pauses. That was his talent; he could match a [Pirate]’s swagger or a Dullahan’s reserved politeness. Or, at least in part, a Golem’s unnatural speed of thought. Cognita’s speed of thought. She was one of only a few Golems in the world who could speak.
“I do not know. Only that ‘Zleyvhas’ is a name that comes up time and again. A hermit in the northeastern part of Terandria. I heard a half-Elf let slip the name unguarded, whereupon he tried to pretend it was inconsequential.”
“Doubtless a Level 60 [Hermit]. Much like the Herald of the Forests. Another weapon to be called upon in this changing era. Whose name was ill-chosen.”
Cognita’s lip curled. Barelle dipped his head.
“‘The Journey of the Living’ is indeed difficult to work into song. One imagines that the Gnolls had to think on their feet.”
“This world has not ceased to wane.”
That was her cold comment, and again, Zenol had to interrupt.
“What of the King of Destruction, Lady Truestone? Or Archmage Eldavin? Or the rumors of ghosts, the surfacing of Nombernaught? The rising of a New Land and the Crossroads of Izril?”
She didn’t even peer at him. Cognita Truestone lifted her cup, drained the liquid, and pushed it back on the counter. It seemed she had rented this bar to ‘drink’ alone, or the owner was just that aware of her inclinations, because only then did a [Barman], Hemp, appear to fill the cup with the same liquid.
Firebreath Whiskey. Very cheap, very unpleasant. Cognita touched the glass, and it frosted over as the tip of her finger glowed, for a moment, with Everfrozen Ice. Barelle and Zenol watched as the liquid frosted into a cube in the center. How she’d done that without freezing the entire glass, Zenol couldn’t say.
She lifted the drink to her lips. Sipped with no change of expression. Then replied to Zenol flatly.
“A half-Elf predating Zelkyr is not uncommon. Any old [Mage] in a Timeless Village could ‘restore Wistram’s magic’ as he is doing. He is more skilled than most. The world was considered waning when my master was alive. The Crossroads of Izril will provide nothing but ruins. The Walled Cities there have died. The New Lands of Izril are seafloor ruins brought skyward and animated with magic. No revolution has swept this world in industry or magic. The King of Destruction has failed to take more than a dozen nations.”
Her eyes were cold.
“When an empire rules more than a decade across continents and transforms the state of normalcy beyond collapse or restoration, when magic is elevated beyond a mere handful of individuals acquiring Tier 6 spells, when the state of being shifts until the world cannot revert with the death of a [King] or the fall of a handful of nations—then this era will shift. Anything lesser is the frailty of mortal lives demanding meaning in their short span.”
They said that Golems and Stitch-folk were not so different. That once, Stitch-folk had been a kind of Golem until they fought to liberate themselves. But Zenol, as a descendant of his distant ancestors who had won that freedom, felt that the gap had widened since then, because her ruthless comments took his breath away. They did outrage him, but he wondered if voicing his complaints would be dangerous.
She…had no limitations on what she could do. In Wistram, he had heard she obeyed the rules she set out, and she was a custodian, but outside of it? She had no rules against killing. Nor dealing with those who annoyed her. A drunk Emir had forgotten that in one of her visits to the Court of Silk.
She had broken every bone in his hand by crushing them while it was attached as his bodyguards sat on the ground and stared at the limbs she’d ripped off their bodies. It had been considered a mark of Queen Yisame’s wisdom that she hadn’t humbled herself by trying to intervene.
It was Barelle who countered Cognita’s comments, though what he said next stirred Zenol’s heart to racing.
“All of what you say may be true, though it pains us to hear it, Cognita. I myself yearn for the true changing of an era as much as I fear it. I wish I had been at the Meeting of Tribes, but my instincts…”
He shrugged and sighed.
“They are not what they were. I was distracted chasing rumors of the Circle of Thorns, sure that—well, I lost both quarries like a foolish [Novice Hunter]. I would have done just as well to go back to Noelictus and play for the Synphasia, by the sounds of it. At least then I would have witnessed one interesting story. Yes, and none of it is worthy of a new era or your own master’s legend by your estimation.”
“By impartial estimation.”
Cognita corrected Barelle with the only true moment of heat Zenol had heard in her voice. He nodded in agreement, which seemed to annoy her, but then Barelle murmured.
“What about the children, then, Cognita? I don’t believe…we have ever had visitors of their like. Perhaps. Perhaps they heralded some old imperium, but I think I can claim they are entirely new. Or did you find them similar?”
Cognita Truestone hesitated. Zenol swung his head from Barelle to Cognita. How did they know…? It was sealed to only the royalty of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, this intelligence they had gleaned, and even the squabbling [Princes] and [Princesses] knew better than to speak widely of it. Everyone was on the hunt for them, and Nerrhavia’s Fallen had plenty of space. Already, some were in the company of the Mad Ones, though that was a choice in and of itself—
The Golem woman paused for a microsecond, then shook her head.
“They are unique in my estimation as well. My claim stands. They have not revolutionized this world, merely brought ideas forwards. If a gateway were to open to their home…then the era may change.”
“You doubt that isn’t a matter of time?”
“I do. My calculation is that a gateway may form or has been formed. The evidence shall become obvious in time. Regardless, the ensuing conflict may provide a true change in eras. More likely, it will result in destruction of countless nations. If a victor emerges on either side, then the era may change. Whether it is The Long Night and another era of magical darkness or another Rihal Imperium shall depend on which weapons are used. From the descriptions of the children’s home, I am inclined to believe it will be a Long Night indeed.”
She uttered that prophecy of the future without fear or anticipation, just a kind of weary expectation of what was to come. She did not seem to dread the idea of another Twilight of Magic, despite being a being made of it herself, or fantastical weapons from this ‘Earth’. Why would she? Perhaps she could die, and two of her sisters had apparently been created and perished with Archmage Zelkyr, at least one in Rhir itself, but she was still Cognita Truestone.
One of the greatest beings of this world save for Dragons, if any still lived. And her only peer?
Barelle the Bard, perhaps. At least he seemed to say or do things that the Golem could not predict. Indeed, now, he stretched out at the counter.
“Dire talk, Cognita. If that gateway does open, I hope I will be there to be a voice of sanity instead of someone to sing a dirge for the ending of things. I confess…I have not been happy with myself of late.”
Again, there was the slightest pause as Cognita turned to him.
“A mutual condition.”
“Are you out of Merchant…I forget his name. His employ?”
“Yes.”
“That would be the fourth then.”
Barelle did not forget names or faces, so this was tactful. Cognita took a long drink this time.
“Your memory is not failing to that extent, Barelle. I did not find what I was searching for. Again.”
“May I ask…?”
“Inform me what you find displeasing. I may answer, then.”
Barelle nodded, then lifted the case off his back. Even Cognita stopped and glanced at his harp, once, though her memory was impeccable.
It was an old instrument and simple enough; the travelling harp was made of aged wood, and whatever paint was on it had long since flaked away, but that was not what made it extraordinary. It was the strings.
Each string was a different color, each one infused with power and made in ways Zenol could not guess. Barelle regarded the harp, which could play music to soothe an army or change the course of a battle, and spoke.
“I confess, I was annoyed with myself for being lured out of retirement. I tried to rest. I told myself I had seen every great act and that I would weary and find myself with a blade in my chest before long. But then I felt that itch. The Circle of Thorns, the delivery at sea.”
“You have always been drawn to stories. That you have lived this long is, like other Named-rank adventurers, an anomaly.”
Cognita commented, and Barelle smiled.
“Yes, well. Throwing my last decades away by trying to live amongst half-Elves was another foolish way to go. But I missed each story. Even smaller ones. I was in the north, chasing rumors of the Circle of Thorns not being truly dead, when the Meeting of Tribes happened. Then when the Village of the Dead was raided, I was in the south, interviewing Gnoll tribes. In my exasperation, I journeyed to Wistram to see what had happened there when there was the Dawn Concordat’s war. ‘Just another war,’ I told myself until I saw Great General Dioname. And the Winter Solstice…I was busy meeting children of Earth when that occurred, so I have some piece of that.”
Frustration glinted in his eyes. Cognita’s head swivelled.
“What occurred then?”
“Undead. They attacked the children I was with. Not a great force, but there was no [Necromancer] present nor the conditions for them to rise. The true locus was around Liscor and an [Innkeeper]. I…met her.”
“The one who allegedly returned from the dead. I recall several inquiries from a Falene Skystrall to her faction for support. She was merely mortally wounded and—”
“The ghosts coincide with her return. Do you doubt that, Cognita?”
Now they were arguing, and Cognita blinked for a second.
“I acknowledge she may have witnessed, as a bystander, some of the events that occurred. If you are going to cite her connection to the King of Khelt, that does not prove anything other than Khelt’s primacy in those events. And their loss.”
Both of them turned to eye Zenol for a moment, and he got the impression he had heard something he shouldn’t have. Barelle murmured.
“She is important.”
“To your stories, I grant you.”
“It frustrates me at times, Cognita, that no one can be said to have done more, seen more, or be worth more than Archmage Zelkyr.”
She stood so fast that Barelle had to fling up a hand; she was already at the door.
“Cognita, I apologize. I do not mean to inflame tensions. I am merely expressing my feelings.”
“They are ill-taken. Watch your words, Barelle. A [Bard] should learn to charm even stone.”
She came back and sat, literally stony-faced, and the [Bard] tugged at his chin ruefully.
“It is a weakness of mine, I suppose. I once met stone I could not charm.”
“Ah. Those stones. My master avoided Terandria; he wished to have eight of my sisters and I before attempting radical confrontations.”
