Damien braced himself. It had been a long time since he'd cast a full decay spell; the last actual spell he'd cast with the Gift was the new one it gave him after he tested Cale's trick, [Spatial Decay]. That he was going to try an offensive one now didn't sit right with him, but the refractor beast was still headed for him, so...

He pushed his mana into the first spell he'd ever received: [Decay Bolt].

Dark mana rushed into his fist and blossomed, emerging as a sharp spike of decay aspect that rushed toward the beast. Damien almost held his breath as he waited to see if anything would happen. Maybe it would be enough and this would be over immediately, although that seemed rather anticlimactic. Or maybe it would do nothing at all and he'd have to think of something else.

The answer, it turned out, was neither: his [Decay Bolt] smacked the refractor beast in the face with the distinct sound of flesh slapping against flesh. It knocked its head to the side and did little else.

So... the good news was that his mana could affect the refractor beast physically.

The bad news was that the refractor beast seemed like it was more pissed off than anything.

Damien had no real word for what it did, but it reared up onto its hind legs and made an angry, trumpeting sound, its trunk pointing straight up at the sky. Damien froze before he looked all the way up, but two other students didn't—he saw them look straight up, then panic and begin to scream for help as they pointed frantically at the sky. Thankfully, Professor Sternkessel pulled them out before they became too much of a distraction.

And then more of that strange magic blasted out of the refractor beast's trunk.

"Look out!" Damien cried, alarmed. It was a full-on area attack—dozens of tiny bolts of shimmering magic sprayed from its trunk, made all the worse from the fact that it was nearly invisible. He thought quickly, then reacted by shaping his mana as quickly as he could, trying to form a barrier around himself and anyone in range.

He was too slow. He managed to get barriers around Cale, Leo, and three other students, but the last one was just out of his range. More importantly, Damien simply hadn't put that much practice into forming barriers. He was approaching his limit as it was.

You have learned [Decay Barrier]!

Damien shook his head. That wouldn't help. One of the few things they were always told to never use was Gift-granted barrier spells—all mages benefited far more from shaping their barriers themselves. The Gift, as powerful as it was, only made standard barriers, and that was overly restrictive for almost any mage.

He really should have practiced barriers more. He hadn't considered that his aspect might actually come in useful in defending.

He still had no idea how he was supposed to beat this thing. Cale had said something about rules, but what use was the rule he'd learned? This didn't seem like the sort of thing he could smack around with decay mana and hope it eventually shattered. If it kept attacking, he would run out of mana long before—

Damien noticed something strange out of the corner of his eye. One of the refractor beast's bolts struck the dome that surrounded them; the bolt shattered, and the dome cracked. Damien narrowed his eyes.

Okay. Rules. He could work with that. If he understood how this worked correctly...

Other mages suffered from a forced partial attunement when they made contact with the refractor beast or the refracting dome around them, but he was a dreadshade. The decay aspect was one of the more primordial ones, and making it incredibly difficult to force into reattunement. That meant he could probably get in direct contact with the refractor beast without suffering from its consequences.

He bit his lip, then made his decision.

Twin whips of decay mana formed out of his hands. He tossed them forward, wrapping them around the refractor beast and bracing himself as it tossed its head in agitation; that movement flung him upward, and he clung to his own lines of mana for dear life. For a long moment, he couldn't tell up from down or left from right, but eventually, he just barely managed to catch sight of the refractor beast's back and aimed for it.

You have learned [Decay Whips]!

Damien would have preferred to learn literally anything else.

Pushing the aggravation out of his head, he landed on the refractor beast's back with a thump, then pulled on his whips as hard as he could. The beast roared and swung its head, trying desperately to locate him. When it couldn't, it just started charging...

Straight at the other students.

He needed to direct it! Why was it so hard to direct the damn thing?! He'd thought he could do it by pulling on the whips, but Flia made this seem so much easier. Damien gritted his teeth—he didn't want to ask for help, but—

"Leo!" he cried out. "I need you to direct this thing to hit the barrier!"

Leo's first thought, when he understood what was happening, was that Damien had clearly spent far too much time around Flia.

His second thought was that he didn't need to sacrifice his progress with his labyrinth aspect for this. Professor Sternkessel had promised they would all be safe—the worst that would happen here was that they would lose some points. It wouldn't even kick them out of the class; rescuing one student counted the same as rescuing three, if the danger was the same.

But...

Do you trust me?

You can use your attunement. I have a way to make it work for you, I promise.

Cale's words nagged at him, and if those were the only words he needed to think about, he might still not have cast a spell. It wasn't Cale that nudged him into action, exactly.

It was a memory. The look in his parents' eyes when they told him they were joining the Red Hunters.

Learning what the Red Hunters were doing made that old pain flare up all over again, and it made it even harder to avoid the truth Leo was trying so desperately not to acknowledge.

How much progress had he made, really? A true, complete reattunement of a labyrinth core was a task that would take decades. Decades where he would be behind every other mage, unable to cast a single spell for fear of losing years of progress.

Was that really how he wanted to live? All for the approval of his parents, who very well might know what the Red Hunters did? When he'd seen what a wild mage who embraced his oddities could really do?

Sneaks-In-Darkness had been an archmage at least, and Cale had just...

[Redirection] was a Standard Array spell. For most mages, it was a simple spell that altered momentum. But Leo's labyrinth attunement had changed it when he tried to cast it, and he'd ignored it ever since; he had hoped, when he gained it, that it was a sign that his approach was working. That he was finally becoming a normal mage.

Attempting to cast it had dashed those hopes. He'd seen it as a sign of failure, almost.

Now...

Well, Leo couldn't be a normal mage if he wanted to confront the Red Hunters for what they'd done, and it would take him decades besides. And he was realizing, for perhaps the first time, that the one thing he hated more than his attunement was doing absolutely fucking nothing. How could he still call himself a mage after everything he'd seen today, if he still refused to use any of his magic?

Leo took a deep breath, then pushed his mana into [Labyrinthine Affliction], and aimed it toward the beast.
