Thomas frowned down at the skill shard description. "So this skill stops being useful after level 15?" He wondered how his own skills would rate.

"In this example, the improvements a person undergoes when they level would surpass this skill's benefit once they reach level 15. By then, though, you should have access to many more skills. This is the first level of the marketplace, and there are three others just here alone for the higher levels. Let me see this skill—Oh, I know this one." Talia said, stepping very close and craning her head. She wasn't tall enough to read over his shoulder. "It is very good for dancers and artists. Though... forgive me, it is a little unusual to see in a combat specialist."

"A big part of staying alive in a dungeon is not getting hit," Zach said easily. "Speaking of, what are the chances of finding a short-range teleporting skill?"

Talia nibbled her lower lip in a moment of thought before she shook her head. "Something like that would not be sold within the Dark Elf territories and is probably reserved." She put emphasis on "reserved."

"In the same way that Wellspring mana is reserved?" Thomas asked.

"Yes," she admitted, "but we do have plenty of other skills and many helpful vendors who will be happy to help you out."

"And no sense of organization at all." Jo sent an exasperated glance Thomas' way. "It's like the book section in a Goodwill. It's loosely categorized at best. I haven't found a single sword skill yet."

Talia smiled. "That is by design. You speak with the vendors and form a relationship with them. Here, let me introduce you to a few who may be able to help." Then she gently took Jo by the elbow and steered her to a vendor a few tables away.

The two men watched her go. Jo seemed a little uncomfortable with Talia's hands-on approach but hadn't quite shaken her off yet.

"She's a handsy lady, isn't she?" Thomas muttered.

"Was she like that with you in the House of Healing?" Zach asked slyly.

Thomas paused. "Actually... no. She was surprisingly helpful. The System makes it sound like the Elves are speaking English, so I keep making the mistake that I'm in a different city but with weirder-looking inhabitants. They really are their own alien culture." He added, "They're just giving me healing crystals for free. Five a day, up to two levels higher. That's the normal apprentice rate."

"Whoa," Zach said in a note-perfect Keanu Reeves. "They really want to keep them jacked up on Healing mana."

That was a cynical way of looking at it, but also probably not entirely wrong. "Only the healers, though. The Council of Light Ones makes it illegal to carry around your own healing crystals, and Talia pretty much said the law is selectively enforced."

Zach might play the part of a laid-back surfer-bro, but he instantly understood the implications. "Makes it hard for the average Dark Elf to safely dive. That means scraping together the mana to level becomes a whole lot riskier."

Thomas nodded. "Wood elves, too, I'm guessing. So tell me what's going on between you and Jo back there?"

"Caught that, huh?" Zach tilted his head to the side, indicating that they should put more space between themselves and the ladies who were still talking with another vendor. They walked over to a table a little further away and pretended to scan the household skills.

Actually, Thomas wasn't completely pretending. There was one skill to use sound mana to scour dirt off everything. He wasn't even a clean freak, and he was tempted.

His attention snapped back to the present when Zach started talking. "You could say we have a difference of opinion about Talia. I'm thinking having her around might be an opportunity. We don't let on that we know she's a honeypot, which won't tip off the elders we're in the know, all the while we tell them what we want them to know."

It took a second or two for Thomas to parse that out. "She's reporting back to the elders so we feed her false information, if we need to?"

About my Gift, he thought.

"Right. And, well, Jo has a problem with that." Zach sighed and winced. "She thinks I'm an idiot who'll follow my dick, like I can't tell what Talia's about."

That helped explain part of the tension. Jo had the habit of being slightly motherly towards Zach, unless she needed to cut him for blood and pain to feed her skill. Thomas also guessed that from Zach's messed-up childhood, he had his own mother issues. Jo had stomped right on a nerve.

Thomas didn't comment. It was up to those two to resolve this issue, and he wasn't going to put himself between them. Instead, he glanced over at the two and saw that Talia was laughing with a vendor while Jo had a very reluctant smile on her face, like she didn't want to be pulled into an amusing conversation, but she couldn't help herself. "Jo thinks we should ditch her completely?"

"Yeah, she thinks it's too dangerous to have a spy around. I get it, but it's the 'devil you know' situation." Zach paused. "I said I'd talk to you about it. So, thoughts?"

"I'm not sure she's actually a honeypot."

Zach just looked at him with frank disbelief. "Brah."

Thomas held up his hands. "I'm not saying she's authentic but look how she's talking to that vendor right now. She's just pulling that handsy thing and trying to get him to laugh. I'm starting to think that she just does that with everybody. Think about it: she's super nice, cute and competent. I would bet my new level five crystals that she has at least one skill for communication. Plus, she was really helpful smoothing things over for me at the House of Healing. She might not be a honeypot, just over the top. She's probably more of a... Elle Woods, from Legally Blonde. I think that's just her personality."

"Doesn't mean she can't be a spy."

"She's definitely a spy," Thomas agreed, then thought aloud. "You know... Elves have a serious problem dating other elves outside their own species type. Humans have to be even further off their baseline."

Zach raised his eyebrows then gave Talia a harder, assessing look. For a moment Thomas saw the laid-back dude bro slip as Zach stared at Talia with laser-focused intensity before he shook his head. "I'm not sure. People always have their exceptions. Or they make exceptions when they're under orders."

"You do have a suspicious mind under all that fire, don't you?" Thomas said with a grin.

He shrugged again, easy, the Zach he knew back in place. "Fire and Teleportation, my dude. Makes it real easy to think at different angles. So, your vote is not to ditch her?"

"She doesn't go into dungeons," Thomas said, "so if she starts pushing for that or stops being outwardly helpful then yeah, she's gone. I get the feeling she's going to be a liaison between humans and elves, just as much as the elders want us to be for them when they're on Earth. From the little hints Talia’s dropped, she's been studying humans, or at least American culture."

"Clever girl. All right, I think that's enough to get Jo to play along," Zach said. "The elders did promise us some good information, maybe this is how it comes." He glanced at Thomas and his grin went a little crooked. "Old-ass millennial movie or not, she's not bad to look at."

"Don't fall in love," Thomas advised, taking instant revenge. It was not an old movie. "She'll only break your heart."

Take note, Jo. That's how you tell a twenty-five-year-old guy not to chase tail. Mention the L word.

Zach let out a startled laugh before he pretended to look offended, then they went back to rescue Jo from the horrors of small talk.

_______

The chapter title is from Legally Blonde. Guess who was dragged to see the musical twice? (It wasn't... bad.)
