Talia guided Thomas down a new pathway he had never been on before. There was no conversation between them, and the air was peaceful and dark—well, it was always dark in the Dark Elf village, but he could still see fine thanks to the little balls of multicolored light that were hanging around low tree limbs and below low foliage. He couldn't tell if they were made of glass or magic, but they did help create quite the atmosphere.

Finally, Talia broke the silence. "I will miss this."

It took a few seconds for Thomas's mind to catch up. "You're joining the Earth colony?"

"Yes. The work will be hard, and I anticipate that there will be many things to get used to," she let out a sigh, "but it will be worth it to finally have the opportunity to grow strong."

"I thought you said you didn't do dungeons?"

She cast him a playful look. "There are other ways to level, such as using one's Gifts. But, of course, the Light Ones discourage anyone levelling unless they either risk their life diving or directly serve the Light elf community. That is why even our greatest village here is so low level... But perhaps we do not seem that way to you?"

"Everything about levelling is new to me," he said neutrally, "but I was wondering: This planet is different from Earth in a lot of fundamental ways. Are you sure you can handle a day and night cycle?"

She shrugged. "I have been to the light side of our planet. It is tolerable with magical eye shading. Ah, we're here."

He had meant the psychological aspect of night turning into day, turning into night again within 24 hours, which would surely be disorienting to a people who lived under permanently dark skies. But he let it drop as their winding path took them around a corner and he saw the House of Healing.

It was striking and looked as if it was carved out of a giant, skyscraper-sized tree with bark so old it was bleached gray-white. Even though there was technically no sunlight to bleach it.

Talia led him in an almost absurdly tall double door. The moment he stepped inside, a feeling of peace and tranquility fell over Thomas. Much of his worry fell away, though he hadn't necessarily known that he had been worried up until that moment.

He looked around. The place had the sterile white marble look of a hospital, but the hushed peacefulness of a holy place. He supposed they were in a waiting room, though the chairs were empty.

A single dark elf man stood behind a slab of white marble that served as a desk.

Talia marched directly to him, smiling graciously. "This is Healer Thomas, the human Akilah has taken under his wing. I believe he has not been made Known to this Healing House yet."

Thomas found with a little mental effort he could push away the feeling of peace and calm that this building seemed to generate. He'd just been through the whole registration song and dance with the National Guard. He needed to be sharp so he wasn't locked into something he didn't want.

"Of course," the elf man turned and bowed deeply to him. "Welcome, Healer Thomas. Becoming Known to our house is a simple matter."

"What exactly are the benefits?" Thomas asked bluntly. "Is this like a paid membership or something?" If there was any oath swearing, he was outta there.

The receptionist looked a little surprised but quickly collected himself. "No, to become Known you must only scan your mana signature to verify your healer status is true." He quickly added, "I do not mean to offend you or the great Akilah–"

Thomas waved that away. "That's fine."

The man still smiled apologetically. "Just as with the System marketplace, you are allowed access to Healing mana two levels above yourself. I see that you are a level three, so of course, level five would be your limit for now. You will be allowed to place your request for standard healing skills, though those in active apprenticeships will be considered first. We also have the guides for additional self-study, though we don't have anything for... Terrans."

"Of course." Thomas nodded. Exclusive access to a healing-only marketplace sounded pretty good to him, as long as the prices weren't out of control. He almost asked the man if that included weapons which channeled healing mana too, but then figured it was a bad idea considering this society's views. "So what is the general cost for level 5 Healing mana crystals?" If he was coming to play, then he was going to play. Besides, he'd handled level 5 Adaptation mana... somewhat okay.

On second thought, maybe he should try more level 4 and then watch a sad movie where a dog dies to make sure he didn't freak out, first.

He actually saw the elf man do a double take. "Pardon? Why would there be a cost?"

Thomas wasn't sure if he had heard that correctly. "You're not... You're telling me that healing skills and healing mana are... free? I don't have to pay Shadows, or..." He reached for the words, then his brain settled on old episodes of House M.D, "do clinic hours in exchange or something?"

The man blinked at him, and Talia stepped in. "Things are different on Healer Thomas' world. Healthcare comes at a very great cost. He does not mean any offense."

"Of course he does not mean any offense," the man said quickly, as if worried suggesting so would insult Thomas. "But, forgive me, Healer, I don't understand. How do you manage your Burden if there is a cost?"

Talia stepped in again. "Remember that his people have only just accessed the System. They are physicians, not healers. Until now, there has never been a Burden."

"I understand now." The man smiled and did a slight bow to Thomas. "This must be quite the change."

Burden, shmurden, Thomas was fixated on the important stuff. "So I can just have healing mana? Up to level 5? Is there a limit on the number of crystals?"

The man glanced at the spotless table as if he was reading notes. Perhaps he was. "Akilah left orders that you should be ranked equivalent to a practicing apprentice. So that is five a turning."

"A... turning?" The System translation was amazing but didn't always get idioms.

"Of the moon around our planet," Talia explained. "It is how we mark the passage of time. You use the sun, yes?"

"We do," Thomas replied absently, though that wasn't entirely correct. His mind was busy doing the math. So he'd get five high-level healing crystals a month. Not bad at all!

Talia smiled. "Our planets are so alike in so many ways, though our turnings are just under your twenty-three hours. I do believe we will settle in fine. It is not so different from twenty-four hours, no?"

Thomas' mind stalled out. Five high-level healing crystals a day?

"How many skill slots do you have open?" the elf receptionist asked.

Thomas's throat felt dry. "My skill slots are full."

"Oh, very well done," he said, pleased, "Of course, you are welcome to place your name on a list for your next skill when you reach level 4."

He assumes that I have all healing skills, Thomas thought, still a little stunned. More skills are probably free too. His hands were still itchy with the thought of free high-level mana crystals. Five a day was an insane amount.

Well, maybe not so insane if he was burning through them healing people all day like a practicing apprentice would. But with that many crystals in his hands, level 4 was within striking range. That meant another skill slot opening.

He almost asked to see that list of skills to put his name down. But then he remembered—shit. He wanted a combat skill next... or maybe the washing dishes skill?

No, don't get distracted, Thomas, he told himself firmly. Combat next.

After all, that was the path to more good loot drops.

He cleared his throat and tried to act cool. "So, how do I get registered?"

Apparently, it was as simple as placing his hand on a mana stone, which, interestingly enough, was the exact same process as the Ross-Astors had put him through. The stone lit up the exact color of his core, which of course showed he was the real healer deal. Thankfully, he'd burned through his Light mana because the Dark elves weren't big fans.

The receptionist did another quick double take at the color of the stone–and strangely so did Talia.

"Oh my, is that Wellspring mana?" Talia asked him. "You have a source on Earth?"

"No, it was just a lucky find. I take it that's rare here?"

The two elves exchanged a look.

"It's generally reserved for the higher ranked," Talia said, then determinedly changed the subject. "And Adaptation, too? That adds an... interesting effect to your core. Rolpham, this is more than enough to make him Known to the house, yes?"

"Uh, yes. Of course." The receptionist, Rolpham, quickly started typing up Thomas' information. He had no idea how the English spelling of his name translated into their language, but hey, at least they didn't ask for his Social Security number.

And then, with his mana registered, Rolpham retrieved the crystals from a back room and gave him his daily allotment: three level 4 and two level 5 Healing mana crystals. All were at least C-grade and above. Just like that.

Thomas walked out of the House of Healing, trying not to act as poleaxed as he felt, but he knew he was failing when he tried to speak several times, but couldn't.

Talia giggled and patted his arm before looping her arm under his. She was a very touchy person. "You can ask me. I won't consider it rude."

It wasn't that he was trying not to be rude; it was that he wasn't exactly sure how to say what he was thinking. "Okay, how does the economy even work? Seriously, you guys keep saying you're poor, but that guy just handed me crystals like it was nothing."

"They are level five; they are nothing," she said. "And of course, as they are above your planet's level restriction, we know you would never sell them for profit."

"Yes, but how do you have enough to give out like candy?"

"Oh," she blinked. "Of course you wouldn't know that, would you? Anyone who receives a healing crystal in a dungeon must immediately turn it in. There are local collection points in every village. In fact, it is highly illegal to carry healing mana for your own personal use if you are not a healer. That is a favorite trick of the Light One enforcers when they wish to harass someone, for it is worth several days in incarceration just to have a healing crystal. And that is only to start."

Thomas chewed through the implications. "So people here aren't allowed to take healing crystals with them into dungeons, and if they get them as drops, they have to give them up as soon as possible? What if they pick up a healing crystal in a dungeon, then use it themselves?"

"Well, who is to say what happens in a dungeon?" she replied with a playful smile.

Still, Thomas was left with a bad taste in his mouth. Dungeon diving was dangerous enough, considering how much he had had to patch up his team. His ability to heal and handle the Burden meant they could dive almost as much as they wanted.

If a team didn't have someone like him and had to give up extra Healing crystals or face imprisonment... that was an easy way to make dungeon diving extremely risky.

As a side benefit, it would help keep an unfavored population from gaining the mana they needed to level and run their society. People would have to dive carefully and slowly, if they wanted to risk it at all.

"Let me guess: Light elves are not held to the same standards for carrying Healing mana into dungeons."

Her fingers briefly squeezed his arm. "When it comes to those types of rules, they rarely are."

Thomas realized he was being effectively steered back to the marketplace. She was good at doing that without making it look like he was being directed.

Soon they were at the skills section. It had a banner stretched overhead written in Elvin, which helpfully translated to "Skills Center."

Thomas spotted Jo and Zach among the clustered vendor stalls, both bent close and looking at a skill protected under glass. They were having an intense, low discussion. In fact... it was too intense. Thomas didn't like the tense body language between the two of them, especially unusual with Zach. It looked as if they were a few hairs off from an argument.

Zach glanced up, saw Thomas and Talia approaching, and muttered something to Jo that looked like, "I'll do it." Then he turned fully to them with a brighter expression, waving them over. "Just in time. I was about to start spending money."

With a little relief for the excuse, Thomas disengaged his arm from Talia and walked over. "What's up?" he asked with a meaningful glance between the two.

Jo had a somewhat sour expression on her face. She shrugged. "What's the phrase you use? Water, water everywhere and not a drop to drink? There are all types of skills here, but none will work for me."

That definitely had not been what she and Zach were talking about, but Talia was right at his side so Thomas let it drop.

"Nothing at all?"

"I found something. Check it out." Zach snatched up a glass box with a skill shard entombed inside. There was archaic-looking script all around the edges that made Thomas think it would be a bad idea to try to shoplift the box.

There was also standard writing along the top of the case that resolved itself into legibility for him.

Dancer on the End of a Swaying Branch

"Poetic," Thomas said, and read on.

Gates: 1-3

Mana requirements: Stamina

Description: Passive skill which increases all balance and grace to be of the flexibility of a green branch.

Still pretty poetic. Thomas would have liked hard numbers, but it would fit Zach's style.

"What are gates?" Thomas asked Talia.

"I'm not sure what your people call them. Perhaps you do not have a name yet, but a gate signifies how many Gift evolutions you have received from the System. As an example, you are approaching the first gate and will pass through when you consolidate the first five levels of your core and receive your initial class and evolved Gift."

