“The one you took, however, is probably double that price because of Duis’ expertise. As a Wielder, he can learn Skills that would improve his craft. Which is a bit of a shame because despite it not being likely, he’s still trying to climb the ranks of the Cancer’s Claw.”

“What’s so wrong about that?” Sherly asked, her curiosity now piqued. “If he has the capabilities to do it, then why not let him?”

“That’s the thing, cow girl,” Kasta started. “He ain’t got what it takes to lead the caravan. He’s in it for the fame and the comforts, not really spending his efforts to earn that right. The things he wants to do and who he wants to be ain’t meeting at the center. So he’s stuck flying around like a headless bird trying to fulfill both sides.”

“And now that I’ve taken something valuable from it, it’s going to rub off on him the wrong way.” Sherly sighed again.

“We’ve tried to talk to him about taking Alchemy seriously, or dropping it to focus on improving his fighting skills, if he wants to lead his own Cancer’s Claw,” Ishuin said.

“But the dude’s more stubborn than Taurus on a bad day,” Kasta finished. “He ain’t dropping either anytime soon.”

“You know we don’t say that anymore, Kasta.”

“Ah, right. Force of habit.”

“Is it because he’s corrupted?” Sherly asked. “Taurus, where I came from, is the sign of stubbornness or refusal to change. I’m actually surprised he got corrupted in this world.”

“Steadfastness, strength, and stability,” Ishuin said. “Those are Taurus’ values before he became corrupted. While those still remain true to this day, those are now used for dark and evil notions. His influence now halts innovation completely, often to the point of reducing everything he could reach back to nothing, which was the original state of all things before any changes had occurred.”

“Yeah, that sounds completely unhinged.”

“Well, we’ll deal with that some other time. For now, we should try and settle in for the day.”

Ishuin gestured ahead. Sherly followed where she was pointing at and saw more than what she had originally expected.

The settlement on the crossroads was a collective of not just one, but many different buildings. Three of which were watchtowers made out of bricks. They stood beside each of the three roads that met in the middle.

The closer they approached, the more Sherly realized that she wasn’t looking at a settlement. They were heading towards a town that was directly in front of the crossroads.

This one wasn’t on fire. Regardless, it still made Sherly a little apprehensive. She turned to Ishuin.

“Do you think I should just stay outside?” she asked. “I’m not sure if the people in there will be alright with me.”

The elf Wielder smiled. “We’ll just have to see, won’t we?”
