Carefully, Veron climbed down from his boulder, glad that no monster had killed him in the night. The rock was cool and hard, he was glad for the boots he had made. He stepped into the shallow and cold water, breathed out, then slowly sat down into the edge of the stream.

It was freezing cold, and woke him up instantly. Veron shivered and breathed consciously, then cleaned himself a little. It felt good, despite the cold, as if it washed away the dreams and all the tension that came with them. He tried to cleanse the wound on the back of his hand but he knew he needed more, to make sure the infection didn’t get worse.

Veron stood up and rolled his shoulders, shivered, and breathed in. And then he screamed.

Once because it was cold as fuck. Twice because he felt like shit. He considered a third time because he didn't have a comfortable bed and food, but by now, the energy was spent.

I'm going to kill something.

Veron scanned the water but the light was yet too dim for him to make out any fish. He started walking into the forest and then stopped himself. He needed more light to find berries and helpful plants, and he wasn't some silent and fast moving hunter that could track down and keep up with deer and squirrels. So, he grumbled and climbed back on top of his rock. His screams would have scared away any nearby critters, but there was a river here, and every living thing he knew of needed to drink water.

He spent some of his Focus on the cover for his almost self-made cave, but he kept most of it in case he saw some creature.

Veron noted that made sense anyway. Using only around half his Focus, and doing the same every hour instead of using all of it.

It would always leave some of it to fight, but keeping track of it would be more difficult. He supposed that while he had been safe within an inn or Eyra, there had been little need for such consideration. Always using everything he had at once was both easier and more convenient. A bad habit to form.

Veron blinked his eyes in disbelief sometime later, when a group of deer walked out from the nearby forest to drink from the river. They looked around but didn't seem to spot him. Forty, maybe fifty meters away. He didn't dare make a sound, taking his prepared projectiles and connecting to the stone within one of them.

Veron would have liked to get closer but he didn't trust his ability to move quietly. And so he charged and aimed at the closest of the deer, and shot his rock.

It whistled slightly as he held his breath, connecting to the next one but the deer turned and ran, back and out into the forest.

That was that. A chance and an attempt.

“Shit.”

Veron narrowed his eyes, and then climbed down, projectiles and his spear in hand. He walked over to where the deer had drank. There was no sign of them of course but he checked the ground instead, moving his hand through the grass with careful motions. He was about to give up when he spotted a bit of fresh blood closer to the thicket.

I hit it.

He looked back to his boulder, unsure if he should follow. But then, he could find the river again, and he could find his niche again, he was confident in that and so he went into the forest, slowly and carefully tracking the small droplets of blood in the still dim light.

He walked for a while, losing the track time and time again and cursing to himself. Veron rejoiced when he found some berries, taking a small break to eat and then continuing his search. He attempted to employ what Ivera had tried to teach him, but the only thing he could reasonably track was the blood. Soon, there were more than just a few drops, and after that, there was almost a trail. He felt anticipation, his heart beating faster as he gripped his spear.

Veron found the deer lying below a bush, its body moving with shallow breaths. It was dying.

Veron watched it for just a moment, then steadied himself and moved closer. He charged one of his rocks. “I'm sorry.”

The rock shot out into its head and the deer stopped moving. Veron breathed out, checking around himself before he fell to his knees. Joy, hunger, and guilt was what he felt, and when he had calmed down, he closed the eyes of the living thing that he had killed. He breathed, and felt the wind, then took some of the earth from the ground, and gently rubbed it on its brow. He felt the ground, the trees, the growing sunlight pushing through into the forest, and he felt the cooling blood within the dead.

He touched the still warm fur and closed his eyes. I'm sorry that I killed you. I'm really hungry, and I need to eat.

His right hand was warm and then he felt the hard earth below his knees, his stomach rumbling, though he felt as if he was less hungry than before. The cut on the back of his hand was gone, and he breathed in relief when he saw that.

I killed a deer.

Now what the fuck do I do?
