Shiv knew that, and so Shiv remained hidden within the core of the slave. Longinus seized the elf, strangled him, poured his divine power into him, and he groped blindly, splashing and tearing at the surface, taking bites out of the elf's emotions. But Shiv learned something about Longinus. Something peculiar. The god was a picky eater. He drank the bitter. He tasted the sweet. He nursed himself on joy, or sorrow, and despair, but he didn't quite like touching anger. There was a heat to anger, a spice, and the Wanderer's sympathetic tongue was sensitive.

He never came close to licking Shiv. He avoided the fires that hid the Deathless altogether.

"Witness how flaws of character betray us." The Harbinger laughed. "Witness how he is staring right at us, but can't seem to perceive."

And Shiv did see. Even when Longinus drew upon his Divination, his eyes glowing purple and his mana growing bright with the fervency of faith, he failed to uncover where Shiv was.

The elf’s mind crumbled. Shiv felt the memories that sustained the slaver’s sense of self come undone, and that dislodged the Deathless’s perception of the outside world. But buried deep within the slaver’s core, the emotion still remained. Dread, terror, and hopelessness were the greatest feelings within, but there was no small flicker of anger toward Longinus with how callous the Wanderer was, with how desperate the elf wanted to choose his own fate.

There was little that could be done for the elf himself.

There was everything Shiv could do to Longinus in return.

Harbinger. Time to disembark. You ready to see how imbalanced Longinus’s Tripartite is?

The Harbinger snorted. "My fists quiver at the thought."

Who’s letting their emotions lead them now?

"No one. He must be broken, and taking pleasure in righteous action is not the same as being a slave to pleasure and therefore indulging in righteous action because of it."

I’m afraid you might be too clever for me, Harbinger.

"I am nowhere near as clever as you can be. No more lies, Shiv. Don’t be afraid that you won’t live up to who you want to be. Focus on the path, not the imagined ends. Now. Out into the fray?"

Yeah. Out and into the felling fray.

They burst free from the downed elf slave as one. They manifested in a flash of gold and struck so fast that even the mighty Wanderer failed to react in time. And when their blow landed, when the Harbinger’s elbow—further propelled by Shiv’s Shapeless Tides—came down upon the god’s Avatar, things inside Longinus shattered with a ruinous symphony.

There was a price to pay for being disturbed and unsound of mind.

There was a price to pay for addiction and pointless cruelty.

There was a price to pay for living someone else’s story and seeing yourself rendered a shadow of who you were.

All that came due as the Wanderer, near unbreakable in mana, soul, and flesh before, was betrayed by his decaying psyche, and the frailty of his mind was transmuted into the fragility of his flesh.

The Deathless struck, and for the first time, things inside the Wanderer truly broke.

A scream escaped Longinus. He lashed out with a blind swipe of his lance—his divine aura and uncontrolled vacuum outright obliterating the outer walls of The Boiling Toad. Madness and blind emotion took hold—and Shiv tasted his loss of control, exploited it further by dropping out of context.

As soon as the Deathless plunged Backstage, he saw a rain of broken god fragments come with him and fall into the growing Garden of Wounds and Broken Things.

“Holy felling shit, now that’s a Skill Evolution,” the girl breathed, whistling. “That’s just absolutely—”

Longinus vanished in a burst of divine mana, scattering into hundreds of identical bodies. They attacked blindly, trampling the land and riding in all directions, seeking their now-forgotten foe.

"Wait," the Harbinger said. "Watch. Patience. There will be a moment… An opening. He will throw a tantrum. He will rejoin as a singular entity. We hit him then for maximum harm."

And so minutes passed, as Longinus did rage, and when he finally calmed enough and became one once more, revealing Georges within himself, the Deathless emerged from beyond context, and hit him again.

The upper half of Longinus’ skull ceased to be. He regenerated the damage in an instant, but there were still cracks on his divine form; pain overwhelmed him, giving Shiv an opening to slash and tear his very soul with his cutting aura.

Suddenly, the campaign of terror meant to destabilize the entirety of The Boiling Toad shifted to a focused series of skirmishes chipping away at Longinus. The hits came one after another. Shiv struck with his Harbinger. Shiv vanished. Longinus attempted to retaliate, but he struck nothing, and he remembered nothing, and the cycle began anew.

***

Where Longinus would have likely come up with a strategy before, his mind suffered as much damage as his flesh, and every part of him was shaken—with emotions spilling out from his wounds like yolk, with his being partially resisting the fullness of Shiv’s blows via Magical Resistance, but unable to shape the psycho-alchemical effects inflicted.

The ambushes ran on for hours. When Longinus faded and retreated, Shiv broke other parts of the kitchen. Dimensionals were butchered en masse. Stations were dismantled. The convection plate below was shredded and mangled beyond the repair of even a Master-Tier Engineer. And shaken of spirit, unbalanced of sanity, and mad with frustration, Longinus would return and allow himself to be victimized once more.

Hours dragged on, almost reaching a day.

Almost.

On the ten thousandth ambush, just as Shiv was about to add another spiderweb to Longinus’ cracked form, a continental avalanche of golden brilliance washed over the world, a tidal wave of gold so dense with Chronomancy that it dwarfed his own Legendary mana by a magnitude and then some.

Continuity Error 214 > 227

Inertial Overdrive 318 > 323

Legion of Self 109 > 114

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 204 > 208

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 233 > 239

"Evade."

That was all the Harbinger had to say as the world around Shiv went still. The Deathless prepared to dive Backstage to escape Evanescia’s cursed intrusion into the fight, but before he could, she cried out to him.

“Wait!” the Usurper-Narrator shouted. “I’m not going to stop you. I just want to talk. And after that… I want to see if you can win. I want to see if you can actually beat a—”

But Shiv wasn’t having any of that bullshit. He was already trapped here; there was no negotiating between a warden and a prisoner without any options.

Again, almost.

Continuity Error allowed him to do some very interesting things.

As he slipped Backstage, a new, even more powerful divine presence within the Fairwoods made itself known, burning like a greater star over the cracked and battered shape that was Longinus.

A presence with an emotional core.

Suddenly, Shiv had even bigger game to hunt.
