But breaking things was easy. Intruding was simple. Navigating the mind was hard and required someone to have more than a knack for psychology. Shiv's knowledge of biology remained amateurish at best, but at least he knew fundamental things about the lore of life. His expertise regarding the lore of the mind was even lesser—would have been altogether barren without Uva's instruction. But a bit of theory and practice did not a true Psychonaut make, and so Shiv found himself dashed upon waves of trauma that crashed into him in rolling walls. It battered him. It battered his Harbinger. Shiv’s Legendary Skill cracked while his body suffered bruising blows.

He clawed toward points of stability, but it was hard to tell what led where and which patches of the elf's mind were tranquil or how long they would stay tranquil before the next thought would soon arrive. To make matters worse, the elf was undergoing a series of panic attacks, and the turbulence of his mind and state of his emotions were anything but calm.

But though lost, he wasn't helpless. Possessed of twin Legendary Skills, Shiv swatted waves of tumult aside. He rampaged through the inner confines of the elf's mind, and he did what he could not to dislodge anything as he explored the chaotic maelstrom of thoughts he now hid in. Though not a psychonaut, he remained a Psychomancer, and the Harbinger allowed him to parry hostile thoughts and leap across mental instabilities aplenty.

As he did so, however, his skill offered an almost shameful admission. "I am truly not meant for this. It appears that we overestimated our capabilities in this field."

What? What do you mean?

A phalanx of Shapeless Tides emerged from the Harbinger's body, allowing it to shoulder through a horrific memory. Shiv screamed as flashes of being scalded by an abusive parent passed through him. A moment later, it was gone. For the briefest of instances, he and the elf were one and the same. Minds were dangerous things when entwined.

"Think of my shape. I am built like a person. I am a person. My vessel is a mirror of yours. I stride across time, striking at flesh, at mind, at hearts. But for all my power, I have little breadth. I only exist in one place despite my power over time. I cannot scatter myself. I cannot reach into different areas of a mind. I cannot reach into different minds at the same time. I am singular. That is the word I am looking for. Singular."

Singular was just about the opposite of what Uva was. Her strands allowed her to control countless people at the same time. She was a puppeteer, and a skilled one at that. Even though Shiv's Psychomancy was technically Legendary, he was not nearly the Psychomancer she was. He couldn't arrange things quite as fast. He lacked her knowledge, lacked her control. Lacked, as the Harbinger described it, breadth. And it wasn't just the Harbinger itself. Aside from Shiv's newest Legendary Skill, Legion of Self allowed him to perform surges of actions across a condensed period. It gave him the processing power of an army.

But Uva was an army. Her consciousnesses were stacked and all working in tandem. She had minds running in parallel and could still wear and wield his many physical forms better than he could right now, even though he would overwhelm her in a direct skirmish thanks to how many actions each of his bodies could perform at the same time against her.

"I am a courier of your will and thoughts," the Harbinger whispered. Its Enkindled Shadow moved with Shiv, helping him pry and crawl through the insides of the elf's mind. He didn't even know what was happening back in the material world. "But this place remains a maze to the both of us."

Surprisingly, Shiv didn’t crack at that admission; the Harbinger felt no shame nor scorn saying those words. "Ignorance is nothing to lament, but something to correct. All our lives, we were humiliated by how little we knew. We felt behind compared to everyone. If we weren't together right now, our inability to process this space would have filled you with a level of self-frustration that would have actually seen us harmed. But it shouldn't. We should not be ashamed of what we don't know."

You know, for my perfect self, you are really accepting of limitations.

"Perfection is not omnipotence. And I am not the only skill you have. Legendary though I might be, I am like the Shapeless Tides. I am only a part of your totality. And even your totality leaves gaps. But we can always pivot. Do you feel that?"

Feel what? Shiv asked. But inside, he did feel something. Where the memories were hard to parse, where the space of the elf's consciousness was like waves caught in a ceaseless storm, what lurked below called him. Shiv's knowledge of magical theory was limited. His understanding of the Psychomantic lore, pathetic. But his intuition when it came to people, their psychological flaws, their emotions, their social cues, was bloodhound sharp. And such was what lurked beneath the waves of the elf’s thoughts. Emotions. Feelings. If one's consciousness could be likened to a sea, then the subconsciousness was a sprawling depth of sensation.

Thoughts and feelings were interlinked for individuals. Waves of passion summoned inspiration or periods of malaise, while epiphanies could create the conditions to achieve heights of extreme delight or deepest despair.

Where understanding had often failed Shiv, instinct rarely led him wrong, and now his instinct told him that if he wasn't capable enough to sail the surface, he wasn't without choice at all. He could dive down, sink deep, and with the Harbinger, he would not drown. He would not be burdened by the weight of the waves. Instead, he would swim in the dark. He would meld with the fire that crackled within the core of every sapient heart.

"Do it," the Harbinger whispered.

Shiv's hesitation evaporated. He sank deep into the waves of primal energy suffusing the waters of the elf's subconscious. The Deathless followed the heat. He knew the taste of grief and sorrow and wrongness and acrimony and anger, most of all. Anger became Shiv's North Star; anger was the heat, the geothermal lightning that guided him as he reached the bottom. The lightning that he tore open and crawled ever deeper into.

And somehow, somewhere along the way, the Harbinger traveled from mind to emotion. The Deathless hid there, letting his own enkindled flames consume his Legendary skill, wrapping him in a shadowy inferno that blended him with a flame. Memories washed against him unbidden. He remembered people who had wronged him—not him, but the elf. Of former slavers who whipped him. Of the things that had been taken from him by slaves of higher status or esteem. But Shiv wasn't going from thought to emotion anymore. Instead, the rage he festooned himself with was the nexus of countless thoughts.

And the beautiful thing about being empowered by rage was that he could start soaking in the elf's ire, and he could use his own to camouflage his presence.

You say you aren’t a proper Psychomancy Skill, but we’re hiding pretty good. Empathy makes for a pretty good disguise.

"That it does."

So what now? Should I keep experimenting some more? What do you think is going to happen to this slaver?

"I think he will be brought back, but I think we can take things to the next level. We know enough about my limitations, my vulnerabilities, but also the opportunities I present. And I think I am uniquely positioned to help you victimize this god. The Ascendants are mentally unstable. With Longinus, you can tell this in his words, in his voice, in the way his core detonates in blasts of fury before flattening in all-consuming lust."

Yeah, I kind of noticed that he's completely fucking insane. Doesn't really justify him being a piece of shit or everything else he did, but—

"But is there a whole person? Is there any Longinus left, or is this simply his shadow? Imagine, if you will, the emotions that we are masking ourselves with. Imagine this overflowing to the top. Imagine want, an overwhelming need to possess everyone else, constantly staining your mind, your every thought. What would you become?"

The Harbinger's words filled Shiv with a grim discomfort. He didn't want to imagine that. He didn't think he would become a monster, but he would be lying if he didn't admit he was guided by emotion often. Lust wasn't the thing that ruled him the most, though. He had felt lust before, but it was nothing compared to his wrath.

And the Deathless had an answer to what he might be if wrath consumed his entire being. The answer had the same face as him, after all.

"Yes. Not so far away if you lose the right parts of yourself. Know this, Shiv: We can be harmed in more ways than you can imagine and made a grotesque parody of ourselves just as well if we do not turn our awareness inward more, if we do not consider what guides our behavior."

Seems like a lot of work, always watching ourselves.

Something inside Shiv’s torso almost cracked. The Harbinger grunted with more strain than ever before as it warded off a feeling of crushing indignation. "Please don’t do that."

Do what?

"Lie to yourself. You do not procrastinate for no reason. You are not lazy at all. But you do fear. You are afraid to discover certain answers about yourself, that your nature might prove more disappointing, or that anyone who has judged and abused you before might be proven right about how flawed you are. And in giving in to this fear, you have diminished and decayed yourself. It would be ironic if it wasn’t pathetic."

And now it was Shiv’s turn to wince.

"There is a secret we can learn here in this mind, surrounded by emotions: We can feel something but not attach any thoughts to it."

We can?

"Absolutely." The Harbinger chuckled. "We are learning that right now. We can feel angry, but refuse to learn the wrong lesson about people."

What kind of wrong lesson?

"The kind that has us delude ourselves about our enemies. Everyone tells themselves a story about themselves. But they also do the same for the ones they hate. We can hate Longinus for all he has done without rendering him a creature of straw. Understanding his nature and weaknesses will let us break him properly. Emotions should fuel us and be used to drive us, but there is one thing that must reign so that we can behave rightly—as a person and proper warrior ought to, as Jessica might say."

The mind.

"Yes. The mind. So take a moment to think. And then, see if you can pull and imbibe the proper thoughts connected to the anger we’re hiding ourselves in to see what’s happening outside our unwitting host’s core."

A Glimpse of Perspective 89 > 91

Shiv did just that. Ironically, he had to clear his own mind to best interface with the elf’s. Drawing on the slaver's worst memories was easy—and there were plenty of them. But finding his way back to the true surface and tapping into the elf's senses was another level of difficulty. It felt insurmountable. It wasn't a thing of labor or effort. He didn't know what to do, and he was no closer to discovering the right path than he was a half-second ago.

"Stop," the Harbinger interrupted, its voice calm in its criticism. "You are doing it again. You are not being mindful of how you approach yourself, and now it is compromising your potential and my structural integrity."

For once, Shiv didn't ask the Harbinger what he meant. He stopped, and he thought, and after a moment, he understood. Ignorance made him want to give up. He didn't know, and so he thought it was impossible. He was creating larger obstacles for himself before he even began. Shiv never stopped trying, but there were times when he tried as a token effort and expected nothing to come of it. There were times when he didn't solve the problem. He just threw himself at a wall because that was what he was used to.

"We are a thinking person. We are not a broken thing. Understand the problem. Figure out the pattern. Follow it."

That took patience. But Shiv had patience in ample supply. Instead of letting himself be overwhelmed by what he didn't know, he followed what he already understood. He crept along branches of memory connected to the emotions, and when he got lost, he retraced his steps, doing it all over again and mapping out the interior of the elf's mind. He kept moving.

He found that certain memories intersected other branches, and that they were constantly changing. There were memories buried deep, there were memories on the surface, and finally, after what felt like a small eternity of searching, there were memories that were being spun at the very present: the near-term memories that were tethered directly to the elf's senses.

A rush of triumph filled Shiv. To go from assuming himself incapable of doing this to finding his way out was rewarding. In the end, he didn't manage to actively tap into the elf's senses per se, but he did manage to gain a second-by-second understanding of what was happening on the outside. Such was how he learned that the Bread-Knights were escorting the escaped slaver back down to the Boiling Toad, and such was how he came face to face with Longinus through someone else's eyes.

The Wanderer was wearing Georges' skin once more. His expression was wretched and dark with aggravation. His core burned the same color that leaked free from the cracks lining the Harbinger's body. The Deathless prepared to plunge Backstage, but his new skill told him to wait.

"He has not sensed us yet," the Harbinger guessed. "If he did, he would have acted. Longinus is not the patient type."

