Erick stood with Solomon on the beach-like white cliffs that surrounded the slime dungeon, where the slimes were meters behind and below, and the white stone ahead led straight into shadows, gloom, and the Dark Itself. That Darkness hovered vertically like a mist-covered ocean, the deeper parts of it swirling as things moved in the Dark, just beyond sight.

Solomon spoke, “A Sighting in the Dark.”

His voice rippled out and touched the gloom, rapidly precipitating mist and wavy black into a solid vertical surface that spread outward like the settling of a gong. Vibrations slowed. Possibility condensed. And then like the final step in accretion, when countless facets on a core turned to a smooth infinity, the Darkness rang out with a black pulse, leaving behind an utterly smooth plane at least 20 meters wide that hovered just beyond the white stone ground, revealing the softly-crumbling edge of the dungeon floor.

Erick and Solomon stood 10 meters away from the Black Mirror, and in a rather mundane sort of way, the mirror acted like a normal mirror. There lay Erick and Solomon’s reflections upon the Black, and there was the white stone ground underfoot, and Ophiel fluttering on Erick’s shoulder. Somehow, Erick expected something else.

Erick glanced at Solomon, and Solomon reciprocated the look. Erick nodded.

Solomon picked the chosen target that they had already discussed, and said, “Show me Poi at House Benevolence.”

The mirror flickered and wavered. And then nothing happened. Kinda expected. Poi at House Benevolence wasn’t in the Dark, but also, Poi wasn’t at House Benevolence right now.

Erick tried this time. “Show me Poi at the cloud castle above House Benevolence.”

The mirror rippled and did nothing.

Solomon instantly tried, “Show me Poi at the cloud castle above House Benevolence on the continent of Glaquin.”

Nothing but a ripple.

Erick said, “Show me House Benevolence.”

The mirror rippled.

… Nothing.

Solomon said, “Show me Poi in the slime dungeon.”

The mirror flashed to perfect imagery, the surface of the mirror seeming to vanish completely. Beyond the mirror lay Poi in the kitchen, a few kilometers behind Erick and Solomon, where he was making cinnamon rolls.

Erick said, “So it can only show things in the Dark.”

Solomon nodded. Then he spoke to the mirror, “Show me a person who knows a lot of actual Wizardry.”

Erick raised an eyebrow, surprised that Solomon was going after that target so fast—

And then he looked at the mirror, and laughed.

The mirror laughed with him—

Ha ha!

Ha ha!

Ha ha~

Solomon chuckled, too. And then he ran a hand through his own hair, and the guy in the mirror did the same. “So that was kinda a bust.”

“So that was kinda a bust.”

“So that was kinda a bust.”

“So that was kinda a bust.”

Erick did not like that feedback system.

And if they were going after the big targets, might as well go after the biggest ones.

Erick said, “Show me a True Wizard.”

The mirror expanded.

Eyes opened up in the Dark like ten thousand distant suns.

And then glowing white fangs appeared, each of them larger than a skyscraper. Melemizargo’s voice filled the dungeon like a soft avalanche, “Oh! It pinged on me? Well I guess I am, but we’ve already discussed True Wizardry. What are you searching for now?” Melemizargo stepped through half of the world, shrinking all the while, gloom and Darkness forming into his draconic body as he sat down on the slime dungeon floor. He came to rest with his arms upon the ledge of the edge, like he was sitting in a pool, his serpentine neck angled down toward Erick and Solomon, his tail flicking at one of the deeper water parks of the slimes. Just like how his body had shrunken to something less world-sized, his voice transformed to fit the size of the venue, “Like I said last time, I have given you all the tools to become a True Wizard but I cannot help you take those final steps. I believe Rozeta gave you the same information.”

The slimes shied away from the Dark Dragon.

Erick and Solomon did not.

“We have some specific questions,” Solomon said.

Melemizargo nodded.

Erick asked, “Is there an interaction between particles and mana that make it literally impossible to become a True Wizard in this New Cosmology?”

“Though the particulars have changed, extra influences are poison to a True Wizard. This is a fact that is as true in the Old Cosmology as it is in this New Cosmology. There is a reason that finding out about Particles helped me to come back to myself, for once you know the influences, you can work around them, or with them, as desired.

“That you ask such a question indicates that you have finally come to realize something that I have already told people; Particle Magic has brought me back to my senses. Of course, I don’t exactly blame people for not believing me, but that’s all in the past.”

Erick frowned a little, realizing that his question was a bit redundant now that he was here, and asking it. And yet…

Solomon asked, “It’s always bothered me... Why wasn’t Particle Magic invented before we got here? Even basic people playing around with the physical world would have noticed that Particles exist and could be manipulated in specific ways. Alchemy should have evolved into chemistry, for example.”

Melemizargo smiled a little, then said, “I’m rather sure the Sundering Source is still existent, or perhaps the collective trauma from the Sundering Source is all that remains, and that is what held us back from new magic for so long.

“Perhaps a memetic curse was made long ago in the killing of Knowledge, ensuring that Particles remained undiscovered. I don’t believe this, but I don’t know what caused the Sundering, either, so what I believe hardly matters when compared to the truth.

“But there have been certain advances in Particle-like Magic, once upon a time.

“There was that Atomic Cult that existed for a short while, long ago. They were Forgotten Campaign’d rather thoroughly, and their magic Banned most heavily. Perhaps the wrought have been actively suppressing progress for forever, and they’ve been better at their jobs than anyone realized?

“That is merely postulation, though. You will find out more when you go delving into the Dark, viewing the Source Of All Magic for yourself, searching for the cause of the Sundering.” He added, “But! Perhaps you will not discover anything. This outcome is likely preferable to all parties, for if the Sundering is truly over, then maybe we can begin to move past the Sundering and out into this New Cosmology. I highly doubt that will happen without a few major upsets along the way, but dreams are wonderful sometimes.”

A soft wind blew across the dungeon. Water rushed down small slides, where slimes played in the waves.

“The Old Cosmology and the New Cosmology were linked before the Sundering.” Erick asked, “Are there Wizards from the Old Cosmology which still exist in this New Cosmology? Maybe someone is still alive out there, somewhere?”

“Planars never stopped falling to Veird and the mana of the Old Cosmology is still out there, in a lot of places. I just cannot feel it. There are connections between Here and Other Places that I cannot sense, like holes in the ground that reach into True Voids, where Other Things live. If there are Wizards out there, perhaps they would be a boon to find, but they could also have been heralds of Destruction and death, for maybe the Sundering Source was from this New Cosmology, and not from the Old Cosmology at all.

“My ultimate goal is to expand the universe, so if malevolent entities came to Veird I know not of what I might have done to them while I was crazed.” Melemizargo said, “Perhaps some of them did try coming here… But I have no knowledge of that, either due to self-imposed forgetting, or whatnot. Perhaps you can make such knowledge appear for me, through some Wizardry in the Dark.”

He could make himself forget things?

… Didn’t that change everything about this Sundering search?

Erick wasn’t sure how to think about that right now.

Solomon asked, “What do you wish to come back from the Old Cosmology?”

Melemizargo grinned. “Everything.”

Solomon's question and Melemizargo’s answer had almost derailed Erick’s current thoughts, because they were almost too big of questions to hold. A lot of little things were adding up for Erick, and yet the direction his thoughts were going was really quite nonsensical.

Erick asked the question anyway.

“Circling way back a moment.

“Mana makes magic when exposed to intent.

“Particles make electricity and chemistry and otherwise when exposed to biological-based entities who know what they’re doing with those particles, but it is strictly a physical process.” Erick asked, “Do these two things seem comparable to each other as different forms of ‘magic’? Or am I way off base here?”

Melemizargo frowned a little in thought.

Solomon was silent as he considered Erick’s words.

“A strange question. Do you have a reasoning for this postulation that Particles are the base ‘mana’ of this New Cosmology?”

“No, not really.” Erick said, “But going back to the idea that people have been transporting from the Old Cosmology to the New Cosmology and other Cosmologies before the Sundering since there have always been planars… did the Goddess of Knowledge go comatose from an ‘inundation of new knowledge’? I have a hard time believing that right now, for if she knew everything about everything, then shouldn’t there have been planars from this New Cosmology inside the Old Cosmology anyway? And shouldn’t the Old Cosmology have known of Particles before I came along?

“Obviously this thought experiment only works if the Goddess of Knowledge truly was knowledgeable about everything.

“But she had to be, right? Everything everyone has ever said has been ‘yes, the Goddess of Knowledge knew everything’. That fact is even provable, if sacrificing her to obtain the Grand Translation is really what happened, which everyone agrees is how the Grand Translation happened.

“So then… Some other sort of divine magic must have been what caused her to go comatose. She did not go comatose from an overload of Knowledge about this universe. She had to have gone comatose from either a loss of Knowledge, or through malevolent entities causing her to go comatose.”

Melemizargo stared. Solomon watched, wide-eyed and curious, trying to line up everything he knew with the words coming out of Erick’s mouth.

Erick was on a roll.

He continued, “And other realities have mana, right? Or is it just the Old Cosmology that makes mana?

“I doubt the Old Cosmology is the only Cosmology that made mana.

“So does this New Cosmology actually have its own form of ‘mana’? Are particles that mana? Or is there something else?” Erick asked, “Is it possible that whatever caused the Sundering was something… That exists here? Eh…” Erick frowned. “Ah. Sorry. Lost my train of thought. Still trying to put it all together right now—” Erick rapidly added, “And then there’s Apogee in Spur! He comes from a world of dragons that oversee everything and everyone; it’s why he hates dragons. Or at least he did the last time I talked to him which was years ago. And then there was that elf who came in from outer space on a ship, and that ship is down inside Stratagold’s vaults. Never got to see that ship, though.

“I’m not sure where I’m going with all of this…

“I just think that the Dark has a lot of boons that we can extract from it, but I am not sure if the Dark actually has the answers to the Sundering, because it is very possible that the Sundering did not originate inside the Old Cosmology. Maybe it came from this New Cosmology.”

Solomon cocked his head a little bit as he listened to Erick, mulling over the facts and postulations stated.

Melemizargo had stopped staring at Erick a while ago, instead opting to narrow his eyes upon the middle distance, his thoughts far from here.

Erick had a lot more he could have said on the subject, but that was more than enough for now. And so, he waited.

“An interesting theory of which we have no way to explore, for now.

“As for ‘mana’, as an overarching designation of ‘ephemeral power’ and not as the mana produced by the souls of living things here on Veird...

“Mana exists out there in the New Cosmology, same as it existed back in the Old Cosmology, and in roughly the same sort of ‘mana is possibility’ way that mana exists here. The possibilities out there, though, are vastly smaller than the possibilities here. It’s like this: Veird is a great big bowl, capable of holding all the different manas in rather equal form, and other places cannot do that. Just like how we didn’t have Particle Magic until you came along and added that to the soup, a lot of places out there are not capable of holding mana at all, or in any great quantity.

“Mana is much more ephemeral than particles.

“The production of mana is something that happens within the Darkness of a person, beside that thing which many would call the ‘soul’.

“Did souls exist where you came from? Sure. Is your soul stronger now, here on Veird? Very yes.

“So whatever mana production is out there, is much less than it is here on Veird, among the Darkness. Perhaps the veils between realities are weaker here on Veird, or they’re stronger out there, or whatnot. Hard to say; I’m stuck here on Veird just like you are.

“On a slight tangent...

“The Old Cosmology was riddled with passageways to new Cosmologies, some large and some small. This New Cosmology is possibly even older than the Old Cosmology, but not by much. The timescales upon which the Killing Sun seems to operate are rather intriguing to think about, especially when distant stars could have existed for much longer, or shorter, and then there’s the whole ‘light travels slow’ thing that seems to be a hard-ish limit in this existence…

“Benevolence didn’t exist until you made it, so it is possible that some other sort of invisible, intangible ‘mana’ exists that caused the Sundering.” Melemizargo shrugged. “I do not know.” He waved a wing toward the dungeon, and fluttered the other in the gloom of the Dark, near the Mirror. “Thus, this search.

“But! One part of what you say does hold a grain of maybe-truth.

“Maybe the answer is not here, in the Dark.

