The dungeon core glowed green in the middle of a mansion-sized cocoon, where millions of slugs swam around the radiant white core, and three larger slugs hugged the core itself.

It was a trio of queen slugs. They were a semi-sentient hive mind, which explained the oddities of the slug attacks against the Janes, but they weren’t much of a danger at all. The main danger of these slugs was that as soon as a person was infected, the slugs turned invisible to that person, and then hosts spilled slugs everywhere they walked. Those slugs then tried to get into whatever other organic structures they could find and corrupt into breeding grounds. The original host wouldn’t die from the infection for a very long time. For all of that time, the host would live out their lives completely unaware that they were spreading these anti-memetic monsters everywhere they walked.

But the Janes were completely sealed, and they had faced memetic threats like these slugs before. They were safe.

“I expected to find some living people,” Solomon said. “A wyrm core stored near the dungeon core. People wrapped in stasis pods, or whatever. But there’s nothing?”

Erick asked, “The only reason these repros and wyrms are actually dead is because the area is too filled with slugs, so the slugs have no reason to keep their hosts alive?”

Poi said, “Correct. Putrescent slugs are one of the few monsters which are incredibly more dangerous inside a dungeon. You’re going to have to scour the land outside the dungeon for any stray slugs, Erick, as planned.”

“Already? Sure.” Erick set Ophiel above the dungeon to do just that, then he said to Solomon, “Back to the Janes?”

Solomon nodded, not adding anything, as he threw the camera upward, to where the Janes were killing slug/slime-aggregates now.

Lightning did very well against the oozes made of slugs, so the girls were making good time. Debby seemed to have been put on softening duty for now, focusing mainly on long range red [Chaining Lightning Beam]s. She triggered exploding bodies and otherwise long before the team reached those threats. The others focused on much more cost efficient, close-range lightning, wrapping that spellwork upon their forelegs and feet, allowing them to be cost efficient with their mana, as they took down threats like insanely fast double-orcol-sized nightmare tarantulas. Made of lightning.

Erick shivered as he saw the pure speed of his daughters.

Nightmare fuel.

He tried to say something positive, “They certainly work well together.”

Solomon smiled a little. “They do, don’t they.”

“Jane used to be all into horses when she was younger!” Erick suddenly complained. “Why did she have to go with spiders?”

Solomon laughed loud. Poi smiled.

“She even has that unicorn form,” Erick said.

“Well, from a practical standpoint, spiders are much more dangerous than horses. Much more versatile,” Solomon said, “And she uses the [Aura of Freedom] she got from the unicorn all the time.” He gestured at the Mirror. “Right there. Emily went right through that cocoon to kill the queen at the center—”

Poi spoke up, “The dungeon is disgorging. All Mind Mage personnel have departed.”

Erick looked to the right, his senses rapidly demanded elsewhere. “That’s my cue.”

High overhead of the dungeon, Ophiel watched as the green glows of the infected valley began to slither outward, into the surrounding dead lands. A [Cascade Imaging] high in the sky revealed the true escape. Under a bright, cascading star, a 3D white map of the world populated with blue markers that appeared and then swarmed outward in distant areas, kilometers from the initial infection. The dungeon was opening escape tunnels for its monsters.

Ophiels unleashed [Physical Domain]s as they began to descend into the surrounding lands. First came warnings to people, indicating the Mind Magic threat in the area, but there were no people around; his words were just precautions.

In a coordinated assault starting ten kilometers out from the main dungeon entrance, Ophiels linked power and began beating the world like a grandma beating a dirty rug.

Mountains cracked and broke. Rocks spewed up, turning to dust.

Erick churned the surface world into a desert, killing everything on that surface, except for the original dungeon entrance; that, he left alone. Every extra dungeon entrance winked out as Erick’s power killed whatever appeared, ripping it to shreds through [Amplify]d [Harmony]. His power briefly passed into the dungeon itself, here and there, rapidly disintegrating everything in the top layer of the dungeon into death, before those dungeon exits closed, to get away from his power. His power didn’t go too far into the dungeon itself, because as soon as he touched those entrances, those entrances closed.

Jane would be fine even if she were exposed to this for any length of time. She had a Domain, and she was a rather big creature; the wavelengths of Erick’s Domain were small, tuned to killing small things before they killed big things. Even now, as Erick turned the world around the putrescent slug dungeon into sand and dust, there were monkeys and birds and other such creatures that were easily able to escape the destruction, which Erick focused upon the ground, and upon the slugs.

A lot of things were still going to die, but Erick had extra Ophiels grab what he could and take them out of the destruction zone. The wildlife around the area had learned to stay away from the slugs over the last half a year that the dungeon existed, or rather, they had been made to learn.

Erick asked Poi, “How often do you guys have to quarantine dungeons like this?”

“Not too often,” Poi said, “This one was particularly bad, but it was contained; we even sealed off the underworld so it couldn’t open up down there. We would have gotten to it eventually. Maybe next month.”

“I’m glad I’m able to help with this, even if it wasn’t a strict priority,” Erick said.

Poi nodded.

Ophiels continued to disintegrate the land around the dungeon, like kilometers-wide subtly-purple spheres of detonation, swirling around the area in a clockwise direction. The Janes continued to delve into the dungeon. Over the next 20 minutes Erick reduced the land around the offending valley into a proper desert. Dark holes in reality continued to pop open here and there within that space, but quick spreads of [Physical Domain] rapidly vibrated those entrances and the spilling slugs into nothing.

The valley remained, like a cracked plateau rising up half a kilometer from the surrounding land, its top caked in green slugs that slipped past that valley, like radioactive rivers, to fall into the destructive desert. Erick kept the pressure going outside.

And eventually, Jane, Abigail, Beth, Candice, Debby, and Emily, all reached the core cocoon.

The stronghold of the slugs floated in the Dark, a radiant green sphere the size of a mansion, with several floating rivers connecting it to the rest of the dungeon. In even more defiance of normal reality, the Arachno Squad stood upon those rivers like water striders, each of them crackling with subtle lightning, electrocuting everything that tried to swim out of that water and attack.

Like two horror shows meeting, the girls leapt at the cocoon and began burrowing, slime and slugs going everywhere as tarantula legs and claws proved more than up for the fight. Lightning flickered, killing and killing.

The Dark Mirror showed everything. The sounds were almost worse than the visuals.

And then an ethereal voice called out from the center of the dungeon, “Hark! And advance no further, Beautiful Spiders! We would grant you boons for letting us live!”

Erick flinched; he always flinched when things that seemed sapient and sentient asked for leniency.

Solomon flinched, too.

The Janes did not. In a sudden coordination, the Janes zapped everything, rainbow lightning linking with each other, and then rapidly turning red as Debby’s power expanded over everything, for she had been saving up for this moment. When everything was dead, Jane, Abigail, Debby, and Emily tore at the core itself.

The world screamed.

Beyond the Mirror, the world fractured and broke, cracks reaching past the surface of the—

- - - -

The world was a ruin of everything and nothing, of fractal trees and impossible geometry. Erick could see everything all at once, and also nothing at all.

Erick stood divorced from himself.

Another Erick stood beside him; a Different Mirror of himself. The Other Erick was not Solomon, he was someone else, shaped in the same sort of way that Erick had been originally shaped, with a sagging belly and a few wrinkles and a bit of grey in his hair. He was a Nothing At All, for his fraction of the multiverse did not exist until Erick gazed upon it, and yet, here he was, in the flesh, the only part of the fractal mess that made any sense at all.

Other Erick looked at Erick, his eyes filled with light, his voice strangely calm, “It’s all about communication. That’s the reason for everything happening in your life. And yet, you are nothing. We’re all just motes of our reality, shoved outward in hopes of understanding the Great Other.”

- - - -

Erick came back to himself.

The Janes floated through the Darkness beyond the Mirror, swimming in clouds of black that ate and crushed everything they touched, like continents colliding. Glowing green remnants of the dungeon burst like whale bodies left out on beaches for too long, popping and exploding and sending slugs to their tiny deaths among the encroaching Black.

The Dark brushed against Red Debby, and Debby became the Dark on that leg briefly, before swimming faster and faster, to get away from the crush. Blue Jane and Green Abigail grabbed for their sisters and pulled them up faster and faster. Orange Candice and Yellow Beth ripped apart a wyrm that had survived, spilling gore and slugs everywhere, further clearing the path on the way out. Purple Emily, having saved her power as much as she could for the trip, expanded that power now, either shoving aside the Dark, or blending with it in order to push it away, Erick wasn’t sure.

The six of them rocketed out of the cleft in the slug-filled valley, the world behind them disintegrating back into the Dark, the portal geysering with one last radioactive-green explosion, before slamming shut on everything that hadn’t managed to escape. Rapidly, the girls set to evaporating the remaining Mind Magic threats upon the surface, Debby’s red lightning flashing hard once again.

Erick helped with Ophiel.

Soon, the threats were gone, and all of Erick’s daughters were getting run through a standard Mind Mage decontamination protocol, which they were easily passing, but precautions were precautions. They’d be back here at Ascendant Mountain in an hour.

Erick began to relax.

And for now, Erick turned to Solomon and Poi, and started with, “So what happened to you all when the dungeon core broke? I got told some cryptic shit by an Other Erick while we floated in a fractal kaleidoscope of reality.”

Poi went first, saying, “I got nothing. I’ve either been second-hand exposed to enough of these events to not affect me, which is a consensus among the Mind Mages, or, as a dungeon master still attached to his core, I was simply insulated from the effects.”

Erick nodded.

Solomon breathed in, and then he said, “I was about ten million different slimes, experiencing around that many different lives. Most of them ended when I was eaten by something else.”

Erick frowned a little. “Well that fucking sucks.”

As soon as the words left his mouth, Erick realized that the problem was larger than his small, instinctive comment.

Solomon winced.

Poi said, “We don’t have many records of repros experiencing dungeon core breaks… Like, we have 2 of them. Most repros want nothing to do with dungeons as soon as they separate, but those that do still touch upon dungeon spaces will almost always refuse to take part in a core breaking. Those 2 reports of dungeon core destructions by repros are not helpful here; both of them were forgotten memories, with both people unable to recall what happened.”

Solomon said, “It’s already fading for me… I’m rather sure that Intelligence and having this All-Seeing Eye on my neck is the only thing that allowed me to understand what I was seeing at all. But I was still a slime, and slimes have terrible vision; it’s basically all shadows. Past 5 or 10 meters it’s nothing at all.”

Seeing himself as a slime was obviously the beginning of an existential crisis.

Erick said, “The others will likely have experienced something similar. So how about we stop here for the day. Cut out all experiments and whatnot, and go see a play, or something like that. Or I could make a nice dinner— Oh! Better yet. Let’s all go get wasted at some bars in Aniduun; they’re supposed to be really fun!”

Solomon smiled a little, in a broken sort of way. And then he banished all untoward thoughts, standing straight as he said, “It’s standard to take a week off after a dungeon core breaking, right?”

“Something like that, yes,” Erick said.

Poi said, “You’re taking a week off, and from what I’m hearing already the girls are experiencing some of their own existential crises, so they’re on mandatory leave, too.”

Erick put on a happy face as he smiled wide, announcing, “Then it’s settled! We’re going to do some good old fashioned partying! Or something.” He admitted, “I think I’ve forgotten how to party properly, though.”

Solomon smirked, then demurred, “I’m going to reconnect to the core here, and then we can maybe see what Ascendant City has to offer in the way of nightlife. Maybe Poi can come along, too—”

Poi instantly said, “I am not a hermit, Solomon. I’m here, but I’m also at Candlepoint, overseeing ten simultaneous and normal day-to-day events and one 1-star crisis, in the form of this putrescent slug dungeon breaking, to ensure that the infection is fully cleared. And Erick already did almost that entire job for us, anyway.” He said, “I appreciate the worry, but you do not have to worry about my mental state. Go and have fun.”

“I’m still going to connect to the core,” Solomon said, brooking no argument.

- - - -

“I was a slime,” Abigail said, seated at the dinner table, opening a discussion that they had all briefly touched upon, and then put away as fast as they could.

