Once the girls had come back to Ascendant Mountain, they had rapidly shot down Erick’s suggestion of ‘partying’. Everyone except Jane had a hollow look in their eyes, and they had wanted to simply eat and relax, and so Erick had decided to whip up the best dinner he could make. They ate in the large dining room that rarely got used, even back at the original house, instead of at the kitchen table, since there were 10 of them. That had been two hours ago. Now the dinner had been cleared away and dessert was served. It was huge slices of chocolate cake, thick with frosting and moist as a 9-Star Cook could make. Erick was a decent cook when he wanted to be, but the cake was not his; he had bought it from ‘And Dessert!’, his flagship chocolate store he had begun with the ladies from ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’ a decade ago. They churned out some fantastic chocolate cakes, as always, though they weren’t the only Cooks on staff by a long shot anymore.

It was almost a good enough cake to lift some spirits.

But Abigail’s words reopened an existential wound.

Beth said, “I was a slime, too. It was really fucking weird, and kinda hit home that we’re not really Jane, and that’s painful, but it’s fine. Right? Not a big deal.”

“Not in the grand scheme of things, no,” Candice said. “We’re all just different people, and that’s fine. This really solidifies that fact. We’re expen—”

“You are NOT expendable,” Erick harshly said, interrupting what he knew was coming. “Even if you suddenly hate yourself, know that I still love you. You are loved. And I don’t like you talking like that about people I love.”

Emily suddenly spat, “You don’t get it—”

“I don’t have to get it,” Erick said, “And you’re all a lot more stable than this mental upset.” He looked to every girl in turn, and then to Solomon. “You are some of the strongest people on this world, and we will be facing something that has killed a whole lot more people than we could ever envision. So if we have to take our time, that is fine. We can get through all of this.

“Or, you could just stop.

“None of you are expendable. All of you are necessary.

“But if you don’t want to go searching for the Sundering, then you can stay here with Solomon, Poi, and I, as we watch from the Mirror. We all had breaking experiences, too.”

The room was silent.

Jane said, “I’m still going out there to explore the Dark.”

More silence.

Debby said, “I was… I was a slime in that vision, but I was also… Erick.” She winced. “I think I was the slime encased in the asteroid belt just ten centimeters away from the one that became Solomon. It was… A really weird experience. I barely remember anything about it, but… Everything is too different for me to continue like I was. I’m taking a week off, as per industry standard guidelines. You know, the ones that we helped to write.”

Everyone except Poi was surprised by Debby’s announcement.

Debby added, “Maybe I’ll be ready to go back in a week. All I really know is that I’ll be delving for base mana production, and not doing much more than that. We had to ration mana way too much in there.”

There were some small agreements at the ‘too much rationing’ part.

And then Emily dropped a bomb, “I was a slime, but I was also a man, raised by our mother and not here on Veird at all.” Angry, and trying to hide it, Emily said, “I truly think that if we would have been born with a penis our mother wouldn’t have given us to dad.”

Erick was stunned.

The girls were not.

“Oh my god—” “That BITCH!” “Somehow completely expected—” “—And yet not.” “I know, right!”

Beth said, “Well thank the gods we ended up with our dad!”

Erick suddenly laughed, because he had no idea what else to do at the moment. “I’m glad you ended up with me!”

The Janes were a bit too embarrassed to say anything more about that. They’d probably talk about it all when they were away from him, though, and that’d be fine.

Erick changed the subject, “When Melemizargo showed us some alternate realities today, I was a centaur in one of them. Imagine if you could have been an actual horse girl! No spiders at all.”

“Now what’s wrong with spiders,” Jane demanded to know.

The others instantly joined in on that topic.

Debby said, “Centaurs are cool, but spiders are cooler.”

“Even in pure utility!” Abigail said, as she stuck her fork into her chocolate cake. “You got the webs, the full-vision eyes—”

“And horses are fragile as shit,” Solomon said, joining in on the conversation, smiling wide. “Spiders are much cooler.”

Erick mocked offense, “You’re turning on me, now?!”

Jane said, “Solomon is now ‘Cool Dad’.”

Solomon instantly conjured sunglasses on his face, saying, “It is Law!”

Laughter, mixed with groans.

Jane said, “I rescind my recommendation.”

“What! No!” Solomon said, “No backsies!”
