“Perhaps after you grab whatever you wish from the Dark, you can journey to Stratagold and plunder their vaults, too, and grab yourself a spaceship.” Melemizargo smiled. “I had posted a Quest for such a thing on the Quest Board of the Garrison of Candlepoint before you took over that land. Mephistopheles has that Quest Board in storage, gathering dust, but the Quest that is still on that board is still a Quest that I offer. Like the Quests at the Core of Veird, my own Quests to expand into the New Cosmology are evergreen.”

Erick instantly said, “And Yggdrasil will get us there in 90-ish years. You can wait alongside everyone else.”

Melemizargo laughed at Erick’s rapid answer. Then said, “As you desire.” He asked, “Do you desire more True Wizard answers?”

“A few quick questions. First question: Do you believe that mana in the Old Cosmology is more or less complicated than DNA and biological life in this universe?”

“They’re different. Mana is clearly better, but particles function decently enough as a baseline anchor for mana to grow upon.”

“What about from a Healing Magic perspective?” Erick said, “Healing magic is incredibly complicated here on Veird, because biology is very nuanced. Was Healing in the Old Cosmology just as difficult?”

“Healing Magic in the Old Cosmology was about as complicated as it is now, with all aspects except the most basic of supportive healing requiring fantastic amounts of assistance or skill in order to not mangle a body into horror.”

“… I honestly did not expect that sort of answer.” Erick said, “I expected realities made of mana to be easier to influence than ones made of particles.”

Melemizargo grinned. “It’s all easy to influence, Erick, for people like us. Would you like a small demonstration?”

For one incredibly deep moment, Erick paused.

And then he said, “Yes.”

- - - -

Melemizargo was a human angel of ten thousand wings floating atop a white beach.

Erick was a centaur. Solomon was a satyr. Ophiel was a flugehaper, sitting on Erick’s saddle-position.

They watched an ocean filled with fishmen play under the waves, hopping atop corals and swimming between eddies of whitewater. Erick was filled with awe as he watched the water-people play in the water. Just… All that water. All over the place! Water! Amazing. Much better than the Dryness everywhere else. Oases truly are amazing.

Melemizargo said, “In this place, dungeons are oases and you don’t know what a dungeon is, but you do know what a desert is, for the entire world is a desert.”

Melemizargo waved five thousand wings—

- - - -

Melemizargo was a human.

Erick was a Benevolence Fairy. Solomon was a Benevolence sprite, and Ophiel was a wisp.

They watched a forest filled with monkeys climb up ropes and swing down vines, and make little homes under big green ferns. They were all so fragile, those monkeys. A fire could come through any minute now, or a plague, or any sort of cataclysm, and they’d all die. Just like the Old Ones died. The Fae didn’t die; they were above that. But also, there was a beauty in death, in finality, that Erick rarely ever saw.

Melemizargo said, “In this fragment of reality, we’re cultivating semi-sapient people, to try and bring back the Old Ones. We’re having little success.”

Something clicked in Erick’s mind.

Melemizargo waved his ha—

“Wait!” Erick demanded, “Back to normal! Not here! This is wr—”

- - - -

Melemizargo was a tome ten books tall, floating above the Library of the Endless, where corridors of stacks delineated the world.

Erick was a traveler’s book standing in the center of the forbidden floor, where no books should walk, lest they be destroyed by librarians. Solomon was an imperfect copy, laying on the ground, too tired to open his covers and look at the world. Ophiel was a post-it note clinging to Erick’s binding.

They were in the Printing Room, and—

NOTHING WAS RIGHT.

Melemizargo started to say something—

Erick demanded, “Bring us back!”

The edges of Melemizargo’s pages glinted in the light, like fangs, like a smile.

He snapped shut.

- - - -

Erick was Erick, standing tall, a dragon Wizard in a human form. Solomon was Solomon, laying sprawled on the ground.

Ophiel whined a little on Erick’s shoulder, complaining, “I’m tired, dad.”

Erick put a hand on Ophiel, and the little guy slumped down into Erick’s arms, softly snoring in tiny flutes. Solomon was already knocked out and laying on the ground. Erick had no idea how he had remained awake. His eyes were heavy—

Erick endured, remaining upright. He glared at Melemizargo, the big black dragon staring at him from only five meters away. He was grinning. Erick was not grinning.

Erick demanded, “What the FUCK?”

Melemizargo leaned back, smiling wider, looking vindicated as he said, “That’s what I mean when I say that all realities, be they mana or particle, are easy to influence.”

“What was that? Why did you do—”

“You’re a lot further along in your Wizardly journey, so you managed to maintain consciousness. Solomon will take some more time before he can claim the same power. But all reality is easy to change, Erick. The big changes, like what you just experienced, were easy for you to notice. That’s why we went through those few realities. I knew you could maintain yourself in the brush of an infinity.

“And so, with your consent, we went.

“That’s what it really means to be a Wizard; it means you can maintain in the face of everything else that comes your way.” Melemizargo said, “You’re pretty close to getting there.”

Erick had a few rapid thoughts as Ophiel stirred to wakefulness in his arms.

The first thought was that he should never have consented to a ‘small demonstration’.

Like really, Erick, that was almost as bad as thanking Fairy Moon on the beach near Stratagold.

Next came the idea of ‘Oh. That’s what Establishment is; the cementing of other realities here, in this reality.’

And then his thoughts rapidly circled through what ‘different realities’ meant.

Next came ‘Gods make realities all the time; they’re called afterlives’.

Erick thought about the nature of gods. In the Old Cosmology, gods ‘solidified’ the space where their worshipers lived, actively determining things like the flow of time, to the cycle of days, afterlives, and otherwise.

Like a lightbulb going off, Erick said, “Gods determine the overarching setting of the universe.”

“Yes.”

“And Wizards determine their personal settings.”

“Also yes!”

To make sure he was on the same page as Melemizargo, Erick asked, “What does the term ‘multi-verse’ mean to you?”

Melemizargo considered, then he said, “Just another term for ‘Cosmology’.”

“Oh.”

Oh. That was big. Okay. Oh.

Erick had a lot of thoughts forming on that, but Solomon was waking up, and Erick helped him to his feet, as he looked upon Melemizargo again, and asked, “What do you want to come back from the Old Cosmology, specifically?”

And holy shit does the term ‘Old Cosmology’ mean something so much more different to me, now.

As does ‘New Cosmology’.

‘Old Multiverse’. ‘New Multiverse’.

Solomon chuckled in Erick’s arms as he got all the way to his feet. Had he heard the latest series of questions and answers, before he woke up? Or was he reviewing the recent past in the manasphere, to see what he missed out on? Was he going mad? Erick hoped he wasn’t going mad.

Or maybe Solomon was just happy that Erick was backing him up on his question of Melemizargo’s ultimate goals in the Sundering Search. ‘Everything’ was not a productive answer, and Melemizargo definitely wanted something specific out of this Sundering search.

Melemizargo mused, “Conflict is a thing upon which the entire system grows and multiplies, but right now a major conflict would be bad for everyone. So I don’t want to start a conflict. I do truly want everything to come back, though I doubt such an event is truly possible.” He looked down at Erick, saying, “I’m sure whatever you find will be good for us all, but I have other events to attend to today so I cannot remain. Good day, Erick. Good luck with understanding the New Cosmology.”

Without another word, Melemizargo vanished into the Dark surrounding the dungeon, moving like a slippery dragon, but also like tentacles suddenly vanishing below the surface of the vertical ocean.

… He had avoided that last question, hadn’t he.

“Hmm,” Solomon grunted, rubbing his eyes, still a bit out of it.

“Hmm,” Erick agreed.

Ophiel twittered in low drum sounds.

Solomon said, “So I checked the manasphere for what I missed… And I’m not sure what happened. We were… somewhere else? I got that you were a centaur for a moment?”

Erick sent Solomon an information packet—

Solomon froze for a long moment, as the gravity of what had happened unfurled within his mind.

Erick waited.

Solomon whisper-shouted, “ ‘Cosmology’ means ‘multiverse’?!” He instantly added, “No. That can’t be right… It doesn’t jive with everything we’ve learned so far… Well… Maybe it does?” He paused. “Wait. This makes a lot of sense, doesn’t it.”

“Maybe from a certain perspective, it’s true,” Erick said, “We already figured that mana was a multiverse, what with Benevolence and Fae and Dark all existing and reachable from Veird, I just never considered that ‘Cosmologies’ were singular multiverses unto themselves.”

Solomon said, “The Old Cosmology and New Cosmology were not just different dimensions, but they were entirely separate multiverses.”

A moment passed.

Clarity came.

“Gods determine the over-reality,” Solomon said.

“And Wizards determine their own personal-reality,” Erick said, “Extending their Reality onto the over-reality; extending their personal Element and self-created dimensional plane, like Benevolence, into this over-reality.”

“Wizards are the gods of themselves,” Solomon said, “Crystallized and set in stone, unwavering in the face of the over-reality, ever-producing their own version of reality within themselves.”

The moment of clarity passed by.

“And Wizards can pull from other versions of themselves?” Erick said, suddenly not too sure about his words or where he was going with them. He continued anyway, because talking out problems sometimes helped to solve those problems. “That could explain certain types of Establishment; you’re taking a piece of a different personal Reality and setting it into the shared over-reality?”

Solomon seemed to lose some forward enthusiasm too, as he said, “But are you interacting with your multiversal-self in order to do that? Like, consider that centaur version of yourself. If you were to transform into that person, are you actually instantiating that Reality into this reality, and… leaving the other Reality without that version of yourself?”

Erick thought for a second, but he had nothing positive to say about Solomon’s conjecture.

Solomon changed tactics. “Okay maybe the centaur-thing isn’t a good example. How about [Teleport], then. Taking into account what we know now, we know that [Teleport] worked off of alternate Realities being instantiated into this reality. The whole ‘macro quantum wavelength’ state was just our way of first visualizing what was clearly Establishment magic, as per Phagar; as in ‘Establishing’ your position in reality where you want it to be. Establishment magic is taking things from other realities and making them happen here.” He asked, “So what happens to the realities left behind? Do they just cease to exist, because you ‘killed yourself’ in that previous timeline?”

Erick hummed in thought, then said, “I highly doubt that Wizards are moving through countless realities and leaving behind the old ones to perish. Even in the Deep Paradox that Other Erick complained about how I was the real one and he was the fake. That means that there is one over-reality, and that over-reality is this one. I am willing to bet that the other realities did not exist until looked upon.”

“Maybe so,” Solomon said, “But is this reality the only real one because we have gods here, determining which reality is real? If you did Wizardry outside of their influence, would you go crashing through into Paradox unknown? Phagar once said that Establishment could lead to weird things, like waking up and finding yourself being a woman all your life, or other such oddities.”

Erick found his footing again, saying, “Well then that neatly explains why gods and Wizards always worked together, right? Gods cemented the over-reality, and Wizards pulled in things from side-realities whenever they needed or wanted those things.”

Solomon paused. “Well. That… Yeah. That is a nice framework. Interesting.”

Erick nodded. A moment passed in silent thought.

Solomon turned back to the Dark Mirror, gazing upon his and Erick’s reflections in the black.

Erick got back on track. “The girls will be coming soon.”

“Absolutely,” Solomon said. “You know… All of this recontextualizes this whole Sundering Search. The Relevant Entities all understood what we were doing here before we did; that we’re searching side-realities made possible through our very presences in order to create miracles that are not found on this world anymore, to prepare us all for the coming shifts. That’s why only a few people, like us, or like Jane, could do this.”

Erick nodded. “It certainly simplified everything for me, too.”

“The gods set the over-reality,” Solomon began.

“And we Wizards set the local-reality,” Erick finished.

Ophiel chirped, “And I help!”

Erick smirked at that, and Solomon chuckled. They told him that yes, he did help a lot.

Soon, Erick and Solomon were back to playing around with the Dark Mirrors to better try and understand how they work. They didn’t search for anything dangerous at all, but they did learn how to search for known things in the Dark rather well.

“Ah!” Solomon said, opening his aura and flowing it toward the Dark Mirror. White glows flowed into the black, and Solomon said nothing.

A pink slime with sparkles appeared, playing in the waves of a lazy river with a bunch of other slimes.

Erick turned around, and matched the Mirror’s vision with the slime dungeon. He found the pink sparkle slime. “So the Mirror can search non-verbally, too; you just gotta connect with it through your aura.”

“It seems more responsive when I do it this way, too,” Solomon said, “For instance…”

- - - -

Knowing what they now knew, Erick and Solomon looked down at the Mind Mage artifacts with a newfound sense of clarity.

The Crown of Self, which isolated a person from the world.

