The Lidless Eyes, which prevented hostile Mind Magic and other changes in Reality from happening to the wearer, at the cost of things possibly affecting the wearer if it ran out of eyes to soak the spellwork.

The Shackle of Memory, which prevented the wearer from forgetting anything.

Solomon said, “Neither of us can wear the Crown, because you’re tied to Ophiel and Yggdrasil and other outside magics, and I’m tied to this dungeon. I can probably wear it if I disconnect from the dungeon, but I’m not doing that.”

Poi said, “Not yet, anyway.”

Solomon was less sure about Poi’s ‘suggestion’, but he said nothing against it.

“I’ll take the Eyes, you take the Shackle?” Erick asked.

“How about no one wears the Bracelet right now,” Poi said. “Neither of you have been to a dungeon core breaking, and you don’t need to see more than you’re already capable of seeing. In fact, Erick. You should take off the All-Seeing Eye. And you should separate from the dungeon now, Solomon.”

“… Well that’s a bit more cautious than it needs to be,” Erick said.

“Eh. Poi is right,” Solomon said. “You take the Lidless Eyes. I’ll take the All-Seeing Eye. And then we switch next time.”

“We’re looking at the breaking through the Mirror,” Erick said, not feeling the same level of cautiousness that everyone else was feeling. “We’re not actually going to the breaking.”

Poi leveled a glare at Erick.

“Fine, fine!” Erick said, as he began taking off the All-Seeing Eye. “No need to see anything more than what I can already see.”

And Poi told Solomon, “You can disconnect from the dungeon, now.”

Solomon didn’t want to leave Poi alone, but after a few back and forths, Solomon relented. Soon, Erick was wearing the Lidless eyes, and a dungeon-disconnected Solomon was wearing the All-Seeing Eye. It would be easy enough for Solomon to reconnect to the dungeon after the day’s dungeon breaking was over, anyway.

- - - -

Ophiel hovered in the sky above the Mondariska Mountains, located west of Greensoil. Nothing really lived in this part of the world, except for the target. The Mind Mages had quarantined this area months ago, and then kept it that way, until today.

Down below, nestled into a green crack in the mountain, lay a black portal into the Dark. Normally the mountains around here had a lot of green, but this place had green of a different color. Instead of a green forest, there was a toxic swamp of bright green Decay. Vines and mist and slugs, all green and subtly glowing, spilled out onto the mountains. Nothing was actually radioactive —no Extreme Light here— but it certainly looked that way, while the unseen danger here was much more toxic than simple radiation.

One mountain over, Jane spoke to the assembled squad, “Final words time. I’ll keep it short. We’ve all done this before, but technically five of us are new. Not a big deal. This is just another routine dungeon kill, and our father and uncle will be watching us from the Dark Mirror. If the worst should happen, then they’ll rewind time and get a message to us through Ophiel, who will be stationed near the entrance of the decay dungeon.

“We won’t be searching the Dark for anything. We won’t be lingering.

“We get in there, kill the threats, look around for a moment, then we come back out, and come back here.”

Abigail, Beth, Candice, Debby, and Emily, all nodded professionally. Jane nodded in return. Jane was the team leader today, though every single one of them was capable of being the leader of the group, but a structure had to be established, and so they had established a structure.

In the next few moments, all six of them transformed into enormous tarantulas, five meters across and two meters in height, each of them a color of the rainbow with Jane as blue, and the rest as green, yellow, orange, red, and purple. Ephemeral [Conjure Armor] draped across their bodies, hugging them tight. The dungeon had Script access, but in a very specific way; that armor would likely not last for long, but precautions were precautions, and the Arachno Squad took precautions when they could.

Most of their real defenses were internal, though.

They made their bodies physically sealed against crawling slugs and toxins in the air, vines and all sorts of liquids and otherwise. Though they couldn’t spin webs in that controlled form, it was necessary for the upcoming dungeon. They all even had bones and exoskeletons, along with re-oxygenating organs and redundancies everywhere, and were more than capable of doing everything they needed to do, even if they had to go without their webs. Not having access to those multipurpose threads was a hindrance, for sure, but it was a hindrance Jane, and all of the others, were used to.

Decay dungeons were a sort of dungeon that went ‘bad’ all the time. This one was a particularly terrible variant that produced putrescent slugs, that Mind Magic monster that erased its presence from the minds of all it infested. It had been responsible for an outbreak of the anti-memetic monsters across four different villages of the Greensoil Republic. The dungeon had been scheduled for destruction for a while now, but since it was so remote and so dangerous, it was low priority.

It was just the sort of dungeon that Jane and her sisters could handle, though, so they were here.

- - - -

Erick stood upon white stone, watching the dungeon from the inside, from the Mirror.

The dungeon was a horrible space, filled with Elemental Swamp and Decay, and matching those two Elements rather well. Murky, deadly water stretched out in every direction, like floating rivers in the black. Dying trees formed the barely-living ‘bones’ of the dungeon, whereupon streams of rivers flowed through the air, like splashed and whirling airy waters, filled with muck and death and crawling vines. Inside that Escher-like space, slugs grew inside every living thing. Those slugs infested decay slimes that barely moved in the algae-choked water, making them seem like worm-filled eyes here and there. Slugs slimed upon the vine monsters that attempted to grow on the ever-dying trees.

The worst parts were the zombies, floating in the water and flopping on the trees.

They weren’t zombies. They were former dungeon masters, turned into living feasts for the putrescent slugs; copies of the few adventurers that had made it into the dungeon and then escaped… Theoretically.

Solomon had questions, because he was rather disconnected from the world without Ophiel or Yggdrasil. “You said that the adventurers that showed up at Greensoil were all infected… and that they were all copies of each other, yes? Is it possible that the original people are still in the dungeon? Somewhere?”

Erick stared at the flowing twists of Swamp water, and at the infested everything. “That’s what I found out with Ophiel. But… yeah. What you’re thinking is highly possible.”

Poi spoke up, “We have no way of knowing if the ones who showed up at Greensoil were originals, or copies. They were too far gone; minds and souls shattered by this experience. It’s highly likely that the originals are still here in the dungeon, but if they are, then they’re too far gone to save.” Poi pointed at a fungus that grew upon the back of one of the zombies. “That’s a control fungus. It only grows on dead things, or things that it has made dead. Those zombies aren’t even proper zombies; they have no animating soul; just that fungus. I wouldn’t be surprised if everything in there is dead.”

Erick frowned. “This dungeon is a horror show.”

Solomon nodded.

Erick gazed through the Mirror, toward the entrance, flicking his aura across the surface of the Mirror, and the Mirror moved with his sight.

Solomon asked, “Not going to look for the core?”

“You’ve gone out on dungeon hunts with them, but I have not, and I want to see them from the beginning.” The dungeon was scaring him, because it was a very dangerous place for anyone to be. And yet, Erick tried to be calm and even a little bit joyful; this was his chance to see his daughter at ‘work’. “Maybe we should get some popcorn—”

Jane crashed through the front portal of the dungeon, directly into the waterways, and then through the air to the lower levels, which seemed endless. Her sisters followed right behind her, the five of them fanning out as they descended upon short bursts of prismatic power. Water splashed. Trees shattered.

And then the bodies floating in the waters all popped, spores and slugs and blood and bone getting everywhere.

Poi corrected himself, “Detonating controller fungus.”

“Or just ripe,” Erick said.

Poi nodded a little.

The Jane Squad rapidly descended through the main waterways, their armors disintegrating, leaving behind completely smooth tarantula bodies in every color, but without mouths or anything organic looking at all. They reminded Erick of the idea of robots; sleek and deadly.

Half-decayed alligators and clumps of blood magic and fungus tried to counter attack, as the rivers swirled, filled with toxic slugs, trying to drown the Janes.

The Arachno Squad ripped the enemies to shreds, but they were still under slug-infested waters, and that was not goo—

The Janes adapted.

It started with the Red Jane; Debby. She flickered red lightning into the waters, frying everything that she touched. Water exploded away from her, and once again she was out of the river, to stand on top of the poison. Within a second all the rest of them began shimmering with Lightning Magic, in all the other colors—

Like hundreds of popcorn kernels popping in rapid sequence, the green slugs in the water burst and boiled. The water became a soup of dead things that fell back down into the airway-waterways, still faintly glowing due to the Decay magics of the slugs.

Erick amended his earlier statement, “Maybe not popcorn.”

Poi joked, “We got those chewy star-candies at the house. I bet they have a better slug-like consistency to go with the ambiance of the dungeon.”

Solomon burst a laugh. Erick chuckled.

Erick retrieved the star candies and copied them for everyone.

Solomon grabbed a handful of his own supply, saying, “Is this a bigger dungeon than normal?”

The girls were doing well; going fast and sure, without any seeming need to slow down. So Erick turned the ‘camera’ of the Black Mirror downward, down, down, through the floating waterways of the dungeon, past some truly massive slug-cocoons that looked woven from glowing slime, down into the part where the Elemental Swamp of the dungeon changed into Elemental Abyss, and the monsters got bigger, and meaner.

Mostly bigger.

Some of the monsters were true horrors. A wyvern that was sluggified, with green slugs spilling out of every orifice, and out of the mouth, like a weak dragon’s breath. A wyrm, too; probably from some hidden cache of eggs from some stupid dragon who wanted to do things ‘the old way’ and set their eggs out in the mountains. That thing was 100 meters of decaying, fungus-covered zombie, that gorged itself on everything it could find. ‘Everything it could find’ seemed to only mean massive pools of slugs that went into the scooping mouth of the wyrm, and then slipped out of holes in the zombie-dragon’s body—

Solomon suddenly said, “Oh my gods. I see the controlling fungus, but… Is that wyrm actually still alive? It still has a hunger response. Maybe it could be saved. Turned over to Inferno Maw and his wyrm-reincarnation tanks.”

Erick paused the camera with a flick of his aura. He studied the wyrm for a moment, watching it eat slugs. “… Oh. Shit. I think it is.” Erick’s attention was drawn to a different part of the Mirror. “And those humans look a lot less zombie than they do… I’m not sure.”

“None of the other bodies were alive, but...” Poi asked, “Do those repros have a soul, or are they just controller fungus’d?”

The wyrm ate from pools of slugs, but nearby stood a stone ‘village’, filled with repros. They walked around on a layer of stone, near cave-like rock piles, all of them nude and spilling slugs everywhere. Small fungi grew from their shoulders, but they certainly didn’t look fully dead and controlled. They were still completely defenseless and completely out of it—

Poi said, “I need to know if they can be saved, Erick.”

“I know. I’m already trying to see if— Shit.” Erick moved his aura across the Mirror, and yet it wasn’t changing Sights. “I can’t change it to soul-view. What am I doing wrong here?”

Erick knew that what he was doing wrong was that he wasn’t wearing his All-Seeing Eye, and thus the Dark and this Mirror both looked a whole lot more opaque to him. Once again, Erick had thought that his senses were top-notch, but having useful tools like the All-Seeing Eye helped a lot.

Solomon took over, his aura flowing into the Mirror as Erick pulled away. “It’s like this.”

The Mirror shifted.

The Sight of the Dark Mirror changed to [Soul Sight].

And the bodies of the people were completely empty, save for a ‘net’ of fungus that acted like muscles and skin, along with hundreds of brighter souls everywhere inside of them; the life-glows of slugs. Poi relaxed a fraction, and then sadness came. Erick and Solomon had similar reactions. There was no saving these people, either.

Solomon said, “They’re just husks.”

Erick said, “These ones will probably also explode if anyone gets near them.”

“I didn’t expect to find any survivors, but we didn’t explore much of it before we called in a quarantine.” Poi frowned. “Jane’s on scene, so she probably already sees all of this.”

Erick asked, “Maybe there are real people beside the core? Check out that wyrm again, too, Solomon.”

The wyrm was very dead, as most wyrms were. Erick or Inferno Maw of House Death could bring those sorts of people back to life, and they often did when anyone found a wyrm, or a wyrm’s grand rad, but this one was… Not possible. Solomon shifted the view to [Soul Sight], and revealed the true damage of the slugs. No grand rad inside of that body at all.

Solomon said, “The cores are gone.”

“Looks like an animating slug at the center of it all,” Erick said, frowning. “Okay. On to the dungeon core? Let’s make sure there aren’t any surprises awaiting them.”

Solomon shifted the Mirror downward, even further, into the putrescent depths. The Mirror flashed by house-sized birthing cocoons that glowed in the murky water, like green poison in a floating river. Those rivers spiraled down into the dark, past more wyrms that were copies of the first wyrm, all of them animated through controller fungus.

