It’s amazing how quickly structures can be built without machinery to speed things along or silliness like bureaucracy and human rights to slow them down.

In the four months since Sinuji’s destruction, Colonel Hongji has been hard at work turning the area into a deathtrap for Defiled. Though not comparable to the miracle of engineering and logistics which is to become the new Western Wall, the transformation is still mind boggling to behold and it all started with my off-hand advice given on my first day here. The rubble of Sinuji has been cleared away and repurposed into a cobblestone walkway, and while I’d hardly call it elegant or even complete, it’s serviceable enough for my chariots and supply wagons to roll over without cracking an axle or getting stuck in a rut. Five kilometres from north to south and a hundred and fifty metres across, the walkway’s main purpose isn’t for travel or transportation. Instead, it serves as firebreak, deterrence to Wraiths or other sneaky bastards hoping to slip by, and an open killing ground where we slaughter all Defiled who dare approach.

To this end, an impressive array of earthwork fortifications stands behind the walkway, ones designed to funnel the Enemy into multiple choke-points where Imperial soldiers hold the advantage. Again, they’re nothing fancy, mostly dirt walls and deep trenches, but completely serviceable and a huge upgrade to fighting the Defiled man to man on open ground. Constructed using a technique Dastan calls hangtu or ‘rammed earth’, the compressed dirt walls are durable as stone and almost as smooth thanks to an outer layer of clay which keeps the whole thing from turning to mud in the rain. While a determined attacker could probably break through a meter thick section in a matter of minutes, the walls only stand about three-and-a-half meters high and most are under a hundred meters long, which means the Defiled who aren’t smart enough to run around the walls usually try to jump over, where Imperial soldiers stand ready to greet them with steel and fire.

Though it makes me giggle to say, holding the high ground is a significant advantage in battle. For starters, it’s much easier to hit an opponent's head when it’s literally at your feet, and also less tiring when you’ve got gravity working on your side. Battlements on the rammed earth walls protect the Imperial soldier, a raised lip they stand behind and lean over to stab, crush, or otherwise kill their Defiled opponents. Even the strongest warrior in the world is vulnerable while jumping over a three metre obstacle, and considering the Defiled aren’t big on constructing even basic siege equipment like ramps or ladders, then I’d wager the wall will hold until garo or other such mounted warriors make an appearance.

Not an event I look forward to. Apparently, the Western Defiled ride things called gajashia, which were eloquently described as carnivorous, sharp-tusked, elephant-faced armoured lions of nightmares. The Southern Defiled have bhietkura, giant, hammer-headed dinosaurs with talons long as a man’s arm. Strange how even the most docile animals from the Azure Empire will snap at Defiled, but outside, the wildlife have adapted to accept the murder-happy humans. Then again, like GangShu said, are Imperials and Defiled really all that different when seen through the eyes of an animal?

I’m just glad there will always be ugly or angry animals which I can eat guilt free. Like geese, the feathery embodiment of hatred and loathing...

Fort Sinuji’s temporary nature only adds to how extraordinary its speedy construction was, though I use the term ‘fort’ lightly. It’s less of a building or enclosed area and more like a labyrinth of rectangular blocks, walls, and giant fucking trenches, all built so you’re forced to zigzag through the fortifications to get to the other side or spend a day exposed in dangerous territory looking for a way around. Once past the first line of fortifications, you find yourself trapped inside a veritable maze with steel pikes and polearms thrusting down from above, Imperial soldiers lurking around every corner, shifting exits, hidden pitfalls, reinforced dead-ends, and barricaded choke-points to spice things up. Granted, the whole place will probably crumble to pieces the moment an organized Defiled army appears on the horizon, but until such a time as the Enemy gets their shit together, Sinuji’s defences will be the bane of wandering warbands of Defiled.

One strange thing to note is that since building these fortifications and flying flags which can been seen from kilometres away, Sinuji has encountered more Defiled attacks, not less, and it’s supposedly the same with the similar structures all across the front lines. Whereas my first instinct would be to go around an entrenched enemy, the Defiled see well-fortified positions the same way lemmings see cliffs, preferring to run headlong at them and die instead of finding a safer way around. Not to say there’s no more fighting on the open fields, and some warbands still have enough sense to bypass Fort Sinuji, but the end result is more or less the same. Since heavy cavalry don’t have much of a place in sieges, Colonel Hongji and the other commanders along the front lines have organized patrols between them, which means most Defiled who try to sneak past meet their end at the tip of a steel lance. Loose infantry don’t do well against heavy cavalry, and even less so when presented with an organized charge from multiple directions. Should any Defiled be lucky enough to escape the front lines intact, there is still a second line of defences behind us waiting to greet them, not to mention the heavily patrolled border where the new Western Wall is being constructed.

All in all, after four months of fighting, there have been exactly zero confirmed Defiled to successfully cross the border into Central, which is the only good news I can think of while riding through Sinuji’s winding defences to report to Colonel Hongji. From atop the battlements, Imperial soldiers stare at my escort of quin riders and Death Corps in undisguised curiosity, wondering what could’ve prompted the Number One Talent in the Empire to return from patrol early. Two and a half days early, in fact, since we booked it back to the front lines as soon as Tenjin was stable enough to travel. This marks the first time I’ve returned in defeat, an event made all the more significant considering how well my first deployment went. While resting in SuiHua, there were tales of defeat and despair a plenty on everyone’s ears and tongues as the returning soldiers brought news of growing Defiled aggression, but more than once I heard my supporters boasting about how my retinue would handle it with ease.

It’s funny how I never cared for public opinion until it turned in my favour. I can shrug off hatred, disgust, and hostility without breaking stride, but disappointment hits me like a kick in the balls.

About a quarter way through the maze, a voice sounds from atop the battlements. “See how the savage scurries back after an ignoble defeat. Truly a disgrace to the Empire.” Shielding my eyes from the afternoon sun, I glance up and see a typical arrogant noble popinjay standing on the battlements with his nose pointed towards the sky, mocking without deigning to even look in my general direction. Head high, shoulders square, chest out, and back arched, the nondescript young man carries himself with the standard pretentious posture of someone born into nobility, a milk-skinned brat who’s probably never had to pour his own tea, much less fight for his life. His verdant silk robes flutter in the wind as he stands there with his lightly powdered face and nary a hair out of place, thanks to a pair of soldiers holding up a canopy to provide him with shade while a third soldier guards against the heat using a massively oversized fan.

I don’t even know him and I already don’t like him. I bet he even positioned himself there so the sun shines in my eyes while we talk, a literal play for power because standing on top of a wall wasn’t enough. There’s probably a bunch of other stuff I haven’t noticed too, as nobles and their ilk love their little games of clever insults and calculated contempt, which I don’t really get. From what I understand, hurling expletives and outright slander is vulgar and low brow, but a harmless remark which might be interpreted as offensive is the height of sophistication.

Take his comment for example. Were I to rise to the bait, he would simply laugh and claim it a part of a poem he was composing or the title for a painting or song. Worse, by taking offence at his seemingly innocuous statement, I not only lose face for being ‘overly sensitive’, but it also shows I equate myself with a ‘scurrying savage’ and accept the criticism as true. Nobles sometimes have hours of dinner conversation where every line is laced with insults and disrespect, but the first one to lose their temper or leave is considered defeated, a bunch of high-brow nonsense I have no patience for.

Unfortunately for the popinjay, no one told him I don’t play by their rules and his sky-turned gaze fails to notice I don’t stop to chat. I’m a good distance away before someone thinks to inform their cloud-gazing young master I’ve ridden away, though I’m still close enough to hear him screech, “You dare ignore me?”, along with the other customary questions and statements that follow. Even his tantrums sound rehearsed and commonplace, hitting all the regular notes like ‘Do you know who I am?’, ‘Are you deaf?’, and my favourite, ‘I did not give you permission to leave!’.

His incredulous statements soon turns to meaningless babble, ranting about how I must think myself clever and how things will soon change. I have no idea what he’s going on about, so I continue riding on my merry way, moving at a nice, moderate quin walk. Sadly, the popinjay isn’t very good at the game of subtle insults and has a poor temper to boot, for just as I’m riding out of earshot, I hear him yell, “Falling Rain, you coward! Come back and face me!”

Now, I’m a pretty laid back guy, but it burns my blood to see a little shit like him living in pampered luxury while so many soldiers die to keep him safe, not to mention his oh-so-punchable face. In accordance with his poorly thought out demand, I turn Zabu around and ride back, moving from an easy walk into a full-out charge without even a whisper of warning. On my instructions, the agile quin pounces onto the battlements with a single leap, his lashing tail and snapping jaws sending soldiers into a panic as he clears a path to the popinjay. A quartet of loyal bodyguards stick close to the popinjay’s side, who along with the three serving soldiers make for a pitiful seven-man barrier between Zabu and the popinjay, especially with Orgaal, Argat, and four other Khishigs at my back. Tilting the odds further in my favour, Red One arrives with eleven Death Corps soldiers only a handful of seconds later, working in concert to scale the wall in their heavy armour as easily as climbing a set of stairs.

With my people surrounding him and his back to the battlements, the snobby little popinjay looks properly regretful, though it could be because of his white-powdered face, not quite as heavy as Central likes it, but done in similar, if not more tasteful, fashion. Previously, I wasn’t able to see the writing on his portable canopy, but now that I’m up here, I notice it bears the ‘Situ’ character, alongside the twin characters for ‘Heaven’ and ‘Earth’, which means this is one of Zian’s many, many, many cousins. Changing tack, I wait until the little bastard finds the courage to speak, then speak right over him. “What,” I say, deriving immense satisfaction from seeing the popinjay’s mouth snap shut, “Is the penalty for slandering an Imperial Scion?”

I refuse to use my title, but it has its uses.

“Replying to Imperial Consort,” Red One answers, ruining the moment by stating my hated title outright. “The answer depends on the severity of the crime, with the maximum penalty being execution. The Emperor does not look kindly on outsiders defaming the Imperial Clan.”

The Situ idiot’s eyes widen in terror as I pretend to consider it, even though I’d never order him executed over an insult. Fairly certain I couldn’t even if I wanted to, what with being an Imperial Consort and not an Imperial Scion, but Red One knows how to play the game better than I do. He merely answered my question and framed it in a way which implied I am an Imperial Scion, without outright claiming it. After a long pause, I shake my head and reply, “No, no execution. Were we in private, I would overlook words spoken by a child in anger, but there are too many witnesses present. What is the minimum penalty?”

“For a first infraction, ten strokes of the lash and impermanent removal of the offender’s tongue.”

...Harsher than I expected, but maybe the little brat will learn to keep his mouth shut after he regrows his tongue. Trying to look as bored as possible, I gesture at the popinjay and say, “You may order your men to carry out the punishment forthwith.” While it seems like I’m being merciful, truth is, I’m not entirely sure I have enough clout to order him punished without repercussion, so it’s best if he does it himself. “If you refuse, then I must take matters into my own hands.” 100% true. I’d have to go find a Justicar and plead my case, which will probably end with me challenging the Situ Clan to another duel or something. Hard pass.

