Not sticking around to see things through, I ride Zabu down the other side of the wall, more than making up for time lost thanks to our detour. Wishing I could just go straight to the command centre, I keep to the pathway for the rest of the trek, which goes by without incident until I’m face to face with Colonel Hongji inside his personal tent. Normally, the friendly Colonel would offer tea and snacks during these private meetings, but today, he greets me with back turned and leaves me standing alone while pretending to pore over his reports. I say pretend because it’s silly to stand when you could sit at your desk, stupid to leave your back to the tent’s entrance, and suicidal not to turn around to make sure the intruder is friendly, but after a few seconds of thought, I conclude that his actions are another calculated insult. Why, I don’t know, but it sucks because I was looking forward to a hot cup of tea. It doesn’t seem like much until one considers the restrictions on fire in camp, meaning no fires allowed aside from a few specific exclusions. Due to my rank, I’m allowed a small fire for personal use and most officers quietly shirk the restrictions regardless, but having chosen to lead by example, I’ve eschewed the minor luxuries in the name of solidarity. Stupid mistake. Like anyone cares if I give up hot tea, toasted biscuits, and warm stew.

Can’t even heat a hot bath in my swanky stone bathtub without feeling guilty. It’s the worst...

Regardless of whether I made the right choice, I’m stuck with it and too stubborn to give up, but there’s nothing that says I can’t accept Hongji’s hospitality. A moot point, considering said hospitality appears to have withered away and died in light of my recent failure, which just goes to show how precarious my current situation is. As Number One Talent in the Empire, there are countless rivals just waiting to topple me from my lofty position, which is why I can’t wait for Mila to condense her Aura and form her Natal Palace so she can stomp on my spine and wrench the title from my bloodied, broken, fingers.

I’d happily forfeit and spare myself the suffering, but knowing Mila, she means to earn the title herself and will be furious if I don’t fight to keep it. The things I do for love...

After long minutes of cold silence, a soldier strides in without a word and places a small wooden jewellery box on Hongji’s desk. Leaving as quietly as he arrived, the good Colonel waits until the soldier marches out before finally turning around. Though still wearing more than most women, Hongji’s makeup is more subtle and understated, lacking the vibrant reds and sombre blacks so many in Central overuse and giving a pale, pinkish cast to his skin which almost looks natural. His stylized eyebrows angle upward and makes his expression look permanently angry or surprised, but his broad forehead, strong jawline, and piercing glare keeps the effect from becoming comical. It’s hard to take Central’s warriors seriously when they show up in full face paint, but wearing his official Commander’s gown with the Imperial Token tucked into the belt, Hongji makes his peers look like kittens beside a tiger.

Moving aside, he gestures curtly at the box on his desk. Inwardly shrugging, I head over and flip it open to reveal a severed tongue, still fresh and wet with blood. Suppressing the urge to recoil away, I glance at Hongji and raise an eyebrow in question. Does the gesture translate? I can’t imagine it being easy to pull off when your eyebrows are waxed in place. Luckily, he understands, but he only utters a single word in reply. “Gulong.”

Ancient Dragon? That can’t be right. “...Who or what is a Gulong?”

Hongji’s impassive facade cracks ever so slightly to reveal his surprise, but he recovers soon after. “Do not pretend, young officer. Deception will make you no friends here.” After a long silence in which I flounder for what to say, he furrows his brow and says, “Situ Gulong.”

Oh... So that’s what his name was. I probably should’ve figured things out through context, but names are weird. “Ah.”

“Who commands here, officer?”

Uh oh. He seems mad. Snapping off a military salute, I model my answer after what I think Red One would say. “Replying to Colonel, you do. Err... that is to say you, Colonel Hongji, is who holds command here. Whom holds command? Sir.”

Covering his mouth to cough, Hongji recovers and says, “So you did know. Which means these soldiers gathered here are mine to command, and mine to punish.” Giving me his best glare, Hongji jabs me in the chest with a steel finger. “So what gives you the right to punish my soldiers?”

“Replying to Colonel, I would not dare.” ‘I’, not ‘this one’, since the Legate’s panties would twist in a bunch if I dared lower myself as such, and not ‘Imperial Consort’ to show I’m not treating this as a formal matter. Or at least, that’s my intention and how he should read it. I’m getting the hang of this politics thing, but it’s still hit or miss most of the time.

“You don’t dare? Hmph.” Gesturing at the bloody box, he roars, “Then explain this!” Happy to share how clever I’ve become, I keep a straight face while summarizing my encounter with Gulong. Quickly catching on, Hongji asks me to repeat our exchange word for word. Despite knowing I’m in the clear, he confirms that I’d be willing to swear an Oath to back my statements, though falls short of asking for one, and only then does he sigh in relief. Slumping into his armchair, he gestures for me to sit and dabs his brow while bellowing orders for someone to bring tea, utterly ruining his calm and stoic ‘Tiger General’ appearance from earlier.

I don’t understand why he’s so stressed about one measly Situ brat losing a replaceable tongue but I know better than to ask. Flipping the tongue box closed, I hand him my reports before explaining my findings over hot tea and fresh pastries. “...so on the advice from my remaining Experts, I request permission to delay until replacements arrive before going back out on patrol.” Abjiya and Jigari are great Healers, but they’re not even close to Taduk’s level, so they’ll be taking Jochi and Tenjin along with the other injured back to SuiHua as soon as Hongji issues the proper papers.

“An Awakened Demon so strong even your Experts could not kill it... Most unsettling.” Shaking his head while writing out the travel passes, he adds, “Fortunately, you escaped without incurring significant losses. I fear the plains west of Sinuji are littered with corpses of those who cannot say the same. Too many Demons being born these days, at least one a day so I hear.” Feeling guilty for not telling him about GangShu’s intervention, I keep my mouth shut and nod along. The sexy rat daddy was adamant I leave his part out of the official reports, because he reports to whichever poor bastard the Emperor hated enough to put in charge of Divinities.

After settling where my retinue will camp and where I fit in the command structure, Hongji hands me the freshly stamped passes and Sends, “Tread carefully, young hero. The Society of Heaven and Earth has friends in high places. The matter with Situ Ji Jing should have been plain and simple, for he built himself a grand funeral pyre and climbed inside, but rather than setting it alight as he should have, the Justicar ordered Ji Jing lashed and dishonourably discharged. Seven hundred soldiers left to die and the boy walks away with a light beating, an affront to career soldiers across the Empire, but my hands are tied. Now this matter with Gulong... Might I suggest you request permission to pay your family a visit? Or perhaps an audience with your benefactor, though if you do, I caution you to temper your expectations.”

It takes a second to remember who Ji Jing is and what Hongji is talking about, but for the life of me, I can’t figure out why he’s telling me about Ji Yeon’s brother. I certainly had nothing to do with it, though I can see why Hongji isn’t happy about how things went down, but why should I run away to Baatar and Akanai or ask the Legate for help with Gulong? Misreading my confusion as disbelief, Hongji Sends, “Remember, the Justicars dispense justice, but it is the Emperor who decides what is just.” I doubt he means the Emperor is backing the Situ Clan, but I suppose someone Imperial might be. Nodding despite not entirely understanding, I thank him for his hospitality and turn to leave, but Hongji isn’t done. Clapping me on the shoulder, he personally sees me out of the tent, which is a big deal according to Luo-Luo, and Sends, “I offer you my full support, but I fear if you are ever in a position to require it, then we are already doomed.”

Well, that’s not ominous or anything.

Still, I like Hongji. A soldier through and through, he does right by the people under his command, even if he doesn’t like them. If I had laid a finger on Gulong, the good Colonel would have had me lashed or whatever the punishment is, not because he’s afraid of the Society or whoever backs them, but because it would’ve been the right thing to do. The Empire needs more no nonsense soldiers like Hongji and I’m proud to serve beneath him.

Oh, I remember Gulong now! I punched him unconscious before interrogating Ji Yeon during the Society’s Contests. I wasn’t great at it back then, so he lost a lot of teeth before passing out.

...

Am I the bad guy?

Chapter Meme
