“I was at first.” Teepo said. “Then I thought you were naming him as a better version of me.”

I wouldn't do that! Ren thought, surprised. You would be so hurt if I did that!

“I know.” Teepo said. “When I saw you cast Tristan's face onto it, I was skeptical; but then you called it Tee-one.”

Ren shook his head. I was going to call it 'Jerkface'. Ren chuckled mentally. So that every time I called to him, or asked him for something, I'd be calling Tristan 'Jerkface'.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “Oh, that would have been funny!”

I know. Ren smiled. But when it came out so well, I changed it to T1; Tristan1 or Tee-one. A much better version of that jerkface.

“I agree. Tee-one is a much better Tristan than Tristan is.”

Ren nodded slightly. He could never replace you, though.

“Thanks, Ren.”

Ren looked at the baby fire elemental's pen, and smiled. “Well, look at you.” He whispered, and tickled it's back. “You've gotten bigger.”

It was now 4 inches across, and Ren smiled when he heard a crackling fire as he tickled it. He took out more Spider Silk Cloth scraps, cut them up, and crumpled them to put in the pen.

“I'll need to make you a bigger pen, soon.” Ren said and stood up. He stretched and yawned, and went down to the old bedroom.

My body seems to be adjusting to day and night here. Ren thought. I actually do feel tired.

“After what you did today, you should be.” Teepo said. “You made an entire stable, by yourself, in 3 hours.”

I wasn't happy doing it, like I usually am. Ren sighed. Not after seeing Barnar like that.

“Don't worry, Ren.” Teepo consoled him. “He just needs time to deal with it.”

Ren opened the door and crept into the room. There was a lump on either side of the bed, and Ren stored his clothing. He had forgotten to equip his armor's bodysuit, and it left him with just his underwear on. He slid in under the blanket and settled down between the two women. He felt a woman's hand touch his chest from both sides, and he lifted his arms. Nathalia snuggled in on one side, and Narhilda snuggled in on the other.

“I'm sorry for the way I acted after supper.” Narhilda said sheepishly, and looked up at him. “I have no right to question your decisions about making things like that.”

Ren kissed her forehead. “This is your House, Narhilda. You can question anything you want.”

“You're not mad?” She asked.

“Why would I be?”

“I.. I raised my voice... to the man of the House.” She ducked her head. “Over material things.”

Ren hugged her close. “If you didn't raise your voice every so often, I'd be worried there was something wrong with you.”

She snorted a laugh and then kept laughing. “Okay, I deserved that.”

“See? I told you.” Nathalia said, and Ren turned his head to face her. “She was so worried you were angry at her, that she practically begged to stay in here tonight to apologize to you.”

“I did not!” Narhilda exclaimed. “I merely asked repeatedly until you gave in.”

Ren chuckled, and it shook the two women slightly. “I think we all need a good night's sleep.”

“So do I.” Nathalia said, gave Ren a kiss on the lips, and ducked her head down on his chest. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Ren responded.
