Ali squeaked. It was honestly embarrassing, but Mato seemed fine after just a simple touch from Malika’s magic.

“That must be its movement skill,” Calen said from his seat on the moss nearby. He had his notebook out, eyes focused intently on the fight.

“Keep going,” Malika told her, speaking for the Bear. “Try to use what you learned.”

Both of her friends seemed entirely unperturbed by the enormous leap attack she had just executed on Mato, so she gathered her focus and began to incorporate her new understanding of attacking with power.

After about half an hour of practice, Calen stopped her. “I remember these guys having a stealth skill. Perhaps you can try to find it?”

“Stealth? But it’s so huge!”

“Yup, it’s pretty terrifying,” Malika agreed.

Ali turned her attention to the mace-wielding monster standing by and tried to impress upon it the idea of hiding and attacking simultaneously. A few moments of confusion flickered across its brutish face before it suddenly shimmered in the darkness and all but vanished – leaving just a shadow in its wake, then nothing at all. Or…

Her eyes leaped about before Ali remembered her magic. She had a rough idea of where it was via her connection, but, even though it was not as total as her Kobold rogues, the monster was still almost impossible to see in the dim light of the cavern. How can something so big be so hard to see? As if it wasn’t scary before…

The beast leapt into the air and smashed down with its mace, slamming Mato into the ground and leaving a bear-sized imprint in the moss. This time, Mato actually bounced. Ali winced, quite sure she would have been pulped by that strike.

“He’s ok,” Malika reassured her quickly. “It hit much harder, but he has a lot of armor and health.”

“So, they do have Ambush, then?” Calen inquired.

“Seems like it,” Malika answered.

That really is terrifying! Even though Malika assured her that Mato was fine, the power of the strike from above, combining the Leap and the Ambush skills, shocked Ali to the core. The Bugbear, with all its steel armor, bulk, and heavy weapon, probably weighed close to a ton. Maybe even more. A ton of fury that you couldn’t see until it smacked you between the eyes. I wouldn’t even be much of a stain if that hit me. She kept glancing back at the bear-shaped imprint in her moss, but Mato was returning her Bugbear’s attacks, so she marshaled her concentration and focus and applied herself to learning as much as she could, so that she wouldn’t have to put Mato through this any longer than necessary.

“Isn’t Ambush a bit unfair for something like a Bugbear?” Ali asked.

“Well, it’s very strong at the start of combat,” Calen said. “But – just like your rogues – regaining stealth during open combat is very tricky to pull off, so it’s usually a one-time thing each fight.”

“Makes sense,” Ali said. Still, they’re so huge! She shuddered at the implications, but then a thought occurred to her. Should I be thinking of them more like my rogues? They had both the Stealth and Ambush skills. Giant muscly rogues with very blunt heavy daggers…

“Switch to the axe guy… err, girl?” Malika suggested after Ali felt she had made some substantial progress.

“What do they do?” Calen asked.

“The axe-wielders had some kind of whirling movement attack,” Malika said.

Ali took a breath and switched her minions. Immediately, the new Bugbear charged Mato in a high-speed whirling rush that turned her into a dizzying blender of steel and muscle. Mato roared and counterattacked, stopping the rush before it did too much damage, and Malika nimbly danced in behind him to heal. Ali simply continued the fight, becoming rather numb to the sheer physical forces in play.

Eventually, Ali called a halt to the exercises, feeling entirely drained and even a little dizzy. Mato transformed back and walked over to the cookfire, ladling a large second helping of dinner into a fresh bowl.

“Here, you worked hard,” he said with a beaming grin, “this should help.” He handed Ali the bowl, and the aroma of the food triggered a ravenous hunger.

Ali paused about halfway through wolfing down second-dinner when she realized that Mato’s grumpiness had entirely vanished and that he was now happily chatting away with Malika and Calen about the training exercises and how to improve their little group.

So, Ali mused, it isn’t that he doesn’t like training and preparation. She considered her huge friend as she resumed eating, watching how he listened to Calen’s ideas with focus and intent. Does he just want to feel useful? Ali wasn’t certain, but it seemed about right. While she couldn’t read the expressions while he was in Bear Form, Mato had never once slowed down their training exercises or called for a break.

She smiled at the new insight, and returned her bowl, getting a little more food, before she began to practice with her new Study Trance advancement for Sage of Learning, splitting her time roughly evenly between having the Goblins talk among one another and reading the imprints within her Grimoire.

Martial Insight has reached level 9.You have learned the Goblin language.Your proficiency with the Goblin language has improved.

As she finally settled into her tent and the soft warmth of her sleeping bag, she reflected on her day of training. She had learned an enormous amount about swinging heavy things around for maximum damage. And while her progress had been phenomenal using her potent Martial Insight skill, she understood she was still a beginner in proficiency.

On the other hand, the Goblin language was rather surprising. It had a wealth of words and adjectives describing weapons, battle, armor, and food, but on other subjects, it was as rudimentary as ‘rock,’ ‘bigger rock,’ and ‘tree’.

Calen sprinted across the mossy ground, his feet making no noise as he darted between the trees. Ali had really pushed her plants far into the area formerly claimed by the dungeon.

She’s almost made it to the cave with the ventilation shaft.

He glanced back, seeing the others slowly making their way through Ali’s trees before he turned again and stepped across the threshold where the moss ended. As he crossed the gap, stepping between the large piles of bone and pitch-black mushrooms, his chime sounded.

[Explorer] You have entered a dungeon.

He still hadn’t quite figured out the quirks in this skill, but he put it out of his mind for now, intent on his target. He didn’t much care if the dungeon had respawned the wolves, but he was worried about that giant, four-armed skeleton they had tangled with before he and Malika had been kidnapped.

He hopped around a pile of bones stacked higher than his head, carefully avoiding the pack of wolves that ranged in the distance. His stealth would prevent them from seeing him, but as always, vision wasn’t their only perception skill. If they caught his scent, he would have to kill them. He waited in the shadows and presently, they moved on, all of them following the Alpha as it led them deeper into the cavern.

Calen ignored them and approached the hole in the wall of the massive cavern – the hole which he knew led to the small cave and the shaft that Ali and Mato had fallen into. Stepping quietly through the gap, his eyes quickly adjusted to the darkness, Eyes of the Archon picking out all the details as if it was a night-time scene lit by a bright, full moon, instead of pitch dark.

There it is. Much to his dismay, the dungeon had indeed respawned the monstrous skeletal Naga, coiled motionless in the darkness with all four arms holding swords, and tiny pinpricks of red glowing from its empty eye sockets. It towered far taller than Calen, but it hadn’t seen him yet.

Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 9[Explorer]An undead skeletal Desert Naga.Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: GroupMonster Type: UndeadDamage: Physical

Oh, it’s only level nine.

He wanted to face-palm himself, hard, but decided that might just alert the monster to his presence. While Calen had been dreading this boss encounter, based on how terrified he had felt the first time, it had entirely slipped his mind that it was only a level nine monster. Given their current levels, it shouldn’t provide a substantial challenge.

The description is new. Calen studied the assessment from his Explorer skill curiously. As his skill leveled, it seemed to occasionally increase the amount and quality of information it provided. As a skill with both perception and knowledge traits, it behaved a lot like a categorization tool – augmenting his understanding of what he was seeing, based on anything he could perceive. The higher his perception and skill, the more information it should be able to divine. Did it add the description because Ali told me her friend had been a Desert Naga?

Being categorized as a Dungeon Boss, this was probably one of the most dangerous monsters they could possibly face – provided of course it was a challenging level. The Threat Level assessed it as difficult enough to require a typical group of five adventurers to defeat.

“It did respawn,” Mato whispered as he and the others arrived at the entrance.

“Yes, but it’s only level nine,” Calen pointed out, dropping his Eclipse so the others could see him.

Ali entered last, flanked by her three gigantic Bugbears and a couple of Kobolds, staring sadly at the skeletal monster, but she didn’t say anything.

“Is everyone ready?” Malika asked.

“Don’t fall into the hole,” Mato said with a grin, and shifted to his Bear Form.

Ali’s Bugbears shrouded themselves in shadows, to the point where he wouldn’t have been able to see them in the darkness without his potent vision skill. He followed suit, disappearing into the shadows, meaning to practice his stealth shots in the hope of eventually gaining his Ambush skill.

With a roar, Mato charged the skeleton, Malika following close behind. The skeleton’s head snapped around; a baleful, red-eyed glare focused on the incoming bear. All four rusted swords began to emit the ruddy glow of a martial skill activation. With a blur, the swords sliced down as Mato’s great paw slammed into the ten-foot-tall undead monster.

Calen waited patiently, bow drawn, arrow nocked, for the perfect moment.

There!

He held his magic firmly in his mind and released his arrow from the concealment of the shadows, watching it hurtle across the cave. Right before it buried itself in the skeleton’s left eye socket, he released his magic, causing the arrow to flare with a sudden brilliant incandescence right as it struck.

In the next instant, chaos erupted. Three huge Bugbears appeared from the shadows, massive two-handed weapons striking with booming crashes and crunching bone. Several black-scaled Kobolds stepped beside them with gleaming daggers, and the crimson flicker of fire magic lit the cavern while Ali’s golden bolts flitted out to crash into the monster.

Calen managed only three more shots before the skeleton collapsed in a heap of crushed bones.

Your group has defeated Aberrant Skeletal Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 9.

He had expected the level nine monster to be easy, but the fight was over almost too quickly. Ali’s new Bugbears certainly were impressive in action.

Malika rolled her shoulders. “Barely a warm-up. Who’s ready to jump?”
