Jax Hawkhurst: She fucking backstabbed me!Kieran Mori: Who?Jax Hawkhurst: Vivian Ross. All that bitch had to do was remain neutral during the Town Council vote, and the lion’s share of the Crown’s defense allocation would have fallen to us. Kieran Mori: I told you she would do that.Jax Hawkhurst: That Goblin horde was the opportunity of a lifetime, but no, she had to go and align herself with that stuffy, inflexible prick, Brand, and now all the money went to the garrison instead.Kieran Mori: Our protection revenues are up. People are afraid after the attack.Jax Hawkhurst: You don’t understand, Mori. She’s aiming to expand her influence over Myrin’s Keep, mark my words. I need you to take her out.Kieran Mori: Are you sure? She’s a platinum rank. Do you want to deal with the collateral damage of two second-tiers duking it out in the streets? I’m not sure the town will survive.Jax Hawkhurst: No. I have a far better idea. Didn’t you say you’re training a new assassin?Kieran Mori: I am. She shows a lot of potential. Why?Jax Hawkhurst: Have her cut her teeth on Vivian’s precious new guild. Kieran Mori: Aah, perfect. It will be my pleasure.- Conversation via Sending Panel between Jax Hawkhurst and Kieran Mori.

“Ok, I’ll try making some Bugbears,” Ali said, wrinkling her nose in anticipation of the foul stench that would certainly ensue. Hopefully, they don’t wreck my appetite.

They all sat around the warm, crackling campfire while Mato stirred something into the cookpot that was beginning to make her mouth water. She had been watching him dice carrots, onions, and potatoes – in short, nothing out of the ordinary – and yet, somehow, whatever he had in there smelled heavenly. He seemed to have an inexplicable knack for cooking, beyond even what Ali considered reasonable for his Cooking general skill. The big Beastkin hummed something tuneless under his breath as he worked, considerably less grumpy now that he was making dinner, but it was clear he wasn’t nearly as interested in the discussion as the others.

Calen and Malika were certainly much more cautious than either herself or Mato. Mato, because he preferred action over planning, and her, because she didn’t know any better. It was clear from the conversation that Calen and Malika were considering a whole host of problems and issues that would never even have occurred to Ali, and she found herself taking a crash course in contingency planning. Everyone’s goal seemed to be the same – to return to the ruins below and clear out the Kobolds – but each person’s motivation and approach seemed radically different.

She opened her Grimoire to the imprint for Goblinoids and began to channel her mana.

Scavenger – Goblin – level 1

Ali sighed. Of course, it’s going to be stubborn, she thought, wishing, yet again, for a simple way to choose which variant her Grimoire would make.

Still, Ali was learning a lot just listening to the planning process – mostly about the subtleties of their personalities rather than the actual plans, though. Calen – when he was comfortable speaking up – was far more likely to come up with some crazy, creative solution, while Malika was more often the voice of reason, advocating for far stronger caution and safety first.

It was Calen who had suggested Ali make Bugbears as ‘shock troops’ – a remarkably apt term for the brawny giant Goblinoid monsters and their heavy two-handed weapons. The only problem was that her Grimoire didn’t want to cooperate, giving her three low-level, green-skinned Goblins, not much taller than herself, before something massive manifested before her.

Warrior – Bugbear – level 17

Ali stared up at the two-and-a-half meters of scowling Bugbear, looking irritable and furious just by standing there. The heavy slabs of muscle, dirty orange skin, and dark brown fur looming over her kicked her heart into overdrive. If it had made any sudden moves, Ali was certain she would have screamed and fled. But it stood quietly, gazing at her before saying something guttural and harsh in the language of the Goblins. The other Goblins fell over themselves to cower or back away. Sage of Learning, of course, immediately took a bite out of her mana pool in response.

I’m going to need to fix that, she thought. She definitely didn’t want a repeat of before, when her learning skill had consumed her precious mana during a hard fight.

“Is it an axe or a mace Bugbear?” Calen asked. Then he frowned. “Or maybe it prefers a flail?”

“I don’t know,” Ali answered, considering the issue. If she gave him the wrong weapon, then probably some of his skills wouldn’t work correctly. I could learn to speak Goblin, but that will take a while.

She looked over at the pile of remaining weapons and gear that Malika had deemed too poor to try and sell, and an idea popped into her head.

“Go pick a weapon,” she told the Bugbear, infusing her words with the mental intent of choosing, and guiding that toward the giant via her skill connection. It had worked for spiders, rats, and the ridiculously stupid toxic slimes, so it should work for the vastly more intelligent Goblinoid.

With a feral grin, the Bugbear turned to the weapons and selected an enormous two-handed axe.

Well, that was easier than I thought. “I guess he’s the axe kind,” she noted.

“Very sharp,” Mato gurgled at his own joke.

Calen nodded calmly, but she noticed that he had taken a step back from the brute. “Don’t forget the armor.”

“Take some armor, too,” Ali commanded, spying some of the shiny steel spiked pauldrons that the Bugbears seemed to prefer. As it strapped the armor on, Ali curiously observed the dense core of gold-and-green mana buried deep within the creature’s chest, seeming to pulse gently whenever she gave it instructions. Again, she wondered how the magic worked, as her initial fear of the massive monster began to fade.

Happy with her newest fighter, Ali returned to her Grimoire and began summoning more Goblins. When she was finally done, she had ten of the lowest-level Goblins – mostly Scavengers, and one or two Skirmishers – but her Grimoire had seen fit to grace her with two more of the monstrous Bugbears.

She sniffed, tentatively. “At least they don’t smell quite so bad.”

“You could just order them to bathe,” Mato said.

“They’d probably melt, or drown,” Malika snickered.

“Don’t let them bathe in that water,” Calen said, nodding toward Ali’s accidental lake. “It’s foul.”

Your reserved mana has increased by +394.Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 14.

Oh, nice, a new chapter!

“What do I do with these guys?” Ali asked, dubiously eyeing the low-level mob of Goblins she had just made, more venting her frustration over the randomness of her Grimoire than a real desire for an answer.

“I overheard that newbie group talking about going down into the sewers again,” Malika said.

“Why would they do that?” Ali asked. She had checked, and the herbalists had removed their request for mushrooms already. Presumably, now that the siege was over, they had a surplus.

“They thought your slimes were a good way to earn a few levels relatively quickly. Why not equip those Goblins with some of this junk and send them up into the sewer to replace the slimes? It might give those newbies a better challenge and they can even collect gear to sell to that Weldin guy. That brown-haired warrior, Braden, seemed to be very interested in loot.”

“What if my minions kill them?” While she didn’t know them all that well, the new adventurers seemed nice enough. Ali was horrified at the idea of putting anyone at risk on purpose.

“They’re level five now,” Malika replied. “And they have a decent healer. If they follow the Guildmaster’s training, they should be relatively safe. Your Goblins are all level three and below. They’re fodder.”

“Hmm, ok,” Ali answered dubiously, but she still directed her extra Goblins to select some gear from the castoff pile and sent all but one of them scrambling up into the sewers. If she ignored her reticence, it was a surprisingly efficient idea. She would replace her sentinels in the sewers with minions she didn’t care much about keeping. The novices would presumably kill some of them and grow stronger while also carrying the waste gear to the guild merchant, saving Ali and her friends the trip.

Of course, as usual, I won’t get paid for that stuff. Typical.

“You,” she pointed at the Skirmisher she had singled out from the group. “Teach me to speak Goblin.” The Goblin immediately obliged by beginning to point at various things while babbling and answering the harsh barks and grunts from the much larger Bugbears as it set to the task Ali had assigned it with enthusiastic energy.

“Mato,” Ali asked. “After dinner, will you teach me to hit stuff? Really hard?”

Mato glanced up from his cooking and grinned widely at her. “I thought you’d never ask! Zzzz … mosquito!”

“Mato!” everyone groaned.

Ali was determined to take her combat training seriously, and she would need to know what her Bugbears were capable of – hopefully, this time, before she found herself thrust into another life-or-death situation.

Once her tummy was warm and full, she directed her Bugbears through the drills Malika had taught her. Instantly, she was confronted with several rather frustrating problems. Firstly, the Bugbears were a lot heavier and bigger than her Kobolds, which restricted their agility somewhat, and secondly, every time she tried to apply her new knowledge, they fell over.

She frowned in frustration.

“Ali, you keep making them tip over forward,” Malika pointed out. “You want to keep them on the balls of their feet, but not too far forward – the Kobolds have the extra weight in their tails pulling them backward. You need to compensate for that.”

Hmm… Now that Malika had pointed it out, it was comically obvious to her. In the effort to follow her instructions exactly, her Bugbears were tripping forward, almost as if she had an invisible hand to push them over. A good thing they haven’t become angry at face-planting yet.

Ali had no idea that having a tail would affect physical movement so much, but apparently, she had learned all the moves, unconsciously taking into account the Kobolds’ ability to balance and counterbalance their weight by using their tails.

“Try it without their weapons first,” Malika suggested. “They’re really heavy, too.”

With Malika as her instructor, the Bugbears’ form immediately began improving, and in a few minutes, she had all three of them completing the drills with a – to her thinking – reasonable level of competence. It seemed quick, but really the skill was identical to what she had done with the Kobolds, with just a few adjustments for weight and balance.

“Not bad,” Malika approved. “Keep practicing that with them, but for now, you should probably move on to weapons practice. Mato should be able to help you with the brute force angle – he’s a strength class just like the Bugbears.”

Mato dragged an enormous dead trunk nearer to their camp, grabbed a two-handed mace and swung it a few times at his improvised target, seeming to be getting used to the weight of the thing. It looked comically big on him, but it seemed that his raw strength overcame that limitation.

“Ok, copy this,” he instructed, taking a step backward and readying the mace. “Rar!” he shouted, making a powerful overhead strike at the tree, sending splinters flying.

“Should I shout like that too?” Ali asked, eyebrow raised.

“How else are you going to sound so cool?” Mato deadpanned.

Ali snorted as Calen and Malika cracked up behind her. She’d leave the shouting to the Bugbears, thank you very much. She guided her mace-wielding Bugbear forward and emulated what she had seen, but the enormous weight of the massive weapon pulled it off center and it stumbled. If she just let it hit the tree on its own, it did an adequate job – at least according to Malika who was still watching. But when she tried to improve the form, to copy Mato, everything went haywire.

“You’re not really looking,” Mato pointed out. “Like this.” He swung again. This continued for several minutes without noticeable improvement, much to Ali’s frustration.

Malika always had clear explanations for her and rational technique adjustments, but Mato seemed to be much more intuitive with his approach, and she simply couldn’t see what was wrong.

Just as she was about to complain, Malika offered an opinion. “Ali, you’re not accounting for the momentum of the swing. That mace is heavy on the end, and it moves really fast. You can’t just take the weight into account. Try the footwork from the third drill I showed you. See how it’s quite similar to Mato’s feet, keep your knees bent and lean into it, and then time it a little better. Err, your Bugbear’s knees… you know what I mean.”

Ali studied Mato’s technique one more time, deciding that she could sort of see what Malika was trying to explain. The Bugbear swung its mace and it whacked heavily into the trunk without throwing it off balance. Suddenly, it became clearer to her.

“Mato, can we swing at the same time?”

“Sure. On three? One… two… three…” he counted and swung his mace allowing her to match him.

Instantly, she saw what was different – by observing the trajectories simultaneously, she could tell the Bugbear’s hand grip was switching late, and his feet were getting into position early. She made an adjustment, and the next mace strike hit with a loud crack. The creature pulled back with a satisfied grunt and said a few things in Goblin that sounded, well, smug. Somebody had an opinion of his muscles.

“That’s much better!” Mato exclaimed excitedly.

It took Ali almost half an hour before her strike was deemed satisfactory, and even though she was simply sitting there while the Bugbear did all the work, she was covered in sweat from pure concentration. Who knew that a muscle-bound warrior smashing a tree, with what was honestly, a cumbersome metal stick, would demand so much finesse and understanding?

“Ok, now have them fight me,” Mato told her.

“Are you sure?” Ali asked, worry creeping into her voice. They had struggled against these Bugbears in the forest, and they were really huge and powerful.

“I have armor and I’m not afraid,” Mato answered with a teasing grin, before shifting to his Bear Form.

“I’ll heal,” Malika added.

“Ok,” Ali said, still concerned. As soon as she confirmed Mato was ready, her Bugbear took a flying leap into the air, smashing down with a ground-shaking mace strike that briefly stunned Mato.

