If such a thing existed back in his world… well, Rhys didn’t need to think long to figure out how that would end up. Every country in the world would go to war over it, whether it was in the name of peace or in order to dominate every other country around through controlling the meganuke. He’d have just left Straw alone rather than risk angering the meganuke, but clearly these people were foolish or confident enough to try capturing him instead. He didn’t know whether to commend their bravery or laugh at their foolishness. Only time would tell. If they succeeded, then it was bravery. If not, well. Then he wandered off to learn from Straw again, and it would be as though all this never happened.

In other words, from his perspective, it was a win-win situation. If the rose lady won, he simply became a mage in her school. If Straw won, he returned to status quo. It was unfortunate what was happening to Straw, but he wasn’t yet powerful to do anything about it.

No. This just proves that I have to get more powerful. In order to protect those I care for, whether they’re meganukes or my friends, I have to become the most powerful mage. Clenching his hand to his chest, the trash-level talent trash mage vowed this to himself.

Bast glanced at Rhys. He saw him standing there, a hand clenched to his chest, and looked away without saying anything, but his eyes remained locked on their teacher far below.

The rose flew on. Day passed into night, and day came again. The distant rumble and clash of the battle never quite faded, though it grew quieter the further they went. At last, the rose drew up to the side of a mountain. It alighted upon a marble platform, then vanished, dropping its occupants to the floor.

Bast caught himself. Rhys stumbled and managed not to topple. Alistair floated down, landing gently on the floor.

“Now, who are these? This wasn’t part of the plan,” an acerbic male voice lashed out.

A loose semi-circle of mages stood before them. Each one wore the color of a different school; if that wasn’t enough, a brooch or seal on their chest identified their school through a symbol. They all appeared to be powerful mages from mage schools, though a few martial artists were mixed in. Notably, no adventurers were present at all.

“These are Straw’s disciples. Lady Illya rescued them before the fight began,” Alistair explained, gesturing at the boys.

Rhys looked over the mages, eyes narrowing in suspicion. He tied his hair back up, suddenly feeling as though he might need to run. Hmm. Maybe my expectation that we’d be taken to the rose-lady’s school was a bit too hasty.

One of the martial artists stepped forward, a big grin on his broad face. He was all muscle, with a broadsword strapped to his back. His aura battered against Rhys and Bast alike, scanning over them. In Rhys’ case, cursorily, but he investigated deep into Bast.

Bast pushed Rhys back and stepped between him and the mages. He raised his fist. Fist Intent shimmered around his knuckles, and he glared death at them, a warning written on his face.

The muscular man’s eyes widened. “Oh? Look at that one. Weapon intent, at his age? Tell me, boy. What’s your name?”

Bast glanced at Rhys, who nodded. Don’t hold back on my account! This is your future, here!

“Bast,” he said at last, lowering his hands.

“And what a familiar energy. Is that a bloodline, boy? What’s your surname?”

“I have none.”

At that, the muscular man’s grin grew wider. “Oh-ho. Interesting. I like him. If no one else wants him, I’ll take him.”

“If no one else wants him? Ha! You’re talking as if a child with weapon intent is leftover junk no one wants! With a talent like that, he deserves a spot at a premier martial school like mine,” a female martial artist declared, stepping forward. She wasn’t as overtly muscular as the man, and carried no visible weapons, but the chains around her hips exuded a formidable energy, and the comfort with which she silenced the man spoke to her power.

“Two weapon intents? No,” a well-dressed mage murmured to himself. “No, we must have him.”

Bast glanced at Rhys again. Again, Rhys spread his hands. He’d already steeled himself to the inevitable, though he was determined to prevent it if he could. Still, he wasn’t going to tell his friend to hold back on his account. Leaning in, he quietly advised Bast, “Pick the strongest one.”

After all, if these were the representatives of their schools, they were likely one of the most powerful martial artists the school had to offer. Judging the school’s strength by their individual strength wasn’t necessarily accurate, but it did mean there was at least one teacher at an advanced power level. Or, in other words, someone worth learning from.

Bast nodded. He turned back to the group.

Before he could speak, a martial artist Rhys hadn’t noticed until that moment stepped forward. He wore pure white clothes in a practical cut, with an elegant gold trim that nonetheless spoke to the rich background of his school. The sword at his hip looked like nothing special, with a simple hilt, crossguard, and a scratched-up sheath, but the power it emanated was unlike anything Rhys had experienced to this moment. When he stepped forward, all the other mages fell silent. He extended his hand to Bast.

“Come to my school. I’ll make you my personal disciple.”

The other martial artists looked like they wanted to protest, but could say nothing. They stared on in frustrated silence, waiting for Bast to take the man’s hand.

Instead, Bast looked to Rhys.

Rhys was practically raging in his head as Bast’s eyes landed on him yet again. Hey! What do you keep looking at me for? This is your future on the line, here! Take his hand, okay? Even a plebian like me can tell that guy’s the real deal! Hell, if he were the one fighting Straw, I’m not confident Straw would come out on top! He nodded aggressively, throwing in two thumbs up just in case Bast didn’t get the message.

Bast turned back to the man. “I accept.”

Rhys nodded in approval.

“As long as my friend can come along.”

Rhys froze.

All eyes on the platform turned to him. He felt a dozen gazes pass over him, then summarily dismiss him. There wasn’t even the invasive sensation he’d felt with the man from Snowdrop School, back in their hometown. Just one glance, and they dismissed him as trash.

The man in white robes hesitated. He looked at Rhys again and frowned, then slowly drew his hand back.

“No, no, no, it’s okay! It’s okay,” Rhys said. He patted Bast on the shoulder. “Isn’t that right, Bast?”

Bast frowned at him. He leaned in. “It isn’t fair if they only offer me a spot.”

“Don’t be ridiculous. Of course you’re offered a spot. You have infinitely more potential than me. Besides—besides, I’m going to be a mage, not a martial artist. I can’t match you in strength, can I? The school that’s suited for you isn’t the school that’s suited for me.”

“But…” Bast glanced at the crowd. It was obvious. No one had offered Rhys a spot. If anyone did decide to offer him one, it would only be out of charity. He wouldn’t be a valued disciple, or taken into a high-ranking school.

“It’s fine, it’s fine. As long as I have a big trash heap, I’ll be happy,” Rhys assured him.

Bast hesitated for one more second, then lowered his head. “If that’s what you wish.”

“Have I ever pointed you wrong before?” Rhys asked him.

“No.”

Rhys pushed him toward the swordsman. “Go. We can find each other later, when we’re both mega powerful mages.”

Bast nodded. He stepped forward and took the man’s hand.

Rhys sighed. It wasn’t that bad for him, but he was an adult internally. Bast, on the other hand, had been rejected by his parents and ran away to an orphanage. To get abandoned by his father figure, Straw, and friend in the same day had to be difficult for him. And in truth, if he could come along, he would have. But the swordsman didn’t want him, and he refused to jeopardize his friend’s future for his own selfish gains. Especially when he clearly had no value to these people.

Bast retreated with the swordsman, back to the rear of the group. That left Rhys alone, standing before the mages. He smiled.

The mages muttered amongst themselves. “Who’s going to take him on?” “It’s not that he has no talent, but his future is clearly limited.” “Honestly, it’s already a miracle that he reached Tier 1.” “That mana pool… there are children in my school half his age who could outpower him.”

He looked to Alistair, but the man cleared his throat and looked aside, refusing to meet his gaze. He snorted. Figured.

Rhys forcibly kept up his smile, but it was hard. He knew his talent was weak, but was it truly so weak that no one even wanted to take him in and neglect him? How pathetic was he? He stepped forward, putting a hand to his chest. “I’m not high maintenance. I’ll even help out around the school. I can gather the garbage and sort your trash. Surely someone has need of a janitor?”

At that, the whispers stopped. A few of the mages stared at him in wide-eyed shock, as if they couldn’t believe any mage would say such a thing. At last, one of the weaker mages stepped forward. She had dark eyes with deep bags beneath them. All the other mages were the pinnacle of youth and beauty, but her skin was weathered and her hands rough from work. Her robes were ragged at the hem and splashed with mysterious stains that even Rhys couldn’t discern.

“I’ll take you,” she pledged.

The other mages fell silent once more, but it was a different kind of silence. The kind of hush that came when the audience didn’t know whether to laugh or cry. Rhys steeled himself and walked toward her. It didn’t matter, in the end. This school was immaterial to him, just like the opinion of the other mages was immaterial. After all, they couldn’t even see the value in trash like him. How could they understand his path?

He shook her hand. “Thank you.”

She chuckled. “You won’t be thanking me soon. You signed up to be a janitor? You’ll have your work cut out for you.”

That’s not ominous. Smiling blandly at no one, Rhys followed her. He looked back once, but Bast was already asking questions of his new teacher. He turned away. I don’t need to interrupt that.

The mage stepped onto a large sword, and Rhys mounted it after her, carefully balancing on the flat of the blade. They took to the sky and quickly left the platform behind.
