Ren felt that she was telling the truth, and her happiness because of it tasted so good. The healer knew she was giving him a lot more than just her Tithe, and then her face lit up as Ren kissed her. He wasn't sure what had happened; but when their lips met, some kind of dam opened inside of the healer. She offered up everything she was feeling, and Ren took it.

Unlike every other time someone used their ability, Ren wasn't greedy. He brought up all the times he'd made out with other women and how much he enjoyed it, and gave it to the healer. She moaned as they kissed and shared emotions, and then her ability leveled up.

The healer broke the kiss with a gasp. “Hah... ha... My Lord!” She said and kissed him again as she wrapped her arms around him tightly. Ren could feel how happy he was making her; and since that was one of the things that made him happy, their make-out session went on for several minutes.

Lylyth watched with fascination as Ren and the healer continued to make out and share feelings with each other, and it didn't look like it was going to stop anytime soon. She was surprised that she could feel the emotions Ren was feeling twofold. She felt them physically since he was standing right in front of her, and she could feel the full emotions through her connection to him.

Lylyth knew he needed to get back, so she had to intervene. Ren and the healer felt Lylyth's presence suddenly, and it snapped them out of the emotion loop they had become caught in. They broke the kiss at the same time and looked at each other with similar surprised expressions, and then Ren chuckled. Of course, the healer felt his amusement and started to laugh as well, and then they both laughed out loud for almost a full minute.

“I'm... I'm sorry.” The healer said between laughs. “I.. I just...”

“Me, too.” Ren said. “You're a great kisser.”

“You are, too.” The healer said and her dark grey skin flushed darker. “Thank you for...”

“Oh, no. Thank you.” Ren said when he felt her embarrassment, and gave her a quick kiss. “That felt really good, especially after... that.”

The healer nodded, and she ducked her head slightly. “You're welcome.”

They let each other out of the embrace they had, and the healer stepped back.

“If you're done, shall I open the portal now?” Lylyth asked, and Ren took out another step ladder and climbed to the top of it.

“Not without giving you a goodbye kiss first.” Ren said. He kissed her several times on the lips, and since her lips were twice as big as his, he made sure to cover as much of them as he could. He felt her amusement at his attempt to kiss all of her lips, and looked at her.

“You know, you could have...”

“Let's just keep that a secret.” Ren said and gave her one more kiss, then climbed down and stored the ladder. He gave her a regal bow. “Until the next time, My Queen.”

Lylyth nodded to Ren and created a portal, and the healer gave him a little wave. He waved back and stepped through the portal.
