However, if Jake were able to better control the alchemical process taking place within his own blood, Jake could do so much more. He could create more specialized toxins, make better catalysts, or even filter out nearly all the toxins and make his blood more suited for potions. Perhaps he could even “overcharge” his blood with energy.

This was Jake’s main goal after having considered how he wanted to upgrade Blood of the Malefic Viper. He wanted to improve the core aspect of the skill and the part that would be the most useful. Upgrading the potency of his blood also meant upgrading the poison mist from Wings and the venom from Fangs of the Malefic Viper. All the Viper’s Legacy skills were synergistic with one another, after all, and Jake had also realized something else about Blood of the Malefic Viper.

As a human, Jake naturally didn’t have any venom sacs or anything like that. When the Viper was polymorphed into a humanoid form, he likely also didn’t, which forced him to create an alternative. To Jake, his blood now more or less functioned as his own personal venom sac. At least that was where any toxins he excreted from his body were directly sourced from.

In all honesty, while Jake did have one direct goal, his mind was a bit all over the place when it came to how he would get there. He had nearly too many things he wanted to try, and whenever he got a good idea, it just raised five new questions he felt like he needed to answer before he could succeed.

That was why it was almost a blessing when Jake was interrupted from his thoughts by Miranda, who asked him about the moon, of all things. Now, Jake did have to admit that the entire thing about the moon being haunted had kind of slipped his mind until he was reminded, but when she mentioned it, he instantly had a desire to go check it out.

However, Jake chose to show grace and allowed Arnold to handle the moon. While he did want to kill the Ghostvine to help take revenge for Sandy, it was ultimately still Sandy who could rightfully seek revenge. Jake hadn’t even met the Ghostvine personally, at least not properly.

While he would indeed have loved to go if only to watch the fight, right now, he was having a bloody hard time figuring out how to upgrade his Malefic Viper Legacy skill
