The land was called The Last Good Continent in the tongue of the natives.

The Last Good Continent was smeared on the inside of Fenrir like peanut butter. This particular swipe of peanut butter had grown a whole new ecology of fungi in the shapes of people and castles and civilization.

This land was the origination of a fungal infection that was already spreading far and wide, far past the original boundaries of this place, because the Last Good Continent was a land of vicious, ultimate battles. But not the normal kind of battles. These battles took place inside every person, and every living thing composed of multiple cells. It was a battle that went unseen by the hosts, except in the flesh stalks and protuberances that erupted from those bodies like flowers here and there, if the conditions were right for flourishing. It was normal for them. They lived with it. Reproduction in the dominant local population didn’t happen without fungal infections growing ready for such.

They looked like humans. They called themselves humans, and they were human, mostly. They built societies like anyone else, with kings and children and bakers of bread and diggers of ditches. The trees were funny, with shrooms here and there that were at clear odds with the trees themselves, which were normal brown-barked and green-leafed, or maybe some more exotic colors, if they were a more exotic variety.

It was Veird, taken in a weird direction at the very start of the Script, post Sundering. Erick guessed this version of Veird had something to do with the Death of all Halves and the creation of the orcols, if the orcols had only been the start of the combination of all people into one people. These people were very robust. Incredibly strong. They had tamed all of their world they wished to tame.

The lands just to the side of The Last Good Continent were completely unprepared for the arrival of the Last Good Continent, though. There had been no war for dominance among the people at all, for the people did not need to wage war to secure their place among the lands of Fenrir. Their fungi did that instead.

The Valkyries culled from the outside in, burning great swaths of forests that had been turned into cacophonies of decaying mushrooms, with lands filled with the dead and dying who had no defenses against the rot. Those that died went on to gods, prayers on their lips and hope fading with the light. Those that lived were in pain. The Valkyries ended that pain and brought those people back to life as best they could.

Most people came back fine.

And the Valkyries burned, and burned, from the outside of the infection inward, but when they got to the edges of the Last Good Continent, they were rebuffed. The people of the Last Good Continent were archmages and archwarriors and they were in tune with their world itself, calling upon the very air to Decay the Valkyries as they advanced, to poison the Blood, to Consume all Elemental Carnage in a wave of devouring Myco Magic.

The land here was, quite frankly, disastrous to all other life.

The people here called it The Last Good Continent because all the others were fully given to the slimes and oozes. Those slimes and oozes hadn’t come with The Last Good Continent to Fenrir, thankfully.

Erick referred to The Last Good Continent as Problem 899.

It had been 4 real-time days since the Valkyries had surrounded and quarantined this land, but the people of this land could see all the rest of Fenrir out there, and they had circumvented the quarantine through [Teleport]s and other magics in order to inhabit that land. People and fungi both liked to spread, after all.

Problem 899 had become problems 899-1 through 899-128, with that number increasing by the day.

And though they might be problems right now, Erick wanted to make them welcomed people. He liked what he saw. People made business and friends and the justice system seemed equitable and everything here was pretty great. But the single-cellular war at the base of it all made cohabitation impossible.

Erick appeared in the sky to the east of The Last Good Continent, like a black cloud 40 kilometers across. Below and behind him was a wasteland, and ranks of Valkyries formed a wall of blackgold fire ahead of him, separating the wasteland from the pock-marked fields of some former farmland. Stuff still grew in that farmland, because the fungus-stuff was very resilient. It grew wheat and otherwise exactly within the fields in which it was planted, exactly as it should, because Myco Mages had told it to do that, and it obeyed. The grass grew strong, providing ample nutrients to all the micromushroom colonies in the dirt. The people here didn’t even have to eat the bread that they made from the wheat, for they could just go out and eat grass and otherwise, but they still liked the finer things, like bread and books and buildings.

The lands beyond the farmland held a rural area, with a large city just beyond that. It was a metropolitan area, for sure, with glowing roads where people walked fast upon mushroom carpets, and where carts were pulled by cows with tiny shrooms growing out of their horns. People walked around like normal people, though some of them had eyes made of shrooms, which didn’t seem to impede them, and priests spoke of the fall of the gods and the danger of the blackgold Valkyries outside of the city.

The Valkyries had decided to just quarantine the original land and then move on to save the rest of Fenrir, but the rest of Fenrir was mostly saved, and now it was time to deal with this.

At Erick’s appearance, the people in the city grew understandably concerned.

A 40-kilometer wide dragon would do that, and Erick had fluffed out his wings all the way to let them know he was here. To say there was a panic would be an understatement.

The people in the castle, however, had been waiting for Erick to show. The Valkyries had told them that their Apparent King was going to solve the problem of this land, and now, the Apparent King was here.

A mushroom bloomed on the farmlands below, taking up an entire field. It was brilliant purple with bright white spots. And then it popped and a squadron of elites appeared; a pair of archmages, some myco mages, some archwarriors, and the king of this land.

He was not the king of the whole continent, for the Last Good Continent was more of a land of city states than an empire. Erick had picked this guy to interact with, though. King Cando was his name, and he looked human, same as all the rest of the people. His specific mutation was a crown of golden spike-like mushrooms that grew out of his blond hair. That was the Mark of Royalty in this land, and it had to be earned in some sort of ritual that all king-hopefuls undertook every year. Most of the king-hopefuls failed, returning empty-handed back to their homes. Every once in a while, when it was time for a city to bud off and more people to move to a new city, to be born there, a king-hopeful would succeed in the ritual.

That mushroom the king had growing out of his head was something like his ‘Class’, in the classical Script-sense, and it allowed him to support the growth of a kingdom.

In the last four days, every single person who attempted the King Ritual for the Golden Crown had succeeded, because there was a lot more land out there to be had.

And thus, the problems had compounded.

Still, though, Erick wanted to save everything in this land that could be saved.

Erick shrunk down to size, to becoming a simple person to float down beyond the kilometers-tall blackgold flamewall of the Valkyries, to land a few kilometers inland, in the farming fields.

The archmages and warriors and the king viewed him skeptically. Hatefully, really.

As Erick descended, a few more purple [Teleport]-shrooms popped in the distance, releasing nobles and warriors and otherwise; some of them hoping for good words, most of them expecting a fight.

Erick wore a disposable white and black robe, and that was it. He stepped down onto a road of good brown soil. The soil tried to eat into his feet, but he didn’t let it. The very air cast spores into his lungs that tried to take root, and he did not let them. The light in the eyes of the king glinted, and Erick felt something try to take hold in his own mind. Erick didn’t allow that, either, but he also didn’t begrudge the king his mind bending power.

King Cando truly didn’t mean to do that on purpose; it was just how culture and power worked here.

When the valkyries met and tested this land days ago, the same thing had happened in so many different ways and Erick had to erase some memetic threats from that grouping of Valkyries, and lock down the system with some constant powering, to ensure the same thing didn’t happen again.

Every single person of power in this land tried to take control of the people below them because it was literally the only thing that worked to keep the land controlled, to keep the shrooms and fungus and all the little single-celled, magically-empowered organisms from ripping their hosts to shreds and eating everything.

That’s why the King Ritual of the last few days had had such phenomenal successes; the King Shroom recognized that it needed to spread to control the problems out there.

Erick hadn’t gotten into the research of why this place was called ‘The Last Good Continent’, though; It wasn’t that important. It was kinda odd that all the rest of their world was in a bad shape, though, if they could just spread and control the land they saw.

Erick spoke in their own language, “Greetings, people of the Last Good Continent, and King Cando.”

King Cando startled a little. “You speak our language quite well. I hope that no more miscommunications happen, and that we can proceed as two ships sailing near each other, and not touching.”

The guy was pulling some weird sort of power move, because he was talking about miscommunications and then using an idiom to get his point across. Erick didn’t even touch the part about saying ‘oh, you speak well, eh’? Maybe these people simply didn’t have [Language Acquisition]? It was possible, though unlikely.

So Erick replied, “I do not mean to disparage, but I don’t think you even realize that you just spoke in an idiom, and not in actual words with meanings that can be understood by all.”

King Cando frowned a little.

The king’s entourage had much more severe reactions.

“You’re no king at all!”

“A decieverfern! A weak potion!”

“Who wouldn’t understand ‘two ships’!”

“Your Valkyries have more sense than you!”

“I bet they don’t even know what you’re thinking!”

“You’re a controller! Not a king!”

The king’s entourage yelled and Erick was interested in them, but in a magical sort of way.

Every person in the king’s entourage were all subtly connected to the main golden spikes upon his head, and the feelings of their speech and thoughts went both ways. They argued for the king, and the king supported them in turn. It was natural for them. These archmages and archwarriors and myco mages weren’t just hangers-on, or people hired for jobs, or even people who flowed into positions of power to eventually end up at the king’s side. Those sorts of people were the nobles watching from afar, with their own little entourages.

These people were near their king because they were his extended brain, body, and his deepest family. They were, in essence and fact, the very center of this particular kingdom, and the entire ruling ‘couple’, though it was more like 9 people all in a relationship with each other, and in a relationship with their kingdom. Erick imagined it got very, very complicated, but also not that complicated.

When two kings of the Last Good Continent spoke, it was with entourages on both sides, each of them talking all over each other while the kings tried to set the tones. One king meeting another without an entourage was like a naked pauper meeting a warrior in full plate in a fight and expecting to be taken seriously.

This was part of why talks through others hadn’t worked well, and why Erick was here, in person. The Valkyries had some mind-linking things going on, and so the people of the Last Good Continent respected them some, but not enough.

Erick finally had some time to devote to this sort of problem, though, so he cast several illusions of himself into the air in different colored clothing and started shouting right back at the king, through his ‘entourage’. King Cando’s people briefly paused in shock, and then they started shouting differently.

“Illusions! To a King Meeting! How false can you be?!”

To which Yellow Erick yelled back, “I come from a different land! You expect me to follow your customs? Fucking ridiculous!”

“And now he brings uncouth language into this! He is a delinquent and a fraud!”

“He’s also that Black Dragon from antiquity! A deceiver and the killer of the Old Cosmology!”

To which Green Erick replied, “I’m from an Infinity far beyond yours and even beyond my own! Resemblances are just that! Resemblances!”

Blue Erick backed up Green, “And I’m here to right an ancient wrong! You were stolen, and now you are back.”

“We’re doing just fine without you. Go away!”

“We don’t need your Personal Scripts, either! The growth is all wrong!”

Pink Erick said, “We’re not going away, ever again, and your people are spreading pain and fungus everywhere.”

Brown Erick said, “We’re here to stop that and bring you into the new age.”

“We kept our people here after we saw the warnings from your House Benevolence,” said a Myco Mage.

“Those are the other nations breaking the peace by making those wars!” said another Myco Mage.

King Cando winced.

Everyone in the King’s entourage recognized that was a poor rejoinder, and the Myco Mage, who looked to be the youngest of the King’s entourage at maybe 19, paled and whispered apologies. Of course it didn’t matter who broke the peace, only that the peace was broken at all—

Ah.

Erick realized why, in the Veird that this place had come from, why they didn’t colonize the whole world, and why such a place named the ‘The Last Good Continent’ even existed at all. Breaking Peace with expansion was cause for some sort of big war. A very big war, based on whatever was going on in the minds of the King’s entourage.

The yelling part of the conversation ended.

Erick went all in with the big ultimatum, “I will obliterate this nation and everyone inside of it, killing everything in the Last Good Continent down to the smallest spore. You will have no say in this. You will live again after the fact. That is what will happen.”

King Cando said, “We will fight.”

“Your people will experience a great deal of pain by fighting. More pain than what needs to happen.”

