Erick said, “There appears to be an anti-memetic hazard in the area, as well as the actual danger of a call to memory death. Try your anti-memetic protocols. It’s not Malevolence-based. I’m not sure what it is based on. It might just be Elemental Peace tuned weirdly. Rozeta said that we could handle it. I think she’s mad at me.”

Quilatalap frowned deeply, humming as he searched his soul and fortified his existence. He closed his eyes and sat down on the ground. “Wake me in 20.”

“I’ll be here for you.”

Twenty minutes later, Erick tried to wake Quilatalap, but he did not wake. A poke to the face. A nudge to the shoulder. Talking loudly.

And then Erick spoke, “Come back to me, Quilatalap.”

The man jerked hard and then fell over on to the ground, wincing in pain.

Black cats materialized out of every shadow around and the monster in the water lifted up and aimed for Quilatalap, fangs bared wide.

Erick told them, “You stay away now.”

The cats evaporated away as though Erick had turned on a bright light and burned away some Elemental Gloom. The water monster spilled away like so many broken eyeballs and slime.

And then the very world tried to reject Erick, to force him away, the silver Peace in the air telling him he couldn’t stay here if he couldn’t be peaceful.

Erick remained anyway. He knelt next to Quilatalap, who was writhing on the ground, and offered him his hand.

Quilatalap grabbed his hand—

And Quilatalap was suddenly okay. He breathed hard. “I saw it. It grabbed me.” He sighed. “Ugh. That’s embarrassing.” He got to his feet with Erick’s help and dusted himself off, saying, “Pardon me. I need to eradicate a problem.”

“Before you do that… Do you want another Personal Script?”

Quilatalap froze for a moment. And then he relaxed. “Ah. You can tell that I pulled it apart, can’t you.”

“No, I can’t, but I know you’d want to pull it apart and that was clearly an attack that ignored the Health that you should have, even out here, outside of the Script.”

Quilatalap admitted, “I’d be okay with a refresher.”

Erick handed him a drop of fractal blue-white-black light that sunk into his skin and melded with his soul. “How did you even break the other one?”

Quilatalap closed his eyes and half-focused on something as he said, “I’m still Blind when it came to the Fractal Mark and it didn’t like how much I was poking at the inner workings of it, so the Fractal Mark denied me pushing against it, and then I pushed harder, and then it broke.”

Erick smiled a little at that. “I thought I made these things a lot more resilient than that. It should have just kicked away the Fractal Mark, or anything else that you were poking at too hard, trying to force to happen. It should have come back after a while, too.”

“… I kinda tore through a lot of it, actually, to see how it works.”

“Ha!” Erick said, “I’ll give you a full diagram later. You could have asked for one?”

Quilatalap rolled his eyes, even though they were shut and his focus was elsewhere. “I do have some pride as a Soul Mage, Erick.”

“Fair enough.”

They fell into companionable silence.

Eventually, Quilatalap opened his eyes and looked away, his eyes shimmering black. He held out a hand and adjusted his grip to have his thumb and forefinger wrapped tight, and the rest loose, as he spoke a word of power, “[Summon].”

A young human boy’s neck appeared in Quilatalap’s grip, Quilatalap’s orcol thumb and forefinger more than enough to wrap around the human boy’s entire neck, while the rest of his loose grip held the boy’s torso.

The boy struggled, yelling for help. The shadows in the air and the cats and the monsters in the water tried to respond, but Erick glared at them and they died in droves. They never reached Quilatalap, or their master. Creator? Primary victim, perhaps. Erick wasn’t sure.

“Let me go! Where are my friends! You killed all my shadow buddies! Let me GOO!”

Quilatalap wasn’t about to kill the boy, but he would have if the boy had been the source of the problem. But the boy was truly just a boy. Erick could see that the kid was tied into the Peace in the air, but that was it. Whatever was targeting the boy would switch to another person if the boy died… Or at least that was Erick’s guess. Quilatalap was making the same guess.

Quilatalap spoke over the boy’s screams, “I’m going to hand you off to someone who can fix you a lot easier than I can.” He set the boy on the ground and stuck him in a cage of light. The boy was maybe 9 and he was a firecracker, slamming his fists against the cage, roaring to be let out. Quilatalap said to Erick, “It would transfer if he died, and I don’t think I can actually kill him how he needs to be killed without getting heavily cursed. I’m reasonably sure that the peace this land experiences is due to a lack of Knowledge of war, so simply making the kid grow up would also make the magic switch targets.”

“Then let’s twist this magic,” Erick offered. “Make whoever becomes the focus of the power of this land into the destined king of this land, to have power and responsibility in equal measure in order to make this land into a good land that grows and prospers.” Erick looked to the kid. “He’d have memories, and the land would stop erasing its histories. Everything would change. Perhaps the Perfect Peace would change, too.”

Quilatalap said, “It’s the only way this land survives the coming of other fae, that would surely do worse. What does the boy say?”

The kid yelled, “I don’t need your power! Go away, bad men!”

Erick knelt down to get on the kid's level, asking him, “You have a choice. Erase the land and scatter your people into new lands and everything changes. Or you become the sole protector of this peaceful space, and everything changes anyway, but in a smaller way.”

The kid looked at Erick and his eyes glinted silver. “Why does anything have to change at all? I don’t want change!”

“The only constant in life is change.”

“Nuhuh!” the kid said, “I’ve been 9 for a long time! I can go on being 9 forever! The Peace says I can! I just have to forget! You could forget me, too, and life would be great!”

The Peace in the air flexed and tugged at Erick and Quilatalap. Erick was fine, and Quilatalap was fine, too, because Erick flexed his Authority and shielded him from being kicked out of here. Quilatalap still noticed how silver wind cloyed at his clothes anyway. He had been about to get chucked out of this land like a drunk kicked out of a bar.

Erick asked Quilatalap, “What is your choice?”

Quilatalap said, “I still want to try and save the land.”

Erick nodded, and turned his attention back to the boy. He spoke, “The time for forgetting is over. Look now, and gain the Sight to See. You will Remember. You will guard this land with your memories, raising up all under the Truth of Peace: Peace without Knowledge of what Peace costs is nothing but delusion.”

The boy recoiled and something shattered far away, and right here, in front of Erick. The boy, who was not a boy at all but something like an 800 year old man in a child’s body, crumbled to his knees. Erick didn’t see that particular Truth of the boy’s age until now, but he saw it clear enough now that delusion had been shattered. The kid would start to grow again.

To help him on his way, Erick brought forth another Personal Script and placed it upon the boy’s brow. It sunk into him. When the boy woke he would have some useful power guiding him toward a better future.

Problem Area 227 remained strong, but something had shifted in the air, making it Maybe-Not-A-Problem Area 227.

Erick saw people in the kingdom castles reading books and wincing as they started to actually understand what they were reading. Someone baking bread with a very old recipe paused in the middle of putting butter into the bowl, and then they put in a bit more butter than usual, because they realized they liked butter more than what the recipe called for. An old man, walking into the woods to gather fallen wood for the oven at home, decided he didn’t want to walk all the way in like he usually did, so he broke off a few green branches from a nearby tree and dragged those home.

The Peace-frozen land began to move.

Erick and Quilatalap moved on from where the boy-who-was-a-man knelt on the ground. A black cat found the kid and rubbed against his sides, waking him up. The boy petted the cat several times, the cat meowing at the scritches, and then the boy got up and walked into town.

Erick and Quilatalap stepped past an illusion on the forest path and stepped out of the bubble of protections around Area 227, stepping into an incredibly thick area of Force and Denial magic that Erick and Quilatalap walked through like it didn’t even exist. They soon reached the outside, where they saw a dome protecting Area 227, and a world-sized storm billowing the land with [Terraforming] creation.

Generative storms ripped up the ground and put down new ground, water, and plants. The storm passed fast enough, and then Erick and Quilatalap stood, staring at the dome of Area 227.

Quilatalap asked, “ ‘Peace without Knowledge of what Peace costs is nothing but delusion’, eh?”

“I thought it fit well.”

“It does. Quite well, really. I think Koyabez approves. And Rozeta, too.”

The air above the dome of Area 227 shimmered silver, with white clouds.

Erick teased, “How can you tell when they didn’t directly tell you?”

“Us normal people have to read the signs, Erick.”

Erick laughed.

They stood there for a long moment, looking at the clouds.

And then Quilatalap said, “I’m going to try a truly living body as I work on my years of trauma in 20 year increments. I’ll try to keep my love for you alive and well, though I warn you, it will likely drown.”

Erick smiled. “Then I’ll be sure to give you plenty of reasons to love me.”

Quilatalap chuckled. And then he added, “I won’t be doing that until after we win, though.”

“Of course. And speaking of which, I’m going to go talk to some more people. Ride back?”

“Portal back is fine.”

Erick opened a portal back to Veird, and Quilatalap walked through.

Erick Stepped elsewhere.

- - - -

Problem 16 —which was more like Problem #1, but the problems were described before they were organized in any sort of ranking— was a fae of information that appeared to anyone who wished to know something about their friends or people they cared about. They were, perhaps, one of the most deadly threats of Red Fenrir, because they couldn’t be killed and they couldn’t be reasoned with, and everything they said was a horrible truth that was specifically calibrated to destabilize and destroy.

The fae sat on a rock in the middle of a land of flowers, under the stars, under the moonlights that surrounded Fenrir. They strummed their lute, humming to themselves. A kilometer away in every direction stood a Valkyrie, each of them with arms raised and wings spread wide, linked together to hold a shield of invisible blackgold fire around the bard-like fae. Each of the Valkyries also had masks on their eyes, and muffs on their ears. They were blind and deaf and senseless to the world in front of them, and they belonged to their own contingent, completely separate from the rest.

Another line of Valkyries held behind the first line, to watch that first line but not interact with them, or with the fae they had trapped as much as they could.

The fae looked like Jane right now, but that was simply untrue.

“Hey dad!” Not-Jane said. “You also killed millions of your friends when you killed all of my multiversal selves in that collection trap! You don’t really care about anyone except yourself, do you!”

Erick sighed, and said, “So I checked up with Margleknot, through Yggdrasil, and your name appears to be Mixixofatat.”

Mixixofatat stopped strumming their lute.

Their Jane-disguise had ended without anyone noticing. Erick hadn’t even seen the switch. Mixixofatat appeared to be a lithe, genderless person, of white skin and big white eyes. Hairless and nude. Their lute was gone, and Erick hadn’t noticed that particular vanishing either.

Mixixofatat stood from the rock, saying, “You have discovered my name, and thus gained one favor over me. Name your task. Upon completion of your favor, I will enact a toll upon you based on the difficulty of the favor you requested and received. I will answer 3 clarification questions, and if you do not make your Wish at the end of those clarification answers, then I will make a Wish out of you.”

Here now was the granting of a Wish, in the truest sense of the word.

Mixixofatat was a self-proclaimed Wishmaster, who held vast powers when it came to enacting the Wishes of others, in exchange for never being able to directly help himself with any of his magics. Sometimes people got weird ideas in their heads that that sort of thing worked, and because of the nature of magic, it did work.

His whole deal was only half of a scam. He granted wishes to help himself in any way he could, but mostly for entertainment. If he liked your wish then he enacted it rather closely to the request. If he didn’t like it, then you got a real genie-wish of a wish.

It had been difficult getting Mixixofatat’s name, but not that difficult. Rozeta and Yggdrasil were already on Erick’s side… Mostly. Rozeta was kinda angry right now. Yggdrasil was fine. Mixixofatat had gotten rather far in the completion of what Nothanganathor asked him to do, though, which was to destroy the coalition forces of Veird as well as he could. Erick suspected that Mixixofatat had only gotten involved recently, in the last 10 days of this war here on Fenrir’s surfaces.

But just to be sure...

Erick asked, “What was the nature of your previous wish?”

“My mission is to destroy the unity of your coalition. To poison, so Nothanganathor could plunder.”

“Will you continue to grant Nothanganathor’s wish for as long as you live?”

“Until the wish is complete, I will work to complete it, no matter what wish you might wish in these coming moments.”

“What is the best way to eliminate the problems that Nothanganathor is trying to stir up with the coalition forces?”

Mixixofatat grinned. “Lay down and die, Erick!”

Yeah, that would probably do it. Erick was pretty sure he could come back from death, but he certainly didn’t want to go through with it, because dying would make him seem more vulnerable, and maybe, like Fairy Moon, Erick would need to rebuild his power if he ever died, though that seemed unlikely.

If Erick simply gave up, then Nothanganathor would win, and that was the quickest way to end his aggression against everyone here.

