Phagar said, “And that’s another reason why we don’t want Cascadio here. Nothanganathor could Establish that he has connections all throughout the universe, through Cascadio or even just Margleknot, that could Turn Cascadio into something else, and then he’d be a true danger. How many Malevolencing of how many suns does it take to turn a Good god Evil? Not as many as you might think.”

Erick softly said, “I would hate to ask if you all don’t trust me anymore, so I won’t ask it.”

Phagar said, “We trust you, Erick. We don’t trust that you have a handle on Nothanganathor. No one does.”

“We’re getting there, and we’re in a lot better position than we were last week.”

Phagar moved on. “In good news, Death is gone once again.” He said to Erick, “I apologize again for being terse with you recently.”

And then Phagar vanished, stepping away.

The air felt suddenly lighter, as though a great focus of something much, much heavier than gravity had been here, and was then gone.

Nirzir breathed lightly, and when she looked at Erick, a bit of that divine gravity came back. She smiled, and it was like the world seemed positioned better to move forward… Which was a weird thing for Erick to sense when he saw Nirzir like that.

Nirzir must have sensed something was off, too, as she stopped smiling, and said, “Ah. I think something changed.”

“I think so, too.” Erick said, “It happened to Yetta with Atunir, too. As soon as the parts of them that were disharmonious fully vanished, they felt more solid. It just happened now, I guess. Phagar fully took over Fenrir.”

“Yup. That’s it.” Nirzir looked at the wasteland all around, at the bare rock and the lack of everything. “How far is this devastation?”

“It’s a few thousand square kilometers; pretty much everywhere The Necromancer had touched. Want a portal home?”

“What are you going to do next?”

“Probably visit Area 227 with Quilatalap. He’s already over there, enjoying the Peace.”

Nirzir grinned a little. “I’ll take a portal home. Tell Quilatalap it was fun to fight alongside him… When he’s better. He had taken kind of a big hit there.”

Erick smiled softly. “He’s fine. I already made sure of that.”

“Phagar is still sorry he made him go through with all of that.”

- -

“Phagar said he was sorry for making you go away for that.”

“I asked to be involved.” Quilatalap said, “I’m ashamed that I let that false reality get to me like that, and that I let down Phagar like that.”

“I’m sure he doesn’t mind.”

Quilatalap sighed.

“… But I see that you minded a whole lot. Sorry.”

Quilatalap grinned in a small way, and said nothing.

The two of them strolled through the countryside under Cascadio’s sun, inside Fenrir, in a land that was perhaps too perfect. It was also a land that was impossible to break. It was small villages and farmers raising crops and chickens and cows, and a dash of castles and towns and even cities here and there, but it was not any place that had any corollary on Veird at all. The people here only had a history that went back a hundred years, because they regularly burned their history books.

They burned their books of learning. They had no schools. They had apprenticeships and oral traditions, and almost no words at all.

The Script was nonexistent.

Monsters existed, and there was one right over there. A giant thing looming in the water like a thing of eyes and tentacles and fangs. The fangs were for show, though. Or something. Erick didn’t quite understand the monster’s place in this ecology yet, nor did he quite understand how a monster like that could ever exist in this land. It was just so… out of place.

Maybe it had come in from the outside?

And then the monster ate a tree and then slunk back into the water.

Ah. It was a forest culler. It kept the forest in the right shapes. That was its purpose in this land.

A lot of the monsters were like that, but what they were and what they appeared to be was often at odds with each other. Black grasshoppers started fires, but only where people laid down woven reed mats, and those mats were often used as kindling to start fires. The fires were the eggs of the grasshoppers. Black slimes grew in the mud and they spat out iron tools, but only if people fed them wooden carvings in the shape of the iron tools they wanted.

Back in a village over there, the day before today, Erick had seen a very old woman dying in her bed, wrapped in too many blankets. She had been dying for a long time. In pain. The woman had finally had enough, though. She raised a hand and called for the cat.

In walked a perfectly normal looking cat. It was black and brown with bright orange eyes. The cat came to the old woman, weaving through the legs of her gathered family. The family only saw the cat when it alighted onto the bed, like the softest black feather. Its little paws indented the many layers of blankets, and then it began to purr as it approached the old women.

The family cried as the cat lay down beside the old woman, curling up at her hip. The old woman petted the cat once, twice, and then a third time, and she died. Her soul went into the cat, and the cat went back into Elsewhere, vanishing from sight. The people buried their grandmother in a bed of woven reeds that the grasshoppers found and burned to ash, along with the body.

That was the only way a person died in this land; to pet a cat. Sometimes the cat petted the person, when the person wasn’t physically able.

There was no war.

There was no unexpected death.

There were no serious injuries, though people did get papercuts and they fell down and hurt a knee, but they didn’t get arms crushed by falling trees or other heavy accidents, and they didn’t fall from high places and die. They always saw the falling trees coming. They always landed on something soft, or the ground was strangely soft, or they landed perfectly. Most people didn’t even know that they had blood inside of themselves, and when they did get injured, they healed fast. Monthly menstruation was nonexistent. Dust in the eyes? Never had that problem.

They had no knowledge of most normal things, and almost all of them were subsistence farmers. Even the people in the cities were just there making things and getting by with the bare minimum. Who had built the cities? No one really knew.

Perhaps, if the place was filled with Elemental Good, then Erick could see all this making sense, but though there was some Good in the air the place was not really Good at all.

Area 227 was a Land of Perfect Peace, or at least that’s what the people that lived here called it.

Koyabez was the only god in these lands, and for him, coming here had been like coming home.

Erick, Quilatalap, even Koyabez himself, were all convinced it was a perfect trap of some sort, but they couldn’t find the actual trap. They had been looking.

Sure, the magic was weird, and people were strangely ignorant of things like war, and rape, and premature death, and miscarriages, and murder, but other than that, it was a pretty normal land. A very nice land, actually. Very ignorant of almost everything that normally existed elsewhere, but what was ‘normal’, really? This was normal for these people.

Erick changed the subject away from Quilatalap’s former apprentice, who had become The Necromancer of Death. “Got any other ideas about what’s going on here in Area 227?”

Quilatalap looked around the land, saying, “No idea at all. It reads like those reports on the Good Lands of Margleknot, but I can’t spot any sources of Good anywhere. The air is absolutely filled with Elemental Peace, though, and that seems to be self-generated Peace, too.” Quilatalap trailed a slow hand through the air, eliciting a trail of curling silver thread that fell out of the air and then went right back as soon as it could, like Quilatalap’s touch had disturbed a phosphorescent ocean. “Lots of Peace.”

He looked happy.

Weirdly, wonderfully happy.

Erick looked at Quilatalap and felt a lot of things in that moment. Erick took Quilatalap’s hand in his own hand, and Quilatalap smiled and gripped back in return. “I like it when you’re happy.”

Quilatalap smiled softly. “I look happy here, huh?” He looked at the sky, and at the road, and at the flowers growing in wild rushes here and there, like dots of inconspicuous color upon an otherwise green land. “I think I am. Is that the trap? This is a place of happiness? A call to put down all arms and simply live a life free of the past? A peaceful heaven, of a sort?”

“Maybe,” Erick said, without judgment in his voice. “Would you like that? To live here?”

“You couldn’t live here, could you?” Quilatalap asked, also without judgment.

“I don’t think I could, no.” Erick readily teased, “Maybe when I’m 3,000 years old that might change, but I can visit you every day and live here every night.”

Quilatalap chuckled. “Doubtful. I wouldn’t want us to live a discombobulated life like that, with you going out for centuries and coming back every night, to fall into a routine that you have forgotten. I’ll have to come with you, instead, wherever you go.”

Erick’s heart thumped.

Erick breathed deep. “You want to—? I mean… I want you to. I’m going to stick around here for a long while, though… I might pop back and forth between Margleknot and here. After we win, anyway.”

“And then you’ll go on journeys throughout the entire universe. I’d need to be a lot stronger to stand with you out there, though. I’m barely strong enough to stand here with you right now.”

Erick softly said, “You’re plenty strong.”

Quilatalap laughed. “Not really.”

Erick said nothing.

“Give me 10 more years to make a few really interesting dungeons, and then a few hundred more years to figure out this reson-thing and become a Wizard, or whatever happens next. Being undead is turning out to be a complication to the whole thing. Not sure how to fix that in ways I want to fix that, but I can figure it out. And then we can go everywhere.”

“What’s the major problem?” Erick asked, interested to talk magic.

“As an undead, I decide who I am. That was the problem with the Necromancer; why he wouldn’t let himself be talked into giving up Death. Death is solid. Death is unchanging. Death is a semblance of life, in every way life can be, but Death is still Death.” Quilatalap held up his free hand, moving it through the air a little, clipping away Elemental Peace in the air, only to let that Peace fall back across his fingers, like he was holding a hand outside of a car window on a drive.

Erick wanted to show Quilatalap Earth sometime. Take him for a drive across the Grand Canyon, maybe.

Quilatalap continued, “Death can give way to life, but only in the release of Death. I’ve had that part figured out for a while now, and this body is actually living, but the soul is practically just Elemental Death, all crossed up in different ways. I could become living once again, but… I became undead in order to solve a whole bunch of different problems in my life, and one of those is trauma. I told you I was a shaman for an orc tribe long ago, yeah?”

“Yes, you did. You said that you were a warrior and then you saw the horrors of war and you turned to Koyabez, Melemizargo, and Phagar.”

“Yes,” Quilatalap said, “I became a Holy Necromancer of Koyabez, resurrecting people from battlefields and bringing them peace. I also became the Black Fist of Koyabez, still bringing war to people who absolutely needed it brought to them. We killed those who needed killing, and saved everyone else.

“All that led to a whole bunch of memories written down in my soul as best they could be placed, to make them useful, but not an impediment. I have an emotional break between those memories and my bodily self. Becoming a truly living being seems to be necessary for ascension of all kinds, and especially if I want to catch up to you, who has, as the fae call it, ‘cultivated Life’. Becoming a living being would bring all those memories to life for me, and I’m 100% sure I could not handle it.”

Erick thought he understood, and he was worried. Here, in this land where they discarded the past and built anew, Quilatalap was talking about erasing his memories and starting anew.

Erick asked, “How much are you thinking of getting rid of?”

“99 percent.”

“… That’s a lot.”

“Not that much, actually, considering what I would keep. And I’m considering locking it away; not really getting rid of it. For all intents, though, it’ll be gone.”

“That would be killing yourself. What is worse is that when you do Ascend to True Wizard—” Ah. Erick realized something about the trap of this land. He continued his thought anyway. “—You’d have to simply ditch those memories, because they wouldn’t be a part of your Ascension, so your plan to lock them away is just a plan to kill yourself in a way that feels reasonable to you right now.”

Quilatalap frowned a little. He let go of Erick’s hand. “That’s the trap of this land. It’s a call to memory death.”

Ah. He took that a bit further than Erick had taken it.

Erick said, “I don’t actually see anything like that here, though. I thought it was just Koyabez’s heaven laid down on land.”

“The memetic threat doesn’t have to be visible to be present. It could be an emergent phenomenon.” Quilatalap asked, “What does Rozeta think of this land? Or is she busy elsewhere?”

“Assuming it’s a memory-death place, it has to be a trap for Rozeta, too, as the Goddess of Knowledge.”

Rozeta stepped down beside them on their walk, near Erick, saying, “Well dammit. I liked this place, but now that I am not selectively blinding myself. Yes. This is a memory-killer trap.”

Koyabez stepped onto the path beside Quilatalap, telling him, “Find the memory death trap and eradicate it, please. If it is an emergent phenomenon then some destruction might need to happen.”

Quilatalap bowed, saying, “It will be done.”

Koyabez said to Rozeta, “I want to keep it all intact as much as I can, though. What say you, after looking deeper in this place?”

Rozeta glanced around, and then she looked at Koyabez. “They are equipped to handle the threat here, for now, though it did just get a lot stronger now that we started looking.” She said to Erick, “We need to talk about other things I have selectively blinded myself to, and soon.”

Koyabez stepped away, and Rozeta followed.

Quilatalap and Erick stood on a path in a land with a pretty good trap.

And Quilatalap looked lost.

Quilatalap frowned. He looked around. “What happened?”

