King Cando pleaded without actually pleading, “We could construct a barrier. A real one. We could separate.”

“No you can’t.” Erick said, “Even now, your crown of Gold Spikes is spreading spores in the wind, trying to take root in anyone who wants power.”

The King’s entourage balked, trying to play that off as a lie.

But the nobles of this land, standing in the distance with smaller entourages of their own and silver crowns, heard everything.

Erick laid it all out there, “Your infections long to infect others, to seed the land and burrow into every available host. That is why you cannot be allowed to exist in this form.”

King Cando frowned. “It’s not an infection.”

Erick showed his feet, under his robes. Coils of blue-green fungus tried to eat into him, but he shook his foot, and they disintegrated. He shook out his arms, and spores cascaded off of his clothes. He put a finger to one side of his nose, and blew out the other side of his nose, sending droplets of some yellow slime out of his nostrils. He wiped that away.

Erick said, “Looks like an infection to me.”

The archmage beside King Cando tried, “You could just accept the power of the slime within you. Fighting it is how you die. Cultivating it is how you gain power.”

Erick told them all, “Sometimes, things which are corruptive and destructive need to be burned away completely. They cannot be reasoned with. They cannot be lived with. To give in is to find yourself twisted into something you never wanted to become. Most of your own world was lost to the infection, yes? I will not lose any of this world to your way of life.

“This is not an act of war for me.

“This is not an act of hatred, or malfeasance.

“This is an act of mercy for every other person in this universe, at the cost of everything you are right now.

“I will make it as painless as possible and then resurrect you afterward, as well as give you resources to rebuild and help you rebuild. You are not the first civilization I have had to topple, and you will not be the last. You will lose everything and gain infinity in turn. Please accept my judgment.”

Silence.

Erick saw King Cando’s acceptance long before the king actually said anything, but it still took him four minutes to begin to think of what it meant to actually accept this offer.

King Cando asked, “What does it mean to accept this offer?”

“To accept this inevitability means that you can get your affairs in order and send out volunteers for the rebirthing. I will put Valkyries inside your city, and inside other cities. When a person dies to them, that person will rise as a Valkyrie and as part of a much, much larger collective. A true collective, where thoughts and personhood can blend into each other more fully than what you experience now.” Erick said, “I will have those reborn people come out of your lands and into reincarnation machines that I will put outside of your lands. Once inside those, your people will be stripped of absolutely everything that is fungal related, even inside their very souls. Your myco mages will not be able to cast myco magics like they have been able to do so. Your Golden Spikes will not connect you to anyone, for the Golden Spires will no longer exist. You will have to rebuild, but we have nearly a trillion people out there, going through this exact same thing. Both up there—”

Erick gestured at the land of Fenrir rising up from the surface of the world and then further beyond, rising further and further. Most of it was lost beyond a haze of atmosphere, but past that haze, beyond those clouds in the sky, there were more lands up there, so very, very far away.

King Cando’s entourage looked upward, but the King stayed focused on Erick.

And then Erick pointed down, saying, “—And down there, in another world, another land just as large as this one, about 2,000 kilometers down there on the other side, give or take a hundred kilometers. That one can see the stars outside of this space, outside of this giant sphere that surrounds the sun.”

Some people reacted poorly to Erick describing and indicating that they were but a fleck of dust compared to the true size of their new world.

Some people reacted wonderfully.

King Cando was in the second group, and so were his people. This was because of the nature of their symbiotic fungi, which they would not retain in the rebirth, but that was fine for Erick’s purposes.

King Cando asked, “And you’ll help us rebuild? How?”

Erick held up a hand, conjured some gold, transmuted it from gold to iron to water and then glass and obsidian, making shapes and then making coins and many other objects, before he turned it all back to gold, and then stabbed several 5-meter long spikes of gold into the ground, to the side. “I can make anything.” He made tiny houses and tiny apartments out of gold, and then he set those around the spikes, saying, “And in real size, too. This is just a demonstration size. Mostly, though, I will hand you off to my House Benevolence’s coordination efforts.”

The eyes of the people of the Last Good Continent were wide with disbelief, and hope. The archmage whispered that it was real gold; this was not an illusion. Hope began to win out over disbelief.

King Cando said, “I need a day to confer.”

“Sure. Speak to all your fellow kings, too. You will find that I am having similar conversations with most of the rest of them at this moment…” Erick looked to the side, and cast his gaze far away. “Ah. It appears that talks broke down in the town of Le-Slim? I appear to be burning that place to the ground and forcefully resurrecting the people there. Wonder what they could have said to my future self… Eh. I’ll find out soon enough.”

King Cando looked to the side, toward Le-Slim. It was a land far, far away from this one, but still rather close. The king’s archmage whispered confirmation to Cando. Others just went wide-eyed at Erick.

King Cando breathed in, then said, “They probably refused you everything. Not even willing to talk.”

“Ah. Yes.” Erick said, “That would do it. See you tomorrow.”

Erick moved on, back through time and a few thousand kilometers away, and yes, the people of Le-Slim did exactly as King Cando suspected they would. They also tried to attack him with some truly vicious memetic hazards. Welp! That’s why Erick was taking care of this place himself.

The Last Good Continent looked like lush fields and good food and friendly faces on the outside, and it was that, but it was also a land of constant, unending war, just below the surface, waiting for the least bit of weakness to exploit. Some parts were closer to the surface than others.

The parts at the top were pretty damned wonderful, though. Shame they’d have to rebuild everything. Erick looked forward to how they chose to rebuild.

The next day, the people of King Cando’s lands reluctantly but solidly began walking into the Valkyrie processing systems that Erick had set up. The city of Le-Slim was already put to the sword and reincarnation’d yesterday, and they were already rebuilding fast, just outside of the borders of The Last Good Continent. They were doing fantastically well, easily adjusting to their new lives, though they had lost a lot in the transition. Magics and powers were gone, and most people had similar-looking bodies, for Erick had only put out a few thousand [Reincarnation] machines. [Resurrection] machines simply did not work, because that brought back the fungal infections. Erick put up more and more [Reincarnation] machines, though, so that people could pick different body shapes. Sometimes people tried the ‘randomizer’ [Reincarnation] machine, using it several times until they got something they were happy with.

They brought nothing with them. They left everything behind.

As the cities evacuated, most peacefully, some not, the Valkyries burned everything down to the surface of Fenrir, to the siphoning magics of the land, where the fungus could not grow because the adamantium sucked away all of its magical power.

Erick fully expected these people to have some sort of massive cultural problems, and then get right to conquering and taming much of the world around them. He and Rozeta ensured as much, when Personal Scripts went out like candy. They had lost the Script in ancient history, but they had remained alive due to the fungus. Apparently, in their version of Veird, Rozeta was The White Tendril, and the Script was bare-bones and mostly broken. A person could get to level 10 with a Class and one spell, and that was it. Some people who chose simpler spells could rise higher in level, but if someone picked something like [Cleanse], then they ended up at level 1. If someone actually picked [Cleanse], then they were either hunted down by everyone else, or kept in reserve as a power to be wielded against an enemy.

Usually a Cleanser just ended up killing themselves and the people around them, though, as the fungus either died or the person around the fungus died. Every cast of that magic was a roll of the dice against the caster.

Erick suspected that Nothanganathor had kept the people of The Last Good Continent alive to use as a weapon, but Erick had stripped that weapon from him.

He moved on.

- - - -

Problem 376 was a standard necromancer situation holding out way too well against the Valkyries. This was because the necromancer was Quilatalap’s successor, who took up the mantle of ‘best necromancer on Veird’ after Quilatalap was permanently slain in the Rage Wars, after the Death of All Halves, at the start of the Script. Simply known as ‘The Necromancer’, as he called himself, he killed the world and turned it into an undead paradise, where babies were only born to those who swore fealty to Death. All the gods had died in The Necromancer’s version of Veird, except for Melemizargo and Rozeta.

This was because the Necromancer was the Champion for the God of Death.

A Champion of a god that Phagar had killed himself, some 750,000-ish years ago, in the Old Cosmology.

The God of Death had no name, and so the Necromancer took no name for himself, either.

Phagar got involved soon after Problem 376 had been identified, sending Champion Nirzir.

Quilatalap briefly made an appearance in order to facilitate an actual conversation instead of a war, and thus Erick oversaw some small talks. Those talks resulted in 5 days of delay, and the Necromancer growing increasingly furious at Phagar’s implacable demand to be subsumed into his afterlife. The God of Death did not exist anymore in Fenrir, for Phagar had snuffed him out the very second even the whispers of him had returned.

The Necromancer had been allowed to remain for a time only because Quilatalap directly asked for that, and Phagar was busy elsewhere anyway.

But the Necromancer eventually ran, Quilatalap retreated, and Nirzir slayed the Necromancer with Erick’s help.

Phagar loomed over the battlefield like a fractal spectre the size of the sky, not looking like Erick or Nirzir or anyone else, except for the truly dead. Broken skeletons littered the wasteland, their eyes still glowing. Subdued wraiths, like broken ethereal slimes, clung to their last vestiges of undeath in the craters across the land. Giants of meat and bone lay splayed across a mountainside.

Phagar waved a hand, and pulled.

Every undead, undying thing for the nearest hundred kilometers sucked up into the air, becoming a thick wind, fully ethereal and actually-dead. The wind vanished into the fractal grip of Phagar’s power. And then that was it. The last vestiges of Death were gone.

Phagar relaxed.

The fractals pulled together, and Phagar stepped down onto the cleared land between Nirzir and Erick. He looked like Erick again, but a little grey around the edges. That was normal. Erick couldn’t really tell what he had looked like when he was in his full form, simply because Phagar didn’t have a true form at all.

Looking like a shadow of Erick, Phagar said, “I would have preferred a calmer End to that, so I apologize for my harsh words to you both, and Quilatalap. I have no idea how Nothanganathor pulled that off, and I don’t want to know. I want Nothanganathor Ended, Erick.”

Erick took in Phagar’s hard tone and harder eyes, and said, “We’re getting there. I don’t want to leave any back doors open for him to influence this land and this Pantheon. So we’re getting there.”

The last several days had been problematic for several thousand reasons, but it was what it was. Erick didn’t blame the Pantheon for their anger at him. In fact, he mostly pretended the harsh words from the gods hadn’t happened at all, and that everyone was getting along fine, because if he pretended hard enough, if he worked to make his vision real, then that is how it would be.

Phagar relaxed a bit more, his tone turning softer. “Their problem is they never believed that you would actually allow a foreign god to take hold in this land.”

“I told them I was inviting Cascadio. I laid out all my reasonings, too.”

“It’s still strange, Erick. It’s like we’re talking to a phantom; not someone who can make his own decisions.”

“And that was one of my main reasons for inviting him, as I already told you. He’s not a bad guy. He’s actually rather Good-aligned, and he’s fun, and this place needs someone who cannot be corrupted by Nothanganathor.” Erick said, “He’s literally bigger than this place, and all of you will be that too, soon enough. But we’re all still vulnerable. Outside help is good help.”

Nirzir watched from the sidelines, not saying a single thing.

Phagar said, “We’re not going to be vulnerable soon enough.” He added, “However, right now, the Valkyries, all half-trillion of them, are all being influenced by you, and you can literally decide how this world works. You could eat their power… You could eat everyone’s power, Erick, and that is scary.”

Erick softly said, “I understand that. I’ll start releasing the valks soon enough. We just gotta get through this war.”

“Even after you release them they’ll still be forever-connected to the idea of an Apparent King.”

So they were finally having this conversation, eh?

Erick had wanted to put it off, but… Okay.

Erick said, “I’ll get through a few more major problems and then we’ll talk about all that stuff tomorrow. Mainly the Valkyrie stuff. Not the Cascadio stuff. He’s here and he’s going to help through Infinity to purge Nothanganathor. The sun here is connected to Nothanganathor’s own sun, wherever that sun might be in Infinity.”

