Stars twinkled in a sky with no moon, far above Fel Sadanis. The barrier arched overhead, a buildup of smoke swirling inside and ruining the perfect view from the ground. There were no longer many fires burning in the city, but the damage had been done. The air was heavy with the odor of charred wood with just a hint of excrement to accompany it.

No people were around to be seen, save for the cloaked form of a lone man towing a smallish two-wheeled cart behind himself. The city was not safe after dark, not like it once was. The Watch no longer patrolled the streets, and people were starting to get desperate. After the riots, many had been left with nothing, not even homes to return to. The strong preyed upon the weak, and while the city was slowly returning itself to order, it was best not to go anywhere alone. The cloaked man, however, had decided to do just that.

The figure reached the bridge that spanned the Sadanis river and paused. His head pivoted to stare at an alley, his face shrouded in shadow by the cowl of his cloak.

Like bees from a kicked hive, a pack of ragged forms swarmed from the alley, encircling the man in a loose ring. Muggers. One of them broke from the circle and stepped forward to speak to their unfortunate target.

“Never should have come here!” said the leader of the group in a rough, angry voice. He bore a wicked grin on a face full of broken teeth, girded by a tangled black beard. “Give us all you got in that cart, or we’ll cut you.”

The mugger’s grin faltered as he drew nearer to the man trapped in the center of the ring. The echo of laughter could be heard as the figure reached up, then lowered its hood.

“Gah!” the leader exclaimed, backpedaling.

Rain swept his gaze unconcernedly at the ring of ruffians surrounding him. Perhaps his tiredness was getting to him, but no matter how dire the situation was in the city, he just couldn’t help but laugh at the absurdity. Clearly, this mugger had played the Elder Scrolls.

“Stay where you are,” Rain said sharply, cutting off his laughter upon seeing that the muggers were about to turn tail and run. He punctuated his words with a blast of Refrigerate, giving it a bit of extra oomph to counteract the heat in the air. “If you run, you die.”

Rain had long-since set IFF to exclude all humans, but the wave of cold air and sudden frost still halted them in their tracks. There would be no way these lowlifes wouldn’t know who he was or what he could do. He had Kettel’s loose mouth to thank for that. The events that had occurred in the Fells were the common gossip in the city now.

Rain took no satisfaction from the look of abject terror that had settled onto the leader’s face. The whites of the man’s eyes were visible as he frantically looked to his followers for support. Behind Rain’s back, the blanket covering the contents of the cart shifted as Dozer moved in its sleep. Rain paid the restless slime no mind, ignoring his headache to focus on the would-be mugger in front of him. “Tell them to drop their weapons.”

The man didn’t respond, cowering back in fear. Nevertheless, there was a clatter of steel on stone as the bandits disarmed themselves. Upon closer inspection, most of them didn’t even have proper weapons, merely long kitchen knives, fire pokers, and the like.

Rain sighed, looking at the terrified excuse for a thug standing in front of him. He’d taken the man for a hardened criminal based on the beard, but it looked like he wasn’t much older than Kettel. Clearly, whatever was wrong with Rain’s soul was affecting the man, as this level of terror was unreasonable outside of a storybook. Rain tried to calm himself down, having noticed that the effect seemed tied to his mood somehow.

He looked away from the leader to scan the faces of the others. He saw wariness and fear in their expressions, but nothing approaching the level of terror that the man in front of him was displaying. Rain’s eyes snagged on one face in particular, and he felt a thrill of recognition. Before he could even process that, however, a whimper brought his attention back to the man in front of him.

Damn it, Rain, why did you threaten to kill them? It’s not like I’d actually be willing to back that up. Lucky for me, it doesn’t seem like they want to test me on it. Still, I’m too tired to think straight. I need to be more careful about what I say.

He cleared his throat, then spoke loudly, addressing the whole group. “Listen well, because I’m only going to say this once. There will be no more muggings. You will NOT rob people. We are all trapped in here together, and this kind of behavior is counterproductive.”

He looked at the unwashed faces of the people surrounding him and fought off the urge to sigh. At first, they had looked desperate, but now, having come to grips with the fact that they were facing an adventurer, that desperation had faded to be replaced by hopelessness.

Rain spoke again, in a softer tone this time. “I know the nobles have blocked off most of the warehouses and are charging for access to clean water. I will deal with them, so just stay calm until then. Ask your neighbors to help and give help in return if you are able. Attacking people in the street is not the way.” He shook his head, then raised himself up and hardened his tone again. “Now, cease this foolishness and go back to your families. And spread the word. There WILL be order in the city. Anyone causing chaos will get a visit from me.” He released another pulse of Refrigerate, just to make his point abundantly clear.

The former leader of the muggers needed no further encouragement. He turned and ran, sprinting for the alley. The others started to follow but froze when Rain suddenly pointed at the man he had recognized in the crowd.

“Not you. Everyone else, go.”

Showing the expected level of support for their unfortunate companion, the rest of the would-be muggers vanished into the darkness, leaving Rain staring at the man he’d singled out.

Rain didn’t move, not wanting to approach lest his damaged soul turn the man into a quivering mess. He crossed his arms, speaking in the same frigid tone that had proven so effective on the others. “You owe me twenty-one Tel, sixty-four copper, and two bits.”

“Please, Death Zone, I…” said the man, then he blinked, Rain’s words having made it through to his brain. “Wait, what? No I don’t. That’s not fair! You can’t just say I owe you when I’ve never met you before! This is robbery! Didn’t you just say no robbery? Besides, I don’t even have it!”

Rain sighed and shook his head. He’d known the man didn’t have much money on him, thanks to Detection, but that wasn’t the point. “You do owe me. Over a month ago, you helped someone carry a wounded man to the Guild. Then, you picked his pocket. Don’t even try to deny it.”

“No I didn’t! I would never—” The man gasped and staggered back as Rain blasted the air with Refrigerate. There was no need to be gentle. Thanks to overmana, he never forgot a face. This was the man who had robbed him.

Rain was tired, his head was pounding, and the attempted mugging had his temper teetering on a knife’s edge. The rampant looting and rioting were bad enough, but the nobles’ hoarding of food and water was just despicable. His opinion of humanity had reached an all-time low. He took a step forward, moving closer to the backpedaling thief.

“Fine!” The man said, raising his hands to ward him away. “I stole the idiot’s money. Why the depths do you care? It was just some greenhorn. Besides, I already spent it ages ago. I’m not lying.”

Rain narrowed his eyes. “It shouldn’t matter why I care. The person you robbed, let’s just say I know him well. Because you took his money, he couldn’t afford for his friend to be healed. Did you think of that, when you lifted his purse?”

The man opened his mouth to say something, but Rain was in no mood to hear it. “Shut up,” he snapped, then stared at the man, trying to decide what to do. The silence stretched on and on as Rain’s temper slowly cooled.

Finally, he sighed. It’s not worth it. I don’t have the energy for this, and my head is killing me. He made a show of looking around the street, then gestured. “It occurs to me that your friends left some of their belongings scattered about. Collect them all up and bring them to my cart, plus whatever money you have on you, and I’ll call it even. Be thankful that you aren’t worth my time. However, if I ever hear that you have stolen from anyone, ever again…”

He trailed off, trying to sound as ominous as possible.

The man nodded, looking relieved, then started gathering up the weapons. Rain walked away to allow him to pile them in the cart without encountering his oversoul. “Do not touch the blanket, just put them on top,” he said over his shoulder. With his thoughts, he urged Dozer to remain motionless, unsure if it was even awake.

Rain waited for the man to finish, then briskly walked up to loom behind him. The man whirled, his face going pale as the oversoul washed over him.

“Go,” Rain said, and the man bolted like a frightened deer.

Rain shook his head and moved to rearrange the contents of the cart. At least a broken soul has its uses.

The man had been carrying three Tel and a handful of copper, but he’d only given up the coins, incorrectly assuming that Rain wouldn’t notice. That, plus the assorted cutlery, was far less than what Rain was owed. Luckily for the thief, Rain had more pressing issues to deal with.

Rain knew that he was being too easy on the man, but he couldn’t bring himself to care about retribution now that his anger had cooled. At this point, losing the money that the man had stolen from him wasn’t anything more than an annoyance. He could easily make more, given how many slimes he could feel in the sewers below his feet. There was simply no point in holding the grudge any further.

He put the thief out of his mind, pulled his hood back up, and resumed plodding toward his destination. Eventually, he came to a stop outside the closed door to the bathhouse, having encountered no more excitement along the way.

Rain looked around, seeing no one on the street outside the building. He, Vanna, Yott, and Tarny had split up after what felt like hours of discussion. The others had gone off to get a few things for the plan they had jointly agreed upon. They would be on their way here to meet him as soon as they finished. Despite the delay, it looked like he was still the first to arrive.

As expected, the door was locked. Rain considered using the lock picks that were still tucked away in the bottom of his pack but discarded the idea almost immediately. He knew how the picking process worked in theory, but he’d never actually done it before.

Unfortunately for the door, he was short on patience at the moment. Rain took a step back, then slammed his shoulder into it, breaking through with a crash of splintering wood. He’d find whoever owned the baths later and pay them for the damage. The weathered door had looked like it had needed replacing anyway.

He looked around guiltily, conscious of the fact that breaking and entering was pretty much exactly what he’d just finished saying not to do. This is different. I’m not stealing anything, and I will pay for the damage, I swear.

Satisfied that there were no witnesses to his unprovoked attack on the innocent door, he made his way inside. It took a bit of effort to negotiate the cart through after him, for all that it was designed for tight spaces. It was a mining cart, one of the ones that the workers had been using to transport rubble. Rain had filled it to the brim with the items that he’d recovered, along with the slumbering Dozer. It was rugged enough that the weight of the equipment, the Hefty Maul in particular, wasn’t an issue.

He closed the door as best he could—it was still on its hinges at least—then headed toward the archway on the other side of the entry hall.

Passing through the arch, he surveyed the pool itself. It was large, the size of two Olympic swimming pools end to end, though not as deep. The open-roofed building surrounding it was the same as ever. The last time he’d been here, the water in the pool had been frozen in a sheet of ice, but that had melted now, leaving perhaps a half-meter of stagnant water sitting in the open bath.

He kept the cart with him as he moved toward the sluice gate that drained into the sewers. There was a lot of valuable stuff inside, and he didn’t want to just leave it all night by the archway where anyone could come in and take things.

There was a wooden walkway over the sluice gate for access to the far side of the pool, which he used to drag the cart to the other side. Also on the far side was the mechanism for controlling the sluice gate. It was a large, heavy, wooden wheel, like you’d expect to find on a sailing ship to haul up an anchor.

Rain kicked free the wooden peg holding the wheel in place, then started hauling at the wheel, raising the gate further. His aching muscles protested at his every motion, but that was hardly anything new. When he was finished, the gate had been raised as high as it could be, pressing against the bottom of the walkway and completely blocking off the outlet.

He pegged the wheel back in place, then took up the cart again and started for the inlet on the complete other side of the building. About halfway there, he stopped near one of the alcoves. They were like little private baths, around the size of a hot tub, but still connected to the main pool. He was pretty sure that this was the same one he had used once before.

He set down the cart’s handles, leaving it by the side of the private pool. This would be as good of a spot as any to spend the night, and his stuff would be safe enough here, this far from the door. He tossed his cloak and his pouches into the cart, then hesitated, looking at the archway almost directly across from him.

No one else had arrived. He was alone. With a sigh, he reached up and took off his helmet, then wiped the sweat from his forehead with Purify. The air was hot and oppressively humid, even at night. A quick flash of Refrigerate took care of that, at least temporarily. He took a few deep breaths, then began removing the rest of his armor.

It was a slow process. First, he removed his right gauntlet, then he twisted the middle finger of his left hand, unlocking the finger from the gauntlet. When he pulled the armored finger away, the ring slipped off to lie against his bare skin.

