Next, he transferred the ring from his left middle finger to his right by pressing the tips of the fingers together and tilting his hands. The ring was quite loose, having been designed to fit over the armor. All of this was necessary because he was unwilling to give up the extra health given to him by the Strength. Taking the ring off would have dropped him down to base health again, which would not have been ideal.

In theory, it might be possible to learn to use the ring as long as it was anywhere within the domain of his soul, but that conflicted with his observations thus far. A ring was meant to be worn on a finger, and convincing the system otherwise would take some doing. Just playing along was easier, for now. With the ring safely transferred, he could now remove the rest of his left gauntlet.

Rain looked down at his hands and sighed. I need to trim my fingernails…

The pauldrons came off next, and with those removed, Rain was able to remove the metal plates covering his arms. Just twist to detach at the shoulder, then pull the whole metal sleeve right off. There was another joint at the elbow, but there was no need to do with two steps what you could do with one.

The rest of the bits came off in order. Sabatons, greaves, tassets, fauld, other bits he didn’t know the name of, and then finally the cuirass itself. As Tallheart had said, it was possible to get in and out of the armor without assistance, it just took some doing.

Soon enough, Rain was free of the armor and feeling more naked than he’d ever been in his life, for all that he was still wearing the tattered and frayed gambeson. He sighed, then began removing that as well. It was necessary. He had been lying to himself, thinking that he’d just keep wearing the armor indefinitely.

The reality was that the gambeson had never been designed for use with as close-fitting armor as Tallheart had made. The smith had even had to rip the padded garment apart, thinning it down so it would fit beneath the metal plates. Now, the constant friction and wear had damaged it even further. It was practically ragged at this point. The armor had been growing more and more uncomfortable, but Rain had been ignoring it. If not for the healing he’d done using the ring, he suspected that he’d have gotten sores from all the chafing.

He stopped when he got down to his single, long-serving pair of linen briefs. Those were still holding up, thankfully. He inspected himself in the faint light, marveling at the changes to his body. When he’d first woken up in the forest, he’d been a bit flabby from a steady diet of microwaved dinners and beer. Since then, he’d lost weight, he knew, but he’d been wearing the armor for so long that he’d almost forgotten the changes. The last time he’d been without it had been over a week ago.

Now, those changes were even more pronounced. Unbelievably so, in fact. The flab was gone, and his skin looked tight over the outline of wiry muscles. He even had the shadow of abs.

Simply put, he was in the best shape of his life. However, compared to the musclebound adventurers he’d seen running around, he was still scrawny and pathetic. He was taller than most, sure—outliers like Halgrave and Carten aside—but there wasn’t really any bulk on his frame to back that up. Even a mage like Jamus probably had him beat simply by having lived a harder life than Rain was used to. Cars and power tools made things too easy.

Also, he couldn’t really tell by the dim starlight, but he suspected that his skin had developed a severe case of pale. Wearing armor and a cloak for a month wouldn’t have done him any favors there. With his unkempt brown hair, pale skin, long fingernails, and scraggly beard, he suspected he looked more like a meth-addicted scarecrow than anything else.

He pushed aside that image, along with the irrational fear that came from being outside of his armored shell. He still had the ring and the buffer of health that it gave him. Nobody was going to attack him, except maybe Velika, and she had already proven that the armor was barely an inconvenience to her. He left it piled next to the cart, then walked the rest of the way to the inlet.

There was another wooden wheel next to the sluice gate, similar to the last one. Water rushed in from the river in a torrent as Rain cranked it open. The flow continued crashing into the pool in a waterfall even after the gate was fully lowered.

Rain sat on the ground to wait for the pool to fill, tiredly rubbing at his aching muscles. He couldn’t stop watching the door at first, worried that someone or something would come after him when he was without his armor. Ameliah was right; he really had developed a complex. That rational knowledge didn’t make it any easier to ignore the unease that gnawed at him.

Slowly, his tension began to drain away as the pool filled. The rushing of the water was soothing, and while the situation in the city wasn’t great, it wasn’t nearly as bad as he had feared. There were still things that he could do. There was still hope. Rain’s eyelids felt heavy, and the prospect of sleep was becoming more and more appealing as time went on.

When someone finally did come in, Rain was so startled that he almost fell into the pool in his haste to get to his feet. He relaxed marginally upon seeing that it was just Tarny, accompanied by Wallace, the Guild healer.

Rain took a few deep breaths to recover, then waved to catch their attention. Neither of them seemed to see him in the darkness, so he released a brief pulse of Purify to help them. They were clearly blinded by the torches that they were carrying. Once he was satisfied that they had seen him, he sat back down to wait. By the time they arrived, his heart rate was back down to something approaching normal.

“Well, you look like shit,” Wallace said, staring down at him.

“Hey!” shouted Tarny. “Show some respect to Lord Rain. Who are you to—”

“Tarny,” Rain said, tiredly. “Give it a rest with all the ‘Lord Rain’ crap. Wallace is right, I look like something a cat dragged in from outside.” He shifted his focus to the healer. “I’m glad you’re okay, Wallace. The Guild…”

“Did any of the others survive?” Wallace asked, moving to sit beside him.

Rain shook his head. “No.”

“Damn,” Wallace said, blowing out a sigh. “That bastard Pemmin owed me money.”

“Seriously?” Rain said, incredulous. “They’re all dead, and you—”

Wallace scoffed, raising his hand. “Death is inevitable for an adventurer. It’s the life we’ve chosen. I’m a healer, Rain. I’ve seen death, and so have you. My advice: Try not to think about it, and if that doesn’t work, drink heavily.”

“That’s not very good advice,” Rain said, looking up at the stars. The rushing water had faded to a trickle, the pool basically full.

Wallace shrugged. “Beats letting it get to you. Now, what the hells happened to you?”

“Lord Rain was trapped underground for days,” Tarny said. “He dug himself out. He cleared more of the tunnel than the work crews, all on his own!”

“I see,” Wallace said, looking at Rain speculatively.

Rain shifted uncomfortably, acutely aware of the fact that he was practically naked. “Wallace, there’s something wrong with me,” he said. “I asked Tarny to find you so you could take a look. I think I injured myself somehow. Do you…feel anything? From me, I mean?”

“Huh?” Wallace said. “What do you mean?” He laid his hand on Rain’s bare shoulder. Rain flinched at the sudden contact, then forced himself to relax. Wallace raised an eyebrow at his motion but didn’t comment on it.

After a few moments, Wallace shook his head. “You’re fine, you whiner. Just normal wear and tear. In fact, you’re a lot healthier than you look. Some muscle tears, some bruising, but no broken bones or other major injuries…. Wait…” Wallace’s brow furrowed, his grip tightening on Rain’s shoulder. “Huh, no, there’s more. Someone else healed you, or you’ve been abusing scrolls. You’re on the edge of the danger zone. If you were hurt, healing you now wouldn’t be a great idea.”

“I already knew that,” Rain said with a sigh. “That’s not what I’m talking about. It’s something else. You really don’t feel it? There should be a sort of pressure, just by standing next to me.”

“Nope,” Wallace said, taking his hand away. “Not sure what you’re on about.”

“I still feel it, Lord Rain,” said Tarny. “Your power rages like a fire.”

Rain opened his mouth to reply, but Wallace beat him to it. “Okay, what’s the deal with this guy?” he said, jabbing his thumb at Tarny.

Rain sighed and shook his head. “He thinks I’m secretly a platinum and that I’ve been hiding my power. The three workers who dug me out all told me that they feel this weird pressure coming from me. They called it oversoul, like in the stories. Obviously I’m not a platinum, but I think I did something to damage my soul. I’m leaking, I guess. You ever hear of anything like that?”

Wallace snorted, then climbed to his feet. “You’re both idiots,” he said, then looked at Tarny. “You in particular. Rain is a bronzeplate, just like me.” He looked back at Rain. “And there’s no such thing as oversoul. Not in real life.”

“No, you’re the idiot,” Tarny said, balling up his fists. “Lord Rain will save us. He will defeat the Citizen and—”

“Tarny, enough,” Rain snapped, his temper flaring. He pointed. “Go…guard my stuff. I want to talk to Wallace alone.”

“But—” Tarny started, but cut off whatever he was going to say as he saw Rain glaring at him. “Yes, my Lord.” Rain groaned as the man bowed—actually bowed!—and moved away.

Wallace snorted derisively as the man walked away. “Dulls.”

Rain wearily got to his feet, accepting Wallace’s offered hand as he tried to put Tarny out of his mind. “So, you really have no idea what it could be?”

“Sorry, Rain,” Wallace said. “I don’t even believe in all that ‘soul’ hogwash in the first place. The body is just meat, and that’s that. Whatever you’re talking about, it’s not something I can help you with.”

“Damn,” Rain said. He sighed deeply, then walked over to the crank and started turning it to block off the inlet. The pool was full, now, practically overflowing.

Wallace moved to help him, grunting with surprise as he took up half of the weight. “Hey, this thing’s pretty heavy.”

Rain nodded in acknowledgment. He probably had more physical strength than the healer did, thanks to the ring, but that wasn’t a conversation he wanted to have at the moment. “How about you, Wallace? How are you holding up? How are the headaches?”

Wallace grunted. “Not too bad. I’ve got a full set of Rings now. The Citizen got them for me. With the state she was in, she needed all the help I could give her.”

“Has she fully recovered, then?” Rain asked, locking the wheel in place and stepping away. “How bad was it, exactly?”

“Like a damn meat market,” Wallace said. He yawned, covering his mouth with his hand. “Depths, it’s late. Your damn fanboy over there woke me up by pounding on my door for like ten minutes.”

“Sorry about that,” Rain said. Ask politely, I said. Damn it, Tarny. “So, she’s…”

“Fine,” Wallace grumped. “I saved her leg, and that was the worst of it. It just might not look the prettiest when the bandages come off. Healing goldplates is hard work. Too much damn health.”

Rain nodded. “I can imagine.”

“Anyway,” Wallace said, clasping his hands behind his back. “I can’t do anything for whatever it is that you’re feeling. I’m tired as shit, and it’s way too damn hot out here. My advice for you is to sleep it off.” He nodded briskly. “Now, if there’s nothing else, I need to be up at the asscrack of dawn to check on the Citizen. She’s going to have scars no matter what, but I’m not about to tell her that. She wants me to keep trying, so that’s what I’ll do. I don’t have a death wish.”

“Thanks, Wallace,” Rain said. “I appreciate it. And good luck.”

Wallace nodded, then walked away without even saying goodbye. Rain snorted. The man wasn’t much for social graces, but when it really came down to it, he had his heart in the right place. The fact that he’d come at all was proof enough of that.

Before the healer got too far away, Rain activated Essence Well. Tissue Scan wasn’t free, and replacing whatever mana Wallace had spent was the least he could do. Wallace paused upon seeing the blue rings, then looked over his shoulder. A rare smile flickered across his face, then he nodded in thanks before continuing toward the arch. Rain kept the spell going until he got out of range.

Once Wallace was gone, Rain looked over at Tarny, who was standing near the cart as ordered. He sighed, running his hands through his hair. I am going to need to do something about him before he does something ridiculous, like starting a cult in my name. I’ll talk to Vanna when she gets here. Maybe she can straighten him out. Rain shook his head, then looked at the exit to the baths. What’s taking them so long?

He lowered himself down to sit on the edge of the pool, letting his legs slip into the water. There was a thin film of oil and ash on the surface, but that kind of thing didn’t bother him anymore. After going through the Tunnel, it was hard to find something that trivial to be disturbing in the slightest.

The water was tepid, more evidence for the theory Rain had formed concerning the steady increase in the city’s temperature. The initial heat had been from the battle between Halgrave and Westbridge, of course, but that wasn’t enough to explain why it just kept getting hotter and hotter.

It has to be the greenhouse effect, after all.

The dome was clearly a poor conductor of heat. If it hadn’t been, it would have felt cold when he’d touched it before, thanks to the winter air on the other side. It didn’t block light, however, meaning that the sun would be warming the city each day. Thanks to the dome, the heat would have no easy way to escape.

At least, in theory. Rain wasn’t sure if electromagnetism even worked the same way in this universe. Jamus said lightning was under the umbrella of Arcane magic, while light fell under, well, Light. How either of those schools of magic related to electrons, photons, and so forth wasn’t something that Rain felt qualified to explain. He’d been studying computer science, not physics or engineering.

