The information that overmana gave him was strange and fragmented. For example, he could remember Maxwell’s equations perfectly, but he’d be damned if he knew how to use them. All of the context had been lost, including what that weird upside-down triangle meant. When he thought about electromagnetic fields, he saw a frozen image of the equations scrawled on a whiteboard in university physics 101. It had been years since then, and he hadn’t exactly used anything from the class since. Construction was all about a practical understanding of physics, not a theoretical one.

I should have gone back and finished my degree… Rain sighed. Damn it, I distracted myself again. University physics isn’t what I need here. I need something a little simpler.

In the aftermath of Westbridge’s attack, Rain’s mind had naturally jumped to the greenhouse effect, but he’d discarded that guess in the following days. The temperature had stayed pretty much constant, barring a thermometer to confirm the numbers. Now, however, the warm water had convinced him that he’d been right all along.

The river had started off ice-cold, but that had quite clearly changed. The water—and the earth, he supposed—would have gradually equalized in temperature with the air. That meant that the air was now free to heat up even further, no longer giving all of its energy away to everything else.

The term ‘specific heat capacity’ had drifted through his mind when he’d been using Immolate to boil Devil Fish. It was disconnected, like a lot of the other random facts that were floating around in there, but he had recognized the speaker. It wasn’t university physics, merely high school. That gave him a starting point.

Rain looked around the room, then closed his eyes and fell into a Winter Singularity. He’d found that by concentrating while boosting his overmana to the limit, he could slowly piece together the scattered bits of information floating around his brain into coherent memories, down to the level of remembering a teacher’s lecture, word for word. All he needed was a seed, in this case, his old teacher’s voice. It made no sense with his understanding of how memory actually worked, but there it was.

After a few minutes, he relaxed, then played back the small segment he had reconstructed. Mr. Rickart’s monotonous drone started up in his mind, carrying with it the desire to doodle in class and a vague unease concerning homework.

“The term for this is ‘specific heat capacity.’” Mr. Rickart said, taking the time to write the words on the chalkboard and to underline them. “The specific heat of a substance depends upon its own intrinsic physical properties. At standard temperature and pressure, water has around four times the specific heat of air. If you will recall from last week’s discussion on energy, one calorie is defined as the amount of energy required to increase the temperature of one gram of water by one degree centigrade and is equal to…”

Rain shook his head, freeing teenage thoughts from his mind as his senses returned. He had what he needed for now.

It was somewhat disturbing, how real the memories that he reconstructed this way felt. He didn’t just get the lecture, but also his younger self’s feelings and thoughts in response to it. In this case, he’d been paying less attention to the science and more to the way that Mr. Rickart’s Adam's apple bobbed up and down when he talked and how he looked like a wizened tortoise wearing a turtleneck sweater.

Rain chuckled at himself. I was such an idiot back then. Mr. Rickart didn’t deserve all of the crap we gave him. Sure, he was a little boring, but at least he cared.

Rain was disappointed that the ratio between air and water turned out to be four, not like forty or something. Still, it confirmed his hunch. He’d be much better off using Refrigerate while submerged. When combined with the fact that water was around eight hundred times denser than air, it would be three thousand times more effective, more or less. It wasn’t a perfect calculation, as liquids did seem to slow down the spread of the aura, but still.

He sighed and rubbed at his eyes, too tired right now to try and calculate how much energy would actually be required to freeze the pool. He’d work on that later when he had some downtime. The conversion ratio between mana and energy seemed like something worth knowing, but there were so many unknowns that calculating it would be a nightmare.

Rain let himself slip into the water, thankful to find that his feet could still touch the bottom, if only just. Purify responded to his will as he made his way toward the center of the pool. The cleansing light of the aura filtered through the water, clearing away the contamination.

Rain took a deep breath and dunked his head below the surface. With his eyes open, he floated, watching the billowing waves of white magic spread. The magical light moved slower in water than it did in air, giving it an eerie, otherworldly feel. It was incredibly calming. He could already feel the tension starting to drain from his tired muscles.

He pushed himself back to the surface to breathe, then rolled over to float on his back. It would be nice to just stay like this for a while. To have no worries. No obligations. No fear.

He regretfully let his feet sink to the bottom, then flared Purify into a Nova. The white shell of magic raced away from him as he switched to Refrigerate. He’d come here for a purpose. Cooling down the city was a good end goal, but he was unsure if it would actually be possible at this point. For all he knew, even if every single person with a cold-aspect spell spent every last shred of their mana for days on end, it still might not be enough.

He was confident, however, that he’d be able to manage this pool. He would create a refuge against the heat that gripped the city. A sanctuary. Clean, cool water, available for everyone.

He’d sent Vanna to round up the other work crews, and Yott to secure supplies, barrels in particular. The bathhouse was large, but it wasn’t big enough to fit everyone in the city. His plan, for now, was to have the workers fill the barrels with chilled water and distribute them. He could even make ice to keep them cool, as evidenced by the thin layer that was already forming on the surface.

The temperature of the water was dropping rapidly, even with the low intensity of Refrigerate. As he’d learned in the Fells, while the spell spread slightly slower in water than it did in air, it was no less effective. He lacked the tools to make accurate measurements of the rate of change; all he knew was that it was damn fast.

He gasped as the increasingly frigid water sucked the heat from his body. The layer of ice on the surface was starting to thicken, creeping in toward him, and the water below was transforming into a slush of rapidly growing crystals. He refused to relent, trusting his boosted Endurance to protect him. His cold resistance was currently 2.6 times that of a normal human, assuming that it worked that way when it came to physical temperature. That resolve didn’t last long, however.

Holy shitballs, that’s cold!

Rain switched to Immolate, fighting against the violent shivers that wracked his body as he compressed the radius. He didn’t want to undo all of the work he had just done, only enough to stop himself from freezing to death.

The water around him rapidly began to warm, but his body was slower to react to the respite. He got himself moving toward the other end of the pool, still shivering as he melted a channel through the thin sheet of ice.

“Amazing,” Tarny said in awe. The man’s voice carried easily over the ice to Rain’s enhanced ears.

Rain smiled. Magic rocks.

He kept going until the shivering had stopped, and he started feeling uncomfortably warm instead. Then, he repeated the Purify Nova and switched back to Refrigerate.

It took many repetitions of this process, including a few pauses to recover with Winter, but he eventually reached the far end. It had taken almost four mana pools to do it, but the entire volume of the water had been chilled to zero degrees, more or less. A thick layer of slush floated on the surface, gradually locking up into solid ice. The air, too, was glacial, the walls of the bathhouse serving to contain the pocket of arctic chill.

Rain hauled himself out of the water and glanced at the group of people working to fill barrels. Vanna had arrived with two other work crews, having recruited them with the money Rain had given her. Yott had shown up with a fourth crew, and a wagon full of barrels. Even more people had arrived since, that being Tarny’s doing. The man had left while Rain had been working, saying that he’d needed to get his cloak. When he’d returned, he’d had another group of workers with him, all of them wearing heavy clothing against the chill.

Rain had spoken to Tarny briefly when he’d returned, needing to clarify the pecking order for this little operation before it became a problem. It went Rain, then Vanna, then Yott and Tarny, then everyone else. It seemed to be working well enough for the moment.

“Here,” Yott said, approaching and handing him a fluffy towel. “I found this in the storeroom.”

“Thanks, Yott,” Rain said, wrapping himself in the towel. “Did you get—”

He broke off as she pointed to a wicker basket, sitting on the edge of the pool a little ways away. “There’s a whole chicken in there, plus roast vegetables, beer, and bread. Sorry, none of it’s warm.”

Rain beamed at her. “Thanks, Yott, you’re amazing. I don’t care if it’s cold. Did you know that the Watch has these biscuits that are even worse than Guild rations? They’re softer, but they taste even more like cement.”

Yott shrugged.

“Never mind,” Rain said. “How much do I owe you?”

Yott shook her head. “It’s fine.” She gestured at the frozen pool. “That is enough, and not just for me. I suspect everyone here feels the same.”

“Nonsense,” Rain said. “Let’s call it two Tel. Remind me later.”

“That’s too much,” Yott said, trailing off as Rain grabbed the basket and headed for the wooden walkway. She didn’t follow him, and it wasn’t just because he’d asked everyone to stay on this side of the pool.

For all that Yott said she had gotten used to his supposed oversoul, he could tell that it still made her a little uncomfortable.

That’s tomorrow’s problem.

He looked over his shoulder, waved, then turned his attention to the basket. It smelled amazing. He resisted until he reached the spot where he’d left the cart and his armor, then eagerly dug out a piece of chicken. He bit into it, then sighed in delight. Finally.

He fell asleep before he even finished his meal, wrapped warmly in his cloak and using the tattered remains of his gambeson as a pillow.
