"You may not know the full extent of Schema's problems, but I've seen them in person many times. Our Emp-" He shook his head. "The Empire enslaved many species and planets, and they are desolate places and peoples. Whenever you pick up the skeptiles, you will understand that."

I furrowed my brow.

"It's that bad?"

Helios pinched the bridge of his nose.

"It's...It's worse. The Empire sacrificed many innocents for Obolis's artifacts. Cultures and societies have been destroyed in greed's wake."

I shook a hand.

"But Elysium is controlling people's minds. You can't even have free will with them."

Torix crossed his arms.

"Is Schema so different?"

I leaned back. Torix turned a hand.

"You were trapped in BloodHollow initially before being trapped on earth with a quarantine. Then Schema trapped you with an unknown status, then with your position in a war against Elysium. It's never stopped. He trapped you in the lottery. Where is your free will in any of those circumstances?"

My shoulders dropped.

"I...I did get a choice. I chose to fight."

Torix shook his head.

"But it's either accomplish Schema's demands or die. That is slavery. There are no two ways about it, so let it be made plain."

Taken aback, I nodded.

"That's...That's fair."

Torix's spread his hands to everyone.

"Elysium is trying to stop all that nonsense. Their means are insidious but don't forget, so are Schemas." He locked eyes with me. "Part of the reason people have congregated to this guild is that you don't use those tools."

I pressed my hand against my temple.

"But at least Schema gave people a chance to survive. Elysium just killed everyone."

Helios raised a brow.

"What? They killed everyone?"

I took a breath.

"Yes. Everyone."

Helios frowned.

"Your lottery was vastly different than my own."

Torix pressed his fingertips together.

"What did Elysium do to your rulers?"

Helios crossed his arms.

"They ensured everyone's survival."

I gawked. Helios shrugged.

"494 survivors. I am the only reason any rulers died."
