The choice of one’s Class has such a fundamental and enduring impact upon the individual’s future that it can drastically affect the entire community around them. And yet the so-called ‘Natural Path’ to class acquisition is heavily biased in favor of the most generic, common, and broadly applicable classes available. This effect has proved to be persistent across history, culture, and race among the sentient peoples of our realm. It is for this reason that basic classes such as warrior, laborer, farmer, cook, or guard predominate in populations without access to a Class Shrine. This explains why so many people are forced into inefficient or unwanted classes by the default selection of this Natural Path.

The Class Shrine is an artifact that affords vastly more control and choice over the process of class acquisition. Evidence shows that activities within the window of time between unlocking class experience and earning the first class level have a disproportionate influence upon the class offered. By controlling the timing of this experience unlock, the shrine allows for the practice of undergoing a formal Class Trial, wherein the applicant may focus entirely on activities appropriate for the desired class, often overriding unfortunate experiences of youth or childhood.

Upon earning sufficient experience, the Natural Path class will be offered at level one. Accessing the Class Shrine a second time before it affixes often provides one or more alternate class choices in addition to the Natural Path. Again, this access to a wider array of options and choices has the potential to substantially improve the quality of classes across a given community.

Originally a product of high-level sentient dungeons, Class Shrines were incredibly rare, requiring a competent adventurer group to delve deep into the bowels of the dungeon just to gain access, placing them far out of reach of the vast majority of the population. However, here at the Ciradyl Academy, in conjunction with the Council of Archmages, we have learned to unravel the secrets of the Class Shrine, allowing them to be crafted, thus removing dungeons from the equation entirely.

While artificial Class Shrines have certainly had their impact, substantially raising the average quality of classes acquired, they introduce a host of other problems. Due to the difficulty in their construction, they are still rare. And given the nature of their power, access to Class Shrines has become fraught with restriction schemes reflecting political or financial ambition. Wars are fought over access to shrines, and due to their Soulbound nature, the most common method of ownership transfer has become murder, assassination, or dynastic succession.

- Nathaniel Sunstrider, Archmage, Scholar, and Guildmaster of the Elven Pathfinder Guild. Discussion on the value and impact of class shrines.

Aliandra

Crack.

The sudden sound shattered the blissful blackness of her drifting awareness like a rock striking a pane of glass.

What… where…

Her mind recoiled at the sudden jagged sharpness stabbing into her.

Pain…

The word drifted across the haze of her mind. She grappled with it for a while, certain she should know it, but the distant, vague recollections that lurked in her awareness appeared and vanished like apparitions in the mist.

She had not felt pain… anything… in such a long time.

Aversion. She knew only that she did not like this sensation, this interruption breaking the long dream.

She struggled fitfully against the pain, but nothing in her world changed. She remained there, standing where she had always been, frozen in place, encased by the glowing crystalline magic of her prison. The radiant golden light illuminated the stone path before her, but everything beyond was gray, fading to impenetrable darkness. The scene flickered in the grayness, but that too was unchanging, a cycle of a few dozen flickering pictures as fleeting as her own intangible memories.

Her mind seemed sluggish. As it had always been. But somehow, this time, something was definitely wrong. She didn’t know what it should feel like, just that this wasn’t right. She struggled again, finding herself unable to move, to escape the pain.

Crack!

Another bolt of jagged sharpness stabbed deeply into her mind. This time, a tiny, jagged line appeared, splitting the golden glow, and spilling a fracture of color out into the gray world beyond. A tiny mote of golden light separated, escaping through the jagged crack, and slowly drifted upward. She watched it, unable to look away, feeling an inexplicable and infinitely deep upwelling of sadness within her heart. Unbidden, a memory surfaced; a warm, kind hand touching her face, offering comfort. Another tiny golden mote escaped, drifting upward, and her memories came crashing back.

Mom…?

Gentle eyes gazing upon her. Golden motes of mana spilling from the hand that reached out to comfort her. And then she faded away, leaving only…

Suddenly, the specter of death loomed large in her mind. A dark, withered figure wearing spelled robes and a crimson blindfold, wielding death from gaunt, skeletal fingers as his mocking laughter sent shivers running through her soul.

Nevyn Eld.

Her mother had given her life to save her from him. And now she was gone.

Unable to wince or cry out, she endured another jolt of pain. Another fractured line of jagged color spilled out into the world – a crack in the impervious magic that held her fast.

Her memories came faster now, crashing through her, a rapid cascade of painful images. The frantic flight from the library. Maeria Runeweaver sliding off a sword. Armand. Her father asking her to be brave. The Death Knight at the gates to Dal’mohra.

The motes of mana drifted upwards, more and more of them joining to create a pillar of floating lights as the magical shell around her slowly cracked and splintered, pieces dissolving into the air. But Ali’s heart ached, left with only the profound weight of loneliness, and the powerful need for her mother’s touch, and the crinkle of a smile in her father’s eyes.

She cried out in pain as the crystalline magic – the legendary spell, bought by her mother’s sacrifice – suddenly exploded in an enormous burst of golden energy and shattered shards. She fell, hitting the stone path below with a bruising crash. The gray world flickered rapidly as color and vibrance flooded outward.

Helpless, she lay on her back amid the still-glowing shards of her mother’s magic, staring upward as the pillar of golden motes slowly drifted away, fading into the darkness beyond. Her body did not move, could not move. She lay there for ages, her heart frozen with grief and sadness, her body limp and unresponsive.

Slowly her mind cleared. There were no stars in the darkness overhead, and she suddenly remembered the vision of an exploding mountain and the landslide that had buried her.

A cavern? She shuddered, struggling with a sudden bout of claustrophobia at the memory of uncountable tons of rock bearing down upon her. What if she had awakened entombed in stone?

Where is the Blind Lich?

What about the Death Knights?

Where are the skeletons?

She struggled, fear coursing through her in waves as she lay helpless on the cold, uncaring stone, unable to even turn her head to look for danger.

She willed her hand to move. Nothing happened. Too much, she thought as a wave of exhaustion washed over her.

Am I alive?

She breathed.

After a time, she decided she must be and she resumed her efforts, bending will into moving just her finger, and after a few minutes, she felt a twitch. Exhaustion surged through her body and for a moment she just lay prone.

Droplets of golden liquid mana pooled on her skin and trickled down like glowing sweat as her body slowly expelled the remnants of her mother’s potent spell, staining the ground around her with a sparkling light that soaked into the earth.

What can I even do? She was obviously in mortal danger, exposed to any monsters that still lurked nearby. She was weak, and far too exhausted to even move. She did not have Armand’s strength or scales, or her father’s summoned monsters.

Her mom had always told her that any problem could be solved with applied reason, but the little voice in the back of her mind reminded her that her mother had probably never woken up helpless in the dark, fearing that, at any moment, an undead monster would run her through with a rusty blade and raise her corpse as one of the walking dead. Just like poor Armand. But she clung to the remembered wisdom for dear life. There was no other choice.

She still wore her white cotton t-shirt and shorts, and her arms and legs were already tingling with goosebumps in the chill dank air. Her library card and Maeria Runeweaver’s book should be somewhere nearby.

Perhaps when I can move.

With a thought, she opened her status – a task that thankfully did not require her body to move.

The image of the intangible book appeared in her mind; vibrant green leaves etched into the cover like living plants. It hovered there, clearly visible, and yet it had never interfered with her vision.

But something was different this time. The leaves seemed denser as if the plants depicted on the cover had somehow grown. When it snapped open to her status, the parchment seemed darker, aged somehow, and she caught the faint musty scent of books that had languished in some forgotten storage for far too long.

Still, the glowing golden script was as clear as ever.

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: Ancient

Class: [Locked]

General Skills- Reading – level 7- Linguist – level 4- Identify – level 5- Arcane Cantrip – level 4- Plant Growth – level 4- Memorize – level 4- Scholar – level 6- Sculpting – level 2

Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal’mohran, Elvish, Dwarven- Mana (Affinities): Arcane, Nature- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Mana Sense (Racial): You are sensitive to nearby mana

Attributes- Vitality: 5- Strength: 4- Endurance: 5- Dexterity: 10- Perception: 11- Intelligence: 21- Wisdom: 14

Health: 25/25Stamina: 2/50Mana: 210/210

For the first time in her life, she found no joy or pride in her Scholar, Reading, or Linguist skills as she scoured her abilities for something, anything, that might be of use against a skeleton like the one that had killed Armand. If one of the Death Knights, or worse, the Blind Lich was still around, she knew that, on her own, she would be blown to bits, vaporized before she even had the chance to blink.

But her skills were all suited to her dream of magical research, and everything she had learned would be of far more use in the library than out here in the dark. Her passion had always been for books and learning. Fighting, she had always said, was something for the bigger races.

Until some skeleton tries to take your head off.

She focused on her Arcane Cantrip skill, still hunting for inspiration, and the book still hovering in her mind obliged by turning the page, revealing the details of her general skill.

Arcane Cantrip – level 4Mana: Create a small solid magical construct out of Arcane mana.Arcane, Intelligence

She channeled a small amount of mana into the skill, a little surprised to find that it flowed comfortably and easily considering her state. Her mana coalesced into a small golden blob hovering above her face. She shaped it, applying her will, and the proficiency of many long hours of study and practice, clutching at the one thing she could actually do. The blob morphed into a tiny golden butterfly hovering in the air, slowly flapping its wings before she tired and released the mana sculpture to flitter away into the darkness.

But while her skill allowed her to act, the Arcane Cantrip was a simple spell taught to Fae children gifted with early affinities to help them learn to control their mana. And, as she had discovered, it was woefully ineffective against a Lich.

I’ll slay it with a golden mana butterfly – yay! Go Aliandra! At least her sarcasm still worked.

She turned to the description of her next skill.

Identify – level 5Mana: Discern information about a creature or item up to level 5 [class + skill]. Synergizes with any relevant Perception, Knowledge, or Information skills. Knowledge, Perception

For all its vaunted worth, Identify would simply tell how badly she was going to die before it happened. She moved on quickly, finding nothing suitable for her predicament.

Plant Growth – level 4Mana: Sense and influence the growth of nearby plants.Nature, Wisdom

Aunt Lira had taught her Plant Growth in her first melding with her dryadic tree. The skill had been a constant source of joy, and Ali had spent many happy hours with her father growing plants in the Grove. The sensation of plants responding to her mana, the experience of growing with them was so soothing, she had always likened it to meditation. Or the quiet repose of listening to beautiful music.

Considering how she might twist her magic to violence made her suddenly shudder in disgust, leaving a bitter taste in her mouth.

She tried to move her finger again. This time, it responded almost immediately. Encouraged by the lack of instant exhaustion, she set her mind to moving the others.

It would be so much better if I had a Class, she thought, her mind returning to her skills. Or lack thereof. She had been so close to unlocking her class before everything had exploded in her face.

Who am I kidding? She had been set on earning a scholarly- or research-oriented class. There was no way her dream class would have had an answer to the undead skeletons.

She slowly closed and opened her hand and began to work on her left.

Her eyes were curiously drawn to her Aptitudes, noticing that the section seemed different than she remembered. They changed so rarely that she seldom looked anymore. Common language changed to Ancient Dal’mohran? And there was a new Title called ‘Ancient’ which seemed vague and ominous.

Just how long was I inside that barrier?

Her memories of her time frozen in the spell felt vague and elusive – it might just as easily have been centuries or just a day. The unchanging golden glow and the strangely flickering gray cast to the world had fallen away, leaving her … here.

