She was certain she hadn’t moved an inch, however long it might have been. She could even see the shrine from where she lay. But everything else was gone. The beautiful Grove her father tended with its giant oaks and pretty wildflowers had vanished, leaving only looming dark shadows and what felt like damp moss carpeting the ground. The air smelled musty and dank, an ancient decay instead of the vibrant sense of growth and nature she loved so much. Even the stars were gone, blotted out by the mountain that had crashed down upon her somehow forming a cavern. She was just grateful for whatever force was keeping the stone and rock up there, and that her mother’s magic hadn’t released her into the crushing embrace of a rocky prison.

She continued working on her body, and slowly her feeling and control returned. She sat up slowly in the dark cavern. There was some faint, dim illumination in some directions, but the only sources of light she could actually make out were the glowing runes etched into the stone obelisk of the shrine and the still-glowing remnants of the explosive destruction of the barrier that had protected her body.

Carefully she summoned a small disk of golden light – light that matched the shards of magic embedded into the stone beside her. She had been so proud the first time she had cast this spell – realizing that her magic matched her mother’s distinctive golden mana. But the light showed little of anything – the cavern had to be large, she couldn’t find any sign of a roof or even walls from the dim conjured illumination.

But beside her, lying on the pristine circle of stone left by the evaporated magic of her mother’s spell was her library book, dropped in the terrifying altercation with the Lich. Her library card was still inside. She reached out to grab it, but to her horror, it crumbled to dust at her touch.

Ali slowly struggled to her feet and shuffled towards the only other thing she could see – the shrine. The glow of her golden disk illuminated ancient, blackened stumps and trunks of long-dead trees. Tiny mushrooms, some of which glowed faintly, pushed up their caps amid the damp moss growing upon the dead wood.

Placing her hand against the shrine, mostly to steady herself, she used her Identify skill on it.

Shrine of the Ancient GroveAn ancient mystical shrine of unknown origin. Offers advanced class features and attunement of latent mana affinity.Owner: Aliandra AmarielMana Siphon (Active)Mana: Unlock class experienceMana: Unlock or enhance latent magical affinitiesMana: Unlock alternate classes [Locked: Requirements not met.]Owner’s Mana: Recharge the shrine’s mana reserve. 358,045/1,250,000Quality: UniqueShrine – Artifact

Owner! The word struck like a dagger to her heart. With an agonized groan, she slumped against the obelisk, her weakened body struggling to hold her up. This had been the center of her father’s domain, and the shrine was his offering to the entire city of Dal’mohra. She remembered his pride and sense of duty towards the youth of the city, conducting the Class ceremonies that were effectively their final induction into adulthood. She had been looking forward to her father performing her ceremony ever since she had been old enough to understand, and now the little detail of her name instead of his told her that her dream had been ripped away, just as surely as his life. Her forehead pressed against the cold stone, deriving some small comfort from the connection.

While her grief remained, her sense of shock and helplessness eventually ebbed enough for her to examine the shrine once more. The last line caught her attention – it had never been visible to her before – and likely meant it was only available to her as the soulbound owner.

One and a quarter … million… Ali’s mind simply couldn’t comprehend the sheer enormity of the mana storage the shrine possessed. Even at less than a third of its capacity, it still held more than three hundred and fifty thousand mana.

Ali looked at her status sheet again. She had two hundred and ten mana, and she had been called gifted by everyone who knew. She was blessed with an unusually high wisdom attribute, and her racial aptitude enhanced her mana by fifty percent. She did a few quick calculations in her mind. If she did nothing else, it would take her more than a year to refill the shrine.

Carefully she channeled her mana into the shrine watching the counter increase quickly. Half her mana brought the total up to 358,150. She stopped.

Filling this isn’t going to help me right now. Yet, it felt so wrong to leave it so empty like this.

I could unlock my own class, she realized. Indeed, as the owner of the shrine, she could activate each of the abilities, and then simply use them on herself. She caught herself looking around as if she expected someone was going to catch her in the act.

There’s nobody left to complain that you’re not qualified.

The only problem was, there was nobody around to help her with her trial. While not strictly necessary, the purpose of the trial was to guide experience gain toward the traits needed to unlock a preferred class. On the other hand, her choice might very well be between dying unclassed versus surviving with some class, regardless of what she unlocked. And if that was the case, the sooner she unlocked the ability to earn experience, the sooner she could earn a useful class.

She agonized over it for a while but, in the end, there was not much of a decision to make. Any class was better than no class if she came face-to-face with a skeleton in the darkness.

Carefully she channeled a little of her mana into the shrine, choosing the feature that would unlock her own class experience. The stone artifact hummed softly, and the runes on its surface briefly brightened. Runes she suddenly noticed were now gold and green, matching her affinities.

Class experience unlocked.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Once you have earned enough experience, a class will be offered based on your choices, abilities, and actions. You can unlock additional class choices at the shrine.

Ali lingered over the surprising messages. She recognized the initial message as a normal one, but the second message had come directly from the shrine itself. She checked the shrine again, finding that the mana total had decreased by one hundred.

That seems like a reasonable cost, she thought, looking curiously again at the enormous total. No answer seemed forthcoming, so instead, she checked her status, finding that the class line had updated to reflect the change.

Class: [Unlocked]

There is another option I can use, she thought, studying the shrine and the enticing option that offered to enhance or unlock mana affinities. It sounds useful. Ali already had two mana affinities: Nature and Arcane. Enhancing them seemed like something she might need. She channeled mana to activate the shrine’s latent affinity function.

The shrine began to glow and hum as she gave it her mana, but it rapidly grew brighter and more powerful, sending a thrum of power deep through the ground under her feet. Her skin began to prickle as if an unseen energy were flowing through her body, and all around her, an intense green aura began to shine, blasting back the darkness. Shot through the green light, she could see streamers and symbols of intense golden energy slowly drifting around, looking very much like the runes inscribed on the shrine itself. Ali held back a scream as the rush of power tore through her body and mind until it suddenly ceased, dropping her to the ground for the second time today, leaving the startling echo of several chimes in her mind.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Reserved mana reduced by 50,000.Your affinity with Nature mana has been enhanced.Your affinity with Arcane mana has been enhanced.

Slowly she got back to her feet, stunned at the unexpected display of power. But, to her surprise, she actually felt a little more alert and energized than before. Ali placed her hand on the shrine once more.

Owner’s Mana: Recharge the shrine’s mana reserve. 308,050/1,250,000

Ali gulped. She had decided to use the shrine on a whim, and it had burned fifty thousand mana in an instant. No wonder it was so powerful, she thought, feeling somewhat guilty at having used so much of the shrine’s precious mana reserve. But the guilt faded quickly; it wasn’t much, but it seemed to be a useful step forward, even if she didn’t know what she had accomplished. Far better than helplessly cowering in fear from the Lich or fleeing from the skeletons.

As the auras of the lingering magic faded, darkness returned to the Grove and the shrine within it. Loath to linger alone in the darkness, Ali summoned her arcane magic light once more. This time, however, the magic manifested with a snap and shone brightly in the darkness – significantly brighter than she had ever seen it.

Did it get stronger because of the shrine? It seemed logical, but Ali had not expected such a dramatic change.

Her considerations of her magic were suddenly interrupted by a shuffling and scratching in the darkness beyond the circle of light cast by her spell. Something moved; something large and ominous, hiding in the shadows. Ali’s overworked fear returned in a rush, and, with a trembling hand, she raised her small glowing spell to shine more light around her.

Reflected back at her from the darkness she saw two shining black beady eyes staring at her, full of hunger and malevolence.

Scarcely breathing, she cast Identify at the shape lurking in the darkness.

Sewer Rat – level 3
