But were the Raskghar dead? No. Was Liscor’s time with Hectval up? No. Were the Players of Celum in Pallass? Not at all. The first wave of Pallass’ dignitaries moved into the inn and Erin found another chaotic mess on her hands.
For once—not hers. She could happily kick this lot to Liscor and send the objectors and justice-seekers to Pallass. She knew only Bevussa, Keldrass, and a few other Gold-rank Captains who’d come through to be dignified and socialize and hobnob and blather on. It was Maviola’s problem, and the Council’s, and anyone who wanted to use the magic door today. The [Innkeeper] almost relaxed.
“Hey. So…where’s Pallass’ list of people, huh? Didn’t get that today.”
She grinned around. Then her head snapped back up.
One last person had come through the door—despite it being ‘empty’ of magical power. But then—he’d charged it up. And he came through the crowd like a killer whale among dolphins. At least—in pure physical size.
Grimalkin of Pallass walked forwards, his head on a swivel. And it might have been nothing. But Erin had a premonition. She knew the Sinew Magus. And sure enough—he stopped as his head found one person in the chaos of it all.
Ryoka Griffin. The huge Drake folded his arms and looked past her in less than a moment. But Erin had seen his eyes linger because she’d been watching him. She did not see Lady Salkis take one look at Ryoka and practically dive back through the door to Pallass. She did not see Troy and Leon on the other side, waiting for the next group of Pallass’ dignitaries to come through.
The thing that Erin had forgotten was that her great friend, Ryoka Griffin, was back. And if Erin had a tendency towards great events, both bad and good—Ryoka Griffin?
She just tended to bring trouble.
 
—-
 
Lism woke up to the chanting from outside and stared blankly ahead. Time was, he’d have been part of the crowd demanding justice from a Councilmember. Who had decided it was a good idea to bully political figures in person? Oh—right. His campaign.
For a second, the Drake just stared blearily ahead. Then he felt the warm, furry shape next to him move and had a sudden burst of adrenaline and panic.
“Scale splinters. Krshia, wake up!”
He shook the Gnoll and heard a growl.
“What is it?”
“We have protestors!”
It took the other [Shopkeeper] a second to understand what the issue was. Then Krshia’s head shot up.
Protestors. Complaining about the Raskghar. Wanting justice. Perfectly understandable. Lism was on their side. Krshia? She’d go down there and shake claws and paws and tell them justice would be served.
The issue was if they both came out of Lism’s apartment. Together. And there were Gnolls and Drakes down there.
“Uh…”
Lism’s mind went blank. But Krshia was already moving. She grabbed her clothing, looking around the room, and cursed.
“Where’s my bag of holding?”
“Over there? No, wait…”
Lism fumbled about. He was slow in the mornings, but Krshia was too youthful for her age. She had her bag of holding and was tearing through it in a moment. She found a vial, poured a bit of the liquid around on her clothing, and then splashed Lism with it.
“What are you doing?”
He blinked at her stupidly as the liquid ran down his face and front.
“Scent-destroying potion, you idiot, Lism! Put some fresh clothes on, and take a rinse! Wear some old clothing, even, that hasn’t been washed!”
She hissed at him as she hunted around. Lism took a moment to rub at his face.
“We’re dead.”
“No we’re not. Stop panicking.”
Lism wasn’t panicking. He’d looked at it from all angles. He tapped Krshia on the back.
“Krshia—there’s no back way out of my apartments. Even if you were a [Thief]—they’d see you jump out the window.”
She ignored that.
“We’ll meet at City Hall. I have to meet this Hectval delegation. Stop panicking, Lism. I have this contained, yes?”
“There’s no access to the sewers either, Krshia. Look—I’ll go out there and try to talk to them. They’ll disperse after a while—you slip away when no one’s watching. Maybe—maybe I can get that Human to cause a distraction…”
She growled.
“Lism. Don’t be an idiot. Do you think I didn’t think of this possibility? I am prepared. I’ll see you at City Hall.”
He stared at her. She had her clothes on, and now she pulled something out of her bag of holding. It was…a scroll.
“Is that—?”
She rolled her eyes.
“I knew you wouldn’t think of a backup plan.”
The Drake’s jaw dropped. He saw Krshia unfurl the scroll and the pre-programmed coordinates made her fur light up. It wasn’t a high-quality one—so the two stared at each other for nearly half a minute as light began to draw a circle around Krshia on the floor.
“Er…that’s very well thought out, Krshia.”
“It’s basic thinking, Lism. Speaking of which—do you have anything of Alonna’s? Or another female Drake? A Gnoll would be even better. Rub it on your clothing—just in case—”
Pop. She vanished. Lism stared at the spot Krshia had been, finally waking up and shaking off the dread that had engulfed him.
She had a plan. No wonder she’d wanted to buy something from that Minotauress and been so happy about having a [Spellscribe] in the city! Lism breathed again. That was Krshia Silverfang for you. Had backup plans for when things went south.
That was why he liked her. Lism began to hum under his breath as he hunted for clothing and checked his reflection for dead scales. Then he went out and became Councilmember Lism.
 
—-
 
When Liscor’s Council met that day, they had a lot to do. So they had a working breakfast. Jeiss and Alonna gave Lism a long look after he arrived last, Elirr having beaten him by a few seconds.
“Sorry, protestors caught me. I assume all of you had the same issue?”
“They found me when I was taking my kids to the park. I had to call for backup.”
Jeiss muttered. He looked at Krshia, who muttered something in the affirmative. Alonna stared at Lism for a long moment.
“They uh—got to my apartment as well. Glad you and Krshia…and Elirr and everyone else made it out.”
Lism was still somewhat distracted, so he missed the note in her voice. Krshia—did not. She gave Raekea a swift look—the Gnoll had her face in her paws.
The secret was out. At least—to everyone but Tismel and Zalaiss. The two Drakes looked rather pleased with themselves, which was unusual, but Lism conceded they’d done actual work yesterday.
“Elirr? Raekea? How’d you fare?”
Raekea seemed fine, if a bit heated for some reason. But the [Beast Trainer] looked well and truly rattled.
“I had er—protestors at my shop. Scared myself and Hexel to death. We were going over plans for the city.”
“That’s working at all hours. I’m sorry they bothered you.”
Lism was impressed by Elirr’s dedication. The Gnoll exhaled.
“Yes, work. Not at all startling to have two dozen people banging on your door demanding justice.”
“Well, it’s a valid concern. The Raskghar situation and the delegation from Hectval—we’ve made splendid progress on both sides. Should we recap and break? Who wants to go first?”
The Council began to eat and talk and catch the other side up on what had happened. Lism rubbed his claws together as he heard about Pallass.
“Raskghar contained in Pallass’ prison by the Grand Strategist himself? That’s fine work! That damn H—Miss Erin Solstice really pulled through for us. We should commend her. Later. When this is all done.”
Krshia eyed Lism, but he was in a munificent mood. It really was a neat solution. Raekea nodded.
“Well, Pallass wants to talk on the issue. But we can combine that with our second problem. Or not a problem? I hear the delegation was far more…amenable yesterday. It was a grand success of a reception, yes?”
The four Councilmembers nodded proudly. Alonna, Lism, Tismel, and Zalaiss had nothing but good things to say about their interactions.
“I think they had the wrong impression of us, I really do. The Scalespeaker—Yisht—was nothing but cordial to us. Beyond cordial. The drink might have had something to do with that, but we really impressed them—and Pallass—with that reception. I’m hoping Miss Maviola can help us repeat the stunt.”
The others nodded. Lism felt a surge of excitement as he nodded around the table. Of course, he and Krshia had caught each other up yesterday at dinner so part of it was pretense. But it really felt like everything was coming up Lism, for once.
“I suggest we put together a second gathering with Miss Maviola. City Hall—we’re practically still decorated. Hectval’s actually sending us gifts—we should all go together. Hammer out whatever issue with the Raskghar there is and reassure the crowd, and make this a success. Let’s invite Grand Strategist Chaldion to join us if he’s available, or talk to some [Senators].”
Everyone nodded. The Council seemed energized, ready to work. Lism was eager for another reason as well.
“I really didn’t have as much time to socialize with Hectval’s delegation. Alonna, Tismel, Zalaiss, you had the most time to talk to them while we were rushing around getting the party ready. Any issues?”
Alonna hesitated. And her frown was the only one at the Council’s as she glanced at Tismel and Zalaiss.
“It—could be tricky, Lism. I got an interesting vibe from them…”
“I for one found them perfectly sociable. A bit standoffish and touchy—but just don’t insult their city.”
Tismel burst out. Zalaiss nodded repeatedly.
“They were really taken with you, Lism. I say—it’s all going to work well.”
“Really? Me? Well, then, we’d better meet with them.”
Lism preened a bit. He missed the look Alonna was trying to give him. And his good mood lasted right up until the Council descended from the upper floors as one body. Eight Councilmembers, the ruling body of Liscor. They heard chanting from outside, but the reception area of the City Hall was already filled.
People from Pallass were milling about. Hectval’s delegation was already here. So were Gold-rank adventurers, [Senators]…Lism blinked.
“They’re here already? And…eating?”
Indeed, the tables were set. There were servers—not the ones that had been hired yesterday, but looking decidedly more sharp and expensive, circulating offering extremely rich food. But not Maviola’s budget-finery. This was…Lism stared.
“Ah, Councilmembers! We’re back. And we decided we’d set up a second gathering so we could discuss this Raskghar situation. Don’t worry—we brought our own dishes. We do know how to set up a good event, although you did well yourselves.”
A quartet of [Senators] walked over. Lism recognized Errif, the Gnoll [Senator] from the Assembly of Crafts, two Drakes, and a Dullahan. They wore big smiles, looked quite happy to be here…
And bugged Lism’s instinctual warning-sense instantly. He looked for the Scalespeaker and saw him staring at the group, sipping coolly from a glass. Not nearly as jovial as yesterday. But he gave Lism a nod. There was hope there.
From the [Senators]? Krshia nodded to Errif who gave her and the Gnolls a smile.
“We’re delighted you enjoyed our reception yesterday, [Senators]. But what brings you today? We did not call for a second gathering, although we had planned to.”
The Drake smiled as he clasped his claws over Krshia’s.
“Ah, Miss Silverfang. It seems we then simply preempted the order of events! We just though this was a good chance to discuss issues of state while having a genial time, don’t you?”
“Of course…”
The [Senators] smiled. Lism saw more dignitaries milling about, talking—but he intrinsically felt that they should have been invited.
“On the Raskghar issue?”
Jeiss looked bugged by the unexpected event as well. The Senior Guardsman raised an eyebrow as the [Senators] all chuckled. The Drake nodded.
“Of course, Councilmember. We wanted to assure you that Grand Strategist Chaldion has them well-secured. Of course, we’ve moved along the interrogation and trials—I understand he’s going through them right now. Once we’ve determined the guilty portion, they can be executed in Pallass—even televised, perhaps?—or we can arrange it at Liscor. We’ll even provide the [Executioner] as we understand Liscor lacks one.”
The Council stirred. They all felt it. That was what they wanted, but…Alonna frowned.
“Guilty portion? So there will be Raskghar that will not be executed?”
It was what Zevara wanted. The Drake [Senator] coughed into a fist.
“Naturally not, Councilmember. There are children among them. Young. We’ll see to them, don’t you worry. Grand Strategist Chaldion had already made some recommendations, as have our [Generals].”
“Recommendations?”
Elirr echoed the word faintly. Lism was staring at the [Senators] now. Just waiting for the ball to drop, like a shady [Trader] who was about to hand you his bill for expenses incurred.
The [Senator] nodded.
“For the surviving Raskghar, of course. We will take custody of them. Only naturally, as Pallass has taken command of the situation. Some will of course have to go with Senator Errif to the Meeting of Tribes. But the rest? Pallass can find a place for them. We are a multi-species city.”
The brass penny dropped. Lism’s eyes narrowed as the Council stirred.
“Taken command? But they’re our prisoners. Ours to decide what to do with, with Pallass’ help. Isn’t that right?”
The Pallassian [Senators] chuckled. And while they said something else entirely—their eyes winked at Lism.
Not anymore.
 
—-
 
The war council was made up of a very select number of Pallass’ most high-ranking military leaders. As those who understood Pallass knew—there was the Assembly of Crafts. And then there was the inner group of a few [Senators], the Grand Strategist, [Generals], and so on who did what needed to be done.
It was the most effective method of implementing a democracy that the Walled City had settled on during its long history. Of course—it relied on strong leadership, so the inner workings of Pallass’ military had evolved around the same principle.
Pallass had multiple armies. Each one with a specialty, a [General], and a goal. For instance—1st Army was always stationed in the Walled City. It was made up of Pallass’ best who trained and drilled here—often they were sent to other armies for experience such that 1st Army was always cycling in a mix of new, promising candidates for training and receiving veterans who got guard-duty in the city as an unofficial break and reward.
There was 2nd Army, whose purpose was explicitly foreign affairs, campaigns abroad. The former 3rd Army which had been destroyed under Thrissiam Blackwing—monster slayers which could take on Adult Creler nests and the like.
