“Nah! Ryoka’s friends are my friends! And a Courier? You guys do great work. You know that big delivery of the cure for Yellow Rivers to Baleros? That’s amazing. I wish I could give all those Couriers free food for like, a year.”
Fierre and Salamani brightened up. They were a bit awkward with Erin and Lyonette, neither of which they knew, but the television was a universal icebreaker. Salamani leaned forwards with a bit of that shared pride of Runners.
“You heard about that too?”
“Yup! We’ve got a scrying mirror and saw the entire thing.”
The two saw the blank mirror. Fierre whistled as she beheld the huge mirror, which was as long as Erin and half as tall.
“That’s your scrying mirror? That has to cost thousands of gold pieces! Tens of thousands!”
Erin flapped a hand, grinning, but Salamani shot a knowing glance around the room.
“Actually, Fierre, it’s temporarily enchanted. Not an artifact—there must be someone who can cast [Scrying].”
“Oh. Of course.”
The Vampire blushed and Erin looked at Salamani with more respect.
“Hey, that’s right! We’ve got some [Mages] from Wistram here.”
“Really? I’m from Wistram! I’d love to meet them.”
The [Innkeeper]’s ready smile tensed just a bit and her eyes flickered to Ryoka. The City Runner shook her head quickly. Fierre stared at Ryoka as Erin relaxed. You could write a book on the unspoken dialogue here. Erin nodded.
“Well, I’ll introduce you to Palt in a moment. It’s great to meet you like I said, Salamani. You’re like the…one…two…third Courier I’ve ever met! No wait…fourth. There was poor Valceif…”
Ryoka’s face fell and Salamani winced. Then he blinked.
“You’ve met four Couriers, Miss Solstice? I know Hawk the Hare lives in Liscor…but there’s that door to Invrisil! Of course!”
“Yeah, I met Valceif, and Hawk, and Tritel and Ci. Do you know them?”
The Courier was nodding.
“The Moonlight Rider? I ran with him on this joint delivery—”
“That was you?”
Lyonette and Erin sat up and nearly knocked the food Ishkr and Silveran were bringing over. Mrsha sat bolt upright. Here was one of the Couriers from that run? She looked at Ryoka, jaw agape.
There was so much each side didn’t know about the other! Fierre began to look a bit supercilious herself as Salamani began to demur about the newsworthy run.
“It was just posturing. Those weren’t the best [Assassins] the guild had. It was a warning—and three Couriers are hard to stop. But it did get me a lot of free drinks!”
“No way. We need like—autographs! Ryoka, this is your friend?”
Salamani ducked his head.
“Miss Griffin’s fairly famous herself, Miss Solstice. Or she will be.”
“That’s right. She’s the Wind Runner of Reizmelt!”
Fierre grinned at Ryoka, hiding her fangs by turning her head. Erin leaned sideways to see and Ryoka kicked her under the table. Lyonette eyed Erin and Ryoka. Salamani nodded at Erin.
“If you’ve met Tritel and Ci, you know they’re one of the other Couriers who did that run. And—they’re the ones responsible for the land-delivery of the Yellow Rivers cure you were talking about!”
He waited for Erin to explode with awe at that. The [Innkeeper] blinked.
“Oh, yeah. I know that. I hired Tritel to take the cure from the inn.”
Salamani’s jaw dropped. Fierre turned from staring at Numbtongue again as the Goblin cursed and forfeited an uncut emerald.
“What was that? Sorry, I have to have misheard.”
“The cure? Octavia made it. She’s probably still in her shop. She’s an [Alchemist] who lives here. Made it herself.”
“Wh—it came from this inn? Ryoka, you never said!”
Salamani turned to Ryoka as a plate was put in front of him. Fierre was staring as well. Ryoka shrugged, but she couldn’t wipe the huge smirk off her face. The smug smile on Mrsha’s face was like that of a little gremlin’s. The Gnoll child was enjoying this a lot.
“I told you. The Wandering Inn’s big. What’s this, Erin? Did you make it?”
She blinked as Erin peered at the dish Imani had whipped up. Mrsha licked her lips.
In reaction to Erin’s very American breakfasts, Imani had drawn from every recipe she knew—and Palt was an expert on Balerosian cooking. Todays’ breakfast was sumptuous. Imani had made a snack of mandazi from her continent, having secured coconut milk by way of Oteslia.
As a nod to Erin’s appeal for sweet, she did have a number of dips, including a bit of Ashfire Bee honey. But that was only one plate. She had a more proper course of dishes, including a breakfast dish of packed rice, beans, boiled eggs, and rich avocado that you could spread on some Garry-bread toast.
And more! Ryoka’s mouth was watering and Salamani looked deeply impressed.
“Is this…this is excellent cooking!”
“It’s Imani. She’s the new cook, Ryoka.”
“Imani? That frightened girl from—wait—are those annoying br—your friends here, Ryoka?”
Fierre started. Erin blinked at her, and so did Lyonette and Mrsha.
“You know Imani? Kevin, Joseph, Rose—wait, you’re the person who helped get them here?”
“I did!”
The Vampire stared in awe at Kevin and Rose who were eating with Montressa and Bezale. Galina sat Temile’s table.
It was history. The time when the Earthers from Magnolia’s mansion had been a short, if unpleasant, event in Reizmelt where Fierre and Alber had grown thoroughly sick of them. But now they were here. And the pieces…
“Wait. Liscor. Is this the place where football comes from? I’d love to buy one of the balls! A round dozen—they’d make great souvenirs and some of the [Leatherworkers] would pay a pretty penny for them! And there’s another game, isn’t there?”
Salamani snapped his fingers. Erin grinned.
“Baseball? I can give you a set!”
“Sell you.”
Lyonette hissed. Salamani blinked at Erin. Then his eyes narrowed as he saw Mrsha’s shit-eating grin stretch wider.
“Wait a moment. Do you, by any chance, know a Joseph…?”
Fierre started as she made the connection. She looked at Ryoka and the City Runner groaned. Here they went again. She spread an avocado on her toast and bit into the rich bite.
Yum.
 
—-
 
This was The Wandering Inn. Salamani and Fierre had their own tales of amazement that they thought would blow anyone away. Waking the Archmage of Izril? Meeting Mihaela Godfrey? The Wind Runner of Reizmelt?
And certainly, Erin was a great audience to tell it to. She gasped and asked questions and was invested, just like Mrsha, who began slapping Ryoka on the back and looked around proudly as if to say ‘this is my Runner who did all that, you hear?’
Lyonette was just as good; she understood what it meant. But at some point Fierre and Salamani lost the trade of stories and just had to sit back.
The magic door. The attacks on Liscor. Soccer, baseball, the King of Destruction’s letter to Joseph and the famous player himself. A cure for Yellow Rivers? And more—it had all come from here!
“I thought you were making it up! At least 80% of it, Ryoka, whenever you told me about this place!”
Fierre sat back and exclaimed to laughter. Ryoka grinned.
“I couldn’t make it up if I tried. Mind you—Joseph becoming a famous football player is new to me. And so are the other things. Like the broadcast with the Players of Celum.”
She eyed Erin meaningfully and the [Innkeeper] spread her hands out helplessly.
“…It was cool?”
“The Players of Celum? Wait—”
Salamani and Fierre twisted in their seats and saw the same stage that the [Actors] had performed on. By now, everyone in earshot was enjoying watching the other two’s reactions. It was entertaining to all the ‘veterans’ of the inn to watch someone being told half of the crazy stories that emerged from this place.
“Say, Miss Solstice, mind telling your two friends how the Players of Celum happened to come about? And where they performed their first shows? In a certain inn?”
Menolit drawled from his table. Fierre and Salamani looked at Erin as she shrugged.
“Aw, Menolit! It’s not that special. They did all the work…”
The Vampire and Courier were routed. Beaten into submission. At some point you could only stare. Ryoka was enjoying their looks of awe. Because—Erin Solstice did deserve them.
Her only fear was that Fierre was smart and Salamani was from Wistram. This…could complicate matters. But she was here and Ryoka supposed they would have found out eventually. Better allies than enemies, right?
They were here. And Erin’s modesty over the events that had taken place in her inn was half out of necessity—the Raskghar issue was still something Ryoka worried about.
“They’re in Pallass. Don’t worry, Ryoka. Chaldion has them and he promised they’d get fair trials. No one’s escaping from that jail. Even Saliss says it’d be hard for him.”
“As in—Grand Strategist Chaldion of Pallass. And Saliss of Lights.”
Fierre was in Stage Three of the Solstice Effect: repeating names and staring at Erin because she had to be lying at this point. Ryoka shook her head.
“And they just…surrendered? Why?”
“They were sick. Typhenous got ‘em all. We’re still being careful of Nokha, but we lock everything, including the windows, and Bird’s on night-watch. He keeps shooting bats. Poor guys.”
“Ryoka, does she mean Bird the Hunter?”
“He’s an employee.”
The City Runner muttered. At this point, Fierre and Salamani had to tow her away from breakfast.
“Are you messing with me? Because if you are—this is amazing. Ryoka, what is this inn?”
The two huddled together, almost fearfully looking around at the laughing guests who sat there as if an Antinium Prognugator gainfully employed at this inn was normal. As if the [Innkeeper] being on a first-name basis with the Grand Strategist of Pallass and a Named Adventurer was nothing to be interested in, pass the butter, would you?
It messed with your head. Ryoka looked between them.
“Listen. I know it sounds like she’s lying, but that’s really Erin. And she’s telling the truth.”
“But that’s insane! Who is she? Who are—”
Fierre bit her lip. Salamani’s eyes were flickering around the room.
“I can’t believe it.”
“Why not?”
Ryoka challenged them both. She poked at their chests.
“We woke up the Archmage of Izril, like you two keep telling me! We’re rich! Why’s it so hard to imagine?”
The two exchanged a look. And then their backs straightened. They began laughing. It was true. So they bypassed Stage Five of the Solstice-effect: being afraid of the inn and the [Innkeeper] and moved into Stage Six, hilarity and Stage Seven, acceptance.
This was The Wandering Inn. And it could be as grand as anything, or as silly as Mrsha smearing avocado on her cheeks to copy Numbtongue’s war paint. The trick was to roll with it.
“So. Now you’re here, what shall we do? And are you going to stay for a while? Because I think we all need that.”
Erin beamed at Ryoka as the three came back to the table. Ryoka sat down slowly.
“I don’t know. We have to get an appointment with Hedault. He owes me a favor.”
“I can help! We’ve got a line to Hedault with Montressa and Beza.”
Ryoka eyed Erin.
“You’ve…met Hedault?”
“Yeah. I don’t think he likes me.”
No kidding? Salamani raised his brows, at this point too numb by all the revelations to care that Erin knew the best [Enchanter] in Invrisil. Ryoka shook her head.
“We need to visit Lady Ieka if she’s still in residence. Salamani’s contacts say she is. And—Hedault, see what needs selling, and meet with…other people.”
Magnolia Reinhart. If she was still even in Izril after the attack. But Salamani shouldn’t know about that. Fierre gave Ryoka a significant look. Erin started.
“Oh yeah. And while you’re at it, you should meet with someone else. Maviola. I wrote to you about her, Ryoka. She can help with your big event.”
Fierre and Salamani’s brows snapped together. It couldn’t be. Ryoka sat up.
“Yeah, that too.”
The crazy plan that Teriarch had come up with was coming true. Somehow—it was the Erin-effect. The [Innkeeper] smiled.
“One step at a time. Come on. We’ll go together. We have a lot to catch up on!”
She held out a hand to Ryoka and the City Runner smiled. She took Erin’s hand and the young woman began to chatter as Mrsha leapt onto Ryoka’s shoulders and demanded to go along too. Fierre was shaking her head and taking notes. Salamani had just noticed Temile and Mons and Bezale were sizing the Courier up as a fellow Wistram [Mage].
And as Erin led them towards the door, it happened. The group of five—Lyonette was seeing to the deliveries downstairs in the basement and delivery ramp—heard a rumble of voices from outside suddenly. Erin stopped in her tracks.
“Whoa, that’s a lot of…”
And then the door blew open, divulging a bevy, a host, an army of people. Almost all Drakes, but with some exceptions like Bevussa and her team, a few Gnolls, a Dullahan or two and Garuda—
And voices. Arguing, demanding—Ryoka backed up as Mrsha pulled on her head as if to guide Ryoka like a horse. Erin stared.
The magical door had opened and poor Ishkr was being flattened against a wall as people surged through. From Pallass. The door actually drained itself of mana and began flickering as the ambient mana tried to resupply itself. But the first wave was already a babble.
“—here from Pallass. Hello, I’m a [Senator], make way, make way—”
“I hear there’s another party with Liscor and the Hectval situation! Where’s the gemstone cake? And we’re here about the Players of Celum coming to our city—”
“Raskghar. Yes, the Raskghar situation. You there. Where’s your Watch Captain? I have two Watch Captains and we won’t be kept waiting for—”
The people in the inn stared at the volume of largely important and self-important people coming through the door. And as if by design or chance, they heard a similar uproar coming from outside the inn.
“Justice for Liscor! We want to see the Raskghar tried and executed! Where’s the Grand Strategist?” 
“Why did the magical door go out?” 
“I want to go to Pallass now!”
“I just wanted that hamburger—”
A second crowd had, after discovering the magic door wasn’t yet working, marched from the gates to the inn, having to walk to get here.
Erin looked at Ryoka and Fierre and Salamani. They were confused—Mrsha tensed again. Ryoka reached up to squeeze her paw.
Really, it was predictable. Erin should have known, but she’d forgotten that ‘the end’ that she’d presumed to yesterday wasn’t an end at all. She had made the fire of mercy, found a solution to help Zevara.
