It might have been all the old faces, because Lyonette had a dream of the past.
Not the long-distant past, the chronologically undeniable history of Lyonette’s childhood when she and her sisters—a herd, a group, a flock…?—a snob of Calanfer’s [Princesses] had been growing up.
Some quirk of fate meant that Calanfer had so many princesses they had numbers. And the 6th [Princess] had grown up around her older sisters—with a large age gap between some of them.
Yet—that was ancient history. Somehow, the last year felt like a decade of time to Lyonette. Because more had happened to her in that period than the rest of her life. More levels, more drama, more growing up.
She remembered starving. Crying with hunger and the realization at last, that the only person who had been kind to her was suddenly gone. Having to rely on the kindness of Olesm, and then the Antinium.
And after putting a colony of bees to sleep with the last of the magical flowers—finding a little, thin Gnoll child in the inn. Practically feral, terribly sad and lonely, waiting for Ryoka and Erin to come back. She had refused to leave the inn, refused to eat. Been so miserable that it made the [Princess] ashamed of herself.
That had been one of the reasons why Lyonette du Marquin had tried. In those days, it had all been so small. So humble. No magical door to Celum, no new inn. No staff—but there had been magic there.
A little Gnoll with a bit of paint had, quite by accident, helped create the Painted Antinium. Lyonette remembered the first Painted Antinium. A white paw print on the Soldier’s chest.
He—had died. Lyonette knew his symbol now rested on the Painted Antinium’s memorial wall. Yet hundreds of Painted Antinium had come from that moment. Thousands, someday.
That was surely a legacy worth having. Few Humans, even royalty, could claim that distinction.
Yes, in those days the inn had been so small and humble. And their first guest of Lyonette’s—the first real guest? It had been a huge Drake whose name was spoken even in Terandria. A legend.
General Zel Shivertail. Lyonette wished she had been the same [Princess] then as she was now. Perhaps then, with this inn, at this time—Zel Shivertail would not have fallen.
But all she dreamed of was a silly little dream where she and Zel were coaxing Mrsha out of a table that was actually a mountain. Mrsha had fallen into the dungeon and Lyonette and Zel were offering her jars of honey on a long-handled serving tray. And the silly Gnoll kept staring at the grub that would become Apista and demanding to eat that—
 
—-
 
The [Princess] awoke alone in her bed. And it was her bed, the shared room with the growing, far larger Gnoll child who could now walk on two feet. Who had given herself a language and could cast magic and walk to the outhouse without waking up Lyonette to hold her paw and bring her there.
How fast little Gnolls grew. But she wasn’t there. Nor had Lyonette spent the night with Pawn, sitting together and reading books or listening to him dream about a better place for his people.
Mrsha was gone. She hadn’t slept with Lyonette. She had, instead, spent the night glued to her favorite Human. The [Princess]’s face turned sour as she got up and began to comb her hair, a ritual from Calanfer.
She was, perhaps, the only person unhappy about Ryoka’s return.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice woke up with a huge smile on her face. She rolled out of her bed—also empty but for pillow, a blanket, and a book she’d forgotten was there.
“Ow. No wonder I thought my bed was so hard.”
The young woman discovered it underneath her. Also, a rectangle on her back. She prodded at it.
“And I slept on you?”
An [Explorer]’s Guide to 64 Isles of Note, by Cemale Tenvind stared back at her, completely unashamed. Erin scowled at it.
“I paid good money for you. And this is how you treat me?”
It was a good book. Erin checked her dog-eared page. She hadn’t read it in the last two days; she’d been too busy running around. In fact, she’d been so tired she’d fallen into bed—on top of the book—and drifted off.
Because, it had been an eventful few days. Raskghar. Players of Celum.
Ryoka. Erin smiled, forgetting about her sore back. Ryoka was back. The Raskghar were contained in Pallass.
Everything was okay again.
As the [Innkeeper] got out of bed and found some clothing, she decided she had to capitalize on this kind of day. No being stingy with anything!
A Ryoka-back, post-disaster day was the kind of day you had to celebrate. So Erin ran at a wall—into the [Garden], did a quick loop, and ran back through into the kitchen—
“Aaaaah!”
Imani freaked out over breakfast. Erin had popped out of the wall and the [Cook] dropped the hot pan of—
It stopped in midair and Erin saw Imani grab for the pan and stop it from going over. Erin looked around.
“Sorry, Imani! I forgot you’re always in here! Whoa, nice save, Palt! Palt…?”
She peered about. But the [Mage] she’d assumed had used levitation to save the pan was absent. And unless he was invisible—Erin felt at the air suspiciously.
“It’s just me, Erin. Please, don’t do that! Mrsha does it and I nearly hit her with a pot one time!”
Imani put her hand over her chest. Erin was immediately contrite.
“I’m so thoughtless, Imani. I should have checked. I just ran in here…”
Using the [Garden of Sanctuary] was second-nature to Erin by now. Scanning for people in her inn was still a conscious effort though, and one Erin wasn’t in the habit of doing. Imani calmed down a bit—but she still looked frazzled.
Right up until she reached for a little flask at her side and took a sip of something, that was. Then she immediately calmed down.
“It’s fine, Erin. It’s…okay. Whew.”
The [Innkeeper] eyed the flask. She knew Palt had been working with Imani, but that…
“What’s that there, Imani?”
“Dreamleaf water. Lemon, Dreamleaf, and a bit of sugar. Tastes like lemonade.”
Imani immediately replied. Erin opened her mouth. Then closed it.
“Palt gave you that?”
“Yes he did. It helps.”
He’d also given Imani sleeping draughts and other help with her trauma from the Creler attacks. Erin nodded slowly.
“Good, good. That’s good. Actually. Um—nice trick with the pan. I hadn’t seen it before.”
The young woman from Nigeria smiled.
“Thank you. It’s [Minor Accident Prevention].”
“Ooh. Nice!”
Erin wasn’t the only person leveling up. In fact—some of her guests and friends were outpacing her by far in terms of levels. As a [Cook], Imani had an interesting set of Skills far different from Erin.
“So does it stop like, you dropping eggs?”
“Bits of eggshell in food, spilling drinks—and the pan, like you saw. It won’t save me if I dump oil all over myself—well, maybe it would. I got it at Level 10.”
“Wait, it’s a good Skill?”
Imani raised an eyebrow.
“It’s everything, Erin. You know how you cut yourself once by trying to scale a fish wrong?”
“Yes…”
Erin winced and flexed her hand. Imani gestured to the counter as she put the pan back on the heat.
“It would stop that, I think. I haven’t cut myself since getting the Skill. And it applies to all sorts of day-to-day activities.”
“Whoa. Give me that. I slept on a book this morning. You think it would stop that?”
The [Cook] had to process Erin’s particular brand of troubles. She shrugged.
“…Maybe? Anyways, can I help you? I’m making breakfast.”
Erin nodded.
“Right! Uh—well, I just wanted a big breakfast for Ryoka, since she’s here. Something special? I was thinking crepes with some of the Ashfire Bee honey if we had it…”
Imani’s face made Erin hesitate.
“What?”
“Erin. Were you going to suggest we add the whipped cream I made and serve it with powdered sugar? Maybe even powdered nali-sticks? And syrup and butter?”
“Maaaaaybe. And if we had chocolate…”
The [Cook] shook her head.
“That’s such a disgusting breakfast.”
“Hey! It’s a special occasion!”
“I’m making something light and tasty. Here, take a look. Did you know there are avocados and other vegetables from our world we can get from Oteslia?”
Erin peered at the dark green avocado Imani was eagerly pointing to. It was definitely an avocado. Imani had ordered another shipment from Oteslia, or gotten it from the bazaar on Pallass’ first floor, apparently.
“So that’s what Lyonette keeps complaining about with the food budget. Are you sure, Imani? I mean, it looks good, but we could do crepes…”
“Out.”
“I’m just saying! It’s from home!”
“Out!”
Erin found herself outside of the kitchen. She kicked at the floor.
“Tyrant.”
“All your food is unhealthy, Erin!”
The [Innkeeper] glared after Imani. She sighed, and made a note not to scare Imani again, even if she had a Skill. Erin stretched—
And saw a Worker with four daggers slowly lower them from his ambush-point where he’d been ready to leap on her. Erin stared wide-eyed at Silveran. The Worker sheathed the daggers.
“Oh. Right. The scream. Sorry, just me, Silveran.”
After Erin had retrieved her heart from her mouth, she waved at the Worker. He waved back. Erin edged away.
Definitely not the old days. You couldn’t attack someone in the inn these days without people coming to your rescue. In fact—Erin had to head off Palt as he nearly tripped down the stairs.
“Is it Imani? Another flashback? Oh, dead gods, I nearly broke my legs!”
“Sorry, just me, Palt!”
The Centaur slowed his mad clatter down the stairs. Erin saw him give her a reproachful look.
“Erin. Was that the garden-scare again? Last time Mrsha did it—”
“I’m sorry. I forgot!”
“You don’t just forget, Erin! Imani’s not…someone else! And popping out of the walls like you do would give even a Wistram [Mage] a fright! Dead gods, it’s like the ghosts the Academy used to have. Obnoxious Archmages watching everyone as they sleep and…”
“I’m sorry. Wait, ghosts? Wistram has ghosts?”
The Centaur rubbed at his face.
“Had. And good riddance to them, I say. Sorry, I just woke up.”
Palt liked to sleep in late; seeing him up this early was something. He flicked open his belt pouch, removed an edible and a little stamina pick-me-up and consumed both on the spot. Erin was so embarrassed at being rightly lectured she didn’t even bring it up. Anyways—it didn’t harm anyone and it helped Imani. That was how Erin had decided to feel about drugs.
“I’ll just head in there. What’s Imani cooking?”
“Something healthy and light.”
The [Innkeeper] muttered. Palt trotted into the kitchen. Erin saw Silveran, the Worker with the silver antennae on his carapace, return to sweeping up. She waved at him.
“How’re you doing, Silveran? I didn’t scare you, did I?”
No. I am good. Thank you.
The Worker signed back with two of his hands without even stopping sweeping. Erin was impressed. The other Workers had already picked up Mrsha’s sign language? And it was as if it had been made for them since they could work and talk!
“Cool. Great! Um…”
Erin turned—and saw a figure crouching with a crossbow in hand, aiming it at the ground. Numbtongue stared about from the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Heard a shout. Imani?”
“Numbtongue. It was just—”
The Goblin and Erin both turned as a [Mage] sighed loudly and reappeared on the steps.
“Oh, it was Imani? Thank goodness.”
Montressa yawned as she shed her [Invisibility] spell. Erin stared at her. Montressa waved and called up the stairs.
“Just Imani!”
Beza, Hexel, Temile, and two of the [Actors] all relaxed. Erin stared as they filed down the stairs, asking what had happened. She threw up her hands.
“I’m sorry, okay?”
Her shout woke up Ryoka from her sleep.
 
—-
 
Someone shouted loud enough to wake the snoozing young woman. Ryoka Griffin woke up to find something heavy on her stomach.
It was a Mrsha. The Gnoll had crept into her room, leaving the door ajar, hence the shout travelling. Well, the scream from earlier had also begun the process. Normally a scream would get the City Runner up, but Ryoka had been exhausted from running well into the night to get here.
“Mrsha?”
The Gnoll child was awake. [Twofold Rest] being what it was, even Ryoka felt energized after less than nine hours of optimal sleep. But there was that lazy, dozing rest that you didn’t want to get up from.
For Mrsha. In Ryoka’s case, Mrsha was a bit heavy.
“It’s hard to breathe. When did you get in here?”
Mm. Mrsha made a small sound in the back of her throat and hugged Ryoka. The young woman sat up and Mrsha wrapped her arms and legs around Ryoka.
It was tomorrow. And much hugging and reuniting had gone on between them already. Not enough—Ryoka had arrived late and the frantic introductions of Fierre, Salamani—she blinked.
“I’m here? I’m back.”
So soon! And yet—it was surreal to wake up in The Wandering Inn again. Ryoka looked about the comfy, well-kept room. She looked down at Mrsha as she sat cross-legged.
“What is this barnacle doing on me?”
Mrsha giggled as Ryoka patted her head. Then the City Runner gave her a small, tentative hug.
“Hi, Mrsha. I’m still here.”
Good. Mrsha didn’t need to say it with text or sign language to be heard. Ryoka looked around.
“…Bird too? Look, it was an accident! There’s no problem! It was just me…”
That sounded like Erin from downstairs. Ryoka eyed the ajar door.
“Uh oh. Erin might have set fire to the inn. We all might cook. Or maybe she just invented cold fusion.”
Another giggle from below. Ryoka grinned.
“You want to get up, barnacle-girl? Get some breakfast?”
Mrsha’s ears perked up a bit at the word ‘breakfast’, but for once, she didn’t leap downstairs. She just stayed there, in Ryoka’s lap.
“What do you want to do, Mrsha? Go to sleep? Are you that sleepy?”
A quick shake of the head. Mrsha looked up with her brown eyes and did something with her paws. Ryoka frowned. It was fast—
“What? What was that?”
Was that…sign language? Mrsha’s face fell as she realized Ryoka couldn’t read her. She fumbled at a small pouch attached to her side. Ryoka saw her pull out a bit of parchment, a quill that needed no ink—
“Are you writing?”
The Gnoll held up a small, furry finger, and Ryoka waited. Mrsha scribbled industriously and then handed Ryoka a note.
Stay here for a bit.
Ryoka read it with some shock. Mrsha—writing? And signing? So much had changed. And what did that mean? She looked at the little Gnoll as she hugged onto Ryoka’s belly again. And then she got it.
Slowly, Ryoka sat back and began to scratch Mrsha’s head. She and the girl sat there as Ryoka hugged her. The sun began to rise as they just sat.
