No running about. No food—not yet—and no need to talk. They just sat there. Ryoka was back and Mrsha could not be happier. The City Runner found herself smiling, and looked around to see if anyone had noticed the uncharacteristic behavior.
 
—-
 
Lyonette stomped downstairs shortly after the Imani-incident, as the inn was already abuzz. Erin was greeting people as they came down.
“Hi Hexel, sorry, that was me. Hi Temile, sorry that was me. Hi Lyonette—”
The [Princess]’ glower could have nailed Erin’s tongue to the roof of her mouth. The [Innkeeper] eyed her.
“Bad sleep?”
“Where’s Mrsha? She should be awake by now. She normally is.”
Erin shrugged.
“She’s not with you? Wait a second—this had better not be like last time!”
She gave Hexel a long stare. The Lamia looked around as he collected a to-go breakfast to have with a certain Gnoll.
“I wasn’t accosted by a small white Gnoll this time. I did check.”
Before Erin could ask Numbtongue before calling a Mrsha-search, Lyonette interrupted.
“She’s with Ryoka.”
“Oh, phew!”
Erin wiped fake sweat from her brow, but the [Princess] just sat with arms folded. Erin saw Silveran come over with two plates of Imani’s breakfast, which she was serving to the guests and ignoring the requests for their meals because this was her kitchen.
“Not just yet, Silveran! We want to eat with Ryoka, I think.”
Lyonette folded her arms as the Worker handed a plate to Bird, who sighed over the distinct lack of obvious bird anatomy in his meal. He brightened up at the eggs, though.
“What’s the matter, Lyonette?”
“Nothing. Ryoka’s back and Mrsha is over the moon about it. I’m fine.”
The [Princess] glared. Erin sighed.
“Mrsha likes Ryoka. You know? Because she saved her from dying and stuff?”
Lyonette turned her head away.
“I know that! It’s fine. Mrsha has a favorite person.”
She was jealous. Which was fair. Lyonette had raised Mrsha when both Erin and Ryoka hadn’t been there and become her mother. So it was a mother’s jealousy? Erin scratched at her head.
She couldn’t serve a healthy breakfast or double-check before scaring the daylights out of Imani and half of her guests, but this? She looked around as more people filed down the stairs. Kevin, Rose, Galina…Troy and Leon and Joseph were all sleeping, it seemed. No survival instincts.
“Lyonette. You’re being silly. Mrsha loves you! You’re her mom!”
“I know that! Don’t you think I know that?”
The [Princess] snapped at Erin. The [Innkeeper] went on, rolling her eyes.
“—and Mrsha loves Ryoka because she’s the person who saved her. But that doesn’t mean you’re not her mom, right? Ryoka’s like…a favorite, cool aunt. She comes over and of course Mrsha wants to be with her! You’re here every day! It’s not personal. Don’t you have a favorite relative?”
Lyonette’s glower abated slightly. Erin gave her an encouraging smile. The [Princess] hesitated and muttered.
“I did have a favorite [Baron]. So Ryoka’s the aunt?”
“That’s right. Numbtongue’s the big brother, Bird is…either the little brother or another big brother…you’re the mom…”
“And you’re the father?”
They’d done this joke before. Erin flapped her hand dismissively.
“Nah, nah, I figured it out this time. I’m the crazy-awesome grandma! Doesn’t that make sense?”
She gave Lyonette a huge thumbs-up and a grin. The [Princess]’ lips quirked.
“You do fit the role. I remember my maternal grandmother was almost as intense as you were, before she passed.”
“Thanks!”
The [Innkeeper] took a bit of pride in seeing Lyonette relax and some of her grudge against Ryoka for Mrsha’s affection dissipate. It wasn’t like Erin didn’t notice that, and she could at least soothe Lyonette’s temper. That was her job these days. Not cooking, not cleaning—you had Silveran and Imani for that. People.
Like Ishkr and the sullen female Gnoll who followed him in for the morning’s shift. Erin waved.
“Hey, Ishkr! And Liska, right?”
“Miss Erin. Good morning.”
The Gnoll with red-brown fur and no distinct oddball traits nodded to her. The most-valuable worker and a definite contender for ‘Employee of the Month’ if Erin ever instituted that program. He nudged his sister and she growled something like ‘hello’.
Lyonette frowned as Ishkr dragged his sister over to a table. Erin pretended not to hear their growled argument.
“You say hello.”
“You said we get breakfast before we work! What’s that smell?”
“We do. But say hello even if we’re not on our shift! Come on—”
“Seems tough, having to work with a sister. How’s she doing, Lyonette?”
“Liska? She’s got a bad attitude but she follows orders so she’s not unmanageable. Not like Maran and Safry.”
Erin winced.
“Oh wow. You remember them?”
“I had a dream about when it was just me and Mrsha in the inn.”
“No kidding? Well, maybe we can get Liska some work where she doesn’t have to smile at people. Like the loading jobs with the Antinium? Unless she has a problem with them or she’s untrustworthy?”
The [Princess] chewed that over as Silveran handed Hexel a packed-lunch—two tidy boxes! Actual boxes of wood, mind you. They slid open and kept the heat wonderfully. Imani had improvised them based on the bento box from Japan, which Erin had seen. You could put all kinds of food in there and you could bring back the box to cut the price of them.
In Hexel’s case, he made it disappear into a bag of holding and went for a breakfast with Elirr—not that Erin knew about that last part. He slithered out of the inn as Lyonette nodded.
“It could work. Maybe writing receipts or some of the secretarial jobs. Liska doesn’t seem untrustworthy—just rebellious. Doesn’t like having orders. Although—she works better if I talk to her rather than Ishkr. Brother and sister.”
“Sounds good. And hey—aren’t we sending a lot of um…foods today? F-fish?”
Erin tried to remember. People, that was her job. Only—Lyonette handled the staff and the deliveries. The [Princess] gave Erin a long look.
“We’re sending some of the preserved fish and a lot of tools from Esthelm to Lord Toldos of House Everight and Lord Alman of House Sanito.”
The young woman stared blankly at Lyonette.
“How do you remember those names?”
“How do you remember a Magnus-Belgrade Opening?”
“That doesn’t exist. And that’s different! That’s fun!”
Erin folded her arms defensively. The [Princess] sighed.
“Only to you, Erin. What’s taking those two so long?”
“Aw, let them sleep. Ryoka got in late. She was really worried about Mrsha!”
As the two talked and relaxed, the inn began waking up. Ishkr and his sister took their breakfast and soon the magical door would be letting people in. But Lyonette had decreed to Erin’s agreement that there was a hiatus to the morning’s rush. It was around seven-ish that you could enter via the magic door. Before that—peace reigned.
As Erin was debating whether knowing fork etiquette was less useful than chess patterns, someone else came down the stairs. The arguing duo looked up as a short girl, seemingly only sixteen or something, shaded her face and peered around, keeping well away from the light streaming out of some of the windows.
Erin didn’t recognize her at first. Pale skin, dark hair. And—red eyes. Numbtongue stopped noshing on his food as he recognized one of the guests who had come to the inn. Erin blinked.
“Oh! Hello!”
Fierre turned and looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] felt a…an odd…?
“Hello. I heard a shout. Is everything alright?”
“Not at all. That was just uh, an accident. You’re Fierre, right? Come over! Sit down! I haven’t seen Ryoka or that other Runner today.”
“Salamani. Sorry, we did arrive late.”
The Vampire eyed the table where Lyonette and Erin were sitting. It was just far away enough from one of the deadly sunbeams—she edged over.
Erin gave Fierre much the same curious look. She was wearing lots of loose, heavy clothing. Ryoka had said…Fierre was interesting in her last visit. And also that Fierre was her friend from Reizmelt.
The [Innkeeper] politely edged her seat left, blocking one of the aforementioned sunbeams. Lyonette glanced at her as Fierre sat down. The Vampire glanced at Erin, but the [Innkeeper] smiled. And she wondered how much garlic the inn stocked. Scarves—scarves were nice.
Fierre was a Vampire. Erin’s face was perfectly friendly as she asked if Fierre had slept well, and saw the Vampire smile without exposing her teeth.
“Thanks. Your inn’s quite nice. Far better than the one I stay in at Reizmelt.”
“I’m so glad. If you want to have breakfast—we’re waiting on Ryoka.”
“I can wait. Um—you’re Miss Lyonette?”
“That’s right. Hello again.”
The two smiled at each other. Fierre sniffed at something. And Erin saw her glance at Lyonette’s…neck…for just a second. Or maybe just at her dress?
Now a trio, the three chatted as Fierre stared at Silveran and around at the inn that Ryoka had told her so much about. At Erin Solstice, who Fierre had heard about in her work as an Opener and information broker. And at Lyonette.
The [Princess] was the most oblivious one as the [Innkeeper] and Vampire took stock of each other. Erin didn’t know what to think. Fierre was Ryoka’s friend, already making her odd. But not bad. But she was also…
She seemed nice. But it was taking every inch of Erin’s self-control to not ask if Fierre wanted to borrow a coffin for tomorrow night. She really, really hoped that whatever Imani was making didn’t have garlic.
 
—-
 
After about thirty minutes, Mrsha had enough of being cuddled and finally pushed away to point downstairs. Her stomach had begun rumbling and judging by the way she was sniffing the air, she had scented something nice.
Ryoka’s own stomach began growling; it had been days of quick meals for her, Fierre and Salamani. Especially near the end. She followed Mrsha out of her room after quickly dressing.
She found the little Gnoll staring up at a tall fellow in robes. Especially at Salamani’s lizard-like eyes. The Mage Runner turned as Ryoka came out of her room.
“Oh, Ryoka. This young Gnoll just met me. I thought I scared her, but she hasn’t said a word.”
“That’s Mrsha. You met her last night—”
Or had he? Salamani had been bushed from casting [Haste] on all three. The Courier squatted down.
“If I did, I forget. Hello, Mrsha. Don’t mind the eyes. They’re a gift from Lizardfolk parents.”
Oh. Mrsha nodded. Salamani glanced at Ryoka as Mrsha fiddled with her belt.
“She can’t speak. But she can—”
Mrsha handed Salamani a card. This was one of her pre-written lines for those not on the up and up with hand-signs. Salamani blinked, and read it.
Hello, I am Mrsha. I cannot speak but I can write and speak with my paws. Do not pat my head without permission.
“Ah, that’s so intelligent! Hello! Do you do handshakes, then?”
The Mage Runner laughed. Mrsha solemnly shook his hand, clearly pleased at being treated like a proper adult. In fact—she was so adult that while Ryoka had dressed, Mrsha had put on…
“Is that a kilt?”
Ryoka stared at Mrsha’s clothing. The Gnoll rolled her eyes and nodded. Salamani and Ryoka watched as Mrsha pointed downstairs and made a ‘come on, I’m hungry’ gesture neither of them needed to be taught.
“So this is the little Gnoll you were so worried about? Does she not usually wear clothing?”
“No! I mean—that’s not a problem! Despite how it sounds! She’s just—”
Getting older. Ryoka felt a pang in her chest. Mrsha was talking, wearing clothing, walking around on two legs…was this how parents felt all the time? It sort of sucked. At least, the part of Ryoka that told her she’d missed all of this. So rather, it sucked to be an absent parent.
At least, the ones who cared about their children. Ryoka shook her head. She wasn’t Mrsha’s…she could barely look after herself like a proper person, let alone Mrsha. Lyonette was far better.
Speaking of which, Lyonette, Erin, and Fierre were all waiting for them downstairs. Ryoka halted at the steps as she saw Mrsha race over, stop when she saw Fierre, and begin sniffing rapidly. The Vampire girl stared down at the Gnoll with some apprehension as Mrsha gave her a long look.
“Ryoka! There you are! And—and—Courier-guy!”
“Salamani! Hello Miss Solstice, thanks for putting me up.”
“Well, anything for Ryoka’s friends! Come on over! We were just having breakfast with Fierre! Imani’s whipping up something in the kitchen. I checked and we’re all good!”
Erin gave Ryoka a wink as she turned her head away from the others. Ryoka instantly wanted to die. Erin was already checking for garlic and stuff. She regretted telling Erin about Fierre instantly.
But she hadn’t thought they’d ever meet. At least, so soon! Not like this! Fierre gave Ryoka a careful smile as Mrsha handed her a card. The Vampire read it.
“Hi, Mrsha. I won’t pat your head. It’s um, very nice to meet you.”
The Gnoll stuck her paw up importantly for a shake. Fierre gave it a quick grasp and Mrsha nodded. Fierre was approved. The Gnoll clambered up into a seat and patted the one next to her. Ryoka got to sit next to Mrsha, who was next to Lyonette.
“It’s just great you’re all here. Hey Silveran! One Mrsha-sized breakfast and five adults!”
Mrsha sighed as Silveran nodded and walked into the kitchen. Salamani stared at the Antinium. So did Fierre, out of the corner of her eyes. They both glanced at Ryoka and she felt a bit—peculiar.
Here was a Courier [Mage] with Lizardfolk ancestry. And a bloody Vampire. And they thought an Antinium Worker was the weird one?
“So, uh. Erin. This is Salamani and Fierre. I introduced them last night, but not properly. Everyone, this is Erin, Lyonette, Mrsha—”
The others murmured hellos as Salamani caught sight of Numbtongue playing a morning round of cards with two men in hats. Fierre nudged Ryoka and the City Runner’s head went blank for a moment. No way. But hats on a Drake and Gnoll? They couldn’t be…
Erin had a knowing look in her eye as she gazed at Wilovan and Ratici. She smiled at Fierre.
“And you’re a…information person from Reizmelt?”
“Er…yeah. Sort of like a [Gossip].”
Fierre mumbled, giving Ryoka a sharp look. Erin nodded at the [Mage].
“And you’re a Courier?”
“The Mage Runner, yes. In debt to Miss Ryoka and Miss Fierre.”
“Whoa. I heard about that. Something about a delivery? It’s great to meet you both! And like I said yesterday—everything’s on the house for Ryoka’s friends.”
“Within reason.”
Lyonette coughed. Erin laughed and Salamani grinned.
“We can certainly pay—”
