She stared at him. The Drake’s eyes were locked on her. Ryoka sat at the table and saw—someone else was watching the Sinew Magus from behind. A Centaur looked straight at Ryoka and drew something in the air. The glittering words flashed a second—visible only to Ryoka, seemingly.
“Truth spell.”
Palt gave Ryoka a warning look and hurried off to find Erin. And suddenly, the City Runner was aware of how Grimalkin was looking around.
At her. At Galina, who was talking with the Players on the stage. Rose, who was going over soccer practice with Kevin and Joseph…Troy and Leon, talking over something they’d bought.
“There are a number of astonishing individuals at the inn. Miss Solstice besides—I’ve been hoping to speak to you, Miss Ryoka. And extend the offer. I think you can imagine what it entails, but I’d like you to hear me out. And consider—carefully—what I’m proposing.”
“Whatever you think—I’m not interested. I should—”
Ryoka wanted to stand and walk off. But the huge Drake just shook his head.
“Sit down, Miss Griffin. I’m quite aware of everything. And believe me when I say that it’s all become clear. Besides, Pallass is a world power. Where on Earth would you go that has more to offer than the Walled City?”
Someone. Had. Told. Him. Everything.
Ryoka’s ears were ringing. Truth spell? Grimalkin was speaking and she could barely hear him over the sound in her head. Who? Kevin? Joseph? Rose? Or was it another Earther? Had Erin let it all slip by chance?
She didn’t know. Joseph might give everything away for a bottle of alcohol. Kevin might let it slip by accident—Erin might have just told Grimalkin—the Sinew Magus was watching her.
Truth spell? Ryoka focused on Grimalkin, making herself listen.
“…Pallass could be a fine ally, Miss Griffin. All the city asks is honesty. Information. In return, we can provide security. Safety, resources. Perhaps even a way home, in time.”
“H—home?”
“To whichever continent you came from, I meant.”
Oh, he was good. Ryoka glanced around and Grimalkin coughed.
“No one can hear us if that’s what you’re worried about, Miss Griffin. I can be discreet. Or would you like me to be even more plain? I would like you to consider allying with the City of Invention. And believe me when I say it can be more than worth your time.”
He knew. They knew. And the Sinew Magus—he didn’t dance. Even Palt could dance, but Grimalkin went straight in for the kill.
“I…who told you?”
The Drake didn’t even blink as he looked at Ryoka.
“That would be confidential, Miss Griffin. If indeed it was anyone who needed to tell me when the truth sits in this inn.”
He was messing with her. Truth spell. She couldn’t lie. Ryoka took a breath. Suddenly, it felt like Magnolia Reinhart in the old days all over again. Only, he knew. And Ryoka was even less sanguine about Grimalkin than Magnolia Reinhart. One was a scheming [Lady] who could be ruthless and employed killer-assassins, yes. But Grimalkin was military.
“So, what? I tell you what I know and I’m protected?”
“More than that, Miss Griffin. Far more. As I said, Pallass is a city with almost unlimited resources. You needn’t run again. Safety, comfort…perhaps even healing for your injuries. Your hand, for instance.”
She jerked. Her missing fingers curled up at the stumps.
“You could heal my hand? What, do you have a Potion of Regeneration lying about?”
His eyes flickered.
“Magical prostheses could be arranged if not the potion. And depending on the knowledge—value for value is a fair exchange, Miss Griffin. I’m sure you can imagine there are any number of things Pallass would like to learn about. If the knowledge is useful.”
“Like what? Name one thing you don’t have.”
She challenged him. How much did he know? Ryoka was in the weeds now—he knew. She had to believe he knew. So the question was—had someone talked or was it still just educated guesswork and spying?
But the Drake was good.
“It would take a systematic search of our knowledge and yours, Miss Griffin. See where parts don’t line up.”
“You don’t know anything, then.”
“Did I say that? It’s standard doctrine not to reveal the entirety of your knowledge to someone not on your side, Miss Griffin. I would like you to be on ours.”
“Pallass’? Or the Walled Cities in general?”
The Drake paused. Not a single expression.
“That’s a determination you would find out if our talks progressed. Let me ask you a question, Miss Ryoka. Do you think you have anything of value to tell us?”
Ryoka shut her lips. But that was an answer in itself. The truth spell—even if she knew it was on her, Grimalkin could get information out of her. He nodded slightly.
“I’m aware you must be incredibly reluctant, Miss Griffin. But believe me. We aren’t the same as a [Lady] of Izril. Pallass is willing to give you autonomy, trade fairly for information given—or act as protectors. It’s not as binding as—”
Aha. Ryoka bit her inside cheek so hard it began to bleed. He’d slipped. They knew about Magnolia! That meant—it was one of the others from the mansion.
She should have let the [Assassins] get them. Who was it? One? All? Grimalkin concluded.
“—remember that value is time-dependent, Miss Griffin. No offer lasts forever. Far better to ally now than when circumstances might be more pressing.”
The young woman narrowed her eyes. So—they had one or more Earthers. And they clearly wanted to know more. They knew Ryoka was from Earth. But Grimalkin might not know that Palt knew everything if he hadn’t stopped Palt from warning Ryoka. Or maybe whomever was giving away secrets hadn’t given away everything. Or they were just dumb as rocks. What would Grimalkin do if Ryoka said no? That last sentence was ominous.
It was a cliché. But she had to ask.
“Is that a threat?”
“Not from Pallass.”
Another calm retort. Oh, Grimalkin the Sinew Magus was good. But he wasn’t perfect. And Ryoka had met the best in the world. Magnolia Reinhart was charming and sly—Grimalkin was intelligent and direct. And because he was so smart and using magic rather than intuition—Ryoka realized something.
Magnolia Reinhart knew. Wistram knew. It was only a matter of time. But Ryoka felt it. Nations had begun to pick up the scent. Oil and steel on the winds. But if you were going to play this game—
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin began to laugh. Fierre, peering at Montressa and Bezale, glanced over and saw Ryoka Griffin laughing as Grimalkin stared at her. The conversation they’d been having about weight lifting cut off. The Vampire’s eyes narrowed.
“That’s—”
“Illusion spell.”
Salamani made the Vampire jump. He was looking between Mons and Beza and at Grimalkin’s illusion spell, which replaced the laughing Ryoka with a smiling, talking one in a heartbeat. He narrowed his eyes.
“What in the name of Baleros have I walked into?”
Fierre wanted to know that too.
 
—-
 
It was time to push back. Ryoka calmed down after a second. But the laughter had been genuine. She smiled at Grimalkin. The Drake was eying her suspiciously.
“Something amusing, Miss Griffin?”
“Oh. Nothing. I was just wondering—it’s—Leon, isn’t it? Galina?”
Leon was Ryoka’s first pick. Kevin, Joseph, Rose…lowest on her ranks of suspicion. Same with Imani—Ryoka couldn’t imagine she’d ever talk to strange, muscly Drakes. But Galina, Leon, and Troy had always been the least-happy to leave the mansion.
Grimalkin’s eyes flickered. Ryoka smiled thinly. He could have been lying or that could be genuine. She’d tell Erin.
But if the Drake wanted truth—here it was. Ryoka leaned forwards.
“Whoever it was—they didn’t know a thing about anything valuable, did they? They had a lot of talk, and you probably tested them with truth spells. But half of what they knew was probably them telling you what’s possible. No substance.”
“Whatever we know, Miss Griffin—”
She interrupted him. Put a flaw in this. You just had to sow…doubt.
“I’m not interested, Magus Grimalkin. If you knew half of what I know, you’d be far more wary to even ask. Maybe Pallass has what I want. But—I’m going to warn you for your own good.”
She took a deep breath, trying to suppress the quiver of fear in her voice, sound confident.
“You don’t have the best of us. You had better start asking the right questions. Or do you think we’re all the same? Some of us Humans are idiots. Or bigots. Or just plain wrong about everything, like basic mathematics and medicine. I wouldn’t trust Joseph to set a broken bone. If you’ve got who I think you have—you’ve got an idiot.”
“Bold claim.”
Grimalkin’s eyes were on her. Truth spell. Ryoka grinned with all her teeth.
“You think so? Well then, if you know about Magnolia Reinhart, let me ask you something. Why did she let…other people…go? The Deadly Flower of the North? Let go of an asset that would be worth what you’re offering? Let me spell it out for you: she didn’t. I helped get some kids away because Magnolia let them go.”
The Drake looked uncertain for the first time. He shifted in his seat.
“The conflict with the Circle of Thorns—”
“Bullshit. Magnolia Reinhart has as many resources as Pallass. But she has no use for useless things. Or people.”
Ryoka sat back as the Drake’s muscles tensed a bit. Yeah, that was true. Or true enough, wasn’t it? Who was it? Leon? If it was Leon—then it was Leon and Troy? Look at them sitting there—where had they been this morning?
The wind blew indoors. Ryoka closed her eyes and felt the long-held secret bubbling in her. Someday, everyone would know. For now—it was a relief to look at Grimalkin and laugh. Laugh at the surprise on his face and tell him.
“You know nothing still. Whatever you have—you just have children. Idiots who don’t know a single thing that should terrify you.”
Full Ryoka-cynicism. Full contempt. Full ego and arrogance. Look at me. Tell him it wasn’t enough, what he had, and then run like hell. Because…it was too late. If he had even ideas, he knew what was possible with steel and gunpowder and…
The Sinew Magus looked at Ryoka.
“It seems Pallass should up its offer. Miss Griffin, why don’t we discuss this in a more secure location?”
“Why don’t we not? I don’t think I want what you’re offering, Magus Grimalkin.”
The Drake [Mage] paused.
“Surely we can discuss this. Let me introduce you to Grand Strategist Chaldion. He is in a better position to offer you—”
She had no [Dangersense]. But every instinct in Ryoka’s body told her: do not go to Pallass. She stood up abruptly.
“I think we’re done, Magus, don’t you?”
“I’d rather like to insist.”
Oh shit. He was looking at her. It occurred to Ryoka suddenly—what happened if he just grabbed her and went for the door? No way she could ever get out of a grip. She backed up a bit. The Sinew Magus was very still.
And Erin Solstice tapped him on the back.
“Hey. Grimalkin. Are you bothering Ryoka?”
The Drake turned. Ryoka saw Palt watching from the hallway. Erin was there, dusting her palms off of…black powder? Ryoka’s mind said charcoal dust at first, but it was just flour. Her apron was smudged and Grimalkin stared at her.
“Not at all, Miss Solstice. I was just offering Miss Ryoka—”
“Yeah, it sounds like you were bothering her. Ryoka, is this dude bothering you? He’s pushy, isn’t he?”
Ryoka saw Erin widen her eyes and smile. So the City Runner took a breath.
“I wasn’t—happy with what I heard. Big stuff, Erin. I’d rather go.”
“Mhm. Got it. Why don’t you leave her alone, Grimalkin?”
Grimalkin folded his arms as Erin looked up at Grimalkin. She shook her head.
“And what’s this I hear about Pallass keeping the Raskghar? Olesm came by—he’s really mad. Huh, Grimalkin? Huh?”
She poked him in the chest. Actually poked the Drake who had to weigh three or four times what she did. The Sinew Magus stared down as Erin flexed her stubbed finger and winced.
“You’d have to discuss that with Grand Strategist Chaldion or the [Senators], Erin. I’m simply offering Miss Griffin a choice. The same I’d like to offer—”
“Not interested. You know, Pallass can’t just throw it’s big fat weight around and bully us. And you can’t come into my inn and bully Ryoka, Grimalkin.”
The [Sinew Magus] stared down at the [Innkeeper].
“I am representing Pallass, Miss Solstice. I believe we’ve had this conversation before? Pallass is a Walled City. It is not Liscor or Liscor’s Council. You cannot—”
He should have been more careful. Ryoka Griffin felt like Grimalkin resembled her the first few times she’d come to the inn, in a way. Self-confident—not that it was a bad thing. Intelligent. But perhaps too ready to look down on the silly [Innkeeper] for all he knew what she was.
Ryoka had learned the hard way when Erin had punched her lights out. Erin’s eyes narrowed. She looked around.
“That’s true. Like you keep saying, Grimalkin, buddy, pal, we’re not Pallass. This is humble Liscor, small city and all that. And you’re big guy Grimalkin. [Sinew Magus]! Grimalkin the Fist! Look at me, I’ve got muscles!”
“Would you stop saying that?”
He actually began looking annoyed as Erin began to mock-flex in front of him. Ryoka was trying not to laugh. The [Innkeeper] looked up at him.
“Well, I’ve had it up to here with you, Grimalkin. This ain’t Pallass. But guess what? This is my inn. And if you don’t want to respect my guests—you’re not welcome here. So guess what again? Get out.”
She pointed towards the door. Ryoka’s jaw dropped. So did Grimalkin’s.
“You can’t be serious.”
“Totally am. Get out. Go back to Pallass. And that’s another thing. Pallass is going to let Liscor decide about the Raskghar or…”
“Or what?”
The [Sinew Magus] loomed. Erin looked up at him. And that was Grimalkin’s second mistake. Erin wasn’t afraid of him. It was incredible, really. But she wasn’t. Even someone who was ‘not afraid’ of Grimalkin would stare at that amount of muscle and ‘not be nervous’. But Erin?
“You listening, Grimalkin? I said—get out of my inn.”
She put her foot down. And Grimalkin staggered. Ryoka saw his feet move—he took two steps and swung back.
“You can’t kick me out of your inn, Miss Solstice. I believe if there’s debts to be counted—”
The [Innkeeper] turned. The ambient noise in the inn was dying down. Everyone was taking notice.
“Yeah, you’ve helped a lot, Grimalkin. Saved my life, punched Beza over there—but you know what? You can be kind of a jerk. And I’ve kicked out friends before. Actual friends. I said—get out.”
