The six were the ones chosen to be the negotiating team. Mainly five to back up Emme—Jasi, Jexam and Yimur as the Gnolls and Drakes and Wesle and Temile as the invested Humans.
“And you can get them to meet with us? And—maybe get autographs? Ryoka, have you heard of them? You get their signature—it’s worth gold.”
The City Runner raised her eyebrows at Fierre and her lips wiggled. She was trying not to laugh as Mrsha tugged on her hand—she wanted Ryoka to meet the Fortress Beavers!
“I may have heard of that, Fierre. And uh—I don’t think Erin will have a problem. It’s not an exaggeration when they say the Players owe Erin everything.”
The Courier and Vampire stared accusingly at Erin. She laughed.
“Sure! Autographs, whatever! They’ll be happy. They’re great people. In fact—they’ve been bugging me for ages to visit the booth with my name on it. Since Tritel and Ci aren’t here to use it—that’s how I paid them—we could watch a play, maybe.”
Ryoka tripped and whirled and had to drag Mrsha back over.
“Erin. You have a booth in their theatre?”
“Mm…yeah?”
That required another explanation about the Players trying to give her money and invite her to fancy things. Ryoka massaged her brow.
“So, the Players of Celum owe you a favor and you don’t want to even visit the booth named after you? Or—accept money from them? Or see them perform?”
Well, when she said it like that it sounded silly. Erin solemnly put her hand on Ryoka’s shoulder and looked up at her friend.
“Y’know, Ryoka, it’s like this. Plays are cool. Plays are good and fun and stuff. But I don’t live for them. I can see them like…once every few months? Half a year? Really glad it’s taken off for the Players of Celum, but I taught them most of the plays.”
“You don’t live for…you started it! And why don’t you want gold? They have to earn…”
Lyonette nodded fervently, suddenly all on Ryoka’s side. Erin shrugged helplessly.
“But it’s theirs, Ryoka. I just gave them a jump-start. Besides, I don’t need gold. Lyonette and the inn want gold, but I prefer to hold onto my favors.”
Ryoka turned to Lyonette. The [Princess] looked like she wanted to cry.
“So you just gave the Players…help…just because you wanted to be nice. And you don’t want gold or…anything else?”
The [Innkeeper] gave Ryoka a big thumbs-up and a smile. Ryoka wanted to smack her hand down.
“Yeah, because it was cool. I don’t lift weights all day either. Say—have you seen the weights room?”
The Runner’s face went blank. Erin hesitated as she realized Ryoka hadn’t visited the weights room.
“…Which isn’t that big a deal. And uh—totally hasn’t spread to other cities and stuff…”
She edged back as Ryoka gave her a long, accusatory look. It was Lyonette du Marquin who swooped in with the save by stabbing Ryoka through the back.
“It’s still not as bad as giving someone trebuchets, anyways.”
Ryoka actually staggered for a second as the [Princess] murmured on the pretense of cleaning more avocado off Mrsha’s fur. The Gnoll wiggled free and pulled at Ryoka’s hand. Okay, weights room first, then beavers!
Fierre and Salamani had to see this as well. Erin led them down the hallway, chattering all the while.
“Okay, so it’s sort of smelly despite the air-freshening charm we bought. Actually—we had to buy one because whew do people sweat! But we keep it clean and it’s a real hit—”
Ryoka stared at the weights set in the room and the regulars here. Menolit, Relc, before he’d left, a number of [Guards]—
And Numbtongue, Bezale, two of the [Actors]…it was a damned weights room like from Earth! True, it lacked some of the polish—it didn’t have the more clinical look since it was wooden floorboards Ryoka would have expected, and it was lacking a lot of the much more complicated workout devices Erin didn’t know or have the expertise to explain.
But look at it. Erin hid behind Mrsha by lifting her up in her arms and grinning nervously.
“It’s uh—a big hit. Lots of good sales on drinks afterwards. And um—there’s even a lifting list! See?”
She pointed. Ryoka turned and saw the sheet that listed weight-gains. By now, Grimalkin’s little competition had taken on a life of its own among those dedicated to this new thing. And with the lists of max-lifts by gender and species and location posted there each week was the inn’s list. Ryoka read a little note on the top written by Erin.
New rule! You have to have someone witness your lift! Any record-breaking lift must be witnessed under truth spell by the Mage’s Guild. Have fun! Don’t get hurt!
And the lifts. Ryoka stared at the numbers. She was both impressed and shocked. Impressed because the average weight lifted across both genders was high. And yet—the record-breaking five hundred pound lift from Ulta? Lower than Earth’s world record.
“…Probably depends on form. This is insane.”
“Is that a lot of weight? What is this, Ryoka? I heard there was a buzz about some competition between House Ulta and the Walled Cities, but it was this? It was all numbers and lifting things—very confusing.”
Fierre squinted at the list. Ryoka tried to explain.
“It’s how much you can lift in one go. You see? So this number means that someone on the bench press can lift…two hundred and eighteen pounds. Wow.”
She stared at Krshia’s lift weight. And she wasn’t even a [Warrior], just a shopkeeper! Fierre frowned.
“Is that a lot?”
“Yes! Most people can’t do more than…”
Ryoka didn’t remember averages, but she was 218% positive that she…probably…couldn’t break two hundred pounds on the bench press. Even with the magical gains she’d noticed since coming to this world.
“I could probably break that.”
The Vampire girl grinned. Salamani raised his brows.
“I’d love to try that too, actually. It sounds like fun. Do they allow magic?”
“Not for the list. And you can uh, lift two hundred pounds, Fierre?”
Erin stared at Fierre, who was about as tall as she was, and looked thin even with her clothing on. Fierre gave her a blank look.
“Two hundred pounds doesn’t sound like much.”
Half of the gym, including Mrsha, gave Fierre a wrathful look. Well—some of the dedicated [Lifters] were approving. Ryoka put one arm around Fierre and dragged her friend back.
“Hah. What a joker you are, Fierre. That’s obviously too heavy.”
Erin gave Fierre a long look as the Vampire girl hesitated.
“Um. Yeah. I’ll try it later.”
She gave Ryoka a significant look and the City Runner groaned. Well, if the inn was empty, Fierre could break as many records as she liked.
“I’ll try it. How do I do it?”
“Ah! Wipe down the stuff first. Everyone’s complaining about sweat and stuff.”
“[Cleanse].”
The Mage Runner obliged Erin—gym etiquette was another developing front that Erin had no interest in. Ryoka walked over.
“Okay, you just position your hands here and here, Salamani. You always want a spotter—I’ll help you lift it up. See? We’ll do it without weights first—always make sure it’s secured. And you want to bring it down, right here without…”
She actually knew how you worked out. Erin snapped her fingers. She’d forgotten she needed to make up a flier that educated people on basic workout techniques! There had been accidents—thankfully all healable with potions, but she didn’t want someone to smash their foot with a weight or something.
“Be right back! Mrsha, what are you doing?”
The Gnoll was doing a bicep curl with a tiny, five pound weight. She flexed an arm at Erin. What did it look like? Erin rolled her eyes and laughed as she went to get some writing materials.
When she came back, Grimalkin was there. The Sinew Magus was watching Ryoka educate some of the other lifters on weights. Erin stopped in her tracks.
“Your friend knows a lot about weights. I haven’t seen her around often, though. This must be Ryoka Griffin. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt. I remember meeting her around the time Grand Magus Eldavin arrived here, but I was distracted.”
Erin halted in her tracks as the Drake turned his head. Even the other lifters were eying him—Grimalkin had more neck muscle than some of them had in their arms.
“Uh…yeah, that’s Ryoka, Grimalkin. She’s a friend. Comes here all the time. You just missed her. I mean, she came before the door to Pallass existed.”
“Interesting. She’s quite knowledgeable. I’d love to talk with her. It seems she—and you—both know about weights.”
“Who, Ryoka? Well, she’s a know-it-all. Knows all about—what’s it’s all about.”
Erin’s mouth went dry. Why was she nervous? Perhaps because she’d done this dance with Grimalkin for a while. But he’d never seemed so—focused as now. Ryoka looked up; she could hardly have missed Grimalkin. Erin opened her eyes wide.
“Really? And does she come from—your home? If she knows all about weights.”
“Uh—uh—uh—”
Something had changed. The Sinew Magus had gone from ‘questioning’ straight to—knowing. He looked calmly at Erin. Then he walked over.
“Hello there. Miss Ryoka Griffin, isn’t it? Magus Grimalkin. I think we’ve met. Do you have a moment?”
Fierre and Salamani looked up. Another big name had entered the inn. But Ryoka saw Erin waving her arms in a panic-signal and looked at the Drake. Slowly, she stepped back.
“—Sure. What about?”
Her heartbeat picked up as she saw the Drake study her. Ryoka was braced for anything—then Grimalkin struck her shoulder with a claw like a hammer.
“Wait a second—what magnificent musculature. You—young lady, you’re a Runner, aren’t you? Excellent form! Splendid distribution of muscle fiber! How do you keep yourself fit? The leg muscles I can see, but you’ve kept your upper body in good condition too…although I see a slight deterioration of muscle-to-fat. Well, with these weight rooms we can put you back in physical shape. And you have a strong core…”
Erin, Ryoka, Fierre, Salamani—everyone stared as Grimalkin began inspecting Ryoka’s arms and legs, completely distracted from his purpose for a moment.
 
—-
 
“I. Don’t. Get. It.”
Lism bounced off the third of Hectval’s representatives in the small group with Jeiss and Elirr as if he’d run into a brick wall. The Drakes were just clammed up, making small to no-talk and behaving very frosty. He stepped back.
“What’s up with the Gnolls? Teliv, explain.”
There was some dichotomy there. The [Negotiator] whispered as Lism stood by the drinks table, tail lashing with frustration.
“Not part of the delegation, Councilmember. Helpers.”
No wonder they’d been so skittish when Lism went over to introduce himself. The Drake gave a foul side-long look at Yisht, who was speaking coldly to a Pallassian [Senator].
“Damn. But why are Hectval’s people so standoffish? Pallass I can get—you said Hectval has issues with the Walled City?”
“As much as any city does with a major power in the region. They were perfectly fine yesterday. Maybe…”
Teliv’s eyes flicked towards Tismel and Zalaiss. Lism nodded.
“I’m going to ask what in the name of Rhir’s hells is wrong.”
He left the [Negotiator] and went over to Tismel, who was mired in a group of the Pallassian socialites. And—Lism noted—the Wings of Pallass.
As had been observed, Gold-rank teams, at least, Pallassian teams, were invited to most social events. And they went because it was important to be on the up-and-up with clients. If someone knew your face and thought of you well—they’d hire you over another team even if another team was more qualified or higher-level.
Bevussa Slenderscale was a friend of Liscor’s as far as Lism was concerned, anyways. A Garuda—an outsider—but she’d fought for Liscor, went into the dungeon—he was aware she was the Captain of the Wings of Pallass.
It was an open secret among adventurers and…anyone who spent actual time with the Wings. However, Lism was suddenly reminded that the Wings of Pallas had another, official Captain.
“Captain Zassil, I never got the chance to say this, but your team was inspiring at Pallass. I know you must hear it all the time—but you taking on the Wyverns? Flying with hundreds of them in the city?”
One of the Pallassian Drakes was fawning over the Oldblood Drake standing uncomfortably with Bevussa while the other two Gold-ranks mingled with adventurers in a separate group. Zassil saluted—he had been part of Pallass’ army—and smiled tightly.
“An honor, Miss Reiila. We were just doing our duty as Gold-ranks.”
“How modest! But your team’s so splendid. And you—Miss Bevussa, it’s such a delight to meet you. And may I say you have the most vivid coloration?”
The Drake turned to Bevussa, and, as Lism inserted himself into the group, ran a claw down Bevussa’s arm of colored, bright green feathers sprinkled with white and pink at the very tips.
Bevussa shifted slightly. And her face was a perfect smile.
“You’re too kind, Miss Reiila. It is an honor to serve Pallass, my home.”
“You grew up in Pallass?”
“Yes, Miss.”
The Drake clicked her tongue in admiration. Lism eyed the Pallassian Drake as she admired Bevussa more. He was no expert on Garuda, but he knew Gnolls. And touching their fur like the way that Drake was touching Bevussa’s feathers was a definite problem.
Bevussa excused herself a moment later to get a drink. The Drake turned to Zassil the moment Bevussa was gone and lowered her voice.
“She is splendid. It’s such an excellent move, Captain, adding her to your team. She must be the sight when your team flies. And of course, having a Garuda on your team must satisfy our Garuda population.”
She smiled brightly, nodding to the one Pallassian Garuda [Senator] among all those in the room. Lism gave the Drake a sidelong look—and Zassil—as he tapped Tismel on the arm.
Zassil’s smile looked a bit strained to Lism as he watched Bevussa go.
“You’re too kind, Miss Reiila. C—Bevussa is an exceptionally talented member of the team.”
“Won’t you tell me more about the battle of Pallass? From your perspective? I’m just dying to know what it was like! I wish I had the Oldblood in me to fly about…it looks so tiring!”
Lism retrieved Tismel. He chose a route back past the Gold-rank adventurers, who had a safety group when they were tired of socializing. Bevussa had her back turned to Reiila—which was good.
Keldrass looked exceptionally uncomfortable as he nodded at Lism. The Councilmember passed them by as the two adventurers stopped talking for a moment. They resumed only when he was out of earshot.
“…want to tear my wing feathers out at every event. Did you see that?”
“I did. Sorry, Bevussa.”
