She ignored the sudden babble and towed Emme away. The Dwarf hurried over, whispering.
“What’s the matter, Erin? Something up with the door?”
“Yeah. But listen, Emme—I need a favor.”
“Of course. But is now…? What is it?”
Erin Solstice smiled.
“Cut off negotiations with Pallass. Please. Unless Pallass decides to apologize and make up. I’ll let you know, but I want you to tell them on my behalf.”
The Dwarf woman stared at Erin. Then she slowly tugged at one ear.
“Can you—say that again?”
Erin repeated herself. Emme looked up at her.
“…No. Erin—”
“The Players owe me a favor.”
Erin had never wanted gold or fancy restaurants or even the Solstice booth. When she asked for a favor though—Emme grabbed at her hair. Since she didn’t have a beard. Erin had half-expected that when Emme had told her about the Dwarf ancestry thing.
“Erin—this is the biggest chance we’ve had! This is a Walled City! As big as Invrisil! Temile—”
“What’s the issue, Erin? Can we help?”
Temile, Wesle, and Jasi walked over. Erin smiled at them. Old friends.
“I want you to break off negotiations with Pallass. It’d help me out.”
The [Actors] stared at her. Temile smiled uncertainly. Wesle just exhaled.
“That’s a big ask, Erin. Even for you.”
Jasi nodded. Emme stared at both of them.
“You two can’t be serious.”
“If Erin’s opposed, she has good reasons, Emme. And she has the magic door.”
“Mhm. I might shut down all travel to Pallass for like a week, or longer. Emme, I’ll make it up to the Players.”
The [Manager] hesitated.
“How?”
Erin gave her a serious look as the Pallassian [Senators] milled about. Someone began pointing at her accusatorially and she heard the name, ‘Chaldion’ being thrown about. Erin waved. Then she looked at the Players.
“I can’t promise anything. But if the talks with Pallass fall through for whatever reason, even if you say no—then yes—then they decide to cancel because you offended them or whatever, I will devote all my efforts to getting you guys to perform or make a branch or something in First Landing, or another major city in the world. I can think of like…one…three…a few ones I could try.”
Like Talenqual, Calanfer’s capital, whatever it was, Salazsar, or wherever the Elusive Lot held sway. Erin was willing to bet on it. Emme’s mouth opened rather like a certain Drake’s had been. Jasi and Wesle exchanged a look.
“But you can’t promise that.”
Emme’s voice was strangled. Erin shook her head.
“Nope! But I promise to try. What do you say?”
Emme was at a loss for words. It was Temile who nudged her.
“Do it, Emme. I’ll say it for you if you want.”
“Temile?”
She looked at him, faintly. The [Producer] gave Erin a look and she smiled.
“Who got us out of Celum and into Invrisil, Emme?”
That decided it. The [Senators] saw the Dwarf [Manager] come over and clear her throat. They looked down their nostrils at her—their snouts? Whatever you called the front of their Drake-faces as the Dwarf smiled politely.
“I’m terribly sorry, [Senators]. But something’s just come up. We, er—that is to say, the Players of Celum—we’re calling off negotiations until Miss Solstice gets what she wants. I understand there’s some issue around the Raskghar and politeness with the inn?”
“Calling off the—Miss Emme, you’re not serious! We were working out terms!”
Wishill was horrified. The [Manager] gave him an apologetic look.
“Senator Wishill, I am truly sorry, but Miss Solstice is a…benefactor and substantial holder of the Player’s interests. Without her cooperation, we can’t even come to the table. After all—if there’s no door, we can’t go through.”
Erin Solstice smiled as the horrified crowd turned to her. She held up the glowing, yellow mana stone.
“By the way—the door to Pallass is closed until Chaldion comes to talk with me, Zevara, and the Council. You can all go back, but no one’s coming through. And there’s a fee. Si—eight silver per person. You all get to go back free, but that’s the rules from now on. Thanks!”
The Drakes looked at each other. At last, Wishill spoke in a strangled voice.
“Miss—Solstice. We are the Assembly of Crafts—offending us is an unwise—”
He stopped as Erin gave him the blankest look in existence.
“Are you Chaldion? You don’t have one eye. Tell him I want to talk.”
Then she turned and walked off. The people stared at Erin—and then began to wonder if she meant they could go back now—or if she could keep the door closed. And if they had to be stranded at Liscor, this damned backwater—
 
—-
 
Lism had himself another sip of wine. The second reception was a disaster as Pallassians streamed back towards the inn. There would be consequences. For Erin Solstice, perhaps, or Pallass.
There always were. Consequences for everything you did. Scalespeaker Yisht was disgusted, having seen it all, heard it all from afar.
“What an outrage. A foreigner telling people what to do?”
“That is a Liscorian citizen, Scalespeaker Yisht. She pays her taxes. Excuse me. I saw you and Councilmember Lism talking. May I join you?”
A female voice. Krshia Silverfang, Councilmember of Liscor, walked over with a polite smile. The Scalespeaker looked at her. And Lism saw the affront on his face. This time—Krshia recognized it too.
“Excuse me, we were talking. Councilmember Lism, you have my sympathies for that—I’m told that Human is famous?”
Lism swayed back and forth on his feet, his tail the only thing that was keeping him upright. He saw Krshia staring at him—and the Council. And Erin Solstice was causing her brand of chaos. Look at her, interfering with Council affairs. An entire city could not be held hostage to an [Innkeeper]! But didn’t Pallass have Saliss of Lights?
“Some call her the Crazy Human of Liscor. I take it you have limited experience with Humans, Scalespeaker?”
Yisht shook his head, curling his tail. He spat.
“Humans. Disgusting, loudmouthed, arrogant—as bad as—”
He hesitated, eying Krshia. Her face went blank. The Paworker’s faces were blank. Lism happily completed the sentence.
“As Gnolls, you mean? Almost as foul-smelling, as crude and disruptive as Gnolls.”
His voice echoed in the emptier City Hall. Hectval’s delegation rumbled. Those remaining looked at Lism. Krshia looked—Lism kept his eyes on Yisht. He saw Erin’s head turning with wrath, but the Scalespeaker looked…
Well, surprised. A bit taken aback. Then he calculated for a second and nodded with a tight smile.
“I’m glad we’re on the same page, Councilmember. As I said, Liscor has been ruled by Drakes, built by Drakes. You have my sympathies for—”
Erin Solstice was stalking over to Lism with a hand behind her back when she saw the purple-scale Drake’s cup slip. A bunch of wine—dregs, really—went onto Scalespeaker Yisht’s robe. The other Drake recoiled and Lism swayed back.
“I am so sorry. My claw slipped.”
“Not to worry, not to worry—that was some sl—”
Lism’s claw, opened, and accidentally moved across Yisht’s face at speed. Erin heard a slap. She stopped.
“I am so sorry. My claw slipped again!”
This time Yisht put a claw to his cheek. He stared at Lism.
“What are you doing, Lism?”
The Drake tossed the wine cup at him. Yisht dodged it and Lism’s follow-up punch laid him down. Erin recognized it—she’d done something like that once. It was not fair fighting. Lism breathed in and out.
“Lism!”
Tismel shouted in horror. Hectval’s delegation reached for their largely ornamental weapons. One of the Paworkers looked delighted. Lism breathed in and out as he held up his claws.
“Terribly sorry. Slips of the claw, all. But that last punch—that was intentional.”
“Lism!”
Scalespeaker Yisht rose to his feet, furious. Lism pointed at him.
“You, Scalespeaker, owe Councilmembers Krshia, Elirr, and Raekea—and the citizens of Liscor, Gnolls and Miss Solstice, an apology. I’ve listened to you slander them for the last two hours. Not my city. Not my people.”
The Scalespeaker’s eyes widened. He stared at Lism, and then at Erin. The [Innkeeper] peered at Lism. She’d thought it was Lism, but this wasn’t Lism. Was it? Krshia was staring at the [Shopkeeper] too, eyes wide.
“You’re mad. I’m a Scalespeaker, and we are guests of Liscor!”
“Guests send word they’re coming! Guests do not insult members of the Council! Pallass is more pleasant than you lot and they are banned from Liscor for a week! Miss Solstice, that’s an order!”
“Yes sir, Councilmember!”
She saluted him. Lism gave her a look, but Hectval’s delegation was approaching fast. The Drake with ornamental armor was drawing a sword. Lism didn’t back down. He just sneered as he folded his arms.
“I knew this city was beyond hope! I challenge you to a—”
Erin raised a fist and Krshia reached for her side. It was Watch Captain Zevara however, and the [Guards] on duty outside who stormed into City Hall.
“Councilmembers! I heard Miss Solstice—”
The Drake froze as half a dozen [Guards] spotted the naked blade and drew their weapons. They really needn’t have bothered, though. Lism had seen Jeiss, one of the best [Swordsmen] in the city, creeping up on the Drake from Hectval—and Alonna had a bead on him with a wand.
He really didn’t fight fair.
“What’s going on, Councilmembers?”
Zevara looked at Erin with deep suspicion and then at the Scalespeaker, the tableau in City Hall. Lism shook his head. He looked at Yisht and turned away.
“Negotiations, Watch Captain, have broken down. Scalespeaker, I don’t think Hectval or your little alliance has anything Liscor wants, let alone needs. I think that has been made clear.”
“No—Lism! You can’t be serious!”
Tismel was protesting and Zalaiss was staring around in horror. Lism saw the other Drake come over and raised a fist. Tismel halted and Lism shouted.
“Serious? Let’s put it to a vote, then? What does the Council think?”
He turned. Alonna, Jeiss, Raekea, Elirr, and Krshia all glanced at each other. Elirr looked at one of the Paworkers. Krshia sighed. Raekea shook her head, looking disgusted at the Hectval delegation. Jeiss grimaced, his hand on his sword’s hilt and Alonna smiled at Lism.
“We agree!”
Tismel and Zalaiss were drowned out as Lism swung around and nearly fell over.
“Then we have a majority! It’s clear that Hectval’s guests haven’t learned basic civility. Watch Captain, escort them out of the city. Politely!”
Zevara stared at Lism. She couldn’t have known what had occurred here—but then, Watch Captains had their own sources of information. She nodded tightly.
“Delegates—it seems your permission to stay has been revoked. I’ll escort you to the inn and then out of the city.”
“You can’t do this!”
It was amazing how people said the same things. Erin saw the delegates arguing—the one with the sword tried waving it about, but Zevara had an entire squad of [Guards]. A double-squad, actually, the Erin Solstice special. She watched the Hectval delegates being prodded off. Yisht screamed back at Lism, red under his scales.
“This isn’t over! You’ve made a mistake, you—you—lizardbrained sympathizers!”
But it was. At least for now. Lism stood there, massaging his knuckles. Erin kept staring at him.
“Are you…Lism?”
He grunted.
“That’s Councilmember to you, Miss Solstice. It seems—no. I owe you an apology.”
“Oh. For what?”
“I’m sure you can remember.”
Lism turned away. He looked at Krshia. He still didn’t like Erin Solstice, by the way. Or foreigners. People coming into his city…etc. etc.
He just happened to dislike Yisht more.
“So that was a Drake city? I can’t say I care for them.”
Krshia walked over. She looked at Lism. And she smiled as she patted him on the shoulder. Not a kiss or anything—Lism hadn’t quite earned it and besides, Erin was muttering about not getting her punch in a few steps over.
“Well done, Councilmember Lism.”
“Why thank you, Councilmember Krshia.”
They smiled at each other. Alonna nudged Jeiss as the Senior Guardsman decided he needed a double-drink. And to pack up some of the food for his family.
“I take it back. I think they’re good for each other.”
The [Guardsman] grunted.
“It’s still weird.”
 
—-
 
One last thing. There was more to be said, and done. Ryoka Griffin’s first day back had been…eventful. But she was staying for a while. It was just that Pallass had received a lesson.
Which was that you couldn’t bully people with impunity. There were consequences. Perhaps there would be for Erin, too. Walled Cities and all that.
But she had friends. Chaldion was a fellow chess player, even if he was a Grand Strategist. Saliss of Lights, Rufelt, Lasica, they were all friends. Was it enough to stall a Walled City’s wrath? Perhaps not.
Liscor stood alone. Hectval’s delegates were shipped off, cursing and swearing vengeance, but not even Lism had any regrets. If anyone looked back regretfully—perhaps it was the Paworkers.
All for later. The consequence—in the immediate now, was a few things.
Chaldion coming to the inn and sitting at a table and Erin walking over, smiling. The Grand Strategist gave her a long, one-eyed look as his eye patch covered the other, artificial eye.
“It seems Pallass owes you an apology, Miss Solstice. Would you like me to apologize or have the [Senators] do it?”
“It depends on whether you were the jerk, Chaldion.”
“Mm. Let me think about it. I assume the Council and the Watch Captain would like a word. Would you like to play a game of chess in the meantime?”
“Sure. What color?”
 
—-
 
And later—Erin Solstice let Chaldion discuss the Raskghar with Liscor. She was still keeping to the one-week ban. With maaaaaaybe an exception for Saliss and some friends. But she’d pushed at Pallass. And Pallass had pushed back with Grimalkin.
When you did all that pushing, you tended to see who you ran up against as friends or allies. Erin eyed the group of Earthers.
Joseph, Imani, Kevin, Rose, Galina, Leon, Troy, and Ryoka too. Something was messed up with Leon and Troy’s faces. Erin forebode comment, and the dirty looks the others were giving them.
Oh yes. She closed her eyes for a moment and then looked up.
“I want to trust you. And I’m going to. Okay? Can I do that?”
Palt was not smoking for once. He nodded gravely at Erin. She sighed and closed her eyes. The Gentlemen Callers, as representatives of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, were inspecting the two rooms she’d given them. On the house, as it were. She thought they might not be good guys, but they were…trustworthy. For a certain degree of trust.
