4th Army under Edellein Blackwing was more specialized towards resource-acquisition. They could move fast, secure spots in inter-city conflicts, lay ambushes…their unofficial designation was ‘Pallass’ Bandits’ by other cities. Edellein disliked the term immensely. After all, he was 4th [General] of Pallass!
Each [General] had a seniority based on their army position. In truth, 2nd Army’s [General] was probably their best as 1st Army’s [General], the Dullahan, Duln, was always in the city. But you could generally assume there was a ranking based on levels.
And trust. So in that sense, Edellein was the 4th most trusted and highly-leveled [General] of the eight armies. Really, there should have been nine to match Pallass’ floors, but the last army had been a hypothetical for decades; there was a limit to the amount of forces even Pallass, home to millions, could support.
“—exceptional strength and agility despite their size. If Captain Bevussa’s report is to be understood, Raskghar exceed all but Level 30 Gnolls in combat ability during a full moon. With the right Skills, you could…match them at lower levels.”
It wasn’t just [Generals] in the room with just over a dozen members of the inner council. Edellein felt alone without his aides, but they were not permitted here. It was a [Veteran Strategist] who was giving the report—a Drake in his late fifties.
Of course, that was nothing compared to the venerable Grand Strategist himself who tapped a claw on the table.
“Awakened Raskghar. There’s a difference. Regular Raskghar are around a Level 15 Gnoll [Warrior] unless it’s a full moon. With their increased abilities, Level 20 at best. And with Skills, I’d give it to a Level 20 Gnoll if they have time to use a Skill.”
The [Veteran Strategist], duly chastened, ducked his head. And one of the [Generals] cleared his throat.
“Even so, they’re a valuable asset.”
Represented among the [Generals] were Duln, Edellein, and the newly-minted General Shirka of 3rd Army. Edellein had resented her being promoted over him; he’d felt he deserved to have his army moved up the ranking. But High Command had wanted another Drake, and chosen her.
She was…competent. Fought in some extreme campaigns and recruited to Pallass oh, eight years back. But Chaldion had to have really trusted her to make her 3rd [General].
Edellein sat back as the inner council debated.
“Heavy troopers. No Skills means they’re inherently weaker and won’t level. But they can go into fighting without needing to level. There’s an advantage there. Is that the plan, Grand Strategist?”
“First the sentencing. I have promised to hold the Raskghar accountable. Those guilty will be executed publically—our [Interrogators] are deciding guilt.”
“Why not just choose a third of them and save the most promising candidates?”
Edellein murmured. He was rewarded with a few quiet nods. But Chaldion looked pointedly at the Drake.
“Our relationship with Liscor is one I wish to keep harmonious, General Edellein. It is a strategic asset.”
In what way? Some of the [Generals] looked knowing. Edellein was just blank. That damn Bird the Hunter had come from Liscor. But he wasn’t always posted in Pallass and his information was sometimes lacking. He tried to keep the same look on his face as some of the other’s.
“The issue, as I see it, is that none of the Gnoll [Soldiers] or tribes will accept Raskghar easily, Grand Strategist.”
Edellein scowled. Shirka was no stranger to voicing her opinions despite her relative inexperience to her post. Mind you—she was doing it quite formally, but he still didn’t like the ease with which she kept talking. Chaldion however just nodded.
“Pallass would have to demonstrate their safe containment. Or civilization, General Shirka. The question is whether they can act as [Soldiers] or whether they’re naturally inclined to kill other Gnolls. General Duln will have responsibility for that.”
All eyes turned to the Dullahan. He was 1st General, remarkable for being a non-Drake—there were few Gnolls in the inner war council, even. He adjusted his head as he spoke.
“We’ll put the young through military training once their numbers replenish. Discipline will tell us how they react. It might be a complete failure as a program, but it’s a worthwhile investment.”
The military leaders nodded. It wouldn’t be easy, and it might take years and countless gold pieces to train the Raskghar—and that was if they were a suitable addition to the Walled City’s forces. But it was an expense they would sign off on in a moment for an edge in the future.
“But the Gnolls have sworn to kill Raskghar. I wish we had 8th Army’s consultation on this. The diplomatic repercussions could be—severe. The Tribes could see this as an extremely hostile threat if we don’t address the matter.”
Another Drake [Strategist] muttered. 8th Army’s [General] was a Gnoll. The only two Gnolls were 7th and 8th army’s. It was General Duln who replied calmly.
“The Walled Cities clashed with the tribes quite often before the Antinium wars. We have used unorthodox methods before—”
“General Duln.”
Chaldion snapped. The Dullahan suddenly fell silent. Edellein had been playing with a quill and looked up suddenly. It didn’t sound like anything special. But from the way the Dullahan nodded his head and sealed his lips—that had been a slip of the tongue.
“Your meaning, General Duln?”
Shirka glanced at the Dullahan and then the oldest active [Strategist]. Chaldion met the younger [General]’s gaze.
“That is classified, General Shirka.”
“Yessir.”
The [General] instantly saluted. But Edellein sat up even further. Classified to 3rd [General]? Or…was it because he and the others were here? He saw a few of the other inner war council shift a bit as they realized there was an even more inner ring to the secret group.
Well, that was how such things went. Edellein was interested in the Raskghar. On paper, they were fascinating. And that was because it was all they were to him. He had read the reports about their attacks on Liscor. It wasn’t personal to him.
 
—-
 
Liscor’s Council was fuming. Pallass and Liscor. They’d had this interaction before, but it seemed Pallass hadn’t learned. Or—they thought there was nothing to learn.
The Walled City kept sweeping in and saying ‘this is how we’ll do it’. The Raskghar? They’d helped Liscor by taking the matter out of Liscor’s hands. Pallass was going to decide their fate.
It made Lism furious. Especially after he’d told that Drake [Senator]—Senator Wishill, one of the Assembly of Craft’s members with the longest careers and arguably, most influence—that it wasn’t Pallass’ decision alone.
“It was our city who accepted the Raskghar’s surrender, Senator. And Liscor and Pallass are allied—”
Every Pallassian in earshot had laughed. Laughed! Mostly Drakes, with only a handful of Gnolls, Garuda, or Dullahans—representative of the Walled City’s population in large. And Wishill had given Lism a superior look as he chuckled a reply.
“Allies, Councilmember? I’m terribly sorry if you’ve had the wrong impression, but Pallass is not—allies with Liscor. We’ve certainly had mutually beneficial relationships but—we’re allies with Manus and Zeres. Excuse me. I couldn’t help but chuckle.”
It was a reminder that they didn’t know inter-city politics, at least, among the Drakes. Honestly, Liscor’s Council knew more about Celum’s politics than Drake cities. And Lism had inadvertently referred to a formal alliance between cities written via magical treaty, which they certainly did not have.
Their [Negotiator], Teliv, explained this all in a hurried rush. Lism tried not to show his fury with his lashing tail. Alonna was doing just as poor a job. Ironically, it was Tismel and Zalaiss who were the ones in-the-know here.
“Bit of a faux pas, Lism. But we can get over it. Is the Raskghar issue that large?”
Zalaiss murmured as she looked at the other dignitaries.
“Yes!”
Lism, Krshia, Elirr, Jeiss, and Raekea all snapped as one. Zalaiss recoiled. Teliv wrung his claws.
“It’ll be hard, Councilmembers. Pallass has the Raskghar now, and you know what they say about possession.”
“It’s mine, back off?”
Jeiss muttered. Teliv nodded. Drakes had a different saying than Humans. He glanced at the Council and cleared his throat.
“Not that I don’t think it wasn’t necessary given the—the security situation, but diplomatically, it wasn’t the best move if we wanted to control the Raskghar’s fate…”
Lism closed his eyes. It was not her fault. It wasn’t! She’d solved the problem. It was just—it was sort of Erin Solstice’s fault.
“What are our options, Teliv?”
The [Negotiator] bit his lip.
“I’m uh—going to be honest, Councilmembers. I’m out of my depth here. We have a room full of [Senators], which have Skills like mine—but they out-level and outclass me. As I see it, Liscor has no real levels on Pallass anyway.”
That was true. Lism gnashed his teeth.
“So we just have to take it?”
“Not entirely. There is…a way to lean on a Walled City. And that would be…”
The Drake shot a covert nod at a frosty group on the edges of Pallass’ convivial conversations with all the other hobnobbers and adventurers who’d come along with the dignitaries. Lism’s eyes sharpened.
Hectval. Of course! If a Walled City wanted to stomp around, smaller Drake cities could check them. Even he knew that. That was how Zel Shivertail had clashed with Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar way back when. An alliance of Drake cities had been at odds with the Walled City and even gotten Salazsar to back down after a fight.
Not that it needed to come to that. Lism adjusted his clothing and looked at the others.
“It seems our route is clear then. Councilmembers? Time to spend some of that goodwill.”
The others nodded, perking up a bit. Krshia nudged them, speaking quietly.
“Covertly though, yes? Let’s make friends first. Then ask for favors. Test the waters.”
“Good point. Good point. Hear that? No one bring up Pallass just yet. Let’s just walk over—Teliv, how do we proceed?”
“Okay, if you’re talking to the Scalespeaker, you should address them as ‘Scalespeaker’—not by any other title. There’s a seniority in Hectval’s members. That Drake is second, so address her after Scalespeaker Yisht—”
Teliv’s urgent crash-course in formalities resulted in the Council walking over as one unit to Hectval’s delegation four minutes later.
“Scalespeaker! Delighted to be speaking again. Councilmember Lism, at your service. And this time I’m quite pleased to present the rest of the Council.”
And again—they ran into hiccups of an unexpected nature. Hectval’s delegation was nine Drakes standing together with about five Gnolls…although Lism wondered if there was something odd there…but he hadn’t had the same opportunity to talk as Alonna, Tismel, and Zalaiss had.
He expected Yisht to be as friendly as he had been yesterday, if not quite as drunk. But the Scalespeaker took Lism’s claw, shook it once, and then nodded at the rest of the Council.
“In the name of Hectval, I greet you, Liscor’s Council. Your welcome to Liscor has been quite pleasant, thank you. I hope we’ll have time to mingle.”
Lism blinked as the others lined up for handshakes hesitated. The others of Hectval’s delegation murmured greeting, giving very formal bows or even a military salute accompanied by a tail-slap on the floor—some of the Pallassian [Senators] looked quite amused.
No love lost between Hectval and Pallass it seemed. But what was with this frosty reception? Lism tried again.
“Here’s Councilmember Krshia, Scalespeaker Yisht. I was hoping we could chat privately.”
The Drake’s eyes flicked towards Lism. He had his claw clasped to one arm and a drink in the other. He missed the opportunity to take Krshia’s paw, and nodded at her as she lowered it and glanced at Lism.
“Privately, yes, perhaps, Councilmembers. A pleasure, Councilmember Krshia.”
“I as well, Scalespeaker. It is a delight that you find Liscor so hospitable.”
“Thank you.”
And what did you do with that? Lism saw Krshia try to engage Yisht and he stepped back a second to get himself a drink. Because he needed one and to figure out what the heck was happening? First they were unpleasant, then they were best friends and today they were frosty again!
Was Hectval’s delegation made up of Drakes whose mood changed every other day? Because if so, Lism would rather kick everyone out of here, romance that strange Gnoll he’d somehow found himself liking all of a sudden, and try again tomorrow. Krshia Silverfang was better company than every damn person here even when they’d been at each other’s throats. At least they’d been fellow [Shopkeepers].
“What is going on with Hectval’s delegation, Lism? You said they were friendly! That Drake nearly froze me with her eyes!”
Raekea muttered to Lism as he busied himself at a fancy Pallassian table—and noticed they’d already begun copying Maviola’s technique. Glittering flakes of gold floated on top of his wine. He wondered if he could scoop it out and save it. It had to be worth…
“I have no idea, Raekea. Alonna, Tismel, and Zalaiss might know more. Let’s just be sociable.”
“I see some of the Gnolls with them are hanging back. I’ll see if they’re more forthcoming between us.”
Raekea nodded and Lism peered at the less expensively-dressed Gnolls standing at the back.
“Yes, do that.”
He went over to reengage with the fortitude of wine. It didn’t take long for both Lism and the rest of the Council to find out what was causing the standoffishness. Although the way each member found out was…different.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice watched Grimalkin out of the corner of her eye. The Pallassian mob had come and gone, but more people were still circulating around the inn, and staying, including the Sinew Magus.
He claimed he was here to just check on the weights room’s records when she’d come over and asked, innocently, but Erin had seen the look he’d given Ryoka for just a moment. You could doubt yourself—but Erin felt she was right.
She was waiting for him to pounce. In the meantime, Erin was attending to the needs of her inn. And right now, her job was making sure her guests had a great time.
“The Players are all in this Council business?”
Salamani was disappointed to learn that. Erin smiled.
“It’s about them going to Pallass and acting! Listen—don’t worry! Kilkran and some of the others are in Invrisil. And when Jasi, Emme, Wesle, Yimur, Jexam, and Temile get back, I’ll introduce you to all of them!”
