The Oldblood Drake took a long drink and Bevussa did the same. There was a reason the Wings of Pallass had a Drake for a captain, instead of a Garuda. And it was purely rooted in the politics of the city. She took another swallow.
“Just had to take a break. Give me five seconds and then I’ll go back to being the pretty bird adventurer. Gah!”
“You could always beg off being sick…”
“I’ll make a break for it in half an hour. It’s not like it’s easy for the rest of the team…do you enjoy being here?”
“It’s more pleasant. Oldblood—it’s mostly about that. I know it’s harder for…”
The Drake nodded at Bevussa and the few non-Drake and non-Gnoll adventurers in the room. Bevussa shook her head. She hated these kind of events. There was a reason the Halfseekers weren’t here. Well—most high-class Pallassians wouldn’t invite a Selphid to an event like this anyways. She walked back over to her group with a big smile on her beak. If someone plucked a wing feather for a ‘souvenir’ again, she was going to stab someone.
 
—-
 
“Tismel, what in the name of the Ancestor’s tails is going on with the Hectval delegation? You said they were all over you!”
The two Drakes stood together, whispering. Lism did not like Tismel. The Drake felt like a ‘yes-Drake’ to him. The Cobbler’s Guild’s Guildmaster…oh, what a prestigious position. Not that [Cobbler] was a bad job—it was just—Tismel. The old Council had nominated him.
But the Drake had pulled his weight yesterday and Lism was willing to give credit where credit was due. And Tismel himself seemed more confident. He sipped from his gold-flake white wine as he responded.
“I thought you handled it well yourself, Lism.”
“Handled what? They were as frosty as a [Cryomancer]’s touch out there! We’re not going to be able to push back on Pallass like this, let alone make a lasting connection!”
The other Drake sighed and looked at Lism.
“It’s Yisht you want. Zalaiss and I worked with him yesterday. He’s more receptive than he let on, Lism. Get him alone. See? Just like you intimated. I’ll keep the rest of the Council from interrupting.”
Yisht was indeed excusing him from another conversation and standing by himself. Lism frowned. Was this some weird covert thing? He eyed Tismel.
“Just me? Why me?”
“Yisht was most taken with you. He knows your history. I could do it—”
Lism straightened, feeling a bit of pride seep back into him.
“No, no. If it’s got to be one of us—I’ll do it. Huh. But why…?”
Tismel didn’t get a chance to answer. He and Lism saw Elirr walk over and Tismel cursed.
“I’ll get Elirr. Just head over!”
He hurried off and grabbed Elirr’s arm. Lism checked himself for wine spots. Okay—he began to stride over. And if Tismel was somehow messing with him, Lism was going to toss him out of the Council’s window the next time they met.
“Lism!”
Alonna caught the Drake [Shopkeeper] halfway across the floor. Lism sighed.
“I’m meeting with Scalespeaker Yisht, Alonna. Tismel says he’ll be more damn friendly at last…”
“I’m sure he will.”
The Guildmistress of the Mage’s Guild gave Lism a long look. He stared at her, mystified.
“Why?”
The Drake made an impatient noise and searched Lism’s face. She shook her head.
“Lism, you can’t figure it out? Tismel and Zalaiss were talking you up yesterday. Just—gah. Just figure it out. You wouldn’t believe me if I told you, anyways.”
She stalked off, tail moving back and forth. Lism stared at her blankly. Then he walked forwards, grumbling.
“Insane idiots all around. Not a word straight—this is why selling goods is so much preferable to—ah, Scalespeaker Yisht. Do you have a moment!”
“Councilmember Lism. Good of you to finally get to me. Held up, were you?”
And here it was again, Scalespeaker Yisht turned to Lism with a jovial smile. Lism nearly smacked himself on the about-face the Scalespeaker had gone through again.
“Er—yes. You know, doing the rounds? Taking stock—it’s the first sort of reception like this we’ve had and we’re a bit unaccustomed to the company. Especially Pallass.”
He couldn’t suppress the annoyance he felt. Damn, was he being too direct? But Yisht was nodding, a smile on his face. He was a [Diplomat]. But—Ancestors, Lism was tired of being messed about. He’d say his piece and if he couldn’t get results, he’d leave. That was how he did business.
“I heard about that. That business with those Raskghar-monsters, eh? And Pallass has custody of them—a Walled City’s throwing its weight around. As usual.”
“We didn’t have contact with Pallass before—this year, really. Is that customary?”
“The City of Invention making its own rules and inconveniencing smaller cities? My friend—you have no idea.”
The Scalespeaker actually put his arm around Lism and steered him away from Bevussa’s group as they moved around the room at a slow walk. Lism saw Tismel and Zalaiss keeping the rest of the Council busy circulating. Zalaiss winked at him. This was the shot. Lism nodded.
“And what can you do to stop that kind of thing?”
“Make friends, of course. Enough cities put their tail down and even Pallass has to accede. Or it comes to a fight. If it has to be done, it has to be done. The Walled Cities do not rule Izril. We cooperate. I don’t mind telling you this—Liscor’s been away from the rest of Izril for far too long. The road past the Bloodfields? Excellent that you got it done. Splendid work, I must say. I slapped myself when I heard of it.”
Now that was the kind of thing Lism liked to hear. He nodded, and eyed the Scalespeaker.
“I was hoping we could talk about the future of trade between Hectval and Liscor. Now the roads are open—there are countless opportunities, as you must agree.”
“Councilmember, you’re speaking my language. Hectval, Drisshia, Luldem—we’re all close by and we lean on each other for support. Trade, aid in times of crises—this is what Drake cities of similar mindsets give each other. Mind you, the alliance was leery of Liscor. Extremely so. But our beliefs were unfounded, as I told you yesterday.”
“Yes, you did say that. I’m glad we cleared the air. Egg on your face and all that.”
The Scalespeaker laughed out loud, attracting a few looks. Lism saw Krshia staring at him and gave her a small nod. Still—what a change came over Yisht when they were together. The Scalespeaker nodded.
“I can’t promise Liscor will just enter the alliance just like that—your city’s farther off and we don’t know you well. But I like some of what I see. Some. More importantly, I like you, Lism. The right minds on a Council. That’s the ticket. At the very least, we can establish friendly relations here. Warn you about some of the cities you’ll find as trade starts coming up the road.”
“Oh, there are some?”
“Bad eggs. Just rotten to the core. We’ve clashed. And Liscor might. How’s your army?”
“Er…st-strong? But absent.”
Yisht waved that off.
“I know all about Liscor’s army. Don’t worry, I won’t hold them against you. I mean, your Watch Captain’s garrison. Believe me—some of these cities will fight. Pallass too. You need to hold your ground if they start raiding you.”
“Ancestors, will it come to that?”
“You have no idea, my friend. No idea. Drake cities fight with each other. I imagine the Humans are too cowardly to do any attacking due to the treaties except at the Bloodfields. And you can hardly loose an arrow at their army when they go sauntering past the walls.”
It wasn’t how Lism would put it. But he was generally on board and glad that Yisht was telling him all this. Good thing Zevara had expanded the Watch! Did they need to increase the budget? Inter-city wars? Well, he knew they happened…but it hadn’t occurred to Lism that opening the road would expose Liscor to that.
“Er—yes, yes. Scalespeaker, I have to be frank with you.”
“As much as you like, Lism. We have the opportunity in private.”
“Thank you. It’s just—first we meet and Hectval shows up unannounced all of a sudden. Then, the next day, all’s mended. Today? Rather…uncomfortable reception. And now we’re friends again? Is there something I’m missing?”
The Scalespeaker gave Lism a slightly embarrassed look. He stopped and the two Drakes stood next to one of the pillars.
“The first part was my fault. As I said, your people cleared it up. I have to apologize again, Lism—may I call you that? I’d like to be on a names-basis rather than titles.”
“Of course. And today?”
“Well—it’s about presentation, Lism. Presentation. Can’t expect us to smile fully, can you? One-on-one? I’m glad it’s you. Tismel told me all about why you’re our sort of Drake.”
The Scalespeaker patted Lism on the shoulder again. The [Shopkeeper]-[Councilmember] smiled, but he was still. There was Alonna, watching him, Tismel nodding encouragement…
“Your sort exactly how, Yisht?”
Yisht rolled his eyes.
“Your election, of course, Lism! It’s a damned shame what happened. Just—Ancestors, imagine if it happened to Hectval? Well, we take care about that thing. But you did your best. Couldn’t stop it, but you were fighting tooth and claw to keep the Council from being stolen.”
“Stolen.”
“Yes, by those Gnolls. Three of them on your Council? It’s just as well it’s not a majority. That’s how a city dies. Look at Pallass. They’ve got the armored things and those bird-people—well, it’s about numbers. Still, the Walled City—idiots. We’re happy to consult with you on your problems too.”
Ah. Lism’s mouth opened slightly. And it stayed there as the bag of coins that had been building up finally burst in his head. He stared at Yisht as he stared at Krshia, Elirr, and Raekea.
“We were so leery of the damned Antinium as well—and a Drake city being so near Humans? But it’s people. Good people, doing the right sort of thing. I’ll be telling my Council that. ‘Liscor’s on the brink, but there’s Drakes like Councilmember Lism holding onto decency’. Don’t know how you can stand it, though. I suppose it’s for the good of the city?”
“Y—of—there are Gnolls in your delegation, though?”
That was all Lism could think to say. His mind had gone a bit blank. He said things of course. But Yisht? He was giving a Dullahan [Senator] and Errif a dirty look—no wonder they didn’t even try to socialize if they knew how Hectval’s delegation felt.
Yisht looked astonished. Then he laughed again.
“Dead gods, them? They’re not—those are Paworkers, Lism! Staff! Doesn’t your city have them? It’s the help—you thought we had them in our…? Gah!”
He shook his head, looking amused. Then he eyed Lism’s face.
“Something wrong with your mouth?”
Lism’s jaw had been hanging open the entire time. He looked at Yisht. And at last closed his mouth and tried to smile. Uh oh. Lism…didn’t think Yisht was joking.
He was serious?
 
—-
 
Once he had stopped grilling Ryoka about muscles, Grimalkin of Pallass calmed down. And Ryoka found herself in two minds.
Firstly—she sort of liked how completely over the top he was about bodybuilding. She liked that, honestly. Him shouting ‘gonads’ loud enough to make Mrsha start hiccupping and giggling was a highlight of Ryoka’s…year?
But she was also wary of him. Erin kept dancing around when Grimalkin’s back was turned—she was warning Ryoka. The City Runner knew that Grimalkin was a [Sinew Magus] of Pallass. A big name. But it began to click when he brought up his resume.
“I’m a consultant to Pallass’ standing forces. I do fight in wars at need be, but my permanent duties to the city are training—I have my own apprentices as well as Pallass’ [Battlemage] divisions and some divisions whom I personally oversee to ensure they reach their potential. Physical magic, my domain, is an overlooked school of magic I’m trying to bring to the front.”
“Oh.”
And Ryoka did see. Military? Pallass. They were having a drink after some lifting. Ryoka’s arms hurt, and Fierre looked put out she couldn’t show off. She and Salamani were checking out the rec room and other parts of the inn.
But Grimalkin had invited Ryoka to have a cup and Erin had done another ‘something bad’ dance before leaving Ryoka. Now Ryoka began to see. But she wasn’t prepared for what came next.
“So you consult with…the army? I’m sorry, Erin mentioned having some famous acquaintances in Pallass.”
“I don’t know if I qualify for that distinction. She might have been referring to Grand Strategist Chaldion, or Saliss of Lights.”
A Grand Strategist and a Named Adventurer. Ryoka choked on her goat’s milk. Grimalkin nodded.
“I do know both—Chaldion professionally, Saliss as an…acquaintance. But I’m far less important than either in many senses. However, I do have my own weight in matters of military command. Which is how I instituted the weights program across the Walled Cities—and even parts of the north.”
“Oh. Wow. And that was with Erin’s help?”
The Drake took a long drink of the goat’s milk he’d ordered.
“Yes. She had a level of knowledge about weights and strength training that no one else I had ever met possessed. Astonishing, really. And you seem to be just as knowledgeable. Even more so, Miss Ryoka.”
Aw. Ryoka kept her face still. She couldn’t do one thing here without giving herself away. Grimalkin went on.
“It’s good that we did meet today, Miss Griffin. I’d quite like to ask you to speak more on those strength training techniques. Other devices…anything you might know.”
“Oh, I’m not an expert, Magus Grimalkin. And I’m uh—rather busy.”
And she was prepared to dance with the ‘Erin and I come from the same place’ routine all day. Right up until Grimalkin looked straight at her.
“I’m aware a City Runner must be, Miss Griffin. Which is why I’m prepared to compensate you for your time. Even offer you a long-standing deal. Residence in Pallass? Any number of things could be possible. Because I am convinced no one in the…world…knows more than you or Miss Erin Solstice.”
And there it was. Ryoka froze at the table. She looked at Grimalkin. The way he just said that—
Unlike Erin, Ryoka had a universal reaction to this kind of encounter. She nearly stood up and ran off. Nearly—the Sinew Magus was watching her.
“I—don’t know what you mean, Sinew Magus.”
“False. I rather do think you know what I mean, Miss Griffin. I don’t like to play games. Let me continue with my offer.”
