This time Ryoka felt the push as if it were the air. She saw Grimalkin walk back a few steps. Then brace. Whatever was happening, he was fighting it.
“You. Are not in a position to stop me. Aura manipulation can be broken.”
He clenched one fist. Ryoka tensed and saw the duo with the hats slowly slide back behind Grimalkin. His eyes flicked sideways and he went still. But Erin waved at Wilovan and Ratici. She strode up to Grimalkin.
“Erin—”
She ignored Palt. Erin prodded Grimalkin in the chest again.
“Oh yeah, I bet that’s true. You could smack me, Grimalkin. So go ahead and do it. Hit me. Because you’re right. You can do whatever you want in this inn by force. Funny thing though. The thing about punching people is they remember. So. Do you want to threaten me again, Grimalkin of Pallass?”
“I wouldn’t, sir. Fair bit of warning. It seems quite ungentlemanly. And unless I’m completely in the wrong, you seem to have overstayed your welcome.”
Wilovan smiled brightly at Grimalkin. The Sinew Magus looked around. And he caught on too late.
“Miss Erin. Consider that Pallass is—”
“Walk back to your city, Grimalkin.”
And he did. Slowly, the [Sinew Magus] turned. He could have punched Erin or used a spell. But she was right. The threat of violence only worked if the other side was afraid it’d happen. And Erin? Grimalkin had two Gentlemen Callers, at least four Wistram [Mages], a Hobgoblin with a sword, and an angry Mrsha who’d all jump on him if he so much as tried.
“So you’ll just throw me out? Is that it?”
The Drake spoke one last time as Erin opened the door and he walked through. He faced her from the other side. Erin gave him a sad look.
“Grimalkin. You’re welcome to come back if you change. I like you. But you’re not a good guest. And guess what?”
“What?”
“You can’t threaten me with Pallass. Because Pallass? I don’t need it. It’s nice. But it’s not essential. And you? You’re no Zel Shivertail. He was better than you.”
Ryoka winced. And she thought Lyonette—Grimalkin just stared at Erin, poleaxed for once, until she called past him.
“Hey Kel! Guards! Tell Chaldion I want a word. In my inn, now. Please and thank you!”
The guards at the checkpoint stared at Erin.
“You can’t just order—”
That old refrain. Erin cut it down as she shouted.
“Oh yeah? Well, the Grand Strategist can tell me himself that Pallass is taking the Raskghar. And if he doesn’t want to—Pallass can kiss the Players and everything else coming from Liscor and Invrisil goodbye. Because I’ve had it up to here with Pallass being rude! No more of it! This is my inn! You want something? Play nice!”
She held a hand up just above her head. Grimalkin and everyone else stared at it. Was—was that a lot?
Still, one of the [Guards] hadn’t gotten the memo that Erin had just smacked Grimalkin with. He sneered at her.
“You think you can order Pallass around, Miss? We’re a Walled City! We have jurisdiction!”
That was it. Erin Solstice snapped. She pointed at him.
“Really? You and what magic doors?”
So saying, she slammed the door in Grimalkin’s face, reached up, removed the mana stone, and put it in her pocket. Ryoka waited for hammering on the door—or something. But of course—there wouldn’t be.
In the silence, Erin Solstice let out a breath. She was a bit red-faced. But she snapped her fingers as she came to a realization.
“Darn. I should have said ‘I didn’t see your magic teleportation doors lying around.’ No, wait—there’s got to be a snappier comeback.”
“Erin. You can’t just close the door to Pallass.”
Ryoka was aghast. Weren’t there Pallassian [Senators] here? Erin looked at her blankly.
“I can’t? Well, I guess I can’t until everyone goes back through. Good point. I’ll close it after that.”
“Wh—close it?”
Montressa and Beza came pushing out the crowd. Erin looked around.
“Yeah. For a day or two. Or I dunno, a week? Unless I get Chaldion.”
“You can’t do that!”
The [Innkeeper] scowled.
“Why not? This is my inn. What’s Pallass going to do, send an army over here? They can walk through the Bloodfields if they want! Nuts to ‘em! To them all! Grah! I’m so mad! Where’s that fancy reception and those jerks? I’m going to have a word with them!”
She stormed out of the inn. Ryoka stood there, open-mouthed. She didn’t miss Troy and Leon whispering to each other, because she was watching for it. The others looked concerned; they looked worried.
Ryoka Griffin cracked her knuckles. She walked through the crowd and saw Fierre and Salamani there. They were staring after Erin.
“Whoa. That’s your friend? She’s like—everything in the stories, Ryoka. She has to be mad!”
“That’s Erin for you.”
The City Runner was smiling. If the City of Inventions wanted to take on Erin Solstice—much love to them. Ryoka had heard her friend had beaten a Dragon. True—at chess, but she’d laughed her ass off and wished someone had taken a video. And if Pallass thought it could beat Erin in a standoff—they clearly didn’t know her yet.
She had a smaller war to fight than Erin. She couldn’t look Grimalkin in the eye and waste him like Erin could. But Ryoka could do important, smaller things.
“Kevin. Psst. Kevin. Rose. We have a problem. I hear there’s a special place where no one can enter?”
Ryoka hadn’t found the Earth-room yet. But she grabbed Kevin and Rose and towed them out of the murmuring crowd. They nodded.
“What’s up, Ryoka?”
She told them. Rose gasped. Kevin’s eyes narrowed. Ryoka nodded.
“Can you bring them? Tell them I have a big announcement or something. I’ll be there in five seconds. Tell Joseph, Imani, Galina, get them, please?”
The two nodded. Ryoka was pleased to see and hear that they were more mature. Yes, you could probably trust them. Kevin, Rose, Joseph, Imani at least. Galina too, probably.
Fierre saw them walking into the Garden with a confused Troy and Leon. She watched Ryoka stretching.
“What are you going to do, Ryoka?”
“Oh—it’s just a short meeting. Sorry, Fierre, but you can’t come. I wish you could—but guess what? I get to punch two of the guests from Magnolia’s mansion.”
The Vampire girl stared after Troy and Leon. She turned to Ryoka.
“Wait. Can I come? Please?”
If Grimalkin wanted to play with Earth—he was going to have to find two more candidates. Ryoka Griffin was about to teach them that thing about loose lips. Loose lips got you punched in the face.
 
—-
 
“They’re like…domestic help. Not all come from Hectval. Some actually come from the tribes. They commute here to work during some months, go back when they earn enough money. It keeps them from causing trouble—it’s a system we’re quite fond of.”’
‘Paworkers’ was a phrase unfamiliar to Lism and Liscor. Because Krshia and the Silverfang tribe had come here en masse. But Yisht was only too happy to explain.
“We don’t have Liscor’s issue. We have Gnoll-districts, but our Watch Captains keep them well-patrolled. Your population is well past that of Hectval or most Drake cities.”
“I can imagine.”
Lism muttered into his drink. He felt lightheaded. The Scalespeaker moved forwards, confidentially. They were probably out of range of other Gnoll’s hearing even—no, they definitely were. Or Krshia would not look so content to mill about.
“It’s about strategy, Councilmember. We have a history of dealing with such issues. Liscor doesn’t—your city had a huge influx of Gnolls oh, ten years back, didn’t they?”
“Yes. The Silverfang tribe. That’s er, one of their leaders now.”
Yisht shook his head.
“No wonder. Strategy, Councilmember Lism, Strategy. You still have a majority in the Council so let me tell you—”
He used the word, breathed it, ‘strategy’. Like Olesm’s class. Lism smelled a curl of wine on the other Drake’s breath.
“It’s a disgrace, a disgrace that they took over your city. We keep our population regulated. Some are helpful—although there’s always more theft and troublemaking with them about. And the smell—but we have separate districts. That’s the trick. If it’s an election—you redrew the districts. I’m told that’s what the old Council did to save the seats. As for the rest—it’s about laws. How old are the Gnolls? Ten years? Then it’s a thirteen-year mandatory wait for citizenship.”
“What? Thirteen years—”
Yisht shushed him.
“It’s how you do such things. Listen to me, Lism. You can’t be loud about such things. Time was you could just kick Gnolls out of your city for causing trouble. But with that damned King of Destruction and with that meeting of whatever, the tribes get restless. These days, you just institute the right laws. Consider our Paworkers. Lovely, most Drake households have them above a certain wealth class.”
He gestured at the Gnolls, who were, as Lism understood it, everything from [Carers] to [Cleaners] to [Porters] for Hectval’s Drakes. Yisht went on.
“I’m all for Gnolls in the right numbers. They’re helpful if they’re here to work, right. For all the they go on about tribes and complain—they come here to work rather than stay in the tribes, do they not? Then you put them in a uniform, give them a collar—”
Lism nearly spat out his drink.
“Collar? You have to be—”
“It’s a sign of affection. Decorated, you know? Some families give them to good workers. I’m not saying it’ll be easy to get there—frankly, we thought Liscor was a lost cause with the Antinium. But if you have them out there, doing the work that needs to be done—it works.”
Lism saw a narrow band around one of the Gnoll’s necks. And another colored bracelet. The Council’s Gnolls were catching on—Raekea was staring at one of the Gnolls.
The [Shopkeeper] Drake was familiar with collars. You er—put them on dogs. Or you used them in very selective types of adult situations. As…Lism might be experienced with.
But Gnolls? He looked at one of the meek Paworkers, who were ready to help out if need be. And he would just bet that if you handed one a dagger and told them they could stab one of the Hectval delegates and get away completely free—
Lism’s scales were crawling. Scalespeaker Yisht was smiling as he patted Lism on the shoulder. Then the Drake went on to Hexel.
“I can’t believe there’s a Lizard [Architect] in your city, though.”
His voice was a bit louder, perhaps because he was on even safer ground. Elirr’s ears perked up. Lism opened his mouth desperately.
“Master Hexel? He’s the highest-leveled expert we could find.”
Yisht swished the liquid in his cup around and made a face.
“Yes, but even if it’s a matter of expertise or costs…isn’t it a bit—disgusting? Even if it is a high-level [Architect], I can’t really fathom it, Councilman Lism. How can you expect good work from one of them? Unless you double-check everything.”
Elirr was now staring at Lism. So was Alonna. He took a long drink.
“We’ve had nothing to complain about. So. All the delegates are on the level, huh? Ready to offer us support?”
“As much as one can. On Pallass, and in general, certainly with words on this Pallassian issue. And we’re certainly willing to consult with Liscor as we exchange more pleasantries. Ah! The gifts should arrive soon! We have some very fine bows—all made with Hectval’s best woods. On that note, Lism—Tismel and Zalaiss told me there’s some friction in the Council, but Drakes have to stand united. Can’t have scales going the wrong way, can we?”
“That is a saying.”
Ah, so that was what it was. Lism looked around and spotted Bevussa. One Garuda [Senator]—a handful of non-Drakes, really. No wonder he hadn’t seen the Halfseekers. Most of the Pallassians were Drakes. The original builders and inhabitants of the Walled City.
And Hectval still thought Pallass was too progressive to socialize with. Lism saw a second group milling about the center of the room. He tried to change subjects. Hectval wanted to stand with Liscor on the Raskghar issue. That was what you wanted, wasn’t it?
“I don’t suppose you’ve heard of the Players of Celum, have you? Pallass seems very interested in importing them.”
It was indeed the one place where Pallass was coming to Liscor for. Lism saw Hectval’s face turn into a grimace.
“…Perhaps. Well, we were quite taken with Miss Jasi. That would be something to trade for! If we could get some [Actors]—”
“Good Drake actors, you mean?”
“Exactly. And some Gnolls! Just not Humans. Gah, they’re the last straw. The enemy.”
The Drake had finished two cups of wine fast. He looked at Yisht, clearheaded despite the spinning world for a moment. Lism nodded slowly.
“You know Yisht, I said the exact same things as you when the first Human moved into Liscor.”
The Scalespeaker smiled at the compliment. Lism watched the Players of Celum, who had appeared on the news. Such that even Pallass wanted a piece of them.
It was such a curious mix of awe and contempt they had. Because of course—Pallass was a Walled City. And yet—all the socialites still wanted an autograph and wanted the Players in their city. Right up until they could make the Players of Pallass, of course.
And that was when the doors opened and someone walked into the reception. At first, Lism didn’t notice. But she drew his eye because of course she did.
Only Erin Solstice could have bypassed the Watch keeping the onlookers and people wanting to crash the party out. She marched into the reception with an apron on, work clothing, ignoring the aghast looks and murmurs.
“What in the name of the Ancestors…?”
Yisht gave Lism a quick look, but the [Shopkeeper] was just waiting. He felt light as he flexed the claw on his cup and didn’t raise it to stop Erin. He could have. Could have ordered the Watch, intercepted her—
But Lism didn’t feel like it.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice looked around and saw her target at once. She was fuming. Ryoka had a temper. Mrsha had a terrible temper. Lyonette got mad—but Erin was more like Numbtongue, or, heavens forbid, Bird. She usually didn’t get mad.
Usually.
“Emme! I need a word.”
Erin strode over to the part-Dwarf woman, who was engaged in conversation with the Drake [Senator] Wishill about the plays. Emme looked up, startled, and focused on Erin. Wesle and Jasi—who both knew the score—had stopped talking at once to watch her.
“Erin! What’s the matter?”
“This must be the redoubtable Miss Solstice with the magic door. Is, er, something wrong?”
“Oh, just connection issues with Pallass. The magic door might be down.”
A [Senator]—Errif—dropped his wine glass in horror. Erin smiled as the others stopped talking.
“Don’t worry! We can get you all back! But there’s this issue—Emme, can I borrow you?”
