“You were the focus of all the attacks,” said the voice of another Questor. “Engaging. Watch for further teams; we won't be able to counter them for another ten seconds.”

The carriage slowed down to give the Questors a chance to finish their hunts. It didn’t take long. Most of the snipers had escape plans, and some successfully teleported out. Others couldn't for reasons Nathan didn't understand, leaving them at the mercy of Slick and his soldiers. Within about thirty seconds, Slick and his squad returned to the sky. “That was Enfanalin. One of the best mercenary grids. This is an expensive day for our foes,” Slick said, grinning as he hefted a glowing bow almost as tall as he was. “Good loot, too.”

“Is this kind of attack legal?” Nathan asked.

“To whose law?” Slick asked sardonically. “It taints the game, but victory forgives the stench of sabotage. There’s usually some level of minor sabotage before a war, especially to steal powerful artifacts. But there is little purpose to killing, since any Questors killed now would simply return to fight with greater anger than before.”

Nathan stayed calm. It made sense that the Questors would snipe at each other like this, and even see such attacks as little more than nuisances. Small moves in the grand game of Questors. But these had been deadly attacks. He wondered how often the mortals of the city, like those guards on the estate, suffered in this kind of 'minor sabotage'.

Probably not more than the number of people who die in wars between Questors. Doing this war in a city was an option.

They were approaching the mountain's peak, which was carved into an ancient temple. It looked like a large explosion had gone off in the center of the sanctuary, shattering the central dome and leaving little behind but jagged pillars and mounded rubble.

There were already people present inside, and Nathan blanketed the building with his senses. There was heavy-duty wizardry laid over the whole space, backed by the shreds of a divine presence. If he was parsing it right, it would be hard to move at any pace faster than a walk while inside, and offensive magic would be suppressed to a greater degree than a Shield of Solemnance could manage, albeit over a much smaller area. He also recognized several of the mana pools present, including Badud, Sussu, and the rest of the grid that the Heirs had killed in Esebus.

Some of his discomfort must have shown, because Slick spoke comfortingly to him. “This is a term meeting to set the rules of the war. They will not attack here, or else nobody will ever trust the Aleph Grid again. But that bargain has two sides. We cannot take any offensive action unless they clearly and obviously strike first. Davrar itself will testify to the truth of the matter, so this is not a place for tricks.”

Nathan nodded, but his thoughts were spiraling. Most of the Questors would be powerless in this space. But the magic wouldn’t affect him at all. If he wanted to test out his ideas on killing Questors, he had Badud and the entire leadership of the Aleph grid as a captive audience. It wasn’t an opportunity he was likely to get again.

He breathed out slowly, calming the embers of anger. At the beginning of his time on Davrar he’d embraced his rage according to Artha’s teachings, and it had provided him the power to fight mages. But that path had come with downsides. His anger had moulded him in ways he hadn’t realized, made him reach for violence as the first option in many situations. But fixing Davrar couldn’t be done solely with violence.

Nathan landed on the stone next to the carriage, his eyes picking out the Questors waiting inside.

Violence will play its part, but only in service to grander strategy.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 4

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 9

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 4

Forewarning 8

The Truth of Magic 4

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 4

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 4
