Bastion-General Quiteil. He couldn’t have figured out Base 16. That fast? Then a second hand wrote.
 
[Codebreaker’s Insight]. Nice try, Yelroan. ♡Salii.
 
Yelroan and Nerul looked at each other. The [Diplomat] pulled something out of his pocket, tossed it into the crate of files, and whirled.
“Contract-destroyer. Duck!”
The whumph of the alchemical charge detonating spat ash and magma up—not in a huge geyser, but rather a burning pool that filled the box and obliterated the papers inside.
“Our files!”
Yelroan ripped at his hair. Nerul just dusted his claws off.
“We’ll encrypt them with magic later. You need a vault, Skill-nullifying papers, a cipher—the contracts are next. They’ll have a hard time getting in, but the numbers fellow is still coming.”
It was almost gratifying to learn there were other people who understood math. Gratifying—if they weren’t still coming!
Nerul and Yelroan had collapsed the back door of the keep, destroying valuable hallways, but the final assault was on the treasury, and the locks on each vault wouldn’t hold. The Gnoll knew he was running out of options.
All he had were a bunch of lower-level contracts, Nerul, and his math. Yelroan fumbled for a final weapon.
“I have to—I have to hide the gold somehow!”
Disguising where it was, trying to put up fake identities, wouldn’t stop the hunters. It just prolonged the chase, like someone pulling in a long net. In theory, Yelroan could make the net too long to haul in or too ‘heavy’ to pull up with the weight of authority and contracts.
But these people wouldn’t give up. And the one muttering numbers didn’t even care about the rules. He was tracing Yelroan through—mad divination. The Merchant’s Guild’s protections might have been dust to him!
Math time. Hexadecimal hadn’t even lasted a minute in the face of codebreaker abilities. He had to hit them with something way beyond what Salii and Quiteil and the [Numerologist] could handle.
Yelroan ran for his contracts. Think, Yelroan. How do you hide the impossible? His eyes rose to the huge sum of gold, and Yelroan delved into the world of math, the impractical side of it that Xherw had never cared about, deeper than before.
I must hide this in a way the contracts allow me to. And from that—man.
There was a formula.
Yelroan had run into the world of Earth’s math and frolicked there, in happier times, in the [World of You And Me]. He had not the time to become an expert or reach the heights he knew were there, but he’d seen—concepts.
You couldn’t easily ‘hide’ a number. There was no such thing as, say, making ‘5’ not be 5. However, how you defined ‘5’ was where things got interesting.
Real numbers were wonderfully…solid. Ever hear of imaginary numbers? Number fields? Yelroan began writing, and Nerul, sweating, claws covered in ink, stared over his shoulder.
“I think we’ve got to either give it to someone or prepare to be found out, Yelroan. Wait. What are…what is that?”
“Real math.”
 
σxσp ≥ ħ/2
 
It was called Heisenberg’s indeterminacy principle and was, frankly, above Yelroan’s current understanding of math. He’d been working on the concepts, but to summarize it in a way Nerul could understand—
“It’s about position and momentum. You can’t always, precisely, know what the two variables mean.”
“…What?”
“You can’t know what the two numbers here are! If you have two variables, one for a location, the other for something like movement, it’s impossible to actually pin down any one number! I just need to marry that into our finances!”
Nerul gave Yelroan the blankest look in creation, then he snapped his claws.
“You’re writing an impossible statement into the value of the inn’s gold.”
“Uh—yes. Don’t say it like that. It makes it sound trivial.”
Actually putting this into practice—was not.
Yelroan’s idea was this: if he was allowed to quantify the value of the inn in legal language in the contract, couldn’t he also put it in mathematical notation? Therefore, if he expressed a concept that could stymie the searchers…could he even do that? Yelroan’s quill scratched on the contract, setting up the procedure.
 
Yeah, could he even do that?
 
—For a second, Yelroan feared the magic of the contract wouldn’t allow it, but then he began to write. The problem was—the equation he was looking at didn’t work as is.
“Think, Yelroan. Think…this is actual math.”
Let’s see. Insert the value of the inn as…he’d have to throw in a third variable. So they were going three-quantum. That meant he needed to balance the other side of the equation. But he had no time.
They were coming. Yelroan actually felt the [Numerologist] in his head beginning to write down the true amount of gold contained in the inn. Or rather, the numbers were reading themselves out of his mind.
“Think! I just have to—”
Salii was taking an inventory of Izril’s gold! Comparing the local amounts in Liscor and her new appraisal to get a clean net increase! All she had to do was sift through the investments in Liscor—
And there were others. Rhir? The Empire of Sands? Yelroan could almost see a neat man wearing a Brigadier-General’s uniform working with an abacus, a slight smile on his face. Then he had an idea that was not Yelroan-grade, but rather, Mrsha-grade.
You want numbers, you damn bastards? Take this!
 
x = The Wandering Inn’s net worth.
The amount of money in The Wandering Inn shall be divested among the owners of The Wandering Inn as follows:
x = x + ∞ – ∞.
 
Mrsha-level math. She’d gotten really tickled when he told her that you could account for infinity, but never define it. Of course, you could divine the answer easily.
—Unless you were suddenly trying to account for a number larger than creation itself.
The contract lit up as Yelroan stamped it, and his sunglasses flashed. Across the world, half a dozen of the finest number-crunchers, [Secretaries], and bean-counters suddenly developed blinding headaches.
Yelroan wasn’t proud of it. He was frankly surprised it had even worked; it was rather like tossing a barrel of poop at a charging unit of [Elite Soldiers] and watching them back off because it stank too hard.
Nerul, though, just laughed.
“Hah! I can see them backing off! Well done, that’s bought us—”
He and Yelroan were high-fiving when the Gnoll saw something happen to his contract.
∞. The symbol for infinity, that looping sideways eight, the eternal cycle—a concept with weight behind it? A mathematician’s unassailable mountain?
Infinity snapped in half. And the sheer contempt from the [Numerologist] poured over the contract.
The parchment turned black, like mold creeping over it. Yelroan leapt away, and Nerul grabbed a candle with an oath. He tried to set the contract on fire, but it curled up—then disintegrated.
“Oh dead gods. He doesn’t respect—”
Somewhere, a [Numerologist] had run into the symbol on his hunt. Rather than stymie him—he’d destroyed it.
That was not a number he acknowledged.
This was profane. This wasn’t right! Yelroan’s chest inflated with outrage as he drew breath. This—he felt like he was fighting some kind of idiot who thought numbers were things that mattered on their own!
As if ‘seven’ were more auspicious than ‘nine’! The kind of person who never sat at a table with thirteen people and who thought a four-leaf clover had an inherent value!
It ran completely contrary to the [Mathematician]’s understanding of the world. Numbers were ways of defining and understanding reality around them, even magic! They did not rule or influence the world!
Slowly, Yelroan sat down at his table. He pulled a new contract to him. His mind was lighting up. He wrote, his paw shaking, doing a swift conversion in his head.
Three variables, then. Which means you altered the uncertainty principle like so—
 
σxσpσz ≥ (ħ/2)3/2
 
The equation was a relationship between three variables.
σx, σp, and σz. Yelroan’s quill tip nearly caught on fire as he defined the three for the equation.
σz was easy. That was the value of the inn’s finances. But the other two needed to be actual places and concepts.
To answer this equation, you’d have to calculate the value of the inn’s finances. And marry that to—
He thought of the first thing he could and wrote in the values σx and σp. The exact coordinates of an electron particle on the High King Perric’s crown. And that meant the value of the inn’s gold was a relationship of the crown’s position in the world! Good luck trying that one—if you even understood the problem!
It was ridiculous, but that didn’t matter. The point was that Yelroan had just created a snarl in the definition of the inn’s finances. But could he actually execute on this crazy definition?
His eyes narrowed as he signed the contract. His paw hesitated as he attempted to stamp it.
“It doesn’t—like—my math!”
Perhaps the Merchant’s Guild’s vested authority, or even the—the nature of reality—didn’t like binding a real concept, the monetary worth of the inn, into an equation that had no answer that could be divined. Yelroan couldn’t stamp the contract. He began to despair as that voice tolled the numbers—and then a Drake seized the stamp.
“Math? Who cares? I’ve signed worse contracts. [Close the Contract: Unreasonable Demands]!”
His eyes flashed. The wax seal pressed down—and something kicked Yelroan in the chest.
He had never done a backflip in his life. He didn’t really do one now—Yelroan raised his head and realized he was covered in blood.
His nose was bleeding. On his table, the contract was flexing, magic and authority and—mathematical concepts at war with what he had just said was a truth that the Merchant’s Guild had to enforce.
It makes no sense! The contract was shrieking at him, but the [Mathematician] growled.
“It does make sense!”
He understood it! It didn’t matter if it was unsolvable by his mind or any other’s—the equation worked. He pushed with all the outrage in his being and the logic he believed in against the contempt of that other man. Against reality.
It bent—and Yelroan collapsed, blood running nonstop from his nose, as Nerul lay unconscious on the ground. And the value of the inn—
Vanished.
 
——
 
“Hm. I didn’t expect that.”
Salii slowly put down her quill, her excitement visibly fading. The cheering squad of [Martial Artists] around her, even Orjin, looked at each other.
“What do you mean?”
“The gold’s gone. I think it was gold. I…it’s just gone. How did they do that? Move it into an unshielded vault? Sell it all somewhere?”
The [Secretary] was astonished. She sorted through her files, baffled, but, to Orjin’s eyes, almost gratified.
He’d come to watch her fight a worthy opponent for the first time. He had no notion what was going on, only that she’d been racing to uncover some truth, an anomaly in her world that she had noticed. A vast ‘kingdom’ of wealth that had begun disrupting the world. Once she’d noticed other people hunting for it, she’d joined the search and been almost victorious.
And then someone had bested her. Salii sat there, then sat back and grinned.
“Well, whoever did that has a trick up their sleeves, and I think I know who. Sunglasses and I need a word.”
“You’re fine?”
The Drake nodded at Orjin, slight frustration crinkling her vision, but amusement making up for it.
“I am, nevermind the headache. But whoever that numbers-man is, he really isn’t happy.”
 
——
 
Victory. He’d done it. He’d hidden all the gold in the inn.
He could almost feel the rage, shock, or even appreciation of the other hunters as they backed off. They had nothing to find. They could either take on the Merchant’s Guild and break the contract—or find it via physical means.
Their Skills were worthless.
“A victory…for math.”
His finest hour. He couldn’t have done it without Nerul. All the gold—Yelroan tried to rise and fell back. A pile of coins showered down around him.
Oh. Right.
The gold. It wasn’t really gone. It was still here. He’d just hidden the concept of it away, legally. Yelroan grinned upwards.
He’d beaten that strange numbers-man. It was just a shame—it was going to be his final act.
It was a bit embarrassing, but the strain of pushing through that mathematical contract had definitely had a backlash effect. Nerul was splayed out, eyes rolled up in his head. Yelroan had a nosebleed.
A really—bad one. He was pretty sure all that red wasn’t good. It covered the gold coins and his clothing. And it wasn’t stopping, even when he weakly held a paw to his nostrils.
Is this how I die? It’s so uninspiring. 
“Help? Anyone?”
Yelroan croaked, but the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door was closed to all but the most vital guests. And he’d told the staff to stay out so they wouldn’t pilfer more gold. Lyonette? She was in Liscor.
He was actually going to die of a nosebleed. The Gnoll was passing out in a pool of his own blood and gold coins.
Mrsha? Nanette?
Neither one showed up. Nerul didn’t wake, and as the world began to vanish, Yelroan hoped he’d get a statue. Without the nosebleed. His eyes fluttered, and the cracked sunglasses on his face showed him a gleaming world of gold. So much money. So useless to him…
No one else in the garden—except a faint buzzing sound. Yelroan saw a little shape fly down towards him. The forgotten, the ignored, the often-stoned…
“Apista?”
The Ashfire Bee landed in front of Yelroan, holding something underneath her. She flicked an antenna at the Gnoll as he weakly raised his head. She didn’t speak, but she gave the impression that if she did, she might say…
Hello, good sah. Might you be in need of this?
A glowing vial rolled forwards into Yelroan’s paw. A healing potion. The Gnoll stared at it—then grinned, and his sunglasses flashed.
Today was a good day for math.
 
[Mathematician of the Fundament Level 46!]
[Skill – Mind Guard: The Fortress of Equations obtained!]
[Skill – Item (Spectacles): Skillblocking Flash obtained!]
 
——
 
When Lyonette got back to her inn, she found Mrsha and Nanette standing over Yelroan, who lay in a pool of blood, an empty healing potion next to him, an unconscious Nerul, and both girls swore they hadn’t done anything.
The [Princess] didn’t believe them, but it didn’t matter. She lined everyone up in the garden and gave a speech.
“Everyone. I understand the gold is exciting. I know you want to do something with it. But I am asking you, please—to not go out and spend it like you have been.”
