“Peggy! What are you doing, buying all this?”
“Sorry, Chieftain. It’s just—is good, right?”
Peggy was trying not to look too defiant, but the [Floor Boss] had an apron stuffed full of donuts. She had learned from Ishkr’s example yesterday. The problem was that Ishkr’s example had been a lovely, one-time thing that even Lyonette had approved of in hindsight.
Goblins, though, were like Lyonette. Actually, she’d only almost starved once. Goblins knew privation, and giving them an all-you-could-spend pass was a bad idea.
Lyonette pointed at Sticks. The Cave Goblin was lying on the ground with his belly so bloated it visibly hurt him.
“How much did he eat?”
“…Sixteen donuts?”
Even Peggy began to realize that was a problem. She hesitated and bent over.
“Sticks? Is you breathing?”
He garbled something at her. She nudged him in the stomach with a toe. His cheeks bulged—
Lyonette covered her eyes until the horrible sounds had stopped. Then she saw Sticks on his hands and knees and a pile of vomit. The Cave Goblin looked ill, but then brightened up.
“Stomach empty! Time eat more.”
He reached for a donut in Peggy’s apron, and Lyonette cried out.
“Stop.”
This wasn’t just indulging oneself! This was hedonism! She had a flash of warning in her mind.
He might get a Crimson Class if he overdoes it.
Peggy was just scolding Sticks about wasting food. She tried her best Lyonette voice.
“You don’t waste donuts, Sticks! You eat that—then you have another.”
She pointed at the pile of puke, and Lyonette raised her voice.
“No, thank you. Clean that up, Sticks. Please. Peggy, please. No more unauthorized purchasing? Promise me for a day or two. Promise on Goblins?”
She’d learned that was a good thing to get them to do. Peggy squirmed, clearly unhappy.
“But…is not much gold! Inkpaper bought books!”
“Yes, and he shouldn’t have done that. Peggy, we have to be careful. Too much gold can be bad for you!”
“Why don’t you spend some, then?”
Peggy challenged her, and all the Goblins nodded. Lyonette took a deep breath.
“I…don’t feel the need to spend it frivolously, Peggy. I suppose I, er, rather had a lot growing up.”
She realized that was the difference between them. Lyonette had been here before, even if the amounts of gold were completely different. Peggy was excited about newfound wealth. Lyonette had spent the money on wasteful things. Like a pony. It got old.
“Dead gods. Did my mother actually teach me well or not?”
She put a hand to her head, shaken by the thought. However, she fixed the Goblins with a stern eye.
“No more food buying. Swear on your tribe.”
Peggy spluttered unhappily.
“I—fine! We swear! But we is not the only ones! What about Antinium buying other Antinium? Eh, eh?”
She folded her arms defiantly with the air of a co-conspirator determined to bring the entire team down with them.
Lyonette’s eyes opened wide.
“Buying other Antinium?”
She was exceptionally worried—until Peggy clarified what that meant and relaxed. Only slightly.
 
——
 
“Rosencrantz? Are you funding other Antinium’s retirement?”
The Antinium was gathering gold pieces into a bag when Lyonette snuck up on him. He jumped, waved all four arms, and a bunch of Antinium ran and tried to hide behind piles of gold.
“N-no, Miss Lyonette.”
Rosencrantz shook like a leaf as Lyonette—and Peggy, arms folded—faced him. She stared at the bag of gold. Rosencrantz kicked it away.
“Rosencrantz, I’m not angry. I’m simply telling you to stop. Agreed?”
Lyonette didn’t intend to punish either group. She felt it was understandable, and she hoped she sounded calm and reasonable. That was why she was really shocked when Rosencrantz’s mandibles lowered and he spoke.
“No.”
“…Huh? Rosencrantz—”
“We will not stop.”
In a second, the terrified [Adjunct Manager] went from shaking in terror to standing there, one pair of arms on his hips, the other pair folded. Lyonette was aghast. Then a bunch of Antinium, her entire staff, stood up and backed Rosencrantz up.
“What? You can’t just pay for Antinium to—”
“Be happy? Yes. We must. We will not stop.”
The Worker’s voice was completely frightened, but he had a backbone like mithril. Ushar blinked and put a hand on her sword.
“It’s treason, then. Against the inn.”
“Yes. No. We are only doing what Erin would do. Please do not kill us. We must pay for all Antinium to be happy.”
Defiantly, Rosencrantz bent to pick up the bag of holding, and Lyonette felt her grip on the inn slipping. Oh no.
“Chieftain? You want me to beat them with stick? Sticks, get stick.”
Peggy looked uncertain, and Lyonette hissed at her.
“Absolutely not! We are not solving this with force! Rosencrantz!”
He was running out of the garden, and Lyonette pursued him. Now, there was a kind of warning in her head.
You really didn’t think of what this would do to the inn, did you? Gold. Lyonette had grown up in the Eternal Throne and been surrounded by it. What had it done to the others?
“Rosencrantz, stop! Let’s talk about this!”
A cluster of Antinium were running out of the inn, pursued by a very worried [Princess]. But they halted before they could get out of the inn.
“Miss Colfa, please move. We are rebelling.”
Colfa had put a hand out to stop Rosencrantz and the Antinium from leaving. The Vampiress shot Lyonette a glance, and Lyonette waved her arms desperately.
“I think you should reconsider, Rosencrantz. Ve are all on the same side, yes?”
The Vampire gave Rosencrantz a huge smile, and her eyes glowed. To Lyonette’s relief, Rosencrantz and the other Antinium hesitated. Then they stared down at the bags of gold they were holding.
“Yes. We are. So you will not hurt us.”
That golden glow overpowered Colfa’s magical eyes. They began to—politely—push past her, and she blinked. Her arm flexed, and the Antinium halted as her fingers dug into the doorframe. What might have happened next, Lyonette didn’t know. The villagers from Rheirgest were looking at each other, and if they’d helped or seen all the gold the Antinium carried—
It didn’t come to that. Because someone came the other way, shouting, and a howl was so loud that the Antinium recoiled and broke up.
A panting Gnoll, wide-eyed, looking horrified and guilty, pushed into the inn. It was…Jeva! Ekirra’s mother, holding Ekirra by one arm. Rosencrantz backed up a step as the Gnoll woman shouted.
“Miss Lyonette! Miss Lyonette, I am so sorry! I came the instant I—I can’t apologize enough.”
“Jeva? What’s wrong?”
Lyonette hurried forwards, and the Gnoll woman lifted her son up by one arm.
“Ekirra! Here, it’s everything—the moment I saw him with—Lyonette, I can’t tell you how ashamed I am. He had an entire bag of gold. From your inn!”
Lyonette’s heart sank. Ekirra was howling, tears in his eyes.
“Mom! Mom! I didn’t steal it! Don’t call the Watch! I was given it!”
“Ekirra, don’t lie!”
She snarled at him, and he fell silent. Jeva turned and pressed the bag into Lyonette’s hands. It was indeed…full of gold. A fortune in gold; more than Jeva’s family might make in months. Jeva was panting.
“He keeps saying he was given it—Lyonette, please don’t make this a matter for the Watch. It’s all here, and if you think anything is missing…”
Lyonette was calm. No, she wasn’t calm emotionally. There was a small part of her that got the hilarity in this situation. But not a large part. The rest just felt terrible for Jeva. The poor woman was horrified. She was giving her son a look as if she thought he was a thief, and Ekirra, the boy, was actually innocent, but frightened to tears. It was a huge mixup and—
The [Princess]’ head slowly moved, and her red hair flashed in the light, but her eyes were gentle. Still—a little Gnoll girl flinched and looked at her, wide-eyed with horror.
“Jeva, Ekirra didn’t steal a thing. I think my daughter gave the gold to him. This is all a huge misunderstanding. Please, sit.”
Jeva finally caught her breath and gave Lyonette a look of incredulity. Lyonette beckoned, and Mrsha hesitantly walked over. Lyonette took a breath, then gave Mrsha a gentle hug.
“Mrsha? We’re not angry, but please tell me Ekirra didn’t take the gold and you gave it to him because you thought it was a good idea. She has a rich aunt, Selys, Jeva—”
She had to lie. That was the best one that came out, and Mrsha instantly nodded. Lyonette was relieved she actually was telling the truth. The alternative…
The Gnoll woman collapsed into a chair and then began to apologize. To Ekirra as much as anyone else, and he howled at Mrsha, who gave Lyonette a horror-stricken look.
Yes, you didn’t think this would happen, did you? Lyonette raised her eyes and saw everyone was looking at her.
“Alright. Ser Dalimont? To me. I suggest that Mrsha go to anyone else she’s given gold to and avoid this happening. Right now. Jeva, sit. Someone get her something to steady herself, and get poor Ekirra something too.”
At least here Peggy was helpful; she handed both a donut. Lyonette rose to her feet as Octavia, Rhaldon, and Rose all turned to her, and she hoped they were getting some of the warning from this.
“Staff meeting. Now. Rosencrantz—Rosencrantz?”
Some of the Antinium had frozen, but he was halfway out the common room door. He began to run, and Lyonette chased after him, cursing, Ushar right behind her. The Antinium was almost at the [Portal Door], and Lyonette was shouting for Liska not to let any of the Antinium through when he stopped.
The Antinium was holding the purse of gold with two hands. But the other two suddenly rose straight overhead, and he backed up. Silently, two more Antinium did likewise, and Rosencrantz spoke.
“We surrender, Guardswoman. We knew our crimes would catch up with us.”
Trembling, he looked at the Drake who had halted in the doorway. Watch Captain Zevara opened her mouth and stared at Rosencrantz—then Lyonette. The [Princess] raised her head.
“Oh, what now?”
“Er…if this is something the Watch can help with, I would be glad to, Lyonette. However, we were rather hoping you could help us? We have three Aberrations—or close, I don’t even know what to call it—in the city, and all three claim it’s due to your inn. I request your presence at once in 3rd District.”
“Aberrations?”
Lyonette’s eyes widened, and then she looked at Rosencrantz. The Antinium stood, stiff and petrified, and then Lyonette began to run.
 
——
 
Aberrations was not the right word for it. But Zevara was correct; Lyonette had never seen an Antinium go crazy short of being an Aberration.
“It started just this morning. Three new renters, one of them today. The first fellow, well, he grabbed a broom and started sweeping. At first, one of the local [Shopkeepers] thought he was the Antinium she’d hired to clean. But then the real [Cleaner] showed up and chased him off. So he tried to clean another store, then the street. No one thought it was too bad, but he started sweeping out places without being asked to. Then—he got violent when they tried to take the broom away from him.”
The Watch had cordoned off the area. However, walls of magical light had actually done a better job than a [Guard] shouting for people to move on.
This was because the apartment complex with the three Workers who’d gone crazy was under the protection of a Gold-rank team.
Todi’s Elites looked bored as they waved people on, but they were actually efficient; they’d boxed in a Worker swinging a broom at a bunch of Painted Antinium, and a huge crowd was dispersing as the adventurers forced them back.
“So this is Selys’ apartment?”
Lyonette stared up at the trendy, green-coated building with open verandas stretching out from rather large apartments. Todi nodded reasonably.
“Yep, Miss Lyonette. My team and I are hired to run security for all her properties. We were the first ones she called.”
“Your cooperation is appreciated, Captain Todi.”
Zevara looked annoyed at adventurers trying to do her job, but she took over the explanation from him.
“Apparently, this Worker refused to stop sweeping and grew agitated. People left him be; it wasn’t like he was harming anyone. But he kept sweeping all night. At some point, a citizen tried to stop him out of concern, then called a Painted Antinium patrol over. He began screaming and attacking once they tried to take the broom away from him.”
She jerked a thumb at the Painted Antinium. Lyonette half-turned; Peggy and Rosencrantz and the Antinium were with her, as was Ushar.
“Why?”
Todi grimaced.
“No one knows. He just kept shrieking that he ‘had to justify the cost’. Or something. The second fellow was even weirder.”
An Antinium was curled up on the ground, lying on his back. He was alive—but not moving, and a [Healer] was gingerly trying to get a response. Rosencrantz was shaking.
“What happened?”
“He walked out of his apartment and began to hurl gold coins onto the street. Caused a damn riot. Now, the last fellow we checked on because I can see a pattern.”
Todi pointed to one of the apartment buildings, and Lyonette saw a cluster of people, [Guards], including Antinium and Yellow Splatters, banging on the door.
“Worker. If you are in there, open the door! We would like to inquire about your health!”
Todi leaned over.
“We checked on the fellow by having our [Rogue] sneak onto the patio. He’s just sitting in a corner. Not violent, but he’s shaking like that new jello stuff.”
Three Antinium. Three breakdowns. It didn’t take a genius to figure out what was going on, but Lyonette confirmed her suspicions anyways.
“Excuse me, um, Worker?”
He had no name. It was one of the Workers for hire who had no class, name, or even defining role in the city. The Worker was sweeping, desperately, trying to avoid the Painted Antinium who were calling out.
“Put down the broom.”
“You are not a bad Antinium. Put down the broom, please. Talk to us.”
“Please do not become Aberration.”
They weren’t the best at their job, and the Worker flinched away as Lyonette approached.
“Hello?”
“I am working. Please let me work. I must work.”
He was not well. Lyonette had never seen sleep deprivation hit an Antinium, but his arms were shaking, and he seemed unsteady on his feet. Lyonette looked around; where was her backup?
“Worker. I gave you money to be happy. What are you doing?”
Rosencrantz approached, and the Worker flinched away.
“Do not give me more! Please! Please…I must work or else it makes no sense.”
He pulled at his antennae, and that confirmed it, as far as Lyonette was concerned. The Worker began to sweep even faster until Lyonette heard a buzzing sound. She looked up, and all the Antinium stopped. People gasped, and Bird—
