A Centaur tried to gallop towards her until someone accidentally moved a cart into one of their legs. Lyonette winced.
“Miss Marquin! A word, if you p—”
Two Drakes striding towards her. A huge Dullahan body-checked them into the crowd. Then turned.
“Your H—”
His head toppled off his body, and a Stitch-woman caught it, put it on the Dullahan’s body as it toppled over, and bowed to Lyonette.
“Dead gods. ”
It was a war to get at Lyonette! She began to run as more potential emissaries and diplomats came her way. Lyonette heard Ushar cursing.
“Your Highness! I’m—”
A Lizardman jumped out and got a full-body-check from Ushar. The Thronebearer snapped as they saw the door.
“We’re not going to make it!”
Dozens of representatives were coming for them. Lyonette turned her head, saw it was true, and spoke.
“Ser Dalimont?”
The Thronebearer slowed, fighting off a Garuda trying to land on them from overhead. His face smoothed, and he gave her a smile. She kept running, but her head was twisted back.
Dalimont! He stopped, giving her a bow, and turned. Lyonette and Ushar ran as Ser Dalimont raised his voice.
“I—would be happy to take any inquiries on Her Highness’ behalf!”
Every eye swung to him. Lyonette saw the Thronebearer lift a hand and smile at her as a flurry of people leapt at him.
A shrieking Lizardwoman raised her clawed arms and ran, arms flailing, frothing at the mouth. A Minotaur bellowed a challenge as he charged like a Draugr—civilians were screaming and fleeing a gibbering man bounding at Dalimont like a Ghoul—
She shouted his name—and saw his proud countenance, facing down the horde—
And that was the last time she ever saw him.
…Okay, Lyonette did peek back through the door and see Ser Dalimont standing amidst a crowd of various species, trying to write down notes all at once. He wasn’t dead like Sest or crippled like Lormel.
This was better. Yes…Lyonette sighed.
This was better.
 
——
 
You know what really ground Mrsha’s gears? Not being a child. Being a child was awesome.
Not a bunch of [Necromancers] in her inn. [Necromancers] could be awesome.
Not having a bunch of gold and not being allowed to spend it. Mrsha and others were spending it, even if Lyonette didn’t know.
What Mrsha didn’t like was when adults tried to be cool. Like kids. Here she was trying to show Rittane and the other Rheirgest kids around the inn, get them feeling like they were safe and everyone was friendly—and you had Lyonette.
Nice mother. Decent mother. 6/10 on most days. But dead gods, she wasn’t cool. She needed to stop trying to be Archmage…as Mrsha assumed the kids said.
Mother, please. There is no such thing as a horde of ravening [Diplomats].
She held up a card wearily as Lyonette gesticulated back towards the portal room. Lyonette’s voice rose indignantly.
“There is! They were all over us! If Ser Dalimont hadn’t sacrificed himself—”
Mrsha rolled her eyes, and Lyonette stomped her foot. The Gnoll jerked a thumb at her mother as she turned to Rittane and the others.
Can you believe her?
Rittane was a pale, blonde-haired girl with big brown eyes and a clear case of nerves. She was tongue-tied in front of Lyonette and even Mrsha. She only spoke to Ser Normen and the other Knights of Solstice.
“I—I believe you, Miss Lyonette!”
“Thank you, Rittane! Mrsha, they’re literally just outside the door. Dead gods, we have a problem with the pile. I need to confer with Yelroan; his precautions worked on that dratted Merchant’s Guild, but not on foreign nations. There may be no helping it. Oh—and something is up with Ylawes’ team.”
‘The pile’ was how they were referring to the gold these days. These people and their slang. Mrsha made a note about the Silver Swords, but she nudged Rittane.
Adults, am I right?
Rittane read the note, then gave Mrsha a nervous smile.
“Yes, Miss Mrsha!”
“It’s just Mrsha.”
Someone piped up, and Rittane jumped as Ekirra scratched an ear with one of his legs. He was rolling around on the floor, bored, and Visma, Kenva, and even Sammial were all here!
The gang. Well, Sammial wasn’t one of them, but he kept showing up. Hethon was somewhere else, and so was Nanette; sometimes, they didn’t hang out with the others. They were too ‘adult’ and did things like watching the news. Or Nanette would begin discussing Izrilian politics.
She could be a bit boring, but Mrsha had summoned the gang now that school was out, possibly forever. Because, obviously, Rittane was going to join them.
“Yeah, call her Mrsha! And I’m Visma, Rittane. Do you have dolls?”
“Me? No…”
For some reason, that sounded like a lie. Rittane’s eyes flicked around nervously, and Mrsha stared around the inn.
Day two of Rheirgest being here, and they were mostly—well, sitting around with books from the library, reading, watching the news, eating—and looking out of sorts.
The protestors were still blocking their village site, and everyone was getting a bit tense. Apparently, the Watch had tried to move out the Liscorians again, and there had almost been a riot.
Those poopsicles. Mrsha had almost gone down there to give them a piece of her mind, but Dalimont had run off to help Lyonette, and she’d been confined to the inn. To enforce that confinement, they had called on the only babysitters they trusted.
Ser Normen for security.
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle for minding. The Vampiress was chatting with Elosaith and the other villagers, keeping their spirits up, and she wasn’t even looking at Mrsha. She didn’t even seem anxious about Mrsha doing something dastardly.
Perhaps—because she’d told Mrsha that if Mrsha ran off or caused trouble, it wouldn’t be no dessert for a month. Instead, she had given Mrsha a big, pointed smile and told Mrsha she’d be shoveling manure out of the barn and weeding the fields all spring. Four months. A hundred and twenty-eight days.
That…was an actual threat. So Mrsha condescended to hanging around the inn. She’d already shown Rittane Bird’s tower, the rooms, the theatre…the girl had been suitably open-mouthed, but Ekirra was bored.
“Mrshaaaa. Why can’t we go to the garden? The door won’t open for me!”
Silence, Ekirra. The garden is off limits. For now.
“It’s boring! Rittane needs to have fun!”
“I don’t mind! You’re all awfully generous to us, Miss Mrsha. I don’t want to be a bother.”
The girl was too timid. Mrsha flapped a paw at her and took Rittane by the shoulder. She was a good kid! Mrsha had cried all over when she’d heard about how Rittane had starved. She had to have a good time in Liscor.
She had to.
Listen, Rittane, let’s go to the playground in Liscor. Don’t worry; no one will even know you’re a [Necromancer]! No one knew when Ekirra had fleas.
“Mrsha, you promised not to tell!”
Ekirra whined, and Mrsha strode for the door to the portal room. She had the idea that with Ushar around, she’d be allowed to go to Liscor.
There was a line of people waiting to transfer to another city, as always, in the hallway. Mrsha was about to cut it when someone threw himself against the window of the inn, clawing at the glass.
“Funding! Diplomacy! Argh!”
Nerul Gemscale, face wretched, mouth open, fumbled at the door, and Mrsha and the children screamed. He staggered into the inn, arms raised like a zombie—then adjusted his suit.
“I heard someone didn’t believe [Diplomats] can properly form a horde. I haven’t seen a scrap like that since they were selling off the old Ambercrystal Mine deposits. Club in one claw, contract in the other.”
Wh—Nerul! Mrsha stared open-mouthed at him as the big, boisterous Drake beamed at her.
“Wait, there was a brawl?”
Nerul jerked this thumb-claw over his shoulder as Visma stared.
“Yes! I stayed out of it; this morning was hilarious. Stitch-folk kneecapping the Watch and everyone getting in their way. Dead gods, that Empire of Sands doesn’t play around. And the House of Minos is just—”
He blew a kiss with his claws.
“Ever seen a [Diplomat] throw a Drake over a crowd’s heads? That’s one way to stop an [I Go First] Skill! Toss them to the back of the line and watch them skid!”
Mrsha’s was aghast. And she’d missed that? Nerul, for his part, just offered her a hand.
“Hello, Miss Mrsha. Do you think your mother has time for me, young lady? I realize it must be busy around the inn, and the only reason I got in is because of Ilvriss—frankly, I’m not after a deal. Just information.”
She pointed him towards the common room, and he beamed.
“Excellent. Say—are you rich?”
Me? No, sir. Poor as the day I was born.
Mrsha handed him a card, and his eyes twinkled.
“You lie as readily as a born Calanferian, young lady. Try not to smile when you write, or exaggerate.”
Then he was gone. The coolest adult in the inn—and he wanted Lyonette.
Life wasn’t fair.
 
——
 
Everyone was in a kind of holding pattern with Rheirgest’s ability to build their village uncertain. Even the exciting stuff with Hexel…Mrsha was told she couldn’t go into Liscor right now since both Thronebearers were busy, and she sulked her way over to Lyonette, who was talking exasperatedly with Hexel. Nerul had appeared with Bird as part of a conference.
“What do you mean you can’t get any Antinium, Bird?”
She was still on the labor shortage. Bird folded her arms defensively. Nerul really was a good [Diplomat]; he barely even commented on Bird’s new form.
“I am not the boss of the Antinium, Lyonette. If they are busy, they are busy.”
“Couldn’t you ask the Free Queen to give us some more? There have to be spares.”
Bird hesitated.
“Yes…but due to reasons that are definitely not concerning, she wishes to have more Antinium in the Hive than usual.”
That was definitely not concerning. Lyonette hesitated.
“How—not concerning is it? Facestealer not concerning?”
“Oh no. Like a tenth of Facestealer concerning.”
That was still fairly concerning. Mrsha gulped, and Lyonette turned to Hexel.
“Fine, fine. We have an easy solution. [Builders] in Celum and Invrisil. Let’s hire the Mason’s Guild in Invrisil—”
“Er. No.”
Nerul coughed into one claw, and Lyonette turned to him.
“Why not, Nerul? Don’t tell me Ilvriss took all of them!”
He gave her a toothy smile.
“Funnily enough, he took barely a dozen, Miss Lyonette. My nephew sourced most of his workers from Liscor and Celum and hopes to have more workers where he is—he’s actually broken ground up there.”
“No one’s given him trouble?”
“Every single noble let him pass without doing more than showing off their militias. It’s rather suspicious—he’s hoping you can visit.”
Lyonette had an exasperated smile on her face.
“Later, I surely will. Why not Invrisil’s Mason’s Guild?”
“Two points for guessing?”
That made the [Princess] think. Hexel knew the answer. Mrsha scribbled a note as the children tried to think.
“Is it because…they’re all racist?”
Ekirra wondered aloud. Nerul laughed.
“That’s not it, but it might have been a problem!”
Then it’s because they suck at their jobs!
Mrsha held up a card, and Lyonette rolled her eyes.
“Honestly, Mrsha—”
She blinked as Nerul gave Mrsha a thumbs up.
“Wait, really?”
The [Diplomat] shrugged, conceding.
“Half a point. The truth is that they’re quite good at putting up buildings—in Invrisil.”
“Ah. Oh. Oh no, they’re not going to like having to break ground in the Floodplains, are they? Much less with the snow or rain?”
Lyonette groaned as she saw the problem. They were urban construction experts. Nerul tapped the side of his snout.
“None of them were exactly keen on excavation work. I imagine Architect Hexel foresees the same problem.”
“Human workers need more warm clothing. They complain about dirt, snow; they need shovels and breaks. Antinium don’t have these issues. Listen, if you let me pull the ballista crew, I convinced a dozen Antinium from my jobs to shift over. We can begin work on the tower and foundation and move from there.”
Lyonette could only agree. Glumly, she glanced out the window, then turned to Hexel.
“Regarding your materials shortage, Hexel…there is a solution, but not a good, er, cheap one. How likely is it you could get everything without support? If we gave you gold, for instance?”
He shrugged.
“It won’t stop me from getting what I want. It will simply delay everything a few months.”
“Argh. Well—let me consider my options. Ushar, who else wants a piece of us?”
The Thronebearer consulted a list and read off some names.
“Let me see. Pallass, Zeres, Fissival, the Maelstrom’s Howling company, the Raised Ground company, the Taimaguros Dominion—are all the confirmed nations Dalimont has interviewed so far.”
“The House of Minos, too. I recognized their diplomat.”
Nerul added. He rubbed his claws together as Lyonette groaned.
“I don’t know what’s going on—no, don’t tell me, I love a good mystery. The reason the [Diplomats] are so worked up, Miss Lyonette, is because they don’t either. I can tell genuine panic from uninformed panic, and they have their leadership shrieking at them to make a deal with you. But the leadership is probably acting off of Skills that have highlighted you as a person of interest.”
“Can we get rid of the problem?”
Good luck. A thousand Chests of Holding wouldn’t do that! Mrsha smirked, but Nerul was oblivious to the exact nature of the gold and nodded.
“Oh, of course. Get rid of whatever’s tripping everyone up, and they’ll vanish. But I would be wary—they want to know what’s up.”
“That is a concern, Lyonette. We have spies again. I tossed two out of windows this morning.”
Ishkr appeared in his new suit, looking mildly exasperated as he adjusted his tie, which was perfectly straight today. Lyonette groaned.
“At least you’re working. Is the boon gone, Ishkr?”
“It keeps coming back.”
The Gnoll had a hint of a whine in his tone, but Mrsha thought it was hilarious. Apparently, Erin kept reapplying it on him. Maybe there was a reason for that?
Lyonette rubbed at her brows.
“Alright. I will…I am entirely full. Have the children had lunch? We have a massive amount everyone could eat. It was a lovely restaurant. I am going to meet with Octavia now, then inquire again about Rheirgest’s situation. Mrsha? Please stay out of trouble?”
Mrsha rolled her eyes. As if she were that untrustworthy. She turned to Rittane and gestured.
Why didn’t they all go find something fun to do? Of course, that was easy enough in a big inn. All they had to do was go to the theatre and start a movie. Rittane would love—
 
——
 
Get. Out. Of. My. Seat!
Mrsha shoved. She huffed. She puffed. But she couldn’t move Grimalkin as he sat there writing notes in his notepad.
