He wasn’t proud of it, but it was beyond the ken of most people in this world. Nerul leaned over.
“Mind showing me how?”
It was simple. Yelroan had actually come up with the idea ages ago when trying to teach Mrsha some math. Lyonette had gotten it into her head that her daughter should be better at math than even a regular [Student], so Yelroan had tried it.
Mrsha was actually fairly receptive at times, and he’d explained the concept of variables to her. You know…
x = y + 10?
y = 5
Solve for x? It wasn’t something a lot of people liked, even though it was very intuitive. Yelroan hadn’t used x and y as he knew Earth math liked; he’d invented his own symbols when he was growing up to account for variables in his head that had no set number.
However, even that basic notation was something you could actually put into contract form. So Yelroan had written something like this, couched in the more flowery language of the magical contract.
 
1. The wealth of the inn = x.
2. The Wandering Inn agrees to sell the value of ‘x’ to the magical contract this is written on; the contract therefore owns the entire value of the inn. However, The Wandering Inn may draw from the value of ‘x’ for any purchases it deems necessary.
3. This contract is nullified and the entire sold value is to be returned the moment this contract is opened, The Wandering Inn makes a purchase, or five days elapse. No money may be taken from the contract, and the ownership of the gold may not pass to any other entity.
 
Lots of safeguards in the third clause. Nerul’s eyes lit up, and he laughed.
“The old Gem-in-a-Cup shell game, eh? I’ve never seen anyone quantify the value of the inn like that.”
“It’s not really math, just contract fighting. They’ll be aiming at Salamani, and he’ll dump the contract in the ground.”
That meant people would think someone in Pallass had all that gold, and if they sent agents out—Nerul was nodding, albeit warily.
“There are other ways to track us, though.”
“True.”
Yelroan reached for another contract, and Nerul gulped down a glass of water. They put their backs to each other, as if the opening salvos had barely been a warmup. Here came the heavy hitters.
Hair rose all over Yelroan’s arm in a wave, running up one arm, along his back—he stared at it.
“What was that?”
“Hmph. Spells are getting intercepted by the [Garden] and the [World’s Eye Theatre]. You can’t scry this place; it doesn’t even have a location. Looks like we’re clear from half the trouble. Skills are—”
[TRACE CONNECTIONS]. [IDENTIFY OWNE—
Yelroan’s head blared with a Skill like thunder, and Nerul slashed.
“Who was that?”
“I don’t know! Divert them!”
“Uh—uh—”
Someone was burning down the links Yelroan had put out. The anonymous owners of Prelons? The gold spent in other accounts in the Merchant’s Guild? They were coming, seeking them—but Yelroan had minutes as Nerul spoke.
“[Delay the Deal]. Hello, sir and or madam. I’m terribly sorry, but we can’t answer your questions at this moment.”
He actually grabbed something in the air, which looked like—a letter? It was bright pink, and he hissed at Yelroan.
“Reinhart! They’re trying to initiate contact! Here!”
He stuffed his sweaty handkerchief into it, and it vanished. Yelroan kept writing.
“Almost—done—”
He stamped a contract fast, then another one.
The Wandering Inn is now a subsidiary of White Gnolls Markets, a completely real and legitimate [Merchant] group! Owned by—
“Mrsha, sign this!”
She didn’t even ask questions and signed the contract happily.
—Owned by Mri! Who in turn signed away her fortune of fortunes to None of Your Business Industries, a company in Salazsar who was owned by a Balerosian enterprise in the Merchant’s Guild in Invictel, but who had fifteen shareholders, all Goblin and Antinium in—
The sense of impending doom lessened as Yelroan created a network of fake identities that someone would have to trace through. The second layer of attacks was hard and fast and came like [Knights] charging against the gates, but Nerul and Yelroan hunkered down behind a gate of contracts.
“Hand me that contract. I can certify it with a Skill. Anonymous owners who cannot…be…verified! There! Always helpful when you strike a deal and some of the parties don’t want to admit they signed it.”
The [Diplomat] and [Mathematician] high-fived. Yelroan sat down, gasping, and Nerul collapsed into a pile of gold. Yelroan turned to him.
“Lyonette has to get rid of this. Even if everyone had Bags of Holding and we were just throwing it into a ditch, we couldn’t divest ourselves of the income!”
The Drake shook his head.
“Buy her a week. There are ways to spend it. Salazsar, for instance. You could buy a smaller company, even a few mining shafts.”
“Yeah. Yeah. Let me just—”
Yelroan was fumbling for another contract, thinking, naïvely, like some fresh-blooded [Soldier], that the war was over. Even Nerul hadn’t seen fighting this hot since he was younger, and he sat up slowly.
“…Uh oh.”
Yes, they’d stopped the first two waves of assaults. Put up heavy defenses so basic, casual inquiry Skill wouldn’t work. But that just meant the real monsters were coming.
And when they did come? They came through the numbers.
“—Someone’s verifying each new account at the Merchant’s Guild. Give me that [Message] scroll. Excuse me, whomever you are, we don’t have to answer anything—”
Nerul snatched a [Message] scroll that began lighting up as pressure began rising on the fallible, mortal components of the inn’s gold network. Yelroan was busy with that, checking over their glowing scrolls to make sure they worked.
The power that Nerrhavia had instilled in the Merchant’s Guild was beyond their enforcement clauses. A Tier 4 scroll would activate if you violated the terms, but the authority of the Merchant’s Guild itself could match even the Blighted Kingdom. No one ruler, nor even any three, could just overpower the guild and reveal the contents of the scroll.
Very clever. But Yelroan noticed, out of the corner of his eye, something happening to one of the pieces of paper scattered on his desk.
“What the—”
He snatched it up. This wasn’t a scroll! It was his working notes and expense sheet for, well, the inn’s finances! He’d neatly tabulated where all the gold was, including the gold in the inn. It shouldn’t have had anything to do with the inquiries—but something—someone was coming.
The numbers were running down the page. The ink was shifting, and the [Mathematician] saw sums dripping down out of the boxes he’d noted them in.
 
2,533. A sum of gold in Lyonette’s principle account with the Merchant’s Guild.
12,216. The amount of gold in Prelons in the Marwsh account.
51. The gold pieces that Mrsha had stolen.
 
They flowed down the page. As if each one were being summoned. Or spoken. Suddenly, Yelroan thought he heard a voice.
 
——
 
“One. Two. Two. One. Six.”
The numbers poured down out of the world, drops of ink falling from a curious instrument. There were ten numbers in the sand bowl divided by sections. The ink droplet fell as an old hand—the body was not that old, but the hand belonged to an ancient soul—shook a curious censer.
Only, instead of smoke, ink leaked through the tiny holes, and Thatalocian counted.
[Numerologist]. He was a different kind of expert in the world of numbers. He belonged to a field as heretical and foreign to Yelroan as blood magic was to healing magic.
But they were connected. Thatalocian’s eyes were closed, but he noticed a drop of ink miss the clean sections of sand.
One splashed against the wall, and he stopped. He wrote the second number down, then watched ‘5’ and ‘1’ fall.
“Someone is hiding between identities. Hiding the true value.”
He mused as he noted down the numbers. If he wished, he could find out where 12216 belonged. He suspected it was a sum of this new power, hidden away.
“I care it not. Show me the grand number, the one hiding in fog.”
An ancient monster from old days grinned. He was amused; there was someone on the other end trying to erase the numbers off his sheet. Someone who did know sums—but who didn’t understand them like Thatalocian. You couldn’t erase the truth he wanted; the number had been articulated.
Now, like a primordial creature swimming through a swamp of reason and logic, he was divining the truth, wading through the lesser numbers to arrive at the one he wanted. From that number—he would ascertain the how and where and who.
Well, he already knew how. The very first number he had found in the rolling of a die corresponded to an ancient [Philosopher]’s chart of elements of the world. From the properties of air to Truegold, an old thinker had tried to quantify each material with a value.
Thatalocian had rolled the dice in turn, and the number had landed on ‘9’. His eyes flicked to the chart.
“Gold.”
Whose and where? The [Numerologist] had a hunch, but he contented himself with the hunt. His opponent was young; there were other seekers, so the old man lit a candle and smiled as he lowered the ink censer. He picked up a folded piece of paper and inserted his fingers into a delicately made little toy children loved. He opened and closed it until another number appeared, folding up a flap of paper, noting it down.
“Two. Six. Five…”
 
——
 
Yelroan set his balance sheet on fire and nearly took himself out with it. The Gnoll’s sunglasses were askew. He was as terrified as he’d ever been in his life.
Obviously the war against Plain’s Eye was the worst—that was a literal war. He didn’t know how to fight, and dying terrified him. But this was his realm. Something—someone was seeking him out.
“That’s not math. What are you?”
“Yelroan! Do something!”
Nerul was ripping files out of the Gnoll’s folders. Yelroan hoped he could recreate them, but the [Diplomat] had no choice. He stared at a glowing line of ink and cursed.
“Someone’s reading your files!”
“She’s got access. It’s—Salii.”
The world’s greatest [Secretary] was one of the people coming for him, and he didn’t even know how she had accessed the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Now, Yelroan was backed against a wall.
Hounds at the gates—and they have the keys to the gates. Final stand in the keep. They’d been betrayed from within. The [Majordomo] had been a turncoat. It was always the [Majordomo]. Or the [Butler].
“How many files do you have?”
Nerul swore, and Yelroan dug through his files like a madman.
“I’m a responsible person!”
“Well, they can gain access to your files!”
“How?”
For answer, the [Diplomat] pointed, and Yelroan saw several lines of ink appearing on a sheet he’d been using to track payments to Marwsh with the Prelons.
There were multiple intruders, and he saw them writing Skills all over his papers.
One was a fast, neat scrawl, in huge, bolded words.
 
[Elevated Authority]. [Copy File]. [Link Documents]. Please cooperate with all inquiries. Thank you.
 
They were about to pull in every document linked to it when someone slashed across it like the rogue she was. A bright, green line of ink and a hand that wrote even faster in her own untidy shorthand.
 
Quiteil, is that you? Salii! You had me for shrimp once! [Quill of the Severed Contract]! Sunglasses, what have you gotten yourself into? Answer my memo, and I’ll clear out the rest of the trash if you give me access.
This is an inquiry from the Merchant’s Guild of Terland, [Executive Authority: Contracts]. Please forwards all complaints to—
I would like to make an inquiry to the owner of this document. My employer has a quite lucrative deal to—
Do not interfere, Salii. [Lock Document].
 
The writings froze as Yelroan swore and tried to set fire to this one—then he saw the flames eating at the paper go out. Inky chains covered the entire piece of parchment, and Nerul tried to tear it and gave up.
“Damn! They’re worse than Mister Superior! We’re in trouble! At least they’re fighting amongst themselves!”
It was true. The reason none of the others had pulled his files apart yet was because they were busy throwing elbows at each other. The chains on the document shattered, and drops of ink sprayed Yelroan’s fur as a new hand wrote in massive letters.
 
I DEMAND ANSWERS. BEGONE, PESTS, OR FACE MY WRATH. I AM THE VIZIR.
 
Another scroll levitated upwards and then exploded in a flash of green light. Yelroan guessed the ‘Vizir’ had tried to abscond with it. Salii had blown it up.
“You have to stop them. You have too many documents, and even one can be used against you!”
It was true. While Nerul tried to set fire to an entire box of them, Yelroan thought. He had mass-scribing Skills, but the problem was that it seemed like Salii and the other experts could give themselves access to his files.
Which was just unfair. This was the [Garden of Sanctuary]! He guessed they had found a contract or connection that was letting them bypass Erin’s Skill legally. He had to do something—Yelroan’s mind sparked.
What did he have?
Math. It was always math. If they wanted to play games…he grabbed a contract.
“[Mass Revision] time! Conversion to applicable units—”
12,216, one of the numbers on the balance sheet listing the total sum with Marwsh’s guild, flickered, and all the quills stopped writing at once. Yelroan’s sunglasses gleamed as he gave them a toothy snarl.
“Try copying that!”
The new number instantly switched into place. It read:
0x2FB8. 
“What the heck is that?”
Nerul blinked at the numbers, and Yelroan gave him a triumphant grin.
“Hexadecimal. An idea from Erin’s world.”
It was simple, really. Okay, not simple. It was also known as Base 16, a concept that involved translating the regular decimal system of numbers into binary. 0s and 1s. Then you translated that into hexadecimal by using the alphabet to make up for the lack of numbers beyond, well, 0-9.
The end result was something that looked like gibberish to anyone who didn’t understand what was going on. Yelroan himself was rapidly changing each number into a new, essentially ciphered version in his mind.
It was…well, it was easy. For him. It was just a formula, but once again, it played havoc with the Skills trying to work on his notes.
[Scribe Number], [Value of Sum], [Map Profit Motive]—many Skills that [Merchants] or numbers-experts had required them to still understand the numbers themselves.
 
WHAT TRICKERY IS THIS?
 
Outraged messages began flooding across Yelroan’s files, and he grinned. He and Nerul high-fived as they relaxed.
After about a minute, a calm scrawl dashed across the page.
 
Fascinating. I will be copying this for my own uses. Thank you, [Mathematician]. 
 
Yelroan’s smile vanished.
