Zaltha answered after a second, and Lyonette blinked. That—was more than she expected.
“Indeed? I confess, I don’t know much about Their Majesty of Sands. I am, of course, honored. How should I address…him? Her? Do forgive me.”
She was hoping for a bit of a rise out of Zaltha, actually. The woman seemed fairly patriotic. But it didn’t work. Zaltha’s lips quirked slightly.
“You may refer to them as the Emperor of Sands, Your Highness, or the Empress as you prefer. There is only but one—their name, like everything else, may change, as we Stitch-folk do.”
Was that obfuscation or some nuance, like the Minotaur King’s gender not mattering? Lyonette sipped on her winecup as Ushar adjusted a dish for her. A card on her wrist:
 
We have no idea who they are, Your Highness.
 
Well, that was fascinating. Calanfer knew almost every royal in the world, from their habits to their intimate secrets. Lyonette decided to push ahead.
“Then they are monitoring this discussion? What could I have done to warrant such august eyes, Diplomat Zaltha?”
How much do you know? Lyonette’s [Basic Negotiator], [Charming Smile], and [Imperial Aura] were going up against a seasoned [Diplomat]’s Skills.
However, Zaltha had come to her. The [Diplomat] tried to juke into a more hospitable opening for herself.
“The Empire of Sands is one of Chandrar’s major powers, Your Highness. Of late, we are one of the few nations with a functioning navy, let alone the ability to trade between continents. We received inquiries as to shipping material from Baleros to Izril, for instance?”
Ah, they were good. Their spy networks must have caught wind of Hexel’s inquiries via the Merchant’s Guild or something. Lyonette kept her face smooth, though.
“Yes, that is a small project one of my contractors has taken on. But it seems the Empire of Sands has some desire from me, specifically. Come, come, Diplomat Zaltha. I have no doubt offers may flood in rather quickly following our meeting. I could offer the Empire of Sands the chance to strike a lucrative deal now. In a day’s time? I am easily persuadable, I fear.”
She gave Zaltha an apologetic smile and activated a Skill.
[Trifling Incentive]. All things being equal, Lyonette was a [Princess of the Inn], Level 31. She didn’t quite steamroll Zaltha, but a worried look from one of the [Diplomat]’s servants and a shift from two of the [Guards] said it all. Zaltha smiled into her boba tea, then chuckled.
“One should not duel with words against a Calanferian any more than they dance with swords against someone of Kaaz. Your Highness has me at a disadvantage. I would indeed be forced to beg forbearance from the Emperor of Sands if I failed to present my offer fully. Servants? Bring it in.”
She clapped her hands, and her servants vanished from the room. Zaltha turned back to Lyonette, speaking quicker.
“The Empire of Sands has been searching for a…buyer of late, Your Highness. Be it so indecorous, we were aware of your interests, but circumstances have elevated you to rise to the top of our interests. Even Their Majesty would quite like to offer you a small deal to ensure the goods you desire for your inn arrive promptly and on time.”
Ah, like the trade deal Magnolia had held with Admiral Seagrass. Lyonette hid a grimace with a bite of a quesadilla loaded with toppings. It wouldn’t be impossible to buy the Empire of Sands’ help. But if that was all and they just wanted to gouge her to get some goods from overseas, she wasn’t happy.
If they actually control shipping lanes, they could make getting Hexel’s supplies difficult indeed. How much are they going to charge me for the ‘luxury’ of getting something from Baleros with the seas all amess?
However, the servants brought something into the room that was quite heavy judging by the way four [Guards] had to help them. They cleared a second table in the private room and placed something on it covered by a pale-white shroud of cloth. Lyonette blinked as the covering was removed to show her…
Black rock, cracked in places, forming a solid—more or less solid—rectangle of stone. Pieces had crumbled off of it, and many were in tiny fragments. Yet Ushar’s breath caught after a second, and Lyonette’s eyes widened.
This was no ordinary black marble. The strange rock caught the light and seemed to hold it and let it spread across the surface of the stone before reflecting it outwards. She knew in a moment it was magical. Zaltha confirmed the suspicion at once.
“If I may be so bold, Your Highness—are you in the market for some Chemath Marble? One of the world’s rarest building materials. A small amount of it has fallen into the Empire of Sand’s custody, and few buyers in the world have the funding…or discernment…to acquire it.”
Her eyes glittered, and Lyonette blinked at her. Then she stood.
“May I?”
Zaltha nodded at once, and Lyonette walked over to inspect the odd stuff. Chemath Marble. She knew it was valuable. Even Calanfer didn’t have it in the Eternal Throne; Samal had some, Khelt…
The sample in front of her was about two feet high and four feet wide. It must have filled a Chest of Holding, and it probably spoke to how much the Empire of Sands had that they could send Zaltha with a sample this large.
Yet—the first thing Lyonette noticed was the quality of the stone.
It was a rather large block of black marble, which, Lyonette realized as she bent to inspect it, was really made up of many smaller chunks carefully assembled to give the impression of a solid block.
However, Lyonette noted, the finished product really wasn’t that smooth; even the individual chunks of stone were unevenly quarried. Terrible work, really! She doubted you could make anything approaching smooth stone without shaving each chunk into paper-thin plates, and even then…
Zaltha noticed Ushar wrinkling her nose and broke in quickly.
“The—quality of the marble is far from that expected of later shipments. True, royal quarried stone will soon be available for purchase. However, the effects of Chemath Marble will still appear, regardless of the cut quality.”
Ah. Now Lyonette saw why the [Diplomat] had a [Tradeswoman]’s background. She made her voice innocent.
“It looks slightly rough. Is that normal, Dame Ushar?”
She pretended not to know, and Dalimont answered for Dame Ushar.
“A rather, ah, crude cut of the marble, Your Highness. I have no doubt the effects will still manifest. Whatever they are.”
Zaltha broke in urgently.
“It is the first Chemath mined in decades, Ser Dalimont. Until now, it was a curio that could only be bought as a hand-sized stone. Utterly useless. The Empire of Sands has acquired eight hundred tons of marble.”
That was a lot! No, wait. That was nothing! Lyonette oscillated between the two concepts. It was not a lot for the purposes of building anything. It was, given she’d heard Chemath Marble couldn’t be acquired; the mines were closed.
“Fascinating. Is there, ah, higher-quality marble coming soon?”
“In time. These things do take time, Your Highness—but we have a rather large quantity of excellent stone at the moment.”
Only, I doubt it’s the right quality for you to sell, and you want a buyer. Now, Lyonette was recalling the Empire of Sands had been involved in something else. Namely, a two point four million gold piece purchase of the Helm of Fire.
Add that to funding armies to conquer more nations and this all made sense. It amused her that she had hit the top list of potential buyers for the marble.
“Well, Diplomat Zaltha, I can see why you approached me. And I do thank you for your discretion. Am I to assume that any purchase of Chemath Marble might incur the Emperor of Sands’ goodwill?”
Zaltha gave her a secretive smile.
“It would incur my personal goodwill, Your Highness, for what that is worth. I would labor diligently in your interests in any small way I could for this boon—and the Empire of Sands looks quite kindly on its friends. Why, our newest Admiral, Duke Seagrass himself, might well take to the seas once more to ship whatever was needed to Izril.”
Admiral Seagrass was working for the Empire of Sands? Lyonette, Ushar, and Dalimont pretended to exchange polite looks while Lyonette’s alarm bells rang.
“That, ah—that would not be an inconsiderable thing, Zaltha. But friendship? The Wandering Inn has many friends, and with due respect to my employer, Erin Solstice, she is sometimes wary about acquiring more friends. They—sometimes pay for that friendship.”
Lyonette tried to stall, but she realized she might have pushed too far. Zaltha leaned over the table.
“The Empire of Sands is quite aware of what friendship with The Wandering Inn looks like. We have never fled confrontation. Nor are we to be swept away for the cost of any goodwill—especially to someone who might do us a sincere bargain.”
“Can you buy friendship so easily, Diplomat?”
Lyonette tried to chuckle, and the [Diplomat]’s eyes glimmered.
“For the right amount that enriches the citizens of sands, pays for arms, becomes the paved streets and sewers of our cities, the full warehouses in times of hunger? Friendship can be a pile of coins, Your Highness.”
—Well, drat. They really wanted this deal. Lyonette exhaled and turned her tone slightly exasperated.
“I appreciate that. But I do think a contract can enforce what is often nebulous, Diplomat.”
“I can have this one adjusted, Your Highness. If you would care to inspect it?”
Oh dead gods, they were prepared. Lyonette saw a contract, and Ushar bent over it. The [Princess] ran her eyes down the list of clauses.
 
Eight hundred tons of Chemath Marble…in whatever shape or form…that had to mean a lot of it was cracked like the sample.
…every ship bound for Izril is bound to allot at least one tenth of its hold for goods so desired by The Wandering Inn or Lyonette du Marquin under a threshold of two hundred tons per month?
 
“Dead gods!”
Even Ser Dalimont blinked at that part of the clause. They really wanted her to buy this damn marble!
“I cannot enforce some of the nuances of our friendship in the contract itself, Your Highness. Magical wording is difficult. But you have the word of the Emperor of Sands that they will not forget an ally.”
—And a promise from Zaltha’s lips that she’d follow up gratitude in more than mere words. All of it was actually tempting. Lyonette had to ask Hexel what Chemath Marble actually did, but she was nodding along.
“Very reasonable, Diplomat. May I hold onto this? I can see this deal going forwards, at least in principle. The trading terms are very generous.”
In theory, the Empire of Sands could get around it by never sending a ship affiliated with them to Izril, but the language seemed to indicate even contractors working for them would have to carry goods meant for the inn.
If they had any navy—and Admiral Seagrass’ presence said they did—this was amazing. Two hundred tons of free goods shipped per month! Lyonette could see buying the stupid marble for that.
“Let’s just see how much this would c—”
Her eyes finally found the price. The word ‘cost’ caught in Lyonette’s mouth. Ser Dalimont’s lips moved. The [Princess] swayed for a second and stared at the commas. Counted the zeroes.
Diplomat Zaltha rose to her feet, wine cup in hand, a desperate smile on her face.
“As you can see, the cost of friendship can be high—but the Chemath Marble is authentic and—we have not even finished our meal. Let us sit, Your Highness. Do you care for, ah, the amenities of Invrisil? Drake plumbing is such a modern convenience. The Empire of Sands has modernized all of its sewers of late.”
She tried to draw Lyonette back into the conversation. The [Princess] just took another look at the number on the contract.
Was Chemath Marble really worth five point eight million gold p—then she smiled at Zaltha.
“Of course, friendship is worth the total amount listed, Diplomat Zaltha. But Chemath Marble is worth so much less than the friendship of the Empire of Sands.”
She leaned forwards, and her [Flawless Attempt] activated. Zaltha was too good to sweat, but she determinedly switched her wine cup for water. Even if Lyonette had no intention of paying this amount—
She had always wanted to learn to haggle.
 
——
 
Lyonette got the list pricing down to two point five.
Million.
Gold pieces.
It was sort of funny. She’d never thought she’d see a Stitch-woman die of dehydration, but both she and Zaltha were out of their depths and playing with numbers even Ielane would have blinked at.
For Lyonette? It had been fun, and she had the notion she might have levelled in the negotiations themselves.
For Zaltha? Every hundred thousand gold pieces she gave up was a hundred thousand gold pieces she had to explain to the Emperor of Sands. But she also had to even get Lyonette close to agreeing to the deal.
When Lyonette walked out of The Adventurer’s Waystation, she had an amended contract for that sum…but no deal.
Obviously, she hadn’t signed it. She spoke to Dalimont and Ushar after the two confirmed they weren’t being followed or monitored.
“I quite enjoyed that.”
“Your Highness is a shark, even to other [Diplomats].”
Dalimont looked quite astounded. Lyonette frowned at him, and Ushar cut in.
“They were quite desperate for the gold, Your Highness. Either they spent unwisely for the Helm of Fire…”
“…Or they’re aware the Chemath Marble isn’t that valuable, broken up as it is.”
Zaltha had even given Lyonette a small chunk of it as a souvenir. It wasn’t nearly magical enough to do anything as a small rock she could hold in the palm of her hand. Still, a memento like this might have gone for a hundred gold—until now.
“Friendship with this nation might be costly, Your Highness. They are a warmongering nation at odds with the King of Destruction.”
“Far from The Wandering Inn. It’s the trade deal that annoys me, Dalimont. It’s everything we need.”
But could she rationalize paying that much for Hexel’s goods? Yet—Lyonette turned to Ushar.
“Get me everything Calanfer knows on the Empire of Sands. Was this a fluke? Do they often reach out to people like the King of Avel does? How trustworthy are they when it comes to deals or ‘friendships’? And how dangerous is their nation?”
Ushar bowed.
“I will have a full report by the evening, Your Highness. I do caution you: Zaltha will be after the closure of the deal. And from her words, we have attracted altogether too much attention for the pile. Something must be done. I advise leaving Invrisil. Now.”
That was certainly true. Now that Lyonette was aware other rulers could sense her relative wealth, she saw more troubling signs as she strode towards the door.
“Lady Lyonette! Lady Lyonette! I represent Maelstrom’s Howl—my leg!”
