“Bird, it’s just a Golem or something!”
“Ah. This would be a splendid time to use my [Dragonbreath Arrow]. If I knew how it works. Back up, Lyonette. I am going to shoot a more reliable exploding thing that should not kill you.”
Bird pulled an arrow from her quiver. But before she and Lyonette could continue attacking, the sock puppet cursed.
“—waste of my time!”
It leapt out the window and landed with billowing black robes on the roof. Bird shot her arrow; she missed as it leaned sideways. She raised her bow, and the sock puppet headbutted Bird.
Hard. The roof tiles cracked under the blow, and Bird staggered. She swung her bow up, but the sock puppet snaked around her and gave her a sideways headbutt that sent Bird skidding down the roof.
“Ow. I warn you. I know Bird-fu.”
The Antinium swung her bow around, trying to clip the sock puppet, but all Lyonette heard as she tried to scramble onto the roof was a sneering laugh.
“If that’s how the Antinium fight hand-to-hand, I’m shocked you ever had a chance in the Antinium Wars.”
Bird fired an arrow as Lyonette lunged, but it was too fast. The [Hunter] loosed another arrow at close range, then cursed as she was knocked flat.
“What am I supposed to do when they get close? Hold on, I need to get to the outhouse—and a bucket—”
“Let me help you.”
The sock puppet bent and heaved, and Bird went flying off the roof. Bird twisted and loosed a wild shot; Lyonette saw the arrow vibrate in the roof next to her. She swung at the sock puppet, and it grabbed her sword and tossed it off the roof.
“Listen. I’m actually tired of murdering people right now. I want to be reasonable.”
It spoke to her as she windmilled her arms, about to slip off the roof and fall down towards the parked wagons below. Lyonette cried out as she slipped—and the sock puppet sighed and caught her arm.
“Pathetic. I can see we’re going nowhere. Why don’t you [Sleep] and I’ll just sort this out? I should have just done that anyways. But the entire inn’s a damn bag of holding…and if it’s in that garden…”
Lyonette felt herself sagging, and blackness gnawed at her vision. But she forced the spell off her—grabbed the sock body, and tried to punch it.
“This is my inn. You can have it, or anyone in it, over my dead body!”
She punched at it twice, realized the sock puppet felt nothing, then tried to pull one of the button-eyes off. The sock puppet recoiled from her. Then tossed Lyonette onto her back on the roof. That put the wind out of Lyonette as she gasped up at the giant mouth of the puppet.
“But you’re so weak. You can’t protect anyone.”
The power behind this apparition sneered down at her. Lyonette knew it was right. Angry tears sprang to her eyes, and she snapped back.
“Then I’ll die before you touch my daughters, whomever you are. If I have to, I’ll annihilate you and anything in my way.”
An idea sprang to her mind, unbounded. A truly dire one, and she bared her teeth.
“I can kill you. Begone!”
The sock puppet stared down at her, bemused. But then it lost the smile on its face.
“The weak have no right to threaten me. You can’t save anyone. I can’t.”
It stopped, standing there, and looked around at the snow drifting down. The inn. There was a catch in its voice.
“I can’t.”
Lyonette stared upwards, and the sock puppet shook itself.
“I’m not after your daughters, idiot! Just give me the wand and—”
Then its head exploded. Lyonette felt a blast of heat wash over her and went deaf. When the ringing stopped, Bird buzzed onto the roof and gave the limp half of the burnt sock a few kicks.
“Hah! That was mostly luck. How did you distract it, please, Lyonette?”
Lyonette just sat there as Dame Ushar leapt out the window and the people in the wagons woke up. Dangerous things were lurking around the inn.
What was new? Oh. Right.
There was no Erin.
 
——
 
The next morning, Lyonette had little sleep. Rheirgest was hard at work as its villagers alternated between working on her inn—and their village. They had found a spot they liked, and undead were everywhere outdoors.
She was having a call. With her mother.
“Give up the item.”
“I can’t do that, Mother. It’s insanely valuable.”
“That was not a statement for discussion. Relinquish it or send it via Courier to Calanfer. You cannot protect it.”
“Yes, I can. If I—”
“Shriekblade is an insufficient protector on her own. You have no means to combat that intruder. You are not a second Queen Marquin. If this was a battle of contracts or agreements, I would give you some credence. Your death will serve Calanfer not at all.”
“So glad you have my best interests at heart, Mother.”
Lyonette snapped sarcastically at Ielane, and the woman replied without missing a beat.
“That was not a question for debate, either. Know your limits. You cannot suborn a foe that many levels higher than you with a sword. I could not.”
She was brisk and impatient as ever, but Lyonette stopped as she stabbed at a breakfast scone.
“—You know who it is?”
A pause, infinitesimally small.
“I have a guess, based on the description and other reports. It does not concern you at this moment.”
“It does, Mother. And I can handle this! I just need—”
She needed a way to stop that sock puppet. Lyonette had no doubt it would be back. It didn’t seem as hostile as many threats, like Facestealer.
“You will write a report on the item in question and submit it to Ushar in the next half hour. Then—”
Lyonette turned the speaking stone off. It was very satisfying. Ushar winced as Lyonette handed it back, then scrubbed at her face.
“Your Highness, Her Majesty does have a point.”
“Does she, Ushar? My mother has never seen half of the threats The Wandering Inn has faced. Erin took them all on; I’ll do the same.”
It was just that she wasn’t as gifted as Erin at, well, killing things. Lyonette paced around. Then turned to Ser Dalimont.
“Who is the sock puppet’s owner?”
“I, er, have a good guess as to which nation he comes from. Even who it might be. The Ryoka link is also established, Your Highness. I will say that if it is whom I believe it to be—it would make for a credible threat. Level 50+.”
He already knew? Lyonette stared at Dalimont. Then saw him hold up a Mage Picture of a certain show that was the most popular thing in…her eyes popped as she saw a miniature of the same blue sock.
“No. No, I saw that broadcast, and I thought—him?”
Her sense of foreboding increased. A prideful, dangerous man, then. How was she supposed to keep someone like that from the inn? And why did he want the wand?
Maybe to help Ryoka? Lyonette had sent an urgent request to talk to Ryoka, but she was guarded by the Forgotten Wing at the moment, and the theatre couldn’t instantly reach her. Besides…it was Lyonette’s damn wand. Well, Ryoka’s, but it was her problem to solve!
Lyonette had begun to shift into problem-solving mode, but this last concern was currently top of her list. And it wasn’t the only one.
 
——
 
The villagers of Rheirgest were weird people, Mrsha decided. Her kind of people.
Why?
Well, because she had concluded after a while that aside from the weird laughter, their funny jokes about dead people, and necromancy, the biggest trait that they shared with her was…
Laziness.
They were hard at work this morning building the new inn and their village. Rittane, as a kid, was allowed to play, but she wanted to help, so she was mixing some potash and other stuff together for the concrete Hexel was going to pour.
Her parents were finishing the scaffolding. Or rather, their skeletons were.
Dorkel was a funny man. He’d shown up in workman’s clothes and importantly paced around his area of the scaffolding, making sure the skeletons were hauling the cut timber over. He’d aligned one piece of wood with the marker and drove in a nail after a few good hits.
He wasn’t the most coordinated. He got one nail in, then two, then handed the hammer to a skeleton and went to get a cup of coffee. He then drank the coffee over the next hour as Mrsha watched him, lingering over breakfast and some of Bird’s cake.
Dorkel chatted with his wife, talked to Rittane, walked over to stand with a bunch of villagers. Adjusted a helmet he’d worn in case of debris. Corrected a skeleton drawing from the wrong pile of cut timber.
Cracked open a book and leaned against the scaffolding and read for thirty minutes.
Then he’d noticed the skeletons doing the work weren’t driving the nails in that well. Dorkel had stopped, inspected several bad spots, and had them pry the nails out. At this point, a reasonable person would probably have sighed and grabbed a hammer.
Not Dorkel. He’d bent over the wood and made a skeleton hammer a nail in so he could see how their less-agile hands and clumsiness had them missing or bending the nails. The man had thought—then pulled a piece of ivory out of his belt pouch and walked off.
He’d come back five minutes later. One of the skeletons had pulled off a hand, and he’d given it a new one. Mrsha had stared as the skeleton lifted a hand with a single slot in it; the rest of it was designed to grip the nail.
It hammered away, and Dorkel had watched several nails go into the wood with less satisfaction; the skeleton could still bend the nail left or right.
He’d stopped the skeleton, taken the nail-holder hand, and walked off. After conferring with two other [Necromancers] for a while, Dorkel had come back with the Nail-Holder Hand 2.0.
This time, it was designed to act like a thin cylinder that held the nail perfectly in place. The skeleton would drive the nail in, then a piece of the cylinder would peel back, allowing the nail to be driven down without fear of bending it left or right by an unbalanced blow.
That increased the precision; the skeleton could line up the hand straight over the spot the nail needed to be. However, Dorkel had then noticed the hammer-hand was the real problem. He had taken an arm, walked off, and came back with one only capable of executing a single swing.
Mrsha was about to run out and tell him that was all very well and good, but the skeleton would only be able to do one kind of swing, and he’d need nails to be hammered in every which way—until she saw he’d given it a ball joint so it could reposition and swing from any angle!
The [Necromancer] finished his cup of coffee as his Nail-Skeleton started driving nails into the scaffolding with ease. A few villagers had seen his work and come over.
Within ten minutes, there were a dozen Nail-Skeletons stealing Antinium jobs. And when Dorkel entered the inn, he instantly gravitated towards the cake that had been put out for the villagers.
“Father, Father! How is the construction?”
They’d made Rittane go in out of the cold after a bit, and she bounced up from watching the news on the scrying mirror. Dorkel took his helmet off and wiped at his sweatless brow.
“Hard work, Rittane. But don’t worry—I’m giving it everything I’ve got.”
He jumped as he saw Mrsha staring at him, but the Gnoll girl only handed him a note.
You’re my hero. I want to grow up to be just like you.
He gave her a puzzled, gratified look, but that was the sense Mrsha got from Rheirgest. Not a single one of them was a farmer. If they swung a hoe, it was just to see how to do it better. Indeed, it seemed like the only limiting factor on them had been their need to hide their identities and the ambient mana in the area.
“This place is wonderful. Everyone’s animating twice as many undead as usual. Elosaith’s even created his Guardian of Ivory! See? He normally only did that to haul chunks of ivory out of the mines we had.”
Leiithe pointed something out to Rittane, and Mrsha ran outside, mouth open. A giant undead, ten feet tall, was leashed to a sled, which it was pulling over to the construction site! It was nothing like a skeleton; it was closer to a Golem; it had a huge, humanoid body, like a man in armor, but a horrific, carved deathmask on its face.
Mrsha stared at the open beak, snarling teeth, and tendrils on the Guardian of Ivory’s face. That was style. She even noticed the Guardian of Ivory had long, segmented arms, like a centipede’s body, rather than humanoid ones; it allowed it a lot of flexibility when picking up blocks of stone off the sled.
Even some of the other people watching had to give the undead credit. Most of the people using the inn for teleportation were horrified by the undead and stayed well inside. But one man with his hands in his pockets was standing outside. He had a bright yellow helmet on, like the other [Builders] in Liscor, and work overalls. Another of Hexel’s [Builders]?
“Artistic. I’ll grant you, they at least decorate their undead. Maybe I was too harsh on them before. They’re still living shadows of what [Necromancers] were.”
Mrsha passed a note up to the man.
You and me both, buddy. I thought they were pitiful. But this is super cool.
The man glanced down at her piece of paper and met Mrsha’s eyes. His gaze was a pale golden, and he seemed to know Mrsha. Well, let’s be honest—who didn’t.
“Cool? Ah, impressive. It’s…quaint. In the old days, you’d have an undead forty feet tall lifting blocks of stone from any halfway decent [Necromancer].”
Archmage.
“Yes, those too. They tended to do things with magic. Djinnis, Cloth Golems—everything’s so short these days. People don’t build anything to last.”
Mrsha nodded, sighing at the lax standards of the modern age. She saw this man was also taking the Rheirgest approach of slacking off and decided to do something nice. She padded into the inn and came back with a cup of coffee.
“Ah. Thank you, Good Miss.”
He tipped his hat to her and grinned, revealing two pointed ears. A half-Elf? Mrsha blinked; Liscor was getting all kinds of new people.
Are you a new worker here?
“Me? No, an old worker. Molveilouka at your service.”
The half-Elf winked at Mrsha, and she held out a paw. Rather than shake it, he bent over and peered at her. Then stared at the inn.
“You’re part of that [Innkeeper]’s family, aren’t you? Tell me, Miss…Gnoll. What did someone like you do to become a Direherald so young?”
A what? You mean Doombearer?
“Hm? Yes.”
Mrsha didn’t have time to give her life’s story to all her fans, but she scribbled an abbreviated version, and the half-Elf read it.
“And they thought your kind was causing it? Hah! That’s hilariously tragic. Direheralds, Fatehowlers—whatever you want to call your people these days—don’t cause it. My, my. What will those Drakes think of next?”
You think they were the ones who made the Plain’s Eye tribe go evil?
Mrsha was outraged, but the half-Elf tapped the side of his nose.
