Slammed into a snowdrift. The Antinium’s attempt to fly towards them ended less gracefully than she had clearly hoped. She got up slowly.
“I am very dignified if I say so. Lyonette, Yelroan has locked the you-know-where. No one is getting in or out. I gave him a sandwich in case he starves. And a bucket for pooing in. Who is this?”
The Worker looked up at Bird, then began to sweep faster. Lyonette explained, and Bird reached out.
“Ah. I see. Hello, Worker. I am Bird. You must stop panicking now.”
“I have to work. I have to work. I have to work.”
Bird stared at the Worker and patted him again on the shoulder.
“Stop working.”
When the Worker didn’t respond, Bird scratched at her antennae.
“Is violence the answer now?”
“No. Thank you, Bird. Let me try.”
Lyonette pushed her aside and bent over. The Worker had a dustpan as well and was trying to sweep up pieces of snow into it.
“Excuse me? Worker? Um…”
“I am not Painted Antinium. I have no class. I am not worthy. I have to work. Please, give me work?”
His head rose, and Lyonette offered the Worker a smile.
“You must rest.”
“N-no. I must work. I have been paid. Too much payment.”
“I told you to rest.”
Rosencrantz cried out, and the Worker turned and shrieked at him.
“And do what? I sat in the room! Alone! I ate food that tasted better than anything ever! I did not earn it. I sat and sat, and the walls grew small in my head, and a voice told me I had not paid for it—”
Air was rushing in and out of the Antinium’s mandibles. The Worker was having a panic attack. Bird gave Lyonette a helpless look.
“I would be happy if someone gave me free money.”
Lyonette knew Bird would. But she thought the Worker was having a justifiable reaction to, well—being sent to heaven. Which is what Rosencrantz and the other Workers had intended. But a heaven without a purpose?
That…could be like Rhir’s hells. So Lyonette thought, and the [Princess of the Inn] spoke after a moment.
“Worker…are you afraid of being asked to pay all that gold back?”
“I did not earn it. Why did it happen? Makes no sense, makes no sense.”
He grabbed his head, and Lyonette turned to the other, comatose Antinium. Her voice firmed, and she stared at the quivering Rosencrantz.
“Well, I am here to tell you, Worker, that it doesn’t make sense. I am, in fact, Rosencrantz’s employer. His Queen—er, Princess. And you didn’t earn the gold. So I would like it back.”
The Worker froze. Todi’s head came up with the mention of ‘gold’, but the Worker stopped sweeping frantically and turned to Lyonette.
“Give it back?”
“Yes. Absolutely. I know some gold was spent on the apartment; well, I’ll call the sweeping fair for whatever gold was spent. But I’m taking the apartment back. And the food. And firing you.”
“Me?”
It was like cutting a puppet’s strings. The Worker relaxed, and Lyonette held out her hand.
“The gold, please.”
He handed her a bulging pouch full of it. Then the Worker stood there, swaying.
“I am no longer employed and rich?”
“Absolutely. You are now an ordinary Worker. So go back to your Hive and, uh, rest. That’s an order. From the Watch.”
The Antinium stared at her. His mandibles moved.
“Thank you.”
Then he dropped the broom and collapsed backwards. Several Painted Antinium ran over and helped pick him up. One of them turned to Lyonette.
“Heartbreaker Lyonette, thank you for helping him. Can you help the other two?”
Lyonette squared her shoulders, ignoring the nickname.
“I can try.”
 
——
 
The second Antinium was harder than the first—until Lyonette pretended she’d gathered all the coins up and was taking them back. Then he uncurled and sat up.
“This Worker was more frightened of today than Skinner. Please never hire this Worker again.”
He ran off, and the final Worker opened the door when Lyonette served them the notice of dismissal and demanded the gold back.
The last Worker was holding a puppy with a spot over one eye. Lyonette saw him stroking the sleeping puppy’s back, and the Worker offered her the puppy.
“Er—no—you can keep—”
The other Antinium, including Yellow Splatters, were giving her looks as if she were a monster, but the Worker gently handed Ushar the little puppy.
“I do not know how to care for this. I am not Furfur. If the puppy-thing died, it would be my fault. I…I would like to go now. I would like to learn from Furfur. He is right.”
The last of the Antinium made Lyonette blink. He stood there, and Yellow Splatters took one look at the Worker, then reached out.
“You have become Autonomous.”
“Yes. I have.”
The last Worker, at least, had changed—and the puppy was alright, but three traumatized Workers had left Rosencrantz a mess.
“I do not understand. I do not understand. I paid them to be happy.”
“You cannot just give them gold to make them happy, Rosencrantz. At least, not Antinium Workers.”
“It will work on other people. Sometimes.”
Bird added as they went back to the inn. Lyonette herself wouldn’t have turned a bag of gold down at any point since coming to The Wandering Inn. And yet…
It was so heavy in her hands. What a weight. What a responsibility. She stopped as they headed down one of the main market streets.
“I need just a moment, would you? Bird? Why didn’t Yelroan stop them from doing this?”
She knew she sounded petulant, especially because the gold in the [Garden of Sanctuary] was so overflowing that anyone could sneak in, grab some, and be off. Bird saluted Lyonette.
“That is because Yelroan is deflecting hundreds of people trying to locate where the pile of you-know-what is. With math and numbers. He says he has bounced the location with the power of math, but we are surely doomed in time.”
Everyone turned to Lyonette. She stared at them—then calmly walked into a store that was selling a variety of furniture.
“Welcome to Whorled Woods! Nothing’s curved but our rocking chairs, hah-hah! How can I help you, Miss?”
A Silverfang Gnoll called out as Lyonette walked over to a chair. She smiled at him, then picked the cushion up from the chair and put it to her face.
Then she screamed.
Outside, several people turned at the odd sound. Bird, Ushar, and the inn’s staff all stared as a [Princess] with a pillow for a head uttered a muffled shriek.
“Princess Lyonette! Have I got the deal for—”
Ushar held out her arm and checked a man off his feet. Bird pushed the flailing figure down the frozen street with one foot.
Lyonette kept screaming into the pillow. Then she drew breath and screamed some more.
 
——
 
After a while, she raised her head from the pillow. Her face was red. She sniffed, looked around. The [Shopkeeper] was staring at her. People were gathered around in the street. Lyonette put the pillow down and made a show of inspecting the chair.
It was a very lovely chair. She could imagine sitting in it all day. It had splendid rose-white paint that had melded with the wood; it had an amazing varnish, and the chair itself had several artistic sweeps across the back that made it fit for a [Lady].
“I like this chair. This is mine now.”
Lyonette du Marquin announced to no one and everyone. She got up and walked over to the counter.
“How much to go, please?”
The [Shopkeeper] stammered out a number. Lyonette pulled gold coins out of the bag and added three.
“A tip. Thank you. Ushar? My chair.”
The Thronebearer walked over with her bag of holding. Lyonette turned to the others.
“Peggy, Rosencrantz. Let’s have a staff meeting at the inn. Please.”
“Yes, Chieftain!”
“Yes, Queen.”
The two ran off. Bird gave Lyonette a salute.
“Today has been highly amusing to me, personally. But very stressful for you. Would you like my assistance?”
“If you think you can help, Bird, I’ll never turn it down.”
Lyonette smiled at Bird as they walked back. Bird stared at the sky for a while, then patted Lyonette on the shoulder.
“Sometimes, Lyonette, life is filled with suffering and is the suck.”
“Thank you, Bird.”
 
——
 
YELROAN’S WAR
 
 
Gold. You could have too much of it. While Goblins and Antinium and little girls took gold out of the [Garden of Sanctuary] to spend wisely or not, there was one person who didn’t do anything with the bounty of gold still raining down from the box above.
That was Yelroan. [Mathematician]. Not because he’d been the Plain’s Eye’s functional treasurer, oh no. Gold still had an allure to Yelroan, and he had been wondering how to bring up to Lyonette that gold could buy a lot of meals for hungry Gnolls in tribes that had suffered after the battle at the Great Plains.
Rather—he didn’t have time to spend any gold. Even Mrsha, running in with a mask and a bag to try and haul out as much gold as she could carry, didn’t matter. Firstly, because gold was heavy and she was weak.
But also, because Yelroan was trying to divest the inn of this gold. Lyonette had realized it had made them a target at around the same time Yelroan had.
“I just never expected them to come for us so fast!”
He knew how he should be doing it. His tactics in buying into other businesses, creating numerous fake identities, and putting money around the world had been working. The problem was…
Ping! Ping! Ping!
The gold coins kept falling. They weren’t as fast as they had been some days during the fifteen days of gold accumulation, but Yelroan couldn’t keep up.
If he had an entire team of [Secretaries], [Accountants], [Couriers], or just a hundred [Knights] like Dalimont and Ushar, he might have managed to spread enough gold around the world. But he didn’t.
And the sharks were circling.
No, it felt to Yelroan like—hands reaching for him in the [Garden of Sanctuary], trying the doorknob, feeling around blindly; sensing the gold, but trying to open a window or bring a scrying orb in. Some of the hands had eyeballs embedded in the palms to extend the analogy further.
They were using [Appraise Wealth] as a basic, initial attack vector. However, most were using it on Erin. The smart ones were using it on Lyonette.
Yelroan could handle that. He was a math-based specialist, but he’d picked up enough tricks as the Plain’s Eye’s personal accountant. It wasn’t his favorite field; the numbers were boring and had to add up each time. But still. He checked a scroll that flashed every few seconds with light, the magic words shimmering.
 
Whereupon Lyonette du Marquin, by the authority vested in her Acting Liaison to the Merchant’s Guild, Yelroan, commits to the following action bound by Tier 4 Magical Authority (Galnvanis’ Solemn Oath), this contract duly witnessed by Invrisil’s Guildmaster…
 
A lot of frankly unnecessary wording. Merchant’s Guild contracts were old magic. Specialized and enforced by Skills; the magical ones had an authority to them that even nations respected.
The Merchant’s Guild of the modern era drew its roots back from antiquity; it had once been little more than an actual guild of [Merchants]. Its reputation as a contract-broker and even lender of monies came from reforms instituted in the era of the Immortal Tyrant, Nerrhavia.
Thus, the wax seals and signatures that Yelroan had requested from Lyonette had teeth. His first move?
 
—contents of the gold in the [Garden of Sanctuary] belong to The Wandering Inn itself. The current owners and Acting Managers shall have the right to spend, divest, or otherwise…
 
Make the inn the owner of the money. It was an old tactic; it meant the [Appraise Wealth] Skills were bouncing off the inn like stones thrown from slings. Yelroan’s hunch was correct: the [Garden of Sanctuary] really didn’t like revealing secrets.
However, that was just the constant salvo that had been coming all morning. He almost ducked at his writing desk, and someone shouted urgently.
“They’re coming again! Get ready!”
Nerul was wiping his face with his handkerchief. The gold shining around them had lit his face up with delight—before he’d understood the problem. Now, he looked like he’d been fighting for hours. Because he had!
This time, it felt like something hammered down on Yelroan for a second. He felt his arm shaking, and a sense of intimidation ran through him.
[Royal Will: The Weight of Treasuries]. Someone was trying to do an even more basic check—to see if their nation was richer than the inn! He gasped, clawing at his throat. He couldn’t breathe! This was out of his purview, but the Drake [Diplomat] slashed a claw.
“[An Uncourteous Act, Rebuked]!”
He shoved something out of the air, and Yelroan gasped, collapsed onto his desk, and kept writing. Nerul was holding a quill in the air, inkless, slashing with it as if fencing.
“[A Polite Inquiry]? Hah, no thank you! [Insider Information]—doesn’t even work if we have no idea what the sum is ourselves.”
“I do—”
Nerul swore and slashed.
“[Cancel That]! Yelroan, there are some heavy hitters coming our way. Most of them don’t even seem to realize it’s the inn yet. It feels undirected.”
“How? Even if some of them caught onto Lyonette’s wealth because I was careless—”
The Gnoll snapped, and the Drake flashed a grin at him.
“No one cares about that! You probably just appeared on a bunch of lists! Someone that rich appearing, unwarded? People think you’re adventurers who found a bunch of treasure! Normally, Dragons or eclectic [Archmages] defer the payments into art and artifacts. Because—”
“—because that’s not a quantifiable number!”
He should have turned this all into something else! Yelroan threw up his hands, then dashed an emergency order out. He ran for the garden’s door.
“Salamani!”
The Mage Runner was thankfully in the inn. He raised an eyebrow as Yelroan explained what he wanted.
“That’ll take me and Ci half an hour. Are you sure?”
Yelroan tossed a bag of gold down.
“Yes, please!”
The Mage Runner hesitated, narrowing his eyes. He was no idiot.
“How much trouble is this getting us into, Yelroan?”
“Nothing actionable. It’s all underhanded [Merchant] stuff. No one will come after you if you’re in and out. Just bury it? Five feet deep would do, but if you sink it a bit—”
Salamani heaved a huge sigh, but he sprang to his feet and snatched the rolled up contract. He whistled, and Ci trotted away from the bar.
“Alright, I suppose we owe you for backing Valeterisa’s idea. To Pallass!”
They clattered out of the inn. When Yelroan got back, Nerul gave him a respectful look. The Drake mopped at his brow.
“Dead gods, that did it. How did you divert them? I swear, I had three royals trying to break in here. If it weren’t for a certain [Queen] I could swear was backing me up—”
“I distracted them. With, well, stupid math and contracts.”
