The Antinium were very subdued, and the Goblins shifted uncomfortably. Even Liska and Ishkr were present, and Liska avoided looking at Lyonette. Octavia, Colfa, both exchanged glances as Mrsha drooped. Nanette just folded her arms.
“Miss Lyonette, I don’t want to be rude, but—”
“You are.”
Nanette looked outraged, but Lyonette was tired. Ushar pulled out Lyonette’s new chair, and the [Princess] sat. Blessed relief. She frowned at Nanette.
“I know you’ve taken gold out of the inn, even if I don’t know how you’ve spent it, Miss Nanette. The only person I think hasn’t spent gold is me! And poor Yelroan!”
“I’m alive.”
The Gnoll groaned as he sat up. Apista buzzed her wings on his head. And me!
“Why shouldn’t we spend it, Miss Lyonette? It seems to me that you’re the one being hesitant!”
Nanette protested, speaking for the staff as a whole. Lyonette frowned at her. The [Princess] was about to snap back when she stopped, sighed, and realized she really needed to explain.
“I haven’t been holding back from spending, Nanette. Well, I have, but I’ve been giving Yelroan time to hide the gold. Which, ah, hasn’t worked perfectly.”
“We’re safe for a while.”
But not forever. Lyonette looked around and pointed at the pool of his blood.
“People were just after the gold in the inn. There are a horde of diplomats in Invrisil—if I have been cautious, it is because I feared this exact scenario might happen. These last few days, I have surveyed the inn, checked in on our allies. Our problems. Our enemies.”
She hadn’t spent gold, had sat and been lectured or snubbed, all because she had to see it first. Nanette’s outrage faded a bit as Lyonette looked around, meeting Peggy’s and Rosencrantz’s eyes.
“I suppose I didn’t want to start spending money as, well, because…once we begin, we won’t stop. The inn will change. Again and again. That’s—terrifying. I’ve seen it happen. It may be better for it, but I liked it this time. I liked it—but—”
She closed her eyes and took a deep breath.
“I have a new <Quest>. I should have told you yesterday, but I didn’t want to worry everyone. It’s from Erin.”
Mrsha’s head rose, and the staff stirred. Ishkr’s eyes lit up as Lyonette told them about her <Mythical Quest>. When Nanette heard the clause, she drew in a breath, and Mrsha flinched.
“No one we love dies. Can it even be done?”
Octavia muttered, then looked around guiltily. However, the sad weight was in every expression. Nerul, as an observer, just stared at the two girls as he raked a claw through his neck spines.
“Ancestors. You could age a child into an adult in a month here. Children shouldn’t have to…”
Lyonette agreed. She gave Mrsha a sad look, then squared her shoulders.
“It’s…I don’t know how to do it. I have a vision for the inn. I’m figuring out what we need. But the taking-gold and spending it randomly stops, agreed?”
Nanette wasn’t happy, but the rest of the staff nodded more or less willingly. The [Princess] paused, then nodded.
“Good. It doesn’t help, you see, when we spend it like that. But that’s not to say I can’t admit I’ve been…stingy. Mrsha, why did you give gold to Ekirra?”
The Gnoll girl flinched. She wrote hurriedly, still almost in tears about Ekirra’s torment. It had been a very bad scene. Nanette read for Mrsha.
“Because—because he wanted to give some to his mother so she didn’t have to work so hard! And buy all kinds of nice things! If we have gold, we should give it to him, or else I’m the only one who has it! And that’s no fun!”
Lyonette kept her face grave as she listened, then the young, red-haired woman inclined her head.
“And you were right to want to help. Just not in how you did it, Mrsha. Miss Jeva and Mister Evink Silverfang probably don’t want us to just hand them a pile of gold—”
She thought about it and hesitated.
“—no, they’d take it. But it would make things complicated. If you’d found a way to pay for a new apartment for them, or new furniture, that would have worked. Rosencrantz, if you want to help Antinium, giving them an easy, nice job will make them happier than paying for them to do nothing.”
Mrsha’s head came up, and Lyonette saw a hopeful expression on Nanette’s face.
“Do you mean—?”
It was time. Lyonette exhaled, then pointed.
“Mrsha, Nanette, I appoint the two of you as leaders of the—Helpful Inn Fund. You two will use the gold and pay for things, in smaller amounts, to help everyone we like. Like more bread from Garry’s shop. Something for Relc to wear outside of his uniform when he’s not working.”
Ointment for Visma’s dad’s hemorrhoids?
Mrsha held up a card, and Lyonette stared at it.
“Yes. That.”
She shook her head and turned. Her chair was wonderful, and she thought of the plain, wooden ones in the inn. They were worn and lovely, but Lyonette looked at Peggy.
“We need new chairs. And new clothing for everyone in the inn. In fact, we’re still on candles and lanterns for the rooms. We’ve got no rugs, the blankets are lovely—but they’re not silk, are they, Peggy?”
The Hobgoblin had begun to smile the moment she heard about the Helpful Inn Fund. She offered Lyonette a toothy grin of puzzlement.
“They make silk sheets?”
When Lyonette nodded, Asgra whispered to Sticks, and he raised a clawed hand.
“Can we get silk sheets?”
“I think we can, Sticks. In fact, I think every member of the inn can have a budget to buy things for the inn. Not food. That’s Calescent’s job. You may suggest things for his list, but no one will run out and buy it. You’ll write things down on a list that Peggy and Rosencrantz will take to me, and Ishkr will make sure whatever we approve is bought.”
Everyone turned to Calescent, and the Goblin’s eyes lit up. Now, Lyonette was getting into it. She pointed.
“Sticks, what is something you want?”
The Cave Goblin answered instantly, much to her surprise.
“Silk toilet paper for wiping!”
“—We can probably get that! Rosencrantz, if you and the Antinium have things you want us to donate to the Antinium in the Hive, we can do that. Books—”
The little witch’s head rose with excitement.
“We can keep our library?”
Lyonette saw Nanette jumping up and down with Inkpaper and sighed.
“Yes—”
A cheer began to rise from the staff, but she waved her hands.
“We will do this! I promise. Do you think I was going to just sit on all the gold like some Dragon?”
She smiled around, waiting for laughter, but the staff, even her daughters, avoided making eye-contact. Lyonette scowled.
“I want you all to be happy. I just don’t want the gold to—change you. It did change me when I was growing up. Most importantly?”
She looked at Yelroan, dried blood on his fur, and she murmured.
“—I want you to be safe. We must get rid of the gold. It seems we don’t have the time to be careful. I’ll begin buying things, actual things, soon. But not a word to anyone, please?”
That made everyone turn to Yelroan, and several Goblins and Antinium patted him on the shoulder and head. He grinned weakly.
“I think we’re safe for now. But Lyonette’s right. We were hoping Hexel would begin building the new inn by now. They’re coming.”
“Maybe—maybe we hire some more Hobs from Chieftain Rags? If she can spare them.”
Peggy licked her lips nervously, and Mrsha glanced around, as if counting how many people they had left who could fight. They couldn’t even rely on the Order of Solstice; they wanted to build a keep away from the inn. Lyonette sat there, sighing. Her morning’s anguish had turned into a deep worry.
It was not spending gold on silk toilet paper that worried her. It was the big things. How did they stop…? She talked with the staff in the garden a while longer until Bird, who didn’t really seem to care about their gold, came back through the door after leaving to use the bathroom.
“Lyonette. Lyonette. Another amusing thing is going on outside.”
“Dead gods.”
“No, this time it is a funny good thing. You should use your gold to help them, too.”
Bird pointed, and everyone followed her. Lyonette remembered something. Erin had told her to protect the inn. To try and make sure no one they liked died. She had given Lyonette no advice about hiring or security or anything else.
For she and Lyonette both knew—The Wandering Inn always found new friends.
The inn simply had to be worthy of them.
 
——
 
Poor Hexel. Here he was trying to build a grand new inn with a fraction of the workers he needed.
He’d done his best. The Antinium had already begun digging out the foundation, and the two dozen he had could move dirt around with a will, even with all the snow. His Lizardfolk apprentices were helping too, using Skills to make the ground warmer and more movable.
But he’d really suffered from a lack of hands to grind up stones for the basis of his first objective—the Tower of Bird. From that tower, he could form the rest of the inn; Lyonette had indeed requested he make security a priority. He’d offered to even upgrade the trap hallway between here and the common room—but he just didn’t have the hands to do it all at once.
He’d told Lyonette not to expect miracles. And she had fully anticipated him at most getting the tower up and the foundations laid by the spring unless she found him more workers. So it was to her surprise when Lyonette saw people already laying the foundation in the ground.
“Huh?”
The foundation of the new inn wasn’t just concrete or stone. Yes, Hexel wanted a very sturdy one, so the framing was going up to outline the foundation and basement. However, instead of a dozen Antinium trying to put up a small section, Lyonette came outside to see hundreds of people working on the scaffolding.
Or rather, a hundred and some people. And about two hundred…skeletons. Lyonette breathed.
“Rheirgest.”
A skeleton with a bucket full of nails was trooping over to a very bemused Worker, who was nailing the wood together. The skeleton put down its burden, picked up a nail, and began to clumsily drive it into the wood.
“Hey, Dorkel! Your skeletons can’t do nails!”
A villager shouted as the nail bent, and a [Necromancer] strode over, sighing.
“Who put them on nail-duty? I said they won’t fall over even in the mud or snow. See? Their feet and balance are perfect.”
“Well, mine can do nails. See?”
The other [Necromancer] jerked his thumb over his shoulder and stroked his black beard with smugness. A skeleton was driving nails into the wood with decent accuracy. Dorkel growled as the rest of the inn’s staff filed out to watch.
“Well, make them do all the nailwork!”
“Can’t. We need at least twenty on nails at any given moment, and I’ve only got authority over four.”
“Four? I’ve got nine!”
“Yes, but mine are a quality four—”
They were arguing good-naturedly before they caught sight of Lyonette and bowed.
“Your Highness! Good evening!”
“Mister Dorkel. Mister Anham? What are you doing?”
The two exchanged glances, looking slightly worried, and Dorkel raised a cap frosted with snow.
“Well, I was talking with one of your guests—a fascinating young man called Rhaldon about those ‘bicycles’. I’d love to try and copy one with your permission. When we heard the [Architect] complaining about the lack of help, well—since we were all sitting around, Elosaith had the idea to offer some help to Master Hexel. They’re not the smartest lot, but when we watch them—it’s good practice for the village.”
Anham nodded as well, looking pleased at Mrsha’s and Nanette’s jaw-dropping amazement. One of his skeletons turned and flexed a bony arm.
“I have to admit, those Antinium dig like a storm. But if we can make up for them—”
“You needn’t have done this, truly! I’m—thank you!”
Lyonette was gratified and embarrassed. And shocked! She’d completely forgotten, but undead?
Toren!
That nasty, wretched skeleton might have been a murderous traitor, but in the old days, Erin’s entire inn had been kept mostly by him! How could she have forgotten? Well, Erin’s inn being destroyed—twice—by Toren had moved the two away from undead labor.
Yet Hexel was sold on it. When she found the [Architect], he looked like one of Elirr’s cats getting a head rub.
“Day and night labor. They’re not the smartest, but half of Rheirgest is nocturnal. If I rotate my apprentices on shifts, we can have them working around the clock. I’ve done that with Antinium on shifts, but even they need lunch. And there are still noise complaints to think about, injuries. This lot?”
He turned as a group of eight skeletons hauling a log tripped. A shout went up—and Lyonette saw the log roll down the hill and send all eight flying into pieces. Sighing, a [Necromancer] waved a hand, and they reassembled.
Tireless. Hungerless. Without need for pay or breaks or even concern about their injuries. A manager’s dream employee.
It actually seemed like some of the Antinium were working harder, as if nervous these undead would take their jobs. Lyonette protested as Leiithe walked over with a beaming Elosaith.
“But we can’t make Rheirgest do all this work!”
“Why not? Master Hexel has agreed to employ us, and it’s quite good work—especially because I took a look, and the protestors are still at our village spot. Let us help you, Miss Lyonette. And be paid for it!”
The old [Necromancer]’s statement was accompanied by a nod from Leiithe, and the woman murmured, more hesitant.
“So long as you don’t mind people seeing the undead, Princess Lyonette. We understand if you’d want us to stop because of that. We do want to be a credit to our class. To prove we’re [Necromancers], not the Necromancer.”
Lyonette saw a few people waiting for teleportation staring out the inn’s windows with horrified looks of disgust. A few were making gestures out the window, and one Drake clearly pointed at his eyes, then at Anham. A warning.
That made her—angry. Before she could think, Lyonette snapped.
“Dalimont? Shutter the windows. And Liska! Anyone who has something to say about my guests can go back home without using the door. I am delighted to have Rheirgest helping me! In fact—in fact—why don’t they just build their village here if the spot near Colfa’s farm is still occupied?”
The words slipped out of her mouth, and Elosaith blinked. Hexel turned, surprise on his face.
“Are you sure, Lyonette?”
The moment she said it, she wasn’t. Yet the look of gratification on Leiithe’s face…Lyonette blinked around.
“Well, maybe not here here. The inn attracts trouble. But what about—there?”
She pointed just a mile or two away at a large area set near the base of the mountains. She turned to Hexel, and the [Architect] shrugged.
