“When in doubt, look at the Dragons. Or their children. So, your name is Mrsha and you were an orphan of a Goblin Lord attack. And that flying Human with the wind brought you here.”
That’s correct. If you like, you can have my autograph. I’m Mrsha the Great and Terrible!
He chuckled even harder at this, holding his sides. Mrsha debated kicking him, but she was pretty sure that it would get her in trouble.
“Well, you are amusing. Would you humor me with another question, Good Miss Mrsha? I’ve been doing a lot of thinking, procrastinating, and a bit of healing this last month. But I just had to make a decision.”
If she could help him with weighty matters of the mind—she was as good as Nanette at that! Mrsha told him to go ahead.
Molveilouka knelt in the snow and looked at Mrsha. He still smiled, but for some reason, the hair rose on Mrsha’s body, and she felt something running through her…fur?
Luck? Fate? Perhaps all his weird names for her kind had brought it out, but it felt like a howl was caught in Mrsha’s throat. She coughed, and the wind picked up around her. As if something important—or very bad—was hanging in the balance. A mountain on a needle.
Could she move it? The Doombearer’s eyes crossed, but the half-Elf’s question made her focus on him.
“Would you say, on the whole, that you’re a net positive for this world, Miss Mrsha? Do you make the powers that be, your Walled Cities, your Five Families, more secure—or less—by your presence?”
Mrsha stared at him and thought for a longer time than usual. Then she wrote a note and handed it to him.
I would like to posit, sir, that on the whole I am a very good girl and do little things wrong in the world. Everyone likes me. Most people like me, and I am cute and adorable.
“I see. That’s not a bad thing, to be a cute, little brat.”
For some reason, he looked regretful about that and hesitant. But then he saw Mrsha pointing and turned the card over.
However—I suppose I’m not that well liked by the Walled Cities or these powerful people. Because I belong to The Wandering Inn, and we cause trouble. We do the right things or stupid things, I don’t always know which. Things that matter. Everyone thinks the Antinium are evil, but they’re friends. So, on the whole, I think the powers that be may think of me as a great foe. And if they do, they can suck on rotten eggs.
Molveilouka’s eyes widened as he read the back of the card, and when he threw his head back, his laughter was booming. He wiped a tear from his eyes.
“That doesn’t make it easier, you know! Ah…”
He stood over Mrsha, and his face was calm. The half-Elf put his hands in his pockets and looked down at Mrsha.
“I don’t hate you. It would be easier to do that. But if I owe anyone in this world a debt, it’s your [Innkeeper]. I haven’t felt outmatched for a long, long, long time, and there’s that to consider. But a promise is a promise, and your [Innkeeper] is far from home. Today’s a fine day. What am I to do with you?”
Mrsha gave the man a blank stare. She wondered if offering him a slice of cake would move him one way or the other. She reached out for his hand to lead him into the inn, get his life’s story, and figure out how to manipulate him into giving her something cool when Molveilouka stiffened.
“You can walk away, stranger. Gently and slowly.”
No one had noticed the half-Elf, not Ser Dalimont, not even Ishkr or the staff. He’d loitered while talking to Mrsha, unnoticed—right up until the moment Rheirgest’s village head, Elosaith, calmly stuck a blade under Molveilouka’s throat.
Or rather, a skeleton holding a sword did that. The [Necromancer]’s eyes were black, and Mrsha backed up in alarm.
All Molveilouka did was exhale as heads turned.
“Strange. How did one of your lot even notice me?”
“I have a good memory from when I was summoned by that woman. You didn’t do that much with your face. There’s a whiff about you, fainter than anything. But it’s there. Plus—Leiithe remembers an annoying [Merchant] with pointed ears right before the fields burned.”
Elosaith motioned, and Mrsha backed up. Whoa, whoa—what was this animosity? She was writing a card to tell him to chill out when she stared at the ground.
A giant bone head was buried in the dirt, maw open, aimed towards Molveilouka. Mrsha backed up as another group of skeletons rose, armed to the teeth.
The half-Elf didn’t look alarmed at all. He smiled at Elosaith even as more undead and Rheirgest’s villagers began to walk towards him.
“Young man. I was on the fence about doing anything other than visiting, and that little girl actually swung me back a bit. Now I think I don’t feel bad at all about what comes next.”
“You were warned. We’re a peaceful village. We buried our enemies deep—then dug them up.”
Elosaith’s eyes seemed to blaze a deeper black, and the skeletons around him tensed. Molveilouka sneered and raised a hand as Lyonette strode out of the inn.
“Mrsha!”
The girl was already running on all fours towards her. Molveilouka reached out for Elosaith—and both men stopped.
A second blade, slimmer, silver, was resting on Molveilouka’s neck. Another half-Elf, silver-haired with silver eyes, was holding it.
Taletevirion! Mrsha whirled, and an old man coughed into one hand.
“Now, now. Let’s all be civil here. We wouldn’t want to cause a commotion, would we?”
Demsleth leaned on a walking stick on Molveilouka’s other side. Elosaith whirled, and a skeleton spun—but the old man just winked a mismatched eye at Elosaith, and the skeleton froze. Molveilouka’s smile had become a snarl.
“Do you two just…loiter around here all day?”
“The food’s good. We’re welcome guests. Why don’t you leave? Before your welcome wears out even further?”
Taletevirion’s voice was as sharp as his blade, but Molveilouka made a show of plucking the blade off his shoulders with two fingers, as if it were a soiled rag.
“So you know, the girl is more fascinating than the three of you. Be careful who you threaten, old men, young man.”
“Be careful where you walk.”
Taletevirion barked back, but Demsleth stopped him from advancing as Molveilouka sauntered in the other direction. The half-Elf flipped his helmet up. His eyes were pits in his head for a second, and he grinned. Mrsha thought she saw something writhing between his teeth, which were grimy.
“I fear nothing and no one here. If you were so concerned, dear fellows—why don’t you take me aside here and now?”
Neither Taletevirion nor Demsleth moved, though Elosaith shifted, looking from the two of them. Molveilouka strolled away, laughing.
“That’s what I thought. Good day, good Miss Mrsha! Keep causing trouble and, one day, these two will come for you.”
He raised a hand, moving faster and faster until, as he descended one hill, he abruptly vanished and never appeared again. Mrsha stood there as Taletevirion cursed and Demsleth exhaled in what she thought was relief.
Of course—then her mother went crazy.
 
——
 
First one. Now two unknown threats to the inn.
Lyonette had been mostly fine when the danger was confined to a headbutt and the injury was to her. One of the reasons was—she hadn’t actually had the instinct she was in mortal peril.
Whomever that was had Ushar shouting her [Dangersense] was going off. And that was only after they’d noticed him! Thank goodness for Elosaith!
Lyonette was in the [Garden of Sanctuary] for a few minutes before going to meet Taletevirion and Demsleth in the Drathian [Garden of Sanctuary]. She was standing before a special place in the inn, in the hill of mists, that she wouldn’t forget.
Erin’s bier. The frozen place where she had lain so long. There were still frozen gifts about it. Two dead bodies had lain here.
Erin—and Major Khorpe.
That brave Drake [Rogue] still lay here. Hands clasped at his chest, smiling upwards. Gone.
They’d wondered if he might come back. Then they’d wondered if someone else might come back—but then they’d just waited.
He was dead. Lyonette had wanted to bury him, but Salazsar had asked her to keep his body so they could give him a proper funeral. Snows had delayed their group coming by way of Pallass to pick him up.
She’d said it was fine.
He could wait.
“I’m sorry. Thank you.”
She often said those two things when she found him here. Mercifully, the hill of mists didn’t always provide her with a view of him. The Drake smiled upwards, and she thought—no, she knew that he had done something amazing.
She just wished she could tell people what it was.
The red-haired [Princess] straightened. Khorpe was a reminder of what it cost to stop Kasigna each and every time. To stop…
“I’ll kill him. If he lays a hand on Mrsha, I will kill him—and that Duke—and all of Ailendamus. No more. No more!”
Her eyes swung down the hill to the box hanging from a rope and letting gold coins drop out of it. She’d destroy the entire dungeon under Liscor if she had to. No more of it!
Her only question was why she had to do it herself? Lyonette stormed into the Drathian garden, and two old men looked up.
Taletevirion and Demsleth, no, Teriarch.
Unicorn and Dragon.
She knew them. She should have been awed, and she quietly was, many times they visited. Demsleth on his weekly visits, often with Alber, and even when Taletevirion drank a keg of ale and left without paying—
“Who is he? Who is he, and why didn’t you stop him?”
“His name is Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. And we have been watching him for a month now. Taletevirion has, and he summoned me the moment Tolveilouka appeared. We did not interfere because he is as old as we are. And as powerful.”
At least they spoke straight to her. Demsleth was eating a huge slice of Bird-cake, and Taletevirion had a cup of Rxlvn. Lyonette threw herself into her seat as Ser Dalimont bowed and offered Demsleth some coffee. She didn’t have his awe.
She was angry.
“Teriarch, don’t play games with me. He was after Mrsha!”
“Perhaps. Or perhaps he was questioning her. We warned him off; if he returns, we’ll be more forceful.”
The old man was hunched slightly in his seat, eating the cake with a will. Taletevirion’s eyes glittered as he drank.
“The villagers noticing him could be bad—for them. He’s a spiteful little piece of forest manure. Still, he knows they’re under our protection.”
“Protection? What are you two—fly out there. Turn into a Dragon and vaporize him!”
Lyonette shouted. Demsleth jumped, and he gave Dalimont an appalled look, and the Thronebearer gave Lyonette much the same. But she was incensed. The Dragon lifted a stern finger.
“Miss Marquin, I remind you that our natures are a secret vested in you and few others. And given our names, a bit of respect—”
She slammed her hands on the table, and the cake plate jumped. Teriarch recoiled as she snarled at him.
“Why. Is. He. Alive? If he’s so dangerous, why don’t you stop him?”
“Because we might die.”
Taletevirion interrupted Teriarch’s spluttering outrage. The Unicorn drained his cup and sighed. He was as straightforward as Teriarch was not. He gave Lyonette a huge blink, turning his head as if he were still a horse.
“There. It’s not pretty when I have to say it, Teriarch, is it? The truth is we’re both cautious, Miss Marquin, and starting a battle with Tolveilouka at your inn would destroy it and everyone around us.”
“Then why not when he’s gone? You know where he is?”
“Home ground advantage.”
Demsleth muttered, and Lyonette’s voice rose.
“Then ambush him! There are two of you and one of him! Is he really stronger than you?”
Teriarch looked offended at the thought, and his back straightened.
“Certainly not! That is—he’s a considerably powerful immortal who predates Taletevirion. But I wager that I have more fire in my body than he has…gall and bile in his.”
“So you are stronger. He’s alone. Right?”
If there were more of them—to her relief, they nodded. Teriarch fiddled with his work.
“More or less. He’s got other…minions that might lurk around, but the only other strong ones were taken out.”
The Unicorn muttered darkly.
“As far as we know.”
“Then—?”
It seemed like the obvious course to her was to gird their respective loins, march out there, and take out a threat to Izril and, most importantly, her family, right there and then. But Teriarch’s eyes shifting and Taletevirion sighing were her only reply.
“Here’s the thing, Miss Lyonette. What that old bag of scales doesn’t want to say, and what I’m reluctant to admit is…you’re right. We have the numbers on him. We can most likely get the drop on him. We’re probably stronger than he is, especially if we combine our strengths. 90% likely, right, Teriarch?”
“99.999999999% repeating. He has a miniscule chance of…”
The Brass Dragon grumped under his breath. Lyonette saw Taletevirion lean over as a petal from one of the trees drifted into his cup of Rxlvn. It instantly turned black and began to melt.
“—But we’re not certain. Even if victory is certain, one of us might be mortally wounded. And we don’t want to, well, risk it.”
He took a sip from his drink, and Lyonette blinked. She stood there, then spread her arms and smiled in relief.
“Oh, I see. Thank you for clarifying. You’re cowards.”
The Unicorn just gave her a toast with his cup. Teriarch sat up.
“I most certainly am not! I’m pragmatic! I have a mission of such insurmountable challenge upon me that stumbling now—”
“He’s a monster. You’re afraid you’ll get hurt.”
The silver-haired half-Elf kept drinking, then poured himself a refill.
“We’re afraid we’ll die. We’re both old. We’ve seen this before, Lyonette. Two-on-one ambush. Six-on-one. Often it goes well. Sometimes the other side walks out. Or you see your best friend staring at his own entrails. We don’t know how good he is at killing. He had a master…but sometimes the servant surpasses the master.”
When Lyonette turned to Teriarch, the old man bent over his cake.
“That’s often the case with necromancers, actually. He’s rather pestilential too. A victory might see our demises weeks afterwards. I…don’t mean to sound cowardly. But this particular fellow isn’t even as unknown as my dear friend Taletevirion makes him out to be. I know of him by reputation. He beat a Dragon—consistently—in his heyday. He has killed my kind.”
“He—he has?”
Some of the bravado and confidence that she could do anything about Tolveilouka drained out of Lyonette. She licked her lips.
“But you’re the greatest Dragon in the world, right?”
