“Not a bad place, though I’d move it slightly up, build into the mountain. Liscor doesn’t have any plots of land around there that anyone’s bought—it’s too far from the Watch.”
“Who needs the Watch? Bird has her ballista, and she’ll be in the tower. Would—would that work, Master Elosaith?”
“Build the village here? The val Lischelles are so welcoming…but it’s close to the city, and we’re not liked. Frankly, I was wondering if we had to scout somewhere else after all. But here?”
The [Necromancer]’s voice warmed to the idea with every second. He stared at the inn, then around the Floodplains. Liscor and other settlements were dots in the distance. Lyonette cautioned the villagers.
“You’d be out of range of the Watch. And going to market would require using the inn or a long hike. I could let you use the door.”
“It would keep people from worrying about the undead as much. And we’d be next to the inn.”
Leiithe said that like it was a good thing. Now her head was rising, and Elosaith turned to Lyonette.
“May we have a day or two to think on it? Let’s pull up a group and check that spot out. We could do it like home. A nice bridge we can collapse in case we run into more monsters—”
“That bridge gave everyone conniptions, Elosaith. What about something new? More open?”
“You children and your newfangled ways.”
“What about castle-houses with black, pointed spires? If they know we’re [Necromancers], an archway of bones enchanted with defensive sigils?”
“…I’m listening.”
Lyonette’s smile had twisted as the [Necromancers] enthusiastically began describing their ideal home—which, as she’d noticed, was more at home with an evil villain than, say, something tasteful.
Worse, Hexel slithered over.
“Are you all fans of the old Evil Empire style of architecture? I studied that when I was in training, but I never thought I’d find a client who actually wanted it. I have some sketches if you want—”
And it was happening. Word spread from Leiithe to her husband, then from him to four villagers, and then Lyonette heard the buzz. Rittane, who’d been hauling a bucket of nails out to the Workers, looked up, and an expression of delight spread over her face.
“We can live here? Really?”
Mrsha stared at Rittane and held up a card.
I’m going to have neighbors?
She handed one to Lyonette, who nodded.
[Necromancer] neighbors?
Lyonette bit her lip. Oh dear. This might lead to problems, but Mrsha’s third card just read:
Cool!
They were not bad people. In fact, Lyonette’s doubts fled as she saw Normen emerge and give her a smile of relief. When she thought of how Liscor had welcomed Rheirgest—after all they’d seen and done—she made her resolution.
“We’ll buy a land permit at once. I’m sure Liscor’s Council will allow it. We have undead permits—why, why, let’s do this thing! And build my inn!”
A great cheer arose, and then Lyonette was striding over to Hexel, who gave her a toothy smile.
“That’s half of my problems. Got a way to magic some goods from across the world to me? Valeterisa’s offered to let me use her delivery service once they get to Izril.”
He was slithering around the ballista, double-checking how large and heavy it was for his tower. Lyonette lowered her voice.
“About that…Hexel? Could you do anything with Chemath Marble? Say, a few hundred tons of it?”
Hexel smacked into the side of the ballista and turned.
“Excuse me? Did you say Chemath Marble?”
Lyonette gave him an uncertain smile.
“Yes? Eight hundred tons?”
“That’s…more than it would be with regular marble. You’d only get two huge slabs of it, but Chemath Marble’s a bit lighter. What condition is it in? Who’s selling it? Samal? Khelt? Don’t tell me the mines are open again.”
“It’s in rather bad condition. Many pieces…”
“It’s got to be worth a fortune, even so! Are you asking me if I can do something with it?”
The [Princess] nodded, and Hexel studied all his blueprints.
“Absolutely, I can! I’d have to research it and figure out how to use it. Can I inspect a sample? We need to be careful if you’re buying it. Bad-quality Chemath Marble is hard to work with. To lay out, you know.”
“I’m sure it’s well within budget, Hexel.”
He stared at her.
“Chemath Marble. Within budget. Are you sure it’s not fake?”
She just gave him a mysterious smile as some ideas coalesced in her head. The rest of the day was spent organizing the Rheirgest idea, from payment to their new land grant—but it filled Lyonette with satisfaction.
Not least because the staff were now buzzing with ideas and running them to Peggy or Rosencrantz, who kept whispering in Lyonette’s ear.
“Chandelier?”
“I don’t see one fitting in right now. But certainly. You want a chandelier, Peggy?”
“Yah. One we can swing from.”
“Oh. Er…why not?”
“The Antinium are requesting a beach, Miss Lyonette.”
“…We could try.”
What couldn’t you buy with enough gold? Lyonette added a request to buy up all the land around The Wandering Inn, just in case. She was only reminded of her final problem after night fell.
The sock puppet.
 
——
 
Lyonette was making a list late at night and was grateful Mrsha slept elsewhere these days. It was a crazy list. Absurd.
But it was based on ideas. Names of people she remembered.
It scared her.
Am I doing this? She had crossed out a bunch of names. Circled others.
Elosaith’s name was on there. She understood, after chatting with the other villagers, that he was a powerful [Necromancer]. How powerful?
“I don’t want to do this, Ushar. Going out and making an appearance like my mother wants? That I can do. This is…dangerous. Even rehiring Tessa might invite more trouble than not.”
Ushar was a golden sentinel standing by the desk. She refilled a cup of tea for Lyonette.
“With respect, Your Highness, Queen Ielane is of the opinion that one can run a secure household in two ways. First, with high-level experts, who are difficult to manage and satisfy. The [Prince] and his [Warlords] theory. The second is to have a well-equipped, well-trained force. They may fail at times, but they can be replaced and relied upon.”
“Thronebearers.”
“Exactly. You have no time for the second option.”
“Is there a third?”
Ushar smiled and brushed at her own short-cropped hair.
“The third option is to be so competent as to need neither. No one save Queen Marquin herself could be said to embody that ideal.”
“I see.”
Lyonette closed her eyes, then had a moment of worry. She had taken for granted how useful Ushar was. The Thronebearers had been so annoying at first. Now? They were invaluable.
“Ushar? Are you and Dalimont going to stay?”
“I cannot speak for Dalimont, Your Highness. I am loyal to the crown. And to you.”
“…What do you want to do? Just serve?”
No one just wanted that. Even Ishkr was the best Gnoll because he loved seeing the stories and being part of them. Ushar hesitated as Lyonette fixed her with a clear-eyed gaze.
She fiddled with a ringlet of hair and murmured.
“I…if you would like me to be completely honest, Your Highness, an elevation in my rank is something I was promised for this service.”
Career advancement? It was so—normal that Lyonette almost laughed. However, she noticed how keen Ushar’s eyes were, at odds with her mellow voice.
No, maybe she truly does have lofty ambitions. It was something to remember. What did that look like afterwards, though?
“Would that…lead you to becoming a Knight-Commander of the Thronebearers? Grandmaster of the Order of Thronebearers? The Lightherald?”
“Such ideas are too lofty for me, Your Highness. I have yet to take more than a single step.”
Ushar turned, blushing, but Lyonette didn’t buy it. Thronebearers had excellent control of their expressions.
“You left Vernoue’s side for me, and being a champion of a [Princess] is already a good path. Those three things aren’t anything you want, are they? What does your ideal path look like?”
“Your Highness—”
“Dame Ushar.”
The Thronebearer squirmed, then dropped her voice.
“I—I am past my prime, so the point is moot in regards to me being named a true champion of arms. If there were a position in Calanfer I sought, it might be recognition as a Great Knight of Calanfer.”
Great Knight? It was a standard term—Lyonette blinked. Ailendamus had named a number of them, but no individual Thronebearer had been given that title in…that would be one step below the Lightherald themself.
“Why that particular position?”
A Grandmaster of the Thronebearers was more powerful. Ushar glanced past Lyonette, speaking calmly.
“A Great Knight would be…according to Calanferian law, landed nobility, Your Highness. Equivalent to a [Baroness] by default.”
Oh. Oh. Lyonette saw it instantly. Thronebearers weren’t drawn always from the nobility, and even those that were were second-sons or daughters at best. If you did envision a future for yourself outside of the confines of your armor, a retirement—
Ushar wanted a barony? Or something more? There were any number of reasons she might angle for that. Lyonette didn’t push. At least, to Ushar’s face. But she filed that away and turned back to her work.
“As long as it’s something I can assist you with—even gold can’t buy a barony in Calanfer. An unlanded title, no doubt. I want to make everyone working for me happy.”
“I can see that, Your Highness.”
Lyonette was about to throw in some more bait and see if she could get some hints about Dalimont or other Thronebearers when she felt something. Abruptly, she dropped her quill.
“He’s back. Ushar!”
The stranger was back in her inn. This time, she felt the intrusion via her class and spun. Ushar—
The aspiring Great Knight of Calanfer was slumped on the ground. Lyonette’s heart pounded in her chest. Oh no.
She was perhaps too used to the inn being attacked. But the sight of a Thronebearer being taken out so easily was horrifying. Lyonette drew her sword. If her conclusion was right, the intruder would be coming for this room.
For what it had been searching for in Ryoka’s room.
The damn wand. She tip-toed to the door, cracking it open a hair. Was the strange sock-monster in Ryoka’s room? She couldn’t see a light from under the door, and it was closed—
“It’s not in Ryoka Griffin’s room. So you know where it is. Give it to me.”
A gigantic, blue sock puppet head whispered in her ear, and she shrieked. Her voice never left her room; a muffling spell caught it, and Lyonette whirled and slashed as the sock puppet leaned out of the way.
It was a giant sock with buttons for eyes. Tall as a person—taller than her, and horrific.
“Get back! What are you?”
“None of your business. Tell me where the wand is.”
“Ryoka’s wand?”
“Yes, yes, hers. I’ll deliver it to that idiot. Since V—that other fool isn’t here, someone has to be remotely competent around here.”
The voice that came out of the sock puppet moved more or less as the mouth did, but it was clipped, even refined, enunciating each word carefully. Male—Lyonette narrowed her eyes.
“This is The Wandering Inn. Erin Solstice’s inn. Begone and don’t come back unless you want to die.”
“Oh, I’m so scared of an [Innkeeper]. What is she going to do? Serve me poisoned spaghetti? Please. Your little security detail can’t do a thing. Don’t bother waiting for the other fellow. He’s taking a nap too. Now, hand it over or I’ll have to get unpleasant.”
He loomed over her, and she backed away, keeping her sword raised.
“Lay a hand on me and I’ll ensure you regret it.”
The sock-puppet paused a second, and then she saw what might have been an expression of shock or chagrin; its mouth fell open, and it visibly hesitated.
“—I meant violence.”
Oh. Was that better? Lyonette blinked, and the sock puppet headbutted her.
It hurt. She swung at it, but it just hopped back.
“There’s more of that. Don’t make me marr your precious head, [Princess] Lyonette du Marquin.”
Well, he knew who she was. Lyonette swung again, then pointed.
“[Flame Arrow].”
A flaming arrow shot forwards, and the sock puppet watched it hit its robes and vanish.
“…Seriously?”
A second headbutt put stars in her eyes. The sock puppet regarded the swaying princess and muttered to itself.
“Either she’s got a harder head than I thought or—you can cry all you want, but I won’t stop until I get the damn wand. Hand it over!”
He seemed to be expecting Lyonette to scream and whimper. The old her would have turned over the keys to the kingdom by now—the new Lyonette just went on the attack.
[Flawless Attempt]! She executed a series of cuts and slashes, and the sock puppet cursed as it backed away from her in the narrow room. It was way too fast, but Lyonette caught it mid-lean—she stabbed, and it opened its mouth and caught her blade!
“That was interesting. My turn.”
The third headbutt made her sit down.
I may puke. Lyonette’s voice was calm.
“I shall call Symphony on your head. Begone.”
The Sock Monster tilted its head, staring at her, and she instantly realized it wasn’t Izrilian—or at least, not familiar with Izril’s gangs. But it did figure out what she meant and began to laugh.
“You’ll call—? Oh, how cute. That’s a good one. Listen, I’m being nice.”
The puppet loomed over Lyonette and leaned forwards.
“You wouldn’t like to meet me when I’m…annoyed. Last chance before I begin casting.”
She stood and tried to force him out with her aura. However, whatever was manipulating the sock-thing, remotely or from inside of it, was as strong in that regard as every other way. She got a derisive laugh and had a vision of Tessa. If she had Tessa…
For a second, she imagined Tessa was on the roof outside, blades drawn, ready to come to her rescue and wished she’d done more for the Drake. Then the image vanished.
Bird stood on the snow-covered roof instead and fired an arrow from her bow. The [Piercing Shot] went through the window without shattering the glass; it left a neat hole, and the sock puppet swore.
“Aaaaaah—”
It whirled, and an arrow was sticking out of its eye. That scream was genuine; it tried to recover and look unfazed.
“Oh, Bird the Hunter. How tiresome.”
“Bird!”
Lyonette threw open the window, and Bird loosed a second arrow right past her head. The sock puppet leaned out of the way—and the arrow curved into its side, nicking the fabric. It tsked, then spoke.
“[Slumber], pest.”
A blue haze of fog engulfed Bird. The Antinium wavered. Then her mandibles closed.
“No.”
“Hah?”
The third arrow struck the sock puppet straight between the eyes, and it reeled back. Lyonette rammed a sword straight into the chest of the sock puppet—and felt only a bit of resistance.
