He’d been more than that, of course. He’d founded Solar Cycles. He’d lived in this world longer than Rhaldon. Kevin had seen enough to be happy not going adventuring. Had he been particularly dangerous? Rhaldon didn’t think so.
So why had someone murdered him?
The answer was obvious: Kevin had known too much. The man who’d invented bicycles had been deemed a threat by association with Erin Solstice as much as anything else, and an [Assassin] had shot him dead.
With a gun.
Rhaldon’s own bullet wound ached. He shivered as he stabled his two horses at the Driver’s Guild in Liscor and walked out the gates towards the inn.
After twenty minutes, he realized the inn was gone and went back to the city for directions. When he was told it would take hours to get to the inn, he lined up instead.
Who was Kevin? A brave guy, Rhaldon decided. Maybe he hadn’t known…no one had given Rhaldon all the details. Lyonette had been practically incoherent when she’d appeared to tell him what had happened.
Maybe he’d just been in the way when they were going after Erin. Either way, it told Rhaldon he was in danger associating with the inn. He could have just walked off. Even if Erin had leased him a room, he could find another magical carriage.
Or just talk to Saliss and avoid the inn. But Rhaldon came back.
He felt he owed it to Kevin, a man he’d never known. Rhaldon had never felt particularly patriotic. But someone from Earth was dead. That guy—Rémi—had scars all over his face from an undead attack.
On the Solstice. Rhaldon hadn’t been attacked; maybe they hadn’t known he was here. Or maybe he’d rolled past whatever it was in the night. Clearly, he hadn’t been a priority target. But he felt like he had to at least try to do something.
Besides, Octavia was a guest of the inn. And he didn’t want Octavia, the first [Alchemist] to give him a chance, to die.
“Next! Remember. Prices for each city are listed! You don’t pay, you don’t enter!”
Rhaldon had his silver coins ready, but when the Gnoll at the door saw him, she blinked.
“Hey. I know you. You’re that [Alchemist]. Termin’s apprentice. Go on through!”
“Oh. Thanks.”
Ignoring the envious stares, he shuffled into the inn. There were lines of people waiting, sitting or standing, to be moved to another part of the world.
It makes my silly wagon look slow by comparison. Termin’s right; the Driver’s Guild is lucky Erin doesn’t turn this into mass transport or we’d all be in trouble. 
When you saw someone step into Invrisil from here, you had to wonder what the hell the point of riding for weeks in the snow was. Doing the manual route from Invrisil to Celum had been, uh, eye-opening to say the least.
These days, Rhaldon was a full [Driver], albeit new, and an aspiring [Alchemist]. He hadn’t put anything on the market yet; he’d sold all his stuff through Octavia’s and even Xif’s shops.
The money was good. But as the other [Alchemists] and even [Drivers] had warned him, the money was never enough.
A hundred gold pieces? Rhaldon would be overjoyed. Food and drink forever! But that meant he could finally buy a magic-shielded containment box; literally just lead and magicore that kept magic from leaking into an experiment. A tiny box, mind you.
Or—did he have twenty gold pieces? Wonderful! Let’s get some better wheels on that wagon, eh? His current wagon was boxy and could roll over at the drop of a hat; if he splurged, he could have it remodeled with better wood that didn’t have a leak. Or something lighter and make half again as good time! And the horses! What about faster horses or an enchantment on—
Rhaldon had a, uh, a proposal for Saliss, or maybe Lyonette, if she was interested. He’d been working on it all the way south. He’d spent eighty gold coins on purchasing the vital ingredient to his idea and a few gold coins on spare wood and scrap metal. He was no woodworker or metalsmith, so he’d fumbled his way through the prototyping, but he knew the principle was solid.
He didn’t want a handout. His idea would work. He just didn’t know if they’d go for it. Rhaldon muttered.
“Excuse me, excuse me. I’m heading for the inn.”
One of the Drakes in line turned towards him.
“The inn’s closed. Bunch of [Necromancers] in it.”
“What?”
“Yeah. Ancestors, right? No one gets in unless they’re one of the inn’s guests. Fine by me.”
The Drake spat. Instantly, Liska threw a half-eaten bagel at him.
“Don’t spit on my floors! Clean it up!”
“With what?”
“The bagel! Then eat the bagel!”
Rhaldon took advantage of the two shouting at each other to duck into the long hallway. He hurried down it and opened the door cautiously.
“Uh, hello?”
“No one but guests or [Necromancers]!”
Someone strode up to Rhaldon and shrieked in his face. A short Goblin glared at Rhaldon. He held up his hands.
“Sorry. I—”
“Wait, Asgra! I know that Human! Come in, come in!”
Peggy stopped Asgra from throwing Rhaldon out and grinned at him. Relieved, Rhaldon walked into the inn and found a bunch of, well, villagers standing or sitting around, chatting, looking weatherworn as he was.
Oh, and some of them had skeletons who were serving them food.
Rhaldon stared. Peggy explained as she patted snow off his coat and took it.
“We have [Necromancers]. They is very nice. Don’t mind them! Come in, come in! Lyonette is busy today. You want to see her?”
“Um. Yes. I have a delivery for Octavia in my bag of holding.”
“Good! She’s with Lyonette. Can you wait? Let me get you a burger.”
Peggy strode off authoritatively, and Rhaldon had to catch up to tell her he’d actually just eaten. She looked crestfallen.
“You sure? Is always time for eating.”
As if to prove her point, Asgra took the burger Peggy had just gotten and took a bite. Rhaldon blinked at Peggy—then saw she had something in the pockets of her aprons. Peggy noticed and offered it to him.
“How about donuts instead?”
“Um. No thanks.”
“You sure? We bought four dozen.”
The entire Goblin staff was chewing down on food as they waited tables, Rhaldon saw. It didn’t even look like the inn’s food; he saw a bag marked Barehoof Kitchens open on another table. Peggy caught his eye and grinned.
“Don’t worry. We have lots of money. You, uh, you talk to Lyonette. I’ll get you when she’s done, okay?”
“Sure. Thank you.”
The inn was different each time he came to it. Rhaldon nearly went to sit down, but then tried to wander around the room unobtrusively.
Goblins snacking on food like crazy was one thing. He passed by Ishkr and saw the Gnoll had a suit on—and a shorter Gnoll he was dragging by the scruff of the neck.
“Just tell me what’s going on! It’s worth a hundred gold coins to you and me!”
“Nope. [Emergency Evacuation].”
Ishkr tossed the Gnoll out the window. He dusted his paws off, then hurried upstairs. Behind him, Rhaldon saw a group of Antinium standing around a very nervous Worker sitting at the table.
All the Antinium on their feet were clearly staff of the inn. Rosencrantz, Goldbody, and Silverboots were all standing around a plain Antinium.
“I do not understand. What is my job?”
The Worker was speaking to the other three. Rosencrantz answered happily for them.
“We have hired you.”
“Yes. What is my job, please?”
The other three Antinium looked at each other. Rosencrantz shook his head.
“Your job is to sit here and eat food. Do you have an apartment?”
The new Antinium shook its head instantly.
“This—this Worker is not a Painted Antinium or high-level.”
“Then we will get you an apartment. A nice one. Do you want a cat or a dog?”
Silverboots broke in energetically. The Worker stared at him.
“A cat or dog? What is my job to earn an apartment? Am I meant to fight Draugr?”
He stood up as if ready to do that, but Rosencrantz shook his head.
“No. We are paying you to live in an apartment.”
“With a cat.”
“Dog.”
Rosencrantz interrupted Silverboots and Goldbody.
“Both—and to eat good food. We will go shopping next. Do not worry about the cost. We have…”
Rosencrantz touched a fat purse of coins.
“…A lot of money. Come, come!”
Happily, the three Antinium chivvied the very confused—and concerned—Worker out of the inn. Rhaldon just whistled.
Either his eyes were broken or that was all gold he’d seen in the purse. How much did Erin pay these guys?
There was definitely something different about the inn today. Rhaldon hesitated, then headed upstairs. Erin had promised he’d always have a room here, even though he’d told her he didn’t need one and wouldn’t stay long. Was it…?
 
——
 
Rhaldon Flemmens. A brass nameplate no less. Rhaldon pushed the door open and blinked at the tidy, lovely room. He stared at the bed. He lay down on the bed.
“Why didn’t I stay here?”
Rhaldon stared at the ceiling.
Oh, right. I didn’t want to get killed. He exhaled. After a few seconds, Rhaldon sat up.
“Someone’s got to do something. If she’s in danger from being murdered. They were airstriking her—”
He paced around the room.
“She did knife that guy in the back. But he was also trying to kill Rabbiteater, who’s probably…”
His lips moved.
“And she was kidnapped by Roshal. She might have done something to Roshal. Roshal are [Slavers].”
Rhaldon did a bit of basic math.
“…I can’t see how Erin’s in the wrong here. But what am I supposed to—”
He’d make his pitch, do his best to deliver, and let them be, well, them. That was cowardice, but it was all he could manage. He didn’t know how to fight. He probably could, with time, develop a moving cart that had enough alchemical ingredients in it to blow himself and anyone attacking him sky high, like that time with the [Bandits].
But Rhaldon preferred to survive that kind of situation. He couldn’t be a Saliss.
Rhaldon wondered if he had the courage to be a Kevin.
That thought prompted Rhaldon to leave his room and walk down the second floor. Was it here…?
Of course it was.
Kevin Hall.
“So that’s his name.”
Rhaldon thought he wouldn’t ever forget it. He wasn’t good with names, but those simple words…it was strange. He’d read warning labels on hydrogen peroxide in the normal course of his job about how getting it in your eyes would literally bubble the water out of your very eyeballs.
Those two words struck him harder. Rhaldon stood at the door for a second and was almost about to go back to his room or go downstairs and greet whomever he recognized when he heard a voice from within.
“—trying.”
Hm? Rhaldon stopped. There was someone in Kevin’s rooms. He paused, looking down the hallway, but no one was ab—
“Come back here!”
Ishkr ran down the hallway and chased a young woman with a recording crystal down into the common room. Rhaldon backed against the door. He heard someone inside pause.
“—no, Adetr. It’s just Ishkr. He’s throwing another [Spy] out of the inn. They’re like cockroaches. I told you, I can’t say what it is—but it’s big. Like, big enough to justify me returning. Listen, how’s the Steelfur tribe doing?”
Who was this? It was a female voice in the room. Rhaldon hesitated, then opened the door a crack. He saw a young woman sitting on the bed, looking out the window, holding a speaking stone.
She listened as a growling voice replied.
“What? Really? It’s no good? It can’t be that hard to—well, yeah. You can’t make a blast furnace overnight. No, I can’t convince Master Pelt to—he’s a grumpy Dwarf. Yes, worse than you.”
She grinned at a harrumphing growl.
“Listen. Tell Honored Deskie that Lyonette is really interested in the fabric. It’s just that she’s got a lot on her plate right now. And I’m gonna help. Do…there are no Merchant’s Guilds in the Great Plains, right? Yeah, I thought so.”
She was laughing along with someone, and Rhaldon thought he knew her. Not the young woman herself, with reddish hair and oddly tribal-looking winter clothing, tanned furs and actual fur down. But the way she talked.
He hadn’t seen her before, he was sure, though. So who was…?
Rose half-turned, perhaps sensing the draft, and saw Rhaldon peeking at her. He jumped. She dropped the stone and screamed.
“Argh! Spy!”
She leapt from her bed, fumbling at her belt for a knife—Rhaldon held up his hands.
“No, wait! I’m sorry! I’m just—”
“Get out! Get—”
“I’m from Earth! I’m a friend of the inn!”
Rose stopped, pointing a sheathed dagger and her unbuckled belt at him—and stared. She blinked at Rhaldon. He gave her a tremulous grin. Rose’s mouth worked.
“You’re from Earth? Who the heck are you?”
That was his question.
 
——
 
They moved to Rhaldon’s room, and Rose introduced herself to Rhaldon, and he apologized for eavesdropping on her. When she’d seen his nameplate, she’d stopped.
“Wait, you’ve got a room here?”
“Um. Yeah. Erin promised me a place. I guess she kept it for me. I’m always on the road, so I haven’t seen you around.”
Rose stared at the nameplate, hurt.
“I don’t have one. They just put me in a guest room.”
She saw his expression and clarified.
“It’s because I was with the Gnolls. They knew I was gone. It’s just—yeah. I’m the new girl, again, I guess. Erin didn’t mention me?”
Rhaldon wished he hadn’t told her that. The young woman visibly tried to look cheerful after a second.
“It’s okay! She was super busy, and me and Inkar were also doing our own thing. So you’re an [Alchemist] then?”
“Chemist. I guess [Alchemist] is my class, but—”
“No way. Really? Can you make stuff from home?”
Rhaldon tried to temper her expectations at once.
“I can’t just whip up anything from home. The industry is different, I don’t have any of the equipment from home—I don’t even know if the periodic table is the same. Plus, it’s not like I memorized formulas or anything.”
His biggest regret was not having a single book or, better yet, just a working internet connection. But Rose grew instantly excited.
“No, this is perfect! This is amazing! A real life chemist! You could make, like—oil and stuff!”
“You mean gasoline? They have oil.”
She pointed at him.
“Exactly! You need to talk to Adetr! That’s the guy I was talking to. There’s this big Gnoll tribe down south that I’m helping. They know about Earth too! They even have—”
She glanced around the inn and checked the door, then lowered her voice.
“—well, I can’t tell you here. But if we can get into the [Garden of Sanctuary], I’ll tell you. It’s huge. It could help you too!”
Something huge? Rhaldon blinked at Rose and had the feeling of being swept into bigger things again. He tried to clarify.
“So there’s an entire tribe of Gnolls who know all about Earth?”
