“Yeah. Well, I sort of helped tell them more, but they already knew! They found some of us. Oh my…the plane crash. Did anyone tell you about…?”
Rose was all over the place. She seemed excited to meet anyone who had time to talk to her, and she began explaining how the Gnolls had found a crashed plane—or half of one—and Rhaldon’s heart sank.
“You mean Flight M9244?”
“You know it?”
Rhaldon just stared at Rose and realized she didn’t know.
“I’m from 2023. The entire world knows about it. It was flying in open air over Luxembourg when it crashed. Half of it went down—the other half was never found. Including the black box.”
“Holy shit.”
Rose looked shaken. But that was nothing compared to how Rhaldon felt. He looked at her and cleared his throat.
“What—what did you say your name was?”
“Rose Cinevoy.”
He didn’t remember her specific name, but the list of the Spirited Generation was long, and the first ones like Erin Solstice or Ryoka Griffin were famous. Rose was horrified as Rhaldon began catching her up on news from Earth.
“It’s that bad?”
“It was—pretty bad. I got shot at a protest.”
He showed her the scar on his right shoulder, and she stared at it. She looked shaken, and he recalled Kevin—and guiltily adjusted his shirt.
“Sorry. I know I just appeared after a month away. I’ve been meaning to come back to the inn, to help out. It’s just—a lot. I’m not Erin Solstice, you know?”
She heaved a huge sigh and gave him a tremulous smile.
“No one’s Erin. I don’t blame you. After Kevin—you know about him, right?”
The chemist nodded, and Rose wiped at her eyes.
“Oh no. I’m not going to…he was a great guy. He made bicycles. And—and he was a [Mechanic].”
“I know. I…wish I’d gotten to know him more. I’ve just been doing deliveries. Trying to figure out what some of the new reagents I found do. Nothing major. I came back because I had an idea and I was wondering if Lyonette wanted to back it.”
Rose’s eyes lit up as Rhaldon said this, and she grew excited again.
“You mean, financially? I’m here to help Adetr’s tribe. Well, in part. I came back mostly to help—that’s another thing. But you don’t know what’s going on, do you?”
She bounced on the bed, delighted, but it was another thing she didn’t think she could say with the possibility of [Spies]. Rhaldon, despite himself, was growing very interested about what was happening in the inn.
“Can you tell me about what’s going on with the, uh—[Necromancers]?”
Rose explained the Rheirgest situation to Rhaldon, and he was getting that sinking feeling he sometimes got. A new world and there were just more and more ways for people to hate other people. In a way, his skin color was barely remarked on, which was a plus for him; no one gave him an odd look for just walking down the street. Which was great. He didn’t even believe it sometimes.
By the same token, your class got you the full monty experience. He exhaled.
“Wow. That, uh—I wish I could help with that.”
“Maybe you can. Would you be willing to use the [World’s Eye Theatre] to talk to Adetr? Maybe even travel down there? I know it’s far…”
Actually, the prospect of travelling to Izril’s south was appealing, especially because Termin said the roads were a lot more well-patrolled. If you factored in the potential of getting on the good side of Gaarh Marsh and getting access to their yet-uncatalogued alchemy reagents…Rhaldon grinned.
“I can do that. I’d love to help the Gnolls. They seemed like they’re good people.”
Rose looked relieved to hear that and nodded vigorously.
“That’s super. Erin’s not a big fan of helping any one side too much, except maybe Goblins, but I’ve been trying to get them tech. From home? They’re working on it too, and if you gave them some pointers with your expertise…”
“I can’t do more than talk about my field, which is sort of limited.”
“No, no, that’s great! And obviously, nothing big. We’re not trying to share, like—cars or anything.”
Rose laughed, trying to be reassuring. Here, Rhaldon paused and frowned.
“Why not?”
The young woman opened her mouth and gave him an odd look. Then she grinned and explained.
“Oh, you must have missed meeting Ryoka. She’s super intense, and Erin agrees. We can totally help people and bring stuff like crepes or ice cream here. People are doing that all over. But stuff like, I dunno, gunpowder? Engines and electricity? Way out of line, right?”
The chemist blinked at her.
“It is? Gunpowder isn’t something I’m keen to work on—”
He rubbed at his shoulder again.
“—but why not a car? Or at least, a precursor to that. It’s not impossible, and if that [Assassin] had a gun—”
Then there were people who were already leaps and bounds into Earth’s technology, assuming someone just hadn’t brought a gun over wholesale. What was wrong with a car?
Rose spluttered, trying to represent and recall Ryoka’s exact position.
“Well, it’d be so destabilizing! Guns would be super bad for all the war crimes people could commit with them, and cars would be polluting, gas-guzzling nightmares! Do we really need more of that?”
She was searching for a receptive audience in Rhaldon, and he granted her, he might have been on board with Rose’s statements a few months ago. But Rhaldon had been watching the news.
“Didn’t they nuke Pomle? Or close to it. War crimes are still happening here. Just with magic. And I don’t want to make guns. But a car?”
He had been on the road in the freezing snow, his wagon’s wheels slipping in the mud, with two miserable horses moving at a plodding pace. If you had given Rhaldon a four-wheeler with a snow plough, he would have done a backflip.
Rose sat there giving Rhaldon a bug-eyed look, and then she slapped her cheeks.
“Okay, I’m sold. Ryoka made sense before someone shot Kevin. I don’t know why I was still arguing her point. Adetr is trying to build all kinds of stuff from home. Even Kevin had tons of blueprints he worked up.”
Rhaldon wasn’t sure if it was a good or bad sign he was swinging Rose’s opinion around so fast. He looked around.
“Is there anyone else from Earth in the inn?”
“Just Joseph these days. There’s Troy, in Pallass, but he sucks. Imani lives in Liscor with her Centaur boyfriend.”
“Her what?”
Rose led Rhaldon downstairs, growing more and more excited. She paused and yanked a door open, and Rhaldon saw a pile of bright yellow metal illuminating the [Garden of Sanctuary]. His eyes widened. That was not what he thought it was. Or the entire floor would implode under the weight.
“Hurry, come on through! Let’s talk in here!”
“Wh—what is—”
Rose pushed Rhaldon into the [Garden], and then her eyes were lit up with what Rhaldon had sensed.
Gold. Gold! Gold!
Rhaldon stared around open-mouthed as a Gnoll girl tumbled into the [Garden of Sanctuary], waving a weird piece of ivory. She raced up to Rose and then stared at Rhaldon and offered him a high-five. He high-fived Mrsha absently as Rose bent over.
“Hey, what’s that, Mrsha? Is that a gear? What metal is…”
She straightened with a look of dumbfounded surprise on her face. Rhaldon was just breathing in and out.
“Okay. Did someone find an actual Philosopher’s Stone? I need explanations, because I am about to lose it.”
Mrsha beamed at him and began smugly writing, but Rose was too fast.
“Let’s just say Erin has a new Skill. A box that copies anything.”
Rhaldon thought about that. He thought about the implications. His mouth worked.
“…And you didn’t put healing potions in it?”
“That’s the next plan! After we do gold. You can’t go back after you do something once. Think this will fund your experiments, Rhaldon? A bit of alchemy? Want a new wagon? What were you going to pitch to Lyonette, anyways? I have a feeling she’ll say…‘yes’.”
Rose and Mrsha were both posing with their backs to the pile of gold. Giving him smug looks and savoring the complete disbelief on his face. Rhaldon blinked, and suddenly, ideas were exploding through his mind.
I could buy all the pillows I want. And a new damn wagon! But then he began staring at that ivory gear.
Another piece of his mind lit up, and Rhaldon’s ideas that had all revolved around Pelt or Dwarfhalls Rest…suddenly shifted. He murmured as he gestured back the way they’d come.
“Oh, nothing much. I spent all the money I earned from helping Saliss and selling my recipe to Calidus on this. I wanted to make something if Lyonette could finance, like—nine more.”
He pulled something out of his pocket, and Mrsha blinked with interest and delight. She knew what it was; Rhaldon’s hand grew hot as Rose stared at a small, cylindrical object in it.
“What? A candle?”
The chemist shook his head. He slowly lifted the candle up; it had ignited the moment it left the Bag of Holding.
“Nope. An Everburning Candle. I was going to ask Lyonette for funding to try to build an infinite steam engine.”
He savored Rose’s dumbstruck expression for a second. Rhaldon had finally built a little contraption that involved merely boiling water into a rotating drum with little cups that used the steam to move the drum in a circle. The Everburning Candle couldn’t produce that much heat, but it never consumed fuel. Never ran out.
Why in the name of mad science wouldn’t I build an engine out of that? Mrsha waved the gear overhead.
[Necromancers] can copy bicycles! Maybe! Also, what’s a steam engine?
 
——
 
The secret was going to get out.
Gold.
Lyonette saw the cracks already. Ishkr was chasing out [Spies] nonstop with Ushar, and Dalimont had presented her with a list of over forty groups who all wanted to talk to her.
She was aware the staff were also potential leaks. In hindsight, Lyonette should really have mitigated how much gold came out of the box. But she’d been too excited and, well, here they were.
What she could choose to do was tell people in advance. Nerul, now, he was a dangerous Drake. Lyonette fancied he’d be flattered by the compliment; even if Lyonette trusted Ilvriss, he was a Wall Lord.
Like Saliss, he represented the powers that be, and both Saliss and Ilvriss could be too influential on their own.
Until she lost control of the situation, Lyonette was determined that this was still the gold of The Wandering Inn. So she had someone sit down. Dame Ushar secured Stitchworks, looking tired from spy-chasing as Lyonette’s guest fidgeted in her chair.
“Listen, Lyonette. If this is about Numbtongue, I’m sorry he’s never around. It’s—he’s having a rough time.”
Octavia was slightly nervous as she stroked Reagen’s head. The orange tabby was almost always around her shop, and he rubbed himself against her hand.
“It’s not, Octavia. In fact, this is a bit of a secret that I’m sorry I didn’t let you in on earlier.”
The Stitch-girl smiled faintly. Octavia’s hands were dyed from the reagents she handled, but she looked more confident, more relaxed than before.
“It’s fine, really, Lyonette. I totally get it.”
“I want you to know, though, Octavia. It’s an utter secret, you understand?”
“Absolutely.”
Both of them glanced at the door to Stitchworks, but Ushar had checked for spies and spells, and Lyonette nodded to Octavia.
“Something is going on in the [Garden of Sanctuary].”
“Oh, is that why I can’t access it any more?”
“Yes. It’s got to do with Erin, and we’re not quite sure what it does, but—suffice it to say we’ve come into quite a lot of gold. You know how Erin’s garden had Relic-class items just sitting around in it? Er…imagine another one had some money in it.”
It was a lie, but the best way to explain things. And if people leaked this version of the truth, well, that was fine.
Octavia’s eyes went round.
“Is that why Mrsha tried to buy a Potion of Gigantification from me last week?”
For answer, the [Princess] just sighed.
“Most likely. It’s caused some problems. However! You are a part of this inn, and I wanted to offer you, well, gold. In exchange for you working for the inn, Octavia. Whatever you needed. Reagents to experiment, improvements to your shop, glassware…”
She waved a hand about the decently prosperous little store. Octavia’s eyes went round, but then she visibly pulled herself back. Octavia fiddled with her braided hair, flushing.
“Oh, gee, Lyonette. Thank you for trusting me. I don’t know if I’m worthy of all this, though. Remember last time how greedy I was?”
Lyonette reached out and grabbed Octavia’s hand. She looked the [Alchemist] in the eye as Reagen tried to eat Octavia’s finger.
“Octavia, you’re part of the inn. Honestly, I wanted to show you, but I was afraid it might get to Saliss.”
Or that you’d go crazy buying things. Octavia nodded reasonably and hesitantly picked up Reagen. She stroked her cat’s head.
“I mean, if you insist, Lyonette. I don’t want to take away from the inn’s bounty, but maybe—IwantanAlchemyGolem.”
“Hmm?”
Octavia said it slower. Barely.
“I want an Alchemy Golem! One that can stir and mix ingredients! And I want a recipe manual from Nerrhavia’s Fallen! Not a new one! They sell these old ones from masters that are a hundred thousand gold pieces—a lot are fake, but I want one of those. And a Phoenix. Now, you may think that’s a waste given the cost, but that’s infinite Phoenix feathers—”
She saw the look on Lyonette’s face and began laughing. The [Princess] realized Octavia was hamming it up a tiny bit and chuckled in relief. Then Octavia hugged her.
“How much gold do we have?”
“Quite a bit. More than I’m willing to say, even here. I’ll show you the garden if you promise not to tell anyone?”
“Swear on my lifestring.”
Lyonette opened the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She blinked when she saw Rhaldon and Rose and Mrsha inside. Then she beamed and waved at them.
“Well, we can do the explanation twice, Octavia! Octavia…?”
The Stitch-girl was in Dame Ushar’s arms, fainted dead away. Reagen was yowling as he climbed all over Ushar’s armor, trying to protect his master from her attacker.
That was the good part of Lyonette’s day. Octavia waking up, running around, throwing gold pieces in the air—then running because falling gold pieces hurt like hell—Rhaldon being back and explaining his ideas, and even Mrsha’s revelation about their [Necromancers]’ abilities?
All splendid.
The bad part began a bit past midday. It began when Lyonette realized the staff were going a bit insane.
 
——
 
Gold. Gold, gold, gold.
You could have too much of it. Lyonette did not miss the sudden appearance in the inn of a bunch of sweets that Calescent hadn’t made. When she saw the multiple deliveries of confections by Street Runners, she snapped.
