Seats.
The seat they offered Lyonette in The Adventurer’s Waystation, one of Invrisil’s best restaurants, was an exclusive booth in a private room. Not pristine; it had well-worn leather. But leather without cracks and with a strangely pale-yellow color.
Lightning Wyvern leather; it actually had the opposite effect you might expect. Instead of generating static electricity, it mitigated the effect. The seat itself was very comfortable; it had been recently reupholstered, but the restaurant itself was careful to maintain its origins—a place where famous adventurers had used to eat.
They had turned a local eatery into a high-class establishment as their reputation had grown and by the sheer virtue that a Gold-rank team who’d just cleared a mission threw around gold like water.
Lyonette didn’t need to know all this; the [Manager] enthusiastically explained it to her and the Stitch-woman [Diplomat]. She saw autographed Mage-Pictures or illustrations of famous adventurers on the walls.
“—And here you can see Masmak herself. Illustrated six days before the tragedy at Chalence.”
A Named-rank adventurer was posing with a giant fly, of all things, behind her. A Named-rank who rode a fly? Lyonette had grown up knowing a lot of Terandrian Named-ranks and even famed ones abroad.
This one must have been before her time; she certainly wouldn’t have forgotten…Masmak the Pestilence Rider.
Lyonette’s stomach growled. Appetizers were coming out already; it seemed the waystation was known for fast delivery of food. Indeed, the entire place reminded her of her inn, and she couldn’t help but compare the pictures to Erin’s statues. Then again—the statues were tragic. The pictures were closer to Erin’s pink flames of glory.
She had to admit—the [Chef], or perhaps owner of this restaurant, had a few nifty tricks up their sleeves. One of them was actually advertised on the menu.
 
Feeling hungry? Our famous bistro is under the effect of [Remembered Hunger] as a Skill! Please inform the [Manager] if you feel too faint! Worried about eating too much? Our [Chef] can prepare a [Nourishing Meal] that won’t add to your waistline when you get back to adventuring*!
*Additional fees may apply. See back for details.
 
“That’s quite clever. No wonder I feel rather peckish.”
Lyonette grudgingly turned to Ushar with a look of approval. Even the Thronebearer gazed longingly at the appetizers, but declined when Lyonette indicated one.
“I shall have a word with the [Manager], Your Highness.”
She could hardly eat while on duty. Lyonette resolved to ask for a to-go box afterwards. There would certainly be enough food.
“For me as well, Ushar?”
The Thronebearer nodded, then saw Lyonette daintily pick up some Griffin Wings—crisped Yellats drizzled with sauces, a fast food before Erin had introduced french fries to Izril—and insert altogether too much of it into her mouth.
Across the table from her, the [Diplomat] was whispering to her escort; the [Guards] stood well back, covering the entrances to the booth, but she had several servants at hand. Funny—Lyonette noticed one of the Stitch-folk [Guards] was breathing slightly hard.
Had they run here to get to her? They even looked a bit scuffed up. Well, she was meeting with a foreign nation. A big one—but a new one.
The Empire of Sands. That they were on the rise wasn’t in doubt to Lyonette; a full escort for a city in Izril? A [Diplomat] being here? She was garbed in a very Chandrarian outfit that probably played on what foreigners thought Chandrarians dressed like; veil, light, colorful clothing, not showing skin so much as beautifully layered cloth meant for warm lands.
The fact that the Stitch-woman wore that in the dead of winter meant the clothing was enchanted with heat spells, and Ushar had indicated the guards all had enchanted weapons too.
Lyonette didn’t know what they wanted, but she was interested. Especially since the Quarass had sent an agent already. Talking couldn’t hurt. And one other detail fascinated her and had prompted Lyonette to accept:
The [Diplomat] was made of Cotton.
That was unheard of in Stitch-folk diplomacy. If Lyonette had been in Calanfer, she would have thought it was a snub, but in Izril? The [Diplomat] hadn’t been sent purely to meet with Lyonette, and most non-Stitch-folk wouldn’t understand the nuance anyways.
Cotton. At any rate, the [Diplomat] had flowing black hair that defied the laws of physics; a blade of hair was flicked up from her forehead, held in place by a Skill, amazing hair gel, or just the fabric of her hair. Her eyes were as sharp as her makeup, though, and three Silk servants brought the dishes into the room, despite the [Waiter]’s best efforts to justify their tips.
Lyonette, on her side, had her posture perfect. Ielane had drilled into her the best manners for the table. Just as Lyonette tried futilely to teach Mrsha, she moved with deliberate grace, met each person’s eyes without staring overlong, kept her posture and cadence polished—a [Princess] at negotiations.
The mitigating factor was, uh—an entire Griffin Wing sticking out of her mouth.
The [Princess] tried her best to pretend this wasn’t undercutting her dignity. The [Diplomat] was very good; she pretended there was nothing wrong. One of the [Waiters] stared at Lyonette trying to swallow the entire fried Yellat like a giant snake.
The problem was the Skill. Lyonette supposed it was an excellent way to incentivize bored nobility or other guests to eat and pay for more. However…[Remembered Hunger] clearly worked based on a guest’s experiences.
And Lyonette? Lyonette had been close to starving to death in Liscor when Erin had left the inn. The desire, the need to eat food was overwhelming.
Ushar quickly got up and hurried over to the [Manager], and the feeling lessened after a minute, but even the memory had Lyonette digging into the plates before her.
“I believe the full course for lunch? I would like to try the, ah, ‘boba tea’ here. Forgive me, Your Highness. I did not anticipate Skills would be used on us. I have, of course, [Secured the Room]. With your [Knight]’s permission.”
Diplomat Zaltha bowed her head, and Lyonette patted her mouth as Ser Dalimont strode into the room, bowed, and murmured into Ushar’s ear.
“Not at all, Diplomat. Thank you for your hospitality. I simply recalled an upsetting moment in the past. Peckishness, you know?”
“I…well, I quite understand, Your Highness.”
Here was the thing about diplomacy as Lyonette understood it. It was a game where everyone cheated. Politics was a poker table, and as Ielane had once taught her children—everyone had cards under the table.
She had once bet them their entire month’s allowances at a card’s table. You’d think royalty would never learn to gamble? Ielane had given the delighted princesses dice, magical cards, and a ten-times stake of their allowances to bet against the house—the crown—and anything they walked away with they got for the month as extra spending money.
Guess what had happened? Lyonette remembered blubbering in a corner after losing her entire allowance and going so far into debt—
Anyways. The point was that diplomacy was the clash of arms between individuals. Politics was the grand movement of entire armies and nations. In diplomacy, yes, you kept your secrets close to your chest. You were careful with what you promised—very careful if they could enforce your promises or were recording what you said—but it was also a dance of charisma.
Lyonette had seen exceptionally intelligent people who knew what they wanted and were going to walk into a room and rationally lay out their demands and give nothing away, who operated in what they thought was the airtight confines of Golem-level logic—be destroyed in Calanfer.
Diplomacy was about having people like you. You, the individual. It didn’t matter if you represented a powerhouse like Ailendamus; if you were unlikable, that mattered, because the people who set policy might do something stupid for the kingdom because they really liked Negotiator Limhe, that fellow who could balance a bottle on his nose at parties, over that ass who kept threatening them every two sentences.
That was why Nerul was so good at his job: the Drake was sociable. In the same way, Diplomat Zaltha was representing her Empire.
So Lyonette turned up the mystery.
“It was only a brief period of—starvation. Who hasn’t suffered something like that?”
“Indeed? I confess, I did not think I had lived with a silver spoon in my mouth all my life. But it is clear you have—a far more severe memory of hunger pangs than I.”
Even some of the Stitch-folk [Guards] had looked impressed. Zaltha glanced at Lyonette, and she was off her guard. She was doubtless good at her job, but she had come here expecting a [Princess]. What she got was Lyonette.
“This crisped Yellat is delicious—it actually strikes me as healthier than french fries. Ushar? Ask the [Manager] for the recipe, if you would. Ah, Manager!”
The man had come back, looking slightly nervous.
“I do apologize for the Skill, Your Highness? We didn’t think—some Named-ranks have the same problem.”
“I quite accept your apology, Manager Laisellemon. This is a delightful restaurant. Tell me. Does it have Colthei on the walls here? Saliss of Lights?”
The sweating man brightened up at once.
“We do have Colth the Supporter’s picture. He even studied with our [Chef] and [Waiters]! A friend of—of your inn, is he?”
“Of the Horns of Hammerad. I have no doubt I’ll see their pictures here one day. If you should be so lucky. But I wonder if Diplomat Zaltha recognizes any of the adventurers who have graced these halls?”
Now, Lyonette had control of the conversation, and Zaltha’s lips quirked slightly. She made a show of studying the room’s walls, then a [Servant] leaned over to whisper to her.
“—I believe the ever-famous Orchestra is well known to me, Your Highness. The World-Pact Adventurer, Gadiekh, and Courier Netzhe, Zeres’ Seaserpent, have both graced my homeland. I even had the honor of meeting the latter, if only briefly.”
“Zeres’ Seaserpent? I’ve never heard of that particular Courier. What was he—she?—like?”
They were as famous as Named-ranks, so it made sense some of them had their pictures up on the wall. Zaltha was only too happy to mention a few details as more food, and an apologetic bottle of wine, appeared.
Lyonette barely touched the wine and only made a show of sipping. She was still a bit tipsy from the Brothers’ toasts.
“—So you were a [Tradeswoman] before you consolidated into a [Negotiator], Zaltha? That’s fascinating.”
“It’s hardly a distinguished career path compared to my contemporaries in other nations.”
Zaltha demurred, but Lyonette gave her a winning smile.
“[Merchants] and [Shopkeepers] probably fight more viciously than royal courts. It also speaks to the Empire of Sands that a ‘mere’ Cotton Stitch-woman might rise to represent a kingdom. Your level should trump your cloth, shouldn’t it?”
She had calculated that and saw Zaltha’s eyes light up, and even several of the other attendants glanced at Lyonette with a favorable start. The [Diplomat] smiled as she sipped from her cup, and Lyonette thanked her stars she had Dalimont and Ushar.
The two had been taste-testing her food, mostly to assuage their own hunger, but also so they could whisper to her or show her notes they’d stuck into a gauntlet that only she could see.
“The Empire of Sands is not as strictly caste-based as other Stitch-folk nations, Your Highness. They have assimilated nearly two dozen nations. Even their mysterious Emperor is said to not be ‘totally Silk’, whatever that means. Playing into that may help.”
That was from Ushar. Dalimont’s was more direct.
“Ser Normen is with the girls. I noticed a huge brawl on the way here. Multiple envoys appear to be interested in you. The pile in the [Garden].”
Wonderful. Lyonette had expected [Thieves] to suss out the inn’s wealth in time; it was part of the reason no one was being allowed anywhere but the portal room unless they were an actual guest. But she had forgotten that nations were kith and kin to [Thieves]; they just secured goldmines with armies instead of a few [Thugs].
“You know quite a lot about the Empire of Sands, Your Highness. I am gratified; I must introduce my nation to most in Izril. We are newly-formed, I admit.”
Barely over ten years old. A warlord’s nation, Lyonette would have called it in private, but it seemed like they had an amazing ability to take over existing administrations. Rather than being a group of shattered kingdoms, the Empire of Sands seemed organized.
“I am always delighted to learn more about other nations, Diplomat. It’s part of the reason you find me here rather than—”
Lyonette waved a hand as if to indicate Calanfer, and she saw Zaltha’s eyes flicker. Everyone knew Lyonette was a [Princess] of Calanfer. However, no one knew why she was in Izril. Far better to imply she was representing Calanfer’s interests here.
“Indeed, few [Princesses] I have ever met have left me with such a striking—perspicacity at your age, if I may say so, Your Highness. I can see there is no dissembling around you.”
Lyonette twinkled at Zaltha.
“Oh, you are charming, Diplomat. But I’m sure I’m eminently predictable to others. How else would you have found me? And the Quarass of Ger? I’m sure you both have something I desire above all else or you wouldn’t have gone to the trouble of inviting me to such a pleasant meal.”
Ah. Zaltha paused, sipping on a cup of boba tea that didn’t really fit the far more sumptuous spread. She gave Lyonette an apologetic smile.
“Do forgive me for being so nakedly straightforward, Your Highness. When one is called upon to serve their nation, tact is sometimes optional.”
Lyonette’s brows furrowed slightly in a frown.
“Just so long as that apology extends to Lady Reinhart. She does not approve of brawls in her city—and it is her city that I respect—even if you are doing everything for the Empire of Sands. I trust this meeting has proper teeth?”
Another blink. Lyonette guessed Zaltha was probably over Level 30, but not over Level 40. Even if she’d made this position due to her talents, you didn’t send a Level 40 [Diplomat] to Invrisil unless you had something you really needed. Nerrhavia’s Fallen or another Stitch-folk nation would get a higher-level [Diplomat].
That meant Zaltha was in striking range for Lyonette’s own talents. With Thronebearers as backup—the [Diplomat] was having trouble controlling the conversation.
“The Emperor of Sands themselves is aware of our conversation. Indeed, they hope for a splendid answer.”
