Taletevirion laughed so hard he fell out of his chair. But he kept his cup upright in one hand. Teriarch kicked it out of his hand, splashing it everywhere. Taletevirion got up and tossed the cake into the koi pond.
Dalimont brought them back replacements before they could continue fighting, and an embarrassed Teriarch turned to Lyonette.
“That’s…a very nebulous claim, Miss Lyonette. If we’re talking about pure battle strength, then I am confident I am one of the top three most dangerous Dragons…in this current era.”
She stared at him. Humility and Teriarch were not words one naturally associated, but he seemed so embarrassed that he was being honest. Teriarch cleared his throat.
“I know I have a reputation, but many of the tales about me were from my prime. I’m older now, and being old, well, rather means you’re guaranteed to be good at aging. Do you want the truth? Yes, I fear coming to blows with him. He has a sword meant to kill me.”
Teriarch’s head dipped, and he whispered.
“I rather fear I’m the one at a disadvantage.”
Silently, trying not to look at that very mortal fear, Lyonette turned to Taletevirion. Teriarch answered her question.
“Taletevirion can match him—in his current form. He has at least one more.”
And there was that uncertainty neither of them liked. The Unicorn muttered as he chewed on some peanuts.
“At least one. He could have as many as three, depending on how weird the Putrid One was. And each time he probably heals.”
The Dragon nodded, though he grew a bit more animated as he reminisced.
“I once saw someone with five. Rather embarrassing. He and this [Hero] were down to their last reserves, fist-fighting in the surf, each step their last until one or the other fell over. You know, grudging admiration for the foe? Then he clearly recalled he’d forgotten all about his final-final-final-final form, and he had to pretend it was all part of his grand plan.”
“Dead gods, that sounds stupid.”
“Awkward, more like. I was watching with a [Bard] at the time, and that poor woman had no idea how she was going to retell that properly…”
Lyonette’s head bounced between the two. She slowly tried to unsheathe her sword, and they looked at her.
“Why…won’t you at least try? Please? It sounds like you know he’s done terrible things. Is it worth letting him continue to roam around and endanger people over making an attempt?”
They fell silent, chastened, and Teriarch exhaled.
“Let’s assume the two of us walked off with as many preparations as we could muster, Miss Lyonette. He isn’t someone we can use a Relic on, even if I still had the ones that could do enough damage. His very nature defies that kind of thing. What’s the worst-case scenario? The worst case scenario is that we vanish. Then…you see a Plague Dragon flying back towards you. And a Zombie Unicorn.”
Taletevirion kicked Teriarch under the table, but neither one smiled. Teriarch looked earnestly at Lyonette.
“He is making up his mind. That is not an excuse! But it is a reason. If he were not, you and this city would have noticed his wrath by now, our presence or not. He does not fear obliteration, I think. Trust that the Dancer can change his mind.”
The who? Teriarch’s gaze wavered.
“I mean—Erin Solstice. She convinced him to take our side at the Solstice. If we can seek an ally, however unpleasant, or remove the need to do battle…”
He picked at his cake.
“If he attacks, I swear, we will do all we can and not relent. But there is a chance of him changing his mind too, however small. And he is grieving.”
“Grieving? That thing?”
Taletevirion was the one who was outraged, now, and he whirled to Teriarch, but the Dragon just met his gaze levelly.
“He has a right to his loss. Nothing more.”
The Unicorn snorted and stood, and Lyonette looked from face to face. Her eyes narrowed.
“Very well then. I understand your positions, gentlemen, and I thank you for explaining. Let me warn you two of this.”
She leaned forwards, and both leaned back slowly. Lyonette hissed at them.
“I’ve thought of a way to stop him. If I have to. And I will not let my inn, my people, my daughters, go undefended with random sock puppets and snide half-Elves running amok. If you won’t do anything, I will, and I won’t stop even if I have to melt half of Izril into glass.”
She stood up. Then whirled and called over her shoulder.
“Dalimont! I’m going into Liscor. Get me a meeting with Invrisil’s [Mayor]! Now!”
She stormed from the garden, hair flying behind her, and the two immortals watched. The [Knight], far from looking apprehensive, had a smile on his face as he bowed to the two of them.
The [Princess] had begun to move. Deliberately, she’d thought out her moves, but she had seen the threat well and truly now. And she was going to bury it in gold.
But was there gold enough for…? Lyonette visibly hesitated at the door, but she still stepped through. After she and Dalimont were gone, Teriarch tried the door handle. He only got the inn.
“Teriarch, what are you doing?”
The Dragon jumped.
“Nothing…just, ah, checking. I sense something interesting about. But this is excellent cake.”
He hurried back and gave the Unicorn an innocent look. Taletevirion snorted again. Something fell out of his nose, and into his drink. He took a gulp anyways.
“Now there’s a fiery kid. Not quite at the [Innkeeper]’s level, but I can see where she got it from. Reminds you of Marquin herself, eh?”
Teriarch was rather less complimentary; he was sick of uppity young women shouting at him of late. He folded his arms.
“There’s hardly the same resemblance. Marquin wasn’t even red-haired. All that genetic inbreeding with the Hundred Families—”
“Oh, come on. You’re telling me you don’t see a [War Princess] getting ready for a fight?”
“Hah! If you want to talk about [Princesses], then she doesn’t even hit the top fifty. Top one hundred, maybe. When the Princess of…what’s that kingdom with the spinning castle called? The one on the Continent of Glass? Well, when she got angry—”
The Unicorn rolled his eyes as the two old immortals sat there. Bickering, nostalgic…Taletevirion stared at Teriarch and wondered how long they could do this. He almost got up to—
No. He sighed and sat. The problem with being old was…you were really good at doing the same thing. Over and over. It was hard to change.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was subdued after Tolveilouka’s appearance. Ushar had caught Mrsha up on the other threat, and the girl sat there, morose, nursing a glass of warm milk.
It wasn’t the immediate near-death experience that bothered Mrsha. It was Rittane, really. Mrsha had promised Rittane that she’d be safe and happy. Mrsha didn’t need to tell her she’d nearly been here for the bad times at the inn.
But was it responsible for Rheirgest to be here? They were only a few miles away.
And when the [Princess] emerged from the inn, the Goblins, Antinium, Gnolls, they all saw it.
That heavy weight of Erin’s quest on Lyonette’s shoulders.
What a monster their [Innkeeper] was, wasn’t she? She had bestowed Lyonette with a terrible burden. The likes of which had made heroes out of the Horns. Like her fire…Erin Solstice could be terribly cruel.
The [Princess] kept her head held high. Her chin raised. One look at her and Mrsha knew that Lyonette had gotten no good answer from the two immortals. It was the face she had when things were bad and she was being royal-like. Ishkr frowned.
“Lyonette? Is there anything we should do?”
“I have been informed…there is very little to prepare for. Taletevirion and Demsleth have our intruder in hand. And if they do not—apparently—no one else can.”
The [Princess]’ words made Peggy slowly cross ‘Super Killer Crossbow with Tier 5 Bolts’ off a list.
What did you do when you found something that not even a mountain of gold might shift? Mrsha’s heart sank, but she realized that this was what Lyonette had been so focused on to the exclusion of her love of doing smaller things with gold.
What was coming. 
Her mother slowly approached the table and gave Mrsha a little cuddle.
“Mrsha? I know you feel worried.”
Er, not really, Mother.
“No, no. I know you’re afraid the same things will happen again. I just want you to know that I promise they won’t. I’ll do something about it. Just don’t be worried, okay? Sometimes, things change, and that’s okay. The inn will be safe.”
Lyonette squeezed Mrsha tightly, then gave Nanette a big hug, lifting her off the ground. The young witch looked like a girl, then, and Normen raised his voice.
“Lyonette. About our discussion. In light of recent events, I feel we could all stay at the inn—”
Ser Normen, Jewel, Antherr, Vess, and Durene got up, but Lyonette just gave them a slightly sad smile.
“No, you were right, Normen. Leave this to the inn. If you could just stay with Mrsha and Nanette while I’m out—that would be all. Dalimont? You and Ushar with me.”
She turned to them, and the two stepped forwards, armor shining. The [Princess]’ hair flickered in the morning light like it was catching fire, and Mrsha saw Lyonette smile calmly at her. Then she walked for the door. The Gnoll girl sat there, then raised a trembling note in her paw.
Someone stop her. She’s going to do something crazier than Erin. Stop her!
She leapt from her seat. She knew her mother. Mrsha ran for the door on all fours, but it was too late. Liska turned to Mrsha as she pointed to the open door to Liscor.
“She’s just through there, Mrsha. What?”
Oh, fate. Oh, heavens and destiny…Apista solemnly rested on Mrsha’s head as the Gnoll clasped her paws together like Pawn.
Have mercy on that poor city. Then Mrsha ran upstairs and hid under the bed. When Sammial came to ask what kind of game this was, she just made Hethon, Sammial, and Nanette hide with her.
The [Princess] was on the move.
