Grimalkin, Salamani, Viceria, Valeterisa—all the [Mages] were here. They’d commandeered the theatre.
“This is entirely more practical than flying in person.”
Hedault sounded too pleased with himself as he strode around a deposit of glowing pink gems in a cave in the High Passes. Grimalkin lifted a quill.
“Exactly. I think this is an ideal spot for the academy, frankly.”
“Are you sure? It’s in a cave. I don’t like caves. They hold Dragons.”
Valeterisa absently wandered around the projection of the High Passes, looking slightly displeased as a roly poly-like Rockmite crawled past her. She leapt into the air, and Mrsha shoved again.
It’s movie time! Move, Grimalkin!
“Mrsha. I requested the use of the theatre from Miss Lyonette. Please stop shoving.”
Even when the entire team of children, minus the shy Rittane, joined in, it was no good. Grimalkin sat there, and Mrsha stomped away.
 
——
 
“Nanette! We’re bored! Do something interesting!”
Sammial marched up to Nanette and Hethon, and the two barely looked at him. Nanette was reading a newspaper over lunch—leftovers from The Adventurer’s Waystation—and Hethon was sitting across from her.
“—like House Reinhart is taking a side against House Veltras and the other people who were hunting down the Circle of Thorns traitors. They claim the hunt has gone too far. Did you know that was happening?”
“No. Father didn’t mention it.”
Hethon looked alarmed as Nanette pointed to a map in front of them. The [Witch] clicked her tongue authoritatively.
“Well, he’s in Baleros, isn’t he? Did you not see the news about a grain silo going up in flames?”
“That’s happened a lot.”
“Yes, well, this time, a bunch of [Hunters] were called for. This war against Vampires means they’re fighting back.”
“I didn’t know that.”
Hethon hunched his shoulders and frowned determinedly at the map. Nanette gave him an exasperated look.
“What, didn’t your teachers tell you anything about that?”
“About places, yes! We’re not involved in politics. Father doesn’t like them either. What about the Oswens? They’re…is anyone helping them?”
Nanette frowned as she leaned over the table.
“I don’t know. Is anyone helping them? We should ask Jericha and Ullim about—”
“Hethon! Nanette! We’re bored!”
The two older children barely glanced at Sammial until he shook their table. Hethon glowered at his brother.
“Get lost, Sammial. We’re busy!”
“Doing what?”
Nanette answered for Hethon.
“Thinking about Izril.”
“That’s stupid. Help us find something to do! Or I’ll shake everything off the table!”
Sammial bent over to upend the table, and Nanette pointed at him.
“Don’t. Or a witch’s grudge on it!”
He hesitated, then stuck his tongue out at her. Nanette was outraged and tried to lean on the table to prevent Sammial picking it up. Rather than help her and encourage his younger brother, Hethon leaned over.
“Hold on. I’ve got a way to chase him off. Take this, Sammial!”
He pulled something off his foot and shook it at Sammial. Instantly, the boy recoiled.
“Stop it! Stop it!”
Nanette stared at Hethon as the boy fled back to Mrsha. Mrsha stared at what Hethon was holding.
“A sock?”
“He’s afraid of them for some reason.”
Hethon grinned and threw his left sock at his brother. Sammial kicked it away, then stomped off. Mrsha held up a note.
What’s wrong with socks?
“It’s not socks. Socks are stupid. It’s the big one.”
Sammial muttered darkly. Mrsha exchanged glances with Visma and Ekirra and Kenva, and Ekirra twirled a finger around his ear. He was afraid of a big…sock?
The children wandered around the inn, growing increasingly more desperate to show Rittane something cool. But Calescent was busy cooking and didn’t have time to dish out free food or let them cook. Ishkr had work to do; he was chasing a Drake across the second floor. Jelaqua had taken all the dead bodies out of the basement—
Rittane was very shy and kept assuring Mrsha she didn’t need anything and everyone was too kind already. She had only shown a spark of real interest when Mrsha mentioned the bodies.
“What do you do for fun, Rittane?”
Visma turned to Rittane, and the girl hesitated and turned red.
“I—um—play with my dolls?”
“I thought you didn’t have dolls.”
Visma narrowed her eyes with the cutting insight of a [Lawyer] spotting a logical fallacy in the defense’s argument. Rittane gulped.
“I—I—”
Before the Drake could tighten the thumbscrews, Mrsha held up a card placatingly.
Visma, Visma. Rittane’s new and shy. Let’s show her something cool, okay? I figured it out!
She began to lead them out of the inn, and someone caught her by the scruff of the neck.
“Where are you going, Mrsha? Breaking our promise?”
Colfa was sharp. Mrsha gulped and shook her head.
No! Just showing her—
Colfa read her notecard and sighed.
“What? Oh, very well. You can show them…in the inn.”
In the inn? Lyonette would never allow that! And there was no space! Mrsha groaned—then brightened up as she recalled one of Erin’s new Skills.
 
——
 
Five minutes later, Mrsha was standing in a hallway connecting the common room to the other private dining rooms. It should have been a short, narrow passageway. Instead, it was generously twice as wide and so long that puzzled villagers kept walking down it to the rec room, seeing how far they’d have to jog, and deciding to go elsewhere.
But Mrsha and the kids had something fun. Rittane stared as Mrsha tried to climb onto the seat of…
“What is this, Miss Mrsha?”
Kenva’s eyes lit up.
“A bicycle! Mrsha, you didn’t tell me Lyonette had one!”
“It’s a really nice one, too!”
Visma added enviously. Mrsha tried to adjust the seat and write at the same time.
It was a gift from Solar Cycles! I’m gonna ride it! Push me!
The pedals were meant for Lyonette’s height, but Mrsha reckoned she could get going if she could just…
Visma, Kenva, Sammial, and Ekirra all looked at each other, then shrugged and decided it was worth a shot. They held the bike up—then ran it down the hallway and shoved.
Amazingly, the bike kept itself balanced for about fifteen feet, and Mrsha kicked at the pedals with her too-short legs. She grinned, looking over her shoulder at Rittane’s open-mouthed look of delight.
This was a great idea! I’m a genius!
Then the bike wobbled, and Mrsha changed her tune.
Oh no!
The crash brought Rittane’s parents, Dorkel and Leiithe, running along with several other people from Rheirgest. Colfa appeared and just shook her head as she saw Mrsha, holding her arm, silently howling, trapped under the metal bicycle.
Get a healing potion! I’m hurt! I’m hurt!
The Vampiress walked over and checked Mrsha over, tsking as she saw where Mrsha’s fur had been torn out.
“You poor dear. That has to hurt. You don’t need a healing potion, though. Did you learn a lesson from that?”
She rubbed Mrsha’s head, and the Gnoll girl wailed.
Get my mother!
“Mrsha, are you okay?”
Ekirra dashed on over, and Colfa nodded.
“She is.”
I’m not!
The agony of children aside, once the adults were sure she hadn’t broken bones and wasn’t bleeding, they were more fascinated with the bicycle than anything else.
“I saw this on the scrying orb. Dead gods, it’s so…intricate. Like a Drake puzzle. So it moves you as fast as a horse? But how?”
Dorkel moved a pedal experimentally and stared as it translated the force into a wheel.
“Amazing.”
It’s our gift from Kevin. It’s great and stupid.
Mrsha sniffed, alternating between pride and sadness and anger. This was the most interesting thing for the villagers of Rheirgest, though, and after a second, Leiithe looked at Colfa.
“Could we try it? Just to see—”
Clear longing was in her eyes, and Colfa smiled.
“I think you have a better chance than Mrsha at moving it. Just—I think Lyonette showed me how it works.”
The next few minutes were figuring out how it worked and deploying then undeploying the kickstand. Leiithe was very unsteady on the bicycle, not trusting it would stay level of its own accord, but when her husband tried it, he went down the corridor at good speed, yanked on the brakes after getting nervous, and fell off the bike.
Mrsha had never known it, but if you pulled too hard only on the front bicycle tire, you could actually throw yourself off the bike and get it to flip.
“Grandma’s bones!”
The sight of her father doing a three-hundred-and-sixty degree flip, then desperately catching himself with his feet, had Rittane’s hands over her mouth. But the instant she saw he was fine, the girl burst out laughing.
“Your face! Nahahahahahahaha—”
Her laughter was different than anything Mrsha had heard. Rittane stopped and turned red, but then she saw Mrsha and Sammial clutching their stomachs, laughing at her. She was crimson—then smiled shyly.
“I think I nearly joined my family. I’m not ready to till the fields yet.”
Dorkel was holding his hand on his chest as his wife ran over, giggling with the same curious laughter. He passed a hand over his eyes, then grinned himself.
“If we had one of these, we wouldn’t have to walk the last few miles into market each day instead of hiding the horses. I think it’s smoother and faster than a horse too!”
“Well, if you can afford to buy one—”
Leiithe teased her husband, and Dorkel sighed. He gave her a wounded look, then peered at the bicycle.
“Is it magic?”
He asked Mrsha, and she self-importantly shook her head.
Nope! It’s enchanted, but you can do it with just gears and stuff!
“Dead gods, really? You don’t think we could copy it, do you?”
It wasn’t the first time Mrsha had heard that, and she knew the wheels were straightforwards. But the gear system? She gestured at that. Good luck.
Kevin had made a simple bicycle without what he called a ‘six-gear system’. This one only had three gears, and Mrsha supposed you could approximate the way the chain from the middle bit wrapped around the back wheel and even the pedals.
But as countless [Blacksmiths] had probably told clients—smithing those perfect gear teeth was heinous. Let alone the chain! Mrsha had been in earshot of Maughin one time when he’d told Chaldion flat out he’d rather eat iron filings than make the bicycle chain by forging each link perfectly so that it wouldn’t break under stress.
“Oh, I see. It’s so complex, this spinning bit. Reminds me of stories of Pallass’ moving platforms.”
“Maybe we could see those too. If we can stay. The [Princess] is being very hospitable, but all those angry Gnolls and Drakes…even if they clear out, they’ll be back, Dorkel.”
He avoided his wife’s look, and Mrsha hesitated as the adults began to speak of depressing things. As they did. Dorkel met Leiithe’s gaze, then his eyes slid to Rittane.
“Let’s let Rittane have fun for a day or two. We’ve got [Knights] on our side and a [Princess]. It’s better than any other time, hey? I suppose it’s not easy to copy this thing, is it? Or else anyone would. But it just looks like a simple frame and this weird thing. If you took this…what did you call it? This gear and this one, does it still spin?”
He reached down, and Mrsha reached for his hand lest he break the bicycle. But Dorkel didn’t do something as magnificently stupid as prizing the gear off the bicycle. Instead, he just bent over the gear—and pulled a piece of bone out of a belt pouch.
Mrsha watched as the piece of bone melted, as if the ivory were water, then flowed into the shape of a disc.
Her jaw dropped as Dorkel concentrated and spokes began to appear around the edges. It wasn’t…accurate. Not at first.
“You’re not making it perfectly circular, dear. Just [Copy Shape]. Let me.”
Leiithe reached for the piece of bone, but her husband held on with wounded pride.
“Some of us can do it by eye.”
She rolled her own eyes expressively, then pulled out another piece of bone, and it morphed into a smaller gear. Dorkel fit the two together, continuing to adjust his, and then connected the two like the bike, with an axle rod of ivory.
They locked together! They clicked as they moved! He smiled in satisfaction.
“Dead gods, it’s not the worst! I thought it was like repairing a wheel’s axle. Making a mold of those gear-things must be how the [Smiths] do it. Miss Mrsha, does this look—”
They turned to the little Gnoll girl and saw her mouth was completely open. Mrsha stared at the gear, which she’d seen Pelt’s apprentices swearing over and filing down to perfect points after casting molds—replicated in about half a minute.
By [Necromancers].
Dorkel looked worried he’d done something wrong, but Mrsha just lifted the gear from his hands. Then she ran, screaming silently, to find someone.
 
——
 
There were people who belonged to The Wandering Inn and people who did not. Or had yet to become part of it. Some of them were mere acquaintances, which was hard.
It was hard to stay away from the things Erin Solstice got up to. Because—often, you believed in what she did.
You wanted to help her. Even if some of the things she did were crazy, annoying, or too dangerous—
She was there. A young woman from Earth who took a stand. Who could get world powers, at least, as Rhaldon Flemmens understood it, to listen to her.
You had to admire that. At the same time, he hadn’t been back to the inn since the Solstice.
He’d come back today because his route had taken him back from the north. Because he wanted to see how it was. Because Lyonette had hinted to him there was something he might want to be part of. Because Saliss was his teacher and fellow [Alchemist]—and Octavia was waiting on another glassware shipment.
Because Rhaldon did want to help. But he had heard what happened to Liscor on the Solstice. He had seen that image of Erin Solstice at sea. He got it, he really did. He didn’t understand the six, not fully, but what he did get terrified him by implication. Rhaldon was not religious, but he’d grown up in a household that believed in…and now Erin Solstice was on another continent, people wanted her dead, and the inn remained.
There were cute kids in the inn. Good people, or so Termin said. Brave people. Rhaldon should have gone back earlier.
But a question had emerged in the chemist’s mind. To him, it defined the entire allure of the inn and the reason he stayed away. It was this:
Who was Kevin?
No, to be more accurate—
Who had Kevin been?
Rhaldon didn’t know him. Oh, they’d met. Kevin had seemed like a nice—dude. Relaxed, the kind of person who could walk into a party and be welcomed at the door. Rhaldon imagined Kevin walking up with a pack of beers and handing them out.
