“Hi.” Ren said. “My apologies for just dropping in like this, but I didn't know how to make an appointment.” He smiled. “The reason I'm here is because I heard from a fellow blacksmith that you have high quality anvils for sale.”

The female dwarf continued to stare at him.

“If it's too much trouble, or if you don't have any...” Ren said. “I can leave.”

She stood up from behind the desk and walked over to him. If Ren had to guess, he estimated her to be around 50 years old or so. She had a fit and firm body, from what he could tell through her modest clothing that left quite a lot to the imagination. Her pitch black hair ended midway down her back, and she had strong facial features. She wasn't beautiful by any stretch of the imagination; but her face was almost hawk-like in it's appearance, and that was a kind of beauty all on it's own. She was also just about his height; so when she stood in front of him, they stared into each other's eyes.

“By the gods, what are you?” She asked.

“Excuse me?” Ren asked, surprised.

“I felt you coming down the hallway.” She rubbed her arms. “Your Aura is so strong.”

“I'm an Adventurer, Ma'am.”

“Oh, you are much more than that.” She said, stopped herself from rubbing her arms, and let them fall to her sides. “Lord, Artificer, Elfling, Dwarf...” She tilted her head. “...and Elemental, somehow.”

Ren didn't know what to say to that description, and she smiled.

“You're also very desirable.” She said. “And you cause trouble wherever you go.” She grinned. “One is usually the cause of the other.”

“Are you suffering from that trouble, Ma'am?” Ren asked.

“Yes, I am.” She said. “I've been married, you see.” She walked around Ren to examine him, and he fought his urge to follow her movements and kept looking forward.

“I'm watching her, Ren.” Teepo said from the ceiling.

Thanks.

“For nearly 25 years I kept him happy. He never wanted for anything.” She said as she came around to stand in front of Ren again. “He was also much older than me.” She sighed. “He passed away last year.”

“I'm sorry to hear that.” Ren said, and she smiled as she heard the truth in his words.

“Thank you.” She said. “I was uniquely qualified to run this institution, and have done so for countless years. I've taught tens of thousands of women how to find and keep a man.” She smiled. “How to make them happy, both emotionally and physically. How to take care of a house, unruly children, disruptive parents and relatives...” She said. “... and how to please a man.”

Ren didn't say anything, and she smiled again.

“Do my skills interest you at all?” She said, and waited patiently for his response. Ren was not stupid enough to answer that question, though.

“I'm just here to buy an anvil, Ma'am.” Ren said. “I require nothing else at this time.”

She grinned at his evasion. “Asking if you have money, would be as stupid as asking you to bend me over the desk to make love to me.” She watched his face for his reaction to that suggestion, and Ren raised a single eyebrow at her.

“Oh, that's precious!” She said, lifted a hand to touch his face, then caught herself and pulled the hand back to cover her heart. “You, sir... are a dangerous man.”

Ren raised his other eyebrow to join the first, and she giggled. Her hand moved from her heart to cover her mouth.

“I haven't laughed like that since before my training.” She said, surprised.

Ren let his eyebrows drop to their normal positions, and she stepped back.

“Yes, we make anvils here.” She said. “Only a select few are allowed to buy one, though.”

“How does one become a part of that select few?” Ren asked.

“Quite easily.” The female dwarf said. “You must provide the Convent a service of equal value.”

“How would that work?” Ren asked, finally letting his curiosity show. “If I don't know the value of the anvil, how would I know what service to provide?”

She grinned and started to untie the cord around her waist.

“No, thank you.” Ren said, turned around, and started to walk out of the office. “I can just use a normal anvil.”

“Wait!” The female dwarf said, as Ren turned the door handle. “Are you really going to pass up owning a one of a kind anvil like this?”

“It's not worth it.” Ren said. “Even if, somehow, my fiance agreed to let me do it, I wouldn't.” He said. “I don't really have the moral high ground to argue here, but I will anyways. Forcing someone to sleep with you like this, just so they can get something from you, is wrong.”

“Why?” She asked. “People have been exchanging money and items for pleasure, for as long as there have been people.”

“That doesn't make it right, only consistent.” Ren said. “If that's all, I'll be going.” He pulled open the door and stepped into the hallway.

“Wait!” She said, and tied the cord around her waist.

“She stopped undressing.” Teepo said.

The head of the Convent came over to the doorway. “You passed the test.”

Ren shook his head. “No, I didn't.” He said. “If I'd taken you up on your offer, you'd have proven that all men are alike.”

She looked at him with surprise on her face. “How did you-”

“It's what you wanted from me, right from the first moment you saw me.” Ren said. “I don't know how many times I have to keep telling women this; but, I am not like other men.”

“Why?” She asked. “Why didn't my seduction work?”

“You were trying too hard.” Ren said.

“I was trying too hard?” She laughed. “Normally, I barely have to smile at a man, and he'd be on top of me.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I assumed so.” He said. “You made me feel guilty just from talking to you.”

She laughed again. “Yes, that is one of my many talents.”

“So, can I buy an anvil?” Ren asked. “With actual money, not favors or trade or anything.”

“Well...” She said, and reached for his neck. Ren didn't react as she hooked the edge of the chain around his neck that the pendant hung from. “...a trade might be in order.”

After some tense negotiations, the head of the convent agreed to sell Ren 2 anvils. One for actual money, because they needed the money to pay for expenses, supplies, and other things, and the other for a good-sized diamond pendant of equal value. She gave Ren access to a forge, and he smelted her a pendant, using one of the 20 platinum diamond ovals, then took out 20 platinum coins.

“Before we complete the deal, I'd like to see the anvils, please.” Ren said.

“Of course.” She said, and led him to another area of the Convent. She opened a door and Ren looked inside. A dozen anvils were there, and they all had the same Durability of 25,000.

“Wow.” He said. “How long does it take to make them?”

“Not long.” She said. “Once we sell one, we don't need to make another one to replace it until a year later.”

“You always have 12 available.”

She nodded slightly. “This will be the first time we've sold two of them at the same time.”

“You'll have a lot more work to do, then.” Ren said.

“There's always work to be done.” She said. “So, do we have a deal?”

Ren took out the pendant, and her eyes glistened as it reflected the light. He gave it to her, and then handed her 20 platinum coins.

“They are extraordinarily heavy. It will take a while to get them hauled up to the ga-”

Her words were cut off as Ren stored two of the anvils, and he took her hand.

“It was a pleasure doing business with you.” He said.

“It could have been quite the pleasure.” She said once she got over the shock, and then she chuckled. “If you'd taken me there in my office, I'd have had you wrapped around my little finger for the rest of your life.”

“I don't think so.” Ren said, and smiled as he pulled her towards him. She didn't fight the movement, and her eyes widened as he placed a gentle kiss on her cheek. She gasped as she gained Honor from the action, much more than just bending over her hand would have been.

“How... how in the world did you...”

“Have a wonderful day, Ma'am.” Ren said. “I'll show myself out.”

*

She watched Ren walk down the hallway, and put a hand on her cheek. He's right. She thought. I think... I think it would be me wrapped around his little finger instead.

*

With Teepo's help, Ren avoided meeting any women along the way back to the entrance of the main building. Once outside, Ren saw there was a lot more women around than when he went in.

They couldn't have sent word out that I was leaving. Ren thought, and tried to ignore his Aura. It didn't work, as he walked down the road and every single woman stopped whatever they were doing and stared at him as he passed.

This is kind of creepy. Ren thought.

“Kind of?” Teepo said. “It feels like you're a deer walking through a field full of lions... that are ready to pounce and devour you.”

Ren made it to the stable and hooked Princess back up to the cart.

...Women talk about you... Princess thought to him.

Ren led her down the road to the gate.

...They say you are a good mate...

Ren didn't say anything to Princess as the guard opened the gate for him. He got her situated on the road and looked at the guard that had helped him.

“Thank you.” He said, and gave her a slight bow. She gasped and held a hand over her heart. The metal of her gauntlet clanged against the chest plate, and he smiled. Ren climbed into the driver's seat of the cart, and Teepo landed on his shoulder.

“Let's go.” Ren said, and the cart took off down the road and back towards the dwarf city of Dornach.
