"That's different," Jessica said. "I'm not an orc. I didn't reach into your soul and plant myself there like a parasite."

"No, you did cut your way up Shiv's ass," Adam noted. "Quite brutally, I must add. You should be glad he's willing to entertain you as much as the Culturist. And also, we need you, we need him, we need all the other orcs from the Tutorial for Blackedge. Everything else can wait. Everything else must wait." Adam paused. "And everything else is going to come. We only have so many choices.”

“Adam?” Shiv asked, concerned.

“I'm fine." The Gate Lord stepped away from him. "I'm fine. Just let me have silence. Silence. For now.”

Adam was the first to enter Shiv’s cape, and he never made any contact with his friend as he did. The Deathless was about to call out to Adam once more when a gentle hand gripped his shoulder. To Shiv's surprise, he found the Educator shaking her head at him.

"No," she said. "Give him time. I know that look on his face. I have made that look before. After I realized the depths of my folly. After I understood what the System was going to do to me. What this false godhood would take from me. Give him time. The true face of the System is revolting, and it takes a period to swallow."

Shiv let out a begrudging breath, but did as she asked. However, he wasn't content to let other things slide by so easily. "Jessica," he called out, "you stay close to the Culturist."

The diminutive swordswoman turned to stare at the orc looming over her, but he simply offered her a respectful bow. "No need to think such thoughts, Giantsbane. You are the superior blade. I can tell so from the very way you swing."

She sneered. "If you think licking my ass is gonna make me lower my guard, you got another thing coming. I know your type. The humble ones have to die first."

"I am not humble, just honest," the Culturist retorted. "And you should be with yourself as well."

"Fuck's that supposed to mean?" Jessica asked, squinting.

But the Culturist didn't answer that. Instead, he found joy in being inscrutable, and he offered Shiv the very same bow, though there was a slight smirk on his face as he slowly leaned down and pulled himself into the dimensional fabric.

"Guys, guys, what's happening out there? There was a lot of fighting earlier and a whole lot of talking. Did someone die? Hello?" Radio's voice came as a barely heard squeak. Electronic pops sounded at the end, and then it was followed by a shriek. "Holy Cripple, that’s a nasty-looking orc! Hey, Bossman, can you tell me when you’re going to let another one of these oversized murder oxen in here? The last one nearly turned me into a groin piece!”
