Breathing easier in the wake of the Justicar’s departure, I quietly pledge to commit less crimes in the future, or at the very least, get better at hiding them.

It’s not like I’m out robbing and pillaging to my heart’s delight, but I do tend to skirt around the law whenever possible. The way I see it, if my enemies aren’t playing by the rules, then why should I? I figured it’d be easy to commit crimes in the Empire because there are no cameras or forensic investigations, but what I didn’t take into account was that the standard of proof required to convict is apparently incredibly low. If even the Justicars can’t be counted on to play fair and pass impartial judgments, then it’s only a matter of time before I’ll have no choice but to ask Mom and Dad to step in and flip the board. Not a prospect I look forward to considering there’s no turning back from open rebellion, but in light of Mom’s violent outburst earlier, it almost seems like she can’t wait to start slaughtering Imperials. While she’s calmed down and looking pleased as punch now, I’d rather not see the Bekhai dragged into a revolution over little old me. I have enough remorse as it is dealing with the death of my soldiers, and I don’t need to add thousands of Khishig deaths to my already overburdened conscience.

If we were closer to the Saint’s Tribulation Mountains or even just the Northern Province in general, I might be convinced to cut our losses and head home, but here on the border between West and Central, we’re sandwiched between the Imperials and Defiled. If we rebel, we’d have to fight our way out of the citadel, head two-hundred and fifty kilometers north to SuiHua, commandeer enough boats and supplies for fifteen-thousand Khishigs and their families, then break through a series of blockades which are already in place to stop Defiled naval forces from making their way deeper into the Empire, all before even setting foot in our home province. Powerful as the Bekhai are, I doubt we’d even make it to SuiHua given the sheer number of loyal Imperial soldiers around, and I’d hate to force my allies to pick a side.

Not that I expect it’d be a difficult decision. Talking about rebellion is one thing, but actually rebelling over such a stupid issue? Even BoShui might have second thoughts...

Despite the gravity of our situation, I can’t help but smile at Luo-Luo’s reaction to this whole endeavour, sitting slumped in her chair and taking deep breaths while Yan fans her face. So dramatic, but she tends to get like this when it comes to matters with Imperial Nobles, and she’s been utterly overwhelmed by this minor skirmish with the Disciplinary Corps. Squeezing her fingers to reassure her, I try not to think about how small my hands look next to hers and wrack my brain for something reassuring. “Don’t worry, I’m pretty sure this was all a bluff. Shock and awe, you know, scare me into submission by threatening to expose my crimes, but they probably won’t go through with it. I mean, it’s a terrible idea considering how many people it’ll offend, and a few crimes won’t completely tarnish my sterling reputation. Worst comes to worst, I’ll make a big public apology, pay the fines, and head off to the front lines, though I refuse to hand over my people.” I’ll probably have to smuggle them out or something. This would be so much easier if GangShu were here, because then I could lump all my former bandits into the Mother’s Militia and blame their crimes on him. He already took credit for their heroics before and during the battle of Sanshu, so this is just an extension of that.

“Pei.” No longer restrained by Alsantset and the Justicar’s presence, Mom’s pleasant mood dissipates as she smacks the dining table with a growl. “Absolutely not! You know as well as I that going to the front lines would mean your death, and I do not mean at the hands of the Defiled. I would sooner consign Heaven and Earth to the Father’s Maw than watch you go meekly to your doom.”

Both warmed and horrified by the statement, I let go of Luo-Luo and shuffle over to comfort Mom before her blood-pressure reaches critical levels. Kissing her on the cheek, I hug her tight and smile as she clings to my wrist, as if to ensure I won’t fly away. “Much as I appreciate the sentiment, I think a trip to the front lines wouldn’t be the worst thing in the world. Yes, my enemies might try to have me killed, but it won’t be so easy, especially since I think the Legate expected a trip to happen. Last we met, he spoke of offering assistance, and the next day, he sent Brother Biao to join my Honour Guard. We all thought this was meant to offend the Yangs, but what if the Legate knew Jixing would accuse me of these crimes?”

“Of course!” Recovering from her stupor, Luo-Luo bolts upright in her chair, her eyes lighting up in realization as she lays it all out for us to understand. “Had Lord Husband not pointed out the flaws in the Justicar’s judgment, then he would have been stripped of rank and sent to the front lines in less than an hour’s time, but he would still have his title and command of his Honour Guard. With a young and talented Peak Expert by his side, our enemies would have to think twice before sending someone to assassinate him, and even if Lord Husband were to be placed in an untenable position against the Defiled, Brother Biao could easily bring him away to safety. Thus, as long as Lord Husband lives, Yang Jixing must continue to commit resources to dealing with him, leaving Lord Husband’s Patron free to stir up discord amongst the people of the Empire and turn them against the Disciplinary Corps for forcing a crippled hero into such dire straits.”

“Yea…” I totally thought of all that. Not really. I got as far as, ‘Kuang Biao protects me’, which isn’t terrible. What Luo-Luo said makes sense though, and I can’t help but look down on Jixing for not seeing the obvious. Does he really think no one will blink twice if he orders a cripple into an active war-zone, or arrests soldiers for crimes they were absolved of? “Anyway, given this information, I don’t think it’d be the worst thing in the world if I paid a visit to the front lines. I could make a big fuss about how this wasn’t my choice while also showing everyone I’m beaten, but not defeated, you know? Plus, Ping Ping is pretty popular and I know there are plenty of soldiers and camp followers who like to stop by and offer a prayer, which will earn me some much needed goodwill.” The big girl doesn’t seem to particularly care for their piety, but she doesn’t mind it either. I wonder how people would react to learning there was an actual Divine Turtle hiding in Mama Bun’s floof…

“It’s dangerous,” Mom says, clearly unhappy with the idea but leaving the final decision in my hands, which given my history, seems like a terrible idea.

Even then, my mind is made up. “Less dangerous than the alternative.” I’m always leery about mentioning rebellion out loud, even here in the safety of our home where Mom says I can speak freely. I miss Sending. So much easier to criticize and complain when you don’t have to worry about anyone overhearing. “No point arguing about it now though. It’s possible the Justicars won’t even take away my rank now that I’ve pointed out how dumb Jixing’s plan is, but a voluntary trip could be used to show I’m being pressured. Honestly, I’m kinda disappointed in how incompetent he’s been so far. The Legate has plans within plans, while Jixing just throws tantrums. I expected more from an Imperial Scion.”

“A novel way of seeing things.” So quiet I’d almost forgotten he was here, Du Min Gyu gestures at his empty teacup and I head over to fill it. A little annoying considering I’m crippled and the teapot is right beside him, but he’s not purposely making things difficult, just not accustomed to pouring his own tea. Nodding in thanks, he sips his tea with a steady hand and steely gaze as he studies me closely. “Most people of the Empire would balk at even speaking ill of an Imperial Scion, much less outright defying one, to say nothing of the Justicars. You’ve a distinct lack of reverence few can match, one which allowed you to navigate through this trial in a unique manner even the sharpest political minds might not have considered. As for your disappointment… this Yang Jixing is a young man, I presume? One of high birth and accustomed to having his every whim fulfilled?” Seeing my nod, the old man shrugs. “Thus, while the plan might seem foolish from our perspective, Jixing likely sees the issues as insignificant and easily dealt with. Even if he should offend multiple powerful officials of the Empire and heap dirt upon the sterling reputation of the Disciplinary Corps, he is still an Imperial Scion of high standing, so who will make trouble for him? He’s likely more concerned about regaining lost face from your refusal, as his personal reputation will suffer once others learn he was rebuffed by a mere ‘savage’.” Smiling to show he means no offense, he sighs and shakes his head while flashing a wry smile at Yan. “Licentious though your betrothed may be, at least he’s proven himself steadfast. Contesting against an Imperial Scion to keep his Consort, the playwrights will work day and night to be the first to tell this tale.”

The statement earns me a gratified blush from Luo-Luo and a smile that’s not quite a smile from Yan as she wrestles with her jealousy. Mila had the same issue all last night during Yan’s welcome party, which leaves me worried for the future. Lin aside, the other ladies in my life aren’t exactly brimming with enthusiasm at the prospect of sharing me, but the only ideas I can come up with to convince them to get along read like a script from a bad budget porno. As fun as it would be to try and sex my wives into friendship and submission, I doubt I have the skills or stamina to do so, though Yan didn’t seem put off by it last night…

Dammit. I really owe the Legate big for his tofu pudding. I’ll still probably die on my wedding night with Mila, but at least I can handle normal sex...

“Luo-Luo, pick out some works of art to gift to the Legate, as belated thanks for his support.” And to show Jixing that if he sets the Justicars on me for looting, then he’s going to have to ask the Legate to hand over the ill-gotten goods. The little brat might not care about pissing off Marshals and Magistrates, but I doubt he’ll be so quick to move against Shen ZhenWu. In fact, it’s probably better if he does, because like Luo-Luo said, that’d give the Legate a reason to step in. “Are there any unrelated people in power I can drag into this too? We should send them gifts as well.” Get rid of as much stolen property as we can while simultaneously bringing unrelated people into this mess. I mean, I did the same thing when I first got back from Sanshu, but now it’s just a matter of increasing scale. “Also, do we have anything which is definitely not stolen, but we can arrange to look like it was stolen?” Seeing everyone’s questioning gaze, I shrug and explain, “I figured we could send Jixing a ‘stolen’ gift to make it seem like I’m taunting him. If he has enough restraint to swallow his anger, then all we’ve done is annoy him a bit, but if he takes the bait and sends the Justicars after me on erroneous charges, then he loses face again, maybe even enough to send him running home. Sounds good, right?”

“No.”

“Terrible idea.”

“Why poke the dragon?”

“Brilliant!” Mom, Alsantset, and Du Min Gyu all shoot my idea down at once, but Luo-Luo is positively glowing with admiration. So excited she doesn’t even notice the stares, she explains, “In conflict amongst Imperial Scions, the greatest loss comes not from death or defeat, but by being manipulated or deceived by one’s foes, and doubly so if it leads one to harm one’s self or one’s allies. Such was Lord Husband’s Patron’s intent in this conflict between Lord Husband and Yang Jixing, to sit back and watch the Prime Minister’s son kick an iron board, but Lord Husband’s level-headed reaction to the Justicar’s accusations may have ruined those schemes. Now Lord Husband can make it up to his Patron with a simple amendment to his plans. Instead of delivering the deceptive gift to Jixing, it would be better if we secretly gave it to Lord Husband’s Patron instead. Then, all we need do is quietly spread word of the ‘stolen’ art in our possession, and when Jixing makes his move against us, then he inadvertently moves against Shen ZhenWu, who will be more than happy to slap the little upstart down, provided we inform him of our plans in advance.”

“...What?”

Thankfully, I’m not the only one confused by Luo-Luo’s explanation, and even the politically savvy Du Min Gyu seems lost, but Luo-Luo assures us this is the optimal play. After hammering out the details, Luo-Luo rushes off to falsify documents and forge artwork, because apparently she knows how to do both. Despite my earlier pledge, I can think of a hundred different ways to use Luo-Luo’s art skills, none of which involve selling art, but in the interest of good behaviour, I banish those thoughts to the void. In truth, I file them away for when things get desperate, and make a mental note to find out if it’s actually illegal to forge another noble’s seal, and what the penalty for doing so would be. Let’s be real, forged documents would make my life so much easier when navigating the crooked world of merchants and caravans, not to mention how the wrong letter in the right hands could do a lot of damage.

Like say... What would happen if Rang Min were to find a love letter written by an ally and addressed to his wife?

