...No, that’s too cruel. It’d probably get the wife killed. Same thing, but the love letter addressed to him?

...Awkward, but probably not too damaging. Whatever. I’ll think of something.

Wrapping up our eventful breakfast, everyone heads out to watch the twins Demonstrate the Forms, but I beg leave to go back to bed on account of tossing and turning all night. It’s not until I’m in front of my room that I realize what Yan’s blush, Alsantset’s knowing smile, and Du Min Gyu’s glare meant, and I mentally kick myself for my poor choice of words, but it’s too late to go back and explain now. Scurrying into my room before Du Min Gyu snaps out of his shock, I call out over my shoulder and say, “Brother Biao, if you could join me inside?”

This is the real reason I wanted to step away, so I could spare Kuang Biao’s dignity while I question him. Marching into my room without a word, the former Royal Guardian ignores my non-verbal suggestion to take a seat and stands before me at full attention, a tall, handsome man with broad shoulders and a slim waist. Svelte, rather than muscular, a corded whip of a man, though the heavy Death Corps plate armour can make anyone look bulky and imposing. I’ve been trying to show him I won’t treat him like a slave and encourage him to be himself, but the young Peak Expert has wholly embraced the Death Corps persona as if born to it, though he’s far less enthusiastic about my safety than the others. He even tried to convince me to call him by his new designation, Red One, but not only is this dehumanizing, it’s also needlessly confusing since I now have to relearn everyone else’s new numbers.

Seriously, I should just give the Death Corps soldiers names, but I don’t want to come up with three-hundred and sixty of them...

Since Kuang Biao is determined to stand and I’m not petty enough to order him to sit, I settle down in my walker and hammer out how to word my questions properly. I don’t want to straight up ask what he knows, because I don’t want to accidentally trigger any conflicting Oaths, an issue he informed me of the day he joined my Honour Guard. As a Death Corps soldier, he’s Oathsworn to obey my commands and answer my questions, but after swearing his Death Corps Oaths, Jixing also made him swear an additional one to never reveal any Yang family secrets. I figured those sorts of Oaths would be standard fare for Royal Guardians serving the Five Supreme Families, but demanding strict Oaths from non-slave subordinates is generally frowned upon for the same, traditional reason why Justicars don’t just drag Martial Warriors off and make them confess their crimes under Oath: because history has shown that Martial Warriors won’t stand for it.

Powerful, superhuman warriors don’t respond well to overbearing and restrictive demands. Who would’ve thunk it?

There’s a thin line between obedience and servitude, but one the Empire treads carefully, making sure to clearly delineate the difference between slave and free person even if the result isn’t all that different. Sure a peasant could defy orders from a powerful Martial Warrior, but it’s probably not the best idea to do so if the peasant wants to keep breathing. The same could be said of a former Number One Talent of the Empire and an Imperial Scion, but what can I say? I have issues with authority.

I always thought the general aversion to Oaths was because they hinder you from reaching the Martial Peak. You don’t see a lot of Oath-Sworn slaves reaching Peak Expert status, but apparently, it’s only rare and not unheard of. It’s possible I’m still right and Oaths do restrict progress along the Martial Path, but I’m not certain it’s entirely magical, as it could just be a matter of motivation. Why get stronger if you’re still going to be a slave? Regardless of the reasons, Oaths are a matter of last resort, reserved to prove innocence in the face of overwhelming evidence, rather than as an investigative tool, which is great for me because way too many people know my secrets.

Sadly, Jixing is better at covering his tracks, so if I ask Kuang Biao point blank about the little shit-stain’s plans, the former Royal Guardian will probably choke to death on his tongue. “Aside from the Defiled,” I say, triple checking for paradoxes as I go, “If I were to go to the front lines, what sort of threats do you think I might face?”

“Traitorous schemes to leave your troops under-equipped and unsupported, nefarious plots to order you into danger, and Imperial assassins masquerading as Wraiths.” The answer comes immediately, but no more is forthcoming.

“What about something like poison?”

“Unlikely.” Rationing his words like they’re precious jewels, Kuang Biao only explains once he can no longer ignore my raised eyebrow in good conscience. “Poison would raise too many questions, for it is not a tool the Enemy would use.”

Guess I won’t need a food taster then. Good thing too, because there is nothing more unappetizing than eating someone else’s leftovers, even if they’ve only taken a single bite. “If left with only my Honour Guard, how confident are you of keeping me alive?” Not only is he the strongest warrior amongst my Death Corps, Kuang Biao is also the only with proper training in battlefield tactics, which means if he thinks I’ve no chance of survival, then he’s probably right.

“One-hundred percent.”

What? So high? Well this might not be a terrible idea after all. “What about the rest of the Honour Guard? How many casualties might we expect?”

“One-hundred percent.”

...Well fuck. He’s confident he can keep me alive because he doesn’t intend to stick around and fight. “So if I go to the front lines, anyone I bring with me will die?”

“Undoubtedly.”

“...How can I change this?”

“This is beyond Great One’s ability.” This time, Kuang Biao doesn’t need prompting to continue, as if he enjoys telling me how it is. “Unless Great One knows a commander who is both virtuous to a fault and utterly without weakness, lacking in greed, past mistakes, dark secrets, or beloved friends and family who can be used against them, then the death of Great One’s honour guard is all but certain should he march off to the front lines.”

“What if I brought more allies? Like my friends and their retinues?”

“Then they might be the first to turn against you.” Shrugging at my surprise, Kuang Biao says, “Not all share your indifference towards Imperial authority, and those in power often have the most to lose. Even if your friends remain true, their soldiers may not, which means every soldier you see may be an assassin hiding in plain sight.” Softening at my disheartened expression, he adds, “It would be best if Great One remains in the Citadel regardless. This one has read the reports of Great One’s last battle, and it appears the Enemy places much value on your death, or at least this Emissary Gen does.”

“Yea, what can I say. People love to hate me.” I didn’t think going to the front lines would be such a big deal. I figured I’d head over to Sinuji with Ping Ping, say hi to Hongji and other old friends, smile at the crowd and maybe shake a few hands, then head on home where it’s safe and sound, but I suppose it won’t be so easy. I suppose I should cancel my travel plans, but depending on how Jixing reacts, I might not have a choice if he goes public with my crimes. I can argue my case, but I doubt I’ll win, which means bad times ahead. A shame the Tyrant’s research has stalled and Taduk’s been too busy to help, but no matter. Worst comes to worst, I can leave most of my retinue behind to minimize casualties, which still sucks, but is making the best of a bad situation.

After bidding Kuang Biao farewell, I sit in the gloomy darkness of my room and stare at the wall, where my crumbling Spiritual Weapons sit above the last few gourds of Chi Tea I’ve kept. Hoping things might be different this time around, I close my eyes, steady my breathing, and reach for Balance, but find only searing agony awaiting me in the darkness behind my eyelids. The Legate’s tofu pudding did a lot for my recovery, but my Core is as shattered as ever and the Void utterly out of reach. If I still had my strength, I might challenge Yang Jixing right here and now, but I’d be stupid to do so. Aside from the brief period of time when I supposedly became a Water-Wielding Peak Expert, even at my best, I’m probably no match for an Imperial Noble, especially one confident enough to antagonize the Legate, a man holding the title of Divine True Warrior. The Seneschal warned me that there were plenty of youths in the East who could readily defeat me, and I don’t doubt Jixing is one of them, not to mention the shadowy presence who put Ping Ping on her guard that first night we met him.

Being weak sucks donkey dick, but recovering isn’t enough. Even if I return my awesome-but-accidental water-wielding prowess, all I’ll be is another Peak Expert, not even a speed bump to the behemoth that is the Imperial Clan. Still, I can’t just give up because it won’t be easy, so instead of going back to bed, I pull out ink and a metal pen to write letters warning all my allies of Jixing’s threat, as well as another letter asking Broken Blade Pichai for an audience. This will be my third letter to him without a response, but until he outright refuses, I’ve no choice but to keep trying.

That said, I know better than to put all my eggs in one basket, so once all my letters are written and handed off to be delivered, I set to working on my last resort and lift the top of my table to reveal a hidden compartment underneath. Inside, there are eighteen books which could hold the secret to fixing my ruined body, but could also get me into a lot of trouble if anyone learns I have them in my possession. As much as I’d like to burn the books and never look back, this would be tantamount to burying my head in the sand and hoping things work out for the best, so I grab the first book, steel my nerves, and open it up to read.

I need to explore every option I have, no matter how unsavoury it might be.

Experiment one. Subject is male, seventeen years old, peasant of common birth and below average build, measuring at...

...sixty hours in and still no sign of progress. Resorting to more extreme measures. Note: procure multiple test subjects at once to limit downtime in case of subject death.

...heart still beating even with chest cavity open. Will expire without Healing to sustain subject. Taxing and inefficient. Reduce effort required by physically gagging next subject to eliminate distracting screams.

Test subject expired, no signs of physical change in moments before death. Note: arrange separate room for future experiments, or devise more sanitary methods of inducing pain and trauma.

Disgusted as I am by the book’s horrific and unhelpful contents, I continue reading in hopes of finding salvation. Today’s visit from the Justicar was only Jixing’s first move, and there will be a second and a third, if not from him, then from another like him. All this is happening because I’m no longer a promising young talent, but if I recover, then maybe things will go back to how they were before. I need to be strong again, and if I can’t reach Heaven in a single bound, then I’ll do it one step at a time, even if I have to start over from the beginning. I’ll get there eventually, with or without help. I believe it.

So long as I have enough time.

...

I wonder if I can convince Pong Pong that Jixing tastes like shrimp? His death should buy me a few months or so, right?

Chapter Meme
