Something’s not right, but I know exactly how to fix it.

Conjuring up yet another pillow, I set it down under my doggy’s chin just to make sure he’s extra comfy, and give him a few more scritches while I’m at it. Curled up on my bed with the blankets covering his head, Buddy sighs in contentment and closes his eyes to sleep, exhausted after our long walk around the Natal Palace. Not entirely true, considering he is a creature of soul and emotion living in an environment of the same, meaning he could ‘walk’ from now until the end of time without growing tired so long as my Natal Palace remains intact, but sometimes, when dealing with your pets, it’s nice to put reality aside and pretend they’re real people.

The truth is much less fun, in that Buddy is my Natal Guardian and is tired because I myself am physically, mentally, and emotionally exhausted after staying up for multiple nights in a row in an effort to convince my waking self to go find Kukku. I don’t understand why Buddy is exhausted while I still feel fresh as a daisy, nor do I understand why he chose to sleep on the bed rather than on the office chair, which I figured was my Natal Throne. Then again, maybe I’ve been taking the word ‘throne’ too literally, as there’s no reason it has to be an actual chair. Pong Pong’s Throne is a coral bed, and Ping Ping’s was a mud bank, so maybe my whole bedroom is my Natal Throne, the safe space where I oversee my entire Natal Palace, and the chair and computer are just the envisioned mediums through which I control it. Still doesn’t answer why Buddy needs to sleep and I don’t, but it is convenient considering I have things to do and people to see.

Giving Buddy a kiss on the head and another on the snoot, I quietly back out of the room so as not to disturb him. Closing the door ever so gently, my hand lingers on the handle as I fight the urge to go back inside to greet him, knowing just how happy and excited he’ll be to see me again, to hear his squeaky cries of greeting as he circles around me, all the while wagging his tail so hard his whole butt shakes. Part of me recognizes that this probably isn’t healthy, depending so much on a dog I’ve already lost once before, but I can’t help it. Buddy is not just a dog, he’s my dog, and he was with me for a huge part of my past life. Just having him here with me makes me feel more real, more sane and not so crazy anymore, because he is proof that I existed in a past life in another world, something more than just vague memories and recollections. Though I might still be a stranger in a foreign land and possibly even an invader in a stolen body, I am still Rayne and Falling Rain both, my past and my present coming together to create a brand new me. While I’ve experienced this more literally than most, this is how it is for everyone, because no one is the same person they were two seconds ago. So long as we draw breath, we humans are forever changing, adapting, growing, and developing, becoming someone new with every step we take on this journey called life.

And though we all must forge our own paths, we never do so alone, because every person we meet and interact with comes along for the journey in some way. My dog, my family, my wives, my pets, my friends, my allies, my enemies, and even casual acquaintances, each of them have shaped me in some way and left their marks on my soul, however minor it might be. These marks might not always be permanent, but the most substantial ones will not only shape my path forward, but will also be carried with me from this life into the next, and every life thereafter. Maybe in my next life, I’ll rely on Aurie, Mama Bun, or someone else entirely to get me through the darkest of times, but here and now, Buddy is my rock, the moral foundation upon which I build my ethical guidepost. Honestly, not the worst choice to make, considering he was the sweetest dog ever, though I am a little worried I’ll develop an irrational hatred of squirrels and intense fixation on chasing balls. It’s okay though. Buddy is the most loyal companion a man could ask for, and if he starts affecting my thoughts and behaviour in a negative manner, I can just fine tune the amount of influence his soul has over mine. He won’t mind it at all, unlike Baledagh who resented playing second fiddle to Falling Rain, because let’s be real here; Buddy is a dog, sweet, loyal, and stupid. I mean, to be fair, having Baledagh around did help, although it probably caused more problems than it solved in the long run, but only because I insisted on treating him like an actual separate person, one with his own goals that were not always the same as mine. On the other hand, Buddy is a dog, and while I will spoil him silly, he’s still just a dog, which means I don’t feel bad if he stays in my Natal Palace all the time, because he just wants to be close to me and guard me from the bad things, even if I myself am the source of said bad things. Sure, he’ll be lonely when I’m gone, but he’s a strong, independent dog who don’t need no man, or rather needs his own personal time and space. It’ll just be like going to work everyday, and when I come home, I’ll take him on long walks and bring plenty of friends for him to play with.

...Okay, I realize reviving a long dead pet inside my imaginary mind space probably isn’t the healthiest way to deal with my unresolved issues, but if it’s stupid and it works, well then it ain’t stupid.

Backing away from the door, I teleport myself to the pier and gaze down in the depths of my Natal Lake. The waterpark has long since been hidden away after playtime finished, but the natural currents churn and writhe with the collective enmity of all the Spectres I recently Cleansed, carried down into the depths yet struggling to make its way out again. That’s Buddy’s work, as he closed off the Natal Fissure which was dumping all my bad juju out into the Void and essentially trapping all those negative emotions shed by the Spectres. I considered closing the fissure myself for the sake of Balance, as negative emotions have their place just as positive ones do too, but there’s more at work here than I consciously understand. The symbolism was previously lost to me, but I now realize this lake represents more than just the Cleansing waters of my soul, but is also indicative of the power at my disposal. Most of the lake water is just Chi, but a small, minute portion of it is usable Heavenly Energy. There was a time when I kept the latter in a bowl atop my nightstand, but now I understand that Chi, Water Chi, and Heavenly Energy are really all one and the same, though I have yet to comprehend how to properly utilize it. In this, I am no different from any other Martial Warrior, because while Chi can do anything Heavenly Energy is capable of doing, the limits are not in the type of energy used, but rather our imperfect understanding of how to utilize what we have at our disposal.

In short, using Chi is like cooking from scratch, while Heavenly Energy is ordering a pre-packaged meal. Both are still food, and can even taste exactly the same, but the difference lies in my own understanding of what goes into the whole process and the effort required. Maybe there’s a better way to explain it, but that’s the best I got now, though I’m still not sure if I’m right.

As for these negative emotions trapped inside my Natal Lake, I know emotion is power, so I would be a fool to vent it all into the void, as I have been all this time. If Buddy thought keeping all of this bad juju would harm me, he would’ve done away with it in an instant, but he deliberately closed my Natal Fissure and kept all this enmity contained here. It’s odd, because I should know everything he knows, and I know he knows that this is a good thing to do, but I have no idea why he did what he did because he doesn’t know either. He just knows, and that’s enough for him, which I suppose should be good enough for me too.

Hmm... It seems like having Buddy around has not done anything to improve my indecisive nature. Not that I should’ve expected it to, because why would it? I’m still me, whether Buddy is around or not, and only I can change myself if I so desire it. Putting aside my questions of the Martial Path and emotions, I focus on more pressing issues as I raise my head and stare out into the Void. Overhead, the rifts still lies open and unguarded, but the torrent of invading Spectres has long since come to an end. Only the black stillness of the unending Void lingers to greet me, inviting me out into its cold, dark embrace, and I would be a fool to not be afraid. This stillness is unnatural, for the Void is all encompassing, and the measly few Spectres I’ve already Devoured were nothing more than a side dish in the grand scheme of things. I feel that someone or something has cut me off from the Void, placed a barrier between me and the vast emptiness I see laid out before me, which likely means I have once again caught Zhen Shi’s attention.

Stepping outside unprepared might well be fitting the noose around my neck, and yet leave I must, because I require aid and answers, which I will only receive if I am able to make my way over to the Abbot’s Natal Palace.

It wasn’t too long ago when Zhen Shi tricked me into leaving the safety of my Natal Palace and trapped me in a living hell of his own design, and that experience nearly unmade me. This time however, if he is waiting out there, then I will not be caught unawares. I will not be powerless like I was before, because now I have an inkling of how to fight him. Though these past few days, I’ve been unable to contest the Spectres out in the Void, I now understand that this isn’t because I can’t fight them, but because I didn’t know how to. Spectres are emotion bound in slivers of soul, just like the Natal Souls I sent out to do good in the world, which was why Gen Shi let slip about how surprisingly apt my naming sense was. Spectres are simply Natal Souls by another name, ones filled with hatred, suffering, vitriol, and all other manner of negative emotions, and it is for this reason why I was unable to fight them.

Not because they’re strong and I’m weak, but because I forgot how to arm myself with the proper weapons.

Peace and Tranquility appear in my hands, so naturally it’s almost as if they were always there, my hands closing around hilt and handle with barely a second thought. My armour blinks into existence, the golden Runic plate modelled after Shen ZhenWu’s trappings, but on a whim, they transform into something more familiar and comforting, dark Sentinel armour made of carnugator leather, with open mouthed beasts on each shoulder alongside a bestial helmet fashioned in the same style. I keep a few things from the Legate’s armour, like the character etched across my chest, the open-mouthed turtle on my belt, and the various animals depicted across the armour to liven things up, but at the core of it all is the armour I wore briefly during the Society’s Contest. Alsantset and Charok gifted it to me, and even though I didn’t have it for long before my skirmishes against the Society Adherents tore it apart, I always loved how it looked and the thought they put into this princely gift. I lost an arm and almost my life to the carnugators, so my sister had this armour made from one of the carnugators I killed and specifically requested it be reminiscent of the overgrown lizards, because she knew the symbolism would help me overcome my fear, and it worked magnificently. I never really developed a trauma over carnugators, because she showed me that I had already conquered them, and therefore had no reason to fear them again.

Hang on. Is this why the Defiled make armour out of their enemies? Maybe I should kill Gen and keep his metallic hands as a trophy. Gruesome, I know, but I mean if it works...

Much like the last time I faced Gen Shi in my Natal Palace, I make sure my armour is Runic in nature and feel my confidence gradually building in the back of my mind. The armour protects me because I believe it will protect me, that’s the basic premise of power in the Void. That’s why the Spectres are ugly and bestial in form, to scare me into believing they can hurt me. Maybe they actually can, but my belief in their abilities makes them that much stronger, and while I might not be able to render them weak and helpless with faith and conviction alone, these weapons and armour infused with my emotions should allow me to at least hurt them.

Just to have another weapon in my back pocket, I bottle up the worst of the Cleansed emotions into a dozen gourds hanging off my belt, as well as a few gourds of pure Heavenly Energy. I’m not sure how to use them, but I do know they should come in handy if I’m caught in a pinch. Spectres are weaponized emotion, so I might as well fight fire with fire, right?

The only thing missing is Unity, and while there’s nothing stopping me from materializing the transforming glaive in hand, a vague sense of uncertainty strikes me as I consider doing just that, a gut feeling that says it’s too soon for this. Though worried I might just be second guessing myself, I decide it’s best left for later when I have more time to reflect on my memories and emotions from my third binding ceremony and move onto more pressing matters. The Void beckons to me, calling me to step out into its cold, dark embrace, and though I’d be lying if I said I had no reservations about accepting the invitation, I’m about as ready as I can be at the moment, so there’s no time like the present. Armed and armoured in faith and conviction, I step through the rift –

And find myself seated in my courtyard manor, with my beautiful wives by my side.

