“Your presence here is unexpected and unwelcome.” The Sending sounds in my mind, delivered by an unfamiliar voice, but there is no mistaking it for anyone else besides the leading monk. Eyes closed and expression neutral, he doesn’t miss a beat on his fish drum while radiating an Aura of polite suspicion. “Please be so kind as to remove yourself, lest this monk be forced to remove you himself.”

Ignoring the wizened old monk, I study the crowd once more until I spot a single frowning face, one seated towards the back and far away from his Senior Brother. “Apologies for the intrusion Abbot, but I require your assistance, and this was the only way I could speak with you.”

For long seconds, the Abbot wavers with indecision, torn between indulging in his pleasant dream and responding to my entreaty. In the end, he sighs and lets the illusion fade, leaving himself unchanged while everything else shifts in place. The monastery is still similar, but there are subtle differences in the stones and atmosphere, the ocean sounds and smells replaced by those of the Arid Wastes, a drier, earthier scent tinged with danger and uncertainty. Opening his eyes, the young Abbot slumps his shoulders and gestures for me to approach, his slow and deliberate movements giving away just how hard it is for him to move. That shouldn’t be the case, as this is technically his Natal Palace, because that’s how Kukku’s dream attack works. Unlike Zhen Shi, who favours crafting the illusion himself, Kukku simply lets the target’s own innate desires create the illusion, a far more effective method in my eyes. Zhen Shi’s method has the benefit of ensuring all details are accounted for in painstaking effort, but the downside is that it’s easy to overlook something as simple as scent or texture, which was how I got out of one or two close scrapes.

That being said, if this is one of Kukku’s illusions, then it means the meditation scene was something the Abbot wholeheartedly desired, to sit down and be in the presence of his Mentor and Senior Brother again. Meanwhile, my innermost desire was a threesome with my two wives, which is totally understandable, but still shames me and makes me feel like a filthy pervert.

...Hang on. Thanks to the medicinal baths, courtesy of Taduk, Taiyi ZhuShen, and Li TieGuai, I have a refined body that’s tougher than your average Martial Warrior. Does this mean... I can have happy fun times with Mila... without breaking any bones?

God dammit! I’ve wasted so much time already. I need to get back in working order and er... test this theory, stat!

Taking a seat in front of the Abbot, I resist the urge to launch into a litany of my own problems and study him instead. “You... don’t look well.”

“Do I not?” Gesturing at himself with a wince, he makes an effort to straighten up with pride. “Even old as I am, I am still sometimes surprised by my reflection in the water, one I barely recognize at times. This form however, this is how I saw myself for many a decade, a handsome man with a winning smile, despite never winning anyone over with it.” Frowning as he studies my features, he adds, “Odd that you see yourself as older and less handsome than you are in life Junior Brother SanDukkha, an idiosyncrasy I would gladly delve into if matters were less dire.”

SanDukkha? Oh yea, my monk name which means ‘perpetual suffering’. No one ever uses it, so I almost forgot all about it. “You know how matters are progressing in the outside world?”

“No.” Shaking his head with a knowing smile, which I cannot deny is charming, the young Abbot looks me up and down, though his gaze lingers on my many gourds of negative emotion. “But if matters were not so dire, then you would not risk the destruction of your eternal soul to come here, even if you are armed for bear.”

...See, I figured that’s what was happening here, but it’s still disconcerting to have confirmation. Even though I don’t really know what a soul entails, I don’t feel great about risking it every time I go Natal Palace delving. Then again, the fact that Pong Pong and Ping Ping are willing to come visit me and risk their souls is heartening indeed, and it might be the same with Mama Bun, except I’m pretty sure she doesn’t understand the risk. Cute as a button but dumb as a bag of rocks, that’s my sweet Mama Bun, and I love her so. Okay, so I find dumb animals adorable, sue me. “Yea well, I’m having troubles communicating in real life. No idea why.” Still reluctant to dive right in and bombard him with questions, I glance around the Abbot’s Natal Palace in search of something amiss and ask, “So... what’s happening with you?”

“I am dying.” Though delivered with a casual tone and easygoing smile, the statement hits with the force of a truck and knocks the non-existent air out of my unneeded lungs, but he continues speaking without missing a beat. “Slowly, but surely, and short of a miracle of Heaven, I fear there is no cure in sight.” Holding a hand up to forestall my argument, he does that thing people do where they read my thoughts and then later deny having ever done so. “Damage done during a battle between Divinities is not limited to mere flesh and bone. Suffice it to say, my injuries go beyond the physical, and even your unique Healing method is not enough to save me.” Pressing his hands together, he bows in apology, and it’s easy to see how much even this minor gesture costs him. “Apologies, Junior Brother SanDukkha. This monk studied your methods in secret without first obtaining permission, and has long since uncovered the secrets to your ‘undying’ flesh. A clever method, to rely on the body’s ability to naturally Heal and merely accelerate the process, though the base root of your method speaks to an unprecedented knowledge of the human body.”

That’s bait if I ever saw it, an attempt to lure me into changing the subject and moving on from the Abbot’s dilemma, but I refuse to take it. “What sort of injuries go beyond the physical?” Even as I ask the question, the answer reveals itself to me. “Damage to the soul? How can that keep you down though? Repairing the soul is easy, just... do things you enjoy. Enjoy the company of people you care about. Reflect on memories that bring you comfort and happiness. Give Kukku a hug or something. All things that are good for the soul.”

“A remarkably astute observation for one so young and unlearned.” Tilting his head, the Abbot asks, “Did Brother Mahakala tell you this? Or perhaps your Teacher, the Medical Saint? No, neither one would be so irresponsible as to share such pertinent information before you were ready and risk ruining your future progress.” Eyes lighting up in understanding, he continues, “Of course, of course. You no doubt have a unique perspective of the soul, seeing as you are the Devourer. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

Partially true, but not entirely, as I owe most of my understanding to those feel-good story books, ‘Chicken Soup for the Soul’. Also, I did sever a whole bunch of my Soul and Devour it again, which now that I think about it is kinda gross, like swallowing something I’d already vomited up. “Stop deflecting. Why won’t any of my proposed solutions work?”

“Because, Junior Brother SanDukkha,” the Abbot says, his expression softening into one of easy acceptance. “This monk has no more people he loves or cares about, and believes he has nothing left to live for.”

Now there’s a conversation stopper if I ever heard one, so I sit and wait for him to elaborate. Glancing about the monastery, his eyes take on a forlorn cast as he sees something I cannot, something he remembers rather than what is shown before him. “You saw the illusion, yes? The differences in the monastery? That was in a time long past, one this monk can barely recall anymore, for it was long before I Formed a Natal Palace. Though I have tried to lock those memories in place, I cannot help but wonder about the details I’d since forgotten and wish I could remember them in greater clarity, if only so that I might indulge myself a little better.” Pointing at a now vacant spot, he sighs and says, “There, my Senior Brother sat, the role model for all to aspire to.” Moving his hand to point at the front where the aged monk sat and beat out a steady rhythm on his drum, he continues, “And there sat my Mentor, my Teacher, and a man who became a father to me, for he took me in and tended to my broken self when none others would have me.”

“And now they’re both gone,” I whisper, understanding where he’s going, and the Abbot nods in reply while reflecting on memories of a past that are denied to him forevermore.

After a long silence, the Abbot heaves another sigh and brushes away an unseen tear. “Not only this, but I have ruined everything they sought to create. By passing over Senior Brother and appointing me to Abbot, my Mentor inadvertently knocked Senior Brother off his Path, a misstep I failed to help him recover from before he died at Zhu Chanzui’s hands. Under this monk’s leadership and his endeavours to better influence the mortal world, the Brotherhood was forced into hiding, and recently fractured beyond all repair. Now, the world teeters on the brink of non-existence, but its members are too indifferent to even care, and this monk does not know how to sway them to his cause. ‘Whatever will be, will be’, is their prevailing thought, abstaining from taking a side for fear of being tainted by the red dust of the mortal world. Mistaken though his beliefs may be, at least Brother Vyakhya had the wherewithal to act on his convictions, while the others simply hide their heads in the sand and hope to weather the storm unscathed. Such arrogance, such sin, Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Hanging his head in shame, the Abbot closes his eyes and sighs a third time, his heart heavy and tears flowing, grieving his failures and welcoming the inevitable end, because he sees no other way to escape the pain.

I came here in search of help, but it seems the Abbot needs help even more than I do. Though I have no idea what to do, I do know that sometimes, people don’t need others to solve their problems for them, they just need someone to listen to them vent. I’ve done it often enough to know how it feels to have my problems trivialized by people who don’t understand. “Why are you depressed?” they’d ask, before the inevitable, “Just go out, relax, and have some fun, that’ll cheer you up.” As if I haven’t tried just being happy. Thanks for the advice, cured my depression right there. I’ll just be happy instead of being sad. Genius.

Knowing he has plenty more to get off his chest, I reach out to take his hand and wait until his eyes meet mine. “I am here to listen, if you care to talk.”

Despite the sorrow in his eyes, the Abbot manages to squeeze out a small smile, albeit a brief one that disappears soon after. “You have much wisdom for one so young,” he says, puffing up with the tiniest bit of pride. “Perhaps not all of this monk’s decisions were misguided, for though it divided the Brotherhood more than anything that came before, your words and actions have proven that you deserve your place as Wisdom of the Brotherhood.”

Arguable, but I don’t think now is the time to bring this up. Maybe later, when the Abbot is no longer suicidal and back to full health, but for now, we need to take the spotlight away from me and focus on him for a bit.

A shame he can’t be like me and just get a dog. That would for sure fix all that ails him, the love and companionship of a sweet pupper.

Chapter Meme
