Mila clutches my right arm while Yan has my left, radiating heat from their scantily clad bodies as they press themselves against me. Their unrestrained hunger making them more bold and adventurous than I’ve ever seen, and I yearn to give myself over to them and fulfill their every desire. Mounting a leg each, they pull me into their embrace and I lose myself in the heady, intoxicating haze of lust and longing, my carnal appetite unleashed and ready to be sated. Their smooth, silken skin, their soft, tender flesh, their fresh, carnal scent, I take it all in and only crave more as my mounting desire peaks and –

“Arf.”

Two, heavy paws land on my stomach and I double over in surprise, only to find myself sitting in bed with Buddy staring at me in what I can only describe as tired discontent. “Really?” he says, using only his eyes and body language to convey the message, not the young puppy eager to play, but the old dog letting me know in no uncertain terms that he’s tired of my shit and wants to sleep. “This is what you woke me up for? C’mon man. Get it together.”

Still shaken by my rude awakening, I absently squish his smooshy face and give his head a vigorous scratch, which is enough to earn me all the goodwill I lost and more. Trusting me to handle things on my own again, Buddy curls back up and settles in for a snooze as I wrap his blankets around him and place the pillow back beneath his chin. Once he’s suitably pampered, I slide off the bed and tiptoe out once again before teleporting back out to stand before the rift once again. This time, instead of barrelling through the barrier with all the grace and finesse of a bull in a china shop, I stop to study it again and sense a familiar presence there, one I’d missed the first time around because I was so fixated on Zhen Shi. That’s not who’s out there waiting for me, and I’ve an inkling suspicion who it might be, so I kindle an Aura filled with an emotional message I’ve only ever been on the receiving end of.

“Play?”

“Bwak-bwak?!”

The response is immediate, confused curiosity followed by gleeful recognition, and my request for access is granted with a note of eager impatience. Accepting the invitation with a thought, I close my eyes as the world shifts around me and open them once things settle in place. Standing before me is none other than Kukku himself, a tiny, mouse-sized chicken to my human-sized self, but a thought is all it takes to fix that perspective. Strutting about with wings spread wide, Kukku clucks up a storm while doing a little dance of greeting, running circles around me and expressing his heartfelt contentment to have me here. The rooster’s Natal Palace seems like a humble one as far as such things go, his Throne a simple dried grass nest that has been crafted to near perfection and tucked away in a cozy little cave that the two of us can barely stand in. Judging by the rising sun, Kukku’s cave faces south and is warmed and well-lit throughout most of the day, and there is no doubt in my mind that is why he chose this spot to nest in. Alas, there are no eggs for him to perch atop, nor any other amenities for the rooster to enjoy, which tells me either Kukku’s Natal Palace isn’t as well defined as one might expect, or his needs are so simple this is all that’s required to satisfy his desires.

Or at least, that’s what I thought until Kukku brings me outside the cave to see the world he’s created, a stunning reproduction of the Brotherhood’s monastery and the verdant mountain oasis around it. Though many of the details seem a bit fuzzy and the perspective a little off, everything is almost instantly recognizable as I realize exactly where we are. Wings still spread on either side, Kukku runs up the rocky path while looking back to make sure I follow, clucking all the while. Allowing myself to get caught up in the moment, I chase after him with a grin and laugh as he leaps into the air with feigned fright. Picking up the pace, he disappears into the brushes, but I can still sense his presence for he is poorly Concealed, knowing that I will never find him if he goes all out. Hide and seek is Kukku’s game of choice, and I am more than happy to indulge him, pretending to search high and low even though I’ve already spotted his hiding place, crouched in the shadow of a tree and peering out at me with his big, adorable eyes. The thrill and tension of almost being found is all part of the fun, while the practice and experience he gains in a lifesaving skill is just an added bonus. It’s the same way Ping Ping and Pong Pong love playing tag, to help hone their skills at chasing and being chased, while Mama Bun just likes running for the sake of running, without need to play a role as predator or prey.

As for Buddy? Dogs are supposed to love playing fetch, but while he’s happy to chase anything I throw, the game invariably turns into tug of war when he brings the toy back but refuses to let go. No take, only throw, that’s his mindset when it comes to fetch, only proving he’s not the sharpest tool in the shed. That’s something I love about him though, his big, dumb, adorable self, a dog who is neither traditionally handsome or remotely elegant, just a silly mutt that loves me no matter what.

The first time I find him, Kukku leaps with joy and flutters his wings while bawk-bawking all about, emitting a range of emotions too jumbled and chaotic for me to interpret with any accuracy. Best I can tell is he’s happy and nostalgic, stamping his feet repeatedly in the shade of the big tree. There’s a message here meant for me to understand, but it’s lost in translation as he cycles through his emotions too quickly, from fear and anger to comfort and relief, a deluge of sensations that Kukku is all too happy to share. Then, before I can explain my confusion, he crows to the sun and disappears once more, leaving to let me find him again.

His second hiding spot is inside the monastery proper, in a shed around the back which is now used for tool storage, but in Kukku’s Natal Palace, it’s a chicken coop instead. Hay and feed are scattered across the ground, and again, the silly rooster bombards me with emotion while doing a little chicken dance, albeit a muted one seeing how he’s constrained by the small size of the shack. As far as I can tell, he was furious to be here, then happy and relieved again, but I still can’t understand the message he’s trying to convey.

And so it continues, the same game followed by the same story and dance as Kukku brings me to all his favourite spots, including the monastery bell tower, the mountain paths behind the monastery, the oasis shore close to where the Defiled are now camped, and even the pit of worms Guard Leader almost inadvertently led us into. Going there would’ve been a death sentence for all of us, but Kukku sees it as a hunting spot where he goes to grab a delicious bite every few days. Those ugly, carrion worms emitted some sort of unnatural power, one that I’m not sure I could’ve defended against, but they’re nothing to Kukku who grew up in these parts and might well be the veritable king of the Arid Wastes. Kinda hilarious considering he’s scared of most things, but to be fair, he is a chicken.

Around the tenth time Kukku does his little emotion-filled song and dance, the message finally clicks with me. Much like when Ping Ping and Pong Pong brought me on a tour of their Natal Palaces, Kukku is sharing his life story with me, showing me where all these important events took place. I don’t know what events he’s trying to convey, but there’s an element of safety and comfort in all of them, one I think I might have already identified. “Did you come here with the Abbot?” I ask, and Kukku’s expression perks up at the mention of his friend, and I swear the rooster nods like... well, like a chicken pecking grains. “He brought you to all these places, didn’t he? Helped you become a Spiritual Beast. Probably found you in the wild and tamed you first though, so he wouldn’t have to worry about you turning wild and powerful.” Though Kukku doesn’t understand all the words I’m using, I like to think he’s picking up on the general gist of what I’m saying, as I have more practice than he does when it comes to communicating through Aura. The silly rooster can’t even use Emotional Aura in the real world, though I have no idea what it is that keeps him from doing so. I do know that Aura is usually the last milestone for Spiritual Beasts, though I have no idea why considering it’s usually the second or third after Core Creation for humans. If anything, I would’ve thought Aura would come easier to animals, seeing how in touch with their own needs and emotions they are. Then again, you could argue that this is because animals are controlled by their emotions rather than the ones in control, beholden to instinct and inclination for survival while humans usually try to rise above them.

Of course, this whole experience brings me to another question, which is why did Pong Pong, Ping Ping, and Kukku all feel the need to tell me their life’s story as seen in their Natal Palace?

The question lingers in the back of my head as we continue to play hide and seek, until Kukku brings me to a cave I’ve never seen, but recognize from Jorani’s descriptions. “This is where Vyakhya hid GangShu and the Ascendants,” I say, more for my benefit than his. Judging by the torrent of glee, guilt, alarm, and anxiety, I somehow sense Kukku is telling me the story of how he met Jorani, a suspicion cemented in place when the rooster stands at the narrow pass and blocks an unseen but supposedly terrifying figure from passing. This rooster is so dramatic, but I love it, except now I’ve been reminded of why I’m here. “Hang on a second, Kukku.” Pausing mid-story, the rooster cocks his head at the sound of his name, expectantly waiting for me to continue. “I need to see the Abbot. Can you bring me to him?” Feathers deflating now that playtime is over, the rooster looks so sad I can’t help but add, “We can play later, I promise.”

That puts a little pep in his step, and he brings me back to the desert dwelling where I found the Abbot in real life, only here in the Natal Palace, Kukku has no need to go inside. Resting his beak on my shoulder, he seeks a comforting embrace as he grieves for his friend and father, the Abbot who hand raised him from a chick and guided him along the... not the Martial Path, but Kukku’s Path, whatever it might be. People who say animals don’t feel emotions the same way people do just haven’t spent enough time around them, and Kukku’s concern is all the proof anyone should ever need. He knows the Abbot needs help and wishes he could do something about it, but alas, he’s just a chicken and doesn’t understand what’s happening.

Sadly, he doesn’t think there’s anything I can do either, but he’s not going to stop me from trying.

Rubbing his cheeks in fond farewell, I make no promises as I slip out into the Void, guided to my destination by Kukku’s unspoken directions. Again, I close my eyes as the world shifts around me, and when I open them once more, I stand in the monastery once more, but a different monastery from the one I visited judging by the vast body of water stretching out across the horizon. The salty tang of the air tells me we’re probably by the ocean, though I have little else to go on besides that, but almost everything else about the monastery is exactly the same, from the plain, stone courtyard to the carved pillars full of characters I can’t read.

Standing at the back of the courtyard, I turn my gaze upon the monks seated before me in quiet meditation, the instruments of their self-inflicted punishments nowhere to be found. Instead, they sit with hands formed in a Sutra of self-study as they seek inner calm and Balance, every last one of them breathing to the beat of a drum in the hands of a wizened old monk who I do not recognize. The drum is familiar though, an exact copy of the wooden fish the Abbot used in Sinuji, though it can’t possibly be the same one. That was the Abbot’s Spiritual Weapon, and this one... well this one is also a Spiritual Weapon, but one that belongs to the old monk seated at the front of the crowd. Moving around to get a better look at the monks, I immediately spot a familiar face, but not one I expected to see here. There in the front row sits none other than Mahakala, but not the obese, ragged monk I knew in life. This Mahakala I recognize from his appearance inside his Natal Palace, a lean, chiselled man in the prime of life and clothed in spotless, unwrinkled robes. Peace and serenity are etched into his youthful features, and while they do much to ease the lines of worries in his face, this younger Mahakala has seen too much suffering to ever let himself wholly relax, even here in the company of his Brothers.

Other than him, I don’t recognize anyone else in the crowd, but that doesn’t mean the Abbot isn’t here. I can’t find him because I have no idea how the Abbot visualizes himself, but after going through the crowd a second time, I realize most of the monks looked different from the first time around. Only a select few have the same features as before, and upon further study, I notice that I’m not actually seeing faces on most of the monks, but rather my mind is filling in the blanks as I gloss over them. There’s no way the Abbot’s Natal Palace could be this unstable given how he’s a bonafide Divinity, which means... there’s something off about this scene. I’m guessing this is an illusion brought about by Kukku’s dream attack, but why the Abbot would allow it to affect him like this is a complete mystery.

