Though yet to draw sabre from sheath, the shocking events of this past half hour left Song physically drained, with nerves frayed and spirits low.

Unable to process the massive, man-made blaze or Chi-fuelled waves of earth, Song fixated on matters she was more familiar with than powerful Blessings or technological miracles. Prior to tonight, she knew that even the strongest of Peak Experts were no match for Ancestral Beasts, at least not in open confrontation, but the might of Divinity transcended anything she’d ever envisioned. Despite knowing it was rude to stare, she couldn’t help but study the Living Legend Nian Zu, looking resplendent in his gold-rimmed armour despite his recent failure. With his black cloak swaying in the wind, he channelled enough Chi to make her skin itch, no doubt replenishing his reserves for what would come next. Standing over two-metres tall, he looked the part of Peak Expert with his steely gaze, luxurious beard, and overall heroic bearing, and more importantly, he certainly lived up to his reputation. Though it all happened in the blink of an eye, Song replayed the memory of the Colonel General’s daring attack over and over again in her mind, and each time it took her breath away. His speed and grace, power and poise, it all exceeded what she expected even from a Peak Expert of his calibre, elevating a simple throw of his mace to the point where it earned its well-deserved acclaim as his devastating signature move, the inescapable Shooting Star.

Having seen the attack firsthand, Song lamented how no words would ever do the Shooting Star justice. There Zhu Chanzui stood, the Bristleboar Immortal in all his glory, staring down the three Imperial Divinities across from him. A hulking beast of a man, he dwarfed the other Divinity beside him in both size and presence, a head taller and a quarter wider than even Papa who was the largest man Song knew. Dressed in a plain blue tunic and loose, silken trousers, there was nothing about his attire which hinted at his true identity, yet no one could ever mistake him for anything but a Divinity, a being who exuded grandeur and vigour through his mere existence. Guan Suo, the Abbot, and even GangShu in his Runic Armour fell far short of this majestic being, a primal force of nature which filled Song with awe and terror.

Then, the Shooting Star struck and the fields of Sinuji exploded for the second time this night, leaving Song entranced with wonder as she took in the pinnacle of mortal power. There was no flash of light or hum of power, only an eruption of ash and soil as Nian Zu’s mace met Ancestral Beast flesh in an ear-shattering clap of epic proportions. The following attacks were all impressive in their own right, yet they all fell short of matching the Living Legend’s defining strike, like a collection of amateur artworks arranged around a true masterpiece.

And seconds later, when the clouds of dust settled to reveal Zhu Chanzui standing unmoved and barely bleeding, her bewonderment was swept away by cold, abject horror.

The unfathomable chasm between Zhu Chanzui and Colonel General Nian Zu left Song wondering if it was even possible for mere mortals to ever bridge such a staggering, insurmountable divide, for it did not seem like a disparity mere talent or effort could even explain. The Shooting Star was powerful enough to kill Song a thousand times over, capable of wiping out a hundred armed and armoured Death Corps warriors standing in formation. Even if she were to replace those Death Corps guards with a hundred Dastans all bearing Runic Shields, it was hard to imagine a scenario in which any of them survived, yet this attack, this singular strike which approached the apex of humanity’s potential, failed to move Zhu Chanzui even a single step.

Mortal and Divinity? A toddler attacking a Peak Expert had better chances of victory.

“No need to fret, Li-Li,” Tursinai Sent, her arm wrapping around Song’s shoulders to hug her from behind. “Rain’s back now, all safe and sound.”

Cringing in shame at her indifference over Rain’s plight, she couldn’t bring herself to meet his gaze as Zabu carried him over the parapets with an almost effortless hop. Although the equine gajashias were too heavy to replicate Zabu’s feat, the rammed-earth walls would prove no obstacle for the lizardlike garos, and from what little she could see of the survivors, there were still enough mounted Northern Defiled to take Sinuji without support. Out of habit, she lifted her saber a hand’s breadth out of the sheathe just to make sure it was clear for the battle ahead, only to realize her fingers had been wrapped around the hilt since the blaze first flared up. Relinquishing her white-knuckled hold on her weapon, she shook her hand loose and put her Healing skills to work clearing out the bruises on her palm, so purple and painful it would’ve hindered her greatly in the coming conflict. Having familiarized herself with Panacea over the past few months, the pain faded away in a matter of seconds while the bruises followed shortly after, and as always, Song marvelled at the ease and swiftness with which she mended her injuries.

Feeling safe in Tursinai’s embrace, Song closed her eyes and steadied her breathing to match the Khishig expert behind her, and only then did she feel confident enough to speak. “Thank you, Big Sister,” she Sent, inwardly justifying the needless expenditure of Chi by claiming she was simply following Tursinai’s example, but in truth, she didn’t trust her voice to hold steady. “For everything, not just your constant support and protection.”

“Think nothing of it, sweet Li-Li.” Punctuating the sentiment with a peck on the cheek, Tursinai hugged her a little tighter and added, “Don’t worry. The clash between Divinities won’t affect us here, not tonight at least. All we need to deal with are the hundreds of thousands of Defiled and dozens of Demons before us. Not a problem.”

Though light-hearted in delivery, it was impossible to miss the underlying tension in her statement. Taking Tursinai’s hand in her own, Song squeezed tight to reassure the older Khishig and reminded herself that their ages were separated by less than a decade. Even though their strengths differed like night and day, Tursinai was only twenty nine to Song’s twenty two and not so much older or more experienced to have not been rattled by tonight’s events, so Song did what she could to comfort her good friend and protector. Noticing Tenjin still standing an arm’s length away, Song sidled closer to his side and he immediately picked up on the unspoken hint, taking his wife’s hand in his own while flashing his warm smile. Their combined efforts were immediately rewarded with a soft, contented sigh as Tursinai leaned her head against Tenjin’s shoulder while still hugging Song tight.

A small comfort, but a much needed one, especially considering the battle had yet to begin and all hope already seemed lost.

Oddly enough, Rain didn’t appear to care about the Enemy’s overwhelming numbers and remained seated atop Zabu, a slack smile on his lips and a distant look in his eyes as he was no doubt lost in his thoughts about something or the other. Perhaps he was perfecting his plan to engulf the Enemy in yet another man-made inferno, or devising new methods of massed destruction, but either way, now was not the time for distraction. Patting Tursinai’s hand for reassurance, Song slipped out of her embrace and headed over to help Rain out of Zabu’s harness so he could prepare for the coming bloodshed.

“Leave him be, girl.” Barring her way with a meaty palm, Ghurda directed Song away not just from Rain, but from the parapets themselves. “Better fer all of us if he stays mounted, more mobile this way. Ye gather the rest of his people and have ‘em stand down, but don’t get too comfortable. Didn’t hear everything the two of em gabbed about, but little Rain put a real burr in that Defiled shit’s saddle, he did. Wouldn’t surprise me if we get hit hard in the first wave and harder again in the second, so best be ready to fall back should we need to.”

Knowing Rain’s penchant for ridiculing his enemies, Song didn’t doubt Ghurda’s prediction one bit, but she wasn’t sure the hulking half-bear had the authority to make these decisions. Besides, if Rain’s troops were to stand down, then who would hold the wall? Lieutenant Masahige’s bunch? Not likely. Unsure how to bring her concerns up, Song eyed the Colonel General for confirmation, but he was busy Sending orders and directing the troops on the outer wall, though to what end, she could not tell. With Ghurda physically hurrying her, Song had no choice but to heed her orders, so she left Rain with Ghurda and strode over to Dastan’s side. After a moment’s hesitation, she took his wrist in hand, as it was best to communicate through Sending so as not to alarm or alert the surrounding soldiers. “Gather your men and stand down. Ghurda’s orders.”

Eyes fixated on the Defiled horde, Dastan stood rooted to the spot, his axe and shield both in hand and ready to taste blood. “Ghurda does not command me,” he Sent, his tone neither heated nor impassioned. “Until Rain tells us otherwise, my soldiers and I will remain at our posts and defend this wall to our dying breath.” Lips quirking in a half-smile, he added, “Tell Ghurda me and mine have caused Rain trouble enough. We know what’s coming and we’ve made our peace, so once we’re all gone, the Justicars will have no plausible reason to keep Rain conscripted and he’ll be free to go back to the citadel and recover in relative peace.”

“He won’t like this. He’s doing all this to keep you all alive.” Dastan had to know as much, which left Song to wonder how he could remain standing in spite of defying his master’s wishes, implied though they might be.

“And I’ll stay alive for as long as I can,” Dastan replied, turning to give Song a pointed look. “Also, considering my existence itself is a threat to our master’s life, it would be in his best interests for you to keep quiet about our decision. You know full well how he would react, so telling him would be akin to placing him in more danger.”

A roundabout way of defying their master’s known desires, by rationalizing that it was for Rain’s sake, but it worked. Song no longer felt compelled to inform him of Dastan’s intention to die in battle, though she wasn’t entirely sure how Ghurda would take the news. Desperately wishing she had someone else to pass all this responsibility off to, she returned to Ghurda and summoned her courage before taking the half-bear’s hand, uncomfortable with being so direct with someone she barely knew. Needs must, however, except having gotten over this hurdle, Song then realized she hadn’t considered how to best frame Dastan’s refusal, so she simply stood there in muted panic while clutching Ghurda’s massive hand in both of her own, her eyes wide and mind blank as she locked eyes with the fearsome woman’s confused stare.

After far too long a silence, Ghurda asked, “Well? Spit it out girl. Ye got a frog in yer throat or something? What’s the matter?”

“Dastan wants to stay and fight.”

“Hmm? And who said otherwise?” Having forgotten to Send in her moment of panic, Rain overheard Song’s blurted statement and brought Zabu over to join them. “Were we ordered to fall back?”

Quailing before Ghurda’s sour grimace, Song held her tongue and tried her best not to look at Rain lest her Oaths compel her to answer what was most likely a direct question. Until she was certain, she could keep quiet, but with each passing second, she felt the Heavens closing in around her and squeezing her inner organs tight. “Ach, take a deep breath before ye faint, lass,” Ghurda chided, gently patting her back and supporting her from the side despite her gruff tone, transforming from formidable warrior to doting aunt in the blink of an eye. Well, she was Papa’s half-sister by blood, seeing as they were both half-grizzlies, even though the Bekhai didn’t put much stock on matters of ancestry. “Shouldn’t have asked this of ye, fergot all about yer troubles. My apologies lass, old Ghurda here gettin’ on in the years and ain’t in the habit of thinkin’ much.” After making sure Song was feeling better, Ghurda turned to Rain and said, “I told yer bunch to stand down, on account o’ the shit-storm ‘bout to come this way. Ye startled that Gen something fierce out there, and as fun as it was to see him flinch, it might not’ve been yer best and brightest, if ye know what I mean. Ain’t hard to see where yer standin’, boy, not with the rest of the wall packed to the gills and this here bit bare as a courtesan’s cunt, so I figured it was best we get you and yer ready to run.”

“I appreciate the gesture,” Rain replied, exchanging a wordless glance with Dastan before continuing, “But my people have been here for over a month now, and this is the first real army we’ve seen. Hardly seems right not to let them have first crack at it. They’ve earned as much. Besides,” he added with a smile, raising his voice for the surrounding soldiers to hear. “We’ve already killed the lion’s share of Defiled. Battle’s half-way won already, so all that’s left is to kill these stragglers and let the reinforcements clean up.”

