A wave of chuckles rose up as Rain’s joke made it’s way down the line of defenders, and once again Song marvelled at how he’d grown into command. Not even two years had passed since he dominated their afternoons, pestering Sister Mila and herself for hours on end with questions on the most basic of issues regarding tactics and command, but since then, he’d come into his own and now conducted himself like a leader born. A casual joke to raise morale and remind everyone not only of how half the Enemy’s numbers had been taken out in one fell swoop, but also that reinforcements were inbound to support them, it was a succinct reminder which seemed simple enough, but depended heavily on delivery, and Rain did it well.

Arrogant, yet not overly so, with enough good-humour laced into his tone so the soldiers knew he wasn’t a clueless dandy who didn’t understand the first thing about real warfare.

Obviously displeased by Rain’s flippant attitude in the face of overwhelming odds, Ghurda nonetheless held her tongue and let him do as he pleased, one of the few failings of the Bekhai Song would ever admit. They gave their youngsters far too much leeway in matters of importance, not just Rain, but others as well, most notably Auntie Ghurda’s son, the half-wolf Huushal who’d been stricken with Spectres, the Father’s unseen Demons who’d yet to take form. Still, it’d worked out thus far for Rain at least, so she prayed for her... half-step-brother, or something along those lines.

Perhaps this was why the Bekhai cared so little about bloodlines. These threads were far too tangled to be bothered with. If they cared, Rain would never marry Sister Mila, seeing as how they were also technically Nephew and Aunt.

“I understand your concern,” Rain said, more to reassure Ghurda than explain his actions, “And if Gen sends his Demons in to spearhead the charge, then I’ll need to depend on your capable self, but his Chosen? If they’re anything like him, then they’re nothing to concern ourselves with.” His smile melting away, Rain turned to face the Defiled army and narrowed his eyes, as if he were face to face with his hated enemy himself. “Let me tell you about Gen. I met him outside Sanshu, after washing up on shore next to a nameless little village.” Shaking his head with a self-deprecating laugh which failed to reach his eyes, he continued, “Funny how the world works. We would’ve never crossed paths if I hadn’t tried to physically stop a speeding boat full of bandits and gotten dragged out into Western Treasure’s Lake. If I hadn’t miraculously survived that trip and pulled myself out of the water a week later, maybe Gen would still be in that village, living the life of a village hunter and bullying poor Qing-Qing until she had no choice but to marry him.”

Though spoken softly for only Ghurda and Song to hear, Rain’s voice rang clearly in her ears over the din of soldiers shuffling into place and Officers bellowing orders and platitudes to keep morale high. Glancing around, she found that she wasn’t the only one who’d noticed, as Lieutenant Masahige and his soldiers were visibly hanging onto Rain’s every word, as were Nian Zu and his Experts gathered off to one side even though most were too far to properly hear. “That’s who Gen was before he made up the ‘Emissary’,” Rain continued, his loathing infecting all who heard him. “A hunter, guardian, and provider, a man standing on the cusp of the Martial Path, yet with all his power and influence, he chose to oppress a poor orphan girl who didn’t want to be his wife. See, Qing-Qing was my saviour, found me blind, deaf, and half-drowned on the beach before she nursed me back to health. A commoner and orphan, she lived in a drafty, one-room shack with barely enough for herself, but she didn’t think twice about taking a stranger in and sharing what little she had. That’s the kind of person she was, a sweet girl with a golden heart. Smart too. Saw my Spiritual Weapon and hid it away, because she knew the villagers might sell me to bandits if they thought I was someone important, and in her eyes, any Martial Warrior with a Spiritual Weapon must be a lord or noble.”

Rain loved Qing-Qing. It was difficult to say how Song knew, but she could sense how fond he was of the village girl, his words filled with admiration and respect that Song experienced for herself simply by his tale. Beside her, Aunty Ghurda gasped and went stiff as a board, visibly shocked by Rain’s tale, but by now, almost every visible soldier around them was facing him. Even soldiers further along the wall who couldn’t possibly see or hear him were turned towards them, and Song finally understood there was something... supernatural afoot, though what, she didn’t entirely understand.

Then Rain’s tale continued, and the mystery didn’t matter anymore. “For weeks, she tended to me, cooking and feeding me meals, washing my blankets and bandages, using what little medical knowledge she had to brew medicine and apply poultices. When I finally came to my senses, the first thing I heard was Gen pressuring her to be his wife, trying to tempt her with promises of what the next village chief could bring her and telling her how other women were throwing themselves at him.” His lip curling into a sneer, he coldly uttered, “Pathetic. You see, the great hunter Gen was desperate to convince Qing-Qing because he felt threatened by the half-dead man lying unconscious inside her shack. Told her she owed him because his parents looked after her when her parents died, that she had no skills and no future without him, aside from whoring herself out for food once his help went away. He even warned her that she best pray I would never wake, because I’d probably rape her and he ‘wasn’t interested in spoiled goods’. These were his words, spoken to the woman he supposedly loved. Disgusting.”

Song wasn’t the only one influenced by Rain’s contempt, the soldiers around her growling and muttering about how Gen was no proper man and how they would’ve taught him a proper lesson. Hearing them, Rain nodded without looking away, his gaze still locked on Gen across from them. “Yea, I felt the same way, but Qing-Qing wouldn’t have it. Asked me not to hurt Gen even after he waved a spear in my face on my way to speak to his father for the first time. She felt indebted to her fellow villagers even though they turned against her for Gen, and all she wanted was for me to bring her away so she could start a new life somewhere else. That’s it. She didn’t ask for vengeance or repayment, for power or wealth, she just wanted to be free to pick and choose what she would do with her future. I agreed of course, and was more than happy to help, but while waiting on supplies and horses, Gen must have caught wind of her plans and he snapped. Attacked her in broad daylight, he did, screaming obscenities about what he would do once I left, so I gave him a light beating to put him in his place. Nothing life threatening, because Qing-Qing begged me to spare him, so I just showed him what it was like to be the powerless one and bruised him up a bit. A night’s rest and he’d wake with a few lumps and aches, but he’d still be healthy enough to work, yet even this minor lesson was too much for the next village chief. That’s what turned him Defiled, rejection and a light beating. It shouldn’t come as a surprise that he would eventually turn, seeing as how he’s a weak-willed, snivelling coward, but it’s astounding how little it took to turn him against humanity. No broken bones, no gut-wrenching terror, barely even any blood or suffering. A woman’s scorn and a couple punches, no worse than what his father should’ve given him for being a little shit. A father Gen tortured and killed after turning Defiled, for that is what they do. I saved what villagers I could and ran, but he later caught up and killed most of them. Almost killed me too.” Voice breaking, he added, “But not before he killed Qing-Qing, because I was too weak to save her.”

Tearing his eyes away from the Enemy for the first time, Rain pointed at the opposing horde as his booming voice spoke to his admiring audience. “That is the man who leads our enemies. A bully. A coward. A traitor and kin-killer. This is not the first time Gen has brought an army to Sinuji, because deep down, he knows his lies for what they are, and only when I am dead will he be free to forget. We threw him back then, slaughtered his three-hundred thousand Defiled, but he survived like the cockroach he is. Today, he returned with a million Defiled at his back, and already half lie dead at his feet. Sinuji will not fall to a man like him, not so long as good soldiers of the Empire stand against him! Brothers and Sisters, I, Falling Rain have many regrets, but my greatest regret is sparing that bastard Gen and allowing matters to progress this far. I implore you all to stand with me tonight and help me correct the error of my ways. Death to Gen! Death to the Defiled!”

“Death to Gen! Death to the Defiled!”

More than thirty thousand voices echoed Rain’s cry, including Song’s own, yet somehow, their combined shout still failed to match his conviction and determination, and when Rain followed it up with a personal addendum, she understood why.

“For Qing-Qing,” he whispered, and for a moment, to Song’s eyes, he looked taller and more imposing than Zhu Chanzui could ever be.

Because by some hallowed miracle of Heaven, Falling Rain was a Martial Warrior once again, recovering his strength just in time to face his most hated foe on the fields of Sinuji for the second time.

Truly, the Chosen Son of the Mother, for who else could be so blessed?

Chapter Meme
