“Save your strength my boy,” the Medical Saint answered, wiping Rain’s pale face with a handkerchief. “I didn’t want to wake you, but I had no choice. You’ve been poisoned by something I’ve never seen or read about. No one else is showing symptoms, so this attack must have been directed at you. Tell me, have you eaten or drank anything suspicious? We must find the culprit and force him to identify the poison else you’ll be incapacitated for weeks, if not months.”

“Well... Shit.”

“Language my boy, language.”

“Sorry.” Closing his eyes, Rain quietly coughed and thought things through while Yuzhen and the other guests waited with bated breath. After an eternity of silence, Rain finally opened his eyes and chuckled, shaking his head ever so slightly. “Damn. I think it was the idiot servant.”

After listening to Rain’s theory on how he was poisoned, Yuzhen felt the urge to smack him upside the head and ask who was the real idiot. A single cup to control which one he drank, running back and forth so no one could accidentally drink from a poisoned teapot or see him poison the cup, making eye contact with a young noble and then disappearing without warning, all strange behaviour unbecoming of a servant. What happened? Rain was normally so wary and perceptive, for him to stumble like this was entirely out of character.

“Well, he’s probably long gone by now,” Rain said, eyes closed in rest. “Guess I scared him off when I asked for a bigger cup, haha.” With a tired sigh, he asked, “So why will this take weeks to recover from?”

Instead of taking offence at an open challenge to his skills, the Medical Saint merely shook his head in defeat. “Whoever arranged this knew of your Healing abilities and planned accordingly. They didn’t poison you, not exactly. Whatever it is, it’s taken root in your intestines and created... not an obstruction, but an impediment of sorts. In small doses, this wouldn’t be an issue and to some it might even be considered a boon, helping to filter the rich blood flowing out of your intestines. Problem is, you consumed too much and now the obstruction is so dense, it’s creating blood clots which are carried away to the rest of your body. You were lucky, my boy. Had this clot travelled to your brain instead of your lungs, you’d have had a stroke or possibly even outright died. As it is, you passed out from a pulmonary embolism in your lungs.”

“Oh. Least I’m not dead.” Furrowing his brow, Rain continued, “Clots are easy to deal with, I can handle that myself, though it’d require constant surveillance. Hmm... I can’t remove the impediment. My body doesn’t recognize it as harmful or foreign, so my Healing does nothing. How clever, using medicine to kill.”

“Indeed, but not to worry. Though removing the cause is beyond my skills, treating the symptoms is simple enough. Blood flow will break down the impediment in time and while this will lead to more blood clots, so long as we have a healer watching you around the clock, no harm will come to you.”

“Why don’t you just remove the impediment?”

Shaking her head at Rain’s question, Yuzhen worried that a clot had already reached his brain and was affecting his memory. He’d only just stated that the body didn’t recognize the impediment as harmful, so there was no way to target it with Healing. The Medical Saint said as much, but Rain merely smiled. “No, I mean physically remove it. With a knife. Slice my stomach open, cut out the afflicted section of intestine, and Heal me back up. Easy peasy.”

A bark of laughter slipped through Yuzhen’s lips before she could stop it, but thankfully, she wasn’t the only one. Nervous chuckles emanated from the gathered guests at the thought of doing something so barbaric. Vivisection and flesh-sculpting were the pursuits of madmen and sadists, like the heretic Zhen Shi and his ilk. For Rain to suggest such a thing was -

“Brilliant!” With a dazzling smile which had Yuzhen swooning on her feet, the Medical Saint beckoned for Baatar’s help. “Come, make a single long incision here, deep enough to penetrate the abdominal cavity but not enough to rupture his intestines, else we’ll have a real mess on our hands...”

The next fifteen minutes were the longest quarter hour of Yuzhen’s life. It was small comfort knowing she wasn’t alone in her torment, the other guests also forced to sit and watch while the Medical Saint and Baatar eviscerated Falling Rain on stage in front of them. Once the cut was made, the Medical Saint stuck his hand into the bloody incision and rummaged about, chewing on his tongue and humming beneath his breath while Rain’s guts spluttered and squelched. After long minutes of ransacking the cavity to no avail, the Medical Saint snorted in discontent and pulled out an entire length of intestine, inspecting it centimetre by centimetre while it was still attached to Rain like a length of bloody, throbbing rope. Soon, he gave a cry of success and held out a section of blackened intestine. With two flicks of his wrist, Baatar cut it free and the severed piece fell to the stage, rolling away while the Medical Saint cackled with delight while holding two spurting sections of guts in his blood-soaked hands.

Thankfully, Yuzhen’s mind blocked out the rest and soon enough, she looked down at a shirtless, bloodied, but uninjured Falling Rain. Mouth twisted in a grimace, he plucked at his black silk pants covered in his own blood and quipped, “Next time, we should put down towels first. I really liked these pants.”

Mind buffeted by alternating waves of shocked disbelief and fearful apprehension, Yuzhen struggled to keep her mouth closed and feet steady. More than one guest had fainted with others wavering on the precipice, and it was all Yuzhen could do to hold back the bile rising in her throat, but Rain? His eyes were wide open throughout the entire ordeal, yet he never made a sound. Now, minutes after being disembowelled, he sat on the stage floor with bowl and chopsticks in hand, shovelling food into his mouth while cracking jokes about needing to put on weight. Even without his new title of Imperial Consort, Yuzhen suspected that once word of tonight’s events spread, no one would dare cross him ever again.

‘The Undying Savage,’ the people would say, ‘is entirely devoid of mercy.’

Even towards himself.

Chapter Meme
