“Alandria Clayfield, the daughter and the main proponent of moving the Clayfields from Frontier back to Spur, is the ‘Lady’.” Poi said, “Gwynewyn Clayfield is a Baroness. The family is from a small holding known as Steelbend, across from the Fin river, from Redder, under Greendale’s flag.”

Teressa pulled in a sudden breath. “Big nobles. Damn.”

As they walked through the wide road between the various fields of the Garden that surrounded the Human District, Erick asked, “Greendale is the main city, right?”

“Correct.” Poi said, “Steelbend is actually a very prosperous town. Maybe a hundred thousand people.”

“Oh. Wow.” Erick said, “I did not expect that. She talked like it was some village, or something.”

“She was being modest.”

Teressa hummed again. “Well… If she’s modest.” She rapidly added, “She was just playing a part. You never know with those types.”

Erick chuckled as they left the Human District, headed toward some caterers Poi knew.

- - - -

“All you want is meat, bread, cheese, wine, and beer?” said a skinny incani man behind the counter, equal parts delighted, terrified, worried, and hopeful.

Poi had taken them to an event caterer, that dealt with large scale events. Most of the building was full of Grand [Prestidigitation] stoves and walk-in ovens and all sorts of heavy duty mixers, along with the smells of everything good to eat under the sun, but this room was a smaller front room. It was just the space where customers spoke to representatives of the company. There was little more than a register in one corner, and a nice, homey kitchen table. More than a few wedding paintings adorned the walls. This place did a lot of weddings with guest lists in the range of ten to fifteen thousand, according to Poi.

Erick repeated his order, as succinctly as he could, “Enough for 5,000 people. Yes. In seven hours.” He said, “There’s going to be lots of vegetables and such provided by others, but I want this stuff to be good, and a lot of it; enough for double meals. I’d say I want to order for 10,000, but I know that would be impossible given the time frame. And I know it’s a rush order, so double your price.” He added, “And you don’t have to serve any of it. I’ll serve it all myself, and take it directly from your kitchens, when it is ready. It doesn’t have to be ready all at the same time.”

“Oh my gods,” the man mumbled to himself. He suddenly focused, with laser intensity, as he asked, “Is 7 hours a hard limit? We can do 10 to 12. No one can get you better timing than that. And our price will stay the same. Our price normally includes waiters and such, but— I need to start cooking.” He almost got up from his chair, but he sat back down, saying, “I’m going to need half the money up front. We cannot provide service on a seven hour timeframe, but if you do not need the service, then we can just provide the food itself. There will be roast meats, mostly shredded. We’ll make the bread here, too. We were not expecting this, but we can do this. We can do this, sir.”

Erick smiled. “What is the menu going to look like?”

“Shredded beef. Shredded pork. Both with lots of sauce for dipping. Those will be made here, and be the bulk of what we will make. Loaves of good, white bread, will be purchased through several bakeries around town and elsewhere. We normally make bread here, too, and we will make some of it, but there is not enough time to make it all. The cheese is bought elsewhere. We order fifty-kilo logs of cheese all the time from a few different producers, and we can get you both hard and soft in about a 50-50 split. Beer and wine— Were you thinking one person per one bottle of wine, or two? One keg of beer is usually enough for 50 people, or 10 orcol-people.”

“Two.” He added, “Five per keg.”

“About how many orcols? Any wrought?”

Erick glanced over to Candlepoint, then came back to himself. “I’m going to say 1500 orcols. Zero wrought.”

“We can do that.” The incani man said, “I’m going to quote a price, and it should be correct, but it might be off by 20 percent.”

“That’s fine.”

“12,000 gold upfront. 18,000 afterward. About 4 gold, 6 silver per lot of food, considering 6500 people.” He added, “It’s the best price you could get, too. Me and my people will be working extra hard to make sure this works.”

“You take Mage Bank, right?”

The man chuckled, saying, “Of course we do!”

Erick handed the man his Mage Guild badge, saying, “Go ahead and get started.”

The man took the badge, like it was a precious gem. He asked, “Where is this food going, may I ask?”

“To Candlepoint.”

The man went still.

Erick expected some sort of reaction, so that was fine. He kept going. “They recently lost nine out of every ten people to the Ballooning Horde, when the Shade in charge let it happen, on purpose. I’ve stepped in to help where I could. Bulgan has left the city, too.”

The man, now still, and thinking, said nothing for a moment. He broke his silence, saying, “I thought they were monsters.”

“One of them cleansed themselves of the Darkness and was resurrected by Koyabez, in order to help facilitate some sort of understanding between shadelings and the rest of civilization. Her name is Justine, and she’s staying at my home, right now.” Erick said, “I still have no idea what’s up with Candlepoint but I hope that the people there can come back from being monsters, just like Justine. Whatever the case, that’s all above me, quite honestly. I’m just here to help people who need help, and right now I feel as though the shadelings are people who need help.” He added, “But I wouldn’t go there myself, in person. Maybe in a year, if it continues to be okay.”

The man softly said, “My brother died in Ar’Kendrithyst, last year. He was at Candlepoint, in the beginning. I don’t think he’s there anymore.” He asked, “I thought they were just another trap?”

“They are, and they are not. Don’t go there yourself and don’t get involved if you can help it.” Erick said, “I’m going to be prudent, too, and stay away. But I can’t not help people who need help.”

“Yeah...” The man stared at Erick’s badge. From one moment to the next, professionalism took over. The man sat straighter. He grabbed a ledger, and wrote down the numbers on the back of Erick’s badge, as a tendril of thought trailed away from his head. In a moment, he handed Erick back his badge, saying, “You’ve been approved— Of course you were. But. Procedure. Thank you very much for your business.” More tendrils radiated from his head as he concentrated hard for a long moment.

Erick counted the tendrils. Only eight. The man had none of the usual calm, twenty talks going on at once, that Poi sometimes had. But that was to be expected.

All at once the tethers snapped. The man smiled, and stood from his chair. “We’re good. It’s happening. Thank you.”

Erick stood with him. “Thank you. I know it’s short notice.”

“Not a problem.” The incani man said, “A pleasure doing business with you, Archmage Flatt. My employees are already purchasing what needs to be purchased. We have many things to cook, rather fast. Thank you for choosing Palasio’s Caterers for your catering needs.”

“Thank you for being able to fulfill the request.” Erick asked, “By the way: Are you Palasio?”

“Yes. But the business is my father’s. Same name."

Erick smiled. “A pleasure to meet you, Palasio. I look forward to a good outcome.”

Palasio said, “And you shall have it!”

- - - -

Erick walked down a wide road where the air smelled of flowers, and wind flowed freely.

Before Erick started controlling the weather, causing ‘natural’ rains every two or three days, almost the entire city had been constructed with wide open spaces and thick, stone walls, with more concern given to making the [Temperature Ward]s inside houses last longer, and little regard for how water would flow across the blocky architecture. Outdoor places where people were meant to hang out were not quite so blocky, but instead had stone overhangs and airy arches and more than enough space for breezes. The fabric district of Spur, while not a true District, was one such place that kept its architecture unchanged, after the rains began. Their outdoor fabric market was ancient and blocky, and they were not willing to change for anyone. They did put up some really nicely colored [Weather Ward]s over the whole place, though, like a woven roof.

Fabrics fluttered in the breeze, showcasing their lightness or thickness, their transparency or opaqueness. Reds, golds, blues. Blacks and whites. Bolts and bolts of plain white cloths, waited for an order to be made, ready to be dipped in inks for custom colors. One store had extensive geometric patterns that reminded Erick of Islamic architecture. Some stores were filled with fabrics layered in flowers and water designs. Some of the most intricate expensive fabrics, on display in front of what was practically an art gallery, were crafted with goldfish with glittering gold-orange-black scales, upon backdrops of blue skies. Another store had trees, landscapes, prints, and designs, all contained on bolts of fabric, ready to be cut and styled into wearable art of all kinds.

All of this was contained on a single street, down three city blocks and their adjacent buildings —premium locations, according to Teressa and Poi both— where the wind flowed easy from north to south, and the sky was a stained glass cathedral window of [Weather Ward]s; layered by master Warders, every day, no doubt. Erick was just as enamored with the ‘roof’ of the market as he was with the market itself.

He smiled to himself, as he looked up, muttering, “Someone has to put that up every day?”

The street was not overly crowded, but there were a lot of people here, searching for fabrics and haggling over prices. Most of them were rather well dressed. Some of them even had clothing like Al’s; looking like mobster-sultans.

Poi said, “Every day. This place hasn’t changed in 300 years, because no one wanted any permanent artistic changes, and that would certainly include wardlights. But this street is full of artists. It’s my understanding that there has been a recent compromise on the roofing, but look down, and you’ll see that even the signs are relegated to orderly boxes.”

Erick looked slightly down, below the geometric canopy, but above the well dressed people, to the signage over the various stalls, here and there. Every hanging wardlight sign was contained to a physical stone box above the entrance of each individual shop. Some of the shop names were scrunched to fit in those boxes. Very few of the typography looked ‘good’ constrained like that, for any definition of ‘good’.

A young incani woman in almost-floating blue fabrics, with blue skin, stepped away from the right wall, closer to Erick, but not too close, saying, “Greetings, Archmage! I can’t help but see that you enjoy today’s [Weather Ward] design?”

Poi gently placed himself to the side of the path between the woman and Erick, but said nothing. He did frown a little, though. While most of the people around him, avoided him, this woman did not. Erick had noticed her noticing him, preparing for the moment that he would walk closer, but he did not think much of it since Poi hadn’t made much of a move. She probably wasn’t a threat. Her dress was a multitude of blue fabrics, just like those that hung in the shop at her back. She likely wanted to sell him something. That was fine.

Erick smiled, saying, “It’s a lot of work to put up intricate [Weather Ward]s like that, every day. Do you get ten people together, to cast all the colors up there, or do you change your own color of magic?”

“I did the blue, white, and black, up there. My sisters did the rest.” She grinned, as she gestured to the sign above her shop, saying, “But that display is just one of the many intricate creations we’re capable of weaving, here at Three Sisters Textiles.” She stepped into the door of her store, saying, “Come on in and see our wares.”

Erick figured he might as well start at this place. He followed the woman inside, asking, “How much fabric does it take to make a dress like yours? I’m interested in purchasing bulk cloth, but I need to know some basics.”

Erick followed the woman into the depths of a shop lined with rows upon rows of bolts of fabric, of every color in the rainbow, and more than a few outside of the normal spectrum. Two other people were in the shop, shopping, though one was speaking to another incani woman behind a counter, who had the same blue complexion as the first woman Erick met; she must have been another sister, of the three sisters?

With a gentle grip, the woman grasped the curtain of her dress as she turned a quick spin in the aisle. “I made it myself, using our fabrics, here.” She dropped the hem of her dress, letting it flutter on the air, as she touched the fabrics on the wall, saying, “My dress requires seven meters of any of these meter wide bolts, in any of these colors, which would run you, my dear archmage, a paltry one gold, four silver per meter. The usual price is one gold, seven silver, per meter. If you are looking to buy in bulk of any order over a hundred meters, we can drop the price a further ten percent.” She added, “Orcol sized options would double the needed fabrics.”

