This woman spoke quickly and accurately. Erick appreciated it, but before he committed to anything, he looked over the choices. A casual glance showed nothing ugly. The coloring was good, the feel was good. People would probably like these options? Sure. Why not. But if it was 7 meters to a dress, and Erick needed to account for 2000 dresses, or something like that, it meant he would need to buy 14,000 meters of fabric, which meant… 17,500 gold, or thereabouts. He smiled as he touched a nice red cloth; he was getting better at this mental math.

This red was good, but the people of Candlepoint needed sturdier fabrics, as well, for every day wear. Erick needed to purchase about the same meterage in brown and tan cotton.

He asked, “I’m also looking for brown and tan, every day fabrics, for working in fields and such.”

The woman balked for a half second. She recovered. She said, “I have some good people across the way I can direct you toward. They deal fair and true, just as I.” She put her hands on the fabric to her left, asking, “Is there anything I can get for you, though?”

Erick laid it out there, saying, “I’m going to need about 14,000 meters of fabric, total, in practically every color, and then the same of that in browns and tan cottons.” If he ordered extra, that was fine. People could still use it.

A crazy grin passed on the woman’s face, lingering for a half second, before she said, “We can work with you to make this happen— Any colors in particular?”

“A variety is fine.” Erick said, “I am aware I will have to shop multiple places, though.”

“No need to make that many stops! You’re a busy man, and like any reputable sellers, we carry a surplus in the back. We have around twenty thousand meters of dress fabrics, in our total inventory. We can easily fill at least half of what you want.” She said, “If I may ask, though, what are you purchasing for?”

Erick said, “The city of Candlepoint.”

The woman recoiled, but recovered to a calm exterior.

“Bulgan has vacated Candlepoint, after allowing a Ballooning Horde and the city’s own defenses to kill nine out of every ten shadelings.” Erick said, “The Shades are certainly evil, but I don’t believe the shadelings are bad actors, according to what I’ve seen. But if they don’t get help then they’re going to have to resort to awful methods to keep alive. I wish to circumvent this and help them become an independent city, though it will take years before anyone should think about going there in person.” He asked, “Did you hear about the woman falling from the sky, yesterday?”

The woman was thrown for a loop for a moment. She recovered. “I heard… Something about that.”

Erick looked her over, and decided that she was lying. But that was okay. A white lie about being caught up on the news was not a cause for concern. She wasn’t screaming profanities about getting in bed with Shades, or looking very worried at all, and that was more important than knowing current events. Besides: He could start the rumors himself. Erick liked that idea, a lot.

Erick wasn’t just speaking to this woman, though. From casually looking around, Erick saw the cashier and her customer had gone silent, to listen. They likely weren’t the only ones.

Erick said, “Justine Erholme, is her name. She was an Underworld incani from another part of the world, who was killed by the Darkness, and transformed into a shadeling. I don’t have the full story, but she lived at Candlepoint for a time, where she called out to the gods for help, and they pulled her out of there, and transformed her back into incani.”

The woman gasped. “That’s possible!?”

Her sister at the counter, and the customer there, both gasped, as they looked away.

“Apparently it is possible. I was surprised, too.” Erick said, “Justine is on a mission now, from Koyabez, to ensure that Candlepoint is bridging the gap and stopping the threat of violence, or something. Maybe to prevent any future wars with Ar’Kendrithyst? I’m still not clear on that.” He added, “But I’m going to give them a fair chance. Maybe in a year or two, I’ll go to the city in person. But not right now.”

“Of course not right now!” The woman said, “That would be insane! No matter what the gods might be up to, I wouldn’t want to be crushed between those sorts of wills.”

“Me either.” Erick said, “But I’m still going to help the people of Candlepoint. I’ve already got food coming, but they’re wearing rags, and nine out of every ten shadelings were murdered when Bulgan killed their city.”

“That rotten arsehole.” The woman said, “I almost went on a date with him, once, years and years ago. Glad I never did.”

Erick chuckled. “You did?”

“I dodged a boulder, for sure.” She said, “But anyway: My name is Liquola Reedzith, and the Three Sisters would love to fill your order, Archmage Flatt.” She stepped just past Erick, and pointed toward another shop down the way. “That one. Burton’s Browns. They have the best worker textiles on the street.” She shifted her finger toward a place directly across the street. “The Sewing Box has all the threads and needles and such you would need. I did hear that shadelings can’t use [Fabricate]. But you can never tell with these rumors. Is that true?”

“True, as far as I know, Liquola.”

“I’d much prefer them making clothes than war. Hopefully it stays that way.” Liquola brushed a hand against the rolls of fabric on the wall, asking, “Would you like to make some selections?”

Erick nodded. “Yes.”

Picking out fabrics was kinda fun. Before he knew it, he had spent 20,000 more gold.

Upon summoning another Ophiel, the front room of Three Sisters Textiles ended up in Erick’s foyer, mostly in a pile; he would organize the whole thing later. Erick thanked Liquola for her time, and left for next door.

As Erick stepped into Burton’s Browns, three women behind him squealed in joy. The talk with Burton proceeded much the same as it had with Liquola, though he was a bit gruffer. His prices were cheaper, thankfully.

Erick soon left Burton’s Browns 10,000 gold lighter and with another semi-positive story and warning of Candlepoint floating in his wake, along with a few more happy people.

A similar event occurred at The Sewing Box.

- - - -

In the middle of a normal street, under a normal, cloudy sky, Erick suddenly said, “Some alchemy plants!” He added, “I can ask the Mage Trio about them, too, but multiple sources is important.”

Poi, half serious, said, “You didn’t seem to care much about multiple sources when that woman batted her eyes at you. You could have spent less money if you shopped around, you know.”

“Ohh, Poi.” Erick said, “It was convenient. And I doubt I would have gotten that much cheaper, elsewhere.”

Teressa said, “He got a good deal.”

Poi hummed, noncommittal.

Erick said, “Anyway! Ramizi is the alchemist. I should introduce him to Justine— Oh! And?” He pointed toward the north, as he asked Poi, “Is Apogee in, now?”

Poi looked away for a moment. He turned back, saying, “Yes.”

- - - -

The Ranch of Spur was half of a three kilometer addition that bumped off of the northern wall, forming a pocket of green, rolling hills, and tall trees. The other half of that expansion held the Lake.

In a white flash, Erick, Poi, and Teressa, reappeared near the Lake. Warm winds blew from the north, under a cloudy sky laden with the promise of rain, while blue waters splashed in the breeze below. Gold flickers danced below the ripples in groups of five or six, while silver flashes prowled the deeper parts of the Lake. Rainbow flits scurried in the shallows, like sequins, glittering their rainbow scales into the light, as they hid and reproduced under broad, green lily pads, and bright blue flowers. Reeds rustled in the wind.

Erick enjoyed the scene for a long moment, while lush grasses cushioned his feet, tall trees further shaded him from the clouded sun, and the smell of waters and life drifted on the breeze.

Candlepoint needed one of these, for sure.

A cow mooed on the other side of the Lake, past the short wall that separated this land from the Ranch beyond.

Candlepoint needed cows, pigs, and chickens, too.

The air blipped bronze next to Erick. Apogee, all brownscaled and thick tailed, and with a fang-filled smile, said, “Hello, Erick! I hear you’re in the business of getting duped by shadelings.”

He didn’t say it meanly, so Erick chuckled. “Possibly. They’re in their city, though, with no plans to expand or separate out into the world, so it’s better to keep them there than to let integration happen too soon.”

Apogee looked out across the Lake for a moment. He said, “Good enough for me.” He asked, “I heard a rumor that the farmers at their ‘Farm’ are some of ours?”

“True.” Erick said, “Valok, for sure. I already managed to steer his daughter out to Oceanside, though, so hopefully she doesn’t have to deal with that for a while.” He said, “Apogough’s father is there, too. Daetroi—”

“What!” Apogee laughed a mournful note, halfway between joy and a groan of despair, before shifting fully to delight. He said, “Oh my gods! That old prick! FUCK.” He spat, “Shit!” Mirth vanished. “Fuck.” He went silent.

Erick let the breeze fill the silence, as it rippled waves and rustled trees.

Apogee said, “I owe him some booze.” He added, “And at least twenty herd.” He asked, “You doing right by those almost-monsters? Is that right?”

“I’m trying.” Erick said, “Everyone in Spur has been remarkably nice about it so far, too. I expected a lot more anger.”

Apogee smiled. “People in Spur tend to make their livings adjacent to everything the Shades do, so they look the other way for everything that isn’t a direct danger. Just look at how much money you threw around today. I sold ten cows, overpriced, because of some caterers needed the meat, right now. That’s when I found out about you. It was pretty nice.”

Erick said, “Daetroi wants to raise cattle again.”

“I don’t got any to sell today. I’ll send some that way, though. I do owe him twenty herd.”

“If you don’t mind, I’ll send them.” Erick said, “He says he’s unstable. Doesn’t want to deal with people from this life yet.”

Apogee looked off over the water, nodding. “I can do that. I’ll give you some booze, too. My first batches came off the still yesterday.” He looked to Erick, adding, “You’re going to [Cleanse] everything you buy before you send it out to Candlepoint, yeah?”

“Yes. I’ll do it out of sight of the vendors, though.” Erick said, “This place is going to be a lot of problems. I’ve already got my Ophiel over there, blipping intruders away from the city. I’ve stopped two kidnappings so far. Thank the gods that [Teleport Other] is so rare.”

Apogee smirked. “You going to ask me about The Worldly Path?”

Erick looked to the man. “Would you want to tell me?”

“Not really. I don't approve of a [Gate] network.”

Fair enough. "What I wanted to ask you, and why I asked to talk to you, was to ask about that [Spatial Curse].” Erick said, “I already talked to Silverite. She said to talk to you.”

Apogee breathed in deep, then let it all out. “That was the other option I was afraid of.” He said, “Curses are not nice magic. This one is no different. You take all the possibilities that a person could be, the bigness of the world, lives not yet lived, and you curse them with stability. Mediocrity. Smallness. It’s wishing for the worst for a person; that they’ll never improve and never become more than what they are.” He said, “It’s a horrible thing to make, and creating that curse made me a worse man than I was before.” He added, “All curses are like that. That’s how they work. To curse another, you must first curse yourself.”

Erick said, “If you have another idea on how to prevent a Shade from fleeing a fight, then I’d love to hear it.”

“You could search for a way to negate their [Teleport Lock]. Try for a blessing, rather than a curse. A bolstering of your own soul. I’ve never heard of that succeeding, either, but it could, theoretically.” Apogee said, “I don’t think you should try to curse a Shade with [Spatial Stability]. It’ll end bad for all involved.”

Erick had already considered what would happen if a Shade couldn’t avoid a fight; it’d be the same thing that happened to anyone that couldn’t avoid a fight. They’d either go to war, run away using whatever method they could, or freeze. The chances of the third option seemed astronomically small, but it was still a possibility. But besides that—

Erick said, “If they’re aware that starting a fight means that it will be ended, one way or the other, then maybe they won’t start one with me in the first place.”

“Wishful thinking! Deadly thinking. However...” Apogee nodded slowly, then said, “Maybe. If that’s the angle you’re going for… Even assuming that you could get a curse to stick to them, if you come at them with an ultimatum, you will get your fight, and all the following horrors.”

Anger simmered through Erick’s body, as he said, “If I get into a fight like that, then it means that they’ve started the war, first, but I mean to end it—” Erick blanked, his thoughts completely derailed by another idea.

Apogee glanced at Erick, expecting him to say something else.

But Erick was thinking. His anger vanished. He asked, “Shades call their [Teleport Lock] a Blessing, don’t they?”

Apogee side eyed Erick. “Aye. They do.”

“So it’s a bonus from their god?”

Apogee directly looked at Erick. “We don’t know a lot about how Shade magic works. What are you getting at?”

