Erick asked, “If curses are negations and blessings are enhancements…? Are they? Enhancements, I mean?”

“… Broadly.”

“Maybe their [Teleport Lock] is a blessing to ensure a fight happens. That’s what Melemizargo is about, isn’t he? Ensuring that conflict happens, and that everyone is made stronger or dead.” Erick asked, “Is that how a [Teleport Lock] works?”

With a scrunched face, Apogee looked out at the Lake, thinking. “Melemizargo isn't..." He relaxed, then said, "Blessings aren’t as powerful as a Shade’s [Teleport Lock]—”

“But all it does is deny the ability to run away from a fight, right? According to everything I’ve read and heard, there’s nothing in the air, no active spells on you to [Dispel]. It’s just an automatic lock, the second they choose to expand their aura-like Lock—” Erick said, “It barely costs them anything to cast their spell. I heard most of them have it on all the time.”

“Aye. And that sort of effect is too large of a spell to keep running like that, all the time.”

Erick said, “For one mana per second, my aura can bring platinum rain across the whole of Spur, and I never need to stop.”

“… Okay.” Apogee frowned. “If their Blessing really was a blessing...” He shrugged, “I’d laugh.”

“How much does your curse cost?” Erick said, “What does it look like?”

Apogee looked at Erick for a moment. Then he popped a box into the air.

Curse of Locality, ten seconds, sight + sound + understanding, 1820 mana

Erick read at the line of text several times; there wasn’t much to read. “… What the flip is that?”

“Curses aren’t normal magic.” Apogee said, “If your theory about [Teleport Lock] being a Blessing is correct, then you should go to the church. Talk to a few gods. Don’t try to make a Blessing yourself; get some divine backing.” He waved off at nothing in particular, saying, “I never liked dealing with gods, though. Can’t stand the idea of anyone that powerful.”

“Eh.” Erick said, “It’s a premature idea, anyway. I’ll run it past a few more people; see what they say. I’ll swing by the church, too. I got some alchemist shops to visit on the way. Thanks for the talk.”

“Anytime.” Apogee said, “I’ll have some cows for you to take to Daetroi, soon.”

Erick stressed, “I still want to know how to make that curse… But... Maybe not today.”

“Blessings are better.” Apogee said, “If you change your mind, I’ll try to talk you out of it again.”

Erick smiled. He doubted he was going to change his mind, but there was nothing wrong with fully exploring an idea before he committed one way or the other.

“You getting into alchemy now, too?” Apogee asked, “Why the alchemy shops?”

“Justine, the former shadeling, is staying with me.” Erick gave Apogee a small explanation of Justine, then said, “She used to be an alchemist.”

“You’re a braver man than I, letting one of those things into your home.” Apogee said, “Especially one that has godly backing, but I suppose you’re already in the deep end of the shadows.” He laughed. “Maybe it is I that need to stay away from you.”

Erick brushed over that concern with a small laugh, then said, “I’ve given Justine permission to grow some plants, but I want to know what she’s actually doing before she does it.”

“As well you should!” Apogee said, “Smartest thing you said today!”

Erick smiled, as he said, “It was good to talk to you, Apogee.”

“Same to you, Erick.”

Apogee blipped away in a flash of bronze light.
