“I think you need to have a serious talk with your niece.” Officer Holly Stonewall said.

“I think so, too.” Detective John Ramirez said, once he managed to get over the shock. “I knew she had a crush on me, but...”

Holly chuckled. “There's nothing wrong with a little crush.” She said. “That little display... was a bit more than that.”

John nodded. “I'll take care of it.” He said and started to follow his niece when Holly grabbed his hand and stopped him.

“I think it can wait for a little while.” Holly said, and John looked at her with raised eyebrows. “She's on a great birthday high right now. You don't want to ruin her whole day with reality, do you?”

John sighed. “I guess you're right.” He said. “I'll get her alone after the party and talk to her.”

Holly nodded, then looked down at their clamped hands. “I'm sorry.” She said and tried to let his hand go.

“Don't be sorry.” John said and smiled. “You took my hand willingly.” His smile grew into a grin. “And in public, too.”

Holly blushed a little, and John stepped close.

“I didn't... I mean, I did... but...” Holly tried to explain. John glanced around and saw no one was looking at them, so he leaned in and gave her a quick kiss on the lips.

“You can swim, right?” John asked her.

“Wh-what?” Holly asked, confused.

John's sneaky public kiss had thrown her completely off her train of thought. He laughed at her reaction, picked her up, and ran for the pool.

“JOOOOOOOHHHNNNNN!!!!” Holly screamed, but John had already jumped into the air as they reached the pool's edge.

“Double Cannonball!” John said and they hit the water together. The huge splash they made flew out of the pool and soaked his sister.

“Ahhh! Dammit, John!” Tanya exclaimed. “This is my favorite-”

“GERONIMO!” One of the teenage girls yelled and jumped into the pool, too.

“Everyone into the pool!” Someone hollered, then every single teenage girl did cannonballs, dives, crazy jumps, and one even managed to do a belly-flop into the pool. John and Holly surfaced, and discovered that they were surrounded by laughing and giggling girls. Holly couldn't help herself and started to laugh, too.

*

Lily had made the alterations to both bikinis, and Elise and Denise tried them on.

“That's perfect!” They both said, as they looked at each other in the mirrors.

“It sure is!” Ren said as he stared at them. “Lily, you do great work!”

“Thanks.” Lily said, proud that she'd done such extensive alterations so quickly.

“Okay, now it's your turn.” Elise said to Ren.

“Wh-what?” Ren asked, surprised.

“We've been dancing around in bathing suits for you.” Elise said and grinned. “Now it's our turn to watch you do it.”

“Yeah, turnabout is fair play.” Denise said.

“We have some nice swim trunks over...”

“Oh, no.” Elise said. “We might buy those in the end; but, right now... where do you keep the Speedos?”

Denise started to laugh at Ren's surprised expression, and Lily went to get some bathing suits for men.

“But...”

“I talk to Stella, and she said you need to get up and walk around.” Elise said. “We're just going to kill two birds with one stone.” She smiled. “You get more exercise, and we get to see you strut your stuff.”

Ren shook his head. “How can you smile so evilly and still be so beautiful?”

“You just bring out the best in me, I guess.” Elise said, and Denise laughed.

“Oh, all right.” Ren said and stood up when Lily came back with several different kinds of bottoms for him to try on. “Let's get this over with.”

Lily went with him into the change room to help, when he told Denise and Elise to wait for the show.

“Are you sure you need me in here?” Lily asked. “I mean, shouldn't one of the women with you help instead?”

“I can't quite bend all the way over yet.” Ren said and took off his shirt.

“Oh, my god.” Lily whispered as she saw the extensive bruise. “What happened?”

“I bruise easily, and fell on an exercise ball.”

“Oh, that's horrible!” Lily said. “Does it hurt much?”

“Only when I breathe or move.” Ren said. “Other than that, it only hurts a little.”

Lily chuckled. “I don't know how you can joke about that.” She said and motioned at his chest and abdomen. “But, I'll follow your lead and try to ignore it.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and undid his pants.

“Actually, it's a little distracting.” Lily said. “Do you think I could... um...”

“What?”

“I have some concealer.” Lily said. “We could try and cover it up.”

“That's actually a great idea.” Ren said and stopped undressing. “Give it a shot.”

It took about 5 minutes, and it had used up nearly all of her concealer; but, Lily had managed to cover up his entire bruise and blended it into the surrounding skin.

“That's so cool.” Ren said as he looked down at himself. “Thanks, Lily.”

“I bet they're going to be so surprised!” Lily said, and laughed a she picked up a pair of leopard print Speedos. “Let's get these on you before they come looking for...”

*Knock* *Knock*

“Hey, is everything all right in there?” Denise asked.

“Yes.” Ren said. “Lily is trying to be a lady and not look at me.” He said and grinned. “It's making getting dressed go slow with her eyes closed.”

“Do you want me to help?” Denise asked. “I've already seen it.”

“I'll be out in just a minute.” Ren said. “Have a seat and get ready to be amazed.” He heard Denise laugh and looked at Lily. “Let's get this done.” He said and pulled down his underwear. Lily nodded and knelt, and Ren braced his hands on her shoulders as he stepped into the Speedo. She started to pull them up over his calves, knees, and thighs; then froze as she came face to face with his crotch.

“Thanks for stopping where I can reach them.” Ren said, not realizing that Lily had stopped for a completely different reason. He pulled the leopard print Speedo up the rest of the way, got everything tucked in, and smiled. “Get the door for me.”

*

Lily nodded quickly and reached for the door handle, then opened it without standing up. Ren stepped out of the changing room, and Lily stayed inside and shut the door behind him.

Oh my god. Lily thought, then remembered how much the tall redhead had fawned over him. No wonder! She took several deep breaths and stood up. I have a boyfriend, I have a boyfriend, I have a boyfriend.

*

Elise and Denise sat there in shock, as Ren did exactly like they had wanted. He came out of the change room full of bravery and confidence, and strutted around the platform for them. He did several muscle man poses; the double arm flex, the double bicep curl, then the extended leg and arms behind the head move. That last one had hurt, because he'd had to use both his abs and chest muscles at the same time; but, the looks on their faces was worth it.

Both of their mouths were open in a little 'o' of surprise, and he laughed mentally at their dumbfounded expressions. He turned around and flexed his back muscles, with his legs slightly apart, then tightened his left and then right gluteus muscles to make the cheeks of his butt dance for them. Ren felt pretty full of himself, and turned around to face them again.

“There.” Ren said and put a finger under the top of the Speedo, and pulled it out a little bit. It snapped back into place, and both women jumped a little at the sound. “Are you happy now?”

“Yes, Ren.” Elise licked her lips and nodded. “I'm very, very happy.” She said, and her eyes smouldered as she stared at him. “If we weren't in public right now...”

Ren chuckled and stepped down off the platform to walk over to her. He was getting a little tired, which meant he should have been exercising more: despite what the doctor said about taking a break. He looked around, and didn't see any other customers.

“What would you do in private?” Ren asked her.

“I'd...” Elise reached out and touched his hip. Ren didn't protest or move away; so, she slid the hand around to grab his butt and pulled him in close. “I don't have as much restraint as you, sweetheart.”

Ren laughed. Elise felt the muscle she was touching clench, and she gripped it a little tighter in response. Ren started to get a warm fuzzy feeling as things started to stir in him, then felt his other cheek being gripped. He looked down and saw that it wasn't Elise's other hand like he thought; so he looked at the other woman. Denise had a hand on him, too.

“So firm.” Elise said, and started to massage his backside. “What happened to your bruise?”

“C-c-concealer.” Ren said as Denise massaged his backside, too. Unfortunately, the leopard print Speedo was not up to the task of containing his excitement. He felt himself break free of the tight fabric, and covered it with a hand. Elise was starting to breathe heavy, and Ren looked at her.

“C-cameras.” Ren said to her, as she leaned in and kissed him thoroughly. Unable to resist such kissable lips, he used his free hand to hold onto the side of her neck, and kissed her back with just as much passion.

*

The change room door opened and Lily stepped out to see what was taking so long, and her eyes widened as she saw Ren and Elise making out.

They're kissing like they're all alone and no one can see them! Lily thought, then she thought about interrupting them; but, then she noticed the other woman's hand on Ren's backside.

Oh... oh my... Lily thought and closed her eyes. I will not be turned on by this. I will not be turned on by this. She opened her eyes and stared at them. I am so turned on by this!

*

Denise leaned in close, and Ren thought she was going to join in on the kiss; but instead, she only whispered. “You have an audience.”

Ren broke the kiss, and Elise sighed as she had to let him go. He stroked her face as he stepped back, then smiled at her. She smiled back, and he turned around.

“Sorry about that.” Ren said to Lily. “I'll take these Speedos, a few other pairs with the different patterns, and several pairs of swim trunks.” He said and grinned. “I don't think I can survive any more modelling today.”

“I... okay... um... let's get you changed back into your regular clothes.” Lily said. “Then we can head over to the counter.”

Ren nodded and walked over to the platform with his hand over the front of the Speedo, and Lily could see that he couldn't quite cover everything with his hand. She didn't let her face show how much she could see, and Ren stepped up onto the platform. He went into the changing room and the door shut behind him, then Lily turned to follow him in.

“I can handle this part.” Denise said with a hand on Lily's arm, and smiled at Lily's surprised expression. “He doesn't have to keep the bathing suits a surprise anymore.”

“Oh, right.” Lily said. “I... I'll meet you over at the counter, then.”

Denise nodded, and watched Lily walk away. Elise came up onto the platform and leaned in close.

“She wanted a close up look at Ren.” Elise whispered.

Denise nodded and whispered back. “Our little charmer might have charmed someone else.”

“Do you think she...”

Denise shook her head. “No, he doesn't realize what he can do sometimes.” She whispered. “I even accused him once of playing innocent to make himself more appealing.”

“He doesn't have to do anything at all to make himself more appealing.” Elise whispered. “When he does... good god, like today... I...” She shook her head. “When he popped out of the Speedo I... I wanted to go down on him right then and there!”

“Hey, can I get some help in here?” Ren said from the change room. “I'm kinda stuck.”

Denise snorted a laugh, and opened the change room door, then froze. Ren had knelt on one knee, and had gotten the Speedo down past it, but now it was restricting the movement of his other leg, which was too far away from the other and he couldn't lift it to get the bathing suit off. He was now half-bent over, with his butt up in the air and his head on the floor. He'd even managed to get one of his hands caught in the leg hole of the Speedo.

“It was going well until I slipped.” Ren said, while he looked at the two women upside down. “I was being careful, too.”

Both women laughed as they shut the door and tried to undo the pretzel Ren had contorted himself into.

*

John and Holly had been forcibly recruited to join in on some pool games with the girls. None of the other adults wanted to get wet; and since John and Holly were already in the pool, it made sense that they would have to play, too. They played volleyball first, and no matter what team John was on, they always won. Water polo was next; and no matter what position he played, John was always on the winning team.

“I hope your winning streak continues.” Holly said, when Nancy announced the next game was 'Chicken'. “I''m tapping you for a partner.”

“How in the world are you going to carry me on your shoulders?” John asked her and laughed at her surprised expression. “Just kidding!” He said, then ducked into the water.

“John?” Holly asked as she tried to look for him. She felt hands on her thighs, then something hairy between her legs. She gasped as John stood up with her on his shoulders. “John!”

“Everyone take their flags.” Nancy said and handed out flags to the teams that wanted to play. “Aw, I wanted Uncle John as a partner.”

“Sorry, I called dibs.” Holly said and took a flag. She hung the flag on her hip and stuffed the end into the bottoms of her bikini. “He almost made me the horse, though.”

Nancy laughed, and her father came over.

“It's not fair that you've got a full grown man on your team.” He said, then looked at his daughter. “Have you found a horse yet?”

“Daddy!” Nancy said, and hugged him. “Let's take them down!”

Her father laughed and climbed into the pool, then Nancy sat on his shoulders.

“Take your positions!” Nancy said, and the teams spread out around the pool. “Get ready!” She said, and all the girls held onto the heads of their 'horses'. “GO!”

Then they were off.

*

Elise and Denise had gotten Ren untangled quickly, dressed him, and brought him and the items they wanted to buy to the counter.

“Will that be everything?” The sales clerk asked.

“For now.” Ren said, then looked at Elise. “We should be back again next Sunday for actual clothes.” He smiled. “Someone wants to have fun dressing me up.”

Elise laughed. “That would be me.” She said. “Barring complications and cancellations.”

Ren nodded. “That's why I said 'should'.” He said, and paid for everything. They left the shop and climbed into the Hummer H2.

