Denise snorted a laugh and held the shower door open for them. They rinsed off quickly and Denise passed them both towels, then helped Ren dry off. They all got changed and took their wet clothing with them. They saw that Donald and Barbara's car was still in the driveway, and climbed into the Hummer H2.

“Donald seems to be taking a long time checking out the house.” Denise said and smiled. “I hope Barbara isn't too late for work tonight.”

Ren nodded. “If we hurry, I can log into the game before she shows up.” He smiled. “I really don't need a birds and the bees talk from her tonight about my personal maids.”

Denise laughed as they left Emerald Estates. Elise drove them back to the temporary care facility and helped to get Ren back to his room. He was tempted to ask Elise to help him take a shower, but he knew she'd decline because it was getting late.

“Thank you so much for everything today.” Ren said to Elise when she said she had to leave. “I had a lot of fun spending the day with you.”

“I did, too.” Elise said. “I'm starting to regret that I didn't take you up on your offer, though.”

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said. “It's an open invitation. One of these days, you won't be able to resist anymore.” He said and smiled. “Until then, you'll just have to make due with some passionate kisses and maybe a little heavy petting.”

Elise laughed. “Come here, you.” She knelt, and it put her at the perfect height. Ren gave her the kiss she deserved, and Elise held her moan in, because she didn't want him to know how much she loved his kisses. They broke apart and sighed, and then started to laugh as they had both let the other know how much they liked the other's kiss.

“I'm definitely regretting not taking you to bed.” Elise said, and Ren wrapped his arms around her neck. He nuzzled his face under her hair, and she wrapped her arms around his back. He put his lips by her ear so he could whisper to her.

“You don't have to worry about me falling in love with someone else before you.” He said softly, then kissed her earlobe. “I already love you.”

Tears came to Elise's eyes as one of her fondest wishes finally came true.

Ren leaned back and saw her tears, and he unwrapped his arms from around her neck, cupped the sides of her face with his hands, then wiped the tears away with his thumbs.

“Is it okay to say that you still look beautiful with red puffy eyes and a tear-stained face?” Ren asked her.

“No.” Elise said and smiled.

“Elise.”

“Yes, Ren?”

“You look horrible.” Ren said and grinned.

Elise laughed as she shook her head at him, and then he kissed her. It was only a playful kiss; so, it didn't have the intense feelings behind it like some of his other kisses. It was still a kiss that the both of them could enjoy, though.

“I better go.” Elise said, and ran her hands through his hair. “Or I'll never leave.”

“Goodnight.” Ren said, and Elise stood up. “I hope I'll see you again soon.”

“Oh, you will.” Elise said. “Goodnight.”

Elise left the room and Ren went into the bathroom to take a shower. He was done fast, thanks to Denise's help, and he got dressed and climbed into bed.

“This place really does feel small now.” Ren said as Denise handed him the VR headset.

“That's because it is small.” Denise said. “It's even smaller than your old hospital room.”

Ren looked around the room and saw all of their stuff scattered everywhere. “It's sure going to be nice to have an actual house to live in.” He said and put on the headset.

“Flow Login Start.”
