“I could have bought my own.” Elise said when she pulled out of the parking lot.

“You still can.” Ren said. “I bought all of this for me.”

Elise laughed. “What am I going to do with you?”

“Hopefully, have fun in the pool.” Ren said and grinned. “Otherwise, this whole trip to get swimwear was only a partially fulfilled sexual fantasy, and not practical at all.”

Denise snorted a laugh. “Who's sexual fantasy was it?”

“Definitely mine.” Ren said. “Having two attractive women prancing around in barely-there bikinis, who actively encouraged me to stare at their luscious bodies.” He grinned. “I almost went just from that!”

“You're wrong.” Elise glanced at him, then back to the road. “It was my sexual fantasy.” She smiled. “Seeing my boyfriend strut around and showing me his muscles, shaking his butt at me, then letting me kiss him like I've always dreamed.” She grinned. “I actually did go from that.”

“No way!” Ren said. “Really?”

Elise nodded.

“It wasn't my sexual fantasy.” Denise said, and Elise raised her eyebrows at her through the rear view mirror. “Don't get me wrong, it was pretty hot.” She smiled. “But, that wasn't any kind of situation that I've ever thought of before.” Then she grinned. “I bet Lily has, though.”

Elise laughed. “If she didn't, she will now.”

“Huh?” Ren looked between the two women. “Did I miss something?”

“Yes, but that's okay.” Elise said. “I don't think knowing we turned Lily on would change how you acted.”

“She was turned on?” Ren asked, then thought about Lily, and what she looked like. “How could you tell?”

Denise poked Elise's shoulder lightly. “I told you.”

Elise nodded and glanced at Ren. “Lily liked the way you kissed me, almost as much as I did.”

“Oohhh.” Ren said, finally catching on. “I don't want to kiss her, though.”

Denise chuckled. “You don't have to.” She said. “We're just telling you that if her boyfriend would kiss her like you kissed Elise, she would be much, much happier.”

Ren nodded. “Okay, that I understand.” He said and hit the electronic gate opener. They drove into the Emerald Estates and parked beside the car that was still there. They got out of the Hummer H2, and Ren dug through the bag of things he bought, and left a bathing suit and swim trunks on the hood of Donald's car.

“I hope they get the hint.” Ren said as they went inside the main house.

“I'm sure they will.” Denise said. “Even if they don't get here before we leave, they can still use the pool.”

Ren nodded, and the three of them went to the changing rooms beside the pool. They didn't bother using separate ones, and Ren was glad; mainly because he didn't want to embarrass himself again like he did the last time. They all got changed and went out to the pool.

“It looks clean.” Ren said. “But, looks can be deceiving.”

“There's a form by the changing room that says it's being maintained by the community pool service.” Elise said. “So, it should be okay to use.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said, and looked at her with a smile on his face. “Now carry me into the pool like the delicate flower that I am.”

Elise snorted a laugh. “Are you joking, or do you really want me to carry you in?”

“Well, I don't know how to swim.” Ren admitted. “You don't have to carry me; but, I'd appreciate it if you could keep a hold on me to make sure I don't drown.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elise said, and picked him up with her left arm them sat him on her hip. He wrapped his legs around her waist and put an arm over her shoulders. “I'll carry you as far as you want to go.”

“For now, it's going to be as far as the shallow end of the pool.” Ren said. “I'll need swimming lessons if I want to go deeper than that.”

Elise nodded, and walked down the steps into the shallow end of the pool. It was only 4 feet deep, but considering Ren was only 4 foot 7 inches tall, it was still pretty deep for him to go into it alone.

“It's warm.” Ren said.

Denise came in behind them, then walked around and slid into the deeper water.

“Hey, no fair!” Ren said to her. “I can't do that yet.”

“You can, if you hold onto me.” Elise said. Ren looked at her with wide eyes.

“Um... I... I'm...” Ren tried to say. “I don't... I don't know if I...”

Elise shifted her grip on him, and moved him from her side to the front, so that he was facing her. “Denise, lifeguard duty.” She said and turned so that her back was to the deep water.

“I'm close by.” Denise said.

“I'm not going to jump in or anything.” Elise said to Ren. “I'm just going to gently lay back, and we're going to float together.”

Ren nodded. “Okay.” He said. “I trust you.”

Elise's heart filled with happiness when she heard those words, and she let that feeling keep her afloat as she did what she said. She laid back as she took in a deep breath of air, and her feet lifted off from the bottom of the pool. Ren's eyes went wide as most of Elise sank into the water; then, she kind of bobbed up a little bit and didn't sink any more.

“It... it's working!” Ren said as he clung to her, and pressed himself against her chest. “Elise, you're amazing!”

“I'm just floating.” Elise tried not to laugh, because she would lose her concentration. “Denise, a little help?”

Denise reached out and gently turned Elise around, and pushed her back to the shallow area. “You can stand.”

“Thanks.” Elise said, then held onto Ren as she got her feet under her and stood up.

“That was so cool.” Ren said, and put a hand on Elise's face. “Thank you.”

“I'd like to say it was no trouble, but that was kind of terrifying.” Elise said. “I just took your life into my hands.”

“With backup.” Denise said, and she chuckled.

Ren gave Elise a quick kiss. “I think that's enough life endangerment for me today.” He said. “Drop me off at the Jacuzzi, so I can watch you two swim and have fun.”

“Are you sure?” Elise asked. “Won't that be a little boring?”

“You saw your reflections in the mirrors, right?” Ren said and laughed. “I don't think it's physically possible for me to get bored.”

Both women laughed.

“All right.” Elise said and walked over to the Jacuzzi. She helped Ren get in it, then walked up the steps out of the pool. Ren watched as she walked around the edge of the pool to the diving board, then she took two strides and bounced off the end of it, then did a flip and dove into the water. She came up to the surface a few moments later, to see Denise and Ren as they stared at her.

“That was AWESOME!” Ren said. “How did you do that?”

“I was on the swim team in high school.” Elise said as she swam over to Ren. “I was forced to quit when I hit puberty.” She said as she stood up. Ren looked down at her bikini top, and it was pretty much see-through.

“I'm sorry, and I'm grateful.” Ren said. “I'm sorry you had to go through something like that; but, I'm grateful that your life has brought you to me.”

“I...” Elise looked like she was going to cry. “I feel the same way about you.”

Ren blinked his eyes a few times as he thought about what that meant. He stepped forward and reached a hand up to her face, and she leaned down to give him a kiss from the bottom of her heart.

*

The pool games had ended, with John the clear winner, and he finally managed to get Nancy alone in one of the spare rooms.

“Nancy, it can't happen.” Detective John Ramirez said for the third time.

“But... I love you!” His niece Nancy said. She stepped close and wrapped her arms around him and rested her head on his chest. “Doesn't love conquer all?”

“No.” John said, as he thought about all the time he'd spent with his partner over the last two years, and how his feelings had changed so drastically after only a single night. “Sometimes, all it can do is mess things up for people.”

Nancy looked up at him, and he looked down at her. “You love me, don't you?” She asked, her voice and eyes full of hope.

John put a hand on her cheek. “I have more love in my heart for you than any other.” He said. “You're my only niece. I remember everything about you. The things you like, the things you hate, that you prefer your hair shorter because it's easier to wash; but you wear it long because everyone compliments you on it, that your favorite food is spaghetti and meatballs even though your mom's specialty is lasagna.” He said. “I even remember the time of your birth.”

Tears rolled down Nancy's face as she heard how much he knew about her. “Then... then why can't we be together?”

“You're my niece.” John said. “My sister's daughter. My flesh and blood.” He explained. “I've always looked at you and treated you, as if you were my own daughter; and nothing can ever, ever happen between us.”

“But...”

“It breaks my heart to hurt you like this.” John said. “I thought you just had a crush on me, and that you'd get over it.” He sighed. “The one thing I always promised myself, was that I would never cause you pain.”

“But...”

“You are the most beautiful girl in the world.” John said, kissed her forehead, then leaned back. “You'll find the right guy for you someday.”

“I already found the right guy!” Nancy said, vehemently. “You're perfect!”

“I'm nowhere near perfect, Nancy.” John chuckled. “I even showed up late for my favorite niece's birthday party.”

“I'm your only niece.” Nancy said, completing the joke. “I... I just...” She started to cry again. “It's Holly, isn't it?” She asked. “She stole you away from me.”

John took his hand from her face and hugged her tightly. “No, she's only a weekend fling. We're not having a relationship or anything after this.”

“Then... then I... I still have a chance.” Nancy said. “I'll win your heart!”

“Shh.” John said. “You can't win what you can't compete for.” He said. “You'll fall in love again. You're too smart and beautiful not to.”

Nancy shook her head. “No, I won't. I'll never love anyone else but you.”

“Nancy, you have to.” John said. “You can't let your feelings for me affect your life.” He said. “I want you to be happy, and to fall in love with someone you really care about. I don't want you to be miserable because you want me to be something that I can never be.”

Nancy sobbed onto his chest. “I... I love you!” She said, and tried to punch him. “Please! Please! Love me back!”

“I can't.” John said. “Not in that way.”

“Then... then I... I'll hate you. I'll hate you forever.” Nancy said. “If... if you won't...” She took several breaths to steel herself. “I... I'll never want to see you again.”

John stiffened, and she felt his reaction. Nancy knew that he would have to give in to a demand like that. When she looked up at his face, her fantasy world shattered apart. She saw the tears in his eyes as they flowed out even more than hers, and she realized it had been a mistake to say the only thing that could possibly hurt him. To deny him seeing his only family.

“I'm... I'm so sorry that... that you feel that way.” John said in a normal voice as the tears didn't stop coming out. “I knew you would take it hard...” He let her out of the tight embrace he had held her in. “But... I never thought that...” He shook his head. “I... I'll leave right away.”

“Uncle John!” Nancy almost yelled as he walked towards the door of the spare bedroom to leave. “I'm sorry! I didn't mean...”

“No, I think you did mean it.” John said as he opened the door. “That's why...” He wiped at his face, but it made no difference to the flow of tears. “That's why it hurt so much to hear it from you.”

“Uncle John!” Nancy tried to get his attention, but he ignored her as he stepped out into the hallway and shut the door behind him. She collapsed to the bed and cried her heart out.

*

Ren had watched Denise and Elise swim for a while as he sat in the Jacuzzi. The jets weren't on, it was just a convenient place to sit next to the action. He had been true to his word, and watched diligently as they swam. They did laps, more dives, and at once point Ren had goaded them into a race. Elise won of course, but it had been a close victory.

“I am really out of shape!” Elise said after she swam over to Ren and stood up.

“That depends on if 'smoking hot' is a shape.” Ren said to her, and she laughed.

“You're biased.” Elise said. “You're not a valid judge.”

Ren chuckled. “Okay.” He turned to Denise. “Lily called her a knockout, so it's just your opinion left. What do you think of Elise?”

“I think she must get several whiplash lawsuits filed against her every day when she walks down the street.” Denise said and smiled.

“See?” Ren said. “I'm not in the minority here.”

Elise laughed again. “Let's get dried off and changed.” She said. “We've got to get you back to the temporary care facility soon.”

“But... but we didn't break in my new bed!” Ren said as she helped him out of the Jacuzzi. “I was really looking forward to that.”

“I am, too.” Elise said. “But you've had too much excitement as it is.” She said. “I don't want you to over-exert yourself.” She leaned down and kissed him. “I'm afraid I wouldn't be as careful as I want to be if we...” Her face flushed a little red.

Ren sighed. “All right, I'll wait.” He said. “But the next time I see you, you're going to strip off and let me have my way with you.”

Elise shivered a little bit at the thought. “But... what if it's at-”

“I don't care where it is.” Ren interrupted her, then took her into a hug. His face nestled between her breasts and he smiled up at her.

He looks so cute like that! Elise thought, and she wrapped her arms around him.

“You deserve attention, and I've been... well, I've been kind of afraid.” Ren admitted to her. “You're a lot of woman to handle, and I don't know if... well... I know you have certain expectations, and... I... I don't want to disappoint you.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elise said. “You can never disappoint me.” She smiled. “In fact, you keep surprising me in so many unexpected ways.”

Ren moved his hands down from her waist and grabbed her backside.

“Like now.” Elise said, and they both laughed.

“Come on, you two.” Denise said. “I'm already rinsed off and dried myself, and you haven't even started.”

“Sorry!” Ren said, gave Elise's butt a little squeeze, then let her go. “I couldn't keep my hands to myself.”

Elise let him go and stepped back. “Yes, it's all his fault.”

