His mind finally caught up to the situation, and he chided himself mentally. There was too much happening around him, and he got distracted again. He carefully sank his Vitae into her body and began sweeping through her many Skills. They had been altered dramatically, and as he sank down into their channels, reaching deep, he found them changed but also empty in a way. There wasn't a hostile presence here anymore, not like there was before. It wasn't like some other being was waiting on the other side, trying to corrupt her. Instead, it looked like the adversary had been fused into the Skill itself, that it was stained with Outsider power but fully converted and melded into an alloy. Two Eldritch beings fused together and finally cemented under Uva's will.

It was hard to explain. Ultimately, these were still her Skills—she had simply bound a mingled assortment of Eldritch mana together. The Eldest? The Stranger? Shiv couldn't feel them, and they didn't respond in any way. But that didn't mean they were gone. That didn't mean they were fully banished. Shiv had faced too much weird shit to think that this was over. In fact, he had a suspicion that this was going to come and bite them in some way down the line. When and by what means, he didn't know, but life was never so merciful, and the System never missed an opportunity to force more conflict in his life.

And all our lives, Shiv corrected himself as he retracted his Vitae strands.

He brushed some of Uva's hair, which had grown longer again in her time here, out of her face as she took a moment to center herself. Her eyes were still darting about, and he guessed that the room and everything around it were spinning for her. When she finally centered herself and blinked a few times, she let out a brief breath and met his gaze.

The corners of her lips threatened to curl up in a wry smile, but she made herself remain composed for a few seconds longer. "So, how was prison?"

That got a chuckle out of Shiv. "Kind of shit. How was hell?"

"Miserable enough that I think I would have liked trading places with you if I had the choice," Uva said dryly. And then a weak smile broke through on her face. "Even if I did get some benefits out of it in the end." She stared at her hands, changed, altered, but ultimately her own. She opened and closed her fingers, trying to reassure herself. Shiv never let her go.

"So, are the Stranger and Eldest gone? The hells did you do back there? It was looking like they were fighting over your body."

The Umbral let out a spiteful scoff. "I changed sides several times, supporting one, and just as they were about to win, I turned and helped the other. I did this several times until their greed and their narrow-sightedness overcame them. They would rather have an independent Seeker than none at all. They are desperate to expand themselves. So desperate that they refused to retract their influence. And they despise each other so much that the idea of losing something to one another drove them to greater heights of desperation and frenzy.”

Uva chuckled. “The Stranger thought he was going to be outbid by the Dreamtaker, and so he surrendered to me, if only to deprive her of her due influence. The Eldest had the same motivation, but was terrified that they would be undone by their child, that I would give myself to the Stranger, if only to hurt them in return. Both succumbed. Both were made to fuse with one another, and then I took hold of them."

She made her hands into fists, and a few aberrant fractals began spinning around her wrists, rotating as if blades prepared to lash out and strike. "I think parts of them are still here. They cannot reach over and twist me, though. Not like before. But they are aware of me. I've stolen a small portion of their essence. I exist, and so they exist. It is their way of intruding into the System as it influences them in turn. And I suspect they will not forgive my transgressions. They will try to take back what I have scammed out of them. I've been Cursed."

"By the Eldest?" Shiv asked, his hatred of the Eldritch rising by the moment.

"By both of them," Uva said flatly. "By the Stranger and the Eldest. And the Dreamtaker remains blissfully unaware. It's like a veil was draped over her mind when the Eldest reached into me. Even now, I can still barely feel her stirring. She's someplace distant, dormant." Uva rolled her eyes. "How pitiful. The most benign of the Outsiders is also the most harmless and helpless when it comes to her progenitor."

A shadow fell over Shiv and Uva, but the Deathless didn't even need a turn to tell who it was. A faint azure glow bathed both of them, increasing their mana levels and boosting their souls. Adam knelt beside them, looking down at Uva with a wry grin of his own.

"Hello, Sister Uva. I see that you've taken steps to address your Weaveress envy."

"Hero Adam," Uva replied, her voice dry but not without mirth. She looked above his head. "I see that your egg has unfortunately shattered. I was looking forward to seeing what kind of chicken would hatch from it."

"My egg?" Adam looked up and frowned. "It's not an egg, Uva. It's a Shattered Star. And this is a Skill Evolution, something you might have undergone several times thanks to the Starhawk."

"Thanks to the Starhawk?" Uva caught herself before her voice could climb an octave. She realized Adam was trying to bait her into outrage. "Ah. How very noble of you, Young Lord Arrow, stealing my rightful labors and attributing them to someone else. You do your mother's bloodline proud."

Rose heard that and let out a choked chortle. "Oh, you pasty, spider-legged bitch! I should have never vented about my father to you."

An expression of exhaustion and peace came over Uva, but it was only then that she realized she wasn't only among pleasant company. There were orcs in the room as well. In fact, most people on the bridge were orcs, and the brutes looked at her as if she was a thing of curiosity, a dangerous creature they wanted to hunt, and a potential meal they could savor over a crackling fire.

Uva sighed. "As appealing as it is to slip off to sleep right now, I would like to stand up. I'm going to need your help, Shiv. I do not think I have enough strength in my limbs."

She didn't need to say anything else. He scooped an arm around her legs and picked her up. Her wings folded behind her back, the spider-like joints curling inward, and her Psychomantic threads fusing together, becoming a single flap extending forth from her back, a silken cape trapped in a Cryo-Chronomantic frame.

Her weight was lighter than a feather, but Shiv could feel her mana fields. They were substantially improved. More than that, they could do things that few other Skill Fusions possessed. Not many Pathbearers had a connection between Psychomancy and Chronomancy. Just the same with time magic with frost.

Once more, Shiv wondered if the System had a hand in planning all this. He leaned towards yes. Uva had endured and suffered and paid a price that few could. Many people on Blackedge did. But in the end, instead of being diminished by her sacrifice, things turned around. She saw herself rewarded. Valor saw himself returned.

But where there was a feeling of euphoric triumph and peace in the backdrop of Shiv's mind, his Sage of the Enkindled Heart worked at his rationality, and his Gardener of Doubt made his body tremble with vibrations, fearing the future.

Gardener of Doubt: This is a moment of triumph, undoubtedly. But the System does not build on one triumph and leave it at that. The System does not see things as ends. No, they are connectors. They are steps. They are paths of escalation. Valor is close to wholeness. We have many allies, powerful and mighty. We have our own army. Uva has been returned, Roland has been saved, the Starhawk and his Perch reclaimed and put under our protection. Think, Shiv, and prepare. The System has let this happen in measure because you and everyone with you fought to make it so. But know this: The System is undoubtedly planning something to follow this, and with everything and everyone we gained from this victory, there is only one path forward: war. It is inevitable.

But even if it was going to be war, it wasn't going to be war right now, right this instant. For that moment, there was peace, there was victory, there was life. They lived. The Perch had finally been saved. The remaining survivors of Blackedge were either resting within the castle or held in the bowels of the Court Leviathan.

As the Deathless swept his eyes across his orcs, across the other Pathbearers who'd fought alongside him. Jessica, who stood far away from Roland with her arms crossed. Candles, who was slowly growing dimmer but seemed like he was beyond pleased—his mouth agape, his eyes wide, the look of a man utterly spent, utterly satisfied. And then there was Gone, standing apart from everyone, but not nearly far enough that she was out of reach. She shot Shiv a look, and her head tilted ever so slightly. She seemed like she wanted to smile, but her face didn't know how. Shiv would remedy that in time.

And time was what they had taken for themselves. Time to prepare. Time to get even stronger for whatever would follow next.

And through it all, his pulse never slowed. This all felt too good, too perfect. He was waiting. Waiting for something to hit them. Waiting for an ugly surprise. A final attack.

None came.

When Valor stepped forward and greeted Uva, she responded, murmuring words, talking about how she didn't expect him to look so thin—asking if this piece of his returned soul would see him capable of savoring some of Shiv's food.

And that was when the hammer-blow struck Shiv. Georges. Georges and all the people who were afflicted with the plague. He hadn't thought of them.

"Shit!" Shiv breathed. The sudden feeling of victory fell out from under him. His stomach was a vacuum.

Uva and Adam both turned, noticing the sudden shift of emotions on Shiv’s face. But before Shiv could open his mouth to ask Roland where the man who might as well be his adoptive father was, a loud, reverberating clap interrupted him.

Shiv froze, and he turned toward the source of the noise, where Can Hu stood with its hands still held up and clasped together.

"Hey, uh, Penitent?" Rose coughed. "I didn't want you to do that."

"I did not either," Can Hu responded, sounding unnerved.

A second clap followed, then a third, and then Can Hu’s body began glowing with a halo of faint, pale blue.
