Erick had an Ophiel [Stoneshape] the spear into the ground, entombing it in rock, while a [Sealed Privacy Ward] folded around the object to block the red mana signature, and a [Prismatic Ward] went around it to prevent easy theft.

Erick would deal with the spear later, too.

And then Erick had a most excellent idea.

See.

Erick had a problem.

He was angry at Terror Peaks. Logically, he wanted them all dead. But, he couldn’t bring himself to annihilate their cities, now that he was back in full power, and the forces of Songli were pushing out the invaders. He had killed many of their assassins and powers, and even captured a spear. He was on the rise and Terror Peaks was falling.

And so, even with all Erick had seen, he still couldn’t press that button, and kill all of the people who had wronged him, and who could potentially wrong him in the future. His anger was a fleeting thing when it came time to judge monstrous people in the way they deserved to be judged, especially when those monstrous people were in retreat.

After all, the people of Terror Peaks were indoctrinated to be that way. From the cradle, children were raised in tanks, cut off from the world, and made to harm each other and then eventually whoever their government deemed as enemies.

To kill such people would be as though killing children that didn’t know any better.

Killing soldiers in a war? Fine. Necessary, too.

Killing assassins? Sure! Mulch them all.

Killing high value-targets because if left on their own, they would kill more people? Absolutely.

But killing children and mothers and non-combatants?

Though his hatred seemed to be growing against certain targets, his anger was a fleeting thing.

Even if the mothers and otherwise were willingly enabling the system which produced the soldiers and assassins and high-value targets… Even if! Erick couldn’t kill them. They weren’t actual combatants themselves! They weren’t actual killers themselves.

And that counted for something, right?

So don’t kill the people who cause the system to exist. Just kill the people who participate in it. Words are fine. Actions are not.

Therefore...

What Erick could do, was find every single person who was at that meeting in the sky, who openly participated in the farce that led to Patriarch Xangu using that soul spear, and then kill them. They had tried to kill Erick with their specific actions. It was a grey area, though, wasn’t it?

Ah.

Erick was confusing himself.

It wasn’t a great split-the-difference plan, but it was one Erick felt comfortable with. There were just so many targets to Image for.

Patriarch Xangu! And Raidu! And that woman who was at his side in that broadcast where Xangu took credit for killing priests! And—

Okay.

Erick found his anger again. Hatred and anger. Good combination to keep going in the middle of a war.

Good.

Less thinking.

More doing.

Still not going to annihilate all of Terror Peaks with a few spells, though.

- - - -

A [Cascade Imaging] went up in the sky over a road that linked two of Terror Peaks’ cities, searching for Patriarch Xangu. While Erick waited for the map to populate, he watched the world below. The castle-like cities were ready for war, but no war had come to them. Yet.

Raidu appea—

Erick had Ophiel cast a [Harmonic Counterspell] to lock down any other spell casting, while Erick took a thousand mana of his own and cast [Harmonic Blood Ooze] upon the Scion of Terror Peaks. Raidu briefly stuttered as a splash of shadows canceled his next spell. The red ooze swarmed him, wrapping around his body like a net of constricting blood vessels, canceling his next three spells over the next three seconds. He probably would have gotten something else off, but Erick spent a thousand mana on a [Grand Dispel], and stripped the man of his Elemental Body and a good dozen other defenses he had cast upon himself.

Erick would have simply killed Raidu when he appeared, but the man came to the fight in underwear, with no visible weapons.

And now that the ooze was upon him, wrapping into his mouth and binding his arms and legs together, Erick cast several other spells, fast as needed and with Ophiel’s help, and the man ended up in the same sort of contraption that Erick had put that soul spear assassin under.

Raidu floated, struggling to stay awake, under a sphere of [Draining Void], atop a [Teleporting Platform], surrounded by a layer of Solid Ward, which was probably overkill… Erick replaced the [Prismatic Ward] with layers of [Quick Wall]s. There! No need to go wasting Ophiel’s [Prismatic Ward]s on this piddly stuff.

And in the four minutes it took for that to happen… no one attacked.

Erick was waiting for it! He had [Luminous Beam]s ready to go! Other Ophiel on standby!

So what was this all about, then? Raidu, appearing out of nowhere, looking like he wanted to talk? Yeah, sure. Like Erick believed that. He’d talk to Scion Terror Peaks when Raidu was Blessed by the Crystal Star. But in the meantime, Erick could start slaughtering the people down below.

No.

No no.

… There were still red-armor soldiers to kill over in Eralis. The war was still on, though it had devolved down to Songli cornering red-armored forces before those red soldiers could kill more civilians.

… What was Erick doing here? Planning on killing other civilians?

Erick came back to himself, feeling a profound disgust at himself and at everyone else. He instantly decided to pull back from the counteroffensive. He left the map up, though, searching for Xangu. Might as well, right? If that dude appeared, Erick would very much enact some swift justice. But as for the cities of Terror Peaks, and otherwise… He decided not to do that.

As for Raidu?

Raidu was still struggling to stay awake, and he would likely keep struggling for a little while. But the ooze wasn’t killing him too badly. Superficial wounds, really. And Erick had [Greater Treat Wounds]. The guy could stand to be humbled a bit, in Erick’s opinion.

Maybe… Cut off someth—

No.

No torture, Erick.

Thirty more seconds passed. Raidu collapsed, forced to sleep atop the [Teleporting Platform], never having been able to say a word. Erick still didn’t believe all of what he was seeing, though. He was surprised that all of these spells worked on the Scion. Nothing had been reflected. The [Draining Void] worked exactly as it should have, stripping the man of his resources, while the Blood Ooze kept him tied up, and prevented every spell he tried to cast.

This whole thing was probably some stupid attempt by Raidu to prey on Erick’s willingness to forgive.

Fuck that.

Anyway.

You couldn’t [Teleport] the unconscious. But you could [Teleport Other] the unconscious!

One Ophiel moved the platform and all of the accompanying spellwork. Another Ophiel moved Raidu.

Blip-blip. Blip-blip. Blip-blip. Blip-blip.

Along the way, another Ophiel introduced Raidu to the Crystal Star.

And then Erick left the guy where he was, in the middle of nowhere, under the care of an Ophiel, exactly how he had left the soul spear assassin. And now that he thought about it, he went over and switched out that assassin’s dense air shell for some good, old fashioned [Force Wall]s.

With that done, Erick added some [Sealed Privacy Ward]s over his new prisoners, to hide both war criminals from casual observers, while their platforms themselves were still mobile, if needed.

And then he switched the maps in Songli to ‘people in red armor’, just to be sure it didn’t work, and this next step became that much easier.

… Nope! ‘People in red armor’ was too non-real of a query.

As Erick reattached his Crystal Star to his chest, he asked Poi and Teressa, “Do Terror Peaks soldiers use anything that I hadn’t noticed, that I could search for? Badges, or otherwise? Rings or whatever? Something solid. ‘Red [Conjure Armor]’ doesn’t work.”

Teressa had been about to speak, but then she did not.

Poi shook his head. “Despite the war today, a lot of goods flow across much of Nelboor without care for borders, so anything that you see down there is likely used by people on both sides.” He added, “And everyone who isn’t openly fighting won’t be wearing any incriminating items.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I didn’t think so, but I needed to ask—” His eyes went wide in sudden panic. He asked Poi, “Is Candlepoint or Spur under attack from these guys?”

“No.” Poi said, “I already checked and I have them set up to warn me if that changes. They have been warned, though.”

Erick felt a sudden wave of relief. “Ah. Okay. Good. Then… Let’s keep going.”

He turned his attention back to Ophiel.

- - - -

Every time a red-armor soldier stepped into the light they met the business end of a [Luminous Beam]. Every place anyone fought, Ophiel investigated. Most of the time the solution to the fight was a [Luminous Beam] upon certain red targets. Other times, when the target was surrounded by friendlies, the solution was to check for reflections first and then implement other solutions.

Checking was simple enough. [Purge Water] was a great spell for this. It instantly struck a person with white mana light, and if they were vulnerable, the light stuck, and the person temporarily halted their killing to puke out water. Then came the [Death Spiral Plasma]s. Erick ended three killers that way. Felt pretty good about it, too.

Sometimes, the white mana glow of [Purge Water] reflected against Ophiel, but since Ophiel didn’t have water, nothing happened. For these enemies, Erick had to get creative.

One man in particular was a terror on the battlefield, slicing apart people with impunity. Erick was reminded of that time outside of Odaali, when that one man who would become the Breach Demon was cutting through Odaali’s troops, and no one could touch the man.

This guy in red armor was the same. Not a single enemy weapon touched him, as he slipped around the broken first floor of a multi-story building, wielding his thin sword, stabbing people through their armor, into their hearts with quick, sudden sword thrusts. He downed three soldiers in white in the three seconds Erick found the guy. He would have killed more, but he noticed Ophiel, and immediately moved like air around the battlefield, wrapping a hapless low-level soldier with his [Air Body], to continue to stab at other people while he was himself protected from retaliation.

[Purge Water] splashed away from the killer.

Erick couldn’t just [Luminous Beam], though.

He tried [Air Shape], since that was the best way to kill those in [Air Body]. The guy’s reflection caused Ophiel’s spellwork to flash into impotent turbulence.

The red soldier turned his blade inward, to point at the heart of the Songli soldier he surrounded, daring Erick to attack, saying nothing as the Songli soldier began to panic.

Erick had his Ophiels cast a [Draining Void] along with a dozen [Quick Wall]s, to ensure the guy couldn’t get away, and then he [Teleport Other]’d the Songli soldier out of there.

The air man began to leak green Health and Mana, even through his Reflection. In three seconds, after one [Harmonic Counterspell] to shut down the enemy’s [Teleport], the leaking stopped. The guy was out of resources.

The guy might have been running on fumes, and yet he could still maintain his [Air Body], and his reflection. Even inside the [Draining Void], the man was still air and violence, attempting to slash at his cage to get away. Perhaps he specialized in [Air Body]? And with the Class Ability to reduce the cost of his [Air Body]? It wouldn’t be the strangest thing Erick had ever seen.

But he was essentially trapped now, so Erick introduced him to the Crystal Star, and watched as the man turned back into a man, and started bawling inside of the [Draining Void]. And since he was a person now… Erick wrapped him up in spellwork, and sent the sleeping killer off to be with others like him.

Erick would ask the man how he was able to keep [Air Body] up without paying the costs, but it was probably some silly reason that anyone would know if he asked the right people. Eh. This was fine.

Erick moved on.

Mostly, soldiers died. But when Erick found someone who could do more than routine murder, he turned them empathic. It went against his whole person to only subject the elites to his Blessing, for everyone deserved redemption, but Erick did not have that luxury at the moment. The war was still raging.

Well…

Not raging. Not really.

The sun turned in the sky. People died.

Most of Terror Peak’s elites got dead, due to the efforts of Songli’s elites, but a quarter of the ones Erick dealt with got locked behind [Draining Void]s, and made Empathic. Erick had lots of questions for them, but not yet.

Alaralti desired its rain shut off, so Erick did that.

Holorulo desired more targets to be found, so Erick did that, and let Holorulo deal with those targets.

Eralis needed help. The battle was over, the enemy in full retreat, but they would no doubt strike back with terror campaigns and more assassinations as soon as they got some room to recover. But that would come later, for now, Erick sent out Ophiels, armed with [Greater Treat Wounds], and began healing everyone he saw that needed healing. He was one tiny man in a massive empire, but one man could make a difference, and so he helped as much as he could, but without exposing himself to a possible soul spearing.

That soul spear was simply an awful weapon.

Erick found himself hating it.

Actual hate.

Felt a lot of hatred at the moment, now that he had some time to think of what had happened.

The last time he felt this sort of genuine hate was back when he wanted to murder all the Shades.

