That this soul spear was able to elicit that much hate, surprised even him. He didn’t hate it for what it could do to him, physically, or to his soul. That was just part of life here on Veird; death came in many flavors. No. He hated it because if that damned thing didn’t exist, then he could have Ophiels flying around in full sunforms, touching off [Greater Treat Wounds] upon everyone who needed it. Instead, Ophiel were tiny, and they had to get close to their targets in order to heal, but even that was a vulnerability. Erick had to make himself vulnerable, extending his light outside of the [Animadversion] shell, to cast that touch-based spell. Every single time Erick had Ophiel heal someone, he imagined that some [Gate] would open up and Xangu would step through and spear Ophiel in that exact moment of vulnerability.

That thought right there, the fact that Erick was thinking such things, that was why he hated the soul spear. A fucking inanimate object! Drawing as much ire as the Shades!

How comical!

How hilarious that Erick had to make himself vulnerable to help others!

Oh, sure, he had been making himself vulnerable his whole life in order to help others, so that was not a problem for him, except… He had thought that Ophiel’s existence had divorced him from much of the actual threat that was vulnerability, but no! Here was new weaponry, made specifically to stab at how he chose to help others—

Ah. Well.

The soul spear was made to be able to stab at anyone who primarily interacted with the world through a [Familiar]’s eyes, instead of their own. That spear was a true archmage killer. Many people over the last year had said that archmages were never as untouchable as they seemed to be. This new soul spear was just one example of that truth.

And Erick hated it. He hated the spear, and what the existence of such an object was doing to him. With that thought, he flowed into the next, that he hated Terror Peaks for causing this war in the first place. He hated the loss of life, and the disruption to the world. He hated the small-minded culture of Terror Peaks that allowed this war to happen in the first place. He hated being called a Wizard.

He hated that all events conspired to make him a hermit. He hated that he, personally, would be better off if he was alone, and people came to him if they needed help. He hated that by choosing to become a part of the world, he subjected people to death and terror, because people subjected him to death and terror.

And then he thought of the Worldly Path.

He felt his hatred falter, as though overshadowed by something else.

Was this war a result of Fate and Ritual causing reactions that otherwise wouldn’t have happened?

Erick’s instinct was to say ‘no’.

Koyabez had it right; Ar’Kendrithyst’s destruction left a massive power vacuum in the world. It was as though The United States had fallen overnight. Of course there would be people wanting to fill that void with their own power.

But everywhere Erick went, war followed.

But not massive wars, actually, now that he thought about it. The beginning steps of wars. The parts where the most good could be done most quickly.

So, in that light, what had actually happened here?

Erick came to town, and proceeded to help the people here solve their Elixir problem. When that news broke at the gathering a few days ago, Erick stood up and proclaimed Songli as violating its own usual operations by speaking of war instead of peace. Maybe, by speaking up, he had brought some sense to those people—

Nope. That was being naive. He didn’t bring sense to them, but at least he had spoken sensible words and made his mind shown.

There had been a distinct desire for war, for they knew war was going to happen. They had known all along, didn’t they.

Erick felt he had curbed that war, maybe not in that room of the gathering, but maybe later, when he revealed who he was to Zalindi and Ari and Tadashi.

Eh.

Maybe the pressure of the void of Ar’Kendrithyst, and the proximity of the success of Eralis’s chelation treatment, had simply caused that war to erupt in a different way than how it was always going to erupt.

War was always going to happen, wasn’t it?

Raidu had spoken of Goldie and Queen orchestrating something in the background...

But maybe… Maybe, though, Erick’s ‘talk’ with Raidu, before Xangu appeared with his soul spear, had caused a lot of others to not join this war. There had been no sign of the Rain Mage or the Fulmination Spear, yet. And that was good, wasn’t it?

Erick realized:

There was only one real choice he had when it came to this war.

He could choose to mitigate, or he could choose to inflame the atrocities of war even higher.

Back when he had little power in this Worldly Path, Erick had shut down the war between the Shades in Last Shadow’s Feast, by letting it run its course until he had to act, to ensure the right people survived. He needed godly help to survive that himself, too, but he had survived, and, it could be argued, the outcome of that Feast was the best possible outcome for the world, considering the possible outcomes.

And then he went to Treehome, and did the same thing on a much easier scale. He ended a minor battle between shadelings and orcols through a show of force, then he took the survivors back to Candlepoint, and then he pointed Treehome to the Forest, to give them a new target. A new conquest.

Looking back on his time with Tenebrae, the archmage had almost introduced him to a civilization of dragons, which was at constant war with itself… But he had chosen to step down a different part of the Path, taking him away from that confrontation, for Tenebrae would have died if Erick would have continued.

And now he was here, in Songli, perhaps the most stable nation of this land of Nelboor, where everyone warred all the time. Erick had helped to mitigate some of the battle, but he could have done more.

Everything was connected by war and conquest and the fate of the world, for the first step on this Worldly Path had inadvertently been to end the largest Evil that had ever existed on this Veird.

With a dawning horror, Erick saw the Path stretch out before him.

He saw the wars yet to come.

And he knew he needed to find another way. Some different Path he could take. Something more peaceful. Something less high-stakes than the fate of the world.

Something smaller.

But a dark thought made him think of this in another way.

If he acted fast enough, and decisively enough, along every step of his Path, he could end wars before they began. He could save thousands upon thousands of lives. He could end horrors before they had a chance to show. That’s what he had done in Treehome, wasn’t it? He helped the orcols to kill hundreds of thousands of monsters, for the good of everyone else.

If he had made that ‘Kill Everyone’ spell that Jane had brought up…

If he had cast that over at Terror Peaks, targeting ‘people’...

A few hundred thousand people would be dead. But millions would have survived.

Like Silverite once said:

It was simple math.
