Erick almost asked if this really was Clan Small Scare’s clan mountain, but Caina’s last words made him focus. He said, “That man was an assassin. Songli gave me targets and I went after them.”

One of the survivors Erick had rescued yelled, “He was not! He was my everything!”

Before Erick could panic—

Caina silenced the woman with a wave of her hand. “What level was he?”

Erick rapidly checked the notification. “E-17— Level 73.”

The surviving woman startled, as though plunged into ice. Erick realized what she realized in that same moment.

Caina confirmed, “We would never have an initiate at that high a level. He was an impostor.” She said to Ophiel, “Thank you for your help, Archmage Flatt. We will take it from here.”

… Ophiel moved on.

The third person was a woman, slicing through initiates in a different clan mountain in Alaralti. Spells bounced off of her.

[Luminous Beam] cut through that nonsense.

The fourth and fifth targets were in Eralis, assaulting high-value targets in a high-class market. Erick murdered them most violently, for they were in the act of doing the same to merchants and others, as others had done to Spur, not too long ago. And he hated that. He hated it, all over again.

For he remembered how the people of Spur lost the Farms, all because of the evil of one man.

He remembered Caradogh Pogi of Portal, and the Hunters the man sent at Spur, and he remembered the people Caradogh murdered. Valok. Apogogh’s father. Carnelia, the lady who worked at Ruby’s Reds. Savral, Al’s son. And—

So many people, murdered to fuel the ambitions of a small-minded man who couldn’t stand the prosperity of Spur.

Rage filled Erick’s vision, as the next target was at the harbor, where so, so many goods and people came into the Highlands, and to the warehouses, which were currently on fire. People were trying to put out the fire, but flames spread harder when water touched the carmine conflagration.

Erick saw it now.

Terror Peaks was not just killing civilians. They were not just trying to end a civilization they didn’t like. They were doing the same thing to Eralis that those Hunters had done to Spur. They were ruining the chance at prosperity. They were destroying growth, and that which allowed more growth.

The sixth target was spreading more carmine flames, burning everything she could, jumping from warehouse to warehouse, trailing fire everywhere she walked, laughing and killing whoever got in her way. She was the flame, and Erick had no doubt she was in [Greater Fire Body].

Erick broke out a spell he had never used, and cast it himself for 850 mana; the cost reduction after Intelligence. He had never used it before, but it seemed appropriate here. If it worked, it would prolong the woman’s pain, and that seemed great.

Death Spiral Plasma, instant, close range, 17,009 MP

Wrap a target in fire, dealing WIL damage a second until the target dies.

Ribbons of white flame—

Bounced off of the target, because she had a reflective spell active. Of course she did. Well fuck.

“Fuck you!” Erick yelled, to no one in particular.

The woman briefly paused. She had recognized Erick’s spellwork as an attack as white flames spilled away from her and fell into the nearby inferno like so much splashed milk.

The woman looked up, just in time to catch Ophiel’s [Luminous Beam] to the face.

She died.

With their creator gone, the fires started to falter under the light rain already falling across the city.

The seventh target held a sword four times as large as she was, as she whirled and twirled through battle lines, dancing like she was the only power that mattered. She got a [Luminous Beam] to the face, too.

Erick said to Poi. “More targets.”

Poi spoke to someone else, then he turned to Erick, saying, “If you want, you can move on to Terror Peaks itself. The counteroffensive has not yet begun, but you would be a good tip of the spear.”

“Okay.” Erick said, “I will go do that. I won’t kill civilians, but anyone in armor is going to die.”

Poi weighed his own response, resigned himself, then said what he had to say, “They’re all in armor. They’re all soldiers.” Poi added, “If you break their cities, they’ll run. Then the hypervigilance will start, along with shadow warfare.” He said, “Songli desires your help for this clean-up, more than the battle, but by asking you to assault Terror Peaks directly, they are hoping to draw off the Elites currently inside Songli, by threatening them with the lives of their children. Not many would return home, but some would.”

Erick’s eyes went wide.

Ah. He should have realized what was going on. But Poi had needed to explain it to him.

And then…

He understood.

Ah.

Okay.

No.

He couldn’t.

But if he didn’t, then the war would continue, but in a different form.

Wait.

He could do…

Yes. He could do that. Sure. It would be annoying to [Teleport Other] all the kids away from the cities before he murdered everyone there, but that would be fine.

Poi looked at him, and said, “Or. Your [Sunlight Rift] would harm rather fast, too, and without needing to extricate the kids first. Kids can’t cast much magic.”

“… But they would see their mothers die.”

Teressa had listened, but now she said, “And those mothers are monsters. They deserve death, as quick as you can give it.”

After a moment of thinking, Erick decided that he was not going to make that decision. He was not going to fight near kids. Not yet… Hopefully not ever. He put off that whole problem.

Erick looked away from Poi, and said, “I’ve got to find those spears. If I can. I’m going to search for those.”

Poi nodded.

Erick switched the maps everywhere in Songli to those soul spears that had almost killed him—

A blue dot appeared.

And instantly, too?

What! He expected nothing! What the fu—

And then Erick realized something.

He had searched for a specific image of the spear that had matched his memories of both spears he had seen, but, in the same way that every rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] was not exactly the same, surely every one of these highly-magical soul spears were not the same. And yet… they were. Exactly the same.

Exactly.

That meant something.

Erick didn’t know what, for sure, but he would, soon enough.

Ophiels rushed out to collect the target. But then Erick paused, when he saw the target. The spear was sitting out in the open, in a secluded courtyard, outside of Eralis. The location had been made important because the spear was there, laying on the stone in the middle of open ground, but otherwise, the building was boring. The surroundings didn’t matter. This location was a normal, everyday location, that one could find anywhere on the outskirts of any of Songli’s cities.

The spear was alone. It was the genuine article, too; to [Mana Sight], the spear glowed like a red sun, while to normal sight, it looked like a pitted piece of junk that would break at the slightest stress.

This reeked of a trap.

Well.

It could be that they were expecting him to touch the spear himself, or rather, with Ophiel. By extending Ophiel’s lightform past the protections of the [Animadversion], then the ‘invisible wielder still holding onto the artifact’, or whatever the trap was, would then activate the spear and target the exposed part of Ophiel.

Erick had ways around that vulnerability, though.

Ophiel moved in and molded the land under the spear with [Teleporting Platform]. The spear barely jostled as the disk of floating land appeared under it. This way, Ophiel could move the spear without actually touching it. Which he then did.

Blip. Blip. Blip.

While one Ophiel was doing that, others switched the maps to Xangu, thus hiding the spear’s new location.

Blip. Blip. Blip.

The spear went to the middle of nowhere, a field out in the sun, where another Ophiel instantly [Luminous Beam]’d everything around the spear, missing the platform but getting within a half-meter of the spear itself.

Blip. Blip. Blip.

And another [Luminous Beam].

… Okay. Maybe he was a bit paranoid at this point. But seeing that one assassin hide in the magical signature of that board game had messed him up. He didn’t even know that was possible. Some dude could even be hiding inside the spear, with [Air Body], or something like that, just waiting for the moment to strike.

—Oh yeah. He could check for that, actually, based on what it cost to [Teleport] the object, since [Teleport]’s cost was based on people transported. Even moving a [Familiar] like Ophiel cost base-250 extra mana. [Teleporting Platform] was of a similar nature.

Teleporting Platform, instant, 197 MP + Variable, 204 MP per person + Variable

Create a mobile, hovering platform of stone that moves quickly at your discretion. Supports a large amount of weight. Lasts 1 hour.

You and the people or objects on your Teleporting Platform appear in a known location, max 1000km distance.

Weight mattered for that spell, incurring additional mana costs as though extra people were being transported, but the spear weighed almost nothing. So Erick cast his own [Teleporting Platform] through Ophiel, lifting the spear with the cast onto the new platform, and triggered the platform through Ophiel.

Ophiel came along with the blip, costing Erick 10 mana. The spear came along, costing something negligible.

And another 10 mana was spent, as someone else was transported, too.

So.

How to solve this?

Answer:

Erick rapidly gathered his Ophiel and proceeded to cast eight spells in concert; [Stone Breaker], [Air Breaker], [Water Breaker], [Fire Breaker], [Light Breaker], [Shadow Breaker], [Prismatic Breaker], and [Force Breaker], targeting the space near the object. If any of his spells broke the object, then oh well. The hidden assassin was more important to kill.

And to ensure that the target didn’t just reapply whatever Elemental Body they were using, Erick queued up a [Harmonic Counterspell].

Light splashed against the spear.

Erick’s counterspell triggered.

A white-armored woman fell out of the spear, looking like a person from Songli.

Erick wasn’t going to fall for that, though. The woman had a red soul, the same color as the spear itself, which still glowed upon the manasphere with a red radiance strong enough to dim everything else.

The woman snarled in defeat, and Erick’s Ophiel began counterspelling her attempts to use magic. Erick rapidly enacted a few other spells around the space. A [Prismatic Ward], cast as a shell to lock the woman inside. A quick grapple of the spear with [Telekinesis] to take it away. An organization of [Harmonic Counterspell]s to keep her locked down.

And finally, a [Drain Ward], fueled by more hollowing hatred than Erick thought it was possible for anyone to experience at any one time. Erick had no time for emotions at the moment, though. He did, apparently, have time for a new spell, though.

A blue box appeared.

Draining Void, instant, close range, 500 mana

Drain WIL Health and Mana per second from every target in a large area. Lasts 24 hours. Lasts longer based on resources drained.

A shadowed space slipped around the woman inside the layer of dense air.

She didn’t scream, but it looked like it hurt, as blood and red glows flowed away from the woman like drops of light, to vanish into the consuming shadows all around. Still, it would take a while till she was out of Health and Mana, and she could still escape if given the opportunity, so Erick methodically canceled all of the woman’s spellwork with [Harmonic Counterspell]s, and layered on a few more [Draining Void]s for good measure. The dense air around the platform kept her in place. It was only a matter of time before she succumbed.

It was easy to tell when the [Draining Void] stopped working; the red glows flowing from the woman’s body instantly stopped flowing, and her pained face relaxed.

The draining had ended, for there were no more resources to strip away.

She might be able to [Second Wind] for more Health, or [Meditation] to Rest, and recover that way, but Resting would only grant her…

Erick did some quick math. 100 Focus, Scion of Focus as worst case scenario, double mana regen Class Ability, with Intelligence (doubtful), meant: 7 mana per second recovered from Rest.

If she was a Scion of Vitality and she had Blood Mana, or something like that, and since [Second Wind] transformed Health Recovery per day into per minute for a little while...

That meant she could hypothetically recover 400 Health per second.

[Draining Void] only erased 151 Mana and Health every second.

Taking into account Dexterity or Intelligence and—

Yeah. She could get away.

This would be annoying.

Erick filled the box with [Merciful Ether]. When his assassin was fully asleep, Erick left the woman where she was.

All of that had taken a few minutes. He could have simply killed her, as she was obviously an assassin, but Erick wanted some answers about that spear, and the assassin would have them. While she was sleeping, Erick handed over his Crystal Star to an Ophiel and Blessed the woman.

There. Good. He would get answers soon enough.

Erick shoved his hatred away.

Mostly.

Erick took back his Crystal Star, and finished taking care of the spear.

The spear went to a different, boring plot of prairie land. The weapon had lost a great deal of its mana light without the woman hiding inside, ready to release the weapon’s power as soon as she saw an opening. Now, the weapon looked like a spear from a distant age, corroded with time, and diminished from much of what it had once been. Still glowed to [Mana Sight] like a red wardlight, though.

