“What do you mean?” Ren asked when they reached the Main House and he opened the door with his free hand to let Princess inside.

“You don't need to do anything.” Officer Holly said. “Just sit back and relax.”

Ren chuckled. “You've seen what my life is like, right?” He asked, and she nodded. “Once I get the wall finished, I'll be telling Zetaya about my plan for this world event thing.” He said. “Although, I think I'm changing one crucial detail.”

“What's that?”

“I can't tell you that, because it's going to be a surprise.” Ren said. “A really big surprise.”

“I can feel your mischievousness.” Officer Holly chuckled. “Is what you're planning going to be bad?”

“Not for me.” Ren grinned, and she shook her head.

“I'm getting a naughty feeling from you.” Officer Holly said.

“That's because I've got my arm around your waist, and my hand is dangerously close to slipping a little.”

“Don't you dare grab my butt.” Officer Holly warned him with a deadly smile. “I let that go once.”

“I appreciate that, and I won't take advantage of you like that again.” Ren said and let her hip go.

Officer Holly stepped to the side away from him as she slid her arm off his shoulders, and his thumb slid across the top of her pants and the bottom edge of his hand grazed her backside.

“You did that on purpose.” She said and felt his amusement.

“You only said I couldn't grab it.” Ren smiled.

“Do you always take things so literally?” Officer Holly asked, and couldn't help but chuckle.

“Only when I'm trying to prove a point.” Ren said. “You should be careful about what you say. With the only restriction being that I couldn't grab your butt...” He grinned. “...I could have poked, prodded, slapped, massaged, licked, and even kissed it without breaking that restriction.”

Officer Holly's face flushed a little red as she thought about what else he could have done to her, without grabbing it. Ren could feel her emotions swing from annoyance to being turned on and back again, and he knew that she understood what he meant as he stepped inside the doorway to the Main House.

“I've got some furniture to arrange for the maids, and then for the rest of the day I'm covering the inside of the county walls.” Ren said. “While I'm busy, you might want to try the fried pieces of dough in the bakery.”

“O-okay.” Officer Holly said as he shut the door, then she turned around and walked across the street to try them. She needed something to distract her from what he had said.

Ren concentrated on his Contact aura, and it merged with the shared Aura that the maids had. He pat Princess and told her that he would be back down in a little while to go to the wall, and then the Mayor's door opened.

“I thought I heard your voice.” Patty said and Ren smiled warmly at her.

“Hi, Patty.” Ren said. “Ah... I mean, Ms. Mayor.”

Patty chuckled. “I told you before that you can always call me Patty.” She stepped back and held her office door open. “I have someone I'd like for you to meet.”

The scout from the next county stood up and saluted. “Sir!”

“At ease.” Ren said and looked at Patty. “I assume he has some important information?”

“Even without him divulging the details, yes.” Patty said. “It's very important, and it's your fault.”

Ren could feel that she wasn't being accusatory with that statement; but, the scout thought she was. “If you can wait for a few minutes while I take care of something, I'll come back and we can sit down and discuss it.”

“Thank you.” Patty said. “We'll both wait right here for you.”

Ren nodded and ran up the stairs and stored the workbench, the glass forge and the normal forge, cleaned everything up and built a wall to cover the spot between the stairs and the apartment. He made it solid, so that the only way to get to it was through the apartment, and he put down wood planks to soften the cement floor.

Ren took out the various cabinets, dressers, and dressing tables from his inventory to arrange them just like they had been at the old house, then took out one of the large mirrors he had left from working on the Pleasure Palace. He absorbed the enchantment and cut it up into 9 pieces, with each one about 3 feet by 3 feet square, enchanted them again and used his web trick to mount them behind the dressing tables. He then cut a doorway in the wall to the apartment, and the maids walked over to it.

“What are you... oh, Ren!” Frikara said as she stepped into the new area. “It's wonderful!”

“Mirrors!” Navruth exclaimed and ran over to her dressing table. “We can see ourselves!”

Ren chuckled. “I'm sorry I didn't have them before, but I just learned how to make them.”

“This is great!” Lusinia said and sat down at her dressing table, then gasped at her reflection and opened the middle drawer to pick up her brush. “Hey, why didn't anyone tell me that my hair was messy?”

“We thought that was the look you were going for.” Verwynn said, and the others laughed.

“I definitely wasn't!” Lusinia huffed and started to quickly brush her hair. “What's Ren going to think when he sees me like this?” She stopped brushing her hair and looked at Ren. “Um, I mean...”

Ren walked over to her and she turned to face him automatically. “I think you look... delicious.”

Lusinia's face flushed to a deep red as she felt his desire, and he took her hand to help her stand up. He then took her in his arms and kissed her for several minutes. He broke the kiss and she sat down on her chair, a little stunned, and she had forgotten all about her messy hair.

“My hair is messy, too!” Andrela said, and Ren turned around to see her try desperately to fluff out her long and very straight red hair with her hands. When she stopped, it went back to it's natural straight state. “Dammit.”

Ren laughed and walked over to her, and cupped the side of her face. “You don't need an excuse for me to kiss you.” He said and kissed her, too. Of course, this set the others off and he gave them kisses as well. When they all had their turn, he went through the apartment and out the door, then went down the stairs. He went to knock on the Mayor's door, but it was still open.

“Have a seat.” Patty said when she saw him. “We have a few things to discuss.”

Ren went into the office and shut the door. After listening to the scout for several minutes, he quickly discovered what his basic protection of the county had set in motion. He sighed because he hadn't intended for anything to happen, besides protecting his citizens.

“Well, crap.”
