She thought back to her mother’s frustration and bitterness that had briefly surfaced during their conversation in the hearth room. Was she really going to suggest that her mother abandon her again? Whatever she thought she would be arguing, that would be what she was asking.

Ling Qi felt herself relax as she decided to drop the idea, a snarl in her qi flow that she had not even noticed forming smoothing out. Even if it meant they might be in danger, she couldn’t force her decisions on her family. Later, she would talk with her mother, and together, they would determine what precautions that the household would take and how to increase the security of the house. She would give the staff the chance to leave as they had not signed up for this, but family was a different matter.

“Oi, you alright, Ling Qi?” Su Ling spoke, shaking her out of her thoughts. The other girl’s pointed canine ears flicked in a way that she knew denoted concern. “You kinda spaced out.”

“Sorry, I was lost in thought. There is a lot to think about lately,” Ling Qi replied.

The atmosphere at the table darkened, and Su Ling nodded slowly, her natural scowl deepening. “You’re not wrong. Things are going to be rough for awhile.”

“They are barbarian trash, no matter what form they take,” Xiao Fen sniffed. “Even with everything that has happened in recent millenia, the Empire is strong. From what I have seen, your duchess has done much work to straighten out the fractious rabble which has so long dragged the Emerald Seas down.”

“You would think that a Bai would know to be more diplomatic,” Ling Qi said dryly.

Xiao Fen arched a scaly eyebrow. “Oh, I am not speaking of any still extant individuals. How bold of you to presume that I would make such a gaffe,” she retorted coolly.

Ling Qi maintained eye contact with Xiao Fen a moment longer. The girl really was well practiced at that sort of thing, wasn’t she?

“My apologies if my question might seem unknowledgeable,” Ling Qingge interjected tentatively. Ling Qi glanced to the side, surprised to hear her mother take the initiative. “But what do you believe the Empire’s response will be? Will the army come?”

“Hell if I know. Sect is gonna mobilize all the way.” Su Ling shrugged. “Will the folks further away bother? Who knows. They’ll probably just look to their own.”

“How cynical of you,” Xiao Fen said, pouring herself a new cup. “I think you underestimate the scale of this insult, Miss Su.”

“Do I?” Su Ling asked blandly.

Ling Qi thought but then shook her head. “I think you do, Su Ling. It’s not a matter of altruism or selflessness,” Ling Qi said, remembering the studying Cai Renxiang had put her through, the picture of the Emerald Seas she had so painstakingly assembled in her mind. “It is a matter of legitimacy. If the things I have heard since I woke up are correct, this is the largest and boldest incursion since Duchess Cai ascended to the throne, even ignoring the new enemies.”

“Ah. Well, shit,” Su Ling said gruffly, clearly understanding the words she had not said. Considering that the Cai rose to their position partially on the lackluster response of the previous ducal clan, the Hui, to Ogodei’s invasion, the Cai had to respond strongly to barbarian incursions. “This is gonna get bloody, innit?”

“Quite,” Xiao Fen said. “To answer the question I believe Madam Ling was truly asking however, the Sect will likely focus on reconnaissance and defense until the other pieces have moved into place. This town is the gateway to the Sect, the place through which its production flows into the rest of the Empire. It is likely that great effort will be made to make it safe from new threats.”

If only because the Sect couldn’t afford to have their “face” damaged further, Ling Qi mused. She was thankful that the Sect had given her a home in the inner part of the town. It was good to benefit from the structure of the Empire for once, instead of being out in the gutters and fields. “Mmm, I don’t doubt that the elders are unhappy with being caught unawares.” Elder Jiao in particular, for all his lax attitude, struck her as a fundamentally prideful man.

“Feh, at least their pride will do some good,” Su Ling grumbled. “I guess I won’t object to checking things out below. Can’t let people get caught out again.”

“We can discuss improving the house’s security later, mother. My friend Li Suyin has done a lot of development on formations.” She just had to convince mother to put up with skeletons in the basement. Hopefully, Suyin had refined it further; the version of the array Ling Qi knew was not sufficient for a house with a full staff.

“Suyin does good work,” Su Ling agreed, finishing her tea.

“I am reassured,” Ling Qingge said, dipping her head.

Ling Qi spotted a nervous servant signalling her mother from inside the house. Mother glanced over before excusing herself to converse with the woman, but Ling Qi couldn’t help but overhear. Apparently, Biyu was being quarrelsome since this was usually around the time she was allowed out to play in the garden. She glanced over at her friends. She could probably save them some trouble, and it wasn’t like this was some official meeting.

“Would either of you be bothered if my little sister came out to play in the garden while we have our tea?”

“The hell kinda snob do you think I am?” Su Ling snorted. “Just about done anyway. Got stuff to do.”

“Is she teethed?” Xiao Fen asked.

Ling Qi paused, caught short by the bizarre question from Xiao Fen. “... Yes?” Ling Qi answered.

“Then it is no trouble,” Xiao Fen replied as if the question was normal. “Ah, if you would, when you see Lady Meizhen next, inform her that despite my setback, I will join her in the third realm soon. I will be prepared to serve her properly as soon as possible.”

Ling Qi nodded slowly then stood up to go speak with her mother. She was not even going to ask.
