Jake also added this as a precaution, in case the frog people decided that Jake was too big a risk to keep around. He didn’t know why they would, but he also had no idea what the thoughts of this Circle would be. For all he knew, there were conservative fanatics who wanted to maintain the purity of the Minor World while denying all existence of anything beyond the boundary, making Jake a threat to the status quo.

“Very well, but again, take my apprentice with you. If for nothing else but to learn more about this world and its inhabitants,” the Oracle said with a final nod before waving her hand. “May fate bring you fortune.”

With those words and the wave of her hand, Jake found himself teleported outside the temple entrance alongside the Shaman. The frog shivered for a moment before fully getting his bearings and looking at Jake.

“Goodness, I can never get used to that. Space magic truly is beyond me,” the Shaman said, shaking his head. “But... truly? From beyond the Boundary? I must admit, I had my suspicions that could be the case, but I never dared even truly consider it.”

“You never told me you were the apprentice of the Oracle either,” Jake pointed out.

“I am a Shaman, of course I am?” the frog asked, before remembering Jake was an ignorant human who didn’t know the common sense of this world. “Ah, right. Perhaps I should have informed you. Alas, what’s done is done.”

“All water under the bridge,” Jake waved him off with a smile.

“I take it, based on your question, that you wish to explore more of the island beyond the village?” the Shaman asked, getting a nod of confirmation in return, making him continue. “That being the case, please allow my comrades to restock on necessary supplies before we set out. Also, I would be remiss if I didn’t at least have the pleasure of inviting you to my humble home.”

“I would love to,” Jake smiled.

“Very good!” the Shaman said happily before a thought struck him. “If you do not mind me asking, seeing as I’m unaware of your kind’s palate, what are the dietary preferences of humans? Would you enlighten me on which beverages your kind prefers? I do have quite the selection...”

And that’s when Jake learned perhaps the most important thing about the Venusians:

They did have tea.
