It was lonely in his soul, Dozer’s presence notwithstanding. Already, the math said he’d be leaving his friends for days of perceived time each night, and it would only grow worse if the factor continued to improve. It wasn’t like the obelisk. That had been a much higher acceleration, obviously, but it was also a one-off. This wasn’t. Over time, that difference in perceived time would add up, taking a mental toll if he wasn’t careful. Fortunately, he could exploit the effect as much or as little as he wanted. For now, there was no reason to hold back. He’d need to spend as much time inside as he could, just to keep up with his mana addiction.

I can stop any time I want.

Setting a marker, Rain triggered his second essence exchange of the day, focusing on his body. He felt nothing, not that he expected a reaction. His repairs had been quite extensive, and he was in considerably better condition than he’d been just a few real-time hours ago. The lack of screams further told him that if he’d had another blow-out, it hadn’t reached the camp. He didn’t get any flashes of Linksight either, but then, nobody would be in his party at the moment.

Nodding to himself, he put his spirit-world status out of his mind, then summoned a progress report to display his real-world gains over breakfast.

Progress Report

marker_1: s2 [3061 Sowing 26 08:00]

marker_2: s3 [3061 Sowing 26 08:43]

Span: 43 minutes

Character

Total Exp: 2,036,416 -> 2,042,596 (+6,180)

↳Stamina Use: 1

↳Mana Use: 6,179

Skills

Aura Compression: +9 exp

Aura IFF: +1,180 exp

Aura Synergy: +288 exp

Channel Mastery: +3,869 exp

Detection: +105 exp

Essence Well: +780 exp

Extend Aura: +140 exp

Intrinsic Clarity: +6,179 exp, 10 -> 11 (+1)

Intrinsic Focus: +6,179 exp, 10 -> 11 (+1)

Magical Synergy: +6,179 exp

Mana Manipulation: +21 exp

Purify: +75 exp

Rain’s mouth quirked. Two skill levels. Just like that. Without even trying.

With a thought, he summoned a pair of skill cards. He didn’t expect anything exciting to have happened with the two skills that had passed rank ten, but it was worth taking a second to look.

Intrinsic Clarity (11/15) Exp: 2,155/5,600

Multiply base mana regeneration by 320%

Intrinsic Focus (11/15) Exp: 2,155/5,600

Multiply base mana by 320%

Nope. Just an extra twenty percent per level, same as it’s always been. Oh well.

His eyes flicked back to the progress report, considering.

Purify to clean up, Mana Manipulation for equipment upkeep, Detection to assuage his paranoia, and Essence Well to refill Ameliah’s mana.

That was literally all I did. And I got two skill levels for it. Damn.

Rain shook his head, reconsidering his usage of Essence Well. He’d asked Ameliah to top up his stamina, reversing his previous stance, but he hadn’t really needed to refill her mana in return. The threat of the Knives was distant now, an attack unlikely. Leaving her to regen on her own would have been fine. He’d just gotten in the habit of refilling her whenever she refilled him. Tit for tat and all that.

Ah, well. It’s just a drop in the bucket.

Banishing the windows, Rain slung his pack over his shoulders, bundled up the collapsed tent under one arm, then began walking toward the camp. As he picked his way through the trees, he opened up a relatively new display he’d developed.

Experience Monitor

Target

Since Dawn

Since EsEx

50,000

6,180

0

While it appeared simple, this panel was anything but. The system obstinately refused to tell Rain his pending experience, no matter how politely he asked. That hadn’t changed since he’d first tried months back, while trapped below Fel Sadanis. Fortunately, his more recent captivity in darkness—thrice-accursed palanquin—had left him with time to work the problem. It had taken a while to write tracking scripts for his skill usage and to puzzle out the formulas, but he had the memory of all of his past training dialogs to help him. The difficulty was that the rules for experience could be a bit...obtuse...particularly when it came to metamagic and passives.

Rain chuckled, feeling sympathy for the supposed ancient Majistraal programmers. He was sure enough at this point that essence wasn’t a ‘system thing,’ not unless you counted it as a building block. Essence had existed before, whatever that meant. Experience was just the Majistraal’s attempt to quantify the unquantifiable.

Stopping himself before he could get further lost in speculation, Rain looked at what the dialog was actually telling him.

Okay. Fifty thousand experience. If I can stick to that, I won’t level until tomorrow. Also, I should probably deal with the distraction problem.

Rain typed a few more commands to his interface, opening up an alarm function that he’d written to replace the native one he’d co-opted for other uses. He configured this new alarm to chime every half-hour, accompanied by a reminder panel, which he opened to customize.

Self-Check Checklist

Headache?

Heartburn?

Any other pain?

Any problems focusing?

Have you overdone it?

Are you SURE you haven’t overdone it?

You don’t want people to start saying “pulled a Rain” instead of “pulled a Val,” do you?

Satisfied with the text, Rain dismissed the panel. He was trying not to let his friends see just how worried he was about potential side-effects from Engine of Change. He’d mentioned it, yes, but he’d undersold his fears. If the Clarity-fueled loopiness crept up on him, he might not even realize it, hence the auto-nag.

Not being able to trust my own mind is...terrifying.

Leaving the experience monitor hanging in the corner of his view, Rain looked down to see Tarny coming from the camp to meet him. Corrin was working nearby, directing a gaggle of shovel-wielding townsfolk. He was using Earthmolding to sculpt and solidify a wall inside the trench the workers were digging, using the excavated material. It was only a half-meter high, which seemed a bit pointless, really.

Might be nice as a mental demarcation between camp and the wilderness, if nothing else. Or maybe Corrin just wants to work on his sync.

“Good morning, Captain,” Tarny said as he came into comfortable speaking distance.

“Hey, Tarny,” Rain replied, smiling and stopping with a wave.

Tarny extended a hand. “I heard the details from Vanna. Congratulations.”

“Thanks, Tarny,” Rain said, shaking the offered hand. He let go to gesture toward the camp, which was bustling with activity amid the stumps of trees. “How’re things here?”

“Good enough,” Tarny replied, jerking his head vaguely in the direction of the piled logs. Sawing could be heard from the other side. “Shena’s already gotten started on the first cart, and we’re sending more axe teams out soon.”

Rain smiled. “Any luck with the table saw design I gave you?”

“Ellis made the blade last night, and Staavo is fiddling with it, trying to get it linked up to the steam engine.”

“He need any help?”

Tarny shook his head, smiling. “Yes, but he doesn’t want it.”

Rain chuckled. “Sounds about right. Anything else going on?”

Tarny raised a hand. “Before all that, do you want to make an announcement?”

Rain arched an eyebrow behind his helmet. “About me getting to silver?”

Tarny nodded.

Rain considered, then shrugged. “It’s not a secret now that it’s done, but I don’t want to make a big deal about it. I’d rather just let word spread organically. Maybe put a notice on the board if you must. On that note, let me fill in anything Vanna didn’t tell you.”

Rain gave Tarny the rundown. Dynamo was already in the class book, and he’d elected not to hide the fact that he’d gotten the legendary version. Anyone with sufficient motivation and a pair of brain cells to rub together would be able to work it out anyway. The name, though, he kept close to his chest, having told only Ameliah and Tallheart, with a request that they not repeat it. ‘Engine of Change’ could be perceived as inflammatory if you were, say, an established institution with a vested interest in the status quo. Rain liked the name—liked it a lot, in fact—but it had him wondering how the unthinking system had managed to pick something so appropriate. And not just in his case, either.

Runic Powersmith? Uncertain Savior? Wielder of Deep Vengeance? On point, each time. Is it a decision tree, or what? Achievement based? Gah! Always more questions!

After finishing his conversation with Tarny, Rain set about his normal morning routine. After finding a place to dump the collapsed tent, he did a count with Detection, verifying that everyone was accounted for, except those on patrol and out of range. That done, he began touring the camp, using Purify with a lower power setting such that the magic was barely visible. It nevertheless did wonders for fuzzy mouths, stained tunics, and noisome odors. As it turned out, there’d been more beer left than anyone had thought. Rain could do little about the hangovers, but Mereck and Tahir were on the job.

During his leisurely stroll through camp, Rain took the time to chat. As news of his class evolution spread, he found himself occasionally mobbed, receiving congratulations from friends and strangers alike. Even one of the nobles came to pay his respects, Egen Urs, which was a bit of a surprise.

Rain still hadn’t decided if the porcupine-shifter was truly the overconfident idiot that he seemed or merely a troll with an insufficiently-developed sense of self-preservation. Regardless, while he still liked to talk—‘I could have had him’ and other such nonsense—he wasn’t overly belligerent. In fact, he was now staying with Bens and his family in the Vestvallan segment of the camp, not with his father. The elder Urs was most unpleased by the situation, but Rain couldn’t be asked to give a shit about that asshole’s feelings as long as he wasn’t mistreating Jamus’s other questionably-biological children. The fact that two of the three had chosen to stay with Lord Urs was a touchy subject.

Speaking of Jamus, when he came to congratulate Rain, the two of them got to talking, and Jamus mentioned wanting to talk about something in private. Infuriatingly, he wouldn’t say what, only that it wasn’t serious, just personal. He then shocked Rain by proposing that they meet up for a jog after lunch. Physical activity wasn’t entirely out of left field as an excuse for a private chat, especially since Jamus had a stat ring to get used to, but still. Jamus was in his forties and a mage, sporting the characteristic spindly legs, matchstick-arms, and aversion to physical labor that came with the territory. In any event, Rain had agreed to the jog happily, setting aside his curiosity and bidding Jamus farewell before seeking out Vanna.

As expected, she had quite a list of things that needed his attention. First up on the docket was...debugging.

Chuckling to himself, Rain left Vanna to her own duties and headed down into the dell where the stream was situated. Before long, his boots were sinking into the boggy muck, and it became abundantly clear why Vanna had rated this as top priority. Flies, mosquitoes, and tiny gnat-like insects descended upon him in droves, pinging off his armor like hail.

Spring has come to the forest. Hooray.

Rain came to a stop near the water, eyeing a lone barrel sitting on a sledge. It was half-full, clearly abandoned in total rout by the team Vanna had tasked with filling it. Swiping at the bugs trying to invade his visor, Rain decided he couldn’t blame them, then glanced at his experience monitor.

Experience Monitor

Target

Since Dawn

Since EsEx

50,000

8,297

1,847

Plenty left.

He reached for Detection and ran a thorough scan for entities. Unsurprisingly, the area was completely deserted, with not even any animals nearby.

What do these bugs eat when they can’t get Dynamo?

Setting the question aside as yet another of life’s great mysteries, Rain triggered an essence exchange. As before, there was no pain. Smiling, he set a marker and called up a progress report.

Progress Report

marker_1: s3 [3061 Sowing 26 08:43]

marker_2: s4 [3061 Sowing 26 09:59]

Span: 1.3 hours

Character

Total Exp: 2,042,596 -> 2,044,713 (+2,117)

↳Stamina Use: 2

↳Mana Use: 2,115

Skills

Aura Focus: +240 exp

Aura IFF: +180 exp

Aura Synergy: +148 exp

Channel Mastery: +510 exp

Detection: +270 exp

Extend Aura: +690 exp

Intrinsic Clarity: +2,115 exp

Intrinsic Focus: +2,115 exp

Magical Synergy: +2,115 exp

Purify: +225 exp

After confirming his calculations, Rain noticed the time on the report and started running through his self-check, dismissing the alarm as it fired midway through. He passed the test with flying colors, his only discomfort coming from the bugs. Several had invaded his helmet and were crawling on his skin, trying to bite. With his Force Resistance, they would find him entirely proboscis-proof, but it was still distinctly unpleasant.

Fortunately, as Detection had verified, there was no one around to be caught in the blast. He ran one more scan, just to be extra-super-double sure, then switched his macros into combat mode.

No mercy for mosquitoes. Immolate!

multi.sh: combat3

synergy_rings.sh: Synergy rings activated

focusboost.sh: 62 points shifted to Focus from secondary stats

focusboost.sh: Focus: 147

modmon.sh: Mods detected: ['extend aura', 'aura focus', 'aura compression']

modmon.sh: Compression: 95 m

Immolate (10/15) Exp: 0/4,600

3434.00-3924.57 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 100 meters

Cost: 450 mp/s

Rain counted, holding his breath. Immolate didn’t spread instantly, and it would take time for the air to heat sufficiently to exterminate everything within the full radius. Bugs were too small to count as entities and thus wouldn’t be targeted directly by the magic.

...twenty-eight...twenty-nine...thirty. Refrigerate!

multi.sh: combat3

synergy_rings.sh: Synergy rings are already active

focusboost.sh: Focus shift is already active

focusboost.sh: Focus: 147

modmon.sh: Mods detected: ['extend aura', 'aura focus', 'aura compression']

modmon.sh: Compression: 85 m

Refrigerate (10/15) Exp: 0/4,600

3197.17-3653.91 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 110 meters

Cost: 450 mp/s

Rain gave it another thirty-count. He wasn’t overly worried about fire spreading beyond the soggy dell, but it was better to be safe than sorry. Refrigerate with an extra ten meters would take care of it. And for the ash...

Purify!

multi.sh: combat3

synergy_rings.sh: Synergy rings are already active

focusboost.sh: Skill: Purify is on the ignore list

focusboost.sh: Focus: 147

modmon.sh: Mods detected: ['extend aura', 'aura focus', 'aura compression']

modmon.sh: Compression: 75 m

