“What did you mean, ‘extreme risk’, Ksmvr? It’s just a lie. And a darn good one. You can spring us out of jail with it, right?”
Ksmvr nodded.
“No doubt, Captain Ceria. However, if the issue is not a life-or-death matter, I would hesitate to do so and, in fact, urge that I do not. Because it may turn the issue into a deadly matter. For us. You see, if my former Hive finds out I have claimed Prognugator status, they may attempt to seize and execute me as well as my team. Revalantor Klbkch would not hesitate to do so, I think.”
Ceria’s mouth fell open in horror. Her eyes slid sideways to Yvlon and Pisces.
“He—he wouldn’t do that, right?”
The Antinium shook his head seriously.
“I am not a Prognugator. To claim otherwise is one of the most serious affronts I could make to the Hive. I have no doubt I would be executed if he had overheard what I claimed. Recall that I threatened war with all of the Antinium.”
When he put it like that…Ceria gulped.
“Okay, scratch getting us out. It would look bad after you agreed to arrest us. And that might make Celum issue a complaint. And if they do…”
She looked at her teammates. Yvlon and Pisces nodded rapidly.
“One night’s fine. A fee’s welcome.”
“I relish squatting in this squalid, stinking hole of a cell.”
“What they said. You did good, Ksmvr. At least we didn’t earn a beating. Which we would have done with Pisces’ tongue. And at least we won that fight. Although…”
The half-Elf sighed. She looked at Yvlon. The woman was sitting down, rubbing at her arms and not meeting her or anyone else’s eye. Ceria hesitated.
“…We’ll have to talk out why it started.”
“I see. Should I be arrested to partake in this conversation?”
Ksmvr looked from Yvlon through the cell bars. Ceria shook her head.
“No, no, the last thing we need is more trouble. You just…stay out of trouble. Okay, Ksmvr? Maybe go back to Erin’s inn, alright? Let her know what—no, you know what? Don’t tell Erin what happened unless something worse occurs. Just go back, have a drink…we’ll be out in the morning.”
Ksmvr nodded obediently.
“Yes, Captain Ceria. But what about our request?”
Ceria’s mind went blank as she tried to recall.
“Our what? Oh. The [Bandits]. They’ll keep a day. Don’t worry. We’ll jump on it when we’re out.”
Pisces sniffed.
“A menial task. But one that is worth twenty gold pieces plus loot…hardly worth the cost of sitting a night in jail. But as that is a separate matter…Ksmvr, here. Take this.”
He had been busy fiddling with his hands and his belt. Now, to Ceria’s surprise, she saw him pluck a ring off his finger and hand it to Ksmvr along with his personal bag of holding. She eyed him with great surprise.
“What’s that for?”
“My ring enchanted with the [Shatterbolt] spell, as well as the bag of holding containing all my bones. Be very careful with it, Ksmvr. I can sense where the bones are, of course, but while the bear bones are still present, what remains of them, there is another skeleton that must not be lost.”
The [Necromancer] met Ksmvr’s eyes. The Antinium nodded seriously.
“I will be very careful, Pisces.”
“And you’re giving that to Ksmvr because…?”
Pisces rolled his eyes as he turned to Ceria.
“Because I would rather not have my ring confiscated. If I had time, I would have sequestered your wand and Yvlon’s sword for the bag of holding along with my rapier. Or do you think the [Guards] will be so polite after Ksmvr is gone? They’ll come back to do some very invasive searches, I have no doubt.”
Ceria grimaced as she realized Pisces was right. Then she felt a moment of grudging admiration.
“Smart to hide your bones. They’d probably burn all of them.”
“Exactly. If you have anything else you’d like to ensure isn’t looted, now would be the time.”
Pisces looked around. Yvlon shook her head.
“All I’ve got is my armor, and they won’t take that. Keep Pisces’ stuff safe, Ksmvr. I’m…sorry about the fuss.”
She looked miserable. Ksmvr stared down at her as he attached the bag of holding to his belt.
“I do not mind, Yvlon. I do not fully understand. But I wish to. And I will stay out of trouble, Captain Ceria. Do you have any other instructions for me?”
“Uh…no. No. Thanks, Ksmvr. You were a help. You’d better get out of here before the [Guards] come back.”
Ceria smiled wearily at Ksmvr. The Antinium nodded.
“I will wait for your release tomorrow morning, then.”
“Thanks! And Ksmvr, it’s not at dawn! You can go to sleep!”
Ceria called out as he turned and walked down the jail. He turned and waved his acknowledgement. Ceria saw him pause to speak with the [Sergeant] at the far end of the jail; she was indeed practicing cuts with Yvlon’s sword. Then she opened the door, let him out, and he was gone.
A silence fell over the cell after Ksmvr had gone. Ceria looked around. The other inmates had been an audience to the adventurer’s discussion. Now they stared at their cell mates.
“That thing’s an Antinium, ain’t it? Weird devils.”
One of the [Drunks] leaned against the bars, looking miserable and hung over. The [Thief] nodded.
“Dangerous. No wonder the Drakes fucking hate them. Hey, how much to stay silent about him not being a Prognuga-whatsit?”
Ceria swore and sat up. Before she could formulate a threat, Pisces stepped in.
“If you were wise, friend, you’d keep your mouth shut. Ksmvr may not be a Prognugator, but I am a [Necromancer]. And imprisoned or not, I do not take kindly to threats.”
The [Necromancer] cast a minor illusion spell as he did, so his voice sounded deeper and far more sibilant. The shadows around him seemed to creep towards the other cell. The [Thief] scrambled back with a shout as the two drunks fled.
“Keep back! You so much as cast a spell and I’ll shout, and the Watch will be all over—”
A hand descended on his shoulder. The man spun and stared into a woman’s face. Her eyes were bloodshot with tears, but the husband-killing wife’s voice was steady.
“Shut up. You tell anyone and I’ll kill you. I did it once. I’ll do it again. Be quiet.”
The [Thief] froze. The self-bereaved wife let him go, and he backed up into a corner and tried to squeeze into the stone. The wife looked around with a very lost expression. She was a young woman. Barely eighteen. She must have just been married, or else married young. She was attractive, but she was a mess; she’d been crying when the Horns were brought in. Ceria caught her eye.
“Thank you.”
The murderess looked back at the half-Elf, lost.
“He looked nice.”
“He is.”
“Good. Good. I’m…I mean it. I’ll kill him if he so much as squeaks.”
She pointed back at the [Thief]. The man’s face was white as he shook his head frantically. Ceria’s skin crawled; that was another thing about prisons. Sometimes the [Guards] separated by cells, but sometimes they didn’t think someone was a threat and you spent a night sleeplessly watching the other people in the cell. They’d underestimated this girl.
“That’s…quite alright. Thank you, though. But he can stay alive unless he speaks.”
The young woman nodded.
“Okay. I’ll remember that. And him. But I don’t mind it. I don’t have any other reason. I killed him, you know. Myself. I leveled up from it. I’m all red now. It’s so red up here…”
She tapped her skull. Her eyes dripped tears. Ceria found herself backing up unconsciously. She licked her lips.
“I’m sorry to hear it.”
“I did level up.”
Pisces moved forwards. He gave the woman a charming smile and a slight bow.
“And we are grateful. Truly. You look quite tired, Miss. We’ll leave you to your rest. I’m sure it’s been a long day.”
“It has. Thank you.”
The woman retreated. So did Pisces and Ceria. They backed up until the woman was somewhat out of view. Ceria breathed out. Then she turned to Pisces and Yvlon. She wanted to say something, but aware the others might still be listening with Skills, she just looked at Yvlon.
“Alright. Want to talk about it?”
The woman had watched the exchange silently. Her face was shadowed in the dark prison with only a few lanterns providing light.
“No. But we should. I know I shouldn’t have taken the bait. But—”
“I was angry too. But you’re just feeding into what they think, Yvlon. You know what it’s like. Tomorrow we’ll grab Stan and Alais. Kick some sense into them if we have to. If we can find Olesm, the Halfseekers even, get someone to vouch for us…”
Yvlon was nodding. She looked up.
“Thanks. I’m sorry.”
Pisces sniffed and then clearly regretted it.
“This isn’t the first night I’ve spent in a cell. Although perhaps one of the only full nights I will spend in one. We could slip out, but alas, I’m an adventurer now. I suppose I can tolerate this.”
Yvlon’s lips quirked the slightest bit.
“Thanks, Pisces. I didn’t mean it. I’ll control myself. It’s just—”
Her voice broke. Ceria saw her shoulder shake. In the darkness, she finally made out Yvlon’s face. It was running with tears.
The half-Elf looked at Pisces. He’d frozen. So she knelt and grabbed Yvlon.
“Hey now. It’s not true.”
“But I did lose my team. I did. We lost them. Sometimes I forget their names. Their faces. I don’t dream about them anymore, Ceria. I ran, just like—”
Ceria sat on the ground and grabbed her friend. She rocked back and forth with Yvlon as tears and memory both filled her again. Her eyes stung. She whispered.
“It wasn’t like that. We did all we could. It wasn’t like that. We tried…”
Silently, the [Necromancer] turned his back and began investigating the hole into the sewers. Ceria thought she saw him drop something into the sewers. But she was focused on Yvlon. She wiped at her own eyes as she rocked back and forth. It was very quiet. That was all. And soon, the tears stopped. After all, their friends had died a long time ago, or so it felt now. It just hurt sometimes.
That was all.
 
——
 
And then Ksmvr was alone. He checked out of the jail, and the [Sergeant] walked him to the door. No one stopped him. No one tried. After all, he was innocent. Although Ksmvr was quite aware that he could be guilty by association.
That was a common crime he had studied up on while he was learning how Drake and Human society worked. Loitering, resisting arrest, and ‘suspicious behavior’ were all valid tactics used by both Drake and Human [Guards] to opportunistically arrest undesirable elements or pursue personal agendas. It was a very convenient loophole in a system designed for equality.
Ksmvr had quite approved when he’d first studied it in his Hive in his formative two years. If you were going to have a flawed society based on individual freedoms, they might as well be curtailed by those with the true power.
It was lucky the ruse worked. Or I might have been arrested. Which would not have resulted in the death of Comrade Pisces. Hm. So is it good that I successfully lied and endangered my team to no gain? I will not be able to hear the discussion Captain Ceria has with Yvlon.
Ksmvr frowned as he walked away from the jail. To an Antinium, the equivalent of frowning was holding his mandibles close together but not touching, while his antennae drooped slightly. Perhaps he had been rash. But he had acted on the best information available.
“Now I am a free citizen. Bereft of my team until tomorrow. What should I do?”
The former Prognugator stopped in the street and looked around. He realized everyone was staring at him. Over a hundred pedestrians, from children, to people conducting their business, to [Guards] peeking out the windows of their barracks, were all staring at him.
Ksmvr the Antinium. He had on his magic cloak, and Ksmvr had his enchanted short sword on his left, with his one good arm. On his right was the little Flamecoat Dagger, and his shortbow was positioned to be drawn over his right shoulder as well. He had on four magical rings, counting the one Pisces had just given him, and a necklace , the one that prevented food poisoning.
There was a little quiver of arrows on his left side, behind the shortsword, and Pisces’ bag of holding was located on the right side of his belt, behind the dagger. A row of two potions filled the rest of the belt, as well as a small money pouch containing seven gold coins, fourteen silver, and three copper coins as well as a copper penny, a denomination not always used or accepted, but informally treated as a de facto currency.
In short, Ksmvr was armed and prepared for anything. But since there was nothing to do, the Antinium was lost. He looked around and noticed a good deal of flinching.
“I am clearly unwelcome.”
Those were the facts. They didn’t bother Ksmvr in the slightest. He stared around Celum, wondering what he should do with his time. Captain Ceria had told him not to cause trouble, to not tell Erin about what had occurred unless necessary, and to go to sleep at some point. Beyond that, Ksmvr was free to act autonomously. Which he would.
He wasn’t a slave, after all. And neither was he a mindless drone, like many of the Soldiers and Workers of the Hive were. Ksmvr was aware that his team worried over his behavior sometimes, and regarded it as obsessive. But that was a misconception he had yet to clear up. As he’d told Comrade Pisces time and time again…
“I am not without free will. I have simply chosen to devote my entire life to my team. Because there is nothing else in life that gives me purpose or value. Without it and my teammates, I am nothing.”
What was so hard to understand about that? But Comrade Pisces had gotten such a funny look on his face and awkwardly patted Ksmvr on the shoulder multiple times while clearing his throat. Ksmvr shook his head as he marched down the street.
“Silly Comrade Pisces. He exaggerates, as Yvlon says. But we are all with our quirks. Comrade Pisces is a [Necromancer] and duplicitous. Yvlon has a temper, but she is very kind and caring. Captain Ceria eats bugs, which is a trait reviled for some reason, and she likes sugary foods. I am a failure and weak link in my team.”
This was the way the world was. Ksmvr walked down the street and headed left. He knew the route, although he’d only been to Celum a few times before and rarely outside of Octavia’s shop. But he had memorized the route the [Guards] had taken to get here from the Adventurer’s Guild.
Ksmvr could trace his route from the guild back to Octavia’s shop if he so chose. He had an excellent spatial memory. And it never occurred to Ksmvr he could take another route. Why bother? He had time, and this way was certain.
