“What should I do next? Hm. I could drink, but that is a social activity, and I do not need further energy reserves. Moreover, tipsiness is difficult for Antinium to acquire without Rxlvn. I could practice? Or acquire valuable information by listening to Captain Bevussa and the other adventurers in Liscor’s guild. Perhaps Miss Selys has—”
Ksmvr was pondering his options as the Adventurer’s Guild appeared before him. He walked up to the front door, turned around, and then began walking in the direction of Octavia’s shop. But it was then that he paused. Something was happening. Ksmvr looked down.
His rings were…vibrating on his fingers. Ksmvr hadn’t noticed it at first, but they were definitely shaking. And the vibration was getting stronger; it had grown to the point where he could feel it, even with his limited nervous system. He stopped at once and investigated the phenomenon.
“My rings are vibrating. Why? A spell? Perhaps. A function I was not aware of? Comrade Pisces’ ring? But he has never mentioned it. And…all four rings are vibrating. And my sword. And necklace. And bow and dagger and…”
Ksmvr suddenly realized that all the magical items were shaking. From the cloak, to the bow, to the sword…and the effect was increasing in magnitude exponentially. He looked at his gear, alarmed.
“What is this? What will happen if it grows worse?”
He hesitated. This was something he would ask Captain Ceria or Comrade Pisces about. But what should he do? He was about to check for someone casting a spell on him from afar when his predicament attracted the attention of one of the adventurers exiting the guild.
Crossbow Stan. The man was talking to Alais, the [Aeromancer] and Silver-rank Captain Ksmvr had been introduced to. He paused as he saw Ksmvr, and his expression was guarded. Then his eyes widened in horror as he saw what was happening to Ksmvr’s gear.
“Troll balls! It’s dissonance! Pull those rings off!”
He bellowed at Ksmvr. The Antinium looked up.
“What is?”
Stan waved his arms frantically. Alais looked up. Her eyes widened as well, signifying great alarm to the Antinium. Genuine alarm. She shouted.
“Your gear! There’re too many enchantments! Take it off! Now! Or it’ll explode!”
Explode? Ksmvr’s arms moved in a blur. The adventurers blinked as the weapons, rings, and necklace all fell to the ground. Ksmvr was yanking at his cloak as Stan called out.
“It’s fine! It’s fine…Ksmvr? Look, the shaking’s stopped, see?”
Ksmvr paused. It was true. The shaking had stopped, and the rings and his weapons had ceased vibrating, even though they were all piled on top of each other on the ground. He bent to investigate.
“Curious. But they are in closer proximity. Why has the effect ceased?”
“Because they’re enchantments. You can’t have too many on your person at once. All of ‘em in the same place isn’t so bad; they’re not active. You could toss twice as many artifacts in a bag of holding without a worry. But on you? They’ll explode, or the enchantments will combine or break or do something nasty.”
Stan and Alais came over with a few of their teammates. The old man was wiping at his balding head as he stared at Ksmvr.
“I’m surprised you had that many on you before without the dissonance kicking in. Most adventurers have a limit of four items, max, including a bag of holding. Did Ceria or Yvlon not teach you the basics?”
The tone in his voice was accusatory. Ksmvr instantly took offense. He straightened and spoke slowly.
“I was made aware of the issue. But it has never come up until now. I am given to understand these artifacts are high-quality. It seems Comrade Pisces’ ring and bag of holding exceeded my threshold.”
“Must be. Damned thing. Glad nothing happened. I’ve only seen the dissonance get that bad once; and then the fellow’s gear all imploded. Took parts of him with it.”
Crossbow Stan shuddered, and some of the adventurers blanched. Ksmvr bent.
“I see. Then may I assume I can reequip my gear and stow the rest?”
“That’s right. Just put what you don’t need in that bag of holding and put the rest on one by one until you feel a quiver. Slowly…”
Ksmvr obeyed. He put on his gear, piece by piece, until he saw the telltale vibration start. Then he immediately pulled off the offending item and rearranged his equipment. It seemed that he had indeed reached the limit of items he could equip. But—it wasn’t as bad as he had feared. Ksmvr ended up only putting two items in the bag of holding.
“I suppose the necklace is least useful. Followed by…the Ring of Waterbreathing. However, it may be very important. I will reequip it at the slightest sign of rain. Happily, it appears I can wear my rings, cloak, sword, bow, dagger…and bag of holding together without issue.”
The adventurers watched as Ksmvr re-equipped himself. Alais was blinking hard, and one of her teammates was staring.
“That’s a lot of magical equipment!”
“Is it?”
Ksmvr looked up. He noted that the other Silver-rank adventurers all possessed one or two magical items each. A wand and some enchanted robes, or an amulet or a mildly enchanted sword. You could tell, sometimes, by the way the light shone on the metal. Or sometimes [Enchanters] added superfluous effects like a sparkling blade. Usually that meant they were low-grade. Crossbow Stan stared at Ksmvr as he put the ring away.
“A Ring of Waterbreathing? Well, ain’t that a useful little tool? Not that I’d take a contract fighting monsters in the water. Still—how many items does your team have, er, Ksmvr, isn’t it?”
“I’m afraid that information is classified, Captain Crossbow Stan. I would not like to reveal my team’s secrets without Captain Ceria’s permission. If you were her friend, I think that information would not be so confidential.”
“Captain Crossbow Stan?”
One of the adventurers laughed, and Stan flushed a bit, but he did smile, which indicated to Ksmvr his words were humorous or, at least, well-received. The adventurers stopped in the street, and Ksmvr noted they were giving him moderately friendly looks. Cautious, but not nearly as hostile as the looks they had directed at the rest of his team. Perhaps Antinium were more welcome than [Necromancers] and perceived team-killers? Interesting.
“We’re—sort of friends. Your Captain and I. Ceria and Yvlon—I did know them back in the day. So you can tell me what you’ve got, surely?”
Captain Stan’s tone was what Ceria would have described as ‘wheedling’. And his smile was too fake, much like the ones Comrade Pisces sometimes wore. Ksmvr instantly reevaluated his assessment of the adventurers; they were probing for information. So the Antinium reacted appropriately.
“Your fight in the guild would indicate you are not friends with my teammates, Captain Crossbow. You attempted to shoot my teammate in the stomach.”
“Hah. Well, that was—had to stop him animating undead, right? I didn’t know it wasn’t going to savage the others.”
“And the lightning?”
Ksmvr looked at Alais. The [Aeromancer] appeared uncomfortable.
“It was a fight. Besides, Yvlon had that enchanted armor on.”
“Damn. She didn’t use to have that. And her levels! She put down at least a dozen people by herself. Caddin’s going to need healing for at least a few days. Too soon for the job.”
One of Alais’ teammates complained sourly. He didn’t quite glare at Ksmvr. Alais glared, and one of the other teammates nudged the complainer. Stan gave them a meaningful look and a nod of the head. Another unspoken message. We need to talk to the Antinium and acquire information due to its naiveté, so cease making inappropriate comments! That was Ksmvr’s read of the body language. He continued playing the part.
“I do not understand. If you are their friends, why the reason for the hostility and the fight? Your accusations are without merit, as far as I understand them. If you had confirmed this, you would understand the truth.”
He looked pointedly at Stan. The man rubbed at his head as the other adventurers muttered invectives and curses on Ksmvr’s teammates. Crossbow Stan sighed tiredly.
“Look, Ksmvr. I’m sure you’re a fine…fellow. But those two are—you heard what Caddin said. Well, even if Ceria told us all the truth, it’s hard. Seeing them get out of Liscor like that? And then getting rich in Albez? No one’s pulled out a haul out of there, like we said, for years. It’s just suspicious. And even if it’s not…look, we made our mistakes.”
He jerked his thumb over his shoulder at the guild.
“Why don’t we bury the hatchet? You can at least tell us about Albez, tell us the story. Over a few drinks? And maybe tell us what you got? Those rings and that gear, right?”
As if she’d been waiting, Alais broke in with a smile that Ksmvr read as fake.
“Actually, the guild’s a mess. Why don’t we get a drink? I know a good inn. It’s on us as an apology.”
They were unable to read the Antinium’s mandibles to get his mood. That uncertainty—and the disdain in some of their eyes—was an open book to Ksmvr. He thought quickly.
This scenario will either lead to me revealing some information as a tactical exchange of intelligence, or a situation where I am killed and my equipment looted. It is a fitting use of time in the former case and the latter’s possibility is remote. However—
Ksmvr looked at the adventurer standing behind Alais who’d been complaining, a man with freckles and dusty hair.
“I would like to partake in this conversation. But did I not hear correctly? You have a request, do you not?”
The adventurers blinked. Alais half-turned and then nodded, off-guard. She was already behaving in a friendly manner to Ksmvr. His polite tone and demeanor were no doubt helping this effect, and her own natural desire for his goodwill aided the effect.
“What? Oh, yeah. But it’s a job for tomorrow. We need to get some other teams, but we can spare some time tonight…we’re just going to send a [Message] spell to some teams we know about that bandit job—”
“Alais—”
Stan broke in, but it was too late. Ksmvr’s antennae waved quickly.
“The request involving the bandits? But my team has taken that job.”
Wasn’t it a courtesy between adventurers? Then again…Alais winced.
“Yeah, well, things have changed. The [Receptionist] just got an update on the bounty. Look, you know Adventurer’s Guilds share bounties, right? Big ones, at least. They communicate, and with the Merchant and Runner’s Guilds, passing on valuable intelligence. The [Bandits] are one of the things they notified the local cities about.”
Ksmvr nodded.
“Of course.”
“Yeah, well, this [Bandit] group isn’t famous, but they’re still a threat. Enough to wipe out a caravan, even a well-protected one. Sure, they might lose half their number, but the other half will come away rich. And that’s what they wanted. They’ve cut off the trade going through the pass towards Esthelm and Liscor; a few [Merchants] heard about it and upped the bounty by eighty gold coins.”
She paused for what Ksmvr assumed was dramatic effect. He said nothing; reactions were superfluous effort. After a moment, Alais awkwardly went on.
“So it’s a hundred gold bounty on that group of [Bandits]. Poor bastards don’t stand a chance with that kind of reward on them. And we’re going to be the group that takes them out.”
Stan was nodding. He looked apologetic as he glanced at Ksmvr.
“You can tell Ceria and Yvlon it’s our contract, now. We’re getting some teams together, and we’ll take it. They can do another request when they get out of jail.”
The group of adventurers held their breath as they waited for Ksmvr’s reaction. The Antinium didn’t need to think. He nodded and opened his mandibles happily, raising them.
“Of course. I will relay the message. Good luck with your hunting. And if I do not take up your time, I would join you for a night of drinking and optional debauchery. Perhaps at The Wandering Inn? I will be staying there tonight.”
Both teams looked relieved. Alais smiled.
“Sure. We could meet at sundown? I’ve been meaning to visit that famous inn.”
“So have I. It’s free to use that door, right?”
Ksmvr nodded.
“It is in Stitchworks, a shop run by an [Alchemist]. The door is not always active, but if you leave it open, it is checked at a regular interval. If I am not there at that time, I may be in my room. Miss Erin will know where to find me. Oh, and do not be alarmed by the Hobgoblin or white Gnoll, both of whom I understand to be objectionable socially in some way.”
“Hobgoblin?”
Captain Crossbow Stan nodded, covering Alais’ startled reaction.
“I heard about that. We’ll see you then, then.”
“Excellent. I will bring my artifacts for further recommendation. I would not like to have more adverse effects regarding this magical dissonance.”
The adventurers brightened at that. Alais smiled. Ksmvr was turning to go, when he had a thought. He turned back and politely raised a hand.
“Excuse me.”
Stan and Alais turned back as some of their team went into the Guild, perhaps to talk to their other teammates.
“Yes, uh, Ksmvr? Anything else you need?”
“Regarding the [Bandit] group you are pursuing. May I ask where they are based, exactly? I would like to inform my team so we do not accidentally cross paths tomorrow if we take another assignment.”
Both captains hesitated, but Crossbow Stan smiled after only a moment.
“Fair request. And cautious. From where we ran into them and what we know, they’re in the Humpbacker Hills. You know, that really tall section of hills that starts appearing before the actual mountains if you head southwest? Just short of the High Passes—a good ride from Celum by horse, but not too bad. There’s a little valley there. Just stay out of the region; we’re clearing them out tomorrow, and we don’t want anyone spooking them beforehand.”
“I understand. I will inform my team. Thank you.”
“See you tonight.”
“Yes.”
Ksmvr waved; the other teams left. He saw Alais putting her head together with Stan as they went in the direction of the Mage’s Guild, which was located not far from the Adventurer’s Guild for convenience. Ksmvr wondered how many teams they considered appropriate for this job. He also wondered if the two laughing adventurers in Alais’ team were laughing at him. At the silly Antinium without a clue.
There was something people always misunderstood about Ksmvr. His team sometimes, but people who didn’t know Ksmvr especially. The Antinium stared at the backs of the adventurers and shook his head slowly.
“I am not stupid. You idiots.”
He turned and hurried down the street. Away from the Adventurer’s guild. Suddenly, Ksmvr had a lot to do. And it was all thanks to his new skills.
