People liked to insult the local City Watch, especially in Human cities. Ask any local and you’d get some commentary about how their local law enforcement was about as effective as a hamster with a toothpick and as corrupt as a bag of [Lords] with their britches stuffed full of gold coins.
The comparison was even worse because Drake cities were known for their effective system of policing themselves. But to be fair, that was because most Drake cities conflated ‘City Watch’ with ‘standing army’, and thus they allocated huge discretionary budgets. Indeed, Drake culture was largely based around supporting their military, which meant the somewhat laissez faire north fell behind.
It honestly wasn’t that bad. Ceria knew City Watches got a bad rap, but what were they supposed to be? Perfect? Take a small city with a limited budget—especially if it wasn’t located on a major trade route or exporting some valuable resource—and think about how much you could pay your average [Guardsman].
Most likely even the [Watch Captain] wouldn’t be high-level. The [Guards] might see some action, but they wouldn’t be equipped or ready to take on dangerous monsters or individuals. They weren’t being paid to be heroes. So usually they did the best job they could, and yes, some cities did have a corruption problem, but others were fine. Not great, not excellent—just fine. If a disaster happened, it happened not because of the local law enforcement, but because it was a disaster.
With that said, Ceria had known bad [Guards] and good ones, and they shared a common feature, which was their disdain for adventurers. They hated high-level adventurers who were paid better, had expensive gear, and usually flouted the law, and took any opportunity to get back at them.
Which meant that the unlucky adventurer who was arrested would get their gear stripped off them, earn kicks and bruises if they resisted, and if they were in one of the aforementioned corrupt cities, might even see some of their gear disappear along with their gold if the [Guards] thought they could get away with it.
Ceria wasn’t as worried about that in this case; they were Silver-rank and could get their gear back, even if some gold ‘vanished’ by accident. Thank goodness their share of the loot was with the Halfseekers pending their visit to Invrisil. No, what she was worried about was Ksmvr.
“I have done nothing wrong. Yet.”
The Antinium stood in front of what had to be at least forty of Celum’s City Watch. There might be more outside; Ceria seriously doubted half the Watch had shown up, but it was a small army capable of putting down any amount of brawling adventurers at least. And she was terrified for Ksmvr. Because his threat had made the [Guards] back up for a second, but soon they would realize he was alone and his team were in cuffs.
Ceria had her arms twisted up by a female [Guardswoman], and she knew that any spell would result in her being knocked out or shot. And that was the thing about the City Watch in any city. They could be efficient, corrupt, or ineffectual, but even so, they were still good at killing things. And they would do so, too.
“Ksmvr—”
The half-Elf yelped as the [Guardswoman] twisted her arm up another foot. She swore, but forced the words out.
“Don’t be an idiot, Ksmvr!”
“I will do my best, Captain Ceria. I was explaining to this Watch Captain that I have done nothing wrong. After all, I did not partake in the brawl.”
The Antinium politely nodded to the destroyed room. The [Captain], a burly man who Ceria vaguely recognized as having taken part in one of Erin’s plays, looked around.
“That true?”
Some of the adventurers nodded; the rest just stared at Ksmvr with obvious distaste. The [Captain] hesitated, then he looked around and realized he was in front of his men. And that Ksmvr was alone. He caught himself and scowled.
“Doesn’t matter. This thing’s part of your team, right, half-Elf? It’s under arrest. Antinium, if you attack, we’ll—”
Ksmvr moved. Forty [Guards] instantly leveled their weapons at him, but the Antinium had simply raised one of his hands.
“Excuse me, [Captain]. But I repeat I have not taken part in this altercation. I am innocent. Therefore I cannot be arrested. I have done nothing wrong.”
That was true. But—Ceria was swearing as she stood on her tiptoes to avoid her arms being wrenched out of their sockets—she could have told Ksmvr the facts didn’t matter. Not with a peeved Watch Captain. He snapped impatiently at Ksmvr as he waved six of his [Guards] forwards. They moved slowly; like him, they’d probably only seen the Antinium in Erin’s inn. And you heard stories…
“I decide what’s right or wrong here. And you’re under arrest. Because I said so, got it?”
The Antinium stared at the [Captain] slowly. One of the [Guards] held up a pair of manacles.
“Don’t move—”
He jumped back as Ksmvr spread all three arms. There was another moment of tension, but less pronounced. Ceria could see one [Guard] cracking his knuckles as he snuck up behind Ksmvr with three of his mates. As soon as they got Ksmvr in cuffs, it would be a few kicks at least. If they hurt him, Ceria was going to—she saw Yvlon tensing as two [Guards] held her. Another fight would not be a good idea. The [Ice Mage] braced—
“Ah. It appears we have reached an impasse, then. I claim that under the law, I have committed no crimes save for association with my team. You claim that I have broken a law you refuse to name. So tell me, Watch Captain. Is it war?”
At first Ceria was focusing on Yvlon. The [Guards] were sneaking up on Ksmvr, and the [Captain] was looking around as the adventurers patched themselves up with cheap potions, assessing the damage. Then every head swung back towards Ksmvr as if he were a lightning rod in a storm of attention.
“What?”
The Antinium [Warrior] looked innocently around the room.
“I repeat. Is it war? I am asking for confirmation, Watch Captain. Because if it is, I would like to notify my Hive so they may send a declaration formally. However, if you are declaring war by surprise, I quite understand. No doubt the official commencement will begin after—”
“Wait. Wait—what do you mean, war? War with who?”
The Watch Captain was staring at Ksmvr. So was Ceria. Ksmvr looked puzzled; his antennae waved about uncertainly.
“Why, with the Antinium, of course. If you arrest me, it will be war. With the Free Antinium and all five Hives of the Antinium. If you place me in cuffs or kill me as I resist arrest, the Antinium go to war with the Humans of Izril.”
He turned to look at the [Guards] behind him as he said it. They sprang away from Ksmvr as if he were suddenly covered in spikes. The Watch Captain licked his suddenly very dry lips.
“Now, see here. You’re just an Antinium. Aren’t there…I mean, one Antinium isn’t…”
His voice trailed off. Ksmvr was just staring at him. But it was such a contemptuous, Pisces-like stare that the meaning was plain across species. He spoke very slowly and clearly as the room focused on him.
“I am Ksmvr. A Prognugator of the Free Antinium and individual of my Hive. I am unique. There are many Antinium, but the death of a Prognugator means war. Or do you not know of Klbkch the Slayer? The Small Queen, Xrn? We are second only to our Queens. If I am arrested without cause, this will count as a military action against my Hive. There is only one response to that. I have done nothing wrong. So, tell me, Captain. Is it war?”
He raised his voice and stepped forwards. The entire room shuddered and moved back in response. Every eye went towards the Watch Captain, who’d lost all color in his face. Ceria was just staring at Ksmvr.
It wasn’t every day you saw someone actually come close to evacuating their bowels in public. But the [Captain]’s expression suggested that if Ksmvr shouted, he’d be waddling as he ran away. And they would run. War with the Antinium? Ceria saw the face of the [Guardswoman], who’d relaxed her grip. The woman looked horrified, as did everyone else. Who would want that? But Ceria was amazed for a different reason.
Ksmvr was lying! The Antinium looked around the room, as calm as could be, but Ceria knew that Ksmvr was lying through his teeth. His mandibles, whatever. He was outcast from his Hive! Klbkch had cast him out and taken his spot as Prognugator.
But no one else knew that. The [Captain] began to back up.
“War? No. No, absolutely…no. We would never arrest—you’re an adventurer, right? Your team…”
He looked at the Horns, suddenly, instantly conflicted. Ceria looked up sharply, but Ksmvr just tilted his head.
“I believe they are under arrest. They did start the brawl.”
“Damn it, Ksmvr.”
Ceria audibly heard Pisces curse behind her. The Antinium glanced at Pisces and tilted his head the other way.
“My team has committed a crime. Thus, we must be punished. But I have not, so I will remain here while they serve their sentence. If they are due to be executed, I will, of course, petition—”
“No, no. They’re just going to jail. We’ll—uh, it’s just an overnight sentence. Right, lads?”
The [Captain] turned. His Watch instantly nodded. They would have agreed to anything at that moment. Ksmvr nodded happily as well.
“I see. That is good. Then I am not under arrest? There is no war?”
“No. No. In fact, you are completely free to go. Now, if you want.”
Ksmvr ignored the note of hope in the [Captain]’s voice. He shook his head.
“I must see my companions are properly arrested first. It would not do for them to be mistreated.”
And rather to Ceria’s chagrin, Ksmvr did just that. The City Watch escorted her, Pisces, and Yvlon out of the guild as the [Captain] remained to get a full account of what had gone on. And the Horns were hauled to Celum’s jail and put in a cell together.
Ceria had to admit it was the politest and somehow the tensest walk to her cell she’d ever had. Ksmvr walked right behind the [Guards] as they hurried the Horns into a cell. They were so flustered they forgot to grab the adventurer’s gear and had to come back for their weapons.
“Dead gods damn it. Hey, don’t you dare mess with that wand. I want it back, not snapped by accident!”
The half-Elf swore as one of the [Mages] in the City Watch took her wand, eying it avariciously. The [Mage] glanced at Ksmvr, who was loitering in front of their cell, and hurried off. Yvlon had given up her sword, and Pisces was surrendering his rapier with a very sour expression.
“This everything?”
The [Guardswoman] in charge, a [Sergeant], glanced nervously at Ksmvr as she grabbed Yvlon’s Sword of Weight, eying it appreciatively. Yvlon nodded and Ceria glanced sideways at Pisces. He sneered.
“Of course. Would we lie?”
Normally that tone and sentence would have earned him a boot in the ribs. But the [Sergeant] held back on snapping as she glanced at Ksmvr.
“Uh. Fine. We’ll be back. You lot—cast any magic, and it’ll be worse for you. We’ll get your side of things in a moment, once the [Captain] comes back. If there are fines…”
“The other adventurers joined the fight. We took on one team. They piled on.”
Ceria had thought of the least expensive excuse and the one that would survive a [Detect Lies] spell. The [Sergeant] looked at her and shook her head.
“We’ll see about the damages. At least the damn Guild wasn’t buried in snow. Anyways—”
She shifted with the sword and rapier in hand and looked at Ksmvr again. He waved at her politely.
“Hello. I am not under arrest?”
She jumped.
“No! I mean, no. I’m going to put these away. You…don’t linger. Loitering without purpose is illegal, you know..”
“I shall leave soon thereafter, then. I would not like to break the law.”
Ksmvr nodded politely at the Human woman. She looked surprised.
“Er…thanks. Well…”
She backed away. Ceria looked around her cell. It was one of the shared ones used for common, low-risk prisoners. Metal bars, stone floor, and a hole in the floor that probably led into Celum’s sewers. It stank.
But at least they had the cell to themselves; across the way was another general holding area with two drunks, a petty [Thief], and a woman who’d murdered her husband with her bare hands after she’d found him cheating on her. The [Thief] and drunks were staying well away from her.
“Silver rot. I’ll bet that [Sergeant]’s going to swing my sword around the moment she’s out of sight. And that [Mage] is going to use your wand, Ceria. I hope she doesn’t hurt anything with it; the sword can kill someone if they spar.”
Yvlon sat down on the floor, groaning. She still had a few light cuts around her face; she hadn’t taken enough healing potion to cure all of the damage from her fight. But she mainly looked tired and upset. Pisces grumbled; he was feeling at his bag of holding.
“Fools deserve their fates. Onto more pressing matters. Ksmvr, would you please tell the Watch to release us?”
Ksmvr looked confused.
“But Comrade Pisces, that would be illegal.”
All three Horns looked up. Yvlon bit her lip, but Ceria and Pisces just glanced at each other.
“Yes…but it would be convenient, Ksmvr. Nice lie, by the way.”
“Thank you, Captain Ceria. I am ashamed of the ruse. But I thought it was the only way to prevent a death sentence or Comrade Pisces being horribly maimed.”
“Wait, what? What for?”
Yvlon and Ceria looked at Pisces. He seemed embarrassed.
“Ah. You, uh, remembered our discussion, Ksmvr. That explains it.”
The Antinium nodded happily.
“I did. I was concerned for your safety as you told me how common execution sentences are for menial crimes. As well as the fact that [Necromancers] are unduly hated. Thus, I lied despite the extreme risk it entailed. I am glad you will not be killed.”
Ceria smacked her head gently against the bars. Pisces coughed rapidly, turning even redder. Yvlon looked disgusted.
“That explains it. Pisces—”
She wavered as she stared at the young man. Then Yvlon turned to Ksmvr and, to Ceria’s surprise, she only sighed.
“He’s told you a half truth, Ksmvr. Pisces probably did get in a lot of trouble for being a [Necromancer], but his ‘menial crimes’ probably were a bit worse than that. And yes, he might get roughed up pretty bad if people found out what he is, so it’s a legitimate concern. But the only time it would be a death sentence is in a Drake city. And even then, not for a brawl.”
She looked meaningfully at Pisces. The tips of his ears were red as he nodded.
“A slight exaggeration, Ksmvr. I…apologize. In my defense, I was recounting stories to him.”
He glanced at Ceria. The half-Elf bit her lip. She wasn’t sure whether she should laugh or not. She instead looked at Ksmvr.
