But it was too late. The [Bandits] streamed out, some fleeing in a blind panic. The rest stayed together, holding up torches and balls of light. They heard shouts in the night. Screams…the fleeing shapes fell one by one. A dark blur leapt around them, jumping, rather than walking. The remaining [Archers] tried to hit it, but their arrows bounced off the magical cloak or missed.
And then there were no more sounds. Just darkness. The [Bandits] looked around. There were eleven left. The [Swordsman] was pale as he looked back and forth.
“Show yourself!”
There was no sound. No movement. The hills towered around the bandits. The grass waved in the night’s breeze. The sky was cloudy. Shadows flickered. The [Bandits] jumped, clustering together.
“We surrender!”
A young man shouted, his face pale. He held up his arms, raising his hammer and letting it drop as his torch burned over his head. An arrow shot out of the darkness. He screamed.
“Coward!”
The [Swordsman] bellowed. But the rest were silent. They drew together. Ten. They would have prayed, but the gods were dead. So they just held together, fearing, waiting. Ready to fight and die rather than run and die alone.
A minute passed. Then two. Three more arrows flew out of the darkness, but the [Bandits] had shields up. One yanked out an arrow, sobbing, as another poured healing potion on her wound. And then he appeared.
A shadow, walking under the moonlight as the clouds parted. A dark brown and black figure holding a shortsword and dagger. His buckler flared to life as he activated it again. The dagger burned red.
His segmented eyes reflected the lights from the [Bandit]’s torches. His carapace was cut. Pierced by arrows. But he had taken no great wounds. He walked forwards without words. Straight at the [Bandits].
A monster out of Rhir. A nightmare worthy of the legend.
Antinium.
The Humans shuddered. They backed up. But then they held. It was hold or run. If they ran, they died in the night. The [Swordsman] held up his blade. He stared at Ksmvr. His voice was hoarse.
“What are you? What are…”
Ksmvr twitched one antenna. His mandibles opened and rose.
“Me? Substandard.”
And then he leapt up. And he fell, shrieking like a thing out of hell. For psychological effect.
 
——
 
The Adventurer’s Guild in Celum was quiet in the very early morning. Some adventurers were early risers by nature, and others had come in after an overnight job to collect their pay. But it wasn’t bustling just past dawn. The only sounds that were present in the guild mainly came from the bleary-eyed [Receptionist] doing her job, and from Stan. The old man was sitting at a table, grousing loudly.
“Damned Antinium bastard. We waited all night and did it show? No! And that young [Innkeeper] said she hadn’t seen him! When I get my hands on that—that bug thing—”
“Maybe it realized we were trying to bargain for those artifacts.”
Alais looked bleary and slightly hung over. She’d enjoyed herself at The Wandering Inn, despite Ksmvr’s no-show. Stan folded his arms.
“If it—he—did, he could at least have let us know! It’s damned rude.”
“We put his team in prison. Still, you’re right, Stan. Maybe Ksmvr got into trouble? I checked Celum’s jail, but perhaps he fell afoul of Liscor?”
Stan calmed down a bit.
“Or maybe he got hurt. Or lost. I heard someone say they saw him riding out of Celum. On a horse. I thought they were twisting my leg, but—”
“Stan?”
Alais had jerked up in her seat. Stan turned his head. He swore.
“You!”
Ksmvr looked up as he trudged into the guild. His body was covered with mud and dust. And blood. Dried, green blood spattered his armor. He had a few cuts, but the rest were healed. He swayed and stood straighter.
“Me.”
Crossbow Stan got up and strode towards him. His fists were clenched.
“You’ve got some nerve coming here after—”
He stared at Ksmvr.
“What in the hells happened to you?”
“I completed the request. I killed the [Bandits].”
Ksmvr walked past Crossbow Stan. The man stared at him in shock, then outrage.
“You? You’re kidding. You couldn’t have killed—there are at least thirty—hey! Where were you last night? We told you—”
He grabbed Ksmvr’s shoulder. The Antinium stopped.
“Let go of me, please.”
“Not until you—”
Ksmvr drew his shortsword. The other adventurers looked up. Stan stepped back. The Antinium turned his head. Alais was on her feet.
“Thank you. Now, excuse me.”
He walked up to the [Receptionist]’s desk. The woman eyed him with apprehension and ill-concealed distaste.
“I can’t just give a bounty out for someone who claims to have killed [Bandits]. You need proof. And I’ll have to test you with a [Detect Lies] spell. Besides, like Mister Stan said, the [Bandits] are at least—”
Ksmvr reached for his bag of holding. He placed it on the counter, then looked around. He eyed the counter and shook his head. The Antinium trudged over to a table and dragged it over. The adventurers winced at the screech of wood on wood. Ksmvr stopped the desk in front of the counter.
“This is enough surface area. Here is my proof.”
He reached into the bag of holding and pulled out a severed head. The [Receptionist] recoiled and then screamed. The Drake’s vacant, lolling head stared at her. The head was bloodless. Ksmvr placed it neatly on the table.
“You—that—”
“What did you do?”
Alais grabbed her wand and pointed it at Ksmvr. He turned.
“The request. Wait until I’ve finished, please.”
He reached into the bag of holding. Another head appeared. The room recoiled. A Human woman stared blankly at Ksmvr. And then a man. A young man, a girl…
“Dead gods.”
Crossbow Stan backed up. Ksmvr kept pulling heads out of the bag. One, two, three, four…ten…twenty…twenty-nine minus their leader. He piled them up. And then he turned.
“There.”
The adventurers stared. Stan stared at the Drake’s head. The [Receptionist] had backed away as far as possible, shaking and trying to climb over her desk and away.
“That—that Drake. I recognize that one. And—and that one. That’s the [Bandit Leader]. And that one—that’s their [Mage]. Freezer.”
He pointed at one of the heads on top of the pile. Ksmvr nodded. His voice was loud as he turned back to the [Receptionist].
“Thank you for the confirmation, Captain Stan. However, I will readily submit to a truth detection spell to prove all of these individuals were [Bandits]. I hope this is sufficient proof, though.”
He looked at the woman. She was shaking so hard she couldn’t formulate a reply. She made a shaky animal noise.
“Is this sufficient?”
“I—you—y—th—”
Ksmvr kept staring. Then he leaned over the table.
“Eleven hours.”
The [Receptionist] froze. Ksmvr spoke slowly.
“Eleven hours after defeating the [Bandits]. That is how long it took to collect the bodies, create a pyre for disposal, remove the heads, burn them, collect their gear, reclaim my horse, which had wandered off, set the others free, and ride back here. Eleven hours. I have imbibed two stamina potions. My wounds have yet to fully heal. I have had inadequate sustenance. I am hungry. I am tired. I am in a bad mood. Is this sufficient?”
“Yes!”
The woman cowered. Ksmvr nodded.
“Then please give my team the reward. I believe it is a hundred gold coins.”
“I—I have to get a signature!”
The [Receptionist]’s eyes darted around for help. There was none. Ksmvr looked around, and the adventurers flinched. They saw the blood on his carapace. Green, Antinium blood. Which meant the streaks of red weren’t his. They stared at the heads. At him. Ksmvr turned back to the [Receptionist].
“Paperwork. Quill and ink, please.”
Her hands shook as she fumbled for the right form. Ksmvr studied it. He dipped a quill in the inkpot as the woman fled towards the back. The [Guildmaster] wasn’t in today. She had to open the Guild’s vaults herself.
She returned, still shaking, and stared at the heads as if they were a dream. The pile stared back at her. The woman realized this wasn’t a dream. The slowly decomposing heads were—she looked at Ksmvr. He looked up, and she shrieked.
“I’ve finished my details. Where do I sign?”
“H—h—he—he—”
Ksmvr stared down at the general spot the finger was shaking in.
“Here? I see.”
He began scribbling on the form. After a moment, he looked up.
“Pardon me. Do I list my team as ‘The Horns of Hammerad’ or do I omit the prefix?”
“H—h—”
“Horns of Hammerad. Thank you.”
He finished writing. Ksmvr held up the piece of paper. He looked at the [Receptionist]. She was frozen. He waved the paper at her, and she backed up.
“Naturally I’d like to turn in the heads as monster parts for processing. My bag of holding couldn’t fit the other body parts, but I will accept any reward the guild posts on Human heads, brains, flesh, or skeletal matter. Assuming they aren’t collected as part of the bounty?”
Stan saw the woman had frozen. She looked like she was going to have a heart attack. One of the other adventurers was being sick; a few others were gagging or throwing up as well. He stared at the heads. It was just a dream. That Antinium couldn’t have—
“We don’t—we don’t—use heads. Not Human ones. Or Drakes.”
“Really? Odd. Then I will collect my payment.”
“Here!”
The [Receptionist] dropped the bag of gold on the counter. A head rolled off the pile and onto the floor. The sound it made, the fleshy thump, was the realest thing Crossbow Stan had ever heard. The [Receptionist] stared at the head. She turned and ran out of the building, screaming. Three adventurers followed her.
“Dead gods. Dead gods. Dead gods. Dead…”
Alais was swallowing hard. Stan couldn’t take his eyes off Ksmvr. The Antinium was counting the gold coins one by one as he put them in his bag of holding. When he was done, he straightened and looked around.
“Is my team not released yet?”
“No.”
“I see. Thank you.”
Ksmvr nodded at Stan. Then, ignoring the heads, he walked over to an empty table and chair. The adventurers left in the guild scattered in front of him. Ksmvr pulled the chair back. He sat down in the chair and opened his mandibles slightly. The upright, rigid posture the Antinium had kept up all the while turned into a sag. Ksmvr leaned forwards, nearly fell out of the chair. He tried placing his arms on the table. No good. He kept falling sideways. So he stood up, walked over to the wall, just underneath the job board.
Ksmvr sat with his back to the wall and curled up like a pill bug. He was sitting like Workers and Soldiers did, trying to stay awake but fading, fading…
The Antinium passed out as the morning light filled the Adventurer’s Guild, and a rookie team of Bronze-rank adventurers entered the building and saw the pile of severed heads. He didn’t hear the screaming. He was already asleep. That was how his team found him, three hours later.
 
——
 
“Dead gods.”
“Tree rot.”
“I wish he’d saved the bodies.”
Three voices woke Ksmvr up. He jerked upright amid a babble of voices. Waking up took Ksmvr a few moments. He heard the three familiar people. An argument. Shouting.
“What’s to be done? If it went out and butchered—”
An arguing voice raised in reply, exasperated, worried, shocked.
“Hey, Stan recognized two of them! If you want to test him, be my guest! But I’ll bet those are exactly the same [Bandits] you wanted dead—”
“All by himself?”
A sneering tone.
“Of course. Or did you think the Antinium bred pacifistic, ineffectual warriors? I hardly see what all the fuss is about—”
An authoritative tone.
“Try and arrest him without proof, and I will drop you. Alais, drop the wand. If you point it at him again—”
Ksmvr woke up. His vision returned. He looked around. There were people gathered around the table. Lots of them. Celum’s City Watch, adventurers, people staring at the table with the heads on it…but the three people Ksmvr wanted most were right there, protectively standing around him. He sleepily opened and closed his mandibles.
“I slept as ordered, Captain Ceria. Was your incarceration pleasant?”
The voices stopped. Every eye fixed on Ksmvr. He saw a half-Elf jump, then turn. Ceria Springwalker looked down at Ksmvr.
“Hey…Ksmvr.”
“Hello, Captain. I have completed our request.”
Ksmvr sat up, watching Ceria’s expression closely. He tried to see if she was angry or disappointed. Or sad or…but her face was hard to read. A strange expression was written across it, one Ksmvr had no name for.
“I see that, Ksmvr. Why did you go alone?”
The Antinium felt a pang of fear in his chest. He clasped two of his hands together as he spoke.
“Because…I heard other teams were going to take our request. And I thought our team should not forfeit our request. You were gone. I stayed out of trouble. I did not tell Miss Erin where you were. And I slept.”
“You didn’t think taking out a [Bandit] gang was too much?”
The Antinium shook his head.
“I calculated the risks. I estimated that since you or Comrade Pisces or Yvlon could handle the group yourselves, I should be able to. I had help. Comrade Pisces helped. And I borrowed his ring.”
“He told us about that in the jail. He didn’t know what happened after that. Someone squashed his moth.”
“Yes.”
Her face was still unreadable. Ksmvr wanted to look at Pisces or Yvlon, but he was afraid of what he might see. He clutched his hands tightly together.
“I hope I did not act out of place. I only wanted to be a helpful member of the group…”
His voice trailed off, becoming small. Ksmvr’s gaze was drawn to his boots. He heard nothing for a second, and then Ceria reached out.
“Hey. Ksmvr.”
His head rose up. The half-Elf smiled at him. She turned around, to the audience, at her teammates, and then at Ksmvr. She patted him on the shoulder gently, noting his unhealed wounds.
“Good job. But next time don’t be so reckless.”
Ksmvr opened his mandibles in a smile. That was all he wanted to hear.
Good job.
 
——
 
There was more after that, of course. More shouting, explanations—Ksmvr was only too happy to explain, and to apologize for his brusque behavior after his sleep.
“It was most unprofessional. I can normally go for a day without sleep without undue mental effects. I am most sincerely regretful.”
For some reason, that didn’t really help matters. But Captain Ceria had taken over the conversation and, aided by a [Detect Lies] spell and the expedient of pointing at the heads and saying ‘are those the [Bandits] or not? Okay, what’s the problem?’, somehow much of the issue seemed to resolve itself. The Horns were only stopped by a hysterical [Receptionist] who demanded what should be done with the severed heads.
“I could take—”
