Viv had every intention to do so. It would be interesting to see how ‘modern’ armies fought and compare it to Solfis’ extensive databanks on killing things effectively, not to mention that she had to understand potential foes. If she did survive her stay, there were no doubts Harrak would get in trouble either from revenants or hostile humans. She had to be ready. At the same time, the temptation was strong to import her knowledge of earth here and implement it.

The real issue was adaptation.

Here, armies had medieval levels of technology but also superhuman abilities. Soldiers could move faster and with uncanny coordination. Archers had the range and precision of modern infantrymen, or even snipers. The mages were the most important factor. Even at their most basic level, they were an extremely precise and deadly form of artillery. They could also raise shields, something earth humans had been so far unable to do.

It gave Viv ideas, especially since the Yries had created self-propelled platforms. Something to consider for later.

The teacher for colorless mana was a severe Helockian woman who spent the first class checking people’s proficiency at drawing it, then making a list of the operator runes students would have to learn to make the more complex spells work. Colorless mana relied a lot more on glyphs than the colored ones, which could be altered by the caster’s mindset. It felt a little like programming sometimes, so working on the language was of vital importance.

They work on their first spell: opening a door from afar. Curiously, it did not involve any sort of telekinesis. Viv’s best interpretation was that the spell said: set door status to open. She had to be especially careful not to slam it off its hinges. It still opened an ocean of possibilities.

It was at times like these she missed her online friend Gevaudan. He never played a game he could not break and when he did break them, it was in the most absurd way possible. The canny man would have already thought of two dozen ways to make money or kill stuff. She would just have to try her best.

***

The next class was another elective, magic dueling. The first session took place outside on a square arena next to stone benches. Simple yet sturdy wards were inscribed all around, allowing for the quick raising of shields. There were a lot of prospective students here, including Rakan.

The teacher arrived just on time, flanked by two aides. He was by far the flashiest of all the staff she had met so far. Jewels and bands decorated his crimson robe which was fashionably short over black leather pants. The air sent his elegant curls aflutter, and he was handsome in a distant sort of way. Gloves and an extravagant plumed hat completed the show.

Viv squinted. All of his accessories let out the subtle haze of enchantments. It was a distraction. The man was more protected than a fort gate.

“Explosions! Blasts! Elemental waves! Ah, magical dueling, the most noble of arts. It moves the soul like no others. What can be more entertaining than to watch men and women bend reality to their will to subsume a fellow practitioner. No other spectacle can quite get the blood running and it is also so heavily regulated it might as well be illegal. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the dueling class. My name is professor Dirge. Here is the first lesson.”

Viv put her shield up high above her head in time to catch a rain of frigid water the man had summoned from the feather on his hat. There had been no signs of casting, no mana movement, nothing. Those who were not immediately close and failed to raise their own defenses screamed as they were hailed with freezing liquid. Fortunately, it was harmless and there wasn’t much of it.

“Deception is the name of the game. I see some of you have good reflexes, congratulations. For the others, what is a mage’s greatest resource?”

“Hmm, mana?” someone hazarded.

“No. Time. Give a mage enough time and they will drop a mountain on your head. Duel is what happens when you are not ready. That is why I am always ready,” he said, moving his gloved fingers to show the heavily enchanted fabric.

“By studying dueling magic, you are not just practicing a sport. You are training for those moments where you might be caught off guard and have less than a second to kill an assassin twenty spans away before they lodge an arrow in your lover’s throat. You must learn to cast quickly, reactively, and proactively. You must take down your opponent before he takes you down. This is what dueling must teach you. We will be working on reflexes and intuition more than anything else. We will begin with a simple warm-up.”

This turned out to be more physical than Viv expected. Dirge favored mobility and repositioning, mentioning the many ways mages had to move around and escape. He demonstrated several of them including surfing on controlled water and plain, wind-powered flight. It was quite amazing. The students then split in pairs to practice fast basic spells which had to be blocked by a shield. They wore a protective shield amulet for that.

Rakan asked so Viv practiced with him. He was slow at first, but he learned how to alternate elemental bolts of various colors by the end of the session. He even managed to throw several at once. Little by little, people who were too exhausted and mana-deprived to continue sat on the stone benches to relax. Validating electives was not required to graduate so those who attended out of curiosity could afford to take it slow.

Viv still felt she was wasting her time until Dirge reached her. The teacher had been moving from pair to pair, advising and demonstrating with commitment.

“Black mana is rather fearsome in the hands of a capable caster. Unfortunately…”

“It is rather lethal,” Viv finished.

“Yes. Do you have colorless spells yet?”

“Kinetic energy, mostly. I’ve been using those for the exercises.”

“A good start. There are others like…”

Dirge lifted a hand to his ears. Viv blinked, trying to listen. She then fell to her knees.

“Uuuugh.”

“Offensive sound magic. Subtle and disturbing, very short range however. I believe that between those two, we will have some fun.”

***

The last class was black mana mastery. For this one, Viv joined Professor Ashra in a casting spot. Those were halfway between a conference room and a firing range, with targets available for the most offensive arrays. Viv sat to the side while Ashra presented herself and the purpose of the class.

Few people attended. Viv was not surprised to recognize a witch with dark, curly hair and a couple of people all casting suspicious glances around, all sort of afraid to be here.

“Out of all the colors, black mana is the most underused. Few people have much distribution towards it. It is also associated with the undead and the dark gods, may Maranor preserve us from their taint. For this reason, several cities forbid its practice. I believe this is a mistake, and if you are here, you may feel that as well.”

Ashra stood in her prim dress, her pixie cut as perfect as the day Viv first met her. Her sharp Hallurian traits gave her a severe look that passion made particularly intense.

“Mana itself is neutral, for it is potential, and only actions may make them good or evil. It is our duty as mages… and witches to harness all of our abilities, to not let fear and prejudice bar the way to excellence. If you can unleash the powers of black mana on the foe of humanity, or even just understand it, you will realize that its unmatched destructive potential can make the difference between a disaster and a crushing defeat. One blow is all one need to fell a hill tortoise if that blow penetrates. Today, we shall demonstrate this power and help you familiarize yourself with the black aspect you have in you — if you are not already proficient. My assistant will now demonstrate the protective aspect of a black mana shield first, then we will examine its penetrative properties. Viviane, if you may?”

Viv nodded and walked to the target range. She turned when she was ready. The students grouped to Ashra’s side, eager to see what she would do.

The professor obliged. She summoned a contained ball of destructive red mana, its blaze blinding. Heat traveled in waves across the room and pushed the students away. It was a miniature sun.

“Shield please,”Ashra stated with perfect calm.

Viv raised a normal shield, not the hive one, and waited.

Ashra extended her hand, muttered a few words and let go. A roaring orb of incandescence traveled the room and exploded on Viv’s shield with a resounding boom, the shockwave expanding across the range and setting a nearby target on fire. There was a precipitous dip on Viv’s mana but that was it. She didn’t feel the heat or the shock from inside her protection. It was all negated. Denied. Erased. She let go and found herself standing in a bubble of fresh air surrounded by scorched stone. Some of it still smoked gently.

Viv resisted the urge to brush inexistant dust away from her shoulder. There was no need. The students’ eyes were wide as saucers.

“Next, we will demonstrate the penetration of black mana. Please form two lines. We will ask you to raise shields as soon as you are first in line.”

With a mix of eagerness and stress, the students made their best efforts. Viv was impressed by the variety proposed for individual shields. Stone shields, fire shields, colorless ones. A tall boy even raised an ice shield with a cracked appearance that regrew when it was damaged. On every occasion, Viv used a fraction of what they had expended to slip a strand of destructive mana through what she identified as the weak spots. Her targets yelped at the violation though she never endangered them.

The point of the exercise was not to show the teachers could penetrate. The students were all late second step and could not hope to stop her. The point was to demonstrate she could do so with great efficiency and without shattering the shield itself. From their amazed expression, it was working. That is, until the second to last. It was the witch and she looked at Viv with a defiant expression… then she raised a black shield.

It was decent.

Viv speared right in the middle since there was no need for subtlety here, then a battle of intent took place inside the construct. Viv had experience subsuming undead and she was the attacker. She deactivated part of the shield before the witch even knew to contest her.

“That’s cheating!” the young woman protested.

“No,” Viv said.

She yoinked the entire shield. The witch gasped.

“This is cheating.”

A small wave of ‘oohs’ and ‘aahs’ greeted the demonstration. Viv felt a little smug. She complimented the girl on her good control and let her leave the queue. She immediately realized something was wrong with the last one.

He was a muscular young man with a disapproving expression and a symbol of Neriad pinned to his collar. He frowned in disapproval and raised a shield. This one was life and just a little divine energy. Viv recognized the valorous aura of the pantheon’s least annoying god.

Everyone watched with attention. Life and black were almost antithetic, though not quite.

Viv made her strand thicker and prayed a quick apology to the god of righteous combat. Her spell slipped into the other with just as much ease. The two constructs fought for dominance but Viv’s spell was much more concentrated. The young man pushed more energy into the construct to no avail. Eventually, he sulkily surrendered.“I’ve fought for the temple, you know?” Viv asked in the ensuing silence. “Several times in fact. I’ve even been healed by a bishop for services rendered. Neriad lets us choose how we defend his ideals. Black mana is one more tool in his arsenal.”

“The Holy City… disapproves of black mana practitioners.”

Viv assumed he was referring to Mornyr where most religions had their seat. She hadn’t heard about those rules.

“You’re in Helock now, here to learn. It’s up to you.”

She shrugged.

The young man glared until Ashra cleared her throat. He regained his place in the group without a word and Viv assumed it meant he would consider his options.

The rest of the session was dedicated to channeling. Most of the students here had made little efforts trying to harness this color, making the very act of drawing it delicate. Their black distribution was also quite low so it took a lot of effort to coax the reluctant strands out. Nevertheless, all of them had achieved some results before the class ended. Contrary to many other classes, black mana only had very little material to read as homework. The students were asked to practice half an hour per day instead. They left soon after with excited whispers. Viv stayed behind and watched them go.

“That went much better than I expected,” Ashra said after a small break.

“Well, they are quite young so we can achieve much by respecting the basic rules of credibility.”

“And what would that be?”

“We just had to look cool,” Viv said, using a local slang term.

Ashra nodded to herself very slowly, her back ramrod straight.

“You are correct. We shall endeavor to make black mana exceedingly cool.”
