The wind blew in her hair, lifting it up and letting it stream behind her. Not at her back, and not blowing so hard that it was unpleasant—but an acknowledgement, perhaps, that she was going too fast for the breeze to keep up.
It felt wonderful, to sit and experience the cool air rushing across her body. Feel the wind tug playfully at her clothes. Relax, and see the world go past her.
Ryoka Griffin had forgotten what it felt like to ride a bike. Her body hadn’t, but her mind hadn’t remembered how nice it was, even compared to the joys of running.
Because when you were running, you were always in the moment. Even when you were on your runner’s high, you were focused. Biking—you could relax and let the machine carry you down the road.
Especially this particular bicycle. Ryoka did another rotation of the pedals after a little bit and the flagging momentum picked up. And oh, it took a long time to slow.
Frictionless wheels—or as close as Hedault and Pelt could engineer while keeping some kind of grip. Enchantments on the pedals to make high gear feel like the lowest one. Insanely light materials…
The Wind Runner of Reizmelt rode what Fals had called the death of Runners. Perhaps it was and perhaps it was not. Perhaps—the future was bicycles for some, roller-skates for others. Now wouldn’t that look funny?
A little paw adjusted the handlebars slightly. Ryoka reached out, but Mrsha scowled at her as she steered the bicycle.
“Okay, okay. Just don’t crash us.”
The Gnoll was completely focused on her task, unlike Ryoka. Her job was to keep the bike straight. So far they’d crashed four times. Yet, Mrsha clearly loved sitting on Ryoka’s lap and riding along.
“You think we should turn back yet?”
The Gnoll girl shook her head as they rode past a staring pair of pedestrians. Ryoka waved at them.
“Sorry! Ask in Celum!”
They were demanding to know what she was riding. Ryoka stared ahead. Mrsha was smiling.
“You really like this, don’t you?”
Duh. Mrsha stared incredulously at Ryoka. The bike wobbled—Ryoka rescued them before they went down again. Mrsha returned to keeping them straight.
She would be all over the place when she had hers. Erin had already put in an order for a tricycle with the Kevin-Pelt-Hedault-Selys alliance. And it was probably the most effective parenting decision she had made all year.
Mrsha was wearing clothes. She had also combed her fur, watered the plants, had not stolen anything from other people’s plates, and she had even helped set the table for the diners. That was because Lyonette had made it clear that any Mrsha-mischief wouldn’t revoke her dessert privileges—a halfway effective tactic at the best of times—but revoke the chance of a new bicycle.
Oh, such terrible threats that adults came up with to control children. Ryoka just enjoyed the ride. She had spoiled Mrsha nonstop and she knew Lyonette didn’t approve. But what else was Ryoka going to do? Not give Mrsha most everything she wanted, spend time with her?
Kids should not be given everything. Nor should they be without discipline, structure, etc. etc. Nor should they have to go through half of what Mrsha had.
It was a relief that she could still laugh silently at a bug bouncing into Ryoka’s mouth, so much that she nearly fell off the young woman’s lap.
“Okay, okay. I think we’re far enough. Let’s head back.”
Ryoka decided that was enough after spitting it out and washing out her mouth. Mrsha sighed, but they went back the way they’d come, passing the awestruck pedestrians again. Ryoka cast a glance over her shoulder.
They had been riding towards Liscor, ironically, having left Celum for the morning ride. But the pass towards which the Floodplains began was almost invisible.
The High Passes loomed. The mountains stretching up into the sky, and higher than any mountain from Earth. Ryoka cast a glance over her shoulder.
If Mrsha wasn’t there—she would have been tempted to ride into the second pass, where only adventurers and fools trespassed.
There be Dragons. Or at least—one. But Teriarch hadn’t responded last time she’d come out here. Ryoka had burned a Potion of Haste and an Octavia-brand Stink Potion. She’d called for nearly twenty minutes, but his cave hadn’t opened.
Was he asleep? Or not in the mood to entertain guests? Ryoka had thought he’d have visited the inn after she left. But maybe…
She swallowed that tiny bit of worry. Teriarch would show up probably when she least expected it. For now, and today—she rode back with Mrsha, enjoying the morning breeze.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn this morning had a number of important guests. The kind that made Lyonette hurry about, taking customized orders. She put down a mushroom risotto in front of the first vegetarian that Erin had ever served—well, the first one who had asked for ‘no meat’ as a sticking point. Even Palt ate meat.
“Look, I’m not going to say it again.”
The person across from the vegetarian breakfaster was annoyed. Or maybe in that stage just before actual annoyance—certainly heated. It was rare for Kevin, the easygoing [Tinkerer], to be anything but optimistic. However—they were arguing, the four of them, as Ryoka wheeled the bike in and Lyonette ran back into the kitchen.
“We’re not calling it ‘Splendiferous Gearage’ or ‘Liscor’s Custom Steelworks’. These are terrible names.”
Hedault paused with a bite of his risotto to his mouth. He and the Drake who had one of Imani’s breakfast specials in front of her looked hurt.
The Dwarf, who had ordered a still-sizzling sausage breakfast, was on Kevin’s side though.
“Especially because I’m not using steel as the main component of all these gears. I’ll use damn iron when I please—it’s false advertising!”
“Exactly, so—”
“We’re not calling it ‘Kevin’s Bike Shop’. That’s even worse.”
“I didn’t say it had to be Kevin’s—”
Selys snorted. She, Hedault, Pelt, and Kevin all glared at each other. The four shareholders in the ‘Untitled Liscor-Invrisil-Pelt Enterprise’ were having their first real argument. About the name.
“Manufactorium. People like fancy names. Call it that. Something Something Manufactorium.”
Pelt growled. Selys threw up her claws.
“That’s one third of the name, Pelt! I thought you were going to make a list! Okay—how about ‘The Wheels of Liscor’?”
“Again, this isn’t necessarily going to be based in Liscor, Miss Selys.”
Hedault adjusted his spectacles with a sigh. The Drake folded her arms.
“If I’m paying for it—”
“You’re paying for it. Good for you. I’m the one shaping steel. Me and my apprentices. I’m not going to work outside of my forge.”
Pelt chomped down on his breakfast as Kevin accepted his plate from Lyonette. She shook her head as Kevin reached for his notes.
“Okay, Kevin’s Bike Shop was really a bit of a joke. Seriously this time—how about ‘The Rolling Spokes?’ I think it’d be—”
He broke off as Rose groaned and picked up her cup to throw it at him. The debate continued as the reference sailed comfortably over the heads of the other three. Meanwhile, Lyonette hurried over to a figure sitting decidedly by herself.
“Um—this is a new dish. Imani calls it ‘Flyfish Quiche’, Miss Xrn—”
The Antinium twisted in her seat and looked at the composite fish-acidfly slice of quiche that Lyonette was gingerly holding out. She stopped staring at Ryoka as the City Runner put the bicycle away in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Thieves and the bicycle were a huge problem. Two people had tried to steal it, and five had gone on joyrides.
“How appealing. Thank you, Lyonette. Is this the correct fee?”
Xrn extended her hand. She was holding exact change. Lyonette nodded.
“Um—yes. I can take the payment—but you could pay when you’re done. Thank you, M-Miss Xrn.”
The [Princess] stumbled over the Antinium’s title. And indeed—Xrn of all the Antinium possessed that factor that not only attracted eyes to her, but gave her an exclusion zone of empty seats this morning.
She was the Small Queen of the Antinium, and unlike Klbkch, she did not try to blend in. The azure-shelled Antinium smiled.
“You may call me Xrn, as I have said, Lyonette. Thank you for informing me about payment. Oh, and take this.”
She handed Lyonette two more copper coins. Lyonette stared at them curiously. Xrn nodded to them.
“I did not have to pay, but it seemed fitting. I believe this is known as a ‘tip’?”
Lyonette opened and closed her mouth. Xrn did not have to…? Oh, but wait. Normally no one even noticed—
“T-thank you. Well, if there’s anything I can get for you—”
“More of this flavored rum, thank you. In a larger cup, please. And please ask my companion what she would like to eat. I will pay for that too.”
Xrn waggled the empty glass at Lyonette. The [Princess] took it.
“Of course…”
People stared at the glass as well as Xrn out of the corner of their eyes as Lyonette went to fill it. Drassi was glumly bartending since Pallass was off-limits for all but a few.
“Fill up a larger cup, Drassi.”
“With the flavored rum? But that’s…”
The two furtively stared back at Xrn. She had, by Lyonette’s count, downed about four shots of the flavored rum drink that Rufelt had given to Drassi. It might have been water.
Actually, that might not be a far-off comparison in actual truth. Lyonette recalled Pawn observing it was difficult for him to get drunk. Wasn’t Rxlvn invented to get Antinium intoxicated? And Xrn was Centenium—
“Just fill the cup, Drassi.”
And another thing. Xrn sat there, munching happily on the quiche. Her eyes glowed with pleasure, reflected by the colors in her eyes. They changed, sometimes. Pawn told Lyonette that he’d dared to ask and Xrn had once told him that the colors in her eyes weren’t always the same for the same emotions.
“Color changes meaning depending on time and place and nuance. Why should it be the same each time? Would you cast a spell the same way each time? You would? Well then—that is the difference between how you understand colors and I.”
Lyonette would have dearly loved to parse that one. She felt like it could aid her magical studies somehow. But right now she was getting Xrn everything she wanted. Because the Small Queen was waiting for her breakfast partner.
And reluctantly but soon, Ryoka Griffin slid into the seat and was presented with some granola and yogurt. She was a bit warmed up from her ride. But she wasn’t exactly hungry.
“Ryoka Griffin. There you are.”
“I’m here, I didn’t run off.”
“This time. Shall we continue our conversation? A few things of note have happened since yesterday.”
The Small Queen watched as Ryoka lifted a spoonful of her bowl. For her part—Ryoka Griffin shifted nervously.
“Really? Um…like what?”
“Hm. The Walled Cities attempted to destroy one of the Queen’s new Antinium projects. The Armored Hive has been damaged. Several Named Adventurers participated in the raid. They killed Antinium—no Individuals—and lost a number of [Mages] and [Soldiers] to Klbkchhezeim and Wrymvr. Then Klbkch took a near-mortal wound in the fighting. His body was severed across the chest and the Queens are attempting to rebuild his—”
Ryoka’s granola was coming back out as she choked. Xrn watched with considerable interest. She took another happy bite of quiche.
“No Named Adventurers were slain, alas. Klbkch and Wrymvr must have decided that was too provocative. They are playing games.”
“What?”
The City Runner shouted. She saw heads turn as she shot to her feet. Then—just as fast, Ryoka’s head swiveled around.
“Why are you telling me this out here?”
“We are private.”
“We are? Are you casting spells?”
“Mm. Just ones to prevent others from listening in.”
The Small Queen’s eyes glowed. Ryoka sat down—people were staring at her.
“They could be reading our lips.”
“They would fail, even if I had lips. We are not able to be overheard, Ryoka Griffin. The same as yesterday. Your [Illusionist] could not pierce my veils. Nor can anyone else. I would know if they tried, anyways. Five have so far since you sat down.”
“Wh—really?”
Xrn made a fluttering sound—a laugh. She raised her mandibles and opened them.
“Probably not you. They try to spy on me constantly. I think the magic comes from Wistram…see? Right here.”
She traced something above her head. Ryoka saw the air light up—and a wisp of color appeared, light pink, and as thin as…she stared as it vanished upwards.
“Is that—?”
“I never know where it is from. But my maps make me believe that most come from Wistram.”
Different magic for a different spellcaster. Ryoka sat back down. People were staring, but Ryoka realized—they did have that look of confusion on their face. They could see her—but perhaps not anything else? She looked at Xrn. Ryoka wasn’t about to run away, or lie, or obfuscate with the Small Queen. She had promised Klbkch, a long time ago, to help the Antinium.
Also—she’d tried all that yesterday. Xrn was unavoidable, unable to be outrun or hid from—she’d dunked Ryoka in a river a few times, then they’d had a long chat after she wiped out a Rock Crab nest.
Good…times.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice couldn’t see what Ryoka was saying to Xrn. Not that she read lips, but they seemed to blur over in her vision if she focused too hard. Ryoka had stood up, then sat down, now she was learning forwards and…
“I’m gonna do it. I am!”
“Sure you are.”
The [Innkeeper] scowled over at her fellow peeker—they were peeking at Ryoka from the Garden of Sanctuary’s door.
“I’ll do it! Give me a club and I’ll smack Xrn on the head and—”
Fierre passed Erin a club. The [Innkeeper] went cross eyed.
“Wait, where’d that come from?”
“Some of the gear we got from Archmage Valeterisa’s mansion. Remember? The Archmage, who’s probably less dangerous than one of the Antinium’s leaders?”
“Um…”
Erin swished the club back and forth. The Vampire girl watched her.
“Okay. I’ll rush in, hit Xrn—”
“And die?”
“—and tell her ‘you can’t bully Ryoka!’ How’s that?”
Fierre eyed Xrn. She looked up at Erin. The [Innkeeper] had been trying to psych herself up the last few minutes.
She was…nervous around Xrn. Not afraid! Sort of afraid.
Very afraid. Xrn was hard for Erin to deal with and she was doing the same kind of pressuring as she’d done to Erin when she first came here to Ryoka. Only—more so this time. Erin wasn’t going to stand for it, of course! She just had to figure out how she was not going to stand for it.
“I did tell you what happened yesterday, right?”
“You, Palt, and Salamani wouldn’t let me come to ‘rescue’ Ryoka from Xrn. Right, right. And?”
“And we tried to insist she back off. Politely.”
“Mhm.”
