The door opened. Mrsha’s eyes widened and she pointed. He was there!
Invrisil? Ryoka looked uneasily at Lyonette. But Invrisil…there seemed to be a leap in logic here.
Numbtongue was a Goblin. Invrisil was a Human city that was not Celum or Liscor. Not cool with Goblins. So how—?
“Excuse me, did um, Numbtongue come through here just now?”
Lyonette found the [Innkeeper] who ran the Player’s Retreat, Master Veeid, and waved urgently to him as Mrsha sniffed around. He looked puzzled.
“The G—no. No—but then, someone did come through just now…wait a second.”
His eyes opened wide. He slapped himself on the forehead.
“It was him! Only—”
Only, Numbtongue was wearing his disguise. Lyonette and Ryoka’s jaws dropped. The armor disguise he’d used in the live show! Mrsha stomped her feet and threw her paws up.
“Do you see? Do you see the lengths evil Numbtongue will go to in order to keep the laptop from my earnest possession? The treachery, the gall, the conceit—”
…Is what Ryoka vaguely got from her indignant signing. She might have extrapolated some words, but the heart was there.
“Well, I think he’s gone a bit too far, don’t you? Do you know where he is, Master Veeid?”
Lyonette propped her hands on her hips, a bit put out at the level Numbtongue had gone to. Master Veeid hesitated.
“About that, Miss Lyonette…the thing is…”
 
—-
 
The thing was that he was right next door. Literally in one of the private rooms, helmet off, playing in a corner as Kilkran and some of the actors stared. Numbtongue had a bowl of expensive snacks and the other Players were working, relaxing, or watching him with fascination.
“Numbtongue!”
The Hobgoblin had contracted a disease for which there were few cures. It was called ‘gaming addiction,’ colloquially known as ‘I really want to finish this game and I’ll be damned to Rhir if I let that little Gnoll ruin my win streak.’ Such that he’d made the move of exposing the laptop to the [Actors].
Mrsha tackled him. With a real growl of annoyance, Numbtongue tossed her off.
“Numbtongue…Redfang. Stop that this instant!”
Lyonette marched up to Numbtongue and folded her arms. The Hobgoblin unpaused his game and went back to playing.
“Numbtongue—”
“I’m busy. She can have it in…”
The Hobgoblin didn’t finish his sentence. Lyonette’s brows creased. Behind her, Mrsha punched a paw into her other paw. He was going to get it now!
“Numbtongue, give me that laptop. We need to discuss—”
He swatted her hand down. The [Princess] recoiled. Ryoka saw Kilkran move backwards. The [Actors] got the vibe.
“Numbtongue. Please stop playing. Now.”
The Hobgoblin paused his game again. He looked up.
“What?”
“You are going to close that, come with us, and we’re going to have a talk. Right. Now. Alright?”
Lyonette’s smile was the kind she’d given Ryoka just moments earlier. Ryoka was waiting for the invisible knife. Numbtongue met Lyonette’s eyes.
“No.”
“Excuse me?”
Her eyes widened. The Hobgoblin looked at Lyonette, not even bothering to make it a staring contest.
“I’m not your child. And you’re not my Chieftain.”
He put the laptop on his knees, and quite deliberately, went back to playing. Ryoka heard a tiny explosion. She saw Lyonette take a deep breath. She reached for the laptop—fast. He swatted her hand down.
Mrsha the Laptop Seeker…tugged at Lyonette’s dress. She’d changed her mind. She didn’t want to use the laptop after all. But it had been a long time coming. Here was law and order and Lyonette. There was Numbtongue, who, as it turned out, had acquiesced to her laws of the land. He was, after all, an adult in his way, not a child, and…
And she was a [Princess]. Lyonette went for the laptop. Which was really a mistake.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice was blissfully ignorant of the ensuing drama around the laptop for a while. She was concerned with another matter.
“So…is there anything to do?”
Fierre gave Erin an innocent look as Xrn left the inn to convey news of great import to the Free Hive. And it was a question that stumped Erin.
“Chess?”
“Um. I don’t really want to play.”
“The scrying orb?”
“I…don’t know if I need to watch it right now. I get my news from all over. Informant, you know?”
“Uh—uh—I mean, there’s the weights room, the rec room…”
At this point, Fierre coughed.
“Anything outside of the inn, Erin? I’m sort of…I mean, the inn is great. But there’s more to do, right?”
It stumped Erin. The Wandering Inn didn’t have all your needs? How could it not?
Well, actually, she got it. It was just that the inn had most of what she wanted as a homebody. On Earth, she could just play chess all day and not go outside once unless her mother kicked her out. But Fierre? She was more of an outdoors-type…ironic given her skin condition. And Vampire condition.
And that complicated things. Because Erin had some good ideas if you had to ask her. Not the best—but it was all stuff like—go on that cheese and wine tasting thing in one of the villages with that nice farmer!
Whoops. Might be a problem depending on whether Ylawes had been here and gotten that well. Ryoka had told Erin about that.
Public baths? No problem! They were sunlit, beautiful, had running water that might or might not qualify, and you got naked. Probably smiled at people with your teeth.
Pallass? Er—pass.
Go shopping? That was so broad and not something Erin actually did, so her mind fizzled out there. Visit a friend? Well, Erin’s friends…
“Um. Erin? I can just go into Liscor—”
“Oh no. You’re my guest! Are you bored? How long have you been bored?”
Erin flung up her hands. Fierre saw her rush over to Salamani.
“I’m a bad host! We’ll—we’ll do something interesting!”
“It’s fine, Erin, really! I just wondered if you had any suggestions!”
“I do! Loads! P-Pelt? Wait, we can go watch Pelt smith something? Or—or Hedault! Why don’t we—”
The two [Artisans] paused on their way out. Pelt looked at Erin. Then at Fierre and Salamani.
“I don’t let people watch my work. Piss off.”
He stomped out. Hedault shook his head.
“I have work to do, Miss Solstice. My enterprise is also not catering to voyeurs—Miss Lischelle-Drakle, I will have your order ready with Courier Salamani’s tomorrow…”
He stepped out. Erin looked around frantically.
“Erin, it’s fine. Really. I’ll go out. Or Salamani…”
“No! I have to entertain you…! Just kidding. Okay, fine. Sorry, guys.”
Erin lowered her arms. She gave up. Fierre smiled—edged back from Erin a bit, and looked at Salamani. He shrugged.
She was definitely not Ryoka. Erin had a flair for the…dramatic. The silly-dramatic, rather. Ryoka got dramatic in a different way. She got anxious, in her head—Erin was fun.
“If you guys want to go to Pallass, I can try to let you through—but they’re pretty mad so only Saliss can actually go through. Sorry.”
“Invrisil will do. Have you ever been, Fierre?”
“No, actually. So there’s plenty.”
The Vampire girl grinned. She opened the door to Invrisil as Erin waved them off—just in time to hear a shout. Numbtongue had just put Lyonette in an arm-bar.
Erin missed the shout because she had closed the door and was sighing. Time to upgrade the inn’s entertainment center! Or see if her mystery opponent was up for something. After the Xrn-incident, she felt like she had time to relax. She wondered if Mrsha was done with the laptop—Erin could go for a movie or music.
That was Erin’s plan. And it was just as well that they weren’t best laid, because she was interrupted by the door opening.
Not the magic door. For once, it was the regular door.
The regular door, the unsung hero, the neglected child compared to the magical door. Downgraded from an entrance to the restroom door—and the occasional and rare visitor on foot. Nevertheless, it opened now and someone stepped through.
Watch Captain Zevara. Erin turned.
“Zevara?”
The Drake halted. She eyed Erin and her set face became resigned.
“Miss Solstice. I don’t know if it’s good I found you here or not. Please don’t make this any harder than it has to be.”
“What? What are you—huh.”
Erin peered past Zevara. And she saw the Watch Captain wasn’t alone. There was…Embria. Twenty members of 4th Company, Beilmark, Jeiss…five other Senior Guardsman and a lot of regulars.
“Um. I didn’t do it.”
Erin saw the fuzz—on Tkrn’s body and about half the people lined up behind Zevara. The Watch Captain sighed.
“Miss Solstice. You are not under arrest. However, I would appreciate you stepping aside and not doing anything. I am going to arrest two of your guests and—”
“Palt did nothing wrong! He’s a good guy! It was Saliss who gave the drugs to—you can’t arrest him!”
Erin panicked. She thought this was about Saliss yesterday—but Onieva had paid his fine, or so she’d said! Poor Drake, she’d passed out at a table. But Zevara was trying to shush her.
“Miss Solstice! Would you be quiet? It’s not either of them!”
“Oh. Then wh—”
The [Innkeeper] paused. Oh. Oh.
Someone—and there was no point naming names—might have shouted about ‘crooks’ this morning. Loudly. With people—sometimes the Watch, like Relc and Klbkch had been—who stayed at the inn. Erin’s heart sank.
“Hold on. You mean…Ratici and Wilovan? But they didn’t do anything. I just called them—I mean, they are—but you can’t—”
“Move in slowly. Miss Solstice!”
Zevara yanked Erin outside. She spoke in a quick rush.
“I am not arresting those two because you called them crooks. I am arresting them because it has come to my attention they both fit the description of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, a well-known Human gang in the north.”
“But that—”
Zevara gestured and Beilmark put a paw over Erin’s mouth so the Watch Captain could finish.
“And that yesterday, the Guildmaster of the Jeweler’s Guild was knocked out on his way home and hundreds—possibly over a thousand gold pieces’ worth of jewels stolen from the Guild’s vaults where it was being processed! As well as his personal possessions! No one in the Guild saw anything—nor did the Guildmaster, who has protective charms. Two high-level criminals pulled off the heist.”
She waited. Erin made a muffled noise and Beilmark let go, wiping her paw. Erin Solstice looked at Zevara. Then over her shoulder.
“…Oh.”
“They are not going to be thrown in jail just on the basis of that. However, we will question them extensively given the ability of criminals to evade spells. If they’re innocent, they only have a brief incarceration to fear.”
Zevara nodded and more [Guards] moved into the inn. Erin looked past Zevara and kicked the ground.
“But Zevara, they’re my guests. And they’re here to—”
“Stow it. Please, Miss Solstice. You can’t harbor criminals. Goblins aside—if they committed a crime…I will arrest you if you try to stop us.”
“Okay.”
The [Innkeeper] hung her head. The Watch Captain looked at her. Then she swept past Erin with a nod. She took her position; the Watch had opened the side doors and were lining the hallways after 4th Company. They were ready to charge as soon as Zevara went in first—she could freeze one of them.
Erin watched them go. The group was tense—then Zevara kicked the door open.
“City Watch! Do not move!”
Embria and 4th Company rushed in after her, ready for a fight. Palt ran for it along with a few individuals of nervous dispositions or guilty consciences. The Centaur vanished into the kitchen as the Watch streamed into the inn from all sides. One group even went via the tower—Bird watched them charge down the stairs.
“Whoa. No way.”
Zevara had not taken chances when she’d heard what level the Gentlemen Callers might be. Not only had she mustered the Watch and 4th Company’s best, she had recruited the newest branch of the City Watch.
Guardsman and [Sergeant] Yellow Splatters led the Worker-Soldier patrol up through the basement. Their newly instituted squad’s first mission was this.
It was a perfect raid from all sides. It really was. Erin listened to them shouting, the chaos. Then she stared past the place Zevara had been.
The thing was…Ratici and Wilovan crouched behind an outhouse. She’d seen them—sensed them, rather—as Zevara was talking.
Two high-level criminals were indeed good. Not enough to take on that many [Guards]—or want to do it, but that wasn’t their skillset, was it? They’d sensed the Watch coming and made their escape.
How? Erin could have managed it with her [Garden of Sanctuary], but she had no idea how the two Callers had done it. If she had to guess though—she thought they’d teleported into the outhouses and then slipped out stealthily.
“Sweep the upper floors! Watch the windows!”
There were [Guards] on the outside, covering the hill from below. Ratici and Wilovan stared at Erin. She stared back.
“Did you…?”
They looked at her. Faces unreadable. Just—alert. Erin looked over her shoulder.
“The door?”
“Secure, Watch Captain!”
A voice from the inside. Zevara was cursing.
“They might have gone through to Invrisil. But I want this inn swept! Damn. Perimeter—check the outhouses! Of all the stupid—”
A squad of [Guards] rushed outside. Past the [Innkeeper]. They flung open the doors to the outhouses—then thought to circle around. There was an exclamation. Zevara whirled.
“C—”
She rushed outside, sword drawn. Zevara’s breath was drawn to exhale—she saw a [Guard], shamefaced, shaking his head at her.
“Guardsman?”
“I…stepped in some crap, Watch Captain. Nothing here.”
Zevara saw him wiping at the grass. Someone had been really upset while waiting for a turn. Or it was little Ekirra. Again. Zevara looked around. She eyed Erin. The [Innkeeper] hadn’t moved.
“Did you find—”
“Not yet. Stay there, Miss Solstice. Sweep the inn!”
So they did. The Watch, 4th Company, and the Antinium squad searched the inn from top to bottom, rooms, everywhere—they gave up after fifteen minutes. Either the two were gone to Invrisil already and they’d just been missed—or they were beyond the Watch’s ability to find them.
Annoyed, Zevara stomped out of the inn. She thanked Erin, briefly. For allowing the Watch to do their jobs. The [Innkeeper] looked down. She murmured something and the Watch left.
“Watch Captain.”
“Councilmember?”
Jeiss bared his teeth in a grin as he walked with Zevara. He watched as the Watch Captain kicked down the hill. The Drake rolled his eyes back at the inn.
“A thought occurs we missed a hiding spot.”
“We scoured that inn from top to toe. Even the basement, Jeiss. They could have gotten to Invrisil.”
