“Look guys, I’m flattered. But there are like—a dozen of us here!”
Ryoka’s friends, the Earthers, her family, the [Mages]…Erin gestured around.
“It’s way too much. I didn’t want to make the Players spend money on me! A fancy restaurant? Attractions? We can’t just—”
“Erin. Are you crazy? Hang the expense!”
Wesle seized her. That was why she’d refused? Jasi grabbed her other arm. The [Innkeeper] started, but Mrsha propped up her legs with a grunt. The Players of Celum clustered around as Kevin ran to get Galina. Erin struggled, but Ryoka was grinning and the [Innkeeper] was the only one against the flow.
“Let go, guys! Guys? Okay, I’ll go! But casually! We can like, go window shopping. We don’t need to pay for a huge restaurant. That’s expensive! I’ve never been to a fancy place, even back—let’s not make a big deal about it. Guys? Guys?”
Oh, for an [Innkeeper]’s reluctance! For modesty, for misapprehensions. She’d delayed and refused. But it was long overdue. So long in fact—that the moment had been building. The Players abandoned their rehearsals. Erin’s friends, new and old, clustered around.
Casually? The Players of Celum swept out of the inn, carrying the protesting [Innkeeper] with them. They were going to turn the damn city upside down for her!
 
—-
 
If Erin Solstice had a flaw, it was that she was reluctant to spend her energy…on herself. She had, on numerous occasions, started the equivalent of riots. Brought a parade into Liscor, mobilized aid for Esthelm.
And she was willing to do all of that. Just not for Erin Solstice. It never occurred to her that one of the people—many of the people who she’d helped so much—would want to do the same for her.
Or that they might be better than her at it. It was her fault, really. A month or two ago, when the Players of Celum were still newer to Invrisil, Erin might have been able to insist on them having some restraint.
But they were the thing within Invrisil. And another fault of Erin’s—or a misconception.
They meant every word.
“The Wandering Inn, tomorrow. Yes…your best inventory, please. I will see you there exactly at…”
Hedault the [Enchanter] was speaking to a [Merchant] who had put everything aside to hear the [Enchanter]’s request. One did not ignore Hedault when he offered you the opportunity to sell something. The [Artifact Merchant] was nodding eagerly. He’d heard of the inn. Hedault was writing down the appointment—and blocking off a lot of his precious time for his clients—when he heard the noise.
“It’s the Players of Celum! All of them! It’s like a parade!”
Someone shouted. Instantly, heads turned. Fans, admirers, and those attracted to the attention drifted down the street. Hedault himself did not. He tried to get the [Merchant]’s attention.
“The time will be—Merchant—”
“The Players?”
Then the noise overwhelmed his voice. Hedault turned. The Players of Celum? He’d heard of them—had never attended their plays—and he was vaguely aware that the stars of the Players could generate inconvenient crowds wherever they went without bodyguards. But what was the fuss? The [Enchanter]’s brows snapped together. Then—
“Ah. Excuse me.”
Hedault removed his spectacles. He wiped them, fastidiously cleaning them with a cloth. They were enchanted not to get dirty, but it was a habit. He put them back on.
Nope. It still looked like a parade. Hedault stared as the first carriage rolled past. The [Actors] were clinging to it, walking along. And there came performers, tumblers, putting on a performance—
“They’ve hired half of Invrisil’s performers! They’re saying someone’s going to be in the Solstice Booth tonight!”
“The Solstice…?”
Hedault’s head turned slightly. It couldn’t be. Then he focused on a familiar voice. He saw an arguing Dwarf striding along, pointing up ahead.
“That’s right! A performance! Line walking, lights—her best routine! We’ll pay for it! And can we get a reservation at the Djinni’s Spoon? Or the best restaurant you can think for…let’s see, can we rent it? We’ll trade premium tickets for the plays of your choice! We’ve got guests! Eltistiman, what’s the news?”
“Barelle the [Bard] has agreed to perform for the restaurant. Is the [Tumbler] going to do her performance?”
“Just up ahead! Damn, we’ll never be able to go shopping! Kilkran! Andel! Stop encouraging them! Get all the [Bodyguards] out!”
A line of people were preventing the crowd from stopping the [Players] as they ground traffic to a standstill. Jasi, Wesle, Kilkran, they were bad enough in small groups. But this was all of them.
Andel was standing on top of one of the carriages, signing autographs and hurling them into the crowd with Kilkran. People were fighting over them.
And at the center of it, shell-shocked or hugely entertained—or waving—were the guests.
Ryoka Griffin, sitting next to Fierre, who was open-mouthed with delight. Palt, trotting along and waving. Montressa and Bezale, staring about in delight. Kevin, Joseph, Leon, Troy, Galina, Imani, and Rose, some furtively recording the scene with their smartphones.
Mrsha bouncing on Lyonette’s lap as she stared at the colorful Humans all dressed up, cartwheeling and flipping past the slow moving carriage, providing entertainment enroute. Numbtongue in his costume, looking around just as excitedly. Lyonette sat like a…[Princess], dignified, but with a flush of excitement in her cheeks.
Selys looked astounded. Salamani was enjoying himself. And there were a few hangers-on who’d begged an invitation and got it. Krshia, who’d run up from Liscor dragging Elirr, Hexel, and Octavia, a Human that Hedault didn’t recognize from the inn, Drassi, Menolit…
Some odd representatives there. They’d begged favors, snuck into the event, all on the name of one person at the center of it. Jasi was waving and trying to speak as, on the other side, Wesle blew a kiss and winked. Hedault stared at Erin Solstice.
Then at the scene. The street was a rush of noise and lights and attention as the procession made its way forwards. Emme was speaking with dozens of people at once. Restaurant? They were fighting for the honor—and the publicity! Shows? The group would have to split up, if only because no one could move with all the Players in force, but they’d be entertained until Elisial began! And their guest of honor and her friends—people were already pointing.
The Solstice Booth. It wasn’t a hard connection to make. Hedault had made it in less than a second when he’d heard of it. But at last—you had to ask who that was that the Players were fawning over.
The inevitable was happening. Erin Solstice was the center of tens of thousands of eyes. Visiting nobles who had their reservations at the Djinni’s Spoon cancelled, Lady Ieka’s coach, which had to stop for the VIP’s—
 
Behold. Look, and see the person we owe it all to. Our great friend. Chellise, one of the [Actors], jogged up to Mrsha.
“Here! Go ahead and shoot them off!”
Mrsha took the wand and waved it. The Gnoll saw a glowing will-o-wisp fly upwards. It spun in a crazy pattern into the sky and exploded. Her eyes went round with delight. Numbtongue grabbed one, and more lights illuminated the street.
“Hold that pose, Miss! For the Player’s friends!”
A [Speed Painter] was desperately capturing Galina on canvas. More entertainers hurried forwards, all too willing to accept the gold the Players were practically throwing away. If you had the gold and clout Invrisil would light up for you.
The only people not here who could have been were those like Olesm and Maviola, Ishkr—who was on inn-duty, having volunteered for it, Bird, who just wanted leftovers…
“There they are! Dead gods! Erin! Erin! Let us come, please? We ran as fast as we could when Selys sent us—”
People shouted and pointed, thinking more entertainers were on the way. The [Bodyguards] keeping the crowds back turned to this new threat—and backed up apprehensively. To their relief, the Players recognized the new group and waved them on.
Maughin, Jelaqua, Moore, Seborn, Ulinde, all squeezed into the procession. Anyone who knew Erin Solstice was being let through.
“Whoops! Excuse me, Miss. Are you with the inn’s guests?”
The [Guard] let a creeping Gnoll come through behind the Halfseekers. Liska hesitated and checked her apron. It had the inn written on it. How handy!
“Yes. Yes, absolutely.”
“Right this way, Miss.”
Ishkr would kill her later. The Gnoll happily swung herself up into one of the open wagons an [Actor] had commandeered. She saw vendors handing out food to anyone who wanted it and waved.
And all of it, all of it was for Erin Solstice. Hedault gave up trying to get the [Merchant]’s attention. He wrote a note, attached it to the man’s shoulder with some magic, and looked around for an escape route. He had to get those artifacts appraised and evaluate their cost. No time for him to join the chaos.
Besides which—he looked back. There she was. So many eyes on her as Jasi pointed to say ‘this is my friend!’ And Wesle stood up to shout for them to hurry up and clear the roads up ahead.
Hedault was no expert on interpersonal communications. He was, by his admission, not a people person. But still—he was fairly certain as he stared at Erin Solstice’s face.
“…Hellish.”
The [Enchanter] looked at the [Innkeeper]. Then he shook his head and walked away. And the procession, the attention?
Well, for the [Innkeeper] it only got worse from there.
 
—-
 
Picture the scene. No—this was the scene. One of many.
After the procession, which had involved a woman cartwheeling across a rope across two buildings above the [Actors], and an [Illumination Mage]’s magical lightshow—and Mrsha shooting her illusionary lights nonstop, they’d reached the restaurant.
The Players had to eat for the night’s performance to digest in time. But it was going to be nonstop courses, so that was food and entertainment until then! And if they couldn’t roam the city because of the crowds outside the Djinni’s Spoon, well then, they’d damn well bring the city to them!
“Okay, can you do one of all seven of us? Imani, Imani come over here!”
One of the higher-level [Artists] was doing a portrait of Kevin and the other Earthers as they posed together. They had to grab Joseph, who kept up his conversation with one of the staff, who was hanging on his every word.
“It’s easy. Anyone can make a football—I’ll show you. I have one in my bag of holding, I think—”
They passed by a Gnoll, who was staring at a floating treat with Jelaqua, Ulinde, and Salamani.
“You see, it’s made of a sugar and lighter-than-air materials. Go ahead and have some. And our next course…”
A floating candy passed by another group listening to the manager. Fierre snagged it and broke it in half. She passed one to Ryoka as the man talked.
“The history of the Djinni’s Spoon actually contains two Djinni. I have their names and dates of purchase right here. As well as their natures—they’re not all the same. Let’s begin with the first one…”
Ryoka saw Fierre chewing as she tried to take notes. Maughin was listening as well with his head; his body was keeping Jelaqua company. She glanced over and Montressa was trying to shout-communicate with Eltistiman.
“It’s what I’m saying! There’s potential in Liscor to—do you mind me casting a localized [Hush] spell? Look, I know you’re with the Players, but the opportunities here—you’re not from Wistram, that’s fine. It doesn’t matter. We want to operate our own network and you’re—”
Their voices faded out as a bubble of calm emerged around them. That was inconvenient for the Hobgoblin, who was trying to shove food under his helmet. He moved over from his table to the [Actor]’s.
“…Going to write a new play. But I’m always running into roadblocks. This Phantom story—I had one just like it!”
Andel was complaining loudly. Numbtongue nodded as Lyonette, Kilkran, and Menolit all joined the writer-actor conversation.
“There’s always someone who’s done the same thing before you. You just have to make it your own.”
The [Veteran] opined sagely. Andel nodded and sighed.
“But the Phantom is so polished. I was thinking for my next piece something at sea—or based in Chandrar? How do you know Erin Solstice, by the way? I’m sorry, we haven’t met…”
“Er…”
The group ducked as a flashing object nearly hit all of them and bounced off the table. Numbtongue caught it, threw it back.
“Sorry!”
Palt called out. He handed the ball back, shamefaced, to the [Juggler]. The half-Elf grinned and showed Palt what he’d done wrong.
“You’re fairly good at this. The trick to the triple loop is…”
“Palt! Stop interrupting the show!”
Bezale roared. She and Seborn and Wailant and Viceria were drinking. Just drinking. Bring more, and bring it faster with something good to eat!
And that was just one moment. Mrsha leapt off the table and raced over to stare open-mouthed at the illusionary war that two entertainers were conjuring with artifacts and spells. They were taking requests from Pralcem and some of the [Actors]—
“Throw a Cyclops in there! Make them fight the [Knights]! Go for it!”
A miniature monster roared across the battlefield and charged towards a group of armored figures. Mrsha stared, goggle-eyed, and then one of the entertainers asked what she wanted! She began to write furiously.
What spectacle. What delight! Erin Solstice saw little of it. It was a blur to her; she had the impression of Wesle and Jasi tugging her about. It was when she saw the restroom—handy plumbing and actual bathrooms, a luxury—that she rushed in.
There she threw up. Well—nearly. Her stomach heaved, but not everything went out. Even so—Erin spat.
“Ugh…”
She clutched at her stomach. It was roiling. She’d never felt like that. Even Xrn’s teleportation hadn’t done that. But this—she was breathing too fast. Her heart was pounding out of her chest—
“Erin? You okay in there? You’re going to miss the first course! I told you we shouldn’t have given her all those candies, Grev. That and the carriage ride…”
Jasi knocked on the door. Erin started.
“What?”
“You’ve been in there ten minutes! You okay? We have potions if you’re feeling sick!”
She’d been in here a minute! Seconds! Erin started.
“C-coming!”
She wandered back out and was lost again. It was…far too much.
Everyone else was enjoying themselves to some degree. Even those who weren’t largely social—Ryoka included—could find something here. She had been sticking with Fierre anyways. The two had fun together, which was the point.
“Oh wow. Blood pudding. Ryoka, I have to…”
