They had been reluctant to of course; it was wrong to get too involved with your target, even if they were actually under protection. But it hadn’t turned out poorly yet and they had no choice.
As they came down for late breakfast after a very late night—they saw Antinium busily repairing the hole in the floor.
 
‘Caution: Hole. Watch your step!’
 
A helpful sign had been put up; Erin had lots of spares. She’d even made a little rope fence around the spot with chairs. Ratici and Wilovan peered at it and gathered what had happened.
“It occurs to me, Ratici—”
“Hey, you two. Can I get you anything?”
The two paused as Drassi came over; the bartending job was sort of hard to pick up in the morning. They ordered, had some very fine-smelling risotto placed in front of them, and began to eat as they continued the conversation.
“It occurs to me, Ratici, that we might have been in error in our assessment.”
“Wilovan my friend, I’m hardly inclined to disagree.”
The two nodded to each other. They’d assumed at first that the Tallman had some big plan, to have them stay here. Then they’d concluded this was a (well paying) waste of their time.
Now? They peeked at the Small Queen of the Antinium. The two Gentlemen Callers wondered if they’d been swindled out of a lot more gold. Or was the Tallman unaware of how crazy this inn was?
“Ratici! Wilovan! How are my two favorite crooks?”
Erin Solstice made the two jump. Not because they didn’t sense her coming up from the side, but because she was loud.
“Miss Solstice. A good morning to you. Could you, er, keep your voice down, though?”
Wilovan winced as heads turned. Erin looked blank.
“Why? Oh. But I thought—”
She looked at Palt, Fierre, and the others who could pick out Wilovan and Ratici at a glance. Wilovan huffed.
“I can…see where you were misapprehended, Miss Solstice, but we normally don’t advertise our status as fellows who sometimes stray on the wrong side of the law.”
“Sometimes?”
The [Innkeeper] gave him a teasing grin. Ratici chortled and Wilovan coughed.
That was the second disarming thing. This young woman, who had many sterling qualities, was so strangely likeable. And more than that—she saw them for who they were and still liked them.
Wilovan and Ratici were polite, well-dressed, and usually mild-mannered people. So being liked wasn’t unknown to them. But being liked for who you were? When people knew you were the Callers? That—that was odd.
Even so, it was inconvenient. A few stares prickled Ratici, but he pretended it was some joke of Erin’s. The [Innkeeper] was resting on the table.
“Am I to understand that hole in the floor comes from this morning, Miss Solstice?”
“I didn’t know, Wilovan! Xrn made it.”
“The…lady over yonder. I see. The Small Queen of the Antinium. Who you seem to be on a first name basis with.”
“Yep. Is that weird?”
Wilovan hemmed and hawed, not willing to say ‘yes, absolutely.’
“Even in our lines of work, Miss Solstice, the Antinium are not something that’ve ever cropped up. One feels it’s like Demons in the inn, if you don’t mind me saying so.”
Ratici leaned over as he fished for a handkerchief. Erin looked up.
“Demons? Have you ever met any?”
“Not myself, Miss Solstice…”
The two were delicate on that point. Erin looked at Ratici.
“Do they have wings and horns? And uh—flaming stuff?”
“One doesn’t inquire, Miss Solstice. Wings, horns…”
Erin wasn’t sure how to ask if they were really demons. She settled for a mildly stern look towards the two Callers.
“Why’re you two so surprised Xrn is here? Liscor has Antinium. You two are the bigshot bigwig hat guys from up north, right?”
The two paused for a long moment. Wilovan’s lips moved soundlessly. Ratici shook his head.
“Miss Solstice, we don’t tend to advertise we’re about. Meeting you, this stay—it’s been rather unique. And if you don’t mind us saying so, we tend to draw the line between ourselves not for our protection, if you understand me.”
“Oh. But am I going to be in danger?”
“Not immediately. But we do come from different worlds, Miss Erin.”
She laughed at that. For reasons neither Gentlemen Caller quite knew. Erin looked at Wilovan and Ratici, and put her hands on their shoulders.
“Yeah, we do! But there’s no reason we can’t be friends, right?”
The two could only sigh at that. Yet she was attractive. In a way that didn’t define itself purely physically. People had been drawn to this inn. So many odd sorts.
Hedault, Pelt, two master-class artisans. Montressa, Palt, Bezale, Salamani, [Mages] of Wistram. The Callers, Xrn, Antinium…
And more. Ryoka was watching as Kevin sketched out Mrsha’s tricycle and she urgently wrote suggestions and he tried to incorporate them—or politely ignore some.
“I can’t put swords on it, Mrsha. And it won’t fly. How about color? Puce is…where did you learn that word? Do you know what puce actually looks like?”
Mrsha did not. But Kevin had a great idea! Which he totally didn’t come up with to stop her from grabbing his quill every two seconds to make her adjustments to her bike.
“I have a basic paint program on my youknowwhat. Why don’t you find the perfect color on it? And I’ll finish the bike and you can choose what color it is, okay?”
He shooed Mrsha towards the secret rooms—now with air vents. Ratici, had, of course, already found them, but he still hadn’t been able to figure out what was going on inside. He watched as Mrsha excitedly bounced into the Garden.
“Do you think you could get in, Ratici? Asking purely as one professional to another.”
“Hm. I’d have to really take a crack at it, Wilovan. On the surface? The asking price would be too high for most to even bother.”
“Interesting. Miss Drassi? Could I trouble you ever so much for another sandwich? Thank you.”
The two sat back with a sigh. There were some things to complain about, but they’d miss this service. And the food was getting better! If only there was some fine company…Wilovan had seen a wonderfully built Gnoll woman, but she was alas, spoken for. As all good women were.
 
—-
 
Mrsha happily ran towards the laptop as Kevin sighed and went back to his work. Mrsha raced into the secret Earth-rooms and found…
Numbtongue was hunched over with a blanket on his shoulders, playing on the laptop with the touchpad. He didn’t say anything as Mrsha waved at him.
Numbtongue, hey, Numbtongue! I need to use that!
He ignored her when she crawled onto the table to sign. She reached for the keys—he swatted her away.
He was playing the game! The game with the guns! Mrsha glowered. Then she eyed Numbtongue’s features. How…long had he been playing?
Thanks to Palt and the other [Mages], who resented being used as walking batteries, you could recharge the electronics practically all day. Numbtongue growled as Mrsha tried to push at him. She signed furiously.
Let me use it!
“Go away. I’m winning.”
He was on the hardest difficulty, playing—Mrsha grabbed the laptop. Numbtongue shot to his feet with a roar. He was going to lose his life and the record! The two fought for it. Mrsha found herself pressed against the floor by a foot while Numbtongue played. She wriggled.
Mrsha the Computer Wizard would not be surpassed! She had to have a turn! But Numbtongue seized the laptop, avoiding her lunge, grabbed her, pushed her out the door—and then sat against it while she howled and pounded on it, demanding to be let in.
 
—-
 
“Numbtongue did what? Well…he was um, playing, wasn’t he? Yes. I know, Mrsha. I’ll tell him. But you can’t just grab it. Oh, you didn’t grab it? Did you ask first?”
Lyonette was having the first inter-family dispute. And it was rather familiar to the fights she remembered her mother having to break up between her siblings. Mrsha was actually in tears.
Whether she was that distraught Lyonette very much doubted. But the Gnoll was upset that Numbtongue had wrongfully…not allowed her to use the laptop because it was ‘her time.’ She demanded Lyonette fix the issue! Now!
“How about we talk it over with Numbtongue? And you have to talk, Mrsha. Okay?”
Lyonette sighed. Mrsha stomped her feet and folded her arms. She marched with Lyonette over to the Earth-rooms. She was going to give Numbtongue a piece of her mind! She was gonna—
He was gone. Mrsha looked around. Lyonette sighed.
“Uh oh.”
Numbtongue had correctly anticipated Mrsha would bring reinforcements. And like any Redfang, he’d chosen his battleground. He was gone.
“Mrsha, we’ll talk to him when he gets back. Mrsha, no, really—”
But the Gnoll was on the scent. She followed Numbtongue back through the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]…and promptly lost it.
Darn! Teleporting doors meant that there was no continuous trail! Mrsha was getting angrier. He could be hiding in the jungle or—or in his room, or—
“Erin! Erin, Numbtongue is mean! Find him!”
The Gnoll furiously came over to Erin and demanded she help as Erin was chatting to Imani about stupid poo-things, like new recipes and ingredients and budgets! Erin looked down, distracted.
“What? Numbtongue, mean? That can’t be right. Did you ask him to make you a [Warrior] again, Mrsha? You know he takes it seriously. Listen, I need to talk to Imani—”
The Gnoll grabbed Erin’s leg as the [Innkeeper] yelped. She would not be ignored! This was serious! Erin, exasperated, looked down.
“Mrsha! Okay! Okay, I’ll find Numbtongue. Imani, I’m sorry. One sec?”
The [Cook] was highly entertained. She saw Erin close her eyes. It still wasn’t second nature. But Erin could sense where anyone was in the inn. She sensed…
“Numbtongue. Numbtongue…Numbtongue’s…um…not in the inn.”
She opened her eyes. Mrsha looked up indignantly. What? That couldn’t be right! Erin was lying to protect him! Tall-people ganged up on the kids! But Erin shook her head.
“He’s out of the inn. And he took the lap—the youknowwhat? Well, look Mrsha—”
The Gnoll ran off. She wasn’t going to let him get away with this! He was outside!
The outhouses weren’t occupied by Goblins and Mrsha smelled no Numbtongue trail. She raced back, sniffing. Aha! The door! He’d gone to his mining spots!
…But she smelled no Goblin when she threw the door open there. Mrsha was about to snap!
“Mrsha, calm down. She’s throwing a tantrum, Ryoka.”
“Over the laptop?”
The Gnoll girl whirled. She was not! She just wanted what was hers! By right! She fumbled for the mana stones as Lyonette tried to pick her up.
“Mrsha—don’t you slash at me, Miss! Or no bicycle! Calm down this instant or Kevin will be working on something else, understand?”
Mrsha looked up. Her angry face…crumpled. She curled up into a ball and began to sob silently.
“Everyone is ganging up on me! It’s not fair!”
The pity-party was slightly offset by the fact that Mrsha had to sign to be understood by Ryoka and Lyonette. Either way—Ryoka was highly amused. Not unsympathetic. But she just hadn’t ever seen Mrsha looking so—so childish! It was almost good to see.
It was the wrong thing to say to Lyonette, though. The [Princess] just gave Ryoka an exasperated look.
“If you were around more, you’d see more Mrsha tantrums than you wanted, Ryoka. Mrsha. Mrsha, stop flailing right now…”
Ryoka eyed the sword Lyonette sometimes carried around. She wanted to tap the [Princess] on the shoulder and ask if she could stab herself with it. It might make her feel better.
“Ow.”
She—deserved that. But that was the second time Lyonette had done it. Ryoka rubbed at the phantom-pain in her chest.
“Lyonette…”
“One second, Ryoka. Mrsha du Marquin. Stop this at once.”
The Gnoll stopped. She sniffed, but she sat up, stopped hitting the ground and looked woefully up at Lyonette and then Ryoka. The City Runner was impressed.
“Wow. You—call her Mrsha du Marquin, Lyonette? Isn’t that—”
“What?”
The [Princess] rose to her feet, Mrsha clinging to her. She gave Ryoka another look. And this time the Wind Runner saw the hostility there.
“She’s my daughter. Shouldn’t I?”
“I didn’t say that—”
“Then what were you saying, exactly?”
Ryoka opened and closed her mouth. Only that it was exposing Lyonette’s name and wasn’t that dangerous? But that hadn’t been how the [Princess] took it—or chose to take it. And it revealed something.
“Lyonette. Do you have—a problem with me?”
The [Princess] stared at Ryoka for a long moment. Her eyes flickered and she gave Ryoka—well—the look Ryoka gave to idiots. Lyonette put a huge smile on her face, clearly fake.
“Why, Miss Griffin, why would I possibly have a problem with you? At all? For any reason? It must be in your imagination.”
Okay. Ryoka blinked. She’d missed something…
“I—I’m sorry if I’ve said or done something recently. I can’t think of what it is—”
“Of course not. Let’s not worry about it, Ryoka. You’ll leave in a week and it’ll be fine.”
Lyonette snapped back as she removed a handkerchief to clean Mrsha’s face. Ryoka felt like Lyonette was busily knifing her in the stomach. With words.
“Lyonette, I’m sorry, but could you tell me what I’ve done to make you so upset?”
“If you don’t know, don’t ask!”
The [Princess] snapped. She rounded on Ryoka, pointing a finger at her.
“You wouldn’t, would you? Just leave it, Ryoka. Not everything needs to be solved. I’m busy and—”
At this point, Mrsha dragged on Lyonette’s blouse and the young women—both of them—looked down. Mrsha had stopped crying. She was waving her paws frantically.
Stop fighting!
Both of them realized Mrsha had been trying to get their attention. And the tears of ‘no laptop, no Numbtongue’ were threatening to turn into real ones. Lyonette instantly lowered the finger.
“Mrsha! Don’t cry, don’t cry. It was just—”
She shot Ryoka a look and Ryoka nodded. She came over and Lyonette let Mrsha grab her hand.
“We were just angry for a second, Mrsha. It’s fine.”
The Gnoll girl was a bit too old to be lied to that effectively, even with both of them smiling and trying to comfort her. The two looked around.
“I wonder where Numbtongue has gone. If he has the youknow—the damn laptop—he can’t take it out in the open.”
Lyonette nodded, seizing onto that.
“Let’s find him. Mrsha tracked him to this door. So he has to be…Mrsha? Can you help us find Numbtongue?”
Mission: Find Numbtongue To Avoid Mrsha Crying was a go. Mrsha sniffed as Lyonette checked the door. Not Esthelm or Liscor…Celum neither. Wailant’s farm was Ryoka’s real guess, though. Lyonette’s too.
But he wasn’t there. Mrsha shook her head twice.
“Invrisil, then? I can’t believe it. But maybe—”
