But Fierre did lose Ryoka at some points. The Djinni’s Spoon had tossed out every dish it had, and Fierre attacked the almost-untouched dish. Ryoka abstained.
“This is insane.”
She thought she’d been to events back on Earth—and she had now and then. But the Players were properly rich and well-connected. Ryoka looked around for Erin. She saw Mrsha and Selys hurrying over, pursued by Lyonette.
“It’s fine, Lyonette. It washes out! Let’s dye a pattern, Mrsha! You too, Lyonette!”
Ryoka saw them hurrying over to a [Magical Tattooist], who was doing temporary work on more than just skin. The Players had brought in so many entertainers! She saw the guests availing them nonstop of the services. No one was demanding a price; they’d get it from Emme.
“And this is me? How wonderful. Is this how I look? I see. I see. Thank you.”
Ryoka Griffin…stopped. She turned her head slowly.
No.
Someone was inspecting a miniature sculpture of herself, made out of wood. The [Carver] had even given it color. It was striking. Olive—skin, not olives, although Maughin was filling his plate with them for some reason—tone, delicate features.
Vibrant, just, beautiful hair. Blue hair. Well, not blue…azure was a better color. And that voice.
Ryoka Griffin turned and saw a Human woman tucking the sculpture away. She turned. And her eyes were only one color—a pale pink. She stared at Ryoka as she lifted the glass to her lips.
“Oh. Hello.”
“X—”
The Human woman smiled at her. Ryoka stared. She was here? Xrn tilted her head, just like she would have as an Antinium.
“It is the hair, isn’t it? No one else noticed, however.”
“How? You can shapeshift? Is it an illusion or—”
The Small Queen smiled. It was an unfamiliar expression on her face, as if she didn’t know how to make all the muscles work.
“Is it so surprising? I am a magic-user. Of course I can hide.”
“I didn’t know—I’ve never heard of you doing it.”
“Of course not. If you did, everyone would always be so careful. This is good food. Would you like a shrimp? I did not think Humans ate bugs. But I am much entertained. I will take some food back for the Antinium.”
Ryoka looked around. But Xrn’s comments were lost in the chaos. Kevin, Leon, and Troy were staring at a contortionist—a Naga. Which was either cheating or brilliant.
“This is insane. Do you do this often? The Walled Cities?”
“No it is not insane. Sometimes, and not in the Walled Cities. It is too dangerous if I were found out. But Invrisil is fine. At least, with a magic door so close by.”
Xrn took a swallow of food and bit the shrimp’s head off. Ryoka watched her crunch happily.
“How? Is this your magic?”
“Yes. Why are you so surprised at what I can do, Ryoka? I told you. I am a [Thaumaturge].”
“I don’t see how you can do so much. None of the other Wistram [Mages] can do what you can. It’s like—”
Teriarch’s magic. Ryoka bit her lip on that. Xrn’s eyes twinkled. They changed color to bright gold. She answered as she found a tray of some kind of delicate sugar glass spiders…which were walking about. Only Jelaqua and a few others like Numbtongue had tried them. Xrn began shoving them into a bag of holding without a moment’s hesitation. She answered Ryoka as one of the [Waiters] stared at her, then hurried into the kitchen.
“I do not cast magic the same way as [Mages]. Because my method and understanding is like red and blue.”
Not night and day or some other analogy? Ryoka hesitated.
“Some similarities?”
Xrn twinkled at her.
“Yes. Magic is not like how they understand it for me. Because I am different.”
“In what way?”
The Antinium sighed. She pointed upwards.
“What do you think I see, Ryoka Griffin? I see how magic flows. I see how to use it. I see what other [Mages] have yet to learn. Ooh. What is that?”
She stared at one of the salt-geese and hurried over. Ryoka pursued.
“But that doesn’t explain—you can cast any spell you want to, or so it seems. How do you just make spells?”
Xrn considered that as she nibbled on some salt. She gestured with her hands.
“I think it is the misconception of magic of other spellcasters in how they use it. For them, spells are boxes you fill with the right things. You can adjust the box. But boxes they remain. I treat magic how I please. If I need a box—I make a box. This should not surprise you, though. You use wind magic like I do.”
She looked at Ryoka. The Wind Runner blinked.
“I do?”
“Of course you do. Or rather…the wind moves because of you. Interesting, interesting. I did not notice that. You’re not doing it. Magic shapes itself because you are there. Interesting. I have seen that before.”
Xrn peered at Ryoka. Then lost interest.
“Alas. If only you were Antinium. If only Antinium could cast magic. I would have made an army of spellcasters. Regular Antinium have no…storage for mana. We are not made like you or animals. We possess nothing to shape the world. Even the First Queen did not know what she made; I was an experiment, the Centenium made to harness magic. Few others were ever made like me. Now, I am alone.”
She stood there. And her Human features betrayed what Ryoka hadn’t spotted on her Antinium ones. Melancholy. Xrn smiled after a moment.
“Perhaps that too can change. But even an Individual cannot form a mana center…unless it can? Do something.”
She poked Ryoka in the chest. Ryoka stared at Xrn. Same Antinium, different body. She had…an answer. Ryoka took a breath.
“Have you ever fed an Antinium a diet of mana potions regularly? In increasing amounts? I’m told that other people do that.”
Xrn stopped crunching sugar glass spiders. Her eyes focused on Ryoka.
“How fascinating.”
Ryoka wondered what she’d just done. Or if that was nothing. But someone clapping her hands loudly from the stage at the front of the room made everyone look up.
“Attention! Everyone shut up for a moment! That means you, Kilkran!”
The hubbub died down. Emme pointed to the figure on stage.
“I present: Barelle the [Bard]! Who has graciously agreed to give us a performance! He will be putting on Ten Comedies of Terandria, his own work!”
“Ladies and Gentlemen. And [Actors] too.”
Barelle the [Bard] spoke and Ryoka felt a tingle run down her spine. Now there was a voice.
It was true that the Players had upstaged Invrisil’s entertainment scene with their newfangled plays. But Invrisil had always been the place where high-level entertainers came. Like other major cities of Izril, it was a tourism hub.
The City of Adventurers was more renowned for its high adventurer population and thus shops and services than, say, First Landing or Zeres, trading ports or ancient capitals of Drake and Human might. But it still attracted the rich and powerful from far and wide.
Both as guests of the city and performers. Barelle the [Bard] was one such. He got a laugh from the Players for his copy of how they addressed their audience. And he had a lyre.
He strummed it now and Numbtongue looked up. But like everything of this world—magic added a second element.
Barelle’s lyre was a modification of the standard, seven-stringed lyre. And while Numbtongue might have vouched that his guitar was an advancement of one of the older instruments—they both had the same origin in how they were made.
Yet Barelle’s lyre had fourteen strings. Seven were the regular ones, delicately strung, possibly Pegasus hair or some perfect material along the work of art that was his lyre. But seven more lay behind the ordinary seven.
Each one was a different color. Each one glowed. And when Barelle plucked the one shining like ivory, the sound it made—
Silence. Mrsha, trying to punch more room into her tummy, looked up. Numbtongue stared. The [Actors], guests, all listened.
That sound—was not normal. It had no chord Ryoka could place. It was eerie, higher-pitched. But Barelle played—one ivory note, five mortal chords.
And he had his audience spellbound.
“It is my honor to perform for fellow tellers of stories today. I am looking forwards to your performance of Elisial tonight—and I will do my best to entertain you now.”
The [Bard] announced with a smile. He plucked another string, this one bright green, and the air came to life. It was the sound of spring. Ryoka had to know what the lyre was. Would the fae—? Surely they would love it. This was a storyteller to tell stories worthy of them.
“Eat, speak, dine, and of course, enjoy. I only ask that you give me time to perform without having to compete.”
Everyone nodded at that. Barelle went on.
“I am a [Fartraveller Bard], a [Bard of Stories]. I have been both. I have seen terrible tragedies, walked through war, and spoken with those who fought against legends, both monsters and men like the King of Destruction. I have performed for [Kings] and [Beggars] and been humbled by both former and latter. Tonight though, I think we have no time for such stories. Nor shall I compete with Elisial!”
“Too right, because you’d lose!”
Andel spoke up. There was a laugh; Ryoka felt like kicking the [Writer]. But Barelle chuckled along.
“We all tell stories. So today, while you sup, I shall relate ten comedies of Terandria. Fools and fantasy all!”
He plucked at a third magical chord. This one was bright, like a yellow canary’s feather. And when it hummed—it sounded like the very essence of laughter. More followed, provoked by the sound itself.
Now this was entertainment! Two thirds of the room immediately drifted over. Including Xrn. She looked back at Ryoka and nodded to Barelle as if to say—‘see? This is what I meant.’
This is magic too.
Ryoka got it. Barelle looked across the room. He smiled—
And made his first mistake. Not that he could have known.
“But first, an ode. I was asked to make a brief sonnet, some poor verse to honor the guest of the hour! A young woman who—as I understand it—fits with every story and legend I know! I should be honored to speak to the woman herself—”
Every head began to turn. And the [Innkeeper], who had been relaxing next to Grev and Jasi and Wesle, suddenly stiffened again. Barelle was looking at her. He played a fourth note. This one pulsed like midnight, and the air darkened. Like that of a stage in itself.
“A young woman who led an army to battle. Who rescued adventurers from a dungeon. Who—and I have seen this myself! Fought Wyverns in the City of Inventions. The very same young woman who helped create the Players of Celum! There are those who change this world for good or ill. Flos Reimarch. Mihaela Godfrey. Xrn, the Small Queen.”
His eyes flickered. Ryoka started. But Barelle continued without missing a beat.
“This young woman has done so much already. Already—three cities and more are connected, across hundreds of miles thanks to her! Already, a team of adventurers reached Gold-rank for her help! I am speaking of course, of Erin Solstice. And to her, I shall play—”
Erin Solstice heard a roaring sound in her ears. She saw Barelle, in a shroud of…mist? Speaking. And people were looking at her. Applauding…Erin didn’t hear it.
The [Bard] began to play. Erin took a breath. Then another. Jasi was beaming. Grev looked smug. Wesle—Wesle picked up on it. Everyone was watching Barelle and he was concentrating as he played, using the magical notes sparingly. But his eyes were on his audience too.
“Erin?”
But she didn’t hear Wesle speaking. Barelle had begun singing—but he stopped. Erin saw him lower his hands. And then everyone was looking at her again. The [Innkeeper] tried to rise. Jasi was touching her arm. Erin looked around. She took another breath—
And then she fainted.
 
—-
 
It was her fault. A few minutes later, when Erin woke up in the staff room, that was the first thing she said. Of course—it was jumbled, what with everyone asking how she was, concerned—
Ryoka got it. So did Jasi, Wesle, a few others when they saw the problem. But it was all Erin’s fault, obviously.
She should have said it. She had put off the Players for so long, and the trouble was they’d believed her. When she should have said the truth.
Which was that this—this wasn’t what Erin wanted.
Kilkran couldn’t even understand it. He thought Erin was sick. Something gone down wrong? Others sort of got it, like Jelaqua opining that Erin had ‘had too much excitement’ while she comforted a worried Mrsha with Moore.
But it was the half-Giant. Ryoka, Seborn…probably Viceria to some degree. Numbtongue at times. Hedault for sure.
It was that Erin did not enjoy huge crowds. Or all the attention being on her. She was, in a new parlance that Rose kept telling to non-Earthers, an introvert. Which was an odd thing to call Erin.
Erin, the [Innkeeper]? The same young woman who ran a huge inn? Who…was really bad at managing staff? Who liked to sit with her friends rather than talk to everyone at once? Who, up till coming from Earth had played chess…
That made more sense. Still odd. Still strange, to people who lived for attention. Because they thrived on it. Erin on the other hand—could wave a flag in the middle of a street, stand down a riot. If she had to. If it mattered.
This grand party was not for her, anyways. She wasn’t someone who came from a big city, or who went to parties all the time. Erin Solstice woke up. She saw the others keeping her well-wishers back.
“Erin? Are you okay? I’m sorry if we overburdened you—”
Jasi was looking at Erin. The young woman babbled.
“I’m—not—I have to—”
The [Actress] drew back. Erin tried to breathe. Again, the world grayed out around her. She felt dizzy, sick. She had to go! This was too much, too—
“Calm. The calming winds from Pheislant’s shores/Makes me return evermore.”
Someone sang for a moment and Erin heard it, over the pounding of her ears. The others drew back. Then—Barelle the [Bard] was sitting there. He had played on his lyre. A blue chord, deep as the sea. But gentle.
“Miss Solstice, I apologize for my performance. It was a poor one and I took it too lightly. Another sign I have yet to master my craft.”
The [Bard] sat there. Erin looked at him. She inhaled—and realized everyone else was gone. He’d ushered them out of the room.
“Oh. I’m—I’m sorry.”
“Don’t be. I also have to apologize—I exiled your friends. They meant well, but I think less people would be helpful, don’t you?”
The [Bard] looked at Erin. She nodded meekly.
“I’m sorry. I ruined your performance. I didn’t mean to. It was just—too much. I’ve never done that before. Ever.”
“Fainted?”
She nodded, blushing. She’d never…and she’d fought Skinner! She’d been in far worse situations. She was reminded of the Christmas party…why did it always happen like that?
