Five minutes later, Erin Solstice walked into the Brother’s safe house. She should not have been able to enter. Wilovan and Ratici had, in fact, been telling Teor to turn her away.
“How did you—”
Ratici stood up. Erin looked around.
“Whoa. So this is your place? Wow. It’s like a secret hid—wait a minute. Yeah, that was stupid, even for me.”
She slapped her face. The Gentlemen Callers stared. How?
Erin walked over.
“Hey Wilovan, Ratici. You put those Brothers on me, right? We have to talk about that. I mean—they did the right thing—but it’s getting weird. That guy was on my butt the entire time and I never noticed! It’s a tiny bit creepy.”
She pointed at the inconspicuous [Stalker], who was in fact a [Shadow] since [Stalker] was too predatory for their group. The man looked hurt.
“I made no affectations towards your rear end, Miss Solstice. We’re here to protect. I swear on my hat.”
“Miss Solstice. How did you get in?”
The Brothers were staring at Erin. A woman in their safe house? It was—not unheard of. But a gentleman did not bring a lady here if he happened to find company. It was disrespectful to everyone. The only people who entered of a feminine persuasion were other people who might need a place to hide out, other gang members who wanted to negotiate and so on, by invitation, and [Cleaners] if the situation got truly desperate.
Erin winked.
“That old guy? Amel? I talked him into it. I wasn’t a threat and he searched me for magic stuff…he’s holding onto my bag of holding and other gear. I’m unarmed!”
She said that like it wasn’t astounding she got in anyways. Amel? Ratici’s jaw was hanging open.
“We pay him not to let people in!”
“Yeah. Well, don’t blame him. He knew I knew you two. Plus. I bribed him.”
“With what? A diamond the size of my face?”
Erin snorted.
“No, with something he wanted. Tickets! Jasi gave me some to give out. Three. For him and his grandkids. And an autographed card with a signature of her and Wesle on it.”
The Gentlemen Callers stared. This…was a kind of talent that ran opposite to theirs. Ratici and Wilovan sat there. Then they hurriedly put on their hats, vests, and looked around.
“Company, gentlemen! Straighten up! Let me present…”
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice was procrastinating. She knew it. But the Gentlemen Callers offered her tea, and she really did want to know about the Brothers.
She thought they were good people. At the very least—one of them had gone to stop that [Thief]. Petty crime was common in a city. And apparently, the Brothers didn’t stand for it.
“Of course not. Should a man stand by if a lady—or other fellow for that matter—is in distress?”
Wilovan looked offended just at the suggestion. There were nods around from the crowd of hatted men sitting and sipping tea. Erin looked around.
“But you do hit people on the head and steal their money.”
The Brothers coughed. An [Enforcer] that Numbtongue would have known leaned forwards earnestly.
“Delicately, Miss Solstice. The right application of force is an art. And we do it to people in a way such that they wake up inconvenienced. But not dead. Safer all around. We might be a menace, but only to some sorts.”
“I see. And a [Thief]?”
“Steals from the sort that won’t mind it. Let me be clear, Miss Solstice. It’s only to do what we vouchsafed to you before: sleep well at night. We are not…”
Ratici trailed off. The room fell silent. And there it was.
Erin had never really met criminals. She’d met monsters. Goblins, Antinium. But the worst criminals she’d met were Pisces, the imposter who had been Regrika Blackpaw, and…Lyonette. This was a different lot.
The [Innkeeper] sipped from her cup of tea. She looked around and eyed Teor. The young Brother was in disgrace.
“So…Teor would have rescued that old woman’s purse if I wasn’t there?”
“I should in any circumstance barring a greater need, Miss Solstice. I’m new, and still learning the ropes, as it were.”
The young man looked embarrassed. Wilovan nodded.
“The Brothers…take recruits. The right sort.”
“Honorable?”
There was that pause again. Wilovan carefully sipped tea.
He and Ratici were the only two non-Human Brothers. Erin wondered if they were unique, or just rarer. Certainly, the Brothers were based in the north. Aside from that—they were cosmopolitan as could be. Well, among the male gender. So…very exclusive.
“Depends on your definition, Miss Solstice.”
That came from the older Brothers. But Teor seemed to want to object. And Erin saw that.
“The Brothers only go after rich targets?”
“Only rich—well, that’s a matter of practicality, Miss Solstice. But there’s a second qualifier. Only…the sort who we feel it’d be a disservice not to inconvenience.”
Ah. The Brothers probably didn’t rob rich children. Erin smiled. And then she came out with it.
“So you’d never just rob a guild, right, Teor?”
“Absolutely not, Miss Solstice. That’s livelihoods at stake. If we went after the Guild, it’d be—”
Too late, Ratici shot the young man a warning look. Teor’s lips compressed. Erin lowered her cup.
“I knew it. Why didn’t you tell me?”
Every eye turned to Wilovan and Ratici. The two looked at each other. At last, Wilovan sighed.
“Gentlemen. Terribly sorry, but might we have a moment?”
The others cleared out. Erin felt bad for Teor, but she had to know. Wilovan and Ratici sat there. After a moment, Ratici produced something.
“Sugar?”
“Oh, thanks.”
Erin had been sipping gently. She took a cube from the bowl. Stirred it.
There they sat. After a moment, Erin broke the silence.
“I asked if you did it. And you said ‘does it matter’? Why’d you say that, Wilovan?”
The Gnoll sighed. He adjusted his tall hat and sat back. Ratici grimaced. It was the Drake who spoke first.
“Miss Solstice. I never brought it up because a fellow shouldn’t pick at details—but you calling us the ‘Honorable Hatmen’—”
“Did I hurt your feelings? I do that. I’m sorry.”
The Drake almost smiled. He adjusted his seat, looked down, looked up at her.
“No. It was pleasant. But untruthful. We are not honorable.”
“Says the guys who take from the rich—”
“And keep it for ourselves. Honor among thieves, I’ve heard the saying. I think you have, Miss Solstice?”
She nodded. Ratici shook his head.
“The point is that it’s a joke. We do what we do and it is still mugging. Just a particular sort. Perhaps you might find that better than—the Sisters of Chell—but they have their honor. We are both on the wrong side of the law. As for why we ran?”
He looked at Wilovan. The Gnoll removed his hat, pulled some hair off, and looked at Erin.
“We’re an unscrupulous sort, Miss Solstice. Why do we run if we didn’t commit this crime? Because we’ve done something. In our cases—enough so that any Watch Captain not bought and paid for would put us away forever regardless.”
And there it was again. Guilt. Erin stopped smiling.
“Oh.”
“We rob certain sorts. We…don’t hit the Jeweler’s Guild usually because the staff get punished. Also, that was a small take, frankly.”
Erin’s brows rose. Wilovan hurried on.
“But sometimes, a plan goes wrong. Sometimes there’s less…scrupulous sorts to lighten their purses. Sometimes another gang decides they want our cut. When they do—the hats come off. That’s what they say of us. ‘The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings are perfect gentlemen. Until the hats come off.’”
“Oh.”
It all made sense. Erin sat back. The two Callers looked at her, expectantly. It was Wilovan who said it.
“We are not good men, Miss Solstice. Thank you for helping us get away. But if you should expect it of us—we will let you down some day. Sooner than we’d all like. I’m grateful for your generosity. But it would have been better if we were just unobtrusive the entire time our contract ran. Our failing.”
“I get it. And you’re right. If you had stolen stuff—I wouldn’t have been sure I wanted you in my inn. Even if it was a jerk from the old Council.”
Erin muttered. The two nodded. You see? Uncertainty. It was better not to mix. Ratici pulled his cap lower. Erin sat there for a moment. Then she looked around.
The Brothers were watching surreptitiously at a distance. They all looked the other way—but they were trying to be gentlemen. And even gentlemen eavesdropped. Erin smiled slightly.
What a silly group of guys. What a funny gang…she sighed as she stood up. The two Callers stood to walk her out. Erin turned and stopped them.
“Ratici, Wilovan, Brothers. I don’t know you too well. But from what I’ve seen—we might not see eye to eye. And I don’t like crime. If you did something in my inn, I’d do something about it. Even if I saw it. Even if you were mugging some jerk like Lis—like some jerk. Because I don’t want someone to break the law like that around me.”
They nodded. Erin went on, looking at both Callers earnestly.
“You are criminals. But I’m sure of this. There are worse people in the world than you. You probably aren’t good men.”
She met their eyes. Then the [Innkeeper] smiled.
“…But I don’t think you’re bad guys.”
The two blinked. The Brothers stirred. And then—Erin winked. And that was it.
They chuckled, and then laughed. Erin looked at the two Callers as they blinked at her, then smiled and tipped their hats. That was all.
“You can visit my inn. Zevara’s probably not cool with you—but there’s criminal and evil. I have Goblins. Just don’t steal anything in Liscor, please.”
“Miss Solstice. May I just say you’re the most interesting [Innkeeper] I’ve ever met?”
Ratici peered at Erin. She laughed at him.
“I might be. But how many do you meet? I just like weird duos, I guess. The first people I met at Liscor were…”
She trailed off. Nostalgia, regret…but she was smiling. This world changed. She saw, for a moment, a big, burly Drake with scars, and a Worker-Antinium, jostling to reassure her that Relc was not a Dragon. Then it was gone. And a Gnoll with a top-hat was smiling at her.
They could still be friends. Erin looked at the Brothers. Then at their home.
“Do you guys hide here all the time?”
“We are criminals, Miss Solstice. We do have our entertainments. But a fellow on the wrong side of the law…”
Erin walked over to Crimshaw and peered around at his room.
“Yeah, yeah. But you can’t be cooped up forever! You should get out more. In fact…”
In fact. She looked at the Brothers and her eyes twinkled. Erin might not be good at expressing her feelings. But she was good at improvising. And she just had an idea that would solve her dilemma and do something nice. And wasn’t that why her friends liked them? She looked around.
“Say, fellows. Do you like fine art? And um…food?”
The Brothers stared at her. Offended, for the first time by the question. Did they like—? She might as well have asked if they liked hats!
 
—-
 
Later, and yes, it was later, Ryoka Griffin looked at Erin Solstice’s embarrassed smile. The search party—those who weren’t looking and causing havoc—stared at her with wroth. Ryoka turned to a stranger no one had ever seen before.
“Can I borrow…? Thank you.”
Xrn handed Ryoka her staff. Ryoka smacked Erin on the head with it.
“Ow! Ryoka, that hurts like—was that how hard I hit you?”
Erin clutched at her head. Ryoka raised the staff again and a man cleared his throat.
“I’m terribly sorry, and we of course take full responsibility. Just a bit of a to-do after a lady got her purse snatched.”
A man tipped his hat at her. Erin eyed Wilovan and the group behind her.
“…Erin. What is this?”
Eltistiman looked like he was about to laugh or run. And if the hats came off…he probably would. But Erin was beaming in that way of hers.
“I brought guests! I thought you said I could bring whoever I wanted! And for the play?”
“Yes, but—”
Emme and Grev, who knew something of who these strange men were, spluttered. But Erin insisted. And as it happened—the Brothers were the best of guests.
Dinner was nearly over, anyways. So the group marched towards the Season’s Theatre. People stared. They took note. And yes, it was attention and yes, people stared at faces. It bothered Ryoka more, the second time.
But Erin Solstice was laughing now. Relaxed. Because some of the people who were being stared at were men who tipped their hats, bemused, even stunned at the attention they normally never got. For a second, the Brothers stood in the limelight. Their hats were plain, but well-kept. For a moment they dazzled like stars.
Then—and then—the group filed into the booths. Erin Solstice sat, without anyone announcing on stage that they had a special guest. But people stared. They pointed. Because of course, they noticed the booth was full.
The Solstice Booth! They stared upwards…at Joseph, Galina, Troy, Leon, Montressa, Bezale, and some others. Erin sat in one of the other booths, Mrsha on her lap and Lyonette and Ryoka’s with the Hatmen, Palt, Imani, and watched and laughed and sighed.
 
—-
 
It was a good night after all. Inevitably, word would spread. You couldn’t take back microscopes, but there was good for the ill. The Brothers tipped their hats to Erin after the play and the seven-minute standing ovation. They disappeared and the group strolled back to the inn, flushed, talking excitedly. The cast were going to sign autographs for an hour, as they did, and meet them there.
“That was—amazing! It’s so much different on stage, and with effects!”
“And when you’re not distracted and no one’s talking?”
Lyonette was smiling too. Erin had to admit that was true. Ratici and Wilovan strolled along at the back, and the Gnoll was talking with Bezale—flirting, rather. The Minotauress was rebuffing him, but not very hard.
It was a fine night. It had been not-so-great in places. Erin had to admit. But like she’d told Saliss—the good and ill had to mix.
Speaking of which…Tyrion Veltras had been popping up in conversation all night. Ryoka had heard his name and since he was on her short list of people she needed, she turned to Fierre.
“What’s this about? I thought Couriers were coming from First Landing to deliver the cure. Did something happen?”
She saw Fierre staring at her. Ryoka hadn’t heard? Neither—as it turned out—had Salamani. They’d both been occupied. The Vampire girl bit her lip.
Erin had a different thought as Ryoka mentioned Tyrion. She looked around. Shame Maviola hadn’t been here, and Olesm. But it was time. They’d met—but it was really time to get Maviola on board with Ryoka’s plan.
Tomorrow. Let it be…tomorrow. For now, Erin thrust open the doors to her inn, ready to begin the second phase of her party, on her terms, in her place.
