Ryoka was wavering. She looked from the Gnoll, who was reaching for a wand, to Numbtongue, who was tensed—to the [Actors]. Wesle was hesitating.
Then someone pushed through the crowd.
“There you guys are. What—”
Numbtongue looked up as Mrsha leapt, wand flashing. Ryoka grabbed Mrsha. She struggled, but then someone had yanked the wand out of Mrsha’s paw.
“Mrsha! Stop that! What’s going on here?”
Erin Solstice stood in the doorway. The Hobgoblin and [Princess] stopped fighting. Mrsha stopped thrashing in Ryoka’s arms. Erin stared at the [Bard] holding the [Princess] down.
Numbtongue—hesitated. Lyonette, red-faced, made a sound.
“Erin—I’m handling this.”
“Numbtongue? Ryoka? What’s going on? Is that—”
Erin eyed the laptop. She listened as Ryoka gave her an explanation. The City Runner saw the [Innkeeper]’s brows cross.
“What?”
She looked around. The Hobgoblin gave her a defiant look. He kept his lock on Lyonette. As if to say ‘what? I’m not doing anything wrong here.’
Mrsha was spitting, trying to get out of Ryoka’s arms. The [Innkeeper] turned to Mrsha first.
“Mrsha, stop.”
Predictably, the white Gnoll girl didn’t. Ryoka had been telling Mrsha that the entire time. She was too angry, and—
“Mrsha. I said, stop.”
The Gnoll girl—stopped. Ryoka saw her go limp and, panting, look at Erin. The [Innkeeper] stared at Mrsha.
“Don’t attack Numbtongue. Let me talk. Understand?”
Mrsha hesitated. Then she slowly nodded. Erin looked at Ryoka. The City Runner slowly put Mrsha down.
“Numbtongue. What are you doing?”
Erin walked over to Numbtongue. Lyonette had stopped fighting. But the Hobgoblin refused to let her go. He gave Erin a look mixed with various emotions. Guilt and defiance and a bit of embarrassment. Or was it shame? Maviola would have known—she hadn’t been around today.
“Not being bossed around.”
“Mhm. So you put Lyonette in an arm-thingy?”
Arm bar—Ryoka nearly said it and decided they didn’t need corrections. The Hobgoblin tried to shrug in his position on the ground.
“She attacked me.”
“So you’re defending yourself.”
“…Mhm.”
“Over the lap—the artifact, huh?”
“…Yes. But I’m not a child. I do what I want.”
Erin stared down at the Hobgoblin until he fidgeted. There was a lot you could say here. Ryoka had been searching for the right words.
Yes, Numbtongue was like an older sibling, but Lyonette shouldn’t treat him like a child. The entire fight being over the laptop was stupid to begin with. Mrsha had been bratty, but Numbtongue really shouldn’t have taken the laptop out of the inn, especially to Invrisil! For that matter, the Goblin and [Princess] had really escalated when they didn’t need to and why does Lyonette hate my guts?
But she hadn’t said all of that. A calm, rational explanation didn’t actually work. This was all about little grievances, heated emotions—how would Erin fix that? She had no aura here—or if she did, it was far weaker. She couldn’t make Numbtongue let go.
“Numbtongue. You’re a big Hobgoblin, not a kid. That’s true. And Lyonette shouldn’t boss you around and you absolutely get to do what you think’s right. That’s all true.”
Erin squatted down with a sigh. The Hobgoblin half-nodded, but he was waiting. The [Innkeeper] stared at him, right in the eyes.
“I just have one question. Are you defending yourself? Or bullying?”
As questions went—that was probably above one of Lyonette’s word-shanks. The Hobgoblin blinked at Erin—then he released Lyonette. She rolled away at once and Mrsha rushed over to her, checking to make sure she was alright.
Bully.
The word sounded so odd, especially applied to a Goblin. Erin knew where to poke him, though. The Hobgoblin stared down at the laptop and his video game. And as these things happened—it suddenly felt very petty. Was it important? Yes, in many ways. Competitively, having fun, and so on.
Was it worth putting Lyonette into an arm bar, causing this fuss, and…the Hobgoblin looked around. Erin sighed.
“You okay, Lyonette?”
“I’m fine, Erin. But—”
“Why don’t you not say what you’re going to say, Lyonette?”
The [Innkeeper] silenced her. She looked around.
“What a mess. Sorry, guys.”
“It’s nothing, Erin. Honestly, we were surprised when Numbtongue came in—but he’s welcome to. Er…sorry we didn’t help out. Not sure exactly what it was about.”
Kilkran was a bit red in the face. Ryoka realized the [Actors] were all here—well, a lot of the cast—and grabbed the laptop and shut it fast. She hurried it into the inn.
“Everything okay, Ryoka?”
The City Runner growled. She had to pay silver both ways! Even just to put the laptop in! Damn Magnolia’s rule—she looked up as Fierre peered into the doorway.
“Yeah. Just a little fight over something stupid. Lyonette and Numbtongue got into it. Hey, Troy.”
“Wh—I didn’t do it!”
“Shut up. Here, put this away.”
She tossed the laptop at the young man. Troy caught it and nodded, backing up fast. When Ryoka returned to Invrisil’s side of the door, she saw they’d migrated to the common room.
Now tempers were cooling, both Lyonette and Numbtongue were ashamed. And Mrsha too. Of course—they processed it differently. The Hobgoblin was very embarrassed—especially since it had been his fictitious game that had started all this. Even going as far as hurting Lyonette and Mrsha, who’d been attacking him after he hurt her mother.
Mrsha had tried to punch and kick Numbtongue, who was her favorite Goblin! And…she might have started all this.
Shame to go around. Except maybe Lyonette. She was still just mad. The look she was giving Numbtongue was incendiary.
Erin looked a bit exasperated. But she’d been a far more effective voice of reason than Ryoka. The City Runner felt a bit useless as she sidled into the conversation.
“…No one’s right. We’ll have a family meeting about it, okay? Okay?”
All sides were nodding. A family meeting later, to discuss the first actual fight between them. Someone would also probably have to tell Bird why everyone was upset.
It was funny—from the outside—childish, concerning, and more. But it was small drama even so. Erin breathed out. Not exactly like Xrn or the Callers.
“Sorry. Again, Emme. Jasi. I know you’re busy.”
“It’s fine, Erin. Little fights? I remember nearly biting Grev when he stole my favorite cutting knife. We fought about that for a month.”
Jasi laughed. Grev, who had been watching with his feet up on a table, called out.
“She smacked me silly twice! Didn’t stop me from keeping it. A fellow needs to protect himself on the street!”
“You never even poked anyone with it, just waved it around!”
The [Lead Actress] snapped back. The others laughed.
“Really, Numbtongue. You came here, though? I thought it would be the Strongheart’s.”
Erin looked at Numbtongue. The [Bard] was still red in the cheeks. Wesle came to his rescue, laughing with practiced naturality.
“Numbtongue’s been coming here more and more. We promised to host him at a restaurant with his disguise—salt birds, right? And he’s welcome to it. I keep telling you, Erin…you don’t take any of our favors!”
The [Innkeeper] rolled her eyes.
“I don’t need all the stuff you want! And that goose was great, Kilkran, but who eats salt-baked birds all the time? Besides Bird.”
“Miss Solstice, you wound us! I’d take you to any restaurant in the city! Any attraction! Gelato? The menager—er, wondrous shows, our plays—which you’ve refused to watch in their proper setting! But you refuse each time! It’s enough to break a man’s heart.”
Kilkran pretended to swoon backwards into two [Actor]’s arms. Pralcem instantly dropped his side of the huge man. Amid the swearing and laughter, Erin chuckled along.
“I know. I know, but I’m a homebody. I will visit the booth! Promise! I do wish I’d gone to the restaurant—another time, maybe?”
“What restaurant? What booth?”
Ryoka hadn’t heard of this. There was so much to catch up on—and the Players, love em, but—they weren’t exactly highest on the list. Erin tried to explain.
“Oh, they have that booth named after me, remember?”
“I know, but the restaurant?”
The Djinni’s Spoon? Ryoka, after hearing the name, instantly wanted to go. And she was amazed Erin hadn’t gone.
“It’s just—it’s fancy, I’m running the inn—”
“So you’re too busy to go to a play?”
Erin flapped a hand as the others jeered good-naturedly.
“Ryoka! Whose side are you on?”
“Not the side that stays in your inn when friends want to take you on a night in Invrisil. Erin, have you ever actually toured this city?”
“Um. Well—about that—in my defense—”
“Erin Solstice, you have to let us show you around sometime! Just promise!”
Erin threw up her hands.
“Fine! Fine, I’ll let you host me sometime. And go to the booth.”
“…You have a booth and free tickets to the Players of Celum’s performances any time you want? Do you know how much a standard groundling-class ticket costs?”
Erin jumped. Fierre was standing behind her, jaw agape until she covered her pointed teeth. The [Innkeeper] turned.
Salamani, Fierre, and a number of other guests from the inn had followed her into the Player’s Retreat, having heard the commotion. Kevin, Rose, Montressa, Selys—even Joseph and Palt and Imani! They were all queued up.
“What are you all doing here?”
“We wanted to see what the fuss was about. I came because I heard Numbtongue was beating Lyonette into a pulp. What’s this about Erin’s booth? Is she selling it to more Couriers?”
Kevin volunteered cheerfully. Erin put her hands on her hips.
“For your information—Octavia?”
“I’m being sociable. Hi, Ryoka. What happened to Numbtongue?”
Octavia rubbed at her eyes and yawned. She and Joseph were in the ‘I wake up when I wake up’ camp of The Wandering Inn, and so had just emerged for breakfast. The others listened and laughed at Erin.
“She doesn’t like leaving her inn. It’s as bad as getting Selys to visit Pallass—which incidentally, she loved.”
Montressa teased the Drake. Selys looked embarrassed.
“I hate to say it, Erin. But the Players have been begging to get you to watch a play. Why don’t you?”
“I’ve seen their plays! Love ‘em, but I have watched them put on every performance—”
“While running your inn! In a lovely theatre—but not our dedicated stage where we have makeup and we’re at our best! We’re putting on Elisial tonight, Miss Solstice. Tell you what. Come watch us!”
“I dunno…do you actually have a booth for us?”
The Players looked at each other with frank disbelief. Did they have a booth? Was all of Invrisil not talking about the booth which could never be rented, even by the nobility? No matter how much you—
Erin didn’t know. She honestly didn’t. She bit her lips, she listened to them trying to persuade her—Ryoka felt moved to intervene.
“If you don’t go, can you at least let us go? I’d love to see a play, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] blinked.
“Well, sure. Why not? If that’s okay, guys?”
“For a friend of Erin Solstice? Of course! We were going to get Numbtongue in the booth first—and wouldn’t that cause a scene? The masked figure in the balcony? Rather like the Phantom fellow from that play Galina is having us adapt—Wesle, my role, incidentally. I’ve claimed it.”
“You’re welcome to the singing, Kilkran.”
Wesle rolled his eyes. Fierre glanced up.
“Wait. Could I come with you?”
“That was my thinking. What about it, Salamani?”
The Courier’s eyes lit up.
“Really? I was trying to get tickets, but I’m on reserve for another month!”
“You haven’t seen our plays? You’re a Courier, aren’t you, Mister Salamani? The Solstice Booth—”
Erin looked at Fierre and Salamani. She snapped her fingers.
“You want to watch plays? But you said you were okay with the inn, Fierre!”
“If it’s the ones in Invrisil—”
The Vampire girl tried to justify it. Erin shook her head.
“Well, sure! Of course! Please let Ryoka and Fierre and Salamani watch, guys.”
“…Hey Erin. Erin?”
Someone tapped the [Innkeeper] on the shoulder. Erin turned. Imani whispered urgently into her ear. The [Innkeeper] frowned.
“What, you too?”
She looked at Kevin, Rose, Joseph—even Troy and Leon peered through the door. Imani nodded; Galina was obviously still in the inn with Temile.
“We’ve never actually toured Invrisil. And I really want to see the Players in the theater.”
“But we see them in the inn every night…”
Erin wasn’t getting it. Wesle shook his head, looking amused and exasperated.
“Erin, all deference to Temile aside, there’s a huge difference between the inn’s stage and ours.”
“Like TV versus the real thing.”
Ryoka muttered in the young woman’s ear. Erin sighed.
“Well, sure! They’re all friends. Can the booth—?”
“You haven’t even seen it!”
The [Actors] roared at Erin. She jumped. What did she think a booth was, standing-room for two people only? And then Palt sidled over.
“Erin—I have a huge favor to ask. Personally…”
She turned. Then the [Innkeeper]’s eyes narrowed. Selys, Montressa, Bezale, they were all lined up behind Palt.
“…You guys too?”
They nodded eagerly. Erin looked around. Lyonette had Mrsha in her arms. Numbtongue was standing awkwardly apart from her, but both were looking her way.
“I’ve been meaning to, Erin. And Mrsha wants to…we might not all fit, though.”
“Well then, we’ll kick out another booth.”
Emme interrupted them. She looked around, counting heads.
“Two booths is more than enough!”
“Whoa, whoa, whoa. Kick someone out? That’s not good. We can split it up—”
“Erin. We’ll give them better seats or refund them. But you have to come, too. We’ve been waiting to do this for ages.”
Jasi interrupted her. The [Actress] looked around, a gleam in her eyes.
“Tell you what. If you all want to watch tonight—convince Erin to let us take her out to Invrisil. And we’ll get you two the best seats and take you with us. That’s restaurant, attractions—”
All heads turned to Erin. The [Innkeeper] raised her hands, a hesitant grin on her face.
“Erin?”
Ryoka was looking at her. She wanted this. This sounded…great. The [Innkeeper] looked at Ryoka.
“Come on. I don’t want to be a bother, Ryoka.”
“We don’t get tickets if we don’t get you, Erin.”
Imani pointed out. The [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“But restaurants? Okay, I’ll go to the booth.”
“Not a five-star restaurant? Are you mad? Or high? Did Saliss get to you, too?”
Rose stared. Montressa and Bezale blushed. Erin hesitated. Ryoka peered at her. This was beyond mere reluctance. Erin spread her hands.
