“Aside from the fact that this Kevin has created a new device, and that Joseph plays a new game with unmatched knowledge and the group is a group of seven?”
“Ah. Well, um, here’s the thing. There are more of us. In Wistram.”
“I see.”
Xrn’s eyes glowed a bit. Pink and gold.
“This would help Wistram. Much in the way you seem to refuse to help the Antinium, would it not?”
“Y—well, I don’t know they’re doing that—”
“But there are more. Many more, then. Interesting. Is that all? Because that is not enough.”
“No…there’s one thing. You see, Xrn. We’re in contact with someone from Wistram. I can’t tell you who or how—but listen. This is helpful. I’m giving you a lot. So—Wistram is spying on you. Through your scrying mirrors.”
Xrn had been scraping her plate with her fork for the last bit of quiche. Ryoka saw her hand moving the fork stop. Dead still. Perfect muscle control.
She looked up.
“And you are sure?”
“Yes. I mean, almost. Our person said the [Mages] were discussing images of your Hive—and if what you just said about the Walled Cities attacking is true—”
“They were uncannily informed about our position. They have not been before. I put up wards to make their scrying spells unable to simply scan the Hives—unless they knew exactly where to work from. All of this substantiates your information. They are watching the Queens. Listening to their words and discussions. Which means anything they have spoken of is known.”
“I don’t know how much they know. I just—Xrn? Xrn?”
The Small Queen sat there. Ryoka wondered how she was feeling. What she was going to d—
“I have just informed the Free Queen. We will take steps. This information is what we desired, even if I had no notion of it, Ryoka Griffin. Good. What else?”
The Centenium looked up. Ryoka stared at her. Xrn had processed the information, relayed it, and—
Not a flicker. She just waited. Ryoka passed a hand over her face.
“Don’t I get a reprieve?”
Xrn looked at Ryoka, moving her head to regard the young woman from every angle.
“I did not think it pertinent to ask, but in your world, does the word ‘ally’ mean someone who is consistently deficient in giving actual aid and support to their allies?”
The young woman stared back at Xrn.
“Um. We’re pretty bad at it as a species, so yes?”
“Oh. I see. Do your best.”
 
—-
 
By the time Erin Solstice got down from the roof, Ryoka and Xrn had finished their talks. It had taken Erin a while. Not because Bird was particularly delayed in pulling her up; she’d appeared just outside his tower. Rather, Erin had been forced to sit with her head bowed in a corner to avoid puking for about ten minutes.
Teleportation—or Xrn-portation—was not pleasant. It was like being shaken by a giant rapidly, like you got after riding some of those topsy-turvy rides on the amusement park too fast in too quick succession.
“Xrn! I’m not giving up! Please don’t teleport me. But you can’t just—”
Erin strode over to Xrn, prepared to run into her garden and hide. She found Xrn leaning over the table, eagerly asking questions. Ryoka—a more relaxed Ryoka—was giving her answers.
“You’re going to have to find a specialist. No, I have no idea what the dimensions are. But there’s your answer. Hell—it is going to be hell with your Queens. But that—you really don’t know?”
“I am not a Shaper Queen. But it makes sense. They had different methods of isolating materials.”
“I don’t know if alchemy is close to chemistry, Xrn. But there you go. I doubt the periodic table would be helpful to you, anyways. But…”
Erin stared at Ryoka. The young woman was sketching something on the table. Something the Antinium needed that she had gotten from previous conversations with Xrn. And the Small Queen had pressured Ryoka into giving her. Not bombs. Not siege weapons. But—Erin peered at the design Xrn was inspecting, and Ryoka labeling each part of.
“Bop!”
She hit Ryoka with the rolling pin. Quite a bit harder than she had with Xrn. It was a real tap. Ryoka grabbed at her head.
“Motherf—Erin! That hurts like hell!”
“Well, what is that?”
Erin pointed at the microscope and demonstration of convex lenses. Ryoka grabbed for the pin.
“It’s for the Queens. Don’t hit me again! Give me that—”
It was a Ryoka-solution to a Xrnian problem. Don’t give the Antinium much new from Earth—aside from the means to enable the Antinium to do what they’d already been doing. Which was advanced chemistry.
“We had been using alchemist tools to allow the Queens to work. But the right materials were still difficult to source, let alone render into usable…see the problem. None of the Queens ever asked me for that. But then—the Silent Queen does have a weaker magnifying spell, yes. I enchanted a hoop right at the beginning. Nothing of this scale…glass?”
“Glasses are based on that. Erin—put that down—”
“You hypocrite!”
Erin raised her bonking pin. Xrn raised her staff. Erin—lowered her pin and backed up.
“I’m trying to—I’m doing my best to help and not mess things up, Erin. I’m sorry.”
Ryoka looked miserable—and more anxious as she turned to Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked at Xrn. She sighed.
“Ryoka, I’m not mad about that.”
The City Runner looked at Erin.
“No?”
“I like the Antinium! I’m not sure about chemistry and stuff—ooh, that’s iron, isn’t that? Fe. Recognize it anywhere.”
Erin pointed at one of the easier elements on the table. Xrn filled in the box—Erin had interrupted Ryoka. Erin turned to Ryoka.
“I’m just worried that Xrn is pressuring you. In which case—I’d do something about it. And you lecturing me. Because that’s, y’know, sort of annoying. But I get it! Xrn—please don’t teleport me again. I nearly threw up.”
“I will consider it.”
The Small Queen was smiling. She was greatly pleased once she and Ryoka had settled on something they could agree was fair to share.
“This is useful, Ryoka Griffin. Especially being able to see the minute details. What has plagued the Queens—all of them—is that they are unable to work with fine detail. Shaper Queens are far smaller—some barely larger than I, with specialized appendages. All the Queens sacrificed themselves to create the first Antinium of Izril. Maintaining the purity of samples of iron and other ingredients is essential and has been beyond them without specialist Antinium to aid their focus. As well—disease.”
“Disease?”
Xrn flicked an antennae, vexed.
“I do not have the word for it. The same thing as disease, yes. Tiny, tiny things that interfere with proper growth. Eat what the Queens try to make. They are unable to keep their working spaces clean, even sealing air away. I do not have the word for it.”
“Microorganisms? Sterile?”
That came from Erin. Xrn stared at her. Ryoka smiled. What was rare to Antinium was still common knowledge to someone who had taken high school science. At least in theory.
“Do the Antinium not have anything antiseptic, Xrn?”
The Small Queen hesitated.
“Everything the Antinium used in Rhir was lost. And the Queens were taught to use that. So this…sterility substances, these antiseptics? They would have been produced by dedicated Antinium or created. No Queens, including myself know how the First Antinium worked up to later stages.”
“So…you don’t use rubbing alcohol? Heat? Soap and water?”
“…Does that work?”
It was fascinating. Like talking to, well, someone from an advanced civilization who remembered airplanes, but forgot how to operate a butter churn. Well, Ryoka wasn’t sure if that analogy was entirely 1-1, but she ended up just giving Xrn a rundown on…basic stuff.
Stuff you didn’t think you needed to know. People used soap in this world! Erin had bought some the first day she was in Liscor! But there were things like telling Xrn that yes, soap and water helped kill a lot of microorganisms, or freezing temperatures, that was mind-blowing to Xrn.
“No. Cold works on the little things that bother the Silent Queen so much? This cold?”
The Centenium pointed her staff at the table. She projected a stream of frost—Ryoka saw the frozen air hit the table and frost it over. Erin yelped!
“Hey! Watch the—oh, wait, I can fix whatever happens. Never mind. Yeah, freezing does it, right, Ryoka? Heat, cold, bacteria die either way.”
The City Runner coughed. She hated to be that person in this conversation, but she had to correct Erin here.
“Actually, Erin…freezing just puts them into stasis. They’re not dead unless it gets really cold. And some can survive lower temperatures than others…I’d hate to see a magical bacterium. It’d have to be really cold.”
“Aw, really? I could have sworn they said in science class—”
“It’s a common misconception.”
Xrn peered at the two young women. She tapped the staff on their table for their attention.
“Frost or heat is within my power. Ryoka, how cold?”
Ryoka had no idea. She shrugged.
“You don’t need to get that cold or hot, Xrn. I think the antiseptics—how cold could you get?”
She was sort of curious. The Small Queen’s eyes lit up. Motes of blue and white floated across her eyes like snow.
“I do not know. Shall we find out?”
So saying, she drew a small circle around the table on the floor that began to glow blue. Erin looked at Ryoka. The City Runner waited, but the [Innkeeper] just folded her arms.
“You’re not going to stop it, Erin?”
“Why? This sounds really fun! Hey, Mrsha! Want to see some magic?”
The Gnoll child ran over and Erin made her back up. Xrn was walking around her magical circle. And as if lured by the siren call, more [Mages] appeared.
Like cockroaches. Palt scuttled out of the kitchen as Montressa and Bezale came down the stairs. Xrn regarded them—and Salamani, peeking from the bannister, and Hedault, who’d turned in his chair to watch.
“Is that, ah, magical circle fully completed, Miss…er…Mage…Magus Xrn?”
Montressa fumbled for addresses. Clearly, she was wondering if she should be treating Xrn like an enemy, and clearly she didn’t really want to—she’d heard about Salamani. Xrn looked at the circle.
It had none of the runes, intricate symbology to create a magical barrier, or anything else like the one Valeterisa had made for the cells. Ryoka saw Xrn flick an antennae.
“This is my magic circle, Mage Montressa. The cold will stay within the boundaries.”
“But there’s no…”
Palt muttered. Xrn looked curiously at him.
“It will stay within the boundaries. Do you need more for your circles?”
‘Sick burn.’ Kevin mouthed across the crowd to Ryoka. She nodded. The [Mages], disconsolate, muttered but watched as Xrn cast her cold spell.
“I do not know how cold I can make this. Is this table fine to chill, Miss Erin?”
“Erin—”
Lyonette looked wary, but the [Innkeeper] laughed.
“It’s fine. I’ve got [Partial Reconstruction]! Hit it, Xrn! Get it really cold! Kill those microbe jerks!”
“Who’s she killing? Fraerlings? I can’t see.”
The crowd muttered. People were watching, having an excuse to gawk at Xrn. Most of Liscor’s inhabitants could treat her like Klbkch—albeit more removed. Some, however, like Ferris—
Well, the [Thaumaturge] was doing something. Ryoka heard her muttering.
“What spell? What spell? [Frost Wyvern’s Breath]? [Cenidau’s Complete Chill]—what is a Cenidau?”
“That’s a Terandrian Kingdom. Have you not heard of it, Xrn?”
Palt started. He eyed Xrn. She looked at him blankly.
“Why would I need to? It must be cold, then.”
“Extremely.”
“Ah, then that is better. [Cenidau’s Complete Chill].”
Xrn tapped the table happily. Ryoka saw her staff flash. Something appeared—a tiny mote of frost on the table. Xrn regarded it, checked her staff, and stepped back.
“That took a bit of magic. Very cold indeed.”
Everyone stared at the spot of frost. Mrsha began to giggle in Erin’s arms. Then—the frost began to spread.
“Ooh.”
Ryoka watched as the frost covered the table. It seemed like it was getting colder—the wood began to crack. And the air frosted over—someone reached for the edge, and Bezale stopped them.
“No one put a hand into there. Are you mad?”
The Gnoll complained.
“But how will we know how cold it is?”
“Put something else into there. Anyone got a stick? How about a hotdog? Imani? Im—”
“Here!”
Imani had been watching. She hurried into the kitchen and came back with a hotdog on a long poker with a wooden handle. She handed it to Bezale. The Minotauress put it into the magic circle just as the wood turned completely frosty. Not more than that—Hedault murmured.
“It must not have enough water to freeze more than that. I wonder what the spell might do in a larger, more humid environment. Mage Bezale. I don’t think—”
Bezale yanked her hand back with a roar of pain. Everyone turned to her as the poker hit the ground.
“Beza?”
“My hand!”
It was burned! No—a cold burn! The kind you got from grasping—Ryoka stared. The wooden poker handle? But it had been in there—
The poker lay on the ground, in pieces. The metal had snapped and broken like cheap glass where it had hit the ground. The hotdog?
Menolit, after producing a pair of workman’s gloves, picked up the hotdog. Really, more of a sausage since the…unique…composition of hotdogs was not yet invented in this world and the healthier and thus inferior sausage still ruled.
“Ancestors, it’s cold. And it’s…yep.”
He tapped it on the ground. It made a hard sound—then cracked in half. More like powder—it wasn’t just frozen cold—
Everyone turned to stare at the table. It, the floorboards, all coated in a layer of frost. Xrn’s barrier innocently held back what was inside from…
“Um…”
Drassi tossed a mug. Ryoka saw the condensation freeze as it went up in a gentle arc. It landed on the table, a perfect toss. Or should have.
The table cracked. The slight impact shattered it to pieces. It landed on the floorboards. And the floorboards—
Erin, Ryoka, and the audience stared into her basement. Xrn peered down.
“Ah. I forgot to ward the floorboards. Is that cold enough, do you think, Miss Griffin?”
She looked up at Ryoka. The City Runner stared back with a dry mouth. And she realized—Xrn was not unaware of the stares. The Centenium was also…telling a joke.
Xrn smiled. Lyonette looked at the hole in the floor and table which was not coming back with [Partial Reconstruction]. She began to write Xrn’s bill.
 
—-
 
Now that they were staying at the inn, Wilovan and Ratici had assumed their presence would qualify as the safety-element missing at nights.
