“Yeah. But there’s one place we can’t go, could we? You didn’t ask about that.”
Embria stared at Zevara’s back. The Watch Captain rubbed at her neck scales.
“No.”
“And, Watch Captain?”
The Drake stomped down the hill. She snapped back at Jeiss.
“Do you think it looks good if the Watch finds the criminals and can’t arrest them, Jeiss? Or—if we had to arrest someone, do you want to go down that road?”
The Councilmember scratched at his helmet. Then he shook his head. He had nothing to say to that. Zevara grumbled as she kicked down the hill.
“If I have to ask a second time, I’ll arrest her.”
Embria raised her brows. This was unlike Zevara. She heard 4th Company grumbling, wishing they’d missed the scrap. But since the duo matched the identity of the Gentlemen Callers, est. Level 40+ [Thug] and [Thief] from their intelligence—she thought that was bravado. It occurred to her, briefly…
Zevara might not have actually wanted to arrest them that badly either.
 
—-
 
Ratici and Wilovan stood together on the street. They looked at each other sidelong and shook their heads. Without a word they began walking. Towards—well, home.
If home was ever a place, it was a place they knew in any one city. So in that sense, varied, but always home. As close as it got for them.
Invrisil’s streets were bustling. There had been a bit of a hubbub in the inn—not The Wandering Inn, but the Player’s Retreat—but they’d left without getting involved.
They said nothing. It had been fast. Splendidly done. You had to admire that, so you did.
 
—-
 
“Did you…?”
The [Innkeeper] trailed off. They looked at her. Faces unreadable. Just—alert. Erin looked over her shoulder.
They were prepared to move. Only a few [Guards] on the door to Invrisil. If it was out of mana they ran for it, across the Floodplains or hid. But it depended on her, on what happened next. Wilovan tensed—
A hole opened up in the side of The Wandering Inn. The two saw green grass beyond. A beautiful place. They stirred.
“The door?”
From inside, voices. The two Gentlemen Callers looked at Erin Solstice. They exchanged a glance—the kind they’d shared before countless life-or-death moments. Then they ran.
 
—-
 
The Watch had searched the inn, but obviously, there was one place they could never gain access to. The door had opened after they’d left and the two Gentlemen Callers had walked out. The [Innkeeper] had asked again.
“Did you do it?”
The look she gave them was pleading. Uncertain. You could see it in her eyes.
It was just a Guildmaster and some money. A mugging of someone who had a lot to lose and wouldn’t miss this much—a former Councilmember of Liscor, at that. That was how you could justify it. If you were going to.
The truth was…
It was a safe house that the duo came to. Only, it looked like an ordinary shop, albeit closed, the glass display waiting for some object that the shopkeeper—clearly behind in arrears—had taken down.
They had a key. One, each. Wilovan unlocked the door, Ratici walked through. They stepped into the shop—
And there was a second door there. Strangely—you’d never see that if you peeked through the glass into the shop.
Funny thing, glass. You could enchant it to look like all kinds of things. And a low-grade enchantment was harder to notice than something massive.
The second door looked a lot stronger than the first. It was metal, for one thing, and had a sliding slot. It was not entrusted to a key alone.
Ratici knocked. No codes, no passphrases. The two waited as someone slid the panel open.
“Ah, good evening gentlemen. Terribly sorry to keep you waiting.”
“Good morning, in point of fact, sir.”
Wilovan tipped his hat up. The figure chuckled.
“Is it? Time passes by. One moment—”
The door opened. The two walked through, and the [Gatekeeper]—in reality a doorkeeper—shut the door smartly. They stopped in the second waiting room.
“Anything I should know about that would be embarrassing or inconvenient to have missed, Callers?”
The man who walked around them with an amulet, carefully sweeping it from head to toe, was older. But the kind of old that suggested he’d lived through everything that had tried to kill him, rather than simply matured. Unlike the Callers, he wore no hat.
“Nothing, sir. We did happen to run into a particularly interesting person, but Ratici swore we ran afoul of nothing.”
“Well, we’ll just see, won’t we? Hm. Hm. I’m getting some powerful residue. Stood near a spell, did you? Also, teleportation?”
“A man finds interest in various places, sir. We had to excuse ourselves just now.”
“Ah.”
The old [Gatekeeper]’s eyes sharpened. He had a knife. Ratici knew it because he sensed the holder on the old man’s wrist. One knife.
“Should I be expecting company, then, sirs?”
“I should think not. But then again…”
“If it comes calling, it comes calling. You’re clean.”
The two tipped their hats. The [Gatekeeper] settled back; he had a chair here, a lovely padded one, and food, drink—non-alcoholic—and anything he might wish for his duties.
Beyond that they asked no names and told no stories. He was not one of their gang. Rather, you could call the old [Gatekeeper] a hired specialist, on retainer for the fine services he provided. No one got through that door with him about that wasn’t invited.
Invrisil’s Watch—if they somehow knew about this spot, and if they decided it was a really good idea to raid this place? They’d need an army to get past that old man and his knife, let alone break down that door.
Only when they’d passed through to the next room did the two finally speak. Wilovan adjusted his hat, sat down with a sigh on the nearest chair, and shook his head.
“A fine mess, Ratici, that’s what it is.”
“We’ve had to abandon the contract.”
The Drake nodded. The two sat for a moment.
Did you do it?
“Callers. Fine day to you.”
Someone strolled up at once. The two Callers looked up and about. What they saw was a rather large…home.
Yes, a home. A communal home that varied from city to city, but where fellows of a similar nature gathered. They all had hats, of course. They cooked, cleaned, slept, ate, talked, and returned here. They were a gang—and something akin to a family.
But no family member would ever come here. And the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, for all they made their beds here, would never die here. It was always outside. Here was simply safety.
“Teor, isn’t it?”
The young man was smartly dressed—you had to be, especially if you were new. Show willingness and all that. He kept his boots shined and polished black, and his vest had not a single thread out of place. For a hat? He’d chosen a triangular one, a tricorne. Not colorful, but a bit avant-garde.
Flashy. But then, Teor was suited to the role. Each Brother had a class, a role, a specialty. Teor’s was to make sure a Brother in trouble got out of said trouble. Even if it meant Teor took the heat.
“Yes, Mister Wilovan, Mister Ratici. Delighted you remember me. But I thought you were—excuse me. I happened to notice you were engaged and I thought you’d be at the job…as it were.”
The young man corrected himself. The two older Callers chuckled. And their conversation attracted a few heads.
Six more Brothers were in the immediate vicinity. They’d tipped their hats on seeing the Callers, but now two more came over. They listened as Wilovan sighed and took his hat off. In this place, you could, without it meaning more than you wanted to scratch your head.
“We happened to run into trouble. Nothing that calls for dirtying the vest—but we found ourselves unwelcome. Rather a fast turnout and large one, for such a city. Ratici?”
“Drake cities. The Watch Captain must be sharp. Some decent folk in the mix. Rather bothersome if they pressed their objections to you up close.”
The others nodded. Oho. If the Callers said that, they’d keep their noses clean around Liscor. Decent folk? You had to watch out for them.
“What can we do for you, gentlemen?”
Ratici shrugged.
“We need a fine sort to keep posted on our escort. At least one—if it’s not us, Wilovan?”
“Make it three.”
Three? But Teor instantly volunteered, as did two more off-duty Brothers. They listened as Ratici filled them in, and Wilovan.
“We may need to hide the hats, gentlemen. I know, I know, but we are under contract.”
“We could—hire out another group?”
“Perhaps. Let’s see how our replacements do. Could be they’ll need to move out swiftly. In which case we’ll make an urgent request between friends to—Wilovan?”
The Gnoll smoothed at his hair, exasperated.
“Somileirr owes us a favor. If need be, we’ll call it in. Hopefully we can put some unobtrusive fellows in the right place. Teor, Crimshaw, loitering. Unobtrusive, sir.”
He turned to the last hatted man, who was so unobtrusive that sometimes a weary Brother would get into his bed, thinking it was empty. The man tipped his hat.
“As you say, Mister Wilovan. Unobtrusive.”
The three strolled out. And it was done. Wilovan and Ratici relaxed; they could refresh themselves, talk, catch up on a particular sort of gossip, or do what they pleased. They’d upheld their contract. It was just…they exchanged a silent look. The look on Erin Solstice’s face had been familiar, that’s all.
Disheartening. Just a tiny bit. They sighed, and began to lay plans to carry out their job to the best of their abilities. Even if it didn’t mean them.
 
—-
 
Erin waited a bit, after she let them go through. The Gentlemen Callers had stepped through. But they’d not answered her question.
“Did you do it?”
And to that—Wilovan had turned. She’d tried to read him, but the Gnoll had just tipped his hat, his face a bit embarrassed. A bit…somber.
“Does it matter, Miss Solstice? Deepest apologies and our gratitude. We won’t forget it.”
Then they’d left. They hadn’t answered her question. But for that moment, when she’d seen them crouching there, they had looked tense.
Like a deer in the headlights. Rats with the cat about. Fine fellows. The Honorable Hatmen, she’d called them. But right then and there she’d been reminded what they were.
Criminals. Unlike Goblins, or Antinium. The look they’d shared was guilt. So Erin had wondered.
“Darn. And it was my fault.”
Erin drooped. Just cause she had such a big mouth and she’d thought it was funny to…she heard the guests behind her talking in the common room. Erin trudged in.
“Hey guys—”
She saw overturned tables, a slightly rattled clientele, and a very embarrassed Palt being assailed from all sides.
“What’s this now?”
Imani was rubbing her side. Palt had galloped into the kitchen and—
“You idiot. First Erin, now Imani! Are you trying to kill all of us?”
“I am so sorry—it’s instinct! I forgot and—”
Palt was so red Erin nearly laughed. Nearly. Bezale was shaking her head in disgust.
“You could have hurt her if she’d dropped that hot oil on herself, you idiot. Montressa, get me one of those spare signs. I need to write one. ‘Caution: Beware of Falling Centaurs’.”
They were really giving Palt a hard time. The Centaur had shut up, possibly hoping to get it over with. Erin shook her head.
“Sorry for the mess, guys. It—was about Wilovan and Ratici. My fault, sort of.”
“Because they stole a bunch of jewels? I’ve never seen the Watch raid something like that before. But then—it’s [Knights] in Terandria, usually. The local guard isn’t so…proactive.”
Montressa turned. Palt sighed and shook his head.
“Did they get out?”
“They got to Invrisil, I think.”
Erin avoided the other’s significant looks. Fierre scratched at her head.
“Wild. Drakes really do have aggressive Watches. I’ve seen raids, but that was fast. Was that an important person who got hit?”
“Um…yeah. They said the Guildmaster of the Jeweler’s Guild. He got robbed and so did the vault. Without anyone seeing?”
“How much gold?”
Fierre misinterpreted Erin’s look as she flicked open her journal.
“Oh, don’t worry. I’ll ask. Just good to know what the local values are. Hm. Must have been a lot if it tempted the Callers. They’re…no, nevermind.”
Erin looked at Fierre. But then she went back to the chaos. The Watch hadn’t really overturned tables since they could just check if anyone was hiding beneath—but the inn was a bit messy.
“Clean up. Silveran, take the second floor and clear dirt. The rest of you, with me on tables. A…free round.”
Ishkr, reliable Ishkr, was on the job, though. He looked at Erin for confirmation. She nodded.
“And like, milk for kids. Sorry, everyone!”
“Just another day at The Wandering Inn! This is what I pay for!”
Menolit shouted good-naturedly from his table. Erin heard laughter—and she saw most of her guests looked far from worried. Rather, they were amused, talking, collecting money—
“I knew this place couldn’t go for a week without something like that involving the Watch. Pay up!”
An old Gnoll was demanding money from some reluctant bettors. Erin shook her head. Was this what her inn had come to? Entertainment?
Speaking of which…she narrowed her eyes.
“Where’s…Ryoka, Mrsha, Lyonette, and Numbtongue? They’re not in the inn.”
She could tell. The others shook their heads.
“Weren’t they in Invrisil, Erin?”
“Huh. Yeah, they were looking for Numbtongue. I wonder…”
Erin went back to the door. She peered through.
“Hey, is N—”
That was when she heard the commotion.
 
—-
 
“Numbtongue! I am warning you—”
Lyonette was pretty impressive. Ryoka had no idea why she was angry at her. Or rather—too many ideas sprung to mind. But she could respect the [Princess] on a lot of levels.
For instance, face-down, in the arm-bar that someone had taught Numbtongue—she was still trying to threaten him.
The Hobgoblin had triumphed. Rather easily, too. He was stronger and faster and…Ryoka was hesitating.
Did she try to get Numbtongue off? She was fairly certain he could kick her ass, especially since he had Skills. Even without, probably. The [Actors] were standing back. And Mrsha—
She jumped on Numbtongue. He swatted her off. They were fighting.
He was holding Lyonette down, rather. But this had started over a laptop and now it wasn’t so funny. This had probably been a long time coming. But Ryoka was hesitating, and the Hobgoblin was eying her.
“Numbtongue. Will you let go of Lyonette?”
“Not if she bosses me around. I am not a child.”
The [Bard] grunted. Lyonette struggled—but he had her dead to rights. Mrsha bared her teeth. She opened her mouth and bit. She was getting vicious. Numbtongue yanked his free arm out of the way of the teeth. He glared at Mrsha.
“Mrsha—”
