“You strike me as someone who does poorly at events not of your choosing. Fight your battle where you want. Mihaela Godfrey, who was in the news today, was like that. She could walk into a room and demand attention, but throw her a surprise party and she’d run off rather than deal with it. I should know—I was booked for one and she left after two minutes.”
The [Bard] winked. Erin felt a bit better. She knew he was trying to encourage her. And it was working. She took another breath. Then she tried to swing her legs off the couch.
“I should get up. Reassure everyone—”
“Sit.”
The [Bard] was commanding without his lyre. Erin sat. She inhaled. And after a while, she felt better.
“…They’re wrong. Whatever they told you. I’m not like—someone from stories.”
“Oh, really?”
The [Bard] was adjusting his lyre. In the main part of the restaurant, it sounded like the staff were doing their best to regain the night. Erin heard the fwoosh of someone grilling something hard. Barelle nodded to Erin.
“What you perceive about yourself is not what others see. But tell me, Miss Solstice. What makes you unworthy of the praise?”
Erin didn’t even have to think. She shook her head.
“It’s just not true. Those things happened—but it wasn’t me. I’ve never been a heroic, super-brave person who can solve things. I have never beaten those monsters or saved anyone alone. All I have done on my own is kill people. But I have amazing friends. Heroes have stayed in my inn. And I fed them waffles.”
He laughed. Erin tried to smile.
“I’m sorry. I should have just said ‘no’ and let everyone else have the party. I’m bad at them. I can throw a party—in my inn. But out here?”
She shuddered. All those people staring at her.
“I don’t want to be treated like that. I get nervous. Horribly sweaty. I’d rather be…”
In her room, playing a game of chess with her opponent. Curled up reading Mrsha a story. That was fun for Erin.
The [Bard] nodded understandingly.
“And that is perfectly fine. I confess—Miss Emme talked you up so much I thought you would love my performance. I should have looked at you first. Again, I apologize. It is my job. I’ll leave you; I just wanted to check up on you. Shall I tell your friends you’re well?”
“Yes. Please. Thank you, and again, I’m sorry.”
The [Bard] smiled.
“Miss Solstice, we’ll certainly speak again. If only because your unusual friend seems to want to inspect my lyre. How ever did you find a fellow student of the craft among Goblins?”
She stared at him. Barelle winked.
“[Know Thy Audience]. I’d better earn some gold.”
He left. Erin wanted to talk to him. She—had nearly asked him to stay. But wouldn’t that put upon the [Bard]…that Wesle and the others had hired to perform for her?
She hung her head. She was bad at this. At being the target of gratitude. And it was a skill. Erin felt embarrassed. Ashamed. And still.
She looked around the fancy restaurant. This wasn’t where she wanted to be. She should have told them that. They loved it, the Players. This was big dreams and Hollywood. Erin…
Stood up. Just for a moment. She took a breath.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin stopped before she entered the back rooms to check on Erin. She needed Barelle to perform at the Solstice party! Unrelated to Erin…well, she’d be there…whatever! He seemed used to the request.
“The [Emperor]? Certainly, Miss Griffin. We’ll talk, shall we? But I do need to get up on stage before Miss Emme hamstrings me—”
Ryoka pushed into the back room. Yes! Also, Barelle was definitely onto Xrn. He’d kept away from her the entire time. He seemed more curious of Numbtongue and vice versa. She hoped it wouldn’t come to anything.
But this was a party and Xrn—Ryoka pushed into the back room. She looked around. Then she swore.
“Erin—?”
Predictably, the [Innkeeper] was already gone. The back door was ajar. And Ryoka Griffin suddenly had a problem.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice was just going for a little walk, really. She knew it was bad—but she had to leave. She could predict her friends flooding in to check on her. She just—needed to step outside.
There were [Guards] outside the inn. No, [Bodyguards]. Including…
“Redit?”
The [Bouncer] turned.
“Miss Solstice? Everything okay?”
The line of guards was blocking anyone from intruding on the party not on the list. Erin hesitated, then smiled.
“Yeah! Just going for a quick walk. That okay?”
Redit exchanged glances with the other [Bodyguards].
“You’re the guest, Miss Solstice. Need an escort?”
“Naw. They don’t know me, right?”
Erin peeked at the crowd staring at the restaurant. Redit grimaced.
“They’ve got the [Actors] memorized. Some might pick you up, but—Channe, Channe, get over here.”
A female [Bodyguard] jogged over. She was the most built half-Elf Erin had ever seen. She also carried brass knuckles.
“Problem, Redit?”
“Can you give Miss Solstice a [Veil of Inconspicuousness]? She wants to go for a walk.”
The half-Elf gave Redit a thumbs-up. Erin expected some magic, but the half-Elf drew a box around Erin with her finger.
“Good for two minutes. If you’re going, Miss Solstice…just wave and we’ll grab you, don’t try to push through. Good way to get an elbow in the face if we don’t recognize you in time.”
They were playing a prank on her! Erin was amused, but she stepped into the crowd. They focused on her…they looked past her, bored.
“Does anyone see anything? Where’s the guests? Let us in!”
They went back to chanting. The [Bodyguards] held the line. Erin slipped away, tickled pink. Well, what a cool Skill! You learned something new every day.
And she wondered if her inn Skill could tackle that? Her aura. How strong was Channe versus Erin? If she tried to, say, help a little Gnoll steal cookies and Erin was guarding the jar? Erin bet that ‘inconspicuous’ didn’t help if you were on high-alert for anyone.
But it was perfect for this! Erin sighed in relief. Two minutes. She’d go for a ten-minute walk, and then, properly braced, she’d be the perfect guest. She really did have to say sorry. It was just—not her, y’know?
“Y’know?”
Erin looked around. Someone stared at her. She gave the person a smile and they walked past her, shaking her head. She liked that. Well—not that, but Erin liked not being the center of everything unless she had to.
If the Players had rented the restaurant and they’d had a more low-key thing, it probably would have been fine. If Erin could have been a guest in the theatre in the crowd, not in the super-popular booth…she probably would have accepted.
“I’m stupid.”
The [Innkeeper] kicked down the street. She just didn’t want to impose. But she’d imposed by not imposing. Figure that one out. And—it really was an imposition.
“You mean to say, sir, that our entire booking for the night is cancelled?”
A man was standing in the street, staring towards the Djinni’s Spoon. He looked rich. Although…Erin eyed him as she passed by…he was wearing armor. Armored cloth? It looked like someone had decided to create a suit of cloth that could function as armor.
Impractical, but magical. His servant or whomever it was, was cringing.
“It appears our booking was overturned by the—the Players of Celum.”
“The ones whose play we’re supposed to attend tonight at such cost? Wonderful.”
The man sighed. The people around him did not look amused. One put a hand on his side.
“The honor of—”
“Leave it, man. Leave it. No duels in Invrisil! Not now. What are we going to do for food? Send to the other restaurants. Why was the entire place booked, pray?”
As the man stammered, Erin resisted the urge to go over and poke the guy in the side and apologize. She did not—because that would be a bad idea. But see? Did you see what they had done? This poor group of…rich people…with enchanted swords and fine dresses would have to go to a four-star restaurant instead of…
Erin decided her pity was better reserved for herself. She walked past the group. Further into Invrisil. And promptly got lost.
 
—-
 
“Oh no. Oh no. Hey, does anyone know where the Djinni’s Spoon is? That way? Thanks!”
Twenty minutes later, Erin was jogging back the way she’d come. She was asking for directions, which she should have done fifteen minutes ago! But she’d gotten lost, thought she knew the way back, went completely the wrong direction by taking too many lefts—
She hadn’t wanted to ask. Again, she could run up to people, scream in their faces about Shield Spiders attacking, and lead the counterattack. But Erin would prefer not to.
She hurried down the street. This wasn’t a good part of Invrisil. How did Erin know? Less glass. Less…people. Less nice looks. She could have sworn—
Erin looked around nervously. Was that a scream? How bad was Invrisil’s crime? She felt nervous and reached for her side. The streets were emptying out.
“Lost your way, Miss? Need an escort?”
A man smiled at her. It was the kind of smile…that suggested a lot of things. Like ‘I could help’, and perhaps ‘if you don’t let me help, I could turn mean.’
“I’m fine, thanks!”
Erin smiled at him. He walked over.
“No need to be worried, Miss. I could help—”
Erin pulled out a knife and a jar of acid. The man focused on Pelt’s specialty kitchen knife. And the glowing jar. He sized up Erin.
The Level 44 [Innkeeper] looked at the…spot where the man had been. He was hurrying off. His [Dangersense] told him that little jar was more than he wanted to deal with.
Erin was not in danger. Some of the people eying her up decided they had better things to do. The [Innkeeper] put the jar back. She had healing potions, some alchemy stuff, and acid.
“I’m trying to go back to my restaurant! Anyone wants to stop me, they can drink acid!”
She hollered. A few figures loitering around an alleyway disappeared. Those might have just been pedestrians or residents who had no nefarious designs on Erin to begin with, but she’d just upgraded her threat ranking from ‘stupid tourist’ to ‘well-armed lost person’, to ‘potential mugger’ in her own right.
Oh, how the tables turned. Erin stomped down the street.
“Rather be mugged than have this huge party thrown for me. Grumble grumble grumble grumble…”
She stopped saying ‘grumble’ as she heard a shout. No, a scream. Erin whirled. Knife! Jar of acid! Instant d—
Oh. It wasn’t her. Someone else was in trouble.
“[Thief]!”
What a common phrase! And yet—Erin had never actually seen the scene playing out in front of her. An older woman was pointing at a fellow running for it with her actual purse. It was such a cliché that Erin wished she had a camera to take a picture.
“Whoa.”
The woman was crying out for the man to stop. No one else was stopping the man. Erin raised her jar of acid.
Then she stared at it. Jar of acid.
She raised her knife. Then she eyed it.
Pelt’s knife. Darn! She looked around. No frying pan. No—that potion was explosive—did she not have a non-lethal throwing object? She looked for stones, rocks—why were there no rocks?
The [Thief] was already past her and turning. Erin ground her teeth. Maybe if she aimed for a leg? But Pelt’s knife would probably sever bone. Maybe—it was too late. Darn.
She couldn’t catch the [Thief] if she ran, anyways. He was fast and Erin was shorter than Ryoka—and also not Ryoka.
She heard the woman cry out one last time. Then—a curse.
“Blow my hat clean off—Teor, the bag!”
Someone bellowed right next to Erin. She whirled—and a man with a hat, slight, inconspicuous, shouted. He was pointing after the [Thief]! She nearly stabbed him—until she saw another fellow burst out of nowhere. He charged after the thief like a blur. And he was wearing a tricorne. A triangular…hat…
Erin heard a shout, a scuffle, and ran. She was aware of the man behind her moving back, but she was armed and ready for—
The young fellow emerged with the woman’s bag. Erin paused and saw the [Thief] had been neatly wrapped up.
…In that someone had just thrown him into the wall and he was currently lying on the ground, making a wheezing, moaning sound. Erin eyed him. She eyed the young man. He halted, instantly lifted his hat.
“Miss. Excuse me.”
He trotted down the street. Erin saw the distressed woman, who’d been desperately running after her purse, stop uncertainly. But the young man—Teor?—tipped his hat.
“Your purse, ma’am. Terribly sorry to see such a thing happen.”
“Oh. T-thank you?”
She backed away. The young man tipped his hat again. Erin stared as he walked back. A bit shame-faced, actually. A second fellow appeared out of an alleyway.
“Teor. The next time you should see a lady in distress like that, don’t wait for the order.”
“I’m sorry, Crimshaw. I was about to, but I was under the impression—the apprehension that our job…”
“It’s what’s right and proper, Teor. Weigh it, but if it’s that—”
“Yes, Mister Crimshaw. Of course, sir. I’m terribly sorry. It won’t happen…”
Erin stared as the two men—both with hats—suddenly glanced up. They tipped their hats towards her and gave her an innocent smile. Which fooled her not. She looked around.
Nothing behind her. Nothing to her left, to her right…Erin did a slow rotation. And at last, her eyes focused on the fellow stepping around her.
“Aha!”
He sighed. The inconspicuous man finally became noticeable to Erin as she concentrated. He was hard to spot!
“Good evening, Miss…terribly sorry to get in your way. Let me just…”
He tried to walk down the street. Erin pointed at his back.
“Oh no you don’t! You’re one of them! The—the hatmen!”
Teor and Crimshaw looked up. Erin tried to remember.
“The Brothers of…of…Serendipitous Meetings! I knew it! Where’s Wilovan and Ratici? They sent you, didn’t they?”
The man with the hat tried to escape.
“I think you have the wrong fellow. I’m sorry, but I truly have to go, Miss. Hate to be rude, but—”
Erin narrowed her eyes. Crimshaw, Teor, and the third hatman tried to stroll off. They were quick, professional.
But this was her in her element. Erin began to walk after them.
 
—-
 
The Honorable Hatmen of Invrisil—and other parts of Izril come to that—had an unexpected guest. They did not like unexpected guests.
And true, the [Gatekeeper] could keep an army off them if he had to. But Teor still hurried in, hat in his hands, to address Wilovan and Ratici.
“I can’t make up for it, sirs. I take full responsibility—but there’s a bit of a problem—”
Ratici and Wilovan looked up from where they were relaxing, their usual suits off, enjoying the impropriety of being. They listened. They looked at each other.
