Yet, over a kilometer away, there rose a single finger of smoke. It trailed through the air in defiance of the coldness and the wind around, and there came a flicker of light far below. The smoke was connected to a chimney, and that chimney, though vague, seemed a part of a village. It, too, was being battered by the closed fist of winter, but where there was a village, there might be people. Shiv reoriented himself. He activated his Atlas, and there came the faintest glow of organic tissue. There was at least one life within that community, one that was fading at a discernible rate.

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 125 > 127

“Nice job, Uva,” Shiv said. "I think there's something there. Not sure what it is or if it's a trap, but it's something at least. Keep an eye out for anything else. Villages don't just spring up in the middle of nowhere.”

“Already on it,” she replied.

“Toasty,” Adam called. “I need you to focus and tell us where we are. If you know where the Summer Court might be, or how to get out of this wretched winter, we need to know.” He had a tendril of water wrapped around the Bread-Knight's body. He was shaking the Fae gently, trying to rouse him out of his anguished fugue. It wasn't working. Shiv could see Toasty’s emotional core, and it was completely choked by a whirlwind of pitch-black, swirling tar.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: He is beyond the point of despair and coherence. It will take more than words or even pain to bring him back.

But that got Shiv thinking. “What about a dose of anger?” he asked. He unleashed a wave of black fire from his eyes, flooding the Fae's emotional core. For a moment, he felt his Sage of the Enkindled Heart clash against something there, something that was unnaturally cold, an all-consuming urge to bend, to break, to force one to surrender, to—

A piercing chill stabbed into the skill, and Shiv nearly cried out in agony. His flames cut out immediately. He gripped his eyes and stumbled back. “Agh! Shit!”

“No mental damage,” Uva called out. “You’re alright. But how—”

The Usurper Queen sees you, Deathless. She looks forward to making your reacquaintance.

“Of course she does,” Shiv and Uva deadpanned at the same time. Shiv chuckled as he wiped the blood away from his eyes. “Hey, Queen, if you're listening in right now, you’re not going to like what happens if we run into each other.” The winds carried a low, shrill laugh from high above, and Shiv knew the sound of mockery well. “Right, guess I'm gonna have to make you one of my victims too. Whoever you are.”

But a note of confusion also came from Uva. “Why did your notification say reacquaintance?”

Slipping out from the other side of the dimensional channel, the Bread-Knight remained inconsolable. Adam fired an arrow in the direction of the town. It tore another gash into the air, but this time it closed even faster, like a wound clotting before their very eyes. "Go, go, go!" Adam called out. The Divination spell he'd created earlier was still active, and through its protective threshold, Shiv could see more threats circling them. While the five wolf-men rode after the team, the lurking monsters hadn't gotten any closer. It was like they were keeping their distance deliberately, just hounding the group, watching them from afar in support of the cavalry.

The wrongness in the air just grew.

As the foursome tore across the insides of another dimensional channel, Adam began planning ahead. He activated his Commander’s Foresight—but the world continued to move at its standard pace around them.

Trying to break the pacing of a story is a cardinal sin in these lands, Young Lord Arrow…

“I think I might already bloody hate this place more than the Outside,” Adam snarled. “Shiv, you take Vanguard. Check the town for survivors. Grab them. Uva, keep making those fractals. Spread them out and see if you can scare off the riders—maybe spot somewhere else we can flee toward.”

“Acknowledged,” the Seeker replied.

“Got it.” Shiv shot past Adam and made his own preparations. He started tapping into his Voidmantid armor’s sensory suite. The winds were frigid and painful, but he still detected pheromones. Supplemental skills are always—wait, one of the Quest rewards was a Secondary Skill. What does that mean? You can’t have a secondary skill. There’s no room inside the soul to develop one… right?

Considering Shiv never heard anyone mention anything about a secondary skill, that meant he was dealing with some really weird fairy nonsense. Weird fairy nonsense that he wasn’t going to discover, since those Quests had already been failed.

But there was still one left. One that made no sense to him at all.

Quest: Stop the Usurper Queen from reassembling the Broken Watchtower.
