After politely taking her leave Ri Zu had melted into the shadows. Her path took her into a secluded corner of the expansive courtyards. The moon was high, and the stars were shining, brighter and colder than they looked back home. The sounds of the house were faded here.

Ri Zu sat under a slight gap in the building’s foundations in the quiet of the night, frowning.

“I think, for the initiation, you should remain here.”

Tigu, even while injured, sets her aside to go and fight their foes.

Leave her behind, while others took the danger head on.

She clenched her paws…

They always left her behind when things got really dangerous. They got her out of the way, to do something else.

The worst part was… that she could see the merit in it. It was the best path for their current abilities. It was the path with the best chance of success, Bi De going alone until he needed her– if he needed her at all.

She was touched at his concern. He didn't want her to get hurt in what he saw as his mission.It wasn’t that he thought she couldn’t fight, or contribute, he simply thought that their healer was too valuable to risk in combat—without her they would have no one to patch them up. It was all she was good for. Hiding and healing. It was a bitter thought.

And yet… she didn’t want to be left behind. She didn’t want to have others fighting to protect her. Not since the Dueling Peaks. She knew her role was healing, but seeing everybody so beaten and broken… it hadn’t sat right with her. She could have done more to help them. She had promised herself she would not stand by anymore.

She wanted to walk beside them in the light, rather than be relegated to the shadows. She knew she wasn’t helpless, but… more. She needed to do more. And maybe, just maybe, there was a way to do that.

She looked at her paws, and superimposed longer, more slender digits over them. Human transformation.

She wasn’t strong enough to turn into a human normally, they were too far outside Tianlan’s grasp to ask her for help, but she had one last method available. If she was willing to use a lesson learned from her buried past.

Ri Zu took a deep breath and reached within herself. She felt for the corner of her soul that she had cordoned off, crushed and forgotten. She felt sick as she reached into the part of herself that haunted her nightmares. There she touched a bit of knowledge. A technique.

The technique. The one the hated Chow Ji had used in his attempt to become human. It was as much a part of her as her dead connection to Chow Ji. She had hidden it away, refusing to so much as look at it. It came from a monster and she would never be like that again.

But now? After two years of studying medical formations with her Master? As she examined it through fresh eyes she realised it was incomplete. Now, she gazed upon the crude, disgusting thing Chow Ji had tried to use… and she knew how to fix it.

Chow Ji hadn’t understood the human body. He had simply been brute forcing it.

Wasteful. Stupid, and shortsighted.

For thousands of hours, she had learned from medical scrolls and anatomy diagrams. She had developed a technique with her Master to observe what was within a body in real time. She could perform surgery on somebody with her eyes closed.

She knew the human body, knew it better than all but the most studious of humans. She could do what the monstrous Chow Ji had not.

Ri Zu crawled out from under the building, the light of the moon shining upon her, familiar and comforting.

Perhaps it was foolish of her to discard the safe path.

A little woman and a red haired man, smiling at each other. A little woman with freckles, rocking her Master’s child back and forth.

A little woman standing beside her family. Not a rat easily missed. Never an afterthought.

Hong Ri Zu would not be left behind this time.

[Transmutation: Perfect Recreation of the Human Form]

===============================

Bi De jolted upwards at the sudden pulse of Ri Zu’s Qi, moving without thought to find her— he paused, allowing the sense of her Qi to fill him.  Her energy was not filled with any sort of fear. Instead, he felt the steady pressure… and triumph.

“Ah, that felt like a breakthrough!” Nezan declared. “And… quite a leap in power as well. Come, let's get some wine for our little friend for her accomplishment!”

Bi De had been halfway out the door, he returned to his seat to settle back down into his couch, his eyes low to see Ri Zu hop back into the building as her presence grew closer—

A foot stepped into view instead.

Bi De’s eyes widened as his eyes traveled up the leg. It had muscle in it, reminiscent of Tigu’s training. Her modesty was hidden by a blanket, wrapped around her chest.

His jaw dropped as he beheld her. His heart beat faster.

Ri Zu’s new form was reminiscent of the Healing Sage’s. She was small, with a band of freckles crossing her nose. Her eyes were dark and beautiful. Long hair rolled down her shoulders, a band of green streaking through it and she was walking right towards him. He held his breath.

Ri Zu leaned over to stare directly into his eyes.

“I have given your words thought, Bi De, and I have rejected them. Instead, I have a better plan. We’re going together.” She turned to the smirking Shen Yu. “Hong Ri Zu is ready to begin her mission, Master Shen Yu,” she said confidently.

The old man raised an eyebrow. “Bold,” he said. “Not bad, girl.”
