“The other blacksmiths were extremely rude to me and Malika,” Ali said. It honestly still bothered her more than she cared to admit. “And if you succeed in your dream, you will have recovered a valuable piece of the lost knowledge of Dal’mohra for the world.” And that will be one piece of my home I can have back.

Thuli turned his face away for a moment and wiped his eyes. When he turned back his voice was thick with emotion. “Lass, you canna just waltz in here and make a grown Dwarf cry, it’s just not proper. Yes, you can read my history book, and I’ll make your friend’s armor. You have my word that I’ll repay your kindness once I’m back on my feet.”

“Thank you, Thuli,” she said, putting her hand out.

Her tiny hand was lost in his broad, calloused one, but he shook it with a solemn firmness and sealed the deal.

“Ok, let’s take a look at your friend here,” he said, getting up from his bench as a flicker of unusual mana flared in his eyes, making them smolder and glow in the darkness. “Shapeshifter, ey? Let’s see it.”

Mato obliged by turning into his Bear Form and posing.

“Och, he’s a big lad,” Thuli whistled, walking around for a few moments. Then he walked back to the table and selected three Kobold armors and two shields from the pile.

“I can’t make Eimuuran steel, but I can definitely reforge it for you. And I will learn a lot from working it like this,” the smith stated.

Thuli seemed completely transformed. No longer was he dejected, resigned to his fate. His face glowed, not only from the magic in his eyes but from a deep burning excitement. There was an energy to his movement that Ali knew came from having unexpectedly rekindled his passion, from coming one step closer to a powerful dream.

“Ok, I’ll get started. It will take a wee few hours – you’re free to wait or come back if ya like.”

He selected an enormous steel hammer that lay discarded on the floor and hefted it in his hand, a Dwarf suddenly reforged with purpose. Ali recoiled at the sudden flare of intense mana that welled up inside him, sending waves of dry heat billowing out from his body as the veins under his dark skin began to glow with the deep reddish orange of embers.

Sconces on the walls suddenly flared to life, a rippling wave of red light that surged out across the forge. Cold hearths, forges, and fires sprang to life, reacting to the smith’s outpouring of mana. A wave of heated air billowed out from the forges in the back, carrying with it the stench of burning coal and the metallic tang of iron.

“I think I’m going to get a little more shopping done at the marketplace,” Malika said. “I’ll be back later.”

“I’ll come too,” Calen said.

“I’ll stay here and read,” Ali decided. She had been excited to see what Thuli’s book contained and had a unique opportunity to watch Thuli’s unusual magic from the other room.

“I probably need to stay too, for fitting,” Mato answered, and followed Thuli into the forge room.

Ali waited until they were out of earshot. “Hey, Malika, thanks. I know that was a lot of money we just spent, and mostly because I was being sentimental.”

“No problem, Ali. I have a feeling it will turn into a good investment. Don’t forget to tell him about the guild merchant – Weldin can probably move a lot of his low-level daggers and swords from those bins over there. Maybe he can get back on his feet faster than he thinks.”

***

Ali closed the book and looked up to find Thuli working to fit a darkly gleaming set of nearly completed armor on Mato’s large body. She didn’t know what she had expected, but ringing strikes of the enormous Dwarven smithing hammer beating the armor into shape while Mato still wore it was not exactly high on her list.

Mato was Mato – he just stood there stoically enduring the heavy blows.

The book had been fascinating, written almost a thousand years ago by an eminent historian, one Ziba Malek, of an Elorthian Empire. It was an empire that rose to prominence in the wake of something called the Necromancer Wars that came in the wake of the destruction of Dal’mohra.

The Royal Scholar, Ziba Malek, had hypothesized in her first theory, that Dal’mohra had held out till near the ending of the war, and it had eventually succumbed to the endless might of the Blind Lich’s armies. Knowing what she did about the events, Ali dismissed that theory wholesale. There had been no war prior to the downfall of her home, in fact it had been a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity.

The second theory, advanced by the book’s author was that the fall of Dal’mohra had been an inside job, orchestrated somehow by the Blind Lich himself. Retrieving an ancient artifact of mythic power, the Lich then triggered an event called The Breaking of the World. It was this cataclysmic event that had reshaped the surface of the continent, rending much of the geography unrecognizable. In the ensuing battle, the Blind Lich defeated a legendary blue dragon, Kryostria and turned her into a Dracolich. Having discovered how to artificially construct dungeons, the Blind Lich then used his Dracolich general and the endless spawns of his dungeons to wage a hundred-year war against the living.

Frankly this theory was rather unbelievable, and Ali dearly wished she had access to a decent library to cross-reference the story. The Blind Lich hadn’t orchestrated it, he had been there personally. I guess that still qualifies as an inside job. Especially considering Nevyn Eld had once been a respected researcher in Dal’mohra before his transformation.

In the final theory, the Blind Lich used knowledge plundered from the Grand Library Arcana to unlock the secrets of the realms. Tearing rifts into other planes, he drew on this incredible power to fuel his armies. Using the three kings of Dal’mohra, now raised as Death Knights, the Blind Lich had laid waste to the northern kingdoms for a hundred years.

Ali shivered. This last theory would have been even less believable if she hadn’t seen his undead crawling through a rip in space in the center of the library, and seen the kings raised as Death Knights loyal to the Lich.

In both the last theories, The Breaking of the World was followed by the hundred-year-long Necromancer Wars – events that seemed so fantastical that Ali desperately wished for some way to corroborate the claims laid out by the book. Or dismiss them for the fantasy they must be.

At least now, though, she understood why Thuli had been stumped. After something as cataclysmic as The Breaking, it was no wonder why nobody could tell where the ruins of Dal’mohra really lay.

She got up and walked over to inspect Thuli’s work, watching in fascination as his mana surged to inscribe his mana signature on the piece.

Banded Feral Plate Armor – level 20Linked to your mana, this armor will shapeshift with your changing forms. Armor: 288+20 Endurance+8 StrengthMana: ShapeshiftRequirements: Shapeshifter, Strength 70Created by Thuli.Body – Eimuuran Steel

Ali didn’t need Malika’s appraisal skill to know instantly that this was an exceptional piece – with three enchantments on it, the armor had to be at least uncommon grade – a step above magical. The banded armor segments fit Mato’s physique perfectly, gleaming with the familiar reddish undertone in the black steel. The articulation of each piece seemed to have been made with strength and movement in mind, and as Mato, in his Beastkin form walked, turned, and stretched this way and that, it hugged his huge body like a glove.

“Ok, that should do it. Show me your bear now,” Thuli instructed. “Use the enchantment as you shift.”

Mato’s magic twisted and warped his form, but Ali could instantly see the armor drawing in some of his mana as it began to warp alongside him. When he was finished, the armor hadn’t vanished to wherever his clothing usually went. Instead, it had broadened and deepened into an impressive bulwark of dark steel that hung snugly on the powerful frame of the bear, protecting his flanks, back, and shoulders with thick banded plates. Ali couldn’t even begin to imagine how heavy it must be.

Mato put the armor through its paces by trying a few practice swipes with his paws before shifting back into his normal form.

“You were right, it takes a little mana and more stamina to shift now, but it’s not a lot,” Mato said.

“Yup, the mana hooks the enchanted armor to your Shapeshift skill, and then your skill has to do more work because it’s shifting all the extra mass of the steel,” Thuli explained. “How about the fit?”

“It’s amazing!” Mato was grinning from ear to ear.

Thuli continued fussing with the armor for a bit, muttering, “A nip here and a tuck there, me laddie,” before he was fully satisfied.

“Is it a lot more armor?” Ali asked. Ultimately, the reason for the purchase was to help with the upcoming fight, and Mato presumably had a lot of scorpions to tank, but she wasn’t too familiar with how melee gear and damage worked. She supposed she needed to get used to it so that she could make better gear choices for her minions. Another thing for my to-do list.

“Given his bear hide, and the level of the enemies, I’d say he should be taking about thirty percent less damage from physical hits,” Thuli noted, scratching his beard as if that helped him with the math. “Obviously, it depends on all the factors and skills, and it’s designed to be hit mostly from the front, but he should be a lot more durable. I put endurance on it because you said this was for a tanking job, I hope that’s ok.”

Ali smiled. Mato was already the definition of durable, his being more durable was quite an achievement.

Thuli collapsed onto the bench by the table, his magic fading from his powerful arms, but he was wearing a tired, happy smile. “To think I would see my mana signature on a fine piece of Eimuuran steel,” he said. “Thank you so much, Aliandra. I think I’m going to take a wee little nap.”

His body tilted over sideways, and he was snoring before he even hit the table.
