Aroido breathed calmly, but Erick’s words were hitting him hard. He was not going to have an emotional response right now, though; he decided. And then he began to spill, “We’re not actually all repros of Aroido. That’s part of the problem. Aroido died— He was murdered years ago. And we’re all sort of… Copies of copies. It’s been difficult. We’ve had dungeon breaks before, all the time, for every fool and their sister thinks they know how to make it all work well, but all they do is try to kill us and then they fuck up the dungeons in the process. It’s only ever since Everbless began helping to keep the dungeons in mana that we stopped breaking all the time.”

They reached the floor of the Pit. Erick dispersed the platform underfoot, and both him and Aroido dropped a centimeter to the ground.

Aroido continued to say, “Everbless will show up when he feels like it. He’s always…” Aroido shook his head. “Aroido died, and we repros had to work overtime to keep the dungeons afloat, and after a few breaks killed the majority of our elder brothers, we had to repro ourselves, so… Thus began a chain of events that ended up with all of us being repros of repros and… Personality drift, and all that.”

Erick nodded a little, in understanding. “That’s been tough for you, because now they don’t think you’re real people anymore.”

“Yes! Exactly!” Aroido backed up. “They’re nice enough to us but… Those in the know don’t treat us well at all. It’s the little things. And… Sorry. You’re busy right now. I just needed to say this because… I mishandled the entire situation with Miss Silver and Mister Cross.”

Erick nodded. And then he walked over to the giant black disk sitting in the air, like a swirl of darkness five meters across, its bottom-most edge hovering a handspan above the flat ground. It was the entrance to dungeon 6, and it was closed, but it actually wasn’t closed at all. With a bit of mana sense, Erick watched as mana naturally flowed into the darkness. It was an anemic, slow sort of flow; the sign of an unhealthy dungeon with most of its inhabitants dead and gone.

Quilatalap was probably faking that flow somehow, though, to throw off everyone out here who might be watching.

With a quick conjuring of Force and Benevolence, Erick created a bright white staff with a knotted head. It was just a normal sort of conjuring, but one didn’t go knocking on dungeon gates with their bare hands.

Aroido had been standing four meters away from the black [Gate], but at Erick’s conjuring, he rapidly retreated, only stopping when he was a good fifteen meters away.

Erick waited for him to stop retreating, and when he did, Erick pulled back for a good strike, and then he struck the [Gate]. The staff touched darkness, and was halted. Not a single sound came from that action. Not a fraction of the black air of the [Gate] was disturbed. Erick pulled back his staff, and darkness clung to the head, like he had stuck the staff into black gum. That blackness snapped off when he pulled far enough away.

Erick used an actual [Strike] the second time, empowering his weapon to hit as hard as it possibly could, based on the angle of his attack, the object he was hitting, and a bunch of other factors governed by how the Script made that particular form of magic work.

The staff hit the dungeon [Gate] and the darkness flexed, a dull gonging sound filling the air.

Erick pulled back and hit the darkness twice more. Twice more the air sounded with a dull gong.

And then he stepped backward.

He waited.

After a moment of nothing, Aroido spoke up, “I don’t think she’s going to open the [Gate] for a polite knock.”

“I’m polite unless tested otherwise.” Erick added, “And I can wait.”

Four silent minutes later…

“I’m going to knock again,” Erick said, right before he knocked again, this time much harder. “They probably heard it that ti—”

The black disk swelled open like a bubble rapidly popping, leaving behind a hole in the world, revealing a half-decayed army on the other side.

A regimented horde of undead stood upon a vast stone plain, each of them wearing black armor and standing with a spear at their sides. All of them were in various states of decay, but most looked like they could last for at least one or two good battles. The general at the head of the army looked like he could last a whole campaign, though. He was a gargantuan man made of solid bone, twice as large as the rest, wearing black armor accented in gold. His spear was more of a halberd, and his eyes glowed with red light.

It was a thoroughly impressive and terrifying sight to Aroido, who exclaimed, “HOLY FUCK A NECROMANCER!” and then he backpedaled as fast as he could, casting some spells to [Fly] away.

To anyone not experienced with these sorts of things, and to many people who did have experience with these things, Aroido’s response was normal.

Necromancers were nothing too scary to Erick, though, and especially given how little time ‘Vanya’ had to prepare. Necromancers were rather horrific to go up against when they were truly prepared. That was one of the reasons that assaulting the Fractured Citadels of Quintlan was a near-impossible endeavor.

When a Necromancer didn’t have time to prepare, you ended up with this; a rather ragtag-looking army, propped up by quick-cast spellwork that could only really offer physical protection, and not the magical protection that an undead army truly needed.

Quilatalap could have done a lot better given how much time he had had, but ‘Vanya’ wasn’t going to go that hard, for she had to keep her head down a little bit, or else people would know who she was. There were probably some real heavy-hitters hiding in the back, waiting to respond if they needed to respond, but these guys were nothing special… Except maybe the guy in front.

There were a lot of different ways to tell that this army was nothing special. The main one was the easiest to see; Their armor. It looked real, but it wasn’t. All of that armor was conjured on all of them, instead of real, and since it was not real, it was not enchanted. And since it was not enchanted, it could not prevent the easiest way for one to win against a necromancer.

Oh, sure, there were some specialized conjured armors that would protect mindless undead from what Erick could do to them, and Quilatalap knew all of those methods, but this stuff here was not the good spellwork.

Soul Magic, that greatest of spellwork that made necromancers terrifying and horribly strong, was also their greatest weakness when employed like they usually employed that magic; outside of themselves. The base level of raising undead and making them fight for you was incredibly easy to disrupt if you knew how. [Dispel] was not the answer here, because they were souls conjured into bodies, and that natural layer of defense worked well against casual [Dispel]s.

And so, there were other magics to use. [Piercing Dispel] kinda worked, if you managed to hit the controlling spellwork in the center of the undead body, but since the army had armor and dispelling the control magics would just make the undead horde go ravenously insane, [Dispel]s of all sorts weren’t the real answer.

The real answer was [Untether], and its secondary version, [Chaining Untether].

Untether, instant, long range, 50 mana

Break the chains of the tethered soul.

Chaining Untether, instant, long range, 100 mana + Variable

Break the chains of the tethered souls.

[Untether] even worked on basic angels and demons and, to a lesser extent, [Familiar]s of all kinds. It was like a specialized [Dispel] —a Tricking Magic— for all summoned creatures.

A horde of undead? Not a problem. Just [Untether] the basic souls from the bodies and the undead would drop real-dead, their temporary souls released from their mortal shells into the afterlife. Actually fighting the horde with anything less than that would be an exercise in futility, or at least an exercise in bringing a knife to a gunfight; sure, you could still win that gun fight with your knife, or [Fireball], or [Lightning Bolt], or whatever, but it would be unnecessarily difficult.

All of those thoughts instinctively ran through Erick’s mind as he saw the undead horde.

But then came the final thought, that this was Quilatalap in front of him. All of this right now was a show to legitimize Vanya’s presence, for all those watching through [Long Range Scry]s, or otherwise, so he wasn’t really worried about going up against a necromancer like he usually would be.

He was sure to make some of his surprise at seeing a Necromancer show, though.

And then Erick called out to Aroido, “Aroido! Don’t run. We’re just talking. Come back. Now.”

Aroido warred with himself, there in the air about 50 meters away. He hadn’t gotten far.

While Aroido was dealing with his own emotions, Erick looked at the red-eyed undead captain, and said, “Hello. I’m Wizard Erick Flatt. I would like to have a conversation with the new dungeon master, alongside the old dungeon master. My hope is to resolve this without bloodshed or any terrible happenings and maybe ensure that some sort of cooperation should take hold, since you did come here Called by Sininindi, after all.” Erick made a show of turning around to look at Aroido, who was still 40 meters away, and then he turned back. The red-eyed undead had not moved at all. “Aroido will be back shortly.”

The red-eyed undead said, “Then I will level our complaints against him when he deigns to stand before me.”

Erick nodded once. And then he waited.

Eventually Aroido floated over, trying to be stoic, but he was sweating and his face was rather pale. At least he was putting on a good facade. Erick felt for the guy, and for his brothers.

Aroido did try to multi-kill Soltic and Vanya, he was doing that out of a desire not to be real-killed himself. Erick would be getting that story soon enough, though. Probably as soon as this red-eyed guy said something about it.

Aroido touched down on the stone two meters away from Erick—

Red-eyes said, “When we wouldn’t give him answers about our lives, Aroido and his brothers assaulted us, and then threatened to multi-kill us until he got the answers he wanted.”

Aroido defended himself. “We would have been killed or disappeared if Vanya and Soltic managed to make a new dungeon anyway. Our hope was to discourage them and make them go away.”

Erick nodded. “And what do you mean by ‘disappeared’?”

“When one of us goes crazy, or tells anyone about this system of having 49 of us— Anytime it even looks like we might tell people anything at all, we are led into a specific house…” An instinctual sort of fear took hold within Aroido, but he managed to beat that fear down far enough to continue, “We go into that house and then we are never seen from again. Wiloza tries to save us from that fate, but… I’m not the first ‘Face’ of the Aroidos, Wizard Flatt. Not by a [Long Bolt]...” Aroido paused for a moment, then said, “Sometimes my brothers do go crazy. It happens whenever there is a dungeon break, and then all the masters are purged from the system… But. I humbly suggest that the Regency is too liberal with this option.”

“Where is this house?” Erick asked.

“At the end of Seafoam Road, in the noble district,” Aroido said, as though he was offloading a thousand-kilo weight from his shoulders. “It’s the only house there; you cannot miss it— It’s a manor. Seafoam Manor.”

Erick said to the air, “Goldie. Check on that list of facts, please.”

A nearby shadow made a show of moving.

Aroido’s eyes went wide, and so did the red-eyed man’s, but less so, as they watched the shadow meld back into nothing, under the open sun. The shadow hadn’t even been there till it showed itself.

Erick looked to the red-eyed skeleton man. “What is your name? I haven’t gotten that yet.”

Red-eyes languidly turned his blazing sight back to Erick, and easily said, “This one is freshly born and not a real person. For now, this one is a vessel for Vanya Silver to speak through.” Vanya said, “In time, he will become real, and thus take a position as one of the bosses of this dungeon, Wizard Flatt.”

“Ah! Splendid,” Erick said, “You’re in quite a lot of trouble, young lady. Or should I say ‘apparently young lady’? Some sort of immortal, I understand?”

“Yes.”

“… A woman of few words, then.”

“I have given these people no reason to distrust me, and every reason to allow me to do my goddess-given mission of turning this set of dungeons into a real dungeon, one where people can learn real magic.” Vanya asked, “Have they told you all of what I planned to do? And my qualifications?” She held herself back from spitting her next words, but it was a bare thing, as she said, “And why are you even here?”

“I’m here because of a Benevolent prophecy about how these dungeons need to hold all the life of the Archipelago that we wish to save from a coming catastrophe which will occur anywhere from between 4 to 10 months. Maybe sooner, maybe later. But somewhere around there.” Erick spoke seriously as he asked, “Would you be able to fulfill that sort of requirement? Or is that more than what you can handle on your own?” He gestured to Aroido. “Because there’s 49 helpers right here, though he seems to be scared for his life, thinking that the Regency will murder them all if they are found wanting in their job.”

Aroido breathed out relief as yet another thousand-kilo metaphorical weight fell off his shoulders; Erick believed him. And then he realized that Erick was setting him up to work with the necromancer on the other side of the [Gate]. Somewhere in there he thought back to Erick ordering a shadow to go and investigate the house on Seafoam Road, and that piled onto the man’s mental problems.

And just like that, Aroido was now wearing multiple tons of metaphorical weight. Erick saw as the man accepted his lot in life, though; there was absolutely no way for him and his 49 brothers to live on their own, outside of the auspices of some sort of power. House Benevolence was a fine power to live under.

No emotions at all passed across the undead servant’s face upon hearing Erick’s news of a Benevolence Prophecy, for that wasn’t how this undead captain was set up. He was, in effect, the perfect way to separate oneself from a meeting, and to ensure that no microexpressions or otherwise gave away what the operator was thinking.

