Of course, red-eyes could just be Quilatalap in a new form, but probably not. This one here was probably set up to die, if necessary. There had been no way for Quilatalap to see what was happening outside the dungeon once it was sealed, just like there was no way for anyone to look inside when it was sealed. (Except for Melemizargo, and other godly beings, of course.)

Vanya’s voice was steady, but subtly worried, as it came out of red-eyes’ mouth, “I would like to hear this prophecy.”

Erick told Vanya the prophecy.

And then Vanya said, “I will be able to do some sort of a… ‘Grand Shelter’, but it will require a great deal of changes to the plan… And I could use the Aroidos’ help. For starters, I need— A lot. I need a lot.” And then, perhaps a bit miffed, she said, “I wanted to make a real Grand Dungeon; not a shelter. This is not what I signed up for with Sininindi.”

“Then make your dungeon how you want,” Erick said, “But add a big red button, or something, in the center of the place that can transform the entire dungeon into a shelter when needed.”

“But that means no permanent traps and—”

“Miss Silver,” Erick said, “I appreciate your plight, but if you cannot do what is needed then perhaps you and Mister Cross should leave this dungeon to the Regency and to House Benevolence.” And then Erick added, “If, however, you are fine with this adjustment, and you are simply playing for more resources, or what-have-you, or whatever, then please state your terms now.”

“… I was going to have a False Society in here anyway.” Vanya added, “So I suppose being able to house more people is fine— No.” A moment passed in silence, and deep, deep worry. And then Vanya blurted, “There’s 25 million people in the Archipelago.”

“Yup.” Erick nodded. “The problem is a lot larger than the one you signed up to solve.”

Aroido quietly said, “22.5 million.”

Red-eyes’s eyes went wider, which was probably an affectation, like when he purposefully glanced at the shadow that was Goldie zipping away. But then Vanya spoke, and Erick thought that maybe it wasn’t an affectation at all.

Excitedly, she said, “Holy Gods. That would be the largest dungeon this world has ever seen!”

“Yes. Everyone is in a bit of a panic over here because of that and a dozen other issues,” Erick said, “So while your enthusiasm is noted, make sure you don’t get too carried away with this task laid before you.”

“Right, right,” Vanya rapidly added, acting suitably chastised.

Aroido nodded solemnly.

Erick continued, “My primary concerns are having enough space and amenities inside this dungeon, and for there to be a way for people to get into that space as fast as possible. House Benevolence will be able to provide some sort of Gate Network shenanigans to alleviate some of the stress of moving that many people, but I imagine that you would need to grow this dungeon far, far beyond your original plans. It also will only nominally be under Regency control, because when the issue is this large, involving this many different nations of the Archipelago, I am stepping in, and House Benevolence is taking a concentrated interest in this land. I plan on stopping whatever disaster is coming, but—” Erick asked, “Are you prepared to be the master for a shelter of 22.5 million people, if necessary?”

“Fuck no I am not prepared for that, but I can be.”

Erick smiled. “Good to hear that. You and I will have a discussion later about all this, in private. For now, what do you need to happen, in order to make this dungeon work how it needs to work?”

“Give me a minute to think.”

Red-eyes went silent; distant. Erick and Aroido waited.

Vanya said, “I need the Aroidos to move their dungeon entrances back to the Pit, and then I need them all to detach from those dungeons and come into this dungeon, while I send out minions to secure those other dungeons under my own power.”

Aroido frowned. “What?”

Erick asked Aroido, “What’s the problem? All that seemed reasonable to me.”

“I have no idea what she means ‘send out minions to secure’.” Aroido said, “I can do all the rest but I’m not sure what she means to do, exactly.”

“A ritual to the Dark, to bring all dungeons together into one,” Erick said, then asked, “Right, Miss Silver?”

“Correct.”

Aroido paled once again, as he muttered, “Oh great. Cultists, too.”

Erick ignored Aroido’s discomfort and asked the man, “Can you do as requested?”

“Yes, I can, and I suppose falling to the Dark is… Well it’s not execution, I suppose.”

Erick gave the man a look.

And Aroido straightened up, and realized where he was and who he was talking to. He rapidly said, “I can work with Miss Silver!”

“Good.” Erick added, “When I get a chance, and if you want, there are [Reincarnation]s waiting for you, if you are tired of your current life.”

“Right!” Aroido said, “You said that, too. I think some of my brothers will certainly take you up on that offer— Uhh. The dungeon entrances were moved into Regency control, into the bunker pit we have set up for a potential break… One time one dungeon broke, and then it rapidly broke two more before we got that back under control. I won’t be able to get to those places when they are under Regency control.”

Erick said, “I have already removed that separate area from Regency control, through a few polite conversations with the local guard.”

About a kilometer east of the Pit there was another, smaller ‘Pit’, located behind a mountain. A bunch of Regency soldiers had been there guarding the dungeons and wondering ‘where the fuck is Gold Taker; he should be here’, until Ophiel had shown up and promptly secured the area. According to Poi, who was in contact with Erick right now, the Regency was demanding Erick stand way, way down, but Erick had already told Poi to tell them that he was not standing down at all.

“You can go over there right now, actually,” Erick said, waving a hand and conjuring a [Gate] directly to that side-Pit. “The way is clear for you to go talk to your brothers.”

Aroido took all of a half-a-second to realign himself, again, to his new lot in life. And then he bowed and rushed through the [Gate]. Erick watched Aroido leap into one of the black holes in the world, under the watchful eyes of Ophiel, and then Erick closed the [Gate].

Erick turned back to Vanya, saying, “Still no sign of Gold Taker, or Everbless out here. I have half a mind to go right up to his tree and ask him what’s going on, but I have been told to stay away until recently. What has been your experience with him?”

“I have barely been able to interact with him, but he seems like a decent sort. If it weren’t for him then these dungeons would have collapsed a lot more than they have, but I don’t believe that a child should be killing people inside a dungeon, anyway.”

Erick nodded, and then he had an Ophiel flutter down from the sky, to hover in front of Erick, who already had an Ophiel on his shoulder. “I’ll be leaving Ophiel here at the entrance. Call out if you need something.”

Vanya had red-eyes go down to one knee and press one fist to the ground. “As you desire, Wizard of Benevolence.”

Erick nodded again, and then he left in a flicker of a lightstep, off to the next destination.

He felt that the act with Vanya had gone pretty well. He also felt that this whole thing was a great big mess (an understatement, considering 22.5 million people needed a shelter in the next 6 months), he was terrible about lying long term (and he was in the eye of the world usually, so people were always looking at him) so he was probably going to fuck that up sooner or later (hopefully a lot later; years, perhaps), Everbless was still worryingly absent (seriously; where the fuck was he), and whatever the fuck the Regency was up to at Seafoam Manor was probably something rather immoral.

… Hopefully not too bad, though. Hopefully it was just routine immoral executions. Those were easy enough to solve. Erick could arrive, say ‘no’, strip the bad guys from power and forcibly repent them, if necessary, and then that would be the end of that horror show. House Benevolence would come in next and deal with greater fallout, like putting survivors back into homes, getting them work, and then doing whatever else needed to be done.

With any luck, whatever was happening down at Seafoam Manor was not too deep of an institutional problem.

Toppling a government was never Erick’s preferred option.
