Nevyn Eld? Ali jolted to fully alert as if she had just been struck by lightning from the clear sky. But they stopped talking.

“You know the Blind Lich?” Ali asked, curiosity overcoming her fear with a powerful need to know if these two were servants of the Lich.

“What Lich?” Cael asked after a surprisingly long pause.

“You said Nevyn Eld?” Ali asked.

“Nevyn Eld isn’t a Lich, silly,” Gage answered. “He is a prominent magical researcher in Dal’mohra. The City of Learning. You’ve probably heard of it, it’s our home. He is a Guardian of the Realm, so he’s very important.”

“Although something has happened,” Cael said. “And we haven’t seen anyone in a little while.”

Ali reeled, struggling to get her chaotic thoughts under control before she gave anything away. Of course, she knew Nevyn Eld was a Guardian of the Realm – it was common knowledge from before he’d been expelled from Dal’mohra. Her mother had also been a Guardian.

No, it was the fact that these two knew him. They spoke about Dal’mohra in the present tense and seemed to be entirely unaware of Nevyn Eld’s ascension to his state of undead immortality. Which meant their ‘little while’ had to be over three thousand years, and it seemed that she had to be looking in on a time capsule from the distant past. The implications were staggering.

“But you knew… know him?” Ali asked, suddenly breathless.

“Yes, it was Nevyn Eld who gave us this place,” Cael said.

“And gave us our mission,” Gage added proudly.

“And… what is your mission?” Ali asked.

“It’s top secret,” Gage said. “We can’t tell someone like you.”

“And very important,” Cael added.

“He used to visit us a lot,” Gage said. “He always brought us our potions.”

“But then he stopped coming,” Cael said, his voice thick with grief. “We nearly died without the potions.”

“Uh, what happened then?” Ali asked. She had been hoping to get them to open up a little, but this was far more than she had bargained for.

“That’s when mother visited,” Gage said. “I liked her.”

“Me too,” Cael said. “She saved us, but she only came once.”

“Oh yes,” Gage said. “Right after that, we saw the mountain explode.”

“And then there was that pillar of golden magic,” Cael said. “Gage, did we decide if that was her spell?”

“No, we didn’t,” he answered. “But it’s gone now.”

Wait… are they talking about Mom’s barrier?

“We miss them,” Cael said. “We haven’t seen anyone since the echoes in the Spirit Realm went crazy.”

“If you find them, could you please tell them to come back?” Gage asked, his voice pitifully wistful.

“I… would need to get out of here for that,” Ali said, swallowing and choosing to keep her knowledge of current events private for now.

“Oh, no you don’t,” Gage said accusingly. “I know what you’re trying to do, and it won’t work. You can’t avoid this by manipulating us.”

Ali frowned, struggling to process the implications of the brothers’ story. At least if they were unaware that Nevyn Eld was a lich, they couldn’t be working with him right now, but it seemed they had once enjoyed a positive relationship with him, and she had no idea how they would react if they found out he was her enemy. Certainly, it was not worth the risk until she learned more. And this ‘Mother’ of theirs… could it be…

“Is there another barrier on this island?” Ali asked, attempting to change the subject. She needed time to process what she had heard.

“Don’t tell her, Cael,” Gage answered immediately. “I don’t trust someone smarter than you.”

“She’s not smarter than me,” Cael grumbled, but he volunteered no further information, seeming to allow himself to be influenced by his brother’s caution.

Ali turned her attention to her new surroundings, an island significantly smaller than the first, but still large enough that she would have to explore. It only took about five minutes though, before she found the next arcane circle.

Accept creation of Barrier Platform Three?

Far above, she saw the creation of the barrier bridge between two of the islands on the path to the exit Gate – this one appearing somewhere in the middle of the path.

Three? Did I miss number two? A substantial gap remained between the islands that wouldn’t be covered by the two barrier bridges she had discovered so far. Presumably, she would find a runic circle that bridged that gap, too, although she still had no idea how she was going to get up there while activating all the needed barriers.

At that moment, the Spirit Realm flickered as the echo changed. All the moving elementals reset, but Ali’s entire point of view shifted disconcertingly, and she suddenly found herself looking out over the vista of islands from the platform right before the Gate where she had first entered.

I… was teleported back? She stood, staring about in surprise, but she had indeed been moved back to the start. She could see the island she had been exploring moments before far below her on her right.

Well, that’s annoying, she thought, not relishing the need to brave the arcane elevator, the stairs, and the nauseating portal again, but before she could take the first step, a shape stepped out in front of her. A small gray figure with long flowing hair, just about as big as her. It walked forward to the edge, as if studying the islands arrayed before them.

Wait… is that… me? She stared, hardly breathing as she watched the ethereal gray form of a Spirit Realm echo exploring from above. The figure finally nodded to herself before it headed toward the right, testing the stairs carefully with a foot, before slowly descending. Ali stood, transfixed, studying the bizarre phenomenon – in all her experience in the Spirit Realm, she had never seen anything like this. As she watched the echo of herself exploring, she became more and more certain that this was somehow the key she was missing.

Finally, after her long, painstakingly cautious passage, her echo-self approached the first Runic Circle and stepped into it. Her eyes flickered to the path before her, leading to the exit Gate. With a golden flash, the barrier platform between where she stood and the first island on the path to the exit suddenly materialized. That’s it! Ali crept forward, suddenly moved to action by curiosity, and she poked at it with her foot, but there was nothing echo or insubstantial about the barrier – it was as real as anything she had encountered here.

She almost stepped onto it in her excitement to progress when she suddenly remembered she hadn’t remained in the first circle for long. A few moments later, the barrier winked out of existence as her previous self left the ring.

“Aww,” Gage whispered, breaking the silence.

I’m not that stupid, Ali thought, but in truth, she knew it had been a little too close for comfort. The rules in this place were anything but normal and she would need to remain vigilant if she didn’t want to die suddenly from a random mistake. Still, as she studied the path of her echo, she knew she had the answer to this puzzle.

“Are you just going to stand there?” Cael asked suddenly, but Ali felt no inclination to answer him, instead continuing to observe the path of her image as it explored the islands below. The only unknowns were how frequently the spirit realm reset, and where the remaining barrier circles would be found.

It took about twenty minutes of Cael badgering her for responses before the realm flickered again and she found herself transported from the edge of the platform back to the center. This time, however, she was ready. Moving quickly, she descended the stairs, reaching the elevator platform well before her previous echo did, and descending to the island below. This time, when she entered the runic circle and accepted the voluntary trigger, she simply sat down to wait out the time till it reset.

“Cael, she figured it out,” Gage whined. “You said she wouldn’t be able to figure it out.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
