Loud thuds echo through the air as Monk and Luna stand back behind the Wyvern's skeleton.

For some reason, the black bones left behind emit a cold aura; and even with a concentrated version of Luna's perception buff, none of her mana- or qi-infused senses can see past the entire corpse.

However, Monk examines the sight before him with a pondering gaze, as if he's trying to solve a puzzle.

—

A blue-glowing man and a frosty white woman circle around the black skeleton, carving out deep cracks in the ground with their every footstep as their auras rise with intensity.

They, too, feel the strange cold aura from the Wyvern's bones, but it is unaffected by the two commanders' overwhelming power. All of the ground around them shakes and quivers, but the land beneath the Wyvern's bones is unaffected.

The rhythmic thuds that can be felt are coming from the horde of monsters on the other side of the massive skeleton.

Fisher is the first to get a good look at the enemies.

His eyes are sharp, and his grip on his blade is tight, prepared to go all out; but he just watches with curiosity.

An enormous Demonic Cyclops, tens of meters tall, roars with rage. Purple light bursts from its eye as a red aura surrounds its body, and it swings its club against the rib cage of the Wyvern over and over again.

Its greater form makes it stand over 200 meters in height, and its True Core burns so bright in its chest that a powerful aura, even stronger than the 1st Class Demon he saw Raven battling in the war, pours outward.

Every impact against the Wyvern's black bones sends more shockwaves carrying its intense aura outward; yet it is perfectly repelled, not leaving a single scratch or crack on the ancient skeleton.

Fisher's eyes widen as he looks closer and watches as more monsters from the horde slam their swords, hammers, and clubs; activating their greater forms to grow hundreds of meters tall to mindlessly attack this grave that has lain here for millennia.

The sight of enormous High Orcs, Ogres, Cyclopes, Lizardmen, and Berserker Giants, all infected to their very cores with dense Demonic Energy, is both a shocking and awe-inspiring sight.

Every one of them, with fully saturated True Cores, helplessly falls to their beast-like instincts, forced to slam the side of this skeleton to try and reach the treasure beneath it.

Though, Fisher's attention is pulled elsewhere once he sees Lydia's bright white figure appear on the other side of the horde.

Her voice echoes in his inner ear through their link.

"Come on, let's put these mindless beasts out of their misery."

The ground beneath Lydia's feet spreads out with a cold white light. Her eyes and sword, pointing straight forward, glow the same color.

"White Tiger's Frozen Domain..." she whispers under her breath, and the white ice seeping out of her body expands at a rate hundreds of times faster.

Fisher grins, and his eyes glow bright blue as he activates his third ranked-up buff as well. The swordsman's blade vibrates with blue light, and he takes a step forward while swinging his blade twice, creating a blue X in front of him.

An absurd amount of natural intimidation radiates off the swordsman's body as he steps back, and the X still floats in the air.

His blade glows with brighter and brighter blue light; and both the white and blue auras that come out of these commanders become suffocating to all of the demonic beasts below first class in the desert for over a thousand kilometers in every direction.

Upon activation, the twelve saturated True Cores stop their mindless attacks, as they feel auras approaching that actually stack up against their own.

Half turn toward the growing ice domain, and half stare straight at the source of the intimidation in the form of a tiny glowing blue X near the Wyvern's skull.

Echoing roars distort the demonic clouds all throughout the desert as the group of demonic beasts shakes the ground, leaving trails of yellow and black aura behind them while locked on their new enemies.

While the distance between them is not far, less than a full kilometer to each of their destinations, the art of surprise is not on their side.

Fisher thrusts his blue sword into the center of the X formation once it has hit its maximum luminosity; and Lydia's bright white ice has traveled far enough outward to be beneath the six beasts' feet that charge her way.

One thousand bright blue serpents explode outward from Fisher's strike; and they all feel as though they carry the aura and intensity of a single full-powered blow of that bright thrust he threw into his formation.

At the same time, Lydia's icy aura stops spreading and instead shoots upward at the edges, curving back toward its wielder to create a dome.

Around the swordswoman, the illusion of a massive white tiger stalking its prey begins to materialize, and six versions of this tiger jump forward at the beasts whose feet have been frozen to the ground.

At the same time that the white and blue auras collide near the center of the Wyvern's skeleton, the full-powered attacks of Lydia and Fisher hit their targets as well.

A thousand blue water serpents leave trails of mana reinforced by one percent of all the stats of trillions of links of loyalty.

Each of them bends gravity around them and collides, covering each of the Demonic Beasts' greater forms with ease, not leaving a single meter untouched.

The swordsman grins as deep holes pierce through the flesh of all these monsters, each serpent representing a full powered sword strike equivalent to his 2nd Ranked Up buff.

In fractions of a second, they're all pierced through hundreds of times each.

Each one of their fully saturated divine cores is targeted with dozens of serpents each.

While the yellow divine threads tethering these serpents together are nowhere near enough to even leave a scratch on these beasts, the overwhelming pure mana density being channeled into each attack is thousands of times greater than the demonic energy being wielded by these monsters.

Each serpent digs into the True Cores in their chests, fracturing them more and more with every puncture. If it was just one or two attacks, they could have survived; but by pure quantity and the unyielding ruthlessness of Fisher's technique, these beasts stand no chance.

Their cores are shattered before they can take another step.

—

At the same moment, the six illusions of white tigers collide with the Demonic Beasts trapped in Lydia's domain.

Instead of being purely attack-based, these white tigers are burned into the monsters' psyches, and all they can see are the cold eyes of the tigers as more and more bright glowing white ice travels up from their feet, freezing their legs, and eventually their torsos.

There is resistance, but the rage-filled beasts can only see the eyes of Lydia's white tiger as her mana control and pure stat-based strength overwhelm them far beyond anything these demonic creatures have ever faced.

When the white frost covers their arms, soul weapons, and heads, the only things visible left behind are the six bright yellow True Cores burning in their chests.

Many of the white ice statues crack and splinter around the areas where the True Cores burn, and Lydia is unable to move from her position until the Domain is fully manifested.

She breathes deeply while the dome above her head finishes forming and counts the milliseconds of silence, biding her time before she can strike...

More and more fractures become visible around a Cyclops that towers above the rest, while two High Orcs have already succumbed to the cold, and their True Cores are starting to dim.

The anger, rage, and immense power can be felt from the strongest Cyclops as red and black aura leaks out from the cracks in its chest; but Lydia does not flinch, holding her sword forward and feeling the hole in the ceiling close completely.

A light clink echoes through the dome once it does, and no external demonic energy can seep in any longer.

The temperature drops rapidly for a second time, and even the cracks in the massive Cyclops begin to seal up, blocking its mutated aura from seeping out.

Lydia jumps upward, and flashes of white light bouncing around the inside of the dome are all that can be seen, as she is the only thing that can move within this frozen domain.

Not even a roar can be heard, only the sound of frozen statues breaking like glass, and six weakened True Cores exploding.

To not be completely caught up in the blast, Lydia jumps upward once her job is done and deactivates her domain, starting at the top of the dome.

As she jumps upward and out, the entire white dome shatters and explodes from the pressure of six fully saturated True Cores breaking.

—

On the other side of the Wyvern's corpse, the collision of two auras white and blue can be seen, with bright yellow light streaking through them.

Massive amounts of the demonic ground are blown to bits, and mountain-sized debris flies into the air with the erupting energy waves.

Though, the strange radiation from the skeletal corpse holds it all back, acting as a blast shield.

Monk and Luna just watch the light show with wide eyes as the entire desert shakes, and the flowing patterns of the demonic energy clouds in this region are altered.

Even the two Kings of Kelfar notice the blast over 20,000 kilometers away. Though, neither turns their heads for long. Once the highest intensity of the blast passes, they return to their battle unbothered...

The flashing lights dim, and two figures walk out from opposite sides of the Wyvern's skeleton, powering down by releasing their borrowed stats back to Raven. However, their bodies still glow blue and white, giving off formidable auras as they return to the group.

Lydia nods slowly, sheathing her sword, then looks over her shoulder.

"They were pretty tough... I actually got to go all out. Not bad."

Fisher swings his blade over his shoulder and grins, turning to Lydia.

"Yeah, as I said, those were some nasty creatures. They're under some kind of mind control too. One of them took over forty of my full-force hits directly to its core. I wonder how tough they'd be if they were all there in the head?"

He looks back to Monk, who is now sweating profusely, but he replies.

"Let's try not to find out..."

Then he walks forward past the two sword wielders to make his way toward the unaffected Wyvern corpse. He pulls out a small black bar of Originator stone from the human world out from a small silver box.

"I've seen a barrier around an artifact like this before, but never with such intensity..."

In the next few seconds, Monk walks right through the gap between two of the Wyvern's black rib bones.

Luna's eyes widen at the sight, and both Fisher and Lydia's expressions change to confusion as well. They turn around to watch the human in orange robes calmly achieve what these demonic beasts couldn't with all their power.
