Ignoring the rising tension as MuYang quietly prepared for the worst, BoShui took a drink of water and sighed. After a long second, he asked, “What was she like? I heard the rumours, but even now, I still can’t see her as anything besides my lively cousin who used to read me stories in the courtyard. Was she truly as terrible and vicious as they say?”

Taken aback by the question, MuYang studied BoShui’s expression for clues, but eventually answered, “No. They painted Priestess as the Bloodthirsty Shrike, a crazed woman who lived for torture and bloodshed, but this was far from the truth. She was... she was the best of us, a woman brimming with the Mother’s love and compassion. She did great work with the Aspirants, not only in the Purges, but also in times of plague or famine. Yes, she oversaw several Purges and was good at her work, but that is not all she did. Though she knew it was all she would be remembered for and her actions pained her so, she also knew her cause was just, but more importantly, necessary. When she learned the truth of Falling Rain, she gave her life to expose his traitorous secrets, yet you still serve at his side. Why?”

“Because she was mistaken. Falling Rain is not Defiled, and is the farthest thing from it.” BoShui wasn’t sure if he was glad to hear she wasn’t a complete monster or devastated because she still could have been saved. Turning away from MuYang, BoShui embraced his pain and looked back on his time with the strange Son of Heaven, specifically their encounter in the mines beneath Yo Ling’s island. He’d been so distraught over killing BoLao, drinking day in and day out to try and forget what he’d done. Heart full of hatred and regret, he almost succumbed to the Father’s lies, but then Falling Rain tackled him into the water and ripped him from the Father’s clutches, cleansing BoShui's soul of the foul Defiled taint. How could a man so beloved by the Mother ever be Defiled? A shame BoShui was Oathsworn to silence, else he would spread the word for all to hear. Number One Talent in the Empire was a poor title for the Mother’s Chosen Son.

Long seconds passed as the battle continued, but to BoShui’s surprise, MuYang and his fellow Aspirants didn’t take him hostage. A good thing too, because he would’ve hated to kill them, especially here and now in full view of the army. Bad for morale to deal with traitors in plain sight, but he wasn’t entirely sure if MuYang had truly betrayed the Empire or was simply a misguided soul. “She was not wrong, young master,” MuYang said, still hoping to convince BoShui otherwise. “All four of us can swear an Oath upon it. We all felt Falling Rain’s Aura, and it was as maleficent as any Defiled Champion’s. The Empire is rotten to the core, and we must act before it is too late. Under the Confessor’s guidance, we will usher in a new era of peace and prosperity, one without the rampant corruption and insidious Imperial lies to taint us.”

“And I can swear an Oath to the contrary,” BoShui Sent, passing the message not only to MuYang, but the other two idle Aspirants as well. A small trick he’d picked up in the past few weeks, one much needed to keep his actual guards in the loop without MuYang growing suspicious. Apparently, Dastan’s subordinate Sahb could do the same, though not without physical contact, yet another miracle to lie at the feet of Falling Rain. “I have indisputable proof that Falling Rain is not Defiled, but I am Oathsworn to secrecy, so if we both swear Oaths to contrary facts, and both remain breathing, then where does this leave us?”

“...In a stalemate, until you bring us to whoever can share this proof you speak of.”

BoShui was happy he didn’t have to spell it out. It would be a shame to lose MuYang for this alone, because competent warriors were in short supply. “That would be Falling Rain himself.”

“Then there is nothing to speak of,” MuYang snarled, forgetting himself enough to speak out loud which drew strange looks from the soldiers around them. Taking deep breaths to calm himself, he reined in his anger and Sent, “I will not have false dealings with a Defiled pretender. Even now, he leaves us to die at the hands of his brethren, sitting safe on the flanks while the horde chips away at our strength.”

“Like us, the cavalry are caught in a stalemate. You see this as well as I do.”

Unable to refute, MuYang changed his tack and Sent, “What I have seen is that Young Master is a chosen son of the Mother. Your talent, your bearing, your compassion, you share this all this and more with the Priestess. I have not the way with words, but if you speak with the Confessor, he will explain everything -”

“The Confessor,” BoShui interrupted, fists and jaw clenched in anger, “Took my sweet, carefree cousin and turned her into the Shrike. I’ll have words with him, but not before I am ready.” After his talk with Dastan, BoShui was one step closer now, but still nowhere near the match of a Peak Expert like Goujian. “You call me a chosen son of the Mother, but you could not be farther from the truth. How about this. Since Rain is here and Goujian is not, then how about you speak with Rain first, and if you are not convinced, then I will willingly go with you to see the Confessor.” If only to end the murderous bastard’s life or die trying. “What say you?”

“...How about instead, we speak with whomsoever we come across first?”

It didn’t take much effort to understand why MuYang wanted such an amendment. “He’s here, isn’t he? Goujian, riding at the side of a Defiled army while they slaughter Imperial soldiers and citizens. This is the man who you claim will usher in a new era of peace and prosperity?”

“Needs must, young master. A flash flood unearths rich soil and a forest fire clears away the choking undergrowth. Great change requires great sacrifice, and so long as good men and women stand ignorant of Imperial lies, then they will die defending those who must be killed.”

Swaying MuYang and the others to his side was proving more difficult than expected, but even though its what Rain would have wanted, BoShui no longer cared now that he knew the Confessor was near. BoShui intended to see the Confessor die, whether by his hands or another’s, and any who stood in his path would join Goujian in death. Gesturing at the Defiled horde, BoShui Sent, “If you truly believe this to be the best course of action, then you are not the man I thought you were and I want you gone before I return. If you still harbor doubts and would like to speak with Falling Rain, then I will swear on my life he will bring you no harm. If not, then leave now and tell the Confessor to wash his neck and wait.” Seeing the last Aspirant still locked in combat with the Demon, BoShui marched towards the battle with his four, loyal Experts in tow, leaving MuYang and the others behind.

Whether they stayed or left, it didn’t matter anymore. The Confessor was here and BoShui burned for vengeance.

Balance came easily to him now, a peaceful calm amidst a raging onslaught of turmoil and emotion. Growing up, no one had ever called him talented or brilliant, merely a passable warrior at best. Even with Uncle BoHai guiding him every step of the way, BoShui ranked amongst the least of his peers and just barely condensed an Aura at twenty-four, one so unstable Zian could crush it with barely an effort. Granted, BoShui had hardly been the most diligent of students, but even after Rain cleansed him of the Father’s Taint and BoShui devoted all his efforts to training, he made little progress along the Martial Path.

All this changed after Rain’s drunken slip of the tongue in which he spoke of splitting focus by being of two minds. Using this knowledge, BoShui sequestered himself in his training room and two weeks passed in the blink of an eye before he formed his Natal Soul and Palace, an endeavour which almost cost him his life. From there on, his Martial prowess improved by leaps and bounds as he slowly grew into the man he modelled his Natal Soul after, the Han BoShui he aspired to be. At first, the changes were subtle, a flash of Insight here or a revelation there, but then he was struck by hunger and feasted morning, noon, and night. Uncle BoHai worried BoShui was overworking himself, but he felt better than ever and continued feasting and training without end. In a mere two years, he transformed from an awkward, scrawny, third-rate warrior into the man he was today, an Expert of the Empire who stood at the forefront of his peers. No longer a paper tiger, but a tiger in truth, a man who could match the likes of first-rate warriors like Tam Taewoong and Situ Jia Zian.

Until a few days past, BoShui never put too much thought into his transformation, because he was never one to over analyze things. The Mother had a plan for all her children, though they often strayed from her Path, so he always assumed Rain’s reminder was Her way of bringing BoShui back on track. This changed after he returned from the emergency Society meeting and spoke with Dastan about Natal Souls and their various quirks. Uncle BoHai always warned him against discussing the Martial Dao with friends and peers, for every Martial Warrior must forge their own Path to the Martial Peak, but Dastan needed his help and BoShui was not a man who would turn away a friend in his hour of need. A good thing too, because Dastan had put much thought into Natal Souls and the advantages they brought, so the more he spoke of Natal Souls, divergent personalities, false forks, and dead ends, the more certain BoShui was of what to do next.

The Mother works in mysterious ways. While attempting to help fix Dastan’s problem, he stumbled across the solution to a problem he didn’t even know he faced.

It was curious hearing about how the others developed their Natal Souls. Dastan’s was innocent and simple-minded, while Sahb’s was emotionless and utterly dependent, to the point where it was more statue than soul. Wang Bao’s appeared to be forthright and disciplined, completely unlike his previous, wilder self, but Ulfsaar’s was murderous and domineering, his wild bandit persona amplified ten times over. Neera’s was a loving and nurturing Soul who lent the half-bear woman emotional aid and support, which was closest to what BoShui had created, but still nowhere close to the same.

Because in the end, BoShui didn’t see his Natal Soul as a separate being, but rather a reflection of his innermost desires, and the same too could be said of the others. Sahb strove to become the perfect subordinate, and Wang Bao the perfect soldier. Ulfsaar believed he required his rage and hatred to survive in battle, and Neera prayed for the fortitude required to anchor her beloved husband to his kinder, gentler self. Then there was Dastan, whose issues closely mirrored BoShui’s. Where Dastan rejected himself because of his flaws, BoShui rejected the flaws within himself. He’d never even tried merging with his Natal Soul before, because in his eyes, he was unworthy to do so. The Natal Soul was the person he should have been rather than the flawed man he’d become, his connection to the Heavens and the altar at which he prayed. No amount of self-improvement would change the fact that he had drunk himself into a stupor after BoLao’s death and almost turned against the Mother’s light, and he still hated his father for pitting him against his siblings and giving BoLao over to the Confessor. If given the choice, he would still rather go carousing with his friends instead of training on his own, and he enjoyed the company of women more than most deemed appropriate, but this was who he was.

In envisioning this perfect self, it had become the conduit through which he appealed to the Mother above and through it, received her benediction and Insight. Only… flawed as he was, the Mother still loved him, BoLao still loved him, and Uncle BoHai still loved him, so why could he not love himself?

After leaving Dastan alone with his thoughts, BoShui found a quiet place to meditate and removed the distinction between the man he was and the man he aspired to be, for they were one and the same. He, Han BoShui, accepted his flaws, but he strove to become a better person with each and every passing day. If this was still not enough to surpass the trials and tribulations before him, then he could go into the Mother’s warm embrace knowing he’d tried his best.

He was his Natal Soul, and his Natal Soul was him. One with the self, a curious concept, but an important one.

Now, as he shouldered past the line of battling soldiers to join the fray, BoShui also sat in quiet meditation within his Natal Palace, two separate minds directed by one will. One mind focused on the internal, the other on the external, yet when brought together, the lines separating one from the other became blurry and indistinct. Had his external mind retreated or had he brought his internal mind out? A curious puzzle, one he struggled with for days until this morning, when Insight struck once again after a quiet night of meditation.

Internal and External, why quibble over the difference? He was still Han BoShui, and in a similar vein, Chi was still Chi.

