The sun shone brightly overhead as Zian backed away from the din of battle, arms leaden and head light. Chest burning with every breath, he uncovered a new ache, strain, or injury with each passing second, yet he couldn’t tear his eyes away from the bloody scene before him. Trampling over the freshly turned soil, the Defiled surged onto the waiting tips of Imperial swords and spears, undeterred by the deaths of their comrades and still eager to spill blood. Before Eccentric Gam’s earth-shaking upheaval, the dead had lain three bodies thick at the minimum, a carpet of corpses which the Defiled ran over without hesitation to bring death to their hated foes. Now that mountain of dead lay buried beneath Zian’s feet, but it wouldn’t be long before it formed anew as the Enemy continued its unrelenting assault.

Awe-inspiring as Eccentric Gam’s prowess might have been, Zian disliked having good soldiers of the Empire buried beneath the earth where worms, scavengers, and possibly even the Defiled would feast upon those entombed heroes and sinners alike. These warriors deserved better, and when the battle was won, Zian would have a word with the half-fox Peak Expert to see about excavating those stalwart defenders of the Empire for a proper send off. Rendering their mortal shells unto ashes so their earthly remains could not be profaned was the least he could do in light of their valiant sacrifice, and if the Eccentric refused, then Zian would dig them up by hand if need be.

A stool appeared beneath his ass even as a water-skin arrived at his lips, held there by his beautiful Jing Fei. “Sit husband mine, and drink,” she said, her eyes wandering over his body as they often did, though her customary appreciation had been replaced by tender concern and anguished misgiving. Understandable considering the various injuries he’d taken in the chaotic clash, unused to fighting shoulder to shoulder alongside his soldiers. There was no helping it; had they given him enough room to fight freely, it would have been tantamount to leaving him to die before the endless horde of stampeding Defiled. Packed so tightly together, there was little Zian could do except stab and be stabbed, not an experience he enjoyed considering his curved sabres were not made for thrusting and he lacked a set of Runic armour.

No, his runic breastplate was worn by Falling Rain’s half-cat slave girl, sitting pretty on her quin just north of here on the open fields of Sinuji.

Clicking her tongue in exasperation, Jing Fei tipped the water-skin and poured its contents into Zian’s mouth, and only then did he realize how thirsty he really was. Relinquishing his swords to the handmaidens, he grabbed the water-skin and greedily drank as Jing Fei removed his armour and tended to his wounds. A gash on his cheek, a slash along his ribs, a puncture wound on his thigh, Jing Fei treated each of his injuries with tender, albeit inexperienced, care. Doing his best not to flinch at her unskilled needlework, Zian emptied the water-skin and surveyed the battle-lines. Despite his initial reservations at taking orders from Rain’s second, Mister Rustram had done an admirable job commanding them in battle, especially if he coordinated Eccentric Gam’s display just now, and from the looks of things, he had. Wasting no time in the aftermath, Mister Rustram had been ready with a barrage of rapid-fire orders to move the battle-line forward while pulling tired units into reserve. Though Zian’s retinue had joined the battle late, many of the soldiers around him had been fighting since the arrival of the Defiled army, nearly two hours ago, and their exhaustion was total and evident.

Mother in Heaven, had it really only been two hours?

Head clearing now that he’d had a chance to rest, he looked around at his retinue and found them weary, but intact, their spirits high after such an incredible display. Most tended to their own wounds and seemed eager to rejoin the battle as soon as possible, a sight which filled Zian with pride and just a hint of shame, for he had long since emptied his Chi and stamina reserves and would need at least a half hour to rest and recuperate. Even now, he clung to Balance by a thin thread, his mind tranquil but his heart struggling to remain impassive to the loss and suffering surrounding him. Time for grief and reparations could come later, he told himself, struggling to maintain his serene mindset. Now was the time to rest and ready to rejoin the fight, for the battle had only just begun.

A quick survey told him Yan, Wu Gam, and BoShui had also retreated to rest, which made him feel a little better about his lacking stamina, especially in light of Mister Rustram himself. Unlike Zian or his peers, Mister Rustram had been fighting on the front lines since the battle began and was still out there, moving up and down the line with a unit of Death Corps and providing aid wherever needed. How the man still had the energy to move was a mystery, but aside from his gore-covered armour, the man seemed as fresh as a daisy as he slipped through soldiers to deliver killing thrusts and booming words of encouragement, all while controlling the overall battle with his invaluable commands. Though not a peerless swordsman by any means, Mister Rustram seemed a born leader of men, whereas Zian merely knew how to command them. The soldiers in his retinue were here on his mother’s orders or had joined along with Mentor, not out of allegiance to ‘Situ Jia Zian’. They heeded his instructions, but Mister Rustram spoke with authority and soldiers leapt to obey, their loyalty and respect won through skill and competence.

“Young Master,” Mentor said, appearing at Zian’s side. “Guard yourself well, for I leave to join the battle. Watch carefully and commit my actions to memory, for should I fall today, then this will be the last lesson I teach you. Worry not, for there is not much left to teach. You stand on the precipice of greatness, and even without my guidance, I am certain you will reach the Peak.”

Clasping Mentor’s hand, Zian looked up at the man who’d taught his so much and said, “Mother watch over you Mentor. You say you have little left to teach me, but even if this were true, I would still have you by my side. Return alive. That is all I ask.”

“I will do what I can, but the cloaked Demon is not a foe I can defeat without cost.” With a misty-eyed smile, Mentor swelled with pride and said, “Your father would be proud of the man you’ve become.” Clearing his throat, he released Zian’s hand and added, “Clear your mind, feed emotion to the void, and watch carefully, for Insight may strike at any time. You believe you have stumbled and stagnated, but you stand merely a single step from greatness. While many great warriors in history have stalled and failed at this critical juncture, you will conquer it with ease, because you are Lu Jia Zian, a dragon amongst men.”

With that, Mentor strode off to meet his foe, the katar-handed Demon who’d almost destroyed Zian’s sabres a mere two weeks ago. Prowling through the clumped horde of Defiled, the white-faced Demon’s glowing green eyes were locked on Mentor as it moved directly towards him, its cape of blades billowing behind in a false imitation of wind. Though dressed in dull, unadorned armour and greying prematurely, Mentor made for an imposing sight as he strode out to meet his foe, unsheathing his twin sabres to brandish them about in a practised flourish. Imperial and Defiled alike gave way to the two fearsome combatants, though with the Defiled, it was more out of self-preservation than anything else as the Demon’s billowing cape erupted into a nest of dagger-headed snakes, snapping and thrusting at anything in their path. Sabres singing as they whistled through the air, Mentor moved them about in a defensive pattern in preparation for the Demon’s overwhelming assault, warrior and Demon drawing closer together step by careful step.

Only now did Zian realize why his Mentor felt it necessary to bid him farewell. There would be no cautious trades or careful testing, for he had already taken the Demon’s measure during their previous encounter and found himself lacking. The fight had yet to begin and Mentor was already on the back foot, thinking defensively before the first exchange. Unable to see a way to break through the sinuous mass of blades, Zian’s Mentor had given up on killing the Demon and placed his hopes of victory on delaying long enough for his allies to help. How long could he last dancing about the Defiled lines beneath the Demon’s multi-pronged assault? A minute? Two? A single missed parry or errant step could spell doom for Zian’s mentor, for -

Sailing through the air, a brown object crashed into the white-faced Demon and knocked it into the crowd. Cackling in delight, Eccentric Gam charged through the Defiled lines with his staff held before him, bowling over anyone unfortunate enough to be caught in his path and leaving a distinct void in his wake. “Switch Demons with me,” Gam called as he ran by a surprised Mentor. “I hate fighting slippery bastards, too frustrating and not at all fun.” And with that, he barrelled forward with a maddened laugh, heedless of the swords, spears, axes, and dagger-headed appendages tearing through his ratty robes and glancing off his unmarked skin.

...Unfair. Utterly unfair.

For the sake of his morale, Zian forced himself to stop watching Eccentric Gam and focused on his Mentor’s match against his new foe, a lithe, humanoid creature resembling a tree with limbs which were too long and a head which sat crooked upon its shoulders. Considering its twisting, pliable body and unpredictable, undulating movements, this was a much better match for both Experts and Gam’s quick switch may have just saved Mentor’s life, a fact which flooded Zian with gratitude and relief. Eccentric though he might be, the half-fox was an experienced Peak Expert deserving of respect and admiration. Putting the errant thoughts out of mind, he watched Mentor dance through the Forms against his tree-like foe, chipping away at the creature with a flurry of strikes while avoiding its attacks with almost careless ease.

One step to resume his journey towards the Martial Peak. Zian knew he must become One with the World, but the question was: how?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Though brimming with energy and eager to rejoin the battle, BoShui followed orders and drew back to give his troops time to rest. Mister Rustram was a good man and an able commander, because by pulling Zian, Wu Gam, Du Min Yan, and himself away from battle, this allowed their Experts to wholly focus on their Demon opponents instead of worrying about their respective charges. Even though BoShui still had other Experts to watch over him, the other three were not so blessed. Zian only had his Mentor to guard him, a curious state of affairs considering how his mother doted on him, and Wu Gam’s circumstances were the same, though undoubtedly for different reasons. Where Zian likely had protectors guarding him in secret from Defiled and Society alike, Wu Gam could barely find enough warriors to join his retinue, much less trusted Experts to keep him safe. A shame for a man so talented to be so universally neglected, but considering his mentor was titled ‘the Eccentric’, perhaps not entirely unwarranted. As for Du Min Yan, her esteemed Grandfather had enough influence to fill her retinue with Experts and nothing else even if she were a Second Grade Warrant Officer, but the living legend believed in letting his students and Disciples work their way up from the bottom ranks, so he left her the one half-cat slave Expert to guard her openly.

In contrast, BoShui now had eight Experts openly guarding him, whereas most Captains and Third Grade Warrant officers would only have one or two. Four had been provided to him by Uncle BoHai, trusted warriors who served with him at the Northern wall, while the other four... they were old ‘acquaintances’ of this soldier or that officer who BoShui was familiar with, and coincidentally, all four separately asked to join his retinue in Nan Ping. On the surface, all four newcomers were strangers to one another, yet they were also all skilled in Concealment and carried themselves with the same paranoid detachment. Knowing full well they were spies or Aspirants, BoShui still accepted them with open arms, either to use or reform them, but he couldn’t let the charade continue once he learned of their hidden agenda. Tearing his eyes away from the Aspirant battling with an ursine Demon, BoShui turned to MuYang and Sent, “Did any of you serve with her?”

Blinking in feigned confusion and hidden panic, MuYang tilted his head and replied, “Serve with whom, young master?”

The act was almost convincing except MuYang’s hand strayed to his sword and eyes darted to the other Aspirants by his side, readying to take BoShui hostage if need be. Waving his loyal Experts away, he stood surrounded by three of the Confessor’s dogs and Sent, “My cousin, BoLao. Did you ever serve with her? I assume you did since she played a part in fabricating all your histories, but I could be wrong.”

Giving up the charade, MuYang’s shoulders slumped as he sighed, though his hand still gripped his sword. “Yes. I was with the Priestess in Sanshu until she ordered us to scatter and bring news of the Bekhai betrayal to the Confessor. I would have gladly died to keep her safe, but the Empire had to be warned.” Spitting into the dirt, he added, “For all the good it’s done. I felt Falling Rain’s tainted Aura firsthand, yet still he is crowned Number One Talent in the Empire and held up as a paragon of the people. We have all been fooled by Imperial lies and deceits, even you, young master.”

