Vivian hopped through the shattered hole in the sewer floor, cushioning the impact with her legs as she landed in the cavern below. She had lived in Myrin’s Keep for a couple of years now, and she had not had even the slightest inkling that something like this existed below the town.

She waited as the five applicants shimmied down the rope, chatting excitedly among themselves. Their first encounter with the monsters in the sewer had been predictably rough, but they had surprised Vivian with how quickly they adapted, and by the time they had unlocked their classes, their team was able to deal with all the threats they encountered with reasonable efficiency, which was how they earned their experience and unlock so quickly. Sure, they were green as fresh grass, but her experienced eye saw potential here.

The mayor’s son, Aiden, seemed to have a natural aptitude for leadership. Or perhaps the group members simply understood the value of teamwork. But even the Goblin and the girl from the slums had quickly slotted into their assigned roles, and by the end, Vivian would never have said they had first met their companions a scant few hours before.

They’re not guild members yet, Vivian reminded herself, worried about getting attached – but she hated to admit she was desperate for recruits. In the last class advancement, she had recruited only a few new members, most going to the garrison or the Town Watch instead – and one of her newest, Katie Brockworth, had turned up dead in an alleyway just two days ago. Stabbed in the back and left with a literal calling card picturing a finger pressed across lips tucked into her bloody robe. She would track down the murderer and end them.

Vivian frowned. Her guild was simply too new to have established a great reputation. If news of the murder got out, it would become next to impossible to attract good people. But hopefully this time, it would be different. She tried not to get her hopes up too much as she led them all back through the forest to the shrine.

That shrine. Her eyes settled on the enormous black obelisk and the intensely glowing runes inscribed on it, and the tiny Fae creature sitting beside it, waiting for their return. This was no ordinary shrine, she knew. The Pathfinder Guild that supplied the critical artifacts was far from able to create something this powerful. Originally modeled on the shrines grown by the highest-level sentient dungeons, the Pathfinder Guild had learned to duplicate the most essential features, spreading their constructed shrines to all corners of the continent. But what stood before her was most certainly an original – a dungeon shrine.

An involuntary shiver rushed through her body. She had seen one only once before, and it hadn’t been nearly as big as this one. It had been moments before the dungeon had decimated her party, leaving her – the sole survivor – horribly injured. She had barely escaped with her life.

How does Aliandra have one of these? It was a question she most certainly needed to investigate. But for now, she was eager to see what classes it could bestow on their five candidates.

“Who would like to go first?” Aliandra asked.

There was a momentary pause while all of them glanced at each other.

“Havok go first!” the Goblin declared. “Havok create havoc.”

“Alright, Mr. Havok. Let’s see if we can get you a good class so you can be a powerful warrior. Use the mana affinity feature first, it has a chance to make you even stronger.”

“Ok, Miss Aliandra!” Havok’s face lit up with a big smile hearing Aliandra use his preferred name, and he strode up to the shrine, resting his rusty sword and the shield he had acquired in the sewer against a rock before reaching out to touch the shrine with grubby green fingers.

Vivian had no idea what to expect, but the runes on the shrine dimmed briefly before it emitted a deep, bone-shaking thrumming noise that shook the entire Grove. A carpet of yellow-white flames erupted from the moss around the Goblin’s feet, burning without consuming, flooding the Grove with a powerful scent of incense accented with the soft undertone of warm caramel. An enormous pillar of yellow-white light burst forth, transfixing the Goblin and lifting his tiny body clean off the ground, leaving him suspended in a vibrating torrent of mana and energy. His mouth was open and moving as if he were screaming, but no sounds could be heard.

Suddenly, the light cut off, the thrumming noise faded, and the Goblin dropped to the ground amid the still-flickering tongues of flame. He groaned, obviously shaken, and clambered to his feet frantically looking around, but after a nod from Aliandra, he once again placed his hand on the shrine – a touch more tentatively this time.

The runes dimmed one more time, somewhat anticlimactically, and Havok removed his hand, slowly walking over to retrieve his discarded sword and shield.

“What did you get, Havok?” Aiden asked while their entire group stared at him with anxious curiosity.

The Goblin looked up at them and raised his shield. A sudden flare of yellow light burst out, manifesting as a brilliant shield of mana overlaying the mundane one of chipped and scratched wood. His rusty sword burst into yellow-white flames.

“Havok is Holy Knight!” he declared and broke into a huge grin of excitement.

The Goblin is a fucking Paladin? Vivian thought in amazement, recognizing the Holy Shield and Consecration he had just used. People spent years as acolytes to various temples and orders trying to earn a similar class, and the Goblin had just pulled one out of the shrine like it was the easiest thing in the world. Well, not that easy, judging by the curl of smoke wafting out of his left ear.

The group cheered for him and suddenly they were all lining up to use the shrine, with exclamations of excitement as they unlocked their classes and affinities, and cheers of congratulations as each person earned their class.

Vivian stared, openly dumbfounded as each candidate unlocked potent mana affinities followed by a ridiculous class.

Paladin – Goblin – level 1 (Holy Knight)Warrior – Human – level 1 (Ice Swordsman)Rogue – Human – level 1 (Wind Blade)Archer – Human – level 1 (Lightning Archer)Mage – Human – level 1 (Rock Mage)

What the fuck? Vivian couldn’t believe her eyes. She had thought Aliandra and her group to be the anomaly of the century when she first evaluated them, but this group standing before her looked to be every bit as remarkable. Every single person had an affinity-enhanced class.

As the excitement slowly tempered into a quieter conversation, Aiden turned to her.

“Vivian Ross, could you please tell us about the guild? I assume that’s why you’re here, right?”

“It is,” she admitted, collecting herself and picking her proverbial jaw up from where it had hit the floor earlier. She felt bruised having just been a spectator.

Moment of truth, she thought. But she would need to handle this carefully.

“Membership to my guild is optional, but it is available to each of you if you would like.” She knew from hard-won experience that if she were the one pushing, she would end up with entitled people who refused to work hard and didn’t cooperate – and that was the death of a guild. The commitment had to be genuine and offered freely for it to be worth anything. Unfortunately, that way was the slowest way to build a guild, especially one starting out with little to no reputation. Even worse if Mieriel was right and Katie’s death was a sign they were being targeted by a new assassin.

“With normal guilds, level ten is the minimum to join, and counts as bronze rank,” Vivian continued. “I waive that requirement and allow people to join immediately at novice rank. I believe in solid training and hard work to progress, and the guild provides instruction and lectures on adventuring as part of your membership. You will also gain access to the quest and jobs board at level ten, allowing you to earn money with your class.”

She paused, considering what else she might say to convince them, without forcing the issue either way.

“You don’t need to make a decision immediately – the option will remain open for you if you wish to think about it.”

“We all got pretty good classes, didn’t we?” Aiden asked, pursing his lips in thought.

This is where he pitches a ‘deal’ for better treatment. Vivian had heard it all before. He was the son of the mayor, and he had an Ice Swordsman class – in most guilds in the kingdom, he could write his own charter.

“Yes, you guys have incredible classes.”

It’s a pity though, I thought they looked good together. Vivian had allowed herself to hope too much, and now she felt thoroughly let down.

“Havok will join guild! Havok get strong and take jobs to help people!”

Vivian blinked at the excitable Goblin for a moment. Just like that? No conditions? I suppose he is a Goblin.

“I would like to join too.” This time it was the girl from the slums, Devan, dressed in her rags, now splattered with blood and ooze. “I would like to earn some money, and maybe buy a better dagger.”

Vivian couldn’t believe it. The girl had landed a Wind Blade rogue class, and her ambition was to buy a slightly better weapon. What is wrong with these people?

“We would like to join too,” Aiden said after exchanging glances with his two friends. “And I was wondering if we could keep this group as our party? We seemed… good together?”

“Yes, you were. You may sign up as a group if you all agree,” Vivian said, but inside, her mind was reeling.

What just happened? All of them? All five had asked to join the guild, asking for no special treatment in return. Each of them was smiling, seemingly excited by the prospect. A piece of her wanted to scream that it was too good to be true, but nobody changed their minds, all of them happily falling in beside her as she turned to lead them back to town, her voice explaining the signup process without much input from her mind.

“Thank you, Aliandra,” she said, turning to the Fae who was looking just as happy as she felt. “I’ll let you know when the others make their appointments.”

They all got crazy good classes… but it was the Fae who did it. Classes, affinities, and even the trials. Vivian swallowed as she turned away. Just who or what is she? Do I even want to ask that question?

It had only taken two days for all the crafter and merchant candidates to complete their trials and Ali had happily taken each of them to the shrine one at a time to choose their classes. Not all of them had revealed latent mana affinities using the shrine, but every single one of them had found a class that excited them among the list of options her shrine had offered.

“Here we go,” Ali said, coming to a stop before the shrine.

“I still can’t believe you have all this growing down here,” Basil said, his eyes never resting as they darted among the trees and mushrooms.

Ali shrugged and smiled at him. “Was your trial easy?”

“Oh, no, Eliyen made me work harder than she ever had!” he said, and then he paused. “Wait, I have something for you.” He carefully unslung the small pack he was carrying and slowly pulled out three carefully wrapped clay pots.

Ali could already see the mana wafting outward even before he unwrapped them. “What is that?”

“It’s a gift for you,” Basil said, unwrapping the pots and handing them to her. “For your collection.”

Each pot was filled with a dark brown potting soil and from the center sprouted a clump of sword-like blue leaves, leaking a strong bluish-purple mana into the surrounding air.

Blue Mana Grass – Grass – level 11 (Arcane)

“You got me some arcane grass!” Ali exclaimed. Bless his kind heart. What a thoughtful gift!

“It’s incredibly difficult to cultivate,” Basil said, twisting his mouth to the side. “Eliyen made me germinate them for my trial. They can be processed into ingredients for mid-range mana potions, so they’re always in high demand.”

“I didn’t realize you could grow a level eleven mana plant without a class,” Ali said, taking each pot and setting them down carefully on the stone path.

“I can’t,” Basil said ruefully, scratching his head and further mussing up his tousled brown hair. “But when Eliyen heard I wanted to give them to you as a gift, she helped me finish growing them. That’s why we took a little longer.”

“Thank you, Basil,” Ali said. “Now, let’s get your class unlocked. First use the mana affinity feature.” Ali activated the shrine for him.

“Ok,” Basil said, his face suddenly serious. He reached his hand to touch the shrine and then a few moments later, a cascade of vibrant green mana burst from his body. A rush of tiny wildflowers rippled across the ground at his feet in a blooming wave, filling the air with the heady scent of jasmine. Illusory vines made from mana shot up from the ground, filling the air with an explosion of green leaves and aromatic, woody scents.

“Oh, my!” Basil exclaimed, his breathing coming fast. “I got a nature affinity!”

“Surprised, are you?” Ali laughed, watching as the vines and flowers slowly faded. “I’ve unlocked the class selection too, take your time.”

Ali turned to the pots on the ground and carefully deconstructed each of them.

Variant: Blue Mana Grass added to Imprint: Grass

Looks like a clumping grass, she thought, recalling how Basil had categorized them. Scanning the Grove, she selected a large boulder protruding from the ground beside a heavy oak and began to create her grasses, grateful that she could select the proper variant directly now.

She planted several clusters of it nestled up against the rock, fascinated to discover that the mana the grass emitted had somehow changed to her signature golden color instead of the original purple. Looks so pretty!

“That looks great,” Basil said, walking up to join her. “I tried so hard to find something that matched your affinities.”

“You done?” Ali asked. “Get something you like?” It was such a thoughtful gift. Ali could already see the welling fount of arcane mana generated by the blue-bladed grass slipping into the weave of her domain, augmenting and strengthening it, just like the Glowcaps.

“I love my class!” he exclaimed.

Ali looked up and identified him.

Herbalist – Human – level 1 (Nature)

That leaves only Ryn, she thought. Fully eight out of eleven candidates had unlocked a latent mana affinity, and Ali’s mind stubbornly insisted that meant the pendulum needed to swing the other way – that Ryn would fail to get something good. The thought filled her with anxiety even though she understood chance did not work that way.

But what if I gave all the good classes to strangers?

