Shush, she told her mind. There wasn’t anything she could do about it, and Ryn’s boss was only due back in a week anyway. She put it out of her mind, resolving to enjoy her time on their regular lunch date today. She had finished the last book all too quickly, and now she was looking forward to chatting about it.

“Come, Basil,” she said, calling her minions over. “Let me escort you back up to town.”

***

“Hi, Ryn,” Ali called out into the bookshop, gazing around but not seeing her friend anywhere.

“I’ll be right there, Ali,” a voice called out from between several closely-set bookshelves. Ryn always seemed to be reorganizing the entire store, and there were books piled on boxes and laid out carefully on the floor in various heaps, clearly in the middle of the sorting process. The Kings and Emperors board that seemed to be perpetually midgame was showing what appeared to be the late stages of an epic battle.

“Hi, Ali,” Ryn said, finally emerging from behind the book piles. “I got you a present.” She offered a stylish paper bag with two handles.

“What is it for?” Ali asked, accepting the bag, and looking inside. She gasped in surprise at what she found. Carefully, she pulled out the heavy Monster Compendium. “Ryn, this is too expensive!” She couldn’t deny that she coveted this book, but honestly, what was Ryn thinking?

“I wanted to get you something to say thank you for the shrine, and for thinking of me.”

“But you haven’t even gotten your class yet? What if it doesn’t turn out well?” She blurted her fears out without thinking, and then instantly wished she could pull the words back.

“Nonsense, it’s the thought that counts, and I really appreciate it. Besides, I get a store discount and you’ve been drooling over that book every time you come over. It would make me happy for you to have it.”

Ali hovered momentarily between wanting to argue and wanting to keep the book, in the end deciding that she couldn’t reject the gift and potentially hurt Ryn’s feelings.

“Thank you! I love it.”

“I know,” Ryn answered with a mischievous grin. “You can be a little obvious sometimes, you know?”

“That bad?” Ali asked, but she knew it was true.

Ryn just chuckled as she walked over to the table and laid out some teacups and cookies beside the gameboard.

“What are you studying?” Ali asked, pointing at the Kings and Emperors set as she took a seat. Every time she visited the board was set in some new configuration.

“The Elorthian royal defense strategy today,” Ryn answered. “Do you play?”

“I know the rules,” Ali answered. She wasn’t familiar with the defense Ryn had named, but then she wasn’t familiar with the Elorthians either – perhaps they had come after her time. At least she was familiar enough to read the board and understand the position.

“I can reset the board if you want to play,” Ryn said, and Ali was surprised to see the intensity in her friend’s eyes – an intensity that was almost as great as when she spoke of her favorite books.

“Sure,” Ali answered, but then as Ryn set the board, she noticed something amiss. “You left out some of your pieces.”

“That’s the handicap,” Ryn answered.

“You have nine fewer pieces, that seems a little excessive?” Ali said. And a little presumptuous, she thought. This would be the first time they played, and although Ali wasn’t an expert, she wasn’t a beginner either. A nine-piece advantage was the largest handicap that could be given.

“Oh, I’m sorry! I’m just used to giving everyone a nine-piece advantage,” Ryn answered quickly, her face registering sudden distress, “I didn’t mean to come across as rude.”

“It’s ok,” Ali answered, quickly trying to assuage Ryn’s mortification. She liked Ryn and if she had an inflated opinion of her skill at her favorite game, Ali didn’t mind too much.

But no more than five moves into the game, Ali realized that the nine-piece advantage she had been given was nowhere near enough. Somehow, Ryn’s play was dominant from the start and Ali immediately found herself on the defensive and losing ground. But the look in her friend’s eyes was not one of gloating, but rather a pure joy and happiness that Ali found was beginning to affect her too, despite her quick losses.

They spent the next half hour enjoying tea and cookies, while Ali lost repeatedly – but in turn, she grilled Ryn for everything she had felt about the characters in the book she had just read, and what the ending had really meant.

“Hey Ali, can I ask you a favor?” Ali was getting ready to leave when Ryn stopped her.

“Sure, what do you need?”

“Well, you’ve mentioned the library a bunch and… well, I was wondering if you’d take me to see it? It sounds so grand!”

“It’s a bit of a mess at the moment.” Ali hadn’t been in the library since her fiasco with her book imprint, and she wasn’t quite sure she was ready to confront whatever feelings lurked in there for her.

“It’s ok if you don’t want to,” Ryn demurred. But Ali could tell she had set her heart on it.

“Ok, I’ll take you,” she said. It was just some annoying feelings anyway, and if it made Ryn happy, well that’s how friends should treat each other. “It’s a bit of a long walk. And a rope climb.”

But Ryn was already beaming.

The walk itself was pretty uneventful, and her barrier magic made the descent down the ventilation shaft much easier, but Ali still collected several of her Kobolds to escort them. Habit. It paid to be prepared, and despite Calen’s scouting, there were still many caverns and passages that led to places unknown.

“I’m sorry it’s in such bad shape,” Ali said, leading the way up the mossy carpet she had planted to the huge, shattered stone doors. “I think it’s going to take a lot of work to repair. Come on in!” Now that she was here, showing Ryn, she wondered what she had been so afraid of. Ryn’s awe and wonder as she gazed up at the library made it all worthwhile.

But right as they entered, Ryn stumbled, tumbling to the ground and staring about in shock.

“Ryn! Are you ok?” Ali hurried over to help her up, berating herself for not having cleaned off all the bone encrustations on the floors.

“It’s not that…” Ryn said, pausing while she stared off into the distance. In a small voice, she added, “I just got offered a class…”

“You did?”

“Yes, right as we walked in. It says my natural class is Librarian. Do you think I should take it?”

“No!” Ali was not going to let Ryn take the natural class without trying the shrine first. “I know it’s a hassle, but we should get you to the shrine so you can see all your options.”

“Ok,” Ryn said, picking herself up and dusting off her dress.

While Ryn put a good face on it, Ali could tell she was getting more and more nervous as they got closer to the shrine.

“What if there are no good classes?” she asked finally as they arrived.

“There will be,” Ali said firmly. She had worried about exactly the same thing, but she refused to add to Ryn’s anxiety. Selecting a class was stressful enough already, after all, it was a permanent change that would affect her entire life.

“Put your hand on the shrine, and use the ability for latent mana affinities first,” Ali instructed, activating the shrine for her.

Please, please, please be something good.

Ryn placed her hand, and a long silence stretched out through the Grove, spiking Ali’s anxiety. Just as she was certain it had failed, the runes dimmed, and a deep sonorous chime sounded across the Grove. Brilliant arcing bolts of golden mana shot out from Ryn’s chest and arms, wreathed in flames of deep violet. The mana tugged at Ali’s heart and her mind as flickers of half-remembered events cascaded through her like fragmented dreams or glimpses of other lives.

Just when the intensity of sound and mana reached a crescendo, it suddenly stopped, dropping Ryn back to the mossy ground in a boneless heap.

Ali rushed over immediately, but Ryn slowly sat up.

“That was intense! I got… arcane mana? And divination?”

“You got two affinities?” Ali could scarcely believe it. Multiple affinities were rare – even rarer among humans. And divination mana was one of the rarest and most challenging mana affinities she had heard of.

Ryn nodded, slowly getting to her feet, and allowing Ali to help.

“Do you want to rest for a bit?”

“No, I want to see what classes there are,” Ryn said, a determined look on her face now.

“Ok.” Ali activated the shrine one more time and Ryn got that far-off look in her eyes as she examined her options.

“There’s a lot of choices, Ali,” she said.

“You should read them all.”

“I already did. I have a reading skill, remember? Ali, there’s a class called Knowledge Seeker, and it says it’s a Librarian class that was unlocked for discovering one of the great libraries.” Her voice was filled with awe and wonder. “It uses both arcane and divination mana. Do you think I should take it? Can I take it?”

“Do you like it?” Ali asked.

“I love it!” she exclaimed. “It’s… it’s a dream come true.”

“Then you should definitely choose it,” Ali answered. After all, liking your class was the most important part. A consideration that Ali hadn’t had the luxury of indulging in at the time she had chosen.

Ryn’s eyes unfocused as she concentrated and then she said, “I get a skill for memorizing, and organizing information, and one that helps reading and studying, and… OH! I can fly!”

“Show me!” Ali answered, enjoying Ryn’s excitement just as much as she had her own discovery of flying.

Ryn concentrated for a moment and two transparent golden butterfly wings appeared from her back shimmering and insubstantial, bordered with a deep purple glow.

Ali cheered while Ryn tested her wings, flying around but staying close to the ground while she got used to it. Her wings are so pretty.

“Ali, I got a teleport spell too. I can set any library I visit as a teleport destination and travel there. I only have one location to start with. I know it’s a long walk, but do you mind if we go back to the library so I can set my first teleport there?”

“Of course,” Ali said. She didn’t mind the walk, and now that Ryn had her class, she had a lot of questions about her skills. As they walked, Ali identified her.

Librarian – Human – level 1 (Arcane / Divination)

“Ali, why does a librarian class get wings?” Ryn asked as they walked through the giant doors again.

“Have you seen this library?” Ali asked, sending her barriers higher up the walls to illuminate the many-story-tall shelves with their circular walkways and ladders ascending hundreds of feet into the air. “Back when it was in use, librarians and clerks would need teleportation, flying, or telekinesis spells to retrieve books for people.”

Ryn stared upward in awe.

“Come on!” Ali said, hopping on one of her barriers. “Let’s fly!” Now that they could both fly, Ali decided Ryn needed a proper tour, getting the feel for the sheer enormity that was the grand library. While she was initially scared and cautious, Ryn rapidly got the hang of her wings, and after a while, she was darting back and forth making adventurous dips and loops, although when one almost ended in disaster, she became much more cautious.

They paused together, hovering in the center of the atrium.

“I have one more spell, but I’m unsure how to use it,” Ryn said.

“What does it do?” Ali asked.

Ryn shared the skill with Ali, the text appearing as violet light trimmed with an outline of gold.

Seek Knowledge – level 1Mana: The seeker will show the path to the knowledge you most desire or need. Recharge: 24 hours.Divination, Area, Knowledge, Intelligence

“That seems very vague,” Ali said thoughtfully. “It is named after your class, so maybe it’s a signature skill of some kind? It doesn’t seem like it could hurt. Maybe just try it?”

“Ok,” she said.

Jagged tendrils of violet mana exploded out of Ryn like lightning feelers crackling out across the enormous library in all directions, arcing to shelves and walls and floor. The strange phenomenon continued for about ten seconds and suddenly an intense golden core of light shot out filling a single branch as if to form a pure mana lightning strike into the wall across on the second floor.

Ryn gasped, out of breath for a few moments. “I saw a book,” she said.

“Let’s go see,” Ali said excitedly, giving Ryn a few moments to catch her breath. They both flew across the huge atrium towards the spot Ryn’s spell had struck.

“There’s nothing here,” Ryn said, looking about in confusion. “I thought I saw a book – I’m sure I saw one.”

There really was nothing there. Just a stone wall. Ali examined it closely, paying extra attention to her Arcane Insight, running her fingers along the wall just to be sure, but she couldn’t find anything out of the ordinary.

“Hmm,” Ali said. “Let me try something.” The wall bothered her. There was nothing there. Not even ambient mana.

She activated her deconstruction magic while resting her palm flat against the stone wall. The light of her magic twisted and warped strangely making the stone shimmer and ripple. Ali stared at it curiously – stone didn’t normally behave that way. Not even when she deconstructed it. She was about to say something when it vanished without warning.

It did not explode into motes of mana, as she had expected. Nor did she receive the usual flood of knowledge pouring into her mind. Instead, the stone simply vanished, revealing a small shelf set into the wall with a glass door covering the front. There was a hole in the glass the size of her palm, and the complex runic script etched across the glass fizzled and spat with leaking energy where her magic had deleted a critical piece.

“An illusion?” Ryn gasped.

“I think so,” Ali said. And if she wasn’t mistaken, a layer of high-potency protection runes which had just been deactivated.

Ali reached out and tugged at the glass door, making it swing open, revealing a single book within. It was a heavy tome, bound with thick black leather and steel edge caps. Silver runes were inlaid into the cover and spine of the book, glowing with what Ali guessed was preservation magic.

Whoever made this book wanted it to last, she thought. She reached out and laboriously lifted the heavy book so she and Ryn could see the cover.

Dungeons and Domains: A Complete Reference.

