Noa believed at once and began asking a hundred thousand questions, ‘what happened to the other species?’, ‘how many Humans were there?’, ‘the entire world? All of it? Is it like ours?’, and so on.
Guidance was instantly the opposite, more skeptical, asking if Luan could prove this. Ekrn wanted to know if more Humans were going to appear, if another world was going to begin bothering this one.
Enchanter Ilekrome tried to talk five times, realized he was being drowned out by the hubbub, and snapped his finger. Everyone kept talking—but suddenly even Luan’s voice was gone. They all looked at him and the [Enchanter] spoke.
“As I was saying, I believe the Human Luan has proof.”
He gestured and Luan nodded.
“Ekrn already found it. Here.”
He placed his smartphone down in front of the Fraerlings. The rest was history.
 
—-
 
Proof of Earth was simple—all you had to do was bring something that was clearly, undeniably made of Earth.
There was no magic in the smartphone. Yet it glowed. It wasn’t a lichen or something you could just make; the material was too advanced, too unique. It was a product of machinery, industry.
The Fraerlings recognized it at once. Now, Luan felt like the stuff of stories again because over three hundred were gathered around the smartphone. He watched, apprehensively, as they took it apart.
Oh, they’d marveled at the screen, the apps, but Ekrn had already seen it and what fascinated the Fraerling was different than other species. Other species saw the smartphone and investigated what it could do; Fraerlings wanted to know how it was made.
“Can we take it apart?”
The Alchimeer had asked Luan. The man had given them a quick lecture on the fragility of electronics, the problems with putting it together…but the Fraerlings were insistent. They were also convincing, and Luan wouldn’t have let a Lizardfolk do what they were doing next.
“Steady—steady—keep everyone back! Tallguard, double-postings! Nothing gets in here; we’re sitting bugs on a log if a hawk dives! I want eyes!”
Ekrn was exhorting the Fraerlings as they worked. Luan watched as first, a very odd, metallic sheet was laid on the ground. Then huge panes of glass—they were making a containment area! An observation spot while a group of six worked within!
“I’m told this can be [Repaired]? Then we have a contingency.”
Enchanter Ilekrome looked at Luan as one of his subordinates worked. The United Nations company had discovered they could charge devices with the spell, and that it did save valuable electronics from cracks and minor breaks. Luan nodded.
“Not that we’ll be doing any of that. Enchanter, what’s the call? [Room of Weightlessness]?”
“No. Not null gravity; the pieces cannot be moved. [Room of Stasis].”
“Understood. Linking up!”
This was a lesson for the Human as well as the Fraerlings. The smartphone was their size, but before they even opened it they’d created a room devoid of outside interference. Even, he realized, air. The [Enchanter] was touching each Fraerling who entered, muttering. The iPhone, carried between two, froze as the spell activated.
Not ‘hovered’, but froze. Literally froze midair, trapped as it had been. As the Enchanter had said, it wasn’t a gravity spell, but something else.
Then they took his smartphone apart and any ideas of Earth superiority in technology were put to the challenge. Because it took the Alchimeer, two [Engineers], the Enchanter and their respective subordinates less than two minutes to figure out how the smartphone was opened.
“I can see the joining seams here…aha! Screws. Looks like they’re a bit big—I need a custom-sized screwdriver, here! Damn, interesting cuts…is it to keep us out? We might need to adjust what we have.”
The tiny screws in the iPhone, the little ports, everything was a lot bigger for Fraerlings. In moments, one of the [Engineers] had found the two he needed to remove. He waved for some others crowding to see, but the Enchanter’s [Mage]-Fraerling just snorted.
“You can do a mold of that later. Let me.”
He eyed the opening, and conjured a magical cylinder, with teeth to match the slot! It rotated both screws out in moments and the Fraerlings checked the casing for any other cunning locks.
Luan had never actually seen an iPhone being opened, and so was little help. The Fraerlings looked at each other.
“Looks like it’s just stuck on there. We’ll have to pull it apart. Now that’s a dubious decision; they could have sealed it with more than two screws. Tallfolk. You’re going to trust important contents behind the same principle as a cork in a jar? Tsk, tsk. Alright, on three. One, two…”
The iPhone came apart and the Fraerlings gasped. If they had needed proof—here it was.
The microchips, battery, and component parts of the iPhone hovered in the air. The Fraerling team looked at it all, keeping well clear of touching any of the internal workings. They just spoke, amid the outside babble. The Alchimeer cleared his throat, turning to the others and Luan.
“Human—no. Wait. I want some unbiased observations first. Speculation.”
“Well, it’s certainly all components. Amazing.”
One of the Enchanters paced around the iPhone, staring inside. He eyed the battery, but the [Mage] was focused on the actual computer-electronics themselves. He squatted lower, frowning. One of the [Engineers] grinned.
“Hm. Hah. That’s hilarious. This is micro-work, even for us. Can you imagine the technology a Tallfolk would need to make this? But we can still see ways to improve it. That Tallfolk could cut and lay lines of metal…what is the purpose?”
The [Mage] scratched at her chin.
“Runework, obviously. Only for electricity? Yes. Of course! This is how you transfer what’s needed. Like a magical spell—but so neat! But what’s the composition of this stuff?”
She pointed at the case, and the plastic itself. One of the [Alchemists] grunted.
“Let’s get a piece and try to break it down into components—unless the entire casing needs to be maintained for perfect working?”
They pointed at the plastic frame. Luan shook his head.
“You could…take a corner of that part, there? But the computer chip can’t be damaged.”
He indicated the harmless casing. Alchimeer Straesta huffed.
“Obviously! I can see it’s a complete thing. It’s so funny, though.”
She indicated the iPhone.
“All of the inner workings are only half of the device itself! The other half’s your power source, the ‘battery’, and so on. You could make this half as large, easily!”
“But I wouldn’t be able to hold it in my hand.”
The Fraerlings looked up at Luan.
“Oh, right. Tallfolk need bigger things. I bet you if we knew how, we could make something just as tiny…damn. If we can’t reverse it in a cauldron, let’s do analysis spells. Unless that’ll damage the thing?”
“Shouldn’t do. It’s all non-magic. Alright, stop crowding! I need one [Mage] for analysis spells on component material. One—one of you idiots!—gets a part of the casing. Take it up and render it down. Now, what’s this glass? Seems—treated—can we activate this and see if we can trace how it’s working, or is that dangerous?”
It was the Guidance who turned and called out.
“Find me all our [Librarians], [Historians], and experts. Go over the blueprints and see if you can find a match with any of this! This…might move us forward centuries!”
The Fraerling hubbub intensified. This, Luan realized, was more valuable than Earth’s tech alone. The Fraerlings of all people wanted to use this to uncover more Gnomish secrets. He couldn’t wipe a smile off his face. They were properly impressed by Earth’s technology.
“Oh, wipe that smile off your face. You didn’t make it.”
Ekrn glanced up at Luan, but he couldn’t hide the satisfied smirk on his face either.
 
—-
 
After that, everything changed. If Luan had been the friendly giant, but one with an uncertain fate, well, after that he was a proper guest. A friend.
Of course, accidents occurred. And it was due to the Fraerlings’ vigilance that it didn’t get bad. They actually determined they could take small chunks of everything with careful, careful [Repair] spells, and had even begun determining the various component parts of what each material was made of—if not how to create it.
It all went well right up until they investigated the battery. It turned out batteries did explode. Fortunately, the Fraerling who’d made the incision survived the first flare of fire.
“[Forcewall]! [Lesser Teleport]! [Repair], now! Everyone back!”
The battery was saved, much to Luan’s relief. The [Engineer] was teleported out so fast that the flare of acid or whatever was reacting didn’t touch them, and the hole was plugged and it was sealed back up in moments.
“Not a bad energy source! A shame we can’t convert the…well, maybe we can. [Aeromancer], can you detect the latent charge of this battery-thing at what Luan calls 100%? Then, convert it into a magical figure. Let’s see how it stacks up compared to your average Sage’s Grass plant. Four-months of growth versus one phone battery.”
A bunch of Fraerlings bustled around and showed the Alchimeer a figure. He took one look.
“Double-check that. That can’t be right.”
“Already done. Unless we’re off…”
The Human watched as another [Mage] specializing in lightning magic put hands on the battery, frowning.
“Something wrong?”
“Maybe it’s how this thing converts to electricity. Human Luan, we’re getting, well, our math isn’t off, but this is below 1% of a Sage’s Grass plant’s energy, converting electricity to magical force. Here.”
He had to draw the numbers bigger, but Luan could see that there were a lot of numbers after the decimal.
“Magic might just be more powerful than Earth technology, Alchimeer. Phone batteries have to be recharged each day and we don’t have healing potions.”
“Makes sense. The amount of energy to knit muscle…so we have an edge on energy. I guess there go hopes of replacing Paeth’s entire mana supply on your ‘solar’ or geothermal stuff. Wait, am I an idiot? If your entire phone runs on this much power, we could power all of Paeth at a fraction of the cost if we can convert mana to your energy! Now. How do you make air conditioning?”
Luan had no idea. Which disappointed the Fraerling [Engineers] no end, but he attracted their attention back again.
“Paige studied this kind of thing. If anyone could tell you more, it’s her. We also have other devices.”
That, of course, led to the Architects meeting.
“More Humans? This is exactly the problem. I have to overrule this. Maybe more devices, but more Humans goes into matters of security, Architects.”
“Even if it advances the Great Project a thousand years? Gnomes guide us, Sentry Leader—and I think they are—this is more than just Paeth! Farspeaker, you intend to contact every other settlement within hailing distance, don’t you?”
Ekrn hesitated. The Farspeaker was nodding to Citivican Loust.
“We have to share this. Human Luan is an acceptable risk given what we’re reaping. Frankly, I can already see the possibilities.”
“Turning into a Fraerling settlement with ties to the Tallfolk isn’t a light decision, Architects.”
Guidance Heish nodded. She looked around.
“We can’t be quick. Sentry Leader, what would you propose?”
Ekrn frowned.
“I trust Luan, but at this point, I want the Skywatcher and all the Tallguard back from their Gathering Run before any other Tallfolk even hear of this spot. Yes, we can trust Luan. I advise we give him all due help.”
“How are we doing with that, Alchimeer?”
The Fraerling was distracted, clearly wanting to go back to analyzing the dearth of information. He chewed at one lip.
“Oh, fine, fine. I tasked some [Engineers] and Enchanter Ilekrome’s people with Luan’s project; they don’t need me. My vote is for him to get back to Talenqual. Maybe not bring the Tallfolk back, but I see no reason to hold him up.”
The Architects were agreed on that. Luan was to be trusted. More technology was wanted—if not more Tallfolk. It only remained for the Tallguard to make their choice, and Ekrn wasn’t as certain they’d share the same sentiments.
 
—-
 
“The problem is, the Tallguard of Feiland are a force unto themselves, Luan. Feiland is a fort where we train, but we don’t defend it. Paeth is one of the big settlements—one of two—that Feiland guards, and we have a wide net. The Skywatcher is doing a Gathering Run, but they’ll want to talk to you when they return.”
“They’ve been gone for at least a week. Is that normal?”
Ekrn shrugged.
“Sure. They’re visiting all the collection spots. Food, alchemical ingredients, you name it. And visiting every small settlement including Oierdressql. That’s the other big city. They’ll bring back news, resources, to Paeth. Not long now, I think; I sent word to them. They might decide to send more word to other Fraerling settlements. Or…the Titan himself.”
Luan stooped and looked up.
“The Titan? You can talk to him?”
Ekrn paused before nodding.
“That’s a secret, but Feiland and all these Fraerling villages are under the protection of the Forgotten Wing Company. Only the Titan knows exactly where some of us are—and maybe not even him, but we can prevail on him for help. It’s part of the deal. There’s only one Tallfolk who knows about Paeth and that’s Three-Color Stalker. Know her?”
“Foliana of the Forgotten Wing Company? So that’s how you met him.”
Ekrn grunted. Luan stared at the Sentry Leader.
“You’re not a fan of his.”
“I told you. It’s not about liking or not liking him. He’s just crazy. We might tell them about you…but probably not. You’re not an issue, like someone sniffing around. We give the Titan what he wants, and he gives us what we want. A bit of protection now and then, monster-clearing for some places, and access to some of the rare stuff it’s hard to get, like sulfur. Paeth doesn’t interact with him much at all, but we do send him some Signim.”
“Ah. That’s why he does all that. No wonder he wants your help. He can’t produce it himself?”
Ekrn laughed.
“Unless his [Alchemists] are as good as ours? No. And it costs far too much as it is, so even he gets only a bit. Enough. The Titan’s a busybody—if he gets wind of you, he’ll march over with his entire army and you don’t want that. You’re our secret. As soon as the Skywatcher gets back, you can go. We should be done by then.”
Now that they were working together, Paeth had devoted its considerable resources—however small in scale—to helping Luan. The man began to understand some of the legends about Fraerlings as well.
