“Nonsense! Even Tallfolk know this spell. It’s a basic scouting spell; Tallguard use it all the time, even the Farspeaker! It’s just a bit of necromancy…”
“Necromancy? Hold on—”
The Fraerlings convinced him. It was mostly Ekrn telling Luan it was perfectly safe and that he had no choice that did the trick. Also—him telling Luan to his face that he’d be one of a few mortals who ever saw the inside of a Fraerling Village.
“It’s just so stupid. This is the problem with leaving it to the Inners.”
“That what-ers? These Architects? Your leaders?”
Ekrn shook his head. Noa, who’d already befriended Luan, waved cheerily. She had dark skin, not as dark as his own, and moss-leaf hair. Dyed, apparently. She wasn’t allowed to make it any vivid, unnatural colors, but green was fine for the jungle they were in.
“He means non-Tallguard, Luan. It’s like…non-[Soldiers] for you, I guess. The Architects aren’t the problem; everyone inside Paeth probably hasn’t ever seen Tallfolk before! Let alone gone outside!”
Luan stared at the tree in front of him. It was huge, a giant among giants on Earth, possibly a contender for one of the largest trees in the world there. Even so, he couldn’t believe it was home to seven hundred thousand.
“You’re telling me there are Fraerlings—Inners—who live their entire lives without seeing the outside world?”
“Yup. Tallguard are different. Special. We’re the only ones who go outside to make sure there are no threats. Anyways, there’s plenty of room inside.”
“Even with so many?”
“Yep. It’s bigger on the inside than the outside. Dimensional magic. Like Wistram, they say. Haven’t you seen something like it?”
She gave him a round-eyed look of innocent mystery, as if this was normal. Luan glanced at Ekrn, and the [Sentry Leader] gave him a significant glance. It seemed Ekrn understood more than even his other Tallguard why Luan’s peek was so worrying.
They had magic that Luan had never heard of. True, he hadn’t been here long, but—he took the cauldron, nearly dropped it, and swore.
“It’s hot!”
“Oh. Sorry. I normally have a vial. You might need a glove. Maybe a leaf?”
Gingerly, Luan lifted the cauldron, blew on it twice, and drank the scalding liquid. He gasped.
“That tastes—good!”
“Well, of course it does. Do you know how hard it is to get people to drink potions if they tasted like their components?”
The Fraerling looked amused. Luan opened his mouth.
“I’ve tasted healing potions and they taste like—”
His head drooped. Noa looked up as the Human began to keel forwards. The [Alchemist] screamed; Ekrn just whistled. Dozens of ropes shot forwards and caught Luan, dragging him down backwards. A [Mage] pointed.
“[Featherfall].”
It took six to make Luan slowly drift backwards towards the ground. His eyes were closed. They began preparing the next spell as the [Necromancer] yawned her way forwards.
 
—-
 
“—scrapings out of a trash can. What—”
Luan stared. Suddenly, he was staring around and the world was different! He was…looking through the world like it was a single, fish-eye lens. It was so disorientating he didn’t realize at first that the view was of a completely different place than he had been.
Everything was huge. He saw a few figures, and then a man bent down.
“Well, well, well. Not so huge after all, are we, Human?”
He was Luan’s height; maybe a bit shorter since Luan was a tall guy, but distinctly around the same height. Six feet, Luan would have guessed…if it weren’t for the fact that he knew Ekrn was six inches tall.
A woman of roughly the same height waved at him.
“Hi, Luan! You look—creepy!”
The floating eyeball rotated in the liquid, but couldn’t see itself. Luan’s voice, when it came out, was slightly muffled, but lacked the echo he expected.
“I’m…in the eyeball?”
“Basic possession magic. Don’t get attached. Literally. Sometimes people keep seeing out of the eye after it’s done—we’ll get rid of it. Okay! Into Paeth to show Tallfolk all our secrets because why not?”
“I think it could be helpful, boss. You know Paeth’s over its allotment. And the Tallguard had to go on the Gathering Run—what if he helped?”
“And what if we lived in a city and Humans visited us all the time? You know your history, [Sentry]! Stop believing in fairytales. He’s not some ‘magical Gnoll’ who washes ashore and fixes all wrongs.”
The eyeball swiveled from Ekrn to Noa as Luan adjusted to this new, temporary body. He interrupted as Noa lifted the jar with a grunt.
“Wait, you have stories about Tallfolk meeting you?”
“Yup. Historical accounts which aren’t so pretty, but every child reads the classics. What, you tell stories about meeting us? Hah. That’s funny. Fairy tales both ways.”
Ekrn looked amused. Now he was taller than Luan, or rather, speaking to the eye in the enchanted jar, he seemed less wary. Or maybe he was just resigned.
 
—-
 
As they walked, Ekrn explained what Luan was about to see. Which was counterintuitive, but, as the Fraerling man said, it wasn’t what Luan was going to see that mattered—it was what he wasn’t going to see.
“That makes no sense.”
The [Athlete] countered. He was feeling…slightly unwell, despite the spell working without a hitch. It was mostly because he had no legs, arms—no body at all. He didn’t even know how he was hearing or speaking. They claimed they’d looped in a basic speech and hearing spell with the necromantic possession, but the more Luan thought about it, the sicker he got.
“Don’t focus on it or you’ll drive yourself mad. Listen. Paeth isn’t your typical Fraerling village. Village. Hah! Well—it fits some of the settlements across Baleros. There are places where there are actually Fraerlings who farm, and make a basic living—in touch with nature. I’ve had to guard some of those settlements and it’s a nightmare. No magic, which does mean less threats…no allotment to argue about…”
“Allotment? Slow down. So Paeth isn’t a village? I didn’t think seven hundred thousand fit a village, but aren’t they called…?”
“Nope! It’s a city. Villages are just what we call it to fool big people. Hoi there! Tallguards of Feiland, coming in!”
The entrance to Paeth wasn’t guarded by Ekrn or Noa’s forces. Rather, it was Paeth’s internal security, which mystified Luan until he realized they called themselves Tallguard of Feiland.
“We don’t belong to Paeth. We’re Tallguard. No allegiance but to guarding against animals and so on. A few of us do duty inside—they call us in if there’s some kind of incident. Killers. Monsters or something inside. Easy work.”
“Really?”
Ekrn snorted.
“Oh yes. We have crazies, just like you Tallfolk, I imagine. The worst was a [Serial Killer]. Sixteen dead…they called me in to get him and once I tracked him down, it wasn’t exactly hard. Fraerlings, the Inners, aren’t fighters. Most never pick up a sword. I imagine its foreign to you.”
“Er…no. Sounds like home.”
“Huh. I heard Tallfolk saw monsters with some regularity. Big city dweller?”
“Oh yes. Not this crowded. Not one tree, but it’s fairly big.”
“How many people?”
They were waiting in front of huge, metal doors. In fact, a series of them and a checkpoint. It was rare for anyone to go in and out, and Luan saw, briefly, multiple defensive checkpoints.
“Only a few million people.”
Ekrn snorted incredulously.
“What? You must be from a capital. Or one of the Walled Cities. Which continent? I don’t know names aside from the old history books.”
“Um…Terandria.”
Noa and Ekrn both stared at the eye in the jar as it swiveled around.
“Nice lie. You don’t have a face and my niece still tells better ones.”
Luan just sighed. There was so much to say and not say, and it was all happening so fast. His heart was beating—he could still feel it—rapidly.
This was magic.
They halted in the checkpoint.
“Hold on! Identification! Wait for the [Appraisal]!”
“Wonderful. They know who we are. Looks like the Architects are mad I walked all over their fancy carpets.”
Ekrn grumbled. Luan felt a tingling, and then there was a shout.
“[Sentry Leader] confirmed. [Sentry] confirmed—identities match up with given names! Tallguard of Feiland!”
Luan was fascinated to see the [Security Personnel] at these checkpoints were completely differently adorned compared to the Tallguard. They wore, well, modern-looking gear, at least to the Earther. The ones in the outer checkpoints had carried weapons like the Tallguard, but these ones held batons at their side; no armor, but lighter stuff, more like a policeman’s outfit than anything.
“Are those batons at their side? Not weapons?”
“I told you. Inners don’t have monsters. No wild animals…those are Paratons.”
“What do they do?”
Luan fixed on them. He saw what looked like a delicate rune etched into each one, glowing yellow. Ekrn bared his teeth, and the [Security] eyed him nervously.
“Paralysis spell. Paralysis baton. Sorry, forgot you wouldn’t know. They hit you, you go limp and numb. Imagine fighting a cat with that.”
“Don’t be mean, boss! They helped fight off the ants!”
“Yeah, I guess. We had an ant army come at us. Steel-eating bastards. They sensed the magic—I told them we were over allotment! Human, have you ever seen animals up to your stomach with armor and teeth that can chew a leg clean off in seconds coming at you by the thousand?”
Luan shuddered as he thought about it, but he wasn’t willing to let Ekrn walk all over him.
“I don’t know about the size, but I did just escape a bunch of piranhas. Sound familiar?”
The [Sentry Leader] laughed.
“I forgot! City Runner…right. You would be closer to us than this lot.”
He nodded at the guards as another shout came out.
“Appraisal done! Luan…Khumalo! K-h-u-malo! Level 28 [Expert Rower], Level 16…[Athlete]? Level 4 [Medic], Level 6 [Soldier]…”
They read out his levels and some of his Skills as the Fraerlings looked at Luan. Ekrn raised his brows.
“Level 28? Well, well. Looks like we have someone hot on Level 30 here!”
Luan felt just a bit smug about that…right up until Ekrn laughed.
“And what level are you?”
Luan retorted. Ekrn winked at him.
“Let me put it like this, Luan. I know Level 30’s important in your world, but down here, Tallguard fight what your Gold-ranks do on a regular basis. Level 30’s the minimum for my job. Alright, let’s go.”
He sauntered on. Noa whispered to Luan.
“It’s still impressive! Ekrn’s just showing off.”
Then they were in Paeth’s Tree by the Coast. Luan saw them march past the checkpoint, as Ekrn exchanged insults with a guard that might have been genuine or just bravado. They walked forwards and came to a halt.
There was only a wall. Carved wood in front of them. Luan stared.
“Um. Trap door?”
Noa and Ekrn exchanged a look of anticipation. They were clearly looking forwards to this part.
“Not exactly. Never been on a galift before, Human? I’m told they don’t exist except maybe in a few places anymore. Look down.”
“A galift? What’s—oh my god.”
Luan shouted, because he looked down just as the elevator began to move up. He saw a glass panel in the center, a strange roiling substance below—and saw the doors had closed. They were shooting up in an elevator!
Noa laughed and Ekrn looked amused, until Luan began to speak.
“It’s an elevator! You have an elevator?”
“Damn. My friend lied to me. I thought they didn’t exist.”
Ekrn was clearly crestfallen that Luan wasn’t shocked beyond belief. He tapped his foot, eying the walls passing through a glass window, but Luan was demanding to know more.
“I know what this is—but how? Magic?”
“No! Well, only a bit. Even some of the non-magic villages have stuff like this, although they use pulleys and weights. Running an elevator all day though would eat up way too much of our allotment. It’s a galift. See? It’s powered by gas.”
Down Noa pointed and Luan saw the same pulsating cloud blowing them up. He stared.
The Fraerlings used an alchemical compound that had the same qualities as Helium—but a lot more lift. It could power these elevators, and their [Alchemists] brewed up as much as they needed.
“It’s an actual substance, apparently. See, it goes up to a certain point until it builds up—then it sinks. I’m amazed you know about it. My friend said…”
Ekrn glanced at Luan. The man was lost for words. He realized Fraerlings had so much that Earth did. Or rather—this city was a place with so many technologies not eaten by the Creler Wars, Rhir, or the thousand other disasters he’d heard about.
It was a paradise.
 
—
 
No. Not a paradise. A certain ruler of Khelt would have strenuously objected to that qualification. It might seem so to Luan, but the best of the Fraerling settlements still had crime, still had need and desire. They were above your average city, but Fetohep of Khelt would have opined that a Fraerling ‘Village’ was, by its nature, unable to be classified as a paradise due to the inherent risk.
Monsters and animals could attack it, unlike Khelt or Samal, where such things were just…stories. Paeth was, then, in that rarest of all middle-categories between paradise and ‘hole in the ground’.
Not a paradise, but a splendiferous city that occasionally came under attack. The closest example might be First Landing, or a Walled City.
To Luan, though, it was the closest thing to a city from Earth he had ever seen. A modern city, with countless indications of technology beyond what most could accomplish. No dirt streets. It was either wood, long-smoothed from where it had been cut, or metal walkways, or…ceramics.
He stared down at laminated tiles, like that which you might find in a mall! Paeth was massive; there were even skyscrapers built into the heart of the tree.
The Fraerlings had hollowed out their tree. The walls were the hollowed out trunk, but Noa had not lied; some dimensional magic was at work here, because there was no way this would all normally fit inside.
The city within stretched up, and up, and Luan saw the center was the remnants of the wood, turned into buildings, while entire blocks and floors had been constructed in other places. If you could fly, you might well go up most of the tree without needing a galift—although it wasn’t a straight shot in most places.
Some windows let in light from the outside world, but most of the lighting was artificial. Magical. That was what made Luan stare.
Fraerlings had copied much of Earth’s conveniences—with magic. The first thing he saw as the galift’s doors opened was a sign of what was to come.
