Either way, what he recalled was that, as a boy, he’d noted how none of the Lilliputians looked like him. All fair-skinned, well, like a lot of fairy tales.
Commentary on fables aside, that was Luan’s background to waking up and finding himself tied to the ground by a bunch of tiny ropes. He stared around, tried to move his neck.
“No way.”
It wasn’t a dream! Luan saw some figures draw back, call out.
“Tallfolk’s awake! Get those idiots at the entrances back! Where’s the Sentry Leader?”
He saw, sideways and upside-down, little people running about. Luan realized he was in shade; someone had set up a tent over his body! Or rather, multiple tents all joined up. He was in some kind of enclosure reminiscent of Geneva’s own surgery-tent…a temporary setup to house him in.
Someone had even hung up bunches of lavender. Why? Because he stank? Luan had been swimming for weeks in the ocean, so he could believe that.
Every part of his body hurt. He had been baked by sun, dehydrated, swimming non-stop, and to top it all off, he’d nearly drowned during the Summer Solstice and when he’d finally reached land, piranhas, crocodiles, and every manner of Baleros’ worst wildlife had tried to finish him off.
Luan was a [Rower], an athlete, but this had pushed past all his limits. He didn’t know how long he’d been asleep, but he was content to lie there for a moment, and just—be alive. Stories. He was actually living one. Now there would be something to tell his son. He had to live. Luan closed his eyes, and breathed in air.
He wasn’t one of the Drowned Folk. He had refused. He couldn’t live in the sea. He had to live, return—hopefully this would be a better story than all the ones he’d seen play out thus far.
He had hopes, despite the ropes. After all, Gulliver made it all work out, right? Luan felt something touch his shoulder—a ladder?—and then someone walked onto his chest, up, towards his face.
“Alright, Human. We’re letting you move your head. Let’s chat. Cut the ropes!”
Luan tilted his head up a bit as he felt dozens of tiny strings snap free. He craned his stiff neck up gratefully, and saw a little man standing on his chest. Pointing a crossbow loaded with a glowing bolt straight at his nose.
…They didn’t mention this in the storybook. Luan froze.
“That’s right. Let me talk, then you get to say whatever you want. My name is Sentry Leader Ekrn, Tallguard. Not that it means anything to you—I’m a Fraerling. My job is to keep my village safe, and you’re sitting right next to it, attracting all kinds of things that want to eat you. Congratulations! You found a Fraerling Village. There’s no pot of gold. We don’t grant wishes; that’s Djinni. We won’t fix your disgusting shoes—even if you had any.”
Luan wiggled his toes, remembering he’d cast his shoes off to lighten himself while swimming. Ekrn went on, grimly.
“We’re small, but try to hurt us, run off, or do anything stupid and we’ll kill you. Frankly, I’d have put you out of your misery already, but it’s not my choice. You are…a guest of Paeth, until we figure out if we’re going to kill you after all or let you go somehow. You are my biggest headache ever. Nice to meet you. Now you can talk.”
Luan’s mouth worked. He stared at Ekrn, and the little man gestured impatiently.
“Cat ate your tongue?”
“…Water.”
Ekrn stared at Luan as the man croaked. Then he sighed.
“Dead gods damn it.”
 
—-
 
Noa was a [Sentry]. One of the Tallguard; she’d passed all her training, and she had earned her enchanted weapons. Crossbow, shortsword, and any number of tricks like the rope swings they used to travel around the perimeter of Paeth.
She was still low-ranking, and that was acknowledging that Ekrn wasn’t exactly the greatest member of the Tallguard either. Well—he was [Sentry Leader], which meant he protected all of Paeth from attacks. The name only fooled Tallfolk; the Fraerlings had no real army. Just the Tallguard.
She was in huge trouble, though. She sat, nearly two days after the Human named Luan had collapsed; it had taken him two days to wake up! He’d been treated, his infected wounds salved, potions and such administered.
So much. They’d carted it out, hundreds of healing potions and cauldrons of brewed salves and poultices for the best [Healers] to apply—those not terrified of going out, or being near one of the Tallfolk. The Tallguard’s [Healers] did a lot of the work, but a few brave souls had come out for the first time in their lives to gawk at the Human.
There were probably thousands watching. However, around her were only Tallguard. Occasionally her friends and comrades would slap her on the shoulder and jokingly say something.
“Nice job, Noa! As if we weren’t worried about food already!”
“Got any more Tallfolk you want to lead to our door?”
“If the Human relieves himself, I’m not shoveling anything. You can do that. We’ll get you a wagon.”
To her relief, that last hadn’t happened, but the hundreds of healing potions wasn’t an exaggeration, unfortunately. The Human had been more dead than not, and she’d feared Ekrn would just let him expire. However, the Sentry Leader had his marching orders from Paeth’s Architects and despite his irritation, he did have his own sense of honor. He was a warrior, and he’d seen how far Luan had come. Letting him die now? It had felt wrong.
Noa rose as Ekrn stomped out of the tent they’d set up to keep the sun from baking the Human—and keep predators from catching his scent.
“Boss, is he…?”
“He’s awake! And thirsty. Hey, I need kegs of water!”
“Kegs? Of water? What, you mean like our sentry provisions?”
The [Sentry Leader] shrugged.
“Something like that. Or we could run a hose from the city…? No, that’s way too far. Damn. Get me kegs! Barrels! Something to dump water into that Human’s mouth!”
“We could let him sit up…?”
One of the Fraerlings suggested. The others were scrambling; the Tallguard had provisions, but water was not a huge issue given that they had bags of holding. In the end, they filled up bags of holding or barrels that had to be emptied of other contents first.
“We’re letting him sit up. Damn Human’s weak as an aphid, though. He must still be thirsty, even though we pumped him full of potion. Noa, with me.”
“Um—what for, Ekrn?”
The Fraerling gave her a look.
“You started this mess. So I’ll be kitten-bait if you’re not going to be as miserable as I am.”
That was how Noa found herself rolling in barrels and dumping bags of holding into them for the Human to drink as he sat cross-legged under the canopy of trees, far, far overhead. A sky unto itself for the Fraerlings. Luan gulped the ‘cups’ of water down.
[Body: Water Retention] had allowed him to survive against all odds at sea, but thirst was still thirst. His first real, wonderfully cool water went down so fast he had to slow down. He knew he’d puke if he drank too fast, so he tried to sip and talk.
“You’re Fraerlings. I thought you weren’t secretive, though. The Titan of Baleros is a Fraerling.”
That was the first thing he thought to say. The two little Fraerlings, the angry man in charge and the young woman who looked up at him, awestruck, both exchanged a look. The younger girl looked amused; the man just growled.
“Yes, yes. Every Tallfolk knows the Titan. The most famous Fraerling ever! And you think you know us? The Titan’s a damned adventurer and head of one of the Four Great Companies! He’s an insane loon who left the Fraerling settlements when he was young. We’re not like him, so any ideas you have of us—forget it. We’re not like the ones in his company either.”
“Okay. I’ve touched a nerve. I’m sorry. Thank you for saving me.”
“You’re welcome! We saw you swimming here! I mean, I did. It was amazing! We couldn’t help; you were far too far for us to even think about it, but it was incredible! Are you a [Sailor]? Did you survive a shipwreck?”
Ekrn glared at his sidekick.
“This is Noa. She’s the idiot who didn’t shoot you through the head before you blundered into our perimeter.”
“Perimeter? Oh—the exploding wires?”
Luan suddenly recalled running into what felt like a minefield. Ekrn sighed.
“Yep. The area around here is secured against predators, so don’t run out or you’ll hit something. Mind you, I’m amazed you didn’t die when you ran into all our lovely, lovely…expensive…traps.”
He glowered. Luan felt like he was talking to someone determined to hold a grudge. He was disoriented, but he had been around Ken long enough to appreciate diplomacy. So, the South African man just grinned.
“I’m sorry for living, sir. I’ll do better next time. I’m no [Sailor]; I’m actually a City Runner. Sea, not land. And I can pay—I’d repay you for saving me as well!”
He fumbled for his side, and realized his bag of holding was gone. He glanced at Ekrn.
“…Unless you want to help yourself?”
The Sentry Leader grinned inadvertently—then scowled and coughed.
“We went through your bag of holding. Nice crossbow. Did a monkey make it for you? We don’t want your gold; we don’t need it.”
“A friend of mine made that. What do you mean, you don’t want any gold? I’m happy to pay—”
Ekrn sighed.
“And what would we do with gold, Human? Well, gold would be great for the [Alchemists] and [Enchanters]. Shame your coins have less gold than pyrite.”
Now Luan leaned forwards, reaching for another barrel. He looked down at the Fraerlings, greatly intrigued.
“You don’t use it? For trading with us? Humans? Lizardfolk, Dullahans and Centaurs?”
Noa laughed incredulously, then caught herself. Ekrn looked up at Luan, and now he did look amused.
“When I said we were nothing like the Titan of Baleros—we’re not a village that sends people into market, Human. We don’t trade regularly. If we need something, really need something, we can send for it, but that’s a mission unto itself. No one ever traces one of us back here. No one should know we exist. There is exactly one Tallfolk in the world who has even a vague idea of where we are, and that’s because of a pact we struck. Everyone else? We’ve killed Tallfolk who found us before. Are you beginning to see the problem?”
Luan did. He slowly sat back, thinking. At last, he nodded.
“You haven’t killed me yet. Am I valuable to you? Can I make a plea for my life?”
Ekrn gave him a weary smile.
“You got lucky, Human. That’s all. I don’t know what’s going to happen, and frankly, I don’t like talking to you if I have to do what I must.”
“It’s Luan, Sentry Leader. Luan. I’m a father, and I just want to get home to my family and friends.”
The Fraerling gave him a pained look.
“Thanks for telling me. I’ll still shoot you if I have to. Alright. If you’re drinking that much—do you need to use the restroom? Because I’d rather you did that far downwind, and far away from here as possible. Food? Then—well, I think some people are going to want to talk to you.”
Thus, Luan found himself being escorted by a tiny band of Fraerlings a good fifty feet away from the giant tree to do his business. He couldn’t run, and was distinctly aware of some loudly humming people trying to give him privacy around a tree. Then they led him back and Luan realized that all the stories he was told in this world of Fraerlings had gotten it wrong.
Fraerlings weren’t secretive people who lived in little villages secluded from the world. At least—these people didn’t. What people forgot was this: they were small, and in danger from everything in the world. Tiny folk.
The same people that the Titan of Baleros had come from. In short—the highest-leveled species in the world, and the shortest in stature.
 
—-
 
“Alright. Tell me how this isn’t the single stupidest idea I’ve ever heard in my life?”
Sentry Leader Ekrn looked exasperated as he argued with an [Alchemist] hard at work. Luan stared down at the tiny glass vials, the recipe being followed diligently, and the argument. The [Alchemist] kept staring up at Luan.
“Not my job, Sentry Leader. They want to talk to him, and they’re not coming out. So he goes in. We’re not taking him in, in. So there’s no risk he reverts and explodes.”
“Uh. Explode?”
“Inside the city. I imagine it would be your body versus our architecture, and everything’s enchanted. So your bones would probably lose the battle, and if that’s the case…well, I’m sure it would be a disaster. Many lives lost. Including yours.”
The [Alchemist] seemed cheery about the idea. Which was missing the point to Ekrn.
“And if he goes back to the outside world and tells them what’s inside a Fraerling c—village?”
He looked pointedly at Luan. The [Alchemist] shrugged.
“Not my decision. Besides, he’s already found us. I suppose the Architects don’t think it can get worse.”
“They’re not thinking at all! Sheltered idiots!”
Ekrn stomped towards Luan. He glared up at the man.
“Well, that’s that.”
“That’s what? You just told me I’m going inside that tree and I might not explode if I turn back.”
Luan apprehensively edged back, until there was a shout.
“Aah!”
Noa ran around him and he froze. Ekrn kicked at her.
“You idiot, Noa! Rookie mistake—never get around anything large enough to crush you!”
“Sorry.”
Both Luan and Noa apologized. Ekrn sighed. He pointed at Luan.
“You’re not being shrunk down. That’s stupid. Do you know how hard it is to change size? We’re not paying for that, even if we did have all the recipes to brew a shrinking draught—let alone enough for you! No, we’re doing something simpler. See this? Know what it is?”
He held up something and Luan stared at it.
“…Is that an eyeball?”
“Fresh.”
The [Alchemist] recoiled. So did Luan, slightly. It wasn’t just an eyeball; it was floating in a jar. A small eye. Luan didn’t want to know what animal had given it up.
“It’s not exactly a scrying spell; we don’t allow those anywhere near the village. How it works is—well, you explain, [Alchemist].”
Ekrn turned to the Fraerling man, who was pouring himself a vial of the cauldron’s contents. He inspected the clear liquid that nevertheless had trapped ‘bubbles’ of multi-colored orange and green, and then looked up at Luan. He eyed the Human, poured the vial back into the cauldron, and indicated it.
“You drink all of this, Human. That will put you to rest; mainly so you work with the spell. Then we perform a bit of magic and you’ll see through this eyeball. Even talk!”
“I’ve never heard of magic like that before.”
Luan looked uneasy. The Fraerling chuckled.
