A harried-looking group of Fraerlings were making for the lift. Some had tools, or cases with supplies, others were clearly [Mages], [Alchemists]—Luan was grateful not to be able to smell, because as they rushed past Ekrn and Noa, the two Fraerlings held their noses and the group of people heading to work groaned as the [Alchemist] moved in.
“I’m sorry! Skunk gland—”
“Hold the galift! Hold the galift, please!”
It was like a scene from Earth, albeit somewhat of a cliché. Here came someone, who, while not exactly wearing a suit, had on a piece of formal attire. Fraerling dress, Luan would later realize, was more fashion than function for the inner world. They could style their hair, so even their ‘business people’ chose attractive, trendy outfits.
Still, give this Fraerling a briefcase and pop him into a black suit and tie, and Luan would have thought he was normal in any city on Earth. Okay—also dye his white hair and red tips that stuck up and reminded him of a paintbrush.
Luan saw the doors of the galift closing and the unfortunate Fraerling wasn’t going to pull the doors open; they were sealed hard to let the gas-elevator work. Nor were the Fraerlings willing to wait with the smelly [Alchemist].
The Fraerling was running too slow; he was no [Athlete]. However, as he realized this, he gasped, murmured something—and Luan saw his feet blur towards the elevator.
The man zoomed into the gap, nearly colliding, and turned, beaming smugly. The others sighed. Luan stared. The man stared back at the eyeball in the jar as if Luan was the weird thing—and only mildly weird at that.
“What was that? An artifact? Boots of Speed?”
I want one! Luan’s inner desires began to spill forth. This. This was what he’d dreamed of when he came to this world. Magic! Anime! He loved anime. It was a hobby…that was how he’d picked up enough Japanese to talk to Ken and Aiko.
Ekrn dashed his hopes with a laugh.
“Boots of Speed? Nah. You think that fellow would buy that? If we could get Boots of Speed that easily, I’d arm every Tallguard with them before a single Inner, no matter how much they squawked.”
“Ah. A Skill, then. [Can’t Be Late for Work]?”
Luan was deflated. Obviously, obviously. Noa shook her head.
“Nope. It’s just the citywide spell. [Speed]. Everyone gets one minute per day.”
“What?”
They dashed his hopes just to show him more anime! Luan’s shouting became so loud that Ekrn plugged his ears.
“Gah, you didn’t blink at the Galift and this impresses you? It’s a damned waste. This isn’t necessary! This is why we’re over our allotment and monsters keep coming by.”
There was that word again. Allotment. Luan looked around.
“What is allotment?”
Ekrn gave the city a sour look. Noa, an affectionate one. She was a Tallguard, but she had grown up in cities like this one.
“It’s magic, of course. See?”
There it was. As they walked through the city of Fraerlings, Luan saw it everywhere. Wherever technology would have normally been—magic took its place.
In every example. For instance, he couldn’t feel it much to his disappointment, but the glass jar clouded a bit because the air had grown cold as they passed by what he only could describe as a supermarket. Food lay in bins, preserved by magic, and the air was colder! Because someone had created a Rune of Cooling.
A child was throwing a little airplane—no, it was a bird with wings! She threw it up and laughed, chasing after it, directing it somehow as it zoomed about.
From toys to cooling to…Luan saw someone knock over an object in a shop with a crash. There were mops and presumably, cleaners, but the [Shopkeeper], in a hurry to not lose time or sales with the broken glass, found a talisman and waved it. The glass and liquid collected into a ball, which she flicked into a receptacle.
Ekrn looked at it all and had none of Noa’s affection or Luan’s longing.
“Fraerling settlements that run on magic have something called ‘allotment’, Luan Khumalo. I don’t know if your Tallfolk cities do; Wistram might not, but it’s a special case. Allotment means that you can’t use up too much magic in stupid enchantments like ones that let you fly in certain rooms, or speed up. It’s wasteful and Paeth has been over the last three months. They need to get it under control, by reducing, or blocking more from reaching the outside.”
“Why’s that important?”
The Fraerling gave Luan a look.
“You’re a City Runner, aren’t you? Think about it. Magic. Ever heard of how [Farmers] grow Sage’s Grass? We don’t need as much magic for our spells, but in a city like this, we produce far, far more than any ten Tallfolk [Mages]. What do you think that does?”
Luan thought about it. He had an answer, but wasn’t sure if it was right.
“It…attracts monsters that want it?”
“Yep.”
Noa and Ekrn chorused at the same time. Ekrn looked around.
“Allotment is a limit the Tallguard sets. We can tell how much magic leaks from a settlement. Too much, and hungry things come after it, thinking we’re animals or plants—they don’t care. If it gets too high, we can’t defend a place like this and Paeth is bad with it. Too much wasteful stuff.”
“It comes and goes. The Guidance gets what we want each month, and they cancel old spells to keep us under. Or they used to.”
The [Sentry Leader] sneered.
“Inners don’t care. The Architects don’t understand. Not ‘we’, they, Noa. We tell them every time and they think we’re paranoid fools. None of them have ever seen a nest of roach eggs or had to crush them and burn the things alive! No one here has seen a cat eating their prey and torturing them to draw the rest out. Look!”
He pointed around, and Luan saw that Ekrn and Noa were outsiders. More than him. A floating eye in a jar got less looks than two Fraerlings wearing armor, carrying swords. A child pointed, and he heard a single word.
“Titan.”
Just like the Titan. Tallguard. Luan saw a few more, young Fraerlings, children to the full adults, glance at the Tallguard, and there it was. A kind of…romance. Distant for most, stronger in the children.
Like how kids looked at Daly or other adventurers. Noa waved, smiling. Ekrn slapped her arm down.
“Don’t encourage them.”
“We always need recruits, boss.”
“Almost all wash out. Nineteen out of twenty. Did you know the Guidance this year was a washout? But she got to actual fieldwork…she got further than most do. Well, Luan. This is the city of the Fraerling. A primitive village where we make shoes and hide pots of gold. Hah! What do you think?”
The Human was silent as Ekrn looked at him, reminded that the Architects were letting him see all this and in a bad mood again. He waited, and heard Luan’s voice, distant. Longing.
“It’s beautiful. We don’t have this magic. This is amazing. It reminds me, though. Of home.”
Ekrn glanced sharply at the eye in the jar. Home? He looked around at the city no Human could dare match. He hadn’t told Luan this, but he had seen cities of Baleros. He was one of the Tallguard who had gone on missions to cities—even great ones—and he knew.
There was no city like this, not even Pallass. Unless he was far off.
Yet Luan didn’t sound like he was lying. Ekrn’s anger and wariness began to shift. To curiosity. He began to realize that if a great secret had been unveiled by Luan finding them…perhaps they had found something here too in him.
After all. How else could you explain the strange device in his bag of holding? The one that had no magic, but glowed? Ekrn rubbed his chin as they went to meet the Architects.
 
—-
 
The meeting with the Architects took two hours and was surprisingly…normal. They asked Luan a lot of questions and he answered.
He was a City Runner who’d survived a freak accident at sea. He wanted to go home; he wouldn’t tell.
Obviously they had problems letting him go, and they debated that with Ekrn.
“Look, if we wipe his memory—it never works. That’s how stories get out.”
“What about a [Geas]?”
“You can break those. It’s my professional opinion that you can’t keep our secret safe without a dead Human—and even then, [Necromancers] talk. So you chop up the pieces and feed them to the crocodiles. No offense, Luan.”
“Much taken.”
Noa was nervous, but Ekrn’s heart wasn’t in it. Nor were the Architects going to do that; they were civilized people.
Exceptionally civilized. They were like people from Earth, who did not kill, did not contemplate fighting for their lives. It was refreshing to Luan, although he realized they could still be petty, vindictive, and evil. Just in a different way.
They could also be good, intelligent, and kind, and he thanked them for that.
“We respect the institution of City Runners; much like Tallguard, Mister Luan. You have put us in a difficult place, but perhaps we can help each other? Paeth has long been sufficient without Tallfolk, your people, about, but perhaps an exception can be made?”
Citivican Loust smiled at Luan. Ekrn muttered under his breath.
“And that’s how a settlement ends.”
Anyways, the long and short was that Luan was a guest and he got to tour more of Paeth for the last hour they had. Noa did that; Ekrn had stomped off to send a message to their Skywatcher, the Tallguard leader of the Feiland.
“You see, Feiland’s an outpost where we train. A fortress; we go to other settlements. That prevents one from being biased. We divide up, and they all give us what we need. Artifacts, see?”
She had an enchanted crossbow and weapons; her armor was enchanted too. Amazingly enchanted. Almost no magical leakage. When Luan said that even a Gold-rank adventurer might not have six artifacts, while Noa had eight, she looked surprised.
“Why not…? Oh, right. The magical difference. ‘Tallfolk get all the power, but it shrinks by the hour. The small are meek, but our magic’s more complete’. That’s a nursery rhyme they teach us.”
“What does it mean?”
Noa grinned.
“It means we have better spells. It takes less magic to do what we want, after all! We can’t fight big, but we can do a lot of little things!”
That was how Paeth existed. Consider it, and it was easy once Luan got going. A piece of Sage’s Grass could make a healing potion for a normal person. Or help a [Mage] with a spell.
But imagine how much it could do for a Fraerling [Mage]. Power any number of spells they might want, and only one plant! Of course, obtaining such resources was tricky, but if you needed the skin of a salamander, one salamander was enough material for a week for the entire city’s worth of [Alchemists]!
No wonder they had so much resource. However, the rules of allotment meant that Fraerlings couldn’t build the city of paradises. That was the one complaint that they had. Too much magic attracted attention.
“That’s why we have allotment. And each citizen gets a vurel. More depending on their rank; but even kids get a set amount.”
“What’s a vurel?”
It was a kind of measure of magical power. Like…the amount of power in a [Fireball] spell for a Tallfolk [Mage]. Luan expressed disbelief, but Noa clarified.
“You get all that power per year. So how it works is—let’s say you really, really want a fountain that um, automatically purifies the water. You can put part or all of your vurel to that project if someone works on it, and it gets authorized! The Architects campaign on stuff like that; the [Speed] spell got approved because almost a hundred thousand people put part of their vurel towards it. No matter what Ekrn says—it’s great. See?”
She blurred and ran halfway up the wall, with her boots letting her stick to the surface. Noa waved down at Luan for a moment before gravity dragged her down. She pointed.
“I can run all the way up that building, see?”
It looked forty feet tall to Luan. He asked to see, and Noa’s face fell.
“I’d show you—but I got in trouble for doing it last time. A lot of people tried to copy me and they weren’t Tallguard. And didn’t have my boots!”
“I wish I could be here. This place is—amazing.”
“As amazing as Chandrar? Or is it Izril? Rhir? Drath? I don’t believe you’re Baleros if we’re all new to you.”
Ekrn strode over. Luan glanced at him. He hesitated.
There was a standing rule in the United Nations company that no one, not even close allies, knew about Earth. Not anyone you dated, not the Gravetender’s Fist company…no one.
It just made sense and he hadn’t even quibbled with it, like some who argued they should use their knowledge to buy favor with a company. Now, though, Luan wondered. Of all the people in the world, what harm would it be to tell Ekrn and Noa? They were Fraerlings.
And unfortunately or not, Ekrn had seen his smartphone. The Fraerling gave Luan a long look as they paused to eat; Luan had to watch. Noa had offered to sprinkle her sandwich crumbs into his jar.
“The Architects want your ‘Tallfolk’ powers to help us with some of the problems around Paeth. As if this solves them sweeping the allotment issue under the tree’s roots for the last few months…looks like you and I aren’t the only ones reading fairytales, Human.”
The Tallguard grunted, biting into something that looked delicious. Luan’s stomach grumbled in his real body—until he was told it was fried lizard.
“It’s good. You know, we have lots of [Chefs], but it’s hard to get actual fruit. Tallguard have died on gathering runs, even with bags of holding.”
“Birds. We can provide for all of Paeth if we kill a boar or something, but imagine harvesting it and ferrying it in? Plus—meat gets old.”
“So what’s the solution?”
Ekrn grimaced.
“Gathering Runs. For alchemical goods, for food—Tallguard go out and we grab everything we can, haul it into bags of holding…that’s what Inners don’t get.”
There were mining colonies that harvested steel, places where they grew or monitored wild Sage’s Grass, all the things that a place like Paeth needed. Getting it though? That was the problem.
“Okay, here’s a problem. Our water-condensation spell broke last month. Took two weeks to get fixed, and while it’s refilling, everyone’s been on water rationing. I say ‘water rationing’, but they get more than Tallguard sentries get regularly!”
Ekrn slapped his knee. Then he looked at Luan.
“…It’s a dangerous trek and takes lots of Fraerlings with bags of holding, even larger containers, to fill enough water and bring it back from the river. The Architects, in their infinite wisdom, pointed out that if you brought a damn bucket—or your bag of holding—you could refill our water reservoirs in a few trips and then some. I don’t like it, but we’d give you an escort.”
And here came the story again.
