The Giant thought about it. He looked around this wondrous city, and didn’t need to think to reply.
“I’ll do it. Only if…you do me some favors too. And stop threatening to shoot me. Deal?”
For an answer, Ekrn sighed, then pulled off some of his sandwich crusts and tossed them into the jar with the eyeball. Luan and Noa glared at him.
“Oh, fine. I’ll play nice.”
 
—-
 
That was how Luan found himself doing, well, chores for Paeth. Chores that took advantage of his giant-ness.
Hauling water was the first step. He left his possessions in the Tallguard’s care, walked to the river, filled his bag of holding up with water, and walked back. He did this three times, and solved a city-wide water crisis.
Mind you, the hard part for the Fraerlings was figuring out how to process that much water.
“Dead gods, look at that! We need to purify it first!”
They pointed at a fleck of scum in the river water, which, to them, was as large as they were. Another representative of the city, an Inner, staring around as if he expected a bird to carry him off any second, added anxiously.
“And a container! Human—I’m so sorry, Luan, we need to figure out how to get this inside. Can you…help us store it? Maybe pour it into the barrels or…we’re going to need hands. Thousands! Tell the Architects we need every container they have!”
Luan was only too happy to watch the army of Fraerlings pour out, and their ingenuity. He was careful not to move, as both he and they were wary of a Fraerling being squashed.
Within half an hour, they’d constructed a miniature aquifer with his help. [Geomancers] opened up a pit—Luan helped remove a stone—and they descended into it, wrapping metal to form, well, a giant pot next to the tree, welding it together with fire magic, and making sure it was water-proof. Then, Luan filled it and watched as they constructed a long irrigation funnel back into their city to let the water be transported up to their actual internal plumbing systems.
The fun part was getting the water, because Luan had been apprehensive about crocodiles or predators in Baleros’ jungles himself. Even if he was bigger, he remembered the angry cat, not to mention the serpents Daly had fought and the thousands of other predators.
“We’ve got that covered, Human. Just don’t trip or sneeze or jump, got it?”
Twelve Tallguard rode shotgun on Luan’s shoulders, head, or attached themselves to his clothing. Each one carried a crossbow and ‘trigger-happy’ didn’t even begin to describe it. On his first trip, Luan saw Ekrn blow apart a woodpecker, which he was asked to pick up for food, Noa nailed a crocodile eying him from afar with a miniature bolt that exploded like lightning, and at least fifty one mosquitos died.
The Tallguard regarded them as mortal enemies who’d suck you dry in an instant, and Luan saw more than once a Tallguard race across his arm to behead a mosquito trying to suck his blood.
In short…it was awesome. Yes, Luan wanted to go home, yes, he was worried about the United Nations company and his friends, but this was a story. Not least because he got to learn the last great secret of Paeth from Ekrn himself; how all this was possible when so much had been lost. Why the Architects were called the Architects. In a trade where Ekrn learned about Earth.
 
—-
 
After a week in his stay at Paeth’s Tree by the Coast, Luan Khumalo finally felt healed from his trials.
He hadn’t known it, but the toll had yet to recover, even after he’d been healed. The first signs were him being antsy, rather than content to sit about and talk to Noa or the other Fraerlings, or visit via eye-spell.
They’d created a shelter for him with that same Fraerling construction style which had so fascinated him before. Without bags of holding, he imagined it would take far longer, as they ferried up pieces of timber and so on. With it?
Well, it was amazing. Luan knew regular construction; he’d been around the world and seen everything from huge machines to bamboo lattices that workers used to create buildings; some places were less careful than others and gave their workers no safety harnesses, but most places with decent codes demanded some degree of care.
Fraerlings? They would give a safety inspector nightmares. They swarmed up a tree, anchored themselves in with grappling hooks or boots that clung to the tree like Noa’s, hammered in fixtures and created a mini-house so Luan could sleep without being eaten by bugs. If anything, their issue had been the amount of lumber and steel needed, not the creation.
They fell. Luan saw a Fraerling fall almost on her head and tried to catch her, but missed. She landed, swore, and got back up as the others laughed at her.
They didn’t fear falling! And what they made was very high-quality. That was something else Luan appreciated; they may have had tiny, tiny screws and nails, but that just meant what they produced was like finely-stitched fabric, as opposed to huge, loose stitching in cloth. He tried to push at the roof and found all the little nails and even basic enchantment made it hard as stone!
Well, Luan was as delighted as he could be to find himself among the Fraerlings. Especially because they were as fascinated by him. A lot of Tallguard weren’t as hostile as Ekrn and came up to Luan to talk after the first two days. Even some Inners wanted to speak to him, although he had to go to them. It was everything from questions about where he’d been, to what it was like…being big.
“You actually have cats as pets?”
A few children screamed as Luan sat in a school, an actual school and talked to Fraerlings. They looked horrified, but their [Teacher] waved a hand.
“Remember, everyone. They’re small to Tallfolk. Harmless.”
“That’s right. They’re quite cute to us and a lot of us have them as pets.”
“Insanity.”
Some of the Tallguard accompanying him grumbled. Even Noa looked troubled. Luan looked around.
“Don’t you have pets?”
“Sure do. Reasonable ones.”
Luan recoiled as someone actually brought out one of their pets—apparently the school let them take some to class if they kept quiet. He stared at the pale, squirming…beetle?
“What is that?”
“An aphid. What? Never seen—oh, right.”
Even for Fraerlings, aphids were small, so these were like…hamsters, Luan supposed. Horrible hamsters. He didn’t fear bugs like some people, but his discomfort around them amused the Fraerlings, who then insisted on showing him their menagerie of animals.
Everything from ladybugs to aphids to an actual, tamed roach could be a pet. Although they rode the eight-inch long cockroach like a horse. That was too much for Luan.
“Some places have ants—but they’re tricky and it leads to ant-wars and such. They’re not for everyone. Frankly, your ‘cute’ animals are worse to us.”
“Even rabbits?”
“Biting bastards. Take your arm off. Dogs? Eat you whole and aggressive. All teeth and fur and…gah! You do know that Miphir-Roaches are herbivores, don’t you?”
Luan shuddered as the huge ‘safe’ roach waddled past him. He could have lived without seeing what was, to him in this moment, a horse-sized cockroach.
 
—-
 
He was still a prisoner, or rather, guest. Luan talked with the Architects and Ekrn, but he realized he wasn’t about to leave unless they had some assurance he would never tell. His word, even on truth spell, wasn’t enough, though they liked that he was honest about his intentions.
“We’re working on a [Geas] spell. But it’s not common, so we have to contact other settlements and see if they have one in their records. You can go after that. Missing your Tallfolk friends?”
“I’m sure they’ll think I’m dead or lost at sea. There’s—something I need to tell them.”
Ekrn nodded, not unsympathetic as Luan did press-ups. Noa and a crowd of Fraerlings were watching. His energy had returned, and with it, restlessness.
The funny thing was, the Fraerlings hadn’t asked much of him that had tested Luan’s actual abilities. Hauling water? Not exactly hard with a bag of holding.
They’d hunted down a Stelbore, much to Luan’s astonishment. He hadn’t even seen the fight, just been asked to help transport it in chunks with his bag of holding. Fraerlings had been covering the Stelbore, keeping it secure as he hurried it back to Paeth. There, [Mages] had erected a ‘scent cordon’ where his nose had stopped working so they could process the meat in peace.
However, that wasn’t hard either. Dragging some rocks over so they had a supply of stone? Helping dig? Luan was amazingly useful to Paeth not by virtue of his class, but his size. There were simply some things a giant could do that Fraerlings could not. For instance—their best bags of holding could hold one banana at most. He walked back from a tree they were familiar with, with enough bananas for the entire year and some for himself.
So Luan was actually a bit bored—physically. His [Rower] class was also unfamiliar to Fraerlings, for all they lived ‘close’ to the water. The sea, even a stream, was a much more dangerous place for them, so while they had pools and Tallguard could swim, he fascinated them by telling them sculling was a sport.
“Are you sure I can’t send a spell?”
Luan panted as he worked out. Ekrn shook his head.
“No [Message] spells, no scrying. Sorry. We don’t make exceptions for Tallguard; longcalls are for Paeth only.”
The problem was, apparently, those spells were all banned around Fraerling settlements. They could be intercepted or ‘hacked’, which was somewhat worrying news to Luan. Fraerlings thus had a harder time communicating and relied on messengers, ironically like his class. The Tallguard handled that.
Longcalls were interesting too. They were huge metal tubes which Fraerlings could speak into. Much like a kid’s toy—only, magic sent the voice flawlessly to the other end. As for how they delivered city-to-city—it wasn’t by foot.
More Tallguard had arrived over the week, ostensibly just as security for the ‘Giant’ in case he drew more monsters. Luan had seen them arrive; a pack of non-descript, brown or green birds had fluttered in.
No cardinals, no blue jays—no attractive colors for hunting birds. The Tallguard’s flying mounts were drab, ordinary—and the Fraerlings rode the birds! It was still dangerous, but this group of Feiland’s patrols had been summoned by Ekrn.
It was as Luan was finishing up that Ekrn barked to the Fraerling audience.
“Alright, clear off! Enough staring at the Human—get to your posts or get lost! Luan, stink bomb the place for me so these idiots stop loitering.”
He meant fart, which could clear every Fraerling in a dozen feet away if Luan did it. The man did not, as he was already embarrassed by the few giant-class things he’d done, like blow his nose; a horrifying sight for Noa and her friends.
“Sentry Leader here. Give us some privacy, would you?”
Ekrn found a [Mage] and Luan sat in his ‘house’, which was a very small shack, albeit with a door and tiny air holes so that even mosquitos wouldn’t find their way in. It had no cooling spells, so he usually kept out, but Ekrn wanted a word. The Sentry Leader waited until a silencing spell was cast, then hopped up onto a ledge by Luan’s head at sitting-height.
“How can I help you, Ekrn? Need something?”
The Fraerling man took his time adjusting his bandolier of crossbow bolts. He sat back, sighing, and looked at Luan.
“I wanted to talk, Luan Khumalo. Man-to-man. As Tallguard—and as someone who’s seen more of the world than most Inners—or even Noa. At this point, I’m pretty sure the Architects are going to want to let you go, with some kind of privacy spell.”
That was good news. Yet Luan waited. Ekrn didn’t want to talk to him about that. He stared up at the ceiling.
“—Even if you go, though, the damage is done. That idiot, Noa, the others who keep talking to you—you’re going to kill them.”
“How? That’s a bold claim.”
The Sentry Leader glanced at Luan.
“You think so? Consider this, Luan. They’ve talked to you. You’re the friendly, amazing giant that everyone loves. You can bring back an entire cluster of bananas with one hand! Amazing! Imagine what the rest of the world might be like! You know what they’re going to do, don’t you?”
“Leave the Fraerling settlements?”
Ekrn sighed.
“Yep. Do you know how many books of the Titan’s stories are being reprinted at this moment? How many children are saying they want to join the Tallguard, and then see the world?”
“I…understand the danger. But how will I get them killed?”
The small man fixed Luan with a keen stare.
“Because they will die if they leave. Tallguard or not, Noa has as much chance surviving a week in a city—any city in the world—as you did on that insane journey here. I wish the Titan had never become famous, frankly, because it makes people think Fraerlings are like him. Luan, have you ever met him?”
“Yes.”
“Wh—really?”
Ekrn hadn’t expected that. He stared as Luan nodded.
“Briefly. At Daquin.”
“Where?”
“The…games at Daquin?”
“What games?”
The Fraerling hadn’t heard about the Titan’s games! He shook his head when Luan gave him a brief history.
“That sounds like him. We don’t keep in touch with the outside world…just all the big news whenever one of us has to visit a city or someone who’s from a village that does that comes by. That’s another difference. Listen, Luan. I met Niers Astoragon once too. I grew up hearing stories about him. Do you know what he is?”
Ekrn leaned forwards and hissed.
“He’s insane. He joined the Tallguard, he was one of us! A damned good one too, but he left to become an adventurer. He’s like—no, he is one of your Named-rank adventurers. Have you ever met one of them? He’s like that. Most Inners can’t even think about stabbing a rat to death. For them it’s like, like—”
Like fighting a bear on Earth with a sword. Or even a gun; Luan could imagine it. It might be a…fairer fight than the Human deserved, but what kind of a person could do that? Actually do that?
“That’s what the Tallguard are, aren’t they?”
Ekrn shrugged.
“We’re the people who want to fight. Who can’t live in Paeth or other places…you want for nothing. I admit it, I like fighting. I like adventure! But there’s a difference between that and going out. Tallguard work together, we know our spaces. Do you know what kills Fraerling kids who see the city?”
“Tell me.”
