They said that Fraerlings could make boots, like brownies or faeries in Earth stories. That they had pots of gold—well, those were the legends Tallfolk told. Luan had been told by Ekrn at the start that Paeth had no gold, but Luan realized that wasn’t true.
They had gold. They had value beyond belief! That any Tallfolk might want. He bent down to talk to the [Engineer] in charge of working with him, a woman named Vuiel.
“Do you think you’ll be done in the next few days?”
“With a team of two hundred? Sure! If you were a regular client, we’d be on this job for months, but the Architects have the best teams on this job—all those not figuring out the new secrets!”
She beamed up at him, happy as could be. She waved her arms as she indicated the blueprint and Fraerlings hauling tools around behind her.
“No vurel needed! No allotment to worry about! We can dump as much magic into this as we want and not have to worry about containment—well, not more than the basics. It’s not staying at Paeth, so the tree branches are the limit! It’s a dream come true!”
Luan grinned as she pointed to the project in progress: a scull, being built by the Fraerlings from the ground up. An enchanted scull. Not a converted Lizardfolk canoe, or kayak, but a sleek, modern design that would be faster than even his old vehicle.
Fraerling-enchanted. From the paddle to a custom-sewn spray skirt, even clothing! They were sparing no expense, magical or otherwise.
“Are you sure you can make it properly, Engineer? Fraerlings don’t paddle.”
“Row.”
Luan frowned at Ekrn. Vuiel scoffed at Ekrn.
“You think we’re idiots, Tallguard? All our prototypes work! There—”
They had indoor pools, and a Fraerling was indeed sculling about in the outdoor testing area with a miniature design at this very moment. Ekrn shrugged.
“Alright, Luan’s the one who has to live with it exploding in the water or something.”
Luan doubted that would happen. The Fraerlings were working on it with their best, and so far the only arguments had been how to make it as lightweight and strong as possible; they didn’t have plastic, but they had been prototyping with everything from enchanted cloth to metal. Predictably, wood seemed like the best option, and now they were testing enchantments.
“Engineer! Anti-gravity spells are a no-go. Lightweight, but not reverse thrust!”
One of the testers called out as the Fraerling trying to scull across some simulated waves went over one—and then flipped as the enchantment overcorrected. A few Fraerlings dove in to rescue the tester.
“Damn. Also, a shame we can’t bind a few [Fireball] spells into it, but it’s no good for a Tallfolk.”
The [Engineer] sighed as she made a note on the blueprints. She looked up at Luan.
“Sorry, Human Luan, but we can’t arm you for that. We’ll focus on protection and speed. Maybe even stealth.”
“That’s more than enough. And I am going to have some self-defense, right, Ekrn?”
The Sentry Leader grinned.
“That’s right. We can’t make enchanted bolts, but I think they’ve nearly ‘fixed’ your worthless crossbow.”
Rather, the Fraerling [Blacksmiths] and group devoted to that project hadn’t even touched Luan’s old crossbow, just built a new one from scratch. The new crossbow would be hand-held, smaller, but three times stronger. Luan wondered if he could ask for one for Daly. It might be a present on the way back. He walked over to field-test it. Ekrn was grinning as Luan lifted the plain, wood-tipped bolt and aimed the crossbow at a target they’d set up for testing firepower.
The crossbow bolt went through the armored plate—and part of the tree behind, although it couldn’t survive the impact and it was actually shrapnel that did as much damage. Ekrn grinned and Noa danced in delight—right up until they heard the cry of pain.
Luan had broken his hand with the crossbow’s recoil.
 
—-
 
It wasn’t a bad break; just a fracture, but the [Engineer] team got chewed out, and Luan’s hand ended up in a brace while [Healers] fussed around it, even numbing his skin to make an incision and apply a gel directly to the bone itself so it knitted.
It took two days for a full-recovery, which was the result of them being able to get at Luan’s bones…and call for a [Necromancer] to check for the exact fracture points and help knit it up. Luan bore no grudge.
He was interested to note that cutting into his hand and applying the gel was the limit of their surgical expertise. The Gnomes had, apparently, not focused on that aspect of medicine as much as their other areas, so Geneva Scala had a considerable march on the [Healers], who asked for a copy of her basic doctor’s manual.
“Let’s see. I need to bring back samples of every electronic, other smartphones, Geneva’s manual, eighteen different ingredients from an [Alchemist] shop, a block of silver, actual gold—”
“Don’t forget the scrying orbs! We want to see this news!”
“We’re not doing that. We’ll find a way to do it ourselves, Luan. If there is a worldwide network, we’d watch only if we could make sure they can’t see us. Which I doubt.”
Ekrn growled. Noa gave him a hurt look and Luan crossed it off his list.
“—And as many fruits as I can grab.”
“Can you get us some er, goods from abroad too? Not strictly necessary, but we used to have some Firebreath Whiskey. An entire keg would last us a generation. We’d share it with other cities.”
Luan grinned. Ekrn sighed. Paeth had a wish list so long for such a small place. He turned to the Architects.
“There’s no way that Luan can cover all this on his City Runner’s salary.”
Luan eyed the scull, which he’d have to carry to the sea. No bag of holding would ever fit it, as enchanted as it was.
“I consider it less than what you’ve given me, truly. And I’m happy to do it. It might take a while…but I’ll come back.”
“Boss. Boss, can’t I go with him?”
Noa pleaded. Ekrn snapped.
“Absolutely not. No offense to Luan, but I’m not sending anyone to get eaten by a dragonfly or get sat on. Remember, we’re a secret.”
Noa looked disappointed and Ekrn glared at her—then Luan. The man raised his hands. He’d been asked, privately, by Noa and no less than a dozen other Fraerlings if he wanted a companion, and he’d refused, mindful of Ekrn’s stories.
“I’ll be back as soon as I can. Within the week! I just need to tell everyone I’m alive.”
And run about. Luan did feel a bit cramped, as he had to stay in the ‘safe zone’ around Paeth. In short though, he was all set to go. He had food—some of the Stelbore, salted and dried, and some other provisions, although Luan hadn’t taken much, mindful of Paeth’s supplies.
“We’ll watch for you at the inlet. Just return there and you’ll meet with our team.”
Ekrn went over how they’d make contact again; Luan wouldn’t have a map right back to Paeth, and frankly, he didn’t know if he’d be able to make the jungle-trip even if he wasn’t running for his life. It was hidden in the maze of green.
“We’ll have to have a farewell. Inside, of course.”
Citivican Loust glanced back at the tree, shuddering as he indicated the outside world. Luan smiled, nodding. One last eye-trip. The Human was heading to his ‘house’ to lie down.
He wondered how he’d tell his friends about this without giving the secret away. Would he tell the leadership, Ken, Daly, Geneva, and the others? Maybe…Geneva. She’d want to know about their alchemy, at least. Come to that—wait a second.
“I need to ask for that recipe for her anesthesia!”
Luan would ask when he was small. The [Necromancer] bustled in.
“Alright, Luan. We’re brewing up another batch of that soporific again. Just a moment…”
He glanced at the door. Luan had heard it too. In the distance, someone had blown a warning siren. It sounded like a birdcall, but he was familiar with the Tallguard enough to know that it was an owl by day, a bird by night, so they didn’t get mixed up.
“Trouble?”
Luan sat back up, reaching for the modified crossbow. The [Necromancer] hesitated.
“Let me check. Stay there.”
Luan hesitated as the man ran out. He loaded the crossbow, just in case. He didn’t want to get in the way of the Tallguard; if they were swinging around and fighting, he might hit one.
Another owl’s shriek sounded—then stopped halfway. Luan waited.
“Ekrn! Noa?”
He called out, going to the door, but someone met him—he stopped as Noa slipped in, nearly striking her with the door.
“Luan! Stay there!”
“What is it, trouble?”
She didn’t reply.
“I have to go! The boss needs all of us—just—just stay there.”
A worried note was in her voice. Luan hesitated. However, Noa was gone in another moment. He listened, but no one blew the alarm again. He did hear…shouting. Luan listened, wavering between going out and not. He peeked out the door and then saw it.
All the Fraerlings outside of Paeth had returned, the Architects and Inners hurried into the city out of danger. Only Tallguard remained, taking up their usual posts around the clearing, ready for combat.
But…something was off. Rather than stick to their posts, Luan saw hundreds of Tallguard running. All those not keeping watch were heading one way. He cracked the door open further and saw.
“Tallguard of Feiland! Deploy! Move, move! I want [Bird Riders] in the sky! Keep us clear! Kill everything that moves! Signim free! Go!”
That was Ekrn, and the Human had never heard the note of—panic—in his voice before. Luan was just about to thrust the door open and demand to help. That was when he saw it.
In the distance, stumbling past the higher tripwires, traps against other animals, Fraerlings were entering the clearing. Fraerlings…but not Tallguard. They ran forwards, meeting the Tallguard, pointing back.
Hundreds of them. No…thousands. At first, Luan thought it was a war, but if it had been, Tallguard would have been swinging through the air. These ones were just on the ground.
And they weren’t Tallguard. Some carried weapons, wore armor, but he saw impromptu spears rather than enchanted blades. They were—ragged. He realized in a sudden jolt of adrenaline these weren’t warriors at all.
“Get them inside!”
Ekrn ran past his field of view, Noa following. The Fraerlings were crying out, and he heard voices.
“—all gone! They came at dawn—”
“Where’s the Skywatcher?”
The door opened further as Luan looked out. One of the Fraerlings wore the same garb as the Guidance of Paeth. He was pointing, shouting.
“They all stayed! They were dying, even with their Signim—we lost the last a week ago.”
“A week? When was this? How many? Monsters?”
“No, it was—”
The Guidance looked past Ekrn, dazed, as a stream of countless Fraerlings emerged from the forest. Weary, bloody, wounded—clutching their possessions. Noa, horrified, saw tens of thousands, maybe over a hundred thousand—but so few.
This was the Guidance of Oierdressql, and that city was larger than Paeth! If not as old—they had all fled. They were wounded, and the Tallguard were securing their retreat. The Guidance was babbling at Ekrn, but then he froze. He pointed.
“There! Human!”
The Fraerlings moving towards Paeth froze. Their stream stopped—then they began to stampede backwards, screaming. The Guidance pointed at Luan, peeking out of his house.
It wasn’t a good moment. Luan’s head had been just peeking out, like some giant of nightmares. But that wouldn’t have terrified Fraerlings normally—Ekrn swore.
“That’s—”
The Guidance seized him, shaking him.
“Did you do this? Traitor! Was it Paeth? I can’t believe it!”
“Do what? Do…”
And then they realized. The Guidance pointed at Luan.
“They did this. It was an army of them. Tallfolk. They’re coming.”
The Giant of Paeth looked at the terrified Fraerlings amid the chaos. He looked as Ekrn and Noa turned back to him, in a horror reflected on their faces. There would be no celebration, not now.
The Tallfolk had destroyed a Fraerling village. They were hunting the small. Why? For what reason? Luan didn’t know. He couldn’t know. After all, he was cut off from the world. In the chaos, as Ekrn established that there was no way Luan could have treacherously revealed the location of a Fraerling village, not under watch, the truth came out. The news so delayed, that changed it all.
The Titan of Baleros was missing. The Forgotten Wing Company was under attack.
