“Ants. They go with you, some big, friendly Human, and they’ll be adventurers, friends! Live with their big friends. The first day? Their big, giant friends find them dead. A rat killed them. A cat disemboweled them in their sleep. Ants attacked and they fought hundreds, thousands alone. Because the giants had them in their safe houses, the inn, and never noticed. Why would they? A cat’s a pet to them.”
Luan’s skin prickled. He could just imagine it, the horror of a city. He shuddered and Ekrn nodded.
“That’s why we don’t live next to Tallfolk. It’s why we can’t.”
“The Tallguard are strong, Ekrn. I couldn’t kill a Stelbore—I have friends who’re a Silver-rank team who have to plan to kill even one.”
The Sentry Leader accepted the compliment.
“That’s true. If you were an evil Gold-rank, we could probably have gotten you even if you turned violent, Luan. We can take on monsters—hell, we survived the Creler Wars! True—Paeth is our new settlement, we had to abandon the old one, but we survived it. The problem is we can take on one threat. Even big threats. But any Tallfolk army in the world could destroy Paeth. Think about that.”
The Human did. It just boiled down to…numbers, ironically. If the Tallguard could slay a team of Humans, the problem was, funnily enough, that the Tallfolk could come in such numbers that the Fraerlings just ran out of ammunition, even if they wiped them out individually.
“So that’s why you’re afraid of Tallfolk finding out where you are. Have you ever tried?”
Ekrn smiled.
“Every Tallguard recruit asks that. I did too. I have a book—well, you’re not going to be able to read it so I’ll just tell you. Yes, we tried. It never works out. Think about us living next to a tiny Human village. Here’s what happens: we trade, we get a lot of stuff for cheap! Humans can give us enough food to last a lifetime for nothing, a single bottle of alcohol…dead gods. And we can help too! There are things Fraerlings can make.”
“Like your magic.”
“Exactly.”
Ekrn indicated his superior crossbow, which he’d ragged on Paige’s simple wood one for. It was sleek, metal, and Fraerlings had screws, nails, and quality steel because they could never run out of raw metal, unlike Humans.
“It’s all great for generations. Until one day, a Rhir-damned Human brat decides he’s mad and throws a stone at a Fraerling village. It’s always children. They swing a fist, and murder a Fraerling man. Or—someone lets a puppy roam about and it sees our home and comes in to take a bite.”
Luan winced.
“And then?”
“The Human or dog loses an eye. Or we kill. Tallguard don’t play games. But imagine what happens then? It gets ugly. It just takes one drunk, Luan. One careless step…and when Tallfolk and Fraerling fight, one side bleeds, and the other gets squashed.”
So there it was. Ekrn had laid out the issue. Luan didn’t really need telling, but he appreciated it from Ekrn’s perspective. He sat, hands on his knees.
“I don’t want to endanger Paeth, Ekrn. I could swear on truth spell again. Truly, I don’t. I admire your community and I would do anything to keep it safe.”
The [Sentry Leader] looked at Luan. He scratched his head, looking…well, different. Not as hostile. Not—Luan realized—as deliberately hard, thinking he had to kill this Tallfolk to preserve his city. Somehow, the giant and the man had made friends, and that was what Ekrn was wrestling with.
“You know, I believe you. If I’d thought otherwise—I believe you’re a decent Human, Luan. It’d be easier if you weren’t.”
“I’m sorry for being decent, sir. I’ll do better.”
Ekrn laughed, and then glowered.
“Stop making me laugh! Listen, Luan. I’ll make you a deal. The Architects will come up with something to make sure everything’s ‘safe’. But right here, right now, you make me a promise. You never tell anyone. Not your friends, not your lover. Maybe you’ll slip up. Maybe the Architects’ trick doesn’t work, but you don’t ever let trouble come here. Or else.”
“What’s the threat?”
Ekrn fixed Luan with a stare.
“The threat is every Tallguard in Baleros knowing your name. Maybe Paeth vanishes. Maybe you wipe out all of Feiland. Someday, you’ll be walking along and a tiny little man will put a Tier 6 scroll in your pocket. Or you’ll be sleeping and someone comes through a crack in your window. That’s my threat. Got it?”
The Human giant was tempted to say something in reply. Something about threats or…he met Ekrn’s gaze and just accepted it.
“Understood.”
“Good. Threat’s done.”
Ekrn sighed hugely, and sat back down. He groaned, massaged his neck—then looked at Luan again.
“I had to tell you what the stakes are. Now—let’s negotiate. Worst-case scenario, you keep silent because you know what’ll happen. Best case…?”
“We become friends?”
Luan smiled. Ekrn snorted.
“You sound like a child.”
“I’m a big believer in stories where everything works out well. The giant and the little folk meeting. Or didn’t you say you read the same stories?”
The Sentry Leader looked ruefully away.
“And here I told Noa she had a big mouth. Damn.”
The two started chuckling. The air had been tense a moment ago, and Luan had believed Ekrn meant every word. He had also believed the Fraerling was a friend, by now. So they relaxed. Ekrn nodded. He fished around, and came out, with all things, some gum.
No cigar, no other vices…just gum, natural gum the way it had been before people processed it. He actually blew a bubble as Luan watched, envious.
“Alright, you got me. Threats done, we both know where we are. Tell you what—since you’ll probably be our friendly giant, I’m willing to share a few secrets about Paeth. Things you don’t know, if you do likewise.”
“Do I have lots of secrets?”
Ekrn ignored Luan’s innocent look and snorted. He chewed.
“Yep. I just bet you do, and more than threats, that’s the way to make sure we’re willing to trust you. I’m not sure what it is—but you’re from somewhere interesting, aren’t you?”
“How’d you figure that?”
Luan sat back, heart beating faster. Ekrn glanced at him.
“Because you don’t blink at Paeth. Oh, you like our magic, but the galifts, longcalls? I have been around, Luan Khumalo, and no Tallfolk can just waltz into a Fraerling settlement and not be stunned. Nowhere is like this. Yet you don’t even question it. I’ve heard galifts exist in one other place in the world, but they don’t have longcalls there. So…where are you from Mister, ‘not from Terandria, not from Izril, not from…anywhere?’. And what’s in your bag of holding? Nice mage-images, by the way. Clock, ‘apps’—very nice device with lots of pictures.”
Luan grabbed his bag of holding.
“You bastard. You unlocked my phone? How? You knew this entire time—”
Ekrn laughed at him. Luan had no idea how he’d done it! He had the password on his phone…then he realized.
“You could see my fingerprints?”
“What? No! Do you think we bothered to taste all that grease from—that’s disgusting, by the way, we washed it. It was easy. We just cast an unlocking spell.”
“That works?”
“6822?”
Luan swore again. He was learning a lot today, about technology and the way it intersected with magic. Ekrn leaned forwards.
“So how about it? I’ll tell you some things. I bet you’re wondering why we call our leadership the Architects, aren’t you? Information for information. Where’s China?”
Luan looked at the back of his smartphone. He eyed Ekrn, then laughed.
The Fraerling had him over a barrel. But the truth was—Luan didn’t mind.
“Alright, you’ve got me. I’m happy to talk.”
“Really? I thought I was going to have to twist it out of you.”
Ekrn eyed Luan. The [Rower] took his time in replying.
“It’s a big secret, and some of my…friends…wouldn’t want me to say anything. But you know, and you have secrets of your own. Like Signim.”
The Sentry Leader narrowed his eyes.
“Remind me to kill Noa after this.”
“It wasn’t her. Anyways, that’s what some of my friends would say.”
Like Geneva, in her own way about guns and bombs, Daly, Paige…Luan remembered the discussion about the gunpowder, and he agreed. Agreed and disagreed. He wasn’t like them. He looked at Ekrn.
“Secrets get out. More than that, I’d rather tell you. Because trust exists both ways, yeah? You could have just asked me.”
He looked at Ekrn and the little man shook his head. Ruefully. He nodded at the giant and sighed.
“You are the most jolly, good-natured, fairytale giant I’ve ever met.”
The anime-loving athlete from another world grinned as they rose to continue their discussion outside; it was getting stuffy in his home.
“I like that kind of story.”
 
—-
 
Ekrn’s negotiations with Luan went well. Noa got to be part of the second deliberation. This time, Guidance was here, as well as three more of the Architects.
The Alchimeer and Enchanter had never been out of Paeth, even a few feet out, and looked jumpy, but Guidance took it in stride. Farspeaker Humalepre adjusted his spectacles.
“That you would vote to tell our Tallfolk friend everything surprises me, Sentry Leader.”
“If you’re going to let him run about, we might as well have an ally, rather than a hostage, Architects. Besides. Like I said, I think this Tallfolk has more to offer us than most.”
Luan nodded. They’d had a discussion where Ekrn convinced the Architects to be open with him. About everything. His heart was pounding. At last, he could tell someone! And who better than the small folk of Baleros?
“I guess we get to go first. Good faith and all that. Hey, Luan. What’s your guess on why the Architects have their name? Second question: what do the Fraer-folk, the Fraerlings want?”
Luan eyed Ekrn as Noa grinned, dancing from foot to foot in delight. He thought hard, and she knew he was smart.
“Let’s see…because they’re building a Fraerling city? I have no clue. Maybe—because Paeth isn’t done? You’re planning on making it big enough to support millions. Maybe dig into the earth. As for what you want—you want to stay safe. That’s your biggest goal.”
All the Fraerlings shuddered. Ekrn replied.
“Half-right. Dig into the ground? Do you know how many bugs are down there? As for the Architects—right and wrong. Who wants to tell him?”
“Me, me—”
Noa waved her arm. It was the Guidance Heish who spoke. She smiled up at Luan.
“Architects are a name for Fraerlings who rule any settlement like ours. Not your Fraerling villages, but the ones who embrace magic. Our full title is ‘Architects of the Great Project’.”
Luan’s eyes were keen, even sparkling.
“What’s the Great Project?”
“A dream among all Fraerling settlements. Why us Tallguard stand out here and fight and die. We’re not just living. We’re pursuing the dream. We have setbacks. We lose a lot in big disasters, even entire settlements. But the Great Project started so long ago it’s the earliest thing we remember.”
“A way to keep all Fraerlings safe?”
“In part, yes. Technologies every Fraerling village can use. Things like galifts—we share it all. But it’s more than that. It’s completing a work given to us long, long ago. If we finish it—some day—then we’ll be safe. Safe from Tallfolk, from threats, and that day we’ll have the power to walk among you as equals. That was what we were promised.”
“By whom? Dragons?”
The Fraerlings laughed. Ekrn replied.
“You think they’d talk to us? No. When we were young, and the world was hell around us, only one group took pity on the smallest folk in the world. They said, so the story goes, that they would give us a hand since we’d replaced them.”
Luan’s skin began to tingle again. Who? Who…?
“Gnomes.”
 
—-
 
Gnomes existed. So far back that they were stories. So far back that only Fraerlings even invoked their names. The genius, short people had taken the Fraerlings in under their wing.
They had been geniuses of another era. Magic, technology—it had all been theirs, but they had already been dying out by the time they met the Fraer-folk. Why wasn’t clear and they refused to say.
However, they’d taught Fraerlings, given them the edge they needed. The Great Project, also known as the Great Promise, was a set of blueprints, hints.
Homework. It was everything from the basis of the galifts to hints on what came next. The Alchimeer, the Enchanter, and Paeth had Fraerlings who devoted their lives to uncovering clues, progressing technology.
Luan sat back and thought of it all. Dead gods.
“This is amazing.”
“Now you know. It’s one reason why we’ve kept so much magic that Tallfolk keep forgetting and relearning. There are multiple parts of the Great Project; tricks to keep places safe. Like I said, some of our people just live in villages—Paeth still works on it. Now, it’s your turn. What’s Luan’s big secret?”
The Fraerlings waited, a bit smug at the Human’s reactions. They felt they were on equal ground, perhaps that their secret was even a bit bigger than whatever their friendly giant was hiding.
Oh, but they were wrong. Luan looked at Ekrn, Noa, and the Architects.
“Me? I come from another world. Another world, without magic, where there are only Humans and other species, magic, it’s all a story. We’re here now. A bunch of lost people trying to get home. Nothing big.”
He watched five tiny jaws drop with some satisfaction.
 
—-
 
How would you describe Earth to someone else? Luan had the satisfaction of watching Noa running around, arms waving. Ekrn cut through the babble of questions and pointed a finger up at Luan.
“I half believe you’re joking, Luan. Half. Explain it to me. How? What? And would you stop screaming, Noa? You’re Tallguard, not some Inner! Act like it!”
The other three Inners shot him a glare, but Luan was grinning.
“Let me think. The best way for you to imagine it is—you know Paeth? Your galifts, your longcalls, even your schools?”
The Fraerlings nodded. Luan spread his arms.
“That’s what we have. We invented galifts too, only, we call them elevators and they run on electricity, with pulleys, not gas. We have longcalls—telephones. We can even fly, although we use machines. Everything you made with magic, we made with steel and gears and lightning. We have no magic. And the entire world has that level of technology. All Humans. No monsters—only animals, and not big ones. No other people. No magic.”
The reaction Luan got was everything you could have wanted, because it was all spectrums of possible reaction. Alchimeer Straesta ran to a longcall tube back into Paeth to tell the other Architects to get down here.
