Kal’Duresh’s white city walls rose up a hundred feet into the air, a hundred feet away; blue-roofed watchtowers dotted the tall walls as far as Erick could see. What Erick couldn’t see, was a gate. There was no visible way into the place.

“Uh?” Erick asked, “Do we fly inside?”

Killzone stood tall. “We’re waiting for an escort.” He waved to someone up top.

Erick looked up. Guards on the wall waved back. One of them sparked light blue; like a bit of reality peeling away, a wide transparent sky-blue staircase appeared, leading from the top of Kal’Duresh’s walls to the sands ten feet in front of Erick.

Mog walked forward, smirking back to Erick, saying, “I’ll take point,” as she stepped onto the staircase, one hand on her hip, walking forward with a slight swing. “And that’s all the flirting I get.” She walked like a soldier. “Shame.”

Erick walked behind her. In any other scenario, he would have looked at what Mog was shaking, but that seemed like a bad idea in this situation.

No-nonsense Killzone took the rear.

Soon, Erick was standing on ten foot wide, white stone city walls. The walls reminded Erick of pictures he had seen of the Great Wall of China. One incani man and one incani woman, both of them with violet skin, white hair, and curving white horns, greeted them as Erick walked onto the wall. Both of them wore shoulder guards and a chest plate atop easy-to-move-in cloth and leather clothes that seemed more decorative than functional. Erick had seen their type of armor before; it served as a decorative ‘scaffold’ for [Conjure Armor].

“Greetings, Archmage Erick Flatt of Urth. Killzone, and Mog,” said the man. “I’m Captain Cazo. This is my second, Sargent Biloi.” The woman bowed. Cazo gestured toward the city, saying, “We have an appointment at the Castle, but I would like to extend Kal’Duresh’s hospitality. This would also give us time to prepare our citizenry with [Weather Ward]s. Would you care to see our great city?”

Erick smiled, but what he was thinking was about certain Earth governments inviting foreigners to ‘come see how great our country is’ and ‘whoops! You weren’t supposed to see the wooden shacks behind that wall’. He crushed that personal response, and tried to keep an open mind.

Mog and Killzone looked relaxed enough.

Erick said, “We can have a tour.”

Cazo smiled wide, saying, “Excellent! Let us start with the Pearl Quarters.”

Biloi cast another staircase on the other side of the wall that arced into the streets of Kal’Duresh, like a gentle sky-blue rainbow. Biloi took point, while Cazo followed, talking about the city in front of them, then went Mog and Erick, with Killzone in the rear; the huge dark wrought orcol acting calm, but with a surety of movement that belied his readiness for anything.

- - - -

The streets of Kal’Duresh were filled with well maintained flowerbeds full of rainbow arrangements, and fountains on every street. Grey stone streets contrasted white walls and tall towers, with large glass windows and people in loose white clothes. White and blue seemed the predominant colors of the city, and the clothes, but there was just as much variation here as he saw in Frontier. Hair seemed mostly black, white, grey, or violet, while skin was anywhere from deep purple, almost black, to magenta, to pale violet, to even human-colored, but with a purple tinge to the browns, tans, and pinks.

Some incani saw Erick and company walking their way, and moved out of the street; others saw Cazo and two 9 foot tall people, and acted like nothing was strange at all. A few people gave Erick uncomfortable looks, but nothing happened beyond that. No assaults, no threats, just a gentle tour of the city. One dude did see Erick and drop a whole tray of eggs, though; he was unloading from a cart to his shop, but all of a sudden he was faced with cleaning up a mess.

Once they were past the egg guy, who began cursing at himself, Erick had to ask a question and interrupt the speech Cazo had been giving this whole time. Erick had tuned out the man minutes after he began talking; all he seemed to talk about were local landmarks.

Cazo exalted, “And this tower once belonged to one of the wealthiest man in Kal’Duresh, but he lost it playing Towers—”

“Sorry to interrupt, Cazo—”

“No worries! What would you like to know?”

Erick was about to ask him where they got their farmed goods from, but another question that he failed to get answered yesterday, popped into his head, demanding an answer.

“Will the recent destruction of Odaali by the Halls of the Dead cause friction between our three cities?”

Mog grumbled. Killzone was still silent, but it seemed like his was a deeper silence than before. They were in the middle of some random street, without many people around them, but there was a dragonkin over—

Oh hey! A non-incani.

Cazo spoke with seriousness. “The Halls of the Dead should rename themselves the halls of the idiots. They are terrorists who promote ultimate violence against a sleeping beast. The Greensoil Republic, with humans alone, outnumbers the incani of the Wasteland Kingdoms 10 to 1. With the addition of the other people, they outnumber us 25 to 1. The Halls of the Dead might have doomed our people by igniting the Quiet War into all out war.” He said, “I am ashamed to be allied with those terrorists and I hope we can pull back from further acts of overt aggression.”

Erick let that sit for a moment, then nodded, saying, “I’m glad to hear that. But was that a dragonkin I just saw? I thought you guys were xenophobic?”

Cazo had a response, but it transformed into a grunt of disbelief. Baloi went googly eyed, like someone had smacked her with a fish and she was still processing what had happened.

Mog laughed, though, asking, “Why would you think that?”

“Look! Okay. I’m literally not from this planet and I’ve not had a very kind treatment because of my species and I may look old but I’ve only been here… what? 45 days? Maybe? I might have assumed a lot that was likely untrue.”

Cazo pointed down another street, saying, “Let’s go visit the demi district!”

- - - -

Orcols, woughts, dragonkin, and… not humans? Certainly not incani. They had horns but they were smaller, almost not even there.

The district here was much larger and more active than the other parts of the city Erick had seen. It was like walking through a cleaner, brighter Spur. Heavy cooking spices carried on the wind, people haggled with vendors. An orcol crafted [Special Ward]s as white paint across grey stone. A bread shop with large glass windows and larger crowds served a constant stream of people, while bakers put more bread out all the time.

Mog was visibly relaxed. Killzone seemed to move a bit easier.

“What’s a demi, though?” Erick asked.

“Half-incani,” said Cazo, who had not said a word as they walked through this demi district. “Unwelcome in the Republic, but cherished in the Wasteland Kingdoms, demis are proof that peace and love can exist between our peoples, but also proof that humanity is incapable of embracing that love. Demis are banished from the Greensoil Republic, without exception.”

“Oh.” Erick said.

“Do you know the story of the Alvani, the Script, and the Horror of the Angels?”

“No. But I remember that name from… somewhere.”

Cazo nodded. “Let us walk for a while longer; the Baroness will want to explain that story herself. She is almost ready.”

- - - -

Erick walked past lakes and tiered farmlands, which were nothing compared to Spur’s new farm land, but were still nice to see. He walked through neighborhoods with kids of every species. He kept an eye on Mog and Killzone, too. Both of them were still on high alert, but both of them also looked very interested in what they were seeing.

Eventually, their path led them up toward the central, spiraling castle, and the massive layered tree that grew from multiple trunks and hugged the whole airy, towered, tiered, marvel of architectural engineering, that was Kal’Duresh Castle. The whole trip, Erick hadn’t really seen guards, but up here, there were a few castle guards, wearing bright blue versions of Cazo and Biloi’s armors. They weren’t here for visual sake, though; Cazo went up to the first one, and that guy led them across garden grounds, toward the castle.

The garden was a flat portion of land around the Castle, with low hedges and clear sight lines across a hundred yard space, filled with greenery and bright pink flowers.

… They weren’t walking toward the Castle. They were headed toward a small gazebo in the center of the garden. The stone, airy gazebo was oddly reminiscent of the temple in Spur’s garden, but smaller, more cozy, and done in white stone with a table in the middle. Surrounding that table were smaller chairs. Another guard waited nearby, but outside of the gazebo.

Inside of the gazebo, waited an older woman wearing flowing pale pink robes, who stood upon seeing Erick walk up through the garden; her garden. Erick had been briefed on what Baroness Pirazel Xelxex looked like, and this woman was her. With long white hair, magenta skin, and two uneven, curling horns, Xelxex was an unmistakable figure in Wasteland Society.

She stepped to the edge of her gazebo, saying, “Welcome to Kal’Duresh, Archmage Erick Flatt. I hope you enjoyed the tour? It’s my understanding that you have not been exposed to incani society, so I hope you will forgive me for trying to lessen the evils you might have heard.”

Straight to it then? Erick could have applauded her honesty. But she would have known that he would applaud her for that, so the effect was only marginally effective.

“At this point, acknowledging that I’m being manipulated is only a partial relief.” Erick smiled, saying, “But you do have a very nice city, and some of my misconceptions have been laid to rest. I would like to lay some more to rest. I understand you have a story about the Alvani for me, Baroness?”

She smiled, and it might’ve actually been genuine. She gestured to her table inside the gazebo, saying, “Join me for tea? We can talk, and it should take just the right amount of time for our vulnerable or wary to be placed under [Weather Ward]s.”

More than enough time had passed for them to get that done, but Erick went along anyway.

Erick said, “Of course.”

The gazebo was not overly large; maybe ten foot across and about that high. It was not sized for orcols, but it was sized for 6 foot tall people. Mog just nodded at Erick; she would want to take an outside position anyway. Erick stepped into the gazebo, while Killzone took position outside, gazing at the castle and the tree wrapping around the white stone towers.

Erick sat down on one side of the central table. The Baroness sat on the other. She served tea herself from a dainty tea pot, into a nice set of cups and saucers. She took the first sip, then Erick took one too. It tasted of citrus flowers; nice and light. Erick surprised himself; the old him, before the planar-thing, would have [Cleanse]d the tea, and probably started this whole meeting off on the wrong foot.

Baroness Pirazel Xelxex began, “Back before the Sundering and the Script, there were no incani. There were, however, the Alvani; a people born of angel and human. Some had wings. Most had uncommon magical ability. They were a blessed people, but their blessings ran out within the first few iterations of the Script, when the Ancient Demons broke something fundamental in order to attempt to win the Forever War.

“When the Old Wizards tore the universe apart, the Alvani suffered like all the rest, but they actually survived that cataclysm and landed on Veird as intact as anyone else. Several Alvani became quick architects of the Script, trying to hold onto whatever they could reach. Somewhere between the Creation of the Wrought and the First Script, and the transformation of Orcs and Trolls into Orcol, all of the half-species who had survived the Sundering, suddenly did not. The Elementassi died, all at once. The very nature of the Alvani, killed them. The dragonkin died; the dragonkin survived. No one is sure how that last one happened, only that it did; some of these genocides caused by the Ancient Demons obviously went deeper into the nature of Reality than others.

“When the next iteration of the Script came into being, the attempts to fix what had been broken only cemented what the Ancient Demons had done.

“No longer would children be born between the union of Angel and Human. Now, the Demons and the Humans would produce mortal offspring, with souls destined for Hell.

“But the Ancient Demons messed up.

“The first generations of Incani who sprung forth from the carnal and military desires of Ancient Demons, would indeed die and go to Hell, thus giving new life to the war against the heavens. But we were so much more powerful than the Ancient Demons had imagined. Our people usurped and murdered all the Ancient Demons in under five generations. Now, Hell is a resting place for our kind. Hell has been under the control of the Incani for eleven hundred years.”

She sipped her tea.

Erick drank his.

She said, “But the Angels did not see the destruction of their old enemies as a win.

“They could only see that their Alvani were replaced by demonic offspring; they believed that Hell had just changed hands, as it had supposedly done so many times before the Sundering. The Ancient Angels fight for impossible solutions, while they indoctrinate the gullible and the power hungry of their flock into murdering the very souls of every Incani they can.

“And so, the Incani began life as a persecuted people, enslaved by Ancient Demons, and hated by the angels of humanity for the crime of existing in place of their own children. We solved one problem by destroying every Ancient Demon, but the other problem is impossible; the Forever War continues to fuel the Quiet War, to this day.”

She sighed, “From there, the lists of warcrimes goes back and forth. Soul-killing weapons for them. Soul-twisting magics for us.” She looked to Erick. “Dinnamoth now sits on the Red Throne as the current Demon King. He has been the Demon King for three hundred years, after the previous Demon King willed the throne to Dinnamoth.

“Dinnamoth has recently passed down a decree to all who would listen: ‘The Halls of the Dead are hereby excommunicated from Hell for the danger they have planted on Veird.’ If they take no steps to repent, upon their deaths, he will reap their souls and return them to the karmic cycle, himself.”

She shook her head. “The Halls of the Dead are not going to repent, though.”

Erick had a lot of things to research, now, but he would save all of that till later. He had finished his tea. He said, “That was all very enlightening.”

She smiled softly, saying, “But you must bear out your own research. As one does.”

A shrewd question came to him. He asked, “Have you publicly disavowed the actions of the Halls of the Dead?”

“Of course.”

“… Did you do that because you wanted to, or because Dinnamoth led the way?”

“Yes.”

“… I’ve heard demons practice slavery. What does this mean?”

Xelxex paused, with a similar fish-to-the-face expression that Biloi had when Erick brought up xenophobia. Xelxex reoriented quicker, though. She said, “Incani participate in slavery in name only. If an incani does not enter in a Pact— if they do not accept an [Enslave Soul] spell cast upon them by their chosen demonic household, when they die they will drop onto some random location in Hell, where they automatically join the ranks of the peasantry, or return to the karmic cycle, if they desire such a thing.” She spoke seriously, “If you want to know about living slavery —actual slavery— with people beaten to death by uncaring masters for any perceived slight at all, or the sexual crimes enabled by cultures and individuals, we can talk about the human cultures of Continental Nergal.”

“… Um. I’ll talk to someone else about that.”

“We are ready for your spell, now, anyway.”

Erick said, “Okay. Then—”

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

Thick air spilled up from the ground, all around, while the white core of the Withering Slime formed around Erick; encapsulating the gazebo and Xelxex.

Xelxex smiled as the air transformed. She said, “This is all very marvelous. There are spells that can already do this; ways to clear a city of harmful things. But you either have to go through buildings individually, or level the city and rebuild. In either case you have to evacuate, but someone always fails to evacuate, and by doing that you open yourself to an attack. No no… This is just… amazing. We need to get a Particle Mage.”

Erick realized he had a new goal, in addition to all the rest.

… it would likely be impossible.

But maybe he could make all the SLRs for every Particle spell, and lock them behind ‘Monster Only’.

Xelxex asked, “Any monsters yet?”

Erick came back to himself, and looked at his notifications. “Yes. … Quite a lot. That’s… at least 200 wolves… Five cats. Wow!”

Xelxex paused, eyes wide, head tilted just a bit. “Come again?”

“Seven cats. That’s a lot of wolves, so I’m going to have to take a minute to count them—”

You have Slain Daydropper A!

95% Participation!

+123 exp

“That’s a Daydropper.”

Daydroppers B through H popped, then came the first crystal mimic, as Erick handed over the Daydropper kill box to Xelxex. She stared at the box. Erick handed her several shadowcat kill boxes, too. She stared at those as well.

“Eight Daydroppers. There’s the first crystal mimic. It’s reached the walls, now.” Erick smiled as he looked up at the thick air of his spell. “It’s a hungry boy— Whoops. There’s two more cats. Those things are supposed to be really smart, right? There has to be more than this if there’s 9 of the little fuckers. I bet at least one has hopped into someone’s [Weather Ward].”

Xelxex spoke quietly to her nearby guard. Erick did not listen in. Instead, he looked over to the spiral castle past the garden; the Withering Slime was slipping over the massive hugging tree, poking through open windows, killing more wolves.

Erick asked, “Shadowcats drop grand-rads, right?”

Mog said, “Usually!”

Erick turned to her. She was looking both joyous and terrified. She saw him looking at her.

Mog said, “9 fucking cats! Seriously?”

Erick pulled out nine shadowcat notifications, and handed them to Mog.

“FUUUUuuck,” Mog said.

Xelxex spoke louder to her nearby guard. Erick tried not to listen in, so mostly he just heard angry words and the guard talking to people who were not there; likely with [Telepathy].

He said, “Wolves are still pinging, but they’re slowing. It’s mostly mimics I’m seeing, now. I’m honestly surprised that—”

“Thank you very much for your service, Archmage Flatt, but please.” Xelxex held one hand to her head, her eyes glowed under closed eyelids. “I need to contact many people right now. Please just keep the spell… running… Thanks.” She went silent, her eyes darting back and forth underneath closed lids.

Erick said, “Sure.”

Five minutes later, Erick was still collecting occasional pings for crystal mimics, though death notifications for everything else had long since ceased. Xelxex came out of her trance, sighing. She poured herself some more tea.

“Sorry, that was rude of me, but confirmed cats is a major problem.” She asked Erick, “Would you like more tea?”

“No thank you. The tea was nice, though. I have a final count for you: 9 cats, 8 Daydroppers, 827 wolves, 66 mimics.” Another mimic ping came in. “67 mimics.”

Erick considered the fact that he had killed 67 mimics, but Kal’Duresh was much, much larger than Frontier, and he had killed 55 mimics around Frontier. There was a limit to his spell’s range…

Maybe Kal'Duresh didn’t clear out around their town that much?

Xelxex paled again. She breathed deep, then schooled herself, turning over her hand to reveal a green glowing stone in her palm. She said, “Thank you very much, Archmage Flatt. I believe I have a bit of work to do now.”

Erick stood. “Right right.” He cut the spell. Thick air turned natural; breezy. White ash flaked from the core, away from the white gazebo, as Erick stood, saying, “Thank you for your hospitality.”

Xelxex stood, saying, “Farewell.”

Erick walked to Killzone and Mog, whispering, “I got this one,” holding out his hands to both of them.

Mog smiled, placing her pointer finger in his grip, while Killzone did the same, but without Mog's sexy smirk.

[Teleport].

The world split.

In the garden, Xelxex yelled, “9 goddamned cats!”

- - - -

Erick sat in Silverite’s office with Mog, Killzone, Merit, Zago, and Silverite. He had just finished giving his report on what had happened. Mog and Killzone already knew about everything that happened. Merit and Zago looked appalled. Silverite seemed calm.

Silverite said, “We don’t have to worry about Daydroppers in the Crystal Forest; the Mimics take care of all green life, including monstrous plants. Erick will continue to [Withering] Spur, and I will ask Darenka and the doctors in town to be diligent in diagnosing intestinal rads; to make sure their parishioners and patients are aware that [Withering] might spill out into the town at random intervals. Kal’Duresh and Frontier will likely request cleanings quicker than the one month timetable put forth yesterday. Are you willing to do this, Erick?”

“Yes.” Erick asked, “But what does this mean for Spur? Did the Halls of the Dead come out here? Or did someone else, just carrying the vine and hoping to hurt more people? Was there a goal?”

Silverite said, “Those are questions we need answers to.” She spoke to the room. “I expect everyone here to do their part to find out what happened. No secrecy; do your investigations out in the open. It was good that you chose to be subtle with Helix, Erick, but we will not be subtle going forward. I’ll be sending Felair and Hera around to [Witness] and [Scry] as necessary.”

Erick asked, “What happens if the Daydroppers get inside Ar’Kendrithyst?”

Killzone instantly said, “The Shades will have access to this Quest; they’ll see the daydroppers around them. Most will choose to root them out. Some will choose to plant them in a secured location, to provide another danger to adventurers.”

Erick had a question about that; everyone seemed to think that there was some way to see the daydroppers with this Quest. But he hadn’t seen the option anywhere…

Maybe he was missing something.

Erick brought up the Quest box, then mentally poked at it, thinking about searching for the remaining—

The box changed.

Scanning!

An invisible ripple pinged out of Erick, like an intangible inch-thick layer of air moving at the speed of light, out of the room and beyond. If Erick had blinked, he would have missed it. Heck, if he had been looking for it, he would have missed it.

Mog and Merit laughed. Then Mog glared at Merit. Merit simply smiled at Mog, like a cat who caught a mouse.

Silverite smiled, asking. “And what does your Scan say?”

“No results, yet.” Erick said, “I didn’t know you could do that with the Quest box.” He laughed. “We could have used this option to find Spur, back when Jane and I were in the forest.”

Erick was going to have to rag on her for that, when they spoke tonight.

Silverite smiled, and said, “The box from a Kill and Exterminate is a bit different than most other Quest boxes. Its power to [Scan] is directly related to your own contribution to the Quest.”

A box appeared.

Scan complete.

No Relevant Targets within 2500 kilometers.

No Daydropper Vines within 2500 kilometers.

Please supply 5000 mana or wait 24 hours if you wish to scan again.

Erick said, “No targets or vines in 2500 kilometers.”

Silverite said, “I only got a thousand kilometers.”

“500,” said Zago. Followed by “Same,” from Mog and Killzone.

Erick asked, “Is it 5000 mana to scan again, for you?”

“Yes.” Zago said, “Though Clarity does apply.”

Silverite said, “If the appearance of Daydroppers in Frontier and Kal’Duresh is a continued problem, or just a one off problem, then we’ll know by the reappearance of the vines in one of the three cities. The range on a divine [Scan] increases up to 10,000 if Atunir decides it is needed, but since the [Scan] is still a varied distance for everyone, I am not worried.” She stood up behind her desk, and said, “With that, we are done. May Rozeta watch over us all.”

- - - -

Erick almost went home, but there were things to do, and people to talk to. Under the yellow lightward globe of Veird, Erick caught up to Zago before she could get too far.

“Sirocco. Hold up a second, could you?”

She turned. She looked worried; lines marked her face. But she tried to put on a professional mask, as she said, “Yes, Erick?”

Erick forgot all about what he was going to say, and instead, asked, “Are you okay?”

She turned slightly hard, saying, “… No. But thank you for your concern. Is there something else I can help you with?”

“Two questions: Why did no one see the Daydroppers before I killed them? And is Scan available for purchase, somewhere? I see [Find Target], but 5 mana per 1 meter searched is terrible.”

Zago relaxed. She said, “Let me answer the second, first. I’m still thinking about the how the Daydroppers eluded everyone, and my thoughts on that are all ajumble.”

“Sure.”

Zago said, “[Scan], in all its forms, costs a great deal of mana, and is nothing compared to the perfectly formed [Scan] of a divine Quest. All mortal variations of the spell are highly limited. This is what mine looks like.” She handed him a blue box.

Search the Land, instant, super long range, 3500 MP

Release a pulse of intent across the land that catches on your desired items, or a specific known person, returning to you the direction and distance of all you’ve discovered.

“It doesn’t search inside closed spaces, and if you use it inside a city the range is eaten to practically nothing, but on open land the spell will reach about 30 kilometers, which is a very good range, just so you know.” Zago explained, “The mortal ‘[Scan]’ spell in the Script does exist, but it also costs 5000 mana, and only reaches 10 kilometers, and you have to purchase every single spell up the chain if you want to get [Scan], itself. This would cost you…” She looked into the air, saying, “[Find Target], [Force Wave], [Scent Tracker], [Scry], [Rebound], and [Identify]. So 6 points to start, then 5 points for the combined spells; [Force Wave] and [Identify] are the base spells here, and are used to thread the groundwork together for [Scan]. Then it's 2 points for the tier 3 spells, [Search] and [Discover]. And then you have one last point for tier 4’s [Scan].

Zago added, “It’s very inefficient. Many people, myself included, just make do with whatever spell they craft themselves. Most people, however, just don’t bother. A good [Scent Tracker] will get many people much of what they’re looking for in a [Scan], anyway.”

Erick did not have that many points lying around.

Or that much patience.

Okay.

New plan.

Erick said, “Thank you, Sirocco. That was very informative.”

“What’s your plan? If you don’t mind me asking.”

“It was a [Withering Slime] that would move thousands of kilometers very fast, or maybe last for hours, to search out and destroy daydroppers and other monsters, but…” Erick asked, “How feasible do you think this is?”

“Extremely difficult. Where’s your thought process on this?”

“I was really impressed with your daughter's summons. When I found out you could attach a spell to them, that’s what got me thinking. Could I attach this [Domain of the Withering Slime] to them?” Erick said, “But maybe I should just fly around with the slime over a large area instead. But… Now that I’m saying the words out loud, I realize that this has the potential to kill a lot of unintended targets. Is humanoid exclusion from spells possible?”

Zago frowned, saying, “Humanoid exclusion is not possible without soul magic.”

Erick recoiled. He settled, saying, “Okay. Well. There goes that idea!”

“It’s rather minor soul magic, but it’s not available in the Script, and I can’t teach you any.”

“That’s just as well.” Erick said, “Time to head back to the drawing board.”

“For your needs, you might consider, instead: [Familiar], which consists of [Telepathy], [Scry], and [Conjure Force Elemental]. [Familiar] creates a semi-permanent summon that you can [Scry] and control at will, though that spell is one of the most horrendous spells to combine correctly; I never managed it. Sizzi is still working on hers. You don’t want the [Familiar] already in the Script; it creates a being that thinks and feels and can die, and you will lose forever.” Zago added, “The constant mana drain of a correctly combined [Familiar] should not prove to be a problem for a Scion of Focus.”

Erick said, “Thank you, Sirocco.”

Zago smiled, saying, “Anytime, Erick.” She frowned, and said, “And about your first question, and as to what was concerning me: I can only imagine that the plants were contained behind antirhine shielding, until you either popped it open somehow, or they opened that shielding to allow you to kill those daydroppers. I’m not sure which is worse, or what any of it all means.”

That sent a chill down Erick's spine.

Erick hummed, then said, “Thank you.”

- - - -

Sitting at home, Erick looked over his status.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 39, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 659,812,659/10,233,415,500

Class: 6/6

Points: 7

HP

600/600

600 per day

MP

900/900

6000 per day

Strength

20

+0

[20]

Vitality

20

+0

[20]

Willpower

30

+0

[30]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

He had gained one level from the day’s activities.

He had lost a few plans, gained a few plans, and had a few adjustments to his world view, all in all: Big Day.

[Scan] was too many points, and though he would try to create a Particle Spell [Scan], where would he even start? DNA linking? Mass spectrometry? What even is, mass spectrometry? Erick didn’t know much about ‘mass spectrometry’ past the name. A Particle [Scan] seemed outside of Erick’s hodge-podge of general Earth knowledge, but he would work on such a spell anyway.

His plan of ‘Release the Withering Slime!’ was less than half-baked, and would likely result in the deaths of many people, which was intolerable. But this was a problem to be solved. Solved through soul magic, though? Probably not.

But [Familiar] seemed awesome! A spell that could use his own spells at range, seemed great. He would need two of them in a ‘horde-type’ setup, like he had seen with Sizzi’s bunnies; one to feed mana into, the other to use [Teleport] and then whatever [Scan] spell he worked out, then [Domain of the Withering Slime]…

That wouldn’t be, like, a war crime, would it?

Even if his plan was doomed at the start —wouldn’t everyone use magic this way if they could?— the individual components of [Familiar] were all useful, in their own ways.

Conjure Force Elemental 1, variable duration, close range. 10 MP + Variable

Conjure a Force construct under your command. Constructs operate based on mana.

Purchase [Conjure Force Elemental 1] for 1 point? Yes/No

Yes.

Easy purchase.

Sizzi’s summons were amazing. Learning about [Familiar] sealed the deal. He didn’t want a thinking, feeling creature that would likely be the target of enemy magic, but a nice tuxedo cat? Or maybe a calico…

No. Siamese. He’d need two of them.

How fast could they run, anyway?

Probably very fast, if they used Erick’s Handy Aura to get around.

Telepathy 1, self, super long range, 1 MP per minute + Variable

Communicate with the minds of people you know. 1 connection available per level. Unwanted connections are harmful to caster.

Purchase [Telepathy 1] for 1 point? Yes/No

Yes.

According to Jane, all soldiers had [Telepathy], and since Erick was technically in Spur’s Army, no one would bat an eye at him having this bit of mind magic. Jane also told Erick that no one would have batted an eye at him having [Telepathy], anyway, because all soldiers everywhere were required to have the spell, and enlistment was mandatory in all human cultures anywhere near Spur. If there was an adult human running around on the continent of Glaquin without [Telepathy], well, then that person likely had an interesting story to tell, and also a reward on their head from whatever kingdom they had escaped.

Erick found it hilariously ironic that both he and Jane did not want to go into human lands because they would make them join the army, and instead, both of them had voluntarily joined a different army. Spur’s Army killed monsters, though. The human armies, from what Erick had read and heard, either killed other humans, killed incani, or killed monsters, with the monster killing far behind the other two options.

Scry 1, instant, super long range. 10 MP + Variable

Conjure a quick sensor to see a place you have been or have seen.

Purchase [Scry 1] for 1 point? Yes/No

Yes.

Also an easy buy. Maybe he could join Jane on a rescue mission with this spell, watching over her shoulder as she worked. He would have to ask her the next time they talked. She would likely say no...

Erick was still going to ask her.

Erick looked for [Sense Intent], but it wasn’t in the Script under [Sense Intent]. Either it wasn’t actually called that, or it had some odd prerequisites, like Polymorph, or soul magic. It was quite good, in Erick’s opinion, that soul magic was not in the base Script.

Looking over his recent acquisitions, Erick felt great. Thinking back over the day, Erick felt much better about his place on Veird.

… He should probably talk to some other humans about Xelxex, though.

Erick placed his hand over the Silver Star on his chest; it was cool to the touch.
