Zach suddenly steered to a table with a handmade banner proclaiming: Extra-dimensional Holding Bags! :)

There was a wall of differently sized satchels and backpacks tucked safely behind the lady vendor, and a sample backpack on the table, with the straps secured by a chain.

Zach went to the sample backpack and immediately stuck his arm in up to the shoulder. "Dude! I could fit my whole quarterstaff in here!"

"And much more," the vendor said with a smile, seeing a pending sale.

Thomas eyed the banner. "Is the term 'Bag of Holding' copyrighted?"

"You bet it is," she said, "But I think my description gets the message across just fine."

"Are these loot drops?" he asked. While he doubted he could pry out which dungeon they'd come from, it was worth a try.

Smiling as if she'd read his mind, she shook her head. "Nope. Let's just say the magic is in the stitching."

Meaning she was probably using a Gift.

"How do they work?" Thomas asked, ignoring Zach, who seemed to be trying to stick his entire head in the bag to look around.

"Dude! There's so much room in here! It's like a closet!"

The vendor shrugged. "Until mana is thick in the air, they'll run on crystals." She pointed to a small side pocket. "Earth and Air will do, and the grade determines how long the bag works. You don't want to use Fire or Water—well, not unless you want to risk your things burning or getting soggy. You'll get plenty of notice before the power runs out," she added, probably sensing his next question, "It will be harder and harder to stick things in."

"That's what she said!" Zach crowed, removing his head from the bag. Then he caught her look and quailed. "Oh, sorry."

The woman turned back to Thomas. "My testing suggests that B-grades will last a couple of months. F-grade crystals will get you about three days, and the range is between there depending on the products you store."

That all sounded good to him. Plus, it was a freakin' magic bag. How was this his life? He was powerfully interested but had already been warned that regrowing a limb was not going to be cheap.

"How much?" Thomas asked, manfully keeping his voice neutral.

"Grade A crystal, any color, for one of the smaller bags. The one that your friend there has is 5 Grade A crystals. Of course, I do take item trades for anything useful."

Damn it.

He was about to ask for the conversion rate she'd take of B's to A's before his thoughts were interrupted by a squeal behind him. "Preston!? Oh my God, is that you?"

Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Zach freeze.

They both turned to the voice, and Thomas's first thought was, I've seen her before.Though he couldn't remember where.

She was blonde, pretty, and extremely fit, as if she slayed at Pilates classes every day. Unfortunately, her pretty blue eyes were only for Zach. She was staring at him as if she'd seen a ghost.

He returned an easy smile that didn't quite reach his eyes. "Hey, Courtney."

As if by some silent signal, three other guys materialized out of the crowd and joined her. The tallest guy, who also looked like he lived at the gym, slung a possessive arm around Courtney's shoulder.

Now Thomas remembered where he'd seen the group before. They were the drunken dude-bros he'd encountered right after his first dungeon. The ones who had pre-gamed on hard lemonades and left the bottles all over the parking lot.

The whole dude-bro group stared at Zach. Thomas might as well have been invisible.

"What are you doing here?" one of the guys, who was built approximately like a brick shithouse, asked.

"Same thing you are, probably," Zach said. "Checking out the auction."

"No, I mean—" Brick Shithouse gestured vaguely at Zach. "What are you doing? Your dad said you... kind of disappeared."

"I've been around."

Courtney reached out to touch his arm. "We've been so worried, Preston. Your family—"

"Zach," he said pleasantly.

She blinked. "What?"

"My name is Zach."

There was a beat of silence, and the tall guy tugged Courtney back into his grasp, laughing as if Zach had just said something charmingly eccentric. "Yeah, okay, sure." Then he stepped closer and lowered his voice. As Thomas was still apparently invisible as a non-entity, he caught his words. "We've been putting together a serious crew. Like actual professionals, way better than the boomer generation. You've seen what my dad can do. Well, I can do it better."

"We've been clearing out level ones all month," the third guy added. Thomas decided to call him Jawline because, wow, why was he risking his modeling career on dungeons? "We're almost at level two. Once we get there, we want to hit the old dungeons with the real loot." He paused for effect. "Take some real power."

"That sounds like a solid plan," Zach said.

Jawline's demeanor grew ugly. "We're not asking you to join some random group, Preston. This is us. Come on."

"Zach," Zach corrected again, "And I've got a teammate." He glanced at Thomas.

Don't bring me into this, Thomas thought, but made sure it didn't come across on his face. He kept his expression perfectly neutral.

Instantly, he was the focus of the entire group. Courtney wrinkled her nose at his fanny pack.

"No offense," Tall Guy said in the tone of someone who absolutely wanted to cause offense, "but what does, uh, this guy bring to the table?"

"Quite a bit, actually," Zach said.

He didn't elaborate, which was good because he didn't know Thomas's Gift, so he was pretty sure the only thing he 'brought to the table' was a car that worked well enough to drive to Reno.

"Prez," Courtney said softly, her big blue eyes on him again, "there are people who would welcome you back properly. You don't have to be out here, scraping by."

"I'm not scraping," Zach said, still pleasantly stonewalling.

It seemed that their patience was coming to an end. Brick Shithouse stepped forward. "Look," he said, intense, "you know what's coming. You want to be in the proper hierarchy."

Behind them all, the extra storage bag lady had abandoned them to their drama and had made a sale.

And just like that, Thomas's patience had come to an end too. "Is that the pitch?" he asked, bored. "Are you done?"

Brick Shithouse looked at him properly for the first time. "Sorry?"

"Have you finally gotten to the join-us-or-else part?" Thomas pressed. "Because I had some shopping to do."

The guy stared at him as if he couldn't decide if Thomas was speaking another language or if it would be worth it to just flatten him.

Time to go.

"You have a good auction," Thomas said pointedly. "You want to go, Zach?"

"Yeah," Zach said.

"Think about it, Prez," Brick Shithouse said. "We won't tell your father where you're at, but... just think about it."

They separated, and Thomas noticed that Courtney glanced back over her shoulder at Zach once.

They walked in silence to the other side of the building, conveniently where the crowd was thickest. Thomas was just glad Courtney's Boyfriend and Friends hadn't wanted to start a fight then and there.

"Thanks," Zach said.

"For what?" Thomas asked. "I didn't do anything."

And though he had questions—he had SO many questions and burgeoning suspicions—he didn't ask. The guy was clearly trying to reinvent himself and get away from... whatever messy history that was. Thomas was not going to get in the way of that.

Besides, his attention was caught by the official auction preview and spread of glorious items.

All were heavily protected by men and women openly carrying guns, who looked like they could have eaten any of Zach's former friends for a light snack. They protected glittering swords that could cut anything (or only specific things), shields made of all types of material including something literally called 'unobtainium,' and scary medieval weapons that would make an Iron Maiden fan piss himself.

There were even a few books that purported to be guides on how to best min-max yourself.

Finally, Thomas found what he was looking for. It was, of course, guarded and had gathered a small crowd.

A Shroud of Bodily Renewal, which looked like gauzy cheesecloth hanging off a mannequin, was a one-time use item completely guaranteed to restore what was lost from a living body. One of the suggested uses was for instant healing after extensive cancer surgery. Inoperable brain cancer? Just slice out the tumor and some of the pesky tissue around it, lay on the Shroud and... voilà. The brain grows back sans cancer.

Oh yeah, and it could easily restore a missing limb, too.

Naturally, something that useful didn't come with a low price tag. The minimum bid was in cold, hard dollars.

It started at half a million.
