Apell said, “I can get some other graduates to clear it out. The Headmaster has deemed this a priority, so it shouldn’t take more than a day, but until that happens, I don’t feel safe letting you go in there as it is, Erick.”

Erick looked beyond Calzin and Apell, to a hole in the ground, not ten meters away. The hole stood at the base of another vertical surface of the mountain, that led up to another plateau of trees, twenty meters up. That hole was the entrance to the dungeon.

“Architecture is a problem we can deal with.” Erick said, “I can deal with monsters. I won’t damage the architecture, either.”

He walked past Calzin and Apell, both of them wincing, seemingly unsure what was going to happen, but neither of them saying anything to stop him. Erick stopped two meters from the hole in the mountain. It was easily three meters wide, and mostly dark, but Calzin and Apell had both cast minor lights into the top of the tunnel. Erick could only see to the first bend in that tunnel; ten meters down. Walls were broken, or cracked and looking to break. Roots had gotten in from the ceiling. Rubble layered the staircase leading down. Erick decided to clean this unknown place in a different way than normal, because he wanted the spell to sit down there for a while; working.

[Withering Slime].

An intangible tidal wave of thick air rushed down the hole, like a reservoir suddenly shoved through a hose. Notifications began to pop in Erick’s vision, as the semi-sentient [Withering Slime] went to work like the world’s second largest amoeba. Erick’s [Domain of the Withering Slime] was the first largest, after all.

Soon, tendrils of thick air spilled out of hidden cracks in the mountain, above the tunnel and in the dirt to the left of Erick, and to the right, like suddenly appearing half-invisible octopus arms; the spell had found its way through long-neglected mana vents and partially hidden intakes. The octopus-like quality of the spell lasted barely a second. It quickly fell back down, like goo sucked through a vent, only to poke out in other places across the forested mountainside.

Erick let it go to work. He turned back to Calzin and Apell, saying, “That’ll take ten minutes to dehydrate every monster down there. Notifications are already appearing.” Erick went silent as he went over the new blue boxes. He said, “I’m seeing acid slimes and stone slimes. Stone Spiders. Centipedes. Snakes.” He said, “It doesn’t work against monsters made without water, like most elementals. Except for water elementals, of course.”

Apell and Calzin waited.

After a full forty seconds of nothing, more notifications appeared, rapidly followed by even more.

Erick winced in disgust as he read the new blue boxes. “Oh ew. Parasite Roaches. I read about those. Nasty things.” The notifications stopped, but Erick left the spell to sit there, in case there was something else. There were certainly juvenile monsters still down there; he would need to clean up those with other spells.

Apell shivered, muttering, “Parasite Roaches. Eww.”

Calzin asked, “What spell is—”

“Nope.” Apell said, “No questions, Calzin.”

Erick smiled, saying, “This one isn’t a big deal. It’s just a dehydration spell, targeting everything with a 10 mana rad inside the body. Everything it kills, it [Cleanse]s, too.” He added, “Particle Mage Only.”

Calzin said, “Ah. Dammit. That means all the small things are still left.”

“You got it.” Erick thought about [Wintry Sea]. He said, “I can clear out those, too, but… The spells I would want to use would target everything, including people.” He looked back to Poi.

Poi nodded. He flickered with telepathic lines. Soon, the lines settled down. “There’s no one with a mind down there.”

Apell said, “Not with Parasite Roaches in the neighborhood.” She added, “We might have to go somewhere else, Erick. This place will need a major cleaning. I’m going to need to be the one to do it, too. Calzin, you need to go to the hospital and get checked over.” She looked to Erick and Poi, saying, “All of you need to go to the hospital.” She looked to the ground, saying, “I bet stray parasites are everywhere out here.”

Erick said, “I have to go back there anyway, but I want that preliminary dungeon done so I can go back to Spur. I’m going to finish putting the rest of the dungeon to rights. You don’t have to do this part, Apell, but thank you anyway.” He looked back to Ophiel. He said, “I can do it at range.” He asked Apell, “It’s only seven floors, right?”

Apell frowned. “I should be the one to do this, especially if there are parasite roaches down there. But… if you can use your [Familiar]… Then. Sure. You can do it. I got classes, anyway. I’ll check everything over later. And yes; there are only seven floors.”

“Let’s all leave, first.” Erick looked around the forest, asking, “There’s no one nearby, right?”

Poi said, “Not for kilometers.”

Erick looked back to the dark hole in the ground and the meager lights therein, where thick air still tangled, but no more monsters died. He said, “Okay.” He turned to Apell and Calzin, saying, “You two should evacuate.” He summoned another three tiny Ophiel. “This is a job for Ophiel.”

Ophiel trilled in chorus with himself.

Calzin left first, in a blip of red; headed for the hospital. Apell left shortly after, in a blip of light green. Poi and Erick left together. After a while, the thick air tangling out from the dungeon dissipated.

- - - -

Erick and Poi entered the hospital right behind Calzin, each of them reporting for a parasite checkup. They had to wait an hour because the main anti-parasiteers were all off in the Crystal Forest. After they finally managed to see the doctor, and he finally managed to cast the right spells on Erick and Poi, they were cleared; no parasites. They hadn’t actually gone into the dungeon, so Erick didn’t expect to find any, but it was still nice to know.

It wouldn’t be till later that they would hear that Calzin had several parasites that were already making homes in his feet; they had gotten through his thick boots, without him noticing.

Erick conjured a reclining chair beside Jane’s bed. He sat down beside his sleeping daughter, while Poi looked on and Teressa practiced her Mana Sense in the corner of the room. He went to work, with an Ophiel laying on his lap, and three more just now getting back to the dungeon.

Erick first made each tiny [Familiar] put on a [Personal Weather Ward].

As two of the three Ophiel moved forward, into the hole, into the tunnel beyond, they conjured lights to illuminate their way, and blue globes of freezing magic that zipped on ahead, freezing and killing bugs and roaches and monsters too small for [Withering Slime] to notice. Fallen walls were [Stoneshape]d back into position. Roots were pushed out, or cut up and burned with a [Cleansing Fire]. Cracked walls were sealed.

[Wintry Sea]s that found their way out of the dungeon, either through an inlet or an outlet, were quickly extinguished by the third Ophiel that hovered in the sky outside of the dungeon, waiting for a wayward blue globe to make itself known. That only happened twice, though.

After several hours and a break for lunch, and the installation of several bright, bright, anti-biological-level ultraviolet blacklights, and a whole lot more [Cleanse], both the normal kind and the kind imbued with fire, Erick finished most of the more obvious repairs to the initial dungeon. Then it was time to turn his attention to the final three floors that he would have to build from scratch. Exploratory [Stone Travel]s, the same spell that had gotten Erick and his people away from the hunters, were used to great effect. Ophiel rode a platform of stone that carved out a tunnel as he went down, down into the stone.

Erick quickly discovered that there was more than enough space here for three more floors, and that there were no unexpected connections to the underworld. The Headmaster wouldn’t have suggested this location if there was a chance for such a thing, but Erick still had to check for himself. Soon enough, Erick began crafting the final three floors of the dungeon.

Other obligations came up well before he was done with one of the new floors.

Erick flew the Ophiel who crafted the dungeon down into the brightest blacklights, then dismissed them. If there were parasites on those Ophiel, he didn’t want to accidentally spread them. The whole mountainside would likely need to be torn up to truly get rid of the parasites there, but the dungeon was salvageable, for sure.

But that was a problem for later. For now, Erick summoned more, fresh Ophiel, then he sent them blipping across the oceans, to bring platinum rain to the farms, right on time.
