She shrank back slightly, as though worried that Matt, Liz, or Aster would react badly, then squeaked out an explanation. “It’s not that we don’t value you or anything, it’s just that, well, we have a lot of really high-priority requests for the orbs! And like, Command needs to make sure that they’re all going to good use. Not that you’re ever a bad use, it’s just that uh, we can’t really waste them on upgrading non combat spells or spells you only use once a decade? It’s uh, kinda a small miracle we were even able to track down nine, because well… they’re never not in high demand, but you should have seen my boss when he was told we’d need to equip three more Ascenders, and keep some on hand for other Ascenders or near-Ascenders that join up. Or not. Or maybe? Do you guys find high-Tier people getting mad and swearing a lot scary? Probably not, right? You must deal with crazier stuff than that all the time. But it’s kinda scary for me.”

As if sensing she made things a little awkward, she added, “Anyway! We have most of those orbs basically on-hand. But, we only have two Tier 38 upgrade orbs in stock at the moment, though we have another one coming in next week, two more in about a month and a half after that, and the final four… with no expected delivery yet.”

Three Tier 38 upgrade orbs. It was objectively so many, yet at the same time it was so few. Most people never even got one, but Matt already knew he’d be using one on [Cracked Phantom Armor], and one on [Regeneration], leaving only one more for him to figure out just what he would do with it… That would be a tough decision.

“Is there a form to request more Tier 38 orbs as well?” Aster piped up, “Like there are for the 14 and 26?”

“Teeechniiicaaallyyy yeeeees….” the lieutenant carefully teased out, “But it’s more of a really involved application, than a form to fill out. You need to explain what you want to use it on and what you hope to gain from it, and convince a bunch of the grumpy guys upstairs of all that, and then that gets put on a waiting list, and then you need to wait for a new orb to come in, so that can take a few decades to centuries, depending on how many show up.

“Really? So long? Even though we’re Ascenders?”

“It’s because of that, Ascender Scoop,” Darrow stepped in. “Rank-and-file have to pay a fairly substantial number of merits to simply have the chance to submit an application for a Tier 38 orb, and even when accepted, they usually wait a few thousand years before they finally get one.”

The lieutenant nodded like a chicken pecking the ground. “It’s a bit tricky because yeah, you do get the three right away, but we’re so far into our reserves, it’s a wonder you’re getting that many. Then again, it’s not like you’ll be shoved to the very back of the line for the rest of it, so likeeee...” The lieutenant paused. “Mmmh, well I suppose you are put to the back of the line, but it’s pretty much the ultra-super-duper-express line, so does it really count?”

“Oh,” that chastened Aster somewhat, but Matt could tell she was thinking about just what she’d use her precious few orbs on.

“Anyway! Happier subjects!” she sounded almost a bit desperate to not be denying them something. “Lots of skill shards! The Empire has a really comprehensive catalog of every skill that we’ve ever encountered, and you can access the entire catalog on your AI or have a purpose built screen in some meditation rooms on the second floor. The entire dataset is… well, pretty massive. So massive, you’ll probably need a [Library] to keep from overloading your AIs if you are crazy enough to try and download the entire thing. But, there are some premade download dumps of the skills your Management team said you’d be most likely to want. That does include cracked skills that the Army has, at least ones that haven’t been claimed, by the way.

“Uh, where was I?”

“Skill catalogs?” Matt supplied, trying not to smile.

“Right! Sorry. It’s been a big day. Um. Um. Right! So, once you find a skill that you think you might want, you can request it. Anything non-cracked up to Tier 32. For Tier 38 and cracked skills, you just need to submit a note explaining why you think that particular skill, or crack, particularly suits you. Then, you can each get up to… four Tier 44 skills, and two reservations. Oh, a reservation is a request for a skill we don’t actually have any of at the moment. You three are Priority A, so generally speaking you’d be the first to get a requested skill, and there’s just a couple of small forms to fill out for a reservation...”

“There’s a lot more paperwork involved in the whole ‘open access to the Emperor’s vault’ thing than I expected,” Matt chuckled, a bit weakly. Still, the lieutenant shrank back like he personally blamed her.

“There’s paperwork involved in everything,” Darrow simply responded. “But believe me, there is an incredible amount of paperwork you aren’t seeing with this. A century ago, I would have had to sell both legs for the ability to request a Tier 38 or 44 skill when I was a general troop commander. They’re basically just asking for the bare minimum needed to prove that our really rare treasures actually went to an Ascender.”

“Yeah,” the lieutenant squeaked out, “That.”

“What about new weapons, though? You mentioned they weren’t made yet, how does that work?” Liz probed, coaxing a bit more confidence out of the lieutenant.

“Oh yeah. I did get a bit distracted there, didn’t I? So, over the next little while we’ll have you meet with a few members of Groups Branch and Firmament. They uh, handle things like additional training and consultation and the actual making of your permanent gear, respectively. Um, and Scroll. We take care of actually coordinating the stuff and things needed to get you your stuff! Anyway, they’ll talk with you about some of your needs and desires of what you want out of your official regalia, point you to a few options for crafters, steer you away from anything impossible, and then we’ll all coordinate the crafters needed to deck you out with everything. Some of that will probably involve leaving the rift as well. We’ve got a lot of stuff in here, but uh, it’s mostly focused on keeping Fort Lightfoot actually running, not equipping Ascenders. That will also discuss stuff like your growth items, which of them you plan on keeping in rotation and need to be Tiered up, and which uh, might be better replaced with something custom-made. That will all start tomorrow, though.”

“Keep in mind, this is just in the military context, getting you equipped to be proper Ascenders. You’ll also get some rewards for actually completing the Path, but that’s something that you’ll need to discuss with King Rusty himself. We’re not involved with that.”

Her eyes flicked back and forth as if she was reading something. “Yep! That is not my job.”

There was a bit more after that, but it was mostly signing off on a bunch of miscellaneous papers, and nothing nearly so interesting as their new rings or the promise of more loot. They took a quick detour to a library attached to a massive smithy, where a blonde woman wielding a claymore identified herself as the head librarian, and helped them attune their new rings to their Domains. Attuned items were fairly common in the upper levels of crafting, both for the fact they ensured exclusive access to their functions, as well as the additional integration and power that could be derived from the usually custom-made gear. He’d never used one before, but he suspected that attunements usually took a lot longer than an hour to set up.

Matt felt giddy as the four of them walked over to another section of the base. The assortment of random houses they passed told him they were close even as they made their way into a fairly grand building.

A massive glass-walled circular foyer split into several hallways blocked off by relatively plain doors, and a circular design in the floor slowly transitioned into a magic circle at the center. The entire floor was bustling with people pouring into and out of the hallways, but they still gave way to the four of them. They did attract quite a few stares, but nobody actually approached them.

Darrow led them to the center of the room and onto the magic circle, and a swirl of magic closed around them, lifting them up into the ceiling and out of the crowds below. Right as they were about to collide with the stone above them, it simply gave way, folding into itself and letting them out into an advanced meeting room.

The far side was covered in massive, high-detail screens covered in several maps, diagrams, and numbers that Matt couldn’t understand. The center was an impressively large table projecting an illusion of… them, Matt realized with a start. It was a recording of their fight with Soddus and Girang, and Matt winced at the reminder of how much he’d shown in that fight.

Well, it wouldn’t matter soon enough, at least.

Around the table were nine others, loudly chatting about the recording, but quickly quieted down as they noticed Matt’s group having entered the room. He tore his attention away from the recording and instead scanned the new people

First there was Light and Shadow, of course. Shadow was wearing a deep purple cloak, her face obscured in its shadow, and lounging across her chair with a leg tossed up on one of the armrests and leaning against… the backrest, but not in a way that should have worked with normal geometry. It was twisted off to the side and reclined in a way that Matt didn’t let himself get distracted by.

Light looked every bit the part of his statue, with a piercing gaze scrutinizing them that carried a depth to it which Matt couldn’t easily identify. It carried with it a distinct feeling of judgment, of being assessed and found wanting. On the table in front of him was a thick, leather-bound book radiating power, and it closed itself with a clop as Matt watched.

Next to him was a dark-haired man with an utterly beaming smile on his scarred face. His eyes were literally a glowing gold, a smile that Matt would have called too wide on anyone else, reaching nearly to the inanimate tattoo of a black flame right below his ear, and his spirit radiated utter glee. But despite the man’s obvious and nearly contagious excitement, he made no move to greet them besides a small wave. He was in a fairly elaborate leather outfit, a light tan in color with a few red highlights and a pair of plain golden bracelets tight against his wrists.

Two women, leaning towards one another and chatting over their AIs, were the next along the table, one with long, blond hair kept back by a bandanna, and the other with mid-length violet hair in a ponytail. Both had heavily oil or grease-stained hands, but the blonde was wearing a fusion between a smith and enchanter’s outfit. A heavy apron laden with pockets, no less than three of which had different kinds of gloves hanging out of them, over a fairly plain blue robe that, unlike her hands and apron, was utterly spotless. The other woman was dressed in something more akin to a flight suit emblazoned with two nested semicircles meeting on the left where a nametag might normally go. Matt could catch a glimpse of a tattoo on the base of her neck, the very tip of a feather, but nothing else.

A golden-haired man who reminded Matt a bit of himself was next up. He was powerfully built, wearing a gold-trimmed white shirt and with a sapphire-blue torc resting at the base of his throat. One hand was encased in a silver mesh fingerless glove, with the other drawn into a respectful wave.

Next to him was a tall woman with brilliant green eyes and auburn hair pulled back into a braid, dressed in nice, embroidered clothing similar to that of the man on her left. She had her hands steepled on the table in front of her, and was assessing them in a manner similar to Light, but far less severe. Matt didn’t spend too long looking at her, though, because the final two were…

“Eric? Dena?” he blurted out incredulously, “What are you guys doing here?”

The pair burst out laughing. While he’d already been able to see them and receive congratulations from them at the reception following their ceremony, they hadn’t said anything about the fact they’d be seeing him so soon.

He didn’t get the chance to say much more, as Darrow’s presence filled the room, cutting off any lingering conversation before it could blossom.

“Ascenders Torch, Quill, and Scoop. This is Team Zero, your military assignment for this war. Present are Ascenders Shadow and Light, Graduate Torment, Prima Ace Drifter, Elite Technician Origami, Graduates Bulwark and Bolt, and Elite Recruits Stick and Stone,” he went around the table. “Today, I hope that we may be able to gain some familiarity with one another and begin figuring out some initial compatibility in regards to Talents and Domains. Now, while it may not be something you’re familiar with, I would like it if you’d be willing to share your Talents and Domain with the rest of the Team. At the level we operate at, having detailed information about what your teammates are or are not capable of can be the difference between life and death.”

Matt shared a glance with Liz and Aster and shrugged, “Sure.”

“I do ask you to- wait, ‘sure’?” Darrow froze for a moment, “Ascenders will never cease to surprise me.”

“I mean, we were kind of expecting to anyway. Here, let me-”.

Shadow cut him off, leaping up from her chair- which returned to its normal state- and onto the table. “No, stop, stop, stop! No spoilers!”

Matt could hear General Darrow’s teeth grinding even as he said. “Ascender Shadow, this isn’t the time for—”

