After killing the giant stone angel boss at the floating church, I activated [HIDDEN PATH DETECTION] again, seeing a faint blue trail winding behind the pedestal that the boss had been standing on. I walked around it to take a look, and to no one’s surprise, a chest was waiting there. I opened it right away.

[ITEM ACQUIRED: STONE FEATHER]

Description: A feather carved from stone.

Effect:

- Weighs less than a normal feather (somehow)

Wow! That looks like such a useful item!

…

If you couldn’t tell already, I was being sarcastic.

“Really?” Meriel said. “We came here for that?”

I stuffed the stone feather in my inventory. “I’m sorry. I genuinely mean it.”

With the floating church taken care of, the party and I left and took flight again, going back onto the main path through the dungeon’s skies. Flying like this reminded me of the griffins we had come with the first time around, and it honestly made me upset to remember how they were killed by Aurelius in the inverted city. All he did was send his rings after them, and just like that, they were all dead.

I was surprised Kaelor didn’t mention anything about the griffins even as we were flying through the dungeon. I’m sure it was in the back of his mind—he just didn’t want to show it.

Still, I was impressed by our ability to fly this fast without a mount. Kaelor and I were the quickest, but I didn’t expect Talon to also keep up with those little harpy wings. And even Meriel—who was using wind magic to fly herself and Reina through the air—was exceptionally fast. I found it especially strange that she was able to do it so well considering she’d never used a spell like that before. Her awakening basically made her into some sort of super-mage.

Once we neared the inverted city, Kaelor put a hand up. We stopped.

“What’re we waiting for? The city’s right up ahead,” Reina said.

Kaelor shook his head. “Not yet.”

“This was where we got ambushed,” I said, coming to a realization. “Remember those Porcelain Harpies, Gargoyles, and Chainbound Knights? The ones we flew away from?”

“We couldn’t win against them last time because they were infinitely spawning,” Meriel said. “But even so, it’s strange that there isn’t a single one anywhere now.”

And she was right. There wasn’t any trace of them. Not even a single noise.

“Wait,” I said. “If the monsters escaped during the dungeon outbreak, then what happened to the ones who survived the battle? We killed most of them, but many fled from Whale Isles, didn’t they?”

“Then they should be back here,” Meriel said. “They’re a byproduct of the dungeon’s mana. All the monsters that escaped the dungeon and also survived the battle would still perish and respawn here after long enough. They can’t live outside forever without the dungeon’s mana supply.”

“How do you know that?” Talon asked. “Wasn’t that the first dungeon outbreak ever?”

“That we know of, yes,” Meriel replied. “No other one has been documented. But still, I’m knowledgeable enough about mana and dungeons to make that conclusion.”

“But if the monsters should’ve eventually all returned here, why aren’t there any?” Reina asked.

Meriel shrugged. “That’s what I’m trying to figure out.”

We flew toward the city at half the speed we did before. The last thing we wanted was for some monster to suddenly spawn on top of us and knock us out of the sky while we were going at full speed.

“I think,” Kaelor began, “that this is a part of the dungeon’s defect. We already know how broken this dungeon is, given how Aurelius was able to escape it as its warden. This doesn’t seem too surprising.”

“That’s true,” I said. “It’s also strange that this dungeon’s entrance wasn’t sealed off like it was the first time we came here. We had to win an entire sky race to receive the runes that allowed us to open the gate, but it didn’t look like the soldiers outside needed to do anything to open it. It was already open when we came here.”

“Maybe something’s wrong with the dungeon’s mana?” Reina tried.

Meriel nodded. “That’s a likely answer… and it also explains why we haven’t seen any of the monsters that should be ambushing us yet. Perhaps the dungeon outbreak ruined the mana flow somehow.”

Once we got close enough to the upside-down city, gravity inverted, sending us plummeting toward the ground. Since we expected it, however, the fall wasn’t nearly as devastating as it should’ve been.

Well, at least it was that way for everyone except Talon. He somehow ended up landing on his butt.

“Ow!” he cried, trying to rub the pain away.

“How’d that happen?” Kaelor asked.

“I think my wings were too tired from flying nonstop!” Talon said before turning to me. “How aren’t yours tired?”

I spread my wings wide. “Well, that’s the perk of having equippable wings. They don’t get tired.”

Though it does suck that I could now feel every sensation on my wings as though it were a part of my body because of the trope reward I received from Tira. Thank goodness exhaustion wasn’t one of those sensations.

“Hm,” Meriel said, walking ahead. “There should be several chests appearing in front of us by now, right?”

We waited a few more seconds, but nothing came.

“Well that sucks!” Reina complained. “I was hoping to get another sword like Dawn Sunderer!”

I chuckled. “Having two weapons like that in the party would be incredibly useful, wouldn’t it?”

I could only imagine what it would feel like to dual wield two Dawn Sunderers. Pairing them with my wings, I’d either look like an angel fighting with two holy blades or a little girl holding two light sticks. Both statements were technically true, but with very different interpretations.

“Can’t do much about that,” Kaelor said, stepping forward. “The dungeon’s already done us a favor by not sending any monsters our way. We can’t expect it to give us a bunch of chests for it, can we?”

GRRRRRRK!

That sound made us all stop in our tracks. It came from above.

“Wait a minute…” I muttered. “Why does that sound familiar?”

Oh no. It was the giant rolling boulder from last time, wasn’t it? So you’re telling me the dungeon decided to take away the monsters and the chests, but kept the damn boulder?

We looked up. Our jaws dropped.

There it was.

A giant…

Yellow…

…

“...Duck?” Reina said.

“A huge one!” Talon cried.

“Huh…?” I muttered.

Without any further warning, it came crashing down, forcing us to run away. We tried to fly, but couldn’t. Just like last time, the city’s gravity intensified whenever we tried to take flight, keeping us on the ground.

“QUACK! QUACK!” the giant rubber duck let out as it bounced and rolled at us.

Kaelor burst into laughter. “T… This is hilarious! I can’t breathe! I can’t—!”

He ran the slowest compared to the rest of us. That was highly unusual. If he kept this up, his own laughter would end up being the reason he’d get squashed to death by a rubber duck.

“Yup,” Meriel said as she ran beside us without any struggle. “This dungeon is definitely defective.”

She had cast a spell on herself to make it much easier to run. She quickly cast the same spell on each of us.

SQUEAK! SQUEAK! SQUEAK!

The duck squeaked with every bounce, shaking the entire city.

Talon looked back at it as he was running. “Why does it have eyebrows?! It looks offended for some reason!”

Eyebrows…?

Curiosity got the better of me, so I looked back. Sure enough, it had dark, bushy eyebrows.

“We should deflate it before it’s too late,” Meriel said.

She shot a fireball at it. Instead of exploding on contact, the fireball bounced right off, heading straight toward us.

“Uh-oh,” she said.

Great.

Before I could cast a barrier around myself, Kaelor thrust his hand out, using wind magic to disperse the fire.

“Quack, quack!” he said, smiling to himself.

I shot him a look. “Really…?”

“What? I’m just speaking its language.”

“QUAAAAAAAAAAACK!” the rubber duck yelled.

It made its heaviest bounce yet. The entire city trembled so violently that all of us tripped over.

“Damn it!” I cried. “Are we really all going to die from a rubber duck?!”

But as soon as I looked back at the duck, I realized that the previous bounce had left it damaged. It began to deflate, and once it became small enough, the duck zipped in every direction as it continued to shrink and expel air from the tear at the bottom.

“It kind of sounds like someone’s farting,” Kaelor said.

Talon giggled. “It sounds like Allene’s.”

“What the hell are you talking about?!” I cried.

Soon, the duck fell out of the air and settled right in front of our feet, torn and defeated. I picked up its shaggy yellow body, which was just a fraction of the colossal size it was before.

[ITEM ACQUIRED: MAGICAL RUBBER DUCK]

Status: Torn

Description: A rubber duck blessed by the gods themselves. According to ancient legends, it single-handedly defeated countless demonic armies, ended three great calamities, and brought peace to several regions. Historians are divided on whether any of this actually happened.

Effects:

- It’s yellow

- It’s a duck

- It quacks

What kind of description was that…?

[TROPE COMPLETED: DUCK]

[REWARD: Quack]

Description: Quack.

Effect:

- Quack

Note: This isn't actually a trope. It just deserved an achievement.
