Had it been Phoenix Squad embroiled in combat, Song would have gladly sat down to rest since she worked with Mister Rustram the most, but ever since discovering just how difficult her next steps would be, she saw Rain and Dastan in a new light. Nineteen and twenty-three years old respectively, both were much farther along the Martial Path than Song was at the age of twenty-one, and she yearned to know why. Though she could still match them in spars, both were Aura-capable Experts who would only grow stronger with time, and it showed. Axe and shield in hand, Dastan’s performance spoke for itself, an untouchable whirlwind of violence on the left flank as he almost single-handedly drove the Enemy back into the shallows. On the right flank, Rain performed a similar role, hacking and slashing repeatedly with inelegant efficiency. Unlike Dastan’s wild glee, Rain almost looked bored in comparison, executing Sweeping the Fields into Swiping the Rushes in a continuous cycle and barely slowed by the multiple bodies standing in his path. Left, then right, then left, then right, he swung his glaive back and forth along an unchanging arc, yet no Defiled could stand before him as he harvested lives much like a farmer harvested wheat.

Where Song defeated her opponents with superior skill, Rain massacred them with overwhelming power and clever tactics, stopping his advance at the edge of the shallows so Dragon Squad stood on solid ground while the Defiled moved across grasping mud and slick stone. Situational Positioning, as outlined in Huang Shaotian’s Three Hunting Strategies, but where he found the time to study the complex and flowery manuscript, Song couldn’t say. What truly boggled her mind was seeing his slender frame produce so much explosive power time and time again, but it was clear his every strike was generously Reinforced and Amplified.

The seconds turned to minutes until Dragon Squad had fought for a quarter hour, and still Rain continued with his flawlessly Amplified attacks. This begged the question: how? How did he have enough Chi to sustain for so long? How had he yet to fail a single attempt? How did he make slaughtering multiple Defiled with every swing look so easy and effortless? While Song had finally taken her first step in ages, it seemed like Rain was still progressing in leaps and bounds. Not just in Martial Prowess, but in tactical acumen as well, his accomplishments so great Song no longer dared give advice unless explicitly questioned lest she make a fool out of herself in front of him.

Why the thought of that happening vexed her so, Song couldn’t say...

“Why, Commander Li-Li, your cute little cat ears are pressed flat to your head.” Tursinai’s Sending bore a teasing tone as she hugged Song tight. “Is something the matter? Why don’t you tell Big Sister all about it?”

Settling back in Tursinai’s warm embrace, Song rested her temple against the taller woman’s cheek and Sent, “Big Sister, I stagnate along the Martial Path while my peers pass me by. Mama tells me not to worry and to proceed at my own pace, but what if I fail and disappoint her?”

“Kya, Li-Li is so cute.” Squeezing her even tighter, Tursinai kissed Song on the cheek and Sent, “First off, your Mama loves you no matter what, and she’ll never be disappointed so long as you are happy. Second, you can’t go wrong with the Chief Provost as your Mentor, so follow her instructions and strength will come. Third, answer me this Li-Li: why do you seek strength?”

Frowning, Song considered the question before answering with the same thing she told Mama. “I pursue strength so I can stand with Sister, Mama, and Papa without being a burden.” Strength made her needed, and while it was nice to be loved, being needed made her feel secure.

“Then you’ve no need to train anymore,” Tursinai Sent, punctuating her point with another kiss on the cheek. “Your family would never see you as a burden, because the burden would fall on hubby and me.” Chuckling at her own joke, she continued, “Your desire to stand alongside your family is admirable, but if you hope to match the likes of your Mama and Papa, then you have a journey of centuries ahead of you. No need to stress over being surpassed by Rain and Dastan, because worst comes to worst, you can claim superiority after outliving them.”

Noting Song’s dissatisfaction, Tursinai Sent, “You see the other youths with their Auras, Natal Palaces, and Blessings, and you’re worried you can’t match up.” Song nodded and Tursinai continued, “Well, you’re right. You can’t match up right now. Heaven isn’t fair, and chances are you would have fallen behind regardless because half-beasts in general are slower to progress with regards to Chi manipulation.” Which made Wu Gam and Du Min Yan all the more talented, but Song held her tongue. “Don’t pout, little Li-Li, though it is oh so adorable. Envy and resentment will eat away at your resolve, and even should you overcome it, it wastes time better spent training. Worry not about how your peers fare, for everyone moves along the Martial Path at the same pace: one step at a time.”

Nodding in agreement with Tursinai’s sage advice, Song replied, “True, but I still want to be stronger. Though I made some progress in training today and saw its effectiveness, I don’t understand how reciting poetry is supposed to help form my Natal Palace.” Knowing the Bekhai penchant for letting students reach their own conclusions, Song wasn’t brazen enough to directly ask Tursinai for advice, but the talented warrior surely had something to offer.

Understanding Song’s meaning, Tursinai shook her head and sighed. “The Chief Provost will have my hide if I overstep, so listen carefully, if only so you can tell her exactly what I said and prove me innocent. Forget your Natal Palace. You haven’t even condensed your Aura yet, so just continue working on the exercises your Mama gave you and reflect on my earlier question. Strength for the sake of strength is meaningless, for only with purpose can Martial Strength truly hold significance. Got it?”

“Yes Big Sister. Thank You.” Though she didn’t quite understand Tursinai’s veiled meanings, Song committed every word to heart before turning her thoughts to her second Spiritual Weapon. Though she already put off answering Papa for a quarter of a year, she still had no answer to give. She’d hoped to ask her older brother Kyung for insight into Teacher Du’s thoughts, but not only did he repeatedly rebuff her attempts to make conversation and refuse to spar because she was clearly not his match, he treated their shared parentage and teachings as empty air, and only carried a single Martial Weapon, a sabre much like her own.

In short, Kyung was a massive disappointment, of no help whatsoever, and prickly to boot.

Seeing Rain and Dragon Squad holding the Defiled back with ease, Song wondered if he had any insight to offer. Though he’d been on his best behaviour while holding her chain and she was fond of his warm head pats, she wasn’t too keen about going to him for advice. It wasn’t because she worried he might take advantage or tout his strength over her, but there was something unsavoury about outright admitting her inferiority. Why this was, again, she couldn’t quite say, but the mere thought of acknowledging his genius out loud set her nerves on edge, especially now that he’d gone back to being intensely uncomfortable in her presence, a sign of his impure thoughts he could not act upon.

A failing of all men, but at least Rain was repentant of his desires.

If purpose was so important to Martial Strength, then maybe Song should set a goal of her own besides becoming strong for the sake of being needed, something like surpassing Rain and Yan, defeating Kyung, or better yet, catching up to Tursinai. Then again, maybe something more realistic was in order such as... having her own pet. No, this had nothing to do with the Martial Path, though she would enjoy having an animal to love and call her own, an affectionate but practical creature who served a purpose and could fit in her yurt. A small dream, but best not be too greedy, for she still remembered a time when her dreams consisted of enduring through the night until her morning ritual, the scant five minutes a day which were hers, and hers alone. In light of this, perhaps she didn’t need a pet of her own, for she had already been blessed with a loving family and compassionate friends.

Then again, having a cute, battle-trained torch weasel or thunder mouse would make up for her lack of Awakening and offer a marked increase in strength. Nestled in Tursinai’s arms, Song idly watched the engagement play out and imagined herself striding across the battlefield with her sabre engulfed in flame or lightning, reciting poetry and slaughtering Defiled as easily as lifting her hand while leaving Rain awestruck in her wake...

Truly a dream, but perhaps a goal as well...

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme2
