“A little low on the rewards for saving a planet, but I’ll take what I can get.”

The Overseer turned a hand.

“It’s what we can spare right now.”

Plazia cackled.

“Of course. A rotting corpse is given for saving a planet. It is the way of that AI.”

I turned to Plazia with a palm raised.

“Hey now, you heard him. He’s doing what he can. This is Schema’s limit, and really, it's all we can hope to expect given the war.”

The Overseer tapped his red status screen with overbearing thuds, the sounds of each click like a pop of thunder. Another notification bleeped into existence.

Other Bonus Objective: Eliminate the disgusting hivemind residing on Blegara.

Reward: seven blue cores, seventy red cores, seventy million credits |

I scoffed.

“I’ll see what I can do.”

The Overseer crossed his arms.

“Do consider the awards. Now, it’s time for me to leave. I’ve spent far too much time here.”

He opened a warp before I waved a hand.

“Wait a minute. I need Schema to help me out with these dimensional tears that keep cropping up on my planets. They’re insane threats to humanity, and, honestly, everything-”

The Overseer put a hand on my shoulder.

“We’re doing what we can, but there’s an entity that’s begun assaulting Schema on the other side of his owned space in the Milky Way. It’s unfortunate, but there’s little that can be done as of yet.”

Plazia whispered like a quake of the earth.

“And yet Schema can still choose to hide so much. The tyranny of silence...It is a quiet thing where little is said, yet all is done.”

The Overseer motioned his head as if rolling his eyes under his featureless helmet. I knew it. Plazia knew it. We all knew it. The Overseer entered a few commands into his status once more, and reality shifted around us. Portions of space turned into cubes, reformatting the terrain and expanse around us with mechanical certainty.

As the sterile mana faded and the chasm turned into a typical warp, the Overseer gave us a nod. He stepped through his own portal before disappearing, and as he did, I turned to Plazia.

“After we finish cleaning up Blegara, do you mind leaving and taking your minions with you?”

He peered at the water with distaste.

“It would be done regardless. I’ve had enough of white beaches and black seas. I prefer moss-laden caves, the smell of rich, wet earth, and the sound of crashing waterfalls should a planet have them.”

I waved a hand.

“Good. We’ll make sure you get a nice base and new carapace after this whole debacle.”

“You’re giving me your flesh in exchange for good works? You’re turning your guild into a cult.”

“In a lot of ways, the only difference between cults and religions is the magnitude of success. Anyways, come on. Let’s get it done.”

Before we got to it, I contemplated the Overseer's words. Either he had been re-indoctrinated recently, or Schema achieved something that reignited his fervor for the system. Perhaps the war with Elysium was faring better than I expected. Either way, I had a notification to read.

System Upgrade: Tracking End-State Eldritch

This system augment grants you the ability to find and parse through the vast wastes of space and a planet’s surface to find the remnants of our greatest enemies – end-state eldritch. This newfound minimap allows you to find their pieces within any three-dimensional space, ensuring you can clear an infestation with minimal effort!

After a flash of mana coursed through me, I gained another option in my minimap. It generated a set of red blobs around me with excruciating detail, down to the drops of blood gushing from their wounds. Those crimson blots were semi-transparent, just enough to be easily seen but also ignored in the heat of battle. That utility let me leave the function on even when floating or moving through space, and each piece carried a coordinate floating over it.

I shared the data with Plazia-Ruhl.

“Does this mean anything to you? It’s gibberish to me. The coordinates, that is.”

Plazia let out a sigh.

“You’re an uneducated imbecile at the strangest of moments. That is the galactic coordinate system Schema uses.”

“And that you use, apparently. Some eldritch you are.”

“If the AI is anything, it's organized. It gives you an idea of where you are in the grand scheme of the universe in a way little else can.”

I waved a hand through the data. My fingers floated through the visuals without disturbing them.

“This looks like it would be incredible for anyone trying to warp anywhere.”

“It would solve all the manual warping issues that technicians deal with. That is how you know it will never be shared.”

I frowned.

“It’s how Schema holds power. One of the ways, at least.”

“It does far more than hold power over you. It is putting a noose around your neck. The only places where you can still walk are where the hangman’s stools are lined up for you.”

I shrugged.

“But at least we know where to go.”

Plazia’s gaze sharpened, many eyes lighting up from within his vessel.

“I’ve known you long enough to know you’re a fool but not utterly naive. Are you lying down like some coward, or does it actually not bother you?”

I nodded.

“Of course it does. It’s honestly ridiculous that Schema isn’t doing everything it can as efficiently as it can. If it was trying to help half as much as it says it does, we’d have moved well beyond the eldritch by now.”

Plazia simmered his words.

“Then why do you not show anger? You’re like some kitten that is scared of its own roar. It’s pathetic.”

I remembered my father raging nearly a decade ago. He’d throw bottles at the wall while cursing diseases like cancer or the people who fired him from his last day job. His anger did nothing but leave dents in the walls and whelps on my head. It also alienated his friends and raised his blood pressure. That was why I left my anger for select moments, and this wasn't one of them.

I looked down at Plazia.

“A roar does nothing. It’s only a declaration. It carries meaning but lacks substance. Anger is the same. It spurs those who lack the will and conviction to motivate themselves beyond simple, emotional triggers. For me, I can make myself act. It’s actually my preferred language. In time, my actions will speak so loudly that I won’t need anger or roars or declarations. Everyone will know exactly what I never said aloud, even those that haven’t heard my voice or felt my rage.”

I raised my brow.

“And that's because words are undone in moments. Actions echo.”

Plazia soaked in what I said before crossing his arms.

“Then let us go speak to the lingering bits of corruption left behind our battle.”

I smiled.

“Let's.”

Plazia sliced a portal and hopped in. I followed behind, and we found that the tracking system operated on a grand scale, far larger than even a planet in size. The lack of a size restriction contrasted the other search options from Schema's minimap entirely. It could only help us find pieces of a Hybrid Star or Spatial Fortress. In all honesty, the long-term utility of the option relieved and renewed my desire to help Schema.

I had desperately needed this for the rest of my planets. The precise knowledge it garnered allowed me to clear out any infestations long before they grew out of hand. The convenience would save me mountains of effort and time in the long run, and we'd avoid deaths in my future worlds as well.

In this case, it stopped Blegara's moon from becoming infested with the eldritch gunk. Making that happen, we kept warping around and clearing out fragments of the Hybrid Star for several weeks. Having handled all of the major threats to my guild, I had a bit of leeway with how I dealt with this particular task. To me, that meant doing it well.

We kept clearing and scorching this section of space until I gained a notification from Schema.

Second Objective Complete! The lingering remnants of the Hybrid Star are cleansed, ensuring the future of this world and many others. Excellent work, Harbinger.

Reward: Augments to status system revolving around terraforming.

System Upgrade: Terraforming Worlds

This system upgrade allows the user to discern the ratios of various chemicals along a planet’s surface, including all baseline elements and a list of over fifty common chemicals, including water. It carries a history of revisions along with knowledge of a planet’s general geographical status. It even includes functions for life forms not based on carbon or water!

Even a cursory glance of the options left me floored. Compared to the tracker system, this defied all reason. It gave me a laundry list of different options, premade plans, and color-coded bars for each element on the surface of the planet. The data points included gravity levels, various toxins, and the kind of microbiome that currently existed on a planet.

Those microbes helped change the makeup of the planet’s atmosphere and keep it changed, maintaining it over the long term. Another significant but underrated function involved the volcanic activity of a planet. It had diagrams and maps for hotspots along with lines for a planet’s tectonic plates. It gave notices for disasters, including the enormous patch of Blegara left destroyed by the Hybrid Star.

These kinds of functions let me dissect and understand a planet's current state and its long-term trajectory, each an essential function for anyone terraforming. Schema even had different links for products sold by a few of his trusted associates. The sheer volume of information left me a little overwhelmed, and As I read through the data, I rubbed my temples.

“This is like…A college course in a niche field. Oh man, my worst enemy.”

Plazia gazed at a hand in boredom.

“Even if you were to fail the course, surely fifty of you wouldn’t?”

I squinted.

“I wouldn’t be so sure. If there’s one thing I’m a professional at, it’s flunking out of classes.”

Plazia waved a hand through the floating, three-dimensional panorama of Blegara.

“Then retake them as necessary. Academia is often an exercise in effort and diligence, not intelligence or ability.”

“Eh, but book smarts tend to help. Anyways, look at this.”

I shared a few of the collected notes I gathered online with the hivemind, and we gathered a reasonable approach to the problem at hand. I pointed at the warp below that gushed water.

“Are you ready?”

Plazia murmured.

“To push Bikini-Bottom elsewhere? Easily.”
