My stomach sank.

“That’s true. We’ll need to reverse engineer the cipheric tech that he’s using.”

“It will take you millennia to understand the cipher to such a level if you ever will.”

I raised my palms.

“Hey, let’s handle this one step at a time. Besides-”

Blegara’s scar shone like a necrotic wound in the light. I let out a sigh with no air for breath or medium for sound to travel in.

“We’ve got a lot of work to do.”

Chapter Begin

Plazia telekinetically rumbled within his shell.

“It's a bold assumption that Elysium will let us clean this carnage after we culled their forces.”

I shrugged.

“Anytime Elysium engages with me, they haven't gotten anything positive out of the exchange. At this point, I'm hoping they just assume we're a burned bridge that's best left avoided.”

Plazia glared at Blegara.

“I’ve tried convincing fellow eldritch of a new purpose. The more force behind my message, the more they fought against me. To them, their hunger is something worthy of worship. That it is a path to perfection. The same may be said of Elysium and their idealogy, and to convince zealots is an exhausting path. It drips with glistening blood and sour bile.”

Dollops of partially frozen blood floated around us, and Blegara's sun in the distance seemed so small. I couldn't gaze at it without remembering the unreal force it carried.

"Sounds like we'll need a mop then. Come on, let’s get started.”

Using our vantage point, Plazia and I spent several hours assessing the damage done to Blegara’s surface. After mapping the patterns out, we marked larger pockets of tissue left behind by the fortress and brainstormed the resulting blowback from Elysium. We found that the vast majority of the Spatial Fortress disintegrated, but a few disparate, enormous chunks still floated near the moon and closer to Blegara.

I commandeered a few of my golems to help destroy the most significant bits, but we couldn’t be certain that all of it was gone. A quick call to other guild members helped us gather a force of around ten thousand volunteers for the initiative, many of them gialgathens. The loss of their homeworld gave them a surprising empathy for the Vagni and the near loss of their oceanic haven.

It took several weeks to expunge the surrounding space of its floating debris, but we cleansed the remaining 99% of what lingered behind. At this point, far less than a tenth of a percent dwelt in the darkness of space. Any falling orbital bits would burn up in the atmosphere, keeping Blegara safe. As for the planet's torched surface, restoring the ocean world presented a massive challenge.

The most pressing concern stemmed from the environment – a third of the world was a ravaged hellscape. The fortress swallowed much of the vast seas, leaving a parched, glassed section of the planet in its wake. To restore its previous vibrance, we needed water and a lot of it. Fortunately, I knew just the place.

Plazia and I headed back towards an open dungeon on Blegara, one I marked long ago. It was an enormous rift leading to another ocean world, one that may have converted Blegara into its current water-laden state. Upon that silent plane, I remembered the dim stars and endless quiet of that other world. It was as if all life had given up trying to rage against the silence of death and the dying of all light.

It instilled fear in me, but it carried opportunity within its quiet. Plazia and I arrived before gazing at the colossal chasm as it flooded out with water. I put my hands on my hips.

“There it is. Told you it was big.”

Several of the runes across Plazia’s Sentinel’s armor glowed, each reverberating like machines of mana. They let him float.

“It is large to a regional standard. This will not quench the thirst of a planet. Obviously.”

I spread my hands.

“But get this. What if we open it wider, eh? Eh?”

Plazia stared into the sky.

“You are a creature with jaws, and every problem is solved with a bite.”

I gestured to the giant chasm.

"And look what it did to the Spatial Fortress."

Plazia dragged a hand down his face.

"Hm. Then let us continue down this spiral of insanity, the depths of which few may understand and fewer still will choose to tread."

We took several hours inspecting the limits of the dungeon. From what I gathered, it expanded further than the plain world I carried with me. At the same time, the sheer size of the dimensional rip made moving it impossible. To help the issue, I sent a message to an old friend.

From the ether, the Overseer walked out of a cubic portal. The pauldron I made him rested on his right shoulder, wires lacing the slab of dimensional fabric. The runes glowed, energy flowing from it and into different pieces of machinery. Converters prevented the rampant energy from changing his thoughts, and all the mechanisms touched became sterile, contained energy.

The Overseer turned to me with a curt nod.

“Harbinger.”

I returned the gesture.

“Overseer.”

The Overseer turned to Plazia, and Schema’s worker squeezed a hand into a fist.

“I see you associate with their ilk now. A shame, though using them for this purpose is as productive as these monsters may be.”

Plazia cackled.

“Oh, the irony. You warp from world to world, handling administrative duties. I’ve saved a planet as you did your paperwork. Now you criticize me? Hah. As short-sighted as your maker, aren't you?”

The Overseer turned a hand to the eldritch.

“Ah, so sharp of you to notice. It’s amazing what a monster can do when it wears the shell of something sentient. Tell me, what did you have to save that planet from? Was it a rogue Overseer? A criminalized Sentinel, perhaps?”

Plazia tilted his head.

“It was a Hybridized fortress.”

The Overseer put a hand over where his mouth lay under his armor.

“Ah, so it was a variation of you. Daniel, have you ever wondered how many of your guild will be eaten alive whenever this abomination loses control? I expect 30-40% of humanity, but remember that I prefer positive estimations.”

Before I could answer, Plazia snapped his words like a stinging whip.

“I’m the abomination now? You know that the same energy that deforms my kin also powers the machinery you have embedded under your skin. The only difference between you and me is that my changes were enacted by rogue circumstances. You are the byproduct of a meddling machine, one that carries goals as sinister as any eldritch.”

The Overseer turned to me.

“What is the overtalkative bug prattling on about?”

I raised a hand.

“Elysium told us that mana is derived from the Old Ones.”

The Overseer waved a hand like he was throwing away garbage.

“The rebels lie about everything they can. When have they told you the truth? During their treaty? Or was it the lottery? My memory fails me.”

Seeing Plazia put the Overseer in a sour mood instantly. Plazia murmured,

“They tell the truth whenever it is convenient. Aside from the trustworthiness of the source, we know of compelling evidence to support Elysium’s conclusions.”

The Overseer leaned towards Plazia.

“Like what? You're desire for you and me to be the same?”

I frowned.

“I’ve visited several of the manifested dimensions of the Old Ones. Baldowah’s plane oozes ascendant mana. Eonoth’s is all about primordial mana. Even Etorhma has some kind of energy oozing from him, and his avatar used it just like normal mana as well.”

The Overseer lifted his hands.

“They are cosmic beings. They struggle to manifest in this dimension, so using characteristics of our dimension is how they bridge the endless gap between us. Aside from that, why would the Old Ones give away their energy for free?”

I spread my hands.

"To make us into the tools that allow them to manifest in our dimension."

Plazia’s internal body swarmed.

“Aside from that inconvenient truth, other questions arise. For instance, if mana is so intrinsic to this dimension, why doesn’t it manifest without Schema’s intervention?”

The Overseer scoffed.

“You’re an insect who’s lived in an empty world for centuries out of fear. What do you know of the workings of the wider world? Of Schema’s universe?”

“More than the dog that laps at the scraps of its master.”

I pinched the bridge of my nose.

“The point is, Elysium believes that as a fact, so they’re fighting tooth and nail to stop that dependence.”

The Overseer sighed.

“Even assuming they’re correct, they’ve done nothing but breed the problem they attempt to neuter. By using the Hybrids and disrupting the inner workings of Schema’s system, they’re causing Schema to rely more on mana than ever before. Our protector has always used it, but now Schema’s wielding specialized, higher-leveled versions of us. You’ve seen the preliminary ascendant forms as an example.”

I raised a brow.

“Yeah, and they’re nowhere near as stable.”

The Overseer gazed at the abyss that belched water below.

“We had the eldritch threat contained and handled. Now we must fight in a pointless, bloody civil war so that the fairy tales of a cult can be entertained.”

Plazia’s swarm rumbled within his shell.

“Those fairy tales are told because your ruler won’t unveil the secrets it hordes. Instead, it lives upon a throne of lies and half-truths, only giving out tantalizing pieces of its treasure to manipulate whoever it so pleases. That is why Elysium exists – the failings of a false master.”

The Overseer’s giant gauntlets glowed with blue mana.

“Elysium exists because the remnants want to dominate the universe and by any means necessary.”

The runes across the scarred Sentinel armor glowed over Plazia’s body.

“Perhaps they wish to cast aside the current tyrant who rests easy on his throne. Hasn’t his crown seemed heavy as of late? His rulings are certainly aged and addled. Perhaps someone should take that from him.”

The Overseer stepped up, his body humming as mechanisms whirred to action.

"You will rest that earned power from dead hands, cretin."

I wielded Event Horizon as a weapon, bearing it down on them both.

“Or perhaps you’re two children who can’t take a moment to look past yourselves and work towards a larger picture?”

They glared at each other, but Event Horizon’s oppression settled into their minds as time passed. They lost the will to battle for nothing, and I removed my aura. Plazia turned to the gaping dimension below us.

“I’ll tolerate this mechanized hypocrite if it is demanded of me.”

The Overseer rolled his shoulders.

“Another time, insect.”

“Anytime you wish to die, little dog who bites upon heels.”

I snapped my fingers, and a singularity erupted in the ocean. The sound and shockwave drew their attention. I pointed at the water.

“Can you make the dimensional opening smaller?”

The Overseer leaned back.

“Yes, but what will that accomplish?”

I put my hands in front of me.

“I know it sounds crazy, but I’m going to push Bikini-Bottom somewhere else.”

The Overseer and Plazia stayed silent for a moment. They spoke in tandem.

“Bikini-Bottom?”

I waved my hands in a circle.

“I just made an incredibly complex and layered metaphor. I derived it from my old world and one of its most profound works of literature and culture. Truly, I attained that knowledge from only the finest of masterpieces, and yet it's lost upon you both. For shame, but the point is, I’m going to move that dimension somewhere else.”

The Overseer looked at the sky.

“This again. Insanity.”

Plazia crossed his arms.

“I doubted his ability, but he carries the weight of worlds well. I hid within one when we fought the fortress.”

The Overseer kept staring.

“It’s a star…A Hybrid Star. That’s Schema’s working classification.”

I shook my head.

“Damn, dude. That’s so much better than our name.”

The Overseer shook his head.

“It’s not a Spatial Fortress by any measure. Those are specialized end-state eldritch designed by Schema. They are the actual guard dogs of Schema’s universe.”

Plazia’s head twitched.

“You are no different. All you may do is bark and bite at what your master commands. You have no mind for yourself.”

The Overseer glared down at Plazia.

“We will have to agree to disagree. Is there anything else that needs to be done here before I leave?”

His gauntlets glowed.

“Perhaps an infestation cleared?”

I frowned.

“Don’t you have a kill switch?”

The Overseer laughed.

“It’s been loosened in the wake of the war. It gives me the liberty to do some cleaning from time to time.”

I pointed at Blegara’s moon.

“Speaking of, we need some way of tracking pieces of the Hybrid Star. Otherwise, we’ll never know if it’s actually killed."

The Overseer opened his red status screen, and he filed forms until a notification popped up in front of my vision.

Quest Received: To Cleanse a World

A colossal Hybrid Star has attached itself to Blegara, a world of oceans and eldritch. It is up to you to clear it from the planet, saving every living thing that calls this place its home.

-Objectives- | Kill the Hybrid Star on Blegara | Clear the remnants lingering from its demise | Bonus Objective: Terraform the surface of Blegara

-Rewards- | Tracking upgrade to system inputs | Terraforming upgrade to system inputs | Three blue cores, thirty red cores, 30 million credits |

I looked at the contract with a conflicted feeling. The system rewards met expectations, while the material gains left a lot to be desired. I chose not to complain since I'd handle these tasks regardless of what Schema awarded me. In that sense, this quest gave me something for a task I’d do without any compensation.

I gave the Overseer a sardonic smile.

