She needed almost a full second to decide; little boys didn't steal due to greed.

Crossing gazes with David, she pointed in a direction. He nodded and turned that way while she flapped her wings to angle herself along the boy's trajectory.

Most people had their heads turned upward, staring at the winged catkin in the sky. Many fingers were pointed her way, tracking her as she traced the young fugitive's course.

The guards quickly caught on and began using her like a hunting falcon, heading in her direction. Before they could get close to their quarry, they ran into a dour-looking man with black hair who barred their way.

Niala heard her husband shout below, a far-ranging, powerful bellow that left the plaza in a ringing silence and heads turned his way instead of upward.

She smirked; leave it to her David to be so ferocious even a flying woman seemed uninteresting. At about the same time, the young boy darted into an alley, and she quickly dove in, flying low and letting the buildings conceal her.

A few corners later, the boy, panting, hid behind a chimney outcropping and waited, listening for signs of pursuit. When nothing reached his ears, he let out a breath and let himself fall on his behind.

Niala swooped down, tucked her wings in and willed the winds to deposit her in front of the boy in a subdued whoosh of air.

He stared at her, blinking, panic bubbling back up as he squeezed the cloth bundle in his arms.

She backstepped and held up her hands, ears tucking in. “It's alright! I don't want to hurt you! My friend stopped the guards chasing after you! I want to help!”

His eyes darted to the sides, evaluating his escape route.

She knelt down, mellowing her eyes. “I swear on my honour as an All Brew and Allwarden, I just want to help, please?”

The boy looked at her, his chest heaving. His mouth opened but closed before any words got out. From the perpendicular alley footsteps rang. Niala glanced that way, and the boy jumped to his feet, darting the way she wasn't looking.

She sighed and stood up. From the alley came David, quirking a brow at her as she dusted her dress. “What did you see? Who are we chasing? You did want me to stop the guards, right?”

She smiled. “Yes, thank you. It's a young boy; he was clutching something, probably stolen.”

“Little boys don't steal unless-”

“Unless they're hungry or forced. I know.” She finished his sentence. “He was too scared to talk, but I'm following him with the winds; I planted a scent on him.”

“You can do that?” he asked.

She grinned. “You're not the only one figuring out new tricks.”

Donnie ran until his lungs burned, then he kept jogging, fighting back the blackness that swam around his vision. Only when he got within sight of the old monastery that was more miracle than building did he allow himself to fall to his knees.

Ha gave himself thirty seconds, just enough to catch some of his breath, then forced himself back up and stumbled forward. He reached the half-rotten fence gate to the courtyard, letting his small body push it open, as it whined at the intrusion.

At this time, Marcel would be in the kitchen, trying to make a meal out of whatever leftovers and refuse he'd been able to beg from people. That meant the front and side doors were no good; he'd hear him.

With a groan, he forced his feet to keep moving as he rounded the building. The backdoor was boarded shut; the hinges had been rusted shut since before he was born. Instead, he put down his package and shoved an old log off, revealing a narrow, broken window that led into the basement.

He picked the bundle back up and slipped in, letting himself fall the last few feet to the wet paved stone floor. Quietly, he made his way up the stairs, avoiding the ones that groaned the loudest. He looked left and right; he could hear the other kids chatting and yelling in the common room on the right, and Marcel moving pots and pans on the left. Ahead of him, the stairs that led up to the sleeping quarters.

He dashed forward, moving through the hallway in two steps, and stepped upstairs. At this point, Marcel would think it was just one of the kids retrieving something from the bedroom. He just had to keep out of sight until he could hide this thing under the loose plank beneath his bed.

He was nearly there when he heard banging at the front door.

His eyes widened; nobody ever banged on the front door, except that idiot purser once every season, and it wasn't that time yet.

Donnie scrambled forward to his hidden stash. He hoped whoever had followed him wouldn't recognize him.

David took a step back from the double door, afraid to hit them again from the way they'd vibrated the first time. He wondered if the hinges still had fasteners or if they were just staying there because that's where they'd been all their lives. He turned his head toward Niala. “You're sure this is it? The place doesn't look fit for occupation.”

She nodded, ears alert. “Yes. At least, this is where the winds lost track, so he probably went inside.

He shrugged and stepped up to the doors again. Before he could try his chance at whether they'd stay upright or call in, he heard the heavy lock disengage. The weathered planks opened on a tired, balding bearkin wearing a patched-up monk robe with a stained apron on top.

The stains looked like they had been there for long enough to become part of the fabric.

The older, slightly rotund man looked at them with narrowed eyes. “What do you two want?”

David glanced at Niala, who stepped forward, smiling. “Good afternoon, Sir! My name is Niala, and we saw a boy being chased by guards earlier. We believe he took refuge here.”

The bearkin grunted. “No kids here. Anything else?”

Her smile strained, but movement inside, behind the bearkin, caught her attention. A grape of small heads was leaning around the bend in the hallway with young, curious eyes looking her way.

The bearkin followed her gaze down the hallway and to the kids. He grimaced and shooed them away with his hand before turning back to look at Niala. “No kids who would be chased by guards here. They're all good kids. Leave, please.”

She stared back, pursing her lips.

David noticed the way her tail had begun swaying. He did some Niala maths; decrepit building, plus a bunch of young kids, plus a struggling caretaker, equals a meddling Niala.

He counted down; three, two, on-

She spoke up. “Sir, even if the kid we're looking for isn't here, you look like you could use some help.”

The bearkin blinked before furrowing his brow. “What's it to you, girly?”

“I'd like to help.”

“We accept donations.”

They locked gaze once more. The gruff man unmoving, Niala's tail fanning a storm.

She fished out a small purse from one of her pockets, handing it to the man, the coins within clinking as she did.

The bearkin accepted the purse without fanfare, opening it and dropping its contents into his hand. His eyes widened briefly at the mix of silver regents and gold princes that fell out; he was grasping close to a year's worth of labourer wages.

He pocketed the coins and handed back the purse in silence. His demeanour relaxed somewhat. “I... thank you, milady. That is greatly generous of you. This will go a long way to feeding the kids properly. That being said, I do need to get back to the kitchen before anything burns.”

Niala's eyes lit up. “You're cooking, right now?”

“I... am, yes?” The bearkin answered, on guard.”

“Can I help?!”

“I'm not sure that-”

David stepped forward, putting a hand on the man's shoulder, and spoke solemnly. “Let it happen, friend. You'll curse yourself if you don't.”

The bearkin looked between the catkin, almost hopping in place and the tall, dangerous-looking man who was somehow making him certain he was about to make a grave mistake by refusing.

He stepped away from the door, allowing the two strangers in. The catkin beamed him a smile and skipped inside, homing toward the kitchen without any directions.

The bearkin watched her go as David stepped in, patting his shoulder. “You made the right choice. Rejoice, an angel will grace your kitchen today.”

Niala's voice rang out. “DAVID! Come here! It's urgent!”

The bearkin watched as the man nodded at him before following the voice, wondering what was going on.

Marcel stood by the doorway to the kitchen, eyes wide, as the two strangers swirled around each other in a sort of choreographed dance.

The catkin triaged the sad-looking ingredients they had, instructing the man on which parts to keep. He chopped things up and measured ingredients, while she mixed things in pots and pans with the precision of a surgeon according to some unknown recipe that existed in her eyes only.

There was a grand plan at work here, and he was only the witness. He would have helped, but he feared his intrusion would unravel the delicate machine.

His kids hid behind him and around corners, attracted at first by the entertainment of a broken routine, but kept in place by the smells wafting out of the room.

Marcel himself had trouble believing his nose that the barely-edible ingredients could deliver such an entrancing aroma.

But it was happening, and he found himself salivating, the same as all the kids.

He felt as if he should feel a bit jealous; he knew he wasn't the best cook, but he tried his best, even with the near-refuse he was handed.

Yet he could only count down the seconds before whatever was taking shape in front of him would grace his palate.

He caught the man winking at him.

Marcel replied with an awkward smile.

Niala gave the soup one last taste and nodded, ears wiggling. Not her best, but given the ingredients she had, it turned out pretty good. Fortunately, the disused garden had a few aromatic plants she used along with the rather limited spices the bearkin kept in stock.

She needed to remind herself to ask his name.

Time for that later. Right now, she had a small army of little kids to feed. She glanced down the corridor at the little ones, who tried to hide from her gaze, yet were unable to break eye contact with the strange man and woman who had taken over food duty.

With a smile, she banged a ladle on the giant pot of soup a few times. “Alright, everyone! Food's ready. How do you usually handle this?”

The bearkin cleared his throat. “I bring the plates to the common room while the kids rearrange the study desks into a large dining table.”

“Perfect, then let's do that. My David will help carry everything over.”

He narrowed his eyes for a few seconds before sighing and turning around to face the children, clapping his hands together twice. “Kids, go get the room ready, please.”

The quiet curiosity broke, unleashing a horde of giggling, flailing limbs which swarmed toward the other side of the old monastery. Taller, older kids followed the throng, holding themselves back from darting ahead.

Wood scraped against the floor, and desks knocked as they were pushed around, the sounds covered by a chorus of cries and laughter. The bearkin turned back toward Niala and David. “What can I carry?”

She blinked, then smiled. David was already picking up the large pot, and she was carrying the plate of veggie breads. “Nothing for now. I did manage to make some sort of dessert, but that'll come later. Just help us serve?”

He quirked a brow. “When did you make dessert? I was watching you the whole time.”

She pointed back to a covered pot. “In there. It's not much of one, but it'll be sweet, and I think that's what matters, right? It still needs to cook for a bit, but I'll let you taste it once it's ready!” She took one step forward, then stopped. “Oh! Before that, what's your name, sir?”

The bearkin blinked. “Marcel.”

“Pleased to meet you, Marcel! Now, let's go feed those kids!”

He watched the short woman trot past him, gently humming, like this was a family dinner.

He was still wondering what was going on when the permanently annoyed man walked past him. “Don't try to figure it out. It feels better when you just accept it.”

After a few seconds of contemplation, Marcel saw the wisdom in those words and followed after, looking forward to a nice-smelling meal and trying to ignore his mounting headache.