When I make it back to the dungeon hub in full stealth mode, I look at all the available dungeon entrances for a moment, and my eye catches the B Class gate.

I never really thought twice about it when I was spending most of my time around this place. My level and power were never high enough to even think of going into dungeons like this.

I use my perception and scanning skills to find that the two guards standing in front of the gate are level 556 and 509.

The higher level guard is ranked up with an advanced earth magic skill while the other is stacked with two special grade party buffing skills. One for strength and the other for speed. They're wearing very high-grade gear and looking straight ahead as no one comes near their gate.

I was going to hop back into an E class dungeon with stealth activated, but now I'm curious.

Bri mentioned something about the Apex Region recruiting B Class hunters soon, so out of curiosity, I walk over and completely change my status to an E Class businessman to match my concealment ring's suit and alter my face to look much older.

With a professional smile, I come out from the shadows and walk over with a hand raised.

"Good afternoon gentlemen, I have a question for you if you don't mind me asking."

The higher level tan-skinned earth magic user turns my way with jaded eyes and a course toned reply.

"What can I help you with, sir?"

I come to a halt, scanning him up and down to see [Damien S.][B-Class Hunter] on two small silver pins on his Association uniform's collar.

"Oh, I was just wondering what the date and location of the B-Class exams were? I know they're coming up and may have a client or two eligible to try out."

His expression doesn't change, but the guard nods and replies in the same tone.

"They're a month and a half away. Anyone above level 500 can enter if they wish, but the exact location and time is not available to the public. You'll have to check in with an association office with your clients present to sign them up."

I nod and begin to turn away.

"Very good, that's all I wanted to know—"

"Sir, could I ask to see an ID or your status? It's not every day we get questions like that."

I shrug and show them my doctored status, showing lv79 and a no-grade Appraisal skill before walking off. Although appraisal skills are fairly rare, many top businessmen have them. Snagging some for the association would always be helpful, but they're really better off working on their own.

A lower level hunter would have tried to recruit me to get some good faith, but this man just nods and doesn't even wave me off as I leave. He faces straight ahead as I disappear into the crowds of hunters.

Once completely out of sight, I activate stealth once again and slip into a dungeon before teleporting back into the Labyrinth to continue farming with my time remaining.

Monk said it'd take 3 to 4 hours, and I still have a bit of time, so I dungeon walk around the red-tinted dungeon full of speedsters for the remaining hour and a half I have left, bringing my level up to 629, gaining 1 extra PP, a few million MCP, and collecting 5 more crimson speed fragments to add to my item storage.

I attempt to practice my Qi control further, but it's not even worth trying. Every time I make an impact I desolate my opponent.

"Not bad... but I'm ready for a real challenge."

Crushing the transport crystal in my hand, I'm brought back to the Galeheart tower and go through the process of exiting the walls and reentering under a new wristband ID. This time, adding 14 platinum to my balance, keeping a clean 50 bars in my storage.

As I walk through the walls to make it back to Monk's base, I think about how much easier all this traveling would be if I learned how to craft and set points for transport crystals myself. I begin outlining where I'd place points around each Sector and Region for quick teleportation without the use of dungeons, but these thoughts start to fade once I enter the monastery again.

There's more important information to know right now. I speak up while pressing the wall open back into the training room to hear loud cracks of Qi on Qi echoing throughout the room.

"How's the progress coming along? Are they proper Qi fighters yet?"

With a grin on my face and the door shutting behind me, I watch both Abby and Maria fight Monk with Qi-infused steps and white-hot fists colliding over and over at lightning-fast speeds.

Monk turns to me while blocking one of Maria's punches with his forearm just centimeters from his face.

"Oh, they learned real quick. All three of you were born to be monsters."

He laughs while blocking a kick from Abby at the same moment.

Then, everyone steps back, stops, and Monk bows.

Maria starts to laugh, and Abby crosses her arms as I walk over, showing an impressed look on my face.

They're both covered in sweat, and Maria is the first to speak.

"Spar with us next, I want to see how we stack up against you!"

"Sure, why not. A little warm-up before we head to the Arena again would be nice. Don't hold back."

Both of them reply.

"We won't."

I take off my gear, and Monk stands back as I get into a fighting stance.

Maria and Abby face me, forming a triangle, and forcing me to pay close attention right from the start. It looked like they were very skilled opponents when fighting Monk, but I don't want to use my full strength just in case.

I'll limit myself and only block until I can gauge their actual skill level.

Monk's voice starts the match.

"Begin"

Both of them immediately lunge forward with fists full of Qi at an incredible speed.

My eyes widen as I have to use my full power Qi-infused step to spin and dodge, knocking their wrists to the side with a reinforced forearm of Qi only after I manage to slip through.

Simultaneously, two kicks come from both sides of my back after blocking their punches, and I have to spin again, thinking fast and letting a wave of Qi flow through my torso to block the kicks as they collide with my body.

All three of us are thrown back at this collision, and I put my fists up above my face to hide my grin.

"So, it seems I really can use a good bit of strength. You learned much faster than I thought."

We jump back in, and I start throwing real punches to gauge their actual strength. Maria's waves of Qi seem to be pulling from a bottomless base of energy, powering her footsteps and the strength of her punches much faster and harder than Abby's. However, Abby's agility and precision make up for it.

They learned how to focus their Qi together, so it seems they developed an interesting battle style to deal with Monk or any high power enemies like him.

They use the same techniques on me.

Maria is the powerhouse, bringing all attention to her while Abby guides the attacks, and lands her own in between while I make sure to dodge Maria's.

I do still have the upper hand from pure battle experience, as well as being more comfortable with using Qi for more than just a 4-hour session. However, we have a great spar, and I can tell they're both going to be more than capable of defeating at least up to the 6th stage of opponents in the battle arena.

We're all going to have to use the red hydra's buff on the 7th... but that's why we're here to practice.

After some more basic tips from Monk, we all head to the individual shower rooms and eat together in the cafeteria hall. Once we're done, and consume a brand new Qi pill, we all stand up with satisfaction and head over to check in for the Arena.

Abby's voice echoes through the narrow stairway up to the surface as we start to leave.

"I'm excited to try this out on some real monsters... Especially that 7th Stage Ghoul..."

Maria replies as Monk presses open the door to the outside world as we leave the monastery.

"Me too! I wonder what kind of monster comes after it. Has anyone ever faced the 8th stage?"
