Unfortunately for the Marksman, he only had one hand, and in a ranged battle, he was simply inferior. It took a bit longer than Jake had expected it to, but in the end, the victor was clear. Jake purposefully took a shot to the chest to ensure he would land a quickly charged Arcane Powershot of his own. This exchange resulted in Jake getting a small hole in his body and the Marksman getting an arrow through his right eye, ending his life as the B-grade fell backwards onto the ground.

You have slain [Aginian Inner Labyrinth Marksman – lvl 372] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

With one enemy down, Jake turned his attention to the Gunlancer. The B-grade had managed to free itself from the cursed seal before, only to find himself wrapped in chains from top to bottom, all of them anchored in empty space. Casper tried to attack using cursed stakes and whatnot, but the armor of the Gunlancer proved itself too durable, meaning all Casper could do was slowly whittle away at his foe with curse and death energy.

However, Jake could see that Casper couldn’t keep this up for much longer, and by his assessment, if the Gunlancer and Risen truly had a one-on-one duel, Jake couldn’t confidently say his friend would win. Not without pulling out a serious trump card.

Of course, with Jake added to the equation, it was a whole other story. Seeing as he had the opportunity, Jake summoned a second Protean Arrow he had begun preparing right after shooting the first one. With ample time as the Risen and Gunlancer fought, Jake fully channeled yet another Arcane Powershot, which he promptly released toward the B-grade.

Realizing this attack was more than capable of doing massive damage, the Gunlancer turned and raised his shield, but Casper and Lyra quickly stepped in to help, the two of them striking the B-grade in the side, making him drop his guard for just a moment.

Jake followed up with a Primal Gaze, allowing his Protean Arrow to slip past the guard of the Gunlancer and into his chest. Fragments of armor were sent flying as the B-grade was blasted back, heavily injured.

While Casper hadn’t done much damage, his curses had weakened the armor and defenses of the Gunlancer, allowing Jake to do more damage than usual. With the Gunlancer injured, Jake expected the rest of the fight to be quick and easy, but surprisingly, it turned out to be a prolonged endeavor as the damn B-grade was far too tanky for his own good.

Naturally, they still got him in the end, but it was a good reminder that in this final stretch of the dungeon, things would be a bit harder than before, no doubt also due to the increased levels of their enemies.

The increased levels and variety of foes weren’t all bad, though.

You have slain [Aginian Inner Labyrinth Gunlancer – lvl 373] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

’DING!’ Class: [Arcane Hunter of Horizon’s Edge] has reached level 347 - Stat points allocated, +50 Free Points

’DING!’ Race: [Human (C)] has reached level 346 - Stat points allocated, +45 Free Points

Jake had gained another level, meaning he now only had two class levels remaining before he would see his evolution quest. With tougher enemies ahead and a final boss that Minaga was doubtful Jake would even be able to beat... yeah, there was a pretty decent chance Jake would max out his class during this dungeon.
