Still shaking, I opened my dimensional storage. I pulled out dozens of blood packs, tearing them open as the blood siphoned around me. It pooled, purifying in a sanguine sphere. I siphoned streams of my blood into my eyes, ears, and skin. As the sensation of power flooded my frame, memories of killing my family with my blood arts rushed into my head.

I shook them off. Black veins spread over my skin as the urge to kill and crush rushed over me like endless rain. Even with fear still coursing through me, I dashed towards the Hybrids over Krog. My feet turned pavement to dust as I tackled one of three Hybrids holding Krog down. The metal crumpled under my touch, but my own skin and bones ripped as well. The Hybrid tumbled across the ground before colliding with a building beside us. Concrete powder billowed out from the Hybrid's impact with the building as I let out a grunt. Staring at my wounds, I diagnosed myself.

I wiggled an arm. Pain radiated upward. Yup, I dislocated it while covering it with a few nasty gashes. Pulling the blood from the wound, I healed the external wounds before taking a deep breath. I bit into my sleeve as I shoved my arm back into the socket. I let out a scream muffled by the jacket as I turned forward.

The other Hybrids turned to me, their insectoid mouths squirming. Their twitching, deformed features sent another wave of terror up my spine. I lifted my shivering arms and said in a meek voice,

"Get off him."

Krog took a breath, this one moment enough. He opened his massive mouth, the Hybrid falling into his maw. Before it infested him, he roared out. The other Hybrid flew off from the shockwave. Even I dragged back several feet; his roar was simply that strong.

Krog stood up as another Hybrid jumped behind him. The old general whipped his tail, annihilating the Hybrid into a fine mist with an explosive impact. He stomped another into nothingness, killing it under his thick heels. He turned to me,

"That was brave, little one. Thank you for saving me."

I won't lie, I blushed a bit. I don't know why exactly, but I did.

"Uh, no problem."

Krog pulled the gialgathen onto his back before gesturing to me,

"Come. There's still much to do and little time to do it."

I took a few more deep breaths. He was right.

"Yeah. I'm coming."

As I ran over, I peered down. Oddly enough, there was a grin on my face. I lifted my hands in fists. I did it. This time was different because I was different. I was a new me.

Another ungodly explosion radiated out from above, and I howled while raising my hands over my face. The moment passed as I lowered my hands.

Ok, maybe not an entirely new me, but it was a start.

- Daniel -

Ascendant mana coursed into my blood before dispersing through my palm. My hand glowed from the flow of energy, lighting the cluster of shitty office furniture covering me. In my view, another singularity obliterated the side of the dreadnought through its forcefield. After twenty minutes of bombardment, the spacial field protecting the dreadnought fizzled out.

I reached out my hands, the furniture crashing outwards along with the glass wall lining this portion of the skyscraper. I sprinted forward before lunging out over the battlefield. Firing over the expanse, I shot forward with a gravitational well. A shockwave ebbed under my heels as I shifted my body into a sharpened blade.

Piercing into the ship's hull, I sprinted through several walls before reaching the factory line for the gialgathens. I grimaced as I stepped out onto a metal walkway. Someone in a gas mask glanced at me, stunned before I stared down at him.

I backhanded his face into a pulped mush against a nearby wall. His remains splattered onto the floor beneath me. One of the workers gasped as blood covered him. I stepped forward while cracking my knuckles. With Event Horizon, I jumped down as the bodies near me evaporated into the abyss.

I silenced every voice, a symphony of screams then silence passing over the line as I salvaged the gialgathens here. Once culled, I sprinted back out towards the hull. I gripped the steel wall before shearing it in my palms. Like wrapping paper, it tore with utter ease, the splintering steel rippling out with an ear-piercing squeal. Gravity contorted the walls further, letting me pull the gialgathens from this hell.

Working with Krog, I threw the ball of gialgathens out into the sky. A legion of gialgathens raced passed, collecting their fallen brethren. The most contorted members stayed suspended within my dimensional warp, keeping them from infecting others. The others were carried to relative safety.

With the gialgathens out, I turned back to the metal structure that held them. I leaned down, planting my feet. With telekinetic augments, I shot upward. The walls of metal bellied outwards, stretching and leaving the surface heated. I crushed through walls and expunged the people here. Within minutes, I killed most of the crew.

As I lifted out of the dreadnought, I left a void in the hull beneath me. The torn upper portion of the ship sheened in the sun as fires and explosions rippled out beneath me along the surface of the vessel. I glanced up at my allies as the dreadnought collapsed onto Polydra.

A blinding light flashed behind me as I stared at a golden line grafting into the sky over the other side of the city. Lehesion's aura leaked out, but the colossus himself didn't pour out of the portal. Ships and other resources flooded from the rippling void, along with an army of Hybrids, however.

Around me, my guildsmen and the injured regrouped onto the other side of the city. As they flew beneath me, another entity came from the portal. It was a different member of the Hybrids, its bulk far larger and its form more humanoid. It mimicked the energy aura of Lehesion, a palpable, golden atmosphere encompassing it.

It showed the same sleeker, more shaped body of the Hybrid in the nautical base. It carried the same variety of faces, mouths and electronic eyes scattered over its upper body. Unlike Version 2.0, it glared across the battlefield, its eyes analyzing with a cold, calculating gaze.

In a way, it was like staring at a crowd glaring in the same direction. Within seconds, it locked its many eyes on me, a shiver racing down my spine. I analyzed the creature. As I did, I grimaced. This was worse than I thought.

Version 2.2(lvl: 19,429~ | Status: Unknown | Bounty: S-) - This unholy amalgam of eldritch and silver has developed baseline levels of intelligence and autonomy. This in conjunction with an immense, natural tenacity given its form, and the monster is enough to be considered a planetary threat all on its own.

This is due partly to its insatiable nature, but it also persists from a presence in its mind. Due to some psionic influence, this beast is far more stable and intelligent than it would otherwise be. Combine this with the apparent feeding from Lehesion's own reserves of energy, and this Hybrid is an utter and complete monstrosity.

Good luck should you be forced to face its wrath. It's recommended you run and plan against it, however.

I took a deep breath before charging energy into my blood. Defeating something like this on my own was beyond me. I understood that in an instant. However, holding it at bay was within my grasp. Until my forces retreated, I'd fight this behemoth on my own.

You'd think fear would be racing up my spine, but no, an excitement grew in my chest. I glared at it as it glared at me. It gave me a menacing, broken grin. From one monster to another, I grinned back. And so, I dashed forward, into the swarm of metal.

This was going to be fun.
