“Sure did. I respect the effort. I even applaud you for changing your mind once you knew better. Not that it would've worked, for the record. I’d have figured it out eventually.” She adjusted her eyes, idly checking the clearing for any signs of movement. Ever since the last scuffle with the patrol group, it looked like even animals were avoiding the area. Pity. She was probably only one or two fucked-up rabbits away from a level up. “Besides, you’re useful.”

Callan looked dumbfounded. So dumbfounded, in fact, that Pyre got the urge to laugh again when she stared at his face too long, so she quickly turned her attention back to the current obstacle.

“So, the alarm spell. I’m guessing you don’t know how to disable it.”

The poor ghost looked like he was getting whiplash from the change in subjects. “Uh, um, no? No.” He shook his head. “It’s too complex. No one in Winrow but the original spellcaster had the skill for it, but he died a long time ago.”

The village had a name at last. Pyre hummed, thinking over the words. Magic spell, no way to undo it, automatic monster-detection. It did seem like a bit of a conundrum, but she found she wasn’t too mad about the knot in her plans. It made things more interesting. She did have to come up with a solution, though, or who knew how long it’d take to find the next closest crystals. Actually, those would probably have similar spells in place. It sounded like this was a standard human settlement protocol.

Maybe there was a way to trick the spell, she thought. She was willing to bet there were specific traits that would do it, but she didn’t have any right now. Another spell, maybe, that could cloak her or make her presence register as “human” to the alarm spell. Except she couldn’t use magic, and she seriously doubted Callan had the ability to pull something like that off either.

As she continued to think, something tugged at the back of her mind, a nagging sensation. Ever since she’d read through all the species options during her first evolution, the thought had existed, bubbling below the surface and waiting for a moment to rise.

She hadn’t had a good excuse for it before beyond fulfilling her own curiosity, but now? This seemed like the perfect opportunity.

Maybe it was time to meet more of her fellow brethren.

“Hey,” Pyre began, focusing her eyes on Callan. “How do you summon a crossroads demon?”
