The two struggled for control, him on his ship, in the seat of his power, and Rakan far away on the pier with his least comfortable color. For a moment, the two were evenly matched, and the captain prepared to scream for help.

Rakan infused the ball with the meaning of flexibility. It turned into a snake that jumped into the man’s mouth. It turned the shout into a gurgle. On Rakan’s side, Hush shot the sentries on the tower. Their walls didn’t extend inward, which made them vulnerable to arrows shot from the inside and, Rakan assumed, the cold wind. Lazy.

He extended his arm. Red mana fused and turned into a reddish bowl that glowed for a second. Meanwhile, the captain had recovered, but Rakan wasn’t about to let him do anything. A colorless telekinetic spell was enough to throw his target against the deck. Meanwhile, the forest beyond the wall turned red from hundreds of torches. Cries of alert rang throughout the small fort.

“Hightrees!”

The hundreds of soldiers charged down the hill. Rakan considered attacking the door but he realized he didn’t have to when a few of Hush’s men simply raised the bar from the inside. What followed wasn’t a battle. The two dozen remaining guards were caught as they were drinking themselves numb. There was barely any resistance and most of them were captured to face tribunal. As for how guilty they were, Rakan reserved judgment until he managed to find the exiles.

With the port secure, Rakan’s first order of business was to check on the jail. Hush guided him through the bloody antechamber where the mage had been staying and which was now cler of bodies, right to the cells themselves, of which there were three.

“Why are the prisoners not free yet?” Rakan asked with a frown.

The place was damp and cold. Even from here, it was easy to see the huddled forms waiting bound behind rusty cell bars.

Hush frowned. Rakan was missing something, clearly.

“What are you here for?” he asked in imperial.

It was immediately clear that he wasn’t being understood, Rakan thought. Most of those poor souls wore badly made robes woven with coarse thread and fishbone needles — Rakan used to wear the same — so probably not trained, but to his surprise, one was not. A man dressed in the tatters of some official robe pointed at his neighbor, a young woman with a defiant expression.

“Poisoner,” he said.

The woman immediately screamed at him in the local tongue until Iria was forced to separate them. Rakan believed Hush had made his point.

“Understood. Have a squad bring them to the portal where they can be transferred to the Temple of Neriad for interrogation.”

“Yessir. Another group of hostages in the last room. It was warded.”

Rakan followed Hush to a separate place. As the captain had said, the door was indeed warded but the hinges were not, and so they’d broken first. A common oversight. What he found inside was the complete opposite of the previous cells.

While the other prisoners were filthy and beaten, they still carried signs of a relatively healthy life. Those four in front of him were clean, dressed in what passed as finery by Remnants standards, and the room itself was spacious and well-furnished with actual beds. Exile was engraved into their bodies instead. Two were teenagers but looked childish from years of starvation. Their gaunt faces looked up with a bleak resignation that pushed them beyond fear for themselves, an aura of quiet despair that clung to them like a bad smell. Rakan had seen people like that back in Halluria. Those who’d already lost everything and were just waiting for the end.

They also matched the description for the ‘high value persons’ Viv wanted freed at all costs.

“You are archmage Frosthawk’s children… correct?”

The oldest girl looked up blearily, reacting for the first time.

“You here to kill us?”

“I was sent here to free you, but we expected you on the Jewel. You, ah, well it’s good that you’re here.”

The three younger children ignored him completely. The older girl was barely any better.

“But what about his wife? Lady Shana? Is she…”

The kids reacted for the first time, shifting with guilt and the pain of an unhealed wound. Again, the oldest took the lead.

“She… Last winter, there was a great sickness. Not enough medicine for everyone. She told us she’d taken enough. And food too. She told us. She told us she’d…”

The girl broke down and Rakan moved in to comfort her. She looked so much like Rakan’s own sister that the pain touched him but when he reached for her, she recoiled.

“Sorry,” he said, feeling like an idiot.

“It’s not… not…”

She shook her head.

Not his fault. Probably what she was going to say.

“Alright. We’ll get you to your dad. That’s the most important thing right now, but we are supposed to free the others. The other prisoners, I mean. From the Jewel and the other island. Do you know anything about them?”

“You’re gonna need more than one ship,” the second child said.

While his sister was probably holding on for the rest of them, Rakan could very easily spot what propped that one up.

Hatred.

“More than one ship, weh. They’ve got at least fifty guards. Mostly on the Jewel. The other island’s very close and bigger. There is a mine there. A fishery too.”

“Only fifty guards?”

“The prisoners guard themselves,” the boy hissed. “The murderers keep the dangerous Arana detractors in check, weh.”

Rakan nodded. That made a perverted sort of sense. Even back in Helock, common law criminals were less feared than revolutionaries.

“One ship might not be enough to carry enough soldiers,” he agreed.

“Not for the guards and not for the bad prisoners. Or to take people back with you.”

Rakan thought so too, and according to the intel, there were only two ships making the round, both too small to hide even a fraction of his forces. He would need to infiltrate the island so he could set up the next portal in peace. That was his plan anyway. The question was how?

He should go talk to the captain.

***

It was getting really cold outside, a very unfortunate fact of life for Rakan’s newest prisoners. Hightrees brought the captain forward while his drenched men were unceremoniously thrown on the ground next to him. Rakan approached with all the gravitas he could muster. Normally, his Hallurian origins were enough to have most people piss themselves which suited him just fine that for once, his ethnicity wasn’t a fucking hurdle. Here though, the captain was just plain scared of everyone so being from a race of boogeymen would have less impact.

The captain shivered.

Maybe it would still work.

“Do you understand imperial?” He asked, then added “mongrel” after a small delay because it sounded like a good idea.

The captain nodded furiously.

“I do! I do! I had school training!”

“Then we have a few questions for you.”

“I can’t help you! You don’t know Lady Arana! If I do anything for you, she will surely kill me.”

Rakan blinked very, very slowly.

“I think we need to clarify exactly where we stand. I guess we haven't done so yet. Hush?”

“Hmmm.”

“What’s Neriad’s take on the treatment of prisoners?”

The archer gave the serious question a long thought. Rakan suspected it was unwise to ask in front of the prisoner, but he had an inkling as to what the answer would be.

“Err. If he’s a civilian and refuses help that’s his right. Since he’s been helping soldiers, it could make him a soldier as well. Even then, he has a right to refuse helping an enemy.”

The captain breathed a sigh of deep relief.

“That said, Neriad’s clear about hostages, especially entire families. Way I see it, the captain here’s standing between us and rescuing innocent civilians. If they’ve been harmed, which they have, why, he’s even an accomplice.”

Hush cracked his knuckles.

“Bring him in, lads. Boy, you stay here.”

Four gauntleted hands grabbed the captain’s shoulders with crushing grips. A few of the Hightrees chuckled with the gravelly tone of old veterans, the jaded kind. Iria’s voice rose above the crowd. It was a deep alto with a powerful Reixan accent. The city of smugglers. Nice touch, though again, the captain wouldn’t recognize it.

“Drop his pants, boys! Been a long time since I’ve last shaved a man!”

“Wait wait wait wait wait wait!”

He didn’t even last until the door. Just as well.
