Her mad dash continued until all the voices around her were silenced. She stopped when a shape bled out of the shadows in front of her.

A tall man, bald, with a scarf hiding the lower part of his face. He was looking down.

The woman grabbed her shortsword.

“She sent you, didn’t she? She had her own assassins.”

The ‘man’ looked up, and she realized that her first instinct had been right. The slit pupils didn’t belong to anything human. The creature certainly looked like one but the pallid face, hairless head, and those eyes, they spoke of something else.

“You are undead.”

“No,” the creature whispered. “I am very much alive.”

“You don’t have to serve her. You don’t have to do this.”

To her surprise, the creature nodded. Very firmly.

“I do not have to do this.”

“THEN LET ME GO!”

“I don’t do this because I have to. I do this because that’s what I was made to do, and because it’s fun.”

It was like talking to a doll.

“You fucking monster, let me go.”

“It’s harder, is it not?” the monster asked with a very calm voice.

He ran to the side, his steps lighter than hers. Her desperate attempt at escape was aborted as soon as it started when a blade whistled past her nose. She turned and dodged an attack with a shadow step only for the monster to follow her. His voice rang in her ear. For the first time, there was an emotion there. It practically dripped with venom.

“Harder when you’re not killing young poachers?”

Her shortsword snaked out, but it found only air. Her instincts took over even with the next attack coming from a blind spot. The sword clanged against the edge of an axe. The angle was wrong, though.

The power of the strike sent her flying against a stump. She struck it with her back. Got to her feet with pain. Realized she was bleeding. The sound of metal through soil forced her to raise her head, watch the monster approach casually with his bloody weapon.

“Fuck you!” she spat.

“We could have ended all of this in five minutes had the empress ordered it.”

The woman froze. She’d never considered the implications of her dying, but now, in that short moment, she did. The Emperor and the senate relied on the Eyes.

“But she didn’t. She doesn’t want to order us as assassins, even though some of us would do it. We would choose to be the blades in the dark, for our people.”

The monster shrugged.

“That’s why I’m here. I don’t need to be asked. And you are making it a very easy decision.”

The woman thought she could block one more attack, at least, but the Hadal used a skill and his axe severed her neck cleanly. When Zero-Five was done, he cleaned his blade, then put his mask back on.

Irao was right that the Hadals deserved the gift of choice.

His choice was simply more violence.

***

North of Frostway, the land grew more savage along the coast. Marshes replaced the forest along the windswept valleys. In summer when the temperature became pleasant, a thin, frosty layer of salt formed on the surface which the locals harvested for a few more iron bits. Bees buzzed on wildflowers with the upcoming spring. The land was rich, but its people were poor. Rakan and his detachment walked past villages held together by string and flotsam, stacked stones, and hope. Its people had huddled inside to watch them go fearfully. Talking to an elder had proven almost impossible, the old man barely speaking a few words of imperial. Along the coast, the language had been lost.

There were many such villages as he traveled north. Dozens just along the path, each as parochial as the next. Few travelers walked the disused roads, mostly young families carrying their lives on their back as they sought land in outlying regions. It pained him to watch them so miserable, and so unguarded. One of the elders spoke of a large wolf, but Rakan didn’t have the time.

He was on a mission.

The Hadal guiding them brought them through secret paths down to a hidden creek, a deep one with water as blue as cold ice. Rickety buildings hugged a single pier upon which a small ship bobbed, men loading it with crates of supplies at a leisurely pace. Stacks of simple cloth bags waites by the main warehouse. Rakan inspected them.

[Crushed Limestone]

Hmm. Inexpensive stuff used to form concrete, Rakan remembered. Very useful for construction. Exceptionally malleable in the hands of brown mana specialists. There were a lot more bags than there were supplies.

“I think we’re going to need food and two portals, captain,” he said.

The leader of the Hightree company nodded. He was one of the earlier veterans to recover his eyes thanks to Viv, but sometimes, Rakan thought she should have regrown his tongue instead. The man spoke like each word was worth a water flask. His men even called him Hush. He had a short stature and the very broad shoulders of an archer, which he was primarily. A short beard and long hair gave him a wild look that fit his company.

Behind him, the rest of his men used the lull to check their weapons. Bows, crossbows, spears, swords, sabers, slings and axes were checked and rechecked. Rakan knew the Hightrees were drawn from a dozen different militaries, with different traditions. They were not as cohesive as the Mountain Lords, but cohesion wasn’t what Rakan needed right now.

He grabbed his staff and set to work, pulling some of the stored brown mana to set the disk of flat stone he would need for the portal. Pushing the mana into a construct before it could escape his leaking core, he carved the land with a soft touch, cooking it to follow his direction. He liked brown mana. It was solid. Dependable. It could block the sun as easily as a hail of arrows.

A quick glance at the staff confirmed that he wouldn’t have enough colorless mana so he drew mana from the earth and his own leaking core, pushing it into the brown core which happened to be the largest. It took a while, but he wouldn’t attack until the night settled anyway. Hush led his men to form a camp and set up sentries in the meantime. They, too, were dependable.

Below, the Remnants’ sailors and soldiers remained unaware of their presence. They didn’t even send patrols out past the basic wood wall that encircled their small jetty.

That was fine with Rakan. With a last sigh, he continued his work.

Drawing mana from the brown core, he turned it colorless with an ease born from practice. Setting the construct was easy. The harder part started now.

“Space is like a grid, it can bend.”

Rakan visualized the graph Viv had drawn for him. He also remembered the very strange movies he enjoyed so much and that Viv occasionally aired for him in her study. Space was not a distance or a theoretical concept but a three-dimensional continuum that wasn’t quite as immutable as he had thought. It bent around very large objects like the sun, the moons, and Viv’s ego. It could bend. It definitely, definitely could bend.

“Space is like a grid. It CAN bend.”

He repeated the mantra until sweat covered his brow and the circle shown under his feet. He could do it. He’d done it before. Space was like a grid and Rakan would make it bend.

How the fuck did those two manage it so easily. Viv even admitted he was more talented than she was.

Rakan breathed deep, letting his pride suffuse his psyche. It was easy. Space was a grid and he would make it bend. Just like that.

The air pulsed.

Arcane Construct: Expert 2

With deceptive ease, the portal opened just as the sun set to reveal a clearing where the light was just a tiny bit darker. A hadal stood when he looked up.

“We’re, ah, we’re going to need food soon. I think.” Rakan panted. “I’ll set another anchor here.”

Setting the anchor was only a matter of minutes since no spells were required yet. He used the opportunity to recharge his brown core a little more, then pulled black mana into the black core as night settled. He would use it soon.

“Ready to leave?” he asked Hush.

“Plan?” the man grumbled.

Hush definitely had a plan but for some reason, he preferred having Rakan speak out and then correct him. Rakan didn’t mind. It felt like he was coming up with the plans himself, and this was just good training overall.

“Ok, we need the ship intact. I propose that we infiltrate the camp and make straight for it. Once it’s in our hands, we can secure the rest of the camp.”

“Hostages?”

Rakan blinked, caught off guard by the dour soldier.

“They have hostages?”

“Prisoners. There,” he said, pointing at the most secure building.

Honestly, Rakan thought it might have been barracks. The last of the sunlight disappeared in a cold red blaze as the men assembled by loose squad, bristling with weapons.

“Alright, then we breach the right wall and secure that place first, and then we go for the ship.”

Rakan wasn’t sure it was a good plan. They needed that ship, or the mission would fail, but it was much easier to take over a ship after the alarm was broken rather than save hostages, even with magic. Ships didn’t have throats to slit after all. But if the ship was somehow destroyed…

He shook his head. It was worse to hold back than to make a bad decision.

“Alright. We do that. First squad with me. I’ll cover the approach then after we’ve secured the two main objectives, I’ll send a signal for the second squad to join us. Alright?”

Hush had another good look at the port.

“I can neutralize the sentries from inside.”

Two towers sat on either side of the closed gate. They didn’t look like much, but there were bound to be people inside.

“Alright. And the signal will be a flare.”

Hush nodded. It took only a few seconds for the first squad to assemble around Rakan. A quick prayer to Neriad followed, then the squad started down the slope.

Rakan pulled black mana, infusing it with the meaning of shadow. The cloak spread around the squad the way Viv had shown him. He directed it all around.

“I am not there. I am not there,” he whispered.

Curious eyes followed them for a second from one of the walls before dismissing them entirely.

That was right. Nothing to see. No one would ever attack them.

Rakan stopped by the walls, and the Hightrees followed. He pulled blue mana from the air and used it to liquefy part of the palisade. The wood rotted and fell in a pungent slurry by his feet. Blue mana didn’t come to Rakan very naturally, but he was still adept at using it.

Soon, they had a hole. Hush signaled, then a short man with two swords jumped through. He signaled that the coast was clear.

The rest of the Hightrees moved in with considerable grace for men wearing heavy armor. Rakan was second to last, then it was Iria, the group’s only woman. She urgently signaled to the side and the group huddled.

A moment later, a bored soldier walked near the pier with a lantern and a mug of wine. Rakan remembered the rumor that Iria was a dropout from Enttiku’s warrior order. Maybe she’d kept a few secrets. He cast the shadow spell again, then they were off towards the barracks.

It was there that he felt an issue. Just as they approached the stone jail, a burst of mana came from inside.

Mage.

He stopped and signaled Hush, who nodded. The squad approached the prison’s gate. Two sentries stood bored to tears. Hush signaled.

His arrow took the left one in the throat while a crossbow bolt and two knives cracked the other one’s skull. Rakan knew this would make some noise. Even with the regulars being out of practice, they were still warrior paths with suitable stats. As the left guard let out a rattling death sigh, the sounds carried inward. They must have, because Rakan felt the mage inside move out.

Fine. He just has to remember not to play it too smart. Take them out and move on. This wasn’t a demonstration.

Rakan focused, preparing several spells.

The Viv approach would be to collapse the entire wall structure on the fucker, but there were hostages inside and it would be quite noisy.

The Sidjin approach would be to fell the man with a single colorless spellbreaker carrying a red mana payload, but Rakan wasn’t that good yet.

Maybe a bit of both.

The mage opened the door. He was young with a round face and suspicious eyes, clean shaven. With a wine-stained robe.

He was drunk, Rakan realized in that brief instant before he struck.

A brick fell from the building on a prepared shield, surprising the mage but not breaching. A Colorless breacher followed. The shield, this time, cracked like an egg, the mage spooked by the brick and caught off guard. He pulled on black mana to use that breach before it got closed. He had it. Rakan had already won.

An arrow caught the mage under the nose at close range, right inside the tiny breach Rakan had opened.

Rakan turned to Hush, whose bowstring vibrated pleasantly.

“Tsk tsk.”

But the man was right. Rakan had to remember that this wasn’t a contest. He followed the rushing soldiers even as a yelp sounded from the inside. It was a woman’s cry of alarm, but it was quickly silenced. Iria made the sign that the building’s interior was secure just as Rakan reached the threshold.

Well, at least they were fast.

“Hey, heard kerfuf bagam, weh!” a voice said from the pier in that strange creole the locals enjoyed.

Rakan followed Hush towards the pier. They reached it in seconds, their feet stomping the pavement. A sentry spotted them but his utter surprise cost him a fraction of a second. Hush’s bow twanged loudly in the last of the silence. The man fell back, spine punched clean through. Rakan saw three sailors on the ship’s deck.

Needed those alive, preferably.

He pulled on blue mana from the air and from the staff, sending two of the sailors into the cold waters of the bay, but the captain resisted. He stopped the ball a handspan away from his chest.

