Ren looked at Torrin. Torrin looked at Ren. Neither of them said what both of them were thinking, which was that the dungeon had given them Gifts that fit together — one who saw what held a structure up, one who could make structures hold — and Costs that would destroy them in complementary ways.

They went on.

---

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Torrin Ash: Current Resolve: 23
Ren Dallish: Current Resolve: 16
```

The Warrens had changed.

Torrin had retreated from this place eight years ago, at the second junction, when the disorientation had become too much. He had not been able to hold the Warrens' geometry in his head — the passages shifted in ways that contradicted his sense of load and bearing, and the contradiction had been unbearable for a man who needed to know what held things up.

Now he had Crown Weight, and the Warrens resolved.

He could feel the critical point of every passage — the stone or joint or compression line that held each section together. The Warrens were not random. They were an argument that water had made against limestone, and the argument had structural logic, and the structural logic had critical points, and he could feel each one the way he felt his own bones when he was tired: present, load-bearing, quietly carrying the weight.

"This way," he said, and went north.

Ren followed. "How do you know?"

"The ceiling lowers at the junctions and rises in the corridors. Gas-collection architecture. The heat source is north."

"You learned that eight years ago?"

"I learned the ceiling pattern eight years ago. The Gift is telling me the rest."

---

The journal was propped against the left wall. Torrin took it down. He read the structural observations and the junction maps — the same ones he had read eight years ago, when he had retreated from this place. The handwriting was a military scribe's: careful, compressed, methodical. He respected it.

The cover had marks on it.

The same dark fine-line pattern he had seen on the arch abutment — branching, structural, showing the leather's weaknesses. A point near the spine where water had worked into the binding. A corner cut too thin. A hairline of stress concentration on the front cover.

"She marked this too," Torrin said.

"Who?"

"The dyer. The one who left a mark." He ran his finger along the spine weakness. "She touched the cover and it showed her where the binding was failing. Same as the arch — the marks are a structural reading."

Ren looked at the marks. "How does touching something make it show its weaknesses?"

"I don't know. But the reading is accurate. This binding will fail here —" he tapped the spine — "in two, maybe three years. The hide is too thin at this corner. If someone wanted to preserve this journal, they would reinforce the spine and replace the corner panel."

He put the journal back. He did not reinforce it. That was not what he was here for.

---

The Still Garden.

Torrin entered first. He stood at the threshold and let Crown Weight engage and felt the room's critical points resolve into clarity: the crystal growths were not decorative, they were structural — each one bore a portion of the ceiling's weight, distributed through the root systems that drew material from below. The spacing was load-bearing. The silence was an acoustic property of the crystal's resonance structure. And at the far end, at the center of the room's structural web, something massive and old and heavy was sitting on the floor like a keystone in an inverted arch.

The Patient.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Torrin Ash: Current Resolve: 24
Ren Dallish: Current Resolve: 17
```

Ren entered behind him. Ren saw the crystal garden and the light and the silence and said nothing, which was the first time Ren had said nothing since they entered the dungeon.

Torrin was not looking at the garden. He was looking at the creature.

"Stay here," he said.

"No."

"Ren."

"I see it."

"Stay here. That is not a request."

Ren stayed. Torrin walked forward.

---

The marks on the crystal growths were visible at twenty meters — dark fine lines on the luminous surfaces, showing fracture angles and stress concentrations. He touched one as he passed. The reading was precise: the crystal would shatter at a forty-degree angle from the vertical if struck with approximately twelve pounds of force at the midpoint. Essany Cord had left a demolition manual written in a dyer's hand.

The floor marks were visible at fifteen meters. Branching lines on the stone showing solid paths and void paths — where the floor would hold and where it would give way. He followed the solid paths without thinking. A mason read a floor the way most people read a road: by where the weight should go.

The spear was against the eastern wall, marked. The grain's fault structure was visible — where the shaft would break, where the head would separate. He picked it up anyway. The spear was failing, but it was not yet failed. He checked the head's binding. Loose, yes. He could feel the separation point. But it would hold for one strike. Maybe two.

He kept walking. The solid path led toward the center of the garden, where the creature sat.

The Patient was thirty meters long, low, wide. Crystal-shelled, gray-white, with a particular quality of stillness that Torrin recognized from old structures — the kind of stillness that came from having been in one place for so long that movement was not the default but the exception.

The marks were on its shell.

Dark lines, thick and branching, spreading from a central point on the left flank. A handprint. Someone had placed their palm flat against the creature's shell and the shell had yielded its structure — every fault, every weakness, every point where three hundred and forty-two years of accumulated crystal had not quite held.

Torrin stood ten meters from the creature and read the marks the way he read a building plan.

The left flank seam: two growth layers that had never fully fused. A finger's width, running from the forward sensory cluster to the dorsal ridge. If you struck here with a blade — or a pointed weight on the end of a cord — the shell would separate. Not completely. But enough.

The ventral nerve cluster: a node at the base of the central body mass. The coordination point. Hit this and the creature's ability to move during the gap — the saccade mechanism the camp accounts had described — would be disrupted.

The dorsal dome: a hollow crystal formation on the creature's upper surface. Structurally perfect on the outside. Empty on the inside. Brittle.

Three weaknesses. One spear with a loose head. One plumb line.

The Patient had not moved. It was watching him the way old stone watches weather — without urgency, without concern. It had killed five people. It had been still for three centuries. It was patient in the way that only very old things are patient: not waiting for something, simply being what it was until the next thing happened.

Torrin looked at the marks. He looked at the plumb line in his hand — brass weight, waxed cord, three feet of swing.

He looked back at Ren.

Ren was at the entrance, where Torrin had told them to stay. Ren was holding the jointing chisel. Ren's face was — Torrin knew the face. It was the face Ren made when holding a tool and wanting to use it.

"Stay there," Torrin said. He turned back to The Patient.

He took three steps forward. He wound the plumb line around his fist, leaving two feet of cord and the brass weight swinging free. He aimed for the left flank seam.

---

He struck the seam.

The brass weight hit the shell at the junction of the two growth layers, exactly on the line the Brand marks had shown him, and the shell cracked.

Not shattered — cracked. A seam opened along the line of weakness, running from beneath the sensory cluster backward toward the dorsal ridge, and the sound it made was the sound of stone splitting under thermal stress: a deep, clean report that echoed off the crystal growths and came back changed. The creature's shell was no longer one piece. It was two pieces held together by the surrounding crystal and by inertia and by the fact that three hundred and forty-two years of growth does not separate easily even when the separation has been mapped.

The Patient moved.

It did not move the way it had moved for its previous five kills — the sudden, total strike from stillness. It moved differently. Torrin felt the difference in the fraction of a second before the impact: the movement was asymmetric. The cracked shell had changed the creature's geometry, and the geometry change had altered its movement, and the alteration was — he had time to think this, because a mason thinks in structural terms even in the last moment — *compensatory.* The creature was adjusting for damage it had never experienced before.

The strike hit him in the chest.

He was a large man. He had thirty years of bridge work and quarry labor in his frame. The strike moved him four meters and put him on the ground and he felt his ribs go the way he had felt ribs go before, in a construction accident twenty years ago — the specific, informative pain of bone moving past bone in a direction bone was not designed to move.

Crown Weight was active. He could feel the Still Garden's structure — every critical point, every load path, every crystal root — and he could feel himself becoming part of it, the Cost engaging as the space he had read settled around him. He was load-bearing now. If he left, the room would destabilize. He was not going to leave.

He was on the floor and the creature was turning toward him and he said: "Ren. Go."

Ren did not go.

"Ren."

The Patient struck again. Torrin felt the second impact in his spine and understood, with the clinical precision of a man who had spent thirty years understanding how structures failed, that his structure had failed. He was on the floor and he was not going to stand up and the creature was above him and the marks on its shell — Essany's marks, the dyer's gift — were visible from below, dark lines against gray-white crystal, the cracked seam running through them like a road through a map.

He had cracked it. The crack was real. The crack would be there when the next person came. The crack and the marks and the structural reading that Essany had left and that he had exploited — all of it was permanent. The Patient was damaged for the first time in three hundred and forty-two years and the damage had come from two people who had never met: a dying dyer and a mason who had come back.

He looked at Ren.

"Go," he said. "Now. Before —"

The Patient settled onto him. The weight was enormous and precise, the weight of something that had been bearing its own mass for three centuries and knew exactly how much pressure stone could take.

---

Ren did not go.

Ren stood at the entrance to the Still Garden, holding the jointing chisel, and watched Torrin die. The watching took eleven seconds. It was the longest eleven seconds of Ren's life and Ren understood, in the way that young people understand things they are not ready for, that the eleven seconds were going to be the rest of their life — not because of what happened in them, but because of what ended.

The Patient settled back into the garden. The crack in its shell was visible. The asymmetry was visible. It was different than it had been when they entered and it would be different from now on.

Torrin was on the floor of the Still Garden. He was not moving. He was not going to move.

Ren walked forward.

Not toward The Patient. Toward Torrin. The chisel was in Ren's hand and the wrapping was still on the blade and Ren unwrapped it while walking, because there was nothing else to do with their hands and the hands needed something to do.

They knelt beside Torrin. They put their hand on his shoulder. The body was warm. The plumb line was on the floor beside him, the cord still wound around his fist, the brass weight dark with crystal dust.

They picked up the plumb line.

---

The Patient watched Ren. Ren watched The Patient. Neither of them moved.

Ren was twenty-two years old and was going to die in this room and the knowing of it was not the worst part. The worst part was the eleven seconds. The worst part was always going to be the eleven seconds.

True Fit was active. Ren could feel it — the Gift's perception of surfaces, the way two things could become one thing. Every crystal growth in the garden was a surface. The floor was a surface. The creature was a surface. Ren's own bones and cartilage and tendons were surfaces. Everything wanted to join and the Gift was showing Ren how and the Cost was already working — a looseness in the left knee that had not been there a minute ago, a slight give in the right wrist, the small architectures of the body beginning to unfasten.

Ren stood up. Ren walked toward The Patient.

It was still. It was watching. The cracked shell made it look — Ren did not have the right word. Damaged was the structural word. What it looked like was: hurt. As if the concept of damage and the concept of pain were, for a creature this old, the same thing.

Ren put the jointing chisel against the cracked seam in The Patient's shell.

True Fit activated: the chisel's edge and the crack's interior met, and the Gift tried to join them — metal to crystal, edge to seam, a permanent bond. But the chisel was not a surface that wanted to join with the creature's shell. The Gift was designed for building. The creature's shell resisted the join the way a misaligned stone resisted mortar — not by hardness, but by wrongness. The surfaces did not fit.

On Ren's left knee, a join loosened. The cartilage shifted. It was not painful yet. It would be.

Ren pulled the chisel free and struck the crack instead — not a Gift activation, just a blow. The chisel's edge bit into the seam that Torrin had opened and widened it by a fraction. Not enough. Not nearly enough. But the fraction was real and the fraction was permanent.

The Patient moved.

Ren was fast — young and fast, faster than Torrin had been, faster than anyone who had faced The Patient in the Still Garden except Aldous Vren, who had not been fast but had been frictionless. Ren's speed did not matter. The creature's movement was not the kind of thing speed solved. It existed in one place and then existed in another and the transition between the two was not movement but rearrangement, and Ren was in the space that had been rearranged.

The impact was in the side. Ren was on the floor. Ren's hand was still holding the chisel.

