Soon after the first clash, Ulfsaar’s lumbering marauders entered the fray and the battle devolved into a slaughter. Neera, Pran, Saluk, and Ulfsaar himself smashed open the Enemy lines, clearing great swathes of Defiled with every swing of their oversized weapons. Wang Bao’s cutthroats were quick to take advantage of those gaps, like wily wolves working alongside bullish behemoths to divide and conquer the sizable Defiled Horde, rending and crushing their opponents into shapeless chunks of meat. Dastan’s heavy cavalry was unstoppable in the right conditions, and the steel plate and iron discipline of the Death Corps were indeed impressive, but Rustram wholeheartedly believed Phoenix Squad was home to the most dangerous warriors of Falling Rain’s retinue.

Shadows emerged from the grass behind the Horde and Rustram knew the slaughter would soon become a massacre. Standing atop his quin, Ravil and his mounted scouts were joined by Chey’s unit and the Protectorate, the full strength of Turtle Squad led by the oddly alluring Sai Chou. Longbows and crossbows sang and loosed their missiles, delivering piercing waves of death into the unprotected backs of the Defiled. A tried and true combination, it was one which worked best with the Death Corps holding the line, but after two months of cooperative efforts, Phoenix Squad learned not to charge too deep while the archers learned not to press their luck.

His shoulder finally recovered, Rustram ceased his posturing and joined the fray, slipping through the battle-line like a waitress in a crowded bar. Wherever he went, his rapier darted between combatants and pierced throats, hearts, knees, or elbows. He’d learned early on that not every blow needed to be a killing one because he had comrades to pick up the slack. Long, drawn out trades between two battling individuals were too inefficient and a poor expenditure of stamina, so it was better to lend an unobtrusive hand and decide the match forthwith to free his comrade for another bout. With his added efforts, Phoenix Squad slowly advanced into the Defiled Horde, and soon the song of twanging bows and whistling arrows came to an end.

Spelling doom for the Defiled once and for all.

Ravil and Chey didn’t lead their quins so much as set them loose on the Enemy’s back-line. Where Wang Bao’s cutthroats were wolfish in nature, the enraged roosequins made real wolves look like harmless puppies in comparison. High-pitched squeaks rang out as the roosequins tore into Defiled flesh in coordinated carnage, sounding disturbingly similar to their insistent squeaks of hunger. Rippling muscle shimmered beneath their thick, luxurious fur, wet with gore and viscera as they rent and tore to their animalistic hearts’ content, their gruesome behaviour wholly at odds with their usually adorable demeanour.

No matter how wild and savage the Defiled might be, they were no match for nature’s brutal fury, and the quin riders were almost unnecessary. They still put up a valiant effort and Chey in particular was well-suited for mounted combat. Crushing limbs and shattering bones with her thick, metal staff, the weapon came alive in her hands as it thrust this way and that, the force of every impact multiplied by a sharp rotation of Chey’s wrist at the moment before impact. Rustram had long since identified it as Wolf Form – Twisting Snap, but try as he might, he couldn’t replicate the technique. Much like Amplification, the timing and precision required was beyond his ability. Rotate too soon and your efforts were wasted, while too late and the attack will have already landed; yet time and time again, Chey landed her powerful drilling thrusts with inhuman perfection.

If she could grasp the timing of Amplification and combine it with Twisting Snap, then she’d have an attack rivalling the Boss’s signature charge in raw power, except Chey could unleash her attack in rapid succession.

The wave of roosequins passed through like a storm, and then came the Protectorate’s turn. Though the longbow was their weapon of choice, the collection of shabby rangers were no slouches in close combat, especially their fearsome leader Sai Chou. Unlike the majority of axe-wielders in the retinue, Sai Chou’s long-handled axe bore only a single edge, its wedged, rectangular head more wood-cutter’s tool rather than weapon of war. Regardless, the dishevelled warrior woman used it with expert efficiency, displaying a level of control which surpassed even Dastan. There were no overpowering strikes or reckless swings from Sai Chou, only calculated slashes and measured hacks as she used the bare minimum of strength to maximum effectiveness. Never still even for a moment, her delicate hands moved her axe in tight, flowing circles around her, her defence impenetrable and offence unstoppable. Unlike the perfumed pretenders of Central, Sai Chou revealed herself as a true Expert of the Empire, a hidden dragon who spent her time loitering in the forests of Ping Yao.

Fitting for the vice-leader of the Protectorate to be so strong, second only to a half-beast whose fists could displace Mother knows how many tonnes of water.

Before Rustram knew it, the last Defiled fell and the Enemy Horde had been slaughtered to a man. While Phoenix and Turtle Squad cleaned up the battlefield, Rustram stood to the side and awaited the final tally, dreading the losses no matter how great or small. Two more days would make sixty continuous days on the front lines without reinforcements, a record thus far unmatched, but it had come at significant cost. Mitsue Hideo and Quyen Dienne were close in overall time spent, but the former had three retinues to rotate through while the latter commanded an entire force of rhino or elephant mounted cavalry, a term which hardly seemed appropriate. While the repeated battles had honed the Boss’s retinue into an elite fighting force, a blade too sharp was liable to bend or break.

Still... the glory almost made it worth it.

Almost.

Slick blood covered his face and training armour, too much for a mere handkerchief to ever sop up, but he still gave it his best effort. Not even the Boss bathed while out on patrol, so Rustram would have to wait two more days until they returned to Sinuji. A water-skin thumped into his chest which he caught by reflex. Nodding in appreciation at Sai Chou, he drank a small mouthful and offered it back, mostly just to be polite since he had his own water-skin strapped to his belt. “For yer face,” she said, lips pressed in a phantom of a smile. “We all know how ye like to keep pretty. Ser.”

Hmph. As if he were the only one who liked to stay clean, not to mention how a little water and grooming would do her wonders, but Rustram was too polite (and frightened) to say it. “Thank you,” he said, indicating she should take the water-skin back. “But we should conserve water wherever we can. Never know what might happen.”

“Bah.” Rolling her eyes in dismissive scorn, Sai Chou collected her gear and spit at her feet, a disgusting habit to be sure. “Plenty o’ water out here on the grasslands, else they wouldn’t be grasslands now would they, Ser?”

The brief pause every time right before she said ‘Ser’ irritated Rustram to no end, but he remained cordial and polite as usual. “You know the standing orders as well as I do. We do this to guard against tainted water supplies, but if you’ve issue with the orders, then you’re free to bring it up with the Boss.”

“Yea... about that.” So as not to be overheard, Sai Chou switched to Sending, though Rustram lacked the ability to respond in kind. “We been out here a long time. Too long, if ye know what I mean.” Gesturing at one of Wang Bao’s cutthroats who was using a Defiled corpse as a puppet to tell a joke, she added, “Yer people and mine are startin’ to crack. Hell, even the Death Corps don’t look too hot, so I figured it be time for a break, one we earned ten times over. When’s the Boss gonna let up?”

“Unsure,” Rustram replied, hiding how happy he was to know she shared his concerns. “I’ll bring it up when I see him.”

“Good, good. Better it come from you, most folk don’t take well to a woman barkin’ orders. Boss don’t seem like the type, but you can never be sure.” Nodding in appreciation, Sai Chou punched Rustram on his exposed shoulder and grinned, transforming from deadly Expert to cheery young woman. “Fancy fightin’ you did out there, mighty quick work too. Can’t rightly claim I could’ve done the same in as many moves. Didn’t think ye had it in ye, but seems yer not the puffed-up peacock I thought ye were.” With that, she strode away, leaving Rustram alone and conflicted.

Should he be angry about the insult or happy about the compliment?

Putting Sai Chou out of mind, Rustram basked in his moment of glory, for today, he finally felt worthy of his rank and weapon. Though he still had far to go and much to repay, he could hold his head up high as Rustram Albaiev of Shen Huo, second-in-command of Falling Rain’s retinue, and a Warrior of the Empire.

Now, if only he had a lady friend to share his joy with...

Chapter Meme
