Jake took a while admiring it all before walking towards the scientist who was in his usual lab. Arnold naturally knew of Jake’s arrival, seeing as he’d gone through security checks back on Earth, so by the time he stepped into the lab, the mad scientist was already waiting for him.

“It’s on the table on the left,” Arnold spoke before Jake even had the chance to speak up. “I didn’t make any significant modifications this time, but merely tempered the metal with a new compound that empowered and brought out some of the latent potential within the weapon. I also switched out the handle with an improved version better fitting for a B-grade.”

By the time the scientist was done talking, Jake was already in front of the black box Arnold had pointed out. He didn’t wait as he opened it up and saw the beautiful katar within, looking identical to before. Upon using Identify, the description also remained very similar.

[Voidblade Katar (Legendary)] – A katar wielded by a hunter, born from the mind of one touched by the void. The blade is made of an unknown composite of metals that has been infused with void energies and refined by the hunter’s arcane affinity over time. This has made the blade incredibly sharp, allowing it to effortlessly cut and penetrate nearly all physical materials. When striking mana-based entities, the blade must be constantly infused with nascent void energy, or it will be unable to deal any damage or interact with the target. The handle of the katar can absorb all forms of mana infused into it and transform it into nascent void energy. This effect is more potent if the energy infused is the arcane affinity of the hunter. The blade will passively make void any other forms of energy interacting with it as long as it has sufficient nascent void energy. Has been stabilized so that it can exist within the material plane. This also makes it able to enter spatial storage. Enchantments: Voidblade. Forced Spatial Stabilization. Requirements: lvl 350+ in any humanoid race.

The name of the Voidblade Katar hadn’t even changed. Honestly, the biggest difference was the level requirement now being B-grade. Besides that, all Jake could feel when he picked up the katar was that it seemed to respond better to his energy. He also didn’t doubt it was even more durable and sharper than before, but such things would only become clear through proper combat.

“I was already happy with it in C-grade, so getting a nearly identical one that’s just updated for my evolution is more than good enough,” Jake said with a smile.

Arnold nodded, yet to even turn around and look at Jake. “I didn’t know when you would come by, so I handed the chest and leg armor to a courier when they were done. They should already be at your residence. Other matters have kept me preoccupied.”

“It’s fine,” Jake said, waving him off. “I guess I missed them at my lodge. Now, is there anything I can do for you? Are you perhaps interested in what went on with the Seat of the Exalted Prima?”

“No, I’m not,” the scientist said. “I have no interest in simulated reality. Fully comprehending our current material world is already a significant endeavor. I also do not need anything, as I’ve already been briefed about your journey to Venus and its peculiar state.”

“Yeah, Venus...” Jake muttered. “Didn’t exactly turn out how I imagined.”

“No,” Arnold said curtly. “Now, please leave. I need to focus on this.”

Jake was surprised to be told to leave so directly, and he wanted to ask what the weird cylindrical thing Arnold was tinkering with was, but he got the message and just nodded in response before heading back to the teleporter.

He considered if he had more on Earth to do right away, but for now decided to just go to his lodge and see if he could find some more gear upgrades. Not like he had time to do much else, as he would soon have to return to the Seat of the Exalted Prima. But he could at least have a time banana or two while getting some new clothes.
