A groan of discomfort escaped Uva as the weight grew very close to her limit. She could feel the Weaveress thrashing inside her, trying to break free. She could feel that Magical Resistance gliding through her mind like a coarse rock sliding back and forth inside her brain. The longer the Weaveress remained, the more the pain and stress grew. The cost of capturing Pathbearers between Tiers was substantial as well. Size didn't seem to matter as much as metaphysical significance: it was about how many skills someone had, how much mana they possessed, and how capable they were in wrestling against magic, and Psychomancy in particular.

“If it feels like this to seize a Hero, I can't imagine this is going to be a good use of my skill against someone like Shiv.” Uva paused and narrowed her eyes at Hymn. “Or you, for that matter.”

“Maybe not, but maybe you're not being flexible enough again.” The Headmaster smirked at her and pointed at her skull. “You know you can free yourself of some of these burdens by just forgetting them, right? There are pieces in your thoughts now; they are exposed, vulnerable. You can simply see them disintegrated, cast into the oblivion of your ignorance.”

A brief hesitation came over Uva. The act seemed extreme and cruel. But she desired to discover the limitations of her skill, and so she picked the weakest of her victims, the Adept she'd captured first, and simply scattered the girl across the mindscape. A final desperate scream that sounded all too realistic and felt all too desperate for a Delve-made person slipped out from the victim, and then she was no more. Uva failed to recall her in the next instant. It was like knowing you fought someone without actually recalling any of the details.

But that act cascaded as all the other pawns she had trapped in her storm-shaped web went still. They heard the utter destruction of their fellow, and true dread seized them. Trauma flowed through them, and Uva drew in power like never before as her mana field, once almost stressed to the limit by the Hero, now simply found the Weaveress highly burdensome.

“Sometimes it feels like a System is determined to drive me down a path of utmost cruelty,” Uva muttered.

Hymn just shrugged. “Cruelty is effective when used properly. Remember, you don't live a life of platitudes; you live in reality, and the right choices to make sometimes are the exact wrong choices to make at others. Besides, I think this was a wasteful thing to do anyway.”

Uva stiffened. “Then why did you tell me to do it?”

“Because I wanted to see if you could. Also, you don't always need to listen to me. You have to use your own judgment.”

Her lips thinned in annoyance. “Is this your way of avoiding responsibility?”

“Yes. It’s quite effective.”

Uva glared at him and considered how many bolts of lightning it would take to strike Hymn from existence.

“That really depends on how many people you have serving as your mana generators, doesn't it?” Hymn asked without fear. “Which makes me wonder: Could you potentially hold an entire city in your mind if you mentally capture all its inhabitants? Ask yourself that. You gained a lot more mana by creating sub-storms and sub-nests using the people you captured. So why not let some of them out? Why not use some of them as generators so that you can hold the others? Let’s see if you can get the best of both worlds here.”

She wanted to ignore him out of spite, but after a moment's thought and pushing her misgivings aside, Uva admitted his recommendation had more substance than the musings of a gadfly. With a casual tilt of her head, she released eight Adepts and two Masters once bound within her lightning in torrents of translucent rain—and impaled them with her psionic bolts once more.

But instead of dragging them into her mind, she let her mind spread over into them, as the Lurking Noostorm did before. She felt her mind branch over and coat theirs, like electricity flowing through nodes of copper, like a spideress expanding her web. And as her web grew, the strain pressing against her lessened; by the end of her expansion, the Heroic Weaveress’ weight was cut by half.

A rush of quiet euphoria crept through Uva. She was past the point of excitement now; this was a new horizon of appreciation and enjoyment. There was a great deal she could do with this… Phantasmagorical buildings, pseudo-mazes, psionically constructed pawns…

“Yes,” Uva whispered to herself. “There are opportunities here. Many opportunities.”

And she had an entire Delve to experiment with.

“That’s why I told you not to rush earlier,” Hymn said with a smirk. “Because more than educational, sometimes, Skill Evolutions are just plain delightful.”
