While she screamed with desperation, Uva was focused on other things. This cruelty, though distasteful, was ultimately necessary, for an Owl was an Owl no matter their pain, and if Harkness was let out again without thought, she would repeat the same action. People could feel things strongly at one moment, could lie to themselves with such intensity that, for that briefest of seconds, they would imagine themselves to be a different person altogether, but displayed behavior more than hinted at future action, and Harkness' history was a tapestry of unchanging betrayal.

“Just wait,” Uva said to the traitorous mind she held under her sway. “I will discuss your position and punishment when I have time. For now, you just wait.”

“Please!”

But Uva ignored Harkness. She silenced her. She bound her in a cage of thoughts so dense that it was like a coffin made from tungsten, and she let it plunge deep into the sea of mind. Stripped of power and skills and everything that had given her agency in life, Harkness could only suffer in enforced silence. And, for the first time since she watched the nobility harvest their retribution from her mother’s heart, she approached that humiliating point of tears she so despised.

“I need to figure out a solution for her,” Uva said to Hymn as she began to guide her power.

What she created first was an object of simplicity. It was not a person. It was not a place. It was the dagger she kept in a box in her home. That surfacer dagger that had pierced her mother's heart. It was the object that she saw in her dreams, in her waking moments when she closed her eyes, in her subconsciousness when she was deep in the dark, yet still held to the world above by a thread of desire. The Dreaming Storm roared with energy, and as lightning flared, a heavy downpour of mana fell once more. They coalesced until they became a single piece of metal. In front of Uva, the blade itself came into view, a gleaming thing polished and maintained, reflecting Uva's visage back at herself. To her surprise, she was barren of eldritch influence.

Her eyes were her own again, deep-blue and uniform. The aspects of the Hatchling and the eyes and fingers sprouting from her, inflicted by the Stranger, were no more as well.

“I moved your collective Outsider essence, as you asked,” Hymn explained, sounding distracted as his eyes remained locked on the blade. “You'll still be able to call upon some of the skills in this Delve, but if you manage to purge yourself of the eldritch essence, I can't say what that might do to your legend. I doubt the System will outright punish you for such a feat, but I expect a significant change to your soul once more. But that aside, what is this? What did you just evolve, girl?”

“Have you ever heard of the Dreaming Storm?”

The Headmaster squinted, and both his eyes began to share a singular glow. Every bit of translucent mana within him was converted into Divination, and he gazed through the System, across dimensions and realities to find an answer he couldn't recall from memory alone. But as the seconds drew on and the notification for the first encounter loaded, he shook his head and took a step back, strained and weary in both mana and posture. “Not in the pages of the books I've filled, and not in any of my previous encounters across Integration. I suspected something like this might happen, but if I am to be honest, this is more dramatic than I anticipated and far more convenient as well.”

“Convenient?” Uva asked.

“Indeed, convenient is the word I would use. After all, it seems like this partial Skill Evolution allowed you to keep the parts you favored in your Lurking Noostorm. All that remains contained.” He gestured up, tracing each flash of her lightning, the storm constantly flickering, allowing her to maintain her psionic influence, to expand her branches of Psychomancy to strike at more potential victims. “But now you are also exhibiting As Within, So Without at the same time, or at least both of the skills have been fused and integrated. The System doesn't allow casual Skill Fusions between alike Legendary skills without reason. But it has made an exception for you, it seems.”

Uva hummed in contemplation. “The exception was made because I prevailed in that last encounter. I did more than the objectives commanded.”

A faint sneer merged with Hymn’s look of fascination. “Well, I would have appreciated an opportunity like that when I Delved my Legendary skill. Instead, I got psychological torture at the hands of my false parents. How fair of our great abuser.”

“How many Tarrasques had you fought at twenty-two?” Uva asked flatly.

Her words silenced the Headmaster, and he recalibrated his envy. “You know what? In retrospect, I prefer my life and Delve far more. I can't say the System didn't try to kill me, but between the three of you kids, it's been positively homicidal and bipolar. Each attempt is getting more extreme and more constant, while the rewards never cease. It's like being beaten one day and then treated to a twelve-course meal the next.”

The truth in his description brought a sour taste to Uva's tongue. “Never a dull life, surviving as a favored Pathbearer.”

She reached out and seized the blade which slew her mother, wrapping her fingers around the handle. It felt exactly as she remembered—and then she corrected herself. This blade was forged and sculpted from her memory, so how could it be otherwise? How could it feel any different?

With a flick of her hand, she sent it soaring toward the edge of the anchor. It slammed against the wall and ricocheted off at an angle. As it bounced off the ground, Uva curled a finger and pulled it back into her palm—where it came to an unnatural halt, not impacting with any inertia. Looking to the wall, she saw a faint divot that marred the titanium alloy making up the insides of the teleportation anchor.

A breath hissed out from Uva, sounding like a blade sliding free from a scabbard. She stepped toward the dent she'd left in the wall and pressed her thumb against it. The moment she did, she realized something. It was a concentration of Psychomancy that distorted the wall's actual matter. It wasn't truly dented. Not really. As she drew away that clump of mana, the cylinder returned to the shape it was—and Uva gained ever more insight about how her skill truly worked. It was mind over matter in the most literal form.

The magic of her mind did not twist reality so much as it substituted it. Earlier, she'd lashed at the spell patterns surrounding her, imbuing the anchor with specific magic. She had overloaded the existing Psychomancy shapes in an instant. She turned to Hymn. “Is As Within, So Without meant to usurp or replace?”

“Situational,” he answered, his right eyebrow quirked as he examined the damage she'd left. Parts of the cylinder were charred, marred black by forking traces of intense heat and lightning damage, yet in the next second, Uva drew all the discoloration she'd inflicted back into component motes. “What you’re doing right now is… Well, it’s imposing your Psychomancy mana over reality like a projected simulation, but the notable thing about As Within, So Without is the as within part. If you break something’s Magical Resistance, you should be able to—”

Uva struck the insides of the anchor again, but this time, her Psychomancy didn’t just bubble over the existing matter. Her web of lightning struck out like wicked hooks and stole away entire stretches of metal—displacing them from reality into her mind.

Pockets of strain built inside her skull. Yet the burden her mana field sustained wasn't even. It was like a few pieces of pressure gliding through her head. Even at rest, her field was potent, dense, and vivacious. It was energy unchained, her Psychomancy unleashed to the heights of what could be allowed on Integrated Earth. Furthermore, she could use other minds to carry the weight she couldn't alone. Swallowing pieces of matter from reality into the landscape of her mind brought a tangible heaviness she could not shrug aside.

“Like that, then?” Uva asked.

“Quite so,” Hymn replied. He nodded with muted awe at the power she'd just displayed.

The moment was interrupted by a sound of hissing air accompanied by a wave of rushing cold. The doors leading into the anchor were flung open, and on the other side was a surprised Umbral, drawn in by the thunder and chaos to investigate what was happening within the teleportation anchor. She was a young slip of a thing, possessed only of an Adept-Tier Cryomancy skill, while at her hip hung a mace, one that was imbued with paralyzing enchantments rather than anything meant for war. Her jaw fell open, and her eyes widened as she stared at Uva. She didn't even notice Hymn. “I—”

Uva didn't bother engaging in conversation. She continued testing her skill. A lance of lightning lashed down from above. The storm tree struck with its roaring might. In an instant, the investigating Umbral went missing. She wasn't even a stain of ash on the ground. The lightning crackled into her, swallowed her more like a swelling branch of water, and she was yanked out of reality as her paltry Magical Resistance succumbed and she was pulled deep into a sea resting at the center of Uva's mind.

Incoherent screaming echoed out from inside of her. Two sets of voices wailed to be set free. Uva studied both, examining their pleas and their struggles, and tried to gauge the difference. Where Harkness simply existed as an extension of Uva's mind, something she could dispatch into reality at a whim—or even accidentally when her attention lapsed—the Umbral she'd just kidnapped held actual weight. More than weight, however, she inflicted a building strain on Uva's field.

The chunks of titanium Uva had ripped away from the anchor earlier simply resided as steady points of effort. She had to constantly exert part of her mana field to keep them inside her mind, yet the stress and magic demanded never changed. The kidnapped Umbral was different. The cost of keeping her trapped within the Dreaming Storm grew toward the exponential. It was like trying to hold down a live fish compared to a dead one. The Umbral struggled. She had her own set of skills, had Magical Resistance that ground against an irritated Uva's Dreaming Storm—causing a sort of magical inflammation with each moment of friction.

More footsteps sounded outside. Uva dispatched her lightning, but it moved not like bolts of electricity, but rather like curling fingers. It slipped through the doors and folded around both sides, moving down the halls before smashing through and reaping more victims from reality, rather than expanding Uva's influence and power. Instead of simply creating sub-storms she could direct, every individual she pulled within herself was a burden, trapped inside her mindscape. Furthermore, she couldn't pull them in until their Magical Resistance was fully collapsed and, in case they had one, their own Psychomancy field was utterly ruptured.

And where containing one Adept-Tier Umbral was burdensome enough, capturing a dozen was inching toward the threshold of substantial effort.

“Right. That's usually the other aspect of As Within, So Without.” Hymn looked Uva up and down. “Wait, is it inflicting strain on you?”

“Yes,” Uva answered curtly as she began her quiet conquest of Passage. This time, she wasn't going to drown the entire teleportation complex in storms. Instead, she was going to discover how many people she could pull into her own mind before she hit a point of disability.

“Well, I think we found our first point of divergence. With the way As Within, So Without works, you gain more mana from how many things you cage inside your own mind. This seems to be going the opposite way, and it makes sense: the functions and mechanics of the Lurking Noostorm are inverse from As Within, So Without—you gain more magic by spreading your lightning into other minds and using them as generators. But if you're pulling their minds under yours, then you're burning your magic to keep their mind under control and to keep them as figments within your consciousness.”

Uva replied with a quiet hum as she bombarded the first of Passage’s Heroic-Tiers. A cascade of whipping lightning crashed into the Weaveress one after another. Her Reflexes were sharp; she managed to dodge the first of the bolts somehow—blinking across a kilometer of space to appear right in front of Uva. The Weaveress’ retaliation came without hesitation. She leapt forth, her limbs were drawn back as she prepared to grapple with the enemy.

Uva countered this by re-manifesting Harkness and using her as a meat shield.

The Weaveress and the Owl went down in a tangle of limbs. Harkness let out a yelp, which was promptly silenced as she was flung aside, striking the wall of the anchor and splattering like a bag of blood. Before the Weaveress could make another move on Uva, however, another version of Harkness loaded, and she threw herself against her murderer once more—reacting on instinct and guarding Uva without thought.

The Weaveress swiped out with a lashing forelimb, manifesting a blade shaped from pressurized air that bisected Harkness along the middle. The powerless Owl confused the Weaveress just enough that she failed to notice more bolts of coiling lightning crashing down from all sides. She vanished in a final flash as the translucence drank her away, and where all the Pathbearers Uva stole from reality felt more like pebbles in her hands, this Hero plunged into her mindscape like a boulder, displacing her mana, breaking her storm as entire chains of lightning were severed.

