The great rusting spire had trees stubbornly growing out of it, their roots grasped tight around iron and buried in rust. Squirrels scampered along their lengths, collecting nuts and seeds, chattering up a storm. Birds flitted in between the cracks and crevices of the spire—little raptors that were hunting insects and rodents, hanging the corpses on spikes of metal so they could eat them later. They squawked and squabbled with each other, flashing stunningly patterned feathers at one another. A riot of brilliant blues, purples, greens, and deep reds flickered on the decaying karst.

A herd of fleet-footed deer leapt across the ground in the distance, their antlers just slightly too shiny to be completely made of bone.

I knelt down and pushed away the thin layer of soil, and then through a thin layer of rust; little tendrils of mycelium came away, happily decomposing the metal.

I took a deep breath in and out, and felt the land.

It was not crying out in pain. It was not ruined. It had been changed, irrevocably, but it was still here.

I felt a block in the way. It was a relatively small one. I pushed through it, and let the trickle of gold connect again.

My own connection deepened. I felt the thrum of resonance between plates of metal. I felt all the life roaring all around me.

Around us.

I felt Tianlan shudder as the sensations flowed into her. We could feel the cracks and breaks in the dragon veins; I could feel the leaks, slowly oozing out her Qi, but honestly?

“...it's not as bad as I thought,” she murmured to me.

The Ironfields were solid; they were metal, and that seemed to have contained most of the blowouts.

I rose and opened my eyes, looking over the landscape. At first glance it was pretty desolate… but there was a stark beauty to it.

“I never knew a place like this could exist,” Meimei murmured from beside me, looking up at the spire in wonder.

Zhuye squinted at the karst—no, the birds on the karst, singing and squawking. He pointed and asked in a confused voice:

“Jī?”

“Kind of, little man,” I said, ruffling his hair. “Want to see one up close?”

I went and caught a bird for my son. Well, caught is really too strong a word. I took out some jerky, lifted it up, and pointed at one of the birds. Which promptly flew over, landed on my hand, and started digging in.

The entire carriage came out to take a look, marvelling at the colours and just how fierce the little beast looked.

Zhuye in particular studied it intently, and then with great solemnity declared: “Jī!”

Such an honour, to be named a chicken.

================================

We continued onwards, deeper into the Ironfields. All around us, great pillars stabbed into the sky, and not all of them were iron. Some of the smaller ones were the green patina of copper, and one, toppled onto its side and mostly buried by a sand dune of rust and soil, was aluminum.

I made a note of that one; I would have to see if anybody could mine that—because mining was definitely a thing.

We saw evidence of it as we continued—massive chunks ripped from the rust and the ground. Some karsts were missing completely, leaving only great mounds of rust and patina.

There were a couple of villages that we passed by, but humans were few and far between in this place. I understood. Though there was a bounty of metal, this was clearly a hard place to live. Delun had warned us that enough of the water was outright poisonous to regular humans—and thankfully I could tell what was what.

We didn’t stop, instead forging onwards until we saw a tower in the distance, and the banner hanging from it.

A hammer with the symbol of longevity inside it.

We had arrived at our first destination.
