January 9, 2034


******


****** 


Lute Velra was going to third grade. Real third grade. At a school.


His mother had delivered the news a couple of weeks before Christmas. Now it was the first day, and the knowledge of what was about to happen to him was so surreal he felt like he was dressing another person’s body in the new uniform.


The summer uniform for primary students at Nilama Paragon Academy. Which was a school. For children. Avowed children. Whole roomfuls of them.


He was scared and excited and more scared than excited but both feelings were definitely present and—


“Don’t forget the pocket square!” his mother’s voice called from just outside the bedroom door.


She was standing out there because Lute could dress himself, thank you. He was eight. In a couple of weeks, he’d be nine.


Being born in January was an advantage for him, according to his mother, because he would be one of the oldest in his grade. He would not have trouble with the lessons, she promised. His tutors up until now would have been sufficient.


“What if they all speak Mandarin better than me?” Lute had asked in Mandarin while they decorated one of the mansion’s Christmas trees together.


“They won’t,” Jessica had assured him.


“What if they speak German better than me?”


“They probably will if their parents were born in Germany. Don’t worry about it. Your teacher will be speaking English anyway.”


“What if they speak English better than me?”


“English is your first language, Lute.”


“That will make it even worse!” he’d said shrilly.


Now, he picked up the pocket square from where it sat on top of his duvet and tucked it into place. He walked over to the dressing mirror and examined himself carefully. In summer, primary students wore heather gray waistcoats, collared white shirts with short or long sleeves, clip-on sapphire blue ties, gray shorts or pants, and any closed-toe shoe of their preference. Third graders wore yellow pocket squares.


The square color would change every year. In winter, there were coats or sweaters. In middle school, there were blazers.


Lute was focusing on the clothes because so far they were the only real clue he had about what school would be like.


“Are you dressed yet?” Jessica called.


“Yes, Mom!”


The door opened. His mother smiled at the sight of him. “Aren’t you handsome?”


“What if the teacher won’t let me go to the bathroom?”


“They will.”


“What if one of the cousins decides to go to school, too?”


“You’ll be the only member of the family there. I promise.”


“What if—?”


She swooped down on him and lifted him in a hug.


“Mom! You’ll wrinkle me!”


She kissed him on the forehead. “Come on. Grandma has presents for you before you leave. Let’s go see her.”


Lute was surprised. He hadn’t even seen much of Aulia during Christmastime, since she’d been busy on Artona I. With Hazel again. And he’d already been told that she wouldn’t be available for his birthday this year.


It didn’t sting anymore. Much. He and his mother were a team.


But he wished they were the only team in the household sometimes. Grandma Aulia and his mom were also a team. When Aulia wasn’t on the Triplanets, Jessica was with her more often than not. Or running errands for her. Or trying to make the other relatives do whatever Lute’s grandmother wanted them to do.


A lot of family members were loafers. Lute had heard Aulia tell Jessica and Aunt Hikari so during a very rare “girls night in.” She’d said that she “despaired of the loafers ever becoming anything useful to anyone.”


Jessica was not a loafer. She was Aulia’s Principal Assistant. It was an important job, which was why Jessica had the second best suites in every house they lived in. And also why Lute would be getting a cabin of his own on Libra when he turned ten, even though they were in such short supply and other family members coveted them.


He thought it was Orpheus who was going to be kicked out. For being the loafiest loafer and for falling down the stairs a couple of months ago and landing on top of Chef Kabir.


“Grandma’s in the White Parlor,” Jessica told Lute, sending him out the door with a pat. “Go get your presents.”


Lute Velra was no stranger to presents.


He’d once heard an uncle mutter, “God, Jessica spoils him rotten, doesn’t she?”


And Orpheus, drinking something that smelled like mouthwash out of a crystal punch glass, had laughed and said, “Do you think you can actually spoil a squirt like him with things? On this island? In this family?”


Lute had thought about the two comments so much that he felt like he almost understood them.


He walked down the curving stairs into the White Parlor, a small hand trailing along the glossy railing, and he found his grandmother there alone. She was dressed in a tight black short-sleeved sweater and black cropped jeans. Her feet, in black ballet flats, were propped up on one of the downy white pillows. Her dark blonde hair was side parted, and her face, younger than Lute’s mother’s, wore that familiar, lovely smile.


“Lute, my dove!” said Aulia Velra, setting down the croissant she’d been having with her first coffee of the morning and standing to greet him. “Don’t you look like a fine young man, today? Off to school! Come here and let me give you a hug.”


Lute smiled back. He ran to hug her eagerly. Aulia gave wonderful hugs. Like Jessica’s, but taller.


“Grandma, I’m going to be in third—”


“Nope!” said Aulia, letting the word pop off her lips as she took a step back. “First, you have to impress me. I wore this outfit just for you! It’s time for our little fashion game.”


Oh! Lute loved this. They hadn’t done this in a while, but it was special. He was the only one who got to play this game with Grandma Aulia. He knew some of the others had their own personal games with his grandmother, but he thought his was the best.


He squinted at her clothes, thinking hard. It was such a simple outfit, compared to some he’d seen. Tight. Black on black. A big belt accentuating the pinch of her waist. He knew he had seen the style before because if she was wearing one for the first time for their game, she would explain it instead of asking him to guess. But the name…


“A hint!” said Aulia, reaching over the back of a low chair and grabbing a black beret from the seat. She set it at a playful angle on top of her head. Then she stood leaning against the chair with her ankles crossed, waiting.


“Beatnik!” shouted Lute, finally capturing the word. “You’re a Beatnik!”


He had absolutely no idea what one was, but this was what one looked like.


“Hooray!” cried Aulia, throwing the hat into the air. “Perfect! I’ll have to try something harder next time.”


Lute felt like he was the only person in Aulia’s world. She was very good at doing that. For the next half hour, they opened presents and talked about harps and the beat generation and schools…


“I am very experienced with schools,” said Aulia, poking a piece of croissant into Lute’s mouth as they cuddled together on the sofa. “I went to one from five to fifteen! Ten whole years. And let me tell you, it’s tough work. You’d better try hard.”


“I will,” Lute said seriously.


“Almost none of your aunts, uncles, or cousins have gone to school until they were adults on their way to college. Well…there was Keiko. But Keiko made such a lot of noise about the fact that she was going to high school for such a long time that we were all bored with it by the time she finally got around to it.” She winked at him. “Don’t tell her I said that, though.”


“Keiko’s never here.”


“That’s because Keiko is still making a lot of noise about running away from the family,” Aulia said. “It’s what she does. You’re different. You are going to one of the best schools in the whole entire country! And you’re only eight. I’m very proud of you, Lute.”


Lute wriggled closer to her. The praise was so warm.


“Now, I know your mother has had a few little talks with you about school, but let me give you some advice of my own. Do you know who you’ll be going to school with?”


“Other boys and girls who are eight.”


“Yes. And what else do you know about them?”


“A lot of them have important parents.”


Aulia nodded, but he could tell from her face that the answer wasn’t sufficient.


“They’ll all know each other already.”


A nod.


“They’ll know lots about us because you’re on the Council.”


Another nod.


Lute suspected he knew what she wanted him to say, but he mentioned every other thing about the children he’d be meeting today first, in hopes that he wouldn’t have to. Finally, there was nothing else left.


“None of them are going to be ordinary when they grow up,” he whispered. “Just me.”


“But you won’t be ordinary, my dove,” said Aulia, holding him close. “That’s what I wanted to tell you. You are, and always will be, a Velra. And I’m sure as you meet more of the world, you’ll come to see how very wonderful that is. Because I have built this family into something bigger than its individual members. Even if you are the weakest and the least of the Velras, you are still one of us, and we are more important than any of those children you are going to school with.”


Lute looked down at his shoes. Something about this reassurance didn’t feel quite as good as his grandmother seemed to think it should.


“Your family is your power, Lute. And it’s more power than you know. As long as you take care of the Velra name, it will take care of you.”


“How do I take care of our name?” he asked.


“Oh well…” said Aulia. “It’s nothing you have to work too hard at just yet. Study. Don’t get into trouble. Make some nice friends at your new school. It’s a good place for you to meet people who will be somebodies one day, and everyone needs to know a few somebodies. When you grow up, you can do the same sort of work for us as your mother. You’ll be my Cabin 3! How does that sound?”


“Good,” Lute said slowly. “Can I…if I live in Cabin 3, can I still visit Austria?”


Aulia tilted her head. “Austria. The country in Europe?”


“I might want to go there someday,” Lute said nervously. “To play my harp.”


Aulia smiled. “Dear, you can play your harp wherever you want!” Chuckling, she added to herself, “Austria. How random!”


Before his mother came to get him a few minutes later, Aulia helped him tuck his new presents into his new backpack. His first cell phone, a tablet, a smartwatch, an emergency locator medallion he was to wear under his shirt at all times—everything a young man needed before he went out into Anesidora on his own.


“And one more thing,” said Aulia, producing a shiny red card out of thin air.


Lute’s eyes fixed on it at once. The best presents always got teleported in that way for dramatic effect.


“I’ll be quite busy for the rest of this month, so I’m afraid I won’t be able to attend whatever exciting event you decide to put on for your birthday. But this should make up for it!”


She passed him the card.


“It’s a NesiCard,” Lute said.


He hadn’t had one before because he’d never gone anywhere without a grown-up. But he’d seen his mother’s and father’s. And his cousins’.


“It’s your very own NesiCard!” Aulia said enthusiastically as she handed it to him. “And guess how much money is on it?”


Lute gave the question due consideration. Hazel had gotten one with a thousand argold on it for Christmas. She had kept finding excuses to put things in and out of her wallet so that she could show it off.


He didn’t want to guess that much because it would be so embarrassing if he was wrong.


“Is it…a hundred argold?”


“Oh! You think I’m a cheap old lady, don’t you?” Aulia teased. Then she leaned over and whispered in his ear, “It’s a thousand. And you can spend every last bit of it every day if you want to, and it’ll be filled again by the time you wake up in the morning.”


He stared down at the piece of plastic with the enchanted chip in the center.


“How does that sound?” Aulia asked him.


He nodded.


“Give me another hug before you go. The helicopter is waiting for you.”


Lute hugged her goodbye. He flew to school beside his mother in the back of the family’s helicopter. It landed on the pad of a building near the school, and they walked the rest of the way together.


“Did Grandma give you the NesiCard?” Jessica asked.


“She did. I’ll be careful with it.”


“Don’t worry. They’re easy to replace if they get lost…you don’t seem excited.”


“Oh I am!” Lute said quickly. “She said it had a thousand argold on it, and it would be refilled every day. If I wanted.”


“That’s a lot of money,” said Jessica.


“Yes.”


“Don’t really spend a thousand argold in a day without talking to me first. If you buy more toys than will fit in your rooms, you’ll have to get rid of some of them.”


She held his hand most of the way, but when they reached the school she let him go in alone. He waved until the moment the doors shut between them.


Then his smile fell. He was glad he had his own money now. He didn’t have that many things he wanted, since Christmas had just happened and his birthday was coming. It was still a big present though, wasn’t it?


But…


She called me the least of the Velras.


He hadn’t been able to think of anything else on his whole way to school. Not even his nerves.


Grandma said that. But she loves me. We played our game.


Maybe…she didn’t mean it. Maybe she meant the least in one specific way. Not the least least.


