Probably, she meant it like that. 


****** 


School was WONDERFUL.


Third grade was the best thing that had ever happened to Lute Velra. After his fear of the other children faded, after his worries about whether or not bathroom breaks would be allowed were assuaged, he settled into life as a primary school student as if he’d been made for it.


His teacher liked him! She complimented him on his art projects, his school work, and his manners. When you followed the rules, she liked you even more, so he followed the rules very carefully. It was so easy.


Much more importantly, the other children liked him. He had friends! Almost as soon as he arrived and just that easily. They weren’t like the cousins. They were all his own age, and they didn’t care about who would get Chainer one day. They weren’t always trying to beat each other at everything. And they didn’t care that Lute wouldn’t ever be an Avowed…mostly.


A few people said things, but only a few.


They played superheroes together at recess, and nobody told him he couldn’t do it. He played, too. They asked if he wanted to play a Chainer superhero, and he said, “No. Water Shaper.” And since almost nobody else wanted to do that, Lute got to be the Water Shaper lots and lots. And he got to be a Meister and an Adjuster and a Wright and even, once, a Brute. But the Brute was supposed to run really fast or pick someone else up to make the game work, and he wasn’t good enough at that to volunteer for a second round.


It didn’t matter. People liked him. Some of them even thought he was cool.


His helicopter was cool. His stories about living on a boat were cool. His passion for the harp…well, the teacher seemed to think it was cool. And everyone else thought it was interesting that he got pulled out of class three afternoons a week for special instruction with it.


“Is it going to be your job?” a girl asked. “Like an instrument Meister?”


“Yes,” said Lute. “I’m going to play all over the world.”


His plans for his future were developing every day, now that he was encountering so many questions about it. Almost nobody at home had ever mentioned Lute having a job, except for Aulia’s comment about how he could be second assistant. But in school, people talked about what they wanted to be when they grew up all the time.


Encouraged by the overwhelming amount of acceptance, curiosity, and friendliness he’d encountered from his fellow third graders, Lute Velra declared that he would be a famous musician. Like an instrument Meister. And even if he traveled the world, he would come back home every night to have supper with his mother.


The dream wasn’t so different from most of the other students’ goals. And when he finally revealed the secret truth Mrs. Yu had shared with him—the one he’d been careful never to let slip around his cousins so that they couldn’t find anything mean to say—it only made the dream sound even brighter.


“There’s a list!” he blurted out after a show-and-tell featuring his harp. He was standing in front of the classroom and fidgeting with the edge of his waistcoat. “Every nine years—not Earth years—the Artonan ranking board for large musical ensembles attends performances all over the Triplanets and the resource worlds. And they make a list of all the best ones.”


The Artonans loved to rank things. Everyone said so. Lute appreciated it in this case at least.


“To get them to visit your group, your planet has to nominate you. And then they come with Artonan experts and they meet with experts from your own species, and they study all kinds of things about the musicians. They even use magic to tell how much the audiences are enjoying the performances. After that, they make a list to let everyone know who the best musicians in the universe are. There were only four Earth groups in the top 27 last time…” He paused for effect. “None of them had an Avowed musician in them. Not even one.


“And two of the groups have beaten the Anesidoran Philharmonic every single time they’ve all been ranked. The All-Earth Symphony and the Vienna Philharmonic.”


Lute paused again, not intentionally this time. It was just so important to him…this one little fact.


“That means that the best musicians on Earth are ordinary humans. Like my parents and me. And I can be the best harpist in the world if I try hard enough. Even if I don’t have magic.”


He looked hopefully around the classroom. Most of the faces were a little uncertain. One boy, who Lute would later discover had a mother in the Anesidoran Philharmonic, seemed appalled.


“Hey! That’s neat!” said Haoyu Zhang-Demir from his desk at the front of the room. “If you become the best harpist in the world, I bet the Artonans might want to hear you play. You could get invited to other planets like we will.”


A few people were nodding.


“Yeah! He could do that.”


“If you’re the best on Earth, I bet they would summon you.”


“I don’t think it’s a summons if you’re not Avowed…?” someone said uncertainly. “Isn’t it just a visit, then?”


“It’s almost the same!”


“I want to buy a ryeh-b’t the first time I get summoned.”


“If Lute buys a ryeh-b’t, it could fly beside his helicopter.”


“He can go like us.”


“Just like us!”


Lute stood before them, feeling as though he might burst from pride and relief.


Third grade was wonderful.


It was such a shame they all had to grow up.


******


There were warning signs, but he didn’t want to see them.


Toward the end of fourth grade, games of superhero got more realistic. People wanted to talk about how classes actually worked. No more Brutes turning people into goldfish. No more Meisters who were also Adjusters in secret.


Then one day, Vandy Carisson said, “Let’s all pretend to be what we really want to be when we’re Avowed.”


Everyone agreed.


And then several pairs of eyes turned to Lute Velra and looked at him differently than they had mere moments before.


“It’s fine, Lute,” said a boy named Declan who he was particularly close to. “You can just be whatever.”


“Maybe you can be the person we’re saving today,” a girl added. “If we’re all going to pretend it’s really real.”


“Oh!” said Lute. “Okay. I don’t mind.”


He did. But minding wouldn’t change anything.


And they’re my friends.


Another pair of signs came that same year, in the form of new divisions in the grade.


One was unique to Lute. He noticed it because shifts in his relationships with any of his friends caused him terrible anxiety. If someone was angry with him, he would flip and flop in his bed all night, wondering what he’d done wrong and how to fix it.


But he couldn’t fix this one.


There had always been a few people who were not allowed to sleep over at any of Lute’s houses or come for visits.


It had never been a problem in third grade. When someone told Lute their parents didn’t want them visiting because of his family, he immediately thought, I understand completely. The cousins will talk in Artonan so we can’t understand them. Orpheus is always wandering around falling on top of people. Cady made me sit in the corner at the New Year party for no reason. And you never know when Hazel might be coming over.


Now that he’d met teachers, made friends, and been a guest at other peoples’ houses, he was more sure than ever that half of his relatives were completely horrible. And he had a lot of relatives, so half was a large number.


Lute didn’t consider someone disliking the other Velras to be a dealbreaker, so he’d gotten along with the children who weren’t allowed to attend sleepovers just fine. And they’d gotten along with him, too.


Everyone knew that grown-ups sometimes made inconvenient rules you had to follow, and there were no hard feelings on either side. Someone would say, Mom won’t let me visit you on your boat even though I told her everyone else was going and you were my fifth best friend!


And all the children would shake their heads, because, Parents, right?


What could you even do about people who didn’t acknowledge the importance of the bond between fifth best friends?


Slowly, that changed. The classmates who weren’t allowed to visit him at home also started drawing away from him in school. They whispered things to each other that they’d overheard their parents say about his grandmother. Or one of his other relatives. And instead of fifth best friends, they became…


“My mum says your grandmother bribed the Brute councilor to vote with her.”


“My dad says your Uncle Corin slept with his ex-wife.”


“My grandma says your grandma bought the rejuvenation slot out from under her, and that’s why she can’t have another baby until after 2039! So our families are enemies now.”


The Velra name isn’t taking care of me, Lute thought every time one of these accusations was leveled at him as if he were somehow personally responsible. It’s just stealing my friends.


The second division that happened, happened to everyone. All of a sudden, your parents’ rank seemed to matter a lot more than it ever had before.


Carlotta’s parents were a B-rank Brute and a C-rank Rabbit. She’d always been friends with Vandy Carrison. Then she wasn’t anymore.


Instead, she was hanging around Lute a lot. He was happy for himself but sorry for her.


“I said I’d go to high school with her when we both got selected! And we would share our room! And she said we couldn’t do that!”


Because you’re not going to be powerful enough to go to the same high school as Vandy, thought Lute.


This kind of thing was much less confusing to him than the sudden dislike because of his name. But it was far more worrying.


Because this…this was how the cousins were.


Everyone talking about rank all the time. And thinking about it. And knowing that at the very bottom of them all…


It won’t be like that. It won’t.


“Don’t worry about it,” said Declan Gao, leaning over to take one of the bonbons from the box on Lute’s desk. He’d bought them with his NesiCard. He’d been buying snacks to share with everyone more often lately. “Some people are acting like they’re going to get chosen tomorrow. Vandy might not even be an S-rank. She might not get to go to school in Apex. Anything can happen.”


Declan said not to worry about it, but he was getting really sensitive about rank, too. His mom was an A. And his Dad was a D. That made it very hard to guess what he might be.


Their class was starting to cluster up. High. Low. A couple like Declan who didn’t know where they belonged.


As the year ended and Lute cleaned out his desk to head home for the winter break, he was afraid he was on the verge of losing something. 


****** 


In fifth grade, they got several new students. Nilama Paragon Academy was expensive; parents who couldn’t really afford to send their children there sometimes chose to save up and wait until they were older so that they could take advantage of the middle school. Next year, when they moved out of the primary building, their class would more than double in size.


For now, it was just a few additions.


One of them was perky. He scurried around their new classroom, introducing himself to every single person, like he was on a mission to make sure he fit in as many handshakes as he could before morning announcements and meditation started. Lute saw him coming and had just enough time to hope this went well before they were face to face.


“Hi! I’m Kon. I live just a few blocks away from here. You can see this school from the roof of my building!”


“Which building does your family own?” Lute asked politely.


Kon’s eyes widened. “No. We don’t own a whole building. Just an apartment inside the building. My parents are ballet dancers and my brother’s in sixth grade. We moved schools together this year!”


Lute’s interest was piqued. “Ballet dancers?”


“I dance, too,” said Kon. “In the youth ballet.”


“Youth ballet! A youth orchestra plays for you when you do Nutcracker.”


Kon blinked.


“It’s not fair that the dancers can be so young but they won’t let you join youth orchestra until you’re twelve,” Lute said. “I wanted to audition.”


He was ready for his first audition but there weren’t a lot of opportunities. Getting to twelve was taking ages. And to make matters worse, The Nutcracker was always in December. Which meant Lute would be nearly thirteen before he could play in a proper orchestra at a proper ballet. He was sure there were other harpists getting ahead of him out there in the bigger world.


“Do you play an instrument?” Kon asked.


“All he can do is play harp,” the girl whose grandma was waiting on a baby because of Aulia called from across the room. “So he never shuts up about it.”


“Don’t be mean!” Tuyet said. “Let’s not be mean to each other.”


A boy snickered a little.


Carlotta and Declan were nearby. They…didn’t say anything.


Kon doesn’t know yet, thought Lute. For just a minute longer, he won’t know about me.


The matter suddenly felt urgent.


“It’s really nice to meet you!” Lute said quickly, holding out his hand. “I hope we can be friends. I brought snacks to share.”


Kon’s bright smile brightened further. “Yeah! Let’s be friends!”


By the end of the day, Konstantin was friends with everyone in the class, but Lute still considered it a success.


On the way to the helipad that afternoon, he ended up standing behind Kon and a taller boy who looked a lot like him while they waited to cross the street. It must have been the older brother. He was wearing one of the middle school blazers.


