Lute was about to say hello, when Kon suddenly piped up. “Guess what! There’s a boy in my class who’s not Avowed!”


“You’re ten,” said the brother. “Nobody in your class is Avowed.”


Kon groaned. “You know what I mean! He’s not going to be Avowed. His parents aren’t.”


“Seriously?” the brother asked in a surprised voice. “Well...it doesn’t matter in fifth grade. I’m sure his family will send him to another school next year.”


“Why?”


“The same reason we’re going to school here now, Kon. Paragon’s got so many high ranks in one spot. My classes are really different from last year. S and A kids are everywhere, instead of there being just a few of us in a mix of everyone else. We’re starting selection prep lessons earlier than they would in our old school. It’s nice for us, but it would make class really weird for him, wouldn’t it?”


“He’ll just hang out with the lows, right?”


The brother shrugged. “I’m not sure it works like that. The probable low-ranks in my grade seem kind of different than last year, too. Anyway, if he goes to a big school instead, there are bound to be a few other kids like him.”


Lute let them go ahead of him without ever speaking up.


There’s a boy in my class who’s not Avowed, he thought. Kon could’ve said anything. But he said that.


It wasn’t a shock. When Lute compared himself to other people, that was the first thing he always thought, too.


This afternoon it just hurt more than it had in a while. That was all.


There are other things about me. There are so many other things to say.


Fifth grade was the year he went silent.


It was natural, a reflex born of a thousand Velra holidays and parties. There was a family event nearly every week, sometimes more than one, and when Lute was forced to attend them because they were happening in his current residence—they almost always were—he was quiet.


If you were loud, people commented on you. If you protested when the cousins said something mean, then they realized they’d hurt you. They knew what to say next time.


He was getting too old to run and tell his mother or his grandmother. They would put a stop to it, but then he was a tattletale and even the cousins who hadn’t been bothering him would get mad. Strangely, over the holidays, he’d been accused more than once of thinking he was better than the rest of them…because he lived with Aulia.


Being quiet, he’d learned, would get you through three-quarters of all family events without incident. And being quiet was what he started doing at school, too.


He didn’t talk about his music. He didn’t talk about his things. He ignored thoughtless comments about what he wasn’t…so many of those.


At the same time, he couldn’t ignore the fact, anymore, that a few of his friends were only staying friendly because they liked his houses. In a school full of rich kids, he was the richest, and it was just a little too obvious that when he invited them over, they only wanted to spend time with his stuff, not with him. One of them even admitted that his parents had told him to be nice to Lute because of his family.


And then there was Declan Gao, who alternated between being Lute’s best friend on the weekends and being a jerk who didn’t want the high ranks to see him hanging out with Lute at school.


It wasn’t all terrible, though.


Fifth grade was the most exciting year for students at Paragon. They all looked forward to it for the same reason, and as the year end approached, even Lute had to start making noise, because you couldn’t bottle up so much pure eagerness without exploding.


At the end of fifth grade, when they were still young enough that most countries were happy to treat them like non-threats and just old enough that the adults didn’t think they’d be completely impossible to manage, the school arranged the trips.


Three weeks. Three whole weeks worth of days spent away from the island, in the rest of the world. They would travel to the TC every morning. And from there they would teleport, many of them for the first time ever, away to a new place on Earth. They would see rivers! Mountains! More than one barren desert which everyone agreed was really boring and unfortunate!


They were repeatedly reminded not to brag about this to any friends they might have in other schools, since this sort of thing was Very Impossible to implement on a nationwide scale.


Lute heard the teachers calling it “the annual madness.” And in the weeks leading up to it, their travel schedule changed almost daily, sending the class into cries of joy or dismay as they learned what the efforts of their parents, their school, and their government had wrought.


People got strange as the date of the trip approached.


Not Lute, though. He was totally sane about it.


“Do not betray me, Vienna,” he whispered, bowing his head over his desk each morning and holding his palms skyward in supplication. “Ich liebe dich, Österreich.”


“He’s praying to Austria again.”


“I think it’s more like he’s trying to cast a spell on it.”


“Oh, beautiful Zambezi, I have always wanted to see Victoria Falls! I promise not to jump in.”


“Now Everly’s talking to a river.”


“Maybe we should do it, too?”


“You think?”


“Istanbul did cancel our day there because the hero team said they were worried about protests. Haoyu’s really disappointed.”


“…Hello, Machu Pichu! Some of my ancestors were born in Peru.” 


****** 


He got to go to Austria.


The night before he left, hiding under his blankets at his father’s place, Lute stared at pictures on a realtor’s website on his phone. He picked out an apartment for himself there—a little loft with lots of sunshine near the metro.


He knew it probably wasn’t going to be for sale when he was finally old enough to emigrate, but it was still fun to imagine it. And to spot it from the street the next day when they were on a walking tour, surrounded by a fleet of guides and protectors impersonating guides.


He hid his passport band under his sleeve and pretended he was a local who’d just wandered into the middle of this group of future Avowed by accident. He did it anytime their trips took them to a city.


Here, he wasn’t the odd one out. Every person on the street, every soul in every building—they were like him.


For me, this is the real world, he decided. I’m not alone. I’m just waiting to get here.


He would convince his mom to come with him. There was no reason she couldn’t. 


****** 


Lute started sixth grade quiet. Safe. Ignorable.


He didn’t really have friends anymore. The last of them—the ones who he’d annoyed by trying a little too hard to keep…oh my god, you guys, Lute Velra is so clingy—had evaporated over the holidays. They were all joining clubs and doing extracurriculars now. Not the kind of clubs Lute could just insert himself into.


Wrightshop apprenticeships. Martial arts for future Meisters. BruteScouts. Heroes of the Future.


It wasn’t like he wouldn’t be allowed to participate. They couldn’t officially discriminate against him, and he was sure the adults would mostly force everyone to behave around him. But there was nothing quite like being the person in the room everyone was forced to be considerate of.


It just made them go from being a little mean to you to really hating you.


This is better, he thought from his spot at the back of the room. I just keep my head down. Be polite to everyone. Ask Mom if I can have a top-of-the-line concert harp for my birthday next week.


I can have it professionally painted. Purple would be fun.


Also, purple didn’t belong to anyone else.


Avowed classes didn’t officially have associated colors and symbology, but people liked to team up, so it was a thing in some settings. If you went into a Swayborhood, you’d see the gray flag with the Artonan symbol for the mind on it here and there. Brutes were red with the symbol for the body. Green for Meisters. Brown or light blue or both done in stripes for Shapers…they couldn’t seem to settle the matter.


It wasn’t something he’d ever thought much about, but the colors were all the rage now that they were in sixth grade. If someone wore a red bracelet or a green hairband, all of his classmates had decided it had to mean things. They were getting superstitious about it in ways that even Grandma Aulia would have found ridiculous, and she’d recently invited a cab driver to dinner with them because when she’d cast her last giant luck wordchain, before Lute was even born, the cabbie had picked her up twice in one night.


She was still checking in on him every year or so to see if she could figure out what the universe was trying to tell her about him.


“Mom, that’s weird, isn’t it?” Lute had whispered after she came to check on him and tuck him in that night.


“Most people think so,” Jessica said with a smile. “But Grandma doesn’t believe in letting things go once they’ve caught her eye.”


Anyway, sixth grade had hit Lute’s classmates with what he could only describe as System fever, and they were making the cab driver thing seem completely normal.


He looked up from his desk at the sound of a squeal from the opposite corner, and sure enough…


“Tuyet! Your earrings are green! Does that mean you want to be a Meister now?”


Soon all the Meister-hopefuls were welcoming her to the fold, like it was all set in stone, even though people were still changing their minds every day and nothing was guaranteed.


Lute had had to change the case on his cellphone from red to black so that people would stop asking if he wanted to be a Brute. It was “just a joke,” but none of them seemed to care that he didn’t think it was funny.


Dark purple. That would be a cool color for a harp.


And for his party this year…


He looked around the room. There were people who would come. Most people would probably come, if he made it an epic Velra bash. They didn’t all hate him, they just didn’t have anything in common with him now that they were getting older and starting to care about things he couldn’t be involved in.


No. I’ll do it like I used to. On the yacht, as long as Hazel wasn’t there. Her family liked to take it over these days. No kids. Just me, mom, Aimi if she’s free, the crew, and a cake.


He wouldn’t invite Aulia. It was her boat. She’d be there or she wouldn’t.


Lute couldn’t even remember the last time they’d played their fashion game.


When he asked his mother about the party, she promised to set it up. If not on the yacht, then at the midtown apartment. Then she added, “You’ll have to go to Hazel’s birthday party next month, remember.”


“I do?” Lute asked, not bothering to keep the horror out of his voice. “Why?”


They were sitting together in the White Parlor, eating burgers from a place they both liked but almost never visited. Lute pretended not to know why, but he did.


It was a crowded fast food restaurant in Apex. Full of high ranks. His mom didn’t like to go places like that with Lute, because the presence of the S-rank bodyguards didn’t make crowds of high ranks just a little nervous, the way it did down in F. If they weren’t a little nervous, they made comments sometimes.


Lute thought it would be all right. There was nothing so terrible they could say that he couldn’t ignore it. But she didn’t like it, so he never complained about reheated burgers and fries not being quite as good.


“Hazel wants me at her party?”


Hazel’s birthday parties had often swept him up when he was little. Now that they were older, he was delighted not to be invited. This year she had a set of teenage friend-ish people she had somehow obtained despite the fact that when she wasn’t off doing verrrry important things on the Triplanets with whoever it was the Chainer family members worked for, she was virtually always being tutored by their grandmother or someone else.


The wound left in Hazel’s pride from being forced to apologize to Lute after the whiff jokes had festered rather than healing. And he wasn’t really interested in forgiveness either. Avoidance was the only thing that kept peace in the household whenever she was around, and she was around so often that avoiding her meant Lute sometimes went days without showing his face to the people he lived with except at mealtimes.


“It’s her fourteenth birthday, Lute,” said Jessica.


“Does that mean something?”


Jessica smoothed the front of her skirt over her legs. “She’s having her Coming of Age party this year.”


Lute narrowed his eyes. “Ewwww.”


“Lute…”


“It’s a whole year early! This is just a plot so that she can have a second giant ball when she turns fifteen! I’m not wearing a tuxedo and learning a dance for her until she’s actually the right age!”


Jessica cleared her throat. “The theme she’s chosen is Royal Ascot. So you’ll wear a full morning suit and top hat. And there won’t be a dance.”


“What’s Royal Ascot?”


“It’s a horse race. In England.”


Lute considered that. 
 
“Horses…might make it okay.” He hadn’t had many opportunities to interact with horses. “Can I feed them?”


“It will be a series of Brute races. At the big track in F. Racehorses won’t last long enough to provide entertainment for the whole length of the party.” She paused. “You can offer the Brutes snacks if you like.”


“Mooom!”


Jessica grinned. “You can hold out carrots and sugar lumps for them—”


“Hazel will probably really do something like that,” Lute grumbled.


He was wrong.Stolen content alert: this content belongs on Royal Road. Report any occurrences.
 
What she did on the day of the party was so much worse.
 
**
