Chanchou frowned, as they found the pavilion overtop a small river, with three people in it… but one she instantly recognised. The woman playing the guzheng turned to regard them.

Her sister.

Who looked exactly the same as she had when she had left.

Her skin was smoother than Chanchou’s own daughter’s. Her hair looked like a waterfall of silk. Her dress was bright, vibrant, and full of stunningly perfect patterns, better than the finest of craftsmen in Pale Moon Lake City, and new.

The white streaks in her hair somehow only added to her elegance.

She was thin and beautiful. Not a wreck from toiling in peasants' fields of the north.

Chanchou glanced down, finding her own image in the water. The wrinkles. The pudge in the cheeks.

She felt boiling anger start to swim up from her soul. That… that was impossible—

“Ah, hello, Father,” Zei Qi’s gentle, elegant voice greeted them. “I see you got my message. My, my, such a fast response. Are you so eager to see your daughter again? Please come and sit down.”

She was mocking Father to his face, as she rose, placing the guzheng down without a single tremor in her hands. She moved to her own seat without a hitch, sitting beside the peasant… what was his name? Her husband. The peasant magistrate.

Father stared at Zei Qi with cold eyes. “You have guts, daughter, to dare threaten me, and then try and take refuge here. You have made a grave error.”

“Ah, have I?” Zei Qi asked innocently, tapping a plump red lip with her fan, before opening it to shield the bottom of her face. A lone cloud, high in the sky, stared back at them.

You are beneath me, her fan arrogantly proclaimed.

Father barked out a laugh at that.

“Your arrogance is amusing, daughter.”

Chanchou’s husband similarly snorted. “You dare call me a eunuch, and yet you let your wife do such outrageous things. You should show her the back of your hand,” he directed contemptuously at the peasant.

“Lord Wu lets his younger daughter do much worse things. Appointing my son to Special Inspector. Commanding the Auditor General into my domain. A gross breach of decorum,” the peasant Magistrate stated. His deep, rich voice was quiet, and yet the authority in it made Chanchou flinch. Her father and husband both twitched at the tone. “I would have been satisfied to never darken the doorsteps of your home again; I would have been content, a nobody in the north. But instead I have had to speak with the Lord Director of Civil Service Examinations for the Azure Hills. I came south prepared to do battle against the mighty Wu Clan for the grievous insults levied upon my family. It is only fitting that some of that insult is returned, no?”

His words were calm and soft, yet somehow they did not make Father angry. Instead, they broke through his wrath, and made him for the first time wary.

The Lord Director of Civil Examinations was not a name one threw around lightly.

Father’s teeth ground. “Those are the words of a man prepared to burn all his power.”

“Yes, they are. What person can call themselves a man if they are not prepared to make war against the world for the sake of their family? Shall we sit then, and discuss this like gentlemen?” came the riposte.

Father looked at the seat in front of the man.

Finally, he snorted.

“Very well. I shall listen to your barking, dog,” Father said with a sneer. “But to make threats against the Wu means you are courting death.”

“I am aware. And I am also aware the Wu clan is courting death. Really, now. The shipping guilds would be most upset if they were to learn about this,” the peasant magistrate said, pulling out a sheet of paper.

Father and her husband both froze. Both men looked at each other… and begrudgingly sat. Chanchou, her legs shaking, sat too. Her eyes kept flicking to her sister.

Zei Qi did not even spare her a glance.
