Maybe they really were planning to slap another urban island between the two one day and call it Mid City, as Konstantin had once joked. A half-moon shape, to stay in keeping with the theme.

Tires squealed, and Alden looked around.

He didn’t spot the source of that sound, but up ahead, Haoyu suddenly shouted and threw himself against the side of a minivan. Lexi yanked Kon out of the way as a southbound motortrike careened out of its lane and into theirs, taking advantage of gaps between stalled vehicles. Alden stopped, pressing himself to the trunk of a coupe just in case the trike rider did something else unexpected.

The person’s helmet had a glowing blue stripe that matched the lighted wheels. As they growled past, stinging drops of water flew off and spattered his poncho.

“I hope you hit a pothole and die!” Mehdi shouted loudly enough for his voice to carry over the wind. He was wearing the same knee-length black coat with the stylized bronze lion on the back that he’d worn to Kon’s party. It had looked pretty cool when they set off, the lightweight fabric whipping around him as he ran. Now he just looked soggy.

Motion from inside the car Alden was pressed against pulled his attention, and he realized a boy and girl were staring at him from the backseat. The youngest one waved an action figure at him and said something that was muffled by the glass. It sounded like he might’ve been speaking Russian.

The man driving the car leaned around to talk to the kids. Most people were leaving their cars now, but Alden had run past several occupied vehicles. He wondered if they were thinking that the jam would clear. Or if they were guessing that the bridge qualified as “high ground.” It had been built for boats to pass below it.

I’m glad Klein didn’t want to sit tight.

They were kilometers from shore in both directions, and the System was telling everyone to avoid seawater. If anything did happen to the bridge, there was nothing but seawater around them. Alden wanted to be close enough to Apex that he could swim the rest of the distance in rough waves, and he was guessing he couldn’t swim very far at all in those conditions.

So running it was.

Njeri and Maricel dashed up beside him and paused to see what he was staring at. The little boy waved his action figure at them, too.

“I haven’t seen any other children out here,” Maricel said. “Not ones much younger than us. He’s the same age as one of my brothers.”

This late at night, even on a weekend, most little kids would be at home in bed. The boy looked around five or six. The girl wasn’t much older.

“Should we offer to…?” Alden trailed off.

Oh my god, the chaos.

“Do you need help?” Maricel was calling through the back window.

If there’s a corruption incident here, what happens to the kids?

They weren’t Avowed. But most of them would be. And if affixation was something that protected vulnerable people from chaos...

The passenger window rolled down. “They will teleport soon! Very soon!” the driver said, motioning them all onwards with his arm. “Go! Go!”

The churning in Alden’s guts quieted at that. Relieved in more ways than one, he set off again.

The System’s moving the kids somewhere safe first.

The dad was just waiting with them until it happened. The System was functional. Everything was going to be fine.

******

Alden and his group had made it nearly half the distance when new System updates appeared.

[Disaster Update: Oceanic anomalies may occur in your location soon.

Evacuate watercraft. Move inland. Tsunami-like incursions of water remain possible. Analysis of likely outcomes is still underway.]

Before Alden could make any guesses about what all of that meant, he received the next notice.

[Teleportation Priority Assigned: 8m 59 s

Your priority may be adjusted. For your safety, you are advised to continue toward shelter.

Rejecting teleportation is not advised.]

YES!  thought Alden. Yes, yes, yes. The System is going to teleport my ass somewhere safe in eight minutes. I hope it drops me all the way back in Illinois.

He wasn’t the only person happy. There was a general clamor from his classmates and others on the bridge. A few whoops.

And at least one outraged shout of “An hour and eighteen minutes!?” from a guy standing in front of his car holding an umbrella.

That does seem really long.

The guy would definitely make it somewhere safe on his own two feet before then, right? As long as he actually moved them instead of standing around.

Does the System deprioritize you if you’re not making an effort?

It was an odd thought and it seemed unlikely, but just in case, Alden was going to keep moving forward effortfully.

Klein was coming toward him for one of his checks, running between cars and occasionally bounding over them.

“I’m good,” Alden called.

Usually that was all the instructor wanted to hear. He hadn’t stopped moving since they left the bus, but now he fell into step beside Alden, who suddenly had the bizarre impression that Klein was running in slow motion even though the two of them were going the same speed.

He’s been flying all over the place so much I forgot he could move slower.

“Are you all right to pick up the pace?” Klein asked.

“Yes.” Alden was running, but it was a very comfortable run.

“Our tail’s getting long here. Front group’s way ahead. I’m going to carry some people forward past the next group. You’ll be at the back for a couple of minutes with Dee. She’ll loan you the bike so you can catch up to us. Give it to Jupiter when you reach her. Dee will catch up on foot.”

“I’ll do it.”

He was relieved. He knew they were making okay time; they were passing a lot of the people who were traveling on foot in the same direction. But he still wanted off this bridge ASAP.

Ironically, I’ll probably be teleporting right as I reach the finish line.

He didn’t have a problem with that. He’d say goodbye to this place and hello to safety in whatever way happened first.

“Don’t worry about your teleport assignment,” said Klein.

“Okay.”

“Priorities are still being adjusted.”

I don’t want my priority to be adjusted if it’s going to go in the wrong direction.

“There’s a good chance we’ll make it to an appropriate location before the teleports come due. I know a couple of places,” said Klein. “I’ll reject mine if I need to. Nobody gets left alone.”

Something about that didn’t sound right. Before Alden could register what it was, the instructor was gone. He zipped by seconds later, plus one Jupiter who looked like she was being jostled a lot more than was comfortable.

I think he was being nice to me? Alden resisted the urge to yell at a woman on a moped who almost sideswiped him from behind. Telling me nobody got left alone. He thinks my timer is longer than his.

Is it? No, he also thinks we’ll be in a safe location before they finish counting down. No way are we getting off the bridge and to a chaos-resistant, flood-resistant shelter in eight minutes.

So my timer is shorter than his, then?

That made sense if the System was going with lower ranks first. But then why would Torsten Klein think it would be the other way around?

The Instructor raced back for Everly,  Njeri, then Maricel. When Dee pedaled up to give Alden the bicycle, he asked, “What’s your teleport timer?”

“It’s twenty-five minutes. Keeps changing a lot, doesn’t it? Don’t worry about it too much for now,” she said, dismounting.

She started to pass the bike to him, then stopped with one hand on the handlebar, looking toward the sea through a gap in the frozen southbound traffic. Her mascara was streaking the light brown skin of her cheeks, and the back of her wet shirt had a logo on it advertising the diner Alden had ordered the giant mound of hash browns and onions from last weekend.

He stared at his own timer. It hadn’t changed by a single second. It was ticking steadily down.

“Did you see…?” the Adjuster asked, frowning.

Alden looked away from the time to follow her gaze. There was another helicopter going over and a small shape, barely visible against the clouds, that might have been a person in flight.

“What?” he asked, raising his voice over the sound of the chopper blades and the wind.

“Never mind,” she said. “Let’s get you—”

The lights of one of the ships suddenly went out.

Alden couldn’t see the vessel the lights belonged to. It was too distant, and the dark beyond the shining Span was too impenetrable. But it might have been a yacht—something fun, probably, rather than a working ship. He’d been looking right at it because the lights were color-shifting through the rainbow and it stood out compared to the other things in that direction.

“Did you see a boat disappear?” Alden asked.

“Maybe they…had a power outage,” she said. “Let’s not stand around.”

Alden threw a leg over the bicycle. As his sneaker hit the ground on the other side, the bridge shuddered below his feet. It wasn’t a big shudder, but the bridge had been solid and immovable until just now.

His hands tightened on the bars. His heart rate, already fast, kicked into a new gear.

They both looked at each other.

“I don’t think that was a power outage,” said Alden.

The bridge shuddered again. The lights of another boat, a much smaller one speeding toward Apex, winked out.

I swear it just went down, but boats can’t sink that fast, can they?

“Ride!” shouted Dee. “Go!”

He took off. She took off. Around them, people who had been waiting in cars or opting for a more leisurely jogging pace than a bunch of high rank teens started to run, too.

A van door swung open right in front of Alden, and he almost lost control of the bicycle as he dodged around it.

Fuck, fuck, fuck I don’t want to fall into the Pacific with tons of rubble.

Was the bridge still shaking? He didn’t know. Maybe it would feel different on a bike.

The wind was in his ears. Someone was screaming in Chinese. There was a sharp crash from behind him that had to be a vehicle hitting another vehicle.

And then the water came.

It wasn’t a tsunami. It wasn’t even “tsunami-like.”

And the giant, Hollywood-style killer wave his asshole brain had been picturing was definitely nowhere to be seen.

Alden saw the magical phenomenon happening with his own eyes and failed to understand it until he was already at its mercy.

The ocean, bubbling and swirling in a way that looked otherworldly, crept over the concrete barriers that formed the sides of the bridge. It crawled across the lanes and spiraled up the columns of the lampposts. It was one inch deep, two inches, a foot in an instant. Alden managed to jump off the bicycle instead of falling, but there was nowhere to go.

He threw himself onto the hood of the nearest car, barely registering the fact that others were doing the same thing all around him.

And then the bridge dropped.

He shouted as the car disappeared from below him briefly, and then he was slamming down onto the hood again, staring up at the twinkling light of some brave drone or distant star as the water started behaving like water once more. It suddenly fell away from all the pillars that supported The Span with a mighty crash.

A mass of liquid released its grip on the lamp over Alden’s head. So much water had gathered up there in just a few heartbeats that when it fell on him it was more like a blow than a splash.

The bridge almost felt like it was swaying. Or maybe he was just disoriented. Who knew anymore?

He’d heard at least one loud crack split the night.

Am I falling? Are we sinking?

He felt like it took him forever to figure out that neither of those things was happening at this particular moment. According to his teleport timer, only seconds had passed.

[Disaster Update: Oceanic Anomalies - Confirmed]

I think that that doesn’t really cover what just happened, thought Alden. I think tsunami was a bad description too.

He slid off the car and splashed down into ankle deep water that was rushing down the pavement.

I think the ocean just tried to eat The Span.

*****
