Suddenly, Alden realized he’d been telling himself to do Peace of Mind “right away” almost since the sirens had started. Within seconds, he’d known he should. He’d just….

Scatterbrain.

Do the Peace of Mind no matter what. Right now. Get it done.

He stumbled away from the group toward the back of the bus for reasons that would only make sense to a panicky scatterbrain. Like, it wasn’t polite to start reciting your poetic Artonan in the middle of a group of people who were having a conversation. Mind your manners, Alden.

He rolled his eyes at himself and stopped at the last row of seats, facing the rain-glazed rear window. His hands were shaking. They mostly stopped when he started using them.

Dexterity. It had been made a part of his being. Alden’s hands were supposed to move well, and here they were, doing it for him.

The wordchain was so familiar.

Three months ago, I did this in the car with Kibby.

He’d been calmer three months ago, facing down almost certain death. After he’d survived this, he’d have to unpack the why of his mental state being worse right now than it had been back then.

Alden finished the chain. As the last syllable sounded, it felt like someone peeled the top layer off his panic and threw it away.

Thank you.

He suddenly remembered one of the boys in Engaging with the Unexpected asking why you would “sacrifice your edge” by using this chain.

That guy just doesn’t have enough edge. My edge is so sharp I have plenty to spare.

He hesitated, then started casting it again. It would probably double for him now, based on things Lute had said. Alden had performed the chain consecutively without paying it back during the car trip on Thegund. Trying to cast it when it was already active, for an increased effect, was a different thing. But it was a super healthy chain. He’d practiced it a lot, his form was perfect, and he was an Avowed.

To his relief, it worked. His edge dulled a little more.

Now the new one.

He wove his hands through the patterns for the chain he’d used earlier today. Mastery over his body would be extremely welcome. But when he reached the end, nothing happened.

I said it a lot faster than usual. Nerves. Was that the problem?

It was a much more powerful chain. Shorter snapback timeframe. Harder to cast. It was less familiar to him, and he was already holding debt for it. Maybe Alden just couldn’t call on it again with all those things working against him.

He dried sweaty palms on the front of his shirt. I’m tempted to go for a triple Peace of Mind.

He lowered his hands instead. He was calm enough to know that the urge was probably an overreaction. He wanted to be able to focus through his tension, not take it so far that he placidly let a giant wave carry him out to sea.

And I’m about in the right emotional place now.

The sirens were still making him anxious. He was afraid. But he was no longer so anxious and afraid that he couldn’t decide what to do.

Bag.

He strode back to his seat and grabbed his messenger bag. His finger brushed over the medallion on the clasp, and he felt the familiar authority prick of it identifying its owner.

Good bag.

He had two ponchos still in their packaging, a temper sphere, a carabiner, and a hundred feet of tightly coiled paracord. It was just the normal stuff he’d been playing around with during breaks lately. He didn’t even have the fancy survival cord he’d been using in gym today because he’d thought he was going to the mall to have fun, dammit, and he hadn’t swapped out his daily supplies for apocalypse supplies.

The apocalypse supplies were supposed to go in his apocalypse bag months from now, when he was due to be summoned. So that he could be a vastly over-prepared cocktail party waiter.

I thought I was too paranoid. Ha! Clearly, I’m not paranoid enough.

He also had his Artonan-made tablet, a stylus, a pack of origami paper, and one of those cookie dough protein bars—completely squashed because it was nasty and he’d just left it in the bottom of his bag to be abused.

And, finally, a pile of lavender sachets. He’d recently embarked on a plan to deposit his excess supply of the things in places where poor, lavenderless people might appreciate them. So that he could ditch them without feeling wasteful. If some of the classrooms and restrooms on campus suddenly smelled better than others was anyone going to mind?

He dug the sachets out and tossed them toward the back of the bus.

Not dying because I was weighed down by a few extra ounces of dried flowers.

He considered tossing other things, but he could think of uses for most of them so he didn’t.

Granted, he couldn’t think of many uses for them that would be relevant if he fell into the ocean. Maybe he could inflate a poncho and use it as a float or something.

The only other things he had were his clothes. Green plaid shirt, t-shirt underneath, a blinky checker in the front pocket of his jeans. He dug his hand into the pocket. Sure enough, his unknown Opposite was merrily chaining in response to his earlier chains.

Alden watched the Opposite stone glow for a second, then tucked it away again.

“Are you all right?”

The whispered question came from Haoyu. He’d separated from the others, who were…

Oh, okay. So that’s happening.

They were watching Klein, who was way out in front of them now. He was high above the traffic, clinging to one of the spell-created effects he used to rapidly shift his position sometimes when they were in the gym. The spells made invisible blocks that only he could touch. He could cast quite a few of them, but they didn’t last very long at all.

The Instructor had a high-powered flashlight in his free hand.

Alden’s memory for the fine details of the past few minutes wasn’t great, so he didn’t know if Klein had taken the light from the bus or grabbed it from a vehicle on the ground. He was flicking it on and off up there.

Morse code? We’re at that point.

“I’m fine,” Alden told Haoyu. “I wordchained myself into being something more like fine anyway. I guess you noticed? Are you…”

Are you all right?

Returning the question in this case seemed wrong. There were System notifications flashing in their eyes that said Haoyu’s dad was under attack.

“Will you entrust me with my bag?” he asked instead.

Haoyu nodded, but then he said, “That requirement makes your skill so much less useful. It’s strange. If you didn’t have someone else with you, you’d be helpless.”

He was still talking in a slightly off voice. Alden had the impression he’d lost a personal filter or three.

“I know.” He decided not to comment on the uncharacteristic bluntness of the comment. “I’ve thought about it a lot. What’s Klein doing?”

“We’re not sure.”

The answer came a second later, in the form of lights going up in the air ahead of them. A flare sizzled. A large beam flashed its own Morse code. An illusion of a traffic signal shone red. All of them were blurred by rain.

Alden looked out the back windows to see a string of similar communications flying into the air behind him. He didn’t understand all of them. Someone was in the air back there, just waving glow sticks with abandon.

But the bulk of the information was clear.

“Traffic’s stopped everywhere,” Maricel said into the quiet.

Klein was swinging down from his perch, heading back toward them.

Looks like we’ll be running, thought Alden.

******

The instructor returned to the bus with a tall young woman who was pushing a bicycle. Alden and most of the others met them on the pavement, their belongings already in hand.

“We have a plan,” Klein said, sounding unhappy about it. “This is Dee from our Uni program. Adjuster. Ranged blasting spells.”

“So useful right now.” Dee gave them all a wave.

“She’ll be accompanying us. We’re running. Finlay…” He stared at the speedster. Finlay looked a little wild-eyed. Everyone did. “Can you safely make your way on your own?”

Finlay’s head jerked up. “Yes?”

“You don’t have to.”

“No, I can! I can get myself back to campus or wherever the System tells me to go. No trouble.”

“You have to watch out for people being idiots. Moreso than usual,” Klein warned.

“I’ll be fine.”

“Then go. Straight to Apex. Don’t stop until you’re somewhere safe.”

“Yes!” Finlay met Alden’s eyes briefly. “Erm…good luck?”

“Good luck,” Alden said.

Everyone repeated it in voices showcasing a range of emotions from stiff with nerves to forcefully cheerful.

“See you back at school. Soon! Really soon,” Finlay said.

He took off.

“Stop turning around to look at us!” Klein bellowed after him. “Eyes in front of you!”

“Can I go?” Tuyet was gripping her bright yellow purse tightly. She kept her dart case in there. “One of my sisters lives on the Apex side with my nephews. She might need help. I’m not tired. I can make it.”

Klein glanced down at her shoes. She was wearing ballet flats. “Fine. If you have any trouble, just stop and wait for us. Now, for the rest of you, here’s what we’re going to do.”

He asked them to run in small groups.

“Not piled on top of each other. Just close enough together that if someone has a problem, you know it. Don’t leave your slowest group member so far behind you that you can’t reconnect with them.”

Other than that, they were supposed to run as fast as they safely could.

They set off with the uni student bringing up the rear on her bike, keeping in touch with Klein via an infogear phone. Once she’d pointed out that infogear was still allowing local calls and texts on a delay, Klein had asked to borrow a watch from Mehdi, who was the only person on the bus who had a piece of the Informant’s tech.

Then he’d kept it.

He made it sound like he was only going to hold it for a second. I don’t think he meant it to come across that way. But I bet Mehdi's annoyed.

The instructor was running ten times as much as everyone else, frequently leaping over unoccupied vehicles as he headed up and down the bridge, trying to monitor the progress and safety of all his students at once.

It made Alden wonder why they didn’t all run in more of a pack so that Klein could guard them better. His brain, still being a dick even under the influence of two Peace of Mind chains, supplied him with the opinion that it was to decrease the risk of a total wipeout. If the bridge crumbled beneath one small group, at least the rest of them would survive.

Then why don’t we all just run separately? he wondered.

So that when the demons come, you can fight them off together, said his brain.

Probably, the truth was something like that plus Klein trying to balance his own wishes to keep the whole class under his protection with a certain cold logic that said the faster kids shouldn’t be made to hold back for the sake of the slower ones in a dangerous situation.

The front group—Marsha, Ignacio, and Rebecca—were soon too far away for Alden to spot amidst all the stopped cars and other fleeing people. The second group—Haoyu, Lexi, Mehdi, and Kon—were far enough ahead that he thought it might be foolish for him to swap groups and catch up with them even though part of him was itching to do just that.

It happened, Boe. You were right. I want something to be ground, and it isn’t.

The bridge appeared to be made of nice groundish things Alden usually got along with well. Assuming it was really concrete and steel from Earth and not some similar materials from another world—always a possibility on Anesidora—he would’ve been able to run on it under most circumstances. But it was soaring over deep water, a marvel of engineering. Not so much as a blade of grass growing out of a crack.

Basically, The Span was too closely aligned with the object element for his movement trait to interact with it. He wondered if a really powerful Ground Shaper could still work with it.

Doesn’t matter. I can’t.

Alden was the fastest member of the back group, but he was still slow enough that if he sprinted to join the guys ahead of him, he’d be the one holding them back. So he was running with Maricel, Everly, Jupiter, and Njeri.

Jupiter had requested that the System use her foundational enhancement points to increase her sense of smell. Alden was going to have to ask her why she’d done a thing like that when they were all out of this.

They’d been running for about three minutes. The rain wasn’t heavy, but it was so windy on top of the bridge that his nose and cheeks were going numb. Or maybe that was from the cold. He was grateful for his ponchos.

One was still safely tucked in his entrusted bag in case he needed armor later. He was wearing the other to keep himself dry. His hood was back since it wouldn’t stay on while he ran, but the plastic was doing a good job of trapping body heat elsewhere.

He had no preservation active on anything at the moment. Since the trait wouldn’t work here on the bridge to speed him along, he was saving his magic. He didn’t know what he’d need to do with it for the rest of the night.

Resource management.

He was pissed that traffic had stopped the bus, but he was glad that the bridge wasn’t completely empty at the same time. This could’ve been an even creepier spot than it was at the moment. The ocean stretched out to either side of them. It was so dark out there, and Alden was so blinded by the bright street lamps that lined the bridge that he couldn’t really make out much.

Lights from boats and ships. A helicopter had flown over right after they started running. Apex glittered ahead of him.

Why did they build it so far from F?!

