That was when Amerys moved. She stopped hovering in the air and flitted across the sky. Trey looked up, as did Elena, and one of the Earthers pointed up.
“Superwoman.”
It was just a comment. Because that was what it looked like. They had seen Eldavin’s armor, which evoked another type of hero…but this was more primal than even seeing someone flying in magic armor.
This was just…Amerys. Arms spread, flying down, whipping across the sea and waves, turning, as if it were the easiest thing in the world, and flying down to the decks with a spray of water.
Even Trey, who didn’t like heights, felt an instinctive urge to do the same. Magic. Superpowers. If there was anything left to wonder at—
It was that.
Of course, instantly, someone had to ruin it.
“Superwoman doesn’t exist. It’s Supergirl.”
“She’s not a girl, idiot.”
“Well, then, Wonder Woman.”
“Wonder Woman has an invisible plane.”
“That’s even dumber. She can fly!”
“Only in the latest movies. Canonically—”
The best of them and the worst of them. Trey looked for the comic book expert as Amerys laughed. She came striding along the decks for three steps, then fell flat on her face.
It was a slow collapse. She lay on the ground as everyone stared at her and tried to inchworm forward. Then she floated up a bit and floated over, turning onto her side.
“My legs don’t work. Trey, Gazi—you stink.”
“Stop telling me that.”
The Gazer was already lathering up. Amerys chuckled, and Trey got a better sense of her now that she wasn’t a prisoner speaking to a possible enemy or conspirator. She was, well…casual.
On the meter of the Seven plus Orthenon, with Orthenon and Takhatres falling on the ‘prickly’ side with Gazi as perhaps more of a scary medium, Amerys was on the Mars and Flos side.
Unless you’d seen her fighting. That was a good way of describing it. Now that all had passed, she was like a stormcloud that had vented all its static. Relaxed…until the time came again to get intense.
She floated past Trey then came to a halt, slightly off the ground between the two. Her slightly glowing, electric eyes fixed on the two.
Trey and Gazi. And the Quarass and Rasea.
“I missed what it was like to fly. I almost broke down crying so many times in front of them—but that my captors were watching me every moment was why I didn’t. You know, they offered me freedom. I just had to sign in blood and great magic not to aid him.”
Gazi looked up.
“You held out well.”
Amerys smiled, a weary, relieved smile, and met Gazi’s central eye.
“One year. I said—one year. One year, and I’d break. I didn’t know if he’d make it there before now. He can get swept up in his wars. Trey Atwood, isn’t it? Not Troy Atlas.”
“Yes, Amerys…”
Trey tried to get up, but the Archmage lifted a hand.
“Rest. I owe you my freedom, Trey. You, Calac Crusland, you, Gazi, but we are bound by service and blood. The Quarass, too. I count my debts. Where is Calac Crusland?”
“Resting. The Quarass slipped something into his drink. He can mourn tomorrow.”
Amerys’ eyes shifted to the girl on deck.
“Ah, as cruel as ever. This one seems inclined to aid us, though?”
She looked at Gazi, and the half-Gazer shrugged.
“She broke you out.”
“And stole the Serkonian Lance. Not entirely altruistic. The Nagas will throw ten kinds of tantrums, and there will be repercussions. No doubt that was why she did it. Well, better a viper in hand than one we don’t see. Just so long as we have an antidote in the other hand.”
Amerys remarked lightly. She sighed.
“No politics. Maresar is dead.”
Gazi stopped washing herself. She looked up, and her slight smile vanished.
“Yes.”
Amerys closed her eyes.
“Poor Venith. I always thought he would die first. Maresar was so clever; she ran from every fight she knew she’d lose. But if it was him or her…so goes the [Bandit Lord of Changing Sands]. One of twelve. Rasea Zecrew! Did you lift a glass?”
She turned suddenly, and a pair of boots stopped as they strode along the deck. Trey saw a pointed grin—and sharp teeth on the Drowned Woman’s anglerfish side. A light shone from Rasea’s eye on that side, and the Human one glittered.
“Of course. I’d never not, though I did it in the moment. One of twelve passes. But we’ll roll out another keg, and I’ll lift the first glass with you if you’ll drink with me.”
“Alcohol. After so long. I’ll drink even your worst—but after that, some proper wine. Just a bit. I haven’t eaten for two thirds of a year! Aside from fingers and Trey’s snacks. Now I’m starting to feel hungry.”
Amerys licked her lips. She turned, floating over, then tried to levitate herself upwards and stand. She drifted forwards, stumbled—then hovered. Trey watched as Amerys figured out how to ‘walk’, like a puppet held up by invisible strings.
There was something graceful and eerie about it. Like the Archmage of Lightning was dancing. Rasea Zecrew watched her and then looked at Gazi.
“Will you join us, Pathseeker?”
“Give me a minute.”
Gazi was washing herself briskly. Rasea Zecrew looked at Trey.
“And you. Do I know you? You’re the lad who broke Amerys out yourself. Do you know me?”
“You’re the [Pirate] who attacked Flos at Medain.”
The [Pirate Captain] laughed and swept off her hat to give him a bow.
“No hard feelings, eh!”
“All the hard feelings.”
Gazi muttered. Rasea eyed her but gave one of her fearless grins.
“You wouldn’t hold it against me on my ship as a guest, would you, Lady Pathseeker? Why, we’d have to duel, then! And I don’t stab my guests…much.”
“Want me to put on my armor and find out?”
Gazi bared her teeth. Some of the [Pirates] oohed, but Amerys lifted a hand as she turned.
“Gazi. Don’t provoke her, Captain Rasea. She’s protective of our [King]. You rescued me, so he might offer you a drink rather than go for his sword.”
Rasea shrugged. She was turning when Amerys remarked.
“Besides, if you and Gazi quarreled, I’d have to sink this ship. And I don’t like incinerating my rescuers.”
Oho. The [Pirates] looked at Amerys in silence as the Archmage turned her head. A little spark flashed from one eye as she winked. Rasea held still—then she burst out laughing and hugged Amerys.
The Archmage…squeaked slightly at the huge hug.
“I love you. Archmage, there’s a place on my vessel for you if you ever quit this King of Destruction business. Hey, open up the best barrel for the three fiercest women on the sea!”
“And what will you have?”
Someone drifted over. Rasea Zecrew turned as the Quarass shanked her from behind. She took the cup meant for Rasea, and the [Pirate Captain] was met with howls of laughter from her crew. She took her hat off ruefully.
“Quarass of Germina, you wound me. ‘Course, it’s four. I thought a mite-sized ruler might not drink?”
“One glass for an occasion like this is acceptable. I have been [Bandit Lord] before. Raise a glass. And I’m a [Drunkard] with over a hundred levels in the class cumulatively. You do not understand my thirst.”
The Quarass sighed. She peered into the barrel and frowned up at them.
“…Is this a barrel of Fissivilian scotch?”
Rasea winked at her.
“Yep.”
“A barrel.”
“You don’t make kegs for [Pirates]. Or [Mages], as it turned out. We got a good haul. Alright, let’s get this right. First, to Maresar the [Bandit Lord]! Second, to breaking Amerys out of Wistram! Third, to raiding the Academy of [Mages]!”
Rasea scooped up a glass and fearlessly downed what had to be six shots in one go. Amerys took a shot-glass and lifted it before sipping. The Quarass hesitated with a similar portion to Rasea in hand and emptied all but a single shot before sighing and drinking it.
The [Pirates] cheered and went for drinks, and that was how Trey experienced their sailing away from Wistram. Without much in the way of regrets. Just relief.
It was done. If the same had passed and they had all failed and it had been for naught? He imagined that and shook his head.
“Freedom. I’ll fly to Reim as soon as we land. I could carry you with me, but we need passage for the Earthers. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is broken at Reim; we must make sure it stays that way. Liberate allies, like the Mad Ones…or the Monks of Sottheim.”
Amerys broke her vow of talking about the future shortly after the toast. She floated bites of sushi in front of her, nibbling at them—her stomach was shrunken from disuse, but she savored each bite—as Gazi did likewise. The Gazer blinked one amused eye at Amerys.
“Someone already got Sottheim.”
“Who?”
“The Empress of Tiqr. She is gathering more of our allies. She has Loquea Dree too, in a bid to retake her homeland.”
Amerys blinked. She tripped again as she lost concentration and went floating head-over-heels before she came to a stop in the air and turned.
“Wait, Tiqr fell? What else has happened while I’ve been out?”
Gazi thought about it as a mischievous grin came to her face.
“Do you remember the ruler of Jecrass? The current one, not the old [King].”
“Um…um…Raelt? Ordinary, fairly low-level [King], likes oranges or something? What, did Jecrass get wiped out? They leaked some of that to me.”
Amerys snapped her fingers. Gazi snorted.
“He challenged the King of Destruction when our lord was set to take Belchan’s capital—you won’t believe what happened next. We have a lot to tell you, Amerys.”
“And a lot to do. I want someone to trim my nails. I want to bathe. I…I need to walk through a forest and smell the air. And beat Nerrhavia into the ground.”
Amerys stretched. Trey watched her, worried, and had to say something.
“As long as you remember your promise.”
Gazi and Amerys looked at him, and Gazi blinked.
“What promise?”
She didn’t know. Amerys looked at her and then at Trey with great amusement.
“You mean, Gazi didn’t put you up to it? I thought of any of the Seven, she might have had a hand in it. I made a promise to Trey, Gazi. He told me to my face he wouldn’t free me if I refused.”
Gazi’s eyes widened as she looked at Amerys. The Archmage whispered in her ear, and the Gazer swung around to stare at Trey. He smiled, and Amerys nodded at him.
“I will keep it, Trey. Not just because I am a [Mage] of my word—but because I have agreed, in part.”
“You have?”
Trey and Gazi chorused. Amerys rolled her eyes. She had a glass of wine now, and floated it around her with the sushi. She reached for something.
“I’m so glad I raided my rooms before I got out. Hmm…ah, here.”
She placed something on her nose—a pair of spectacles—and produced a little book with a flourish. She floated it in front of her, and Trey’s suspicions were confirmed. For all her idiosyncrasies and penchant towards war…Amerys was still somewhat scholarly. Somewhat…
“I have a list, here. Of things I was going to say to Flos when he woke. Let me just add that in…there.”
The quill she floated scribbled, and, with a flourish, Amerys closed the book, let it float into her bag of holding, and looked at Gazi and Trey’s expressions. She scowled.
“What? I write things down. Not everyone has an eidetic memory or Skill for that. Nor am I turning into Valeterisa, who can remember what frog burped twenty-three years ago in a pond, but can’t remember to put on her robes some days!”
Offended, she floated back down to sit cross-legged in front of Trey and Gazi. She met the young man’s eyes, serious.
“It has always seemed to me that Chandrar was the only continent to export [Slaves] in great number. In that sense—we provided a supply to a demand that might have cropped up elsewhere. And for that, other continents have mocked us. Because we trade in lives. Ransoming prisoners has fueled Flos’ victories in war, and my sympathies never went beyond that. I disliked Roshal as most of Wistram does; spending months in chains has changed my perspective. You have my word.”
Gazi exhaled slowly. She looked at Amerys, almost angrily.
“Years we argued. Queravia and I. Tottenval too, but Drevish wouldn’t commit, and the others…”
“Of course he wouldn’t. He needed Djinni for his grand designs, and he studied in Merreid. Well, Trey has convinced me. It will not be easy, you know. Nor simple.”
The [Bloodglass Mage] sat up. Elena had edged over, and the Quarass was calmly listening in with some of the [Pirates] on their conversation. Rasea wasn’t even trying to pretend, but making one of her crew take down their entire conversation, grinning all the while. He didn’t care. His attention was on Amerys.
“I know that. But you…will do your best?”
Amerys nodded.
“I have said it. But we must be ready. After all—when he changes his mind, they will stand against him. And Roshal? Roshal has all of Wistram’s might—and they all fight like Ullsinoi when their backs are against a wall. They might be the greatest foe of his return, Nerrhavia’s Fallen be damned. But once we gather, Gazi, I, Orthenon, Takhatres, Mars, and…Drevish…no. He won’t be joining us, will he?”
Amerys trailed off. Gazi hesitated. She looked at Amerys, and her features changed as she realized the last thing that Amerys didn’t know. She closed her eyes a second.
“Second-greatest, Amerys. There is one last thing you need to know. Come. Let us go for a walk. I must tell you how he died. And who did it.”
Amerys looked at Gazi. The Archmage stopped smiling. She rose.
“They’re still alive?”
“Yes. Come.”
The Gazer lifted her arm, and Amerys leaned against her. The Archmage looked at the Gazer, and, leaning on her for support, the two went for a walk. They traveled off the decks of the Illuminary and began to walk across the air and dark sea, fearless of what might lie below.
Talking.
“Now there is a magic I’d pay for. An Archmage unchained.”
Rasea Zecrew followed them with her eyes, and Trey couldn’t help but nod. He looked at Elena. The young woman came to sit next to him. She looked at Trey, the scar on his neck, the Quarass—the freed Archmage and Gazi.
She didn’t say anything for a while, just sat. She asked him one question.
“Trey. Was it worth it?”
He looked after Amerys and sighed. But Trey didn’t hesitate.
“Yes.”
 
——
 
Was it worth it?
Not Amerys’ breakout, but the whole of it. After the battle was over, and the army of Nerrhavia’s Fallen surrendered, at last, the King of Destruction came out of his palace.
He had been there throughout the battle, save for the one time he had emerged to throw the javelin. Not in fear or expectation of the end, as it turned out. He had known about the Quarass’ troops.
Rather, he had not shown himself because he’d been…hiding.
Hiding in shame.
