What a strange offer. Yet Niers was their Erin, and Numbtongue realized—they were Niers’ Goblins. That was how he rationalized the moment, because the way they reacted couldn’t make sense to him otherwise.
Merrik just laughed and rubbed at his hair. Peki was nodding instantly, and Wil hesitated, looking around before giving Niers a slight nod.
“If we can ask questions, I could see that, Professor.”
It was only that stupid Minotaur who obstinately folded his arms. His glare was boring a hole in Numbtongue’s head, so the [Bard] glared back.
“Professor. The Goblins.”
“Bird. Hand me my crossbow.”
Niers began to aim it at Venaz’s chest, but the Minotaur raised his voice.
“Professor! I am not being merely bigoted or intolerant of other species! I see the Antinium and Goblins here and both are exceptionally dangerous species who have attempted to or wiped out nations! I am a son of the House of Minos, and we fight Goblins!”
At this, Numbtongue couldn’t hold his tongue any more. The [Bard] rolled his eyes.
“Hah. Everyone fights Goblins. Big deal.”
Venaz turned, snorting, to glare at him, as the Goblins all laughed. However, two Goblins didn’t immediately laugh. Shaik gave Venaz a long stare, and, sitting quietly and trying to pick up some of the snacks…Pyrite’s ghost glanced up.
Careful. You might be wrong.
Numbtongue and Shaik looked at Pyrite, as the ghost of the Goldstone Chieftain glanced at Venaz. The Minotaur [Strategist] looked at Numbtongue and then away.
“I don’t answer to you, Goblin.”
“You challenged Numbtongue—that’s his name, by the way, Venaz—and Badarrow to a fight. I was already going to upbraid you for your fistfight, Venaz. Do I have to do it twice?”
“I noticed this wasn’t a true battle, Professor. I respect whomever that red Antinium is. Are you going to tell me I wasn’t right to engage a warrior with a magic blade at the onset of the battle, knowing how dangerous they could be?”
Niers blew out his cheeks, visibly annoyed.
“So taking on two Hobs by yourself isn’t bravado, Diamond Sword of Serept or not?”
“I had confidence I could win. They’re only Hobs, and the Goblins on Izril are known to be inferior to the ones Minos faces. But I object to working with either.”
Every Goblin in the room stopped chortling at Venaz’s expense. Slowly, the three Redfang’s eyes narrowed.
Niers? He glanced at Numbtongue’s expression with raised brows.
“Bold claim for you to make. I didn’t see you exactly wiping them out.”
Venaz shifted. He gave Numbtongue a grudging look, and Badarrow the same.
“They’re…more proficient than I expected. Almost as good as a regular warrior of Minos, Professor. So I underestimated them. I recant that, but not my comments about Goblins in general.”
“You think you know good Goblins? Hold still. I’ll cast [Lava Orb].”
Ulvama glared. Her claws glowed dangerously, but Niers waved her down.
“Venaz isn’t wrong. Listen, Venaz. I’m losing my temper, and you’re being obstinate. Before I shoot you, explain your comments. I know what you mean, but the rest of the world doesn’t actually follow the House of Minos’ every move with fascination. They have no idea about the Island of Goblins.”
Numbtongue’s ears perked up. Reiss, Pyrite, Shaik—even Snapjaw and Ulvama—all turned with a sudden, true interest. Venaz hesitated.
“Surely…?”
He looked around. Wil, Peki, Merrik—some of his fellow students were frowning but with faint recognition. Berr raised his paw.
“I know what he means, yes? But I’m old.”
Niers raised his brows. Venaz looked the most shocked since the entire conversation began.
“But they’re—no one? There is a reason Minotaurs, wherever they travel, will sometimes take on contracts to battle Goblins for no cost. We’ve fought them since the House of Minos was incepted! No one remembers?”
He looked outraged. Niers sighed.
“Leaders of nations are aware, and people who travel the sea. Venaz, the truth is that Minos is quite adept at keeping them contained, if not eliminating them so no one worries. Unlike Rhir, who attracts our attention by virtue of being in danger of losing their war rather constantly. Explain.”
“Yes. Explain. You’re not that good, Minotaur. I know one more dangerous.”
Venaz turned and peered at Numbtongue for the first time like a person, rather than an intelligent monster. He hesitated.
“Who would that be?”
Numbtongue shut his mouth. Niers looked amused, and Venaz ground his teeth.
“Your name is Numbtongue. I can hear. You’re not the most dangerous Goblin I’ve ever seen either. Not by far.”
The [Bard]’s eyes narrowed.
“I know I’m not. I know a Minotaur called Calruz of Hammerad. Strong Minotaur. Honorable…sort of.”
The [Strategist] of the House of Minos blinked.
“Calruz of—is he consorting with Goblins as well as dishonoring all of us?”
Numbtongue snorted. Niers’ finger twitched on his crossbow’s trigger.
“Venaz…”
“Professor! He surely knows—alright. Alright!”
Venaz took a deep breath. He looked around the room at Shaik, her bodyguards, the other Hobs, and eyed the Cave Goblins. He pointed at Rasktooth.
“Huh. A species variant. Unusual.”
Rasktooth pointed at his chest with a thumb claw then at Venaz.
“Me unusual? You unusual!”
The other Goblins went oooh and backslapped him. Venaz peered past Rasktooth at Gothica with a huge frown.
“Odd class.”
“Stick sword up bum.”
Gothica made an expressive gesture with both claws. Fierre patted her on the shoulder with approval. The Goblins didn’t lack for sass, but Venaz didn’t seem surprised they could talk or had classes, like Wil was. He was on a different level of surprise. He knew Goblins.
“Hobs, regular Goblins, and one [Shaman]. If I am dismissive and thought I could take any Goblin tribe, it isn’t because I’m a fool. Rather—I understand Goblins move the world over. Occasionally Goblin Kings arise, but the Goblins of Izril are rated as fairly unlikely to require intervention—especially with their Goblin Lord dead—by the House of Minos’ strategists. And we do watch them. I’m surprised by their martial prowess, but now I recognize Redfang, which were a named tribe.”
Badarrow and Numbtongue blinked, and Dirtmouth’s mouth opened as she chewed some clay for variety. A Minotaur kingdom knew of their tribe? She blushed, putting her hands to her cheeks. They’d made it!
“Why are we not strong?”
Venaz shrugged in answer to Badarrow’s question.
“Individual Goblins? We had a Tremborag listed, as well as a high-level [Witch] and one of your Great Chieftains in the north. In the south…”
He counted briefly on his fingers.
“…about the same number of Goblins, Chieftains or otherwise, we were uncertain of. I’m sure these Redfangs might be skilled warriors, and you were…good. What’s your name?”
“Badarrow.”
Venaz grunted.
“Hm. That’s not traditional Goblin naming. Nor does the House of Minos underestimate your intelligence or ability to adapt. It’s just…in all of Izril, you have one singular Goblin Chieftain confirmed as being one of the Great Goblin subtypes. A Fomirelin, as you call yourselves. He has as many as, what, ten of his kind in his tribe?”
The Redfangs and other Goblins stirred. Rasktooth frowned around.
“What that?”
Ulvama was watching Venaz like a hawk. Even Niers was rubbing his chin with interest, though he knew the term. Venaz snorted softly.
“You don’t even know. A giant Hob—massive, far taller than normal. Unto half-Giants as to regular Humans, I suppose. With more abilities than just that. Most of you don’t know what I’m talking about. That’s a Fomirelin. Your most dangerous tribe in all of Izril has ten. When the Goblins of their damned floating isle clash with the House of Minos every year, we have seen two dozen in battles regularly. A Goblin Lord haunts that isle, and it is the reason the House of Minos must fight to deplete their numbers. No force has ever taken that isle, but we keep them contained.”
Numbtongue’s jaw dropped. Pyrite had gotten up and was peering at Venaz. He looked at Numbtongue and nodded.
The isle of Goblins. Greydath had told Pyrite about it, once. A Goblin King’s legacy.
“Fomirelins? Great Goblins? An island? Is this true, Professor?”
Wil turned to Niers and the Titan shrugged.
“The House of Minos clashes with them once a year. A bloody affair. The island floats, you see, and it has strong magical protections. The Minotaurs have always laid claim that they keep the Goblins more or less contained by way of attrition, or else the Goblins would send out groups to lead other tribes—which they do, despite the Minotaurs’ best efforts. I have often wondered, though…who is containing who?”
Venaz’s look of satisfaction as he surveyed the room turned to one of astonishment as he glanced at the Titan. Niers met the gaze calmly, and Numbtongue remembered the powerful army of Minotaurs who had beaten the King of Destruction.
There were Goblins who could fight them? Who had their own island?
A city. Reiss was whispering it, but Venaz just folded his arms once more.
“I am sworn to prevent another Goblin King occuring, Lord Astoragon.”
“And you think I’m not? Venaz, you pig-headed idiot, I knew the Goblin King! I spoke with him! Who regrets Velan the Kind more? Me or you?”
Niers roared, and the Minotaur looked embarrassed. Everyone turned to Niers, and Ulvama gasped.
“You spoke with the Goblin King?”
The tiny Fraerling stood, the focus of so many crimson Goblin stares, and looked past them all. His right hand twitched.
“I shook his hand. I counted myself as his tribe’s ally, and I thought he would be the Goblin Lord to make a better way for their people. Then he went mad, butchered his allies, my people—and fled. I tracked him down to Izril, and I swore never again to ally with Goblins. So here we are.”
He gazed at Numbtongue, and the Hob saw the Titan’s weary gaze narrow.
“Goblins and Antinium and more. Venaz, they won’t become Goblin Kings from this, and these ones…have done nothing wrong but defend children. Enough. Walk off or help me, and learn something about Goblins that you can take back to the Minotaur King. If you want to know whether it was right or wrong, go back to her once this is over. But I have met her too, and she respects honor. Go back and tell her you didn’t fight against child-killing monsters and a war of aggression from Drakes because you couldn’t stand with Goblins when the time came.”
Venaz jerked in outrage—then slowed as he and the Professor came face-to-face. A tiny man on a pedestal, clothes blowing as Venaz snorted. The Minotaur looked at Niers, then at the Goblins.
“I will report everything I see, Professor. This is larger than you or I.”
The Titan never moved. The [Grandmaster Strategist] looked Venaz right in the eye, then slowly turned his head. To look at Numbtongue, Snapjaw, Ulvama, and the others.
“Yes. Before I die—I want to know the secret of the Goblin Kings. Are you with me, Venaz?”
The Minotaur took a long moment. Then he saluted.
“Lead on, Professor.”
 
——
 
And there it was. The Fellowship of the Inn grew, by a Gnoll tribe, some mercenaries…and four [Strategists]. Venaz stepped backwards as Niers began to redistribute their organization, inquire about supplies, locations of other tribes, and he interrupted less…but he still interrupted.
Numbtongue didn’t like him. However, he was gratified not to have shed more blood, and the students looked at the Antinium, Goblins, and introduced themselves afterwards.
“I am Peki. You are a [Martial Artist].”
“Y-yes. But only a bit. I mean, I learned a few punches and kicks, but I didn’t have a teacher, not really. My friend, the one who—she left.”
Garia was so flustered she tripped over her words. Peki stared at her, then at Touma the Great.
“You…are a [Martial Artist]?”
He clasped his hands together, all four, in that fist-into-palm greeting, and Peki’s eyes widened. She put a wing arm on Garia’s shoulder.
“You move bad.”
“I know, I—”
“You need training. You fight with me. We train. You too.”
She pointed at Touma the Great, who looked at the [Martial Artist] from Pomle with surprise. Peki looked around.
“And you, whatever you are.”
“I’m Human.”
Fierre hissed, looking around warily. Peki raised her brows.
“Uh huh. You all train. You all level. We will be the best warriors and you will be with me.”
She patted them happily on the arms, then went to show them how to fight. She didn’t have a way with words, perhaps because she had learned how to do a high-kick before she learned how to speak.
Merrik, on the other hand, was shaking hands with Gna, who was bowing to Honored Berr.
“Liscor’s army? Didn’t we fight you one time? Well, a few dozen times, but you’d remember the last one…”
The Gnoll was rubbing at his chin as some awed Goblins surrounded him. A careful Goblin poked him, and the Gnoll looked down.
“Hm?”
“You. You big Gnoll in fight.”
A timid Goblin asked. She was a regular Goblin, one of the Fellowship. Berr grinned.
“I am a [Berserker], yes? I get bigger when I get angry. And I only get truly angry when it matters.”
She opened her mouth.
“You get big when you get angry? And strong?”
Berr nodded. The Goblin looked around.
“You get strong the more angry you get?”
He nodded one more time, eyes twinkling brown. The Goblin grabbed his legs.
“Teach me!”
If ever there were a class for a Goblin, surely it was that! Berr looked highly amused, and Merrik glanced back over just in time to see a giant, invisible bug staring at him.
“Hard skin.”
Xeu poked Merrik and scuttled back. He eyed her.
“What are you?”
“Xeu.”
“Er…well, put it here.”
The Dwarf took off a gauntlet and held out a hand. Xeu tried to offer a scythe-arm, and Merrik drew the hand back quickly.
“I can do this better, Xeu. Watch. Salutations, sir. I am Pivr, who will not despoil your lands, ravish your women, or steal your purse.”
Pivr brushed her aside and held out a foreleg. Normen and Alcaz sighed as Merrik hesitated again. They came over to help their wayward friend as Apista buzzed by.
Wil kept staring at the bee, but he looked up as a Hob approached and stared at Numbtongue.
“Er…hello?”
The [Lord] was actually more ill-at-ease than Venaz given Terandria’s customs. Numbtongue nodded.
“Hello. I’m Numbtongue. You’re Wil Kallinad. A [Lord] from Terandria.”
“You know who I am?”
“I watched you. On the scrying orb. Very entertaining. Nice sword.”
Numbtongue gestured at the Diamond Mirrorblade. Wil started.
“Er…thank you.”
