He was still bandaged from head to foot, burned beyond healing. He should not have been on his feet, but he walked nonetheless, surrounded by [Healers] and bodyguards.
To see Maresar.
Venith knelt in front of her. He had folded her arms, but then retreated to sit two dozen paces away. Because he had to.
Her body was partly charred from fire, and the arrow had done terrible damage where it struck her on the side. The [Bandit Lord] looked like she was resting bitterly, but almost peacefully.
Venith Crusland sat away from her, staring at her. When he looked at the King of Destruction, two cores of broken metal seemed to pierce outwards—not just at Flos, but everything.
He sat in a cone fifteen feet wide of…destruction. The ground was torn up, the stones cracked. Everyone walked wide of him.
Wrath. It had snapped arrows, torn flesh, and it continued. An aura unchained.
Flos Reimarch said nothing. He just knelt too, his bandages bleeding red. 
Maresar.
How many more? How much longer, and for what?
Venith didn’t say it out loud. Nor did the young woman, weeping, her wounds bandaged. Teresa Atwood looked at Maresar and saw only her, the one casualty in this war.
 
——
 
Nawalishifra shouldn’t have been alive, but she was. She wandered among a charnel house of the dead.
Burnt corpses. The Quarass of Germina had struck terror into Nerrhavia’s Fallen at the end of the battle, with one of the many ways she knew how. Fire. Fire and ash.
It made it less bloody. Almost less gruesome because she found only ash; Stitch-folk had burnt away, cloth and all.
Nawal was sick. Sick at heart. Sick with guilt. Lady Maresar, a living legend, was dead. Her husband had sacrificed a blade to free Nawal of her debts.
Even when I tried to die, I couldn’t make amends. Nawal did not know what would happen next. She had seen the King of Destruction come down from his palace, but he had no eyes for her. She had been forgiven by Venith.
She was Nawal…
Nawal…
Just Nawalishifra. No longer of Clan Tannousin.
It was not that Venith had the power to take away her ties of blood and home. He did not have the class or authority over her.
He had simply told her what she’d known, deep down. The day they had abandoned her, let her cast herself on his wrath…
She was no longer Nawalishifra Tannousin. Now, she was Nawal.
Free.
Freedom was a terrible thing. She didn’t have anything left. No pride, no belief in herself. Only her hammer to offer, and she had sullied the thing lying in the blood. Nawal had cast it down, and she would never pick it up again. Not after what she’d done.
The [Smith] looked around and saw at least one group of people were happy, even exuberant. Reim’s people were exhausted, mourning Maresar, but hard at work.
Stripping Nerrhavia’s Grand Army. [Soldiers] by the thousand were removing their gear, placing it down, filing past the warriors to stand or eat what was given to them. Silk, Cotton…the Hemp-caste looked darkly pleased as the Silk-warriors protested and were offered a choice to strip or be stripped.
They outnumbered Reim’s forces, still. But the fight was out of them. Not just because they had lost their command—but because of them.
Germina’s people. The [Assassins] and warriors of Ger were surrounding a figure, two figures, and cheering them.
“The Quarass lives! The Quarass triumphant!”
“Ger shelters her! She shelters us!”
Khalid, the Quarass’ [Champion], and Vaitsha, her [Highborn], transformed by poison into someone whose very touch was deadly, were surrounded by Germina’s people, who were cheering some great victory the Quarass had apparently won.
No one got near Vaitsha, but Khalid, who had posed as the Quarass, had led them into battle.
A great victory.
It was. Nawal was no military mind, but she saw it. Nerrhavia’s Hordes had brought their best weaponry to Reim. Enchanted weapons, potions, scrolls—even what some of Reim’s warriors were calling a ‘hwacha’, a mighty weapon of war.
Now, all of it was Reim’s, and they had truly captured the armory to forge the King of Destruction’s armies anew.
Will I make blades for him? More blades? Am I needed? Where do I go?
Nawal had no answer. Only the sense of being alive when she felt she should have died.
She wanted to live. That was what the [Smith] realized. She looked around at the bodies littering the ground. The broken walls of the city. Exhausted faces. The [Smith] felt tears running down her bloody cheeks.
She was alive. Nawal sank to her knees.
Alive. Dishonored, class lost, clan gone. She closed her eyes.
“I picked up my hammer and forged the blade of my end. I looked into my heart and saw it reap a hundred lives. I made a blade as rare as Naq-Alrama steel, and I have made the Jewel-Metal of Zeikhal. I have forged the swords that command that highest price in the world.”
She plucked her veil from her face and let the dirty piece of fabric fall.
“It was not enough. I need something more. There has to be something more than that. Than blood and filth. Something more than a sword.”
The [Peerless Magic Smith] had turned into a [Fallen Smith].
Now she was simply a…[Forgiven Magic Smith]. She looked back towards Venith, Reim, and then at the battlefield and what lay beyond it. So many dead bodies.
A sword would only have added to that carnage. A weight in death. That was no legacy. Even Naq-Alrama blades broke.
“All I did was give another weapon to this slaughter. This meaningless…a woman died. A brave woman. Tens of thousands of men and women died in fire and agony for a war, and I forged a blade out of their suffering and death.”
Nawalishifra wiped at her face and stared at the blood and tears there. She raised her head.
“Until I find something better. Until I find a meaning or metal worth putting an edge towards, for strife or something that matters more…I, Nawalishifra of Chandrar, will forge no more blades. There must be something more to my class than this.”
She lowered her head to the ground for a while. Then she rose. To eat and survive. And find a reason why she had lived.
 
[Vow of the Bladeless Smith declared.]
 
Nawal lived. They buried Maresar. And time rolled on, as word spread.
 
——
 
Time was a funny thing. So many things were happening so fast that they overlapped, or seemed to happen all at once.
For instance, Grand Magus Eldavin’s dramatic entry into the Ailendamus conflict with the Dawn Concordat seemed to come moments before news that Rasea Zecrew, Gazi Pathseeker, the Quarass of Ger, and the Golems led by Cognita had sacked the Academy of [Mages] and liberated Amerys.
Which was because it had been within four days of the events happening. Which was bad news for Ailendamus, because Tyrion Veltras had made landfall on Terandria two days before Eldavin’s announcement.
Also? Concurrent-ish with the Wistram drama—which was also highly inaccurate, by the way, because it missed a lot of the actual details going on—rumor had the Horns of Hammerad all appearing in the news for one reason or the other, although obviously they were far less important.
Save for the fact that Nerrhavia’s Fallen had moved an entire Grand Army just for one of their number.
Oh—and if you were counting timelines, this was all set against the backdrop of the Meeting of Tribes, which was ongoing, had been ongoing, and was now clashing with Drake armies.
Why did this matter? It didn’t. Not at all.
“And more than you can know. This isn’t random; someone was watching Eldavin for when he left to make their move. The same with Eldavin declaring war on Ailendamus merely two days after House Veltras established a beachhead.”
Niers Astoragon was someone who made timelines. The [Strategist] was plotting out dates and events and swatting at falling debris landing around him. He eventually looked up and cursed.
“Would you stop eating that? Or learn to chew with your mouth closed!”
His audience looked at each other, and all of them checked their snacks of rather crumbly sevi-crumbs. A Gnoll favorite that didn’t have anything to do with meat; it was a sweet flatbread made even more sweet and mixed into a bar with fruits and honey, a delightful snack.
It also meant that crumbs kept falling on Niers, and some were half as large as his head. Bird nibbled his; he was the messiest eater since mandibles did not make crumbly food less messy.
“Tyrion Veltras and Eldavin know each other. Or they’re after something. But what? Neither one’s an idiot from what I’ve observed.”
Numbtongue raised his brows.
“Tyrion Veltras isn’t an idiot?”
Niers snorted and pointed a finger at him.
“I like you, Numbtongue. Keep it up, and you’ll earn your [Sarcasm Bard] class. But let’s be honest. Yes, the man’s like a stubborn stone welded to a bull’s head, but he’s one of the world’s most competent [Battle Lords].”
“My what?”
The Hobgoblin blinked slightly uneasily at Niers. That was the thing about the Fraerling. From anyone else, it was a joke. From Niers?
Well, that was why it was so funny. The Fraerling glanced up and kept writing. It looked less like a series of lines…like a timeline…and more like a strange spiderweb of connected lines.
He saw the lines. No one else did, but they watched.
Rather like an audience watching something odd or marvelous. Like a blue rabbit that did backflips and cast Tier 2 spells, but more interesting.
“Don’t you all have anything better to do? This cannot be interesting.”
The Titan of Baleros looked up after a minute of writing. His audience glanced at each other.
They were riding along on a wagon as the Fraerling occupied a pedestal to let him see and be seen and not be squashed. Not that this was a wagon used for supplies anymore.
A Tribe was on the move. Multiple tribes, in fact. Not just the Lomost Tribe, or the other Gnoll tribes who’d joined them. Day by day, they were increasing in number.
Gnoll tribes versus Drake armies. Or, to be more accurate, Gnoll tribes fleeing Drake armies who were on the offensive. They were vulnerable, especially given that the highest-leveled Gnolls in most tribes were at the Meeting of Tribes.
Disastrous, another time. This would mean war. Since it already looked like it thanks to the revelations coming out of the Meeting of Tribes—the Drakes had jump-started their side of things.
And they would have gotten away with it too if it weren’t for that meddling Fraerling. Also, the Goblins.
The Ghostly Hand tribe was on the march too, and, for the first time in most people’s living memory, Goblins and Gnolls were marching under the same banner.
Which was Niers’. He kept checking his [Message] scroll. Not very high-quality. It was only something a Gold-rank adventurer might buy. Which meant you could still intercept [Messages] and whatnot, but it was the best artifact he could find.
He was writing to his company in code. Fierre peeked over Niers’ shoulder and got nothing.
Not even a sentence or two. She stared for a good half minute at the strange, stick-like characters before giving up. Even if she could read one of Drath’s tongues, the Titan was sure she wouldn’t be able to crack the interior code.
Things were not well at home, either. But there it was. They knew Niers was alive. Mostly because they were looking for him, but word was spreading. Niers wasn’t in hiding. Soon, little Rock Crabs hiding in their shells would know the Titan was here.
The Fraerling put down the scroll he’d been laboriously writing large upon; no one made Fraerling-sized equipment anywhere in Izril. He looked back at his events-list and swore.
“Bird! I will shoot you!”
He went for his crossbow, and a tiny bolt buried itself in Bird’s left upper arm. The [Hunter] looked at the tiny arrow.
“Ooh. Toothpick.”
“You don’t have teeth, Bird.”
“Then can I not have a toothpick? This is very rude, Octavia. You should be ashamed of yourself.”
Bird carefully picked up the tiny bolt and tried to scrape some food off the side of his mandibles. Octavia Cotton looked at Numbtongue, then at Niers, who was swearing and trying to erase the stylized bird that Bird had drawn by connecting events.
There they were. The band of adventurers from Erin’s inn. Ulvama was peeking at Niers while pretending to sleep on a bed she’d made out of supplies. Numbtongue sat with Badarrow as Snapjaw leaned against the [Sniper].
Icecube waddled after the wagon, sighing, but perking up each time Gothica tossed him a scrap of meat. Octavia was mixing up some of Ulvama’s magical paints, and Captain Gna kept peeking at them as she rode next to a group of marching Antinium.
Salkis would have joined the group in the cart around Niers, but there was no room. So she rode by as Rasktooth and Infinitypear ate…pears.
The same as always. But more tight-knit. Niers didn’t have to look around to see more…familiar interactions.
The Antinium had always been Antinium and the same species, most from the same Hive, but now they looked animated.
As if someone had given sentience to Golems. An odd parallel, but it was true. Instead of marching along stolidly without a word, the Antinium…fidgeted. They had oddities.
Like, Grass Shell would now stop for a second, squat down awkwardly, then hurry off after the others. He’d trundle off to the side and come back with a flower or interesting piece of grass and add it to his shell. It was colorful now and had elements of plant matter beyond grass, despite the [Shaman]’s name.
What was interesting was that the clippings and flowers didn’t look like they were dying. Even days after being picked.
In the same vein, Infinitypear and Rasktooth were a duo, and the Cave Goblin and [Adventurer] Antinium even slept next to each other, though one slept sitting up and the other rolled into a blanket with a dagger in one claw as he snoozed.
Perhaps the most notable change, though, was Pivr and Xeu. The solitary Prognugators, aloof and unhelpful when they did speak, were different.
Pivr most of all. He scuttled next to the two Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, talking, as one of them, Normen, usually, would tip his hat and dispense sage advice.
Or what Pivr took as sage advice. Alcaz and Normen, the two Brothers who had volunteered to be the last men to carry their perceived dues to Erin—they didn’t look like men walking to their deaths anymore.
As for Xeu, she was still hard to spot. But she followed someone around who belonged to a group of his own.
Soldiers and warriors. Even Salkis would head over and talk with some respect, and she was the person who had opened up least. A few Soldiers and the Redfang Hob, Dirtmouth, were included in this group—as well as Captain Gna.
The heart of it was The Crimson Soldier, for whom Xeu had developed something of an obsession. She would quietly follow him, moving left and right, always watching with interest.
