A little figure was lying down—well, sitting—looking haggard and distraught with a few of the Gnolls who’d tried to kill the decoys. He sat up as the Fraerling chuckled.
“Go on, don’t stop with my nicknames. How in the name of Elves did a Lizardman happen to be travelling with a Gnoll kill-squad? Did I hear…Rhir?”
Viri, the Lizardman [Longstick Jumper], Merish’s friend and one of the irregulars from 5th Wall, where he would always be, in part, looked up at the Titan of Baleros with tears in his eyes. He sat up and bowed.
“Lord Astoragon. It’s good to see someone from home. I’m Viri. Viri Taxshirul, from the Stone Gaze company? We were in Rhir. I came here to…to attend the Meeting of Tribes with my friend. My detachment was wiped out, so I was given leave for…am I dreaming?”
Niers Astoragon knelt, looking down at Viri. Someone had trained the little Lizardman; he didn’t blabber like his kin, but gave something of a direct report. The Titan nodded, frowning.
“I know Stone Gaze. Auspicious. Gorgon-led group, or Medusa? 5th Wall? Then you’re the ones who ran into the Death of Magic.”
“You knew about that?”
Viri glanced up, eyes wide. The Titan hadn’t recalled which groups were there, though he remembered the report. It was simple deduction. But he was also the Titan, so he lied.
“I did. Your detachment fought bravely, didn’t they? What was your commander’s name? Forgive me, I’ve forgotten. Gorgon or Medusa?”
“Uxel. He was a Gorgon. But we also had a Commander. Cirille of Manus. She died too. Merish was there. Did he…is he alive?”
Niers shifted to look for Shaik. She shrugged.
“Your Gnoll friend? The one with two axes? I think he got away, thanks to my students’ untimely attack.”
“Good. He’s not a bad Gnoll. But his tribe is crazy.”
Viri relaxed slightly. The other Gnolls from Plain’s Eye were glaring at him, but they dared not speak. They stared at Niers with sheer disbelief, as many people did when they met a Fraerling for the first time.
“They were going to kill a little girl! And that other Gnoll. All because they have white fur. I told them—I told them you could dye your scales in Baleros. What did it matter? But they call them Doombringers. Lord Astoragon, Merish isn’t a bad Gnoll. But he’s going crazy.”
Niers nodded. He looked around and gestured.
“Separate Viri from the others. He’s not to be chained. I want a word with you, Viri, and for you to tell me everything—from Rhir to how you got here. I saw you try to warn us, and I’m taking that on credit. Do you swear by Nagas you had no idea what you were doing and tried to stop your friend and the others once you knew what you were about?”
Viri gulped and raised a claw.
“By the Nagas and Stone Gaze, I do, Lord Titan. I kept trying to talk sense into Merish, but with all the others about telling him he had to kill them…please don’t kill him. Please.”
Niers held his stare for a moment, then nodded. As if he could strike down a Gnoll from afar just by willing it.
“Good. Then we’ll see if we can find out what this is about.”
He rose, turned back to his students, and looked at the two Chieftains of Gnoll and Goblin tribes.
“Chieftains, let’s strike camp. I think we have another Gnoll tribe nearby—I’m sensing a mass of Gnolls to the north. Can someone tell them we’re not holding you lot hostage before we have a third ambush? Students? Get healed, meet me in the command space in fifteen minutes. Everyone else? You’re free to attend if you’re important. Who’s the [Mercenary] over there who kicked the stuffing out of everyone?”
“That would be me, Titan of Baleros.”
A small, old Gnoll strode forwards with a huge grin. Niers looked at him as he straightened.
“Whom do I have the honor of addressing?”
The Gnoll [Berserker] grinned wider with appreciation.
“Berr of Wild Wastes. But I must be Berr, to the Titan of Baleros, who is beyond honored in his lands.”
Niers smiled faintly. Ah, yes, it was coming to him, the proper address.
“In that case, I will be just Niers, and I’ll call you Berr—I think that’s appropriate. May I invite you to have something to eat with me? Thank you for keeping my idiotic students safe, and for pulling your punches.”
The [Barbarian] grinned as the other Wild Wastes Gnolls chuckled.
“Only a [Berserker] can tell when it is time for strife and time to avoid breaking teeth or bone. You are well said, Titan. I accept. Do you have good food?”
Niers waved one hand.
“I’ve got Goblins, Honored Berr. I’ve noticed that they tend to collect the stuff.”
 
——
 
“Goblins. Professor, I understand the rest of it. You don’t have to regale us with stories of your escape—though we’re sure to listen and hear it—but why Goblins?”
Half an hour later, with wounds patched and everyone sitting or standing in a broad tent and the Hekitr Chieftain joining Shaik and Orni, Venaz was still protesting the one objectionable detail in this unexpected reunion.
Badarrow rolled his eyes as Snapjaw sniffed and gobbled down pumpkin tarts. She was still put out about being kicked out of the saddle, and a whining Icecube was being fed half a cow after his upsetting run in with Peki.
The Minotaur glanced at the [Sniper] and stared at the other Goblins. Merrik was eying the Antinium, and Peki and Bird kept staring at each other. Neither one had blinked, and it didn’t seem to occur to Peki that Bird was never going to blink since he had no eyelids.
Wil? Wil just focused on Niers, because he was positive the Titan was the center of all this. Niers clicked his tongue impatiently.
“Venaz, you are the most brilliant idiot I’ve had the misfortune to teach.”
“That’s a virtue of my people, Professor.”
“No, it is not. I’ve taught Minotaurs before, and you are the most egotistically stubborn one yet. You had the brilliance to actually take me off-guard, and the stupidity to try and fist-fight the most veteran Antinium Soldier in existence. We are facing an inter-species war across Izril, my company is under attack, and there is a sapient bee who smokes Dreamleaf over there, and you’re focused on Goblins.”
Niers pointed, and everyone looked at Apista, who was huffing a cigar while Rasktooth waited for a turn. Venaz blinked, slightly taken aback. Wil sat up.
“He actually ambushed you, Professor?”
Niers rolled his eyes and raked a hand through his hair.
“Yes, he did. I was focused on the other ambush, and it was commendably fast. Sneaking up out of my radius and then a fast charge in. Well done. Don’t let it get to your head.”
“But we ambushed you? You, professor?”
A delighted smile spread across Merrik’s face. The Titan scowled as Peki’s face brightened up, and Wil exchanged a significant look with Venaz.
“Yes, you ambushed me. Celebrating that is only acceptable when we’re at the academy. You’re leveling up. You are…leveling up. How’s Yerranola?”
The Titan quelled their excitement with a single question. Wil looked at the Fraerling, who had given him the start to the adventure.
“She’s better, Professor. We found something like a miracle medicine that stops her pain. I want to take a sample to Baleros but…she’s better. But she paid for my mistake.”
Niers Astoragon stopped pacing, and gave Wil a genuine look of sympathy.
“Now there’s a proper commander’s way of thinking. Yes, absolutely. You led the campaign, a friend paid the price. Remember that. Remember that, and never let it distract you or drag you down when you’re making the choices that have to be made. Only remember it. It’s good you found an antidote. Feshi’s alive, I take it?”
“At the Meeting of Tribes. We were headed north to find you, actually, Professor. The Wild Wastes tribe were our escort—until the war broke out.”
Merrik explained. Numbtongue raised his eyebrows as he looked at the four students. Badarrow nudged him, and both Redfangs plus Dirtmouth all turned to Honored Berr.
The old Gnoll was listening, cross-legged, eating almost as fast as Snapjaw and Ulvama and half the Antinium. He twitched one ear as the Redfangs looked at him with something approaching reverence.
Old warrior. He looked…tough. Numbtongue wanted to be him when he was older.
Oddly, though they had just been trying to kill each other, Numbtongue didn’t feel the hostility he might have—mainly because no one had died. Also? He saw the [Lord] eying him with wariness, but not an instinctive hatred.
The Minotaur, now…there wasn’t much Erin in him at all. And it was Erin whom Numbtongue thought of.
A chance. But Venaz folded his arms.
“How did you come here, Professor?”
The Titan stopped pacing back and forth, having heard Wil’s account of how they’d gotten here. He turned, and, for a second, everyone—especially the students—waited for one of the Titan’s thrilling tales of survival against all odds. It was in Niers’ eyes…and then it faded.
He looked at Numbtongue, and the silent inn, Mrsha’s kidnapping, and the rest was written across his face. He sighed, sat down on a tiny carved wooden stool, and shook his head.
“I made a mistake. I’ll tell you everything tonight, students. But the point? To summarize it all, I went on an adventure looking for a grand old time, and I made a mistake. But for luck, as much as my resourcefulness, I survived. I kept making silly mistakes because I thought I was the Titan of Baleros. I ended up here, in a warzone, chasing a kidnapped girl and investigating a plot to kill children among the Gnoll tribes. Meanwhile, someone is attacking my people—Fraerlings—and trying to take down my Great Company. I have myself to blame, and I will.”
His students blinked as the Titan sat there, looking weary. Then Niers raised his head and gave them a sardonic smile.
“Never let it be said your Professor doesn’t admit when he’s wrong. Trust me—I’ve had a lot of people remind me. In the last months, I’ve been wounded more badly than I ever have since my adventuring days by a damn avian, been outlevelled, and surprised too many times to count. Betrayed, too. Peclir Im is a traitor and a dead man.”
His students were astonished, but Niers clapped his hands.
“That is a story—and you are all invited to hear it—but not the point. Right now, I need us all on the same page. Students! I’m here, in front of you. No, this is not an illusion.”
Peki opened her beak.
“But you said—”
“I lied, Peki. I lie about things for fun and because it amuses me.”
The Garuda frowned and raised a fist.
“You lied?”
“He lies. He is a bad man. A bad man who is bad at chess and being nice to people.”
Everyone turned to Bird, and Niers scowled.
“Shut up, Bird.”
“Antinium. I’m looking at Antinium and Bird the Hunter, no less. I thought you were on Pallass’ walls.”
Merrik pointed at Bird, recognizing him. Bird tilted his head.
“You recognize me? I am banned from Pallass. I came here because I am looking for Mrsha. Are you a Dwarf? Do you know Pelt?”
Merrik growled in exasperation.
“Why does everyone think all Dwarves know each—”
Then his face changed into one of recognition.
“Wait a second. I do know Pelt. How do you know Pelt?”
“How about Dawil?”
“I—yes, but he’s a Gold-rank adventurer! These examples don’t count!”
Bird happily slapped his knees, but The Crimson Soldier put out a hand and everyone turned back to Niers. He nodded.
“Merrik. You just had your first conversation with an Antinium. One of the infamous Black Tide of Izril. Soulless, mindless killing machines, I’ve heard them called, from Rhir’s hells. If I told you Bird is actually more representative of their species than not—despite being weird, I will admit—what would you say?”
The Dwarf’s eyes closed, and his blocky expression turned thoughtful. Thoughtful. He looked at Bird with a quality Numbtongue recognized, like when Erin would sneakily drop her guard before pulling one of her stunts. Only, this wasn’t subterfuge, just thought.
“Honestly, Professor? It would knock me flat as a coin—a month ago. But after watching the Ksmvr of Chandrar series—I can believe it. People are people. Seems to me we’ve misjudged the Antinium or they’re changing.”
“A- thoughts. Mainly because you had help, but beyond satisfactory. Keep it up, and apply it to Goblins. At least, the ones here. They’re all on the same page—rescuing the little Gnoll who was attacked. A Doombringer, and if you have insight into that, I’ll give you a passing grade for the entire next semester.”
The Titan smiled proudly. Merrik nodded, and the Antinium stirred as the [Strategists] looked at them thoughtfully. Peki pointed at Fierre.
“What’s that?”
“I’m Human!”
Fierre spluttered. Peki narrowed her eyes without a word. Niers chuckled.
“A special Human with special classes, Peki. Drop it. May I present…”
A pained expression flitted across his face.
“The self-described Fellowship of the Inn? Ask them what it means. Goblins, Antinium, Gnoll, Humans, Stitch-Person, Drake, and I suppose I complete the bunch. A group of irregulars, plus two Gnoll tribes and a Goblin tribe. Those are the forces—this is not a simulation or a game. Together, we’re going to make war on Drake armies, Gnoll tribes, and conduct rescue and defense operations. Sound easy? Because I assure you, this is going to be difficult.”
The students blinked. Merrik rubbed his hands together, Peki began to nod with visible excitement, and Wil gulped.
“Professor. What about Feshi and Yerra…?”
Niers waved a hand.
“I want them, too, obviously. And if Weatherfur joins us—I’ll take any ally running, Wil, but we have a multiple-objective scenario. Halt the Doombringer killings. Uncover whatever plot that is, which might just take us into conflict with the largest Gnoll tribe in existence. Get me to a port—but only after we halt the Drakes trying to wipe out every Gnoll tribe and put our finger on the scales of this war. Lastly? Learn as much as we can and level up.”
He looked meaningfully at the Antinium and Goblins. The students stood there, daunted by his objectives. Yet Niers was looking at each of them.
“You’re all [Officers] and [Strategists]. I could have six of my best students helping me—and you’re all old enough and experienced. Plus, you have three Relics from Khelt no less. I won’t beat around the bush; you found me. Congratulations. You can claim whatever Perorn or Foliana offered you, or sell the information to my enemies, and I’ll see you in the academy for the fall semester. Or—you can accept immediate commissions to battlefield officers in the Forgotten Wing Company. Paid positions, and I will tell you I’m paying double-rates, and you can use me as a reference or enlist once this is over. You’ll level or die, but I could use your help.”
