The sky was beautiful. Everyone knew that, save for those who had grown up under lands perpetually shaded by cloud and darkness, like Noelictus, or where the sky was another place where danger could come from.
So, on the other hand, it was not a universal truth. Perhaps, though, many who did find the night sky beautiful forgot the first time a little child or even a baby had looked straight up into the first evening sky they ever took notice of.
Or the night sky resplendent with a million shining points of light.
If there was anything that Elena Othonos could ever admit—it was that this world had a more glorious night sky than hers. And she had been born in Greece, where they had seen great constellations and the very faces of deities staring down at them from the shifting aether.
This one, though…if you gazed up at some of the stars on Earth, like Capella in the northeast, you could see that it was golden. Some trick of its composition countless lightyears away and whenever it had looked like that in the past—because light and time were complex that way.
But faintly yellow. This night sky? Elena looked up and saw every color she knew, and more she didn’t. She was a [Beautician], and she knew color.
It was simply that there were variations she couldn’t see on Earth. A shade or quality like the harsh neon that she could call magical. But, of course, such things needed names.
Each star blazed with a different color, and two moons hung in the sky. One was silvery, almost like Earth’s, but instead of that yellowish glow, it was blue, and would sink to deep purple unlike the red that Earth’s moon could develop.
The other was a light green, like the palest refraction from an emerald or piece of glass. Oh…and someone had nibbled at one. Giving the sphere the tiniest little imperfection.
She wondered what that was about. Elena knew the sky, and she appreciated it and the vastness in the air—the sense that this world somehow had more space between her and the stratosphere. Clouds so distant overhead she could focus on them and find a world of detail.
If only she had a telescope. But as Elena looked up, the salt wind blowing on her hair, the faintest memory of pain on her back from where some idiot had shot her with a spell, lungs still burning from running and shouting, distraught, betrayed, and free of Wistram—she did realize she had forgotten to appreciate what the sky meant.
After all, she had lived under it so long, able to just step out whenever she pleased. But for someone who had dreamed of it for months…for an Antinium who looked up for the first and possibly last time in their life—
It was worth far more to them. A figure floated high above the moving pirate ship, arms spread, and, Elena guessed, eyes closed.
Archmage Amerys. She just hung there, flying through the air. Letting rain fall on her. Enjoying it, like a girl playing in a storm.
It pattered off a glowing veil above Elena, the Illuminary’s personal magical barrier. She was grateful for that; the wind wasn’t blocked, and it was chilly at night.
Of course, they could have blocked wind, as surely as they blocked water when the Illuminary dove. As magical vessels went, this was state-of-the-art. It combined the aptitude of Drowned Vessels for diving with the weaponry looted from Minos and a magical hull that glowed like a lighthouse—not to mention a speed practically unmatched on the ocean.
It could even go onto land—for a while—thanks to its [Captain]’s Skills. State of the art. Which meant it had probably been made in antiquity.
“What a strange world.”
Elena looked up, and someone heard her.
“You have more of a right to say that than anyone else, for you have known two. But if it is only because you compare it to yours, those who travel worlds will surely laugh at you.”
Elena jumped. She looked left and saw a slightly pointed nose. Someone who even looked vaguely like her—aside from the darker skin. The faintly yellow eyes. Oh—and the fact that the girl looked like she was only eight.
And eight thousand.
“Um. Excuse me?”
The Quarass of Germina had changed clothing. Instead of the demure [Lady]’s garb with frills and fashion imported from Terandria, she had a much more relaxed kind of toga. A bit more complex, but Elena felt like someone was pranking her.
Or maybe that was just what she saw, because this was one of Germina’s traditional styles of dress. But it was also…well, her people’s, again in antiquity.
The girl looked at Elena, and when she spoke, it was disconcertingly off. Just like her eyes; her voice had a cadence and deliberate quality to it. Elena had always thought children sounded like children because their voices were just ‘younger’, whatever that meant.
However, she now knew it was because they tended towards certain patterns of speech. Tripping over themselves, eager, struggling with expression, and wandering. The Quarass, like someone far older, knew what she was going to say and took her time enunciating each word.
“Your world. I have seen pictures of it. I have never been there, but I have heard it described. It seems outlandish to me. Positively unreal. You express the same sentiments of mine. I have heard it being described as a ‘game’, or ‘fantasy’ by one thoughtless girl. I would call yours a bad joke if I were equally rude. Yet we understand that we are comparing two different worlds.”
“Um. Uh…yes? Emirea…no, that’s not your name, is it?”
Elena was still taken aback, as most people were when they met the Quarass. But she knew this was not the shy girl that hung out with Troy, so she rallied magnificently fast. The Quarass watched the [Beautician] take a breath.
“You’re…the Quarass of Germina. A Shield Kingdom of Chandrar.”
“Well done.”
The Quarass nodded. She watched Elena approvingly; she wasn’t panicking or shouting or in disbelief. Rasea Zecrew had rescued her, and the [Pirate Captain] always stole the most valuable things. Elena’s features wrinkled, and the Quarass noted that she’d dyed her hair. Platinum mint green perhaps, if it was a dye Earth had. Not bad, and not a Skill either. Maybe the dye was, but she’d made it herself.
Very good. Someone who understood mixtures and the basis of alchemy.
“…Are you saying that neither your world nor mine is normal?”
The Quarass smiled.
“No. One might be archetypal. But who could tell? Only someone who has walked enough worlds to see a pattern. Now, I wonder if humanity is that common link. But we only have two examples, so it is a poor guess. It might be Garuda or some other species. Do you understand what I mean? We look at things as if our experiences are indicative of all, but we only see two marbles in a bag of holding full of them.”
She wondered if Elena would get the example, but the young woman’s eyes lit up.
“Oh. Our sample size, you mean? We could be outliers—we have no idea how large the data set is.”
The Quarass’ ears perked up.
“Interesting. You understand my example. Your world seems to understand such concepts better than mine. At least, without the Skills to comprehend it. Skills have weighed down our advancement. I see that now.”
Elena looked at the Quarass, startled, and ducked her head.
“I’m hardly a good student. I’m sure someone else could tell you even more. I dropped out of high school to work. I just took a few math classes.”
“Ah. So poverty strikes your world as hard as mine? Trey and Teres mentioned it, but they were not destitute.”
“Teres?”
“Trey Atwood’s sister.”
“Trey—so that’s his name. Troy Atlas? Trey Atwood. Oh, come on.”
Elena groaned. She looked over at the young man who was sitting, letting a little Lifesand Golem try to drag her shortsword as she climbed into his lap. She had trouble because she’d lost so much of her body-sand mass.
The Quarass lifted a hand.
“Do you bear a grudge?”
“Of course I do. But that makes…sense. I always wondered why Trey seemed a bit aloof. I put it down to him having seen combat. But—that camera. The King of Destruction. It all makes sense. Do you know…what he saw? At A’ctelios Salash?”
The Quarass nodded.
“I was there. I also know of the promise the King of Destruction made with him.”
“Promise?”
“To wipe that place from existence. To scour one of the four remaining Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar to earth…which I am pledged to support and defend until my bitter end.”
The ruler of Germina paused, and Elena eyed her. However, the girl just produced something and offered it to Elena.
“Enough. That is a conversation for later. A great moment has occurred. Will you speak with me, Elena? What is your last name?”
“Othonos. Elena Othonos…Your Majesty?”
“You may refer to me as the Quarass or ‘Quarass’. I have no true name.”
“You don’t? Excuse me—what are you? I don’t know much, but I heard people talking about you when the King of Destruction…cut off your head?”
The Quarass saw Elena look uneasily at her. She smiled, and the young woman wondered if the Quarass were like a Hydra, or if she reincarnated, or if she just flitted from body to body.
She was close, but the Quarass shrugged.
“I shall explain, briefly. And you shall tell me of your world. I have no name because each new person, young, old, man, woman, any species who becomes Quarass, becomes one of the countless number who have worn my class and duties. The girl who I was was young, poor, and grew up on the streets of Ger. Perhaps you understand that.”
Elena had worked because she had to, rather than continuing to stay in school. In, appropriately, a beauty parlor. Then she’d gotten herself through university. By herself.
There was a connection there, so she leaned against a railing as the Quarass spoke. Every now and then, her eyes would go up to the night sky and Amerys—or look at Trey.
 
——
 
Betrayer.
People were dead because of what he’d done. The largest name among the casualties was Archmage Nailihuaile. Also damaged—although not people—were Gazi Pathseeker’s armor and Dawil’s axe.
Wistram’s reputation, their monopoly over Earthers, his friendships and relationships with people he had liked, like Eldavin…
Trey regretted the dead. He felt guilty—and guiltier still because he didn’t know who had died, and the few he did know, like Nailihuaile and Timor, the [Lord] he’d stabbed…didn’t bother him as much as they should.
He’d killed someone, and it didn’t bother him enough. He would be struck like by a hammer if it turned out Sidney had died, or someone he found innocent. But a cold little part of Trey thought that the world was better off without Timor.
“We’re not changing for the better, Gazi. Teres and I? We’re turning into people like Flos. I don’t want that for the others.”
Trey looked across the deck, towards Elena. She glanced over and met his eyes, and he was the one who looked away.
The Earthers here. More had escaped; more had been recaptured or just never left. The Drowned Folk had some, the Drakes, others.
Of the ones here? Elena was the one that Trey knew best. There was also Erik Muller, the [Actor], two kids from China that he had seen with Shun and Xiang, and some others.
He would get to know them all, Trey suspected. They looked at him like he was a monster. Fair.
Gazi Pathseeker was running her fingers down the crack in her famous armor. She looked at Trey, and then her eyes shifted to the children.
“You and Teresa are my lord’s obsession, in part. He drags you two with him, and so you see war from his perspective. The others need not do that. Nor will they. If some wish to be safe, or leave, I think he will allow it.”
“Flos? You don’t think he’ll say ‘you have no rights, I’m the King of Destruction’?”
Gazi glanced at Trey. She almost smiled, then nudged him hard in the ribs with one foot.
“He might. But if they do not like him, he may be persuaded, especially if we speak our minds. As you know—he does not care for the company of people he dislikes. Those he wishes to like him…that is different.”
Trey nodded. That was as good as he’d get for now. He still felt slightly shocked by how it had all gone down. He lay on his back, and Minizi hopped on his chest. She had abandoned her oversized sword, and the two-foot-tall Golem stood proudly with a tiny twig like a claymore. She waved it at Gazi, and the Gazer smiled.
She too was enjoying her freedom. But unlike Amerys, what Gazi was doing was eating. She had a bowl of the [Chef]’s food in one hand and was eating with two chopsticks. She was also checking her armor, but the main reason she could do that was, well…
Because she’d taken it off.
It was the first time Trey had ever seen Gazi take her armor off. That she had done so at all might have had something to do with a month or two of sitting underwater day and night. Underneath her armor, Gazi wore what was surprisingly like a modern, form-fitting skinsuit. She was fairly lithe, as she stretched out.
Oh. And she had three-toed feet, and bigger toes per digit. Trey stared at them, and Gazi wiggled her toes as Minzi looked at her stumpy feet; Trey had only made little plodders without digits. The Lifesand Golem gave Trey a look of betrayal for his artistic license and began to poke at her feet, rearranging them into a copy of Gazi’s.
Gazi being out of her armor was as close to naked as Trey had ever seen, which made him not look at her—especially because the form-fitting fabric fit her form perfectly. Gazi seemed amused as she realized that.
Meanwhile, one of Rasea’s crew was feverishly sketching Gazi in her repose. Not just for the…art…of it, but because they had a suspicion that selling the artwork would earn them as much as their share for the raid on Wistram if they found the right clientele. [Pirates] were, after all, an unscrupulous lot.
Mostly, though, the oddly intimate scene, the relaxation, Gazi’s armor, was undercut by one thing. Trey coughed.
“Gazi?”
“Yes?”
She turned, and Trey looked around.
“…Maybe you would want to swim once the Illuminary stops moving? Or step into the rain? I think I have some soap in my bag of holding. I, uh—do Gazers have a strong sense of smell?”
She gave him a quizzical look until she realized that the two had a radius—even with admirers like Rasea Zecrew herself. Gazi had that two-month-armor smell, and Trey was doing his best to be polite…but even Goelv had retreated from his idol, trying to cover his nose-holes.
“Ah. Pass me that soap. I was in my armor.”
“Right. I know.”
“I couldn’t remove it.”
“No, I know that—”
“I keep clean regularly. Every day that we’re not on campaign. My armor as well.”
The Gazer insisted. Trey nodded as he passed her a bar of soap. The Gazer kept trying to explain what didn’t need explaining.
