“On it. Fall back, will you? [Ram’s Charge]!”
The [Lord] was on foot, which was odd because he preferred a horse. But the reason for that was because—
“[Ram’s Charge]!”
A [Lord] rode into battle, and two more charged past him. For a second, Bird thought he was hallucinating because he saw triple. One was on horseback, but all three had the Diamond Shortsword of Serept, the aptly-named Threefold Mirrorblade.
The Skill caused another crash as the Wild Wastes tribe happily smashed into their opponents. It was looking like a slaughter—only Merrik didn’t see any blood.
The roaring Human [Berserker] from Terandria had his axe raised to kill a downed foe when one of the Gnolls from Berr’s group knocked him flat. He kicked a Gnoll down and disarmed another—they weren’t killing their people.
The same wasn’t clear about the Goblins or Niers’ students. Numbtongue’s Skill ran out, and Shorthilt’s expertise left him. Venaz whirled his sword and took a chunk out of his arm. He would have cut Numbtongue’s leg off, except he whirled and deflected a slash from Badarrow. The [Sniper] had dropped his bow and gone for his sword.
Two Wils ran into battle, one of them hesitating when he saw Gothica, and then backing up as the Goblin slashed wildly at him. Another swung his sword and cleaved through Normen’s blackjack, then slashed through Pivr’s side, scoring a line of green from the Prognugator’s flank.
“Ow.”
 
——
 
Bird calmly took aim at Venaz. The Minotaur was closest to killing one of his friends. Pivr did not count. He drew back, looked up, and murmured.
“A b—”
Peki kicked him out of the wagon. Bird landed on the ground and flailed wildly as she took off for a decisive falling blow. Peki dove—and someone launched themselves up. The Garuda twisted, and the kick from the young Human woman missed her.
“Huh?”
Peki landed. Garia twisted, raised her fists, and went for a punch. The [Martial Artist]-[Lieutenant] twisted, pushed the punch sideways, and turned the push into an elbow. Garia staggered and threw another punch. Just like Ryoka had shown her.
A classic, knock-you-flat punch with all the weight of [Greater Strength] behind it. Peki saw it coming, grabbed the arm, and threw Garia. She saw the Human girl’s eyes go wide and learned that Garia had never figured out how to break her fall.
“Huh.”
Peki turned to Bird and then threw up an arm. Fierre’s kick sent her flying, but the Garuda caught herself in the air, landed, and charged back.
“Garia! Are you al—”
Fierre took a taloned kick to the chest and slammed into the wagon so hard she cracked the wood. She and Garia got up, and Peki whirled. It was the Antinium [Archer] who…
Bird rubbed at his back shell as he went to sit down next to Ulvama in time-out. The Garuda stared at him, then saw Garia charging. Fierre did a jump-kick. Peki stared at it and dodged as she threw a flurry of counter-punches that Garia took half of. She was in the thick of it, and Garia’s eyes went wide as she found herself losing. But Peki kept thinking it.
Hm? Something was a bit—
 
——
 
Honored Berr was thrashing the Drake with the knives and taking on the Antinium and Goblins in a whirlwind of punches, but one of the Wild Wastes Gnolls and Hekitr tribe were clashing with the majority of the Lomost Gnolls, backing up the strange group of irregulars. A howling Gnoll with a sword was charging another with a spear when the other raised his paw.
“Wait! Wait! Hekitr tribe?”
The sword-Gnoll slowed and nearly ran into the raised shield.
“Huh? Lomost?”
They stared at each other as the Gnolls, who hadn’t gone instantly for the kill unlike the ambushers, hesitated. One of the Wild Wastes Gnolls stopped punching faces in. The attackers and defenders looked at each other.
“…Why are we fighting?”
They stared at each other, and both sides lowered their weapons, save for the Human, who once again had to be tackled before he attacked everything in sight. The Goblins had already pulled back.
It was only the [Strategists] who were fighting…and the little voice that rang in both sides’ heads advised them to keep up the ruse. The Gnolls vaguely waved their weapons at each other.
“Take that.”
“What is this about? I thought you lot were to the east.”
For a moment it seemed like the battle was continuing long enough to fool the fighters. It was a good lesson.
 
——
 
Merrik swung his hammer into a patch of shade surrounding the angry Goblin with the parasol, and felt like he was trying to hit her through water.
Since he could swing a hammer underwater, it sent her reeling back. He felt another punch to the back of the head and whirled. The Crimson Soldier backed up and watched Merrik with an unnerving—the Dwarf whirled his hammer around.
“You—pests—”
The same with Wil. One shouted.
“[Swift Slash]!”
While the other two held off his opponents so he could score a wound against a cursing Normen. Three of the same [Lord], working in unity.
They fought, back-to-back-to-back, using their Skills and the enchanted blades to hold off their opponents. Wil was proficient with a sword—
Venaz knew how to use his greatsword, and he was winning. Two Hobgoblins were flanking him, and the Minotaur blurred from one to the other, riposting one’s slash, and cutting deep across the other’s arm with his swing back.
The two Redfangs were losing. It was an unfamiliar experience, even with the artifact speeding him up. The Minotaur was grinning, eyes red with battle fever. Peki put Garia into an arm-lock and gave her a knee-strike straight to her chin.
The Fellowship was losing? Bird and Ulvama watched. The [Shaman]’s arms were folded, and Bird was inching a hand towards his bow.
“Ah.”
The Titan of Baleros pointed at him. Bird frowned at Niers, his mandibles clicking together.
“What is the point of this?”
“Watch.”
 
——
 
Badarrow and Numbtongue were losing. It was life-or-death, but the thing the Hobgoblins felt most in that moment?
The Minotaur had the biggest smile on his face. Eyes red with battle-rage, and he moved from cut to parry with ease, watching both sides.
That was not a [Blademaster]’s form, but a warrior’s. A [Fencer] could die protesting you weren’t allowed to attack from more than one side. This Minotaur expected it.
Badarrow tried to kick dirt in his face, and Numbtongue charged in low. Badarrow nearly got impaled, and Numbtongue ate a [Swift Kick]. The [Bard] rolled back.
“My turn.”
Reiss was watching. So was Pyrite, but he didn’t volunteer. The thing was—Numbtongue looked at Badarrow and saw the exact same expression on his brother’s face.
Which was…embarrassment. They were losing? The two Hobs braced themselves as Venaz lifted his other hand up.
“[Break Their Morale]!”
An intimidation Skill. Both Hobs felt it wash over them. Badarrow scuffed at the ground. If Garen could see this…Venaz turned, eyes glowing, and both Hobs ran away. He blinked at their backs.
“Damned Goblins—”
He was surprised by their flight. But then Venaz saw a shape flicker behind him, and his internal battle sense told him to turn. He whirled, the diamond greatsword raised and…stopped.
“What?”
That was the only thing the Minotaur said. He looked across the somehow less chaotic battlefield at a figure who halted, four arms half-raised, curled into fists. An Antinium, who Venaz had longed to fight.
But this was no ordinary Antinium. Venaz could tell in a moment. For one thing…
The Crimson Soldier was red. For another?
The [War Strategist] locked eyes with the [Exemplar Warrior]. Was it the [Aura of Battle] he felt or something else? Venaz was a Minotaur of the House of Minos. He had fought, before going to Baleros, with veterans of their famous army.
What did you see in that battle-worn carapace? Those blank, insectoid eyes? Venaz saw what Niers saw. What the aura began to let other people see.
Ten thousand battlefields. Foes made of metal. Giant monsters in the deep. Bugs and giants. Crawling hordes.
[Assassins]. Traps. Dead Soldiers, dying like flies to a monster who stole their heads.
The Crimson Soldier remained. The Antinium watched Venaz, and the Minotaur’s victorious expression turned to one of wariness. He aimed his sword at the unarmed Antinium and saw The Crimson Soldier do something peculiar.
Veteran of battle. He raised one of his four hands and opened the stumpy digits. Put two together and…beckoned Venaz.
“You have got to be kidding me.”
Venaz breathed. His eyes flickered around and he saw Berr happily pressing a foot down on Salkis’ head as he swatted away Touma the Great’s fists. He hesitated, looked at the imposing foe and the easy way out—
Then he holstered the greatsword on his back.
“Venaz, you idiot!”
Merrik roared, but the Minotaur was already charging in. The Crimson Soldier?
He smiled. Big warriors always did that.
 
——
 
Merrik was fighting an unusually skilled group of warriors. They couldn’t hurt him—but they were shielding each other. The hammer missed a screeching Goblin protected by…some kind of strange aura.
He turned, advancing on an Antinium with a strange symbol on its chest. Fruit? What was going on? Merrik felt like something was off.
Then he nearly tripped. He checked himself, pulling back as a slashing Antinium materialized, and Merrik swore, lifting a shield.
“Silent Antinium!”
Xeu and Pivr scuttled around, and Xeu slashed—but failed to strike through Merrik’s armor. She seemed puzzled as Pivr leapt back.
“Strong skin.”
“Back up! Back up!”
Gna was shouting. The Antinium, Goblins, and lone Gnoll moved back as Merrik saw their formation change. He narrowed his eyes, raised his hammer for a strike. Take out that [Captain]. 
“Sorry—”
Merrik’s charge was fast, unexpected, and had taken down foes in the thick of battle who didn’t think a Dwarf could move that fast.
It also failed because he nearly tripped again. Merrik swore and this time looked down. What was he—
A little loop of grass clung to one armored boot. He stared down at it.
“Oh, great.”
Grass Shell was waving his staff and dancing about behind the others. It was working! It was working!
[Grow Grass]! A spell with absolutely zero utility…unless you had seen either Eldavin or Mrsha use it. He tried to shake his behind and waved all four arms around like he was at some kind of rave.
Ulvama stared at him. Was that Antinium copying her? She was highly offended. Merrik changed targets in a moment. But then he heard a Goblin whisper and saw the one dressed all in black with black lipstick and makeup point a claw at him—also painted black.
And the lights went out.
[Aura of Midnight]. Gothica cackled as she figured out a new trick.
“What the—I’m warded! I can’t see! Backup! Peki, Wil!”
The Dwarf swung around blindly as something enveloped him. But it shouldn’t! His helmet was supposed to be protected against hostile spells like this! He didn’t waste time trying to figure it out but tried to retreat—and nearly fell over another loop of grass.
And then someone was stabbing him and his [Body of Stone] deflected the blade—but not the little, biting insects that swarmed over him. Which was just…annoying. Merrik flailed around blindly.
One of Infinitypear’s stones bounced off his armor. Rasktooth ducked back as the Fellowship pelted Merrik, and the Dwarf stumbled left and right, swearing a blue streak.
And he wasn’t dead? The Dwarf slowed and looked around. Blind, he caught onto something faster than the others. A familiar…concealed presence.
“Is that you?”
Slowly, with a grin, he dropped his hammer and raised his arms. Gothica threw a rock into his face, and Merrik swore.
“Stop it.”
 
——
 
“Give them a hand.”
Ulvama stood as Peki ducked a punch from Fierre and gave the Vampire girl an uppercut. She cast a single spell.
A cloud of darkness rose as Peki whirled and dodged—but it streamed up, blocking the sunlight. The Garuda eyed Ulvama for a second, but turned.
“Hiyah! [Flash Punch]! [Half-Circle Reposition], [Leaping Fish Combo]—”
Garia came at Peki with a fast punch, stepping right around her, and throwing out a series of punches that mixed an upwards jab into the attack.
Peki shoved the first punch away, twisted, and her claw-hands blocked or deflected each blow. Garia stopped for a second in dismay and Peki’s [Incendiary Fist] lit her hair on fire.
The Garuda saw the Human stumble back, shouting. She was…tough. The other one was quick and strong but even less adept. She frowned around.
“Odd.”
The Antinium with the bow wasn’t shooting at her, and Peki had been holding back every high-level Skill because he made her…nervous. She had a feeling he might be able to hit her.
She glanced at the cloud overhead. It missed. Not that it would have helped; she could fight blind, and she didn’t think the other two fistfighters could. She turned—
That was fast.
And something blurred past her back. Peki turned, and it leapt again. The Garuda threw an elbow backwards and hit Fierre in the face. She thought she heard something crunch—and felt a blow to her back. She flipped through the air—
That hurt! Peki landed, and the Vampire came at her. Overhand, claw slashing, uppercut, bite—
Peki used a Skill.
[Close Counter]! She timed it—then hit Fierre with a knockout punch that sent the Vampire girl reeling right…
Peki was looking for Garia when she saw the girl adjust her head and grin at her. Were those red pupils glowing? Peki frowned.
“Fierre!”
The [Martial Artist] launched herself forwards with a Skill and went for a kick. Peki dodged with ease, but the Vampire leapt—
“[Ground Dance: Taurus of the Desert].”
Peki’s attack was less like a combo of punches and more like a series of flowing moves, so fast Garia’s jaw dropped. And—unfortunately—each punch, kick, and blow was designed to hammer Fierre in the face, chest, stomach, legs, as the Garuda advanced in a savage series of attacks.
The Vampire girl reeled, bloody, dazed—and Peki whirled towards Garia—
And Fierre grabbed her arm.
Peki was astonished. The strange girl had definitely broken six ribs and her jaw. And Peki had torn some muscle, and she thought she’d dislocated that arm! But her grip!
“Got you. I got—whoa!”
Peki lifted her arm, and Fierre slammed into the ground as the Garuda used Fierre like a hammer and the earth like an anvil. Yet she didn’t let go. And Garia—
Peki turned and, one-armed, tried to block Garia’s punch. She felt her arm compress—then her ribs—then she was trying to fly, but that stupid girl was holding on—
Uh oh. Peki looked down just in time to see a girl with glowing red eyes and sharp teeth raise her fist. She and Garia hit Peki at the same time.
 
——
 
