Venaz and The Crimson Soldier charged towards each other. The Minotaur was taller than the Soldier, heavier, and higher-leveled. His first punch threatened to shatter The Crimson Soldier’s armor.
But it stopped. The Antinium took the heavy punch on a crossguard block with two arms. The other two? Venaz blocked a fist and took one to the side.
Four arms. He grunted and threw a jab. The Crimson Soldier blocked it again. Venaz leaned backwards from another punch. Stay out of range—
The Antinium appeared under his guard. Venaz took a punch to his side and swore as he lashed out. That was a Skill!
He circled left and aimed a kick at the Antinium. The Antinium tried to grab the leg. Venaz backed up even further.
The Antinium charged. Two red mandibles snapped, and Venaz saw two fists rise. He raised one arm, and The Crimson Soldier spun. The arms on his left raised for a blow were a feint. The other two arms held low swung up with all his weight. He pivoted, and the uppercut made Venaz’s arm groan. The Minotaur swore.
This warrior knew how to throw a punch.
He didn’t realize it, but the other Antinium had stopped fighting. They were staring, at the Crimson Soldier. Venaz threw a flurry of jabs, using his longer arms to keep out of range. He saw the Antinium’s four arms rise and block.
Four arms. It looked like such a universal upgrade at first. Other species saw the Soldiers of the Antinium had four arms and felt threatened. It worked, too. Soldiers in the Antinium Wars were famous for overpowering their foes.
What was untrue was that it made them stronger. Antinium Soldiers had to control four arms compared to other species, who only had to manage two. And their feet. And what you saw if you really, truly knew them—something that even Erin Solstice couldn’t boast—was that they were…clumsy.
They tended to use their arms in sync for a movement, or they had to focus because they weren’t good at using their arms. Of course, even a new-born Soldier could throw a punch on both sides.
But it wasn’t using their body. For the first time, the other Free Antinium saw The Crimson Soldier raise his arms, and all four appendages moved independently of the other.
Two arms captured one of Venaz’s as he moved in, and another went to block Venaz’s right fist as he swung down with a roar to break free. The fourth hit Venaz in the side again, just below the ribs.
It hurt! But another fault of the Antinium was that they didn’t swing with their entire body; they were so compact they couldn’t put their full weight into a punch like other species. Venaz roared, and The Crimson Soldier reeled despite his guard, letting go of the arm. The Antinium stepped back as Venaz went for a straight punch to his mandibles to shatter his face.
And again, he pivoted. He turned, and all four arms moved. Two on his right going back while the other two went forwards.
Like a tree blowing in the wind, or how Peki or Garia punched. Redirecting his entire body into a punch.
“Oh. That’s how you’re supposed to do it.”
Bird murmured. He saw Venaz and The Crimson Soldier hit each other and the Minotaur’s face change as he took two hammers to the ribs and stomach. They staggered back, and Bird saw it.
Most Soldiers lived a year at the utmost. Even Workers lived longer. Most Soldiers fought well enough, but they had been engineered by Queens, who had only one template to work off of. Galuc the Builder—and he was not all Antinium of Rhir.
For the first time, Bird thought he understood how Galuc had fought. Not like some mindless, charging beetle, but constantly moving, swinging on both sides like a pendulum.
 
——
 
Venaz snarled. Was he losing? He couldn’t tell—that Antinium hit hard! His fists were more like spiked knuckles than flesh, and they tore Venaz’s skin and fur open. But the Minotaur ignored that.
I’m losing this way. He kept trying to circle and throw long punches, but the Antinium had four arms for his two and kept coming. So Venaz knocked back one arm and rushed him. He tackled The Crimson Soldier, taking a blow to the head.
But the Minotaur had seen the Antinium’s weakness. Their shell-backs. They had no spine. And what did a beetle or pillbug do when it was on its back? It was helpless.
The two went down, and Venaz raised a fist to beat the Antinium into th—
[Offensive Roll].
The world spun. The Antinium rolled off his rounded shell, and Venaz’s head slammed into the dirt. He looked up and saw the Antinium raising four arms. He began to hammer Venaz’s face and chest.
A Skill! A Skill to erase the problem that the Antinium himself had seen. He—
“—OFF ME!”
Venaz threw the Soldier off him with a roar. The Minotaur was bloody-faced but raging. Both warriors got up fast. They pushed themselves up—and The Crimson Soldier was charging Venaz at the same time as the warrior from the House of Minos charged him.
Most people standing up took the time to at least think. Before he was even up, The Crimson Soldier was running at his opponent. Fight or die.
He took a fist that shattered part of the carapace on his shoulder, and Venaz took two punches to the side. He lashed out and glanced off the Soldier’s back-shell—and ate two elbows in perfect harmony. The Minotaur looked down—and stepped back.
He was losing the infighting. Too compact. Too many punches! When he threw a haymaker in desperation, the Antinium captured it with two arms and tried to break his arm by bringing an elbow down.
The Antinium watching had never seen these tricks. A man with a hat, Alcaz, slowly took it off.
“I’ve never seen someone fight like that.”
The Brother of Serendipitous Meetings stared at the four-armed fighting style with the Antinium around him. Learning.
Venaz retreated as the Soldier came at him. He took a breath.
One blow, one death. His eyes, which had regained their usual color in shock—turned red.
“Uh oh. Stop him—”
The Fraerling looked up from his perch, but Venaz howled, and his last charge was a replica of how he had defeated a fellow Minotaur at the Games of Daquin. One blow, with all his weight behind it, aimed at the head.
The Crimson Soldier saw it coming and began to turn. Venaz saw he was shielding his face with two arms on his left so his trajectory changed to the shoulder.
Break the shoulder to pieces and cripple him for life! The Minotaur struck The Crimson Soldier like a sledgehammer and heard a gutteral voice
“[Body: Redirection].”
The Antinium spun with the Level 3 Skill. Spun, and Venaz’s fist missed the shoulder as The Crimson Soldier twisted, and two arms on his right came up to crack four of Venaz’s ribs. The Minotaur roared and stumbled backwards, hand on his sword. He couldn’t win this fight with his fists.
He’d lost.
 
——
 
The Crimson Soldier’s duel with Venaz had stopped most of the fighting, which had already closed out, but Wil Kallinad and his two clones were still holding their own. The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings and Antinium had skirmished with him, but the [Lord] was frowning around the odd encounter when two Hobs ran at him.
Two Hobs versus three [Lords]. The three Wils moved in concert, spreading out to flank their foe. Which was a mistake, because the first Hob with the crystal blade clashed with the first two Wils—backed up as the second parried a swing—and both turned on the third Wil.
“Oh—”
Wil #1 deflected Badarrow’s slash, and Numbtongue calmly ran him through the side. The other two Wils blanched as the Hobgoblins calmly ganged up on the [Lord]. Seeing it, they tried to close ranks.
The two Redfangs spread out, so both Wils were back-to-back. Badarrow and Numbtongue watched each other, and the Wils realized that their teamwork was almost as good as—
“Yah!”
Badarrow shouted. He charged with a giant swing overhead as a feint as Numbtongue leapt forwards with a thrusting strike then backed off before he ran into the tip of Wil’s blade. Both Wils backed up and slammed into each other.
The Redfangs took the moment and Numbtongue tossed his sword. He tossed his sword, and Wil #2 parried it, looked up, and saw the guitar descend down on his head. It made for a fine mace.
“Don’t kill the last one, Badarrow!”
The Hobgoblin grunted as he heard the voice. He and Wil slashed at each other as the off-balance [Lord] tried to fend him off. Badarrow waited for his timing, slapped Wil’s sword down hard, then jumped forwards and booted him between the legs as hard as he could. The [Sniper] saw the [Lord] go white and keel over. He grunted, putting his sword down.
He didn’t like swords as much as bows. But that proved it. He still had it. The Minotaur was just good. The Hobgoblin put a foot on the fallen [Lord]’s chest as Numbtongue, chortling, claimed two magic gemstone swords. Now that was an investment. He almost touched the sword before Niers warned him to stop and sighed.
Curses.
 
——
 
Three [Strategists] were down, and the last one had drawn his greatsword. Venaz saluted The Crimson Soldier grimly as the Antinium backed up. He began to blur with the [Haste] spell and then realized his friends were down.
Dead? No. And Berr and the Wild Wastes tribe hadn’t been fighting. Indeed…they hadn’t gone to the rescue of their valuable clients, but had instead been watching with huge grins.
Even in his battle-haze, Venaz could realize something was off, and the Minotaur was looking around when a familiar voice rang out. Peki, staring up at the sky as Garia and Fierre high-fived; Merrik, blinded and surrendered; Wil, probably in too much pain to hear properly with Badarrow standing on him; and Venaz all heard that familiar voice.
“Students! The simulation is over. Your test is complete. You will now wake up from the illusion spell and receive your final grade.”
The Titan of Baleros stood on his pedestal and looked around. Just to see their expressions. The laughing little giant who cackled at their incredulity in his battle where no one had died—just thought they might.
And people wondered why he had enemies. Ulvama and Bird glanced at each other, then Bird flicked Niers off his pedestal.
 
——
 
As soon as Niers had seen the ambush and realized who it was, he had located Berr and told him to stop fighting. The Gnoll had seen his kin with Goblins and hadn’t decided to go into a blood-crazed slaughter anyways.
That the Titan had let his four prized students fight with the Fellowship of the Inn was because he wanted them to level. And test each other. One could argue his four students had been outmatched from the start in terms of sheer numbers, but Niers had told the really dangerous combatants—and one slightly incompetant one, Fals—to hang back.
Bird, Ulvama, and, naturally, Apista, had all been forced to stay on the sidelines because of their sheer unadulterated killing prowess. The bee hadn’t been mentioned by name, but she knew she was too good for that fight.
As for the students? Well, all of them had still been outnumbered, but the ones who looked truly shamefaced were Wil and Peki. Venaz kept staring at The Crimson Soldier as the Antinium stood, the silent victor surrounded by awed Workers and Soldiers.
“Alright. Who here thinks they did the worst? Class? Let me give you a hint: it’s not who you expect! We’re excluding Venaz for the sheer idiocy of putting away a Relic-class sword to fist-fight an Antinium.”
His students looked at the beaming Professor, rubbing his hands together, strolling about on a little pedestal of wood. Talking as if they were back in class. Wil kept pinching himself just in case this was actually an illusion.
He was a terrible little man. His eyes twinkled, and his greying hair was less well-combed than usual; he hadn’t his flamboyant dress, more like something cobbled together as best as the [Sewer] in the Lomost tribe could do on short notice, and he looked thinner than last they had seen him.
But it was certainly Niers Astoragon, the Titan. A half-foot tall man who dominated every room when he wanted to be known, with a presence a hundred times his height. A twinkle of pure mischief in his faintly violet eyes.
“No one? Alright, let’s start with Peki, who did magnificently, taking down the lone aerial threat, sniping the [Archer]—and then giving way to [Martial Artist] pride and fighting two young women hand-to-hand when she should have been maneuvering around the battlefield. And then losing. Second place—again, we’re exempting Venaz—is Wil, who fancied himself a Gold-rank adventurer and put his real body at risk rather than sending his two copies up as expendables. Third?”
“Professor!”
Wil shouted. The Titan stopped and turned to Wil.
“Yes, Wil?”
“Is that you, Professor? How are you here?”
Merrik was rubbing healing potion on the bug bites, and he was covered in filth. Venaz had cracked his ribs and taken other wounds, but he was ignoring them and just staring around. Peki was rubbing her own arm and ribs, and was tilting her head back and forth. Wil felt—dumbfounded, which he had associated with Niers long ago.
But even so! This was something else. Niers beamed at him.
“It’s a long story, Wil. Let’s just say we both found our adventures, eh? Now…unless we’ve gotten those bastards who tried to kill the ‘Doombringers’, which I doubt, I’m afraid, we have only a few prisoners to interrogate and a lot of catching up to do. Students! Fall in.”
And they did. It was so instinctual that the students found themselves following Niers as Touma the Great carefully lifted the pedestal and brought him over to the prisoners.
The Hekitr tribe was clearly amazed, but the students had been trained to adapt to new events. Honored Berr seemed the most calm out of his company, who were watching the Goblins with visible distrust, but the Fellowship of the Inn were also fairly adaptive.
Some of them. Numbtongue was still peering at Peki, and he realized they were the [Strategists] he’d seen at sea! His jaw dropped.
“This is insane. Goblins? I can understand the Professor appearing with a Gnoll army and a high-level group of fighters. That’s just expected. But Goblins?”
Venaz stomped after Niers. Merrik raised his brows.
“What about Antinium?”
“Pah. He was near Liscor. He must have picked them up. Obvious.”
Peki’s head swung from Merrik to Venaz, and she began nodding as if it were. Wil was still stuck on…well, the bee holding a cigar. He’d noticed it buzzing around, and that was one thing, but he had the distinct impression the bee was actually smoking it.
“My eyes. I think I’m dreaming—or dead. I died on the 5th Wall, and it’s just been a bad dream for the both of us. Is that…the Titan of Swamps and Jungle? The Marsh-parter? The second of the Forgotten Wing Company? Named Adventurer?”
