Perhaps because…he always knew where she was. The Crimson Soldier could see or sense Xeu, or his instincts were just honed from literal years of war. It even commanded Gna’s respect. Niers thought the [Goblinfriend Bug-Captain]—what a class—was beginning to develop the abilities of officers of her rank.
A sense for the experience, aptitude, or simply career of a [Soldier]. Niers, of course, had known The Crimson Soldier was no ordinary Antinium from the start.
However, now The Crimson Soldier—and you had to use the ‘The’, just like Touma the Great was an entire name—showed it. He was a crimson red, obviously, like blood or a thousand sunsets he had never seen. The blood of other species, mind you. His was green.
If Gna entered into the weird, exceptionally rare line of classes like [Swarm Lord], he was going to laugh until he threw up.
Mind you, that’s what Niers wanted to see. There were classes or variations or just tricks on display with this group he had never seen.
Ulvama, by contrast, the [Shaman of the Old Ways], was as boring as you got. Her memories were an interesting trick, but that was bog-standard Goblin. For anyone who knew Goblin classes.
Numbtongue’s lightning song and his guitar? More interesting.
Fierre the Vampire and Gothica the [Goth]? A class that had never existed as far as Niers knew until recently, yet was not green?
Fascinating beyond belief. Niers wanted to stay here and just see what happened to this chaotic lot. What class would Badarrow get when he advanced past [Mountainrange Sniper]? Niers wanted to know, and he would bet the answer would surprise him.
But he had a job to do. And the friends of the inn…the Fellowship of the Inn? No, that sounded stupid. Their growing sense of camaraderie forged in battle wasn’t all that had changed.
They were the center of attention for Gnolls and Goblins marching around them. A tiny group—followed by the Ghostly Hand tribe, and amidst and following Lomost and other Gnolls who’d joined up after their rescue.
Thousands so far, and most of them non-combatants. The highest-leveled fighters were actually the…group of mixed species around the wagon. Which was fine; he had several Level 30+ warriors and [Mages], and besides, these were Gnoll noncombatants.
Every second Gnoll marching or riding along the ground had a bow or sling. Even children could hurl a stone hard enough to crack your forehead.
Not that Niers placed them anywhere near where a sneak attack might occur, if anyone could sneak up on him. But it was the kind of trick that made their perceived threat-count double or triple in an enemy [Strategist]’s [Threat Analysis] Skill if they just went by unit.
That was the kind of mind-game the Fraerling employed. You had to know how the Skill worked, know how to trick it…Niers glanced up as a Drake [Lady] peered around.
“They’re still watching us. Do they get bored?”
It was like an exact replica of his comment. The Goblins, Antinium, Gnoll, Drake, Stitch-girl, and Humans stared at him like some strange relic because he was Niers.
The Gnolls and even Goblins stared at each other and the group riding along like the oddest carnival in the world.
Little Gnoll cubs would race over, sniffing at the strange group, then be called back. Which was a good sign; the adults were losing their wariness of the Antinium and Goblins.
The first few days, they’d refused to move out of their group and had their paws near their weapons. Now? They weren’t comfortable, but after four days of not being stabbed by Goblins in their sleep?
The trick was exposure. Exposure to the Antinium and Goblins made them less of a threat.
It also helped that Bird was there. There was nothing quite like seeing Bird dueting his silly songs with Numbtongue reluctantly playing backup to jar the image of dread Goblins and the Black Tide out of your head.
“Do something interesting, then, Salkis. Juggle knives or something. Anyone?”
“We’re the Fellowship of the Inn, Lord Astoragon, not travelling [Performers]!”
Fierre remarked. Niers scowled.
“Stop calling yourselves that. Who came up with it, anyways?”
“Me.”
Numbtongue raised his hand. Niers rolled his eyes.
“And what are you basing that on? You know ‘Fellowship’ implies you’re all male?”
“Stories I’ve heard. Sounds good.”
The [Bard] was completely unruffled. Niers grumbled.
“It must be a really stupid story, because I’ve never heard of it. Who told you that? Goblins? In which case, I take it back or something.”
“No. Miss Erin told us. You are rude to her. Apologize.”
Bird poked Niers happily in the back. The Fraerling stumbled, raised his crossbow, and Bird drew his hand back quickly.
There they were. Their objective was questionably absent, though Niers had a funny idea he might know what she was calling herself—if not exactly where she was. He glanced at the [Message] scroll.
Then he looked up and inhaled. Numbtongue kept glancing at little Gnoll children with brown, black, red, and blonde fur watching him. He played a little riff on the guitar, and his claws flashed with sparks. One struck Snapjaw’s knee, and she jumped, so Badarrow poked Numbtongue and got a swat in return.
An army on the go, or a people who needed a hand after so many scaly claws had done them an injustice. A Titan on the wrong continent…thousands of moving furry people. Goblins chattering and laughing at the absurdity of it all.
Even Shaik, the Chieftain, riding on a giant Shield Spider, looked in good humor. The only other outstanding members of the tribe were the two white Gnolls. A little girl riding in the center of an odd formation of Gnolls on a wagon next to an older male Gnoll, scratching at his neck uneasily now and then.
And the entire time, the people looked at Niers or the strange circumstances in which they found themselves, amazed. Amazed that he was so calm.
As if he hadn’t been here before. As if the stories of him didn’t tell you that. The Antinium? These Goblins? Never. But Niers remembered the first time it had gone like this.
Slightly miffed, riding along while laughing Lizardfolk [Hydra Riders] dared him to see if he could walk on the practically microscopic lily pads and scum floating in the marshes and Foliana tried eating dragonflies.
Spoilers: he could not, and dragonflies could be poisonous. Then two children came running up.
“Lord Astoragon! Lord Astoragon, I think it’s working! How do I look? Have I changed my class?”
“I—I think I’m getting the hang of it too. Should I keep going, sir? Lord Niers?”
The [Grandmaster Strategist] looked over at the children. Slightly bigger children, but the two City Runners were still young.
Garia Strongheart was sweating and grinning. Fals was just sweating. Niers cheerfully raised his quill and spoke.
“No consolidations yet! Keep at it! I told you—I’m not an expert, Garia. But there’s a reason you practice tricks. Give it another thousand and see where you get.”
Garia nodded, rubbing her hands. But she obediently trotted back to the slightly-amused group of [Shamans], Gnolls armed with rechargeable wands of [Light Arrow], and children. She braced herself, took a breath—and they began to throw mud, fire off arrows, and cast other spells.
She did not dodge. That was another type of training. Instead, Garia did her darndest to deflect each missile coming her way with only her hands, twisting her torso or leaning slightly to the right or left.
Close-quarters deflection and training. Keep it up, and she might learn a Skill.
Of course, the net result was that Garia was soon covered in mud and bruises, but she had the kind of personality that suited her class. Like a [Farmer]’s daughter…she didn’t go insane from repeating her training.
Fals, on the other hand, looked maudlin as Niers told him to do another lap of the army. It might have had something to do with the literal chains and weights tied around his ankles.
“It seems cruel.”
“You mean hilarious.”
Salkis corrected Octavia as the [Alchemist] watched Fals running around the laughing or cheering Gnolls. Niers just shrugged.
“The boy wants to level up and gain a real advanced class. That’s one of the ways to do it.”
Fierre looked at Niers and raised her brows as she adjusted her big hat; she was already beginning to tan despite her layers.
“What if he breaks a leg? It takes like…weeks to heal a broken leg without potions, and you have to be careful of infections if you do use them.”
Niers carefully trimmed his quill with his enchanted sword. Everyone else turned to eye Fierre; she had guessed how long it would take, and she was still off.
“If he breaks a leg, he’d be halfway towards going through what that other City Runner survived. Fals is careful, a classic Runner’s Guild City Runner. He takes few risks, he’s practical, fairly well-liked from how Garia talks about him, and he will never break Level 30 before he’s actually 30 at the rate he’s going. Breaking a leg would help him. So would pushing himself. Running fifty laps with weights on his ankles isn’t half as hard as dodging [Assassins]. If he can’t do even that, he should give up on wanting levels. Which is respectable, but you can’t have both.”
Niers looked up at the silence. Gothica spoke, turning from Icecube to smile at him.
“Mean.”
“I’m being honest. People assume honesty is me being mean. Believe me, when I’m mean, I’ll do more than hurt someone’s feelings. And people assume rudeness is being straightforward.”
Niers snorted. He went back to writing and sighed.
“There.”
“What you working on now?”
Ulvama looked curiously at Niers as he folded up the piece of paper twice his height; he’d been writing hard on it to make it legible. She kept speaking in bad grammar, though he knew she had proper diction.
“Something for Numbtongue. Here. I’d recommend you check out a library later and read these books.”
The [Bard] stopped riffing and took the piece of paper with raised brows.
“Huh?”
He unfolded a list of titles on two columns. Niers smiled.
“Books. Stories and anthologies of songs. Don’t let me stop you from playing.”
“You told Garia to practice blocking magic, and you’re giving Numbtongue a list of songs? What about a weapon art? Can I have one? Know any for daggers?”
Salkis protested. Niers sighed.
“Does his class say ‘[Warrior]’ or ‘[Bard]’? You want a weapon art?”
“Yes, yes!”
Salkis shot up. Instantly, four hands did the same.
“No, me! I am great warrior!”
Rasktooth waved wildly. Snapjaw raised her hand and made Badarrow raise his hand for her.
“Lord Astoragon! Do you know any alchemical recipes?”
Octavia begged. Niers sighed.
It reminded him of class. He looked at Salkis.
“Alright. Take your daggers, form a cross across your chest. Think—stylized [Assassin].”
“Okay.”
Salkis did it eagerly. Niers nodded as she adopted a straight-backed pose, like some warrior flashing their daggers before leaping at you—which was a bad idea since that gave you plenty of time to activate a Skill, but whatever—he nodded and smiled.
“Now, stab yourself through the chest, pray like heck you survive that, and spray the enemy with your own blood. Then you do a leap forwards and slash them. Works like a charm. Trust me, they never see it coming.”
Salkis wavered. She gave Niers a narrow-eyed stare, and he gave the Drake whose class he couldn’t read a calm one in reply. He didn’t have to read it.
He knew a killer when he looked her in the eyes. Niers turned and whistled for Rasktooth and Infinitypear.
“You two. You’re low-level enough that you can level. Go challenge two Gnolls to a match. No blood, no death. But I guarantee you’ll level if you do what I say.”
Rasktooth and Infinitypear looked at him curiously, as did the other [Warriors], as Snapjaw laughed at Salkis, and the Drake sulked. It was a real Skill, but you had to really commit to learning it. And invest in healing potions before you got the Skill.
“How we level?”
“Go challenge one of them. Goblins work too, but between you and me, I’d challenge average Gnolls over Hobs. And when you duel them—Infinitypear, put that gold you found with Rasktooth on the line. Rasktooth? Your necklace…or your dagger.”
The Goblin and Antinium looked at each other.
“But that’s Infinitypear’s only possession, Niers. And Rasktooth’s necklace…”
The Goblin protectively covered the tooth of a Raskghar, which he had taken when he’d won his freedom. Niers nodded, meeting Fierre’s gaze.
“That’s why it matters. That’s why they’ll fight like they mean it. And any Gnoll will want a bunch of gold or a Raskghar’s tooth. Sacrifice. Sacrifice and stakes. Remember that, people!”
Fierre shuddered as Niers used the S-word. His students looked at Niers and began to figure it out. Ulvama was leaning over to prompt the [Strategist] to say something to her, and Octavia was elbowing Badarrow, who wanted to know if there were any bow-themed weapon arts, which of course there were. Bird wanted another story about fantastic birds and where to shoot them.
It was convivial, and Chieftain Orni of the Lomost tribe was riding over to humbly ask Niers for something—perhaps guidance for her warriors. A few Gnoll children were trying to saunter like the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, and Niers Astoragon was turning back to his [Message] scroll to keep talking with Altestiel, Perorn, or one of the pests who had located him.
Then his head snapped up. His eyes narrowed, and the words left his lips.
“Ambush! Straight ahead and in the grass, there!”
He pointed and shouted, and everyone whirled as a patch of slightly tall grass moved, and a group of Gnolls surged to their feet. They were surprised, but already preparing to loose arrows from the bows they held.
Also, the second shout that came after Niers and the short struggle as a bounding little figure—a Lizardman?—leapt up and shouted.
“Look out! Look out, they’re going to—”
Right before a Gnoll tackled him and roared. The other warriors surged to their feet, twice betrayed, and nocked arrows.
Niers had actually predicted their attack, which was practically unheard of, even for someone with [Dangersense]; it told you that you were in danger, but it could be fooled until someone shed their cover Skills or activated a trap.
The Titan, though…he had about thirty seconds on an ambusher sometimes, a lifetime of time. For larger groups or an army in wait? He could sense them up to an hour away.
Even so—off-guard they might be, but they had lain in wait. Now, the Gnolls rose.
Gnolls. The Lomost Tribe’s guards hesitated as they saw groups of Gnolls rising in small pockets. Nearly forty in total; well-armed, wearing magical paint, and holding enchanted weapons.
