[Warriors] of the Plain’s Eye tribe. Five groups of roughly eight, in different spots around the marching group.
Five groups stood; Niers pointed at the one closest on their left.
“[Covering Fire: Archers]!”
Over a hundred arrows shot towards the Gnolls, and they dove. Three went down, magical armor or not. The bow shots had been immediate, before the Gnolls even thought to fire.
Skills.
The second group lifted their bows, and Niers roared.
“[Superior Counterfire]!”
Again, arrows shot towards them, but not hundreds; eight, one for each Gnoll. He heard a howl as they suffered their own attack, and a spectral arrow exploded in flames among their ranks.
Three more.
“[Arrowguard]!”
The arrows snapped and exploded off a barrier in midair. Niers saw the Gnolls cursing, but he was turning. The wagon had exploded into chaos, and his pedestal rocked as Snapjaw surged to her feet—and knocked him off-balance. Niers cursed, falling, as Numbtongue leapt off the wagon, drawing his sword. Ulvama tried to scramble up and got a foot in the stomach as Gothica leapt off her.
Damn! The Titan had gotten three groups at speed; his Skills were as fast as him looking at them and focusing. Two more Gnolls had a bead on their target.
They loosed a volley of arrows each, and the crossfire homed in on their target.
The two white Gnolls.
The little Gnoll girl looked up, uncomprehending. She had barely heard the Titan’s shout, but the older Gnoll tried to cover her. So slow. Neither one was a warrior.
Neither one was a Doombringer. Ulvama’s paint had coated their fur white, and even that had taken some convincing. Niers rolled to his feet just in time to see sixteen arrows, three glowing with enchantments, two more with Skills, home in on them. He looked at the Gnolls—
And grinned as the Gnolls around them snapped up their shields.
A ring of shields rose, and a curious, patterned barrier flickered into life in the air. The arrows snapped or exploded against the combined shield-Skill as the Gnoll [Shieldguard], [Shielded Warriors], and even [Missileward Lineholder] blocked the ambush volleys.
It wasn’t his Skill. But it was his formation. The curious group of Gnolls had been marching in a strange circle-pattern around the two fake Doombringers, which they had kept day and night. They’d kept their shields mostly hidden, but even if the ambushers had seen them—they were just shields. Unless you could fly or toss them up, it wasn’t going to stop arrows unless you were right next to them. Right?
And that’s why you attacked. Howls of alarm and dismay were sounding around Niers as he got to his feet and shouted.
[Commanding Voice].
“Guard the Doombringers! Hold your [Cascade Shield] and don’t move for anything, or I’ll gut all of you! Numbtongue! Gna—kill those bastards. Leave me four and that one. [Mark Target]!”
He whirled and a Gnoll jerked as he lit up. The same Gnoll who was wrestling with a little Lizardman, beating him ineffectually with a staff.
“A Lizardman? Here on Izril? Keep that one alive too!”
Niers whirled and saw the first figure go storming across the ground. Numbtongue, his Dragonblood crystal sword drawn. He was clinging to Salkis’ saddle as she charged, knives out.
She didn’t try Niers’ Skill, but Gna, the Antinium, and the rest of the Fellowship of the Inn were charging too. As well as the Lomost tribe’s warriors. Ah. That was a mistake.
“[Hear Me]! Fall back! Gna—[Speed Raid]! [Rapid Advance]! You lot—get those Gnolls! [Assault Formation]! Archers—those Gnolls! Loose!”
It was a mess of orders from the Titan, but his Skills meant that each group heard him as he intended.
Gnoll [Warriors] slowed in confusion as the elite Doomslayers tried to break for it. Meanwhile, Numbtongue’s group sped up and hit the first Gnoll group.
A second group of Goblins looked up at Niers’ voice and charged with whooping cries at the Gnolls nearest them. Archers loosed on a third group, and Niers turned to personally command a group of Gnolls closing with the Doomslayers he thought they could take.
Simple reasoning, for a [Strategist]. The ordinary [Warriors] would get diced up by what looked like elite [Shamanic Warriors] with enchanted weapons. However, Hobs and enough numbers and his Skills and command would win fights.
No one was going to die except them. Niers Astoragon grinned as the Plain’s Eye hunters tried to run.
“Killing children? Even on Baleros we don’t do that.”
He could have captured them all. One of his Skills was [I Left the Carrion None of Their Due]. A skill for someone who was sick of bloodshed and death and didn’t want to slaughter a foe.
He could always use that Skill.
Niers watched as the Gnolls started dying, but he made sure some survived.
He had questions for them.
 
——
 
The Doomslayers of Plain’s Eye knew their task. They had never stopped to wonder if there was another way.
Until the Lizardman asked, and they looked at him with his horrified eyes. But they kept going. With wrath. Wrath and fear for doom.
What they were not prepared for was wrath in return. The Gnolls had all the anger for the nightmares of their people in their hearts.
The Goblin who charged at them with that crystal sword of blood exceeded that. His eyes flashed with red light, as if it were made manifest. When the Antinium with the feather tucked behind his top hat rose, he didn’t hesitate and put an arrow through the first skull.
They had found their quarry. The Doomslayers looked up, and some saw the giant pointing down at them.
Slaughter them. What did the Plain’s Eye hunters see in the mirror? Just Gnolls?
Child-killers?
What the Goblins, Antinium, Humans, Drakes, Gnolls, that fellowship saw were dead people. They tried to make it a reality.
A [Shaman] stood up and threw the first burning arc of lava into the air. The righteous anger of the Doomslayers clashed with the howl of anger from a Goblin—a monster—and, somehow, it lost.
So they fled and fell, or fought and died.
It was almost a relief. A Gnoll warrior whirled with two axes in his paws. He tore around him, slashing down an arc of lava, and an arrow buried itself in his shoulder, but the magic on his fur protected him. He was fighting, lashing out, forcing a red Antinium Soldier to sway back.
Red? He didn’t know what was happening. He was roaring for them to run, but the other warriors and hunters were being cut down before his eyes.
He was fighting his friend. A little Lizardman hit him with his staff, stabbed him with the sharp tip, fleeing. He had tried to stop them. Called them…
Merish raised his axe, and he could have cut Viri in half. He didn’t. He whirled, threw the axe, and the Hobgoblin with the sword parried it out of the air. He was—good. He whirled it, and another Gnoll went down.
“Retreat! Retreat to the walls!”
Merish was howling. The other Plain’s Eye Doomslayers were running. They didn’t know what he meant, but they understood.
It was over. Merish, though—he saw the Hobgoblin with the sword advancing, blood running along the blade, and the crimson Antinium—more coming. Goblins riding spiders, arrows raining down. So he roared.
“5th Wall stands! It stands—”
The little Lizardman looked back once as the Gnoll spun, lashing out around him. Another arrow buried itself in Merish’s arm, deliberately missing his vital spots. A Goblin [Sniper] calmly shot his other arm.
The Gnoll kept shouting as the Hobgoblin slowed. A voice was telling him not to kill Merish. He wavered.
He very much wanted to. Merish turned.
“Merish! Run!”
Nearly forty of Plain’s Eye hunters were whittled down in a moment. They were still shouting at him, but the Gnoll was looking around. Where were they? Cirille? Where were Paxhal’s warriors? Where was—
Here he died. Some part of him knew it and was relieved. It had just been delayed. The Hobgoblin with that blade stepped forwards, eyes glowing, until the Lizardman leapt forwards. His staff met the sword and caught the first slash. Viri stumbled as the blade cut through his staff.
“Merish, run! Run!”
He landed on the peg-leg, and his staff met the [Bard]’s sword in a flurry of blows that hacked away at his weapon.
Merish heard the voice, amid the dream of Demons. He looked up and saw Viri shouting at him. He turned, blinking.
It looked so far away, but the Gnolls were shouting at him. Merish looked back at the Hobgoblin and the webs that struck Viri.
“Viri.”
The Gnoll began his final charge, but a voice roared in his ears. Loud, booming.
“Are you an idiot, warrior? Retreat! [Warriors Fall Back]!”
Something snapped him out of his rage. Merish turned and ran, and another arrow struck him from behind. But he—looked around as more Gnolls came charging past him?
Who?
 
——
 
“Attack! Attack!”
Chieftain Shaik howled, and Niers spun around. A second wave of Gnolls streamed over a ridge that had managed to hide their swift approach.
“What? I’ve been ambushed? Me?”
The Titan saw a wave of Gnolls cut off the pursuing Goblins and the Lomost tribe’s warriors. They didn’t clash hard; most were on horseback or aided by some kind of speed Skill; they threw nets and other slowing spells.
Distraction. Numbtongue was pursuing the leader of the attackers, though. But someone had seen the [Bard]’s charge and high-level warriors. So…they’d come right at him. Niers saw a group charge straight at Numbtongue.
“I’ve been ambushed. Me.”
He repeated the words slowly. His eyes spun across the battlefield, and there that idiot was, greatsword in hand. A gemstone blade, sweeping forwards as Numbtongue pivoted. The Hobgoblin blinked—and Venaz’s charge carried the two blades into a clash that rang through the air like a crystal bell.
The Minotaur roared as Wil, Peki, and Merrik charged into the Fellowship of the Inn, shouting. Niers took one look at them and began swearing.
“You idiots! You Sariant Lamb-brained, toad-licking, four-fingered, bumbling, incompetent—”
He glanced towards the last Doomslayers. They were getting away. And meanwhile—
 
——
 
“Cover their retreat! With me! With me!”
Venaz met the Hobgoblin with the crystal sword in the first charge. He’d picked him out as some kind of leader. Goblins and Gnolls?
Wil had wanted to find out what was going on, but Venaz had seen them trying to kill the Gnolls and acted. He saw Goblins? He knew which side he was on.
A master-crafted blade. The Dragonblood sword was superior to even an ordinary enchanted blade. However—Venaz bore something made by just as great a master, and his was enchanted.
The Diamond Greatsword of Serept sang as it met the Dragonblood sword and threw Numbtongue back. Venaz whirled the blade, and the Hobgoblin barely survived the next strike. The Minotaur was throwing his weight behind each blow, and he was bigger and stronger than Numbtongue.
What made the [Bard] blink was how fast Venaz was.
[Haste]. The Minotaur blurred across the battlefield, leaving a faint afterimage with each motion. He lifted a blade and deflected an arrow.
“Venaz! Fall back, fall back!”
“No! Push on! Rout them or we’ll not get away!”
The Minotaur knew he was right. They had to beat back this first wave, then run for it. The tribe they were with, the Hekitr tribe, could hamper pursuers with their trapsetting experts, but they were at the mercy of outriders.
Besides…he locked eyes with a second Goblin who appeared, aiming a bow at him with a snarl.
They had [Snipers].
“Bows! Down the bows!”
The Gnolls in his ambush party showered the enemy archers, and they had to take cover. But that Goblin was putting a bead on Venaz. He drew back—
“Hah! Goblins and Antinium? This is a real fight! [Sundering Blow]!”
Honored Berr appeared with a laugh. He tossed up a hatchet—then threw it.
The hatchet whipped through the air and split Badarrow’s bow. It exploded with a curse, and the Hobgoblin lurched back. But not just that—Gothica, waving her parasol, screeched as it too exploded. Gna’s paw rang, and she cursed; it felt like she’d broken her fingers! She peeled off as Salkis raced past her.
“Salkis! Stop!”
The hatchet had taken out three weapons with one throw! Honored Berr looked up as the Bloodfeast Raider leapt from her saddle, daggers flashing at him.
He dug his foot into the ground and kicked a spray of dirt into her face. Then he headbutted her. Then the famous [Berserker] gave into one of his rages.
“Dead g—”
Gna ducked as Salkis went flying past her, then another of Lomost’s warriors. Venaz whirled his blade back and clashed again with Numbtongue as the Wild Wastes [Mercenaries] entered the fray.
[Berserkers], running into the Lomost tribe’s warriors and thrashing them, outnumbered or not. Venaz shouted.
“Peki! Where are you and Merrik? Get your short legs over and—”
He swore, backing up as the [Bard] slashed at him. He was good! He moved like a sword-expert suddenly, and Venaz found himself trading blows.
Not that he needed to order his fellow students.
A Frost Wyvern was diving, poised to ice the entire wave of attackers, when Snapjaw heard Niers shout.
“Above you!”
She looked up. She hadn’t encountered a foe yet who had outmaneuvered her in the skies. But that was because she fought Drakes.
Peki snap-kicked Snapjaw out of her saddle, and the Hobgoblin went screaming over Icecube’s wing. Ulvama pointed desperately up at her to slow her fall, and Icecube tried to dive, snapping at the thing that had attacked it.
“[Anvil Kick]. [Rapid Fire Punches: Incendiary Fist]. This is stupid. Venaz is an idiot.”
Peki dropped, hit Icecube in the forehead, then flashed across the Frost Wyvern’s front. Her fists left a burning trail across his scales, and he dropped, disoriented, out of the sky. She dove as a Dwarf led a charge.
“[Unit: Stone Skin]! Take them down and fall back in order! Venaz, you clod, you’re in too deep!”
The Minotaur was dueling Numbtongue, and the Hobgoblin’s minute was running out fast. Merrik charged straight into Gna, who had recovered her blade, and she swung down, hit his stone-body Skill, and the [War Leader] took her down.
[Body of Stone]. Even stronger than his unit Skill. [Ram’s Charge] knocked Gna flat, and Merrik raised his hammer.
“[Giant’s Hammer]!”
The quaking impact made everyone lurch, and the group of Gnolls advanced on Lomost’s warriors. Meanwhile, the Fellowship was going after Venaz and Merrik.
Rasktooth stabbed Merrik from the side as he brought his hammer up and nearly shattered Gna’s jaw. The Cave Goblin stared at his dagger as it failed to pierce Merrik’s armpit, and the Dwarf backhanded him. Infinitypear lashed at him with his spear, but the Dwarf with a body of stone nearly caved in his chest.
Bird’s arrow saved Infinitypear; Merrik swore as an arrow glanced off his brow.
“Archer! Archer! Peki, take him down! Wil!”
