h effort, she selected a section of the ocean floor and raised it upwards, forming more rock to keep the piece of detached seafloor stable. Slowly, she shaped a simple island but with a massive set of stone stairs on it with twelve statues, six on each side of the staircase. Each statue had an open mouth, slot, or hand where something could be placed.It didn't take much 'coding' to make the island rise to the surface when one group had eight or more orbs in their possession. The raised island connected to the main island that led back to the third floor.Now, there was a very 'neat' little hack that Delta had discovered when she was making up the last floor guardians and such. The more complex and tricky the activation trigger was for an event, the more dangerous or powerful Delta could make the effect for only a little more cost.With focus, she brought up the mirror dimensions of the Dungeon. She purchased the third, and fourth floor mirror dimensions, emptying half of her DP cost in a single purchase.The pain was immense but it was oddly set off by the fact she was making it harder for the mana in the abyss to reach her. The migraine pulsed and she needed to put her head between her knees for a few minutes before she could move again."I am a sunflower, I am a daisy, I am a tulip, I am a friend to the bees…" she chanted in a near song to help her pass the time.Once she let that settle in, she looked at the fourth floor's mirror dimensions and reduced them by half.The third floor, not having the same reduction, was forced to channel itself into narrower paths. For every two exits out of the third floor, there would only be one fourth floor entrance."A treasure hunt is no fun if you're the only one looking," Delta grinned.Two different groups, maybe more, would likely head in different directions to outpace the others that appeared. Once the knowledge of the orbs became known, the other party would have to make a choice of hunting down the remaining orbs or taking the other party's orbs.But she wasn't trying to make a battle royale that would turn the ocean red.With Nu's help, she not only made a new enchantment on the orbs, but a new sign to those that appeared on the fourth floor."The ocean before ye is free. To aid or hinder, only ye can make it be. But, aye, ye be forewarned of the "Curse of the ORBs." The more blood ye spill, the more the Orbs absorb. Aye, the Blood soaked Orbs may open the door but they will poison yer reward. Aye, even worse, the more ye stink of the blood of man, the faster ye be found by Captain Tan."Nu went and ruined Delta's mysterious sign by adding a little hanging one.'If ye seek Captain Tan anyway, just scream ye have candy on a beach. Bonus points if ye have a trenchcoat on. - Nu.'Once that was done, Delta turned to the still exposed island under the water. She bent down and went to the underside of the island, making a tiny nest.Inside, a little snake was formed, split directly down the middle into black and white. It looked up at her and flicked its tongue. Delta gave it hay and anti-water barriers for its nest, a little stone hut, and a bowl of fresh water.After everything, after all the orbs, the forced competition, Captain Tan, and more… this little fella was her activation trigger."I'm going to call you…Phi," Delta said with a smile as the snake buried its head into the hay and emerged, looking like it only had one brain cell and it was stuck on loading."Ophiuchus has been created. Rank: Critter."---"Delta, your room sucks!" Beta screamed as she went waist deep into a step. She slowly pulled herself out with a squelching noise as she reached for the next step which her hand and it sank into the step like wet carpet.'Thewheelsonthebusgoroundandround. I guess she doesn't want step-by-step instructions?'Beta let out a shriek of rage and climbed faster.Beta had to do something. She had to fight fire with fire."That's great, but did you see me and the boys waiting for capitalism to collapse?" she called out and the mana went quiet in confusion.Beta grinned viciously."It's pretty sad when you email your teacher at 2am because you have no life, but it must be worse when they email right back!" she kept finding power to climb faster."Ms Pacman thinks she invented woman power in video games? Insert picture of chessboard!" Beta yelled, moving faster now as the mana was in disarray due to the confusion."Do You know when you're pretty screwed? When even the priest who comes to see you in the hospital has to put a hazmat suit over their bible before they enter!" she yelled, each step yielding to her energy.She was nearing the top."REJECT MUSHROOMS, RETURN TO SINGLE CELLS!" she roared and grasped the ledge of the top of the pillar.There was a pause.'Is this a me-me?' the mana asked and Beta's fingers slipped and she slid down five steps with a scream of anguish.The war was on.---
