Slowly, tentatively, her mind rejoined her body and Ali found herself blinking up at Malika’s concerned blue-eyed stare. She felt unnaturally calm – the unshakable mind granted by Malika’s powerful Clarity skill.

“Aliandra, are you well?” Lira asked, hovering over her like a mother hen.

“I think so,” she answered, slowly sitting up, her friends all gathered around. “I have a passive perception skill, and it got upgraded to include my entire domain,” she said. “I can’t shut it out, but Touch of Clarity is helping.”

“I can keep it going as long as you need,” Malika said.

“Thanks, I just need a few moments to get used to it,” Ali answered. I hope. The information torrent rushed in continuously – she could sense every little piece of mana in her entire dungeon. It filled her mind to the brim, overflowing, stretching it past the breaking point and about to burst from the pressure. All the tendrils and connections of her suddenly much denser domain were jammed in there somehow. She could see the tree in the library as a tower of green, and the voracious maw of the shrine sucking up mana to replenish the two million she had just spent. She could see every thread connecting her to every monster she had made, and she could even see the minuscule puffs of mana as the terrified newbie adventurers in the sewers cast their best defensive skills.

With a thought, she drew her monsters away to give them a little breathing room. She had been unconscious at the time, but she was sure the zone message, the domain pulse of her mana growing vastly denser, and the sudden power-up of her minions had all been overwhelming for them. It wouldn’t do to have any more unnecessary deaths.

“You turned your entire dungeon into a Tithe,” Val’korr said, staring at her with an expression that seemed to hover along the border between question and awe.

“I did?” she asked. She tried not to be, but she was rather chuffed that she had shocked a troll seeker who had been alive since the first age.

“Yes, see?” he said and shared his notifications. “This is what will greet anyone entering your dungeon from now on. The work of your last path. The Domain Tithe node.”

You have entered the Dungeon of Knowledge.Experience earned towards Knowledge and Mastery traits is increased.A portion of this increased experience is tithed to the dungeon.

“Go, Ali!” Mato exclaimed. “That’s what you get for helping all those adventurers get classes and level up!”

Val’korr eyed him askance for a moment, but then said, “The big oaf is not wrong. Authority comes from your reputation and actions, if that was a big part of your growth, then it fits.”

“Wait, does that mean you get experience when people defeat your bosses now?” Calen asked, his eyes growing wider.

“They don’t even have to do that,” Val’korr said. “Just growing their skills is enough.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
