In the hallway outside of the library, Erick paused.

A lot of thoughts were going through his head right now. Like what sort of food did Quilatalap like? He ate like any other normal person, for Erick had already shared pastries and coffee and soda and tea with the man, over many different talks of magic. But was Quilatalap humoring him? Or did he actually like that stuff? His body looked like a rather normal 30-ish year old male orcol in the prime of his life, with muscles and height and what was clearly an active Blessing of Beauty and Brutality (Holy Aloethag, was that active!).

Erick was eager to see if all that he saw worked as it looked like it would work.

He was also worried about his own physical… self.

Just. All of it. Really.

Warlord Linxel had had that [Alter Size] thing going on, so everything worked out rather fine in that one, single instance that Erick had gotten it on with anyone while on Veird. Participating in a Red Dream with Al and Mog did not count at all. Dreams were dreams. Reality was reality.

And in reality, there were size concerns.

Erick was under 2 meters tall, as normal for human males. Pretty average height, really. Maybe, like… A little bit on the taller side? But not really at all.

Quilatalap was 3 meters tall, and all of him was sized exactly as Quilatalap wanted it to be, for he could do that to himself. The man was an ancient lich and technically undead and operating through a bunch of magical effects. So. Actually. Now that Erick thought about it? There wasn’t a problem at all? Quilatalap could probably change himself… Though would that be rude to ask?

And anyway Erick could pop out for a moment, turn into a dragon, and then turn back into an oversized human, and he’d be, like, 2.5 meters tall at least. Worst-case scenario Erick could—

OH!

Dragons had [Perfected Polymorph]. That spell was innate; a thing that every single dragon gained whenever they fully became a real dragon, either through being born-that-way, or through the gaining of Dragon Essence. Erick no longer had a reason to hide that he could change into other people at will.

Okay.

All crises of size and shape were averted.

Now to deal with whatever crisis was standing in front of him, because the moment Erick had stepped out of the Shade Tower, there was a person waiting for him.

Erick said, “Hello, Aisha. What’s up?”

“… I am not entirely sure.” Aisha looked to Erick. “I am concerned about something you did this morning. Maybe a few hours ago? Maybe just ten minutes ago?”

“Oh? What could I— Oh.” Erick nodded, saying, “I eliminated the need for runic webs in a great deal of normal use-cases. Is that it?”

Aisha’s eyes went wide.

Erick nodded. “Yeah. Big change.” He handed off the box for [Node of the Renewing Undertow], saying, “Let’s walk and talk.” He gestured down the hallway, toward the stairs that led down into the center of the atrium. He started walking, and Aisha rapidly caught up. “The breakthroughs with the Denial Spheres were necessary, and physical [Renew] runic webs will have to happen eventually for stability’s sake, but I needed a solution right now to new mana transportation concerns. It’s not ideal, but it is what it has to be. Because we’re hosting Shadow’s Feast this year, and I’m going to call it something else… Not sure yet. And I need the Network as stable as possible, as well as the stability of my Feast Barrier magics. Which brings me to this: Do you want to be a part of the Feast?”

Aisha’s eyebrows came together as she walked beside Erick. To her vast credit, she only flinched a little. Then she asked, “And the Shades will all be arriving here, I assume?”

“Yes. About a day ahead of schedule. It’ll be all of them and a plus one, or something, I assume. That fairy and Bright Smile will be coming here, too.”

Fairy Moon stepped onto the ground on Erick’s other side. “You called?”

Without missing a beat, Erick said, “I very clearly said ‘that fairy’, so as not to draw your attention unduly, but now that you’re here: You have to give a presentation on whatever good-for-the-world thing you have done this year, and you also have to bring some sort of thing to share with everyone else. If you want, you can bring along someone else in addition to Bright Smile and have the other person run a booth, presenting your good-for-the-world thing, whatever that might be. I think the party will start at sunset, proceed through normal time till midnight, and then I’ll lock us all into a good 2-ish day party inside the entire house… Or maybe I should make a new location. Haven’t actually decided on that particular solution, yet.” Erick had some more words he could have said on all that, but they had reached the staircase leading down into the atrium, and Erick didn’t want Fairy Moon to be present for all the rest of what he had to do today. So he looked to Fairy Moon. “I plan on everyone being there for the first half of the night, and then only a select few of us heading off to the days-long party. I’ll also be handing out some small gifts to everyone present. Haven’t figured it all out, but I will.”

Fairy Moon nodded. “I will have gifts to give as well. … And probably another person to ply the presentation— I must prepare!”

And then she vanished again.

Erick said to Aisha, “We’re going to prepare, too, but it will be a relaxed sort of preparation. I might be putting all of the House into a Hasted zone, so report back to me on the feasibility of that, for I would be kicking everyone out of the House and their homes in the various towers while this happened… And I’m just now realizing how much of a nightmare that will be. I’ll have to have the party elsewhere— Contact Architect O’Lark for me. See if he can design a simple party space… Maybe 5 kilometers by 5 kilometers by 1? Flat and wide and open, but with places for people to live in, and it has to be nice…” He thought. He said, “Yes. Tell him what it is for, too. If he doesn’t want to design a location in the next two days, then that’s fine.”

Aisha nodded, and said, “As you command.”

“I’m going to do a lot of things right now, and so if you have more questions feel free to send a message and ask—” Erick sent an Ophiel to the house, to see if Poi was back from his own obligations yet. And he was not. Erick came back to himself. “Poi will be back soon—” Erick was pretty sure. “—Might as well wait for that.”

Aisha turned around and went back to the Office of Magic.

And Erick went down the stairs, down into the center of House Benevolence, where people ate at the atrium, and also in any of a dozen different places around the food court. Almost directly across the space, Atalle Slipstream’s Saucery was beginning to transition to their lunch menu. Servers of all kinds were already seating people there, as there was a small line waiting for that transition.

Erick walked around the room, causing a small hush as he went, though a lot of the normal people paid him only the barest bit of mind. It was only the visitors who really stopped what they were doing and looked at him, their small conversations turning to hushed whispers or telepathic links. None of the people here looked particularly threatening, so Erick paid it no mind.

Erick kept on walking, right up to the Saucery—

A stir in The M Eatery, to the right, caused Erick to pause, as a very attractive human man came out from behind the door to the kitchen and rushed straight for Erick, looking right at him. The guy was Donny, an 8 star Cook from the Cooking Guilds of Nelboor. He was also desperately trying to get preferential treatment, for Erick had hired a bunch of high-star Cooks, a lot of them had ended up here in the atrium, and a lot of them, like Donny, were falling behind when it came to popularity, and number of customers. There was nothing wrong with Donny’s food; it was rather fantastic. But the competition was stiff, and now that Donny was young again and exploring his options, he wanted to expand. He wanted to expand, a lot.

Donny came right up to Erick, asking, “I have amended my previous request. I want to open a restaurant on Financial Road.”

“You stopped wanting to open a place on the lakeside of the Gate District?”

“I have! You haven’t built anything there yet, and I will not be the first place there; I know this now.”

“Have you spoken to Zolan about this Financial Road business?”

Donny stood a bit taller, as he gladly said, “This morning. I was told that Castellan Zolan would need to speak to you directly.”

“He’s probably planning on that soon enough.” Erick said, “Listen, Donny. You’re probably going to get your request fulfilled this time. I can’t talk about that right now—”

“You’re headed off to the Saucery though, right?” With a deeply serious tone, Donny said, “Whatever Atalle can do, I can do the same, and with a lot more drive to make it work however you want.”

… Erick rapidly decided a few things.

“I’m going to be preparing for a lot of large feasts and for multiple days rather soon, Donny. You can be on that list if you want, and if you promise you won’t get scared when meeting the gaze of Melemizargo, and if you can keep secrets like your life depends on it. Because it will.”

Donny’s eyes went wide, his heart suddenly beating hard. With a suddenly dry mouth, he said, “I can do that.” And then he steeled himself. “I can do that, sir.”

“Good. Be prepared for 4 feasts in a week. Roughly 50 people each time. Dinner, breakfast, dinner, and breakfast again. Stuff for two lunches and two midnight things. Don’t worry about prepping enough food for dragon stomachs; I’ll find a way to handle that myself.” Erick added, “And I’ll be asking Atalle for the same, so you’ll be coordinating with her and whatever. Maybe one more person, too, though I haven’t decided who.”

Donny stood firm. “Understood. Thank you, Wizard Flatt. I will not disappoint you.” He bowed deeply, then rose again. “Thank you— AHH!” He jumped back.

Because the golden dragonkin and Shade of Assassination, Goldie, wisped in beside Erick, asking, “I thought I was coordinating?”

“I decided I wanted to coordinate, too, Goldie.” And then Erick turned to the Saucery and started walking. “We can go together.” While quite a few people either stared or rushed away or casually tried to pretend that nothing was wrong, Erick asked Goldie, “Did you coordinate food yet?”

“Not at all!” Goldie walked strongly beside Erick, saying, “I haven’t gotten much beyond yelling at other Shades.”

Erick chuckled. “Ahhh… I hope I don’t have to do any of that this year.”

“You will. I’m already telling them that they have to behave and they’re mostly listening, but—” Goldie confided, “They’re all insistent upon being granted lives here, like me.”

Erick made another, perhaps foolish decision, “Tell them that it is possible, but probably not likely.”

Goldie blinked a bit, her whole-white eyes briefly dimming behind golden lids. “… I was telling them to fucking forget it and to stop asking?”

“It’s not that complicated to get me to approve of individuals, Goldie. People just have to be willing to be better today and tomorrow than they were yesterday.” And then Erick remembered the guy with the missing arm whom he had almost had killed on thoughts of being a face stealer. Erick added, “Obviously the world doesn’t actually work that way, though; it takes time and change for healing to actually happen.”

Erick made a personal note to go investigate that missing-arm guy.

Goldie kept right beside Erick, silently nodding.

- - - -

In the back of Atalle Slipstream’s Saucery, Erick (and only him, for Goldie was in the wind) met with the 10 star Cook who ran the place, in Atalle’s side office. She was a rather strong-bodied demi woman of pale blue skin and dark blue everything else, with an inner fire that roared when it came time to cook. She was not too full of that inner fire right now, though.

Erick said, “Sorry to wake you, Atalle. I know you’re on the dinner shift.”

Atalle yawned wide, blinking a bit as she tried to wave off Erick’s apology. “Dooon…” She yawned again. “Don’t worry about it, Wizard Flatt. What can I do for you this morning?”

It was technically afternoon, but Erick didn’t mind that. Atalle probably would have been more awake for this conversation if Goldie was actually visible, but Goldie was not currently within sight, of any sort. It was just Erick and Ophiel here at the moment. Visually, anyway.

“A few things. I’ll be accepting your invitation to eat tonight, along with a guest—”

Atalle woke up instantly, gasping a little and fully ready to ask for details, but she waited.

“— and I’ll also be needing your catering services for an upcoming 2 to 3 days of parties.” Erick said, “More details to follow about all that, but I’ve already enlisted the help of Donny from The M Eatery, and I’ll probably get one more person to help with all that. That party will likely happen under the eyes of Melemizargo, though, so if you don’t feel up for that then tell me now and I will look for others to cater that event.”

“I will make you a grand dinner tonight, Wizard Flatt!” Atalle rapidly said, “As for the party: I have cooked for practically every important person in the world at least once or twice, and for the Headmaster every other week for several years. I can handle being under the gaze of Melemizargo and even Shades. This is not a problem, but I do need full details on the events.” She added, “I already have events planned for Triumph of Light, but I can certainly add more for you.”

Erick smiled a little bit. Atalle was truly an unparalleled Cook.

Erick said, “Maybe 55 hours of events; 2 and a half full days and nights. 50 people each feeding time. Starting with dinner, then midnight meal, then breakfast, lunch; repeat, and then going to dinner once more. It won’t interrupt Triumph of Light plans, because it’s all going to happen on Shadow’s Feast, though we’ll call it something else. Shadow’s Triumph. That’s what this party is for. I’ve been tapped to host, and I cannot refuse.

“It’ll start at midnight, and then I’ll be putting up [Hasted Shelter]s across the entire venue, which will probably be here in the House. Everyone else will be evacuated. Probably. I might get another venue, but it’ll probably happen here.”

Atalle looked at Erick for a long minute, her eyes flickering around as she thought.

