And then she said, “I can do a Shadow’s Feast. I won’t deal with any powers-that-be in my kitchen, though. If you’re hiring two others and Donny is one of them, then I can coordinate with him, and I suggest you pick either Lisa or another good Dessert Cook to round us out. Our staff will be protected too, of course. I would prefer to work out of here and then you can [Gate] us to the venue— Magic doesn’t work so well inside of a [Hasted Shelter], right? That could be a problem… But we can work around that.”

Erick smiled a little, then they got to talking.

Twenty minutes later, their preliminary conversation was over, and Erick was exceptionally glad that he had Atalle here at the House. She had understood what would happen to the Script Seconds when under time compression, and she had understood just how dangerous Shades could be. She was above and beyond any Cook that Erick could have asked for.

But he could ask her, “Is there anything I can do for you to make your job here better? More satisfying?”

Atalle laughed loudly. “This is the best job I have ever had, and I can’t fault the benefits, either! We’re good, Wizard Flatt. Very good. Very satisfied.”

Erick smiled. There were a few more words, but he soon moved on, for Poi was back from whatever he had been doing all morning, and now Poi waited at the house. He seemed to be waiting to drop an information bomb, actually.

Erick tried not to give away his sudden worry over Poi as he left Atalle behind, but the canny woman had probably picked up on his sudden need to exit the conversation anyway; she was pretty good about reading people, too. There was no way she knew the exact reason he had needed to exit, though.

Erick didn’t even know that exact reason.

- - - -

Erick reviewed some recent facts as he stepped back into his home.

Poi had gone missing a few times, recently. Looking back, Poi had had some ‘days off’ every other week or so for a while now. It had mostly started when Erick was finally able to sleep in a [Hasted Shelter], and there was no need to protect him nearly as much as Poi, Teressa, Kiri, and others had been protecting him.

These days, Teressa was mostly at the Benevolence Research Tower, doing Benevolence stuff.

Kiri was over with Tasar or Mox, changing the landscape and learning about Spatial Magic and dungeoneering, and then doing that Spatial Magic and dungeoneering.

Jane was still in the Underworld with her team. Last Erick heard, they were ripping it up down there, tearing through historically deadly environments and transforming them into livable land. The subjugation and cultivation of some ‘Healing Waters Cavern’ down there was apparently a Big Deal for about 40 villages and several large cities in the depths of the world. Erick wasn’t quite sure why it was a big deal, but it was; everyone assured him. Erick thought those Healing waters were a quick way to get super cancer.

And Poi… Was doing something secretive.

Erick trusted Poi perhaps the most of anyone on Veird. Poi could have his secrets.

Erick had not pried, for his people could do whatever they wanted, whenever they wanted. And thankfully, Erick was able to go out into the world and not worry about sudden assassinations anymore, thanks to his 1,000 absolute damage reduction, combined with 95% damage reduction from Constitution. Even Tasar wasn’t as present as she usually had been, which Erick knew Tasar had been thankful for. For all Tasar’s friendliness, she was much more comfortable teaching Kiri various magics than she was being around Erick all the time, now that Erick was also a dragon.

Tasar was having some trouble with that particular transformation. A lot of people were. Erick had gotten concerned letters from all over the world, once it became apparent what he could do, and what he was doing.

And, perhaps, as Erick stepped into the kitchen dining room, and Poi froze and set down the pasta dough he had been rolling out, Erick wondered if Poi was freaking out about the dragon thing, too. Or maybe whatever was happening with Poi was about the Shadow’s-Feast-thing unfurling today.

Erick verbalized the rest of this thought, “Or is something concerning you, personally, Poi?”

Poi thought about lying, but then he breathed a bit, and said, “My sister wishes for a [Reincarnation], and to be made into her proper age she would have been if not for being torn apart and remade by Shades for the past… long while.”

“Okay. Done. When does she want it?”

“… An hour after you agree to it, whenever that should happen.” Poi added, “In light of this new information with the Feast I must say that this might be a way to get you to do something for Shade Farix. I don’t know what, though.”

“Yup. I agree. But I’m still going to help you with your twin sister. I haven’t pried before now, because I trust you, but is that where you’ve been skipping off to, all this time?”

“Yeah. It was. Mostly I was just… talking…” Poi took his hands off of the dough he had been making, and then he dismissed his conjured gloves. Bits of dough fell from those gloves to land back on the dough ball. And then Poi went to the kitchen table and sat down, not saying anything.

Erick whipped up some tea, letting Poi stew, and letting the tea stew between them. Erick sat down across from the sapphirescale man. He waited.

Poi eventually said, “I want her here, Erick. Not in the house, but… Nearby. Close. And yet… That would be a breach of security wider than Goldie walking around at your side all day long. And what’s worse is that there’s no real time for this shit in my life.” Poi looked to Erick, saying, “I thought I left this pain behind me. I thought Rizala was dead. I moved on! But no! She’s been a shadeling all this time. She watched me from the shadows sometimes. She saved my life... Once when a leviathan crashed out of the shadows and another… I didn’t know she was there… That she was still there. All these years of her being there and me not knowing she was there. I couldn’t know though? Right? I couldn’t know. I didn’t know—” His throat closed up as tears streamed down his face.

Erick went to him and held him for a while, and Poi held Erick back.

Poi shook as he sobbed, and Erick just held him.

After a minute, Poi pulled away. His eyes were red. He rubbed them with the back of his hands, careful of his scales. And then he blinked a bit and sat down. He drank his tea.

Erick sat down and drank his own tea, too. When another silent minute had passed, Erick said, “I’ll hire her for the House if you want.”

“… Yeah. She and I… We talked about… A lot of stuff. She would work at the House.” Poi shuddered again, then looked at Erick, saying, “She’s a good Mind Mage. Uh… I wanna say Enforcement, but. That’s your call.”

“Enforcement it is.” Erick stood up. “Let’s go meet with her and with Farix. See what the Shade is planning.”

Poi just nodded.

- - - -

Erick transformed the bare orange stone of a very small part of the desert into a solid platform about ten meters across. And then he and Poi waited on a corner of that platform. The sun glared in the western sky, but it wasn’t that hot. It was never really that hot in the Crystal Forest. Erick felt that was more due to his own Health and Constitution and absolute damage reduction allowing him to weather the weather, but even before he had all this power, simply having Health was enough to make the hot sun rather bearable.

For a good five minutes, Erick let his mind wander, to think more about the problems of the day—

And then Erick turned his attentions to the other corner of the platform.

There, under the bright sun, shadows began to gather.

Farix stepped out of the air. He was more clothed than Erick mostly remembered him, as he was wearing full black robes and a suit underneath those. His skin was still pale blue while all the other parts of him were bright white, like his full-white eyes. He looked to Erick, and stood tall.

And then a sapphirescale woman stepped out next to Farix. She looked rather a lot like Poi, but not at all; not really. Rizala wore simple conjured robes, like one might wear inside a hospital, when disrobing quickly might prove necessary. It was appropriate garb for a [Reincarnation].

Erick opened with, “Hello, Farix.” He looked to Rizala. “Hello, Rizala.”

Farix smiled a little, saying, “I’m looking forward to the party, Erick. Want me to run the bar again?” He held up a rather large sock. “I brought my outfit!”

“You are free to wear whatever you want the whole time, but I’m having the whole thing catered by high-star Cooks and there’s going to be a fae in attendance, as well as a few dragons.”

Farix frowned a little. He put the sock away, saying, “I suppose a cold Feast is better than no Feast at all. Will the orgies happen?”

“… Probably not.”

“That’s not a ‘no’!” Farix smirked a little, then he spoke of Rizala, “This one wants to move on from my employ. You taking her, Erick?”

“I am.”

“Good! Treat her well.” Farix made a shooing motion at Rizala, and then he waved to Erick. “See you at the party!”

Farix stepped down into the shadows, and then he was gone.

Rizala remained. And she had paperwork—

Poi stepped forward, saying, “Erick. This is… Rizala. My sister. Separated as children and… Well you know the story.”

Rizala bowed deeply, then stood back up, saying, “It is an honor to meet you, sir.”

Erick gladly said, “Any family of Poi’s is family of mine. So how about we get you into a body that’s yours? We can do all the real talking later, after you recover from this magic.”

Rizala breathed a bit, then she said, “Yes, sir.”

She wiped away a tear. Poi wiped away a tear.

There were a lot of emotions, and Erick really wanted to be there for Poi, but Poi was purposefully keeping Erick at arm’s length about this. After a bit of explanation about how this would work, Erick got to making magic.

Soon, Rizala was Rizala again, but different. Same sapphire scales. Same height and sex. Same looks. Her fracture of futures turned out a bit oddly, for Erick saw a clear break in possible futures between ones where Rizala had telepathic tendrils on her head, and another set of futures where all those telepathic powers were gone. That was the difference between being a Mind Mage or not, Erick figured.

Poi said, “Yeah. That’s that… We suspected that something like this would happen with a known Mind Mage, so… It’s good for confirmation, I guess.”

“Do you see a future that you think she would prefer out of these options?” Erick gestured at a certain part of the fractured futures. “There’s tens of similar ones, all of which her paperwork says are fine.”

Poi warred with himself for a moment, then he told Erick which one Rizala would have truly wanted.

Erick picked the future with Rizala as a nexus of telepathic tendrils, helping to root out abusers of Mind Magic the world over. She still had her body, though, so she wasn’t a full creature of Mind Magic. She even had a few children. It was the future she requested, the future right next to the one Erick was going to pick anyway, and so it was an easy wish for the future for Erick to grant.

Erick floated Rizala off on a Platform, through a [Gate], into a [Fairy Stronghold] that he had conjured on Yggdrasil. And then Poi went with her.

“We’ll talk later?” Erick asked.

From the other side of the [Gate], Poi nodded. “Yeah. Let’s talk later. But…” He looked to his sister. “I need to be here for her when she wakes.” He turned back toward Erick. “Thank you for understanding.”

And Erick did.

He shut the [Gate].

And then he stood there on the orange stone platform, alone.

That whole thing had been rather surreal. From Poi suddenly asking to [Reincarnation] his sister, to meeting with Farix and not having an actual problem with him, to meeting Rizala for the first time… And yet not really meeting her at all.

… Erick decided he needed a second opinion on what had happened there.

But he was too busy to really pursue that right now. He had taken most of the morning off to deal with the letter from Fallopolis, but stuff was piling up back at the Castellan’s Office. Zolan was going to be a part of Shadow’s Feast— or ‘Shadow’s Triumph’? Whatever it ended up being called, Erick decided to call it the Feast for now.

And Zolan would want to be present at the Feast… Probably?

- - - -

Erick sat in the guest chair of Zolan’s office. He had just finished explaining what was going to happen, or at least most of it. A lot of this Feast was up in the air right now, and there was no telling which way it would land, exactly.

Zolan sat in his normal chair, thinking. “And there’s no way for you to deny this burden placed upon you?”

“Nope.” Erick elaborated, “I could choose not to do this, but it would happen anyway, outside of my sight and control, and I would be expected to show up for it. No one has said this much, directly, but I can already see the writing on the wall. It’d be a much harder ballgame if I chose not to play. And, you know, there’s this whole ‘treaty between all sides’ thing I got going on here.”

“… Right. Of course.” Zolan breathed out, “Because the Darkness will not be ignored.”

“Exactly.”

“… Okay. I’ll, uh, make it happen— Or rather I’ll work off of everything else you’ve already created.” Zolan tossed aside his worries and sat up straighter as he said, “This would explain the letter we got from Aisha about O’Lark, then—”

Erick’s hopes went up.

“—he says ‘absolutely not—”

Erick’s hopes went down.

“—not in a million years’.” Zolan said, “But since the options were someplace new or House Benevolence, I am glad that he said ‘no’, because now I can work on securing the entire House for the party. Get most people temporary rooms— Actually. It’s probably time for all of the people who live here at the House to move to Candlepoint, and take the Gate here in the morning, along with all the other people. We’re past most of the worries of sudden violence, and it would be good for the community if people weren’t segregated into towers. This is the perfect excuse to clear house… And ‘House’, too!” He smiled a little bit, happy that he could make a small joke there at the end.

Erick grinned, too. “I approve. So will you come to the Feast?”

