“… Historically, the Feast is mostly a very extravagant party, except if you’re not invited, and then it’s a chase and a murdering. So if you’re hosting it, and if you can guarantee safety, then yes, I will come. A first-hand account of a Feast always helps our side of things to be able to know, exactly, how the Shades are fucking us over, and there were many parts of your account of Last Shadow’s Feast that didn’t add up.”

“Uh?” Erick blinked a bit, frowning. “What didn’t add up?”

“There’s always an orgy and you would have been forced to attend, but there was no orgy in your account.”

Erick burst out laughing.

Zolan defused all tension, saying, “It’s the highlight of the Feast! And you’re way too prudish. There’s so much information we could have gathered at— Now now. All this laughing isn’t helping. Why didn’t you record the orgy, Erick? It’s a very serious question!”

Erick would have thought it a serious question if Zolan wasn’t smiling the whole time he said it. So Erick just laughed.

And then Zolan happily took out a folder from his desk, saying, “And now that you’re in a good mood, let’s talk about Stratagold’s formal request that we not change the Gate Network over to per-ton and per-person rates, and continue to use cost-value shipping rates.”

Erick’s good mood soured. “I have a better idea. I want to show you some new magic.” He handed over the box for [Node of the Renewing Undertow], saying, “I call it ‘runic web in a spell’, or, in other words, a [Renew] Network.”

Zolan’s good mood soured. “… Ah. That’s a big change.”

“Yes! It is!” Erick got up from his seat, asking, “Wanna see me wire all of the Gate Network together into one grand unified spell? So we don’t have to worry about any part of it failing due to lack of mana upkeep?”

Zolan sighed. “It wouldn’t be a day around here with another miracle, I suppose.”

“Ohhh! It’s not that much of a breakthrough! It’s [Renew] and a Mana Drain and a transferring spell! I’m not sure why I didn’t come up with it sooner.”

- - - -

One by one, Ophiel went out across the Gate Network, flying down the center of Gate Road, flitting above the Undertows and the Gates that led to Stratagold, and Portal, and back and forth into the Wayfarer’s Guild embassy. Ophiel flew over the Financial District, and all the Gates that led to Candlepoint, and Gambler’s Rest, and to Weald and Spur. Everywhere Ophiel flew, in precise ordered lines, and in the air about 600 meters up since he could simply put the Nodes that high if he wanted, Erick created tiny stars inside shadowy spaces—

Back in his office, overseeing the Gate District, Erick said, “Oh. I could make art out of this.”

—that connected to each other with perfectly straight beams of light, like threads from point of light to point of light. Soon, Erick had formed a network of ‘runic webs’ across the land and through the sky, knitting together points to points.

… And then he went back and adjusted some of his point-to-point systems, to clean the whole thing up and make it look less like a haphazard mess. His second attempt looked a lot cleaner, for sure. And this time he even propped up some lines of light that went directly through the Gates themselves. He kept those Gate-transversing lines of light to the upper corners of the Gates, to keep them out of the way of others—

But people on the ground did not like that something was happening with their Gates.

Erick pulled back his experiment as he was starting to freak out some of the guards at the Gates.

Okay.

Quite rapidly, everything devolved. Zolan reported lots of incoming telepathic messages. Poi called in, talking about the same.

And thus, Erick canceled all the magic he had put up, ending the whole program, for now. He had tried to do something too new, too fast, and people wanted to know what the fuck he was doing, and also, Erick saw some problems already.

First major problem: The current version of the Gates Erick had created had no upper limit to how much mana they could absorb, so when Erick put power into the Node Network (tentative name), all that power instantly went to the closest possible Gates, and none got to any of the later Gates. So that was a complete failure that Erick had not accounted for.

The problem there was actually in the metal runic webs, and also in the spells themselves. Both were able to absorb millions of mana-turned-magic, and the runic webs would melt before they ran out of room for more power.

He would need to make a Gate version 5 to fix that problem; installing a ‘cap’ on how much mana a Gate could hold.

Second major problem: A lot of people really did not like magical effects trailing through their Gates. Spur, especially, gave Erick a very strongly worded letter of ‘please find another way’ other than stringing lines of light through their Gate.

Erick had already come up with a solution for that problem too.

He would change the runic web inside the Gate to allow for a second, much smaller [Gate] onto the top of the Gates, allowing Erick to drop a line of power from each Node Network down into both halves of every Gate he made.

Third major problem:

Archmage Riivo, Headmaster Kirginatharp, King Alfonin, and also, inexplicably, Bright Smile, all suddenly wanted to know what the fuck Erick was doing, and how had he managed to make a runic web without any metal at all. They had all used rather polite wording, but Erick very much understood the gist of what they were really asking.

The third problem was the easiest to solve… Maybe.

So Erick scheduled a meeting.

- - - -

Inside a [Fairy Stronghold] that was basically inside of Erick’s own throne room, Erick had set up a small demonstration. Twelve points of light, spaced equally around the entire room, glowed within shadows. Each one connected to its nearest neighbors, creating a very loose ‘net’ of light around the room, almost like a very, very wide dreamcatcher. But since Veird didn’t have that sort of concept, when Erick had used that word to explain the net’s shape, he had needed to explain that word, as well, which led to a small tangent that could have gone much, much deeper, if the nature of his ‘Node Network’ wasn’t such a large upset to how things were usually done.

Kirginatharp pulled back from his inspection of the spell, saying, “It’s a variation on a theme of expandable spellwork done through cooperative casting, though it seems [Renew] makes such expansions much, much easier to create.”

Archmage Riivo said, “It is a lot more than a simple variation on cooperative casting.”

“Quite right, Riivo,” Kirginatharp said.

The Second to Rozeta was currently enchanted by a bright and giggling [Shooting Star] of Erick’s that was currently playing around in the light around a node, like a child holding a ribbon taut as it raced around a maypole. No matter where the ‘designated’ spell moved, if it was connected to a node, that node kept that connection strong, and unlike with the runic webs inside the Gates, natural spellwork could only take in double its original mana before it could take no more. That [Shooting Star] cost 250 mana and lasted 5 seconds, but thanks to Erick cycling Ophiels into the drain of the Node near the throne, the bright ball of light in front of Kirginatharp had lasted 15 minutes, so far.

Erick had a few other [Shooting Star]s connected to other Nodes around the room, and for good reason. Apparently, that spell was his only spell that lasted a short while, and which was easy for a learned person to look at and say to themselves, ‘Yup; that’s getting [Renew]ed, alright.’ Other people had spells that they wanted to test out, though, so Erick helped them with those, too.

Archmage Riivo stood at a different Node, where he had emplaced a sphere of simple light which changed color depending on how much time was left on the spell. ‘White’ was when the spell was at over 55 seconds left of its full 60 second duration. Right now, though, that sphere was at a ‘blinding white’ stage, so Riivo knew something was going on there.

Riivo spoke across the room at Kirginatharp, saying, “The notion that spellwork can be [Renew]ed past its initial spell cost is also a rather large change.”

“Not that much of a breakthrough.” Kirginatharp said, “Not that disruptive, in my opinion, considering the opportunity costs of magics such as these.”

Riivo nodded, saying, “The real breakthrough is the ability to keep runes hidden from general sight. With a Node Network, there is no need to expose the true nature of runes and runic webs to any possible prying eyes.”

Kirginatharp nodded as he continued to watch the [Shooting Star] play around its tethered node.

“… Ah. I wasn’t actually considering that foible at all.” Erick said, “I wanted to make it easier to upkeep the Gate Network.”

King Alfonin Stratagold couldn’t come to this, so he had sent another in his place.

Kromolok, the Grand Inquisitor of Rozeta, said, “This will certainly make it easier to do that. So congratulations, Erick; you have circumvented the possible release of runes into the world. We all thought that that was going to happen as you continued your current path, but not anymore.”

“Might still happen, though,” Riivo said.

“In a much smaller way, it might still happen. Not nearly as large of a disruption as it would have been had you put down runic webs under the streets, Erick,” Kirginatharp said, turning to Erick. “This has been rather amazing. Many different sorts of congratulations are in order. I’m particularly happy to have another dragon around, along with all the other ones you have managed to uncover and transform, too. However Benevolence is managing to crush the Curse, it is doing it quite well.”

Erick asked, “Do you want to talk about that Gate to Oceanside, now? I'll have to update the entire Network with a new Gate design in the coming weeks in order to take advantage of this new magic, so adding another Gate to the pile is rather easy.”

Kirginatharp grinned a little. “I do want that. I also want to talk about setting up some sort of dragon collective with those who are staying in this world, under your power. I see you trying to avoid that conversation, and I will respect that decision for a while, but not forever.”

“Ahh. Well. Yeah. I had been trying to avoid that topic.” Erick said, “It’s all rather in the air right now. Every one of the dragons I Benevolence’d are doing odd little things. Mostly going out of their way to help people now and again, but we had our first murder by a dragon the other day. It’s in the courts right now and it’ll probably be a landmark case… I’m waiting to poke my head into that when all the facts are finally revealed.”

Riivo, Kromolok, and Kirginatharp all considered those words.

Riivo, Kromolok, and Kirginatharp all already knew of that particular court case, though.

Kirginatharp seemed to speak for all of them as he said, “I want to talk with you about all that, at length, another day. Perhaps when the full facts of that murder case are pulled apart by your Enforcement, but I’ve heard of a different, slightly more pressing issue. You’re hosting a ‘Shadow’s Feast’?”

Erick had been ready for that. There had been multiple purposes for inviting all these people here, and for them, this new ‘runic node web’ was just the excuse to talk about the Feast.

Erick said, “It was either I host the Feast, or watch it be hosted elsewhere and then get ‘invited’ to join. And so, I’ll host it right here in the House. I’ve already got some new Time Magic to make a ‘Feast Barrier’ sort of spell. Not nearly as strong as the Barrier that usually went up for that sort of thing, but it’ll give the party a good 55ish hours in the space of a single hour, around midnight.” Erick asked, “Got any words of wisdom for that?”

Kirginatharp smiled a little. “Quite a few. I’ve instructed tens of people on how to approach a Shadow’s Feast in order to extract as much knowledge from the event as possible, and also how to survive. Not everyone takes all of my advice, but those that do usually end up coming out of such an event rather well off. Before the Sundering, I even hosted several of these sorts of parties before. Every year, the Shadow’s Feast was— Well. It went by a lot of different names back then. Shall we have a sit down?” He looked to the two wrought in the room. “All of us?”

Kromolok and Riivo both nodded; they wanted to talk about the Feast, too.

Erick dismissed the [Shooting Star]s around the room, but he left the temporary Node Network active. As he began blipping some chairs from their hidden spaces below the floor of his throne room, onto the actual floor of this throne room, Erick asked, “Would you care for any desserts? I have a rather great Dessert Cook downstairs, I think you know of her? Lisa? She has a nice place downstairs now, called Lisa’s Dessert Counter.”

Kirginatharp smiled wide. “Does Lisa still make those little lime tarts?”

“She does.” Erick had Ophiel flicker down there, to stand in line at Lisa’s Dessert Counter. He began [Gate]ing in some drinks that he had always on hand for these sorts of occasions; reaching into a preservation ward that held a tray that had everything ready to go. He set down that tray on the table as he sat down himself, and began actual drink preparation with a quick application of sunform, saying, “Dessert tea, berry soda, and coffee. Creamer and sugar are suggested for the tea and coffee, but that stuff doesn’t go in the berry soda. The lime tarts will be ready— Looks like they’re ready now.” Another small [Gate] brought forth an Ophiel carrying a sample platter of tiny cakes and cookies, and a whole little tray of lime tarts. Erick asked Riivo and Kromolok, “I think I can find some pure iron and aluminum for you two, if you wish.”

Riivo and Kromolok both nodded, sitting down at the table after Kirginatharp, saying small words of thanks as Erick served them. They both said they did not need any metals; they were fine with trying some fleshy food.

Kromolok set down a half-eaten lime tart, the pure-white aluminum wrought half-joking as he said, “I don’t really agree with your naming of holyite as ‘aluminum’.”

Riivo happily said, “I’m glad ‘iron’ is still ‘iron’.”

“I’d actually call that one ‘iron’ in English,” Erick said. “But it was rather easy for me to mentally call ‘iron’ iron, so that switch was fine.”

Kirginatharp chuckled every time Erick said ‘iron’ in English. Kromolok smiled.

Riivo unhappily said, “That’s the name of a small dog.”

