“A cute and innocent small dog,” Kromolok said, still smiling. “The ‘cute and innocent’ part is important.”

Riivo shook his head. “Let us talk about the Feast…”

And so they did.

An hour later, Erick asked if everyone was okay with him putting up a [Hasted Shelter]. He hoped they were, because Kirginatharp had brought out historical records of past Feasts, Riivo began casting lightwards of Feast plans, and Kromolok spoke of which parts of Last Shadow’s Feast he wished Erick would have elaborated on more. They agreed to the time expansion.

Erick would have had the conversation in normal time, but he had an important event scheduled for 7 pm. Once the [Hasted Shelter] went up, they all had a lot more time to talk.

Riivo looked around him, saying, “Such a marvelous spell. Have you considered putting this in a runic web to sell? Perhaps to me?”

Erick smiled, saying, “Not happening, for anyone. Sorry.”

Kromolok and Kirginatharp both looked at Riivo.

And then Kromolok said, “Really, Riivo?”

“I merely asked!” Riivo said, “Not all of us can be on the best possible terms with Phagar and all the time to talk in the world is wonderful!” He gestured back to the light diagrams he had cast, saying, “Now, about security at the lower levels...”

By the time they were done, Erick felt like the introduction to the Feasts that Killzone had given him was both exactly what it needed to be, and also woefully inadequate. He also felt that, if given endless time, immortals would use that time. And with Kirginatharp in attendance, there was absolutely no shortage of any of the treats or drinks which Erick had grabbed from Lisa’s Dessert Counter. [Duplicate] was on full display.

And then they had a conversation about [Duplicate], and Riivo said he knew Erick had that spell, and he was very glad that Erick was so circumspect about it. Dealing with the Merchants of Stratagold would have not gone nearly as well if they had known.

Erick stared at the others. “How many people know I have [Duplicate]?”

Kirginatharp said, “Quite a few. Luckily, we can trust you not to abuse that.”

Kromolok shrugged, saying, “That’s about it, yeah.”

The conversation continued.

Erick had needed to give himself a Shaped [Cleanse] twice to clear out his bladder, and once to clear out his bowels, though.

… And when he did that last one, he almost asked an embarrassing question, of ‘what is the best way to make [Alter Friction] into a ‘fun’ spell. But nope! That would be unprofessional.

But then Kromolok opened a telepathic connection with Erick and began speaking at length about all that type of magic, along with a bunch of smaller spells of that particular nature. At first, that sub-conversation had been a nightmare, but it rapidly progressed to a clinical-sort of talk.

A useful talk, really.

Though Riivo and Kirginatharp probably noticed something odd about Erick as he discussed sex magic with Kromolok.

Probably because of that, Riivo eventually nonchalantly asked, “So about the orgies at the Feast?”

Erick’s face turned pinker.

Riivo grinned.

And then Kirginatharp asked, “Do you know any Sex Magic, Erick? I can give you a book on the subject; prepare you for the Feast. Also, you’re rather good at concealing the micro movements of your throat as you telepathically speak with Kromolok, but he looped the other two of us into the conversation of Sex Magic a while ago. So! We could all talk about all that?” He smiled, adding, “These spells are good to know!”

Erick’s face was red now.

Riivo smiled, chuckling a bit.

And then Kromolok made a sex joke. Kirginatharp and Riivo both laughed.

And Erick tried to dismiss his hangups as much as he could. He started shooting the shit with the three of them, like this was some old boy’s club, or something. It started off awkwardly, but rapidly progressed to less awkward, and then downright friendly.

It was nice.

The conversation moved on.

- - - -

Erick checked on everything in his kingdom once more.

Poi was sitting beside his sleeping sister.

Kiri was over with Mox and Tasar and expanding the ring of greenery around Candlepoint to the second 100km ring, along with the help of a few pastel dragons.

Teressa was with Aisha in the Benevolence Dungeon Tower, plucking whitespark flowers, which seemed to be a new variety of Benevolence Essence plants that had started growing after Erick had Benevolence’d all those dragons. There was some connection between the new essence-heavy white bell flowers, and the dragons, but no one knew what it was, yet.

And Jane was down in the Underworld, somewhere. Poi had checked an hour ago and Jane was fine.

A lot of people were either headed toward dinner at the atrium, or headed away.

The Saucery was packed, and yet there was a nice table in the back for Erick and his date. It had a small plaque simply saying, ‘taken’.

… Erick moved his eyes away from there, to look at other possible problems. He found none, though.

Burhendurur and the Office of the Overseer were still collecting information on Benevolence dragons and their strange actions.

Volaro was currently personally interrogating the Benevolence dragon who had murdered a guy a few days ago. That dragon’s name was Crem; just ‘Crem’. Odd name for a dragon, but also an odd guy. Mostly a hermit who liked to help adventurers when they got lost in his part of Nergal. Crem kept his part of the world clear of major threats, while also never revealing himself. Apparently his part of Nergal was one of the ‘safer zones’ on the very southern coast, where the land was half-frozen, but no one knew that until after Crem came in for a Benevolencing and then he briefly went back and truly fixed up his homeland. There, in that dangerous land, Crem killed monsters and transformed river beds and set his world to rights in ways that he never could before, and which everyone in that place seemed to approve of. At least that’s what Burhendurur had found out afterward, when Crem came back to Candlepoint and told everyone about what he had done, and how he had decided to make Candlepoint his new home.

Erick would not have guessed that Crem would have been the one to kill anyone, but after it had happened, Crem had remained on the scene of the crime, waiting for Enforcement to show.

That whole thing was still unfolding…

Erick moved on.

Raingorl’s new, larger school was going up. Erick felt Raingorl would make a good ‘High Chancellor’, teaching all of the normal Arcanaeum curriculum, but with some more freedoms of instruction taken from Ar’Cosmos’s curriculum.

Erick’s Castellan, Zolan, was still hard at work, filling out papers and talking to people through telepathic connections. The meetings were over for the day, but there was always more to be done. Facts to check and numbers to correct…

A lot of individuals were done for the day.

And Candlepoint had no fires. And Weald was only half-built, but it was getting there; the last of the temporary structures would come down tomorrow or the next day. And Gambler’s Rest was fully built.

The farms of Candlepoint were still churning out food. The Gate Network was still constantly turning over with people from Stratagold, or from Portal, or from any of the single Gates, or from any of the Wayfarer Gates…

Erick needed to make a Gate version 5, and start handing those out to the Wayfarer’s Guild, to connect them to every part of the Crystal Forest, instead of making them a distribution hub for [Teleport] and [Teleporting Platform]s. How was that paperwork and diplomacy coming along? Erick wasn’t quite sure…

Zolan had said something about that today, but Erick couldn’t really bother to think too much about that right now. The kingdom was not on fire.

And Erick had a lot of butterflies in his stomach.

He stood before a mirror, and he knew he looked good. He wore a white and black robe/suit that accentuated his strong shoulders and tapered waist, and his ass and his arms...

… Maybe it was too much? Oh. Shit. What if it was too much—

No. It was good. This was fine.

Erick had even showered with some nice manly-scented soaps, or at least what passed for such smells here on Veird. Of all the possible options Erick could have picked, from salt-spray, to deep-forest, to grass, to alcohol, Erick had picked the one labeled ‘Mossy Beast’. It reminded him of the scent on the wind when near Yggdrasil. It was a good smell, even if the name was… odd.

… oh gods, what if he recognizes the smell as some sort of ‘beast’ smell—

Nope. This was fine. ‘Mossy Beast’ was a perfectly accepted ‘generic male’ smell, and it smelled good—

Fuck! What if Quilatalap didn’t like it?

… No. This was fine.

Erick had cut his own black hair to his preferred medium-short length, and he felt he had gotten quite good at that. His white-iris eyes were nice, and his face was clean shaven. He was good. This was great.

Okay.

Let’s stop being nervous.

Erick lightstepped directly to the entrance of the library, in the Shade Tower. And then he walked inside. Casually, he registered the skeletal birds looking at him, and the guardian skeletons standing to the sides of the door. A weight alighted on Erick’s shoulder—

It was only Ophiel.

Erick had almost freaked out at the sudden weight, but then he chuckled. Ophiel twittered at him, asking what had happened. Erick laughed a bit, then he sighed.

Erick patted the little guy, saying, “Thanks for that.”

Ophiel cooed, tilting a little, questioning what was happening.

Erick explained as he walked, “I was nervous. And now I’m not so nervous.”

Ophiel cooed, nodding—

Quilatalap stood to the side of the main part of his library, sitting down at a table, but at Erick’s appearance he stood. He smiled, exposing his lower fangs. And he was magnificent. Tall, broad shouldered. In a grey suit/robes, sort of like Erick’s own, but of a different sort of style, and with tiny silver stars here and there as accents on corners, and on his shoulders. A single black star held over his heart. It all indicated allegiance to Koyabez, but of a non-standard variety.

His muscular chest and arms and legs and all the wonderful rest of him bulged in all the right ways, underneath those nice clothes.

Erick took in all of him, and then looked up, and said, “You’re beautiful.”

Quilatalap chuckled a little. “You’re quite handsome, too.”

“Handsome! Right. Handsome. That’s a good word for it, too.” Veird did have a thing like that, like they had back on Earth; one word was used to describe desirous women, and the other was used for desirous men. Of course, both words could also be used interchangeably, but that wasn’t usually done. Erick almost vomited out all that etymology at Quilatalap, but he decided not to, and simply added, “You’re also beautiful. I. Uh. I swear I’m usually better at flirting. I’m out of practice.”

Quilatalap smiled again, saying, “One of the ways I used to flirt back when I was an orc in the Old Cosmology was to challenge another to a wrestling match, and let whatever happened, happen. Clothes were optional in those times.”

Erick laughed.

Quilatalap added, “These days it's a foot race through the Forest of Glaquin to see who can melee-kill the most monsters in a night. Armor is usually recommended for that.” He happily added, “Though not always used!”

Erick said, “Maybe wrestling would be fun.” Erick held out his hand.

Quilatalap easily took Erick’s hand. “It usually is.”

Erick truly considered that Quilatalap was over a meter taller than him. “I don’t actually have an orcol form… so you would probably win.”

Quilatalap grinned, his green skin turning slightly redder. “I’m sure you could find a way to pin me if you really wanted.”

Erick smiled brightly.

… It was a little awkward as they left the library, with Erick holding onto Quilatalap’s hand, but it was nice. Erick asked a small question of lightstepping, or walking in the front, and Quilatalap quietly said that he would rather step, and so a quick lightstep brought the both of them directly to the back entrance to Slipstream’s Saucery—

There, in the back hallway of the restaurant, Quilatalap suddenly squeezed Erick’s hand and magic went up all around them. The world stopped, and the big man looked down on Erick with suddenly worried eyes. “Do you really want to do this? We could go somewhere else? We could go back to the library and fuck. I want this, but me being out there with you… This will have political ramifications.”

Erick felt his heart beat hard. He ignored the other suddenly hard things in his life as much as he could as he gripped Quilatalap’s hands. He looked up at the big man, as Quilatalap looked down at him. “If it means I get to see you flustered like this over and over, and continually say, ‘Let’s try it anyway’, then yes. I want to go on a date with you.”

Quilatalap blushed hard. “You don’t even know what you’re saying.”

“Probably not. But that’s fine, right? Even if this doesn’t work out, we’ll both be around for a long time and I’m glad to be allies with you, Quilatalap. If this really doesn’t work via sudden protests at the Saucery, or something, but we still want to try again, then I have [Dragon Body], and both of us can be different people and go out to an un-fancy place like ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’ back at Spur. I kinda miss their fries.” Erick added, “And I’m hosting Shadow’s Feast this year, apparently, so there’s going to be a lot of angry stuff happening in this next week. I can handle it.”

Not a single part of that was romantic.

But Quilatalap loved it.

Quilatalap said, “Okay.”

“Okay!” Erick looked back to the restaurant. “You hungry?”

“Yes. Absolutely. But let’s… Let’s do lower profile stuff next time. We can both be different people and go somewhere simple, next time.”

“I would love that. I haven’t actually experimented with different forms at all, though, so I’ll have to do some experimenting with all that before we try somewhere else.”

Quilatalap smiled. “Want to try some bodily experimenting with a professional— Later. I mean later. I haven’t eaten at this nice of a place in a long time and I want to be here, too.”

“Yes.”

Quilatalap blushed even more— And then he jerked a little, getting even more into the moment as his voice turned deeper, “You remembered when Fallopolis said I like constant and enthusiastic consent.”

Erick suddenly did remember something like that. “Uh. Yeah. I guess I do?”

“You’re amazing, Erick.” Quilatalap’s eyes seemed to shine. “Let’s go have dinner.”
