I expand my enemy detection range further and further into the depths of The Great Plains Dungeon in a panic...

Just moments ago, there was another Titan not so far outside my Dungeon Walker's range.

To me it was 10 days ago... so my memory is a bit foggy, but I'm sure I would have stayed in this one much longer to train if I knew there wasn't another left.

I'm positive I was saving that one for last.

I grit my teeth and open up the Telepathic link with Ember to see if he has any input.

"Our last Titan vanished into thin air... has this ever happened to you before?"

The slowly waking Dragon replies.

"It has... Sometimes they disappear through the rift if danger is too abundant in an area. Give it a day or two, they'll be back, I'm sure of it. Don't worry."

I shove my sword into my item storage with a frustrated look on my face.

"The rift..? What's the- I- ugh. Never mind that. If I knew this sooner, I wouldn't have wasted the last 3 on such short sessions... Even though I got a few Fragments out of it, I still need more training.

Ember nods.

"Understood, we can come back tomorrow and continue if you'd like. I don't think the Titans will abandon this Dungeon over a single incident. They're long-term thinkers. It'll take many repeated events to scare them off."

I sigh, taking a look around the dungeon one last time with my enemy detection skill. Confirming once again, the only remaining Titan is right next to that B-Class and their partner.

The air feels thin... lacking pure energy.

I've gotten used to a high-density mana environment again, I'll have to adapt back to using mana potions and crystals soon. I'm sure this time will be a bit easier to adjust.

Going back to the labyrinth right now is my safest bet.

"That seems to be our only option."

Although my training was cut short, I've more than doubled my total MP consumption. That 16M MP would have taken over 1.6k Gold Coins at market price.

I've definitely improved... I'm just not quite sure how much yet.

I teleport back to the 10th-floor Inn, materializing into my small bedroom. Dust flies up in the air at my sudden appearance and the dungeon's artificial sun shines through the dirty window.

I make my way downstairs.

I've had more than enough rest. Another month has gone by in my mind, but the world around me hasn't changed at all.

It's a bit less rattling this time because I knew it'd happen from the start. Still, I can't help from feeling like I've found some kind of unlimited power cheat code....

I could go back there and train every time the Titans respawn... As long as I bring enough food and water, I can indefinitely train my mana control.

Walking down the wooden stairs of the Inn, a smile creeps across my face as my feet make light-taping sounds that echo throughout the main tavern area.

The first voice that greets me is the Innkeeper along with his cheerful smile.

"Morning to ya Jay! You've been knocked out cold for hours, how was your sleep?"

I smile, walking by him to take a seat on one of the empty circular tables.

"Ah not bad, not bad, Mr... uhm-"

"No need to use Mr, just call me Conway!"

"Right, Conway."

I look down at the wooden table, embarrassed that I forgot his name while mindlessly slashing at white walls for a month. I swallow my pride and carry on our conversation like that didn't just happen.

"Some food would be great."

He bows slightly, then begins walking to the back room.

"You got it!"

I exhale, taking in my surroundings with an odd eerie tension in the back of my mind.

Everything in the Inn looks just like it was... There are all the same familiar C-Class squads from the Association sitting around tables eating food and trading gear, but something feels off.

It's way too silent. I'm so accustomed to the low humming of mana in my ears and nothing else. This bustling environment is over-sensitizing me again.

My brain and body feel drained just sitting here... There aren't unlimited stores of mana to plunder from all angles and I'm craving MP already.

The sounds of people laughing and talking all around me begin to get muffled in my mind, all I can focus on is my foot tapping on the ground as I zone further and further out.

Then I hear the same cheerful voice of an old man in my ear.

"Here you go Jay! Hope your training goes well today. I think Fisher should be out here in an hour or two!"

The Innkeeper's voice snaps me back to reality and I gracefully accept the steaming hot plates of food and cold drinks.

"Appreciate it."

He smiles and walks away with a skip in his step.

I eat up, but a funny question does stick out in the back of my mind. When does Conway sleep...?

I chuckle to myself, as I can't figure out just how he does it, but decide to pay it no mind and relax.

Watching hunters come and go for the next few hours is pretty nice. Much more interesting than my month-long vacation of solitude in the void.

Eventually, a certain red-haired man pokes his head through the front doors of the Inn, locking eyes with me almost instantly.

It's Rylan.

"Hey, hey! Jay, you're up! I'm excited to see your progress with Fisher today. Maybe I'll actually get to watch the two of you train... or maybe even spar!"

He comes marching toward me with a smile across his face, then sits down at the opposite side of the table.

"You know that team I went to meet? They didn't even want to check out the Inn! The lot of them just headed straight off to floor 11 without a word."

I respond, vaguely remembering that Rylan was going to meet a new team from the same C-Class exams as me. I wonder who they could be...

"Oh yeah? Are-"

He cuts me off.

"Those nobles are really a stuck-up bunch, aren't they? Walking around in their gold and silver armor. The Association just gives them a pitty contract if they manage to pass the exam. It's more for the off chance that they rank to an elite on their own. Most of them have the funding to do so anyways."

I raise an eyebrow, remembering back to one of my first clashes during the C-Class exams. It was a group just like the one he's describing... A team of men all dressed in gold and silver armor. The leader had an odd barrier skill. We clashed briefly, but I didn't see him again after that.

"Those guys were nobles...?"

I scratch my head as Rylan goes off on another tangent.

I begin to zone out again, feeling empty, craving a battle or some high concentrations of mana. My attention problem is getting worse...

I think it's just a side effect of my training. I got used to it last time in a few days, I should be fine this time around as well.

Finally, footsteps start coming down the wooden steps at the back of the room and a blue-haired swordsman comes walking down while wiping his tired eyes.

He's carrying a white glowing rectangle.

I hear him say a few words into it before he puts it away into his item box.

"Understood. I'll await your next call."

The Innkeeper greets him with a cheerful smile as he makes eye contact with me. The Elite quickly makes his way over.

"Morning. Glad you're early, come on, let's go. There's no time to waste."

A bit rude, but exactly what I was hoping for... I'm not in the mood to waste time either. If anything, I'd rather just climb the labyrinth on my own... The faster I can slip away from these 2 and continue my battles on the 19th floor the better.

I follow Fisher outside as he begins to make his way back to the mountain base in a rush. Rylan starts asking questions on the way.

"Hey, what's the big idea? What's with the attitude all of a sudden? You could have at least sat down with us for a little while or something."

Fisher replies.

"There's been a change of plans. Hopefully Jay's ready for the next stage of our training by the end of today. I just got word from the Director about a break up North. My squad may need to be deployed early, so I'd like to get through as much as we can before I'm called out for immediate action."

Rylan nods with a serious look on his face, then pauses for a few seconds before a grin curls on the corner of his lips again.

"So that means I'll definitely be able to see some cool training from you two today right??"

Fisher smirks with a tired look on his face, nodding to Ryaln and looking back at me.

"Hope Jay's up for it. Let's see how much he learned yesterday."

I reply, in a low tone under my breath.

"I think I've learned quite a bit..."

We continue our short walk and make it back to the base of the mountain with sliced boulders and smashed rock laid out in piles all over.

I speak up before either of them has a moment to question it.

"I... came back and trained a bit more while you were asleep... I thought it wouldn't hurt."

Fisher bends down to take a look at one of the split-open rocks, feeling the glossy texture with two fingers, then turns to me with a surprised look on his face.

"Wow... not bad kid. Not bad at all."

I reply in an annoyed tone.

"I told you not to call me that! You're only a few years older than me ya-"

"Yeah, yeah."

The Elite takes out his water stone imbued sword and points it up at the rock ledge that we aimed our attacks at just yesterday.

"Go on, let's see what you've learned."

Immediately, I take out my sword and begin to charge it up. I haven't thrown an attack at anything but pure white mana shielding for the last 30 days. I've been so focused on the proper attack for defeating a Berskerer, that I forgot about this training completely.

Smirking, I whisper under my breath.

"This will be easy..."

I charge up 100MP into a small strike, thin and dense enough to cut through the skin of a floor 19 mob. Definitely overkill for this rock face. Without a second thought, I swing my flaming red blade a the overhang and let the dark crescent of energy fly.

It's barely visible and slices through the air without a sound. Almost identical to Fisher's attack yesterday.

It hits the rock ledge and glides through. To the naked eye, not a single cut is made. It just looks like my slash missed.

Half a second later, a massive chunk of the rock wall slides off as the thin black blade flies up into the open air of the dungeon.

I grin, watching the glossy texture of rock reflect the dungeon's sun back at us. The heap of rocks from above hits the ground with a thud, making dust fly up in all directions.

Rlyan's face lights up as he lets out a gasp, followed by a long laugh, turning to Fisher. The blue-haired Elite stands in awe for a moment, staring at the smooth rock above us.

Then, a satisfied look comes across his face as he puts his sword back into his item box and crosses his arms.

"Impressive. You really had no idea what you were doing before you came here, did you? You've just been throwing all that raw power at your enemies until now?"

I pause before replying, impressed that he can manage to throw in a jab in, even now.

"I... guess so..."

He smirks.

"Well... In that case, I guess we can start phase 2 of your training earlier than I thought."
