After a few minutes, the two High Ogres my teammates were fighting fall to their knees and face defeat.

One stands skewered by countless spears of stone while the other is beaten and mutilated by a hammer and sword.

Although it took both teams of two close to a dozen hits each to defeat their opponents, the fact that we can all take down level 320 monsters is an impressive feat.

I can't help smiling with happiness knowing my allies are growing stronger by my side.

It really wasn't that long ago that I brought Maria to her awakening exam and she discovered her Ice Summoning ability.

Now look at her, less than 2 months later and she's defeating C-Class monsters.

I continue to grin admiring their success as the corpses slowly dissolve dropping large mana crystals on the floor.

The four of them walk over to Arie and me soon after while drinking MP potions to get ready for future battles.

We briefly talk about our fights and share tactics about the Ogres' unique shield and sword movements. With a round of head nods, we got back into our simple formation and carried on following the winding path upwards.

Over the next hour and a half, we spiraled up the tall mountain one High Orge battle at a time. There were 4 more groups we faced off against. Each time we'd split the monsters up naturally according to our growing abilities.

I fought one battle with Nessa and another with Abby. The other two were solo brawls. I felt it was necessary for us all to switch around partners if we were going to fight as a team against the boss. So, Arie fought with Maria and Bruce one time each as well.

Our chemistry is okay, but It could be better. We're all pretty overpowered. Our gear and skillsets make these battles pretty simple.

The more we fight, the easier it is to predict the Ogre's movements. All new spawns are exactly the same. We as hunters learn more every battle, while they stay stagnant.

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

[Level Up]

I gain 4 levels in total, bringing me to level 311. It still takes three solid hits to take one of these Ogres out, but it is much less difficult than my first fight.

The air continues to get thicker and thicker. Not only do the steam and smoke from the lava pools around us make it hard to breathe, but the mana levels in the air up here also create an odd sensation similar to a dungeon break.

All of the previous 3 diverted paths have connected as one about halfway up the climb. We've circled around the mountain 6 full times now and are definitely nearing the top.

Sweat covers my arms and slides down the sides of my face. Every few steps, droplets fall to the ground creating a sharp hissing noise as they evaporate on contact with the hot red rocks below.

All six of us are breathing heavily, but honestly, it's more of a workout than an actual painful experience.

The hot air may be a little uncomfortable, but I'm almost used to it by now... It's like we're walking through a massive sauna.

Nessa's voice rings out from ahead.

"Hey! Guys! I think I see it, I think we made it to the top!"

Our orderly rhythmic footsteps come to a halt as we round the final bend.

A crowd of hunters waits patiently in a line directly in front of the large light grey circle of energy.

I count 3 teams in total. None of them look too familiar, but they're all stacked with impressive gear and have made it this far as well.... They must be excellent hunters.

A flash of white light appears in front of the portal as we get in line behind another group.

Rodrigo returns with a team of 3 other hunters. He nods to them with a thin smile. They exchange a few words that I can't make out from here, then another flash of light blinds me.

The 3 of them are gone...

"Did... they pass the exam.. or not?"

Arie speaks up from behind me.

"That's what I'm wondering."

Maria turns around and smiles at me eagerly.

"We're so close! I'm excited Jay!! I'm really excited!!"

She's jumping up and down grinning ear to ear.

I smile and nod while looking forward to see what exactly is happening at the front of the line.

"Me too, me too."

Rodrigo begins pointing to each of the team members in the next group telling them something that visibly surprises each member. Then, they all jumps through the portal together to face the boss.

The line moves forward and we wait in silence.

Another 10 minutes pass and the same white light appears. This time, only one hunter comes out with Rodrigo. The remaining team member is covered in near-fatal wounds.

Rodrigo speaks a few inaudible words, then that light flashes and the hunter disappears.

I gulp while watching the next team go through the exact same process while entering the portal.

We all step forward in line, then wait another 10 minutes or so before the full team returns with the examiner.

A flash of light later and the final group in front of us enters the portal. During all of this, 2 other groups got into line behind us. It seems like pretty much everyone that made it to this floor is very capable.

Moments later, the white light flashes, and only Rodrigo comes out of the portal. He shakes his head back and forth slowly.

"Well, that was unfortunate."

He walks over to us with a long sigh.

"You 6 are up next? Let's see here..."

He sticks his hand into the left pocket of his suit and pulls out a small white piece of paper.

"All right. First things first, do you all remember the rules? You must defeat this final boss together as a team. I will be giving each of you a handicap and if even one of you fails this trial, all of you fail as well."

We all look at each other and nod without saying a word, Rodrigo continues while looking down at the small sheet of paper.

"So, first we'll start with Nessa. Apparently, you can mimic skills, and you're an impressive sword wielder. So... you're only allowed to mimic the boss' skill."

She smirks.

"This will be easy, th-"

"And you can't use your sword either."

She stops to think for a moment, then nods firmly one time while putting her sword into her item box.

"If that's your rule, I'll comply."

Rodrigo turns to Bruce.

"The tank of the group, Bruce, am I correct?"

He nods.

"No shield for you during this battle, you'll have to either rely on an offensive fighting style or find other ways to block."

Bruce grins, putting away his sheild and swinging his hammer up onto his shoulder.

"Sound good to me."

The examiner faces Abby.

"Hello Abby, I've heard good things about you. I wouldn't have expected a member from the association to team with a group of randoms."

Abby rolls her eyes.

"Nice to meet you too."

Rodrigo grins, then continues.

"You'll have to change up your style. No earth magic is allowed. You must become your team's healer, or finding another weapon to wield if you'd like to deal any damage."

Abby gulps, then nods.

"I'll make do."

He nods back.

"Maria. You have some incredibly impressive Ice magic, it is not allowed during this battle."

Her eyes widen. I'm sure she saw this coming, but I guess it would still be a shock. Maria's magic is her only overpowered quality, taking that away will make for a pretty difficult fight.

She nods slowly.

"Understood."

Rodrigo eyes Arie and me.

"You two... are an interesting couple."

He looks down at the small sheet of paper, then back up at us.

"You know.... both of you are in the top 10 for most hunters killed during this exam."

We both look at each other, then back at Rodrigo as he continues.

"And I mean killed. Not just sent back to the spawn point, literally killed."

We both face forward and give simultaneous shrugs, then I speak up.

"You... did say that wasn't against the rules."

The tall man toughens his lips, sighs, then speaks up again.

"Anyways, Arie you can't use your bow or archer skill. Jay, any use of fire is not allowed."

Arie nods, placing his bow into his item box while taking out a pair of daggers.

I pause for a moment, then look down at my sword. I lift it in the air to show Rodrigo. It flickers with fire residue.

"So... this is a sword fused with a fire stone. If I concentrate any amount of mana into the blade, it produces flames... Technically they're not mine, could I-"

"No. No use of flames is allowed."

I frown slightly while putting away my sword, then take out a pair of my own black shining daggers.

"These will do."

Rodrigo eyes them curiously for a moment, then turns around to face the portal.

"Very well, follow me. Your final test begins now."

The tall man wearing a well-fitted red suit walks forward through the fluctuating mass of energy in front of us.

I grin and speak up.

"Let's do this. It's time to finally become C-Class Hunters. "

The 6 of us follow close behind stepping through the portal one by one.
