I just landed my first successful attack on this monster. It took 40 seconds, and almost 20k MP... but I still landed an attack!

The tingling feeling, along with a mild headache begins to alert me that I'm definitely nearing the point of mana exhaustion. I'll be fine for a little while, but keeping this level of MP usage up will ware me out pretty quickly.

Even so, this newfound technique of mine is very intriguing.

What took over 10k MP in a single dual attack on my last attempt hours ago just to break through its barrier, is now soon to be rivaled by a 100MP attack. I just have to concentrate harder...

I've managed to perfect the hair-thin nature of the attack, but my mana density is nowhere near enough to do any damage. I'll have to compress even more MP into my next strike.

Each time I send off another attack it gets easier to replicate the exact size necessary to slip through its mana shielding. The part that doesn't get easier is the mana density... The only way to train that to a significant degree, is to increase my overall mana control.

Increasing my base levels of mana control would require me to consume massive amounts of mana over long periods of time... I'm severely lacking in both of these options at the moment.

I take a deep breath, then get back to work.

Over and over, I match the exact whisper-thin dimensions of the Berskerer's mana shielding, penetrating it with ease each time. Unfortunately, after 5 more attacks and nearly 75k more MP burned through on my perception skill, not much progress has been made.

Even with up to 60 seconds per charge, all I've managed to do is give this rage-filled monster a few paper cuts. The maximum amount I've been able to store in an attack has been roughly 150MP.

My head is aching and my hands are shaking. I've progressed a lot, but my mana control is just not powerful enough to put out enough charge into one blow.

"Looks like I'll have to do things the old fashion way..."

I start charging up my blade with as much mana as I possibly can. At my current rate of blows, I'll pass out from exhaustion before I do any real damage...

Charging up just over 5k worth of mana points, I start releasing less concentrated, but much more powerful blows. I begin Dungeon Waling around the poor beast throwing attack after attack from my flaming sword.

I prefer using two blades, but drinking potions along with releasing attacks makes dual welding rather awkward.

After just a few minutes, and over 10 attacks later, the red-skinned Berskerer is on its knees. The bloodied and beaten monster still glares at me. Its facial expression says it's ready for another round, but this beast is in no position to fight.

I'm not either...

Since I woke up to start my training again, I've blown through another 200k MP... There's a slight ringing in my ears, a sharp pain in my head, and all of my limbs are tingling after every movement I make.

I stare at the weakened monster, ready to call it a day by just releasing one last brute-force attack. Instead, I decide to finish my training with a useful test.

Activating my All-Seeing Eye, I ready myself for one more attack.

My opponent crawls toward me with an undying will to finish me off, but this just gives me more time to study its mana.

This beast is on its last breath, in full battle mode, with all defenses on full blast.

I can sense the aura of mana shielding that it's continuously holding up as it nears.

Gritting my teeth, I put my all into one last strike.

Concentrating for over a minute, and letting the beast draw nearer and nearer, I compact roughly 200MP. Once it's less than 5m away, I let my razor-thin attack glide through the air.

I fall backward, but eagerly watch as my attack hits the wounded berserker head-on. It glides through its lower torso without a noise. The moment I fall flat on my back with a grin across my face, the monster splits cleanly in two. We hit the dungeon floor with 3 simultaneous thuds along with 2 clangs of our swords.

I let out a chuckle.

"Progress is progress..."

Laying on my back, I let out a sigh and stare up at the grey sky above me. I beat one of these monsters without using a Strengthening Fragment, and most definitely progressed my mana control training.

A 200MP attack sliced one in half, but it was far from full power. Still, this is a good start.

After relaxing on the cool hard floor of the black glossy dungeon surface, the fallen monster drops a mana crystal. Unfortunately, there's no other loot.

With a groan, I stand up to walk over. While doing so, I open up my item storage to let Ember out for the first time in a while.

He flaps his wings while stepping out of the white portal and flies into the sky. After opening up our telepathic link, the Dragon speaks.

"It looks like you've been busy. I haven't gained any levels, so it seems you haven't been busy enough."

I grin, picking up the palm-sized crystal off the ground and plundering it to dust on the spot.

"I've been training my mana control. The progress has been good, but I'm still not ready for the higher floors."

Ember nods, flapping his wings more, soaring higher up into the sky.

"Good to hear, your control does need work. The only reason you're able to handle so much MP is that self regeneration skill, along with your advanced perception abilities. Good training and more mana consumption will do you well. You seemed pretty happy with your fighting style earlier, so I didn't bother to comment on it much before."

I scratch my head, grinning, and watching the dragon stretch it crimson wings while passively throwing shade at my lack of fine-tuned mana control.

"Hey! I'm new to all of this ya know. These things take time!"

Swooping down, no more than 200m away, Ember begins to burst into flames, clearly targeting something.

He replies mid nose-dive.

"Looks like you saved one for me."

I squint, trying to make out what he's aiming at, then realize I've completely dropped my guard after that intense battle...

A new red-skinned Berserker Giant, level 402, has found its way to my position and was charging in my direction....

Ember soars down at the silver sword-carrying beast and lets out a heavy attack of flames from his mouth. The dark red beam of fire hits the monster point blank, creating an explosion over 20 meters wide.

Ember swoops upwards to let the beast deal with its attack. As the Dragon flies away, I watch in awe as the flames stay lit... Mine went out in an instant, yet Ember's stayed ablaze, doing residual damage to the angry beast even after the explosion clears.

The black-scaled Dragon dives in again, this time with his front leg outstretched bearing long red claws aimed straight at the confused fiery fiend.

Moments later, Ember rips the top half of its torso off along with its head... sucking the corpse dry of MP, then tossing it off into the empty dungeon's landscape.

My mouth stays wide open as the Dragon does a few twists and turns in the air before putting out its flames and coming back down to greet me.

"So, what will it be? Are we taking over this Labyrinth? I've been itching more and more to rank up recently."

Ember lands on the dungeon floor with a thud as I struggle to get out a word.

"You... You're this strong...? It took me well over a dozen hits to take out of those Berserkers!"

The black-scaled Dragon replies with a toothy grin.

"If it's that difficult to take these monsters out at your level, we'll need to up your total mana control. If you process more mana, the higher-density attacks become much easier to handle. It's only natural."

I nod slowly.

"I'm aware... but I don't exactly have months to go and train off in-"

I pause. Then reply.

"No... you want to go back to that place...."

Ember moves his head in closer, replying.

"It would be the fastest way for you to gain mana consumption proficiency. It'll be free MP with your plundering ability, and there will be no shortage of time. It's the perfect plan."

I gulp.

"I guess... We'll go back to The Great Plains... and enter another Titan's Domain..."
