The floor beneath the ring cracks and shatters so much that large amounts of the flooring break open, and even erupt upward into the air.

All of the suppression commands and safety protocols inside the dome have been overridden and forcefully deactivated.

This shockwave causes the walls and ceiling around us to break apart at their weak points too.

Some portions that have shattered to nothing but dust burst open and explode outward, while others just shift like massive compressed tectonic plates.

The sounds of immense amounts of energy clashing, bending, vibrating, and snapping under pressure are absurd.

It gets to the point where it all gives in and bursts.

The entire dome explodes from the Noble Vibration–imbued built-up pressure, breaking through many layers of suppression commands in the atmosphere and sending chunks of citadel and waves of white, purple, black, and red light outward for hundreds of thousands of kilometers.

There are quakes that rupture portions of the Grand Citadel, causing cracks in nearby buildings and streets.

Automated Ether orbs form around another 120 million Lords all over the Citadel, bringing them away from the dangerous shockwaves and high up into the air into the arena stands that rise high above the inner city, circling the inner walls between this collection of towers and the wilderness.

The wall between them that usually appears to be a mirror-like reflection ripples with white light, as ether is being siphoned through it to regulate the billions of ether commands activating to protect the citizens.

I even hear the announcer of the event's voice yell out, still in a professional and excited tone.

"This—this is the first time we're seeing anything like this in the monthly Arena Events! Please, do not worry, Lords, automated safety commands are being activated in order to welcome our Lord... It appears he will not only be gracing us with his voice and likeness, but to show up in the flesh—"

The shattering dome opens up my senses to the Citadel surrounding us, with endless green towers in all directions, spanning over a quarter million kilometers, the diameter of the inner city.

However, it also breaks open the floor and allows my Noble Vibrations and ether senses to dig deep down into the pathways below me without having to hold back.

It looks like a deep black sinkhole filled with bubbling oil is below me, 40 thousand kilometers wide and hundreds of thousands deep.

The most terrifying fact is not that this is its own sea of living corruption below me, bubbling and surging upward to connect with the demon's energy form.

It's that I can't sense the bottom... and the shape of the corruption that is flowing upward.

The entire lower section of the Citadel, the countless upside-down massive black towers, everything that was concealed behind dense ether commands below me—it all flows like liquid, and the Demon before me grows stronger and stronger.

It has hardly consolidated with 0.01% of the corruption flowing through the bottom of this Citadel, and the loud laugh it lets out makes me realize it's certain I'm putting together all the pieces.

"Young fledgling! I already told you that the power of a Royal Family Head is beyond your comprehension. Allow me to educate you properly!" echoes out while thousands of thick tendrils from the bubbling pool surge upward.

Half plunge into the Demon's growing energy form, and the other half all surge toward me.

They look like tornados twisting upward, and creating a black web of darkness that closes in on me from all sides.

The timer that says 39 seconds remaining gets covered up by the new black dome of corruption around me.

In the furthest depths of my senses, I simultaneously feel an absurd energy reading traveling upward through the middle of this sea of corruption below me. It moves faster than anything I've ever tracked or sensed before. All I feel is my danger senses all blaring simultaneously, my cells surging with cold, my system threatening to shut off, and a foul scent rush through my nose—one that can only be described as the incoming smell of instant death.

I don't try to figure out what it is... I just let my 3rd and final seal dissolve and activate my astral form.

Whatever is coming my way requires everything I have.

"No more holding back..." I call out while the waves of corruption crash down all around me.

–

The live feed of the event only shows the outside view.

Thousands of tendrils of cold dark energy overwhelm this new Noble Demon from above.

Their Lord, Miriel Vermillion, has asserted his dominance in just 20 seconds, with nothing more than an energy manifestation. This black form of a demon turns to liquid corruption too, and floats downward to combine with the oscillating orb to crush Drako Vermillion inside with even more pressure.

Thousands of coiling tendrils of energy link the sea below, making the prison of corruption grow darker and stronger, trapping the Noble Demon inside.

As a result of showing his power, the entire Grand Citadel shuddered from feeling a tiny percent of his wrath.

"It's really done..."

"He lost... the human lost...?"

"It wasn't a human. It was a new arrogant Noble Demon—you heard them arguing, right?"

"But—I thought that was a ruse too... you heard him—"

"False hope. It's always been part of their plan. We lost. The Lower Races already lost their freedom long ago..."

"The Royal Family is even more powerful than I thought."

"Yeah... look around... Our Lord didn't even have to show up like the announcer said... just his energy form alone almost tore the Citadel in two."

"Incredible..."

A wave of awe, horror, and despair ripples through the crowds of people watching.

Silence fills the Grand Citadel.

The glint of hope that a human was really powerful enough to fight against a demon was still flickering in the back of some Lords' minds.

They may be loyal to the demons, living in this false paradise under their rule, but there is no other choice.

To maintain ownership of their home worlds and send resources down, these Lords have always done what they must to survive.

Still, even after hundreds, and some even thousands of years of silent suppression and imprisonment, a few still dream of freedom and taking down their oppressors.

This is evident in the many rebellions and Demonic Servants that are captured publicly—revolting Lords that have been turned to slaves without full control over their minds or bodies. The griffon in the tournament is a prime example of Lords still trying to fight back, but even the strongest, from the star System of Elites, have nowhere near enough power to stand up against even Noble Demons.

Now, with such a monstrous display of power—easily suppressing even a Noble Demon they all thought to be their savior—it seems as though hope has dwindled even more...

–

The only sounds heard in the silence are the cracking streets and buildings as the ball of growing corruption continues siphoning more cold oily energy from the pool below, and compressing inward to destroy the enemy within.

That is... until this orb of glowing darkness in the center of the Citadel starts to act strangely.

A thumping sound echoes through the Citadel. It sounds like something is beating against the inside of the prison of corruption.

Instead of shrinking and being compressed, it looks like the rhythmic thumping is pushing it outward—like whatever is inside is resisting this insane pressure and is fighting back.

The silence in the crowds shifts from despair, to shock, and confusion...

Thin cracks start to form all over the growing mass of floating corruption.

Flowing out of them, a warm wave of white, sparkling High Noble Vibrations floods the Citadel, making the cold aura of death in the air be swept away by a warm, domineering breeze.

The cracks grow more and more, and the heat pulsating and thumping grows stronger and stronger.

–

Inside, I feel my final seal dissolve, and my Astral form erupt out from my body.

It uses my already activated Greater Form and Noble Body as a base—erupting outward and growing multiple kilometers larger in height every millisecond that passes.

At the same time, the Celestial Grade Seal that was holding back the training I completed beneath the sea of corruption is finally released. This is the first time I'm actually getting to experience my own High Noble Vibrations without them being suppressed.

I let out a primal yell, while ethereal white light bursts out from my chest and eyes, flooding into my sword and completely suppressing all of the weak purple demonic energy that was flowing through me before.

The only aura that surges outward is pure mana-based soul energy and High Noble Vibrations.

What moments ago was an unbreakable prison of corruption surrounding me on all sides, with no path of escape, becomes nothing but a simple, fragile net of black goo.

It felt cold, poisonous, numbing to the touch. Even if I got near it, my senses would dull and my vision would blur.

Now, as my yell turns to a laugh, I raise my white blade in the air and pierce through the top of this black prison.

My aura surges outward in all directions and begins pulsing and cracking the ball all over.

It begins to be suppressed by me instead—losing its cold, and heating up from making contact with my aura, losing its solid coiling structure, and snapping and cracking in places to release the pressure.

The whole liquid prison around me explodes, and my High Noble Vibration–infused Astral Form bursts outward, expanding with the new access to divine threads in the open air.

I take in a deep breath, spinning around and opening my eyes to feel everything.

Literally, everything.

I feel as though I've become one with the entire Grand Citadel in a single heartbeat. I can feel and take control of every ether command in these thousands of buildings if I desire—even the hundreds of thousands of biomes in the wilderness, and the outer walls of this enormous floating black sphere a million kilometers wide.

The feeling of finally releasing my true full power is incredible...

But also, horrifying.

It forces me to shift my attention downward, and thrust my Soul Sword in that direction too.

Because out from the sea of endless corruption below me, a Real Demon swims with unfathomable speed.

The puny toy energy manifestation I was playing with seconds prior pales in comparison to the sight before my eyes.

A long-horned, black-skinned, deep purple-eyed, 800-meter-tall Demon in the flesh comes rocketing out from the cold black ocean below me.

I see the real face of my enemy, one that is solid and cold with tens of thousands of years of war behind them, unfazed by my display. It has an ancient primordial confidence radiating out of it, like it is certain of the future.

Their cold eyes stare toward my neck, and with no fear, no greater energy form activated, and no soul weapon in hand—Miriel Vermillion shows me his face and I witness why this Demon has the title of a Royal Family Head.
