Wisps of ancient soul ties flow through the void.

They collide with the outside of the Upper Realm, stimulating the bent space that protects it from this dark membrane we float in.

Many tendrils seep through, carrying system commands and pushing strange fluctuations into action throughout all of the Zones of the Upper Realm, and even touching down into the Origin Plane.

If not for the extremely sturdy Primordial Tree holding this massive structure together, the fragile construct may have shattered to pieces on the spot.

Instead, many of the branches, leaves, and roots attempt to absorb this raw energy that invades it all at once.

However, this does not stop the strange phenomena that comes with it to affect all life within it.

An intense series of Realm Waves begin to manifest from the top down, flowing through every single energy pathway they can latch onto.

It looks very different from the calm and meticulous Realm Waves used to control the flow of time for the Demon's use in controlling the rise and fall of eras. Instead, this looks like a violent and desperate attack on the Origin Plane.

It looks like a bright white wave of light is washing through the entire galaxy. Once it reaches the very bottom, seeping out of the Lower Realm, it collides with the fragments of the dead artifact that managed to escape when Marcellus failed in activating his seal.

The shattered fragments that appeared frozen in time, like black lifeless rock in the void, now all light up with potent white light. They sink into the void, now saturated with the invisible weight of an Overseer Demon's soul tie. They reflect the wave back, pulsing and tearing through space through the Lower Realm.

Since I entered this darkness, it appeared as though the passage of time stopped entirely for everyone in the Lower and Upper Realms.

Without any active minds perceiving it, without any of our souls probing down to verify its existence, the life inside did not experience time moving by at all.

Yet now, countless spectate feeds light up in my mind again.

The connection between our isolated existence in the void and the life in the galaxy below has been interlinked once again.

However, the images I see are frightening.

Even though a mere moment has passed, no longer than a billionth of a second, I start to watch time rapidly speed by in the Lower and Upper Realms.

At first it's just a few days, but as the next bright ripple of white aura reflects back and flows through the galaxy, it turns to weeks, then months.

There is a fluctuation in both Maria's and my aura when we realize what is happening, and Noctus's laugh from across his pool of consciousness echoes loud in our minds.

"That's right! It doesn't matter how I succeed. Even if I have to drain more of my remaining soul ties, all I need to do is let the Origin Plane grow cold. Without the Fallen One meddling in my affairs, this has given me an even greater opportunity!"

More waves of red and blue streaks fly through the gel, but they do not hit their mark.

Instead, a fast-moving streak of silver light ripples through this ocean.

I'm able to perceive him coming my way just fine, there are just heavy constraints holding my movements back in this sea that he controls.

Noctus is right in front of me before I can even move my blade upward to block.

I feel a sharp pressure across my chest, as deep claw marks tear open my energy forms.

Two massive crimson manifested blades are summoned over my shoulders and detonated down toward this Demon before he can rip through me again with another claw.

His body is half consumed by one of the explosions, thrusting him backward, but Noctus only laughs harder while growing back his body with his remaining silver threads.

"Take them all, they're useless to me anyway! You want these silver threads? You think that's where my true power comes from?"

The manic laughter echoing through the gel makes me shiver, as its getting harder and harder to understand his true motives. I cannot tell if this is a meticulous plan, the tantrum of a childish demon not getting his way, or if he truly does have some hidden power and he is toying with us.

I watch a nearly identical exchange take place on the opposite side of the sea. Maria witnessed what happened, so she's far more prepared, but still gets a hand full of claws piercing down her arm by the Demon's attack before slicing through its elusive silver body and sending it back my way.

The wound in my chest has cleaved deep through every single layer of my energy bodies, even tearing through silver thread pathways, interrupting the glitching summons from the void. Yet, as it begins to regenerate on its own, I feel the sea of consciousness around me pouring in at a much faster rate to fill this open wound. Once it closes up, the constant flow diminishes a noticeable amount.

As the silver demon comes flying at me with a wide smile and sharpened claws, I'm actually looking forward to getting hit again.
