[Main Body POV]

I stare down at my status as two new skill upgrades are added to my repertoire, and a grin widens on my face.

[Skill Transfer To Main Body: Complete]

[Body Double][Legendary Grade]

[Skill Transfer To Main Body: Complete]

[Dungeon Walker][Legendary Grade]

My eyes scan over their additional legendary perks, and I see that the reduction on base stats and mana control has been lifted on my body double skill now.

So, any clones I make will be identical in strength to my original form, but it looks as though my soul energy buffs and Qi will not be transferred, only mana and demonic energy powered skills will.

On top of that, the maximum body double limit has raised to 3, so my multitasking just got a whole lot faster.

Next, I read over my new legendary perks of the dungeon walker upgrade and find that now I don't need to set any exact spawn points within dungeons. As long as I've stepped foot in or have a memory of any portion of the dungeon logged in my subconscious, I'll be able to access any part of it instantly.

This makes me wonder If dungeons logged by my body doubles' memories will now transfer to my main body. There are no exact transport points I need to follow anymore, it's either I'm greenlit for a dungeon or not.

Along with that, a certain newly unlocked perk catches my eye that I wasn't expecting.

______________

[Legendary Perk][Activation Time: 10 Seconds][Cooldown: 24 hours][Debuff: 99% decrease in all base stats and 99% mana control Suppression for 24 hours following usage.]

The caster is able to teleport from anywhere outside of a dungeon into a dungeon of their choosing. Only the caster and equipped items may use this perk, passengers will be left behind.

______________

The consequences of using this new perk seem to heavily outweigh the positives, but it's an interesting getaway move that may be useful in the future.

Once fully satisfied with my findings, the mana signature of one of my body doubles carrying the familiar reading of my teammate Arie comes into my general perception range. Then, soon after, I see them both coming near me and my double raising its waving hand in the air while pointing to Arie who seems to be knocked out cold or sleeping.

My double drifts down to the desert floor and sets Arie on the ground, I take this as a cue to point my finger at my own double and shoot a small Qi imbued bullet of stone through its forehead and the memories of the labyrinth come rushing back to me.

"Interesting..."

I have a lot to think about. After the defeat of the 7th ranked dark guard, Arie's new goal of learning Demonic Energy, and now the nearly 400 people in the town that just watched me slaughter their leaders without breaking a sweat, there is much to do.

I activate my body double skill again, making two more copies to hit my max while the 3rd continues to farm skills and log dungeon details in the canyon.

This time, they're at par with my current level 765 status and the mana control is leaking off them like massive beams of light to my refined eye.

I point to one, throwing it a new transport crystal back to the Galeheart tower.

"Explain as much as you can to Abby and Maria. They may be out in town, just have Lith send out guards to retrieve them before tonight, going into the Arena again may not be a smart decision. Especially considering the 7th ranked Dark Guard won't return. Have them come here as soon as possible, and try to get them to bring Monk here as well. Tell him I'll have an increased cultivation speed method ready, but he's going to need to bring a lot of Qi pills for us all to try. Whatever happens, don't leave the mana shielded protection barrier of the Galeheart tower, the Dark One cannot suspect I've defeated its subordinates yet."

My double catches the crystal with a nod, crushing it in its hand instantly.

I look to my other double, and it begins to morph into the flaming black business suit attire using conceal and the properties of my cloak to match the exact look of the Flame Emperor that I presented before.

I nod and point to the town.

"You already know what to do, I've been thinking about this for a while. Just get everyone in one place, make sure the higher level grunts don't fight, give everyone ample food and water, and wait for the mind control potions to wear off. It should take another 6 or 8 hours for everyone to come to their senses. Find the access key to the bunker, and don't let anyone else in it. I want that base for myself. Store all B grade items or above down there, the rest of the materials we'll sort through and figure out uses for later."

I reach into my item storage and pull out my final [Full Restore] potion, and uncork it.

"By then, hopefully, Abby is in town and she can help heal any major side effects that elixir has on all those workers."

My double nods, igniting yellow flames in its eyes behind the manifested black mask and putting up layers of invisible mana shielding to stop its waves of intimidation streaming out, then airsteps off toward the town.

I finally open up an item storage portal to let Ember walk inside. He lets out a remark in our open telepathy link while moving forward.

"Looks like you've got your work cut out for you. I recommend you train extra hard or leave this place in the near future. We may have beaten one of the Dark Guards, but I believe you still cannot comprehend The Lich King's true strength. If it realizes one of its top officers is killed, more will come. It wouldn't be a bad idea to try and hit our second rank up stage soon, if your plan is to fight and not run, hitting level 1000 will give us a much needed strength boost."

"You're right as always, Ember. I have a plan. The next guard they throw at us, we'll be ready."

Ember disappears into my item storage.

Then, I feed Arie the [Full Restore] potion using my telekinesis skill, and he immediately begins to open his eyes and come to.

"W-Where are we? I won right?"

I chuckle as Arie stands to his feet in a state of confusion.

"Yeah, you won. Now we can start your training in the abyss, shall we?"

His eyes widen, and he looks down at his hands.

Eventually, his gaze shifts to meet his forearm and follows the newly formed black tattoo using his index and middle finger all the way up his sleeve to meet his chest.

Then, opens his status.

"It really does give a hundred percent increase in all stats too? Not bad. I can't sense any of this so-called Demonic Energy yet though."

As he punches the air and continuously forms his bow and mimics shooting arrows to feel his new base stat boosts, we begin walking toward the Abyss.

Once we get within visual range, I speak up while I activate my Rising Emperor's Domain buff, and surprisingly, Arie automatically clears all the conditions and I'm allowed to add him to my status to add skills.

"I'm going to use one of my abilities on you, open your status again. As I already explained quite a few times, Demonic energy is quite dangerous and if handled poorly can lead to guaranteed instant death. So, you're not going to be practicing with your main body."

The instant I share my Body Double Skill with Arie, an odd notification pops up in my mind's eye.

[Congratulations! Rising Emperor's Domain Milestone Reached!]

[5/5 New Party Members Added]

[New Perk Unlocked: Find My Friend]

A rush of information hits my subconscious, and with pinpoint accuracy, I see 5 geolocation points as clear as day in my mind's eye all over the world.

[Ember]

[Maria]

[Abby]

[Bri]

[Arie]

Ember's is located wherever I step, indicating he's inside my item storage space, both Abby and Maria are way up North in Valor City. Bri is in her workshop in Vice City, and Arie is right beside me.

As I scroll through each of their names, their full status screens pop up with health, gear, skills, levels, and pure stats down to the last digit on everyone. I try to share skills with members that aren't near me, but it shows it is impossible because they are outside of my active Rising Emperor's Domain range.

I continue playing with the brand new interface in my status as we walk closer to the Abyss. This ranked up buff is starting to become a lot more interesting. It makes me wonder if this is what happens when just 5 members are added, then what perks will I get when I add more?
