The signal I'm receiving from the direction of Valor City is weak, but I'm positive there are three divine-cored beings there, just concealed by something...

Something is blocking me from seeing exactly where they are, and most importantly, blocking me from seeing them as being connected to the system itself.

My curiosity is piqued, and I walk straight out the door and hover upward as it closes, leaving the man and woman from the Crimson Army to keep the former prisoners in line while my double makes its way over to handle these hunters.

I get a local telepathy transmission from Raven as we float higher into the sky.

"You have more divine-cored friends than I thought. They're strong, and by the looks of it, very loyal because of a long history of growing together."

I turn my head toward Sector 1 and reply.

"If you're talking about the four you just saw, yes, we built this empire together. I thank you for staying concealed while we shared a moment. There are a few others you have yet to meet. However, the three you sense to the north... I've never sensed them before."

My gaze tightens, and I pull a teleport crystal from my storage that leads to the Galeheart Tower.

As we fly high out of sight from the hunters below, my double arrives, and I crush the white crystal while Raven's hand materializes to touch my shoulder and come for the ride.

The blinding white flash of light fades, and I find myself back in the mana-shielded lobby I've been to many times before, with familiar lobby men greeting me the moment I arrive.

"Welcome back Sir, it has been a while. Lith has been waiting for your return to bring you good news!"

I raise an eyebrow at the greeting as Raven disappears faster than the B-Class-rated guards are capable of seeing, then reply.

"Is that so...? Lith is here now? What is this good news?"

Simultaneously, I let out a deeper scan of the city now that I'm here to see what's really going on, and the readings I get back are quite confusing.

As I watch dozens of status screens and vitals within my Rising Emperor's Domain interface light up within the tower I'm standing in, the lobby man continues.

"I'll send him down right away. It's about those arena fighters you brought in after the battle with the Dark One. A visitor came by today and healed them all back to perfect health."

My curiosity grows as my enemy detection link shows me visuals of all of the members he speaks of, up and active, either training in private facilities within the tower, reading in the libraries, or eating in the dining halls.

They're all full of energy and life, when not too long ago, they were barely opening their eyes for an hour a day.

The methods Monk was using were working slow and steady, and with the increase in available Qi he was able to farm while I was away at the B-Class exams, I assumed the healing process to get a little bit faster, but a full recovery this quickly was not within my expectations.

My senses permeate further throughout the city as the lobby man contacts Lith, and the sensor on the elevator lights up to show it's in use.

I instantly pinpoint the source of the three divine cores; they're underground, inside the blackstone pyramid.

I can't sense fully inside, as the many layers of dense Qi and hard black stone that reject taking in any energy make up the entire fortress, but I'm positive there is divine energy coming from it.

It doesn't feel hostile, and my best guess is that this miraculous recovery of all of the arena fighters is definitely connected to this source of energy and the guest the lobby man mentioned. However, before I can think too much on the fact, the elevator opens and Lith walks out with a smile across his face.

"Jay! Welcome back! What a coincidence you've shown up the day everyone was healed."

I tighten my gaze even more as he approaches and reply.

"I don't think this is a coincidence at all... Who healed the injured fighters...? And how? We tried everything. Even Abby's magic didn't bring them back."

Lith motions for me to come closer and join him in the elevator while he responds.

"It was a friend of Monk. He brought him along for the daily healing procedures. I never would have let anyone in without your permission, but the old man Monk called his master was healed by the visitor too, and—"

I nod and become even more curious as I enter the elevator.

This explains a few more things to me. The fact that I only sense Qi and no mana in these beings, and the link to Monk and his master now makes sense as to why Lith would comply and let this mysterious visitor into the facilities.

"Good. You did nothing wrong. If they're a friend of Monk's, then they're a friend of mine. I want to meet with them right away."

I enter the elevator, and Lith presses the button to bring us to the ground floor. I talk again as it dings open.

"Oh—and nice to see you again. I hope business is booming here in Sector 1? Bri handles the accounting reports. I remember the numbers were rising, but I don't know exactly by how much."

Lith pridefully leads me out into the desolate streets of the center of Valor City, leading myself and Raven in stealth mode toward the platinum walls.

"Yes, revenue in Valor City is up by over double this month versus last. The new trade routes built connecting us to Sector 4 and Sector 2, including all the smaller villages in between, have brought an absurd amount of foot traffic."

He smiles to himself as I send out another pulse of perception now that we're outside.

"Even the lower trade cities, where more common products are sold, are benefiting greatly, as many traders and even tourists are coming over from Solara. At this rate, we'll need to expand the city soon."

I smile back as we are let into the platinum district by Lith's Royal Guards.

"Of course, say the word and I'll have as many builders here to begin whatever projects are necessary. We've just merged with the 8 Great Regions, after all. This traffic is just the start. I think a few dungeon hubs available to the public would make this place stand out even more. It'd stimulate the economy even further."

Lith's eyes widen, surprised at my claim that the nations have merged, but he adapts to the new idea quickly and responds with other building and trading possibilities. He is originally from the 8 Great Regions after all and merely moved out here for fewer regulations and more opportunity to grow.

Over the decades of trading experience, he's most likely adapted to all kinds of mayhem, so this is no different.

By the time Monk's black pyramid comes into view, we've strategized and decided on a nationwide public auction business that he'd like to make known and travel from region to region, selling rare loot to the elites and businessmen of every new nation I create and expand to.

He helps me, I help him. I own this entire dual nation, so every bronze spent, no matter where it is, will be taxed. Every business expansion, large or small, works out in my favor. Whatever Lith wants to do is fine by me.

I have far bigger things to worry about right now.

We stop in front of the rectangular opening of the black stone pyramid that I know so well. However, now, with the small amount of knowledge I have about this odd black stone material that makes it up, the entire structure is far more eerie to me.

The fact that an entire booming city and economy was built around it, but the ones that live inside continue in their ways and don't conform with the ongoing world around them, makes me wonder if it's a deliberate reflection of the fact that Qi was always here, even before the mana and dungeons transformed this world.

While my mind wanders, footsteps walk down the dark black hall. Yet, thanks to my Rising Emperor's Domain interface, it's no surprise who shows their face once they walk out.

It's Monk, wearing his signature orange robe, and showing me a thin smile matched with a calm white aura.

He bows before me, and Monk speaks up once his eyes meet mine again.

"You've come back, and just in time. I take it this means you've sensed his return."

I don't exactly know what to say back for a moment but nod and reply.

"Sure, I don't know what I've sensed... and if they're a friend of yours, consider them a friend of mine. I just know whoever is in your temple right now is extremely powerful, and I'd like to meet them and learn how exactly they healed all of our allies..."

Monk turns around and starts to walk into the dark black entrance hall.

"Of course, a meeting is already planned. He's been waiting for you, after all."

I follow close behind, however, Monk's next words make my eyes widen, and so many more questions spin through my mind.

"There was a message he wanted to tell you before you walked in, it's that Raven is welcome to join the meeting as well."
