An enormous Royal Demon sits on a cyan-colored throne, looking down a long and wide palace entrance hall.

There are hundreds of bright pillars at its sides, holding the enormous structure upright, with archways overhead, stretching millions of kilometers across the sky.

In between each archway, hundreds of High Noble Demons of the Morvale Family stand at guard, motionless, staring forward; awaiting orders.

Some have been in this state for thousands of years, while others have just returned from missions.

The air is thick, filled with cyan divine threads like usual.

Yet, today, the entire palace is starting to shake with Royal Vibrations, coming from their family head's throne.

Lucian Morvale does not speak aloud, or even move himself. He just closes his eyes, as his consciousness is still being flooded with data from the Lower Realm of humans defeating an Elite force sent to find out what happened to Kelfar; then even more data of his guards in the green zone being defeated by a goblin and a Scarlet Clan berserker.

This is followed by the extremely ominous notifications of every single one of the Vermillion Family's 1st Class and Noble Grade Demons being killed at once... followed by the death of a Royal Family Head.

Imagery from a lost battle of his past subordinate, Sisco Vermillion, and recordings of snippets from the Grand Citadel battle are all sent to him; showing the impossible holographic projections of humans killing the most powerful High Noble and Royal Demon in the green zone of the Upper Realm.

This is the first time a Great Family has fallen in history, and still, no one knows how or why it has happened.

Lucian receives automated warnings of a zone breach, as there are two figures traveling through a manually broken rift; moving from the green zone upward to try and pierce through the fabric of space to land here.

The Royal Demon is filled with annoyance, but still smiles with his eyes closed.

"Whoever you are, you are far too young, and genetically limited to be playing games with me."

He then lifts a hand in the air, covered in dense layers of Celestial Energy, that trigger machine-like commands all over this cyan palace. Waves of celestial light ripple through the archways, ceiling, and flooring, and ripple outward to the rest of the zone; mostly directed toward these new visitors.

Next, Lucian activates his mental telepathy channel, that plunges his mind into a dark black void; connecting all of the family heads of the Upper Realm in one place.

There is already the dark blue manifestation of the Vanguard's Family Head staring down at him. This demon wears a suit of armor that covers his face, but the vibrations that ripple through the dark void clearly tell that he is dissatisfied.

A faint purple glow is visible above this demon for a moment, but it flickers and disappears.

There is only silence, and Lucian speaks.

"I take it you have all received the news of Miriel's fall... I come with updates. It was a pair of humans... And they have managed to breach into the Cyan Zone. Yet, I have taken care of the problem. I would like to request a 1,000-year wave from the Overseer. That time will be sufficient enough to have them perish in the Ravine."

There is only silence for a moment, and the waves of dissatisfaction grow stronger and stronger from the Dark Blue Demon. The imagery of many dark heads behind him starts to glow with white celestial light for a moment, but the Vanguard nods.

"This plan is reasonable. I will send in a request to the Imperials."

In an instant, his entire hologram disappears.

Lucian is left floating in the black void of his mind, waiting for a response.

Moments later, the purple threads far above where the Vanguard spoke start to grow in size.

The imagery of strange white humanoid figures fly about, surrounding the high-definition hologram of a bright True Purple Cored Demon, the Family Head of the Imperials.

He looks down, then up toward where a small silver sparkle of light manifests at the apex of this mental void, then back down at Lucian.

"Your request has been granted, Lucian. The Overseer would like you to prepare for the sealing while you wait. The Cyan Zone will be the new bottom line, we cannot afford to wait any longer."

The purple Demon's figure disappears just as fast as it came, and Lucian is left in darkness.

He opens his eyes to look out over his enormous palace and begins to feel the ground shake.

"It is a shame... Miriel, you were one of my favorite experiments... but, in the end, you were a failure like all the others."

He sighs and looks far out into the Cyan Zone, to watch a Realm Wave begin to bend reality and come his way on the horizon.

–

At the same time, in the green zone, the generals all turn their shocked looks away from Seraphel's reveal of his human form, as there is an even greater pressing issue at hand.

The ground starts to rumble again, and the shoreline of the Sea of Corruption starts to ripple and crash with waves.

This is a sensation the three generals have not felt before, but the blue-eyed wyvern knows it very well.

As reality begins to bend, and a storm of strange energy starts to flow through them all, he yells out:

"Brace yourself! Incoming Realm Wave!"

–

Simultaneously, I have no sense of direction, time, or way to contact anyone from any zone or realm.

My mind is still solely focused on the Angel in my arms.

Everything around us has turned into a bright cyan storm of energy.

Gravity bends and distorts space from every side. The pressure on my back feels like the entire weight of the green zone is pressing into it, but from millions of points, many times over, as every single cyan thread is so dense and tightly packed in this crack between realms.

The Royal Vibrations surrounding us pulse through our Celestial bodies, like they are connected to one heartbeat.

Maria's arms around my back squeeze tighter, and so do mine around her. Not only her hands, but the icy, glistening angel wings of her energy body wrap around me too. Both of our Celestial Bodies are fractured all over, and the only reason they are still held together is from the other's energy cycling through it.

Her head falls into my chest, and I lean down even more to hug her tighter, as it feels like reality itself is closing in and crushing both of us.

Our soul swords circle closer and closer, as our center of gravity becomes weaker compared to the threads around us.

Many of these waves of energy tear into our Celestial forms. However, the natural sacred fire of regeneration that is healing my injuries activates with every violent slash. Not only do they heal my Sacred Body, but red flares of Celestial energy emerge in Maria as well, healing her just as fast as me.

In fact, there are bits of glistening icy Source Resin that flow through my veins as well. They act as a strengthening agent in my defenses, making the outer shell of my Sacred Body tougher to break through and withstand the growing pressure of gravity.

The further we plunge into this unknown cyan storm, the less access to the system I have.

My mind is too occupied on a single task, but it is clear that the borrowed stats empowering me are fading away, and I'm becoming more and more reliant on mine and Maria's raw power alone.

The tears and fractures all over our Celestial Bodies become far more pronounced, however, this only leads to more cyan threads falling into our True Cores.

With my natural absorption, and Maria's ability to pull energy from the environment; our own forces of gravity increase at a steady rate even though our base stats all dramatically decrease.

My massive Red and Black Sacred Body shrinks in size, and the Blue and White Angel shrinks too.

Yet, the cyan cores at our centers glow hotter and brighter with every single passing wave of energy.

I am in total survival mode, knowing I can't let go, and I must adapt and endure.

Even the strange wave of white Celestial Light that pulses through us, and shifts our path through this endless storm of cyan threads; it does not faze me.

The vibrating pressure and gravity manipulation of a Realm Wave, it does not even register in my mind, as its relative intensity to the violent war I'm facing now is nothing to me.

My mind almost entirely blacks out, as both Maria and I have our entire Celestial Bodies fractured and destroyed over and over again.

Thousands of times, the Source Resin barriers are placed back up on smaller versions of us, holding each other through the storm; and Celestial Fire continues to build us back up to withstand this endless tribulation.

There is no telling when it will end, only that we can't give up, and that every passing moment makes us stronger.

It could have been just a few seconds, or minutes, or even hours, maybe days. I lose all sense of time. The only goal is to hold on longer.

This trance-like state is broken by the visual of a dark crack in space filling my mental view.

Maria and I are thrust upward through this rift, and it closes behind us.

The instant we do, I feel an instant sense of simultaneous relief and terror.

The relief comes from the fact that the violent storm has finally stopped.

I can take in a gasp of air, and feel Maria breathing heavily against me as well.

The terror comes from the fact that we are both now stripped down to nothing but our base human forms, no taller than 2 meters in height.

Our Celestial Bodies have been completely destroyed.

My back slams into something extremely hard, it feels like a rock wall.

We bounce off it, and roll hundreds of times, falling down what feels like a rocky ledge into a deep canyon.

However, everything around us is jet black, I cannot see or sense anything.

Our rolling and tumbling finally comes to a halt as we land on what feels like smooth flat ground.

Maria lies on top of me, but as I try to lift my head, hands, then even a single finger in this darkness, they all won't budge.

The violent attacks from all sides have ceased, but the gravity in this realm is overwhelming, and my mental and physical fatigue has been pushed to their absolute limits.

I feel the slow flow of cyan threads in the air moving through my core, and even now still absorbing some of Maria's core overflow; yet I don't have any way of scanning our surroundings.

We made it to the Cyan Zone in one piece, but something is very wrong. I've completely lost connection to my system, and all I see is black.
