Whatever opened this archway in the central domain wants us to enter. It is obviously a trap.

My instincts are giving off mixed readings the longer I look. I can feel that there is incredibly valuable information inside this domain, and the potential for power; but there is extreme danger as well.

When my gaze lingers on the edges of the barrier that are still active, all of my aura is repelled. Yet, when I look into the small opening, nothing happens at all. My Primordial Aura just rests up against it like a solid wall.

Just by looking at the types of glyphs active around its borders, and my intuition alone, I'm sure once my body makes contact with it, it will let us through.

All of my energy pathways increase in effectiveness as I fall into an adrenaline-like fighting state.

I can still feel the aftereffects of using [Primordial Resonance] for a few seconds, and my natural aura begins to replicate it.

As Maria receives my memories, her Primordial aura starts to rapidly fluctuate and do the same.

Both of us fall into a hyperfocused state while slowly floating forward, ready for anything.Our focus gets more intense the closer we get, our Primordial Aura even compacts inward similar to my [Primordial Defense] buff, making all of our senses even more potent as the pressure increases.

Neither of us even dare to breathe as we make contact with the invisible layer of air where our Primordial aura stops.

Just as I thought, our bodies slip through without any resistance.

Yet, my senses of the Primordial Garden below do not become any better.

The atmosphere we float into is extremely strange...

My Primordial Aura doesn't feel like it's being suppressed, but it definitely is... There are massive Primordial Saplings right below me, and I cannot even feel them with my aura.

It's like the invisible layer of film that allowed us to enter this domain is wrapped around our bodies, allowing us to view what is in front of us, but not sense it or interact with it for some reason.

Despite this, we still float forward. I use my memories inherited from the Demonic Glyphs to recall the direction to the center of this domain.

Out of my peripherals, I see countless glyphs spinning, and the edges of the archway slowly closing back up.

"This is our last chance to leave..." Maria whispers.

"It may be our last chance to enter too..." I reply.

The longer we move forward, the more I'm certain that there is no way we could have cracked through this barrier relying on the help from the Dryad's Glyphs like we did before.

"I believe you're right." Maria nods after a moment, and the barrier shrinks to a small hole, then fully closes behind us.

Without my Primordial Aura and High Royal Vibrations giving me any feedback on our environment, all of my other senses start to heighten naturally. Similar to how one's hearing or sense of smell heighten in a dark room.

My eyes begin picking up the intricate movements of all of the glyphs closing up, and simultaneously begin to spot Ascended Demons flying through the trees in the distance.

They don't look like they're headed toward us, they appear to be flying about on their own, uninterested in our entry.

My Divine Threads become one of the strongest pulls on reality around me, and I can feel the purple strands attaching me to space wherever my True Purple Core moves.

The intricate movements of my corruption and bright red ethereal flames that flow around my Sacred body all begin to deepen their meaning in my psyche.

Then best of all, I start to notice the slow pulsing and flashing of my Glyph Imprints.

They seem to fluctuate depending on my train of thought, or how fast I move, or what other energy sources I tap into and activate in the moment. They're extremely sensitive, and react like a moving portrait of my mind and soul on the outside of my body.

However, the more I watch them, the more I realize that they don't only react to my thoughts and actions, they react to what I see and the energy sources around me. When Maria makes sudden movements, or even has potent thoughts, certain glyphs of mine rise to the surface or glow with higher luminosity.

In just a few seconds, as we peacefully float over many Primordial Trees, I feel a collection of my glyphs start to glow with a dim light for the first time.

They're very deep down, and have not ever been stimulated before.

It's impossible to see what they're reacting to, because my Primordial Aura can't sense out far enough to even see what it is. Yet, the closer we get to the center of this domain, the brighter they start to glow.

All of these symbols that are glowing are of a language I can't fully comprehend. None of the Demonic Glyphs I've absorbed have a counterpart to them. It's equally ominous and invigorating. I'm certain this is what my instincts were pulling at before, but had no tangible proof to see why.

Maria's imprints are reacting in the same way.

Even without my memories of these trees, we could still easily make it to the center just by following how brightly these inner glyphs glow.

This growing warmth only makes our focus and alertness even deeper.

My comprehension of Glyphs increases many times over in the next ten seconds or so as we fly forward through this Domain.

It is peaceful and harmonious to watch the millions of flickering patterns cover the outside of my soul, and start to truly understand why they're reacting the way they do.

This moment of tranquility allows both of our ether pools to settle and finally digest the enormous amounts of High Quality ether we've absorbed from the Ritual Domains.

Despite being in such a tense environment, unaware when or how the being that let us in here will make themselves known, it feels like we've just let out a long breath of air we didn't even know we were holding in.

"Quite the leisurely stroll you two are taking... If I were in your position, I don't think I'd be so calm," a silky smooth voice echoes in our ears.

It sounds like the Central Domain itself is speaking to us. I cannot sense where it's coming from, or how these words have been transmitted into my mind, but strangely, there is no killing intent that comes with it.

I strengthen the corruption around my fists, and even wrap my vitals in it while looking around. Maria's eyes are sharp off in the distance, sparkling with the same light as her sword. However, it's useless without Primordial Aura.

"Please, come stay a while. I'm the one who let you in. We are civilized, aren't we? Don't you want to chat face to face?"

The voice echoes in our minds again. Both of us look around, but sense nothing. We float back to back and do a full scan of our surroundings, but there are no threats.

Not even the Ascended Demons that float below us in the forest react to these words. It makes me believe this is a targeted Telepathy wave of some sort. It comes again before I have any time to think of how to track it.

"There's no need to work so hard to find me. You were already on the right track. You're so close, thieves of the Creator's Legacy. Come. I want to see up close what the Overseer has been worried about for all these passing eras. I don't sense anything special about you two."
