I recognize a very small amount of these artifacts from Kelfar. There are far more that were uncovered from abandoned Noble Grade worlds just like it.

The star systems harvested to make Galactic Ports in the Lower Realm had their relics and ancient artifacts saved. Not other from the Lower Realm, but many of these carvings, tablets, pedestals, and text etched into ancient stone are from the Ravine itself.

There are even larger sections of this museum-like research site that have no correlation to any of the past memories I've absorbed of this current galaxy.

Quickly, I thread together the backlog of data from spectate feeds and my raw senses of experiencing the passage of time in the Origin Plane while I was fighting in the membrane.

There are various instances where large ancient artifacts were transported from forgotten chambers of the Fortress Citadel in the Green Zone.

Millions of enormous locked rooms were opened up that held High Quality Ether seals on them.

While these were incredibly intricate, and impossible for any living beings to crack in the recent eras, the mental prowess that Arie and Raven hold was enough to break through the majority of the outer seals.

However, deep within the Fortress, there were still Flawless Grade Glyphs holding together arrays locked tight for billions of years, many of which held conditions of specific bloodlines, or fluctuations of Primordial Aura to activate. All of the races that made these seals were long extinct.

I allow my consciousness to flow outward, examining the laws fluctuating off the artifacts acquired here, and begin comparing them to the Fortress Citadel that is still intact.

Now, it is being used as another long-term storage system for the new generations, but the residue from the ancient seals is still present.

The deeper in toward the center of this enormous maze-like artifact I probe, the stronger the density of ether I feel. It even comes close to the purity of my ether pool in the moments before I merged all of my energies in the membrane.

Logically, even with the new enhancement of laws in the system, there should not be any energy so strong and pure in the Upper Realm. Looking back on the 2 billion or so years of memories I hold from absorbing the minds of my enemies, even in those eras there should not have been this purity of ether present.

The Fortress was constructed by a being before the Demons emerged.

I begin to examine and calculate the rate of decay present on these High Quality arrays, and compare them to the state of the Fortress when Noctus scanned the Upper Realm during his life.

It is clear that as the eras passed, many of the complex Flawless Grade seals aged throughout time and lowered their efficacy to High Quality Ether.

Given another few billion years, this Fortress would have probably shown signs of Medium Quality and even Low Quality arrays.

Even without the exact memories of the lost eras, where no living beings or even races exist to prove what happened, I can calculate that this Fortress was crafted approximately 6 billion years ago. It was made without the direct link to a system, instead made entirely of independent ether glyphs and arrays.

It is not a timeless artifact. All of the structures, pure ether, and black soul stone mass are from this galaxy. All of the laws vibrating within them show that this is their true birthplace, the current Origin Plane.

Even without my deductions, there are many records within this museum sealed away in the Ravine. They are sealed away in data packet formations, with a unique lock made from Abby's Primordial Aura. Yet, for me, this is simple to peer through. Over the past few centuries, the Research Teams here have found evidence for over seven hundred thousand extinct ancient races.

Many of them have unique languages, yet deciphering them is quite easy. Many hold common root languages, and the eras overlap, referencing each other. Approximate era dating was already constructed and documented, even the building of the Fortress Citadel is referenced.

Yet, there are many corridors, storage rooms, and caves that are still left untouched, as they are mysteries the teams down here are continuing to work on.

When my senses flow through them, even the stones that are flat without any symbols or remaining ether to test, I gain far more knowledge than the researchers.

Some vibrate with laws birthed far before the Citadel was formed. Many even exhibit fluctuations of a time before the Upper Realm was even stretched over the Origin Plane.

However, my eyes only widen in surprise when I start to feel the presence of fluctuations present in memories that I have only absorbed through my sword and the golden glyphs in Ember's eyes.

There are artifacts here that have familiar laws, those from past Great Cycles, that should not exist in this galaxy.
