A warm blue notification pops up in Abby's consciousness.

[Soul Bond][YES][NO]

Dense strings of ether in her mind connect to the soul weapon in her grasp, and countless memories from Wyverns that are not her own.

The massive blue Celestial body of water behind her, that is Seraphel, feels warm and inviting.

Their divine and soul energy cores both already pulse and rotate in synchronicity.

Neither have ever met each other in person before, but upon meeting now, there is a resonance between them that cannot be explained by the mortal mind's constrained train of thought. It is not only the mutation caused by her acceptance of the Wyvern's inheritance back on Kelfar, but the history left behind in her Immortal form too.

The sparkling Celestial dust that comes off it in yellow and white specks tries to root itself to reality, and finds itself far more able to when coming in contact with the residue of Celestial particles coming off of Seraphel's body.

It's as though these two physiques know each other, from a past far too distant for the minds controlling them to even comprehend.

The Blue Wyvern's Celestial Ocean of Rejuvenation, and the Human's Immortal Healing Physique vibrate in unison, while facing down an enemy far too powerful to take on.

The enormous open mouth of the Demonic Wyvern fills the sky.

It's destroyed Abby's strongest protection array with brute force, and the High Noble Demonic Blood surging through its veins makes the beast unfathomably powerful.

In its prime, this monstrous Wyvern had a Celestial physique of its own. Many Wyverns called him the Lightning God, or the Yellow Thunder. Sisco Vermillion's Celestial Prism transfusion has restimulated this physique even after death, and that is what makes these black Celestial demonic lightning bolts so horrifyingly powerful.

As the beast starts closing its jaw to bite down, even more bolts of black electricity burst outward.

Abby will be eaten, and Seraphel will face a close-up barrage too powerful to survive.

That would be their fate... but Abby presses [YES] to the warm notification deep in her mind.

Seraphel presses [YES] as well, while flapping his wings and diving forward, toward the danger rather than away.

Abby floats down in the sky, to stand on the Blue Wyvern's nose while their auras begin to merge, synchronize on a molecular level, and start to flow through both their cores like their energy is one.

A white Celestial film begins to glow around them, and the heat high up in the air instantaneously becomes unbearable, like a white star is exploding.

—

The flash of light in the sky above, over a million kilometers up in the air, makes all of the Wyverns trailing behind screech out in agony and even pass out from the intensity or go blind and fall from the sky.

Raven and Arie both shield their eyes.

The swordswoman slashing through Demonic Orcs and Ogres with ease slips away into a stealth dimension, not to get caught up in the blast.

Over the last few seconds, she's left a path of destruction behind her, with hundreds of corpses sliced into pieces, taken out from the shadows.

On the other side of the Sea of Corruption's coast, Arie has been doing a similar amount of damage, rapid-firing dense white arrows covered with thick black vibrations.

His first shot that killed three Ogres in a single blow becomes a simple display compared to what he can land now.

With 4% of the stats from over 100 million worlds surging through his body, his ability to form more, and denser spirit arms grows. He's able to manipulate the trajectory of his arrow long after it leaves his bow.

Dozens of Noble Grade Demonic Beasts—Cyclopes, Orcs, and Ogres with equal strength to the guardian below Ellipsia—are taken out every time he draws his bow.

Piles of dead Demonic monsters cover the landscape.

Yet, when the hot flash of light from above pours down on him, the archer lets his bow fall back into his storage, and wraps all of his spirit arms around himself, like a protective orb of demonic soul energy to brace for impact from this blast.

Both of these generals still shimmer with faint green and yellow glows from the restoration array Abby placed on them before the battle, but with such an immense shockwave coming their way, additional measures are necessary.

The entire shoreline of the Sea of Corruption turns white-hot, and roars from Demonic beasts echo out, but are drowned out soon after by the sounds of massive amounts of Citadel mass, and the ground covered in dead ether stones below cracking and exploding into the air.

When the light fades, it's like the entire war was just caught up in a flashbang.

Raven jumps out from her pocket dimension ready for battle, and Arie opens up his defensive spirit arms, holding his bow again to point forward, but there are no enemies nearby...

Thousands of demonic beasts were just obliterated.

High Orcs, Ogres, Cyclopes, elite lizardmen, and all kinds of monstrous creatures all lie on the torn-up shoreline, devoid of demonic energy, or blown to bits.

Only a few hundred monsters remain...

At the furthest edge of the shore, only the strongest Berserker Giants survived this blast with the generals.

Half of them light up with bright scarlet-colored auras, while the other half are as dark as obsidian.

Those that were injured by the white blast from over 1 million kilometers away and survived, reform portions of their body with Demonic energy, and their vibrations are mutated, to be a combination of their past lives' path and the Noble Vibrations infused by the Demon that created this army.

Each one of them is nearing the threshold of a High Noble's strength.

Some releasing their full energy forms over 3 kilometers tall, and bursting forward toward the last two threats, Arie and Raven, who blast forward to take them on.

–

Maria flies backward, away from the High Noble Demon that activates its Celestial Prism buff. A wave of hot white light ripples through its greater form.

The Demon and Angel are both over 60 kilometers tall now, roughly the same size.

An instant ago, Maria had the upper hand.

Her movements were faster, and her strikes were more powerful. Even though the Demon used a strange variation of its body double skill to switch positions every time it was struck, it was still the one running away.

Now, as this Celestial energy surges through its body, its strength of Vibrations increases tenfold.

Nothing physically changes. There is no new energy release, no increase in size, nothing.

The Demon has become stronger instantly, with no logical explanation. It is using an energy type Maria has never seen before.

She flies upward and backward, biding her time while millions of worlds trickle into her greater form, quickly reaching 4% of 100 million, and granting her access to a new system interface deep in her mind.

Though, this is the last thing she's using her mental space for right now.

About a third is focused on the Demon gaining speed on her, following her high run into the air and yelling, "Get back here, human! You only run because you know you're not strong enough! I am a High Noble! I am the pinnacle of what a Demon can become without a Royal position! You will be my army's head! A High Noble puppet that rules the green zone of the Upper Realm!"

Another third of her focus is still locked onto the armies fighting, and the Ellipsia Citadel with tens of millions of citizens down below her.

This is because what the Demon says is not exactly true...

She isn't running because she's too weak.

Maria is running because she is actually worried that she may be too strong.

This is what the last third of her mental space is stuck on. It is entirely focused on keeping her soul energy core at bay.

A hot pressure builds up in her chest more and more for every millisecond this battle goes on further that she has to maintain her greater angelic form.

It's the same pressure she felt while staying completely suppressed in her 2-meter-tall human form back on the Citadel, but far worse.

Staying completely suppressed was actually easier than just letting a little bit of power out. Now that it has a taste of what is possible, it wants so much more.

Her core is hungry.

It is like a black hole, pulsing deep in her mind and body, feeling the immense amounts of green divine threads all around her in this realm, but still held back from pulling them in.

There is a mental barrier keeping her Soul Energy Core in the suppressed state it still is in now.

Her entire green divine core is still deep inside of this black hole. Only tendrils of green energy threads make their way out as needed, but a very large amount is still trapped inside.

It's like a cold water bottle on a hot summer day—only the small droplets of condensation on the outside are being used...

This Demon has no idea.

It lets out a murderous laugh and swings its axe upward.

Maria blocks with her crystalline sword, and she's completely overpowered.

"You foolish Lower Races! To believe you could stand your ground! Even the 1st Class forces I've brought with me today have my blood running through their veins. You think those old worn-out Warlords on your side have any chance of winning?"

The ice mage takes on the attack without even trying to counter again.

She just accepts the lost blow and lets the momentum of the monstrous upward swing blast her another million kilometers up in the air.

The glowing battlefield of Demonic Servants and even the Ellipsia Citadel itself shrinks so far away in her vision, it becomes a little dot in the sea of green clouds down below.

The Demon doesn't slow down in its ascent upward after her.

She has about a second to regain her focus, but the sight below is even worse than before. Instead of one Demon coming up toward her, there are six.

Five of which are body doubles, but they all vibrate with dense High Noble Vibrations and share the glimmering Celestial white outer barriers as well.

They surround her from all sides, and the reality that it's using its transfusion buff to imbue even its body doubles with High Noble Vibrations and Celestial Energy finally makes sense.

As six glowing purple axes swing toward her from every side, Maria lets out a breath, like a long satisfying sigh. She begins to release the mental barrier holding her core back.
