My mind is trying to fit more pieces of the puzzle together, but there are too many unknown variables in my way.

Clearly, Maria isn't trapped or here completely against her will, and this most likely means my other teammates are fine too. Her level has grown significantly, and fighting ability too.

Although quite a few things don't make any sense here, at least I don't have to rack my brain for ways to get into the center of the City anymore. Maria will have some answers for me.

It's best I push any more questions to the back of my mind for the time being and focus on my match ahead. The sole reason for coming here tonight is to fight in the ring. If I wanted to just practice on more people or normal monsters, I could have gone outside the city.

What I'm really curious about is how my new ability to wield Qi will help me against the battle with the Ghoul. If I can avoid using my Hydra's Buff, and still take this monster out, I'll be much more confident in taking many of them on at once if need be.

I take a deep breath and calm my mind, crossing my arms and looking up at the screen as Monk begins his fights.

Just like the other rounds, I bet 100 gold on every one of his matches, bringing my total up to 23.1901 platinum by the end of the 7th stage. Monk has a picture-perfect run, punching the monsters with fists of Qi and not taking a single bit of damage himself.

I would bet more, but anything can happen in the ring. The only person I'd trust to win with 100% certainty is myself.

Monk steps off the transport platform, and I get the cue to step on.

I'm transported into the ring, and the announcer hypes up the crowd while I start to walk around the dirt circle and wave to the audience.

Some people are cheering my name, others are booing, and others are just screaming and yelling in a drunken state for the fun of it.

"Everyone, I'd like to give you the final event of the night. With only a single match in the fight ring previously, The Flame Emperor has made it to the 7th round and won with flying colors. You're in for quite the show!"

The betting odds are in favor for me to win in such a skewed amount, the number on my wrist just says 1.00x.

I don't bother betting on the first round, I just take a deep breath and concentrate on the Qi in my body. Although I'm here to put on a show, I need to warm up for the match that counts in the end.

A level 31 hobgoblin is teleported into the ring, and I keep my sword at my waist as I run forward at the monster.

Letting the warm wave of energy build up in my core and allowing it to flow into my fist, I jump forward and land a punch on the monster's chest.

Instantly, as it makes contact, an energy wave ripples through the monster and it flies backward, disintegrating into so many pieces it looks like red dust.

My eyes widen as the crowd cheers.

I absorb the small amount of MCP offered from my absorption skill and accept the silver for winning the match.

I know my base level strength from my levels gives me more than enough power to take out this low-level mob without Qi, but the violent shockwave of energy sent through its body is a very new feeling.

When I sparred with Monk, it felt like a crashing wave was hitting a sturdy barrier.

This felt more like a tsunami destroying a sea wall with ease.

The energy trickles back into my core and the announcer brings out the stage 2 monster. The betting odds now say 1.03x, so I decide to just throw my entire credit account in on the match. Some return is better than nothing.

A level 122 cyclops creature comes out for my next match, and I decide to try something a bit different.

There's hardly any difference in strength between these low-level opponents. Controlling my strength to be able to spar with low-level mobs is not the kind of training I'm interested in. Monk may do it so he can teach his disciples, but I'm here to try and make the most deadly technique.

I activate my fire magic and light my fists with flames.

Running forward just like before, I let another wave of Qi flow into my arm as I punch the Cyclops at point-blank range.

The same thing happens...

On impact, a great pressure builds up and ripples through the monster's body, instantly breaking the tension and disintegrating the monster into nothing.

The fire magic around my fist reacts with the flying monster matter and erupts into a huge dark red explosion. However, the fire had nothing to do with the attack itself. It's more like confetti for the crowd after the fact.

The audience cheers as usual, I get paid a set amount of silver for winning along with my bet payout, and the matches continue.

Stage 3, and 4 are almost exactly the same.

A single hit obliterates my opponent, and the eruption of flames makes the crowd cheer.

Stage 3 rewards the usual set price payout, but after winning stage 4 I finally get my 1% cut of the arena betting and the notification puts a smile on my face.

[Stage 4 Fight Victory: Reward: 79.5540 Gold Credits]

Last time I won in stage four, the payout here was under 20 gold. That means over four times more people are betting tonight.

I win another 1.04x bet and a 1.07x on these rounds, but my main focus is figuring out how to use both my Qi and mana together in the same attack.

It feels as if there's something I'm missing, but it's so close. I just need to send out this attack many more times before I'll understand it.

The 5th stage comes along, and a very familiar opponent comes to the stage. A level 405 Berserker Giant. The same monster from the 19th floor of the Vice City Labyrinth.

The betting odds reach 1.10x and I go all in again.

As soon as the dark-skinned, green-eyed, sword wielder comes into the ring with mana-bonded swords and a berserker skill I grin and run forward.

I don't use any of my buffs, and am not using the full power of my fire magic or Qi. I know these monsters can take a hit, and won't give up no matter how dire the situation seems. In fact, they get stronger and more lively.

This will be the perfect time to finally learn something.

As my fist makes contact with the monster's chest, just like all of the ones before, I feel the wave of energy ripple over the entire outside of its body. Then, the portion where I exert the most force cracks like an eggshell, sending the monster flying backward with blood and fire trailing in the air.

It hits the back wall of the mana-shielded dome and falls to the ground, but begins glowing red and smiling wide with its creepy jagged teeth.

I smirk back, whispering under my breath.

"That's what I like to see... I can finally get some practice in."

There's a chunk missing in the middle of its chest, but it sprints forward with almost double the speed and power now. It's enraged and has activated its berserker skill.

I gracefully dodge its attacks while paying close attention to my breathing and sending in another Qi-infused punch to hit its left side.

As I make contact, a very interesting reaction occurs. Similar to the time before, the contact point explodes, taking another chunk from the beast, but the moment it does, the red aura surrounding its body vanishes in the spot that I hit it.

It didn't negate the whole buff, it more so pushed through it, forcing the aura to the side and making contact for the fist.

The monster goes flying into the side of the ring again, but quickly stands back up and faces me holding its long silver sword and staring at me with its sharp green eyes showing no fear.

I nod to my opponent out of respect, then use a gust of wind magic in my feet to push myself forward and collide with the monster again, this time punching it right across the face. Its head is hit with a wave it can't just walk off. A splatter of blood and eruption of flames ends the match.

[Use Absorption]

MCP: 22,795

[YES][NO]

[Use Absorption]

Skill: Berserker

Upgrade: Legendary Grade

[YES][NO]

[Stage 5 Fight Victory: Reward: 210.8045 Gold Credits]

I accept both options, and a ding from my wristband showing the 1% payout for this betting exchange hits a record high. Last night, the payout was just under 40 gold for this round, now it's over five times. People are betting more and more as the rounds go on. I get my 1.10x bet payout back as well and my platinum balance hits 32.2261.

People in the crowd are chanting my fighter name over and over as the announcer continues to yell and hype everyone up to bet more.

The Announcer speaks to the crowd.

"For our 6th Stage match tonight, we've brought in a monster from a brand new dungeon to spice things up. Get ready for a very special round. The Flame Emperor will be fighting a level 595 Blue Wyvern."

There's oohs and ahhs from the crowd as this name is brought up.

The odds start to shift much more than any of the previous matches, giving me a 1.37x payout if I win.

I was expecting to fight the same Red Ogre King they had me fight before, but it seems the event planners have something new in store.

"Maybe this one will be strong enough for me to actually go all out..."

Full of confidence, I throw 30 platinum on myself and wait for the timer until the fight to run down.

I light my fists with flames, but keep my sword ready at my side. It is a new monster at a higher level than me, so it'd be best not to underestimate my opponent before seeing it face to face.

White transport magic brings the monster into the ring, and the cheers of the crowd fill the air with excitement. A loud screech slices through the noise as my opponent stares me down and announces to the stadium that our match has begun.
