The small black room at the central point of the underside of the Grand Citadel shakes, and tendrils of Corruption pulse outward to fill the room.

High above, in the arena where his small energy manifestation battles, the entire mood of the fight shifts.

"Too far! Andras was an exception, I allowed his death because he was disgracing the dignity of Nobles. Yet you dare to kill two more family members... What delusional plans do you believe will come true? You know nothing of the Royals that rule the Upper Realm!"

Waves of dark energy begin streaming into the dome, from cracks in the arena floor, making the intensity of the Noble Vibrations in the air rise with every passing millisecond.

The next collision I have with the energy form pushes me backward, instead of being evenly matched.

The next is even stronger, forcing me to spin away and retreat rather than countering to attack back.

I feel Ava pull the full 4% of stats I've left available to her far below me, as wherever the waves of dark energy are coming from, she's decided it's necessary to act now.

Maria followed through with my wishes, and now Miriel Vermillion truly wants me dead.

This is no longer a game.

I concentrate on my 3rd and final seal, waiting patiently as the attacks from that energy form get stronger and stronger; allowing all of my allies in the Green Zone of the Upper Realm to perfectly fall into position before I go all out.

–

At the same time, in the Cyan Zone of the Upper Realm, Lucian Morvale receives this notification of two Demons loyal to the 5 Great Families dying.

"So the time has come... whoever you are... Scarlet Clan, Fallen One, or any enemy of the 5 Great Families. You've chosen a public attack. Very well. You shall meet your end all the same, just like the many who have tried before."

The Demon activates an emergency ether command, similar to his loyal subordinates in the Lower Realm; and wakes up a squad of Demons that surround the Grand Citadel.

A private army left behind before he ascended, just in case war broke loose before the Vermillion Family matured enough.

At the same time, another private message is sent down to the Green Zone, to an old loyal member of his army, Sisco Vermillion.

"Miriel has allowed the intruder too much lenience. Their allies are in Ellipsia. You may have had orders to secure it for yourselves, but to be certain—unlike the last wars, leaving the Warlords alive—you must kill them all. Crush that Citadel down to the bottom of the Upper Realm, and every last living Lord in it."

–

Floating above the calm green skies, with two 1st Class Demons behind him, and an army of over 10,000 Demonic Servants, this message blares in the white-horned Demon's inner ear.

"You underestimate me. That was already my plan..."

He yells out, to no one but himself and the open air, as the Ellipsia Citadel comes into view.

A shimmering blue and rainbow light reflects off the top of the central tower, and below it, an army forms of a similar size to the one approaching.

Two familiar faces that were reported dead a month ago show up in this Demon's vision as clear as day.

Torvak, and Asic. The Warlords that have protected the Ellipsia Citadel for tens of thousands of years.

Behind them, over 8,000 monsters in illegal avatars line up, ready for war against the Demons that captured and enslaved them in bodies that were not even theirs.

Sisco Vermillion rises high in the air above his army, and reaches into a dark purple rift in front of him, pulling out a dense white Soul Weapon.

It matches his horns in color, and the long staff he grips is over 20 meters long, just like his unaltered flesh.

The top of the weapon has two massive blades, curved like a double-sided axe, but rounded to create a unique weapon unlike any other.

The Demon's bright white eyes pulse with purple light, and a ripple of purple surges through the axe in his grasp and his four curved horns as well.

This shockwave collides with the ether defense orb that surrounds all of Ellipsia from the outside, over 500 thousand kilometers away from the city.

In a single pulse of purple light, a massive hole shatters in this thin translucent ether orb, and the army continues floating forward and through.

A bright blue sparkling stream of light bursts forward through the sky, as borrowed stats increase the mana control aura of the blue-eyed, blonde-haired human that has locked their icy gaze on the threat she must handle.

–

The Warlords take out their glowing white axe and club Soul Weapons, and auras of dark maroon surround the Dark Huge High Orc, while electricity begins to spark around the Blue Ogre.

Countless monsters, of every variety, surround them in the freed demonic servant army. 3rd, 2nd, and even some 1st Class creatures that have been enslaved for thousands of years.

Orcs, Ogres, Armored Apes, Goblin Kings, Golems, Serpents, Insect Lords of all shapes and sizes, Humanoid Lizardmen and Hybrid Chimera Mammals, Trolls, and so many more unidentifiable beasts let out battle yells and roars.

The two 1st Class Demons in Sisco's army pull out weapons of their own. One holds two long curved blades that wrap back around its body, while the other wields a massive blocky hammer.

Both of them give off very strange auras—that of Demonic Beasts that have been transfused with Noble blood. Yet, oddly, they are Demons, not mindless beasts.

The two Warlords size them up, while Maria flies forward through the air, far in front of the army below, pulling the full 4% of stats available to her, leaving a blue, white, and rainbow refracting trail of ice in the sky.

Sisco Vermillion accepts her challenge, and flies upward as well, far faster and further away from his army too.

Neither activate any greater energy forms, nor are any words spoken.

There is only an exchange of blades.

A purple axe collides with a shimmering crystal blue long sword.

The shockwave that follows shatters the already damaged dome of ether defenses around the Citadel, and the War to control Ellipsia begins.

–

Over 10 million kilometers away, deep down below the green clouds, the other three generals all begin pulling their maximum available 4% of stats each.

It is not because they are being attacked directly.

In fact, the enormous Demonic Army of beasts below them is actually still staying completely still at the shoreline of the Sea of Corruption.

The reason they do is because the sea is starting to give off energy that becomes far too intense.

Its surface pulses with blue light, and High Noble Vibrations unlike anything they have ever felt before.

Without Abby's restoration aura flowing through them, the three generals would be losing a mental hold on their systems right now.

This is the climax. The most intense point of Seraphel's unsealing process.

He has been in a constant state of suppression for over 12 thousand years.

The pressure and inability to release his true form was held back, and locked deep inside his soul for so long, that even under the pressure of the Sea of Corruption for many days already, it feels as though every fiber of his body, mind, and soul is being torn to shreds and expanding outward.

It is not that he cannot break through, it's that he knows if he does too quickly, without being in a completely controlled state, he'll kill himself, and most likely a large portion of the Green Zone of the Upper Realm.

Abby's staff begins to pulse in the same exact rhythm and frequency as the blue sea.

Many of the glyphs carved into the handle start to pulse with green and white light, and even the orb at its top shines bright, spinning with dense soul energy synced to her core.

With every passing pulse, they get faster, and more intense, and with the radiation pouring off the sea, some of the glyphs begin to turn a shade of blue as well.

The center of the sea begins to bulge, and waves of Corruption start crashing down on the shore.

The dense liquid parts in the middle of the growing bulge, as a massive figure pushes its way up through it.

The growing intensity of Noble Vibrations in the air only grows, and becomes unfathomable as an enormous Blue Wyvern, over 200 kilometers long from wing to wing in his Celestial form, breaks out from the sea.

Everything for hundreds of thousands of kilometers all around is filled with a dense hot soul energy wave, and for millions of kilometers the Realm is painted blue with a High Noble Vibration infused burst of light. The Demonic army at the shore finally reacts.

Dozens of dense purple explosions of a similar strength erupt outward.

Every single Demonic Wyvern activates their own greater forms, pulsing outward, creating many 10 to 100 kilometer long dark purple and black monstrosities.

One in particular at the front of the army looks equal in size to Seraphel, over 200 kilometers, and pulsating outward with High Noble Vibrations of their own.

Horrific Demonic screeches come out from an ancient army of Wyverns brought back from the dead, and the hundreds of Berserkers, and thousands of High Orcs, Ogres, and Cyclopes behind these beasts all activate Demonic Forms of their own, surging outward over 500 meters tall, and others even reaching up to 20 kilometers high in height.

The three generals watch in both awe and horror, and the sea crashes back down to become level again, and revert from its bright blue back to a dark corrupted state.

Dozens of Wyverns fly into the sky following the blue Celestial being, and start to breathe waves of purple tinted elemental attacks resembling fire, water, wind, and earth at their old leader.

–

The Green Zone of the Upper Realm trembles.

Zashen and Ember both still stand in their fast travel orb, checking in at the outside of the Grand Citadel and waiting for a Demonic Servant Admin to reply.

It is still absorbed in the 1-minute-long Arena match that has only been live for 15 seconds.

Yet, it looks like it has only just begun.

The whole dome grows darker and darker as Miriel's black Corruption seeps out from the floor of the dome, showing that this Noble Demon Drako Vermillion is far stronger than expected.

Yet, the red-haired Dragon that waits outside feels a disturbance in the Realm—not only inside the Citadel, but from far behind him as well.

Ember wastes no time, nor does he try to hide the silver glint in his eyes as he releases a wave of perception, spanning further than any of his previous waves.

In an instant, he sees to every corner of the Green Zone of the Upper Realm.

The Dragon's eyebrows raise, and he looks to his left side over at Zashen.

"There's no need to enter the formal way any longer. The war has already begun."

He then looks to the other side, sensing six familiar Noble Demons surrounding the outside of the Grand Citadel from the Morvale family that he assumed ascended to the Cyan Zone long ago.

Then, back toward Zashen.

"Release your Suppression Technique. It's time to fight."
