The entire membrane becomes filled with strong waves of laws that change their frequency every time they bounce off each other.

Remnants of Noctus' power are fully integrating into my being. I feel large internal shifts taking place in the greater mechanisms of the system, but my perception has become too advanced to get the pleasure of viewing it all at once. There are level-up sounds, and many other text boxes triggering in the back of my mind that would normally be instantaneous, but now it will take far longer than expected for all of these options to manifest.

That is, a long time relative to the events I'm currently focused on.

While using my normal energy senses, this void has been plunged into total silence. Yet, every drop of Emperor's Essence flowing through my body vibrates and reacts to the extremely strong instinctual pressure colliding with my consciousness.

Every collision feels like more layers of shielding are being shaken off of my mind.

Just like the waves themselves that grow stronger, an abundance of epiphanies are triggered within my own mental sea. It synchronizes my thoughts to the very essence of the void around me.

I become increasingly sharp and aware of the other pressures in the membrane that are interacting with these waves as well.

Other than myself, there seem to be five other dense energy signatures that are being elevated from the surrounding waves.

The first undeniable shift is the sword in my grasp. Its physical makeup has become so heavy that it is like another full living entity rests before me in the void.

The material that makes up its handle and blade has become compacted into a gel-like state made from its own essence. The crimson advanced primordial aura, its unique vibrations, and the countless soul swords and energy that it has devoured. More and more flickering golden glyphs appear inside the microscopic pathways that hold this blade together. Even the river of silver threads that flows through its core begins to act differently.

Instead of flowing at a constant rate as it's been doing since the moment a single thread entered its body, now the silver threads have begun seeping into the very fabric of the sword.

An invisible and intangible mechanism is shifted closer and closer into place with every wave of laws in the void that hits it.

The second energy signature I feel reacting to these waves is Maria. With no more resistance in the void between us, our minds have regained their perfect harmony without any lag. I can feel her consciousness being elevated and changed at the same rate that mine is.

Yet, the third entity I feel reacting to this strange force is quite unexpected.

It is far more elusive than the other sources of change in the void, because it feels like it is made of the same exact dark essence. This material is being summoned out of thin air, and it is occurring inside Maria's body.

It is not being directly summoned from any one specific place, as the energy is so compact. Yet, it feels as though it is a side effect of large amounts of Source Resin being compacted and combined with her soul.

The sparkling, colorless, mirror-like material has perfectly bonded with her mana stores and ether pools, binding with the underlying primordial aura and vibrations. Yet, it has a layer of complexity that overpowers even silver threads when it is being bent into certain areas of space and stress-tested to the extent that it is now.

Its true purpose is finally coming to light. The most potent points of this darkness are unfolding in her immortal core, blade, wings, and halo. Yet, it is like it is all part of the same being, interconnected just as tightly as the soul bond between myself and my sword is. The emerging darkness may have a lingering consciousness of its own, but it is solely controlled by Maria.

The fourth force that reacts to these rippling laws is the thin film surrounding the construct that holds the Upper Realm above the Origin Plane.

No physical damage is being done. In fact, the passage of time in the Origin Plane has completely synced back up to the passage of time in the membrane. However, with every collision of these waves of laws that pass through and collide with this bent film of space, its functions are being slightly altered.

It is like the keys and regulations to interact with its makeup are being bent and altered. They are corresponding with the changes happening in my own mind, making the entire construct more familiar on an instinctual level with every passing moment.

With my current processing speed, however, time has basically come to a halt. The events taking place right now are all happening in fractions of time that not even the strongest purple-cored races can perceive passing.

Though, there is one entity that watches everything take place with a satisfied expression on his face.

An enormous golden dragon stares at us through the void.

His presence is still veiled in a sense of mystery, as throughout the entire battle with Noctus, he was always looming above us. Yet, even when we cut through every soul tie, void-stepping through every single bend in space through the membrane, Ember never got in our way.

Right now, I can sense exactly where he is in the membrane. Even looking at the vibrant golden threads on the outside of his body does not pose any mental threat to me. I can study them without any pressure, yet peering too deep still gives off an eerie sensation, one that feels similar to the very changes in laws altering my intuition.

He is the fifth disturbance other than myself in the membrane that soaks up these waves.

However, they pass through him with less effort than the other four pressures in the void. The ripples are hardly altered when they leave his presence. They do not experience epiphanies as potent as the ones that interact within myself or Maria.

Other than the extremely subtle fluctuations, it's almost like the space he takes up is no different than the membrane itself.

Both of his enormous wings flap slowly, and the golden-cored dragon floats downward in the void our way.
