The Noble Vibrations that radiate out from the abyss grow stronger as we stare off into the pure black darkness.

Unlike the wall we've been following, no matter how far into the abyss I try to sense, there are no signs of any structures or vantage points.

Even the thought of walking too far away from the wall is troubling.

The darkness that surrounds us isn't just a lack of light. There is something else coursing through the atmosphere that, no matter how much I try, I cannot make sense of. It is an energy or substance that blocks all sound, all system usage, and most strange of all, it has very disorienting side effects.

The instant my ether sense leaves an area, I'm unable to properly perceive anything beyond it.

When my cycles are at their lowest points, I rely on Maria's ether senses to guide us forward; because even though I logically know the walls are right beside us, my sense of direction is completely blocked off when there is nothing but the void around me.

Right, left, even up and down become strange concepts.

I'm positive walking too far away from this wall would lead to us wandering in the darkness again, just like when we entered this realm.

Though, one thing seems to be breaking through the suppressive aura, and that is Noble Vibrations.

Without any visual feedback, I'm certain I know what direction these waves of energy come from.

It's exciting; as maybe it will lead to another clue to why these Demons were crowding around this cave. But it is also frightening; as if commoner demons were strong enough to fight us as equals not long ago... something that wields Noble Vibrations may be insurmountably stronger.

—

There is no point in running away entirely, as I feel the vibrations of intent, like the eyes of this creature are already locked onto us.

Moving forward into the abyss would disadvantage us, as we would become disoriented. Falling back into the cave, however... would limit the movements of a dragon.

Both of us take slow steps backward with the same idea in mind, letting the walls of this crack in the cliffside work as a natural boundary to prevent certain aerial attacks.

We only back up about 10 meters, so that our perception still peers out into the void; and the quick cycling of pure red and blue Celestial Energy between us speeds up. Each pulse through us lasts 2 to 3 seconds at most. This is because we are not trying to refine it any further, only keep its purity and momentum strong and ready for use.

This cycling speed even slowly increases, and our breathing slows down to focus while the Noble Vibrations get stronger and stronger, like the eyes of a predator coming down on its prey.

We're both frozen in place, even when waves of bright white Celestial Energy fill the air, as the enemy's aura splashes into our consciousness.

A bright white Demonic Dragon, with its wingspan far surpassing the outer limits of our ether senses, and a 10-meter-tall Noble Demon with three curved horns and a long glowing spear come into view.

Every single centimeter of their bodies is saturated with the bright white dense layers of Celestial energy that these commoners were only able to hold on focused points.

The enormous Demonic Dragon swoops upward at the last moment, avoiding crashing into the sides of the cave entrance, as it's easily 3 times as wide, spanning 60 meters in wingspan if I had to guess.

The Demon, on the other hand, jumps off the dragon's back, and comes flying our way.

It thrusts its long pointed spear forward, with a calm and calculated expression on its face; like it knows this battle is already won.

Maria is at the peak of her Cycle, so she steps forward, and I step back.

Her bright blue blade clashes with the side of the incoming spear's tip, and the Demon's eyes widen.

It is certainly not because of her power...

Because upon impact, I feel a surge of a Celestial Energy–imbued mental attack burst through her sword and directly hit both of our psyches.

The Demon's momentary surprise allows for its spear to be tilted in the direction Maria's sword slammed it in, but the shockwave of energy from the blast does it no physical harm.

Both of us, on the other hand, are sent flying in the opposite direction against the nearest cave wall.

Our minds flash white, but in the same moment, my mind is flushed clean with a wave of blue and rainbow source resin, as Maria sends her cycle through me with a single directive: to limit the damage so I can concentrate on my attack.

It helps, but not much. I'm basically blinded by the pain, and the white overload of my ether senses.

However, the outline of Noble Vibrations can still be easily sensed through this blast.

It is like an invisible Demon-shaped silhouette of waves in my mind, that only resonates because of my own Royal Vibrations still suppressed deep inside me.

It almost makes me laugh as I kick off the wall, and swing my glowing red blade that grows hotter and hotter. This is because ironically, if this demon was any weaker, it probably could have killed us both right now. Even the commoners, as we're entirely blind and disoriented, could have landed a lucky hit.

Yet, I can sense it pivoting its stance, and thrusting its spear our way, straight toward Maria's chest to my side.

I jump off the wall with only one target, and slam my blade against the side of its spear.

Again, the Demon's eyes widen in surprise, as it's thrown off guard.

Not by my strength, but merely my ability to move in its presence.

The glowing white spear collides with the rock wall less than a meter from where Maria was moments ago. Instead, breaking through the dark black material a couple centimeters, through the chest of one of the carvings in stone.

It's of the void creeper with wings we saw leaving this cave.

I can sense the fluctuation in its Noble Vibrations, and its hesitation has given me enough time to recover slightly from its mental attack.

My cycle hits its peak, so I jump and swing my sword upward while the demon pulls its spear from the wall.

The crimson blade collides with its exposed neck, but all I feel is my soul armor rattle, then my wrist and arm shatter again from the overwhelming pressure I'm facing.

It's like I just slammed into an impenetrable wall.

The mental image of my red sword bouncing off this monstrous being's white neck is all I see in my mind as we're both blasted backward onto the cave floor; tumbling and rolling at least 30 meters deeper into the cave.

I watch the mental image of the demon fade from my mind, but the pulses of celestial energy on the ground tell me it's running our way already.

I would be scared... but the attack I landed against its neck just widened my eyes to a whole new technique... Its expressions of surprise before begin to make more sense to me now too.

We're both slammed with the mental attacks associated with my collision with its spear and neck, but they're no greater than the initial one that Maria took on.

She's experiencing the same whiteout of all her senses too, but through the resonance of our inner Royal Vibrations, she's picked up on how I located the Demon, and prepares to do the same thing as we stand to our feet again.

Maria's cycle begins to grow in power while the Demon lunges through the cave, now with a small smirk on its face while plunging its spear down toward us.

However, this confidence turns to confusion quickly.

Maria's upward swing of her sword makes contact with the tip of this Demon's spear.

Instead of trying to lunge out of the way, she plants her feet; and I stand behind her as support to this move.

My epiphany after attacking the Demon's neck has translated into Maria's strike.

A thin coating of Royal Vibrations tethers to the outer layers of her soul sword.

It's an extremely strange and mentally taxing technique. Vibrations, as we used to know them, usually only flow outward in steady motions, and act as aids to our intent—used as natural intimidation, or a simple byproduct of our body transformations.

Yet, the moment my blade collided with its flesh, I realized it was not only Celestial energy making its defenses so tough.

The stray aura of my suppressed Royal Vibrations did flow through my soul sword; so by accident, it was able to see through its topmost layer. However, it was in no way meticulously stacked, tethered, and bonded with my Celestial Energy like this Demon's Defenses, so I was thrown backward violently still.

Now, as Maria grasps this concept, for a moment, the strength in their Soul Weapons is equal.

Her barrier is still rudimentary and poorly tethered to the Soul energy in her blade; but again, it is enough to throw this Demon off guard.

Its confidence turned to confusion, now turns to fear and disrupts the perfect resonance in its own spear; and both attackers are blasted backward with equal force.

No mental attack makes it through her blade this time, so as we collide with the back of another cave wall, and the peak of her cycle passes by and into me, my mental clarity is starting to return to its natural state.

We lunge forward on the offensive, and I focus solely on the tip of my sword and my Royal Vibrations to try this technique for myself.
