All of the perfectly carved glyphs on the outer layer of this white orb break into unrecognizable pieces, exploding with the pure high-quality ether that pours out of its insides.

The wave of hot light is extremely dense, but the energy is not tethered to any killing intent or direct purpose. If it were, the shockwave would be devastating, but for Maria and myself, it's like being plunged into a bath of pure energy denser and more pure than we've ever felt before.

The small waves of white light we absorbed while diving in were already extremely invigorating, but now as we feel the source, it's clear that tiny amount of refined High-Quality Ether didn't even scratch the surface of what's being released beneath.

It's like an entire zone's worth of ether, that should be on a level above the Purple Zone, is being ejected all at once.

Not only is the atmosphere around me covered in a blinding white light, but for a moment in time my senses are all blinded by an overwhelming ethereal white-hot bliss.

Simultaneously, a few very strange things happen.

Right before our blades sliced this orb in two, it shined outward with a final pulse of white light.

The barrier of the dome we're surrounded by mimicked this pulse, and it acted as an amplifier to vibrate downward through every zone in the Upper and Lower Realm.

All of the prior blinking waves of hot white energy were synced up and visible through the tears in space between zones.

It was especially visible for Abby and Seraphel, as their reach and perception right now touches two full zones.

The massive wide open holes in space that link the Cyan Zone to the Dark Blue Zone all shine bright white during this final pulse. They all become connected, stretching outward and activating countless high-quality ether glyphs that have laid dormant in the Upper Realm since it was created at the bottom of the Originator's Domain.

There are large cracks in the Green Zone, where the impact craters of the Imperial Outer Guards were killed. Many of them are healing back up as Ava, Arie, Raven, and many of the elites absorb the energy they've released.

Not only the cracks in space, but the silver reactors in the center of every single zone, they all burst outward with a hot white light from within.

In this instance, a very familiar phenomenon runs through their systems. It is a disconnection from the Rising Emperor. This is because for a moment in time, the Purple Zone was sealed off from the rest of reality below.

The only system users with enough mental capacity to even notice what has happened are the generals. Even to them, it feels like nothing more than a momentary glitch in the system, like their senses are playing tricks on them.

However, the aftermath of this small event is not small. It becomes clear it was certainly no manifestation of their imagination.

The complex glyphs that spin into place and lock the Lower Realm and first three zones of the Upper Realm in a bubble all click perfectly into place. Energy rushes in from pockets in space where there was no sign of spatial tears or gravity manipulation.

If one were to look at the entire galaxy from the outside, extremely massive arrays spin around it, pouring energy in place to set the seal.

Yet, these enormous pools of energy do not all make it to where they were meant to go...

The mechanical trigger that acted as an anchor, almost like a brain for the seal, was just destroyed by two blades of fire and ice.

If it were destroyed any later, the seal would have already been set in place. If it were destroyed any earlier, all of these pockets of energy would still be trapped away behind veils of dark black advanced primordial aura around the outside of the Originator's Domain.

A chain reaction of over 500 sextillion complex arrays all shatter at once.

The first to go are those in the Purple Zone of the Upper Realm.

The barrier holding the central domain together breaks into pure white mist, and the silver threads holding it together snap and explode from the pressure.

The second grouping of glyphs that shatter is the invisible defensive array below the entire Primordial Forest.

It looks very similar to the prison in the Ravine of the Cyan Zone, but made with far more care and attention, meant to be the most sturdy structure that held together the entire seal.

Not only does white ether pour out from the explosion in the center of the Purple Zone, but it erupts upward from the ground everywhere. For over a quintillion kilometers in all directions, waves of pure white light burst out from the ground.

It looks like there are earthquakes tearing up the Primordial Garden, but the hot white pressure that comes out is not harmful at all. It bathes every single ancient race in the outer settlements with far more high-quality ether density than they have ever felt before.

This release also makes the divide between the Purple and Blue Zones far less dense.

Some of the released energy even breaks downward, seeping out of the small cracks that the growing branches and leaves of Abby's Primordial Tree are starting to make.

The clouds of pristine white energy flowing into the manifestations only make it grow faster.

From the explosive release in the cracks between the Cyan and Blue Zones, this is where far more pure high-quality ether is absorbed.

There is already a wide open tear in the zone, so many of the shattered glyphs do not need to break through themselves. They just follow the constant flow of ether, in the path of least resistance, straight into the tree's growing trunk.

Every single glyph remaining in the Ravine's Defensive array shatters into dust on the spot as well, and it fills the many ancient pathways and pedestal tombs with hot white light.

This all flows into the tree's roots, and it supercharges it enough to tear downward and break into the Green Zone at the same exact time that this layer of glyphs releases their power too.

There are already microtears all over the sky from the battle that was just won. It looks like there are bright white rays of sunlight pouring down into the Green Zone.

Simultaneously, the Fortress releases many of its own glyphs that are linked to the seal, and it pulses outward, releasing a shockwave of its own. However, within this wave of energy, there is something different that is not in all of the others.

Bright shimmering silver glyphs pour out within it, all coming from a small box deep within its core, left behind by Ember when he was last in the Green Zone.

All throughout the Lower Realm, there are also tears in space that open up and release waves of high-quality ether into pockets of the void that have not felt this much energy for billions of years.

It does not distribute evenly at all.

Most of the ether breaks out in places with the highest current divine energy densities. Heavy yellow and white stars put the most pressure on their areas of space, so large clouds of ether pour out into these star systems.

There is one portion of space that is the most vulnerable of all, and that is where the anchor of the Lower Realm rests. It is the planet-sized artifact that was once the Demon's home world. When the chain reaction finally hits it, the planet is already glowing bright white.

A crack forms right down its center as every glyph carved into its sides makes horrific tears in space. There are many that break upward, and this is where the pools of excess high-quality ether now pour out of. However, some of the tears in space start to crack downward as well.
