Only a few hours pass before I wake up feeling great. The morning sun is just peeking through the windows, and it's clear I've only slept a few hours, but it feels like I've been resting for an entire day.

Even with the use of my Red Hydra's buff in the arena last night, the constant rejuvenation of mana in the air heals me up good as new.

Another interesting phenomenon I've noticed recently is that the higher my overall mana control increases, the less food and sleep I need to recharge back up to 100%. Although after intense battles I need a long rest, if I'm just going about my daily life without any physically or mentally exerting challenges, I can go almost 3 times longer without food, water, or sleep than I would have been able to a few months back.

My eyes re-examine the extravagant room, then I hop out of bed and walk out into the hall to make my way down the steps.

The black stairs still glow red under my feet, but the general lighting of the restaurant is much brighter now, slightly lit up by the morning sun.

As my feet hit the bottom step and I walk onto the main floor, a woman's voice echoes through the place.

"I hope you enjoyed your night."

My eyes dart around, but I don't see anyone. In response, I activate my all seeing eye to spot a figure at the far side of the room waiting for me to walk closer with no ill intent. So, I continue to make my way past the empty tables and light purple glowing trees.

The concentration of MP in the air is strong, but no where near as intense as it was last night with al the guests here.

Once I'm within 5 meters of the exit, the store owner appears in front of me, popping out from behind the closest crimson red bar booth.

Instead of her tight red working dress she wore last night to exaggerate her curves, the woman wears a black one that contrasts even more against her snow-white skin and hair.

"I didn't get to fully introduce myself yesterday. My name is Elen. I watched your match and was very impressed. It looks like there's a new top tier legacy fighter in town; Mr. Flame Emperor."

The corners of her lips curl as she says my fighter name.

My gaze narrows, and I finally get to use appraisal and inspect the woman that disappeared from my sight last night.

A few readings pop up in my mind's eye; [Lv. 344] and [Mana Imbuement][Legendary Grade].

The mystery of how she's able to add buffs to food items, and most likely the trees in this place too, is explained in an instant.

There's nothing too special about this woman, but she's clearly a competent businesswoman and respected by the locals. On top of that, she's interested in me, so I'll play along.

I respond.

"Oh yeah? You watched the matches? Do you usually introduce yourself to all your premium customers?"

She takes a slow step forward.

"Not all of them, but you spike my curiosity. I've never had a customer consume more mana than they paid for in a single night. I keep close track of the energy in this establishment and can't fathom where it's all gone."

Her eyes lock with mine, and she comes to a halt less than a meter from my face.

I let out a sigh, thinking this was going in a different direction.

"So what, you want me to pay extra or something?"

She smirks.

"No, no. It wasn't much, just the cost of doing business. You're welcome back anytime. Just know, we offer many other goods and services here as well that may come in handy for a hunter like you. The two most popular ones would be temporary buff enhancement pills or discreet housing to disappear and heal with no questions asked.

"How much for one of each of your strongest buff enhancement pills? I'd be interested in that, nothing else is necessary right now."

The tension of her elusive arrival and my attempt for a sneaky exit deescalates as I purchase 10 small red pills that boost all stat points by 30% and increase mana absorption rate by 15% for 3 hours. I transfer 5 gold credits over to her wristband and place the pills into my pocket, but underneath my disguise, they go straight into my item storage.

According to Elen, they can't stack; each time a new one is consumed, the 3-hour countdown just resets back up to full.

I'm interested in examining these later and trying to recreate them with my crafting skill, making a quick deal with her here may also but me in better faith for future business. It's better to be remembered as the new legacy fighter that is ready to do business than a spoiled young man that comes in paid for by a friend and absorbs as much mana as they can.

I nod and turn to leave after our quick interaction.

"Hey, if the other legacy fighters ask where I've gone off to so early, just tell them I'm off to continue looking for my friends. Maybe I'll show up to the event tonight, but if not, that just means I've found what I'm looking for."

She gives me a nod.

"Of course, I look forward to seeing you again."

"Likewise, maybe I'll see you soon."

At this line, I walk out the door and back into the city within the golden walls.

The first step I take, there's a moving sidewalk nearby, and small golden arrows with shop names guiding city-goers to any specific place they wish to travel to. As I round a corner, one of the pathways on the opposite side of the street sports a small platinum-colored arrow.

I hop off this one and get on the route that will take me to the entrance gate of the platinum walls.

The streets are much quieter right now than they were last night.

Almost no hunters, businessmen, or high-class shoppers are on the street at this time of day. I assume most of them left the city last night to avoid the tax or are sleeping in still from the long night.

Artifacts, gear, and magical items line the shopping windows as I continue to pass them. The price tags range anywhere from 10 to upward of 100 gold. I even scan a few items on the way past to see a few break 100% buffs. However, the pricing is a bit unreasonable. I can easily farm gear like this for free or craft even better gear once I have the raw materials ready and a moment free to relax.

Right now, I only have one thing on my mind; using the money in my balance to make my way into the inner wall. I have just over 12 platinum, it's barely enough to make my way in. Spending exorbitant amounts would not be a good idea even if the gear looks incredible. Which many of them do.

Finally, I make it to the platinum gates and, just like the silver and gold, there are two knights in shimmering platinum-colored armor standing in front of it.

I hop off the moving sidewalk and raise my wristband in the air. Immediately one of the knights steps forward and moves a tablet close to my wrist to scan me in.

It goes off a light dinging sound, and the reflection of a green light is visible in the glossy armor of the knight. Simultaneously, the Platinum gate opens slowly behind them and the knight that scanned me in steps back into his previous position.

Neither of them say a word as I slowly walk through the open doors.
