There are no updates from the Rising Emperor in the Lower Realm.

After being appointed as administrators, Pluto, Bri, and Alveron have taken control of the mana-based forces and begun a galactic expansion to take back stolen worlds from the Demons and make many solar systems whole and safe again.

Almost all of the Morvales' private armies have been targeted and exterminated by the Commanders. The Knights have partnered with many of the newer Elite Worlds connecting to the World Wide Connectivity system, as well as clusters of 1st and 2nd Class forces that can fight on par with weaker Demons, mainly the Vermillion Families' lingering armies. Pluto continuously leaks information about their whereabouts until he alone is left in the Vermillion family's castle in the Demonic Realm.

Over 3 full years pass between Realm waves, and the number of planets connected to the system has grown by a considerable amount.

Massive amounts of raw resources leftover on abandoned worlds after the Demons siphoned all they could before ascending are being allocated to 4th and 5th Class worlds in order to raise their average strength and allow them to participate on par with the higher-grade civilizations.

As more time passes, the Knights and Commanders grow stronger. Fisher and Lydia both compress their True Cores, and both Luna and Monk cultivate Yellows.

Many of the Knights become high-level orange cores, while a few stay red.

The majority of their growing strength comes from the borrowed stats they can pull from the system, as their talents as 3rd Class Humans have natural limits.

Bri achieves a True Yellow core, and so does her brother Rodrigo, who stays back in the human world as its guardian. She, and the other two administrators in the Lower Realm, reach full saturation in fact.

Every few months, a Galactic Trade Commission Meeting is run by Bri and Alveron, welcoming the hundreds of millions of worlds that have been assimilated each time.

To primitive worlds that never knew there was anyone else out in the stars with systems, they are perceived as immortal and unfathomably powerful beings.

As more of these meetings pass, and the World Wide Connectivity system grows, connecting more and more worlds and pushing back Demonic Forces that even the Star system of the elites had been fighting for their entire lives and believed it was a lost war; even they begin to look up to these new rulers.

The Knights already hold such unfathomable power. It allows 3rd Class humans at the red core rank to easily suppress the strongest elite 1st Class Demons in some wars.

The Commander's power is far beyond the comprehension of the strongest of worlds. They are capable of suppressing the strongest Noble Demons with their auras alone.

It makes the thought of generals, and the Rising Emperor himself, seem like a myth or a god.

While some have seen them with their own eyes, and there are old video recordings of them in action in wars, the more time that passes, the more even these become legends, buried with theories, and no real recent proof other than the fact that the World Wide Connectivity system exists.

The Administrators could easily explain where they have gone or quantify their power, but over time it has become easier to just let the masses see them as mysterious gods.

To be truthful, the lack of any communication or signal of life from Maria or Jay in over 3 full years is very strange.

Even Abby went dark recently.

The only connection between Realms is Bri and Ava's updates as the Realm wave passes, and the occasional message from Raven or Arie when they are not busy working on a project on the Mensa Citadel.

–

In the Green Zone, over 10 days pass.

The Grand Citadel's three-tiered infrastructure is completely built out, and ether commands for fast travel access between the orbiting trading centers, as well as the Mensa and Ellipsia Citadel, are created to connect the mega structures together.

There are no longer blockades and Demon-run access points keeping the hundreds of millions of civilized Lords away from conversing throughout the zone.

Hundreds of thousands of structures are built in the Grand Citadel, and the Warlords come together with the three generals present to create new trade regulations for current citizens, as well as the newly arriving Lords from the Lower Realm.

With the increasing numbers of Worlds connected to the World Wide Connectivity system, the placement of dungeons using thrones' outdated technology with the use of randomized surges is no longer necessary.

Luminite infused with advanced ether commands and custom dungeons can be directly transferred to connected worlds as long as an Administrator or General confirms it. Alveron's mind works fast enough to bridge the gap between realms without any delay and has created an interface within the system to connect with the Ogre Conglomeration's dungeon business. It seamlessly connects these dungeon farms to worlds that want to rent out space and mana to allow their citizens to grow stronger and for Upper Realm businesses to profit as well.

The only Warlord and General that have not witnessed this rapid growth period are Seraphel and Abby.

They are still both suspended in a state of enlightenment deeper within the Fortress.

For over ten days straight, ancient arrays made of High-Quality ether have been rotating and activating around the outside of this Citadel.

Many races of past overseers have left their inheritance keys behind throughout the Lower and Upper Realms, and without them, these commands cannot be activated. Not even the current overseer could forcefully do so without the key and a member of the fallen race.

The human and Wyvern absorb all of the Celestial Energy left behind by this pure white wyvern, saturating their soul energy cores with such a dense essence that they both have to fully activate every one of their ranked-up buffs to fully assimilate.

Royal Vibrations, and the memories that once belonged to this Wyvern following its path of domination throughout its life, are imprinted on these two minds. Millions of years in the Lower Realm, and its sworn duty to heal, protect, and conserve the Wyvern race and all those lesser races that were being suppressed beneath it. Even dense waves of green divine threads fill this chamber, and start saturating the two Green True Cores.

By the time the Realm Wave ripples through the fortress, the ceremony of transferring this inheritance has almost come to an end.

Their Vibrations have altered, with a deeper understanding of this deceased being's past.

Even Seraphel has learned new things about his race.

This White Wyvern and a collection of Noble Grade Worlds in the Lower Realm made peace deals with the Demons under the Morvale family's new era. The Wyverns stopped hunting the Demons in the Lower Realm where they were still dominant, and in return, the Demons promised a peaceful agreement to let Wyverns live on in the Cyan and Green Zones as a thank you for letting their new generation prosper.

However, countless backstabs and meticulous planning and one-sided slaughters that could not even be called wars occurred first in the Upper Realm, and eventually, once weakened enough, carried out in the Lower Realm too.

This Wyvern was too naive, betting on peace, and their race was wiped out in a matter of a few million years.

Memories before even this White Wyvern died show the decline of many other races that made deals with Lucian.

As Abby and Seraphel digest and accept its inheritance, their own Vibrations start to heighten, nearing that of a Royal.

Their Divine Cores have fully saturated, and even have pushed past the point of what a True Green Core should be able to hold in this zone. It is a side effect of being within the natural aura of the Immortal Healers' Celestial Form. Absurd amounts of extra stress on the body or soul can be instantaneously healed. So, despite the fact that their cores should be breaking and shattering their Celestial Forms over and over again from all this energy, they are still unconscious and in a state of bliss with perfect health.

The outside of their Greater Energy Forms start to bend space so drastically that Cyan threads begin to compress and form naturally, and very familiar cracks begin tearing upward through this zone.

–

Maria and I stare up at a rectangular artificial rift in space created by this Void Creeper.

The Cyan Zone disappears, and the imagery behind the rift turns Dark Blue.

All I see is an endless ocean.

Massive waves crash and slosh about. There are no landmarks or anything in sight. It is just a sea.

I wait, expecting the Void Creeper to keep turning its clocks, maybe to show us the Purple Zone or continue flipping through them to let us choose where to go. However, the dark humming being just stops here.

The 5-faced clock glows silver for a moment, then returns to its natural state. It turns its head down away from the rift, and just stares forward, waiting in silence.

The High-Quality Ether in the air activates many more commands that I can't see or understand, and I can finally move my body again. I run forward, and so does Maria.

We come together in the center of the raised platform, and stare up at the massive Void Creeper.

She yells out to it, "What is all this... What— Do you want from us?"

All that comes back is a consistent low hum.

Maria exhales and stares up at the clocks, pushing Source Resin through her eyes to look deeper.

At the same time, I look around and truly take in the reality of the Ravine.

We've been down here for a thousand years... yet, my body and soul feel as though they have only aged ten or fifteen years at most.

I don't know what this creature did, or who sent it, or if it was an automated feature of this legacy tomb... but it somehow saved us from dying of old age in that Realm Wave. In the process, it's made our Celestial Energy so much more pure, letting our energy maturity age even if we didn't.

Instead of the particles of High-Quality ether in the air being a total unsensible mystery, I'm able to finally begin to comprehend how dense it really is. Small bits of comprehension of how it would be possible to create a barrier like the ones the Imperials built creep into my subconscious. However, the true commands and complex structures are still unknown.

I think it has something to do with the heightened state of intuition I felt during this state of enlightenment, even as it comes down, I still can see and feel things I shouldn't be able to.

Even my vibrations are deeper and stronger than they should be, and all of my past absorbed memories surge through me with greater quality.

My body burns, my energy pathways ache, and a ringing sound in my ears grows louder. My body is screaming at me to let it grow strong enough to allow the information I've just taken in to spread out properly. It's like this form and environment are holding me back.

Maria and I both look at each other, coming to the same conclusion.

We need to ascend to the Dark Blue Zone.

Both of us jump upward, holding hands, and into the rectangular rift.

Our heads burst through first, and instead of a violent reaction like the forced rift between the Green and Cyan zones, this area is calm.

There is an extremely low amount of Blue threads in the air.

As our necks, then torsos come through, both of us reflexively summon our soul swords.

The density of Blue threads has already increased the single meter we have risen. It is not a lot, but it is noticeable.

By the time our feet float up through the rift, it starts to close below us, and we begin absorbing the Dark Blue Threads into our bodies to cycle into our cores.

We're in a very thin and compact rectangular zero gravity elevator upward. I still see the ocean above.

This feels just like the slow walk up the throne, when I was ascending from Yellow to Green. It is a manufactured and controlled environment. Not all ascensions have to be life-threatening.

Both of us relax once we realize this and enjoy the slow ride up while we absorb Blue threads.

However, part of my mind cannot stay focused, as the instant the rift below us closes, blocking out any more access to the Ravine; billions of notifications rush into my mind.

I'm reconnecting to the system.

–

Below the rift as it closes, the white pillar within the ravine pulses, and the remaining High-Quality ether to activate this legacy inheritance is channeled into the two glyphs in the statues.

They are the only thing that shines in this Dark Abyss for a moment, until they burn out completely and disappear.

An invisible ripple of energy echoes through every zone of the Lower and Upper Realms, only sensed by a handful of beings.

The statues, and the temple, all crumble back to black stone, returning to the dead Ravine devoid of life.

The Void Creeper's clocks dull, as its purpose has been fulfilled.

It tears open a rift in space, and walks through in two long strides, disappearing from reality as though it was never here.
