Hours pass as we walk through the last few remaining biomes.

There is an icy frozen lake biome, and two mountainous regions with mostly 2nd Class unintelligent elemental beasts in our way. Between the two final Regions, there is a final safe zone where the other Demonic Servants earlier mentioned it to be a good place for us to stop and get express crown cycles, but our Berserker Admin speaks up through the link as we pass it.

"We can register your fake Crown Cycles here. I have an Admin Override feature—it will only be manually reviewed after every arena event during the downtime week after."

I nod, "Good."

We soon go back to our prior conversation about the arena events he participated in the past, and what I can expect going in. But each one is extremely different. I get a sense there is not much of a point in trying to prepare.

Though, this casual conversation about leaking Citadel secrets, and the small pings in our ears simulating a crown cycle confirmation despite nothing changing on our avatars, puts the shivering elf to my left side at some ease.

Oddly, the undertones of anger, fear, and confusion about the situation we're in start to fade away the longer we walk.

With the presence of an admin in our vicinity, not a single wild monster has attacked us this whole time, and not a single one does as we approach a massive shimmering mirror-like wall.

I couldn't see it from a distance, as it just looked like more of this mountain biome was coming into view indefinitely. However, on my minimap I see that this biome ends right in front of me less than 10 meters away.

It feels extremely powerful, and with my limited perception, I can't separate every single ether command holding this structure together.

It feels just like the final layer of surveillance commands outside the Citadel I felt when Ava and I were using a fast travel orb coming here.

"Walk through once you're ready. You're going to be registered as Admin Selected Entries, so you won't have the freedoms of a normal citizen."

Without hesitation, I walk forward and take a few steps before feeling Ren watch my back, then trail behind me. Ava crosses her arms and walks beside me too, and the three of us walk through the shimmering barrier with no resistance, as though it's only air—just like a Black Zone.

[Arena Entry #018275041 Confirmed!] is all that rings in my inner ear at first, then tens of thousands of new popups fill my vision.

Behind this Great Wall, I'm immediately struck with the presence of endless massive skyscrapers that make the Ellipsia Citadel pale in comparison.

My head cranes upward, and I can't even see the top, nor can I see how far back the towers go.

There are thousands of paths to take, with messages reading different races, factions, trading options, and timers for all kinds of events counting down.

Though, only one lights up with a bright white line in my vision, like a hologram connected to my shell of an avatar.

The more I look around, I begin to see other Lords too, using fast travel orbs and going about their daily lives. It's like we've stepped right into the busiest high Class District of Ellipsia, but it goes on endlessly rather than just a few blocks.

Another strange phenomena I see is that one out of every two Lords flying about are Demonic Servant Avatars, and every single other Lord in this place has bright crowns above their heads still connected to the Grand Citadel's system like the Wilderness outside.

I can't tell if it is just the area we're in, but I do not see any Lords here beneath 3rd Class. The majority are 2nd, and a very large amount of the 1st Class are all Demonic Servants.

The Admin walks through the shimmering border behind us and points right in the direction where the holographic line in my vision points us, deep into the city farther than I can see.

"This way. I'll bring you to the arena now to have you checked in."

–

A fast travel orb is purchased, and it surrounds all four of us, moving almost immediately at an extremely fast pace.

We fly past massive buildings, and I mentally block out the hundreds of thousands of notifications popping up around me every second that passes.

Though, as the green flashes of light pass by around us, I do remember the small hologram the entry point Admin showed me before we entered this Citadel—and if those metrics were correct, this massive city in the center of the wilderness is over a quarter million kilometers across. It is enormous, far beyond anything I can see fully in my sealed ordinary human form.

My initial mission to find the center of this Citadel with Ava and get a proper scan is getting closer and closer to finished every second we move forward, but at the same time, there are far more variables stacking up and an additional white haired mystery standing next to me that I wasn't expecting to meet just days ago.

A ping in my inner ear from Ember as we zip past another skyscraper makes things even more complicated...

–

Just minutes ago, Ember opened up the top of the high Orc tower, and borrowed a [Conceal] skill while triggering advanced Ether commands to hide his presence, while flooding the outer layers of his body with dense demonic energy.

He flies to the central tower at extreme speeds, and opens it from the top to enter the small portion of the Tower that is not in use by the generals right now.

"Well, this is going to be interesting..." he whispers under his breath while activating his hybrid form, and hiding his tail and wings beneath strong ether commands, shifting his face and horns to that of the Demon said to be the new Lord of the Citadel.

Ember does not have Noble Vibrations to send out, but a natural aura of intimidation and release of Demonic soul energy control is enough to make the large open room at the top of the citadel feel as though an entity greater than a mere 1st Class Lord lives here.

Just moments later, two figures in fast travel Orbs arrive in front of the center tower, and Ember wastes no time in opening up two entry points to allow them in.

The white orbs dissolve, and a 1st Class Red Horned Demon looks around the room, unphased by the strong aura coming off of Ember.

"Iko Vermillion. A pleasure to meet you." He bows, and the black horned Demon speaks next. "Raine Vermillion. We have heard much of your strength—a pleasure to see you face to face as well." This demon bows too.

Then, both even fall to one knee.

Ember's gaze tightens, going through many possibilities of what this meeting could be about, as he recognizes these two Demons from his scans just a day ago.

"You may rise. Drako Vermillion. New Noble Demon of the 5th Great Family. I presume you come from the Mensa Citadel. What is the reason for your visit?"

Neither of the Demons raise their heads for a few more seconds out of respect, then they both stand slowly, and the red horned Demon speaks.

"Well. First and foremost, we wanted to welcome a new member of the Vermillion Family to the Upper Realm. It has been almost 700 years since our last addition."

The Demon smiles, not mentioning the fact that a Demon was killed in this very building upon their new family member's entry, but Ember knows this is not the actual reason for their arrival. It is just niceties that a Lower Class member of their family must follow out.

He lets out more of his Demonic Soul energy, being produced within his body by combining low quality ether and pure demonic energy on the spot to create a powerful aura that grows in intensity.

The Black Horned Demon's eyes widen, and he accidentally lets out a surprised inhale. 'It hasn't even been a full month since Drako arrived, and he's already absorbed and assimilated this much ether... Real Nobles are truly on another level of talent than us...' he thinks inwardly, as the more sociable red horned Demon speaks again in a slower, more cautious tone.

"Our Citadel Lord has suspicions that a traitor is among us..."

Ember's thoughts run faster inside his head again, but he shows no sign of change on the outside, letting the Demon before him do the talking.

"We attempted reaching out to your guards, but there was no response. An instant link between avatars has not been set up yet. So, our Lord sent us here directly to deliver the news. A Berserker Giant Race has been found in the Lower Realm interfering with our business. It all seems to be linked to an old enemy of our Citadel Lord—a Wyvern, actually, if you are curious."

The Red Horned Demon bows again out of respect.

"We do not wish to trouble you with problems of an old war that occurred here before your time. We only request access to your live surveillance system, and permission to temporarily hold all present Berserker Giants on the citadel for an interrogation once our Lord is finished in the Mensa Citadel."

The Demon does not lift his head from the bow, and Ember is slightly surprised from this response. He does not sense any emotional fluctuations that would show that he is lying, but it's possible that Sisco Vermillion is keeping the full truth from them.

Whatever the case may be, Ember replies, "Very well. If that is all you need, I'd be happy to accommodate you."

He turns around, lifting a hand to give them a casual motion to follow, then walks into the limited rooms left at the top of this tower.

He sends a mental telepathy message to the Rising Emperor, still sharing his visuals of the live interaction taking place with these visiting Demons. "Jay, they may know more than you think. Be ready for anything in the Grand Citadel."
