[Level Up] x118,196

[New Soul Bond Formed!][i]

[Soul Bound Amplifier Upgrade!]

[Celestial Emperor's Soul Sword has Reached Lvl. 5!]

[New Soul Bound Artifact Class Gear Equipped!]

[Ancient Royal's Chestplate]

[Celestial Demon's Shoulder Guards]

[Celestial Demon's Wrist Guards]

[Celestial Demon's Gauntlets]

[Celestial Demon's Upper Leg Guards]

[Celestial Demon's Lower Leg Guards]

[Celestial Demon's Boots]

[New Soul Bound Sentinel Class Gear Equipped!]

[Corruption of the True Royal]

[Congratulations! Rising Emperor's Domain Milestone Reached!]

[7,014,620,939/5,000,000,000 Worlds Claimed]

[New Perk Unlocked: Galactic Advance]

Info:

Generals may now borrow an additional 1% each of total borrowed stats.

The Rising Emperor may now borrow an additional 5% of all Base Stat Points and Mana Control efficiency from all subordinates under the allegiance of the Rising Emperor.

Members affected by this perk are not required to be within range of the Rising Emperor's Domain.

The Rising Empress[i] position has been automatically appointed due to a system altering Soul Bond. A manual override of the total 30% of borrowed stats from all Generals, Administrators, Commanders, and Knights may be accessed. In the event of the Rising Emperor's absence, the Rising Empress may access all of the remaining stats and system functionalities until his return.

This buff stacks with the [Galactic Player] perk, [Galactic Footprint] perk, [A Light in the Darkness] perk, [Path to Domination] perk, [Authority among Worlds] perk, [Ruler of Worlds] perk, [World Collector] perk, [World Domination] perk, [Imperial Reach] perk, [Expansion] perk, [Dominance] perk, [Authority] perk, [Power Holder] perk, and [Ruler's Gaze] perk if used simultaneously.

—

These are only the most intense notifications that float to the top of my consciousness.

It seems the system was still active even while hidden from my senses. I don't know where all of these level-ups came from, but the majority was most likely from that Royal Demon. My level has almost doubled... reading [Lvl. 247,510] at the top of my status.

All of the Soul Armor I've been crafting has buffs in all 5 stat areas, almost as powerful as my soul sword... Especially the chestplate that was infused with a Royal's horn. They have all become celestial grade Artifact Class soul weapons... far stronger than my blood bonded gear beneath.

Even my Soul Sword leveled up after absorbing all of the leftover Royal and High Noble Grade soul weapons that the Demon collected over the years.

This was all partially expected... However, the notification about my corruption being a sentinel class artifact is surprising. It contains the lingering will of Miriel Vermillion, the first Royal Demon I killed, and has drained that same resentment and desire to destroy the 5 Great Families from every Demon I've killed since. Yet, it uses my Demon's Core as a vessel, and my own will to destroy the Royal Families has overpowered it, making its essence my own.

The final major notification makes me smile, as somehow I've gained almost 6 billion more worlds since falling into the Ravine. This has triggered a new milestone perk, allowing me to borrow up to 90% of all stats from my links of loyalty.

However, it has appointed Maria as the Rising Empress. This system mutation doesn't seem to be entirely random, as all of the generals' stat increase updates always occurred in the past when the milestone increment started with a 5. Following this logic, this should be the final one that affects the generals directly, leaving all 5 with 5% of stats each to borrow at will. Our Soul Bond triggered this fusion at the same time as the system update.

I come to read countless missed messages and communication attempts from the Lower Realm and Green Zone, sending live feeds of updates on what has occurred.

Less than two weeks passed in the Green Zone, and over 3 years passed in the Lower Realm.

I watch the recorded live feeds of many wars Bri, Alveron, and Pluto have carried out, and the rapid expansion of my linked worlds now makes far more sense.

Even the visuals of the new Grand Citadel and Green Zone being rebuilt to prepare for a new era of prosperity to bring back its former glory make me happy.

With a smile, I send out updates to the Administrators, Generals, Commanders, and Knights to thank them for their job well done while I was away.

Instantly, I get a burst of messages back. In my heightened flow state as a residual effect of the long-term exposure to high-quality ether, it is quite easy to reply to all of them at once.

Dark Blue Divine threads are flowing through my body and seeping into my soul sword at faster and faster speeds as we float up this zero-gravity elevator toward the top of the rift.

It doesn't feel painful at all; my body, cores, and soul accept these threads like I was parched, and now I'm drinking a cool glass of water that never ends. The heat and pressure that were building up in my energy pathways and cores are released.

It is like a flood of power that was locked behind invisible seals now is available to me without any limitations.

As both my core and Maria's turn from Cyan to Dark Blue, our Soul Bond grows even stronger, and our Vibrations evolve to a frequency of even deeper confidence and certainty. During this eruption of power, as our bodies and minds are finally growing strong enough to withstand the energy maturity gained during the last 1000 years, Maria's body starts to glow with a bright white light.

I can see what's happening in her status, as she's gained a massive amount of levels too from killing Demons in the Ravine, and in order to take full advantage of this enlightened ascension state, she's using this opportunity to rank up.

It seems as though parts of her body and soul already have inside the Ravine, after she surpassed level 100,000. However, now that the system is reconnecting, the final activation of the mana-based commands is occurring.

It fills the air with a calming pressure, almost exactly like the High-Quality ether we were just soaked in for centuries. It deepens my own concentration just from being in contact with her, and I can also study the intricate process taking place.

This is the first time I'm witnessing a system command activate in front of me with such depth.

It doesn't exactly feel like some god or all-powerful machine is triggering the commands. Just like any other ether command, the system itself has its rules and limitations... Just like the Imperial's barrier, and the array that Void Creeper made, I cannot understand or see the true complex functions of what is happening, but I'm starting to see some of the gears in this mechanism turn.

My eyes are widened in awe while I adapt to the growing density of divine threads around me, and experience Maria's rank up with her as we ascend.

It is almost seamless.

The slow ride upward brings us a kilometer through space at most, and only takes a few hours.

I feel all of my cells and energy pathways being rebuilt and adapted to a higher level of existence.

Just as easily as we entered this rift is how we exit.

Our heads slip through first, then our orbiting swords and torsos, and our legs last.

Maria's full-body glow of a rank-up dims and ceases the instant the rift disappears below us.

In every direction, for as far as I can see, there is an endless blue ocean.

We're about a hundred thousand kilometers above the sea, but some of the waves easily swell up to close the gap by half every few passing seconds.

The divine energy density in the air is thick, and the overwhelming gravity shift reflects that. It's thousands of times more intense than the Ravine.

However, both Maria and I, in our base forms, are strong enough to withstand this pressure.

The Dark Blue Divine Cores in our chests are cycling like furnaces, pushing our own gravity waves out into this endless sea.

The more I look around, the more strange this setting feels.

It's empty, but I feel the presence of life nearby. I don't know how, but I can sense that there are extremely strong soul bonds somewhere in this ocean. They are invisible, and no physical energy readings can be seen. It is a new sense I've unlocked during this enlightenment, but have not mastered yet.

The more I scan my surroundings, I begin to notice the white mist that is expelled into the air after each crashing wave below. It's made of pure Celestial Energy. So pure, even a small droplet of it is equal in purity to the refined Celestial Energy we managed to collect from the entire Ravine.

I realize this isn't water below us; it's pure Celestial Energy in a dense liquid state. It is so much denser than the air that it's just formed at the bottom of this zone.

Maria and I float upward, and spin back to back. I pour a large amount of my Celestial Fire into my eyes, while hers sparkle with Source Resin, and we scan our surroundings.

The ambient Celestial Energy, and thick blue threads in the air, continue to pour into our bodies and increase our energy output slowly.

At first, I see nothing at all, just endless ocean forever on all sides.

However, both of us lock onto an area of the sea where the waves seem to be larger than the opposite direction. One way, the ocean is calm, with waves that hardly even splash up a hundred kilometers, maybe a thousand at most. It makes the waves below us seem enormous. In the other direction, the further I look, the larger the waves become. Some look like they're peaking over a million kilometers high. It makes the sea below us calm in comparison.

We float higher out of curiosity to get a better vantage point.
