The higher we float, the more waves we're able to see on the horizon.

After a few minutes, the million-kilometer-high crashing waves of Celestial Energy seem tiny.

All off in one direction, the waves grow larger and larger, like the ocean is swelling upward to make a blue mountain in the sky that occasionally crashes to form valleys even deeper. Not only is this zone enormous, to the point where I'm able to see over a billion kilometers off in one direction and it still seems endless, but the amount of energy just sitting here out in the open is absurd.

A handful of this ocean is equivalent to all of the celestial energy in the Ravine.

The mist continuously flows into our bodies, and the dense Dark Blue threads in the air make our Divine Cores weigh us into reality deeper with every second that passes.

I feel unrestrained and free.

There are no seals or restrictions at all on my aura or senses; it makes my Royal Vibrations blossom further in this environment of pure freedom. They burst outward further and further, compounding on each wave as I get stronger and my mind's depth of perception grows.

I feel Maria begin to drain all of the divine threads in our surroundings, and absorb even more Celestial Mist from the sea than me. Both of our mana-based system senses rejuvenate and breathe in this fresh atmosphere.

Over an hour passes, and we slowly drift in toward the larger waves.

My vibrations flood outward over 5 billion kilometers, they all contain stacked waves of my Celestial Energy and advanced senses.

Even from just the moment we entered the Dark Blue zone, I feel like I have grown ten times stronger again and am continuing to grow.

Maria and I float apart, a few kilometers at first, then a few hundred, then thousands, and eventually over a million. Though, with our growing auras, it still feels like we're right next to each other, basically cycling energy through one another's souls.

However, with these growing senses, I can feel the presence of the lifeforms nearby with stronger intensity. I feel that there are two of them. Their personalities ripple through the air like I'm digesting their feelings and mannerisms.

One of them is very rigid, strong, and simple-minded. It is the older one. However, the other is eccentric, hot-tempered, and very fearsome... so much so that it feels like multiple minds are stacked into one soul. Despite these strange readings, they don't seem to be hostile; if anything, they are giving off the vibes of a playful nature.

It almost makes this more interesting, as if these waves are what a playful state creates... the power of these creatures must be unfathomable.

Even if it is interesting, it is not concerning. After all, I'm sensing these waves in my base form without borrowing any stats... nor activating any ranked-up buffs.

The will of a True Royal radiates through my being, and I'm positive whatever these creatures are, they aren't Demons.

Eventually, the air itself becomes far more saturated with Celestial Energy.

The pure power from the crashing waves has sent massive amounts of mist into the atmosphere that can't easily just drop back down into the sea. Dense temporary white clouds of ether are in the sky.

It makes it far easier to digest, making our Celestial Energy intake surge even higher.

Every few minutes that pass, my Celestial Energy pool doubles the intensity of my red flames, and makes all of my new armor glow brighter. Even my soul sword that calmly orbits around me starts to vibrate slightly with hunger once external waves of Celestial energy begin to hit us.

These new waves come from the sky, as though they're radiation from clashing attacks. They come in shockwaves that span over a billion kilometers, and the further we travel, the more frequent they get.

One in particular finally lights up my senses like fireworks.

I can feel the raw essence in its ricochet, and even pick up on Royal Vibrations matching the soul imprints I felt when we first entered this abyss.

The strange thing is that each of them has the same Royal Vibrations pouring out of them.

It feels kind of similar to what I felt when sensing that Ancient Royal's Dragon for the first time. However, these are smooth, powerful, and successfully assimilated Vibrations. Almost exactly like the corruption that slowly swirls around the outside of my body now mixed with my celestial fire as an automatic defense.

The mental outline of these creatures is so enormous, it's almost hard to believe. I have to begin analyzing them in concentrated parts for my mind to catch up and piece their true forms together in random large patches.

They're about 100 billion kilometers away, but considering the massive size of the largest swells and destructive crashing waves in the sea, they're only a few dozen waves away.

There is an enormous Hydra with five heads. Each one of them erupts with a rusted red-colored Celestial Energy. They all attack a tortoise from many sides. The tortoise has a spiked shell, and a sharp curved beak. It too charges up an energy attack from its mouth and releases a bronze and white beam of energy back at the hydra.

It explodes through two of the Hydra's rust-colored energy beams, then turns its body and pulls in its head to take on the remaining three with its shell.

Five massive shockwaves surge through the air filled with raw celestial energy, just like any of the other surges we felt before...

However, they don't immediately go in for counters to continue this battle.

Instead, the five heads of the hydra, and the eyes of the tortoise that are each larger than stars in the lower realm; they all turn toward me and Maria. Somehow, they've sensed that I'm looking their way.

Their bodies are jet black, like they're made of pure stone. Yet, they vibrate and have pulses of the rust and bronze colored energy that ripples through them before releasing an attack.

I've never seen anything so massive in my entire life.

Every passing second I use the maximum amount of Celestial energy and divine threads from my environment to enhance my brain and senses to take in the full picture of the scene.

Even a single scale on the Hydra is larger than Citadels in the Green Zone...

The distance between myself and these living Soul Weapons is wider than the entire Ravine... It's nearly the distance of a full solar system in the Lower Realm.

I'm using every single perception-based Celestial Grade Skill to enhance my senses, and the information I gather from this continues to grow and baffle me.

One thing isn't confusing.

That is the fact that their playful auras as they were sparring each other for fun are no longer present. The vibrations of a guard dog sensing intruders ripple through the air, and instantly six beams of light come flying out of their mouths, rocketing our way.

Despite Maria being over 3 million kilometers away from me, we might as well be right next to each other. The width of a single beam spans ten times the distance between us. As they all converge into one, a bright bronze and rust-colored aura fills the sky.

The closer it gets, the better readings on the Celestial Energy Density I feel, and the strength of the infused royal Vibrations I can gauge... This may only be a warning shot, but I'm positive my natural form is not going to cut it.

A grin grows across my face as without any hesitation, I release the transformation I've been holding back since Maria and I consolidated our Vibrations with a Soul Bond.

All of the bright red Celestial Fire, and dark coils of corruption creating an outer layer of protection begin to tighten against the white soul armor I'm wearing. It flows around in a natural state, then slowly seeps through all of the cracks and joint separations in the armor.

This is the outer manifestation of my soul seeping into my muscles and bones, and begins triggering a familiar style of growth. My whole body expands, and so does the output of Vibrations on my environment. I begin to glow a pristine white shimmering light, that of my old Noble Human form.

This light grows brighter and brighter as my body grows to be 10, 20, even 100 meters tall.

Every moment I grow larger with my Celestial Energy infused Vibrations triggering this change, so does all of my bonded gear.

Once my body surpasses 250 meters, it begins to emit a crimson glow, and once it surpasses 500 meters, an obsidian black ray of corruption-colored light mixes with the metallic hue.

At 1 kilometer in height, the growing slows, and the two colors have blended to create a domineering dark crimson aura. A dense Dark Blue Core burns in my chest, and slowly, the red and black energy that seeped into my armor at the start of this transformation flows out again.

It's structurally changed. So many self-made seals have been lifted from its essence.

For my entire stay in the Ravine, I was forced to suppress my energy. At first, it was so that stronger demons couldn't sense our auras, and later, because of some seal made of High-Quality Ether by the Imperials.

Until now, the measly Royal Vibrations I've been using in my base form are just scratching the surface of the actual power that can be released in the Form of a True Royal Human.

Even now, this is only a basic manifestation of my Royal Form. I feel that triggering the True Transformation would be extremely dangerous, and would only be truly possible in a state of heightened emotions, and desperation. Doing so on a whim when it is not necessary would be a waste of my will.

Instead, I activate my mana-based greater energy form in order to make full use of the Celestial Energy flowing into my being. On top of this, I activate my Astral Form to take full advantage of the Divine Threads all throughout the atmosphere.

In a matter of milliseconds, a colossal energy body manifestation bursts out and around my Royal Body. It grows to hundreds of thousands of kilometers in height in an instant.

I feel my Domain of perception, and control over my environment exponentially rise.

Maria undoes the seal on her Vibrations as well, and allows her infinite number of stacked cores that mimic a Fibonacci sequence to activate 4,181 points. This is only four spirals greater than the 610 she used to fight the Dragon in the Ravine. All of these cores overlap and fill her entire body to act as individual pseudo cores while pulling in energy from all around us. An exceptionally high wave crashes below in this very moment, and her area of activation overlaps with the upper cusp.

It fuels her transformation to activate her own mana-based greater ice goddess form, then her Celestial Energy-based Angel's form right after that grows in comparison to the amount of Divine Threads and Celestial Energy poured into it.

Yet, this alone is enough to bend gravity around her, and grow to match my energy form's height, nearing half a million kilometers in size. She doesn't even need to use her new Ranked Up form I witnessed her receive while we ascended to this zone.

I was even prepared to use my Sacred Body, then begin borrowing stats, and finally release the True Vibrations I've been holding back, but as my mind catches up to all of the data flowing into it; I realize in this state I'm not even going to have to grab my sword.

It pulses with hunger, but I send it a wave of telepathy and let it orbit around me. "Your first kill after this last level up deserves an even greater opponent than this. Be patient."

All I get back is a reluctant pulse of even brighter crimson light before it dims and waits following my wishes.

Maria and I both lift a single hand in the air, and two enormous red and blue arrays begin to form in front of us.

They span over 50 million kilometers wide, and easily a few million thick.

They overlap each other perfectly, forming a dense layer of pure ice, with strong waves of fire intertwined within. It appears to be a flaming disk of Ice in front of the incoming six massive beams of rust and bronze Celestial Energy.

As they collide, we stay calm, floating in the air behind our protection; and shockwaves equivalent to the spar just moments ago radiate through the Dark Blue Zone for hundreds of billions of kilometers.

About half of the Celestial Energy from the impact explodes off the sides of the defensive array; however, half seems to have disappeared.

The solid ice is strong enough to block the blunt force impact, and the flames circulating through it are hot and destructive enough to incinerate and absorb all of the energy that tries to push through.

Massive amounts of the attack thrown at us are eaten by my Celestial Fire.

The sound of an Ancient tortoise's guttural grunting and hissing, followed by five simultaneous roars of a hydra fill the Zone afterward; as these Ancient beasts realize the intruders somehow survived.
