As we pull each other closer, the cycles of Celestial Energy have far more points of skin contact to flow through. Not only does this momentary blip of experiencing touch for the first time in years not break the connection, it instantly makes it deeper and more intense.

Our senses overlap and begin to pour into each other's souls.

The cycles grow faster, rejuvenating our minds at an increased rate, and allow for more and more of our senses to be heightened and released from the blank white prison they were trapped in.

I finally get to peer over the edge, deep into Maria's soul energy core.

Everything is laid bare before me, I can even see the intricate manifestations of her fear and anxiety containing this power by invisible mental constraints. Some manifest as self-doubt, holding on tightly to an image of herself that she used to be, that doesn't believe she can grow strong enough.

Other invisible seals are subconscious manifestations of her vibrations that show as visuals of me...

They are visions of the past. She is chasing after me whenever I reveal new powers.

I can feel that the mind-bending endless potential of this anomaly stems from this feeling, as time and time again I grow stronger and she's had to catch up. I'm quite literally looking into the depths of her path, what makes up her soul.

At the same time, our bodies collide, as not only does this contact allow for our cycles to grow faster, but it's allowed me to see Maria in all her beauty, looking deep into my eyes. It's the brightest and most beautiful blue I've ever seen.

I turn over to kiss her, and feel her hands pulling me closer to kiss me back.

Our senses are looking deep into one another's souls, but there are still parts of her I cannot see. We pull each other even closer.

–

Maria regains her true senses for the first time in years as well, and it comes as the sensation of an insatiable heat flowing through her whole body of ice.

As she lets her mind flow into Jay's soul, the urge to pull herself closer and open up everything she's kept trapped away to only herself becomes overwhelming.

As hot lips touch hers, she sees everything and feels everything about the man in her arms; and finally begins to unravel the real truth to why his Vibrations move the way they do.

The tightly bound emotions that hold these two forces of dark destruction and bright healing creation apart should not naturally reside within the same body.

He does not want one to overpower the other, and deep down is scared to find out what would happen if he does.

All this man filled with fire knows is that in order to protect everything and everyone around him, he has always had to kill, destroy, and never let his guard down because there is always a bigger enemy.

The Vibrations look as though they are tethering this body and soul together with unbreakable strength, but in reality, it is an unrelenting fear of change. Fear of letting others down that rely on him, and by that same right, fear of letting himself down. It is fear of the unknown.

–

The Celestial Energy cycles speed up as the movement of the two bodies explore each other's beings.

At first, just hands over each other's smooth skin and tight muscles are enough to stimulate the bond; but each soul grows and craves more.

The rhythmic pulsing and spinning white glyphs that float all throughout the air resonate with the way these two bodies begin to move and interlock. They glow brighter, and float toward the center of the room.

–

Maria pulls me inside her, and I finally feel what lies deep within her soul.

Pleasure and the sensations of my mind completely healing, even growing and expanding far past what it was before, flow through my whole body.

Not only can I touch and see, I begin to smell, taste, and hear the world around me again.

"Jay, I love you..." are the first words I hear, and they completely dissolve all of the protective seals left in Maria's soul.

I see that the only thing holding her back from letting me in was a fear that I wouldn't accept her.

It was a fear that she would be chasing a shadow upward until it disappeared from her sight.

A fear that I would reject this feeling and not want to be by her side.

–

Maria has taken her chance to speak her secrets into the void.

The overwhelming heat in her cold body only becomes hotter, as she chooses to be the most vulnerable she has ever been in her entire life; letting Jay into her body and mind.

For many Celestial Energy Cycles, she feels him touching the deepest parts of her soul.

While the pleasure, and ripples of rejuvenating cycles of energy, have heightened all of her senses to become an erotic blur; there is still a heavy blanket of invisible tension holding her mind back.

Until Jay's voice echoes through the Darkness, "Maria, I love you more."

Her own vibrations that hold herself back instantly burst, and the fiery body that moves in perfect rhythm with her becomes a tapestry of lights and emotions that were hidden from her before.

The truth within the Vibrations of strength only has one reason to exist at its center.

To protect her.

The intricate web of seals and layered vibrations with many other purposes that surround the inner portion of his soul was hidden for the exact same reason as hers.

Jay would do anything not to lose her, and the possibility of her not feeling the same way held him just far enough apart to stay safe.

When Maria's soul sees this and hears his words, the final barriers keeping their souls apart give way as if they were never there.

Both minds, bodies, and souls experience a climactic moment of bliss as they accept each other's strengths and flaws as their own.

–

The Celestial Energy cycles between the two bodies sync in perfect unison. There is no longer a gap between each refinement process, it is a constant flow where their skins touch and interlock.

A true Soul Bond is formed.

All of their senses heighten further with every passing moment, and their Vibrations shift as their wills become more aligned.

Their deepest fears and greatest goals have been revealed before one another, and they align with perfect resonance.

The white runes and spinning glyphs all over the temple's walls glow brighter and brighter every second.

They all converge inward on the two in the center of the temple and flow onto their bodies like light droplets of rain on a pond.

The ether imbued in these symbols does not feel like anything at all.

In fact, as they imprint onto the two humans' skin, they only glow and pulse for a few seconds, then disappear like they were never there.

Millions of these symbols slowly float down from all six sides of this temple.

Minutes pass, then hours, and eventually, the temple and those inside it lose track of time.

The walls begin to lose their glow, and become dull and flat once all of the symbols are pulled off of them. The two bodies only glow brighter with every absorbed piece of the temple, as the absorption of an inheritance during this passionate soul bond has triggered a state of enlightenment beyond the capabilities of any normal Royal Grade soul bond.

Bright Blue and Red Auras fill the room instead.

As the temple's legacy has been passed on, the dark barrier around it slowly starts to fade.

The Demon and Angel statues on either side of the massive room begin to hum, reacting to the new auras that touch them. Outside, the entire pyramid starts to shake, and small cracks begin to form on the bottom steps near all four sides of this monument.

—

Far away, in a space outside of the Lower and Upper Realms, a black tablet with a single symbol on it starts to glow a dim white color for the first time in longer than any mortal being can comprehend.

The light glow makes the presence of this tablet known in the endless darkness it's been resting in, and many creatures of the void float toward it.

They have long limbs, no defining features, and have been floating endlessly in this place, waiting for a spark since the birth of this universe.

Many of the Void Creepers have withered away, or fallen into eternal slumber once their systems ran out of light; yet a small few have held on to life and continued to drift in this void between space waiting for a calling.

The dim glow attracts two of these entities at first that are nearby. They drift past many other black tablets that do not show even a glimmer of energy remaining in them. Some are cracked, others are nothing but dust, and many just look like dead and lifeless stone.

They are all aligned in rows, and head off into infinity in all directions.

There is no sense of true time or space like the origin plane here. The beings attracted to this tablet are only drawn to it by instinct, they have no desires nor goals. They do not even know what the space they exist in is, or how it came to be, or why they have changed their constant state of wandering to stop before this tablet.

More Void Creepers find themselves attracted to this glow. Soon over ten surround it, and eventually over one hundred gather in a circle around the tablet to stare down at it in silence.
