Every time the black planet pulses, there are extremely faint waves of primordial aura that flood outward.

For the first few pulses, it was impossible to notice, but the longer Monk studies its runes and Luna's eyes look deeper into its structure, the veil of its mysterious nature is slowly lifted.

Dense structures of primordial aura surge out in every direction. A large majority of them seem to be colliding with the edge of the black mist that conceals this artifact away from the rest of the Lower Realm.

When it hits this mist, the exact location it travels becomes unknown to the spectators.

However, Monk starts to see where they're headed when the Glyphs in place read out their purpose in perfect clarity.

"This is the anchor for some kind of massive seal..." he whispers out loud while grouping together certain collections of glyphs in his mind and linking them to different streams of primordial aura.

Some are programmed to just flow outward, and saturate the Lower Realm with its aura.

Others are meant to create barriers around its outer edges.

A few even move in a direction that is very hard to comprehend to the mind of a human living in the Lower Realm.

The aura bends through space to link to higher zones, seemingly disappearing. Monk and Luna both lose track of these streams, but the data is sent to the administrators to interpret.

Alveron does not possess the same creative nature that Monk is able to produce in his psyche, but with all of the data laid out plain and simple, this Admin does far more logical computations faster than any living being in the Lower Realm can carry out.

All this Mind Flayer needs are some leads, and simple labels from Monk of the Glyph's names and use cases when put together. This entire structure is picked apart in seconds. Instead of being fascinated by the Glyphs themselves, Alveron becomes infatuated by the way Primordial Aura is reacting with the rest of the Realm.

During this whole Demonic Invasion, this invisible aura has been reported over and over, but there were never any clear data readings. Alveron had to take the fighters at their word.

Now, there is Primordial Aura flowing through them, and a mutation is taking place that allows Alveron to sense it in its semi-physical form.

It shows up like a strange liquid shadow, only making itself denser in the presence of strong Vibrations, where a being's will is exerted on reality around it.

There is no reaction to mana usage, nor is there any difference in its fluctuations when divine threads bend gravity.

It is a strange phenomena that seems to only be present in the minds of the users.

That is, until the battles of the Knights, Commanders, and Generals carry on and their every move is studied closer.

Not only is this bright yellow monster floating alone on an enormous world, watching these fights take place live, but it is rewatching them millions of times over in the back of its mind to understand the data better.

At first, all of the Knights' actions are watched, and even some of the visuals from the Green Zone are studied; but soon it becomes clear that the best data is being recorded by the two Commanders Fisher and Lydia.

In some star systems, there are billions of eyes watching, and the effects of Primordial Aura on those around them are studied as the battles progress further and further.

These two only target the Outer Guards, while the Knights are more keen to fight the mindless drones. The clash of active primordial aura in the Outer Guards against the water and ice wielding swordsman and swordswoman is fascinating.

After every major kill, there is a noticeable increase in the potency of their Primordial Auras that coincides with the increase in their wills. It spreads their influence outward, but a second phenomena actually makes this invisible pressure seep into the system itself.

It is incredibly hard to sense, but their souls are beginning to claim this gifted primordial aura as their own, and it's starting to bond with even the system text that connects them through the complex system created by the Rising Emperor.

This shatters a glass ceiling in Alveron's mind, and a moment of enlightenment bursts through this ancient creature. The vast web of soul ties that spread all throughout the Lower Realm appear crystal clear, and the thick streams of Primordial Aura pouring out of the black planet also begin to make far more sense than before.

–

At the same time, a red-haired dragon in human form sits alone at the other side of his private domain.

Ren slowly floats around the rift, waiting patiently and watching the events of the outside zones, and occasionally glances in the direction Ember left.

His eyes are closed, but there are faint traces of silver light that flicker beneath his eyelids.

A constant steady stream of Primordial Aura flows out from beneath him, and disappears as it phases through the thin barrier between the purple and blue zone.

This aura pours into the Blue Zone undetected. Even the sprouting leaves cracking through the floor cannot sense it as it collides with the only structure remaining in this zone, the silver reactor that was once at the seabed of the Celestial Ocean.

Once his aura touches this reactor, it phases through the zone seamlessly again to bounce down to the reactor in the Cyan Zone.

The same thing happens, letting it flow through the fabric of reality, and even ripple through the unbreakable barrier in the Ravine.

The aura breaks into two concise streams as it flows into the Green Zone.

The first pours into the fortress, and easily finds a small artifact he left behind in a small black box.

The second stream collides with the reactor again, and beams its way into the Lower Realm.

It easily finds the cloud of dark mist at the edge of the galaxy, and pierces through it like it was never hidden. The aura hits this artifact and finally stops its journey through the zones.

The silver light behind Ember's eyelids starts to fade, and instead a rhythmic white pulse starts to shine out instead. It is within perfect rhythm to the glyphs on this black planet.

Ember's cold and serious face starts to change, and a slight toothy grin returns—one that usually only shows itself when he knows his enemy has just lost an advantage in battle.

–

Meanwhile, Maria and I continue working toward our only goal: to get as strong as possible in as little time as we can.

The distance between each Ritual Domain that we destroy stays constant, but the time it takes us to drain its high-quality ether, primordial aura, and kill the First Bloods that come to try and stop us keeps getting faster.

[Level Up] x8273

Another 23 First Bloods are killed, and some of them are even a lower level than us by the time we make it all the way around the ring. Others are so close in level we only gain a few hundred levels.

Maria and I use the experience sharing perk after every kill, so our levels both even out to [Lv. 1,289,052] by the time the last swarm of Outer Guards and a few First Blood leaders march to their own death.

Many other notifications ring in my mind, as everywhere our aura spreads, more Primordial Trees instinctually submit to us. My World Wide Connectivity system assimilates billions more worlds to bring the total links up to 91 billion worlds. A perfect ring around the center of the Primordial Garden is clear in my mind. My perception can see everything within a 500 quadrillion kilometer diameter. Yet, a dark blind spot in the center where a strange domain still sits.

The faint feeling of links of loyalty forming way outside my perception starts to form in the outer settlements too, meaning the mana-based Domain Lords made it back safely, but this is far from what is at the forefront of my mind.

All I can see now is the black hole in the center of my vision, blocking out this massive domain.

There are even squads of First Bloods and Outer Guards far away in other regions of the Primordial Garden. Some are staying put while others fly our way at high speeds, but these are as meaningless as a few flies swarming around my head, it is easy to ignore.

Maria and I don't move, we just float above the last ritual site, and face the direction of the inner domain. Yet, every time we attempt to move forward, something deep down screams at both of us to stop.

It is pure instinctual fear, and for some reason, I can't fight against it no matter how hard I try.

It would be easy to circle around the central domain as many more times as we want, but getting closer to the center makes my stomach drop and all of my energy pathways seize up and force me to retreat.

Maria and I bounce countless ideas off each other, but can't begin to understand what is going on... Our primary source of growth has just been entirely drained, and the only remaining option to overcome this mental barrier we can come to are the [Rank Up] notifications still floating in our minds.
