Samir Vanguard floats between his two Monstrous Sentinels in his base form after giving Maria and me the offer to say our final words.

There is only silence in the air as I watch every last one of the Demonic Soldiers that were caught up in the blast reform back into perfect versions of themselves like they were never killed in the first place. All of their personal High Noble Vibrations have been drowned out. It's like tens of thousands of Royal Demons have surrounded us.

The pressure coming off the Rust-Colored Hydra and Bronze Tortoise is the most strange, as whatever those white orbs in the sky were, they stimulated something to emerge deep within them.

It's like their true Celestial Energy was being held back during our initial clash, and now it's been lifted out of their souls up to their bodies that stretch tens of billions of kilometers in size. The Royal Vibrations that hold their souls together are undoubtedly coming from the Family Head floating between them.

My full Royal Vibration imbued Celestial Energy-powered All Seeing Eyes, and every perception perk I can muster is activated, but there is nothing abnormal I can sense.

If anything, trying to peer deeper into my enemies now only has me more confused. They have layers of strange invisible gravity weighing down their armor where no energy or mass appears to be. Both the Sentinel and a thick layering inside the Family Head's armor, head to toe. It's that same feeling I get when looking at soul ties, and what is triggered each time they regenerate.

"The Imperials said the Creator's Legacy was taken. But I don't sense its presence on either of you. The Fallen One isn't here either, so it must be those intruders in the Cyan Zone that claimed it..." Samir comments again to break the silence.

Then, with no warning, another shockwave fills the air.

All I witness is a small shift in some stacked ether arrays all over his armor, but the subtle shift in every single Royal's Vibrations around me makes it clear he's unsealing his bloodline.

The thought that our current forms, and 5% of stats from 7 billion worlds, was only enough to withstand his presence in a base state sends a shiver through my soul. It's shared with Maria, and we don't hesitate to release our strongest forms as well.

An unfathomable amount of spinning white glyphs and strange runes activate all over Samir's armor, allowing it to expand with him as his body grows.

Two massive black horns grow out from the sides of his head, and one smaller horn in the center. However, his armor is too thick and covers everything else, head to toe, to make out any other features. I can't see if he is even smiling, nor the hue of his skin.

The Dark armor covering him becomes infused with the countless spinning arrays, and takes on a white tint, but it mainly glows Dark Blue. Celestial Energy that feels like another full Celestial sea, like the one around us, flows through his armor. A very light, faint purple glow reflecting his demonic essence blends with the white arrays, but the majority of this Royal Demon's True unsealed form is just as blue as the zone.

White glowing eyes peer out through tiny slits in the armor, and radiate a complex aura of an ancient king.

It vibrates as though he is not only the ruler of this zone but the one that watched it become inhabited in the first place. He views reality around him very differently. In fact, he sees these two human intruders from tens of thousands of angles.

Samir is the god of the Sentinels that have been conquered by his aura, and turned into living weapons. They are a part of his soul, and are entirely aligned with his will.

The resonance of all of the soul bonds that grow in power once he reaches his final form all bounce off each other to become stronger.

All of the Arrays stop expanding once Samir's armor grows to be easily 2 billion kilometers in height. From horns to boots, he is just as large as one of the Hydra's heads he floats beside. However, the new presence he gives off makes him feel so much more massive.

The invisible aura in the air makes the air thick, and gravity all throughout this artificial birdcage of ether commands bends toward this True Royal Family Head of the Dark Blue Zone.

It almost makes everything else before us fade away into irrelevance, like this Demon has cast a shadow of dominance into the air, making it the only sight to be seen.

I'm activating my own True Royal Form while this sensation flows through me.

It's almost as though everything in my vision has gone black.

I pull another 55% of borrowed stats, bringing the total I hold up to 60%, and let my Celestial Fire burst out from my Soul. I don't constrain my Corruption to stay bonded to my fire either; I let it flow as it wishes. Then finally, allow the inner depths of my soul, bonded with my Royal Vibrations, to finally manifest itself in physical form.

A true Royal Sacred Body blooms out from deep within me.

This eruption of power sends a white shockwave bursting through the birdcage, powerful enough to push back this black aura of mental domination Samir has tried to push onto me.

Pure white muscles burst out from my armor, and my soul continuously repairs it as interwoven patterns of muscles, tendons, and bones keep growing out from every cell in my body.

I activated this form before, but it was when I was fighting Miriel in the green zone, and was hacked down to nothing but fractured cores and a shaky foundation of High Noble Vibrations with no true idea where my path was really taking me.

Now, I can feel my base body deep within my soul, and my Noble Human form strengthening it and growing its weight in reality stronger. I even feel my Royal Form, saturated with my Celestial fire and corruption, keeping my mind and soul aligned on my path. This flesh alone stands at 1 kilometer in height, far larger than a 2-meter-tall human.

However, there is also a greater energy form that pulls all of the mana from my surroundings, and uses the system itself to strengthen my mind and energy manifestation. My Astral Form pulls on every single area combined to cement my being in reality with divine threads, and is even stimulated by my ether base.

My Sacred Body interprets all of these factors as combined parts of my Soul, and uses all of the Celestial Energy in my Soul Energy Core to create the strongest manifestation it can.

An unfathomable amount of links of loyalty from the Lower Realm, and Green Zone provide energy-rich nutrients to push this form even further, and it is all tethered together by my new confidence of walking the path of a True Royal.

The darkness around me is pushed back, and I feel a sparkle of light pulling at my soul beside me as Maria bursts outward to push Samir's mental attack away too.

The mental imagery of a perfect spiral, emulating a golden ratio, getting larger and larger from her soul is all I see at first.

It glows with trails of sparkling source resin, and bright Royal Blue ice. Every spiral rotation, an exponentially larger number of cores stack and contract together to pulse outward and release more of her Celestial Energy and Royal Vibrations into reality.

I see her far surpass the number of cores from earlier, hitting 4,181, then after a few more spirals pass, 28,657, and finally once her aura begins bursting through the darkness, she stops at 196,418 cores. Her newest ranked up buff [Arch Angels Celestial Body] activates the instant she stops summoning new cores.

Maria then pulls an additional 20% of stats, bringing her total up to 25%. Nearing almost all of the available stats on her 30% pool using her Rising Empress Override Perk.

Her eyes glisten with a pure reflective rainbow light as they are filled with source resin, and this shimmering aura covers her wings and sword in her grasp.

The rest of her angelic body hums with a bright white and royal blue icy glow.

All of her soul armor has shifted and reformed to suit this enormous angelic form, and everywhere that source resin sparkles, an invisible weight starts to affect reality.

It bends space all throughout her sword, wings, and even creates invisible arrays of waves bursting out from her eyes and the depths of her mind.

At the same time, as my sacred body reforms to create my True Royal Sacred Form with pristine white radiance too bright to even look at, there are streams of Crimson Celestial Fire and Dark Black Corruption that spin around me in a liquid state, orbiting just like my sword would before.

They shimmer and hum with a new level of power, as they've been affected by this Sacred Body evolution too, similar to soul weapons growing outside my body.

These streams of pure liquid power fall back in toward me, reforming over my armor, and creating another layer of outer protection and easily accessible power. It begins to weave into the outer layers of my Sacred Body.

The red and black manifestation of my paths cover me again, to form the manifestation of enormous horns, but leaving the human features on every other part of my body. The cave drawings from deep within the Ravine flash in my mind, of a half-demon, and void-creeper angel as the sight before me sinks in.

My Soul Sword pulses with hunger. It feels as though its stomach has just growled, and with such pressure, that it creates a wave of gravity using a power source I didn't know I could wield...

It's the same invisible energy coming off of Maria's eyes, wings and sword.

Both of us float in the air nearing a billion kilometers head to toe, and do not flinch at all when Samir Vanguard and all of his strongest Royal Forces declare us their enemies.

I yell back. "I think you're mistaken. We cannot be killed that easily. Samir, as you gave us the honor, I'll give it back to you. Do you have any last words?"
