Lith walks over to the elevator with me and agrees to grant my request.

"Sure, I don't see why not. This is another item specially crafted by the old Sector 2 leader, so there's a good chance it will be impossible to replicate. You can try to dissect the Isolation Pods all you want, at least they'll go to some use instead of rotting away in the storage room."

The elevator moves down quickly to a very low floor and opens with a ding as we walk out into a room filled with crates overflowing with magic items and sheets of unused mana shielding up against the walls.

Lith speaks up while rummaging through a few crates, pointing to the back wall at two large silver cylinders.

"There are two deactivated isolation pods. They were the first models I purchased quite a while ago. However, they started running low on power after about 4 years of consecutive usage. The time dilation is hardly noticeable anymore. Feel free to take both of them apart and do whatever you please with them. I don't need them back."

I walk over out of curiosity and activate my All-Seeing Eye and Appraisal skill to fully scan the machines. The only thing I get back is tons of thick metal, mana shielding, and a dense crystal of energy at the top of the cylinder. It's concealed and kept in place very efficiently, so it's hard to tell how much MP exactly is inside.

All I can tell is it's a lot, and it would probably not be the best idea to go tinkering with high-density mana stones in confined spaces like this.

So, I spread out my cloak and open up my item storage and place the two large metal cylinders inside to make it seem like a storage item. I'm sure Lith is already well aware that I'm a multi-skill user, but it feels right not to openly show every one of my tricks.

While turning back to Lith, I see him holding up two handfuls of gems from another one of the now-open crates.

One hand is full of white crystals that shimmer with a rainbow shine and the other hand is full of dark blue crystals that I can see through just a little, but haven't ever seen anything like them before. They don't give off any mana readings, but I can tell they're definitely high-grade magical items.

Lith speaks up as he sees my confusion, handing the crystals over to me.

"Here, if you're heading out now, I want you to have a few extra transport crystals back to the Galeheart Tower in case of emergency."

I gladly take the white gems and place them into my black cloak with my item storage underneath in a similar fashion that I did the isolation pods, but my gaze lingers on the blue crystals.

"And these? What are these?"

Lith hands them over and replies.

"They're recording crystals. A simplified version of what the surveillance system in the city uses."

As I accept them, placing all but one into my item storage, Lith speaks again.

"Channel a small amount of mana into it, then point the crystals at any target you'd like to record."

I squint at the dark blue glossy stone and channel MP into it like Lith said to. It glows lighter blue and an invisible array of mana surrounds the room.

Lith speaks again.

"Now that it's activated, continue channeling a steady source of mana into it, and it will continue to record the scene that it's pointed at. The more mana you imbue, the further the range and quality of recording."

Lith walks in front of the crystal and continues to speak, waving his arms directly in front of the invisible array of mana that comes out from the crystal.

"You may be able to perceive the recording zone much more efficiently now that you're the one casting the magic, but I assure you, anyone else being recorded will not notice anything unless their perception senses are abnormally high."

I nod, stopping the flow of extra mana into the gem and the array of invisible energy ceases to come out. I toss the now dimly glowing blue gem up and down in my hand, then point it at one of the blank walls as it feels natural to do this.

A projection of light comes out of the gem in a crystal clear image and shows a copy of Lith waving his arms up and down. I can even hear him explaining how the crystal works just as he was moments ago.

Once the recording stops, Lith makes a comment on it.

"If you drain the MP from the gem the recording will disappear forever, but if left untouched, the recording can be played back many times over. I haven't found a limit, but I'm sure over a long period of time the mana will naturally leak out and it will go bad."

"Interesting."

I continue throwing the gem up and down in my hand, then eventually put it into my item storage as Lith speaks again.

"They may come in handy if you'd like to give instructions once and have them played on repeat, or take moving pictures of certain parts of the abandoned Sector 2 region to mark for later. You never know what you may need out there. I've used many of these for training the Royal Guards and easy presentations for trade deals."

I nod and smile, placing my hand out for a shake.

"You're right, this is quite the useful gift. I appreciate it, thanks."

"No problem."

We shake hands again, and board the elevator while Lith confirms that he will get all of the new trade deals and meetings situated and have exact item order amounts along with dungeon types and crafting recipes by next week to fulfill these orders.

"Very well, I think we're set. I'm off to do my own personal survey of the Sector 2 land."

I use the other set of teleport crystals in the transport room to leave the Galeheart Tower, getting far away from Valor City, and into the train station platform in the trade city below the mountain.

Activating my stealth skill, I deactivate my Qi barrier as there's no need for it if I'm already invisible, I walk in the middle of town in the dead of night and air-step high into the sky unnoticed until the small lights of civilization below me almost disappear from my senses.

I recall Lydia's directions, looking down at a rough copy of extra notes she made for me. She said it's a straight shot in one direction if I traveled by land and would take almost a week to get out there, but I'm going to fly.

I take about 30 minutes to air-step upward and get so far away from the city that it would be impossible to see me. Then, open up my item storage to let Ember out into the dead of night.

For extra protection, I activate my Rising Emperor's Domain perk and give him my stealth skill the moment he enters the real world. With both of us invisible to the eye or any radar skills up to an absurdly high mana control, I feel very confident that we won't be seen.

I update Ember on the news, showing him a copy of the map and approximate distance to our destination as he flaps his glossy black wings to find a natural air currents to increase our speed without exerting extra force. We set off toward the border between Sector 1 and Sector 2 at high speeds.
