The shifting glyphs beneath my feet feel just like the domain barriers we opened up to get here.

Just by touching them, we can instantly feel all of their intricate functions and intentions.

The entire settlement feels like it's alive, breathing, and flowing into us.

From the outside looking in, Ulgar is looking back over his shoulder while flying away. All he's seeing is an enormous whirlpool of white energy forming. It all pours in toward the center of the rubble.

All of the debris on the ground, and all of the glyphs and ether in the air; they're all held by a strange aura that flows up from the ground.

It feels like we're in the presence of hundreds of Primordial Trees for a moment in time, and their aura all fills the atmosphere. I can tell by the fact that the First Blood Demon's falling speed slows down, that the rippling waves of gravity and Primordial Aura are hostile to outside forces.

Maria and I are completely unaffected.

It's as though there is no external pressure on us at all; we can function at our full capacity.

With hundreds of times more Celestial energy than we've ever had flowing into our pools, it becomes increasingly easy to prepare for what comes next.

Over 500 million Blue Glyphs form all over Maria's upper body, wings, core, and legs. They root her to the ground and strengthen her stance. Every bit of glistening Source Resin flowing through her condenses deeper and deeper into her sword.

Roughly the same amount of Red Glyphs form all over my body as well.

I feel them rooting me in reality with a far more sturdy base, and increasing my speed and raw power more with every passing moment.

A collection of jet black glyphs are being compressed in my right arm, as this soul weapon takes all of the remaining demons' horns and demonic soul weapons from the outer guards, and channels them into a single spiked bolt. Dense black coiling tendrils of corruption pour out of my Royal Demon's core to connect to this soul weapon, and continuously fuel it with energy and the stacked hatred toward the Demonic Royal Families, from their many betrayed subordinates in the lower zones.

As the whirlpool of debris closes in on the center of the settlement, all of the high-quality ether and remaining intact glyphs that have not been destroyed all begin to latch onto the outsides of our bodies.

They are all controlled by the enormous spinning gear-like glyphs beneath the surface and create a bright white armor around us. It becomes imbued with hundreds of billions of Dryad's Glyphs.

If the core consciousness of this mechanism wasn't in line with mine, allowing me to perceive everything it touches, it would be impossible for me to see through this layer of glyphs and primordial aura.

For a small moment in time, the whirlpool completely compresses in on us, and there is no longer any debris or even ether particles in the atmosphere any longer.

The entire settlement is gone.

Only a flat open plane about 500 trillion kilometers wide is left.

In this open space, a dark purple demon collides with us, two humans covered in white glyphs; glowing red and blue beneath.

There is a moment of silence.

Axel and Vardon both look back to join Ulgar's curiosity as they flee, flying over primordial trees a quadrillion kilometers away.

Not even a single divine thread moves out of place.

The Domain itself is holding its breath as the claws of this demon collide with us again.

It has all of its Primordial Aura, High Royal Vibrations, and dense Demonic Essence harnessed in its palm; filled with certainty that it has won, and will kill us here and now.

Yet, the moment it touches us, all of the glyphs below our feet stop moving, then violently begin spinning in the opposite direction.

The flash of white light that's produced blinds this entire domain, and the Demon cannot even feel its Primordial Aura being vaporized from its soul.

The ground beneath us cracks apart, and all of the Dryad's Glyphs shatter from the pressure of their activation being challenged by this Superior Lifeform. A First Blood Demon, the very group of monsters that killed them off and took over this territory in the first place.

However, this is a concentrated collective effort.

The left-behind remnants of hundreds of Dryads in this tower are able to fend off this Demon for a fraction of a second. That is all we need.

The shockwave starts at its fingertips. An absurd amount of high-quality glyphs and Dryad's Primordial Aura floods upward, and deletes the invisible pressure surrounding this High Royal.

There is nothing it can do.

Two equal forces are canceling each other out. The white burst moves up its arm, into its chest, down its legs, and through its head. Even the false arm it has summoned falls apart as all of its Primordial Aura is targeted and destroyed.

The white glyphs in this settlement are destroyed too, and the outer layer of armor we were wearing is consumed in the clash. It protects us from the shockwave and adds to the fire power as well.

However, the fiery red and icy blue glyphs beneath it all are untouched.

A sword swing, and the activation of a demonic bolt of corruption launching are all this demon sees once the flash of white light clears.

After the initial wave of shock passes, I watch dark purple demonic aura building up in this demon's chest instantly. It begins to spread out quickly, and with it, a wave of Primordial Aura tries to seep back into its body and regain its strength.

However, it's too late.

A bright blue wave of glyphs is the first thing to collide with this demon's bare body.

They explode, and tear its flesh open while a thin line of Source Resin collides with the center of its chest.

The thin line is long enough to land between its eyes, and slice between its legs as well.

Almost instantly, diamond-colored ice crystals start forming all throughout its body, and the thin slash continues moving upward out of the demon's back.

The First Blood Demon's eyes are still full of rage, but confidence too.

It knows it's been hit, but its processing speed is fast enough to know that its Demon Core is still safe.

It's about to lose its entire body to this icy plague, but in a matter of milliseconds, we will be crushed and killed by its raw Primordial Aura with no more help from this ancient Dryad's inheritance shrine.

At least, this is what it believes before the entire black soul weapon on my arm is shot forward as a projectile. All of my red glyphs leave my body, encasing it from the atmosphere as it rockets forward.

A thin line of black glyphs and pure corruption trails from its base.

There is a second flash of light that illuminates the flatland where a settlement once stood.

Red fire erupts from all of my glyphs that fracture and release their energy, and the corruption bolt collides with the Demon's chest right in the center where Maria's ice is already splitting it apart.

In the plumes of red fire, diamond-colored Demon flesh flies with it through the air.

At its center, an explosion of black glyph tears through the blooming Primordial Aura of this Demon before it can regain its strength.

Millions of black tendrils of corruption pour into its core; and the pressure shatters it to pieces.

The Purple Divine Core behind it destabilizes and explodes outward on the spot.

The shockwave pumps dense purple Demonic Glyphs through all of the tendrils of corruption, supercharging them rather than erupting outward into the atmosphere.

The eyes of the Demon that dies before us are wide open, being infected by black oil and sparkling diamond ice. It still does not understand how it lost. Pure spoiled frustration, and raw unfocused strength flow through its High Royal Vibrations as they begin to pour into me.

Level-up notifications ring in my inner ear, while system prompts open up before my eyes all over this Demon's scattered remains.
