In the Dark Blue Zone of the Upper Realm, a Demon stands on the shoreline of a small island in a vast sea.

Samir Vanguard wears a Dark Blue Suit of Armor that covers every single part of his body. There are only eye slits that expose a white glow underneath his helmet.

Calm and calculated Royal Vibrations hold his defenses together as he stares off into the ocean, where waves flow for trillions of kilometers, further than his eyes can see in the base form he relaxes in now.

It has been just over 2 days since the Realm wave shook up this Zone.

He pulls a five-faced clock out from a storage system and looks down at it occasionally, admiring the view.

The artifact glows with a dense white ether, allowing it to shift in size depending on what form this family head is in. Right now, it is roughly half a kilometer in diameter, floating above the palm of its armored hand.

It is made of a dense black stone-like material, and deep within, there are silver gears that make each of the hands shift, tracking the progress of the Realm wave.

The green-faced clock, along with the dark blue one that matches the threads in this zone, both look as though the hands are standing still, not moving at all. However, the longer Samir waits, the Dark Blue clock's hand shifts ever so slowly, outpacing the green zone's clock by roughly five times.

In the same amount of time, the yellow clock face, signifying the Lower Realm, has moved quite a noticeable amount.

However, this is not where this Royal's gaze lies. It is on the Cyan-faced clock that has a hand spinning around at a visible rate. Every few breaths this Demon takes, the single hand makes a full rotation.

Its calm demeanor doesn't change at all; Samir only watches these dials spin to pass the time.

His duty in the Great Family has been long fulfilled, yet he is still paranoid about the matter taking place in the Lower Zones.

His gaze switches to the fifth dial that glows purple, its single hand spinning around so fast it almost becomes a blur when he decides to drop the artifact back into his storage and mutters to himself.

"They act as if we have time to spare... These new generations don't understand the threats that can still rise from the Origin Plain. We are not safe until the seal has been fully set..."

Waves crash a few hundred million kilometers away from him as he speaks, as the release of these Royal Vibrations has disturbed a creature lurking beneath the sea.

Large swells in the sea start to make the shore at his feet recede, even at this distance away.

The endless ocean may look like a dark blue body of water, but it is far more than just that.

Concentrated Celestial Energy has pooled together at the bottom of this zone, and the divine threads that reside here have naturally tethered to the densest mass in the environment. If it were to separate and try to fill the atmosphere with light particles like down in the Cyan Zone, this dimension would need to expand by an unfathomable degree.

The swells in the sea finally pop when the black heads of a massive Hydra rise to fill the sky.

Its many pairs of eyes look empty, and its scales have lost their color; all that fills this Sentinel's soul is the will of the Demon that tamed it into a living weapon. Yet, it still holds flickers of its former attitude and does not enjoy being disturbed for no reason.

Samir looks up at the enormous beast that has only lifted a tiny portion of its mass from the sea but doesn't bother to give it any more attention, muttering in a low tone as though something nearby should be able to hear it.

"Entertain this one, I'm not in the mood to play. I need to prepare for the worst. I still do not have faith in the words of the younger ones."

Then he turns around and takes a step forward, disappearing in a burst of dark blue threads.

The Demon travels over a trillion kilometers away to return to its army.

Where it once stood, the island starts to grow.

Massive waves begin pushing back on the Hydra as the ground where the family head once stood expands by hundreds of times.

More and more islands start to form all around it, like pointed black mountains jutting up from the blue sea.

Eventually, as these mountains rise high enough out of the ocean and into the sky, they all connect to form what looks like a curved collection of them in the shape of a shell.

An ancient beast's head rises from the Celestial sea with what looks like a sharp beak, and behind and around this shell, a tail and four legs push this creature upward out from the ocean.

An unfathomably large tortoise with the same dead eyes and flowing will of the Royal Family head stares back at the Hydra.

Two extinct races of overseers that were fully exterminated during the Vanguard's era stare each other down, and roars fill the air as they spar, releasing portions of their wills left behind.

–

In a zone below, deep within the Ravine, a Royal still stares up at the rift that fluctuated for the first time in over a decade.

The last time was the arrival of these two humans he believes he's killed, yet now as he scans the Ravine, no new life forces can be sensed. This only means someone is looking in.

He doesn't give Lucian the satisfaction of hearing his true thoughts, so he waits until the rift reverts back to its natural state before he speaks his mind aloud.

"Now that was strange... why would he be so interested in those two humans...?"

The facade of anger that he had, glaring upward, goes away entirely, and an amused smile crosses his face. The jet-black-skinned Demon, with dozens of soul weapons hovering around its head, floats down to the temple's crack again and stares into the darkness.

"These soul remains have not drifted out. I really would like to get my hands on that amplifier in the next few thousand years." he murmurs to himself, then lets out a sigh and begins to scan the Ravine's outer edges, looking for anything interesting to pass the time.

–

Deep within the temple, the two souls that have fallen to its text-covered walls have been linked together by a faint collection of purple strands of divine threads.

Neither human is conscious, as the full-powered mental attack of a Royal that honed its Vibrations and collected Celestial energy for millions of years is one that neither of these fresh Royals could possibly handle.

All they see is white.

Their thoughts have ceased, and they're suspended in a state of artificial animation by the artifact fallen from the Imperial's Zone.

However, their instincts are heightened.

The man's body is filled with dark tendrils of demonic corruption, and this energy swirls together with bright red Celestial Fire in his soul. The two are having a battle of their own, as the corruption seeks to become the dominant force in that body and mind, yet the Celestial Fire is the only thing healing it slowly and keeping the vessel alive.

All three of his cores are fractured and shattered beyond what could naturally be withstood, yet they are held together by extremely thin purple threads. This in turn has completely let down all of the barriers that have been holding back subconscious and conscious energy flows from reverting to a natural state.

The woman is not in any better condition. Her mind has been struck by this backlash, putting her mental state into the same artificial coma. However, her Soul Energy core acts far differently.

There are no cracks on its surface.

Instead, it has just slowed its cycles to a near-death-like state.

The entire nature-bending anomaly has been shocked by the wave of energy that overpowered it.

Instead of there being a point of darkness at its center, without anything to hold it back, if one were to look into its center now, they could see all the way down into its true purpose. Leaving such an anomaly exposed to the open air would normally drain and consume everything its senses could touch. However, there is no active mind to stimulate its destructive properties.

Both souls have their secrets laid bare in front of each other, yet all they can do is act on pure instinct.

They have been cycling Celestial Energy through one another for over two years. Now, even without minds to think, the energy left in their damaged bodies and cores starts to slowly cycle back and forth. The first complete cycle takes over a full day to pass through, but after the tenth, that time is cut in half. By the hundredth cycle, the bright Celestial Energy passes through them every hour.

Not only this, but the natural healing properties of this energy begin to move the lost limbs back toward their center of mass, and slowly rebuild their bodies and regenerate their lost blood.

Their vibrations are not perfectly synced anymore... as many variables have changed and barriers have been lifted.

All of the lost blood, Celestial Energy leaking soul essence, and vibrations that bounce off the walls of this temple make the glowing white characters covering all six inner walls shine brighter and brighter.

Some of the symbols start to spin, while others morph into different texts and shift like they are weaving automated complex arrays.
