I think about my Rising Emperor's domain buff and look at Maria to watch the blue text stats notification pop up the moment I summon them into my consciousness.

"Let's see what happens when I do this..."

I remove the self-regeneration skill from Maria's status, making all of its buffs and capabilities go away with it.

I stare at her for a moment then raise the question.

"How do you feel? It's only been a few hours since we were drinking... Is the alcohol in your system still negated?"

She looks around for a moment, then takes a few steps forward in a straight line, followed by a shrug.

"I think so, why?"

"I'm just trying to make sure whatever skill I give you, the effects will last."

I think to myself while scrolling through my list of skills, then finally land on Absorption.

If self-regeneration had long-lasting effects, it would make sense that Absorption would allow users to keep skills that they obtain while using it even after the skill is taken away.

"I'm going to let you in on a secret. It's even more important you never tell a soul this, even more than my ranked-up buff."

She nods without a hint of hesitation.

"Whatever it is, my mouth will always be shut."

She makes a cute motion of locking her mouth with her hand and throwing away an imaginary key while the plumes of green mist pour out around her from my lie detector skill, proving without a doubt she's giving the honest truth.

"Try this."

I press absorption on the long list of blue glowing available stats, and they all go grey once it's added. It seems like sharing one skill at a time is my limit.

I re-check the description of my ranked-up buff with my All-Seeing Eye because I don't remember any limitations like this.

---

Rising Emperor's Domain [Hidden Ability]

Info:

This is a hidden passive ability for a spell caster with the traits of an Emperor in the making. The Rising Emperor's Domain allows the caster to share skills in their status with any party member who has sworn their loyalty. A copy of the exact skill shared will appear in the party member's status. If this member betrays the caster or leaves the Domain's range, the skills will be deleted from their status.

---

Just like the size of the active radius circle, there's no mention of this limitation that can be seen. My only guess is it will grow in power in time. The name itself gives the notion that this is only the beginning of this skill's potential.

While reading the status, Maria speaks up when she sees a new skill on her status.

"Legendary Grade Absorption? Wait- What kind of skill is this?"

I sense another Red Ogre about 200 meters to our east, and point in that direction.

"I'll have to stay fairly close to you while you use it. It's not a combat skill, but it will be very valuable. We can't be more than 20 meters apart, but take out that monster like normal and you'll know exactly what the skill can do once the match is over."

In a white and blue flash, the battle is over almost as quickly as it started. A massive ice sculpture covers the ogre and it shatters to pieces before it can even attack Maria back.

Once its remains begin to dissolve, she stares down at where the mana crystal spawns with her eyes open wide.

"Is this real...?

I sense a flow of energy surging into her body, and note down that it must be the MCP absorption perk activating after killing an enemy. Next, Maria picks up the mana crystals and shimmers with a golden glow.

My appraisal skill picks up a legendary extreme strength skill on her status, the skill the red ogre was using just moments ago. The corner of my lip turns upward to unconsciously start grinning ear to ear.

This will be a way to raise our mana control exponentially quicker and cheaper than buying special stones or mana crystals on the open market. Each kill brings in tens to hundreds of thousands of MCP. Stronger monsters could even bring in millions per kill.

On top of that... if the skills gained during the buff stay on the user's status even after the buff is deactivated, this could be a truly overpowered perk.

"I'm going to deactivate it now, I need to test something."

Maria stares in awe at her status as I walk out of range, deactivating the Emperor's link.

Before my eyes, both Absorption and Extreme Strength disappear from her status on my appraisal skill.

My eyebrows scrunch, and I reactivate it walking closer again and giving her Absorption for a second time.

When it reappears on her status, Extreme Strength doesn't show up.

"How odd..."

Maria gazes up at me, stretching her arms and legs.

"I still kept the mana control, if that's what you were trying to test. It isn't much, but I feel slightly stronger like I just absorbed a dozen of those Blue Ogre Essense Crystals we all used a while back. At this rate, I could double my control after beating just a few hundred monsters of this level."

I nod, scratching my chin.

"Well, at least there are some perks that still stay."

My mind goes racing as I ponder the possibility that maybe it needs to be upgraded further to allow others to share the ability to permanently gain skills. Or maybe it will only work within my domain radius forever. Only time will tell.

I let out a sigh after not coming to a precise conclusion.

"I'd like to do some more tests. I need to make my way up past level 600 like you and Abby, then make it back to a meeting in the city before noon."

As we continue to talk, Abby approaches carrying a large mana crystal along with a sword dropped by the Red Ogre she just fought.

Both get placed in her item box before she waves and yells out from afar.

"Hey, we facing the boss? Or using your teleport skill to go farm in the Vice City Labyrinth?"

I cross my arms and can't help but to let out a laugh.

"I missed this. It's good to be back with both of you. I think both of those options are a great idea. We'll go and face the Red Ogre Boss, then climb the Labyrinth as far as we can go. However, I have to fill you in on a few things before we do."

I spend the next 10 minutes explaining and showing Abby how my ranked-up buff works too.

Her reaction is similar to Maria's, but a bit more eccentric.

"Finally! I've been wishing I could use that skill of yours since we met at the Association building back in your hometown. It's a shame the skills aren't permanent, but rapid mana control growth is probably even more powerful if you think about it..."

We spend the next hour making our way through the Red Ogre Dungeon taking out all of the monsters we see on our way to the boss portal. We take it moderately slow, and I tell a few stories about what kind of trouble I got into while trying to make my way to Valor City.

This includes the info about Monk, my run-in with Royal Guards in the Arena, and the training I've been going through to attempt to procure my own soul energy with a power source called Qi before the borrowed soul stone energy we're using runs out.

Neither of them has ever heard of anything like it, similar to the position I was in when I first met Monk; but they agree to come along with me to the meeting tomorrow to request that Monk teaches this power to them as well.

Though, we mostly focus on the time we have now in the dungeons and enjoy the moment. Each of us gains Millions of MCP, and Maria and Abby become overjoyed by the use of temporary legendary Extreme Strength buffs while we train.

I get to witness how far they've come, but also keep picturing a Ghoul glowing orange in place of the monsters in front of me every time I make a Qi-infused strike. I focus on making each attack denser than the last, and overflow with energy, but my attacks stay almost exactly the same. I'll need to face the real thing to make any substantial progress.

We make it to the boss room portal and Abby points to it with a raised glowing fist.

"Here we are, the strongest dungeon boss in the city. Once you max out your level gains here, we'll have to move to the labyrinth to continue progressing."

We all grip our weapons and jump through.
