In the Lower Realm, the Imperial forces begin to finally approach more solar systems. The masses are no longer lost out in deep space.

Automated information from the Demonic Realm begins pinging out to every corner of the galaxy so their formations can become far more optimized and seamless. All of the deaths of Vermillion and Morvale Family Demons over the last few years have been logged, and their coordinates blasted out to the masses.

This shift in the Imperial's soldiers splits them off into smaller and smaller groups. Some even march out into space solo to take on weaker worlds.

They send pulses of high-quality ether commands off into the vast galaxy to gain updated data points of their own to gauge the mana signatures, qi refinement state, and divine core level of their enemies all throughout deep space.

A large number of these Demons have also succeeded in tearing open the Lower Realm, plunging into rough rifts in space to manually ascend to the Upper Realm without a throne artifact claiming a world.

Thousands of these demons activate their infused ether commands and withstand the pressure of green threads with ease. In fact, they process them through their celestial bodies and convert their True Yellow Cores to True Green's while tearing through the fabric of space into the Green Zone of the Upper Realm.

They send out shockwaves of high-quality ether into this zone to record the strength levels of everyone present, and this data pings back down to the Imperial's Tower in the Demonic Realm.

An exceptionally strong High Noble, who has been sending their forces out with direct orders from a rift in front of the purple tower, talks out loud to himself with a devious smile.

"This galaxy has truly been depleted. I saw the data our family head provided about the natural decay after siphoning resources to the paradise above... but even this is unbelievable. The mana-based forces are 90% weaker than anything we ever projected."

There are three other Demons standing by, not marching forward with the other troops onto the Demonic Realm's home base world.

They are noticeably different. The soul weapons they hold have far more weight to them, like they are living breathing entities. It is a natural Primordial Aura that is not artificially summoned with the Imperial's gifted glyphs and arrays. This Aura is connected to the Demons' true souls; they are considered the elites of their generation.

He gathers up all of this information and pings it back to the other elites at the far reaches of the galaxy, numbering less than 100, and sends a special ping up to the 15 elites that made it to the Upper Realm with the other cleanup squads.

The long single-file line of Demons coming out from the Purple Tower finally stops, and this High Noble sends another ping back to every single awakened soldier.

"Over 4 million of you have returned from your endless sleep; the time has come for our family head to place the great seal on this system. We have been granted the glory of following out the Imperial's final wishes, and become the fuel for our Emperor's ascension! Exterminate every last one of those mana-based lifeforms!"

–

In the highest zone of the Upper Realm, I do sense a slight disturbance in the natural order of things below.

In the back of my mind, updates and alerts from the World Wide Connectivity system are flying by, and notifications straight from the Commanders, Knights, and Administrators are pointing to a large problem too.

Some kind of counterattack is being pushed out by the Demons, and they need support in the form of borrowed stats immediately.

With myself and Maria finishing up a life-threatening battle against the Blue Zone's Royal Family Head, every single connected civilization has 90% of their stats and mana control drained. If Demons attack them now at full power, every single one of my linked worlds would be vastly underprepared.

There is a small percentage of 1st Class worlds that were capable of fighting back some of the 3rd and 2nd Class Demons in the past few years. However, there were only some forces capable of handling the 1st Class and Noble Grade True Cored monstrosities that were generals in the Vermillion and Morvale Army forces.

Without the Knights, Commanders, and Administrators on the front lines, the Lower Realm is defenseless.

Even while these thoughts race through my mind, I still don't let go of my stats; and neither does Maria.

We're in a foreign Zone, and we can't see further than a single tree in front of us without our minds becoming overstimulated with high-quality commands.

It is too complex. Our Celestial energy bases can't interpret what a massive amount of these symbols mean or what the random arrays activating do. On top of that, our Royal Vibrations aren't even mature enough to withstand the will of the entities around us.

We've only scanned 3 trees and haven't even gotten past the bark. I can't sense any core, or energy source, or system readings.

I can't even tell if these are living beings, or just artifacts.

The more I try to process this information, the smaller I feel, and the weaker my Royal Vibration's base starts to become.

I can feel it shaking... and even my Primordial Aura wavers and oscillates outside my body. It is not in a controlled manner, it's like I'm going into shock.

I've only seen something like this happen two times before. The first is when I broke through that Ancient Demon's mind in the Ravine, and made him realize his path was incomplete and not that of a True Royal, and second when Samir realized he was going to die and that the Imperials were only using him as a shield and never respected him.

Just being in the presence of these trees and trying to perceive their power as newly ascended purple cores, I've looked over the edge of a power level I shouldn't have.

There is only shock in Maria's eyes as well.

Her wings start to shake, and the flow of Source Resin in her eyes tries to escape being used.

My mental view of what she sees becomes distorted and simplified, as the Source Resin that was helping her see no longer wants to. It's scared.

It makes me shiver too, but one thing in my soul does not back down.

I can feel the shape of a burning hot sword deep in my chest, like it is overlapping with my Soul energy Core. It does not wake up, but as the aura from the trees around us suppresses our bodies and minds, it does not waver.

When I look inward, and only focus on my blade, my mind begins to calm down too. It is like a mental tether back to reality, where I can stay safe and not be perceived by my surroundings to an extent.

There is still a horrific pressure and mind-bending force looking down on us from every single angle, but I get a momentary mental breath to act.

I grab onto Maria and push this imagery into her psyche as well.

"They aren't trying to kill us... or even suppress us... We just have to look away!"

Maria's eyes close, but it isn't enough.

Our enormous energy forms have grown even larger since ascending from the Blue Zone, surpassing 25 billion kilometers head to toe each. They actually continue to expand, but this is a major source of our issue.

All of our senses are on high alert, and the act of perceiving everything around us in such high detail is melting our minds and overstimulating our souls. A few more seconds of this, and I'm certain there will be a destabilization of my Royal Vibrations, or some kind of soul fracture that will not be possible to heal by normal means.

I begin using my Celestial Grade foresight skill, predicting many outcomes, but this only speeds up the problems faster.

However, there is one variable that never changes in these visions.

"That will work... in more ways than one."

I send a mental imagery of a technique to Maria and simultaneously reply with confirmations down to the Lower Realm that they'll receive their needed stats soon.

Then, take a deep breath and deactivate every body and energy manifestation enhancement I have.
