While notifications rush through my mind, countless memories do too.

In the past, I've absorbed memories from monsters and beasts with thousands of years of experience, and even a few over ten thousand years.

Not only do I gain the visual and emotional memories of opponents I kill, but I also gain the instincts, battle techniques, and honed movements they have trained during their lifetime.

This includes mana control, or demonic energy control. In this case, ether control, and even the epiphanies gained from the breakthroughs in a Demon's Noble path... this is the most valuable thing.

I can feel the weight of the memories that start flowing into my mind, far heavier and full of knowledge than any other opponent I've ever faced.

This is not on the scale of thousands, or tens of thousands. The experiences that flow through me are from hundreds of thousands of years...

In such a fragile state, with quite literally the fate of the Green Zone of the Upper Realm in my grasp, I do not want to lose focus, but these flowing memories cannot be suppressed. They are added to my consciousness right now like a crashing ocean wave.

–

The first few hundred years look and feel very similar to the other Demon's memories I've absorbed. Miriel was trained on a hostile Noble Grade World and brought to the Demonic Realm at a very young age.

From the memories I've seen of that place in more recent memories, what I see now is a far less populated world.

In fact, there are only four black thrones that watch over it.

He was selected by the Morvale Family to join their army and run through the same training programs and trials, placed on a Labyrinth on a 1st Class World in order to complete his three rank-ups and bring back an offering to his family.

Instead of the near-instant promotion to the Upper Realm like I witnessed from Andras Vermillion's memories, Miriel stays in the Lower Realm for far longer...

I watch this Demon rise through the ranks from a Knight, to a Commander, and eventually a General in the Morvale army, following out orders with extreme discipline and control.

In this age, almost every one of the generals in the Morvale Army was a Noble Demon.

They went on many missions all throughout the Lower Realm, conquering worlds, retrieving new demons from seed planets, cultivating demonic beasts, and even sometimes helping mature labyrinths on dying worlds where their demonic brethren would have perished with the world due to lack of mana circulation if they never arrived.

It is not just a few dozen galaxy-wide missions, nor a few hundred, or even just a few thousand.

This Demon conquered the stars. I see through his eyes and feel all of his actions through hundreds of thousands of enormous large-scale battles where he nearly lost his life.

This Noble Demon would drop down alone into near Noble Grade Worlds in the star system of elites and take on thousands of True Cored monsters all at once.

Visuals of many planets exploding fly by, as many of the wars he won ended with him sending a message to the other lesser worlds in the solar systems so that they would submit without having to kill them too.

He was a ruthless fighter and an extremely strong Noble Demon, but there is one thing missing in these first hundred thousand years of endless missions under the allegiance of a voice in his head: Lucian Morvale, a Royal Family Head.

I never witness his skill, corruption, nor do I ever witness him use anything other than his basic Noble Bloodline Transformation and his two skills, shadow step and demonic energy manipulation.

It's not like he was just keeping it a secret either, I have a full view through his eyes, looking into his system, and see that corruption is not one of his skills...

There isn't even any anger or rage built up in this demon like I felt during our battle—he really does just seem to be a mindless drone, following out the orders of his family head.

Countless more years pass, and I even witness a war take place on a very familiar planet, Kelfar, where he and many other Noble Demonic Generals, and countless 1st Class Commanders and Knights, flooded a Wyvern's world.

From Miriel's point of view, he went in, killed the Wyverns necessary to ensure his squad's success, and left once the throne on this world was secured by another general in order to ascend to the Upper Realm.

A Noble Demon named Sisco Morvale was tasked to watch over this world and implement some new testing on Demonic Beasts, but Miriel never paid much attention to this. It was nothing but another successful mission in his mind.

Tens of thousands more missions fly by.

The Noble Demon experiments with swords, axes, shields, hammers, and all kinds of soul weapons, but never finds one that suits him.

All around him, as the missions go by, more and more Noble Demons get promoted to the Upper Realm, yet he never is.

Many older than him die out, and many younger ascend even in their first few thousands of years in the Morvale Army.

Slowly, as the battles he wins get easier and easier, touching down on worlds in the star system of elites and releasing his aura to make every monster on land pass out from being in his presence, a small amount of anger and resentment starts to build.

It isn't noticeable tracking it from battle to battle, but as over a hundred thousand years pass again in a flash, the buildup becomes very noticeable.

Demons that are far weaker and less talented than him continue to be promoted, and every time a request is sent in to his family head, it is never accepted and often ignored.

Even so, he continues to follow out his missions, conquering hundreds of thousands of worlds for his family, yet never receiving any recognition.

Every few hundred years, Miriel begins to let this anger out on random star systems—killing every living planet in them just for the fun of it, and sends massive waves of energy into their star's center to destabilize and watch mostly the massive red and orange stars explode and distort space. They are the weakest systems for worlds, usually 4th and 5th Class.

He tries a few yellows at times, but they are never destabilized entirely. It is more like him just venting and throwing attacks into a divine fireball that swallows them all whole.

There were no negative repercussions for these actions. In fact, they were completely ignored by the family head.

This only made him grow with more resentment and anger.

Yet, this grew his intent and desires, to be stronger than anyone in the Lower Realm, to understand why his family head would not let him ascend.

Hundreds of massive star explosions fly by before my eyes, leaving desolate, lifeless areas of space to add to the massive dark void.

Until one moment changed everything.

It was one day after an extremely successful mission, conquering a half-dozen systems in one of the most intense regions of the star system of elites. Two Griffon Worlds and four Mammoths. This is an achievement that any new Noble Demon coming back to the Realm with would automatically be granted approval to ascend.

Yet instead, the only message he gets back from the family head is: "Not good enough."

This is what he receives on his way through deep space back to the Demonic Realm, and he stops to get out at the nearest star system.

It's a bright yellow star, meaning an extremely strong system, and a near-impossibly dense ball of divine energy, Qi, and natural Lower Realm elements. He has never destabilized a system of this magnitude before.

The Demon does not even attempt looking for any worlds nearby. He only unseals his Noble Form and begins throwing a barrage of attacks at the system's center.

It is hard to tell if hours or days pass, and the Demon's yells are swallowed up in the vacuum of space.

For the first time, I start to see the anger-filled eyes of the demon I fought today, and experience the breakthrough of a High Noble Demon.

It is incredible... and the moment he distorts the fabric of reality in his breakthrough, the star at the center of this system twists inward on itself and explodes.

The next thousand or so years are even more interesting to watch.

Instead of a reaction, the family head still ignores him.

Despite being the strongest Demon in his Lower Realm branch, no praise or acknowledgment for his power is ever given.

This only causes his power to grow more and more.

It is almost a yearly occurrence for him to destroy perfectly sound yellow stars.

Yet, the strongest white stars that were more commonly found in the star system of elites, he was never able to crack.

Every time he fulfilled missions, they would haunt him, and the message from his family head would make his anger grow.

It is almost randomly, out of the blue, that one day he snaps completely.

In an elite's star system, where twelve 1st Class Worlds circle a bright white star, this High Noble Demon finishes his rounds in suppressing and collecting resources from the worlds they rule over in order to ensure they hit maturity soon on their labyrinth contracts for new fledgling demons.

Word of another Noble Demon breaking through to the same level as him, a High Noble, and receiving an ascension throne as a reward reaches him through an update channel that Generals share. He even recognizes the name, Sisco, from a world they took over together long ago.

"Why him? Why is it always someone else? Why not me...?" The rage-filled Demon unseals his High Noble Vibrations and cracks one of the 1st Class Worlds he stands on in half.

Miriel stares toward the star at the center of this system, while the parts of this Mantis world float away behind him.

"What will it take? What more do I have to sacrifice? I am the strongest Demon that has ever lived in hundreds of generations... Must I reach another level...?"

He continues to stare off into the black abyss of space, with only the white star in the center of his vision.

"I'll do it. Whatever it takes. I'll show you you're wrong. I'm not meant to do grunt work in the Lower Realm forever. I am better than all of these Lower Races... No... I am better than all of these Lesser Demons... I am meant to rule... I am meant to be remembered..."
