In the Cyan Zone, Abby's vines wrap around a Demonic Dragon tens of times larger than her in the sky.

It glows bright white and blue, with a light purple shimmer in all of its scales. The crown on its head is heavier than the rest of its greater energy manifestation, as it holds Primordial Aura compacted with ancient ether commands quite similar to Samir's armor.

However, none of this matters.

The bright green vines Abby uses constrict its wings and hold it up high in the sky, digging into its flesh and making scales fall off just from being bound tight. A pressure dominates the air, as the deteriorating commands releasing Primordial Aura from a past era long ago cannot stack up to the real thing at all...

The flashing imagery of a tree returns in Abby's eyes as more and more leaves and branches bloom from her Immortal Healer's Celestial Body. The vines bloom with flowers and thorns, and dig deeper and deeper into the dragon in the sky.

They're impervious to counterattacks. The Dragon tries to bite at these vines, claw through the growing roots, and even sends hopeless last bites and bursts of primordial aura from its open maw. Everything just phases right through like Abby's attacks are holograms. Yet, when she attacks back, they take a physical form and dive deep into the monster's flesh and soul.

The Dragon lets out a pain-filled screech into the Cyan Zone, and its vital energy begins draining out from all of its energy pathways.

From the brief glimpse of what Abby saw after Lucian used that chain on Seraphel, she easily reconfigured it to become her own move. Plus, with memories flowing through her mind of an ancient dryad, she sees extremely similar and even more efficient techniques just like it used in the past by a very old tree...

Lots of the commands that are infused with the strange white chain Lucian used have the same effects, conducting a soul pact trial using Primordial Aura even though this Royal Family head himself can't wield it.

Abby grits her teeth once the first drop of the Dragon's soul begins to seep out into her vines. "Looks like I can't end this until you finish your job, Seraphel!" she yells through their link. Then, she stops stimulating every bit of her power to leave the dragon immobilized but still alive high up in the sky.

The moment Abby touched its soul, she realized killing it here and now would disrupt the duel between Seraphel and Lucian. Severing their connection before the Blue Wyvern's soul is completely settled back into his body would be extremely dangerous and harmful.

"I know! I'm doing everything I can... but he's getting stronger!" Seraphel yells back.

He gained the upper hand when Abby borrowed her full available 5% of stats... but when Lucian began draining all of the life out of the Cyan Zone citizens in order to boost his own power, Seraphel started losing ground again. The chain has begun to glow brighter blue, and the wyvern's soul is moving back toward Lucian's chest.

This Royal Family head laughs loudly, shaking the Zone as his Noble subordinates die one by one below his feet.

The crazed Demon's eyes are only set on Seraphel.

"That's right! Even with a race Legacy, you cannot beat me! I am a True Royal Family Head, I will sacrifice anything to secure my victory! This is a battle of wills, winner takes the other's soul! ... and I can feel you're bonded with your race's amplifier too. Assimilating and digesting one of those will only make me stronger.... It might even bridge the gap and make me capable of wielding the will of the Primordials like the first generation. Maybe the Imperials will finally respect me if I can do that!"

He laughs louder and louder as his chest glows bright blue and Seraphel's Celestial body starts to shrink back down again.

The blue Wyvern attacks this demon with his clawed feet, and sends waves of Celestial water at him; but the attacks are meaningless. Most of them miss, as Lucian takes advantage of the ether commands in the air to speed up his movements. Even the attacks he allows to land leave nothing more than a scratch, and weaken the Wyvern's energy pools to make fighting back harder.

Abby sees this futile struggle and grabs her staff to amplify her power.

The pulse of white and green energy that erupts outward is a mix between her blended legacies, but they have the same end result.

The bottom of the Cyan Zone tints green for a moment, and Seraphel's Celestial Body stops having to heal on its own. The white sparkling mist in Abby's aura does that for him, so he can attack without wasting any power. It makes his eyes glow white, stimulating the Wyvern's legacy.

The second half of her burst outward makes hundreds of vines just like the ones she used to tie up the Dragon in the sky, and plunge them down past both of the fighters chained together.

Instead of aiming for the Royal Demon they're fighting, she aimed for his source of new power.

All of her dense green leafy vines collide with the protective dome over the Cyan City.

There is an initial shockwave, as ancient high-quality ether commands are shattered by her Primordial Aura, but once she's through, there is no resistance to the common defensive arrays at all. She bursts through them like they are frail glass.

Each vine erupts into hundreds of smaller vines, and each one of them splits off into thousands more.

Every single tower in the Cyan City is covered in her essence, and the plants spread out like roots looking for nutrients.

All of the tendrils of ether that sprout out from Lucian, draining his subjects; they're devoured and their connections are cut. Instead, green vines drain the life force out of the millions of remaining demons.

Not only the moving life but from the ether commands in the air, powering the streets and making all of the Cyan Towers function. The bright city instantly dims as an astronomical amount of celestial energy and cyan threads are pulled upward, and the entire defensive dome is drained and dismantled.

Even the surrounding Cyan Clouds filled with divine threads and celestial energy begin to dull in luminosity as they're drained for their power.

Abby's vines glow brighter and brighter, and notifications pile up in her mind as she's just slaughtered millions. A surge of pure power and energy control maturity increases drastically as well. Her Immortal Healer's Celestial Body grows tens of times over in size, reaching over two million kilometers; making the dragon she's captured not look so massive any longer... It just looks like an overgrown lizard she's holding on a leash.

Though, Abby's attention moves away from the dead demons and the dormant black towers. She stares down at Seraphel and plunges her vines into his back.

Surges of excess energy cycle into him, and almost instantly, the blue Celestial glow in Lucian's chest fades.

His pool of infinite energy below him has vanished, and the Wyvern he's bonded himself to starts landing attacks in his unprotected body.

The ether commands in the air have been devoured by Abby's vines, making his movement speed many times slower; and the Blue Wyvern before him is only getting stronger.

Seraphel yells out into the open air, "This is what you deserve! A death with no one watching! All of your subjects have died a meaningless death, just like the Wyverns you betrayed, and all the Lower Races you took advantage of after! You're no Royal Family Head... You're being used like every other demon in this twisted system! Don't you see how easily your higher-ups seal off the zones below? Once you fail to be useful, you'll be just like them. You should be thanking me for putting you out of your misery!"

A blast of Celestial energy collides with Lucian's shoulder, blowing his whole arm off that holds the demonic axe he was using to block a few of the past strikes.

The Demon's eyes are filled with shock, wide open, moving back and forth from Abby's enormous greater form resembling an Ancient Dryad, and the energy manifestations surrounding her that bloom like tree branches and leaves. The roots that have drained his Cyan City resemble those of the Tree of Life he talked about when this battle started... and a mixture of terror and understanding washes through him.

The chain connecting his soul to Seraphel's vibrates with automated white glyphs and high-quality ether commands, channeling primordial aura through it constantly. All of Seraphel's soul slides back into it, and instead, it begins to glow brighter purple.

The pupils in Lucian's eyes become smaller and smaller as he hopelessly watches the chain fill completely purple with his soul, and strength leaves his body.

Royal Vibrations are siphoned out, all of his Celestial energy, demonic essence, and vitality left in his being.

Another burst of Abby's aura washes through the battlefield below as the demonic soul pours into Seraphel's chest. It soaks his body in a green and white light. The white glow makes sure all of the raw Royal Vibrations are realigned to fit within the Wyvern's legacy. The green is healing and mutating all of the Celestial and Demonic Energy pouring into him, turning it pure white and blue in order for his mana-based soul to digest it.

The moment the chain empties out all of its essence, it's left pure white.

Then, it snaps and shatters into millions of glistening glyphs.

The husk of Lucian Morvale falls from the sky, down into his dark lifeless city along with all of his dead subordinates.

Abby feels the heart of the Dragon in her vines stop beating, but the raw energy is still floating in the air. She finally activates their full power and lets all of the Dragon's Celestial Energy pour into her soul. The crown on its head shatters to pieces, but her vines begin devouring and draining the Primordial Aura and High-quality ether commands as though they're nothing out of the ordinary.

Shockwaves burst off the Immortal Healer and the Last Wyvern as they both erupt with power and assert Absolute Dominance on the Cyan Zone of the Upper Realm.
