The sight of the enormous dragon would normally shift my mindset in battle. Especially the fact that it is saturated full of dense white celestial energy with purity greater than my own.

Even the Noble Demon that runs forward at us again, its Vibrations heightening in intensity.

The facade it was putting out before, telling anyone and anything to challenge it, is completely gone. Now there is only primal anger and the strength of an animal putting its life on the line to protect that pedestal behind it with its life.

This only makes the faintly glowing soul artifact on top of it look more attractive.

A flash of blue and red pulsing Celestial energy arcs upward, completely avoiding the Demon's incoming axe strike as we fly through the air. Maria's blade connects with the center of this Demon's forehead and slices a deep slash through its skull.

Bright white fractured bone explodes into the air with waves of excess celestial energy, but the upward swing and pivoting stance of this Demon's axe forces us to use one of the Demon's horns as a foothold and bounce off it out of the way.

Bright blue celestial energy, sparkling with rainbow source resin, spreads and freezes through the Demon's exposed brain. The waves of layered Royal Vibrations, even as we fly away from the Demon, are strong enough to overpower this Noble's defenses and dull its mind.

It opens its mouth, letting out what looks like a roar, and the Noble Vibrations in its body become sharper while the celestial energy is becoming chaotic. Large amounts still flow out from the wound I gave it, and now it's working with a brain that is slowly freezing to ice.

When we hit the ground by its side and my cycle comes around, I'm full of energy and confidence to try out a move I was thinking about all the way over on the flight here...

The attack Maria just released showed me to an even deeper extent what is possible, and I can't keep a smile off my face as we jump off the ground again.

My blade is growing hotter and brighter as we fly through the air, and the Demon's head has turned entirely to ice.

The fury-filled eyes from before are frozen blue, and it's waving its axe around blind, using instincts alone to defend itself. Even its movements are slowing. I'm pretty sure if I didn't even attack now, it would die in a few seconds anyway... but I want to absorb its energy.

The Demonic Dragon behind it lunges its open mouth downward at us to try and block my kill shot, but this is a perfect opportunity to test my attack on a target with more vitality.

I shift the focus of my full-powered attack upward and swing my soul sword across my body, still over 30 meters away from colliding with the dragon's open mouth.

A vibrant wave of Crimson Celestial Fire erupts from my sword.

I feel it tremble in my hands, as it's activating its latent abilities to an extent, despite no access to the system.

It feels as though a small portion of my consciousness rides in this wave of fire, because as it expands and collides against the dragon's head and upper portion of its neck, my ether senses expand.

I can see the entire magnificent winged creature, and far further past the monster too, showing me even more of this flat stone we stand on, much further than my natural ether senses should allow.

The dragon is completely caught off guard by this display, and its lower jaw is burned through by fire wrapped in my Royal Vibrations dozens of times over.

It doesn't slow down at all on first contact and slices through its neck as well, in a clean line, with enough momentum to continue flying out into the endless void behind it.

The dragon's head topples off its body, and I can focus on my main target again.

I slice downward with the remainder of my cycle's strength as Maria and I land on the Demon's chest.

Her ice has now frozen its entire head, moving down to its shoulders, limiting its axe's movement.

I slash my fiery blade across its already fractured cores and shatter it to pieces.

–

The Demon falls backward while we stand on its chest, and its head shatters to pieces on the ground.

Both of its long horns crack off, with their bases glistening with Maria's soul energy, and its axe slams to the floor beside it.

This is paired with two more silent thuds, as the dragon's flaming head hits the ground behind the pedestal, and its massive body tips backward, dead as well.

The surge of Celestial Energy, and far more dark and black essence I was hoping for, bursts into me, and the Celestial energy surges through Maria seconds later.

The memories, however, are slightly less fractured than other demons in this abyss.

I can actually make out some of the battles it's had here, protecting this artifact.

Many of them result in the slaughter of stronger 1st Class Demons or weak Nobles; however, a few end in other strong Demons kneeling before this axe-wielding giant, and it sending them out into the abyss in an organized manner.

The exact details of why or for what I can't make out, but I know they were looking for something.

The further back its memories go, the more shattered and broken they become, turning only to instincts and emotions. Yet, I can tell it's been thousands of years at least, in the conscious memories, so whatever its life was before, maybe it was even longer...

At the same time as these memories stop flowing through me, the slash of red Celestial Fire I sent out from my blade circles back toward me.

I thought I had lost connection with it, as the ether sense readings I was getting came back as nothing as it flew upward into the void; but it comes back like a boomerang.

I raise my blade up in the air to let the dense fire reunite with my sword.

The corpses around us start to melt, and after that kill, my blade trembles again, pointing its consciousness toward the massive axe floating in the purple sludge that melts beneath our feet.

We walk over, and I let my blade absorb it. It glows even more vibrant, as this is an extremely high-quality material. I feel its leftover Noble Vibrations even after death still imbued in this white material. They are completely devoured.

The massive horns at the base of the pedestal give off a similar strength and aura.

I touch both of them to use my celestial craftsmanship and try something I haven't successfully done yet.

I haven't been able to mold other soul weapons that are bonded with demons into new weapons of our own, but with raw materials, I believe I can enhance gear we already have with the right technique.

I focus on the light chestplates I made from the first Noble's horns and try to enhance and fuse these horns into that same craft.

The huge celestial energy saturated pieces of bone before us melt and turn to red and blue celestial material, and bond with the armor we have on.

It becomes thicker, denser, and even grows downward to protect our lower backs and abdomens as well.

Our new understandings in Royal Vibration manipulation seep into this craft as well, adding layers of intrinsic defense and strengthening the craft further.

An overwhelming aura of defense floods through both of us once the craft completes. The shockwaves push all of the decaying avatar remains away from us in a small circle to leave us on the plain floor below.

Both of us let our soul swords disappear and fall back into our souls, then jump upward, landing on the edge of the pedestal.

–

Looking down, my gaze is fixed on the smooth orb in the center of this circular table.

It's actually made of a glossy black stone as far as I can tell. The light white pulses I sensed before are coming from deep within it.

There are small dots from varying distances from the surface.

As we take a step closer, two large dots right in front of us become slightly larger.

Another step closer, and they become larger and brighter again. I raise an eyebrow and feel that Maria is equally as curious. We step to the side, and the two white dots follow us.

I see countless tiny smaller white orbs deeper inside, like they are far away and dim. It makes me remember the dozens of demons and dragons we passed on our way up here.

As Maria and I continue moving and the dots follow us perfectly, glowing brighter with intensity the closer we get, it all becomes quite clear.

This is some kind of Celestial Energy radar... it detects anything and everything living around it.

But, why would that Demon and Dragon stand here protecting it for thousands of years? Something like this wouldn't be worth guarding with their lives. Plain ether senses can do the same thing.

We continue walking back and forth for a few more seconds, then make our way all the way around the other side of the circular top of this platform.

My stomach drops at the sight, as there is a massive glowing white orb pointed right at us.

We both turn around, looking deep into the darkness and summon our swords again, but I sense nothing at all.

Not Celestial energy, not Vibrations, nothing.

We wait a few seconds, but it's truly nothing...

Then, as we turn back to the orb with suspicious looks, the carvings on the flat surface of this stone cylinder catch my eyes.

There is a thin, but clearly drawn arrow carved into the stone.

It's pointing in the exact direction where this massive orb of light stays steady.

I look deeper at the carvings below it and try to begin deciphering some more of this text, but the light pulsing of celestial energy interrupts my focus.

It's not strong... it is all just coming from one direction, the stairs where we came up from before.

Maria and I walk around the orb to its other side again, and watch as hundreds of small white lights slowly grow larger.

The pressure of Noble Vibrations that were keeping these weaker Demons from making it up the stairs before have been extinguished.
