The form of a golden dragon appears to be shifting in our perception, almost upward, flowing with the bends of space in this void.

High above the Realm Wave that is trying to squeeze in on us, and far away from the expanding purple and silver demonic aura as well.

Noctus yells through the air again, "There is no point in spewing your lies any further. If these are the last bits of hope you can muster, then allow me to see them for what they really are. Why hide them any longer!"

"That is exactly what I intend to do," pours back as Ember's golden wings flap through countless directions of space.

I feel our soul tie stretch away, but it is the last thing my perception is focused on right now. All I see are the waves of purple and silver aura falling down toward us.

The overwhelming golden light that blocked our vision moves away, and the outline of a Demon starts to trickle in.

At first he is just a colorless indent in space, but as more and more tendrils of his aura come crashing down toward us, his entire body begins filling in.

First, it is the sharp silver eyes that peer at us through every single attack from his aura, but next it is the two long silver horns that curve out from his forehead.

The Demon's body is dark black, but it glows a light purple whenever aura bursts off of it.

There are vein-like pathways all over his body too, and they are bright silver, filled with dense threads.

My perception is not deep enough to look inside to see where these energy waves are coming from; all I can perceive is the surface. Yet, surrounding this Demon, I see an invisible film that almost appears white in my vision when I try to perceive it.

It's like a bubble, made of a pure soul tie, that is only attached to himself.

The bubble glistens, and even the dark unknown advanced primordial aura from the void cannot touch it. Even this membrane avoids touching whatever this construct is.

I cannot sense a thing about it, but there is one strange thing I notice about the demon inside.

He is floating completely still, holding no weapons, in the exact same state I witnessed him die in the memories I absorbed.

As his dark body pulses with demonic aura, and waves of telepathy and mental attacks leave this thin white film, he still does not move at all...

It is so strange...

I play back all of the memories I've seen of him in the past, and the conversation he just had with Ember over and over while taking the higher-powered attacks head-on again. My sacred and origin body shatter billions of times, and my understanding of the sight before me becomes stronger with every single time my bodies grow back.

Despite having a clear path to viewing this silver-cored demon, the waves of energy coming off of it are actually not a true threat.

The only thing my danger instincts are screaming at me to do is somehow run from the Realm Wave full of silver threads falling in toward my back.

The closer they get as the ring-like wave collapses in, the more strange their shape becomes again.

It feels like the wave is bending around us, yet getting closer with every passing moment.

I start to see a wall of silver threads collapsing in on us from all sides, just as I did the first time I approached the other side of this Realm Wave.

Yet, despite the entirety of my vision starting to turn silver, there is still a demon and dragon nearby, bent into a completely different direction of space.

It's breaking my sense of direction entirely, but at the same time, as my cores fall closer to each other, these strange directions begin to instinctually make more and more sense.

The strongest potency of my refined high-quality ether, fully saturated true purple threads, and advanced primordial aura tethered to my high royal vibrations all begin to collide and bend through these same new directions in space.

Every time my bodies are shattered, there is often room for error and wiggle room for particles of energy and wavelengths of vibrations to overlap in ways they could never naturally do without the current environment of chaos.

When I turn to swing my blade in the densest portion of the collapsing Realm Wave, it is full of its own silver threads and a foreign crimson glow. However, my origin body moves faster and with more strength than it ever has before.

The stray bursts of demonic aura coming off Noctus at such a distance begin to stop shattering my advanced primordial aura any longer.

Maria even settles her angelic body and no longer layers any more pseudo soul cores, the total number reaching an astronomical 20,898,764,027 digits to match the current level of strength flowing through me.

The Source Resin that makes her wings, halo, eyes, and sword shimmer all siphon this energy as though it is completely real. Even though they are copied versions, it's as though every single soul core is her own, stimulating the sparkling liquid in her body to oscillate at the same frequency as her own High Royal Vibrations, and the icy Advanced Primordial Aura pouring out of her body.

The True Purple Core in her chest shifts upward, slowly merging with the center of all her soul energy cores.

The metallic red and icy blue auras that pour out of us now are hardly affected by the darkness of the void at all.

We can both circulate our energy through our bodies and even trace the aura that leaves. The only way for it to be lost into the darkness is if we mentally sever the tie ourselves.

I slice through the Realm Wave with another clean slash of my blade.

This time, it does not feel heavy at all. I'm able to cut through it in a single motion without any mental fatigue ravaging my mind.

There is a burst of invisible aura, purple essence, and silver threads, most of which fall into the depths of my blade, but some collide with our origin bodies.

This aura from the Realm Wave feels much different than the weak aura that flows off Noctus from within his white bubble.

The crimson primordial aura surrounding my origin body diverts the flow of all of the silver threads in this wave to my sword; but the pure primordial pressure, ether, and demonic essence, every bit of that flows straight into me.

The most violent fracture of all my energy forms yet occurs simultaneously with Maria, as from her side of this blast she pulls in an equal amount of raw energy. It's the first time we're completely overpowering the void and devouring this power, not allowing it to summon itself back.

It causes all of my cores to momentarily bend in on each other and collide at their edges for a moment as my Origin Body reforms, and for a moment in time, the sparks of new shimmering silver threads attempt to summon themselves into reality.
