In the Lower Realm, dead worlds without a single sign of life remaining on them suddenly begin to glow with white arrays.

Other strange pockets of space shrouded in dark black clouds glow purple. These pockets of space are so distant from the life in the origin plane that they have been forgotten with time. Similarly to the Demonic Realm itself, they cannot be found or traveled to by normal means.

All of a sudden, High Quality Ether commands that have been lying dormant since the first generation of Demons left the Lower Realm activate.

High Noble Vibrations fill deep space, and millions of bright white Demons emerge from these clouds of energy.

Each of them is covered in bright white armor and has saturated their muscles, skin, and bones with extremely pure Celestial Energy. It's an ether purity that is not possible to cultivate in the Lower Realm's current era.

Their true cores are bright yellow and spin in their chests next to Dark Demon Cores. Strange foreign High Quality Ether commands surround them and create seals, allowing for an unnatural amount of power to be held inside them.

Many of these Demons stretch space while they stride forward emotionlessly through the void. Their excess divine energy residue creates pockets of green threads that form once their seals are out of range, leaving massive distortions and huge pockets of dense yellow threads in space once they unravel.

These Demons are freaks of nature, from a time in this Lower Realm when the energy density for all life was much higher.

In fact, as they all start to split up into smaller squads of a few thousand, they begin moving through small star systems. Any of these massive gravity swells that get too close to red or orange stars within 100 billion kilometers completely destabilize the star systems. The massive explosions don't even faze these killing machines. All they do is continue their march through empty space with straight faces, absorbing the excess Celestial Energy created from the rapid compression and expansion of low-quality ether, mana, and divine threads in the blasts.

They grow stronger as they wander back from the outer edges of the galaxy, moving closer toward the source to eliminate all intelligent life, as they've been ordered to do if they ever wake up.

–

None of these soldiers are close enough to the Rising Emperor's Expanding Linked Worlds, so there are no updates on the worldwide connectivity system warning the general public about it.

Ember watches from high above, but even he cannot make any moves or send warnings to the Lower Realm just yet. Sending and receiving long-range transmissions in this area of the Purple Zone is not safe. There is a delicate balance that must be kept for him and Ren to stay unseen. If the Imperials found out he was here right now, it would ruin his plans.

However, there is a small disturbance in the Lower Realm that tips off a certain Demon in control of the Vermillion Family's Tower.

Pluto has an empty castle to himself, and his earth dragon slowly hovers above all of the massive black thrones in the Demonic Realm. He is keeping a close eye on the Morvales troops as they too dwindle over these last few years. Some of the Generals from this remaining family have become skeptical of him, as he is the newest and only remaining Demon from the Vermilions.

Yet, those that have challenged him have lost miserably in feats of strength. Even the Elite 1st Class and Noble Demons raised by the Morvales cannot make Pluto flinch with their auras, despite the fact that he is a commoner.

Any attempts to report this to their family head have been ignored. Ever since the last Realm Wave began, Lucian has not bothered to command his armies in the Lower Realm any longer. They will all be sealed and forgotten anyway.

He does not have the capability of following the same path that most Noble Demons do. However, his perception of the galaxy and power structures in the Lower and Upper Realms has shifted significantly over the years, and a strange path has been forming in his soul.

With 1% of borrowed stats available to him, none of the strongest True Cores in the Demonic Realm can touch his power, and it has slowly built up a healthy ego in this commoner's mind that he too can be a ruler.

As a normal day of surveillance and reporting information to Bri goes by, he gets a telepathy message from his dragon, along with a visual to go with it.

"One of the Dormant Towers is showing signs of movement... It's not the Vanguards... and it isn't the Overseer. All I see is the Purple Tower, it's glowing..."

Pluto's eyes widen, and he leaves the Vermilion estate immediately to survey these grounds. He's floated through them many times before, and there was nothing but empty palaces of a forgotten ancient family left behind.

–

In the Cyan Zone, alerts of this very event are blaring in the background of Lucian's system notifications as many of his private armies witness this strange sight in the Imperials Tower too.

He completely shuts off all messages coming from the Lower Realm.

"The Imperials act fast... they really are going to take them all out. Maybe I should have done the same before I left the Lower Realm. I wouldn't be dealing with a mistake like this..."

He murmurs while watching the massive wings of Seraphel grow as his rank-up comes to its final stages.

Lucian tightens the grip on his two soul weapons and steps forward through the air, unsealing his True Royal Form without hesitating for a moment longer.

This burst of power throughout the zone is the final straw that completes Abby and Seraphel's rank-up.

Not only are there thousands of High Nobles and hundreds of thousands of Nobles still sending their full-powered attacks into the glowing white Human and Wyvern at close range, but now the murderous aura of the very Demon that caused the extinction of the Wyverns bursts through their minds.

The white rank-up light disperses in a shockwave once the rank-up finishes, and both of them grow new Celestial Bodies far larger than their original forms used to battle in the Green Zone.

As Seraphel's wings flap outward, a massive wingspan over 150,000 kilometers in length, wider than some of the smaller towers in the Cyan City below.

The dense Cyan Core in his chest is so vibrant that it shines through his now white and blue Celestial Body. The pure white energy making up his soul has risen to the surface, and in every flap of his wings, not only his will, but the inherited will of the white Wyvern vibrates throughout the zone.

It can be channeled through the last of its kind, and a sharp pressure beams forward at the Royal Demon flying his way.

Seraphel reflexively lets out a guttural roar that puts the entire zone at a standstill. Even High Nobles at the edge of the zone in the Cyan Palace feel his pressure and internally fear for their family head.

This pulse of cyan, white, and blue light is not the only wave that shocks the Realm.

Abby receives a new energy form as well, but it is not one that mimics Seraphel's path.

In fact, their soul bond is slightly mutated in this rank-up process. It was never formed under the guise of intense emotional connection nor a strong duty to fight alongside each other. It was formed by chance, and an understanding of mutual goals of survival.

In this current rank-up, the vulnerability of their paths, souls, and system itself opened up and moved them closer together in some ways, as they must survive together again to defeat these Demons. But their paths split in others as memories from the Lower Realm stream into the Immortal Healer's mind through her staff.

Abby's new energy manifestation grows to a massive size. Over 50,000 kilometers from head to toe.

Despite a dense Cyan Core in her chest and the hot white glyphs on her staff stimulating the white Celestial Energy she inherited from the Wyvern moments earlier, the core of the staff that floats around her in a circle still glows green.

She feels a warm energy from the Inheritance that dead Wyverns' bones on Kelfar granted her and feels the sensation her True Core's Compression consolidated into her soul.

Even memories of sparring with Ember in the desert back on the human world echo in her mind, as he would constantly push her limits and speak fondly of her Immortal Healer's Body and the unique Restoration skill she has.

Something clicks in Abby's mind, and her vibrations shift to grow far more ambitious and rich in raw potential than before.

Seraphel may have sparked this legacy with her, as his mission is to preserve the Wyvern Race, but Abby's wish is far greater: to preserve every race the Demons are trying to kill for sport.

When her eyes open again, the imagery of a tree flashes in her eyes like a reflection, and a potent green shockwave bursts through the Zone.

Every single Demon surrounding the Human and Wyvern in the sky dies from the shockwave alone and falls from the sky down into the streets of the Cyan City.

Lucian stares at these anomalies that killed his trained guards filled with anger. He activates the chain around his left arm for it to glow white-hot just as he gets within the Cyan City's outer limits.
