I can feel the tension in the Realm Wave's aura snapping as the weight of my blade slices through it. Instantly, the attraction between my Soul Tie with Ember on the other side becomes many times stronger, and both Maria and I fall through the split forming in the barrier.

The dark primordial aura that fills the void around us bends and recreates a mental image of the Realm Wave to look more like a tunnel, with the point of my blade at its endpoint.

Even though there is no up or down as we float forward, nor any gravity to make swinging my sword expend any energy, I still start to feel a wave of fatigue wash over me.

The same heavy strain on my soul returns, similar to when I sliced through the top of the Upper Realm to make it into this place.

The only difference is, there is not a single wall of reality I need to slice through. The thick wave of silver, white, and purple energy is reforming over and over again in front of me. I watch the folded layers of space bend out from nowhere and add hundreds, then thousands, and eventually millions of new layers of silver light infused with a Primordial Aura far more powerful than my own.

Every possible dangerous wave of residue is pulled into my blade before it can touch me, but the crimson aura tethered to the outside of my Origin Body changes with every layer of the Realm Wave it absorbs.

It vibrates and morphs, even spreading to latch onto the outside of Maira's Origin Body next.

She is intertwined with me and falling through this Realm Wave with me. The subconscious pull of this aura sees her as a part of me.

Its strength and pressure around our bodies grow the further into the wave we fall. This is not only an automatic defensive feature but also the result of my blade devouring more energy than it ever has before.

The strain it's putting on my soul is being automatically replenished by the strange feedback loop of the darkness we float in, but the crimson aura that seeps out of my blade gets stronger with every silver thread it pulls in.

I start to feel the sensation of silver threads crackling in the back of my mind.

It feels like my memory is about to be wiped, like all the times before when I saw things I was not supposed to, or flashes of silver light within others' memories blocked me from seeing the full thing.

There have been times in the past where I fought through this feeling, and with the reassurance that all of my fatigue and energy used will flow right back into me, I don't hold back.

I activate every single skill, buff, and internal technique I can to stay conscious.

Billions of spinning red, white, and black glyphs start forming inside my Sacred Body, right on the edge of my Origin Body. It stimulates my Vibrations and Aura enough to focus and push through.

The fuzzy wave of silver light that was about to cover my mind is parted, and a satisfying whoosh of memories flows in from the silver sea of my sword straight into my mind.

A series of extremely fast-paced, brutal fights start to appear, and I get to view them from the point of view of a soul weapon.

Sometimes this weapon takes the form of a sword, other times an axe, sometimes a hammer or curved knife. I even feel the form of spears, arrows, chains, and shapes of weapons I never even considered.

Each weapon has the same soul at its core, and all of them leak with the same crimson aura once they kill their enemies.

Almost every one of the enemies they kill wields black and purple demonic energy. I see demonic beasts of every shape and size, and Demons that also have far different body types than ones I've seen before.

Their strengths differ, from Nobles, to Royals, to even strange energy forms that I can't comprehend.

Some of these memories don't even have mana or demonic energy signatures present at all.

I try to map the snippets of worlds and vast Upper Realms I witness to memories of the past, but none of them match up at all.

There are millions, then billions, then countless worlds flashing through my mind, and none of them are recognizable. I cannot link these memories to any timeline or point in space I've witnessed before.

I even start to witness some of the heavier memories that are trapped deeper down into its core. I start to see the imagery of some dark, shadowy, horned being wielding this very soul weapon to break out of an orb-like construct surrounding a galaxy.

The moment the construct breaks, an extremely strong burst of golden aura pours in from the cracks in the memory, and my concentration is completely broken. I'm thrust back into the reality of slicing through this wave.

At the same exact time, a wave of golden light is pouring through the Realm Wave too, coinciding with Ember's words to the Overseer: "The Great Cycle is far bigger than your limited mind will ever comprehend. There is no outlasting the system, especially using the very power that it has granted you."

Noctus yells back, and waves of purple and silver threads come flooding through the Realm Wave straight at us, imprinting on the outsides of our Origin Bodies. It allows me to shake off the lapse in concentration I had and align with my blade again. I can overpower the seals on the silver memories, but there is still a secret that is beyond my level of comprehension to see.

When I manage to tether back into the flow of memories being devoured, my subconscious steers away from anything that has to do with breaking out of this membrane or powers that can overrule the system itself.

I focus only on the blade's battles and its wielders.

I thought I had seen it all, but more iterations of this blade come flowing in, and instead of trying to match it to a time period or anything related to memories I know, I try to find more things in common with every era that flashes by. Many variables begin piecing themselves together when I begin studying this sword's wielder, and its surroundings.

The instant I catch on, more golden light starts to pour in from every direction of my mind. Yet this time, I catch myself before it completely takes over and deletes everything I see. The first detail I find is that every wielder of this blade has the same unique skill.
