The bent wall of silver threads and a demonic primordial aura that once overwhelmed and surrounded my vision is now retreating.

With every sword slash, the amount of energy left in this Realm Wave lessens.

Even the stray explosions of threads that eat away at the red and blue auras flowing off Maria and me, they start to affect us less and less.

The real moment I realize there is a turning point is when my metallic flames devour the energy in a stray stream of the Realm Wave. The Advanced Primordial Aura that I use to attack it is momentarily caught in a bent perception of time, but it does not stay constant. My own aura becomes strong enough to break out of this miniature time-manipulating prison.

After the first, it happens again and again.

It doesn't matter if the time in these strands of energy is moving a billion times faster or slower than the reality outside, before my own aura inside is destroyed, it's able to grow in strength and break out from the inside.

The ring of energy that was once falling down toward me, threatening to squeeze us into submission, is being shredded into unrecognizable pieces.

I get caught up in a flow state during the last few hundred slashes.

Another burst of memories comes in, it shows countless times that this soul weapon has regained all of the silver threads it's lost back into its core. Not only that, but an enormous amount of ether drained from the consumption of other soul weapons and complex machines in other galaxies using strange rules and techniques.

Every single one of these memories ends with the different variations of this weapon in its many forms releasing some kind of seal, and the only thing I'm able to witness after that is a bright crimson blur. It is the same color and exact sensation that this primordial aura holds tethered to the outside of my origin body. Also, it matches the exact color of the same pair of eyes that stare at me through this void as Ember watches.

This wave of memories passes as I focus deeper and deeper on the task in front of me, and the Realm Wave is destroyed before it can fully collapse.

The bright and strong ring has disappeared.

There are only tiny pockets of lingering silver threads in the air that continuously fall toward me, attempting to hold onto the original center of gravity the entire structure once held. Yet, even these fragments of the past are overpowered. Their silver threads added to the river in the core of my blade, and their ether and primordial aura used as mind and soul tempering.

A light indent in space is leftover.

The dark void we float in still feels an echo of the Realm Wave that once stood there unmoving.

The longer I focus on areas of the void, the faster they heal. Yet, when I look away, the dent remains trapped in time, as the presence of the darkness tries to fill it in.

When my awareness falls back toward the Silver-Cored Demon floating inside a thin bubble of ether, it's as though my perception of time involving this entity resumes. The realization that I hold enough willpower to affect this manipulation of the void hits me, triggering more epiphanies, but is quickly interrupted by the fact that bursts of spiraling energy explode out of this thin white film.

The moment I interact with the Demon's mind, he regains full control of our surroundings.

"Finally, that old defense mechanism is taken care of. It was truly only set up in case a worthy race tried to challenge the Overseer seat before Marcellus succeeded. Obviously, far too much time in the Origin Plane has passed for me to care any longer. Absorb my old aura all you want, it will never be enough to awaken that soul weapon. It needs all of its divine threads back to truly be a lethal sword. Your own wills are far too weak to consolidate immortal cores of your own, and you will never get close enough to me to retrieve what was already taken. Turn back now and live in the Origin Plane. Lesser lifeforms like you should not be messing with powers this large. Even if I decided to give up my life's work and grant you access to what you desire, you will die of old age before you can even use it."

When the waves of aura ripple through the void, this time, they do not filter through Ember's Golden Aura at all.

He only watches from a distance, from a direction that feels like it is above us.

When this aura collides with our origin bodies, it does not shatter our minds or souls. The strength of the crimson aura surrounding us has reached a high enough point that it is able to block this aura on its own.

However, that does not mean I can't comprehend the aura's weight.

Every time it collides with my half-human, half-demonic Origin Form, or Maria's Angelic Origin Body, there are echoes of depth that I couldn't understand before. After witnessing and feeling the energy signatures in my sword's memories, the pool of power that is attempting to harm us becomes more and more clear.

Without this crimson shield around us, this Demon's words would be true...

Even so, I have found myself in a position like this so many times before, and see the confident grin on Ember's face.

Even the countless memories of the shadowy, faceless wielder of this soul weapon, facing scenarios just like this, and always succeeding. It feels like I've been the one to win all those battles myself.

It makes it so even when facing off against a will that is an unfathomable amount stronger than my own, there are no fluctuations in my aura any longer. My High Royal Vibrations are consistent, my Advanced Primordial Aura flows with a metallic shine and oozes outward further and further into the darkness.

My cores drift even closer to each other, even now, when my origin body and soul are not in a stressed and shattered state. Another flicker of the silver web of threads holds my existence together as I reply with a single, focused strand of aura back toward the Demon into the void.
