The flow of dark essence out from my core is not as slow and controlled through my pathways as it was the first time.

It doesn't only flow down my arm into my sword. Instead, a deep purple and black eruption of corruption floods out from my chest. It stains my glowing red body dark, and I feel it saturating my muscles and mind.

The presence of thousands of Noble Demons' vibrations tingle through my body, and the instinctual energy control of Miriel, a True Royal, flickers in my consciousness.

I can feel the coils of dark energy twist and wriggle their way into my muscle fibers, and even deep into my soul sword. The vibrations that strengthen them are not only protective layers on the surface, they are tethering deep within everything they touch.

The intent, and confidence to kill and destroy everything in my way grows.

It pushes out everything I thought I knew about my vibrations.

At least, the methods I was focusing on to have them create a stronger layer of intent during all of my battles so far.

The creation aspect of my path is completely suppressed, and as my entire sword now glows with a dark aura, I understand that this is what it feels like to focus on the path of destruction.

My gaze tightens as both my eyes glow purple, and I see straight through the blast of white energy coming my way.

I swing my blade across my body as the peak of my cycle uses up all of the Celestial Energy in my body. The dark essence that's flooding through me devours the fire and converts it into a full powered mutated attack.

There is only going to be one chance to take this shot, so I want to give it everything. I grit my teeth and feel the energy being drained from the tips of my toes, to the depths of my core, and let it all be channeled through my sword.

A dense black crescent of energy comes bursting out from my blade.

It flickers like it is on fire, and oscillates like it is a living liquid, and the air around it bends as if the zone itself is unsure of how gravity should be reacting to this substance. There is a fragment of my consciousness in this slash, and for a moment, it feels like I can hear it cutting through the air... like the impossibly dark seal pressing down around us is being torn through.

Yet, this is not what I fixate on as the dark wave of corrupted celestial fire collides with the Dragon's beam of light.

I watch it slice through the center and completely destroy everything in its path.

The center of the crescent stays strong and moving forward, but the explosive weight of Celestial Energy from the blast on contact is devoured as tendrils of black essence burst out from the slash.

It is like they have minds of their own, gravitating toward the highest sources of energy and snuffing them out before they can even light up the darkness around us.

The massive white dragon that lights up the abyss turns dark.

Its whole beam of light disappears, and as the slash hits its open mouth, its head is blown to pieces.

The dragon flails backward, but a fast-moving flood of dark corruption seeps down its neck and begins spreading through its whole body.

It is a successful first hit, but I feel a massive wave of fatigue coming my way within the next second.

I just used every drop of strength and energy I had into this strike, and I can't let up until it's over.

I close my eyes, and watch through the dark crescent that plunges upward into the darkness. The connection with my Soul Sword is all I think about.

Every soul weapon it's consumed over the years we've been together, and the feeling I get when I activate its full power using the system.

The air around me turns dark black, heavy, and hot.

I see Maria's resting face flinch from the pressure, as this is not the red soul energy she's been able to adapt to either. Just like her blue aura suppressed me, this darkness is now dangerous for her. But, I can't stop.

The connection between the vessel in my hand, and the fragment of my soul out in the void resonate together, and for a moment, it feels just like the first time I linked with its core, the small black cube that would rotate around my body in its raw uncrafted state.

The crescent in the darkness curves around to return right back toward me.

An indentation in the ground beneath my feet starts to form, leaving a mark on this battlefield where no other soul weapons have.

The blackened dying body of the Dragon falls, and I see the hammer-wielding Demon's eyes widen with a primal rage. It knows it's dying, and the white fog around it has hit its brightest I've ever seen.

It's using up all of its energy in a final desperate attempt to take me out.

I watch life leaving its eyes while it swings its hammer across its body and lets go to throw it toward us.

My legs grow weak and beg to give out, but I don't let up my focus.

Less than half a second later, the dark crescent of corruption slices through the back of this Demon.

Its cores are obliterated, the white fog and aura around its body are devoured, and its entire avatar shifts to black as the corruption floods through it.

The crescent turns in the air, and slices through the frozen demon in the ice sculpture Maria created of it running away.

Its body, armor, and soul sword are blasted into a million fragments, and countless tendrils of energy burst out from the sentient crescent of corruption to devour its energy too.

The attack curves one more time, and slices through the back handle of the white hammer that still flies our way.

It's sliced in half from the back, exploding less than 50 meters away from us, and completely devoured before the aura from the blast can even hit our senses.

I lift my blade as the darkness collides with me, and it surges back into my body with so much more intensity that it forces even more parts of my mind to shut off to withstand the pressure.

The vibrations have grown stronger, and the Celestial Energy entering my cores is tens of times more than what left. The pressure and thickness of the dark aura that surrounds me becomes far more intense, and pushes the ground around us down even more, making the crater of pressure deeper and wider.

I feel the corruption vibrate through every part of my body and mind. It feels different than when I've first summoned it because instead of preparing for an attack, it's merging with my soul.

The uncontrollable dark waves of energy are invading every portion of my mind at its most fatigued and vulnerable state.

There is an absurd amount of power flooding into me, but it feels like the parts of my being that have access to it are not my true conscious mind.

It feels like accepting this would be falling for a mental trap set by myself... and I would be completely consumed.

I try to fight back, but the power is overwhelming, and oddly warm and inviting.

It's being controlled by my own intents and desires after all.

In the depths of my mind, I see a dark shadowy manifestation of myself completely consumed by corruption, staring down at a small dot of red light that is what remains of my true mind.

It does not scare me. It truly just looks like I am staring up at a mirrored version of myself, through a different lens.

I let the red glowing orb in my mind slowly float closer to the dark inviting presence as though it's the natural thing to do.

My physical body has completely blocked out all of the excruciating pain from the peak of the cycle absorbing these demons' energy, so there isn't much more that I can see...

However, in the furthest reaches of my mental vision as the peak of the cycle passes; I start to sense blue and sparkling rainbow light behind the drifting red orb.

Just as I'm about to make contact with the shadow in my mind, a burst of perception around me showing actual reality comes flooding in.

I see my whole body saturated in darkness, and Maria's whole arm that held on throughout the battle completely stained black with corruption as well.

It slowly seeps into her, and this triggers all of my survival instincts to escape what is happening before this cycle of Corruption devours me, and floods into Maria.

The red mental manifestation of my soul floats back, and bursts with flames and power of its own.

A shockwave of perception surrounds the battlefield, and I confirm that every demonic threat has been conquered.

This, paired with the corruption creeping over Maria's shoulder and toward her chest, makes even the dark figure in my mind take a step back.

My enemies are dead.

This rage and malice I've unleashed no longer has anything to attack.

The red glow in my mind grows, and starts to manifest in reality as well.

The red glow of Celestial Fire in my chest spreads, and the darkness that surrounds me starts to retract.

The heavy aura in the air is the first thing to dissipate.

This leads to the spread of corruption into Maria's body to halt, then recede.

My own body starts to shift in color, back to red; starting with my toes, fingers, and blade. All of the darkness recedes into my Demon's core. However, I can feel it doing so reluctantly, like it is not satisfied with my decision...

Even as the strengthened barrier of vibrations seals around it, I still feel my own dark purple eyes staring into my soul from its depths. It is telling me that it will be patient.

I fall to my knees with Maria in my arms, and relink our Celestial Energy Cycle to properly allow this absorbed power to cycle through us.

As my body shuts down with fatigue, her eyes widen with energy as this massive cycle bursts through her.

–

However, the moment my eyes shut, the result of processing all of this new Demonic Essence flashes through my consciousness.

It stores these two High Noble Demons' memories of the past.

Despite the fact that there is hardly any feeling left in my arms and legs, and my body is trying to shut down, I open my eyes again out of pure fear.

I see what truly split this pyramid in two, and realize those Demons were not the true guardians of the temple...
