Everything feels connected, and moving forward with unstoppable momentum.

The membrane bends and shrinks, flowing inward to merge with Maria's Immortal Form.

I watch the laws straighten out and compact, interacting with the system that is still connected to us. All of these events are pushing closer to this monumental final notification.

Memories from our past, when we were wandering blindly through the Ravine below the Cyan Zone, come rushing back to me in this moment.

All of the tombs, ancient texts, and physical proof of its existence are gone.

Yet, I still vividly recall the images of a demon and a dragon being torn apart by a void creeper.

Statues of the half-demonic depictions standing beside an angle flash in my mind as our immortal bodies reflect their forms perfectly.

Even the guiding text left behind, that led us out of the ravine and toward the Creator's Legacy and a mysterious Void Creeper that wielded the same control on time that we were able to achieve with the use of Realm Waves. All of these questions were left unanswered, but as I sift back through the laws left behind, indenting space in my memories, I feel the same complexity that rests within my hands.

When I look up at Ember's indifferent stare and feel the fluctuations within every golden thread that radiates out from him, they coincide with every interaction I've ever had with him.

In fact, they ripple outward and relate to every movement and action that has ever happened in the remnants of the galaxy we just drained dry.

Every single other dead galaxy in this universe that was used up before us all show signs of his presence within every single action. Every single atom that has ever moved, every single energy particle's collision, combination, or direction.

Yet, it is not as though everything is being manipulated by him. This complex presence is just the source of everything. The very minor depth of laws that are unique to me, Maria, and the rest of this universe are like a layer as thin as a shadow that exists and changes in the presence of these golden threads.

His presence in this universe feels just like his interference in my journey throughout the human world and Upper Realm. This immortal entity is always watching, helping, and subtly altering the paths around it; yet it never fully exerts its will on the direction of the future.

For some reason, the final action must be mine.

I sift through every memory granted from my sword into past interactions, and conversations like this one have happened over and over again. The wielder of this artifact is always in control, deciding the fate of their universe. Yet, the very moment of the cycle's reset is dark black within every memory. I can feel its presence but cannot see what has happened until one final gear clicks into place.

The mechanism that holds all of this universe's laws below my internal system shifts with a violent and quickening pace as Maria shifts the balance of space around us.

The membrane becomes extremely thin, and I start to feel areas of my immortal body falling through into the empty void of the dead universe around us.

These bends and holes in the membrane grow larger and stretch in strange directions, until eventually the enormous fabric-like artifact is completely consumed.

It all falls into Maria's Immortal Body, making her white and blue angelic form reflect a strange aura. The source resin that bounces back all light and energy that touches it now glistens with a jet black hue.

I can't tell if she is the brightest light left in the universe, or the darkest black hole. She is both at once, and my senses are having a hard time reading the laws that ripple off of her.

An internal system notification has triggered in her mind, bonding her to this artifact and shifting the perception of our soul bond into a very confusing puzzle.

She achieved what I've been trying to manifest in my blade, triggering an understanding of reality that exceeds my mental capacity. Even when I try to view it through our shared mental link, it feels like a single enormous black stair step that I do not have the tools to climb.

When I stare down at my blade again, I feel its tension yearning to break through the same bottleneck with me, pulling at the silver threads circulating in my Immortal Core.
