The sky of the green zone flashes with a burst of white, blue, and red light so bright that every Lord beneath it is blinded by the intensity.

The deep cyan cracks spread over the sky, and the entire zone, from its top to bottom, is enveloped in cold and hot Royal Vibrations.

The remaining Citadel shake violently, and even the bottom of the Realm trembles.

It feels like reality is breaking, forcing strange gravity waves throughout the air.

Yet, once the explosion of overwhelming bright light in the sky flashes and dissipates, so do the spreading cracks that tear apart the sky.

The Citadels stop shaking, and the realm floor settles.

The air is silent, and there are no more Vibrations rippling through the green zone.

In fact, the cracks in the sky all begin to retract, as there are no longer pressure points stressing out the fabric of reality.

In a matter of seconds, the sky returns to a flawless green hue.

There are no longer two massive Celestial Bodies threatening to destroy the zone—they have disappeared...

–

At the same instance, in the Lower Realm, three notifications ring out in the ears of a human, a demon, and a massive yellow slug.

On an asteroid, in the Great Belt of Brymia, orbiting around a red star, Bri speaks up with a smile.

"Jay has just given us the tools we need to win..."

She turns to Fisher and Lydia. "You two, handle the 1st Class Demons that approach from the outer orbit."

She then links herself into a telepathy channel with all of the Knights of the Crimson Army, and the other two commanders in the room: Monk and Luna. "We will defend the Belt. I need every one of you to follow this formation while I activate an array."

Bri sends a detailed defensive structure to three dozen fighters, then Fisher and Lydia follow her words as well and leave out of an airlock in the structure. They both activate their greater energy forms and propel themselves through deep space, leaving trails of white and blue lights behind them.

"Pluto. This is your cue. Take them out," she mentally transfers to the demon approaching on the other side of the solar system.

Flashes of red and white light begin to surround the Belt of Brymia as Monk and Luna leave the airlocks too and position themselves on the largest planets on complete opposite sides of this ring.

Dozens of red-cored Knights fall in line between them.

Then, Bri exits last, raising her hands in the air with nothing but deep space around her. She pulls a full 1% of stats and activates a bright shimmering white mass of light energy.

With over a billion worlds' worth of stats flowing through her system, her aura envelops the entire ring and surrounds the red star at the center of this system. She activates her illusion magic, and instantly, the solar system goes dark...

A veil of light magic surrounds the citizens and traveling traders, in the tens of millions, on these planets and asteroids.

From the inside, it appears as though only a shimmering white sparkling light covers the sky.

Yet, from outside, it appears as though this entire civilization has disappeared, and only empty space is left in its place.

–

This sole source of light in the center of the solar system disappearing makes both approaching parties of Demons react in different ways.

The fleet of Vermillion Demons, containing hundreds of yellow cores and thousands of orange and red, begins to send reports through their transportation vessels. The scouts' readings move up the chain of command quickly, and the generals and commanders in charge of each vessel know that something has gone wrong.

A small red-starred system like this shouldn't have the technology to pull off something like this.

On the other side of the solar system, the Morvale's private Lower Realm force, led by an extremely powerful True Cored Demon named Helix, angrily scans his surroundings.

"Are they back...? The ones with the Scarlet Clan's Aura...? Are there Berserkers in this system...?" he mutters to himself, watching the star disappear and desperately scanning the deep open space before him.

Two flashes of pure white and blue mana-based greater forms fill his vision, approaching from afar.

"Are those... humans...? And they have not even compressed their yellow cores yet?"

The Demon begins to laugh and sends signals to the fellow 1st Class True Cores following him close behind, and they all laugh in the vacuum of space in unison.

Only the waves of light are visible to them, the strength of the approaching enemies' auras, containing 1% of the stats from over 1 billion worlds, has not been sensed yet.

–

However, their laughs quickly cease.

An enormous bright yellow series of explosions fill these Demons' vision, as the fleets of ships on the other side of this star system explode one by one.

The outline of a single Demon on a dragon's back, glowing with the bright bronze-colored greater form of something a mana-based system user should have. This Demon and Dragon both use earth magic... Elemental summoning is not an ability demons can naturally awaken—it is one that the Rising Emperor gifted this demon for joining the side of the humans.

Pluto, the commoner Demon, and his bonded dragon both gain 1% of the stats from over 1 billion worlds and outmatch every single one of the generals and commanders of the Vermillions' strongest attack force.

Thousands of notifications blare through their consciousnesses as they level up, killing those that looked down on them from above in the Demonic Realm and following out the orders and wishes of the Rising Emperor.

It is not even close.

The entire fleet is massacred.

Massive shards of earth magic break through ships, one-shot killing True Cored Demons and exploding into massive asteroid-sized fragments.

The fast flapping of the dragon's wings circles back through the crowds of stranded demons that try to escape from their ships to save themselves. Others desperately make attempts to eject themselves from their ships toward where the red star was previously, using their excess energy and bodies to try making suicide bomb attempts.

Yet, Pluto is too strong.

Every one of them is caught, and systematically obliterated.

In a matter of seconds, the entire Vermillion Attack fleet is destroyed.

–

Helix watches the imagery of these explosions finally catch up to him as light travels through space, and it is like a backdrop for the two approaching humans that grow larger as they approach.

Fisher and Lydia's mana control auras finally collide with this Morvale Army's squad... and they all freeze in fear.

"How is this possible...?"

In the face of enemies hundreds of times stronger, it seems pointless to fight back.

This squad of Demons has survived through many generations of new recruits in the Demonic Realm, through the last few millennia of the Morvale family's reign, and has watched the Vermillion Family grow in power over the last 18,000 years.

Helix has led this squad, and even conquered some near Noble Grade worlds in the star system of elites.

They have faced enemies with path awakenings, mammoths, berserkers, and faced many mutations and outliers over the years.

But never have they seen humans that stacked up to these elites.

Now, they see two humans that not only stack up to True Core elites, but far surpass them.

The amount of mana control and raw power coming out from these two figures is unfathomable for a being in the Lower Realm to possess...

All Helix can do is take in a high-quality image of the scene before him in his last moments.

He watches countless manifestations of dark blue water serpents and icy white tigers come surging out from these two humans' swords.

The First Class Demons around him are frozen and stabbed through the cores by these sword slashes and waves of energy.

The mana control alone, as it increases as they come closer, pushes out waves of intimidation so strong, they cannot even stay conscious long enough to witness their own deaths.

Helix manages to send this data, of the entire battlefield of the Belt of Brymia's system, up to his family head.

An explosion of water and ice explodes through space, while level-up notifications blare out in these two commanders' minds.

–

The shockwaves from the destruction of these two forces cannot be entirely contained.

They still pulse outward through space, and waves of mana and divine threads head toward the red star beneath a veil of illusions.

The Red Cored Knights, and two remaining commanders, summon elemental magic, qi barriers, and pure divine thread barriers in front of all of the civilized asteroids and planets from all sides.

–

Simultaneously, far away, on a large planet with only one monster living on it, Alveron activates the new administrator perk, pulling 1% of available stats. Instead of pulsing outwardly with this new massive power, the creature stops moving entirely.

From the outside, it looks as though it has fallen asleep, floating in the endless sea of its liquid-covered world.

Yet, its mind has begun to sift through every single message and image inside the worldwide connectivity system, from over 1 billion worlds, and over 480 quadrillion individual system users. It begins sifting through which worlds are closest to the source, which have the largest amounts of labyrinths present on them, and which have reported the largest amount of demon sightings recently, or even the mention of demons at all.

Instantaneous requests are sent out with various tasks and quest rewards on message boards of the highest activity worlds. They ask for information on the demons that reside there, and even offer higher rewards for proof of demons linked to the Five Great Families' deaths, putting out bounties, and silently declaring a war across the galaxy; providing the imagery of what has happened on Brymia as proof that this bidder is serious.

–

Even as one victory after another stacks up, from the Lower Realm, and throughout the green zone, it seems not all has gone as planned.

This is clear by the fact that a flood of every borrowed stat washes back into every Lord.

Ava floats downward, to stop at eye level with the massive white griffin that witnessed her fight.

They both then look down at the hundreds of millions of Lords below them now, held up by small platforms and pure automatic ether commands, with only empty space where their destroyed home of a Grand Citadel used to be.

Far below this, Ren still falls through the open sky, their mind still transitioning to a dormant state; but fighting to stay awake, as the dragon that made a promise to them after endless millennia of waiting finally showed up again... They cannot miss this chance to thank him.

On the furthest side of the green zone, Abby walks on the sea of corruption, toward Arie and Raven waiting at the coast.

"Did the spectate feeds cut off for you too...? The moment Jay made it within a million kilometers of Maria... everything went black," Abby remarks, breaking the silence.

Arie nods with his arms crossed and a smile, looking up into the sky where Abby and Seraphel blew apart the green clouds to give them a partial view of the shockwaves. "Yeah, all I saw were the cracks forming around her... just the same as that corrupted Demon."

Raven shakes her head. "He must have saved her, somehow. Both of their system status readings are still connected- wait... no... they're not anymore-"

The visuals of these two humans on the Rising Emperor's system interface glowed with a Celestial light moments ago, both shimmering with the same white, blue, and red auras.

However, now, after the release of all borrowed stats, they are both starting to fade.

Telepathy channels cannot be formed, and their locations have gone black.

Even their vitals have all frozen in the exact stats and readings they left in the moment they disappeared.

The sound of slow flapping wings is the only thing that can be heard in this silence, as the three generals try to understand what just happened...

Even this flapping of wings becomes lighter and less noticeable.

In fact, it completely stops, and the sound of footsteps approaches.

"Jay and Maria will be fine... for now. They both obtained a path rivaling the strength of the Royals. A trip through a manually torn rift like that won't be enough to kill them."

All heads turn toward this new voice.

It belongs to a tall, fair-skinned man. He has dark blue eyes that look jaded, as though they have seen battles like this hundreds of times over.

He wears a smooth black and blue set of armor, made from pure celestial energy, covering a muscular yet lanky build.

His hair is long, matching his eye color.

He smiles through thin lips, halting his forward steps, standing next to Abby and looking up toward the hole in the sky they created.

Seraphel stretches his arms, then smiles, getting used to his human form. He looks back down at the group of generals that stare at him with wide eyes, and continues.

"Though, Jay did piss off the Demon that rules that zone. Lucian Morvale... He's the one that led the charge on the extermination of all Wyvern. He's far older than me, and far wiser than that bottle of pent-up rage that ruled this zone. They may survive the trip over, but... who knows what's waiting for them on the other side."
