An invisible pathway deep within my consciousness seeps upward through the zone.

It is like I'm perceiving a direction of space I should not be able to comprehend. It feels similar to the activation of Samir's final attacks, where his orbs of Primordial Aura were turning through angles of space that shouldn't exist.

Or even the feeling I felt while being thrust upward through zones, as it feels like we're shifting through areas of space rather than just moving upward. As I sense every bit of the Dark Blue zone, the sky above us goes on endlessly; while the soul tie I'm following shifts through space, leading somewhere else.

At first, it is just a flutter of a feeling, but I can sense Maria's mind perceiving it right beside mine.

Our paired consciousness makes this soul tie more visible in this strange pocket of space, and strengthens the connection with every passing moment.

Purple threads are compressing within our bodies at an increasing rate too... There is no more energy to continue the momentum and expansion of our energy forms to alleviate this pressure, and deactivating them would create the opposite problem. Returning to my base human state right now would definitely compress my divine core into a True Purple instantly. The fact that my energy is so spread out in my Royal Sacred Body is the only reason I'm still standing here.

Reality is starting to crack around both of our bodies, but I can feel where it's leading to is not exactly where this soul tie is anchoring our minds.

Instead of naturally letting the gravity crack open this zone, I channel all of my available energy into my hands, and feel Maria do the same.

Veins of purple Divine threads start naturally forming and flowing through my body. It forces space around us to bend and become extremely malleable.

Royal Vibrations stack their intent to keep us in place, exerting our will on the environment not to take us yet; and Primordial Aura grows larger around our bodies every second our wills expand.

I watch my open fingers disappear through a tear in space before me as I take advantage of the fragile atmosphere. Maria's hands disappear next to mine; and I feel them on the other side of the invisible veil.

They are much closer to the soul tie we're using as an anchor.

I grab onto the fabric of the Dark Blue Zone and pull to the side, Maria pulls with everything she has in the opposite direction.

An enormous rift in space tears open before us. Its edges burst outward with purple cracks and waves of excess high-quality ether from the other side.

Its edges pull with an unfathomable force that feels like a magnet, both sides of the rift try with all their might to close back up the instant we open it. Shockwaves of foreign ether enter the Blue Zone, and purple cracks burst outward from all sides of the rift, filling the zone for trillions of kilometers.

The entire zone's structural integrity shakes, and we don't waste any time kicking off the bottom of the zone and thrusting ourselves through.

Both sides of the rift clamp closed behind us the instant we release the pressure.

Purple threads flood into my Royal Sacred Body, and begin tethering to my Royal Vibrations. Every last Dark Blue thread swirling in my Divine Core compacts in on itself and consolidates to allow my true core to finally wield only purple threads.

I have painful memories of forcefully opening up a rift in the past, when Maria and I traveled from the green zone into the Cyan Ravine. We both reflexively hold onto each other, preparing for the worst... However, it feels nothing like that nightmare at all.

It's like we're flowing up a warm river at a controlled pace.

The soul tie we're following is far brighter and heavier in our minds, and the process of following it upstream is calming and oddly simple...

In fact, looking down, I can see the Blue Zone still.

It is not visible in my normal perception sense, but if I shift my gaze, and peer through lesser space; as though I'm staring down into the Lower Realm, I can sense what is happening in the other zones.

It is far easier to sense places where my Soul Ties connect me to living beings, but there is still a faded image of the purple cracks in the emptied-out Dark Blue Zone all receding back to where our rift closed.

The only thing left in that zone now is the silver reactor, and a small amount of high-quality ether clouds that escaped the rift when we opened it.

Now that I sense it in the Blue Zone, my concentration shifts to Maria's point of view.

Her body is pulling in purple threads from the atmosphere in this warm stream even faster than me. For some reason, her gaze can pick up the intricacies of High-Quality Ether far better than mine. Her source resin is even capable of collecting it.

It's not necessarily digesting it or powering Maria's soul, but it is certainly leaving the air she travels through and being stored somewhere.

There is still extremely high-potency Celestial Energy that flows through these strange pathways between zones too.

It is absorbed into our bodies, like multiple Celestial Seas per second are entering our souls, but the most drastic change is still the transition to wielding purple threads.

It fills both of us with incredible energy.

I've never felt my divine threads becoming so sturdy and tight with power. Unlike all of the other breakthroughs of my divine core in the past, it feels like it's now finally able to tap into its true potential. Every other colored divine thread in the past has been a spread-out, diluted version of the true thing, and now I'm feeling it reach its densest form...

The thought of silver or golden threads comes to mind while I experience this shift, but neither feels the same as the raw divine energy coursing through my body. After seeing that reactor up close, I can tell it's something else entirely; what I'm feeling now is the peak of natural divine power.

A faint vibration on my right hand catches my attention, as Celia's Purple Ring starts to absorb threads from the divine river upward through which we float.

It makes me wonder even further how an artifact like this possibly made it down to the Lower Realm... and how it managed to compress its divine energy to exist in that plane without automatically breaking through to higher zones.

The fact that the divine pseudo-core in this ring was not even a true core makes me question things even further, and its inability to wield mana or ether is strange as well.

Every thought, theory, and question that passes through my mind all lead back to the soul tie we're following upward. He has all the answers... Ember set all of this into motion, but I'm beginning to question if he's doing this for my sake, or if he is using me in another one of his many lives to set up all the variables for a future plan.

More and more purple divine threads surge into our bodies, saturating our true cores further; until a hot white light glows in front of us in our path.

There is no other direction this river of purple threads can flow.

My intuition tells me it's leading us to the soul tie we're following, and there is no immediate danger in touching it. Through Maria's eyes, I can understand the high-quality ether commands infused in this glow. It has many features, but the main ones activating and swirling around in circles as we approach are automated teleportation arrays.

In a matter of seconds, the bright purple threads surrounding us are completely enveloped in this hot white light. It doesn't feel like anything has been altered, or any arrays have been activated, but I'm positive they have.

It's because we've moved through another shift in space.

The Dark Blue Zone is much further away, and the Soul Tie is here... in the same Zone as we are.

As the bright white light fades, there is not much difference in the environment around us. If I were looking with only my human eyes, everything would still just be a blanket of pure white.

However, as my Royal Vibrations spread outward, and my Primordial Aura seeps out of my skin following my vibrations like an echo, I start to see enormous trees overhead. Their trunks alone span tens of trillions of kilometers upward. One is easily the size of the entire Blue Zone.

They're so massive, scanning just one of them using both Maria and my mind starts to make my head hurt. We both turn around and try to scan outward more, but are forced to pull our auras back into our bodies after scanning just three of these enormous trees.

Each one is so full of high-quality ether, it sends out a hot glow that blinds us. The only way to see its outline is to track the edges of its soul using Vibrations and Primordial Aura. Even this is just scratching the surface, as if we look too deeply into the bark of these trees, Maria's eyes pick up far too many complex ether commands. It overstimulates both of our newly ascended minds.
