Many Knights, Commanders, and Generals are all deep within their own minds, experiencing the passage of time very differently than everyone else. Even Pluto, the Commoner Demon spying on the Demons that have come to take over the Demonic Realm, goes into a momentary state of concentration to rank up.

The only high-ranking system users in active communication channels are two administrators.

I feel Alveron's presence through the link first, but they do not reply. Bri is the first to make a sound.

"Jay... we're doing everything we can to aid them. But, whatever this armor is they're wearing... it's too strong. Even Fisher and Lydia cannot break through."

I smile back and share a visual of what I perceive through the advanced spectate feed.

Over 20 quadrillion kilometers of Primordial Forest flood into her mind, and Alveron's too. I can feel their processing speed take in the data at different rates.

Bri solely takes in the enormous scale and beauty. All of the glyphs and intricate details of how my High Royal Vibrations exist in this plane do not sink in. She does understand how vast the difference is, though.

Alveron, on the other hand—I feel this mind stop every task it's been working on in the background all throughout the galaxy and take a moment to focus on everything I'm showing it. Somehow, I feel like this creature is actually understanding large amounts of what I show it.

The glowing yellow slug replies to this display, "Incredible... this energy purity... I've seen texts describe such a sight here in the Lower Realm, but they called it the Old Era..."

Bri's response is different. "It's beautiful... but how will this help the commanders on the front lines? And the generals too, do you see the situation Arie, Abby, and Raven are in?"

At this moment, the full force of my Primordial Aura flooding down from the Upper Realm into every soul I'm connected to finally reaches these two Administrators.

It floods into every single link of loyalty, but those that are just normal citizens of worlds throughout the galaxy do not notice it much. Even the elites of 1st Class worlds only feel a small warm sensation invigorate their souls.

The majority of this aura pours into links of loyalty closest to me.

This becomes clear as both Bri and Alveron stop talking, frozen in shock and awe.

There are no changes done to their systems, and no shift in their natural vibrations or ether pools.

It is just an overwhelming feeling of warmth and power. Their Divine cores feel stronger, but there is no physical change.

All they know is, their significance in reality has just increased by an undeniably massive amount.

I nod and smile even wider. "I wouldn't worry about them. You've done the work to organize the troops and get them in the correct positions on the battlefield. I've granted them enough power to awaken their own strength and finish the job themselves."

–

The Celestial Grade Mind Palace works slightly differently for every user that activates it.

In the Green Zone, Ava walks through a mossy stone path manifested in her mind and sees many stacked stone tablets evenly arranged in a small village that looks very similar to her home world. There is the illusion of a green forest out of sight at the outer edges of this manifestation, and small houses with deeper core memories inside.

Whenever she touches the smooth stones, visions of her past flow in.

Raven's Mind Palace looks very different. All around her, there is an empty desert. It is the battlefield where she first fought against the rising emperor.

There are black filing cabinets scattered all over the desert with no clear pattern to them.

A few are very closely bunched together, while others are all alone. The ones she walks by now are glowing very brightly, as they are newer memories and closer to the heart.

Far away, deep in the desert, there are tall dark structures. She can see inside—very evenly stacked filing cabinets of her life before, when she worked in the Association on the human world. They are very orderly, but they are old and grey.

Arie's Mind Palace is very abstract.

It looks like he is in some kind of lush jungle, and there are black blurs of energy moving around just outside of his view wherever he turns.

However, he summons a white bow made of energy in his mind, then closes his eyes and constantly shoots it off in many directions. These manifestations of arrows hit the fast-moving targets wherever he looks without a single miss. Every hit leads to his old memories flooding back with vivid details.

In the Lower Realm, Lydia climbs a narrow icy mountain path.

Every drastic curve in the trail allows intense memories to flow in, while the individual snowflakes that fall from the sky and touch her skin let lighter, easier-to-digest memories hit her mind.

She controls this manifestation and can have the weather change to snow less or more, however she wishes.

Fisher sits out on a large boat in the middle of the ocean.

With a rod in hand, he pulls up fish from the sea one after another. The moment they hit the deck, they dissolve, and their corresponding memories flash in his mind.

There is an assortment of rods lined up against the railing of his ship, and instinctually he knows which one to cast to receive certain types of memories.

Pluto finds himself in the same dungeon boss room with his bonded dragon, the one that the Rising Emperor saved him from spending an eternity in. The walls, ceiling, and floor of this cave are covered in spiked rocks. He can use his earth summoning skill to move them around and control their size as he wishes. Whenever he walks over and touches any individual stone, memories of his past flow in as though he's reliving it in the present.

All the Knights of the Crimson Army that are on the battlefield all find themselves in their own unique worlds, some as simple as a library or even a large transmission tablet that easily sorts their memories, while others are as complicated as huge cities or vast forests.

Everyone admires the nature of this skill at first, as time passes so incredibly slow here compared to the outside.

They shift through important life events, old battles, and most importantly, the shared spectate memory that Bri shared before they went in; detailing how the Rising Emperor used this skill when it was still in its Divine Grade state to trigger his Rank Up and defeat a family head.

They compare the Rising Emperor's changes before and after and relive the moments of battle they've just experienced, and do not see how doing the same will allow them to beat their enemies with these strange Glyphs for armor, and Primordial Aura around their weapons that will certainly kill them on the spot if hit once.

However, if they can rank up, the common thoughts here are that a stronger battle form will give them an edge to be able to survive longer and find a way to win with a newly upgraded pair of eyes.

Each of them finds a quiet place to sit, whether that's on a flat icy cliff, in a warm pile of sand, or beneath a large jungle leaf, they all close their eyes and press [Rank Up] on their internal status screens.

Within these Mind Palaces, their consciousness goes completely white, sinking even deeper into the cores of their minds.

They cannot even wake up to sense the manifestation of memories around them. The outside world is much further away...

Hours pass for some, as their minds, souls, and systems are using copious amounts of energy to unpack their raw talent and fighting styles to create a new battle form for every one of them based on their extensive pasts and potential futures connected to the system.

In the very middle of this process, an outside force flows into their minds.

It is invisible and has no physical effect on the mana manifestations or ether flowing through these Celestial Grade Mind Palaces. However, the fact that these are all made up inside their heads means it does reveal itself in the physical form that many perceive it .

Liquid glass, with areas that look like they are reflecting mirrors of their surroundings, flows through the air.

In some palaces, it's slower, flowing like streams down mountains or falling from the sky like rain or fog, but it all ends up in the same place.

This potent Primordial Aura all pools in the core consciousness of each mind and makes the receiver have a far different Rank Up experience than they were expecting.

In the outside Lower Realm and Green Zone, it all takes place in fractions of a second.

Every one of these frontline forces awakens out of their momentary break from reality, and alongside the bright flashes of white rank up light, an invisible aura begins to flood out from their chests.
