I took some deep breaths. "I'll just turn on the ventilation and light and then get those levels, pick that perk and then I'm done for today."

"Maybe done for tomorrow, too?" Liz said. "We got those rations, we even looted a portable induction plate. Stephen can cook up some stew. Or soup. We looted some ingredients. You can take a day off."

I went towards the staff area that housed the electrics. "I… I'm not sure I can." I left before she could nail me down on that.

With the electronics up and running I went to the sanctified room.

Lucy appeared, lounging on the bed. They had ditched the dominatrix outfit for a latex dress, with knee-high boots.

"You know, Eve. I think your friends are right. You should relax a bit more."

I tore my eyes away. "If this is an attempt at seduction, it is the bluntest I've ever seen. And not working."

"I'm appalled you'd think so poorly of me. No. Stephen ruined suits for me. Imagine a banker who basically robs people for everything they own, coming here, in a suit, seeking atonement in the only way his poisoned brain can conceive, through submission to those he considers lesser."

"You are doing a lot of extrapolation, from very little data, Lucy. Just because Stephen said he knew the place?"

"Can't help myself. Now I don't want to wear a suit in here."

I accepted the first kill Tasks and leveled all the way up to 16.

I opened my perk choices and closed them again. Lucy moved over as I laid down on the bed next to them, staring at the ceiling.

"I hate the Blessing."

"Me, too, kitten. Me, too."

A moment later Lucy's hand found mine, and I didn't pull back. I examined my perk choices while holding a devil's hand.

[Embodiment - Ability

Effect: While active Experience gained from combat is converted into Mastery Experience for the currently active shape.

Upon achieving Mastery gain the following effect:

If the shape is innate: +2 to all Attributes in that shape.

If the shape is not innate: Shape becomes innate.

-

Exemplar Leader - Ability

Effect: While active you gain no Experience from combat. Nearby party members and allied creatures gain 50% increased Experience and any Experience you would receive.

-

Hunter's Forfeit - Spell

Range: Line of Sight

Effect: Marks one target. While active, gain the following benefits:

Attacks pierce target's resistances

Resistance against target's attacks

Resistance against target's abilities

Awareness of target's position

Target grants no experience.

Cost: 5 Mana

Cooldown: 10 minutes

Duration: 60 minutes]

"Before you pass out. Day 3: There were far too many ways I could have fucked you over today. So, I'll stick to the highlights. Obviously sabotaged your return to the hyenas, so you'd have arrived just in time to witness the effects of their last meal. Alternatively just egged you on while you were squeezing the life out of that kobold. Maybe mad-with-rage Eve isn't all that bad."

"That's a hell of a monologue to pull while holding someone's hand."

"Promised to you I'd do this."
