And as the last Spectre slips into the horrifying chest-mouth, I pull the trigger, pause, drop the hammer, and shout, “Fire!”

Our guns roar in thunderous salute as the Demon comes to life, cordially greeting the newborn monster with nine bullets moving at the speed of sound. Rocked by the impact, Pudge reels in place as seven, Ichor-spurting craters form across its abdomen, the majority of shots including my own aimed at its broad belly. As Pudge straightens up, we see its two ruined eyes courtesy of Ravil and Siyar, and the battlefield falls silent as Imperial and Defiled alike struggle to come to terms with what we just witnessed.

Is it dead? A living creature would be dead, but Demons aren’t exactly living, so...?

Opening its chest-mouth wide, Pudge reveals a reddish-pink gullet and lets loose with a bestial roar of fury, confirming my suspicion that it is indeed, not dead. To my great dismay, its sightless eyes track me as I move back into line with my soldiers, somehow still able to perceive my location despite its lack of vision. Chalking it up to another unsolved mystery, I debate reloading for a second shot when Pudge’s scream is cut short by a blinding flash of light followed by a deafening clap of thunder.

Wooo, Lord of Thunder Lei Gong!

My vision clears and high spirits give way to consternation as Pudge stands unscathed behind a shimmering shield of water, one which covers its entire hefty frame. A second bolt of lightning crashes into the Demon, but again, the shield stops it cold. Reacting to an unseen attack, Lei Gong dodges aside as something smashes into the ground a few meters behind him, raising a furrow of mud and dirt before knocking three Death Corps Soldiers off their feet. A water bullet maybe? Luckily, Pudge is tall and the projectile was angled downwards, else those Death Corps soldiers wouldn’t have escaped with just a few scrapes and bruises.

The Defiled stomp and cheer in the background, content to stand and watch their Transcendent clean up, so I signal my soldiers to do the same. It makes sense, because if Lei Gong really wanted to go all out, he could easily wipe out a good portion of the Defiled on his own, and the same could be said of Pudge. Hell, the fat fucker could lie on the grass and roll over my retinue and we’d probably be helpless to stop it.

No longer playing around, Lei Gong unleashes a storm of lightning. When the light show dies down and my vision returns, I find the battle in full swing as Pudge chases Lei Gong, throwing wide, predictable punches which most people would be hard pressed to avoid, given its incredible speed and tremendous reach. That said, the Lord of Thunder can hardly be counted as ‘most people’, nor can Tenjin and Tursinai who take the field. Each falls into their respective roles with ease, as if this were the umpteenth time they'd fought side by side, rather than their first time ever. Lei Gong holds Pudge’s attention with dazzling blasts of lightning, while Tursinai impedes its movements by tangling its legs, a dangerous game of push and pull which could end in disaster. Too much slack and the Pudge roams freely, but not enough a single yank could pull her into the Demon’s crushing embrace. Meanwhile, Tenjin nips at its heels, unleashing a storm of mundane throwing knives which puncture soggy flesh, but doing little damage otherwise.

The three remaining Experts on the field each pick a partner and stick close by, their spears held at the ready to help defend should their partner require it. Wondering why Jochi, Argat, and Daxian don’t just rush in and nail a foot down or something, my unspoken question is soon answered by the Demon itself. Weary of chasing Lei Gong, the Demon’s water shield collapses and the liquid adheres to its fists, forming six rippling tendrils which lash out independently at its foes. The Imperial Experts back away to avoid its reach, though if they’d been any closer, then they undoubtedly would’ve been caught. Freed from Tursinai’s ensnaring chain, the Demon charges at Lei Gong to end the incessant bolts of lightning, but the Lord of Thunder is not so easily caught. Hurling his cane like a javelin, the Spiritual Weapon smashes into an empty eye-socket and pierces clean through Pudge’s head. Staggered but not downed, its tendrils go wild but Daxian is in place to defend, his spear fending off multiple attacks while Lei Gong gathers his Chi and unleashes the most powerful strike yet. Night turns to day as an orb of lightning emerges from Lei Gong’s cane, covering Pudge’s face in an explosion of electrical discharge. A rapid-fire series of thunderclaps deafens my ears and shakes me to the bones, but right before the world fades back to dark, I see Tenjin sailing through the air with his blazing twin daggers aimed at Pudge’s wide, unprotected back.

Wishing I had some way to protect my vision, I set to repairing my ruptured eardrums the old fashioned way while blinking repeatedly, hoping to see or hear something to tell me what’s going on. Long seconds pass before my eyesight returns, and once it does I wish it hadn’t. Though its face is a blackened mess and its back spurting Ichor, Pudge continues its rampage against the Imperial Elites. Tursinai’s weapon dangles in its fist while the wielder herself kneels by her fallen hubby, laying in an indent in the dirt where he’d been slammed. As I watch in horror, a watery tendril slips past Jochi’s guard to strike his leg and his bones crumple like tissue upon impact. A follow up strike misses as Argat drags his screaming brother away from battle, paying no heed to pain he’s causing in order to save a life.

Only Lei Gong and Daxian remain on the battlefield, and neither one looks in good condition. Planting Unity in the dirt, I draw Peace and launch it without thinking, hoping to get lucky and kill in a single blow, but the Honed blade sinks into Pudge’s skull with almost no effect. Reminded of my existence, it turns those empty sockets towards me, an almost comical sight with my sword stuck through its skull and Lei Gong’s cane in its eye. Raising a meaty arm, Pudge extends a razor-tipped finger and reforms its shield, the water rippling briefly before firing out. My throat tightens as my vision goes dark, and a metallic crash sounds out, but not the chime of a bell or the ring of a sword, more of a crumpled bang you’d expect from driving a car into a solid stone wall. Taking a step back out of reflex, a brigandine chest-piece comes into focus, the word ‘Virtuous’ neatly engraved in the centre.

Holy shit, did Daxian just leap in front of me to take a water bullet?

Peering around my prickly would-be hero, I’m relieved to see yet another person standing in front of Daxian, my hero’s daddy dripping wet from head to toe in his ragged shirt and all the sexier for it. With a throaty growl which echoes over the silent battlefield, GangShu scowls at his ruined clothes and declares, “This one is under my protection, Demon. I’ve been ordered to keep to the Treaty to not escalate the situation, so best you fuck off now.”

Sightless eyes narrowed in rage, Pudge advances a single, step, but GangShu suddenly appears in front of the Demon, standing right up against the shimmering shield of water. “Seems you don’t understand Common, so let’s try a different language.”

GangShu is neither particularly tall nor wide, a lithe man who is broad of shoulder and slim of waist, with a shocking amount of body hair beneath his torn shirt. Arms crossed as he stands in Pudge’s path, he looks like a hairy, petulant child trying to bar the path of a massive adult. As the Demon winds up to punch, I can’t help but wince in anticipation. Even if he’s an Ancestral Beast, the laws of physics still apply, which means –

Jack shit, it seems.

A full-on haymaker hammers home into GangShu’s shoulder and the Ancestral Beast barely shifts, though the wind from the attack is enough to send clumps of wet dirt flying. Rather than a meaty thunk, Pudge’s fist emits a crumpled bang and implodes on impact, the same sound I heard earlier while Daxian was blocking my vision.

So GangShu didn’t put up any fancy Chi shields and just blocked the water bullet with his bare body. Cool. Cool, cool, cool.

Retracting its broken fist, Pudge raises its other arm and lands another haymaker to the same effect. Metallic crumple, broken flesh, Ancestral Beast standing in place. Still unwilling to give up, the Demon leans forward as if intending to swallow GangShu whole, but with a wave of his hand, he sends Pudge flying back to crash into the clustered ranks of Defiled, water shield and all. Rolling to its feet, its shield melts away and gushes out to dissolve the Defiled who’d been pulped by its passing. Before long, the liquefied remains flow back into Pudge’s gullet, though its injuries show no sign of recovering.

Well, that’s one thing to be grateful for. It’s strong, fast, durable, has a shield, multiple whips, and speedy bullets, but at least it doesn’t Heal too quickly.

Ripping Lei Gong’s cane, Tenjin’s daggers, and my sword out of its flesh, Pudge screeches one last time before marching west, reaching decent speeds with its squelching, ponderous stride. Heart pounding and knees weak even though all I did was stand around, my mind blanks as GangShu flashes his charming smile and says, “Well, my part’s done here. I’ll leave the cleanup to you.” Before I can ask him to clarify, the forgotten Defiled horde scream their battle cries and charge across the shrunken pond and trickling river, unfazed by the herculean battle we all just witnessed. Screaming back to calm my nerves, I take up Unity in its axe form and charge into the fray, happy to abandon all thought and kill some Defiled.

If that’s what top tier fights are like, then maybe I’m better off not getting stronger...

Chapter Meme
