Once back on shore, Guard Leader brings Mama Bun and Blackjack away while I lead Taduk to his yurt where he can study his rock in relative safety. Defying the natural laws of physics, the monk easily lifts a massive metal cauldron with one hand and places it atop his head, the lidded, water-filled container keeping the octopus safe from roosequins and other predators. I would’ve let it sink to the sea floor but the monk was adamant I not let it come to harm before it wakes. Placing the cauldron outside Taduk’s yurt, the monk sits down and remains visible while chanting his prayers, like a starving fatty beseeching Heaven to make his meal cook faster.

I can’t wrap my mind around the monk’s logic. He won’t let an unconscious octopus come to harm but thinks I should give up the war effort and go back to his monastery, doing nothing while tens of millions of Defiled slaughter their way across the Empire. Honestly, his whole religion feels a little… selfish. Isolate yourself so you can improve yourself and leave this world and everything in it behind. It’s not entirely fair or accurate, but that’s how it feels, like he doesn’t care about anything besides escaping this hell-hole of a world. Don’t get me wrong, Nirvana sounds nice and all, but I’m not quite ready to give up on this life. Who knows what I’ll re-roll into and things are finally getting better around here, so I’d prefer to fix things in this life before moving on. While I might never see the change I so desire, hopefully my actions get the ball rolling. Schools and soup-kitchens were a good first step, but this public meeting with the Legate is the perfect opportunity to share my vision of equality and education for all with the Empire at large. It might turn me into a laughing stock but I don’t care and more importantly, Akanai approves.

Yuzhen, not so much, but luckily, my crush on her ended a long time ago. Her father was a dreamer, a man who envisioned a better future for all, so why doesn’t she share those same dreams?

“Rain my boy.” Interrupting my musings, Taduk glances around his yurt and blinks in confusion. “When did we get off the skiff? Where’s the creature?” Eyes wide in panic, he leaps to his feet and grabs my shoulder, panting as he asks, “Is it dead? You didn’t free it, did you?”

“No Teacher.” Thank you Guan Suo and monk. “It’s outside in a cauldron.”

“No, no, NO!” Racing out the door, Taduk runs headlong at the cauldron and kicks it over, spilling the octopus out onto the dirt and water all over the monk. “Don’t eat it!” Taduk shrieks, falling to his knees and using his body to shield the octopus. Stifling my laughter, I watch as my hare-brained teacher’s cheeks take on a sheen of brilliant scarlet once realization sinks in. Thoroughly embarrassed by his panicked overreaction, Taduk uprights the cauldron and puts the octopus back in while sheepishly ignoring the soggy monk’s glare. “Ahem. Sorry about that. My mistake. If you ever need your… err… anything regrown, all you need to do is ask. I’ll have it done quick as can be.” Turning his petulant glare towards me, Taduk hisses, “Don’t keep things you aren’t going to eat in a cauldron.”

“Yes Teacher,” I reply, nodding as if his words were sage advice. “Won’t happen again Teacher.”

Mussing my hair, he drags me over to the cauldron and points inside. “I’m going to Heal and wake it,” he declares, ignoring the monk’s death stare. “You do your Aura thing and make nice.”

But… I don’t want an octopus pet… It’s slimy and gross. “Okay, but how about we fill it with water first? It’ll be easier to make nice if it can breathe.” Dispatching the first two soldiers I see to collect water, I deliberately position myself between the monk and Taduk, worried the large, angry ascetic might lose his head. “So Teacher, why am I making nice with the octopus?”

“Right, right.” Running back inside, he emerges with his washbowl and holds it up for me to see, the algae covered rock sitting neatly in the middle and covered in water. “Because of this.” Glancing at the sky, he moves himself out of the way so the rock is in direct sunlight, holding it up in outstretched arms like he’s presenting a gift to the Heavens.

Did he have a stroke or something? “Sorry Teacher, but your student is slow and requires more explanation.”

“Because it’s Spiritual Algae!”

Taduk’s toothy smile hits me like a hammer in the gut, so dazzling and genuine like a child’s delight. I guess that’s where Lin gets her charm from. Infected by his good cheer, I hesitate to continue in case I ruin his good mood, but curiosity wins out over caution. “Um… but isn’t that a bad thing? One speck of Spiritual Algae is kind of… well… worthless.”

“Indeed it is my boy,” Taduk replies, losing none of his good cheer, “but we don’t have a mere speck, we have a whole stone covered in Spiritual Algae!”

“What? That’s impossible!”

“That’s what I thought too, but it’s true.” Lowering the washbasin to peer at his prize, Taduk giggles and stamps his feet in delight, a behaviour not unlike Mama Bun’s when she gets a treat. “I checked and double checked it, every last speck of algae on here has a core, but that’s not all.” Carefully lifting the rock aside, he points out a smooth, blank patch on the stone, devoid of all algae. “See that? The octopus has been feeding on the algae and letting it grow back to form more algae. Unless the creature waits for thousands of years between each nibble, then it stands to reason that when this Spiritual Algae reproduces, it remains capable of absorbing the Energy of the Heavens! It doesn’t seem like much, but there are millions of Spiritual Plants right here on this rock. If we can study how it reproduces, then we might be able to apply that to other strains of plants and cultivate an entire garden full of miraculous, life saving medicinal herbs! Even if we can’t, we could grow more algae and your stupid rabbits won’t eat any more of my precious plants! What a glorious find.”

Hm… lots of if’s and might’s there, but I don’t want to ruin it for him. “That’s amazing and all, but why do I have to make friends with the octopus?”

Blinking in confusion, it takes Taduk a moment to get his mind back on track. “Isn’t it obvious? We must see and study how it nurtures the stone. We saw it bring the stone up to the surface for sunlight during the day, but it’s possible it also rests by a source of Heavenly Energy too. If that’s the case, if we find the creature’s home, we’ll likely find your missing droplet too.”

“Ah okay. Gotcha.” Repressing the urge to sigh, I peer into the cauldron at my newest pet. God it’s ugly. What should I name it? Otto? No, that doesn’t make sense in Common. Calamari? Maybe, but then I’ll always treat him as an emergency food source. Floppy Sea Spider? Too creepy and ‘Floppy’ is overtly sexual.

Ah. I’ve got it.

As Taduk Heals the octopus, I reach out with my loving Aura to greet my newest friend, smiling as he blinks and takes in the world around him.

Hello Sir Inks-a-lot, or Inky for short. Welcome to the family.

Rocketing out of the cauldron, the creature flings itself onto my face and smothers me in darkness, slime, and stench. Screaming in muffled terror, I fall to the ground and flail about, gagging as I fail to dislodge my tentacled assailant, its strong suctioned arms threatening to tear my skin and wrench my head off.

As suddenly as it began, the attack comes to an end as the octopus falls limp. Ripping the tentacles off my face with a loud pop, my eyes tear up at the pain as I scramble back from the unconscious creature. Gasping for air, I glance around and see my soldiers standing around and hiding their smiles as Taduk titters with laughter and checks on the octopus. “Rain my boy,” he says, chortling as he puts the octopus back in the cauldron. “Mirror… suction marks… HA!”

Running my hand over my face, I wince in pain and shame as I feel the large bumps neatly scattered across my skin, wondering if Healing will make the swelling go down. If not, I might have to go back to plan A and drink a pot of diarrhea tea.

I refuse to make my debut with a face full of tentacle hickies...

Chapter Meme
