Before I can respond, it's as if a serious switch has been turned on and the air pressure in the battlefield changes...

Rodrigo's mana has almost fully restored itself now after that unexpected event and a golden glow shimmers in his eyes.

"You got lucky, but lost your chance. It doesn't matter. Whatever that was, no fancy enchanted items will save you from this. I didn't want to use this, but it's my only hope at taking both of you out before the time is up."

The golden Soul Energy around his neck begins to expand and his eyes glow golden as the power spreads over his whole body and he lunges forward at me.

His eyes dart back and forth from me to Ember, already calculating his next move to end the battle here and now.

I smile and let dark red tendrils of energy flood out from my core to cover my arms and block his incoming golden shimmering punch.

The impact of his fist on my forearm sends both of our Soul Energies flying through the air in an explosive collision.

I'm thoroughly surprised by the power of his blow.

Even when using a fairly dense level of Soul Energy, I'm thrown backward through the air.

However, so is he at about the same speed. Both of our faces show expressions of mild shock.

I assumed his power would be similar to the 6th or 5th ranked Dark Guards.

However, there are small fragments of golden light left behind in my Soul Energy even 30 meters away after being blown back from that blast. It eats away at my Qi and mana stores, but there isn't much residue left on me so I overpower it quickly.

The same goes for Rodrigo, dark red Soul Energy is left behind in his aura after he's hit by the blast, and even though it's strong, the overwhelming amount of golden energy that floods out from him manages to disintegrate the residue I left behind.

If I were to gauge his strength now just based on our first exchange of punches, his Soul Energy is similar to the 2nd Ranked Dark Guard. Maybe even stronger...

We both look down at the contact points in awe at the other's strength, then a final yell comes from on top of the hill watching over the battle.

"That's it. Time is up! The winners by timeout are Jay and Ember! No more fighting you three, the spar is over!"
