Heavy Advanced Primordial Aura is separated into unrecognizable parts, and obliterated by waves of red ethereal fire and deep black corruption. Enough high-quality ether to fill the purple zone multiple times over powers the glyphs that hold this energy in reality long enough for me to completely suppress and overwhelm it.

All of the orange and blue energy that flows through my metallic origin body's pathways is broken down and paired with the demonic essence that stores fragments of this Demon's will.

Finally, Marcellus Imperial is killed.

All of the final glitching bits of matter finally submit and fall into the depths of my soul.

It rids the stained purple essence from my sacred body, and pure white light bursts out.

My High Royal Vibrations and Advanced Primordial Aura both become so much stronger that I can feel the entire Upper Realm construct, and the Lower Realm below, with only my own senses alone. There is an invisible aura that floods through the now malleable divisions between zones, and I can see everything. The separate feeds that give me imagery from all of my links of loyalty are far more limited compared to the pure invisible aura that floods through all life in the galaxy below me.

It is on the verge of breaking through to something even greater, but I have no way to understand what it is...

I felt this way when I was a High Noble stepping into the realm of Royals. Yet, this sensation does not only feel like it is trying to evolve my Vibrations.

It is tethered to my Advanced Primordial Aura. Without upgrading one, the other will not break through either.

Yet, it is not that simple either.

If it was... I'm sure Marcellus would have broken through himself with the level of power he had access to for so long.

I can feel this strange ceiling in my instincts pulling at my glyphs, my soul energy core full of refined high-quality ether, my fully saturated true purple core, and even the Royal Demon's Core holding millions of noble and royal demons' will within.

There are quintillions of notifications streaming through my mind at this time as well.

My system has finally stopped glitching and fully registered the kill. I watch my total linked worlds rise to over 200 billion. This Demon's soul bond to the lower realm still held tens of billions of dead worlds near the edges of the galaxy, and also abandoned origin worlds closer to the source.

I even watch a notification pop up before my eyes, hovering over my soul sword.

[Primordial Emperor's Soul Sword has Reached Lvl. 8!]

It shatters a layer of darkness deep within the crimson blade's core. It's where I saw golden glyphs disappear to when it first awakened. The blade's hunger grows stronger, but it floods outward with waves of red mist, showing its satisfaction for all of the pure energy it devours.

Despite leveling up once, I can feel it is trying to level up again while it has the chance.

All of the shattered glyphs from the white orb, soul dagger mass dispersed in the blast, and the absurd amount of refined high-quality ether in the atmosphere pour into it as well.

At full power, Maria and I are absorbing as much raw energy as we can into our ether pools, but there is still far too much to take in all at once. I can see her own notifications echoing on the surface of her mind, watching the source resin inside her sword absorb it as a separate entity as well.

Even the soul armor, deep down on our physical bodies, steady streams of high-quality ether pour into them and evolve them with us as we grow exponentially every passing moment.

In the same instance, all of the fragmented and shattered memories of the past that I was trying to make sense of during the battle, while they were glitching in and out of my mind, they all piece together in perfect order.

There are large gaps in time, that were only dark voids before, that come flowing in.

The first gap filled is the second half of that memory where Marcellus witnessed the Overseer fighting with Ember in a past life.

I can see the strange void they all float in perfectly clear.

There is a bending layer of space below Marcellus, and it reflects white or black depending on what angle it's perceived at.

He mostly stares up at the sky, as the soul bond between the current silver-cored Demon and his dragon is being viciously melted away.

The Overseer's glyphs all shine extremely bright, and they hold control of reality around it. There are waves of bent space everywhere he moves, and each small release of energy looks like it's as strong as the explosion of that white orb I just witnessed in the Purple Zone.

Yet, these are not random, they are meticulous attacks to try and fend off the dragon that is burning away both of their lifeforces.

Marcellus watches until the invisible tie actually severs.

I have an identical soul tie to this, and know that if this were to happen to me right now, it would mean instant death. I've killed many dragon and demon pairs before, and know the intricacies of this bond very well. There is no way to safely sever it without both parties dying in the process. I can feel this truth deep within my soul, even watching it happen to someone else.

Yet, when it breaks, there are two explosions that fill this entire void with silver, white, and purple light.

The Demon grabs hold of space around it, and I watch all of the glyphs on the outside of its body pulse outward to imprint onto the space itself.

Ember, on the other hand, spends his last few moments laughing.

He does not even try to hold onto life. There is only a satisfied grin that stays on his face while I watch the enormous white and red dragon explode into an unrecognizable burst of light.

There is an extremely bright flash of silver and gold in his chest, but the flash collapses in on itself and disappears before the rest of his pure Advanced Primordial Aura and mana-based ether body disperses into the air.

Marcellus leaves before any more of the aftermath strikes.

This time, on the way out, I can feel how he moved through space so easily, following the soul tie upward.

It instinctively makes me look back toward the cracked tree stump in the center of the Purple Zone. With this knowledge, it feels like I could do exactly the same if I tried...

Though, focusing my mind on that spot fills in countless more holes in the fractured memories I've already absorbed. It even unseals many of the memories I absorbed from the outer guards and first bloods.

The many conversations that Marcellus and Ember had during their battle finally make sense, when he was giving Maria and me time to retrieve our legacy key. I start to watch the many battles that they have had before in this very spot. Today's outcome truly was an outlier.
