I shook off the cold before glancing around. No more insects were coming towards me anymore, so I walked around for a few minutes and absorbed the eldritch around me. At least that’s what I thought they were. I couldn’t be certain if these were the same things after all.

At that moment, an odd sense of familiarity returned. My HUD didn’t return, but I did receive notifications.

Data upload present. Current total level growth: 28. Upload speed: 1 attribute point per minute.

So the data worked like a phone’s data line. You could still get the benefits, it just took a long time. I guess that’s why Schema didn’t bother with the HUD. My health and stamina bars where only useful if they were up to date. Otherwise, they were useless.

My armor on the other hand rippled across me with delight. Maybe here there was more ambient mana in the creatures, letting it get more of its fill. I grew horns from my back before retracting them. Controlling my armor was easier here compared with Schema’s universe. Ascendant mana was more powerful as well, though harder to control.

The way the air smelled here was different as well. It was sweeter, like it made me wild and want to just go and tear into something. Althea seemed to be like that as well. Her firing rate of her rifle was far greater than in the other world. At the same time, she didn’t seem as tame now. She was more like when we first met, someone who desperately wanted control.

At least, I don’t know. It felt that way. She flew in circles around me, keeping her distance but keeping lookout as well. All around us, there were mountains, like this was a spire valley. That’s what I named it then, Spire Valley. It seemed fitting.

On top of one of the mountains, several things moved in the distance. They seemed like they were feeding on something. There were no signs of movement or life on the other mountains, so I pointed and shouted,

“Come Althea. Let’s go find this Rift Keeper.”

She glided towards the mountain before I slammed my feet against the gray ground. It was harder than dirt on Earth. Instead of giving like a thick mush, it held firm against my steps. It let me sprint even when the engine of my ascendant mana roared.

We passed through another field or two of the spires, each of them resulting in subsequent slaughters. Nothing about these creatures was difficult to deal with. They were dungeon monsters, through and through. It didn’t matter to me if we had Schema’s help or not. If I retained my enhanced body, I could handle beings like these with ease.

The mountains in the distance closed in after the third field. Along the mountains were blue, winding trails. As I closed into these glowing paths, I found blue magma. Unlike normal magma, this blue gunk froze everything near it. All around the exposed bits of magma, baby centipedes were collected. They nibbled at the blue, some of the smaller ones a deep red.

As I saw bigger and bigger ones, they grew whiter in shade. This was how they gained their icy abilities. They feasted on the cold when they were young then ate the spire drinking bugs. It was a weird ecosystem, but it wasn’t so outlandish that I couldn’t comprehend it.

That was my impression of the eldritch world so far. It wasn’t that the world was malignant or evil, the world was just different. It was a brutal, savage place, but it wasn’t something humanity couldn’t master. I hadn’t seen much of it so far though.

Before starting the climb, I shut oppression down. Althea flew down towards me before we had a quick lunch. We both carried packs on our backs, mine much smaller than hers. She pulled out the steel legion’s rations and water. She poured the water on the dried husks, revitalizing them. As the food grew, the meal heated up as well. By the time it reformed, it smelled pretty good, kind of like a microwave dinner.

I finished eating before she started. From my satchel, I pulled out one of Torix’s rations. I lifted it over my face and dropped it towards my armor. My armor split, letting the packet burst against my face. It soaked into my skin, a sort of intravenous cocktail. Weird, I know, but I could eat much faster this way.

As Althea ate, I practiced telekinesis. I fine-tuned my control by juggling three rocks nearby. Whenever I picked something up, I had to handle whatever weight I lifted. When working with these tiny stones, I could afford to use the fingers in my hands and muscles. When working with something larger, that just wasn't the case.

I had to make sure I lifted using my legs or back. Otherwise, I would try to lift a boulder with my pinky finger one day. My bones would snap like twigs. Er, or bend like metal bars. I didn't really know what I was made of anymore.

Deep in my focus, Althea ate for a few minutes before she spoke,

“This is what a fringe world looks like.”

I frowned, “Well that’s disappointing. I imagined they would look a lot worse.”

She sighed, “Of course you would.” She glanced around, “It’s hell here.”

I rolled my eyes, “You can’t get out of hell. This is hell if you’re near the bottom of the food chain. All you have to do is move yourself to the top of it. Then, it’s not so bad.”

She nodded, “Yeah. You’re probably right. When I was kid, monsters like that gave me nightmares. I’d shake so hard.”

I walked over and sat on a stone, leaning towards her,

“When did you get taken from your homeworld?”

“When I was about…4-5. I was young. I didn’t know my parents, but I can sort of piece things together from spare memories here or there.”

“You probably aren’t even that scared anymore.”

“Yeah…It’s so…I don’t know. Weird?”

I leaned onto one hand, letting the other arm relax, “What do you mean?”

“It’s just…The thought of coming here was terrifying. Now that I’m back, it’s almost like I’m in a home I never knew I had. I feel better here than over there.”

I glanced at my relaxed hand, pulling the armor off my face,

“Hmmm…It is weird, because I do too.” I glanced up at her, “It’s like I was made to be here.”

She laughed a sardonic sort of laugh. It wasn’t out of happiness. It was out of spite.

“Yeah, I actually was made to be here.”

I nodded my head, “Yeah, I never could gather what the lab was like, or what they did to you there.” I raised my palms to her, “Not that that’s a problem or anything. You don’t have to tell me shit.”

She waved a hand towards me, “No, no. It’s not that big a deal. We’re on a life or death mission. Telling you some of that stuff isn’t a big deal.” She finished her meal before setting the tray to her side. She glanced off towards the fields of metallic spires below us.

“I...I wasn’t the only one there. There was a bunch of us. What they did exactly, I don’t know. They wouldn’t let us look into lab rooms or anything during the experiments. They would knock us out before performing the experiments as well. No point in keeping us awake and having us squirm after all.”

She bit her lip,

“That’s the thing. It’s not what happened to me that bothered about it. It was watching what happened to other people. I had a friend called Sally. We would slide notes to each other when we walked past each other. I looked forward to those notes. I treasured them. They meant the world to me.”

She glanced back at me, “I watched Sally turn inside out and eat two of the scientists.”

I glanced down, sighing. I glanced back up, but Althea wasn’t crying. Her voice was hard as steel,

“They fumigated the room with sedatives. When they finally got Sally back together, she smiled through the glass at me. The look in her eyes wasn’t right. She patted her stomach in there, and smiled like a pleased child. The voice, the monster in her head. She let it take over.”

Althea seethed, “I’m never letting that happen to me. Never. When you tore my armor off and ruined the sedatives, I thought I was gone. I didn’t even care if I died. All I wanted was to stay normal…”

She glanced down and took a deep breath, she looked back up at me,

“I heard about the voice in your head from Torix. He laughed when he mentioned it, but my blood ran cold when I heard that. Don’t let it take control, Daniel. If you ever let go for too long, you may never be able to pull it back.”

I grinned, “Don’t worry. I already have it under control. It isn’t taking me over anytime soon.”

She blinked a few times. She reached out a hand, but she stopped the limb halfway through the gesture. She pressed her hands into a fist,

“I think it already has you.”

I raised a hand, my fist being level with my face. I glanced at it,

“See, that’s the difference between me and you. You see someone stab someone with a knife, and you think the knife is evil. Me?”

The mana raged from my palm,

“I see a tool, only it’s misused. Whoever wielded the tool is evil. The tool itself is neutral. This armor, all the stuff that comes with it, I choose how I wield it. I can either surrender, or I can conquer.”

I tapped a finger against my chest, “In the end, I choose if this is a gift or a curse. I choose, no one else does.” I grinned, “You get to choose too. Tell me Althea, is being an immortal shapeshifter a gift or a curse?”

She glanced up at the red sky, grinning despite what she said earlier,

“I’ll choose to make it a gift.”

I grinned before standing up. I reached out a hand,

“Now let’s go kick some ass.”

She grabbed my hand and stood up. I turned towards the mountain and ebbed the ascendant mana into my runes. I shot forwards, Althea leaping into the air behind me. With her ability, she was far faster than I. Learning to fly would be quite useful, in more ways than one.

I’d save that for later. I tore up the hill, tearing out clumps of the ground while Althea soared above. Once we ascended higher, the air thinned and cooled. A gray ice appeared as well, the snow smelling like lemons. The ground turned hard, like a dense stone. It didn’t give underfoot, holding up against the weight of my heels.

With firm footing, Althea and I reached towards the apex of the mountain with the white spire atop it. As we reached it, several things floated around the mountain top. They were icy jellyfish but with a few differences. Around the edge of its bell head, innumerable spines jutted from the inside. The mouth was like an iron maiden’s inside.

The tentacles stretched out from the middle of a jellyfish’s cap. The little limbs whirled around beneath it, bulbous orbs covering the tentacles. When a limb banged against a rock, one of those swollen spheres of liquid busted. Ice crawled along the rock.

As I stared at the spectacle, no message appeared. I forgot Schema wasn’t here to help with analysis. From what I could tell though, avoid the tentacles and teeth. Pretty basic. Several of them floated towards us, but Althea nailed them with several spikes. Her fire rate improved, bolting four of the five monsters against the wall before they even reached me.

Once it neared me, the translucent body of the monster glowed bright before a wave of sound shot towards me. The sonic wave trembled the air, like a cannon of sound. The wave past by me, busting my eardrums before a shotgun blast of ice shards imbedded into my armor. The tentacles whipped towards me. I weaved between them, slicing at them with telekinetic fields at the ends of my fists.

They sliced through, sending the tentacles falling to the ground. As the monster tried passing by, I reached out and grasped it with telekinesis. Making sure the weight of the pull rested on my back, I lifted up which forced the creature downwards.

Being as light as it was, the force of my throw sent it tumbling towards the ground. As it landed, the monster splat. What they had in offensive potential, they lacked in defense. I turned towards the others on the wall, and they were covered in harpoons.

I grinned, “How are you firing so many bolts?”

“I made some earlier so that I could use them now.”

I slammed my hands together in a clap, ebbing a slight shockwave, “That’s what the fuck I’m talking about. Good Job.”

She shrugged midflight, a smile on her face. Maybe putting more into the whole fighting thing helped her cheer up some. I didn’t really know. Regardless, we reached the top of the mountain where the white energy beam spiraled from.

Surrounded by the red sky and clouds, I frowned at where the energy poured from. It beamed from a stone pillar, covered in runes reminiscent of the runes from BloodHollow. Around the pillar, a spiral staircase made of white stone went deep into the mountain. I pulled oppression in, turning the aura off as Althea landed behind me.

She glanced up at the spire of white, “What the fuck is this?”

My eyes narrowed, “A straight shot to the dungeon boss.”

We walked down the stairs, Althea dragging her hand against the stone. As we descended deeper, the sounds of an insect’s shuffling filled my ears.

“There’s going to be bugs. Lots of them. Be ready.”

Althea sighed, before clenching her unformed fist, “Let’s go smash them or whatever you’d say.”

We reached a doorway covered in runes. As I glanced at them, they unraveled a bit, like a knot untying. I approached the doorway before leaking my ascendant mana into it. The mana poured through the runes, lighting them red before the spire behind us turned pink in color. I glanced at Althea, but she didn’t know what was going on either.

