“So, how’s things?” Rain asked, painting targets one by one as the dog-sized lizards charged him. Radiance responded, beams of golden light lancing into each monster as he removed IFF’s protection.

The lair had turned out to be a cave system. It was ludicrously hot inside, the walls literally glowing with the heat. As for monsters, these Firetail Geckos were it. They were weak, but numerous, coming in a few different sizes. The flaming tails reminded Rain a bit of Charmander, but that was where the similarities ended. They had dark skin cracked with red, like magma beneath a crust of hardened rock, and they fought with tooth, claw, and fire from their tails. Truthfully, they weren’t much of a threat. The walls were probably more dangerous.

“Oh, ya know how it is,” Carten said with a grunt. There was a crunch of shattering bone and a hiss of blood boiling as he slammed one of the lizards into the heated stone. “Jus’ doin’ me thing. This is a nice break. Gettin’ right tired o walkin’, that’s fer sure.”

“I’m getting tired of being carried,” Rain replied, casually backhanding one of the monsters as it lunged for his face. He walked past it, leaving Radiance’s beam to drill into its stony hide as he fended off its friends. It would only be a few more seconds before the spell finished with them, excluding those he’d left for Carten. “I’d kill to be able to stretch my legs. Hey, I’ve been meaning to ask you. How are things with Evonna? Are you two still an item?”

“Fer sure!” Carten said happily, bringing his shields together, then slamming their bottom edges down on the neck of a lizard whose legs he’d just broken. The shields made the world’s dullest guillotine, and there was a wet, crunching schlink as the creature’s head was shorn from its body. “She completes me. A woman after me own heart.”

Rain rolled his eyes as the last of the lizards succumbed to Radiance. He dropped the spell, and the glow from the walls faded, no longer bolstered by his magic. A quick blast of Purify took care of the mess, and then Detection pointed the way forward. “You two are perfect for each other.”

“S’truth,” Carten agreed, and there was a scrape of metal as he hurried to catch up. Neither he nor Rain were bothering to collect any fallen Tel or Crysts. Others would take care of that later. “Velika ain’t got nothin’ on ‘er. I mean, sure, it ain’t as excitin’, knowin’ she can’t snap me bones by mistake if she gets real inta’ it, but she’s got more’n enough spice in her kitchen ta’ make up fer tha’, if ya know what I mean.”

“You have issues, Carten,” Rain said, chuckling to himself.

“Oh, an’ yer one ta talk?” Carten scoffed. “Ameliah, now. There’s a woman tha—“

“You don’t want to finish that sentence. More coming. From the long tunnel to the left.”

“Oi, jus’ how many lizard shits is in here, anyway?” Carten asked, raising his shields.

“I haven’t bothered counting,” Rain said, his eyes darting over the targets as one by one he marked them for death. “This lair is kinda...basic. The heat seems to be the real—Ah! There’s our prize.”

Firetail Gecko – Level 7

“Where?” Carten asked, and Rain pointed. “Oh. Bit of a runt.”

“Don’t let your guard down. We’re in here alone, remember. Come on, let’s catch it,” Rain said, walking forward. Radiance seared mercilessly into the other oncoming monsters, leaving the blue untouched. “Interesting,” he said, in no rush to close the distance. “It’s got the same name as the common ones, just like my Musk Wolf and your Face Stabber. Damn, I really wish Detection was able to identify blues when they aren’t aberrant.”

“Would be convenient,” Carten agreed, hunkering behind his shield as the blue crashed into it. It had outpaced its fellows by virtue of not having a golden death laser to contend with. Carten grunted in surprise, and there was a screech of metal scraping across stone as he was pushed back. “Oi!” he shouted in indignation.

“Just keep it busy for a second, Carten. And don’t break it.”

“Aww!” Carten shouted, and there was a blast of heat as the essence monster bathed him in a torrent of fire from its tail, arced over its back like that of a scorpion. When the plume of flame faded, Carten was unharmed and unhappy. “Ain’t no fun left. Tha’ plate ya gave me took all the danger out. Tha’ weren’t no worse’n a summer breeze.”

“Issues,” Rain repeated.

“Oh, hush yer noise,” Carten grumped. “REBOUND!” This time, it was the lizard’s turn to hiss in surprise as it bounced away from the impact. Rain pounced on the monster before it could recover, grabbing it by the leg and pulling it into a bear hug. Its claws scrabbled against his armor to no effect, and he was glad he’d left his cloak at the entrance. The light faded as he dropped Radiance, the other geckos already dead.

“Been meanin’ ta ask ye,” Carten said, standing and resting his shields on the ground, having to raise his voice over the angry hissing and scrabbling of claws. “Did ye take a skill or somethin’? Ta’ make ye all…” Carten gestured vaguely. “…that? Unless yer armor’s thicker’n it seems, there’s a lotta meat fer yer lady friend in there.”

“Meat for my…” Rain sighed, then shook his head as he bit off his reply. It’s not worth it.

“Jus’ sayin’!” Carten said with a laugh. He walked over, then clapped Rain on the back with a shield, almost making him drop the lizard. “I mean, hells, jus’ look at ye! Little Mouse, all grown up!”

Rain snorted at the nickname as the lizard tried to bathe him in fire, managing only the tiniest puff before he quashed its magic with Suppression. He tightened his grip, but the monster didn’t stop struggling. It never would, not until it was completely out of stamina. It wasn’t an animal that he could intimidate into submission. This one didn’t have any intelligence, only instinct. It would never recognize that it posed no more danger to him than a buzzing fly.

Rain looked up at Carten as the Gecko continued to struggle against him. He’d searched his heart for regret over the creature’s doom, but found only resolve. “I suppose I am.”

Ameliah tilted the cup sitting on the table in front of her, peeking underneath to count the faces shown on the nine six-sided dice beneath. Once she had them memorized, she set the cup back down, then looked at her opponents. “One two.” She then picked up a Tel from the pile in front of her and tossed it into the center of the table.

“Two twos,” Tallheart said, adding a Tel of his own.

Ameliah looked at the third player at the table—more accurately, on it—then smiled. “Dozer?”

*pop* *pop* *pop* … *pop* *pop* *pop*

Ameliah chuckled to herself. “Three threes. Go on then.”

There was another pop as Dozer spat a Tel over his cup to land with a clatter next to the others.

Ameliah looked back at Tallheart. “Okay, I guess I’ll have to say four twos, then.”

“Five twos,” Tallheart replied.

*pop* *pop* *pop* … *pop* *pop* *pop*

“Three threes again,” Ameliah said, patting the slime. “Good job. Ah, ah, ah, you don’t need to stake until the next hand. Wait. Waaaait. That’s a good boy.” She looked back at Tallheart, ignoring the slime’s invalid bid. She thought for a moment. “Six fours.”

“Hmph,” Tallheart snorted. “This game is uninteresting with only two…” he hesitated, glancing at Dozer, “…three…players.”

“So you challenge?” Ameliah asked.

Tallheart snorted again. “Seven twos.”

“Challenge,” Ameliah replied instantly, smiling. Technically, Dozer should have been the one to do it, but some allowances had to be made. She lifted her cup, revealing her dice, not a single one with two pips showing.

Silently, Tallheart turned over his own cup. Ameliah raised an eyebrow, seeing that he did actually have a lot of twos. Four out of nine, in fact, which didn’t seem very likely. Rain could have doubtless told her the exact probability. If there was one thing she’d learned, it was not to play Rain at Nine Dice. She regretted teaching it to him.

*pop*

Dozer glommed onto the side of his cup, attempting to lift it, and Ameliah quickly moved to help before he sent the dice tumbling everywhere. It turned out that Dozer had two twos, for a total of six when combined with Tallheart’s.

“Hmmm,” Tallheart rumbled, setting down his cup. “You have won again.”

“Thank you for your donation,” Ameliah said, sweeping up the Tel from the center of the table. They weren’t actually playing for money, just to pass the time. One Tel wasn’t much of an ante, and these ones had technically come from Dozer. She still hadn’t quite gotten over the shock of discovering that the tiny slime was literally making them out of nothing.

She reached over to pat the slime before collecting its dice. Well, not nothing. He only does it for a few hours after Rain feeds him. It’s probably either mana or essence. I wish I had Mana Sight right now so I could try to figure out which one.

“Another game?” Tallheart asked.

“Sure, why not?” Ameliah replied, shaking Dozer’s dice in his cup. Suddenly, she stopped mid-shake and looked up, having felt Winter wash over her. “He’s back.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart replied. The three of them watched—listened, in Dozer’s case—as Rain made his way over to them. Once he reached them, he plopped himself down into Dozer’s unused chair, catching the ecstatic slime as it flung itself at his chest.

“Can I get in on this?” he asked by way of greeting.

“No,” Ameliah and Tallheart replied together.

Rain snorted, removing his helmet and placing it on the table. “Come on. It’s just basic statistics. And watching people. Tallheart’s face is an open book.”

Tallheart performed one of his signature slow blinks.

“Why are you back so soon, anyway?” Ameliah asked, hiding her smile. “I thought you were going to clear the lair.”

“Already did that,” Rain replied, waving a hand. “Don’t worry, it wasn’t that dangerous, just really, really hot, and I didn’t go alone. Carten came with me.”

“I see,” Ameliah said neutrally. It would have been safer without him. “And what did you find?”

Rain smiled. “We caught a level-seven blue. The first group of eight is already awakened, and Samson’s going to take the next group in to clean up the loot before they break the core. They don’t need me for that.”

“Shouldn’t you sound more excited?” Ameliah asked, observing him carefully.

“Oh, I’m excited,” Rain said, gracing her with a smile. “It’s great. It just isn’t as simple as all that. You didn’t have to deal with the politics leading up to it.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “We know better.”

Rain snorted. “All the slots are settled now at least. Tarny’s still dead set on Logistics Beacon. He says he wants to follow in my footsteps, not retread them. He’s taking the four seasons, with Amplify and Extend so he can get to Fall faster. It’s still going to take ages. He hasn’t made up his mind past that.”

“Admirable,” Tallheart said. “This is what the company needs. Hmm. And you will no longer need to take them yourself.”

Rain shrugged. “Yeah, but he’s basically signing himself up to stay with Ascension forever. There’s a reason Beacons end up enslaved.” Rain paused, considering his phrasing. “Not that that’s what he’s going to—what we’re going to—“

“We know what you meant,” Ameliah said, smiling, “I’m sure he doesn’t see it that way.”

“I know,” Rain said with a sigh. “It’s just, if it really looked like we were going to starve out, you could still take Fall. By the time food becomes a problem, the Knives should have either given up or attacked already. Not that I’m hoping for that second one. It would be a relief, though. Knowing.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “I believe we have escaped pursuit. The Empire has better uses for their assassins. However, a belief such as mine only increases the threat. We cannot relax. Not until we have left the forest. Perhaps not even then.”

“Tell me about it,” Ameliah said, leaning back in her chair and rubbing at her eyes. “I was thinking we’d be fine if we just made it to the plains, but then I remembered Lightbreaker. He’s not with them, obviously, but just because Rain can’t get Val to talk, it doesn’t mean Fecht will have that problem getting secrets out of his father.”

“Val did tell me a few things, actually,” Rain said.

“Wait, what?” Ameliah asked, straightening. “When?”

“Before the earthquake. I was going to mention it, but I got distracted, and then, well…” He shrugged. “It didn’t seem important compared to everything else that’s been going on.”

“Spill it,” she said, using one of his expressions.

Rain smiled. “Fine, fine. It’s a rare class called Contender of Light, and it boosts all Light magic. When he took it, it created three brand new skill trees for him, Daybreak, Midlight, and Nightfall, stealing the Light skills he already had from their original locations. So yeah, recombination is a thing. Apart from that, the pretentious name, and the stupid solo requirement, it’s about what you’d expect. It boosts the impact of Focus like Mage does and increases the cap for Light skills by two across all three trees. Given his level, he can’t see any skills past tier two, but there isn’t anything he can see that would hide a group. I asked. If you want the full details, just check the book. The information is free to Entrusted.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart said. “Interesting. And good to know. The Empire does not allow common soldiers access to tier-three skills. That restriction does not apply to Knives, but I have never seen one use Light Magic. Their builds are rigid, with only minor variations. If they are not behind us when we enter the plains, it will be safe to let down our guard. As much as that is ever wise.”

“Right,” Rain said, nodding. “Lightbreaker’s been working for the Empire for a long time, so if his build was spreading to the extent that they could hide armies without him, I’d think we’d have heard about it. Just what is his deal, anyway? What’s Fecht got on him?”

“You haven’t asked Val?” Ameliah said.

Rain sighed. “Of course I’ve asked. He doesn’t know. Other than the build, it’s like Lightbreaker and the father Val remembers are two completely different people. I wouldn’t rule out mind magic. Fecht’s an Omnimage, right?”

