“It may seem odd to one from another world like you, but it is how I honor my sworn companion. Drevish would understand—”
“No. I know it’s wrong. Trey knows it’s wrong. Anyone would know that! Ask Orthenon, ask Mars or Gazi—”
Teres voice was pleading. She was trying to make Flos understand, but the [King]’s head didn’t move.
“Don’t keep him in this room. Don’t make him stay here. Let him sleep!”
She raised her voice and nearly shouted that last bit. Trey was petrified. As Flos’ back turned, he saw an expression he had only seen once before on the [King]’s face.
Anger.
“This is not a matter on which I will change my mind. I failed Drevish. This is his last memory. Here!”
Flos gestured at the head angrily.
“I will not forsake him again. I abandoned him once, and he paid with his life for it. I will not bury his memory and turn away from it as I have so much before. This conversation is over. You two—leave. Seek out Orthenon until I call for you again.”
He made to walk towards his door. But Teres barred his path.
“You can’t do it. You have to let him go. He deserves better than this!”
Trey’s breath was gone. He gaped at his sister. Flos’ brows shot together.
“No. Move out of my way.”
“I won’t.”
Teres was shaking. She pointed at the block of ice.
“You’re keeping him—just like he was when he died! Bury him! It’s disrespectful. And he deserves rest!”
Rest. That word rang true to Trey. He stared at Drevish’s head. It was preserved, so that he could be by his king’s side even in death. Whether he liked it or not. Just like…Trey. And Teres.
Flos’ voice was very quiet.
“Do not talk to me about disrespect. I was not the one who killed him. I was not the one who froze him.”
“But you’re the one who’s keeping him this way.”
Flos’ head turned and Trey realized he was the one who spoke. The [King] stared at the two twins.
“Begone from my sight.”
It was a command. Trey’s legs moved him towards the door. But Teres stayed where she was. She clenched her fists. She was shaking with emotion. There were tears in her eyes.
And there was something in Trey’s heart too. Something that made him stop, despite the urge to listen to the [King]. His King? Yes. No! A King, but not one Trey had ever sworn allegiance to. A King, but one who had made Trey and Teres his servants against their will. A King, yes.
But not a god.
Trey looked back over his shoulder, and saw a man. Flos towered over Teres, but he was a man. Not just a [King]. And she stood in his way. Because it was right.
Slowly, Trey turned back. He walked over to Teres, and stood in front of Flos. The man stared down at them, unable to believe his eyes.
“I told you to move.”
Again, Trey felt the urge to move, but he didn’t. Flos was a [King]. Trey was serving him. He had to—
But he was wrong. And someone had to say it. Trey opened his mouth.
“No. It’s wrong.”
He stared into two burning eyes. There was fury there, uncontained.
“I gave you an order. Are you disobeying your [King]?”
“We’re not your subjects! We never asked to be!”
Standing next to him, Teresa screamed at Flos. She gave vent to the feeling the twins had felt this entire time. She pointed at him.
“You’re the one who decided everything! Well, we’re sick of it! You want us to tell you what we think? We think you’re wrong! And you can just live with that!”
She stood next to Trey, shaking with anger. And he remembered, dimly, that it was always Teres who started fights. When the twins got angry, she was the one who popped her lid first. He stared at his twin sister with horrified admiration as she finished shouting at the King of Destruction in his own bedroom.
“No matter what you say, we won’t change our minds, you—you bloody twit!”
Trey heard ringing in his ears. Teres’ voice echoed through Flos’ chambers, and then there was silence. Dead silence. Trey stared up at the King of Destruction and saw him staring down.
This was where he died. Trey waited for wrath and fury, but heard nothing. He chanced another peek up, and saw something strange.
Flos’ face had changed. There was no anger there any longer, but rather another emotion. It looked like amusement, but there was something else there. Trey had seen Flos laugh many times before, but this was different.
It was amusement and joy. And nostalgia. It was rueful, melancholic. And it was there for an instant, before Flos turned away.
“Oh Drevish, would that you could have been here. Would you have laughed, or told me I was a fool?”
He walked back, away from the twins. Slowly, Flos bent and picked up the block of ice. It did not melt in his hands as he stared down at the man’s head. His friend’s head. When he turned back to the twins, there were tears in his eyes.
A King wept. Unabashedly, his eyes overflowed as he held his friend and stared into his eyes.
“You are right.”
He said that to Teres, and then to Trey.
“You are right. I—I have asked so much of my vassal, my companion over the long years. So much, and yet in death I ask more. To wait for so long…it would be far kinder to let him rest. It was my selfishness that demanded he watch over me even now.”
He turned away from the two. Flos stared down at the block of ice and then bent. He kissed the ice over Drevish’s brow.
“Sleep, old friend. I am sorry. It has been far too long since you treated me like a fool. Somehow, I had forgotten what it felt like to be one. But these two can speak the truth to me in your absence. So rest.”
He turned and placed the head back on the dresser, only this time faced away from the room. Teres opened her mouth, but Flos turned and forestalled her.
“I will bury him later. Tonight, in private. Now is not the time.”
Slowly, the girl closed her mouth. Flos looked at the two of them, and laughed. It was not the laugh of a [King]. It was a man’s laugh, shaky, and rueful. With a hint of tears.
“I asked you to speak the truth to me, and seconds later demanded you do the opposite. A fool should not do so, let alone a [King]. I apologize to you Teres, and to you, Trey. I am only grateful you could speak the truth to me.”
He bowed his head to them. The twins stood as a [King] and a man bowed to them and neither knew what to say. When Flos had raised his head again, Trey found his voice.
“Your majesty…”
“Flos.”
Teres said that. Trey looked at her, and then at Flos.
“Why haven’t you gone to war? Why are we here?”
Flos looked at them and sighed.
“Because I am hesitating. Because I fear war. Because…perhaps I lack the stomach for it, after all these years.”
They stared at him. The King of Destruction. He smiled at them, looking haggard, weighed down by something they couldn’t name. He raised his hand, and touched the sparkling brooch.
“Perhaps you do not understand. I was never good at explaining such things. Well, I can show you.”
He gestured to the door.
“Follow me, my friends. You two deserve to follow. I am a [King], but I need someone to tell me I am a fool. So come and let me look upon my faded kingdom. At last, let me have the courage to see the cost of my folly.”
He turned and led the twins out the door. And they followed, swept up in his wake as before. But there was something different this time. Trey and Teresa followed Flos, the King of Destruction. But the back they saw belonged to a man.
Just a man. Carrying the weight of a kingdom on his shoulders. And as he walked, Trey wondered. He wondered if Flos had ever had a friend. Perhaps Drevish had been one. Not a vassal, but a friend. Perhaps he had been, perhaps not.
His head sat frozen in his room, a grim reminder of the past. And that would never change. But the ice would melt. The head would vanish from the room, and time would move on. For the King had lost one of his Seven, but gained something else. Two friends, perhaps. Maybe that was what it was.
And he was awake. Awake. The King of Destruction was awake at last.
And the world would know what that meant soon enough.
