“Go on, take one each. I’ll test you with axes and other arms, but swords are what I know.”
The two twins gingerly took hold of a sword each. Trey pulled his from the ground with some effort. He was surprised that the sword wasn’t that heavy—he vaguely remembered hearing they were supposed to be hard to lift.
Teres frowned at her blade. She whispered to Trey as she showed him how easy it was for her to lift it.
“I thought swords were really heavy.”
“Heavy? Hah! What good is a heavy sword?”
Mars had heard them. She smiled as she showed them how to grip the swords properly in their hands.
“A sword has to be light and useful. You won’t see many swords heavier than five pounds, not unless you’re fighting a Minotaur or someone who specializes in such things. Like warhammers, I suppose. What, do you two fancy using one of those?”
“No…”
Trey went stiff as Mars went behind him to correct his posture. Teres was glaring at him, but Mars ignored Trey’s awkwardness.
“Alright then, try and strike me.”
“You? But you’re not wearing any armor!”
“And if I was, you’d still not hit me. I have a shield and a sword. And I’m a [Vanguard]—if you two could touch me with a sword, I’d run myself through in an instant. Or ask what level you two are.”
Mars laughed as she beckoned Trey and Teres to strike at her. They did, gingerly, and then with more and more vigor as they realized they really couldn’t hit her. Even with Trey on one side and Teres on the other. Even when they timed their attacks at the same time.
Six minutes later, Mars was standing without a scratch on her, and some of the people in the training grounds were laughing at Trey and Teres, who could barely lift their arms. The female warrior had flawlessly blocked or parried or simply dodged every thrust and strike they’d made.
“Not bad. Perhaps you two might be cut out for the [Warrior] class. For now, let’s switch to another weapon. Come on, lift those arms. We can talk when you’re done.”
When they were done and lying on the ground, Mars sat with them, letting the two gulp water as she spoke.
“I don’t know why my King hasn’t ordered me to war. But I think it’s because he’s waiting until he is ready for it.”
“Ready?”
Trey raised his head, trying not to gulp water down and throw up. Again. Mars nodded, looking pensive.
“I haven’t seen him on the training grounds. And my lord Flos was never one to shirk practice. It has been twenty years, and perhaps he wishes to regain his skill before he rides out. A [King] must be strong, to lead his armies.”
“Shouldn’t the King stay at the back? I mean, it’s dangerous, right?”
Mars turned and smiled at Trey.
“Not him. My lord Flos has always lead the charge. When you see him on the battlefield, you will know. Have faith. He will order us to battle soon, and then you’ll see why I’m one of the Seven.”
“But what will we do?”
Trey asked pensively. Mars shrugged.
“Whatever he asks of you. You are sworn to him, as am I. We are companions, in that sense. We are the swords of our lord. When he calls, we must be ready.”
She smiled then, and the twins found they couldn’t ask her anything else. They left the training grounds, unsure of what to make of what they’d been told. Trey and Teres stumbled down the corridors, massaging their sore arms.
“She always seems so loud. And happy.”
Trey confided in Teres as they walked. She turned and glared at him.
“Pervert.”
“What?”
He stared at her. She glared. He slowly flushed.
“I couldn’t help it!”
“So could! You’re disgusting!”
“I’m not!”
“Are too!”
As the two began to argue, they started to lapse into a way of speaking unique to the two of them. Teres and Trey knew each other so well, they could complete each other’s sentences at times. So they didn’t bother to finish theirs when speaking with each other.
“Not my fault—”
“Eyes up here! You’re as blatant as—”
“Shut it! You don’t understand—”
“Dog’s bollocks I don’t. Just because I don’t have a thing swinging down—”
“Shut up!”
“You shut up! Besides…they’re fake.”
“What?”
Trey paused. Teres nodded.
“They’re fake. I’m sure of it.”
“How do you know? Did you touch—”
She glared at him.
“No, but they don’t move right.”
“How can you tell—”
“I’m a girl! I know how they’re supposed to move.”
“Oh. Right.”
Trey thought about this as they walked down the corridor. He thought of Mars. Then his mental image focused, as it were.
“They’re really fake?”
“Yep.”
Teres nodded decisively. Trey sighed.
“Aw.”
She rolled her eyes.
“Pillock.”
This might have started another fight, but a low voice interrupted the two.
“Your King awaits you.”
Trey turned, and promptly forgot every other part of the female body. Four eyes were staring at him, and a mouth full of sharp teeth was curved up. It was…reminiscent of a smile.
Gazi the Omniscient, or Lady Pathseeker, or the half-Gazer that terrified the piss out of Trey and Teres, smiled at the twins as they froze up in the hall. She smiled wider.
“He is in his room. Hurry or you will make him wait.”
“We—we will, Lady Gazi. Thank you for telling us.”
“He asked me to.”
Gazi said it simply. She stared at Trey and Teres. They stared back. They had four eyes between them, but since Gazi had four eyes as well it was an equal staring contest. Trey’s gaze was fixed on the center of Gazi’s face.
She had one central eye and four peripheral ones. And virtually no nose. But Trey had never seen her central eye—it was injured. Apparently, a girl from his world had actually poked it out. Trey had no idea who would dare to do that—he wondered what kind of maniac would even try.
“Well?”
Gazi’s words made the two twins start walking. But to their extreme dissatisfaction she walked with them.
Neither one of them understood Gazi. She was a hero in the eyes of the people of Reim, and Flos and his vassals treated her with respect. But Trey knew that Orthenon didn’t exactly like Gazi, and he was sure that she and Mars didn’t get along. Only…he didn’t know what Gazi really did.
Orthenon managed things. Mars fought in the army. But Gazi…she was a [Scout], but why would a [Scout] be one of the King’s Seven?
“Um, Lady Gazi.”
“Yes?”
The half-Gazer turned to look at Trey, still smiling. The saliva dried up in Trey’s mouth. Oh yes, there was one more thing. He was quite sure that Gazi didn’t like how close he and Teres were to Flos.
But he had to ask. He’d asked Mars and Orthenon, so Trey forced his mouth to work.
“Do you…know why King Flos hasn’t ordered us to war yet? I mean, he’s not even assembled the army.”
Gazi’s smile vanished. She stared at him with one of her eyes as the other one fixed on Teres and two more looked ahead and behind her. Trey shuddered as the fourth eye rolled back in its socket. When Gazi spoke, it was calmly.
“I do not know.”
“You don’t?”
The twins stared at her. Gazi shrugged slightly, the rust-brown scale armor moving smoothly with her shoulders.
“I do not pretend to understand my lord’s thoughts. He is a mystery to me, no matter how often I have watched his actions. If you wish to know his thoughts, you must listen to his words, not any others.”
“Except he never explains anything.”
Teres said that with an uncharacteristic scowl. Trey glanced at her and saw his sister’s face was set, and her eyes were flashing with annoyance. He privately understood her feelings; they were being shuffled around again, like every day, really. Flos told them what to do, and they did it, usually without even thinking to ask why or argue. He didn’t like it, but Trey felt strongly about voicing his objections in Gazi’s presence. Because she might object. Strongly.
“If my lord has no answers for you, perhaps it is because you have never asked. You have a chance now. Here we are.”
She halted. Trey realized they’d come to Flos’ door. Gazi smiled and turned. Had she just wanted to walk them over? She whispered to them before she left.
“But if you are to ask him…do it now. I have waited a long time for my lord to awaken. And I do not like waiting longer.”
She left, and Trey looked into Teres’ pale face. He didn’t know if that was a threat, a warning, or just her way of encouraging him. But he did know one thing, and that was that he never wanted to meet a full Gazer if they were all like Gazi.
Trey knocked on Flos’ door. He heard a booming voice at once.
“Enter.”
The twins cautiously opened the door, knowing that the eyes of the other servants in the hall were fixed covetously on their backs. As personal servants to the King, Trey and Teres had some invisible ranking that put them just below the King’s Seven in the eyes of the servants. As children, or at least, not full adults, they were also constantly instructed by everyone to be on their best behavior to the King, and their actions were monitored by everyone in the palace.
“So. Have you learned much from Mars and Orthenon?”
Flos turned from his dresser. Trey and Teres jumped. It was she who replied as he stared around Flos’ room. He had never been in here. The room was grand and plain. Grand because everything in it was meant for a king. Plain, because there were no paintings on the wall, no decorations—just a dresser, a closet, a bed and Flos himself. It did not look like the room that had been lived in for twenty years.
“We learned more about other continents, my King. And Mars tested our ability to fight. She says we might make decent warriors if we practice at it.”
“Good. I am not certain that is the best class for the two of you to take, but it is worth considering if you have the aptitude.”
Flos sighed as he regarded the twins. He didn’t look tired, but he did look…less intense than normal. That was unusual, because it was only midday and Trey had known Flos to work late into the night and rise hours later with energy to spare.
“Is everything alright, my…liege?”
The [King] waved a huge hand at Trey.
“When we are not in a public setting you need not address me with titles. Actually…you need not address me so in a public setting either. I have told my Seven and Orthenon the same, but they refuse to listen. But in your world, it is not common to speak to others in such a way, is it?”
“Yeah, but we don’t speak to the Queen.”
Trey pointed that out. Flos smiled.
“But your Queen should have those who speak to her as a person, not as a monarch. It is not always pleasant, to be a [King] at all times.”
He sighed, and turned back to his dresser, picking something up. Trey saw Flos turn back with a brooch in his hands, a bright yellow gem set with violet ones around the gold rim.
“Perhaps that is why I keep the two of you close. Disregarding your knowledge of your world…I crave those who will treat me not as a King, but as something else. What, I do not know. Regardless. Tell me, have you often ventured outside my palace walls?”
“No.”
The two chorused as one. Teres clarified.
“We don’t often go out. But we’ve walked through the city a few times.”
There wasn’t actually much to see. There was lots to do, and so they’d accompanied Flos in rebuilding a house, or seeing to some minor emergency or other. But the people had flocked around him. In the times when he wasn’t there, people were always busy. It was just crumbling buildings and worn down stone as far as Trey was concerned.
“Well, I suppose today will be instructive. You see, Teres, Trey, I desire something of you.”
“Yes, my l—”
Trey bit his tongue. Flos shook his head.
“You see? Already you are so much like the others. But it occurs to me that I am missing something dearly.”
“What’s that?”
“Honesty. Clarity. Someone who will treat me as a friend, a man, a nuisance. Not as a [King]. From you two, I ask it; and I will have it from my people today, one way or the other. I have had such relationships few times before. But it was that honesty I needed. Isn’t that right, old friend?”
Trey had no idea who Flos was talking to. But then the [King] moved and Teres screamed.
There was a head sitting on Flos’ dresser. A head, encased in ice. It was one Trey recognized. His stomach threatened to empty itself as he stared into the bitter expression of the Architect, one of the King’s Seven.
Drevish.
Teres’ scream hadn’t gone unheard. Almost faster than thought, there was someone pounding on Flos’ door.
“My King?”
“All is well.”
Flos stepped towards the door and opened it. Trey heard him reassuring whomever was outside in the background. His eyes were fixed on the block of ice. He kept staring until someone blocked it from view. Flos.
“I did not mean to startle you. I apologize. I had forgotten such sights were not common in your world.”
He spoke gently to Trey and Teres, with a hint of chagrin in his voice. The two stared at him. Teres lifted a shaking finger.
“Why—why do you have—”
“Why didn’t it melt?”
That was Trey’s question. Flos turned and stared at Drevish’s head.
“It was a simple preservation spell for the ice. As to the head…I kept it as a reminder. Of my fallen companion. Of the man I knew. Of my failure. And as a promise.”
“Promise?”
Trey’s voice was faint. Flos turned and nodded.
“I promised Drevish to build a city like none the world had ever seen. In my kingdom. I told him that it would be his plans by which every brick was laid and every house built. That was my vow to him. And I have not kept it. He did not live to see it, but perhaps…”
“You’re going to show it? To his head?”
Teres’ voice was a horrified whisper. Flos nodded gravely. It made a terrible kind of sense to Trey, but his sister was pale and swaying.
“It is all I can offer him. When I show him my kingdom, then perhaps my conscience—”
“No.”
Trey felt a shock. But the word didn’t come from him. It came from Teres. She was staring at the block of ice with Drevish’s head. Flos was surprised too. He stared at Teres.
“What do you mean?”
“No. You can’t let him stay like this. You have to bury him.”
Both Trey and Flos stared at her. There were tears in Teres’ eyes. She looked at Flos, angrily.
“You can’t keep his head like this. Not frozen. Not—you can’t do it. You have to bury his head.”
The [King] froze. Trey froze. He had never heard Teres use that tone in Flos’ palace. He had never heard anyone use that tone with Flos, either. The King’s head bowed. He turned and stared down at the block of ice. His voice was low as he replied.
“He is my vassal. I owe him this.”
“It’s wrong.”
Trey looked at Teres. She stood with her fists clenched, staring at the [King]’s back. Trey reached out—to stop her?—but she knocked his hand away.
