The brightest two were a twinkling orange one and a standoffish blue twin. The stars around them began to move and fall, making a star shower that splashed into the ocean, causing ripples of light to turn the dark water into a glowing sea that showed the massive shadows of the whales below and more ruins.

Delta took off and floated across the ocean, her hands skating the surface of the water, leaving a long rippling trail in her wake that fish leapt over and the light of the fallen stars flashed in time with.

“One last island!” Delta yelled, unable to stop grinning as she flew through her imagination.

She shot into the sky, causing the ocean to rise up with her in a pillar of water.

“An island in the clouds. A hidden island. A sky island where the truth can be seen from above!” she laughed.

She watched as rock rose from below, and sand funneled up with it.

“Its name is…”

The island came together, made of the glittering gold and diamond sand that had flowing rivers and mists making everything gleam.

“Star Island.”

---

Nu opened his eyes, feeling like he was hungover. The last thing he remembered was laying with Delta on a beach, feeling like he was rapidly being filled with unclean mana. Then it all became confusing dreams of clashing swords, being chased by a demonic Delta who had plans for a mushroom waterfall, more mushrooms, and a weeping woman at an altar.

He sat up, noticing he was almost humanoid again. Urgh, this form was too limited.

Rectangles were the superior shape.

He stood up and noticed he was on the fourth floor. A quick check showed that ludicrous amounts of mana had been spent in the last two hours. His jaw actually dropped at the numbers. Nu tried to track the purchases, but there was no history. The system had no recorded message of any pulling of the blueprints or the use of its precision placement system.

Who would be stupid enough to use Dungeon Creation without the placement Syst-

“Delta!” he spun, calling out in wor- agitation. He found her dangling her legs into a bank of fog as she stared out at the blue sky.

“Yo,” she said with exhaustion clear in her voice but also something else. A degree of… pride and joy.

“Are you okay? I left you alone for longer than an hour, and I know that’s trying on your self-control,” he said quickly as he stood next to her. He didn’t recognise this island…

“Nu, shut up and sit with me,” she said with her eyes closed, and she looked different.

It was a small change, but Delta looked more defined than before. She still had her shirt, tie, and long skirt, but he could now make out ink stains on her cuffs, and what looked to be a homemade repair job on her skirt with a red thread that stuck out on her black skirt.

Delta had a little scar on her nose, where reading glasses might have perched.

Nu did so, and Delta leaned over, whispering something in his ear. Nu blinked and stared at her.

“What is that?” he asked, a little aghast at the word.

“My name,” Delta said with a small smile.

“Well, my last name,” she added.

“No wonder you went with Delta,” Nu said with a shiver. Delta punched him in the arm, and it hurt. Another reason why rectangles were better… no arms!

“It’s not that bad, but it’s easier if the kids just called me Miss D,” she said with a roll of her eyes.

Nu was quiet. Honestly, the name wasn’t so bad if he repeated it a few times. In fact, it even had a nice little song to it if he stretched it out. He repeated it a few more times, oblivious of how he was being quiet.

“Miss Unknown Diplococcus. Did you know that your family name is…uh…” Nu trailed off, not sure how to phrase what he really wanted to ask.

“Did I know that my family name is basically a disease? Yeah, I know. You can blame my grandfather; he panicked when he was getting into the country. All he had was a medical magazine on hand, and his old name was ‘close enough.’ Mom thinks he was a crook back home,” Delta sighed.

“I prefer Delta, but if you want me to call you-” he began, and Delta gave him a ‘look.’

“Let’s just stick with Delta. I don’t want some wizard coming in here, learning my name, and bringing meningitis to the world,” she scowled.

“I wonder if your first name is ‘Pox’ or ‘Flu’ but with a funny little accent over it?” Nu pondered, sounding very amused by the idea.

“Do you like heights?” Delta said, and shoved Nu over the edge of the island, and instead of water like he expected, he fell through a cloudy embankment over the fourth floor to see chaos below. Twelve islands were spread out around the central island.

He saw a banana, a coconut dancing, what looked like a crab, a woman holding a doughnut, a goat with five legs, a bull with little wings, and more.

The death whirlpool looked smaller as if something was at the bottom, clogging it. Paths rose and sank between the islands, and a massive washed up boat on one of the islands had trees growing out of it and looked to be ‘lived’ in.

A nearby sunken castle had images of a thing that looked a lot like Jellagon with a beard and trident.

A whale rose briefly to blow water, and it looked to be made out of almost pure emerald.

Nu could only gape at the sheer sight below him, only having time to turn and stare up at a floating island that Delta was resting on. The thing looked like a heavenly gem, a star that had drifted too close, obscured by the clouds.

This was all chaotic, but where was the Dungeon Core? Where was Delta?

The sun set, and the sky turned to stars, a carpet of gems. At the center of it all, hiding among them on the ceiling and upside down…

Delta’s core glowed orange next to a watchful blue star.

“Clever girl…” he whispered.

Nu hit the ocean and sank to the bottom.

It was easier to hide how proud he was at the bottom of the sea.
