Delta watched as all her guests had to leave the Dungeon rapidly due to the fact her mana levels were reaching ‘unsafe’ levels on all floors. She wanted to examine Yattina closer, but time was pressing.

Someone was waiting at the top, and Delta had to squint against the sunlight pouring in through her door. It was a teen, and he was backlit by the sun making his features undefined to her Mana sight. Deo seemed to know the boy, and Lim gently helped Yattina up the stairs.

She turned to Alpha.

“You should go too,” she said, and he shook his head.

“I’m designed to handle large amounts of magic. I’m the ultimate ‘hero,’” he said quietly, and Delta wished he had more faith in himself.

“People are designed to survive the flu, doesn’t make it pleasant,” Delta said dryly.

Alpha shrugged as a small firefly-like grub crawled out from his hair.

“Hero!” she said with pleasant surprise at seeing her raid boss outside the secret garden.

“I can go with him,” he offered, and Delta blinked for a moment, smile fixed.

“Monsters can’t leave the Dungeon,” she reminded. Hero moved his little insect legs and patted Alpha once, and his aura glowed for a moment, a sort of white aura with flickers of orange.

“As long as I touch Alpha, he counts as Dungeon ground now. You infected him, or your powers are swapping tips,” the raid boss said brightly.

‘Our systems are integrating messily,’ Delta corrected mentally with concern. If Brother was to be believed? She and Alpha were never meant to be in contact like this. Beta or Gamma would have fit better, the monster or the weapon… but the Dungeon and the Hero? That was unforeseen.

“Show him around town,” she suggested to Alpha, who hesitated then seemed to find it more acceptable than just leaving of his own accord.

Besides, despite Alpha’s claims? She wasn’t sure he could handle what was going on right now. The mana that she had swallowed off the Hero Unit was immense, and things were unstable. She looked over to one of the sconces in the entrance and watched as the fire warped a little, bloating and crystalizing before breaking apart into green fire then back to red.

The offering bowls cracked and foamed with amber before sealing up in tumor-like bulges. A second later, the tumors turned to dust and left smooth surfaces.

In her memorial room, the statue of herself had grown a grotesque flesh wing made of mushrooms. It only got worse as she went down. The only room seemingly unchanged was the Lake Room.

The mud in the Mud Room was on fire, the mushroom grove was so overgrown that no passage could be made without cutting down a thicket of stalks. Boary was literally stuck in a corner.

Fera’s bar was headache-inducing as tables melted into the floor and liquids oozed out of cracks, while the boar head above the door had grown an extra set of eyes. The bartender would return soon from the infirmary and be livid.

Fran’s room was half melted into the ‘spaces between’ the floors, causing islands to appear with no way for Bacon to move about. The audience seats had turned to boiling liquid, moving like a marble waterfall into the void.

She feared for the second floor, but when she stepped down, it was… normal. It was fine with not even a Pygmy Mushroom out of place.

She frowned, zoomed to Wyin, and froze as she saw dozens of orange blossoms growing all over her sleeping form as her roots spread across the entire floor, absorbing mana and turning them into the flowers growing on her body.

All around her, the Pygmy Mushrooms had begun to pray to her earnestly. Their little beads of faith seemed to keep Wyin safe from the process.

“I’ll fix this,” she promised, then checked on the third floor and found it mostly stable.

In the boss room. Jellagon was… smaller than before. He also had ten clones with different hats and mannerisms as the mana flooded his room. Every time a limit was neared, Jellagon, or one of the ‘Agons’ split into another personality.

They all did the exact same wiggle at her approach. One of the slimes had glasses and a tie instead of a hat with a briefcase at its side, glued to its body.

“…Lawyagon? I have a lawyer?” Delta questioned with surprise. It pulled out a business card.

“‘Being sued? Eat the opposition! Hire Lawyagon today,’” she read. The business card was stuck to her avatar’s fingers, and she physically couldn’t let it go.

“I’ll keep a hold of this! Just… let me get back to you,” she said as she stepped over the many slimes and nearly stepped on something that looked as round as a slime but was more fleshy.

“Kill me,” Mharia said with a groan.

“Aren’t you dead already?” Delta asked with wide-eyes as Mharia rolled to face her.

“You know what my days were like before you came along? I sat on a throne and made dead things. I had a pretty good life. No one invited killer robots or turned me into a fairy or bloated me with mana,” she said with a succinct tone.

“I didn’t invite them,” Delta said with no shame. She had done nothing wrong.

Well, she had done nothing wrong in the manner that invited killer robots.

“And now we’re all going to explode with Mana,” she said, voice dripping with a scowl. She tried to put her hands together, but her spherical form didn’t allow for it.

“Can’t… slow…clap…in…sarcasm…” the fairy said with strain.

“I seem to be fine, which is really weird,” she said, eyeing her own hands as if expecting them to begin to bug out.

“Thank the Sister. She may have screwed over many, but she’s sweet on you,” Mharia said quietly.

“I’m going to spend a buttload of mana and fix this. You stay here and hate the world,” she ordered Mharia, who nodded seriously.

“I shan’t fail you, oh chaotic mistress of the phallic shrooms,” she sang, and Delta accidently stepped on her on her way past.

Once she was down on the fourth floor, she eyed the massive whirlpool of destruction that had formed when the Hero Unit exploded. This floor only had the basic things and one creature, so she had lots to work with!

She opened the menu.

“£%%%^£:!”

Delta stared at the screen of corruption and glitches. She closed it, then reopened it. Lines of nonsense and glitches continued to make the screen unreadable.

“Nu?” she called, and the screen shifted to blue.

“Don’t w$r1y. T4e ‘Refrence:Mana’ is c@ausing 1ssues.”

This mana was beginning to settle on her inner systems, and it wasn’t being absorbed fast enough.

“Nu, how do I fix this?” she asked, and the screen went static for a moment.

“B3 Y0U.”

That was unhelpful. It wasn’t like Delta wasn’t herself as much as possible. She tried smacking the screen, but all she got was broken images of blue, orange and specks of gray.

“Okay. New Dungeons have Menus, but they don’t use them like Foodie because they don’t ‘read’ or ‘understand.’ So, how do they make things?” she asked herself, rubbing her temple. She thought of Foodie and his basic want for food, protection, and growth.

Need.

Desire.

She turned to an empty stretch of the sea and focused.

“I need an island. I need an island,” she chanted, and nothing happened. She tried again, but all she got was a breeze in return.

Her thoughts turned to the sleeping Wyin, the chaotic first floor, Jellagon, and the others.

She thought of Nu, stuck in such thick mana he couldn’t even think.

She thought of Sister who was breaking herself to help Delta. Delta held her hand out before her, and while she couldn’t sink into her Dungeon-mindset due to the sheer chaos it made her feel, she embraced the feelings it stirred in her.

“I’m not asking. Make me an island… now,” she whispered and snapped her fingers, and this time, something was different instantly. A flood of mana manifested and swam across the ocean like a school of orange microorganisms. Once they reached out far enough, they begin to rise, forming rock from the mana, followed by sand and trees.

It was perfect, except for one thing.

The entire island was sideways, over half of it submerged as the trees grew sideways.

“Can we tilt it? It’s tilting me,” she said, and the mana formed once again in the air, making a massive orange hammer that smashed into the island, correcting its orientation.

The force made it rotate fully until the island became a perpetual motion device, and it sailed off, crashing into the outer bounds of the floor then breaking apart into a tiny ring of rocks and ruin.

Delta stared at the mess.

“I swear they didn’t make it look this hard when I had a menu. Just click and place,” she muttered and inhaled. She began to rub her hands together with intent.

“Island, facing upwards with a solid base. The shape looks like a lion’s mane!” she ordered. The mana surged excitedly towards the empty spot in the ocean. Delta floated in the sky, looking down at what looked like a coconut doing a hula dance.

“How is that a lion?!” she demanded of her mana.

She slammed on the sand and used a stick to draw what she meant. A second later, she had a near perfect replica of the dancing coconut.

“Okay, the shape doesn’t matter right now,” she said tightly.

She pointed to another empty part of the ocean.

“Fish Island! I want it to dazzle me with its shape!” she commanded and the orange tide rose at her command.

She did not get a fish from her mana. She got a banana-shaped island. It was doable, and she was about to move on when the island raised a giant stone tail and swam forward slowly.

“I didn’t mean a literal fish island!” she screamed as they picked up speed. The whale island ended up plugging her death whirlpool, and the floor began to flood upwards.

“This should not be so hard; Nu makes it look like ‘oh you want a complex gate system or bar or waterfall? Boom, done, snark snark!’” Delta screamed as she had to double the size of the whirlpool for a moment, and the whale island swam down it.

She stared at its fading shadow and hoped that whirlpool didn’t go anywhere bad.

---

Brother frowned as he looked up at the ‘sky’ of the core of the world.

A massive shape was speeding towards him with flailing limbs.

“I’ve heard of cats and dogs. Whales are new,” he commented as he opened an umbrella with a calm expression. The whale landed sort of on him and a little on his rather important control unit for some of his stronger monsters.

It was only a little crack. A little control piece.

It was fine.

Brother now had a friend.

He called it ‘Seas.’ Its blubbery face and sad eyes reminded him of his Sister.

---

This wasn’t working.

Everytime Delta had closed one loophole or mistake in her Mana coding, a new bug arose. She programmed trees? The trees grew fruit that exploded.

She stopped them from exploding, and the trees floated off. She found the ‘collision’ issue and made the Mana behave.

Across the sea, three rocks began to glitch, and she had no clue why two pieces of unrelated floor parts were connected or why fixing one broke the other. She tried to make a bird of paradise to spice up an island, and the bird flew in a weird arc, spinning in a circle with one wing touching the ground at all times.

It opened its beak, and something like broken jazz emerged.

“These hands of mine, they are only good for breaking the system, not working with it,” she said with dismay.

She could almost hear Nu giving her one of his witty but upbeat speeches.

“Be you, you nimrod,” he would have said.

She looked at the messes she made, and Delta swallowed.

“I’m not a builder or a coder… or even a Dungeon Core,” she said with a nod of acceptance.

“I’m Delta, and I don’t care for dos or do nots. I only care if it helps,” she said and looked at the literal orange mana all around her.

She closed her eyes and held out her hands, cupping some of the mana with both hands.

“When I think of a sea, a magical sea. I see islands of fantastic impossibilities. I see golden fish glimmering in the sun. I see star-lit nights on a beach with friends. I see safe little huts for getaways. I see the sun, I see the moon, and I feel the breeze on my skin,” she said, a smile appearing on her face.

“Some islands have ancient ruins that make you think of the history all around you. Some islands have deep caves that could have treasure or a massive sea creature of a gentle nature. Another island has sand so golden it feels like you’re walking in a dream,” she said, her words getting faster as her heart began to beat with excitement.

“I see fish as big as islands swimming deep underwater. I see cursed ships on foggy nights. I see… I see…” she trailed off and opened her eyes that were now solid orbs of orange.

“I see it,” she whispered and threw her mana into the air where it began to gather into a massive storm high up in the sky. The orange mana created crackles of lightning that struck the floor, each impact making life and material as it struck.

Delta swayed her hands like a conductor with a baton, and the storm danced to her heartbeat. A lightning bolt created a long ringed island with a ruin in the middle, another made whales of deep green, another struck a beach repeatedly, making a mix of sand that looked like diamonds and gold.

The ocean churned as large pillars rose out of it followed by a half sunken castle.

A bolt into some trees made a rainbow of birds fly in all directions, and just as Delta thought the storm might be going too hard, it abruptly stopped, the clouds parting from the center to make a perfect clear circle to reveal what looked to be millions of stars.

