Maybe it was that the changes he wanted to make were so vital to the cards that it went against what they fundamentally were. It might be better to start fresh with new card shards.

New shards...

Arthur took out a Rare shard and looked at it. He had been thinking that Rare cards were too brittle, but maybe his thought process could do with more flexibility.

"What if I could add to an existing card?"

Placing the shard on the table, he started to scratch a short phrase on it. However, every time he did, the lines seemed to disappear within the shard. The shard was rejecting his changes.

Frowning, Arthur put it aside and pulled out a new shard. He scratched out the same phrase, and this time, the strokes of his penknife stayed in place, looking like a freshly burned brand.

A brand that started to smolder alarmingly.

Arthur snatched it up and hurled it to the side, using his Throwing skill and every bit of strength he had.

It blasted apart in a minor explosion in midair.

Brixaby abandoned his forge and came over. "What was that?"

"Nothing, just a bad shard,” he said, embarrassed.

He'd thrown it some distance away, but it took Brixaby no time at all to sniff at the area. "I do not like this," he said. "Observe the grass but do not step on it."

"Why not?"

"It smells like dragon soil," he said.

“Really?” Arthur stepped close, but not too close. He saw faintly glittering portions all over the grass, and some of that grass was starting to grow. Not enough for him to see, but fast enough that when he looked away to another part and then looked back several seconds later, there was a noticeable change.

Dragon soil would renew the land, but fresh dragon soil caused overgrowth in living things, including cancerous tumors.

Brixaby seemed to be frowning at him. "Perhaps whatever path you are following, you should consider a new one," he said, unusually grave.

"I'll try with one more shard," Arthur said.

He ended up using five more shards.

This time, he moved much more carefully. If the shard felt at all strange, he would stop immediately and put it to the side.

The ones that simply ate into his corrections didn't explode, and the ones that had the angry, burning lines slowly started to heal as long as he didn't push it.

Finally, he hit on a shard that accepted the phrase he carved into it. His pen strokes brought bright white lines. It almost felt like it was rejoicing in finding something that matched it.

Holding his breath, he focused on his Card Repair and pressed the shard right into the Rare card over the phrase he wanted to adjust.

Return to Start seemed to flex and warp. And to his shock, the words separated from the card and started to reorder themselves in midair, looking like ethereal fireflies.

"No," Arthur breathed. He didn't want to adjust the entire card. He didn't want to remake the entire card. What had he done?

But then, slowly... very slowly, the words came back together again in mostly the same order. The words returned to the card and clicked back into place, with the new piece seamlessly added.

Arthur had done it. He had fixed his most flawed card.

Return to Start

Rare

Trap

When the wielder of this card is attacked with another card’s power, they will be given the option to instantly be transported to a previously keyed-in location point at no mana cost and with no restriction due to distance. If a location has not been designated, the wielder will be transported to the physical point they last started that day—either one second after the stroke of midnight or at the moment they last woke, whichever point is later.

This trap card has a once-per-sunset usage restriction.
