Once everyone was ready, Rain motioned to Samson, and he and Carten led the way through the shimmering distortion. The air warmed significantly, but the heating effect of Rain’s aura also vanished as he passed through. A few seconds passed, then the hair raised on Samson’s neck as a piercing howl shattered the stillness, coming from behind him.

“Get inside,” Rain shouted, darting through the barrier. Samson felt the aura re-appear as he did, then quickly vanish. “They’re coming from outside. Dozens of them. Don’t know what yet.”

“Dozens, you say?” Mlem said, drawing his sword. “That means I win.”

“Damn it, focus!” Samson shouted, drawing his own sword. “Val, light! Rain, which direction?”

“All directions,” Rain said.

“Jamus, Arcane Bulwark,” Samson barked. “Give us something to put our backs against.”

Jamus nodded, extending one hand, the other still holding the torch. After a few seconds, the purple-blue barrier appeared, practically bisecting the small circle of illuminated snow.

“Look, Jamus! Puppies!” Carten shouted.

By Val’s light, Samson could see the forms of the monsters rushing for them. Forms that he recognized. “Frost Hounds!” he shouted. Finally, something normal.

As the first of the hounds crossed through the barrier, a health bar popped into existence above its head, along with the name of the monster and its level—five, as he had known it would be. Hounds were common, almost as ubiquitous as slimes. These ones were shaggy, their white fur matted and encrusted with frost, but were otherwise similar to every other hound he’d fought in the past. It was a large pack, though. Worryingly large. At least thirty strong.

Samson shifted into the basic stance of Second-Sparrow, the form specifically meant for dealing with this type of creature.

“Shit! Problem!” Rain shouted, but Samson didn’t get a chance to hear what it was before the first hound lunged for his throat. Stepping to the side, he drew his sword behind him, tracing a long slash along the monster’s side, his motion taking him into the path of a second hound that had been trying to get around him. Light Cut banished the weight from the metal in his hands—the real reason he’d taken the skill, not the paltry Light damage that it added—and he sent his sword whipping across in a slash that neatly severed the second Frost Hound’s head from its shoulders.

Depths! Samson mentally cursed, finding himself overextended. He barely avoided crashing into yet another hound, which fortunately darted away rather than taking advantage of his unbalance. I’m still not quite used to that. Carten charged forward in front of him, so Samson whirled, spinning to face the first hound he’d injured. It was already dead. Lyn had skewered it, but she was being harried by another pair of them, with more looking for a way to get at her. There was a crack of thunder, and Jamus’s whip sent them darting back, clearing a wide space between Lyn and the Arcane Bulwark to her right.

“We’ve got this side,” Mlem shouted from somewhere behind him, but Samson didn’t look, rushing to Lyn’s aid. Second-Sparrow, Third bought him some room, the wide slash sending the hounds scrambling back again, as he knew it would. Monsters were predictable, even more so than people or animals. They would respond to certain movements the same way, regardless of the actual threat. The katas were at least partly designed to take advantage of that—something not many people realized.

“Rain, burn them!” Tahir shouted.

“Can’t!” Rain yelled back. “Damn it! Something went wrong with my safety script! I can’t change the settings!”

Samson’s eyes widened, but not from what Rain had said. “Blue!” he shouted, pointing with his sword.

Frost Hound Alpha – Fifth Level

It padded out of the darkness at the back of the pack. Beside it was another larger-than-average Frost Hound, though a normal one if its name and level were to be believed. The pair of them sat, watching with hungry eyes as their smaller kin attacked.

“Don’t kill it!” Rain shouted. “Damn it, how about this!”

There was a sudden cacophony of yelps as every single one of the hounds stumbled at once, except the two seated at the back. Samson found himself flying forward to capitalize on the opportunity, guided by instinct even as his mind wondered what Rain had done. His thrust struck deep, the enchanted sword killing another of the hounds. He drew the blade back, then thrust again, landing a glancing hit on the shoulder of another hound.

Whatever the spell was, Rain kept doing it. Every time the hounds tried to get up, they’d simply fall again. There were tracers of wind trailing their bodies as they moved. Samson blinked as he noticed this. It’s Velocity, he realized, finishing another of the beasts. Back in Fel Sadanis, Rain had spent an hour or so having the entire company practice marching under the skill’s influence. It hadn’t gone well, just as it wasn’t going well for the hounds now. I had no idea he could use that on monsters.

With the skill active, dealing with the entire pack gave them little difficulty. Val picked off most of them, and Jamus wasn’t far behind, though Samson got the sense that the older mage wasn’t trying that hard. Tahir even managed to get a couple kills, his bow allowing him to do so safely. Samson felt no need for either him or Lyn to engage. Even disabled as they were by Rain’s spell, the hounds were still dangerous in melee.

Finally, it was down to just the alpha. Carten had smashed the other large hound to a pulp and was currently fending off the angry essence monster. Interestingly, Rain’s aura never seemed to have bothered either of the larger monsters in the slightest, all through the fight.

“What are we doin’?” Carten asked, slamming the essence monster back as it once more went for his neck. “’S fun as this is, we’d best be movin’ on. Damn!” he cursed, jumping back and covering his neck. “This thing’s really mad!”

“And fast, too,” Samson said, watching. The essence monster truly did seem to be more agile than the others, despite its size. Its patterns were also more varied. However, against Carten, its level was simply insufficient for it to be a serious threat. “You killed its mate,” Samson continued. He gestured to the broken hound near where Carten was fighting. “It will never stop now. It’s going to ignore everything else until it kills you, or it dies. That’s what hounds do.”

“Mate?” Rain asked, sounding pained.

Samson chuckled. “Don’t make the face, Rain. Monsters don’t have families. It’s just how they are. Hounds always come in packs, and sometimes, there’s an alpha. When there is, it always has a mate. Wolves too, but be thankful these aren’t those. Frost Wolves are deadly things. Pray that you never meet one.”

“…What face?” Rain asked.

“How can you tell he’s making the face?” Mlem asked, ignoring him. “He’s got his helmet on.”

“It’s obvious,” Val said, chuckling. “It’s Rain. He’d feel bad for a monster if it choked on his armor while it was trying to eat him.”

“Ha!” Carten shouted, backhanding the monster with a shield. It rose and lunged at him again, completely undeterred.

“Um, this could be an issue,” Jamus said, gesturing around. “We still have nowhere to go. Are we going to have to kill it?”

“No,” Rain said with a put-upon sigh. He pointed out at the darkness. “Look. There’s more light over there. It probably appeared the moment we crossed the barrier. Carten, stop playing and sit on that thing. I’ll use Force Ward on you, so just grab it. I think I’ve got some rope.”

“Hmm,” Val said, walking to the edge of the circle. “Yeah, you’re right.” He pointed off to the right. “That’s where the stairs were. I can still make out the building.” He shifted his finger off to the left until he was pointing in almost the opposite direction. “And that’s something else. Can’t tell what.”

Rain clicked his tongue, flipping up his visor. “Another circle like this one would be my guess,” he said, gesturing. “Look at the party display.”

Samson did. The lair’s integrity showed as thirty in one-hundred.

Rain sighed. “I’m thinking we’ve got eight more fights like that to go. There was a nine in there, after all. One-ninth of one-third. 3.7 percent.”

“I still win the bet,” Mlem said, merrily.

“This lair is horrible,” Jamus said, rubbing at his temples. “My poor head.”

“My poor legs,” Lyn said. “You realize how much walking that is, right?”

“Oi! No biting!” There was a loud thump as Carten punched the hound in the stomach. He’d tossed aside his shields and had the thing in a bear hug, the two of them rolling through the snow. “Damn it, sit still!”

“Do monsters have stamina?” Tahir asked.

“Yes,” Val said. “It will wear itself out eventually.” He dismissed his light, then took the torch from Jamus and planted it in the ground. “How was a normal party even supposed to deal with this? If not for having our own personal mana fountain, this would have taken us days. This place is a nightmare for mages.”

“Ahh! It’s got me beard!” Carten shouted over the continued, angry growling. “Cold teeth, cold teeth!”

“You think we should help him?” Lyn asked.

“Why?” Mlem asked, stroking his mustache with an amused smile on his face. “Normally, you’d have to pay to see this kind of entertainment.”
