Samson sat cross-legged atop his cloak, slowly going over his sword with an oil-soaked rag. The blade was pristine. Rain’s aura had dealt with the blood of the third turtle they’d faced, but it had removed the protective coating as well. The durability enchantment worked into the metal would slow the formation of rust, but it wouldn’t stop it entirely. Even had Samson owned an indestructible sword of legend, he would still have taken the time to care for the blade. Being a swordsman wasn’t just about what kind of weapon you used. It was a way of life.

Carefully, Samson slipped the blade back into its sheath and stood. He belted the weapon on with no further ceremony, tucking the rag into a pocket. He wasn’t so far-gone down the path of the sword that he’d named the blade or began to think about it as the seat of the soul or some other such foolishness. In the end, it was a tool, nothing more. He maintained it as any craftsman would, just as he maintained his own body.

Stretching, he stepped off of his cloak, feeling his boot slip slightly on the treacherous ice. He adapted smoothly, falling into the first stance of Fifth-Sparrow. The instinct given to him by the form’s kata tried to guide his hand to the hilt of his sword, but he ignored it. Ignoring that instinct was getting easier and easier to do as he practiced with the skill. He’d been training in this style since he was a boy, and he knew all thirteen forms so well that the actual kata was more of a distraction than an aid. He wouldn’t have taken Sparrow at all, had it not been a prerequisite for Egret. The higher katas contained motions that were simply impossible for a mundane swordsman. First-Egret was already proving a significant hurdle for him, and not one that he would attempt to pass here. This was just to kill time and keep his body limber.

Samson moved through the familiar motions of the fifth form, focusing on the placement of his feet. Sparrow taught fast, darting movements and sudden reversals, which were made particularly difficult by the ice. He moved slowly, reflecting on the dissonance between his muscle memory and the kata’s guidance. With each step, the skill urged him to adjust his footing, to draw his sword, to pivot and bring it down. It was wrong. From his long years of practice, he knew better. On ice, you could not place your balance in the same way. You had to adapt, had to alter the movements.

Minutes passed as he practiced, feeling the others’ eyes watching him as they chatted on the other side of the room where they were resting. He tuned them out, everything fading but his perception of his balance.

Eventually, Samson reached the seventh movement of Fifth-Sparrow—a sudden reversal, then a leap followed by a spiraling upward slash meant to surprise a pursuer. It was a rather tricky movement, even on solid footing. It had given him a lot of trouble as a child. As he attempted it now, his foot slipped out from under him, and despite his efforts to compensate, he was going down. There was nothing he could do to stop it.

That simply meant that he shouldn’t try.

Samson flung himself at the ground, landing in a roll. As the momentum of his fall threw his legs over his head, he executed the second movement of Eighth-Sparrow, pushing off the ground as hard as he could. His palms found no traction on the ice, but his shove gave him the height he needed. Bowing to the instinct of the kata this time, he whipped his legs down in a vicious heel-kick toward an invisible enemy. The movement stabilized his spin, and he managed to get his feet under him before he hit the ground. He slid to a stop in the low stance of Eighth-Sparrow, ready to continue the fight.

“Wow,” Rain said, sounding impressed. “Sick flip, dude.”

Samson smiled, then rose out of his form and assumed a normal standing posture. “Thank you.” When it came to the things Rain said, it was best to just pay attention to his tone.

“That was still Sparrow Kata, right?”

Samson nodded. “Fifth form, seventh movement, then eighth form, second.”

“Ah, obviously,” Rain said, nodding. “How could I miss that?”

Samson smiled, dusting some crushed ice from his gambeson. The stiff fabric limited his movements slightly, but it was worth it for the protection. “You still serious about wanting to learn?” he asked, nodding to the poor excuse for a sword at Rain’s waist.

“I want to learn everything,” Rain said, laughing. He touched the sword, then shrugged. “Just not enough hours in the day, you know? I probably shouldn’t have even brought this thing, but I figured it would be good to have a spare in case someone else’s broke.”

Samson nodded. “You should get yourself a better sword. Tallheart would make you one if you asked, yes?”

“Yeah, he probably would,” Rain said with a shrug, “There’s no real point if I can’t use it, though. I don’t want to waste his time or resources. By the way, do you think you could keep running those classes you were doing back in Fel Sadanis? Maybe we save time for it each night?”

Samson nodded. “I was going to suggest that.”

“Great,” Rain said, smiling. “You’ll have one student, at least. Anyway, I came over to let you know that we’re almost ready to go down. Do you need more time?”

Samson shook his head. “No. I’m ready, but are you sure the others don’t need a longer rest?” He glanced at Jamus. The Arcane Mage clearly had a headache from the way he was rubbing at his temples. Everyone else was watching them, their own conversation having died away. Val, he noticed, was missing, likely scouting the way ahead.

Rain shrugged. “At this point, it’s press on until the end, or stop for the night. I, for one, would prefer to have a real supper.”

“We’re fine,” called Lyn, slapping Jamus on the shoulder. “We’ve been ready for a while. We just didn’t want to interrupt a man while he was rubbing his sword.”

Carten barked out a laugh at her crude innuendo. Samson frowned, his estimation of his fellow noble dropping by several degrees. He ignored them both, still addressing Rain. “And you? You’ve been refilling everyone’s mana with Essence Well. Shouldn’t you be in an even worse state than they are?”

Rain spread his hands. “Dynamo. What can I say?”

“You really don’t feel soulstrain at all, do you?” Samson asked.

“Oh, I do,” Rain said, “Just not for mana use.” He paused. “Well, not for any sane level, anyway.”

Samson snorted. “Should I even ask what you consider to be an insane level?”

Rain grinned. “Probably not. Anyway, since you’re ready, let’s go.”

“Any idea what’s down there?” Samson asked.

Rain shrugged. “Detection says it’s about three hundred steps down, then there’s a room about half the size of this one, with a door into what might be a bigger room or a really wide hallway. I couldn’t get much more than that. The spiral really chews into the range of Detection.”

Samson snorted. “Three hundred steps, you said? Joy. Let me get my cloak.”

Rain waited as Samson packed up, then the two of them proceeded to the alcove that had appeared once they’d cleared the room, joining the others. As in the mill above, there was a spiraling staircase set into the floor.

“Val already went down?” he asked, turning to Rain.

“No,” Rain said with a sigh. “He thinks he’s being sneaky. He’s right next to you.”

“Really?” Samson said, looking to the indicated spot. Rain had mentioned that Val was capable of invisibility during the briefing before they’d entered the lair, but he hadn’t expected it to be so complete. “That is impressive. I can’t tell you’re there at all.”

“Thanks,” Val said. “Okay, follow me.”

Tahir jumped, edging away from the source of the voice. The others barely reacted.

“Everyone, be careful,” Rain said, addressing the room. “If anyone slips, we’ll all go down. I can’t believe I forgot my climbing stuff in my pack outside. Had I known there weren’t going to be any damn railings…” He sighed, then shook his head.

Samson had been listening with half an ear, focused on the floor as he tracked Val by the sound of his footsteps and the faintest shimmer of motion in the air as he moved. Hmm. The illusion isn’t as flawless when he’s moving. Still, I don’t think I’d notice if I wasn’t looking for it. He glanced at the party display, checking the white bar that represented Val’s mana. If it was dropping, it was doing so quite slowly.

“Samson, go next,” Rain said.

Samson nodded, then began his descent, following Val’s footsteps and quickly dropping below the level of the floor. Behind him, Rain continued. “I’m third. After that, Jamus, Lyn, Mlem, then Tahir. Carten has the rear guard. Carten, don’t you dare slip. You’ll crush us all.”

“S’why I shoulda gone first,” Carten said, his voice following Samson down the stairs.

“Everyone, quietly, please,” Rain said. Samson heard him start his descent. “Come on.”

The party proceeded down the stairs for a few careful minutes, moving in relative silence. Samson counted the steps, and around the time he reached two-fifty, a hiss from Val brought him to a stop. “The wall stops, but the stairs continue. It’s a room, just like you said, Rain. No monsters. And yes, no railing.”

“Understood, Val,” Rain said, whispering from above. “Keep going. Carefully.”

Samson closed his mouth, having opened it, intent on relaying the message. He’s got good hearing.

True to Val’s word, the walls ended soon, the stairwell opening up into a cylindrical room. The walls were smooth gray stone, as was the floor. Everything was lit dimly by the stairwell’s blue glow, the magical ice forming a pillar in the center of the room as the stairs spiraled down to the floor. There was one doorway, through which Samson could see a few stone steps leading down before they emptied out onto snowy ground.

Despite his confidence in his balance, Samson slowed his descent even further. By the time he had reached the ground, Val was already at the door, judging from the position of his voice.

“The door leads to some sort of huge cavern,” the Light Mage said, a curious note in his voice. “I can’t see the ceiling or the walls. The ground is snow, but it just stops suddenly. There’s a barrier. It’s hard to describe. Like a ripple in the air or something. You’d better just come look.”

“Don’t go out, Val,” Rain said from the stairs.

“Yeah, yeah,” Val said. Samson blinked as Val popped into view, peering through the dark doorway. He looked back over his shoulder, then motioned to Samson.

Samson joined him as the others made their careful way to the floor. Through the door, he saw hard-packed snow, lit as if by the moon. The light faded away a few dozen stride from the doorway. Looking closer, he noticed a faint shimmer in the air near the demarcation between light and dark. That must be the barrier.

It took a few minutes for the rest of the group to reach the ground, fortunately doing so without incident. Once everyone was ready, Rain had Carten lead the way through the door and out into the cavern.

Samson drew his sword as he stepped down onto the snow. Rain would have told them if there had been any monsters, but the lair had surprised them before. The air was cold and completely dead, with not even a hint of wind.

“What…?” Mlem said, sounding startled. Samson glanced at him, seeing that he was staring back the way they’d come. Almost immediately, he felt his heart skip a beat as he realized what the man was looking at.

How…?

The cylindrical room with the stairwell wasn’t set into the wall of the cavern as he’d assumed. Neither was it the bottom-floor of a tower or something of that nature. The walls of the building ended abruptly, no more than half a stride above the doorway. It was a single story, for all that they’d descended much, much further than that. The gray, featureless stone was lit by the same sourceless light as the circle of snow surrounding it.

“There’s definitely something Arcane about this lair, no matter what aspect it claims to be,” Jamus said lightly.

“Ya don’t say?” Carten said, staring straight up. He looked down, then spun, gesturing with a shield. “What’s with the…whatever it is?”

“A barrier, clearly, but I have no idea what it does,” Rain said. “Detection says it isn’t there. I just sense snow on the other side.” He paused, then shrugged. “Regular snow, too, not the magical stuff like before. There’s dirt underneath.” He pointed out at the darkness. “There, anyone else see that?”

Samson followed his finger but saw nothing.

“Light,” Val said. “Very faint.”

“Send your Lunar Orb out there, Val,” Rain said, lowering his arm. “Everyone, stay focused. Something might happen when it passes through the barrier.”

Samson adjusted his grip on his sword as a glowing ball of white light appeared. The spell’s light wasn’t blocked by the odd barrier, revealing more packed snow on the other side, fading into darkness. After a moment, Val sent the orb through and out into the blackness. Nothing happened as it passed through the magical curtain.

The party watched silently for almost a minute as the orb traveled, revealing nothing but more featureless snow and the occasional rock or fragment of ice. Samson sheathed his sword, as it was clear that nothing was coming, though he kept his hand on the hilt.

“Max range,” Val finally said. “One thousand stride.”

“Shit,” Rain said. “That’s a long walk. There’s definitely something out there, though.”

“I can’t see anything,” Lyn said. “Where am I supposed to be looking?”

“Past my light, about twice that distance again, maybe,” Val said, pointing.

“Are you sure?” Mlem asked. “I can’t see anything, either.”

Rain shook his head. “It’s there. What’s your perception?”

Mlem hesitated. “I have a hearing boost,” he finally said, glancing from Rain to Val. “You two have enhanced vision?”

“Yes. General perception, not just vision,” Rain said.

Lyn whistled. “Isn’t that supposed to be rare? I’ve never heard of equipment giving a general perception boost, short of silverplate stuff. Does it work on touch too? What about smell?”

Rain shrugged but didn’t elaborate.

Samson frowned, considering. I believe there is a skill that boosts perception, but I don’t find it likely that they both took it. An accolade? He glanced at Jamus and Carten, who both seemed to be staring at the same spot in the darkness. Them too? Ah, the darkness lair. That makes sense. Lucky. Still, if it’s out there… Samson squinted. “Dismiss the light please, Val,” he said, then moved toward the barrier cautiously.

