“Careful, Samson,” Rain said, his metal boots crunching on the snow as he followed. “Don’t touch it.”

Samson nodded, stopping a step away from the distortion in the air. Val’s light vanished. With the lit snow now behind him, Samson waited for his eyes to adjust. Very faintly in the distance, he began to make out one spot that might have been just a bit brighter than the rest of the inky darkness. “It’s there,” he said after another moment. “Faint, but there.”

“Well, looks like we’ve got some walkin’ ta do,” Carten said, crunching loudly up to the barrier. “Startin’ ta not like this lair.”

“Starting?” Jamus asked. “The reanimated villagers begging us to kill them wasn’t enough to cement your opinion?”

“Don’t drop your guard,” Rain said sternly. He reached into a pouch and removed a rock, motioning them back. “Get ready.”

Samson nodded, retreating from the barrier. Rain tossed the rock through, and it vanished into the darkness. Val summoned his light again and sent it out, revealing the rock resting atop the packed snow. He brought it back to rest near his head after a moment, though he didn’t dismiss it.

“Carten,” Rain said. Carten nodded, walking up to the barrier. He waved the edge of his shield through it, then, when nothing happened, stepped through.

“Hoahh!” he yelled, stopping dead in his tracks.

“What is it, Carten?”

“S’bloody brisk!” Carten said, a plume of frost billowing from his mouth.

“Dangerous?” Rain asked. Samson’s eyes flicked to Carten’s health, but it hadn’t dropped.

“Fer me? No,” Carten said with a shrug. “Fer you lot? No idea.”

“Okay,” Rain said. “I’m coming through.” He stepped through the barrier, then cursed. “Shit, that’s cold!”

“Warned ya,” Carten said.

“Is this the challenge, then?” Tahir asked. “Make it to the distant light without freezing to death?”

“That can’t be all,” Jamus said, walking through the barrier. “Oooh!” he gasped, desperately clutching at his cloak. “You weren’t kidding, Carten!”

“Hang on a second, the rest of you,” Rain said, motioning them back. He flipped up his visor, spat, then quickly flipped it back down again and bent over. “I’ve always wanted to try that. It’s already frozen, maybe even before it hit the ground. I’m thinking it’s below minus forty, but I can’t prove it.”

Samson blinked, glancing at the others. Minus forty? Minus forty what?

“That’s…bad?” Lyn asked, clearly just as confused.

“Yes,” Rain said. “You’ll get frostbite on exposed skin within minutes. The awakened will probably be okay, assuming everyone has at least a few points in Endurance, but you and Tahir would have problems. We don’t have the gear for this. I’m going to need to keep Immolate going, or we’ll never make it past the first marker. Sorry, ignore that. Reference to something. Anyway, with Immolate, we should be fine.”

“Jamus is right,” Mlem said. “This can’t be all there is.”

“Another reaper class monster when we get there?” Jamus asked. He gestured. “The lair integrity is at one in three.”

“Maybe,” Rain said. “But then again, maybe not. We had one big-boss with a buttload of adds, then three mini-bosses. My bet is we’re going to run into nine regular monsters this time. Probably all at once right at the worst possible time, like when we’re halfway there.”

Samson tapped his index finger against the hilt of his sword, still staring at the darkness. Adds were…monsters that accompany a reaper, right? And he’s calling reapers ‘bosses’ for some reason. Rain’s terminology is so confusing.

“I’ll take that bet,” Mlem said. “Say…ten Tel on there being nine enemies? Naturally, I agree with you that they will show up at the worst possible time.”

Rain snorted. “Fine, why not? You’re on. Come on through the barrier, everyone. Immolate seems to be working fine. There’s been no reaction from the lair so far.”

Samson stepped through. The barrier proved to be a surprise, but not in any way that he’d expected. There was no resistance when he crossed, but the temperature sharply increased. It appeared that the magic blocked both cold and heat. Rain’s aura hadn’t been able to pass through. Another surprise was the air itself. It suddenly felt…thin, like the air in the mountains near his family’s holdings in the north.

“Everyone, sit tight,” Rain said, clearly manipulating his interface. He had his hands held in front of him as if working on a counter, and he was wiggling his fingers strangely. “I’ve just got to dial in the level.”

Samson shook his head, knowing better than to ask what the finger motions meant. He turned to Val. “Val, would you mind sending your light out again? Scout around a bit. I’d like to know if there’s anything else out there.”

“Good idea,” Val said, nodding to him. The orb of light that had been spinning around his head started to depart, but quickly returned as the party was plunged into darkness. “That’s a problem,” Val laughed. “The light from the snow doesn’t cross the barrier. Somebody light a torch.”

“Rain?” Samson asked.

“Hmm, what?” Rain asked, pausing his finger-wiggling. “Oh, sorry. Yeah. A torch is fine.”

“Okay, one moment,” Tahir said. He knelt and removed his quiver, which had a pair of torches strapped to it. He freed one, then fussed with the bindings, retying the other. Samson shivered as he watched the man work. The temperature had dropped sharply, just in the few moments they’d been talking. Just how cold would it be without Rain’s aura?

Tahir got the torch lit, the flames growing quickly. The circle of light that it threw extended a good distance into the darkness, but it would also blind them somewhat. “Anyone else want to hold this?” Tahir asked, gesturing with the torch as he held his bow in his other hand. “I need both hands free.”

“I’ll take it,” Jamus said mildly.

“Why, Jamus?” Carten said. “What good’s ‘is bow gonna do?”

“Carten, hush,” Jamus said, taking the torch.

“He has a point,” Lyn said. “I don’t know about you, Tahir, but I feel pretty useless here. I can take it if you want, Jamus.”

Samson shook his head, glancing at Rain. A good leader was one that managed the morale of his followers, but their captain didn’t appear to be paying attention. How difficult is it to just pick an intensity? What is he doing over there?

Samson cleared his throat, returning his eyes to tracking the progress of Val’s light. “You aren’t useless, Lyn, Tahir. It depends on what kind of threat we face. Based on what I’ve seen of your capabilities, you should be fine against most monsters up to level five. Up to level ten, you can still provide support and deal damage, though resistances start to be a problem, like with those turtles.”

“I know all that, Samson,” Lyn said with a sigh. “We’re going to get a spot in the party if there’s a blue, right Rain? … Rain!”

Rain looked up from his interface. “Huh?”

Samson frowned. He is too easily distracted. Is it the Clarity, or is it just him?

“Oh, yes, of course,” Rain answered after Lyn repeated her question. “I’d want you two in the party that kills it, or in the one that breaks the core. I don’t think there’ll be much of an argument about that, but then again, there might. I need to get the credit system straightened out asap.”

“Asap?” Mlem asked, having slight difficulty with the unfamiliar word.

“It’s an acronym, or if we’re being pedantic, an initialism. It means as soon as possible,” Rain said. “Unfortunately, it’s not pronounceable if I translate the words so it works in—”

“Rain,” Samson said, interrupting. He was starting to feel the burn of the thin air against his skin and in his lungs. “It’s getting too cold.”

“Yeah, sorry,” Rain said. “I dropped Immolate for a second. The air out here really doesn’t want to hold the heat.” He paused, wiggling his fingers some more. “Um…okay, what if I…hmm. No, that’s a terrible idea. Still…”

“What?” Mlem asked.

“Well, I have a skill called Aura IFF—that’s another acronym, by the way, for ‘identify friend foe’, but it’s not one that you pronounce, so I translated the letters into common for you. Anyway, it’s what lets me use attack auras without frying my allies. I was thinking that if I stopped using it, I could warm you all…directly.” He raised his hands. “It’s slightly less dangerous than it sounds. Everyone has a base Heat resistance of one, so I thought if I kept it really, really, really low—”

“Rain,” Samson said, interrupting again. “Just do what you need to do. We’ll keep watch.”

“Right,” Rain said after a moment. “I should take my own advice and stay focused. Just let me know, anyone, if you feel like you’re about to freeze or catch fire. This is going to take me a minute. I need to make sure I do things safely, and Val’s still scouting anyway. Anything yet, Val?

“Just snow,” Val said. “Lots and lots of snow. In every direction. I’ll keep looking.”

“Right,” Rain said. “Stay frosty, everyone… Sorry. That was bad. This’ll just be a minute.”

As Samson expected, the captain’s ‘minute’ turned out to be closer to fifteen. Only then did Rain finally declare that he was satisfied with the number of fail-safes that he’d built into his ‘script’. The word itself was familiar, but it clearly had nothing to do with a play.

Whatever Rain had done, it seemed to be working. Samson felt warm, almost uncomfortably so. Further, he was staying warm, despite the fact that the air felt shockingly cold on his skin and the snow beneath their feet wasn’t melting.

“Everyone ready?” Rain asked.

“We’ve been ready,” Val said, sounding annoyed.

“Did you look up?” Rain asked.

“Yes, Rain, I looked up,” Val said. “Nothing but darkness up there.”

“I still find it interesting how this lair is able to manipulate space,” said Mlem, stroking his mustache. He’d removed his hood and thrown back his cloak, as had the others. “The sheer enormity of this chamber defies explanation. I need to get my hands on a copy of Sameter’s Lair Atlas.”

“You and me both,” Rain said with a sigh. “Okay, um, let’s mix it up. Samson, want to take point this time?”

“Very well,” Samson said, intuiting Rain’s meaning. It’s about time that he asked me to lead. These…adventurers don’t know how to stay focused. He looked out at the darkness, then cleared his throat. “Carten, with me, if you’d please. Somebody let me know if I stray off-course. I don’t have—” he stopped himself, having been about to say ‘a perception accolade,’ but decided against voicing his guess aloud. He didn’t have so little tact that he’d reveal their secret like that. “…special eyes,” he finished lamely after his pause.

For some reason, Rain barked out a laugh. “Right, I need to remember that,” he said, grinning like a fool. “Okay then, Val’s the navigator.” He pointed. “Look, Val. Look with your special eyes.”

“You are so weird, Rain,” Val said. Everyone nodded in agreement, but Rain just grinned at them goofily, then flipped down his visor.

Samson sighed and led the way into the darkness. He set a cautious pace at first, keeping his hand on his sword as they advanced, their boots crunching through the snow. After about five minutes, nothing had appeared to attack them, so he increased his speed to a brisk walk. Judging from how far Val’s light had reached, it was about four or five thousand stride to the light. They’d be walking for a while.

The thing that struck Samson was how dead the air was. There was not so much as a lick of wind, despite the size of the cavern they were in. It was unnatural and eerily silent. Worse than the muffling snow in the false village above. That had been the familiar silence of winter. This was the silence of the void. Combined with the darkness, it made for a nervewracking experience. If not for Rain’s aura, it would have been completely unbearable.

Finally, they drew close enough to make out the source of the light ahead of them, or more accurately, to see what it revealed, for there was no source. It was just a circle of lit snow, about twenty stride across, with the same shimmering distortion surrounding it that had surrounded the building with the stairwell. It had been around half a league from the stairs.

“Carefully,” Samson said as they approached. “Be ready.”

“Wait,” Lyn puffed, holding up her hand. “I need a minute…before we go in.”

Samson nodded. The modest pace he’d set had ended up being quite taxing due to the thin air, even for him with his boosted stats. He was honestly impressed that Lyn and Tahir had managed to keep up without complaint until now.

“Expect monsters when we cross,” Samson said. “We’ll go when you’re ready.”

“Detection says there’s nothing around, but I don’t disagree,” said Rain. “There’s nothing in there except more snow. There’s got to be a trigger for the next event inside. I don’t see anything else anywhere in the darkness.”

“By the way, Rain,” Tahir asked, breathing heavily, though he looked slightly better than Lyn. “How long can you do that heat thing for? Are you going to be able to use your spells once we’re through, or do you need to rest?”

“No, I’m good,” Rain said, waving him away. “I’ve got it running at 0.65% power with the range brought down to six meters. I’m so happy my script can do fractional levels like that. It was such a pain to do manually. Anyway, those settings make the damage 0.86-0.98. Basically, less than one. That’s the important part. The cost for it is 0.325 mana a second, and my natural regen right now is 0.335—can’t use Winter because Immolate’s on, obviously. I could do this all day. What’s really fascinating is how it works. It looks like it warms you up until the point you start getting uncomfortable, then your resistance kicks in and clamps it there. I didn’t have to adjust it to compensate for the awakened having more—”

“Depths, Rain, enough!” said Val. “He asked if you needed to rest, not to give a lecture.”

“Fine, fine,” Rain said. “Ask me later, and I’ll be happy to explain the math. You’re right, though. It doesn’t matter right now.”

Samson smiled. I don’t think you’ll get any takers on that offer, Rain.

