The first battles of a war are bloodless, soundless, heartless affairs.

But there is also something else that takes shape before the war begins. As truth collides with lies, you try to discern what is and what isn't, and what is a loose act of deception from what is being hidden from your eyes. Everything coalesces into a miasma of chaos. From that slurry, you must distinguish all the colors and all the details and place your bids, because they are bids. Nothing is ever known in its totality. Even an individual self-deceives, and the reasons are too multitudinous and myriad to account for.

But one must gamble. There is no other choice; there is no deciding not to. For if you do not bid, someone else will, and the one who refuses will be acted upon, and they will always be the war prize of the victor.

To abdicate means to make victory an impossibility.

Risk it all again and again, dive deeper, drink in the waters, and try to separate the filth from the flavor by taste alone.

Send in your pawns, sacrifice them, expend your advantage, and hunt down theirs.

Learn the truth, as much of it as you can, and decide, always decide.

Bid, bid, bid.

Fire the first shot, or at least fire back after the first blow descends out.

Even if you must bleed, do not do it alone. Even if you are to die, make sure no one emerges whole.

Join the war before the war with the heartless, the useless, the spent, the liars already setting things up, already dancing before the curtains rise and the first soliloquy is imparted, and stay even after the curtain falls.

The war between wars is never over. There is always the next war. The next lie. The next deception.

—Parable for Spies, New Albion Recruitment Primer

445

The Battle After the Battle

Though Gate Piety’s outer Abyssal defense forces readied themselves, the second push never came.

The aggressors of the third offensive retreated behind their lines, casting wards upon the air, creating mirages, illusions, blockades, and other magics to spare themselves from a counter-offensive. And they truly were taking up defensive postures. Adam’s divine Awareness, branded upon the Burned Ones and thousands of other enemy Pathbearers, confirmed the unbelievable truth: this offensive was finished.

Enemy elites were rotated off the battlefield and segregated between the Awareness-compromised and still reliable. The rest of their forces remained in place but held to a passive posture that would respond if Gate Piety's forces closed in, but not otherwise. They dug new trench lines, created additional fortifications, and established even more fallback positions—leading all the way to a chain of rear operating bases guarded by Court Leviathans and other fast-response detachments.

Their shift in combat posture was extreme, beyond dramatic. One moment they were throwing everything they had at Gate Piety for what felt like everything. Millions had been given over to the slaughter. Callousness and attrition were the order of the day. Now they were fighting like they wanted to trade space for time, space for lives. It was like they saw themselves as the ones on the defensive, rattling Gate Piety. How absurd this was—a humiliating thing.

The First Blood, Compact, the Vultegs… Each one was a nation possessed of considerable power in its own right. Two among the three considered themselves empires. To show their belly and nakedly bleed in front of a single city-state would have been unthinkable in almost any other situation.

But Gate Piety wasn't any other situation. It was a Unique Gate guarded by three Legendary-Unique Pathbearers, further supplemented by an additional legion of Legends, Heroes, novel skills, and more volunteers flooding in with each passing day. An international coalition army was forming, one made up of surfacers and Abyssals, monsters and individuals. Yellowstone nobles fought alongside Dragon-Knights and Weaveresses alike, pushing back against the invaders for coin or prestige—more often the latter. For a few, they were drawn forth by another calling, a higher drive. Adam was a Demi-Saint of the Republic now. It didn't mean he was recognized as a full god. Veronica saw special promise in what he offered and thus was trying to encode him into the Ascendancy's canon—even at the risk of the Songbringer’s ire.

Beyond the renegade orcs, hundreds of disparate Pathbearers arrived with a single wish: to join the Order of the Flaming Eye—to enforce the tyranny of justice upon a lawless world festering with the vile and unclean. Most of their number suffered visions at the will of the System, revelations of where to go and who to seek. And the name itself was imposed upon Adam, defined and christened based on his divine skill, that singular skill that only he could possess.

He, and no other.

Most of them arrived underleveled, with vengeance in their hearts and scars on their backs. Former slaves most often, but other types of victims besides. Yet there were few among their ranks that were High-Tier and of a different disposition. They were haunted by something they had done. They were stained by a fallacy of their past, and when they arrived before Adam, they burned in flesh and soul, for they were not pure like their weaker counterparts. But they were noble of intent and sought to boil away the wrongness that defined their past.

The Order-to-be was placed away from the front lines at present. They were untested, raw, and with far too many wounds that leaned toward individual or organizational collapse. At present, they stood with the bulk of Gate Piety's defenders: surrounding the core of the dimension where the dormant Tutorial gateway lay and the Peacehold rose to brush the crystal skies.

That might have been the ultimate reason why the second push didn't manifest, because driving Gate Piety's defenders back through the gateway was supposed to be the easy part. They were outnumbered in terms of High-Tier Pathbearers and raw quantity of chaff. With every single offensive that transpired, defeat followed the invaders. Defeat hounded them, defeat became them as they dashed themselves against Gate Piety’s outer defenses, yet proved themselves a glass hammer meeting a pebble of iron.

Such was the general opinion as the troops conducted their after-action report of the battle.

The Favored Three were of a shared, more paranoid mind.

“My assessment stands. They had an opening. They chose not to take it. They chose to dissolve their offense and wait.” Uva paused as she scanned the other representatives present inside the Farnest Council Chamber. The meeting room, once meant to suit only a few, had been expanded dramatically, and the subterranean base was upgraded several times over, becoming something of a political and militaristic forum for all members of the Gate Piety Coalition to send forth representatives and bring up pressing matters that affected them and, by extension, the Gate itself.

“Could just be a morale thing,” suggested Captain Jane Ircanos of the Republic Polymagi. “We lost 6,013 people. 6,013 for 16 million. That's a pretty nasty trade. Frankly, I think this is the nastiest trade ever seen. The way we've been killing them, you'd think that they're the single city-state and we're the empire. As it turns out, all you need to make up for multi-magnitude outnumbering is an albino elf with a big imagination, a Demi-Saint with a Domain of Voyeurism, and a man-shaped natural disaster who treats death like I do naps.”

Her glibness attracted a glare from the representative next to her. Master-Advisor Coulson was an all-business, all-loyalty yes-man, one of Veronica's personal patsies when it came to the political sport of influence and domination. Comparatively, Ircanos was more of a firebrand who cared little about politics. She spoke her mind with little to no concern about consequences and delivered on results every single time. But it wasn't weird that they both ended up here. After all, Veronica needed someone weak-willed enough that she could control and rely on at any point, and also useless enough that she could spend him without any concern. Ircanos, meanwhile, would have been wasted by some intra-Republic intrigue between noble houses.

“The pawn and the knight share a destination and directive—but are worlds apart when it comes to use.” So Veronica claimed as she taught Shiv chess—and so she showed through the assets she bestowed.

“Potentially, but highly unlikely,” Adam rebuffed. “Shiv: remind the representatives of the socio-cultural and aggregate individual psychological assessment of our enemies.”

Shiv nodded on reflex and kept nodding for two seconds longer before he realized he had actually been called on. He still wasn't used to it, holding a governmental position and being bestowed so much official responsibility. Everything he did before was more of his own volition, driven to support his Gate and his people. But ultimately, without structure or specific directives... what a difference two months could make.

Legend-Emissary Shiv of Piety stood, clearing his throat. “Our enemies share symmetrical mythology in terms of culture and behavior. Everyone at the top has value: those with power, with resources, with connections, and they're the ones that make decisions and control the narrative. My fellow Pathbearers, we are dealing with the bastard children born of plutocracies, oligarchies, and kakistocracies.” He chuckled. “Love how that last one sounds.

“To put things simply, that means that they're top-heavy when it comes to the narrative. They're top-heavy when it comes to making decisions and morale. Everything beneath Heroic-Tier is chaff. Masters are valuable, but still a resource, and Adepts—forget about it. It's not even a crab bucket. They're meant to die. They're conditioned to risk it all and do it again. Everything is built to serve or steal a seat from someone above, and those on top do everything they can to make sure everyone beneath them is willing to spend themselves because there is the battle after the battle to worry about. If you get home and you lost, well, it's time to push that responsibility to someone else. And that's not a choice. Even if Compact or the vampires were being led by someone lenient, someone who diverges from the cultural norm, then we still have Lord Scorn to consider—and this war is more than just business for him.”

A loud rumble of laughter shook the room. Heads turned upward, but Shiv's gaze fell upon its source before anyone else's. Poverty, Dragon-Broker of Loans and Commerce, cleaned his crystalline monocle until it was glittering amidst the black. The Coalition's Forum was an expansive space, now shaped like an upraised coliseum with rows of seating that grew larger and larger the further outward they were, with the ceiling being well over two kilometers high to accommodate even the largest of dragons and other monstrous beings. Enchantments allowed weaker Pathbearers to project their voice throughout the entire chamber, and flame-sculpted illusions presented their image as a flaming imprint upon the static core of the forum.

Poverty took his time, drawing out every scrub as he pushed his monocle past the mere act of shining into an exaggerated performance of his obsessive-compulsive nature. “More than just business is right. The Brokerage has received another bid from Vulketh: about 3.5% of High Harbor's Gross Domestic Product in mithril. They merely ask that we give them a way into Piety and set the Gate ablaze from its foundations. We were offered the position of a lesser partner at first, then a second defensive partner, and now with some stock options included. I expect the next offensive will see us granted specific privileges on Scorn’s High Court. Perhaps we will even get the vaunted pleasure of being invited into Vultketh ourselves, which would make us four some of the few outer-dimension Pathbearers to have been bestowed such a pass.”

“And I trust the Brokerage responded with offense and rejected the offer?” Shiv knew the answer, but this was a performance, and he had his part as well. The Dragon-Brokers were perhaps the most self-interested people in the Gate. They were going to use this to their advantage, but the actual discussion had already been ongoing. Right now, Piety needed to present specific weaknesses for everyone in attendance to notice and mention. Whispers and rumors would spread, and then would come the saboteurs—like fleas to a web.

“What brokers would we be if we didn't consider all possibilities? Though Gate Piety has proven itself promising, if nothing else, promise alone is not enough to secure a perfect alliance. We are bankers, my boy. Bankers require one thing: return on capital. For now, the offer is being weighed against none but the theoretical promise that you can give us far more. Even that paltry little mine you have here hasn't delivered upon its first shipment yet, and it's a month overdue. That alone is enough to inspire worry in my old, withered heart.” Poverty sighed—and he sounded almost genuine. “Though I loathe to bring up such lamentable affairs in front of all my fellow representatives, a month is a month, friends. Gate Piety's militaristic might is impressive indeed for a mere city-state, and the Favored Three are remarkable Pathbearers who will elevate any nation they commit to. But if they can hold their own is another question, and it is a question that I am not beholden to.” Finally, he placed his monocle back in front of his right eye and looked down at the Gate Lord. “I ask that a counteroffer be made.”

Uva glowered at the dragon. Adam glared. Shiv just sneered. The three of them played their part, each of them pretending to seethe—except for Uva's case, in which she was always in a state of semi-seethery.

