“If that is all the representative from the Stranger's Garden has to declare, then let us move on to additional items. Next on the itinerary: Economic Development—” The Culturist froze as he flipped through the pages and did several double takes in quick succession. “I… Hmmm.”

“What’s wrong?” Adam asked, concern clear in his voice.

“Forgive me for being so brazen, but Emissary Shiv, were you perhaps in a jestful mood and decided to change one of the items?”

The Culturist's question caught Shiv off guard. “No, I didn't touch the list. Why would I do that? Actually, why are you blaming me?”

“Because try as I might, I can't imagine nor envision either Legend-Operative Mettabon nor Legend-Paragon Arrow writing the words ‘open dog brothel’ as the premier economic item we have to contend.”

The Culturist nearly choked on his own spit. Adam did choke on his own spit. Uva dropped her papers in a signal of emotional surrender.

Today was going to be one of those days.

“What?” Shiv murmured.

“Sorry, sorry, I submitted that!” A loud voice barked from a few dozen meters away. Shiv looked across the vast, empty expanse at the center of the forum to a few rows behind the Yellowstone Republic's representatives in the first row and found his senses settling on Five. “Ahem. Might I be able to speak?”

The Culturist's right eye twitched. “Yes, the representative of New Albion—”

“I'm not representing New Albion. This is a personal matter. Fellow Pathbearers, we all have needs, we all have wants, and I'm well aware that your wants and needs likely don't align with mine. After all, most of you”—his eyes settled on Jane and quickly turned away—"don't have a taste for mating with humanoid dogs, and just the same, I don't have any taste for mating with non-dog-shaped entities. With the significant lack of Canis as well as awakened dogs on Integrated Earth, I find myself in a dire situation. Hence—dog brothel. So I can train and awaken a desired mate.”

Shiv's flesh cracked and spewed Vitae into the air. His mind teetered on the brink of total collapse as he unwillingly processed that information and quickly found a point of ethical concern. “Wait, I guess I get this might not be zoophilia in your case, but isn't that just also grooming if you actively get a dog you like to awaken so it can be your mate? And don’t most dogs just live a few years? So… pedophilic grooming.”

“I, uh…” Five coughed.

Everyone was staring at him now.

Uva was wrapping an elongated arm around her neck to use as a literal noose—and her spiderlings were doing the same for each other.

A groan of despair leaked out of Adam. “Culturist—an adjustment to the order of items. Let’s finish cementing a few laws for our constitution relating to relational ethics…”

And to serve as the perfect unwelcome bookends for this series of events, Shiv glimpsed the Faceless Queen hovering over Five and waving at him. She wanted to talk again—and somehow, he was less excited about that than a potential decree to legalize dog pimping in specific instances.

Just one of those days.

Just one of those felling days.
