“So we will,” Shiv declared, adding a slight snort to signal his disgust. “So we will. It will be discussed in private. We will not be out-fought by the invaders, and guess what? We're not going to be out-bid by them either. I won't lie: I have no idea what High Harbor's, uh, Gross Domestic Product is, but 3.5% sounds pretty hefty. On the other hand, how exactly are you expecting to move that kind of money? We will naturally not allow you to use our Slipgate once you decide to attack us from within. Piety will be collapsed before we let it slip out of our hands. Remember this: Gate Piety is going to stay ours, and the moment it isn't ours, it's gonna die. That's how this place stands: it’s us or no one else.”

That was the only part of the drama that had any grounding in truth. Gate Piety would be destroyed if it was lost, but their Slipgate would be retained, and it was practically as valuable as the Gate itself, even with all its Unique skills. The Slipgate was what made Gate Piety so lucrative, after all: a free port capable of accessing any point on Integrated Earth and beyond, so long as the requisite dimensional frequencies were provided, of course.

“Afterward, then,” Poverty chuckled, planting the trap in full.

In truth, the arrangements had already been struck. Forty percent of Piety's earnings went toward the Dragon-Brokers as a sort of tax in exchange for loans and other resources. But the benefits went beyond that. Gate Piety was a hyper-accessible free port, thanks to the Slipgate. That meant it didn't need to tax anyone else. Everyone could enjoy a raucous time at one of the Brokerage-owned establishments, and there wasn't even any money laundering needed. Everything was pristine: copacetic for practically all parties involved. International, global, trans-dimensional.

The only cost was philosophical, moral, and cultural: binding oneself to a group of amoral merchants. Allowing drugs, prostitution, and gambling to fester within the Gate sowed the seeds for a certain kind of atmosphere to flourish, and the indenturements of the weak-minded veered too close to slavery for anyone's liking but the Dragon-Brokers themselves.

But that was the nature of politics. You chose the lesser evil so that you could borrow its strength and kill the greater evil, or so the story went. Usually, the lesser evil tainted you along the way, and by the time you were strong enough to actually pursue that Utopia once envisioned in your yesteryear of innocence... there wasn't much of that innocence left in you to actually do the deed. Shiv was more than aware of that, along with his own moral weaknesses in regard to corruption and spiteful wrath.

Hence, Adam had a final say when it came to the Dragon-Broker affairs—for he was the Demigod of Heroism after all, and if he could find a way to co-exist in a garden of sin, then Shiv's objections could only come as a distant second.

Uva loudly flipped a page, and the audio-visual enchantments of the forum narrowed in on her. “If no other representatives have anything to declare regarding the after-action of the third offense, then we are to move on to the following items—”

“I have an objection, Seeker! I have one!”

Uva's face didn't change, but she gripped the pages ever tighter, tight enough to cut clean through the paper and drive the edges of her eldritch physiology against each other like blades gliding against blades. “Yes… Representative Stranger? What is the matter?”

Projected via Divination and Dimensionality across a wall at the far end of the coliseum, the Stranger's Supplicant loomed like a distant mountain range in the shape of two steepled hands fused at the wrists, the many golden eyes covering it glittering amidst the static black and violet canvas like a series of golden constellations. The Stranger loudly cleared his nonexistent throat as his Avatar began summoning a series of monocles, each larger than Poverty’s entire quarter-kilometer-length body, into existence around it. It took a full minute of equipping and adjusting the monocles before the hands of the Supplicant unfolded to reveal the colossal eye at its center—also wearing a monocle—and summoned an even larger set of printed documents into existence.

As the Supplicant began flipping through the stack of papers that could crush the Yellowstone capital flat, Uva growled telepathically, casting the message straight to Shiv and no one else: Let us kill him.

Shiv cringed in sympathy. Look, Uva, I know you want to. I wanna kill him a lot of the time too. But he's useful. He's the reason why we don't get ambushed by more eldritch bullshit. Better the Outsider we know than the Outsiders we don’t, right?

Her pupils narrowed down to pinpricks, and Shiv empathized. He really did, but he also meant every word. The Stranger's change was dramatic and astronomical; with every passing day, he drew closer to being a mortal god—a lecherous, annoying, sour-puss of a god at that, but still something that could be dealt with. Someone that, if not capable of adhering to reason, at least understood the concept of it.

Someday, she whispered to Shiv. Someday, I will hollow out his mind and use his flesh to incubate my Terrorspawn. When that is done, my forgiveness will naturally follow.

You are a sweet, noble, and sensual woman, and I want you to know that I respect that deeply, Shiv said, intending only a quarter percent of sarcasm.

“The representative of the Stranger’s Garden has the floor,” the Culturist declared with a flourishing gesture, a slight smirk adorning his face.

“Thank you, Non-Horse,” the Stranger blared through his Supplicant.

The Culturist’s smirk died a little, and he angled his head to fire a stare of pure annoyance at Shiv.

He shrugged, conveying a message of: Hey, don't look at me like that. I had a chance to fuck with you and an eldritch god at the same time, and I took it. You can't blame me.

But as was custom, everyone did blame Shiv. Everything was always his fault, except when things went right. Then it was Adam's glory.

Adam, Adam, Adam.

Being an emissary is kind of ass sometimes.

“My matter of concern is of great importance. The Garden has not been tended to socially and emotionally for the past month. I am asking about Roland Arrow. Where is the Starhawk's Avatar? Where is he? He has missed our monthly scheduled discussion.”

Of all the bullshit the Stranger could have brought up, this wasn't what Shiv had expected. In truth, though, he should have expected this. Roland was practically the only thing remotely resembling a friend for the Stranger—a ridiculous, one-sided friendship, as Roland hadn't nearly forgiven the Stranger for the pain and death he inflicted on Blackedge while the town was stuck in his dimension. Even so, for the safety of the Gate and the people within, he put up with this displeasure and amused the Stranger every month by bringing him news and fulfilling slight, albeit nonsensical, demands.

Last month, for instance, the Stranger demanded 10,000 bouquets. The moment Roland somehow managed to assemble and bring them in, the Stranger called him a fool because the bouquets were not heart-shaped, despite the Stranger clearly declaring that he wanted heart-shaped bouquets. Apparently, he'd retroactively changed his preference, but since he didn't deign to inform Roland, it was still Roland's fault for not hearing the retroactive decree issued by the Stranger to his Fingerlings.

Such was the joy of amusing an Outsider—even one transitioning out of its eldritch nature.

And of all the times he indulged in nonsense and incoherence, he chose today, of all days, to bring forth something the Favored Three were trying to avoid: Roland's Delve.

Three days. Three days without the Dread Horizon. Three days without Gate Piety’s premier warrior and supreme commander. Basically an eternity.

The forum became a pendulum. Its head swung over to the Supplicant, digested his words, and then struck back, whipping toward the Three as they sought for a response.

And where the Favored Three were unified in performance when it came to the Dragon-Brokers, they fractured in three separate reactions on the topic of Roland. Uva held her poker face, but her hesitation betrayed an unease. Saying nothing sometimes was just as loud and revealing as howling the truth at the top of one's lungs. Adam tensed visibly, and his eyes grew wide. He looked like he wanted to smite the Stranger right then and there. Uva's grudge transferred over to him without a word exchanged.

But Shiv was versed in these conflicts. Social affairs were volatile and dynamic, and often the art was about manipulating the absurd and giving people something to think about—a packaged truth that went down easy and provoked little thought in the aftermath.

With a room filled with politicians and diplomats, Social Skills were present aplenty, and the most common of which was lie detection. After all, no one lied better than a politician, and no one learned how to skirt a lie better than a politician, even an amateur politician.

Shiv had no intention of staying an amateur for long. He rose again, holding up his hands so the Culturist could declare his presence. Once that happened, he spoke, and he spoke along the edges of the truth, carefully threading that thin tightrope so he wouldn't topple one way or another toward revealing too much or too little.

“The Dread Horizon sends his apologies, but he's indisposed right now. Something to do with the offensives at hand.” Shiv licked his lips and began to pace, choosing to let slip a bit of his discomfort but using it to mask the actual truth. “What I'm about to say can't leave this forum.” Which meant that every word would be spread across the entirety of Integrated Earth and likely beyond as soon as this session came to an end. “Town Lord Arrow is in the process of creating a weapon. I see your faces, and I read your confusion, but understand I can't reveal more than that. This weapon is meant to be used on our enemies, and the more people that know about this weapon, the less its effectiveness will take hold. I'm sure that some of you understand the theoretical developments of retro-memetics in the field of Chrono-Psychomancy.”

This was bullshit, but it wasn't complete bullshit. It was grounded in two truths: Roland was retroactively changing things because he was facing his Respec Delve. Respec was all about shifting bits from one skill to another in the broadest of perspectives. This was, effectively, the alteration of one's own history on a fine level.

The other truth was retro-memetics itself. That was a field of study, a highly experimental field of study conducted by the Inquisition, a field of study that Shiv was now a part of, as he was among the rare few who had a fused Psychomancy-Chronomancy skill.

As such, the representatives of the Republic cringed and would doubtlessly squeal to their superiors, who would squeal to their superiors, who would squeal to the Inquisition, who would squeal at Shiv, and finally to Veronica above him. Jessica would likely be squealed to as well, but she would pick her nose and shrug while promising to beat the Deathless half to death as a lesson, as if she wasn't planning to do that anyway.

The other representatives lacked context for the greater faux pas at hand, but they still had their own senses, and they could see how the Yellowstone diplomats were responding. Even Captain Espanda looked like she wanted to melt where she sat.

Yeah, that's right. Focus on my security breach, not Roland's potential Delve.

Gardener of Doubt 99 > 100 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

But despite his calculated maneuver, there was one part he failed to anticipate, one part that slipped his mind. The Stranger was an asocial creature in practically every regard, and therefore completely missed and went unaffected by the mind games being played. “This does not matter. Tell Roland Arrow to come to my Garden tomorrow. If he cannot be here, then I demand someone else come and help with my Garden, but I want Roland Arrow. I have changed my mind retroactively. Roland Arrow must come. If he does not come, I will be very upset, and Gate Piety will not like it when I become upset. I am already upset. I have been upset for a while.”

“Holy fucking shit,” Shiv muttered under his breath.

Let us kill him, Uva suggested again.

Yes, Adam joined in this time. We can beat him. Eventually. I’ll command the orcs to join in.

Shiv was so close to giving in, so close to choosing violence, but the Harbinger inside him had to be a mature godsdamn adult. It had to pull him back from the brink. It never let him have any fun anymore. “Your fun will lead to the compromise of your Gate. You do not turn away assets. You use and bend things to your advantage, and right now you are not bending things to your advantage. You need to engage with this idiot on the same level.”

How am I supposed to do that? Shiv asked.

“Behave as you do without my presence guiding you.”

Nihilist: And the rest of us just don’t matter, eh? Cunt.

“Yeah, alright, we’ll let him know,” Shiv ground out vocally.

The Supplicant curled its fingers at Shiv. “Have him be there.”

“That’s up to him,” Shiv shot back.

“No.” The Stranger complained like a toddler. Or an asshole. Same thing, really. “Have him be there. And tell him I was mad.”

“Sure thing, buddy,” Shiv said through clenched teeth. “I'll make sure he shows up.”

Once more, the Favored Three shared a look, and that look communicated a single word: Shit.

