“I’ll ask.” She moved her fingers through the air, typing the message. A few seconds later, she scoffed. “That…! Look what he sent me!”

She added Konstantin’s message to the group notes under Jupiter’s last update.

[That’s secret team business, ice spider. We got an outdoor gym training session in thanks to Alden. Tomorrow we’ll be at the top of the run list. The next day, we’ll destroy you + Vandy + the rest of them in battle. Be prepared. Want gimbap? Or pesto ravioli from that place? I’m starving. <3<3 xoxo but I respect you enough to kill you in class <3…]

“Three more hearts, a spider, a snowcone,” said Jupiter. “A knife. An arrow through a heart. A corgi. A tongue?”

“You don’t have to repeat his emojis aloud, Jupiter. I didn’t mean to include all of those.”

“How dare he say he’ll destroy us!?” Heloísa exclaimed so loudly that Maricel jumped in her seat and returned her attention to the group. “They didn’t even get to run last week. He’s in no position to look down on us. He’s not even in the game yet. And does he only know your name and Vandy’s? We’re just the ‘rest of them’!”

“Did you expect him to list all of our names in a text?”

“He did list Vandy’s,” Jupiter pointed out.

“Wait…wait…” Heloísa held her bear to her forehead and then slowly lowered it. “I have an idea.”

“Did the bear give it to you?” Rebecca asked.

“Kon and Alden and their team…they still owe me favors from our class welcome party.” Her face was alight. “I’m hungry. Where are they in F? It’s my supper they’ll bring.”

“Your supper?”

“In addition to yours. If they’re so impressive, I’m sure they can get you ravioli, too.”

******

******

“Your skill is really something.”

The compliment came from Konstantin while Alden stood by a metal table at a goose-shaped snack kiosk in the park.

“You don’t have to praise me just because your text made Heloísa start calling in her favors from the bonding potion drinking contest. This is minor as far as magical favors go.”

Delivering a ridiculous supper to the girls doesn’t come close to the last favor I asked for. Teleport me straight from my dorm room to the Primary’s house without telling his family, please.

One of Alden’s plastic rain ponchos had become a tray for a growing number of the “golden egg” fried ice creams the kiosk sold. Kon had just handed off a few more, and Haoyu and Lexi were waiting for the final orders at the windows below the goose. Ignacio had gone to meet a delivery person who was bringing a bunch of food from an Italian restaurant. Mehdi, after reminding everyone that he had been the co-winner of that drinking contest along with Heloísa, had decided to enjoy one of the egg snacks by himself in the grass while he watched a couple of girls and a guy from Franklin High play with some kind of shiny Wrightmade hoop.

“I wasn’t guilt-complimenting you. I mean it,” said Kon.

“Not letting snacks melt is the best part of my superhumanity. And look—I can even turn them upside down.” Alden flipped his poncho tray over and shook it. The ice creams and the paper nests they were served in stayed safely in place. “Turning a box full of stuff upside down to see what happened was actually one of the first things I ever did as an Avowed.”

And ice cream had been the first thing he preserved when he recovered from his last affixation. It was a good combo.

“You can fling us by our clothes one minute and be the ice cream Rabbit the next,” said Kon. “That’s what I’m talking about. And if one of us had face planted—”

“Haoyu did face plant. More than once.”

“One of us who couldn’t handle that kind of thing,” Kon clarified. He took a seat on the bench attached to the table, stretching his legs out in front of him and leaning back against the tabletop. Unlike the others, he’d made it through their practice without looking like he’d been hurled down a mountainside. Alden hadn’t started throwing him until the experiment became slightly less experimental. “You could have preserved us and taken us to the hospital if someone got hurt. That kind of skill variety is cool, Alden. And it doesn’t seem like you’re running out of ideas for it yet.”

“Thanks, man.”

Alden already knew it, and he knew more truly amazing things about his skill than Kon had an inkling of. He was grateful for so much these days. But spending hours practicing with this bunch did make him feel like he was behind in other ways. His arms were tired. His legs were worse than tired from a quick game of tag they’d played so that they could all get a better sense of how each teammate was able to move when an opponent invaded their course. He was very fit, and he could use his trait; but he’d still ended up needing a break while some of them were going strong.

Tagging an Agility Brute hadn’t been the most realistic goal to set for himself.

“I was there when you realized that if you hauled people around by preserving their clothes they would get carried by your skill effect instead.”

“That’s right. After we had to move Astrid across the gym during combat assessment.”

“You seemed like a fun globie. A little mysterious. You pointed out I could repair that umbrella weapon you’d brought with a single spell cast instead of multiple. I thought, ‘The fun globie knows some things. Wonder if he’ll get in.’”

“Here we are,” said Alden.

“If you’d told me that day that we’d be here in this park practicing for our obstacle course team together on this day, with this group of guys, I’d have been surprised. Only, it’s the least surprising thing that’s happened since then.”

Kon’s head fell back so that he could stare up at the cloudless, sunset-colored sky.

The least surprising thing, thought Alden.

That would have been an understatement coming from a lot of people on Anesidora these days. From Kon, it was even more so.

Alden righted his tray of eggs. “Are you fine…with everything?”

A public park wasn’t the place to be more specific than that. There was a toddler sitting at the next table, trying to feed herself ice cream while her mom caught drips with napkins.

Kon glanced toward where Lexi was.

“I am. Just…digesting still. That meeting you arranged was an eye-opener. I really needed it. I’m talking about you, though. Your skill’s so cool. I think I’m a little jealous of it.”

I could tell him the name of it right now. I could tell him all about it.

Alden didn’t intend to do that, but this happy thought had been coming to him periodically ever since Ro-den had released him from the secrecy agreement. His brain must have needed to stretch and appreciate the room he now had to do what he wanted, no matter how inadvisable it would be.

He was still trying to decide if he should keep the tattoo itself as a reminder not to go along with any ideas presented by sketchy wizards.

“I might be jealous of your rank, too,” Kon said in a would-be light voice. “Want to swap?”

Alden side-eyed him.

Kon straightened. “I said that wrong. I made it weird.”

“Nah. It was just a joke.”

What exactly did Esh-erdi tell Kon about his future? Should I really share something about mine? Another thought followed on the heels of that one. Should Stuart and I tell Esh-erdi anything about me?

There was a part of Alden that wanted to. More than a little, to his own surprise.

Stuart’s parents are off the table for now, but what about a real knight? that part said. What if a real knight said yes to what I am, too?

It was a risk, but such a tempting one.

Esh-erdi’s been so understanding about everything else. It could happen.

Stuart and I should talk about telling him and Lind-otta about Bearer, at least. We wouldn’t have to mention me being a wizard yet necessarily.

And as for Stuart…

He could call any second. If he did, Alden would be ditching Kon with these ice creams and calling in another teleportation favor.

I’ve been staying pretty focused on Stuart, but it’s all so much bigger out there. It’s not crazy that Kon wishes for a different rank right now.

One day, if I summon someone, even someone who agrees to go, will they have awkward moments with their friends like this?

“I must have made it really weird for you!” Kon exclaimed, suddenly standing.

Alden realized he hadn’t been hiding his facial expressions very well. “You didn’t. I just started thinking about something else.”

“I’m sorry. I don’t want to be a B-rank. B-ranks suck.”

“Multiple people who have no idea what we’re talking about overheard you saying that,” Alden said in a lower voice than Kon had just used. “They’re going to think you’re really an esshole.”

Kon looked around and reddened when he saw the toddler’s mom staring at them disapprovingly.

“Don’t sweat it,” said Alden. [Ask me for a flight on the nonagon if you ever want to vent in private. We’ll go scream at the ocean. I’ve done it. It’s not bad.]

He swapped the tray to one hand and slapped Kon on the back.

“Ow.”

“I’m a B-rank, and you’re my S-rank team captain. You’re not allowed to say ow when I give you a tap like that. Tell Mehdi to get over here unless he wants to be left. It’s about time to go. And, you know, I think Heloísa was serious about making Lexi and Ignacio carve a couple of them into roses for her, so it’s good we’ve bought extra.”

Talking about nothing serious for the next minute or two, he laid the poncho tray on the table. When Haoyu and Lexi approached, they quickly distributed all of the ice cream. The golden eggs had a hot fried exterior and a molten butterscotch yolk inside the ice cream layer, so they turned into puddles rapidly. Unless you had a Rabbit with The Bearer of All Burdens at your beck and call.

Ignacio ran up with the Italian food right before he re-preserved, and Alden let him add it to the poncho.

Before the seven of them left, he took another look around the park. Kids ate ice cream. Couples were taking sunset strolls. An old man was arguing with someone through his interface.

Almost everyone I can see is an Avowed, or will be one.

Kon was in action, smoothing the conversation between the other guys as easily as always.

What does someone like Esh-erdi really see when I show him around Anesidora? It’s just people living their lives, but that’s a lot to look after. A lot to live up to.

He couldn’t quite unpack everything he knew was hiding in that thought, but he could feel that it would stick with him for a long time.

I think I want to step up to it. Meet it head on.

“I really want to do well. In Coursing and at everything else I’ve got going on.” He didn’t get that comment out until they’d made it all the way back to Celena North and disembarked from the nonagon in front of the library. His words, simple and obvious as they were, disappeared into a cacophony of louder words from the others as they took in the impromptu celebration Heloísa had arranged in honor of herself. She’d called on the manpower of more than twenty teenage Avowed who either owed her favors or who’d gotten caught up in the spectacle.

“There the food boys are!” she declared from her high perch atop a loft bed being carried by other students. Alden assumed they’d gotten it from her dorm room, but he didn’t see how they’d moved it outside unless they’d taken it apart and reassembled it. “Vandy told me to get sleep and nutrition! I’m now prepared for both.”

“This is not what I meant. This wasn’t my idea,” Vandy said to Alden as he approached with the food, as if she was afraid he might think she approved of all this.

“It’s not a problem, Vandy. She earned this moment fair and square by drinking blenders full of that poison they made at Kon’s party. Where do I put all the nutrition?”

“Up here with me!” Heloísa said from above him. “Our final piece will be here soon.”

“Up there on the bed? All of it?”

“Bring it up!”

Alden was going to hop up there himself, but some people, overcome by the magnificence of the project, grabbed him by the legs. “Jeffy, Astrid, don’t—!”

They tossed him up toward the loft. He landed on the foot of the bed on his knees, so close to the other side that he was perilously close to falling off before Heloísa grabbed the back of his shirt. “My feast,” she said, inhaling deeply. “It smells good.”

“You can’t smell anything. It’s preserved.”

“Don’t bother me with the details, Mr. Rabbit. Look! Here comes the final piece!”

She pointed over his shoulder, down the long walkway. At first when he looked in that direction, he noticed Maricel sitting on a bench to the side of the group that was parading around with the bed. She seemed to be staring off into space or watching something on her interface, and he wondered what could be more interesting than the nonsense right in front of her. Then he saw that Heloísa was pointing farther into the distance, and he caught sight of a figure running toward them. The person flashed below lamps and past buildings so quickly that he arrived almost as soon as Alden realized who he was.

“Hey! Finlay!” he said, excited to see Finlay for the first time this term. Other voices joined him, mostly welcoming their former classmate or booing him good-naturedly.

“Heloísa, you’re mad! Who asks someone to run across the island at night with a single chili?! What sort of a favor is that?”

“Did you bring it?”

Alden tried to keep his poncho tray out of the way as Finlay jumped up. Glaring at Heloísa, the speedster held onto the frame of the bed with one hand and presented a bright red pepper with another.

