“Spice for my meal,” she said, taking it. “Stolen from Li Jean’s kitchens. So you do remember our bond.”

Finlay’s glare faded. “Yeah.”

“How’s your new school?” asked Alden.

Other people were calling out questions about Elites, too, or asking questions about Febri. Jeffy’s voice was particularly loud.

“Nothing wrong with it,” said Finlay after a moment. “A bit hard. Different people. Got to get back, though. We have a curfew.”

“Come on, tell us more than that!” Mehdi protested as Finlay dropped back down.

“Go on, Finlay! Tell us!”

“Give us the details.”

“What did you do today? Be specific.”

“I want to hear about your teachers, the training tips you’ve gotten, your maid…”

“It’s a professional cleaning service that comes when we’re out, of course. I don’t have a maid that works just for me or whatever you’re imagining. It’s fine. Stricter. More gym time is the main thing.”

“How much more?” Maricel had managed to make her way through the crowd to stand beside Finlay.

“Hi there, Maricel. It’s…a lot more. Every day. I feel like I never leave. I’m nervous one of the instructors is going to come here and drag me back even though we’re supposed to be finished for today. They’ve actually done that once already. Ha.”

Alden thought Finlay sounded overwhelmed, but he could see Mehdi and some others getting starry-eyed.

“Well, it’s good to see you all. I’m sorry I have to go. But I have to go.”

“Wait, Finlay,” said Heloísa. “You can have some ice…cream.”

He’d already taken off.

“I can’t order anyone to chase him,” she said, blinking after him. “I thought he might want to hang out a while. Oh well. Alden!”

Alden was finally able to set down his tray.

He didn’t get to eat anything since the goose kiosk hadn’t offered vegan ice cream. But he did get the satisfaction of partially fulfilling the strange vision he’d had for himself while running on Thegund. Riding around the library on a loft bed was a little like being carried on a palanquin.

I’m not doing a great job at the being lazy part of that vision, though, he thought as he jumped down and left the group behind to head to the cafeteria. It’s all right that I’m not. I really do want to do well.

He could have said the same thing last term, but for such different reasons that it didn’t feel the same.

I think I’m a little proud of what I’ve chosen. Even beyond the personal desire and beyond supporting Stuart…doing the knight thing right is something that matters.

A long battle he could give his full strength to.

A new dream for himself.

Something he wanted to believe in.

******
