Trying to calm her breathing and keep a lid on her emotions, she replayed the events in her mind, evaluating the performance of her team and their reactions to the surprise, just like Vivian had taught her. Nicholas had clearly done something stupid – being out of position like he was – but he had been kept out of the fight for almost its entire duration.

Seth and Willow had saved the team, with an impressively improvised strategy and solid coordination. Willow in particular had been smart and decisive when it counted most. Solid.

Braden had done his job holding the slimes and had been locked down and mostly unable to help with the adds.

Basil was Basil – he was not normally involved in combat – but he had provided a clutch mana potion right when she desperately needed it, so she was very happy with his performance.

What was that screaming bolt ability? It had sent chills running down her spine every time he used it. And why hadn’t he used it before? But the answer to that seemed obvious the moment she considered it. Seth had even warned Willow not to get hit. It must be an ability that was dangerous to the party, and he had withheld it to avoid hitting them – it was only when he had a clear shot that he had used it.

Willow got it immediately, she thought, realizing that her friend had grasped the chaotic battle much quicker than she had. Nicholas didn’t. He had waded in without realizing the danger, and Seth had just stopped shooting it to protect him. She studied the necromancer boy with his three zombie slimes and the two Kobold skeletons, forcing herself to watch as two more skeletons ripped themselves out of the remaining Kobold corpses, picking up the swords they had dropped.

“Seth…” she began.

“Me?” He snapped around to stare at her with a complex combination of guilt and fear on his face. Vivian had explained that he didn’t have any other options than the guild, and she could tell he was desperate to make a good impression. Probably terrified of being attacked, hurt, or discarded because of his fearsome class. She had, perhaps, judged him more harshly than she should have, simply because she didn’t like allowing people opportunities out of pity, but he had performed exceptionally well, no doubt about it.

“Good job, you saved the group.” At her words, his face visibly relaxed.

“Fuck yeah, he did,” Willow said. “That was awesome.”

“What was that black bolt?” Teagan asked. “Was that your Volatile Wraith? Why is it dangerous?” She recalled the abilities he had explained, and Volatile Wraith was the only one that fit. I need to understand his abilities better. With the ridiculous power he had just displayed, their entire group strategy would need rethinking.

“Yes, it’s an incorporeal undead spirit. It does area damage and Life Drain, which is why I can’t use it near the team.”

“What is life drain?” Area death magic damage made sense, it would hurt them as much as the enemies, but life drain wasn’t something she was familiar with. “Wait, is that the same debuff Calen discussed in his lecture?”

“I don’t know,” Seth answered. “I wasn’t here for a lecture. It drains maximum health by one percent every time it gets a critical hit, revitalizing me.”

“Can I heal it?”

“No.”

“Well… that’s terrifying,” she said. An unhealable reduction in maximum life would put them out of commission very quickly.

“The Guildmaster gave me one of these just in case we had an accident,” Seth said, retrieving a glowing green elixir from his storage.

“Ok, that’s good to know,” she said, recognizing the expensive Elixir of Vitality Rejuvenation from the name Identify provided.

She had a lot to think about, but one thing was certain, Seth would be a powerful addition to their team, and finally, she could see her path to catching up to Aiden’s group.

With a grin on her face and Vivian’s reminder about risk management foremost in her mind, she got back to her feet and looked down the tunnel, trying to decide which path would lead them to the most experience.

I just wish his skills weren’t so… disgusting.

Ali released her rogue’s senses, reflecting on everything she had seen. The rogue she had used to spy on them was level twenty-three – one of her trash collectors – and there was no way the novice adventurers would have been able to see it. They had emerged victorious, but Ali had very nearly stepped in to save them when the second group of Kobolds had added in the middle of their fight.

He’s going to be ok, she thought, letting out a small sigh. She felt a little guilty about having her minion standing by to protect them if necessary – it undoubtedly reduced their experience for the encounter – but she needed to be sure if Seth was going to work out. But it seemed her worries would be for nothing – he had outdone himself. The archer girl – Willow – seemed to click with him instantly as the two of them solved the strategy problem in real-time.

Knowing Seth could handle himself was only a part of the problem – he also needed to fit in with the team. He probably had a friend already in Willow, but Ali wasn’t quite certain about Braden, or the new guy she hadn’t seen before. Ultimately, though, it was Teagan that mattered most.

Teagan had been a scared, barefoot girl in a stained dress, timidly exploring the sewers the first time Ali had seen her. She was still barefoot, but it was obvious just how much she had grown under the guidance of Vivian Ross – she seemed to be a competent healer and a decent team leader. As the fight progressed, Ali had seen how Teagan had come around to appreciating Seth’s contribution. Although, it was only in the discussion afterward that Ali finally knew that she had accepted him.

She smiled, happy to see the team starting to gel and Seth finding a place to grow.

She pulled out her Grimoire and began the time-consuming chore of resummoning all the minions they had killed to repopulate the sewers.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
