Or at least that was how Baatar interpreted the man’s recent actions and decisions. There were many whispers of Bai Qi’s oddly civilized behaviour and apparent self control, but this was merely the facade he wanted the Empire to see. The Enemy was recruiting from not only the ranks of the West, but from all the outer provinces at once. They tried to gain a foothold in Sanshu with Yo Ling and the Golden Highlands Council, as well as in Central with the Canston Trading Group. It would come as no surprise to learn that the fussy and fastidious Marshal Huong had quashed a similar attempt in the South, to say nothing of how the Enemy succeeded with the Mataram Clan in the West. This only went to show the great lengths the Uniter went to in order to prepare for his invasion, which was why Bai Qi continued to maintain the illusion of control, an illusion Baatar hoped to shatter today.

According to the boy, their foe, the monster of legend and former Imperial Scion Zhen Shi saw the outer provinces as a mere stepping stone towards his true goal, but Baatar was of a mind to turn it into a stumbling block instead.

Hurtling through the air at a breakneck pace, he unleashed a devastating blow at Bai Qi the moment his feet touched the sand. A risk, waiting so long before swinging his Crescent Moon pole-axe, but without the added strength from bracing his feet against the ground, he would have been blown aside by Bai Qi’s counter-attack. Their weapons collided with the force of a cannonball and numbed him from hands to shoulders, but a forceful exhale and effort of Reverberation rid him of the brunt of the aftermath. As his feet dug a furrow through the sandy streets until he came to a stop, he grimaced at the stark contrast to his foe, for Bai Qi’s feet remained planted where he stood. Not quite a reversal of positions from their initial exchange since Baatar had not been sent flying, but it was enough for the traitor to regain some measure of face at the cost of a minor internal injury.

A fool to care so much about appearances even now. In doing so, Bai Qi was committing to not just mere victory, but a victory achieved with grace and aplomb. A bold declaration and a grave insult to Baatar for his skills to be held in such contempt, but rather than anger, he only felt delight. Much as he would relish the challenge of a fair and equitable match against a foe of this calibre, there was far too much on the line to indulge himself so. Instead, Baatar would accept any sort of victory here, not because he wasn’t confident in his odds, but because the Empire could not afford even a minor defeat, not so early in the campaign.

Though they’d crossed blades only twice now, Baatar had learned enough to confirm some of Mother’s suspicions regarding Bai Qi’s prodigious strength. In truth, the man was monstrously strong, capable of exerting a tremendous amount of force in a single swing to overpower his opponents. There was no trick there that Baatar could see, merely countless hours of dedicated practice to build up the foundation required to unleash all his Reinforced strength in a single blow, as well as a peerless grasp of precision and timing to aim and Amplify his attacks where they would be most effective. That’s why Baatar’s first attack was able to knock Bai Qi back so far, because he purposefully mistimed his strike to throw Bai Qi off, a trick that would not work a second time now that he was aware of it. During their second exchange, Baatar discovered that his strength was undoubtedly inferior to his foe’s, but as Mother predicted, the discrepancy was not large enough to be the sole determining factor of their match.

“Your father hits harder,” Mother had declared, patting Baatar’s head and ruffling his ears like he was still a child no older than Tate. “But he is slow and unable to match Bai Qi blow for blow. I am faster, but lack the strength and fortitude required to stand toe to toe against him, for even if I do everything right, there is little I can do to defend against his overwhelming power. A poor match up all things considered, especially when you add his Runic armour into the mix, meaning I must kill him decisively with a single strike, else I will not survive his dying blow.”

Which really was the only reason Bai Qi’s head was still attached, because his life was not worth Mother’s in trade. “And you believe I can defeat him?” Baatar had asked, more because he wanted to hear what she had to say rather than he needed the assurances. He still had yet to meet the Warrior he dared not face, for even if Mother meant to take his head, he was confident he could hold out for at least a dozen blows.

Then again, there were many Warriors dead and cremated in decades past who likely believed the same thing, so he wasn’t exactly keen to try his luck. Pride comes before the fall, or so little Rain was known to quip. A rather insightful and wholly jaded observation from a boy his age, but he’d always been older than his years.

“You might,” Mother replied, pinching his cheek for his uppity tone. “You are not as strong as your father, nor fast as I, but you come close on both accounts, so you will fare better than either of us in a direct exchange.” Stroking his cheek in quiet apology for the light pinch from before, Mother’s eyes softened in a way that had once made him jealous of little Mila, and it warmed his heart to know she truly loved him like her own. “Bai Qi is a formidable opponent, pup, so above all else, be sure to return alive. These shoulders are still capable of holding the Heavens up a little longer, so do not despair if he proves too difficult to defeat.”

That was the thing about strength and the Martial Path. So many commoners and Warriors believed that strength could be measured with a delineated scale. In their mind, if Warrior One was stronger than Warrior Two, and Warrior Two stronger than Warrior Three, then surely Warrior One could defeat Warrior Three as well. Alas, life was not so simple, for one still had to consider how the strengths and weaknesses of each Warrior matched up. It was always possible for one Warrior to be at a disadvantage against another, only to possess the advantage against a third Warrior of similar strength. Neither Mother nor Father could claim they were confident of defeating Bai Qi in combat, but Baatar’s strengths and weaknesses made him a surprisingly good match for the traitor. Did this mean he was stronger than his parents? Of course not, for they would defeat him nine-hundred and ninety-nine times out of a thousand if they were to cross blades, a fact which Mother took great pride in proving every time they sparred.

Though outwardly Baatar had nodded and agreed with Mother’s advice to err on the side of caution, inwardly, he was determined to kill Bai Qi or die trying. One of them would be rendered unto ashes here in Pan Si Xing, or he would write his name backwards from here on out. Drawing back his Crescent Moon, he unleashed yet another attack at his foe, but this time, it was Bai Qi who was in motion and Baatar’s feet were planted in the ground. The results were as expected, with the traitor sent sliding off at an angle while Baatar didn’t budge a single centimetre. Speed was power, but so too was stability, and in both their cases, they were able to draw more strength from the latter than the former.

There was a time when Baatar thought himself a failure of a Disciple for having been unable to learn from Mother’s strengths, but she consoled him by saying her job was not to guide him to follow in her footsteps, but to help him find his own way forward instead. Now, Baatar’s Path had brought him here to this mirror match up against Bai Qi, and he could not be any happier. Even their weapons were similar, his Crescent Moon pole-axe against Bai Qi’s Green Dragon Crescent Blade, which was really just a fancy name for a reclining moon-blade, or a single edged curved glaive. The only difference was the addition of nine, thick leaden rings inserted along the back of the blade, supposedly meant to add more weight to what was already a long, heavy, and unwieldy weapon.

The wind whistled through Baatar’s teeth as he bared his fangs in an uncontrolled grin, unable to contain his glee at having found this destined foe, and as he met his opponent’s eyes, he found a similar joy and satisfaction there. A chuckle slipped out, just a small, huff of air that somehow transformed into a full-belly laugh, and Baatar cackled to the high Heavens in thanks for this most welcome of blessings. It wasn’t hysterics, as others might believe, nor had he cracked under the pressure. Instead, he wanted to celebrate this sensation of apprehension and relish the knowledge of his uncertain outcome. How long had it been since he faced a foe who made him feel this way? Against Mother and Father, defeat was all but guaranteed, but his peers could offer him no challenge, yet now he’d finally found a rival worthy of appreciation, for no longer was victory or defeat guaranteed. Only against a Warrior of Bai Qi’s calibre could Baatar unleash his full potential without worrying the battle would end too soon, and he thanked the Mother Above for providing him with this most fulfilling trial and tribulation.

It was a lonely Path to the Martial Peak, but even lonelier for Baatar who had no one to walk it with. For too long, he forged ever onwards while unrivalled by his peers yet wholly outclassed by his elders, but now, Bai Qi had given him the gift of uncertainty once more. Victory or defeat could go either way, an outcome which would be determined through skill, strength, determination, and luck, the prospect of which had Baatar trembling from head to toe in excitement.

Once his laughter was played out and his emotions in check once again, Baatar nodded at his foe in wide-eyed anticipation. “Thank you,” he said, brandishing the Crescent Moon in a figure eight to stretch his muscles and clear away the last of his nervous jitters. “Do not disappoint.” The effect his statement had on Bai Qi was telling indeed. His pride wounded by the disdainful words, his mask of control slipped ever so slightly as his fury reared its ugly head. A flaring of the nostrils and widening of the eyes, followed by physically swallowing his rage and response, but Baatar did not care for whatever words he might have.

The time for talk was over and done with.

The time for action had come.

Shifting forward a single step, Baatar stopped in place to gauge his opponent’s response. Their earlier exchanges already proved that in a clash between the two of them, the immobile Warrior held the upper hand, and since Baatar lacked the ability to close the distance with confidence now that his foe was guarded and readied, he could only resort to this. Step by careful step he progressed, first one, then two, then a third, only to freeze in place as Bai Qi matched his progress and then some, so that he moved just barely more than Baatar had. A competitive spirit, this Prince of Barbarity, reaffirming just how similar the two of them were, but while there might have been a time when they could have been the best of comrades, they were wolves of opposing packs now, which meant their differences could only be resolved by death. Forward they moved, one after the other, creeping closer and closer to one another with the utmost care, for deception was also a valid part of a Warrior’s strength. It wasn’t that neither of them cared to trick the other, but rather that neither one took up the other’s bait, whether it be a foot too far forward or a neck exposed ever so temptingly as to invite the other to strike. The soldiers, civilians, and Defiled watching might only see two Warriors slowly advancing upon one another centimetre by centimetre, but Baatar and Bai Qi had exchanged almost a hundred and fifty moves in their minds alone.

A swing aimed at Bai Qi’s neck would leave him open to the counter thrust. A knee presented too far forward invited a low strike that could easily be countered with an overhead slash. Baatar’s weapon dipped low, Bai Qi countered by shifting his stance to the right, which forced Baatar to readjust the placement of his next step on the fly. Move by move, they tested one another without delivering another blow, seeking to learn as much as they could while revealing as little as possible, for in a match of this magnitude in such close range, there would be no time to think much less react once they let loose. Though he learned precious little that he didn’t already know, Baatar was happy to confirm what Mother shared and discover a like-minded opponent on the other end. Relentless aggression, that was Bai Qi’s preferred mode of operation, the same tactic Baatar enjoyed using against his foes, but if this was the case, then he believed he held the upper hand, for he had something the Prince of Barbarity never had.

A peerless, indomitable Mother and Mentor who beat him black and blue more times than he could count, most recently just before they parted ways in Meng Sha. An invaluable aid along the Martial Path, because as little Rain wrote in his primer, “You learn more from a single defeat than a hundred victories, for failure will help uncover the flaws which need to be fixed.”

