Baatar could almost hear the boy cursing in that irreverent manner no one else could pull off, so full of tongue-in-cheek contempt that it was almost endearing. Now this was a sight, a father being scolded by his son for thinking so little of their bond, one that seemed imagined but felt all too real. Regardless if it was truly Rain speaking to him from afar, the exchange brought a smile to Baatar’s face and renewed confidence to his arms, for he could not bear to die without speaking to his son and learning the truth of this interaction. Channelling the Energy of the Heavens, he unleashed a powerful slash which was promptly blocked and trapped by Bai Qi’s rings, but this time, rather than go with the flow, he held fast and struggled for as long as he could to buy the precious seconds he needed.

Then he let go of the Crescent Moon and ducked down while reaching out to take the Bloody Fang in hand, which came whistling out from the building it was buried under. As Bai Qi’s Green Dragon Crescent Blade went wide due to the sudden and unexpected lack of resistance, Baatar delivered a series of blows to his foe’s armoured knee, groin, and midsection. Honed steel shrieked as it glanced off Runic brigantine, but the impact was enough to drive an already reeling Bai Qi even further back as he fought to stay upright, but in doing so, he twisted just right and revealed an opening at his hip which Baatar promptly drove the Bloody Fang into.

Bellowing in pain and rage, Bai Qi took an errant swipe that went wide as he stumbled away, pulling himself off the sword in a spray of crimson blood. Not one to give up the advantage, Baatar pounced upon his foe and gave no quarter as he bashed him this way and that using the superior speed of his short sword. This was his range, so close to his foe that their toes were nearly touching, inside the reach of most other weapons giving him free reign to strike wherever he pleased. Again and again the Bloody Fang raked and prodded Bai Qi’s armour, draining a significant amount of Chi with every attack. It was only a matter of time before the traitor’s Core ran dry, and then his invulnerable Runic armour would be worth less than the metal it’d been crafted from.

Retreat.

There was no hesitation as Baatar leaped back, for he had no reason to doubt the warning. One which almost felt as if it had been delivered by Rain, the same way he chimed in to dismiss Baatar’s melancholic thoughts, with emotions and assurances that went beyond mere words. This was why Baatar wasn’t surprised when Bai Qi’s Green Dragon Crescent Blade swept across at an angle that should have been impossible for the glaive, but that was because it was no longer a glaive. Instead, Bai Qi held a sabre in hand, having separated the blade and hilt from the rest of the glaive that was little more than a staff now. So not ten Spiritual Weapons, but eleven, truly Bai Qi was full of surprises, as well as words he felt necessary to bandy about.

“A most worthy foe, you be,” the traitor intoned, speaking with that slow, self-important cadence he so loved to use. “But this Prince has no more patience for your antics. Two secrets you have forced this Prince to reveal, and as reward, you have the honour to bear witness to a third.” The wind rose and the sand swirled about his feet before gathering into the palm of his hand, and it took Baatar a moment to recognize that these movements were not natural, a revelation which was soon followed by the opening of a sinkhole inside his stomach. “Yes,” Bai Qi said, taking great delight in the despair he saw in Baatar’s eyes. “This Prince be Blessed by Sand, for the West be my Domain.”

At least this explained why he was so talented at Reinforcement, blessed by Wind and Earth as he was. ‘Well son,’ Baatar thought, calling his Crescent Moon pole-axe back to hand as he readied to sell his life dearly while hoping the boy could actually hear him. ‘Your father is not so proud as to refuse any help you might have to offer.’

Alas, the boy remained distressingly quiet, but Baatar didn’t blame him for falling silent. ‘I love you son,’ he thought and Sent, hoping the boy could hear him. No more needed to be said, just those three simple words, for they had a magic all their own.

And with that, Baatar shut out any and all distractions as he readied to sell his life dearly.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
