Seizing the initiative, Baatar launched a sequence of attacks he devised during his approach, one tailored specifically to target his opponent’s strengths. The opening two-handed slash was merely a feint, one he pulled short to line the tip of the Crescent Moon with Bai Qi’s throat and deliver a deadly thrust. His foe responded as expected, curtailing his counter to the initial slash and actively parrying the thrust aside rather than rely on his armour to block it. This wasn’t merely pride, but conservation of Chi, for it cost him less to parry than to let his Runic Armour bear the brunt of the blow. Better if he’d side-stepped, but he foresaw the trap laid out by Baatar whose forward foot was poised to sweep the ankle as he moved. Going with the parry to advance even closer, he pushed up against Bai Qi and locked hafts with the traitor, the blades of their weapons on opposite sides as they pit strength against strength in a match of Reinforcement. There was no room to move or strike, no Amplification or Reverberations to deliver as they engaged in a shoving match like children on the playing field. Both braced their arms, then pushed forward with their chests, because to do otherwise meant falling back and Bai Qi’s pride would not allow it. He had been challenged in an area he’d long since reigned supreme, and he refused to be seen backing down from this match.

But in Baatar’s eyes, this sort of pride was empty and meaningless. Pride alone could not fill a wolf’s belly, nor could you take shelter and rest easy beneath pride. The only pride that mattered was the sort that came alongside success, which meant he was not here to prove his strength. He’d come to Pan Si Xing to win.

A sudden step back followed by a vicious headbutt caught Bai Qi by surprise, one of little Yan’s favourite moves which Baatar co-opted for himself, and he looked forward to seeing the look of delight on her face when he shared the tale at dinner. Keeping close to his foe, he shoved Bai Qi back three steps as the traitor reeled from the attack, but true to his reputation, he gave Baatar no chance to disengage and attack. With their weapons so close together, it was easy to sense any movement before it took place, so Baatar’s attempts to wrest his blade into position to take Bai Qi’s head were easily countered without looking. Everything had gone according to plan for once, and Baatar was even a little surprised, but he didn’t let it stop him from following through. Another one of little Rain’s sayings was ‘Don’t judge a book by its cover’, a wise adage many a Warrior failed to adhere to. Most Warriors saw Baatar’s wolf-ears and straightforward demeanour and decided they knew him through and through, a muscle-bound Warrior whose greatest strength came in the form of a furious and relentless offensive. They were wrong, for the wolf’s greatest strength was neither fang nor fury, but cunning flexibility which they employed so often.

So as he manoeuvred his Crescent Moon into position, he let go with one hand and grabbed Bai Qi’s weapon instead, causing his foe to tighten his grip and tense his muscles in preparation to contest him. Then, Baatar released his hold on his opponent’s weapon and retreated with all haste. With Bai Qi still reeling from the headbutt, this opened up enough space for both of them to swing their polearms in the blink of an eye, but Baatar was relaxed and ready to attack, while his foe was tense and frozen in preparation for a struggle that would never come. A simple, one-handed, horizontal chop smashed into Bai Qi’s shoulder, the traitor twisting aside even as the blow was delivered to minimize the impact, but it was still enough to break his stance as Baatar’s Amplified Reverberations travelled down his foe’s shoulder and through his spine to shake him to the core. Using the momentum of his chop to line up for another thrust, Baatar put the full weight of his body behind the attack and lamented as the tip of the Crescent Moon drew blood from Bai Qi’s cheek while poised to pierce clean through his skull.

Too fast. The battle had only just begun, and now it was over too –

Baatar’s impetus came to a crashing halt as the curved blade of his Crescent Moon got caught on the second of nine rings embedded into the back of his opponent’s blade. He’d seen the weapon moving to intercept, but judged that the blade would not arrive in time to stop him from delivering a killing blow. An accurate read, but in a feat of near inhuman precision, Bai Qi angled his weapon so that the ring would catch the tip of the Crescent Moon. A difference of mere centimetres, but that was all it took to get the ring in the way of Baatar’s poleaxe. Normally, one would expect the Honed edge to carve clean through what was supposedly plated lead, but the seemingly unremarkable ring chimed as it strained against the force of his thrust without breaking.

Meaning the ring itself was a Spiritual Weapon.

Nine Spiritual Rings, most likely, because why would he only make one? The Green Dragon Crescent Blade wasn’t one Spiritual Weapon, but ten in total including the glaive itself, all coming together to form a single, super weapon that was greater than the sum of its parts. This was new and unwelcome, for Baatar had no idea what such a weapon could do, but he couldn’t imagine a man like Bai Qi committing so many resources to a fool’s errand. Despite it all, Baatar still strained with effort in an attempt to force his thrust through, but the ring gave Bai Qi ample leverage against the back of his blade, which he used as a fulcrum to force Baatar’s weapon away.

“Good, good,” the traitor declared, his voice shaking with strain as he fought for positioning and leverage Baatar refused to give up without a fight. “You be the first foe to force this Prince into revealing the secret behind the Green Dragon Crescent Blade. Take pride in this accomplishment, Baatar of the People. Yours is a name this Prince will not soon forget.”

And then, with a wrench of his arms, Bai Qi ended the struggle as Baatar ceased resisting against his opponent’s superior strength and leverage to surrender to the flow instead. Both his feet came off the ground as Bai Qi tried to pull the Crescent Moon out of Baatar’s hands, but he didn’t resist and let himself be pulled along and buy time to recover. Cloud-Stepping in place, he barrelled shoulder first into Bai Qi’s chest and grunted as tender flesh met indomitable Runic steel, but the impact freed his weapon from the confines of the ring. An unconventional move Baatar didn’t even need to think up in order to turn the tide around, for in his youth, he spent the better part of a decade trying to force Mother to use an actual weapon instead of her bare hands, which she often used to snatch his sword in her vise-like grip the same way Bai Qi’s Green Dragon Crescent Blade had. This was Baatar’s advantage in this match up, for he had experienced a hundred thousand defeats while Bai Qi had progressed along his path unrivalled. If it was Mother, she would have made Baatar pay dearly to extricate himself, but Bai Qi had never experienced this himself, for he’d never had to use the rings in real combat. A clever trap, but if he expected to win using these silly little schemes, then he was not half the Warrior Baatar thought he was.

In truth, Baatar had failed his son in this regard, for though he wanted to spar with the boy each and every day, little Rain always looked so miserable and unhappy when they were done. The boy was different, for he was not so deeply in love with the Martial Path, but rather resigned to it. To him, combat and sparring was a means to an end, whereas his true love belonged to the mysteries of Chi, Heavenly Energy, and other such esoteric studies, which meant that while constant sparring would help shore up his flaws, his personality meant he would come to resent the training and possibly even slow his progress along the Martial Path. Mother sparring with little Rain was fine, because at least she knew how to hold back, but Baatar would have long since gone overboard in his enthusiasm to spar with his son.

Now was not the time to become distracted however, as Baatar danced about the street to avoid a direct clash against Bai Qi while he gathered his thoughts. The rings might well be the reason why he could hit so hard, some form of extra Amplification or Reverberation, or possibly even Lightening and Stability to boot. No, an angled Deflection was most likely, aimed along the same angle as his attack to add extra impetuous to his swings. Difficult to say for sure without ample testing, but even little Rain could not afford to squander so many precious materials to craft a test weapon. Father might, but Mother kept a tight grip on the purse-strings, so whether she allowed him to squander so much on a curiosity was another thing altogether.

Gritting his teeth as he blocked a swing, Baatar cursed his own distraction. Fight now, contemplate later. Firmly on the back foot, he fell back before Bai Qi’s offensive flurry of blows, the air ringing as his weapon sang and struck. Unable to avoid a confrontation any longer, Baatar unleashed the wolf within and fought with every scrap of skill and fury he possessed. There were no Movements of the Forms that came to mind as he moved, merely his body responding with the Movements he’d engraved into his muscles over decades of practice and repetition, but no matter how strong, agile, fast, or clever he might be, Bai Qi was always there to match him. Through the streets they moved like Wraiths, working Concealment and Cloud-Stepping into their every action as they flew about the battlefield unhinged. No longer could Baatar afford to keep this as a one on one duel, for they were so evenly matched that the unknown variables of the nine rings gave Bai Qi the unshakable upper hand. Strategically retreating before his foe, he tried to maneuver them into position for his allies to lend aid, but he was not the only one with support.

Surprisingly, Rang Min was the first to render assistance, delivering a powerful, two-handed blow that Bai Qi barely blocked in time, the surprise on his face clear for all to see. Immediately after, a small, child-like Demon nicknamed the Dark Child stepped in, and with help from three more Demons it appeared to command, they drove the fearsome former Patriarch away.

The Wedded Exarches stampeded past, unable to land a blow on Bai Qi despite their superlative speed, for his position and spatial awareness enabled him to move out of their path well in advance. The two young Exarches were talented, but too single-tracked in focus, while lacking the finer control needed to go after more agile targets. After three passes, Demons and Half-Demons alike flocked to engage them, and no more aid would be forthcoming for some time, for even though Bai Qi could dodge them, he couldn’t afford the distraction against Baatar.

A Wraith appeared at Baatar’s back, but he noticed it far too late, so late that it was already dead thanks to Jia Yang’s assistance. The man was not the strongest duellist present, but Baatar trusted no one more to guard his back, for once the keening cry of his sabre was raised, only an elite few could ever break through his defence. This was in addition to his superlative perception and flawless positioning, always knowing exactly where he was needed at any given time, a skill which served him well in his speedy ascent through the ranks. They’d come a long way since they first met, when Baatar had readied to take the man’s head in a trial for daring to covet his precious son’s possessions, but he was glad they’d come to terms since.

MuYang’s repeated shots either missed or glanced off Bai Qi’s armour, while some came dangerously close to striking Baatar instead. A Demon threw itself into the fray but died to an errant strike from Baatar, which almost cost him his life as Bai Qi renewed his offensive. The Lawgiver Won Gwang almost took the traitor’s arm off, and might well have had his unconventional man-catcher not gotten caught on the edge of a Runic Bracer. Time and time again, others tried to interfere in their match but were left wanting, and slowly but surely, Baatar’s confidence shrank as he came to terms with his seemingly inevitable defeat. Bai Qi was too strong, too fast, and too clever by far, and though Baatar had come close to killing the traitor, he was no match for the Lord of Martial Strength. There would be no escape here, not for him at least, because there was no one else who could keep him occupied while the Imperials retreated. Surely Hongji would see the writing on the wall and was prepared to order a full withdrawal, so Baatar would sell his life dearly to see that his comrades got as far away as possible before Bai Qi went a hunting.

Truth be told, Baatar’s only regret was that he could not see his son once again. He’d bade farewell to his rose, his daughter, his son-in-law, and grandchildren, as well as everyone else who mattered. The only person he never got a chance to say goodbye to was little Rain, and it pained him to leave things so. What if the boy never woke from his coma, having traded his life for his father’s, only for Baatar to throw it away like a fool blinded by his own hubris.

Bullshit.

