He was just getting the stock to simmer when Aunt Helen entered the room and tsked at him. “Naughty naughty, Matthew. I know I said I would be doing the cooking. I haven’t been able to cook for you three since the war ended.”

After she hugged both Aster and Liz, she rounded the breakfast bar into the kitchen proper and swatted him with a towel.

Matt winced, not because he was playing it up, but because her form had been impeccable and she had hit him right on the back of the hand on the thin bones.

“Hey, that's going to smart!” He complained even as he was pulled into a hug by the oldest phoenix.

“Then maybe you’ll learn to listen. And besides, I know how strong you are. If you wanted to, I’m sure you could have dodged.”

“Ah, but then I wouldn’t be able to complain, now would I?”

Aunt Helen hip bumped him out of the way even as she chuckled. “I won’t dignify that with a response. Instead, let's check what you were cooking. Avgolemono chicken soup with rice? It's a good first dish. You’re lucky, mister. Now start chopping onions and mince some garlic.”

As he got to work, Aster asked, “So what brings you out to this region of the Empire?”

Aunt Helen’s knife didn’t slow as she responded, “I’m not quite sure yet, but I’m sure it will appear in the next few months, or it might have just been a false alarm.”

Liz pressed a hand to her chest. “Are you saying you didn’t come all the way out here to see us?”

Aunt Helen snorted. “If I wanted to see you three, I would just tell you to come visit. That said, why have none of you come to visit since the war ended? I’ve been sitting at home worrying myself sick.”

“I’m not sure I buy that.” Matt said around a bit of onion he was tasting. Too sweet, and so he got a different variety out of storage.

Aunt Helen cocked her head at him. “Are you saying you wouldn’t have come if I requested? How painful it is to learn where one stands in others' hearts.”

Aster put her hands up. “That's not what Matt means, and if it was, we’ll throw him out and get a new Matt.”

That earned her a laugh from the older phoenix. “Hah! That said, I genuinely don’t know why I’m out here. I only have a feeling that I should be on this world for a little more than a year and a half. My Concept is still broken and its feedback is fuzzy at best.”

Liz leaned forward to ask a question, and her phoenix took the opportunity to hop off her shoulder and attempt to scamper onto Aunt Helen's shoulder. Only to immediately get plunked in front of the sink, where she was expected to wash her claws and beak before she was allowed into the kitchen proper. “How is your Concept restoration coming along? Last time we asked you just said soon, but there have been a few ascensions since then. You have to be close, right?”

Aunt Helen shrugged as if she was unbothered, but her knife slightly sped up its chopping even if her cuts were still perfect, giving away her nerves. “It is what it is, but I will admit to being a little bit in a hurry. I’m close. Two, maybe three ascensions and I’ll have pieced my Concept back together.”

Matt stopped his own chopping and, in his most sincere voice, said, “That's amazing. I’m super happy for you.”

Aunt Helen gave him the sweetest smile as she said, “Thank you, Matt. I’m excited, myself.”

She also slipped phoenix Liz a piece of the ham she had been slicing, to the bird’s happy bounces.

Aster bounced in her seat like phoenix Liz. “Hey, we will be close in Tier then, so we can take you delving. That could be fun. I bet with your age and lack of things to do, you are a secret Ascender level fighter, aren’t you Aunt Helen?”

Aunt Helen paused her preparation to stare at Aster for a long moment before she burst out laughing.

“Oh, that's funny! Aster, I can assure you nothing is further from the truth. At best I’ve kept myself from backsliding with the help of some delves to liven things up, but I’ve delved over my Tier a handful of times in my life. Being able to safely advance is more than enough for me.”

Matt pursed his lips. “I’ve got to admit, I’m not sure I believe you.”

Aunt Helen huffed and turned up her nose, an act which phoenix Liz copied and got a mushroom for.

“I have no reason to lie. That said, I appreciate the offer to delve with you, but will have to decline. After my time of being stuck at Tier 24, even moderate advancement will be a good change of pace. One Tier every few thousand years at most. I feel no need to rush.”

Liz slapped the table. “Ah ha! I got it. You secretly have a dozen inspirations ready to go the moment you fix your Concept and will rocket up to Tier 45 in a matter of minutes.”

Aster disagreed. “No, I think she secretly has a full set of essence stones already lined up so she never needs to set foot in a rift to advance all the way up to Tier 45.”

Matt was thinking of his own ridiculous answer when Aunt Helen interjected. “I think you three are forgetting that I can’t even hit Tier 25 until I both fix my Concept and create my Intent.”

Matt shook his head. “Nooo way. Are you saying that you don’t have your Intent already figured out? I don’t believe that for a moment.”

When everyone stared at her, even phoenix Liz from just inches away, Aunt Helen finally caved. “Ok, fine. I have a pretty good idea of what my Intent is, but it might not be correct. I can’t really resonate with it without a Concept. That said, my advanced age, yes thank you for reminding me of that you three, has given me some advantages. And I’m pretty sure I know what it is.”

That made sense to Matt, and the three of them silently agreed to stop pestering her about her advancement. Instead, they let the conversation turn to them and what they had been up to since the end of the war.

Aunt Helen was a great listener and listened to all three of them ramble about their passion projects.

“You know the aura has been making quite the impact, Matthew. I’ve seen quite a few people who were, how to put it nicely? Very stuck, finally advance.”

Matt sighed at the reminder. “I just wish we could figure out reliable ways to make higher Tier aura rifts. It's so hit or miss that we only have a few of the rifts producing aura, and it's so dilute thanks to how many monsters there are. It's a lot slower and way more expensive to collect per mana spent on feeding the rift, and we still haven’t gotten one even close to Tier 14.”

Aunt Helen grabbed his arm and stopped him from stirring until he looked down into her eyes. “Don’t let perfect get in the way of good enough. Those higher Tiers who would otherwise be dead from old age won’t care what will cost them because it's opening up immortality for them. They will just be glad they didn’t have to enter Minkalla as a last resort. Take the victory for what it is. And besides, the new generations simply won’t need them. So while not perfect, it's good enough.”

Matt wanted to object, but pheonix Liz squawked at him and human Liz piled on. “Good luck, Aunt Helen. His skull is too thick to get through, as I've said the same thing more than once, but he still feels bad.”

Aster, at least, was going to defend him if the feeling through their bond was any indication. “Yeah, Matt is dumb.”

Or not.

Glaring at his bond, he only got a cute pose for his trouble.

Sighing, he patted Aunt Helen’s hand. “I know that logically, but that doesn't stop me from feeling like I could be helping more people.”

Not letting go, Aunt Helen asked with a sharpness to her tone that he wasn’t used to, “How?”

“I—”

“How would you have done more, Matthew?”

“I don’t know but —”

“Don’t give me that Matthew. No, you are implying that hiding your Talent is what is stopping the production of stable higher Tier aura rifts. You can’t set yourself on fire to make other people warm. That's a phoenix’s job.”

Her attempt at levity didn’t quite land, but Matt appreciated the attempt.

Still, she was wrong in her assumption.

“It's not actually that. Believe it or not, I don’t want to make my Talent public, even if I knew I’d be safe and there were no repercussions. Well, maybe I would so I didn’t have to bother laundering the money, but that's not why I feel bad. It's got more to do with my time, or rather lack thereof, to do things like work on higher Tier aura rifts. That and deal with the assholes trying to disrupt the guild’s efforts.”

Aunt Helen let him go with a soft repentant smile. “Well, look at that. Even at my age I got egg on my face. That's what I get for making assumptions. That said, I heard about the little kerfuffle with the guild and the patent. Sorry that is happening, honey. I hope it's resolved in your favor sooner than later. As for the time thing, yeah that's always a problem, sorry to break it to you. Even with endless life, there seems to always be something that needs to get done before the things we want to do.”

“Thanks, Aunt Helen. I know you just have my best interests in mind, so I do appreciate it. I just… ugh, I don't know. I’m no expert in aperology, I know that. The researchers at Titan’s Torch are a dozen times better than me, but I like to consider myself a pretty damn good artist in the field. Maybe if I had more time to dedicate to aperology, we might have come up with a way to better stabilize the rifts as they advance in Tier, instead of just relying on brute forcing the odds to Tier them up and wasting a ton of resources to manage it. I just need time to be able to dedicate myself to the effort, and maybe I could have figured something out.”

Aunt Helen snorted. “Sorry, it's just funny. I remember a man who was always saying that same phrase ‘dedicate myself to the effort’. Victor Bab’s was his name. He spent nearly a thousand years slamming his head against a problem.” Aunt Helen pursed her lips as she thought before she shrugged as she went back to stirring. “Frankly I don’t even remember what the problem was, exactly. It's been so long. This was shortly after the shattering and before the reconstruction and reunification wars happened. Ah that’s it, I remember now. He was working on something with bacteria and spent so much time trying to figure it out that he eventually forgot to work on his Concept, and then didn’t have enough time to figure it out. Near the end, he endlessly complained about not having enough time. Poor man.”

Aster flicked her ears in confusion when Aunt Helen just stopped speaking, and started humming along with her cooking. “Wait, is that all? I assumed that was a parable or some kind of lesson to teach Matt the importance of cooking for his family, instead of doing silly aperology work. I could really use a hand in the ice cream factory, and that would have been the perfect segue into that.”

Aunt Helen shot her a side eye. “Not everything has to be a lesson, dear. I just wanted to share a memory I had that was similar. Is that so wrong?”

Aster wilted, putting on her best puppy eyes. “No.”

Aunt Helen nodded and stuck a piece of lamb that was still sizzling onto a fork and shoved it into Aster's direction.

“Tell me if this needs more seasoning.”

Aster happily devoured the treat, just to proclaim it awful and that she needed another taste to see if it was good enough to serve to the rest of them.

That got phoenix Liz to start lightly flapping her wings, trying to get her own taste, but Aunt Helen seemed immune to the feathers impacting her own, and Aster’s weedling alike.

“Speaking of your ice cream, Aster, I really liked the summer in winter blend you did. Those were some inspired choices to pair together.”

Aster beamed at the complement. “Thank you. We worked hard on getting that one right. The Day at the Beach was my personal favorite, and I've been thinking about how I want to bring that one back in a few years.”

“Oh no, I would wait at least a decade before bringing that one back. It was too unique and interesting to bring back immediately. It's the same thing I do with signature dishes. Once a decade is about perfect. Enough that even immortals feel the wait, but not so long that mortals can only try it once. It also means it can make for a good gift if needed.”

Liz mock gasped. “Aunt Helen, are you implying that you deliberately make false scarcity in your meals so you can then give them out as gifts.”

Instead of being embarrassed, Aunt Helen nodded firmly. “You're damn right!”

That earned a round of jeers, but Aunt Helen was unapologetic in her stance, which was a fun new angle they had never seen from her before. The conversation turned jovial after that, and just before the food was served, the conversation turned to Liz’s bloodline research facility and the work they were doing. Aunt Helen even teased about how she knew of people who had done one of the many things Liz’s people were trying to create, but how they had never shared the method, making Liz positively heartbroken.

The food was as always divine, just like everything Aunt Helen made. They started with Matt’s avgolemono chicken soup with rice and paired it with stuffed grape leaves. Their main course was braised lamb over orzo, finished with a very light and flakey fish steak. Their dessert was a simple but delicious apple pie, paired with some ice cream stolen from Aster's personal stash. The Day at the Beach, at Aunt Helen's request.

By the time they were finished, Matt contemplated if he could do the dinner justice if he made it all himself.

Aunt Helen just had the invisible it factor that made all of her food taste better than if anyone else, even Talented cooks, made it.

It felt a little corny to admit, but she made the food with love, and that was impossible to match with magic.

