The night sky above the dome was shockingly clear, with not so much as a cloud to obscure the magnificent vault of the heavens. The moon hung low in the sky, a pale sliver of waxing light, comforting in its presence.

Lying on his back and staring up at the stars, Rain wished that the air within the dome was as clean as that outside so he could get the full effect. The slight haze was noticeable, even at night, simply in contrast to the crystal clarity of the sky. Fires burned here and there in Fel Sadanis and in the Lee, but these were nothing compared to the light pollution of a modern city. The sheer number of stars was utterly breathtaking.

It was just before midnight. Rain had settled on a relatively dry patch of grass near the barrier with the intent of sleeping under the stars, but sleep itself eluded him. Instead, he found himself staring at what was clearly a planet, wondering if it had a name.

Ameliah would doubtless know, but she was asleep, just a few meters away on the other side of the barrier. It was still amazing to him that the cold didn’t bother her. Snow was piled deep outside the magical dome, easily measured just by looking. It was deeper than Rain was tall in places, though the area beneath the sheltering stone pillar that protected the Lee had been cleared, likely with fire magic.

Elsewhere, the snow formed a wall around the city. It blocked the view of the surrounding land, other than to the north-east. There, the river flowed from the mountains to the north until it struck the barrier and was forced to divert, clearing away the snow in the process. It had finally chosen the path to the east, flowing in an ever-deepening channel around the dome until it was once again forced to divert by the stone pillar.

On the other side of the rocky obstruction, past the growing camp nestled beneath it, the river flared out into a sheet of shallow water. Eventually, it would find its way back to the riverbed and continue its journey south to the Badlands, as if its passage had never been impeded.

Rain sighed deeply, thinking of the path of the water and how nice it would have been to just float down the river without a care in the world. It was peaceful out here, alone under the stars with his thoughts. Ameliah was there, of course, but he couldn’t hear her quiet breathing as she slept on the other side of the barrier. Dozer, too, was asleep, having burrowed himself a bed in the mud next to the barrier. Only Rain remained awake, staring at the stars and soaking in the stillness. Time passed, and finally, his eyelids started to droop.

Sometime later, the sudden clang of a bell jolted Rain back to consciousness. His eyes shot open, then he scrunched them back closed in annoyance. It’s one in the morning. Why they feel the need to sound the hour in the middle of the night, I’ll never— Wait, what?

Rain sat up stiffly, looking toward the city. The bell had sounded again, and as he listened, it kept ringing. He flicked on his HUD, having disabled it to observe the stars, but this only deepened his confusion. It wasn’t first bell, let alone second. It was only seven minutes past midnight.

Am I dreaming? He rubbed his eyes, his hands responding stiffly to his mind’s commands. No, not dreaming. What the hell is going on?

Rain looked over his shoulder at the Lee, then did a double-take as he saw the entire camp in silent chaos. Ameliah was gone from where she’d been lying. He spotted her in the distance, standing near one of the fires and pointing into the darkness. People were milling about everywhere, brandishing weapons and torches.

Crimson light flared. A bolt of fire flew from Ameliah’s outstretched hand, illuminating the shadowy form of the object that it struck. Rain recognized it immediately as one of the mushroom men that he’d fought in the Fells, a Fungiform Stumper. The entire thing lit up, and by the growing light of the flames, Rain could see more shadowed forms lurching toward the camp in the darkness.

“Fuck!” he swore, clambering unsteadily to his feet.

His tired, half-sleeping brain had finally shifted into gear, connecting the ringing of the bell to the appearance of the monster.

This is rank shift. Rain looked back at the city, registering that a second bell had started sounding, its dissonant voice unsynchronized to the frantic tolling of the first. A hulking form shifted in the darkness near the wall. And the barrier doesn’t stop it.

He spared one last glance at the silent battle on the other side of the dome, then turned away and sprinted for the city.

Ameliah and Tallheart are there. The Lee will be fine. Fel Sadanis, not so much.

He pulsed Detection, picking out a disturbing number of signals within the radius, though he could see only a few shadowy forms nearby. Some were clearly slimes, but others he couldn’t identify. Fortunately for him, a Stumper hadn’t decided to smash his head into the ground while he slept. The nearest of those was the first one that he’d spotted, over by the west gate. He ignored the signals around him, activating Velocity and tearing toward the city.

We’re not ready for this! I needed more time!

Old Mazel swirled the dregs of the spiced ale around the bottom of her glass, then downed the liquid with a sigh. She reached to the bottle on the table and upended it, then let it fall to the floor in dissatisfaction when nothing came out.

She set down her glass and heaved herself up out of her plush chair, growling against the protests of her back. Her joints popped and cracked, pain shooting through the haze of the alcohol. The old injury made moving difficult, and it didn’t help that Mazel was not a small woman, far from it.

Mazel Strongarm, they’d called her, back when she had worked as a merchant’s guard. At just under three stride tall, she loomed over men and women alike. Even in the dim firelight of her living room and dressed in a blue linen nightgown, she cut an imposing figure.

Rubbing her eyes, Mazel picked up the candle and shuffled her way toward the pantry, limping heavily. Had her sister been around, she would have made an effort to walk normally. To hide the pain. She hated the way Carnilla looked at her. Hated to see the guilt and pity in her eyes. No matter how many times Mazel told her that it wasn’t her fault, her sister had never forgiven herself for being the one to survive that horrible battle unscathed.

The pair of them had worked together. They’d been a team. Now, her sister was still out there, and she was stuck here, in the ass-end of nowhere, drinking up the coin that her sister sent and feeling sorry for herself.

Mazel paused in the hall outside the pantry, tightening her fists. Then she shook her head sharply, which turned out to be a mistake. She pressed her arm against the wall, then rested there for a few moments, staring at her slippered feet while she waited for the hallway to stop spinning.

Pathetic.

The last thing she needed was more ale. What she needed was a healer. A proper one. One that had the knowledge to break her bones in just the right way so that when they healed, the old injury would be undone.

She sighed deeply and pushed herself away from the wall.

Even if such a thing was possible somewhere in the world, it certainly wasn’t in Fel Sadanis. Perhaps if her nephew became a famous adventurer one day, he’d think of his poor old aunt and find her the help that she needed.

Mazel sighed again. Her sister’s son was a good lad. Strong, like his mother. Awakened, too. The pride of the family. Still, the kind of healing that Mazel needed wasn’t something that a bronzeplate could afford. She never let her weakness show when her nephew was around, either. She didn’t need pity.

No, what she needed was sleep. It was far too late to be up and around at her age and in her condition. Another bottle of ale wouldn’t do anything but worsen her headache come the morning.

She looked at the pantry door, hesitating, then firmed her resolve.

No more ale. But, since I’m here already, I might as well get a little snack before bed. Perhaps a piece of hard cheese. Just a small one. Something to keep the ale company.

She pushed the door open, then froze at the unexpected sound of chitin clicking against wood. Holding up the candle, Mazel saw a large, fuzzy form skitter back from the light, armored legs clicking against the floor. It was a spider, larger than any spider had a right to be. She stared at it, blinking aside the haze of tiredness and alcohol as a thrill of recognition ran through her. Am I dreaming?

Any doubts were settled as the thing rushed for her. Mazel shouted, dropping the candle, the pain in her back forgotten. She didn’t turn to flee, however.

They called her Big Mazel. Old Mazel. Mazel the Fat. Mazel the Cripple. But none of those were who she was.

She was Mazel Strongarm, and she wasn’t afraid of some overgrown bug.

Her thunderous stomp landed atop the spider like the collapse of a mountain, driving its furry body to the ground and sending its armored legs splaying outward. A fountain of foul ichor splattered from the monster, covering Mazel and the contents of the pantry with gore and extinguishing the fallen candle.

“Fuck!” The last of the cheese had been on the bottom shelf.

I didn’t think that through.

Any further lamentation was cut short by the unexpected clang of a bell. Mazel frowned, walking from the desecrated pantry. The ringing of the bell continued as she made her way down the hall, sounding more frantic by the moment.

Mazel wasn’t an adventurer, but she’d served as a guard and traveled far and wide. She recognized a Coal Lurker when she saw one. The monsters were level two, weak on their own, but deadly because of the way that they swarmed. How one had gotten into her pantry was a mystery, but that wasn’t important right now. Whether it had spawned in the sewer and found its way in somehow, or if the rumors of rank shift were true, it hardly mattered.

Where there was one Coal Lurker, there were always more. She had work to do.

Stopping in front of the fireplace, she reached above it and pulled down the spear that was hanging there, collecting dust. She swung the deadly weapon in a practiced arc, slamming the butt against the ground to steady her stance. Despite the pain, the motion felt good. It felt right.

Mazel Strongarm grinned in the firelight. “Now, where did I put my armor?”

Shouts of terror and the clamor of combat greeted Rain’s ears as he approached the city. He’d slipped on his helmet during his run, anticipating that he would soon be in the thick of it. Light poured out through a crack in the wooden gates, which had been partially closed for the first time that he could remember. The pair of Watch officers who’d been standing guard earlier were nowhere to be seen.

Rain skidded to a stop, dropping Velocity as he slipped through the crack in the doors. It immediately became apparent why the gates hadn’t been closed completely. The Watch officers were a little busy at the moment.

The Fungiform Stumper that they were fighting roared, swinging its club-like arm down toward the man standing in front of it. Rather than dodging back as Rain expected, the Watch officer stepped inside the blow, taking the opportunity to leave a deep gash in the Stumper’s side with his sword.

There was a flash, and a bolt of arcane lightning slammed into the monster’s back, causing it to roar again and turn from the retreating swordsman. The Mage responsible stood his ground, pelting the monster with bolt after thunderous bolt as the Stumper charged toward him. Each hit chipped off another small chunk of the creature’s ridiculous health pool, which was already down to half. There was another Stumper nearby, lying dead where it had fallen. A few other, smaller monsters that Rain couldn’t identify were scattered around, burned beyond recognition.

“Get the door!” shouted the officer with the sword, glancing at Rain for a moment before taking the chance to stab at the Stumper’s back while it was distracted by the mage. Rain was already moving, having come to the same conclusion as the officer had. The square inside the gate was lit by torches, while the area beyond the walls was not. Thanks to Detection, he could feel monsters headed toward them from outside, drawn by his passage. Even more would be spawning by the minute.

The heavy wooden doors slammed shut with a boom as Rain pushed them closed, then he began looking for the drop bar. He spotted it nearby, a thick wooden beam leaning against the side of the guardhouse. “Shit,” he hissed under his breath. The thing was massive.

Glancing back at the continuing battle, he dragged the beam down, letting it fall to the ground with a thud. He hauled it toward the door, one end dragging on the cobblestones.

A splatter of impact and a slight wobble told him that something, likely a slime, had thrown itself against the gate. He cursed, pinging several more times with Detection. Thankfully, there didn’t seem to be any more Stumpers in range, at least for the moment. The number of other signals coming from within the walls was hardly comforting, however.

Rain struggled with the beam, even his boosted strength insufficient to easily lift the heavy piece of lumber. He grunted as he straightened his legs, dead-lifting one end and jamming it into the bracket. Lifting the other end was harder, as he had to negotiate it around the second bracket before he could get it into place. By the time he managed it, the Stumper had succumbed to the combined onslaught of the two officers.

Rain turned, panting from his run and the struggle with the beam. He let himself lean against the gates, waving at the two officers standing by the downed Fungiforms. It wasn’t the same pair that had been here when he’d left earlier. The two monsters, on the other hand, looked exactly the same as those that he’d fought in the Fells. Fungiform Stumpers were around three meters tall, and had wide bodies supported by massive legs. Their arms were like tree-trunks that hung nearly to the ground, and their red mushroom-caps were patterned with glowing orange spots, though those had faded to a dull brown now that the monsters were dead.

The respite didn’t last long enough for Rain to properly greet the officers, let alone for him to catch his breath. The sound of rapid footsteps heralded the arrival of a small group of people, sprinting toward the now-barred gate.

“Help!” the leader of the group cried, a ruddy-faced man hauling a small child by the hand.

“They’re right after us!” said the woman next to him, flanked by what was clearly the rest of their family.

“Get behind us,” said the sword-wielding officer. “In the guardhouse, there’s—fucking depths!”

