“I’ve saved a few of them,” Val said, a more serious expression settling onto his face as he fell into step beside Rain and Mlem as they made their way back to the barricade. He jabbed a thumb over his shoulder at the smoking remains of the Stumper. “You won’t believe how they’ve been trying to handle those. They’re crazier than I am.”

Tallheart grunted as the Stumper slammed its arm into his back. He skidded from the impact, his boots leaving deep furrows in the earth. With a frown, he turned to face the monster, narrowing his eyes in annoyance as it swung at him again.

Raising his arm, Tallheart caught the creature’s downward swing with his hand, his gauntleted fingers digging deep into the spongy flesh. The monster roared in pain, but Tallheart didn’t stop there. He pulled, dragging the monster down so he could ram his other fist into its shoulder. Once, twice, three times, he struck, blasting through the creature’s health and weakening the joint. He ripped the arm free, the monster spinning away and falling to the ground. Without hesitation, Tallheart transferred the mushroom’s arm into his other hand, then brutally battered the creature into the ground with its own limb.

No active skills were involved. Tallheart had none suited for the task, nor did he need any. It took less than five seconds to reduce the monster to a pulpy mess using brute force alone.

Tallheart held up the remains of the arm, then took a bite, chewing speculatively as he tossed the rest away. Fungiform was a delicacy, but he preferred it roasted, and this wasn’t the time to be eating. He shook his head, then reached to his belt to retrieve his hammer from the loop at his waist. He had a job to do.

With a single blow, he felled the elm tree that he’d been considering before he’d been interrupted. He waited for it to fall, then lifted one end and began dragging it, his feet churning up the earth beneath the snow as he fought for traction. Leverage is always the issue.

Things became easier once he got the tree free of the forest and could maneuver it up onto his shoulder. He plowed a wide furrow through the snow, heading back to the Lee, unconcerned by the monsters that lurked in the darkness.
