After a moment, Ava stood up next to her father, grabbing onto him as the merchant said something to her. He wrapped her in an arm, then reached into a pocket of his robe and pulled out something which he threw in Rain’s direction.

Rain’s eyes lost track of the object as it sailed through the darkness, picking it up only when it clattered to the ground at his feet. It was a small rounded stone, like a river rock. He was about to look back up when there was a pop, and Mlem and his daughter appeared directly in front of him.

“Ah!” Rain shouted, stumbling back as Mlem bent casually to retrieve the stone.

Similar cries of alarm echoed from the surrounding civilians, though they quickly recovered. The torch-bearers had formed a perimeter as he’d instructed them, watching for danger as the other adults managed the children.

“There you are, Rain,” Mlem said. “We’ve been stuck on that roof for over an hour. I was starting to think nobody was going to come by.”

Rain winced as the echoes of the shouts rebounded off the buildings. So much for staying quiet.

“How did you— No, not important. What are you doing here, Mlem?” He pinged with Detection, keeping track of the signals from the monsters in case something came to investigate the noise.

“Well,” Mlem said, shifting the strap of the pack he was wearing. “The tailor worked late to finish your order, and I figured I might as well come to deliver it, but then the depths rose, and Ava and I had to get creative.”

“Daddy fought a mushroom man!” Ava said. Rain blinked, staring at her. Unlike the other children, she didn’t seem scared in the slightest. Then, Rain blinked again, looking up at Mlem.

“You killed a Stumper?” I knew he was awakened, but I thought he was like level five or something.

Mlem grinned at him, stroking his mustache. “Maybe, maybe. I’ll tell you about it later, if we survive,” he said cheerily.

“Wait a minute, that stone,” Rain said, his brain struggling to play catch up. “If you can use it to teleport, why didn’t you just—”

“Jump from rooftop to rooftop until we got to safety?” Mlem interrupted.

“Yeah,” Rain said.

“Not enough mana for more than a few skips,” Mlem said with a shrug, once more adjusting the pack on his back. “The drain from the barrier, you know. Makes it hard to keep things charged.”

A mutter from the crowd around them caught Rain’s attention. It’s called a skipping stone? Why the hell don’t I know about these things?

He shook his head, returning his attention to the task at hand. “Never mind, Mlem, I’m glad you’re here. If you can fight, all the better. We’re headed for the bathhouse.”

“Now that is a grand idea,” Mlem said. “You can count on me if we run into trouble.” He laid a hand on a scimitar belted at his waist.

“Me too!” said Ava, pushing forward. “I can fight!”

“Hush, Ava,” Mlem said, offering her the torch he was carrying. “I need you to hold this for me. Can you do that?”

Ava shook her head. “I want to fight!”

“Ava…” Mlem warned. “We’ve talked about this…”

“Lord Rain,” said one of the torch-bearers, pointing into the darkness. “There’s light over there!” The tension was clear in the man’s voice. “Can we…”

“I know,” Rain said, “We should move. Come on, follow me.”

The group moved out, Mlem still arguing with his daughter as if he had not a care in the world and was just out for a late-night stroll. Rain urged him to keep quiet, but Mlem barely lowered his voice, which made Rain grit his teeth in frustration. Every awakened I meet is out of their fucking gourd!

Amazingly, the group made it down the street without anything more significant than a few slimes coming out to meet them. Rain let the unawakened deal with them, keeping alert for more serious threats. A palpable wave of relief washed over him as they rounded the corner where the light was coming from, seeing a massive barricade of broken furniture with a bonfire blazing in front of it. There was a cry of alarm from the group of club-wielding workers guarding the barricade, then excited shouts as they recognized him. The civilians around him broke, running for the safety of the light. Rain moved to join them, but stopped after a few steps, frozen. He turned his head, looking back the way they had come.

It seemed as though something had heard them after all. Something that hadn’t been there before. His eyes searched the darkness, picking out the distant form of the freshly-spawned Fungiform Stumper. It was moving slowly but determinedly in their direction, picking up speed as he watched.

Rain felt the sudden presence of a hand on his shoulder, and he turned to see Mlem standing next to him, pack removed, scimitar drawn and held at the ready. Ava was standing beside him, holding the torch in one hand and a dagger in the other with a fearless expression on her face.

“Shall we?” Mlem said, nodding to the oncoming Stumper.

“Yes, but just us,” Rain said, flicking his eyes to Ava and giving Mlem a significant look.

Mlem jumped, turning to see his daughter standing there. “Ava, go protect the others,” he said, pointing to the barricade with the scimitar.

“I want to fight with you!” Ava said, shaking her head.

“Ava,” Mlem snapped, his tone suddenly serious as the monster lumbered closer. “Rule 1.”

Ava hesitated, then took a step back. “Fiiiiiiine,” she said, disappointment clear in her voice.

What the hell is wrong with this kid? She WANTS to fight a giant mushroom monster? Rain shook his head and walked out to meet the oncoming Stumper.

Rain had started collating monster information in little custom dialog boxes a few days ago. The system didn’t help with this in any way; he was brute-forcing it by manually adding text to blank panels. It was time-consuming, but it got a little easier with each one that he made, and it helped him order the ridiculous quantity of information that was bouncing around in his head these days. The one for the Fungiform Stumper appeared with a thought, but Rain barely even glanced at it before he dismissed it again. The mere act of summoning it had been sufficient to bring the information straight to the front of his mind.

Fungiform Stumper

Class

Fungiform

Level

11

Aspect

Chemical

Bounty

1650 exp

3-15 Tel

0-2 chem-crysts

Health

~12,000

Physical (Force?) Resistance

Considerable

Does blunt/slashing matter?

Cold Resistance

~80

Heat Resistance

Unknown

Suspected weakness

Physical Attack

Blunt. Slow.

Extremely powerful.

Don’t get hit!

Spore Cloud

Effect unknown

Purify mitigates

Description

Three-meter tall mushroom guy.

In Soviet Fel Sadanis, Goomba stomps you!

“How’s your Heat Resistance?” Rain asked, glancing at Mlem as the pair approached the oncoming Stumper. He felt surprisingly calm.

“Middling,” said Mlem. “Short of a direct hit, I should be fine.”

Rain nodded. “I’m going to try burning it. Just scream in agony if the mageburn is too much.”

Mlem laughed. “Just don’t singe my mustache.”

Rain snorted, then his face became serious as the monster roared, a deep bass thrum. It was nearly upon them. “Don’t attack it yet,” Rain said. “I need to test its resistance.”

“Very well,” Mlem said. “I’ll just distract it until you’re ready.” He darted forward, dodging smoothly under the lumbering swing of the monster and spinning past it. “Yaaaaah!” he shouted loudly, waving his torch over his head.

Rain’s concern for Mlem faded the moment he saw the man move. Mlem was middle-aged, bald, and had a bit of gut, but he had clearly seen combat before. The way that he danced casually past certain death spoke volumes. He’ll be fine.

Pulling up the skill card for Immolate, Rain focused on Channel Mastery and tweaked the settings until he was catching the monster with the heat aura at precisely ten damage per second. He kept the range as wide as he could without hitting the buildings on either side of the street, which meant he had to stay closer to the monster than he would have liked.

Immolate (10/10)

9-10 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 2 meters

Cost: 2.5 mp/s

He left the spell there, watching the monster’s health bar and following after it as Mlem led it away. As he’d expected, the bar wasn’t moving. The air around him was uncomfortably warm even after barely five seconds, but it was as hot as it was going to get at this level of the spell.

Heat resistance is at least ten.

Rain doubled the intensity of the aura, bringing it up to 17-20 damage per second. He waited a few seconds.

Still nothing. Damn, I’ll try for 30, and if that doesn’t do it, I’ll use a bigger step.

“Are you done yet?” called Mlem.

“Just hold on,” Rain said, increasing the aura to 26-30 DPS. This time as the air warmed, he saw a flicker of change on the monster’s health bar. It didn’t react to the damage, and the bar only looked a pixel or two off full, but it was there, and it was real.

Rain smiled, dropping the aura.

Confirmed, they’re weak to Heat, or at least, weaker to Heat than they are to Cold. I’ll pencil it in at 25 flat resistance. If I don’t use Channel Mastery, that should be 175-200 raw DPS. After its resistance, 150-175. At 12,000 health, it will take—

“Depths, Rain, what are you doing over there!?” Mlem shouted, skittering away from the monster’s earth-shaking stomp. “I don’t mean to rush you, but as slow as this guy is, I can’t just dodge him all night. We’ll be in trouble if something else shows up.”

“You’re right, sorry!” Rain shouted, closing in. Knowing the monster’s resistance would be important in the long run if he wanted to conserve mana, but he already had the information he needed. He could work the rest out while he fought. The Stumper roared, and Rain had to wait for the noise to stop before speaking again. “Start attacking! I’m going to open up on it. Let me know if it gets too hot.”

“Here goes!” Mlem shouted. This time after the Stumper swiped at him, he retaliated with a smooth, sweeping cut, tracking a line along its arm before he darted away. The Stumper howled in pain, losing a decent sliver of health. Either Mlem’s sword was enchanted, or he’d used some skill to add damage to the strike. Probably both.

Rain set his questions aside and let Immolate off the chain.

Immolate (10/10)

175-200 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 2 meters

Cost: 50 mp/s

His armor glowed red in the darkness beneath his cloak, and the Stumper bellowed in agony as the magic washed over it. It whirled away from Mlem, sending its spongy fist straight toward Rain as soon as it spotted him. Rain dodged away, and Mlem took the opportunity to stab it viciously in the back of the leg. His strike took off even more of the creature’s health this time, easily matching the cumulative damage from Immolate over the last few seconds.

Rain kept up the aura, sweat rolling down his face beneath his visor as scalding air pressed in on him. The air temperature had already reached a peak and stabilized, but the heat was finding its way in through the gaps in his armor, and the metal itself would slowly be warming.

Ten seconds.

Twenty.

Thirty.

Still, Rain didn’t drop the spell. He was keeping an eye on his own health, in addition to the Stumper’s. He had only taken a point or two of damage, his equipment and his own resistance to Heat sufficient to protect him, at least for now. Mlem, likewise, hadn’t complained. He had switched his stance and started chopping at the monster’s legs like a woodsman, only taking breaks to dodge the creature’s retaliatory strikes.

As the monster’s health neared zero, it suddenly burst into flames. Mlem shouted and jumped back as the burning monster went mad, flailing its arms wildly. Orange light flashed from the spots on its cap, visible even through the brightness of the flames.

Rain dropped Immolate and joined Mlem in getting as far away as possible.

The explosion that followed was underwhelming, more gasoline than C4, but it nevertheless ended the fight. The last of the Stumper’s health vanished, accompanied by the ding of a kill notification as its burning body fell to the ground.

Your party has defeated [Fungiform Stumper], Level 11

Your Contribution: 47%

0 Experience Earned

“Well,” Mlem said, edging around the smoking pile of mushroom flesh. “That happened.” He moved next to Rain, staring at the flames. “You have got to have one of the strangest fighting styles I’ve ever seen. You just stand next to things and wait for them to die? What the hells is that? Where is your sense of flair?”

Rain shrugged. “It isn’t about looking impressive. It’s about winning. Besides, I’m not much of a fighter.”

Mlem laughed. “Ah, well. If it works, it works, but it’s just so…boring. Also, you didn’t win. I won. Fifty-three percent.”

Rain snorted. “It wasn’t a contest, Mlem.” He started chilling the pair of them down with Refrigerate, just to take the edge off.

Unexpectedly, someone started clapping slowly. Rain whirled, seeing Val standing behind them, a broad grin on his face.

“Not bad, Rain,” Val said, crossing his arms.

“Who the hells are you?” said Mlem.

Val laughed, shaking his head. He reached into the neck of his jacket and fished out his bronze Guild plate, dropping it to dangle freely on his chest.

“Val,” Rain said, narrowing his eyes. “Were you there the whole time?” Detection had told him that there’d been people around, but he hadn’t exactly had time to search for anyone specific or keep track of them during the fight.

“Yup,” Val said, grinning as he summoned his Lunar Orb. “I wanted to see how you’d do, and I’m low on mana anyway, which is why I came looking for you. I’d have helped if you needed it, so don’t give me that look.”

“Clearly, you two know each other,” Mlem said, sheathing his sword as Rain tried to decide whether he was mad or relieved. “Shall we discuss this back at the bathhouse?” He wrinkled his nose. “The aroma of burning Fungiform leaves much to be desired.”

“Yeah, let’s go,” Rain said tiredly. He could have used Purify to deal with the smoke, but it didn’t appear to be toxic, the fire likely having neutralized the spores. Rain shook his head, activating Essence Well to send Val what little mana he had left. “I’m worried about the workers.”

