“More than one?” asked Bartum.

The officer shook his head. “No, sir. There don’t seem to be that many of them, and they aren’t grouping up. Not like the Lurkers.”

Bartum nodded. “How are the casualties among the unawakened?”

“Slowing,” said the officer. “We’re telling people to just light up their homes and stay put, like you said. Any poor bastards unlucky enough to get something worse than a Lurker under their beds are already dead, and most everyone else is either holed up or already here. We’re running into fewer people on the streets, alive or otherwise.”

“Acknowledged,” Bartum said. “I am revising my orders.” He gestured to the city, indicating the lit semi-circle surrounding the stronghold. “We’re focusing on stabilizing the perimeter now. We’ve had too many incidents. Monsters are still spawning in abandoned homes and shops. Everyone is to come here. Additionally, they are to bring all of the candles and lamp oil that they own, as well as whatever food and supplies they can carry. You’re to go building by building, making sure that they’re clear. Once they are, lock them up and draw a cross on the door. An earth specialist will collapse it as soon as it is feasible.”

“Sir, isn’t that excessive?” said the patrol leader.

Bartum shook his head. “We can’t afford to play Ranks. This is a war we are fighting, and we do not have the luxury of an elegant solution. Make damn sure you clear those buildings of anyone left alive before you make that mark. I don’t want any more lives on my conscience.”

“Yes sir,” the officer said.

Bartum nodded. “If you see something stronger than a Stumper, do not engage. Draw it back here so we can kill it from the walls. Now, get the hells back out there.”

“Yes sir!” the officer said, almost throwing himself from the roof in his haste to get back to his duty.

Bartum wished he could follow him, but he was needed here. He stared out at the city, marking the locations of the three other surface strongholds by the slowly growing rings of light around them. There were a few other illuminated areas, most notably the Guild and the bathhouse. Rain was on his way to the latter, having dropped off a large group of citizens at the perimeter and then departed before Bartum had a chance to speak with him. The officers who’d escorted the peculiar Guilder said that he’d been concerned for his own people and that they couldn’t convince him to wait.

Bartum sighed. He could have really used him here, but there was nothing to be done about it now. He squinted in the direction of the bathhouse. The large form of a Fungiform Stumper was clearly recognizable even at this distance as it smashed through one of the barricades that Rain’s people had set up. Bartum had stationed two officers there to keep an eye on the water situation, but it looked like they’d either been killed or had expended all of their mana and stamina. Bartum shook his head. One adventurer would not be enough to turn the tide, even if he got to them in time.

A crash echoed up from the building below him, but Bartum ignored it. He took a Message scroll from the dwindling pile on the table beside him, then focused on the face of the acting commander of the Eastern stronghold as he broke the seal.

[Officer Marghee, this is Officer Bartum. Confirmation: nineteen drake harvest sundown. Orders follow. You are to send ten officers to reinforce those stationed at the bathhouse. A significant number of citizens have gathered, and the perimeter is at risk of imminent breach. Signal acknowledgment. Do not use a scroll unless you have vital information, such as a sighting of a monster above level thirteen. Confirmation repeats: nineteen drake harvest sundown. Stay strong. Message ends.]

“Where the hells is Rain!?” shouted Vanna, waving her torch at the enormous mushroom man in front of her. She gave a yelp as it turned to face her, then took off at a sprint. They’d long since learned that there was no point in fighting these, as an unawakened. Anyone that had tried had been killed, either smashed to a pulp or choked to death by the toxic spores. The numerous slimes and spider creatures could be dealt with by boot and club, but the lumbering mushrooms were on a completely different level. She didn’t know what she’d have done if the Watch hadn’t been here.

Bartum had sent two officers over earlier in the day to help keep order, and they’d still been around when the monsters had started appearing everywhere. Three more officers had arrived later, having been on patrol nearby. Their presence had been instrumental. Without them, they wouldn't have been able to hold the monsters at bay long enough to get the barricades set up. Now, however, all five officers had reached their limits and were too exhausted to protect them any longer.

They were on their own, and a barricade wouldn’t stop a mushroom man. That was where she and the other mental defectives came in. The things were unstoppable juggernauts, but they were also both slow and dumb. They could be distracted with fire, then led away by anyone idiotic enough to risk the sprint back through the darkness.

Vanna, the Stumper in tow, dashed through the remains of the broken barricade, pumping her arms furiously. She had to swerve around one of the spider things as it jumped at her from an alley. It was one of the big ones, and she could see more coming toward her, attracted by the light of her torch. She ran faster, leaving them behind as the barricade fell away behind her. Thank fuck for short, stubby spider legs.

She gritted her teeth, then glanced back at the Stumper. It was still on her. They were slow to react and not very nimble, but that didn’t mean outrunning one was easy, especially not in a straight line. Once the creatures got going, their long legs ate up the ground with deceptive ease.

Satisfied that she was far enough, she flung the torch down the street in front of her and ducked into an alley. She almost immediately reversed direction, scrambling back out into the path of the oncoming Stumper.

Nope! Nope! Nope! Nope! Nope! Nope!

An insectile form had moved in the darkness, rearing up on its hind legs to well over her height, the faint light of the moon reflecting off a pair of wicked-looking blades. A hissing screech followed her as she scrambled away, not even sparing a glance for the Stumper, which was still stupidly fixed on the torch.

She dashed diagonally across the street, headed to another alley that would take her toward the river. The water was far from safe, given what had been spotted swimming in it, but it was better than certain death by decapitation. Please don’t follow me. Please go for the torch. Please, please, please— Oh fuck!

Vanna had come around a corner to find another of the mushroom men right in front of her. She attempted to throw herself to the side, but it was too close. She crashed straight into it, the air blasting from her lungs as she bounced off and fell to the ground in a heap. The monster made no sign that it had even noticed, though Vanna felt as if she’d run straight into a wall. She pushed herself away as quickly as she could, scrambling like a crab along the ground as the monster pivoted to face her. Shit shit shit! It saw me!

A sudden blinding flash of light pierced the darkness, and the mushroom man halted in its tracks. Then, it roared, a deep, rolling thrum of outrage. Only then did Vanna realize that she was screaming too, her voice barely audible over the monster’s.

Suddenly, a figure appeared in front of her, between her and the mushroom man. Vanna would have screamed again, had she had any breath remaining.

A white ball of light formed in the darkness and flew toward the monster. It didn’t strike it; instead, it swooped around the mushroom’s cap, dancing through the air. By its light, Vanna could see that the figure in front of her was human. A man, wearing a black jacket.

“Run,” the man’s voice said as he pointed his finger at the monster. There was another flash of light, and the pitch of the monster’s roar deepened along with its anger.

“Run where?!” Vanna shouted at him. She pointed back the way she had come. “There’s a—”

She gasped. The man had vanished as abruptly as he’d appeared. The glowing orb of light remained, darting around the mushroom man as it ponderously attempted to swat it from the air.

Teleportation? Invisibility?

Vanna clambered back to her feet, pressing herself flat against the side of a building. She was unwilling to run past the mushroom man, and even more unwilling to turn back.

“This way, stumpy,” said the man’s voice. Vanna spotted him standing on the far side of the creature. The monster started moving in his direction, and he vanished again, but not before there was another flash of light and roar of pain from the mushroom. She could see a small blackened circle on the thing’s back where the man’s first spell must have struck it.

The mushroom man slammed its fists angrily into the ground where the man had been standing, shaking the earth with the force of the impact. In doing this, it had moved over to the side of the street.

Vanna clenched and unclenched her hands. If I can get past, I can take this street to the bridge.

“Come on, you idiot mushroom!” the man’s voice said, though Vanna couldn’t see him this time. The mushroom man clearly could, lumbering away down another alley. The path was clear.

Go!

Vanna sprinted down the dark street, sparing a glance after the retreating monster. The man who’d saved her was nowhere to be seen. The light hovering above the Stumper had vanished, plunging the area back into darkness. An orange glow from the alley remained, flaring brighter in a sudden flash. Vanna looked away, running with all of her might. That light meant the spores were coming. Those spores would spread, and if she breathed them in, she would die. They were the reason why people like her were needed to draw the monsters away.

Her heart beat with terror and exhaustion as she dashed toward the safety of the barricades, and yet, somehow, it felt light in her chest. Even if she didn’t make it, even if none of them made it until the dawn, she’d led the monster away. She’d made a difference.

“Come on, it’s clear,” Rain said in a hushed voice, the light of Purify fading and returning the tunnel to the dimness of the flickering torchlight.

He’d just finished off a pack of Plague Rats, Greater Slimes, and Popcaps, which were Fungiforms of some kind. They were small and easy to kill, but they’d be a death sentence for anyone without Purify. When they died, they exploded, sending their toxic spores everywhere.

Rain turned and continued leading the way down the tunnel, a group of at least a hundred civilians following him. When he’d left his first group of rescued citizens with the Watch, he’d been planning to rush to the bathhouse as quickly as possible. His people had been staying there overnight, having set up bunks in the main room, and Rain felt responsible for their safety. However, he couldn’t just ignore those that he had come upon along the way. It was far too dangerous to send people back to the Watch stronghold alone, and that had led to the current situation.

The able-bodied adults had arranged themselves throughout the pack, holding torches and shepherding a terrified group of children and the elderly. The torches kept things from spawning in their midst, but Rain had to maintain constant vigilance with Detection to ensure that nothing was creeping up on them from behind or from down a side tunnel.

Before he’d seen the kind of stuff that was spawning down here, he’d considered guiding people into the sewers to take shelter. That plan was no longer even on the table. The Coal Lurkers were pure nightmare fuel, but they weren’t venomous, unlike the aptly named Venomfang Plague Rats. Those were smaller, faster cousins of the Trundlers, and the sewers were thick with them. He had only brought these people down here because he’d had no other choice. There’d been a Stumper blocking a street that he’d needed to cross, and he couldn’t fight it and protect all of the civilians at the same time. Going back or going around would have been even more dangerous.

“Stairs!” a woman shouted, pointing past him.

Rain nodded, holding a finger to his lips to remind her to keep quiet. He’d memorized the layout of the sewers at this point. “Yes. Stay together,” he whispered. “I’m going to go check if it’s clear. Stay quiet, but yell if something comes.”

He didn’t wait for an answer, taking the stairs two at a time and holding his torch in front of him. When he reached the surface, he found the street completely packed with slimes—the regular kind, not the Greater Slimes that he’d been running into below. A Refrigerate Nova froze the filthy things solid, and a pulse of Detection confirmed that there wasn’t anything big nearby.

“Clear!” Rain hissed down the stairs, though it was anything but. The buildings around him had shielded the monsters within from Refrigerate, but the civilians didn’t need to know that. The sewers felt safe, for all that they weren’t. He needed the civilians to leave the false protection of the stone tunnels and follow him back to the surface. Telling them about the monsters would only frighten them more. As long as they stayed quiet, they’d be fine. Detection had informed him of numerous Slimes and Coal Lurkers in the nearby buildings, but no Stumpers. There was also one of the worrisome ‘somethings,’ but it was far away, several streets over at least.

Once more, Rain wished that Detection would actually give him information about the signals it picked up, not just the fact of their existence. He had to ping multiple times every time he wanted to get a picture of what was around him, and his mana was far from infinite. Every time he got an unknown signal that matched the criteria ‘monster,' it filled him with dread.

The rest of his group started filtering out of the tunnel. Rain looked around at the buildings as he waited. There were people in some of them, candlelight peeking out through cracks in shuttered and barred windows. Shutters would stop Lurkers, Slimes, and even Fungiforms, provided that the inhabitants stayed quiet and didn’t attract attention. It was the ‘somethings’ that he was worried about.

Should I try to get them to come out?

A flicker of light caught his attention, and he looked up to see a person stand up atop the building across the street, holding a torch. Immediately, he recognized the man from the orange robe he was wearing.

“Mlem?” Rain said softly in disbelief. What’s he doing here?

