A tumultuous swarm of spiders flowed around the corner after the fleeing family like a wave. They ranged in size from ‘big-ass tarantula’ to the significantly more alarming ‘what the fuck is wrong with your dog?’. The system identified the big ones as level two Coal Lurkers, and the smaller ones as Coal Lurker Broodlings, also level two, but a swarm type.

“Ander, Lightning Wave!” the officer said, turning tail and joining the terrified family in flight.

“Not enough mana!” the mage shouted. “Stop running toward me, damn it! You’ll have to turtle!”

“No!” Rain shouted, rushing forward. “I’ve got it!” He passed the family, charging directly toward the wave of spiders. At level two, these were nothing compared to Kin. Also, he’d been primed by a lifetime of video games for this moment. It wasn’t a question of if he would run into giant spiders, only when. There was no time for fear, only action. He could think about all of the horrible scrabbling legs and dripping fangs later.

Refrigerate blasted out from him in a sphere, creating an expanding cloud of snow as water froze out of the humid air. Rain’s armor shone with the blue light of mana interference, but he didn’t even notice as he waded directly into the oncoming swarm.

A cascade of dings overwhelmed his hearing as the system presented him with a torrent of kill notifications. It would have been over in an instant, had the bodies of the dead and dying spiders not shielded their fellows somewhat from the spell. Nevertheless, the entire swarm was frozen solid in less than ten seconds, the spiders collapsing to the ground with a clatter like river stones falling on a tile floor. Only once the spiders were all dead did Rain notice that their legs were armored with some sort of hard shell. They didn’t appear to have fangs, either, but rather, a suction-cup-like mouth in the center of their fuzzy heads.

They had the eyes, though. Plenty of eyes.

Rain shuddered.

“Damn,” said the mage. “Nice work. Hey, what’s this now?”

“Mana,” Rain said, not even looking in the direction of the mage to see the blue rings. “You, man in the green shirt,” he said, pointing to the ruddy-faced man who was still holding on to his daughter protectively. The family had huddled together near the gate, terror and relief warring on their faces.

“Y…Yes?” the man said.

“Grab some torches. The monsters are spawning in the dark. We’ve got to light up the city. Be careful, though. A fire is the last thing we need.”

“In the guardhouse,” said the sword-wielding officer, pointing. “We’ve got a bundle of them. Not enough for… Fuck, nowhere near enough, but it’s a start.”

A scream echoed through the square as a woman entered from another street, seeing the pile of frozen spider things.

“It’s okay!” said the mage. “They’re dead.”

The woman hesitated, then looked behind her and ran forward. A pair of slimes oozed out into the square after her.

Rain frowned, reaching to his belt and snapping the Quickstaff open as he marched toward the oncoming slimes, his boots crunching through the frozen spiders. He wasn’t about to drop Essence Well just to deal with a pair of slimes.

“Get the torches,” he said firmly. “We need to move. There’ll be more coming, and we don’t have any time to waste. Torches, candles, anything you can find. Spread the word to everyone who joins us.”

“You heard him,” the mage said, steadying the panicking woman and guiding her over to the others. “We stick together. We’ll head to the southern stronghold.”

Rain slashed one of the slimes out of mid-air with the staff as it leapt for him, easily bisecting the gelatinous creature. He held off on Purify, even though he’d been splattered by the dying slime. He’d be needing his mana for more important things, and he knew it wouldn’t be long before he was covered again. The second slime shared the same fate as the first at the hands of the swordsman.

“You must be Rain,” the grinning officer said. “Category three, fucking hells. Those Lurkers didn’t stand a chance.” He pointed at his chest with his thumb. “Name’s Cale.” He nodded to the mage. “That there’s Ander.”

Rain nodded to the man, distracted by a sudden thought. The slimes had reminded him that he’d left Dozer outside. The link had grown hazy with distance, so he had to concentrate to bring it into focus. Once he grasped the connection, the only thing he could do was to shake his head in disbelief.

How the hell are you still asleep?

“Die, ya spongy fuck!” Carten roared, slamming his shield into the Fungiform Stumper. There was a sickening crunch of impact, though not from either Carten or the mushroom man. It came instead from the unfortunate Coal Lurker that had been clinging to the metal shield.

Carten was swarming with the things. They were everywhere, trying to climb down the back of his armor and into his beard. Fortunately for the Coal Lurkers, Carten had bigger problems to deal with. The spider-like creatures were an annoyance, completely unable to harm him thanks to his base Force resistance. The Stumper was another story.

It swung both of its arms down at him in an overhead smash, and Carten slammed his shields together, raising them above his head. The blow crashed into him, the force pressing his feet deep into the dirt of the courtyard and making his teeth rattle. He took no damage, but his shields weren’t going to be able to stand up to this forever.

“My turn!” Carten yelled, smashing the creature’s leg with a Shield Bash. Carten didn’t see health bars, but he could tell with his intuition that the thing had barely even felt it. It roared in anger, its spots glowing as it prepared to use its magical attack.

“Piss in a bunghole! Not that shit again!” Carten griped, crushing Coal Lurkers beneath his feet as he scrambled to get some distance. He’d already been caught in the cloud of spores once, and it was far from pleasant. He’d lost a quarter of his health, even with his Chemical resistance taking the edge off.

For the next few minutes, he ran in a circle around the incensed Stumper, waiting for the spores to clear. As he did, he made sure to get some good smashing in on the spiders that were crawling all over him. “Damn shits! Leave me beard alone!” he roared after a particularly big one got tangled in the coarse black hair. I need a damn faceplate.

Once the spores were gone, Carten found himself with the same problem he’d been struggling with for the past twenty minutes. The Stumper slammed its arms down on him, and he blocked. Neither took any damage. Shield Bash. Again, no damage. Rebound worked, turning the monster’s strength against itself, but the stamina cost was too high for repeated use. He’d never win that way, and he did want to win. Running wasn’t an option, not when Velika might be watching.

Damn it! If I only had Bramble Armor, I could make some progress. Damn level cap!

There was a sudden roar from behind him, and a second Stumper lumbered in through the open gate.

Carten pushed aside the first Stumper’s arm, it having tried to grab him. He slammed the edge of his shield down onto its sensitive foot, just to make it stumble back and give him a little room. Only then did he turn to face the second Stumper.

He grinned. “Fuck, took ya long enough!”

The second Stumper roared, not slowing its charge. Maneuvering himself between the two mushroom men, Carten waited, then rolled out of the way. The sickening crunch of broken Coal Lurkers was followed by a colossal thud of impact. The two Stumpers crashed directly into each other, collapsing into a tangle of spongy limbs.

Coming up from his roll sticky with spider guts and dirt, Carten surveyed the aftermath. “Yeah!” he roared, pumping a shield in the air.

The collision of the Stumpers had knocked off small, but not insignificant quantities of health from both of them. Carten banged his shields together in satisfaction, then beckoned. “Come on, dumbasses! If I can’t kill ya, I’ll make ya kill each other!”

Velika sat on the edge of her windowsill, her legs dangling out into the open air as she watched the spectacle below. She smiled as Carten managed to trick one of the Fungiforms into uppercutting the other one right in the sensitive gills of its cap. She reached into the bowl of walnuts sitting beside her on the ledge, crushing one and sorting through the bits of shell before popping the meat into her mouth. She’d wait a few more minutes to make sure that he really had it under control, then she’d go have some fun of her own. It didn’t look like there’d be anything out there worth her time, but even a lopsided fight had a certain appeal. Hells, she might even save a few people if she felt like it. It wasn’t like it mattered, one way or another. Not in the long run.

“Hurry up!” Myth shouted, standing in the archway between the workroom and the front of the shop. He was looking warily out at the dark street through the open door, a bulging pack strapped to his back.

“I am moving as quickly as I can,” said Reason, still rummaging around in the workroom. The urgency of the situation and the fact that the two of them were alone had the chemist speaking normally for once, though his words were clipped.

“All that stuff won’t matter if we’re dead!” Myth hissed, looking back at him. “We need to get to the stronghold now.”

“I disagree,” Reason said. “This stuff is more important than our lives. If we can’t refine chem-crysts, the city is going to run out of evertorches. We must consider more than just this first night.”

“We can come back later! Besides, there’re other chemists who—”

“Keep your voice down,” Reason said, still working to disassemble the sensitive equipment on the worktable. “Listen.”

Myth listened, hearing scraping coming from the storeroom. Something was in there. More Coal Lurkers? There were already a few of them trapped in the upstairs bedroom, easily topping the list of worst possible ways to wake up. The spider-like creatures weren’t venomous, or even that dangerous, short of a full swarm, but still.

“Do you think we should…” Myth said, trailing off and looking down at the glass flask he was holding in his hand.

“No,” Reason said. “And put that down, fool. Do you want to burn down our shop?”

“This is just some of your acid,” Myth said. “It won’t explode if I don’t use Decohere, and it shouldn’t catch fire. Probably.”

“We don’t know what kind of monster is in there,” Reason said, attempting to stuff an alembic into his pack. “If it’s just a Coal Lurker, that’s one thing, but what if it’s not? Besides, you know the kind of stuff that’s in there. Throwing acid around would not end well. Speaking of, where did you put the naphtha?”

“In there, obviously,” Myth said, pointing to the storeroom.

“Hells,” Reason swore. “We don’t have any out here in jars?”

Myth shook his head. “No.”

Reason looked at the door to the storeroom, hesitating. Suddenly, the scratching sound stopped. A moment later, there was a shrill, keening screech and a splatter as the monster sprayed some sort of liquid against the wood.

The two men halted their argument, staring. Wisps of smoke were already curling through the gap between the door and its frame, the sizzling sound growing stronger by the second.

Myth glanced worriedly at Reason. The chemist had the familiar far-away look on his face that he got when he was using Chemical Intuition to analyze a reaction.

“No, the acid definitely isn’t a good idea,” Reason said after a moment. “Whatever it just spat on the door, it is dissolving the wood. Perhaps you are right that we should—”

The door shook, a distinctive barbed claw punching through and sending a cloud of acrid gas billowing into the room.

“Run!” Reason shouted, grabbing his pack and racing for the archway.

“Oh, sure, now you’re ready to go!” Myth said over his shoulder, charging into the street ahead of him, torch in one hand, jar of acid in the other. His heart had leapt into his throat the moment he saw the claw. “It only took a Razorspine Dissolver in our closet to get you going! Honestly—”

“Yes, yes, you were right!” Reason said, tumbling out after him, struggling with the pack on his back. “Tell me about it later!”

There was another blood-curdling shriek from inside the shop, followed by the sound of smashed shelves and breaking glass. Myth and Reason paused, looking at each other, both of them mentally cataloging everything that had been in their shop. Then, they turned as one and took off down the street, running as fast as their feet could carry them.

Bartum stumbled as a blinding flash of light temporarily banished the darkness, accompanied by the mighty whoomph of a detonation.

“Depths below, that was a Fireball!” said an officer to his left.

Bartum’s eyes scanned the darkness, quickly locating the source of the explosion. He and a group of other officers were standing on the roof of the instruction hall. The old stone building was still being cleared for monsters and dark rooms, but being four stories tall, standing up here gave him a decent view of the city.

“Not a Fireball,” Bartum said, pointing. “Alchemistry shop.”

“Hells, what did those crazy bastards have in there?!” said another of the officers.

“They had a permit,” said Bartum. “Had.” He motioned to one of the junior officers, a water mage. “Take a patrol with you and get over there. Stop the fire if you can, but above all else, make damn sure you keep it from coming this way.”

“Yes, sir,” said the mage. He dashed to the edge of the building and grabbed one of the ropes hanging there, then leapt over the side. The ropes provided expedient access to the roof, compared to the inside of the monster-infested building.

Bartum put the explosion out of his mind and returned his gaze to the courtyard of the stronghold. Large bonfires had been built, filling the entire area with light. Panicked citizens were milling about in clumps, shepherded by the officers that he’d assigned to watch over them. More people were dribbling in through the gates in fits and starts. As Bartum watched, a particularly large group arrived, guided by a returning patrol. Bartum waved to the patrol leader, then waited for the man to ascend the rope, hand over fist.

“Yes, sir?” the officer said as he came up over the side. Bartum reached for the man’s name, but it escaped him, and he didn’t have the time to worry about it.

“What’s the strongest monster you’ve run into?” Bartum asked. “Are groups of five still enough for safety beyond the perimeter?”

“Fungiform Stumper, level eleven,” said the officer.

