Each of them acknowledged their names as she spoke. Donella Novaspark stood with an air of absolute power and confidence, projecting a presence much larger than her tiny Gnomish stature. She was famous in Myrin’s Keep for her prestigious Novaspark Academy of Magic, and for being a powerful lightning mage, but Malika knew her only by her reputation. The academy had always been far too well guarded for the kind of petty thievery she had been forced to do, and without a class, she had never had any way to avoid their security.

Lamyndra Duskwind stood quietly behind the others. Her beautiful, long hair of pure white cascaded down past her shoulders, contrasting powerfully against skin of such a deep purple it seemed almost black, and her violet eyes conveyed deep compassion. Malika was very familiar with the Night Elf priestess, having needed so many trips to her temple after Adrik and Edrik’s visits. She had always treated Malika with respect and dignity despite her low status, title, and suspiciously frequent injuries. How they had convinced someone so committed to peace to join this fight was something Malika couldn’t fathom. Perhaps she had decided this was the way to save the most people?

But it was Roderik Icecrown that got her boiling inside. With his blond hair, blue eyes, handsome radiant smile, and noble birth, he was everything Malika was not. And yet she knew that, behind those pretty looks and eloquent speech, beat the heart of a true sadist. Connected as he was to the noble circles, he was the reason the Town Watch enjoyed so much autonomy in Myrin’s Keep. It was Roderik who had advocated for more freedom to act; he who was buddy-buddy with Jax Hawkhurst and the secret spiderweb tendrils of the Hawkhurst Trading Company’s hidden criminal syndicate core that financed the Watch. It was an open secret among the common people of the slums that this monster liked hunting to keep his skills sharp – hunting in the poor districts of the town. He enjoyed watching his victims suffer, bleeding out while he taunted them. He occasionally participated in the Town Watch training exercises with Kieran Mori, and the only time Malika had experienced that, she had been sent to the temple with an entirely unnecessary ice lance punched through her shoulder. She schooled the disgust out of her expression with a powerful effort of will, hoping that she was far enough beneath his notice that he wouldn’t recognize the urchin pickpocket he had so uncaringly shot. He was undoubtedly the most powerful ice mage in the town, and Malika was nowhere near strong enough to survive a clash with him.

One day, she vowed silently inside. One day, Roderik…

“As soon as we get started, the groups of the garrison will move forward to defend the gate, and the novice adventurers will form up behind them to take care of any stragglers. The Temple of Lunaré will set up a field hospital here in this building.” Vivian indicated four robed and hooded Night Elves who were standing silently to one side. A soft murmur of voices offering thanks for their services rippled through the crowd.

“Why isn’t Mori here?” Commander Brand asked. He seemed to be suppressing an undercurrent of annoyance in his carefully controlled voice.

“He said he was too busy with watch duties. He sent Roderik in his place,” Vivian answered.

Commander Brand’s face showed he didn’t really believe the excuse, but he changed the subject. “This is a harebrained scheme, even for you, Vivian.”

Malika had to agree with the commander. If it hadn’t been Ali who had proposed it, she would have had a hard time believing it could work. But she had seen the devastation that had burst forth from the wall when Ali had cracked it open, and if she could repeat that feat…

Vivian sighed and then looked across the crowd directly at her. “Malika, we’re ready. Get it started.”

Malika nodded and retrieved a critical piece of their plan, a small scrap of parchment with intricate runic symbols inscribed upon it.

Sending – level 3Mana: Send a short telepathic message to a familiar target within one mile. Charges: 1/1.Quality: MagicValue: 65 silver.Created by Donella Novaspark.Scroll

Following the instructions she had been provided, she pushed a little of her mana into the scroll and formed a clear message in her mind.

“Ali, you’re up!”

She had a sense of the message echoing in a long chamber and an acknowledgment that felt like the brief fluttering of golden butterfly wings, clearly Ali’s mind, and then the scroll in her hand quickly crumbled into dust, drifting away to the floor.

Several tense minutes passed until eventually the commander broke the silence.

“Is this going to work?”

A muffled crack silenced the talking as a deep tremor shook the ground. A few moments later, another tremor rocked the room and sporadic nervous conversation erupted throughout the waiting crowd. Just as she thought it might be over, an enormous explosion ripped through the air, causing the stone beneath her feet to buck violently, throwing several people to the ground. In the aftermath, she could hear shouts and commotion coming from outside.

“Holy shit,” Donella grunted. She stood before a conjured illusion projected from her outstretched palm that showed the entire Goblin horde that was arrayed against them as if viewed from high above the ground. The Goblins were scrambling like ants in a disturbed nest. From the base of the cliffs in front of the eastern flank, an enormous, grayish geyser gushed out across the field, raining boulders and sludge down upon the unwitting Goblins. Goblins, palisades, crude siege weapons, in fact, everything was smashed and in disarray, dragged along by the powerful torrent of water.

She did it! Malika didn’t want to admit how worried she had been, but Ali had pulled it off with spectacular results.

“Commander, we’re ready,” Vivian announced, her voice steady as if such sights were an everyday occurrence.

“Move out!” Commander Brand barked with the crisp command in his voice that came from years of experience.

Everyone moved.

Ali reached out a hand and deconstructed the giant slab of stone in front of her, while her feet sloshed in the mud at the bottom of the lake. The disconcerting, sheer wall of water at her back loomed high above, spiking her sense of anxiety. She could even see the slimes bumping up against it, trying to get through, but Seri’s magic held fast, and the suspended wall of water persistently failed to crash down upon her.

She deconstructed another boulder, dodging back to avoid falling debris. It was tricky work. She could hardly forget that the last time she had done this she had caused the entire wall to explode in her face. This time there should be no water pressure – at least until Seri released the pent-up flood – but if she deconstructed the wrong boulder, she could all too easily drop tons of rock down upon her head.

She deconstructed a few more, summoning barriers to protect herself from dust and falling pebbles.

“You don’t have to go all the way through,” Seri called out from the relative safety of the shore. “We can let the water finish the job.”

It’d be nice if Deconstruction had that kind of range, Ali thought, glancing warily again at the towering wall of water before returning to her task. She could tell she was following an old channel because the rocks at the bottom were worn from the flow of water. She guessed that at some point in the ages past, the channel allowing the river to flow out of the cavern had simply collapsed.

One more. She was now totally inside the rock wall in a self-made tunnel, deconstructing more rock that was hopefully not the last support for the tons of stone and boulders above her head.

I really hope I’m not being stupid again.

Ali backed out of the tunnel she had created and signaled to Seri as soon as she was out of the way. Suddenly, the walls of supporting cobalt mana holding back the entire lake vanished, and tons of water crashed down into the gap Seri had been holding with her magic. Ali’s tunnel vanished, submerged beneath the entire depth of the lake. The surface of the lake roiled violently as bubbles of air welled up from below through the surging waters, but it rapidly quietened down.

She waited. And then waited some more.

“Nothing is happening. Should I clear more rock?” Ali asked.

“Let me try something,” Seri said, her face wrinkling into a frown of concentration.

Ali watched her manipulate the water with her pretty cobalt-blue mana. Under the influence of her magic, the lake began to drift and flow toward the edge of the cavern, as if a giant hand had simply tipped the entire cavern causing the water to collect against the rock wall right above her tunnel. Higher and higher it piled.

“What are you doing?”

“Increasing the pressure,” Seri said, gasping her words as if she were struggling to lift something incredibly heavy.

Perhaps she is? More water piled up, forming an unnatural mound as the banks of the lake receded. Soon, the ground trembled, as a mild but visible shockwave rippled across the surface of the water. A second, more palpable shock threw up small wavelets, and then suddenly, Ali was knocked off her feet as an enormous explosion shook the cavern, sending water spraying high into the air. She summoned a barrier above her even before she hit the dirt. As the fountain cascaded back to the surface of the lake, a tremendous sucking sound rose as a huge whirlpool formed.

Ali watched in awe as the entire lake began to drain through the tunnel and out into the world beyond.
