“We just got a mage [Message]. A Goblin army just attacked Esthelm and burned it to the ground! Every member of the Watch is going to the walls and we’re rousing the militia just in case. I’d advise you to stay indoors until we’re sure where the Goblin army’s gone.”
“What? Goblins? What happened?”
Ryoka grabbed Wesle. He blinked as she dragged him forwards, suddenly intent on his every word.
“What did the message say?”
He blinked at her, but her glare made him talk.
“The report’s confused. Apparently a Goblin army attacked Esthelm sometime in the evening. They overran the gates and started slaughtering everyone in the city. Then another Goblin army appeared and the two fought. In the confusion a lot of citizens got away, but the city is lost.”
A sharp dagger of fear and panic shot through Ryoka’s stomach. She let go of Wesle.
Goblins. The image of the Goblin Lord, of the army that had destroyed the Stone Spears camp flashed through her mind. Why were the Goblins so far north? Was it even the same army? And then, hot on the heels of that thought was another worry. What about Mrsha? How had they gone past Liscor? Over the mountains? Through the high passes? Or had they just gone around the city?
“All of the nearby cities are putting together a force to fight off the Goblins and retake the city, but it might be weeks before we root them out. And if this is a raiding force from that Goblin Lord we’ve heard about, then he’s got a bigger army than we thought.”
Wesle was talking anxiously with Erin. She looked worried, but she was probably only worrying about her Goblin friend, Rags. Ryoka wasn’t worried about a Goblin right now. She was imagining what would happen if that Goblin army came north.
They had hundreds of Hobgoblins. And dead Goblins that were living bombs. And their leader, the Goblin Lord, the one with the empty pupils—
His eyes. Ryoka shuddered and thought of the Necromancer. Not Pisces; the true lord of death. Az’kerash. He had the same kind of eyes.
She wondered what it meant. Behind her, Ryoka heard Erin sneeze as Wesle ran off. The night air was cold, and the clouded skies were so dark. With the absence of the guardspeople and their torches, the street was full of shadows, the only light coming from shuttered windows. Ryoka shivered, feeling the effects of the magical soup she’d had beginning to fade.
It was a cold, dark winter night. And it felt like the night was only going to get darker still.
Darker, and more dangerous.
 
—-
 
Venitra was at home with the darkness. She had been born of it, and in the castle of Az’kerash, the famous Necromancer of Izril, bright light was a forgotten memory.
The undead woman made of bone had not left the castle since the unforgivable incident that had occurred over a week ago. The strange Human girl had vanished from the castle so quickly that even she, Kerash, and Bea couldn’t catch her. And because they had orders not to leave the castle or its premises, they had merely collected the dead Drakes and Gnolls for their master to review later.
Now Venitra waited for her glorious creator to finish his work, half dreading what he would say when he learned of her failure, half exultant at the thought of hearing his voice and knowing his will again after so long.
It was Venitra’s worst nightmare to be found wanting in the eyes of her master. To disappoint him in any way was unthinkable; she would be betraying not only him, but the grand design he had made in her being.
Venitra was unlike Kerash or Bea. She had been designed by Az’kerash personally; she had been created from nothing by his perfect mind, not reanimated from the dead or self-forming like the other two. Even among the rest of Az’kerash’s servants she was unique, for she served their master and received his commands in person.
And now she would bear witness to one of his greatest creations yet. Venitra stared up as the massive creature of flesh and bone finished forming overhead. It was nothing like the horrible blend of parts that Ryoka had glimpsed; now that it had attained its true configuration, it was a creature of nightmarish grace and terror.
It hovered overhead, tens of thousands of pounds of obscene white flesh. Two gaping holes served as sockets for green flames which burned in them as the undead creation came to life. Massive…limbs struggled in the air, fleshy appendages that would propel the huge bulk of the creature around.
And at its head, a sunken spear of bone jutted outwards, half sunk into the undead monsters’ skull, surrounded by sinew. Venitra knew bone and muscle and so she could guess at part of what this behemoth had been designed for, but even still, the idea took her breath away, if she had any she could have given in the first place.
In front of her, the ancient man who she loved lowered his hand. The undead thing floated downwards, still and waiting for his command. He stared at it for a few seconds, and then nodded and turned to Venitra.
He was smiling. The wrinkles and silvery hair on his head took nothing away from the awe Venitra felt every time she beheld him. His black eyes and white pupils made her shudder as they fixed on her. But it was his smile she basked in.
“Is it not wonderful, Venitra? With this, my army nears completion. Even the Walled Cities will tremble to see this creature upon the battlefield.”
“It is magnificent, my master.”
Venitra said the words truthfully. Az’kerash nodded. He gazed at his creation with pride, and then looked back at Venitra.
“I will need more corpses, of course. I used all of our limited supply to create this one. We will need as many corpses as we can retrieve, but sending a group to the ocean without being detected will be difficult.”
“My lord, if you need more bodies. I volunteer to—”
The man known to very few as Perril Chandler waved a hand at Venitra as she placed her hand on her breast.
“Don’t be ridiculous, Venitra. Without enchantments you would sink to the bottom of the ocean. No, I believe I might send Bea. Her plague abilities would allow me to harvest entire pods without damaging their bodies.”
He regarded his monstrosity almost fondly.
“Yes, we will need at least six to complete our army. Fourteen would be ideal, but that would require far more harvesting than we have time for. Regardless I will test my new creation’s capabilities shortly. But for now, tell me my faithful servant, what has passed while I have been working.”
That was his only weakness, if Venitra would have admitted Az’kerash had any flaws at all. When he was focused on creating new undead, her master used his mind almost exclusively for that task, only devoting a small bit of it for other matters. Like that he could respond to basic questions and even defend himself if necessary, but he would be forced to awaken fully to use his full intellect on a problem. As a result, he was rather…single-minded during those times.
She bowed her head to him, prepared for the worst.
“My master. While you have slept, we your servants committed an unforgivable sin.”
“Really?”
Az’kerash’s eyebrows raised. He looked skeptically at the woman made of bones.
“I dislike theatrics Venitra. What did you fail to do?”
“We allowed an intruder into your personal quarters. A young woman.”
“Really? She made it past all of you?”
“She was not alone. A group of skilled Drake and Gnolls warriors followed her. They all died, but she eluded me and forced her way in here.”
“And did I kill her?”
Perril Chandler looked bored as he regarded his kneeling servant. Venitra hesitated, dreading this most of all.
“No. You let her go.”
The [Necromancer] froze.
“I did?”
Venitra looked miserably at the ground.
“In your wisdom, you must have seen something in her that I did not. She claimed to be a messenger…”
“Now I recall. Yes…I did talk with her.”
Az’kerash put his fingers on his temple and closed his eyes. When he opened them, his gaze was sharp.
“I recall now. Yes, she was a messenger. She delivered a gift from Teriarch.”
“The Dragon?”
Now worried, Venitra looked up. But Peril just smiled crookedly.
“It is of no significance. He gifted me a ring to celebrate my 200th year of existence. It might even be useful, but that was all.”
That news distressed Venitra almost as much as her failure. She spread her arms.
“We should have prepared gifts for you as well my master. The Chosen will immediately—”
“No.”
Perril Chandler raised a hand, and his brows now snapped together with realization. He looked back at Venitra, suddenly worried.
“Did you slay her? The messenger? I let her go because I was focused, but she should never have been allowed to live. Is she dead?”
“No, lord. We—”
“She escaped? With knowledge of this location?”
Suddenly, Az’kerash’s face twisted with sudden fury. Venitra knelt in fear as he paced back and forth in front of her, magical robe bursting into fragments of shadow where it touched the ground.
“She could undo a decade of preparation! If she forces our hand—”
The mage’s hands glowed with dark purple light. Venitra feared the worst, but then Az’kerash paused. As soon as the anger had come, it was gone.
“…No. If she were going to use that information, it would be too late in any case. I will scry the leaders of various cities. If they are not moving towards our location then we are safe.”
He laughed shortly and tugged a lock of hair.
“What a blunder. But I was so confident. That any mortal could penetrate the illusory forest, let alone bypass all of my guards so easily…”
Peril shook his head.
“Arrogance is my flaw; even now, it seems. Of course Teriarch would not send anything less than a Courier to do his bidding. And that old fool would insist upon delivering me a gift, even if we were mortal enemies.”
Slowly, he turned back to his kneeling servant, and walked over to Venitra. The undead woman shuddered as he touched her.
“I have erred, Venitra. I fear I must call upon you to rectify my mistakes.”
“It is my purpose, lord.”
Az’kerash nodded slowly. He studied Venitra and nodded.
“Take one other of the Chosen and locate this Runner, this Human girl. You remember her face? Of course you do. Track her down; follow her trail. To that purpose, Ijvani or Oom would be best suited to accompany you.”
Venitra nodded and sprang to her feet. She was already considering the journey and all the variables, from where to start her search to the best way of killing the Human when they found her. Slowly and painfully of course, but in a way that would allow them to hide the body.
“Venitra.”
Her master stopped her with a word. He studied her and shook his head.
“I need not impress on you the importance of this mission, but I will do so anyways. The Runner must not speak of what she knows, but if she has truly kept my secret…Couriers are famous for taking no sides, or at least they were when I was young. It might be she can be bargained with.”
He closed his eyes, thinking. Venitra waited for his commands even as she longed to tear the Human girl’s head off with her bare hands.
“In that case, I will count on you to exercise your own judgment. I will look through your eyes if the need arises, but if I am preoccupied or my spells are blocked, you must decide whether you will be able to slay her or whether the cost will be too high. I place my trust in you, Venitra. Know that.”
Venitra nodded. She almost trembled with her master’s faith in her. She strode out the door as Az’kerash watched, her feet thundering down the stone hallway as she broke into a run.
“So eager. But at least she has the artifacts to aid in her stealth.”
Perril Chandler sighed and gritted his teeth, admonishing himself for his failure now that he was alone. But he quickly put his self-recriminations aside and considered the ramifications of this new information instead.
If it came to war, he was ready. It would be soon, but he could begin. If not…then he would have more time. The armies that could be brought to bear against him didn’t worry Az’kerash so much as one thought.
“Teriarch.”
The Dragon. His gift fit perfectly in line with his character and what Az’kerash knew of Dragons. And yet, the messenger had slipped past even his elite undead. Just for a delivery? And Peril dimly remembered that two armies had been engaged in combat in the forest near his home. And then they had gone and fought the Goblin Lord…
Was it all coincidence? It might be; stranger things had happened by pure chance. But what if it were not?
“If it were not mere happenstance that he sent her…Teriarch. Are you taking sides at last, old one? If so, whose?”
Az’kerash stood in the dark room, ignoring the lumbering beast by his side. His deathly eyes stared out into the darkness as he considered sending a message to his apprentice. But it would be more interesting to let that one run free a little while.
And yet, Teriarch was a true concern. Even more than the Hives. If he should act…
The Necromancer stood in his castle, sensing his minions as two left in search of a Human girl. He stood and stared into the darkness.
Pondering.
 
—-
 
The darkness of the cave was lit by the harsh glow that was practically unique in this world. The bright LED-illuminated screen of the copied iPhone made Teriarch’s ancient eyes hurt, but he had already learned to adjust the brightness. And he was too fascinated to worry about a little bit of pain.
“Hmm. Hm. And what does this button do?”
The old man that Teriarch used to disguise himself gingerly touched the screen of the iPhone. He hit the crossed arrows at the top of the screen marked ‘Shuffle’. Music immediately began playing.
Teriarch’s Human form raised his white eyebrows as fast drum beats began to echo throughout the cave. The Dragon blinked as a voice burst out of the iPhone.
“You change your mind like a girl changes clothes…”
For about five minutes Teriarch listened to the song in complete silence. Near the end he began tapping his claw against the marble floor. When the song was over he made his Human form stop the next song from playing.
“Fascinating. And what’s this song? Delightful that someone actually knows the word ‘bohemian’, but did a [Queen] truly sing this song? Perhaps I should have asked the Human to clarify…”
He was just about to play the next song when Teriarch looked up and scowled.
“Tamaroth’s beard! What now?”
He didn’t wait. The instant the pink butterfly materialized around his head, the Dragon snapped it at irritably. He glared at the magical image that filled the air.
“Reinhart. I’m busy.”
The bright and inappropriately cheerful voice in Teriarch’s ears and mind had not a shred of guilt in it.
