So. A new dungeon was open. Niers nodded to himself. There was nothing strange about that. But what was strange was the next message he read:
‘[Dangersense] activated. Wales.’
Now, who would care about someone’s [Dangersense] activating? They went off all the time; when people were about to step on a rotted floorboard, or when a horse had lost control of a wagon, a monster was nearby…it happened often.
But each message had come in at the same time, and had been reported according to Niers’ request. He put the first message down and looked at the next one.
‘[Dangersense] alarm. Zeres.’
More mage [Messages], all with the same content. [Dangersense] reported in cities across the continent, all at the same time. Niers noted down where each report came from, and then traced a slow circle with a compass around the map. He stared down at the point of origin.
“Roughly the same diameter as before. This one’s a bit bigger.”
He walked off the map and sat down with a sigh on a tiny stool.
“So, they’ve found another one, have they?”
It was only a matter of time. Niers smiled briefly; he loved being right. But what did it matter?
Everything? If they found the treasures within, perhaps. Maybe more of the puzzle? Doubtful. It just meant the ruins were old, and possibly had truly legendary guardians and rewards for those within. He wondered whether the city would survive the influx of treasure-seekers and monsters that would be attracted to the dungeon.
But did it matter to him? Niers wondered. He kicked aside the pieces of parchment and abandoned the map for the moment. He walked across the large war room table, and then stared at something that glittered in his vision.
It was a letter, an opened one. Niers had already read the contents of the letter, but he looked at it again. He couldn’t help it.
The envelope was a work of art in itself in truth. It smelled of lavender, and the gilded edges of the letter sparkled gold in the light of the tent. Niers glanced at it once, and then again. Then he looked at the chessboard sitting next to the map.
The ghostly pieces stood silent in the humid air of the tent. Niers sighed and went back to his fruit drink. He eyed the dripping sides of the glass and then drained half the drink in one go. He scowled and looked back at the chessboard.
The pieces didn’t move. They hadn’t moved for over two days now. That bothered Niers, although it shouldn’t have. He knew the other player had a life and duties. But having completed his latest set of battles, Niers had been looking forward to playing several games. Instead, the pieces had stopped moving one day, and though he’d waited hopefully, they hadn’t moved since.
They’d never been silent for this long. Niers didn’t know what it meant. Disaster? Or was the mysterious player bored of their game? Surely not. Were they hurt? Injured? Who were they?
He shook his head. But now Niers was irritated, and not even his cool drink was helping. A dungeon in Liscor. Adventure. A challenge. He couldn’t go there. That damnable letter he never should have opened, hinting, tantalizing. And the game, the one thing he wanted—silent.
Niers stomped over to the chessboard. He stroked his beard and scowled down at the pieces.
“Who are you? What piece of the puzzle am I missing?”
The pieces were silent. He wasn’t even in a good position in this game; he’d made a careless mistake and his opponent had happily punished him for it. But he’d been delighted because they were his equal. His better.
“Can you help me? Can I help you? Can I trust you? If we worked together—”
Niers broke off and shook his head. Speculation. That was all he had. If they returned to playing, he would know one thing.
If they returned. What if they were dying? He could find out who his opponent was. If he went—
But he had duties. Niers looked back at the map, then the letter, then the chess board.
He stared at the silent pieces, looked back again. Letter. Map. Chessboard. For once, the small [Strategist] was unsure of what to do.
 
—-
 
Erin sneezed. Once, and then twice. She wiped her nose on her sleeve and knew exactly what she had to do.
“I’m gonna get something else to eat. Ryoka, are you coming?”
The other girl looked up at Erin’s voice, but she didn’t respond right away. Erin shrugged and walked back into Agnes’ inn to get warm.
Inside, people greeted her with cheers and she was immediately bombarded with requests for more food. Erin smiled and chatted, but she didn’t go into the kitchen right away, even though Agnes was hinting at it strongly. She wanted to talk with Ryoka, but the other girl just stomped over to her table silently, a forbidding look on her face.
Maybe she was still upset about the news about the Goblins? Erin didn’t know what to think about that. She hoped Rags and her little tribe was safe; they were in Liscor, right? Hopefully they’d keep their heads down.
She felt really uneasy and upset for some reason. Maybe she was feeling guilty about beating up the adventurers? No. Maybe. A tiny bit.
Then the sensation was gone. Erin frowned and rubbed her nose on her sleeve again. Good thing she’d gotten out of the cold. It was messing with her head.
Ryoka was shaking her head when Erin came over. The big girl she’d been with was in the bathroom, and Erin was slightly relieved; she’d looked sort of scared when Erin had introduced herself after the fight.
“Something wrong Ryoka? Ryoka?”
The other girl just looked at Erin, slightly haunted.
“We’re screwed, Erin. This news—we’re in it deep now.”
Erin frowned.
“We are? I mean, how do you know?”
Ryoka just shook her head. She spread her hands on the table and clenched them into fists. Erin’s gaze was drawn to her missing fingers. Ryoka studied them, and then looked at Erin.
“If there are Goblin warbands roaming the countryside, getting you back to Liscor safely will be a hundred times more difficult. I can’t protect you from them, and there could be thousands of them. There might be war here soon, and if that’s the case, not even Celum is safe. Maybe not even Liscor.”
Erin scratched her head. That did sound bad.
“Okay. But what can we do about it? I mean, we can’t do anything right now, right? So relax, Ryoka. It’s been a long day.”
“We can’t just take this easy, Erin! We have to think. We’re both in danger. You’re in danger!”
“I know. But you need to relax, Ryoka. We need to relax. Okay? We’re safe here, for now. Let’s worry about this when we’re more awake and we haven’t just been in a fight.”
Slowly, Ryoka looked at Erin and nodded. She seemed surprised, but Erin just smiled.
“Great. I’ll make us more food.”
The Asian girl half-smiled at Erin. Then her eyes flicked towards the door.
“Fine. Get ready to make some more food though; looks like you’ve got a crowd.”
Erin saw people were coming into the inn, lured by the noise, heat, crowd, and the recent fight. She beamed and stood up, opening the door for a surprised couple.
“Welcome to The Wandering Inn! Come in, have a seat; don’t mind the bodies. Can I get you anything to drink?”
The man in front stared at Erin in confusion. He looked at the woman by his side and then at Erin.
“I thought this was the Frenzied Hare? Did we come to the wrong inn? Or has it been sold?”
Erin blinked at him. Then she remembered she wasn’t in Liscor, and this wasn’t her inn. She turned slightly red.
“Oh. Oops.”
She stared at the man and woman. They stared back. Slowly, Erin opened the door wider.
“I’m uh, helping out. Come on in if you’re hungry. We’ve got hamburgers!”
After a moment of hesitation, the two did exactly that. Erin closed the door, and let the warmth of the room wash over her.
On this cold night, she felt alive. Happy, even. She was far from home, and lost, but she wasn’t lost. Ryoka was with her, and she had found something special with Octavia, even if the other girl was sort of a jerk.
The Goblins were bad news, and Toren was gone, but Erin had hope. She’d been through worse. She could get through this. With Ryoka. Together.
Erin stood in her inn and breathed in. Slowly. The scents of spilled beer and cooked food filled her senses, along with the unpleasant odors of sweat and vomit. She stopped breathing so deeply. But she still felt good.
It wasn’t the right city; it wasn’t even the right inn. But she was there, and Ryoka was there. And so, just for a moment, it was home.
Inside the inn, Erin sneezed again.
