Unlike Remus, roads within the Tympestshard Council were paved, with the styles varying based on which city or organization was nearest. Around the City of Arts, the roads contained murals. Other areas were paved with simple stones or crushed crystal. But in a wide region around Ithil, each road was raised above the ground and formed of seamless luminescent crystal. Subtle patterns were carved into it to prevent it from being as slippery as it should have been, yet they were fine enough that they inflicted no real damage on the wagon’s wheels, even with none of them possessing any Skills that reinforced the wagon.

Unless the horrifying and eerie goat had a Skill for that. But some possibilities were too unnerving to seriously consider. Seriously, Ranthia had watched the thing crunch a rock between its teeth while it stared at her head.

Just before noon, their wagon turned off a ramp and followed a smaller road of green crystal into the tree line. Minutes later, the trees came to an end, and they found themselves within a vast, open area. Multiple buildings were placed along the maze of roads, with eight fields set amongst them in a neat grid. Most of the presumed farm was seemingly unoccupied, though quite a few elves wearing uniforms not unlike their official’s were waiting outside of a building that somehow reminded Ranthia of the finer governor’s manors she had seen in Remus.

The architecture was wildly different, of course. No one in Remus built anything out of crystal. But the building was undeniably intended to serve as both a home and a statement to any and all guests. The walls were riddled with windows, architectural flourishes lurked everywhere Ranthia looked, and trailing ivy with blue, translucent leaves hung from planters fixed along the highest windows of the home.

The wagon came to a halt in front of the crystalline manor. While Anthelleon helped their official down from the driver’s seat, Ranthia vaulted out of her defensive position with the cargo.

Honestly, it was her own fault. She truly should have used [Divine Eyes in the Void] to check some of the personnel standing by before she made her appearance. Had she, she might have been less surprised when she was immediately surrounded by a variety of weaponry. Each elf wielded a blunt weapon, surprisingly, ranging from staves to weighted chains—all made of purple crystal.

“Wait, wait, wait, wait! That was instrumental to the safe recovery of this cargo! It defended the Ilan family’s masterpiece and, just as crucially, it defended me!” The official scurried around the men and women that menaced Ranthia as he protested.

…Setting aside her being treated like a thing, the man’s words were a bit too generous. Anthelleon was the one that actually reached and protected him. Ranthia had been far too busy dealing with the Elf Hunter woman. About her only contribution to the man’s continued existence was that she’d thrown a knife to disrupt a Skill that Anthelleon would have likely been able to block either way.

“Back off from her!” Anthelleon tried to menace them, despite being half the level of the lowest level individual threatening Ranthia.

“Enough. I appreciate the sentiment, but I informed you to let all of those that recovered the cargo through. I now inform you that I wish to speak to the human, so kindly show her the respect of a guest.”

The words came from nowhere. They were not overly loud, nor were they terribly forceful. They just… existed. The voice was feminine and rich. And they caused the uniformed guards to practically teleport into a new configuration—kneeling on the ground with their heads down, forming a living corridor that led directly to the manor’s open door.

They also barred Ranthia’s access to Anthelleon.

“…I would prefer it if my friend and party member were to accompany me.” Ranthia tried to keep the fatigue out of her voice. Gods and goddesses, she was in no mood to deal with someone with power.

“My apologies, dearest guest. The Councilwoman has only given leave for your presence.” One of the kneeling women provided a prompt answer. And an alarming amount of context.

Councilwoman. There was only one ‘council’ in Tympestshard—every other organization very carefully used different words or names to describe themselves. She was being asked to meet with a member of the Unchanging Council?!

Her armor reeked of smoke, she had no cosmetics, and she was still nursing one of the foulest moods she had carried in years! She had never gotten along with those that wielded power from behind a table, yet if she was forced to meet with one, she would have much rather had some warning—and the services of a well-stocked wardrobe as well as a Skilled [Beautician].

“Is there anything I should know?” Ranthia directed the question to Anthelleon.

Her friend shrugged.

“Please do not keep the Councilwoman waiting.” The same kneeling woman did her best to remain unerringly respectful and offer a genuine plea.

“Right…” Ranthia took a deep breath, then began to walk toward the door.

“Hood off, please!” The official that had travelled with them shouted, just before she reached the threshold.

Ranthia swallowed her urge to growl, removed her hood, and made sure the sigil of mourning was visible beneath her traveller’s cloak. With that, she stepped through.

Inside, an elf wearing a sheer, frilly set of mistweave waited just out of view from the doorway. She kept her head down and never looked Ranthia’s way, instead she beckoned Ranthia to follow her, and made her way deeper into the estate. The woman carefully kept her silence, until she finally stood by a door and opened it, gesturing for Ranthia to proceed through.

Ranthia found herself in a crystalline dining hall. A long table of blue-and-green striated crystal took up the bulk of the space, and at the far side of the room Ranthia finally laid eyes on the Councilwoman, seated on one side of a smaller, ornate wooden table. The table itself was laden with a feast of foods, ranging from a whole roasted chicken to a towering eight-layer cake.

[Leader – Gemstones] level 3584, [Leader – Sound] level 3584, [Mage – Arcanite] level 3584. The woman’s emerald green hair was piled into staggered waves of curls. Her horns, polished black, raised from just above her forehead and traced the curvature of her head as they swept backward, just barely above her hair. She was dressed in a shimmering outfit made using a material Ranthia had never seen before—the exact same shade as her hair—that hugged her generous curves dangerously. And Ranthia had no idea how the effect worked, but the woman’s eyes seemed to drift between her three elements every few seconds. From faceted blue-grey gemstones to ripples flowing from the center of her eye to glowing with an inner light.

“Welcome, please join me. You must be hungry from your travels, my friend.” The woman parted her richly painted red lips to offer Ranthia a toothy smile.

Her accent was interesting. The variation on Creation that she was growing accustomed to from elves had its differences from Remus’. The largest example was an entire tense—imminent and intentional future, used for things they planned to do the moment they concluded their current task. Still, there was enough in common that Ranthia could communicate with any given elf without difficulty. The Councilwoman, in contrast, spoke a stiffer and stranger form of Creation, one that should have been harder to parse—except it closely mirrored the version of the language that Ranthia had used… when she was first reborn.

No matter how much she tried to convince herself to relax, Ranthia was still visibly stiff as she carefully pulled the cushioned chair out and sat down. The sixteen pieces of cutlery that surrounded her plate and three bowls were crafted from finely detailed summer steel and included implements that she had no idea how to even use. Also, gods and goddesses, she wasn’t sure if she could stomach heavy foods—let alone while dining with one of the most (politically) powerful people on the face of Pallos!

“Please, relax. You are my guest and I will not take any offense. You have hardly had an opportunity to learn our ways, and I suspect you have precious little experience with anything quite this absurd. Unfortunately, no matter how I informed my staff that I desired a more informal meeting, a certain degree of ceremony remains.” The woman winked Ranthia’s way. Her body language was inviting, to say the least—even the blindest idiot had to notice she was arching her back to try to draw Ranthia’s gaze to her chest.

Not that Ranthia could have been any less interested. Between the woman’s station and the heartache Avyna had left her with, Ranthia’s lust was absolutely dead.

“Forgive me, but I’m struggling to imagine what I could possibly do for you.” Ranthia had tried to be polite and deferential, she truly did her best. But the words that emerged weren’t quite what she had rehearsed in her head.

The Councilwoman giggled openly, though only for a moment. “You might be surprised. However, I wished to meet with you to satisfy my own curiosity. I had heard tale of a human woman that had seized immortality within the City of Arts. It would have reflected ill on us both had I visited you or summoned you to visit me, as you might expect. However, I was aware that you were a Hunter, and I suspected the infamous Black Flame Berserker would send you along. Based on the thinnest of hopes that the precious cargo would be retrieved and that you would be among those that retrieved it, I chose to wait here.”

Well, that was unsettling.

“I still don’t even know what the cargo is—just what it cost me.” Ranthia touched a hand to the sigil hanging from her neck.

“Ilan fruit remains the most essential crop of our nation. And we guard it jealously to prevent its spread. Each fruit provides effects that rival some of the greatest alchemical concoctions that have ever been brewed. They boost every stat, every Skill, and make you haler while they are in effect. People have survived grievous injury through eating these fruits. And that is just the initial variety that the Ilan family has released to farmers across our nation.

“What you recovered is the latest masterpiece of the lineage. The potency of the fruit’s effects has increased and the flavor is richer. It would have been devastating had the plants escaped our borders. We require every advantage we can maintain to prevent the devils or other malefactors from threatening our sovereignty.” The woman poured herself a goblet full of a densely fragrant wine while she offered an explanation.

Ranthia, in contrast, had yet to touch a single item on the table. Instead, she indulged her whim to debate—to learn more about what Avyna had hoped to accomplish. “I can’t imagine a crop’s exclusivity is that valuable.”

“Come now, I have provided you a boon with my first answer. Before I answer your follow-up, it is only polite to do the same. Remove your eye-covering, if you would. I wish to see your eyes.” The elf chided her, with a playful expression and fluttered eyelashes.

“My gaze tends to unsettle people.” Ranthia warned. When the Councilwoman refused to relent, she shrugged and carefully removed her blindfold. “Happy?”

“Ecstatic. You should have no shame over such uniqueness. To answer your question: once these fields are producing, roughly ten percent of each harvest will go to tables much like this one. The majority of it will go to [Alchemists] chosen by myself and my peers, as well as other researchers. And that is our true advantage. Ilan fruit is one of our most precious ingredients for alchemical concoctions and is widely utilized in a variety of crafting projects, many of which would likely surprise you.

“Now, I believe that it is my turn again. Were you ordered to come to our nation? Rather, if you will excuse a bit of rudeness: are you a spy?” The questions were offered in the exact same conversational tone as the woman’s explanations had been—and her eyes had remained fixed on Ranthia’s since the moment she revealed them.

“No. Xaoc willing, everyone in Remus believes that I’m dead. I had to escape. Is that why you wanted to meet with me?” Ranthia deliberately chose to offer the most minimal version of the truth that she could.

“Excellent. This matches what our people heard, and you have remarkably honest eyes. Thank you for satisfying my sole concern. And no, it had nothing to do with why I wished to meet with you. Though I had to ask before I could move forward, naturally. You see, my predilections are quite well known to my peers. I find beauty in that which is both feminine and exotic. This makes for an excellent way to hide things in plain sight. For example, the lovely elf with the unusual horns that led you to me? She wears lurid clothing and I am unsubtle about sharing my bed with her. And so, even though she is level 2048, even you never batted an eye.

“She is one of the greatest [Assassins] alive, or at least I dearly hope that her talent is seldom matched. Yet because of my nature and her [Artisan] tag, no one is wary of her. Few suspect her, until they breathe their last. I have even had people attempt to kill me while she was in the room.”

Nothing good could come of being told such a dangerous truth. In that moment, Ranthia would have given almost anything to somehow convincingly unhear the woman’s words.

“And that is why I wished to meet with you. You are delightfully feminine and dearly exotic. And though my peers would deny it, you have done us a great boon by protecting the crop. Our reputation with the Ilan family would have suffered severely had we been unable to keep our own lands secure. My fellow members of the Tympestshard Council would have my head, politically, if I offered you the accolades you truly deserved.” She paused to lick her lips.

Dramatic pause or not, Ranthia wasn’t so out of it that she missed the obvious thread. She knew exactly what was coming.

“Luckily, you are the rare individual to whom I can make an even better offer: I invite you to join my household.”
