For a moment, he glimpsed the end of all things, but there was more than that. Usually, when he used Event Horizon, his target became marked to his sight, which also happened this time around, but that wasn’t the end of it. Instead, the Monitor was also smashed into the ground upon activating his skill, and its surroundings seemed to warp as if its entire body was wrapped by some invisible restriction.

Immediatly Jake knew the source was an effect of Sight of the Boundless Horizon, as per the description.

“May have additional effects when used alongside certain Perception-based skills.”

With his target’s movements severely restricted, Jake unleashed a barrage of arrows down towards the Monitor as it tried to defend itself. A dense sphere of miasma condensed around its body, forming a shield to try to block Jake’s attacks, but its defensive prowess was far from enough.

Dozens of arrows pierced its body before proceeding to explode, sending decaying flesh and bone fragments flying. Jake’s firing speed was sadly not as fast as he would have liked due to six Deathstalkers attacking him, and it was also only now that he truly saw how they attacked.

Their upper bodies, which consisted of a vaguely humanoid bone growth with four arms, had morphed as each of those four arms had grown long, black, scythe-like weapons at their ends, each emanating a powerful sensation of pure death. Along with these four scythes, they also used their legs, wrapped in black energy and functioning like spears that tried to pierce Jake.

Jake relatively easily avoided all their blows, but with six at once, and seeing as he was also trying to attack, he couldn’t dodge everything perfectly. He ended up choosing to take a hit as he raised his leg to block, which proved to be quite a mistake.

The scythe cut straight into his flesh and nearly severed his entire leg, making Jake’s eyes open wide as he was abruptly reminded of the big demerit of using Sight of the Boundless Horizon.

“While using Sight of the Boundless Horizon, the hunter’s physical and mental defensive stats will be severely hampered.”

All the extra Toughness and durability Jake had gained after his evolution were rendered entirely null when using this skill, making him likely even more of a glass cannon than before. However, despite the downside, Jake had no desire to deactivate Sight, as the damage increase it provided was simply too good. Besides, he would just have to dodge everything thrown at him, and he would be fine.

Despite his injury, and seeing how the Shaman looked about to jump in and try to help, Jake remained entirely calm and used yet another One Step to get away and buy himself some space.

It allowed him to launch several more arrows towards the Monitor that tried to counterattack or defend itself, but the creature was effectively a high-damage moving turret, and with the restrictive effect of Sight-empowered Event Horizon, it was really just a sitting duck that could do nothing but hope its six companions could take down Jake before it died.

Spoiler: they couldn’t.

After a use of Pride and filling the entire area with arcane explosions, Jake bought himself enough time to fire a just-conjured Protean Arrow down at the Arachnec Monitor, and following yet another Hunter’s Mark detonation, the second B-grade of this fight fell, reduced to nothing but a pile of bones and decaying flesh.

*You have slain [Arachnec Monitor – lvl 401] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level*

With it dead, Jake turned and watched as the six Deathstalkers had surrounded him once more, all of them practically uninjured. Seeing them all in formation and about to strike, Jake couldn’t help but feel in a good mood as he put away his bow and spread out his arms, a katar appearing in each hand. With a big grin on his face, he invited them to dance as they all charged.
