Ophiel descended onto the blackened Farms, where ash piled deep, and violet eels had been burned alongside all the other greenery. Not much had survived the fiery purge. The rice paddies were completely gone. The wheat fields were laid low. The infestation must have been a lot worse than Erick had seen, for as he flew over the destruction, he saw that a field of potatoes, a plot of corn, and several trees were the only sections that had been saved. They were sections that had been furthest from the lake, without attachment to the ditches that had been filled with eel water.

Erick looked down from above, and saw that three of those rescued trees were children of the Myriad Citrus, and that was nice. They had been planted beside an orchard of apples, and they looked rather good in that location, since these non-myriad citrus only produced blood oranges, with the same red skin to match. They almost looked like apple trees, but not quite. It was a shame that they were nothing like their multi-fruited progenitor, and might never be anything like the Myriad Citrus. But oranges were still good. Everyone liked oranges. Everyone liked apples, too. Every farmer was partaking of those fruits they had saved, while waiting for Erick to show. Several people were eating those blood oranges.

Valok was one of them.

Ophiel flew closer. “Hello, Valok, everyone.”

Valok tossed the red peel into a stone bucket, then wiped his hands on his rough pants, saying, “Erick. Good timing. We just finished with the fourth burn and till.”

That’s why Erick had come here; he had noticed they had finished.

Valok said, “We need a [Cleanse] over the land. It’ll take an hour to plant the seeds, and then we’ll need some exalted rain.”

Others noticed Ophiel, and stepped closer, but Valok was the only one who spoke.

“Of course!” Erick called in a few more Ophiel from around the city, to fly across the ashy land. They released [Mirage Slime]s to automatically [Cleanse] the fields, to clean away ash and charred eel corpses. Erick asked, “Did you all hear about Ava, yet?”

It had only been ten minutes, at the most, but Erick knew that word of these sorts of things spread very fast. Valok frowned. No one said a word to Ophiel, but everyone watched, intently.

Daetroi, Apogough’s father, stepped forward, asking, “Did she really survive?”

“Yes.”

Immediately there were cheers, some small, some loud. Erick watched, as cloudy grey eyes turned brighter, whiter, more full of hope.

Erick said, “I had to use a rod of [Greater Treat Wounds], but she survived.” Every onlooker stared at Ophiel, some with hope in their brighter eyes, others with fear, or trepidation. Erick said, “The transformation is not for everyone. I’m not sure if my own intervention was what saved her, or not.”

One of the farmers spoke up, “What’d she look like when you saved her?”

“Like herself. Injured inside, though.” Erick stressed, “Heavily injured, I think. She was spitting up a lot of blood.”

Erick had dispensed the news; the crowd took it and ran.

Another woman said, “The first guy to fail out of the transformation was patty meat. Bones and flesh all mashed together.”

“I heard he was stupid,” an orcol man said. When others gave him weird looks, he added, “What! I mean. Like. Real dumb. Like. Don’t let him talk to anyone in charge kinda dumb, because he’ll-get-himself-killed dumb.”

Three people clicked their tongue, as others nodded knowingly. One said, “That guy. I remember him. He was from the Sovereign Cities. They keep them dumb on purpose, out there.”

The entire rest of the group, save Erick, said variations of “Ohhh.”

Another farmer said, “The second one to fail came out looking fine. Perfectly preserved corpse.”

Erick said, “Phagar was there to oversee the event. Maybe that person chose the End.”

“I got too much shit to do in this life to choose the End,” said a tall incani man. “If someone survived, I’m going to go next!” He nodded. “I just decided. I’m done with this. I love you all. You’re great. This has been the worst experience of all my lives combined, but I want to vanish into somewhere else. Anywhere else but here. And I want [Cleanse], dammit.”

A few people nodded in sympathy. One said, “Yeah. I hear that.”

Valok said, “If you leave this city, you will be tracked down by governmental forces outside of your control. If you mess up once, if they catch you, you’re dead.” He stepped toward the incani, saying, “Orzo! Can you honestly tell me that you’re capable of evading an army? A guard. Any guard?”

Orzo said, “I can live in the middle of nowhere. The Wasteland has a thousand thousand hidden places.”

A human woman spoke up. “I just want to see my kids again. It’s only been a year since I died the first time. They’re probably still in Portal. If I can see them. If I can hug them, I could die.” She declared, “I could meet my End.”

An orcol man said, “Now you’re being dumb. If you raised your kids right they ought to kill you on sight.”

The woman blanked for a moment, her grey eyes going wide as she stared at the orcol. She almost looked ready to beat the man, who was literally twice her height, into the ground, and then further down. But then she broke. Tears welled. She vanished into shadows.

An orcol woman clicked her tongue, then muttered some harsh words in a language Erick did not know.

The orcol man paled, then mumbled, “Ah, shit.”

The orcol woman decked the man, sending him to the ground, declaring, “Stupid!”

The man gazed into the dirt, under his face. “I deserved that.”

“Yeah, you did.” The orcol woman reached down, and helped the man to stand. She asked, “Why did you say that to her? No one wants to hear that shit!”

A few people averted their eyes from the scene, but most looked on.

“I don’t know!” He said, trying to defend himself. “It just came out!”

“Nghhhhh.” The woman said a spat of words in some other language Erick did not know.

The group almost split from there, as people began to speak to each other in smaller groups, but Erick brought them back together, saying, “If you wish to try your luck at transforming back, you should probably speak to Ava to see how she managed her reincarnation. There was a lot there I didn’t see.”

“What’s a ‘reincartation’?” asked a boy, barely a man.

A lot of people gave Ophiel weird looks, while others gave the kid relieved looks, which was to be expected. Erick had used the English word ‘reincarnation’ when he spoke, for Ecks had no equivalent. What Eck’s had, was a lot of different words that were derived from ‘summon’. The idea of ‘[Resurrection]’ was actually a bastardization of the word ‘summon’. Most soul magic, as Erick understood it, was hinged on the word ‘summon’.

Back when ‘reincarnation’ was first paraded around in a small dirt room under the prairies of Odaali, when Erick was retaking the city from the Daydropper, they used ‘high tier summoning’ to speak of the creation of a Breach Demon. That string of words was not adequate for what was happening here, because for Breach Demons, they got to keep their old Stats in addition to restarting from level 0.

Erick didn’t know for sure, but he sincerely doubted that Melemizargo, or any other deity interested in participating in this bridging project, would want to start creating what was effectively level 150 people. Ava was probably reincarnated into a new body, without what came before.

Probably.

Erick said, “Reincarnation is what the idea was called back where I came from; back on Earth. It’s the rebirth of a soul in a new body, but not exactly as who they were before, because of change that has happened from one life to the next. It’s not really [Resurrection], because make no mistake, you’ve all been changed by the horror of your experience.” He said, “What you’ve gone through is not okay, and there is no quick fix to the trauma of Candlepoint, but it will get better, because we’ll make it better. One day at a time.

No one spoke. Some looked to Ophiel with questioning gazes, or barely hidden fear.

Valok said, “That’s enough philosophy for today. The cleaner slimes are done. Back to work.”

Erick left it at that.

As the group left the shade of the trees, and stepped out into the half-light of empty fields, some looked like a weight had fallen from their shoulders. Those people walked tall, their eyes aglow, as they carried bags of seeds into the cleaned fields. Some lingered, moving slow, but still moving.

Ophiel remained under the blood orange trees, as he watched the farmers telekinetically plant seeds into dark soil.

On a whim, Erick turned around to the children of the Myriad Citrus and cast [Tree of Light] onto each one. White light soaked into the bark, turning browns to glowing tans. Radiance flowed inside the trees, like ink spreading in water. Leaves became neon green, and red fruits flickered to different colors, and shapes. White, yellow, pale yellow, orange, blue, green, and red. Thorns briefly appeared, all across every tree at once, but they quickly vanished underneath the bark.

Erick laughed, seeing that these three trees were true descendants of the original. They were myriad citrus, too.

One tree had been slightly less large than the other two, but with Erick’s magic soaking into them, all three were now the same size, and all three glowed with the same light. They stretched upward, into the sky, as their roots sprung from the soil, like twisting bean vines. Those roots twirled around until they connected to each other. Connected roots became thick, and heavy, solidifying the joining of two trees to each other. Erick didn’t see the second and third tree connect, but they must have, because now all three trees grew together, in time to one another’s movements, reaching for the sky, their branches laden with a myriad of fruits. In minutes, they dominated their edge of the apple orchard, rising into the air, but they did not push the other fruit trees away. They just glowed with a gentle light, as their three canopies became one, and spread outward, becoming a roof of green four meters up and twice that wide, supported on pillar-thick trunks.

As [Tree of Light] flowed into their bodies, activating the dormant magics therein, it also settled down into their cores. Bright neons became subdued glows in the deep cracks of the bark, and along the veins of the leaves above. All three trees were already covered by fruits, but now those fruits doubled, filling up the underside of the canopy with ripe produce ready for picking.

“Awesome,” Erick whispered, taking in the moment.

He reached Ophiel’s wing toward a red orange. The branch lowered, slightly, then released the fruit into Ophiel’s waiting grip. Erick held the gently glowing fruit close to Ophiel, as the glow dissipated.

He said to the trees, “Thank you.”

He almost wanted to bring it home. But… not yet. So he blipped the blood orange to another location. Maybe Ava would like the red fruit when she woke.

… It occurred to Erick that he had never used the term ‘blood orange’ around anyone, and suddenly, that was a good thing. Having the term ‘blood’ attached to any sort of edible fruit seemed like it was asking for trouble. Erick decided that someone else could come up with a name for the fruit.

- - - -

Pulling back to the sky, where platinum rain gathered and fell, Ophiel watched as the people of Candlepoint made their city more of what they wanted it to be.

Supplies and necessities had been evacuated and stored in three locations, and guarded by Slip’s people. The buildings weren’t guarded that well, and certainly not as a measure to hoard wealth and resources. They were guarded merely so that everyone who asked for something got most of what they wanted. A line of people curled out of each of those warehouses, waiting for their chance to get inside. The lines moved quickly.

Erick doubled a few things here and there, inside the building. Some people probably saw this happen, for this was a city where eyes hid in every shadow. But that was okay. There would be enough food, or clothes Erick had [Mend]ed and [Cleanse]d, or blankets and otherwise, with this doubling. In a few days, Erick would see if he could set up some trade between Spur and Candlepoint, for other necessary things. He’d have to talk to Silverite about that, but she might let it happen.

The wall around Candlepoint slowly became more than the hastily erected thing Erick had pulled from the ground, as shadelings slowly, methodically, straightened the structure that separated the city from the mimics, while extending that fortification deeper into the sands. A walkway flowed up from the top of the wall as people passed; they had a long way to go to fully fix the fortification that ran all the way around the Lake, and Candlepoint. They would not finish today.

Several towers, thick and tall things, had already been erected at key points around the lake, and the exterior of the city itself, while the gates that had been to the north and the south of Candlepoint had been closed. The only official way into Candlepoint, besides [Teleport], was a large, plain gate in the east.

The lake seemed to be doing okay.

Tiny brown fish swam in the upper waters of the lake, but a few ventured deeper, down into the dark blue, and then further, looking for violet eels to munch upon. Most of the flits managed to find eels, hiding in the sand in the flat parts of the lake. Erick had dumped a great deal of fish into these waters, but the lake itself was five times the size of the original Candlepoint, which itself was almost the same size as Spur.

Ah, well, its was actually a lot larger than ‘5 times’, if Erick wanted to get technical.

