Floating high in the sky, Erick marveled at the size of the lake, for what was maybe the twentieth time.

Spur was mostly 12 kilometers in diameter, or 120 square kilometers large. Candlepoint had been 10 kilometers across, or around 80 square kilometers big. But the lake was 50 kilometers across. At fifty kilometers across, on average, and maybe a kilometer deep, Erick had a hard time remembering if there was any lake quite like this one back on Earth. It was almost perfectly circular—

Lake Okeechobee, in Florida. The thought came to Erick in a flash. Yup. This one was like that one, but…

It was probably not an apt comparison, for that Earth lake was rather shallow, wasn’t it? The Great Lakes weren’t a good comparison, either, for those ones were much, much larger than this lake, and yet, this lake would certainly be something important, in the coming years. Very important. Candlepoint could fish on this lake. They could survive on this resource, alone, as soon as the eels were dead and Erick stocked it with the first generation of fish...

… Erick decided to speed up the process of eel hunting. He cast a [Cascade Imaging] into the waters, while forming the map above the surface. It was a three meter wide map, that revealed the underwater reality of the 2000 square kilometer surface area lake. And it was deep. 50 kilometers wide. More than a kilometer deep in some areas Erick had not noticed before. The map started off white, but he had searched for ‘Violet Eels’, and when the spell had a moment to run, it turned blue all at once. Fully blue. Fully infested with violet eels.

And yet, deeper blue in two parts of the deeper lake.

Erick could have slapped himself!

There were three springs at the bottom. Were those springs always there? Maybe they were? Had Erick just not noticed them? It was entirely possible. The lake was huge.

Each of the springs wound down into the Underworld, into parts unknown. Each of them spilled eels into the lake. Erick had only managed to cap off the largest of the springs, and he was mad at himself for missing the smaller ones. To be fair, they were small springs, barely a few meters across, and there was almost two thousand square kilometers of underwater space to search. But, still.

If Erick didn’t have magic, he would have thought this an impossible problem for one person to solve. But he did have magic, and the problem was already being solved, naturally.

While the mud flits would monsterize with all this space and quickly begin eating all that blue, that would take a while. Erick, and Slip, had guessed it would take a week. That’s what the flit sellers in Oceanside had guessed, too, based on what Erick had Teressa tell them, when she went to purchase the fish. But that was an estimate made without a concern given to a constant reinfection.

In both of the new springs, flits and eels waged minor wars, far away from each outflow, while the springs themselves were violet eel strongholds, where eels had become like long, flowing purple hair, their mouths buried into the stone around each outflow. They had become ‘streamers’; they had monsterized, growing to ten times their normal length, to become little more than eel factories. The clear water of the spring had turned cloudy as the streamers’ skins parted, a thousand holes opening up on violet skin, expelling juvenile violet eels into the water, looking like wriggling maggots.

Erick almost puked as he watched the ten meter lengths of violet eels giving constant birth to more of its kind, from every other centimeter of its flailing body.

Half a kilometer out from the spring, those juveniles began to grow into larger adults, fueled by magical growth as they tried to fill their new dominion. Two kilometers from the springs, those juveniles fought mud flits, who themselves had already begun monsterizing, turning into sleek bronze hunters each the size of a hand, and each able to eat violet eels by the hundreds.

But ‘by the hundreds’ was still not enough, when there were hundreds of ‘eel factories’ by the springs, each spilling out thousands of eels every second.

And that was enough of that. Fuck these damn eels.

Ophiels hovered to the center of the springs, and cast their magics.

Halos of light became storms of underwater lightning that ripped and tore and burned and fried, chaining through the cloudy water, touching from streamer to eel, and then to the second and third generations of eels inside the first. It was a crash of lightning unlike Erick had ever expected, but Ophiel was fine, and the eels were not. [Fumination Aura] also reached half a kilometer underwater, killing everything it touched with a billion lightning feelers. When the main targets were gone, after a full ten seconds of blasting underwater, the halos around each Ophiel returned to calm, solid light, hovering around each Ophiel at a medium distance. Lightning flickered downward, occasionally, striking something that attempted to come up from below, killing it before it got too far.

This was good. Erick had not expected [Fulmination Aura] to be that effective when there were this many small targets, but it was, and it was great.

With the main infestations ended Erick cast a few [Mirage Slime]s into the water to clean up some of the mess. Cloudy water turned clear, as Erick plugged the extra springs with more [Prismatic Ward]s.

… The plug over the first spring suddenly popped.

No matter! Erick cast another density into the original spring.

With all three plugged up, the mud flits still had a job ahead of them, but it wouldn’t drag on for too long. The original time frame of a week was probably okay.

Erick informed Slip of what had happened.

The schedule for more additions to the lake was pushed back a few more days, and Ophiel returned to the sky, to continue watching the city transform in front of his many, many eyes.

There was an argument over wardlights near the courthouse, but people found solutions and compromises with their neighbors. Rainbow wardlights came down from the sky, where they had formerly been attached to buildings that no longer existed. White wardlights went up, onto new buildings. Colored lights were reserved for specialty structures, like Zaraanka’s Pink House, or the Courthouse’s occasional blue light.

Stone signs went up around the lake, around the ridge of land that had been raised as a barrier to the water, warning of the three springs and the extended violet eel problem. Erick added his own [Stoneshape] signs to the ones Slip posted, near the Courtyard of the Crystal, asking people if they wanted anything specific in the lake. It wasn’t long before some people started adding texts to Erick’s board.

And speaking of the Courtyard of the Crystal; almost all of the surrounding buildings were taken down in a few hours, as soon as the construction crews of the city got around to it. All except for the Dark Temple, to the north side of the public space. That building would not be touched. But that didn’t mean the land around it would remain unchanged. As the construction crews passed, beautification crews came in, planting trees here and there to take the places of the buildings no longer existent. People wanted something nicer than nothing to look at, after all.

Erick smiled to himself, as he saw a few others cast [Tree of Light] among some of the trees, blooming saplings to full, radiant heights rather fast.

With an eye back to the Farms, and the children of the Myriad Citrus, Erick witnessed shadelings sitting down against the tree trunks, eyes closed, enjoying the soft brightness of the gently neon trees. More than a few were even eating oranges, and blood oranges. Not many people liked the other flavors. Erick left some [Stoneshape]d signs, naming the fruits in the trees based on color, and what they could be used for; lemonade, candied for cakes or treats, marmalade, rinds for teas, or for scenting a room with good smells. Lemons had the most uses, from cleaning to cooking in almost every kind of meal, to making delicious sour cream. He did end up naming the blood oranges, though. He called them ‘Scarlet Oranges’. Maybe the name would stick?

Giving the trees a quick once-over, he saw that most of the fruits had been changed back to red or orange fruits. The white, yellow, pale yellow, blue, and green options, were raised high, with only one or two of those colors for every red or orange fruit hanging down, in easy reach of the shadelings resting in the neon grove.

… Erick really wanted to make a tree [Familiar], now. Something to ensure a few things were automatically good for Candlepoint. Like area defenses, or exalted rains, or even just [Cleanse]s whenever they were asked for. Maybe he should work on that a little.

But there was just so much else to do, and he still wasn’t quite sure on his potential tree [Familiar]. The grove of light-infused myriad citrus had given him some deep inspiration, but the full idea wasn’t quite there, yet. Still! There was more to do, and Candlepoint was fine, for now.

Erick left an Ophiel in the gazebo part of the Crystal, to watch over the Dark Temple, to warn Erick if anyone else was going to try their luck today, as well as provide [Mend] and [Cleanse] for whoever asked. He left another Ophiel in the air over the Farms, providing platinum rain for as long as Valok and everyone else required that rain. They would likely work past dark tonight, for the produce they pulled from the ground was already trailing off into the city, exchanging hands to whoever could cook it fast enough. He left a few other Ophiels hovering around the city, answering calls for [Cleanse] or [Mend] assistance, and blipping fights apart, though that last necessity hadn’t happened in half a day.

With eyes floating above it all, Erick marveled at the community that had survived in the wake of Bulgan, and Melemizargo, and all the evil that this world could muster. These people were working together for the common good, and though there were raised emotions here and there, and harsh words happened everywhere, and more than a few people cried in the dark corners of the city, there were just as many people building for their neighbors, or sharing stories of hardships, or offering shoulders to cry upon.

Erick pulled back his sight from the city, and went to the kitchen, to help make dinner.

Teressa had picked up a hundred pounds of haarah beef from the market, and while she was cooking it with a ton of bluebell, Erick helped to make the potatoes, the corn, and the salad. Somewhere in the middle of cooking, Justine came out, and asked if she could help. Erick, thrilled, set her on to making more lemon cookies, and showed her how to make coftea.

—Erick added cookies to the list of recipes for citrus, back in Candlepoint.

Dinner was great, though Erick had to fill most of the silence. Justine had been deeply affected by her panic attack and Erick would have called her symptoms part of PTSD, if not for the fact that they were still in the thick of the problem. But maybe she wasn’t in the deep part of it anymore? Maybe this, right here, a calm time and a nice meal in a part of the world that wasn’t currently at war, but where death and pain loomed everywhere else…

Maybe this was as good as it got? Maybe this, right here, was far enough away from the fighting to count as the ‘post’ in the ‘post traumatic stress disorder’?

While Erick was considering that, and considering talking to Poi, to ask the man if Mind Mages could help with these sorts of neurological disorders, Poi informed him that Syllea wanted to come back, and fulfill part of her bargain of trade.

“Well sure!” Erick said, “Tell her to come on down. We got dessert.”

Justine’s eyes went wide, as she made herself scarce.

Seeing Justine run off like that… Maybe Erick should have thought before he answered. But this was knowledge that he needed, and if Syllea was ready, then now was as good a time as any.

- - - -

The sun set across from Erick’s private garden, outside the window of the sunroom. The bitter, strong scent of coftea filled the air, along with the sweet, light scent of iced, lemon cookies. This was, mostly, a comfortable sort of meeting. Mostly. After pleasantries and refreshments were exchanged, Erick sat on one couch, while Syllea sat on the other.

Poi, Bayth, and Teressa, were in the other room, gently talking to each other. All three of them had easy access to this room, if something went wrong, but Erick didn’t think that anything would go wrong. He wasn’t going to attack Syllea, and she certainly wasn’t going to attack him, so why the extra preparation?

Erick just went ahead and asked, “Is Bayth worried that I’m going to do something?” He added, “I’m not even sure why my guys are acting like that.”

Syllea smiled, as she set down her coftea. She had had to dilute it with a lot of sugar and milk, turning the normally brown drink into something shy of tanned paper, but she had had half a mug, so far. “There have been some developments back at Treehome.” She asked, “Do you know anything about orcol war parties?”

Erick shook his head. “Nope. I probably heard something about them, but I cannot recall.”

