Syllea almost said something, but she paused. “How do you mean? The Shape elements? Or? There’s actually either 18 or 200 elements, depending on who you talk to.” She rapidly added, “But you probably meant the Shape elements.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Yeah, I did— But 200? 200 elements?”

Syllea seemed to tease, “What’s this disbelief? If I recall correctly, you stood up there on that podium and said there were actually closer to 250, and that we were using the term ‘element’ all wrong.”

Erick conceded, “Okay. True.” He added, “But. Yeah. I meant the 6 [Element Shape] elements. Or— You tell me.”

Syllea nodded. “There’s a mostly academic debate in some Arcanaeum circles as to the actual number of classical elements, but the ones everyone actually concerns themselves with is likely exactly as you’re thinking. Fire, Water, Stone, Air, Light, and Shadow are the main ones. Force is undifferentiated, ‘natural’ mana; if you want to call it that. Dragon is an element not accessible to most people, but it is technically an element; it’s just an element outside of the normal ordering.” She said, “But as for switching one element into the next, in the way [Shadow Conversion] switches light to shadow, every element is able to be switched into something close to what it is, rather easily. You have go to through the list, though, and each step from the original magic is further complication to the spell. [Shadow Conversion] is a two-step conversion.” She lifted her hand to the left, to an empty space in the room, and conjured a blackboard. “This is the normal conversion series.”

Gloom

Air

Lightning

Rain

Abyss

Water

Healing

Mud/Ooze

Shadow

Swamp

Stone

Glass

Light

Magma

Ash

Fire

Radiance

Sun

Syllea conjured a many-sided polyhedron, with all the words listed on the board, but in handheld form that was almost a ball. “The main elements listed on this map, along with all of their mixed elements, is the common conversion map, but in handheld form.” She set it on the table between them, then summoned another object. This second conjuring was a lot more complicated than the first, for it was like a small, stabilized orrery, with the previous 18 elements on the outermost ring, but a good thirty more on the inside and a few on the outside, on rings of various sizes, and sticking outward on pins. She set the second ball of elements down beside the first one, saying, “The interior of this map is toward Order, while the exterior is toward Chaos, or Force, which is just undifferentiated mana. It is theorized that Dragon and Order are one in the same, but you can’t get to Dragon from any element, so those experiments are dead in the water. And besides, experimenting with Dragon is a good way to get assassinated.

“This second map has things like Blood, which is beside Water, toward the center, and Void, on a little pin just outside of the map, next to Shadow. There are three elements that fit this map worse than most. The first is Steam, which is the intersection of Fire and Water. That would go straight through the map, you see, and that would put it at the same spot as the other two of the three elements I mentioned, which is why it doesn’t fit this map very well.” She added, “According to most people.” She continued, “The second is Sand, which is the intersection of Stone and Air. Same problem.

“But it’s the intersection of Light and Shadow that we’re interested in. That one is ‘Illusion’.

“And to answer your question: Yes, you can alter through the list, pretty far. Though every shift past the first is more difficult than the one that came before.”

Erick stared down at the maps of magic, and felt a little lost, but also highly curious. He had no idea Mana Altering was this complicated. He smiled. He laughed. He asked, “I feel a lot lost. Was this how you felt when I was up there, talking about my ‘elements’?”

Syllea smiled. “Atoms are ridiculous.”

Erick laughed again. “But you made a particle spell! [Alter Density], if I recall correctly.”

“I barely made that spell.” Syllea chuckled, saying, “Your particles make no sense at all. That’s not how this world works. That’s not how magic works.”

Erick laughed again, pointing to the maps on the coftea table, beside the lemon cookies and the cooling coftea, saying, “That’s not how this world works, either.”

Syllea smiled. “I want to debate you on this, but we are pressed for time.”

“I would love to have that conversation. Yes. Let’s do that sometime.” Erick said, “But you’re right. So. How do you make shadows from light?” He thought back to Bulgan, floating in the sky like a black void, surrounded by light. “It’s not really as easy as making a bright light, then stepping in front of it and controlling the mana in the shadows, is it?”

Syllea brushed off Erick’s postulation with, “That is only the basic overview of the start of the process of transforming light magic into shadow magic.” She said, “But I’ve been talking at a very high level overview for a bit now. Just so we’re clear: Where do you want to go with this? If you manage to make [Shadow Conversion], then you have to learn how to fight with shadow magics, which is fine, but if you don’t have [Shadowalk], then it’s not optimal.” She popped out another blue box, saying, “This is also an option.”

Illusion Infusion, instant, touch, 5100 mana

Imbue the aura of a willing participant with Illusions. All Light magic cast by the target is transformed into Illusions, to act at unknown angles.

“It’s a single step conversion, so it should be a lot easier to for you to achieve.”

Erick read, and pondered. He asked, “What does ‘Unknown angles’ mean?”

“You cast a [Force Beam] from your hand at a target, but it strikes the target from the side. It’s rather hard to explain more than that.” She offered, “Want to try it for yourself? We can play around with [Shadow Conversion], too, to see which you like more?” She added, “Either way, these tests and your own experimentation should give you an adequate understanding of how to fight shadow more effectively.”

As twilight faded to dark, and the stars came out to shine in the skies over Spur, Erick said, “Yes. Let’s test some spells.”
