As the new eras move by, the exploration of the Lower Realm reaches its natural limits.

Even 4th and 5th Grade worlds, with weak red and orange suns, are beginning to be sold off and consolidated into artificial ports connected to the main ether pathway channels.

They begin classifying them as tiered galactic mega structures. To enter the recognized rankings, a port has to be powered by at least 100 red stars and the ether, and mana residue from at least 100 of their connected 5th Grade worlds. These are Lower C-Tier Civilization Ports.

Any mega structure with 4th Grade stars and worlds in their structures are still only Upper C-Tier Civilization Ports. There are millions of these enormous structures already built.

Many of the less intelligent or less naturally powerful races work together and construct one of these structures to gain access to voting rights in the Galactic Trade Commission Meetings held every century held by Alveron and a board of voted chairmen.

In the current era, these are the consolidated ports that are being built rapidly, multiple per day all throughout the vast Origin Plane.

This is the minimum threshold to acquire private ascension pathways up to the Green Zone, and corresponding bases in the Upper Realm to establish their own factions not completely overseen by the Emperor's Guard.

As the amount of natural worlds left in the Lower Realm dwindles, many of these smaller collections of worlds and ancient alliances must use the preset pathways and guidelines constructed by Abby long ago.

The few hundred thousand or so Lower and Upper B-Tier Civilizations are mostly older crafts, created over fifty thousand years ago when 3rd and 2nd Grade worlds and their corresponding orange and dark yellow stars were still freely traded without the pressure for consolidation. To be classified as such, the megastructures must have at least 50 3rd Grade star and planet material for Lower, and 50 2nd star and planet materials for an Upper B-Tier classification.

Many of the Lower B-Tier structures are far larger than they need to be, adding expansion ports with hundreds of 4th and 5th Grade stars and planets. If the populations grow large enough, they can apply to be classified as Middle Grade B-Tier Civilizations, only by an on-site inspection from one of the Emperor's Guard.

In the current era, expansion of these larger structures is far more common, and there are many more unique classifications being produced to promote more growth in the ancient clans, as almost all of the higher-grade worlds have been privately collected. It is impossible to improve their standing any other way.

A-Tier Civilizations are extremely rare; the last one constructed was by the Ogre Races over 150,000 years ago. In total, there are only a few thousand of these ports. They are mostly all owned by the descendants and loyal working partners of the powerful Admins, Warlords, Knights, Commanders, and Generals.

Any megastructure that is crafted with over 25 1st Grade star and planet remnants is classified as A-Tier. Some even have over 100 bright yellow stars powering their single galactic bases. There are no other classifications within this tier, as all of the powerful factions that own them are loyal to a very small group of leaders.

They all follow orders from the two S-Tier Civilizations. One is an extremely private and secret galactic port run solely by the descendants of Fisher and Lydia. The other is where Alveron still works, and where Bri's Ascended Ethereal Avatar sits dormant at the megastructure's very core. The home base of the Admins is far larger, and is even available to the general public of the Lower Realm to visit and rent space to establish factions in the central hub.

These are the only two galactic civilizations that use pure white suns and Noble Grade World remnants to power their structures. Each one has added tens of thousands of suns and worlds to their structures and added hundreds of ether pathway points after the fact that lead to the Upper Realm.

In the initial stages of building these consolidated structures, it was quite chaotic. Yet now, there have been many generations that have been born and died over and over again while these systems are already in place.

This new era no longer has deep areas of unknown and unexplored deep space. Technology has advanced to the point where many children learn to control pure ether and mana at young ages before they're even old enough to connect to the system. There are full dictionaries for every ancient language, and the corresponding glyphs and array patterns.

Many plan out their journeys through the system before they even mentally hear their first notification.

It is no longer necessary to start on small planets in deep space. Full races have migrated upward to settle in the vast zones of the Upper Realms; some races are born in the Upper Realm. This bends and mutates the rules of the system even further, granting divine bodies as a natural buff the instant a system is awakened.

There are even instances of natural Sacred Bodies for extremely powerful races born in areas where high-quality glyphs are abundant.

A single large tower in the Cyan and Blue Zones can fit millions of solar systems' worth of space inside them. In the Purple Zone of the Upper Realm, some of the largest private domains are even spacious enough to fit the entire Cyan and Blue Zones combined inside them.

The bent space that rests atop the Origin Plane holds far more opportunities, and even raw storage space, than the entire galaxy down below.

Even as the population of links of loyalty swells to hundreds of times higher than it did after the end of the Demon's era, there is no lack of space for the newer generations to strive in.

However, with every single planet already connected to the system, there are no new races that pop up out of nowhere.

The known factions, bases of power, large businesses, technology, and distribution of general authority throughout the citizens of the Origin Plane are set in stone.

With ethereal ascended ancestors resting dormant behind the major forces of every known zone, and the presence of an untouchable dryad goddess in the Purple Zone wielding an army made out of her subconscious avatars, the possibility of rogue factions attempting to disrupt the power balance is basically zero.

As this new era takes shape, and more flawless grade ether continues to lightly flow out from the life within the Origin Realm, I start to feel a very odd sensation trickling into my mind.

The extremely potent notification linked to my sword is continuing to rise to the surface of my system, yet I start to feel small gears turning or even bubbles of resistance popping beneath its surface.

Each one of these triggers light bells in my ears that sound like level-up pings.

After the millions of these I heard after killing Noctus, I began to push them out of my active mind. With access to all of the raw energy in the universe, and the availability of system stats of every living link of loyalty, my own level's significance has mattered less and less.

Yet, as time is being pulled away from the Origin Plane at a faster rate, the frequency of these level up notifications speeds up too. A wave of confusion washes through me as I realize I'm somehow gaining experience from somewhere unrelated to Noctus' demise.

When I dive deep into the laws beneath the system that are triggering these minor pings, I see they are coming from two sources.

The first is a mutated perk of the Primordial Grade Plunderer skill, passively gaining experience from any energy that I absorb into my body.

The second is a new function of the Immortal Emperor's Domain. Once I claimed this galaxy, every living being that dies within grants me their experience as though it was my own kill.
