Gal’Meth snapped his fingers. In a blink, Kaelor and I returned to our own bodies.

Still, we couldn’t move. We didn’t dare to get up from the ground of mist. Because if we did, the demon would plunge his sword into the clone of our souls, inflicting a type of pain we had never felt before. An attack on the soul itself wasn’t something you could easily describe.

It made your soul scream with pain, not just your mouth.

Gal’Meth walked around us as we kept our bodies lowered. Our souls’ clone followed him. It was impossible to predict what he’d do next.

“I wonder,” he began, stopping between the three of us. “Why are you so desperate to sacrifice your own lives—your own souls—for the chance to save a woman whose fate the world had already decided? Camille had already died long ago during the massacre at Aurelius’s manor. She was never meant to live on.”

He took a breath. “With my magic, Aurelius already did everything he could to save her and the others who died that day. But in the end, he failed. In the end, the world decided it was time for him to depart from this mortal realm. You were the ones who killed him—a man whose only goal was to save the people he loved. And yet…”

Gal’Meth crouched in front of me, lifting my chin and forcing me to face him.

“Yet, you want to clean up the very mess you made. If you had let him live, he could’ve saved Camille and the others. His death caused the dungeon to fracture. It made the temporary vessels holding their souls weaken, eventually leading to their demise. Camille’s soul is next, and it’s all your fault.”

I gritted my teeth, pushing his hand away. “Aurelius wanted to destroy Whale Isles. He wanted to take the bodies of all the inhabitants, as well as Kaelor’s and mine. We won’t just sit back and let that happen.”

Gal’Meth shook his head. “But did he really? He initially wanted to take their bodies, yes… but his goals changed during the battle. Don’t you remember?”

My eyes narrowed. What was he getting at?

“Halfway through, Aurelius decided he only needed two bodies: yours and Kaelor’s,” he continued. “Your body was suitable for Camille, while Kaelor’s Firstborn flesh was fitting for himself. If the two of you had just sacrificed your lives, none of this would’ve happened. Aurelius would’ve succeeded. He would’ve saved Camille, and Whale Isles would’ve been left alone.”

“And what about us?” Kaelor asked.

Gal’Meth turned to him. “The two of you would’ve just been the necessary sacrifices.”

“I doubt anyone would be willing to give up their lives like that,” Meriel said. “It’s in our nature to want to protect ourselves.”

The demon nodded once. “True. But whether such a trait is a flaw or a strength is up for interpretation. Now rise—all three of you.”

I exchanged glances with the others. After a few nods, we slowly stood up.

“You’re an odd one,” I said. “You’re trying to kill us, yet the way you speak to us doesn’t seem like someone with murderous intent.”

The demon chuckled, shrugging. “I get that quite often. When you’ve been a demon for as long as I have, transactions such as this one start to become nothing more than a task to finish. Though of course, fighting a demon as a part of that transaction is rather… uncommon. You should consider yourselves fortunate that a demon such as myself accepted such an offer in the first place.”

The more he spoke, the more I understood that he was no ordinary demon. From what I could understand, demons lived longer the more contracts they made by stealing other people’s lifespans. It was obvious from his demeanor alone that Gal’Meth was an ancient demon.

Which meant he must’ve made countless successful contracts to live this long.

After a sigh, Gal’Meth’s sword dispersed, alongside the clone of our souls. He wiped his palms against each other—a gesture someone typically made after they were done with house chores.

“You’re letting us go?” I asked.

Kaelor shook his head. “No. He has to be planning something.”

But Gal’Meth wasn’t casting any more spells or presenting himself as a threat to us.

“Consider yourselves lucky,” he said. “Attacking your souls themselves left behind damage that’s difficult to heal—though of course, this damage is contained within this realm. This battle is over.”

I hadn’t noticed until then, but he was right. Unlike physical wounds, the attack on our souls themselves left us sluggish and hindered our senses. If we continued fighting in the state we were in, we would be defeated in an instant.

“What do you mean the battle is over?” Kaelor asked. “We’re still standing.”

Gal’Meth pointed behind us. “Because of her.”

We turned, looking at Meriel. She turned as well, but no one was behind her.

“I’m talking to you, elf,” Gal’Meth said.

“Me?” Meriel tilted her head.

The demon snickered. “Playing dumb, are we?”

After a moment, she showed off a smile.

“I didn’t think you’d notice.”

“Why wouldn’t I? You’re in my realm.”

Kaelor and I looked at each other. What were they even talking about?

Then, Meriel showed it. She parted her white robes aside, revealing…

Tree roots?

They shimmered in light, wrapping around her body with bright, emerald leaves on the branches. How long had they been hiding under her robes?

Before I could say anything, the realm rumbled. Kaelor and I were caught off guard, losing balance. So was Gal’Meth.

He wasn’t the one responsible for this rumbling.

“You’ve been planting roots inside this realm the entire time,” Gal’Meth said. “I was wondering when you’d unleash it.”

At once, hundreds of tree roots erupted from the mist beneath our feet like tentacles. Some of them wrapped around Gal’Meth, while most of them twirled and melded into a single solid trunk. The trunk grew to an immense size, becoming taller every second and reaching for the stars up above.

After a moment, the very top of the trunk exploded into thousands of giant branches, covering the entire sky with the same emerald leaves as the ones wrapped around Meriel’s body. We couldn’t see the sky anymore—all there was above us were leaves.

I felt my entire body and soul being rejuvenated from the damage Gal’Meth’s attacks had caused. Despite the damage to our souls supposedly being more difficult to heal, it didn’t seem that way. Not with the tree’s effects on us.

A status window popped open by itself.

Status:

[The Elven Tree’s Blessings]

- All spells cast by individuals Meriel recognizes as enemies are weakened

- All spells cast by individuals Meriel recognizes as allies are empowered

- Allies are continuously healed from all damage and negative status effects

- Allies gain vastly increased mana regeneration

- The surrounding area becomes Sacred Ground while the blessing remains active

I turned to Meriel. “How did you…?”

“I’ve been casting this spell while we were fighting,” she explained. “It takes a long time to cast, so I had to do so ahead of time. It’s a spell I studied deeply during my time at the academy, but it was never something I was able to cast with the mana capacity I had. Not until now.”

Her awakening must’ve given her what she needed to cast such a spell.

“Amazing,” Kaelor said, looking at his body. “I feel so much lighter…”

Despite the tree roots holding up Gal’Meth like a chained prisoner, he didn’t struggle or thrash around. Had he already given up?

“Incredible,” he muttered. One of the roots was about to cover his mouth, but Meriel commanded it to stop. “An elven spell… hah…”

He giggled to himself.

“What’s so funny?” I asked. “I’m not so sure I’d be laughing if I were in your situation.”

He stopped at once, staring at me.

“I’m laughing because seeing this spell reminds me of an elf I had made a contract with a long, long time ago. She had also cast this very spell—and was the first person to defeat me in battle.”

He looked at Meriel. “A part of me was wondering why your soul seemed so similar to hers. You must be her descendant. And this spell…”

He glanced at the Elven Tree covering the entire realm.

“I haven’t seen this spell in thousands of years.”

[NOTICE: CHAIN TROPES DETECTED]

- THE ANCIENT HERO’S DESCENDANT (COMPLETED)

- THE ANCESTRAL SPELL (COMPLETED)

[CONSOLIDATING REWARDS…]

[REWARD: The Elven Tree’s Blessings have been updated.]

Status:

[The Elven Tree’s Blessings]

- All spells cast by individuals Meriel recognizes as enemies are weakened

- All spells cast by individuals Meriel recognizes as allies are empowered

…

- Each attack by those with high Narrative weight is followed by an additional strike from the Elven Tree (New)