He turned on Udraal now. His body was mostly healed, his soul restored and stable. His period of vulnerability was over, and Shiv was tired, pissed, and done with all this bullshit. He was done with the Ascendants, done with Udraal, done with being dragged from one place to another, running into one problem after another. His rage boiled at a breaking point. It had been so long since he had snapped that his hands were shaking. He was long since past his threshold for violence and struggle. And here Udraal was, goading him on, looking at him as if he were a prized pupil.

And as Shiv snarled at Udraal like a ravenous mastiff about to tear into someone's thigh, Udraal himself seemed pleased. "Now, now, enough of that. It’s meaningless. You've done what I wanted you to, albeit in a very roundabout, very pointlessly violent way. Was all that you did earlier necessary? You know you cannot hurt me, Deathless. Not as you are now.”

"Don’t give a shit," Shiv hissed. "You don't touch me. You don't touch Adam. Not unless I tell you to. Not ever."

"And you think that's up to you? That you can demand this of me?" There was no threat in Udraal's voice. It was a sincere question, and it just made Shiv want to beat the Abyssal Lord to death even more.

"I don't care who you are. I don't care how powerful you are. I will find a way to hurt you. I will tear into your soul. And if I can't do that... If I can't do that..." For the first time, Shiv stopped for a moment and thought, thinking about how he might be able to wound Udraal, or at least threaten him.

The Abyssal Lord was powerful. He intervened on Shiv's behalf and stalled the Ascendants. Even a Legend was helpless against the combined might of the Avatars. Shiv and a small army of prisoners were overwhelmed, cornered, and would have been recaptured if not for Udraal's sudden intervention and the Composer's delay. But Udraal had made several things known. First, he was here for Shiv. Not only for Shiv, but mainly for Shiv. That meant the Deathless had value to Udraal. That meant he mattered.

And that gave Shiv an advantage.

"No other Deathless but me, huh?" Shiv suddenly muttered.

Udraal's eyes narrowed. He quickly realized where Shiv was going. "Boy," he said, and for the first time, hints of apprehension leaked into his voice. “You wouldn’t…” And then he stared into Shiv’s eyes and let out a grunt of disbelief. “Oh… You actually would. System, you’re actually fearless. How… disconcerting.”

Shiv simply chuckled humorlessly. "Yeah. Some of us learn to handle our problems with death quietly. But I'll tell you this again right now. You don't touch me. You don't touch Adam. You don't do anything unless we let you. And if you do, I'm gonna let myself fade out of existence. I'll let my vitality fizzle out until there's nothing left."

The Challenger is watching intently.

Udraal blinked, utterly flabbergasted. "You would kill yourself to spite me. You don't even know what I'm about to say. You don't even know me. You don't know what I want."

"I don't give a godsdamn what you want!" Shiv snapped. "I don't give a shit what anyone wants! I have a World Quest that has practically everyone I meet hunting my ass! I got thrown into a prison by the people who were supposed to be my gods, my government! One of my orcs just died! I barely escaped capture from said felonious gods! I have people I care about that are still missing, that I don't know where they are, that I don't know what their condition is, and I need to get them back! And here you are, out of nowhere!"

By now, redness was crawling across Shiv's vision. So much anger burned inside of him that he nearly lost control, that he nearly went berserk again, but Shiv held himself together. Swinging blindly like a flailing child would not protect him against Udraal. He was learning that lesson over and over again. His anger needed to be spent wisely, with focus and precision. The first hint of worry on Udraal's face was Shiv's threat to end himself, and he would continue exploiting that threat if need be. He would go through with it without hesitation if need be. But only as a means of controlling Udraal.

Psycho-Cartography 75 > 76

"And here you are," Shiv continued, "all these years later, after whatever fucked-up deal you made with my parents to make me, after everything you did, for whatever reason you did it. You're here, taunting us, playing with us."

"I saved you," Udraal said, sounding almost offended. “Where would you be without me?”

Shiv scoffed in disgust. "Is that what you did? Yeah, I guess you distracted the Ascendants and helped us get away, but this doesn't feel like a rescue, Udraal. This feels like we are trading one captor for another."

The Abyssal Lord frowned and shook his head. "What an absurd notion. I have no intention of taking you as a slave. I just want you to continue the experiment."

"I'm less than a slave, then," Shiv said, his voice falling lower, the menace inside of him growing. "Just a thing for you to use, to learn about the System so you can strike it down from the inside?"

"We are all just things to the System," Udraal replied. It sounded like he repeated this line a lot. "And we are all used by someone else in one way or another, used by ourselves as well. But fine, I'll accept your demand for agency, at least for now. I don't need to forcibly control you for you to do what I want. In fact, I expect you to do what I want because our interests are quite aligned."

"Yeah, somehow I doubt that," Shiv replied.

"You doubt that I want you to grow stronger?" Udraal said. "You doubt that I want you to trigger the largest Incursion Earth has seen yet? Say otherwise right now, and I will bow down and offer my sincerest apologies.”
