“This is it….I finally got my way out! Maybe...hopefully...” activating the skill with the will to move across the hallway Ilea teleported around fifteen meters away. “Man this is great...I’ll have to get used to the feeling though. Not as bad as when I was teleported down here but still...” holding her stomach she went and drank some water from the fountain. “Now the question is, can I teleport to places I can’t see and what happens when I teleport into something...” going into the library she tried teleporting into one of the shelves. Only her arm would theoretically be inside the shelf.
“Would still hurt like hell but maybe then I’d have a way to level up my healing...” The teleport worked, but her hand was pushed away from the shelf. No weird Human/shelf creature was born on that day.
“Which means...” trying to teleport halfway into the fountain she appeared next to it or above it. “Next step” halfway into the wall failed too, she always appeared next to it.
“Now the leap of faith...” blinking into the wall she found herself standing in front of it. “YES!!! It works! Now I just have to level it up and try to teleport out of here...” So she tried. Teleporting away from the chamber into any direction. There were a lot of ways to try and her skill slowly gained levels over the weeks, increasing the range and reducing the cost. After another month in the chamber Ilea was successful.
Appearing in a closed room, she was elated “FUCK YEAH!!” jumping up and down, Ilea looked around the room. It was a small room with only dust and stone in it but it was new. After months in her own box of stone this new one was a blessing to her. And there was a closed door in front of her.
“Well well well...now what’s a stone door against this...” raising her fist with her Aura spell activated she punched right through the thick stone door. Outside was a familiar room. The hall she had entered after being ambushed by the wolves outside the temple. “OH YES...YESYESYES!!!” not able to repress her excitement she ran outside.
It was night, an ocean of stars shining bright, illuminating the sky. There were two moons and they shone brightly. Ilea simply stood there stunned, her head held up to the sky. Tears falling from her face as she breathed her first breath of fresh air in months. The wind caressing her body, blue tattoos faintly glowing from below her worn clothes. “Hahahahahaahaaa” standing there with tears in her eyes, the woman was laughing.
Snapping her head down suddenly she became quiet and listened “I want food...something other than that bloody Grass...” She couldn’t hear anything so she entered the forest. It would be easy to find the temple again as it was on a slope. Starting to run, Ilea crossed the forest at a speed she’d never dreamed possible. Her perception even more surprising, the light of the moon more than enough for her to make out any details around her.
Not long after, she came across a small creek. “Food can wait...some real water first.” jumping into the creek she splashed around in the cold water and drank mouthfuls. A rather curious sight, a grown woman splashing around in a creek in the middle of the night, laughing maniacally. Perhaps even scary considering the magical world she was in. Stopping after fifteen minutes, Ilea resumed her search for food. Soon she came across some berries. Immediately eating one of them.
‘ding’ ‘You have been poisoned by Cinderberry, -3 HP/s for 5 Minutes’
Stopping her enthusiasm her mind focused. ‘That can kill me like three times over. I need to heal. I don’t know enough about my Reconstruction spell yet.’ grabbing a couple more of the berries she started to run back, occasionally using blink while keeping an eye on her mana, the weird warm feeling in her chest didn’t help her mind calm down either.
One and a half minutes later she was back at the temple. Using Reconstruction on herself had healed her for thirty points. ‘That should be enough really...but I have to be sure.’ she was already at close to fifty health remaining. Going into the room she’d smashed the door in, she blinked into the direction of the chamber. Reappearing in her familiar training space or prison of clarity, as she’d started to call it, she immediately went to the fountain and drank. Without possible external danger she used her mana freely to power up Reconstruction.
One minute later she was back at full health. “Man this world is insane. One berry would’ve killed me if I didn’t have a fucking healing spell and a well of health...” looking at the berries she wondered “Maybe I’ve been a little overconfident...I don’t even know what level one of those Drakes is. Even if I’ve grown stronger, there’s stuff out there that can kill me in one hit...like a bloody berry...wait no...Cinderberry”
She couldn’t help but laugh at the ridiculous situation she was in. After meditating and recovering her mana she looked at one of the berries...and ate it. “Mhm...at least they taste great...”
‘bing’ ‘You have been poisoned by Cinderberry, -3 HP/s for 5 Minutes’
Smiling she started to use Reconstruction on her own body. The drain of the berry felt weird but it didn’t hurt much. “A good way to level up Reconstruction...and eat delicious berries!” Repeating the steps for the other six berries she had, she leveled up Reconstruction and even received a special message at the end of her endeavor.
‘bing’ ‘You have learned the general skill Poison Resistance – You are a target of assassins or not very good at distinguishing berries. Surviving either of those you have developed a general resistance to poisons. - lvl 1’
“Man this is stupid...a general poison resistance? That doesn’t make sense at all….then again a lot of things here don’t seem to make sense and I’ve barely scratched the surface.” looking up she blinked outside again. This time she blinked again and found herself on the roof of the ruined temple.
Again she was stunned. Standing above the trees she could see for miles, even in the night. The forest was huge. ‘Beautiful...’ Ilea stood there for an hour and simply enjoyed being outside. ‘I’ll be more careful tomorrow. I can’t be overconfident. Although I’ve made incredible progress.’ Blinking back downstairs she made herself ready to sleep and checked her status.
Name: Ilea Spears
Class 1: Azarinth Healer – lvl 12
Unspent statpoints: 55
- Active: Destruction – lvl 14 - Active: Reconstruction – lvl 2 - Active: State of Azarinth – lvl 10 - Active: Blink – lvl 7 - Active: Free Slot - Passive: Body of Azarinth – lvl 4 - Passive: Azarinth Fighting – lvl 12 - Passive: Magic Perception – lvl 3 - Passive: Free Slot - Passive: Free Slot
Class 2: None
General Skills:
- Elos Standard language - lvl 5 - Identify - lvl 1 - Meditation – lvl 8 - Poison Resistance – lvl 1
Status:
Vitality: 29 Endurance: 25 Strength 18 Dexterity 21 Intelligence 34 Wisdom 42
Health: 290/290 Stamina: 233/250 Mana: 396/420
‘Tomorrow I’ll start to finally explore this weird world.’
