The gauges on the bridge reached their maximum. Arnelle confirmed the readings, and once more, before nodding and giving the signal to abandon ship.

The crew locked their station and hurried out, leaving the Captain alone. She picked up the receiver for the internal communication arrays. “This is Captain Plerigass speaking. If anyone is still on this ship, get topside now, or blow up with it in about a minute. David, Niala, you can stop feeding the heart; the mana stone hoppers will take over. See you all on the deck. Goodbye, Alchemical Star. You were a great ship.”

She hung up and took one last look around. Echoes of the Ardent Prowler's last moments at the end of the Skirmish Wars danced around the deserted bridge.

At least this time, the ship wasn't on fire and falling apart while they ran for the launches.

Yet.

A gust of wind ruffled her clothes. She scanned the empty bridge. “Miss Anaakendi?” She called out.

The air clumped into a humanoid shape. Skin ribbons covered the form, resolving into an older Tikitoan woman. “Yes, Captain. I am here.”

Arnelle nodded and pointed at two levers. “As discussed. The one on the left first, wait a few seconds for the ship to point down, then push the thrusters. They told me you would be fine, but you won't have much time to run.”

Anaakendi dismissed the concern with her hand. “I do not need to run, child. Take care of your own safety. I will be fine.”

A soft chime indicated that the heart had switched over from direct mana input to the hoppers. They had an estimated forty seconds to leave now. She nodded at Anaakendi, then turned and jogged out of the bridge, down the stairs, and out onto the deck, where the rest of her crew had already boarded the launches and fired up their contra-lift plates.

To her right, David and Niala stepped out of the corridor that led down. They crossed gazes and dipped their head, proceeding toward the launches and her waiting crew.

Then the ship rocked violently and listed to the right. She went tumbling down the deck that had suddenly become a terrifying slide toward the forest floor.

A FEW SECONDS EARLIER, FOREST FLOOR.

The blob had no mind to speak of. It knew of hunger and how to sate this hunger. That was the extent of its existence.

But, it did have thoughts, even if they were all in service of the same impulse: consume mana.

And so, it strove to reach out to the biggest, juicest source of mana it could sense.

A little while ago, that had been the little bits falling from the sky. But now, a burst of mana captured its attention. Above, high above, like a beacon floating in the sky. All the mana it could want.

It only had to reach out to it.

The blob shuddered as it pulled inward, shrinking threefold, into a dense ball of goopy muscles and ligaments. It pressed harder, until its own flesh began to burst.

And then it let go.

A massive, trunk-sized tendril shot up straight, punching through the air, toward its next meal.

Higher and higher, feeding itself into the rising tower of flesh.

Then it hit something hard. The tendril clawed reflexively, grabbing hold of whatever it could with a death grip, and simply let the bulk of its body and gravity do the rest.

The floating object listed to the side, resisting the blob's pull at first. But it could feel the object's hold on the air slipping.

It only had to keep pulling.

When the pillar of flesh hit the side of the ship, David barely had time to throw his arms around Niala.

The tendril coiled around one of the masts and pulled. The floor became an angled wall, and they went sliding toward the edge.

A second ahead of them, Arnelle slammed into the railing with a yelp of pain, but managed to wrap her arms around it while gritting her teeth.

David forced his mana out, almost blacking out from the agony, and triggered Iron Body and  Strong Arm, cushioning Niala with his own body and grabbing hold of a baluster.

They hung there as the blob tugged the ship to its side, shaking them toward the edge.

Shouts, from up above, as the crew in the launches stabilized their embarkations and began manoeuvring toward the stranded people.

A soft hum filled the air, gaining in intensity at the same rhythm their rescue approached.

Arnelle, one arm limp and useless, got her legs underneath herself and got into a crouch, her one good arm anchoring her in place, getting ready to leap up.

Niala grabbed onto the railing herself, allowing David to secure his hold, though one of his arms was soon around Niala's waist again.

The launches floated downward, lengths of rope ladders lowering toward them.

Arnelle judged the distance, let go of her hold, using her sea legs to find her balance on balusters, and, just as the buzzing became all they could hear, jumped up.

Something invisible snapped. Like a puppet with its string cut, the ship fell.

For a brief instant, Arnelle appeared to be floating, her arm clawing at the rope ladder.

Her fingers snapped shut over the lowest rung. She looked down.

David and Niala looked up.

Their gazes met.

There was nothing either could do.

Above them, as the ship began tumbling like a falling vase, the launches disappeared behind the Alchemical Star's bulk.

The one thing David didn't do was let go.

Even as the baluster in his hand ripped out of the guardrail, and they began drifting away from the falling ship, with debris slowly filling the space around them.

He held onto Niala.

Her frantic eyes locked onto him. She shouted to overcome the rushing air. “David! What do we do?!”

His eyes were wide. He didn't know what to say. A hundred ideas flashed through his head, every one useless or out of reach. A single possibility lodged itself into his mind. “Can you weave a bird?”

“I can't! I can't weave a lot of mana quickly! I need more time!” She shouted back.

He squinted. “Then, weave a little mana! We don't need a whole bird, just the wings!” He found himself able to smile, despite all. “You can do it. I'll help. Just like for Heartsong!”

“Heartsong!? But! I- “ His eyes were calm. Their link radiated a single, overpowering taste, smell and sight: trust.

She swallowed. “O-ok! I'll try!”

He offered her his hand. She laced her fingers through his. He pulled her in with his other arm, shielding her from the wind. She squeezed herself against his body and closed her eyes.

She willed her mana forward, pushing it out to meet David's. She thought back to the feeling she had when Heartsong was born. A deep calm, a certainty that things would be alright, as long as they were together.

The onrushing air faded out. Her senses folded inward, toward the point of contact between their pathways, where their mana mixed into something new.

She reached out with delicate fingers to this newborn, confused and afraid, trying to soothe it, to give it purpose.

Then she hit a viscous bubble, her senses dephased, and the ephemeral gestalt mana fled back to the aetheric realm.

Her eyelids snapped open, her face scrunched, and tears streaking up. “I can't! I'm sorry! The fel's- it's still in me!”

He didn't even bother looking down. He brought his mouth up to her ear, close enough that he didn't need to shout anymore. “I believe in you, Niala. I'll help.” He said, then closed his eyes.

She was about to reply when she felt the tug at the door of their link. Her eyes snapped to the approaching ground, then up at the Alchemical Star falling just behind them, ready to explode and vaporize everything within a few hundred metres.

It should have sent her into a spiral of panic.

But the emotion bleeding from their link blanketed everything. All she felt was... trust, and love.

She closed her eyes and reached for the door.

The transition was jarring. She opened her eyes to find David smiling at her within the threshold of their link. He took her into his arms, and she rushed forward into him.

Even if he believed that she could pull out a miracle, she wasn't so sure. This might be the last few moments she had with him...

He smiled. “I can feel that thought. It's not the end, Niala. Let's do this again, now that you can see more clearly.”

She pulled her head back and looked up into his smiling face. “Clearly? What?”

In lieu of an answer, he pointed back toward her inner library with his chin. She turned her head around and gasped.

There, like virulent pustules, sticking to the neat rows of bookshelves that made up her inner world, were bubbles of hazy pus.

She understood what he meant. When the door was opened, she somehow gained his ability to perfectly sense his mana. With this, if she concentrated, she could maybe, probably, manoeuvre around those impurities.

Turning her head back toward him, her mouth turned grim with resolve, she nodded. She held a hand up, fingers splayed, and he twinned his fingers with hers, offering his mana once more.

This time, as she pushed her own forward, she focused not only on the destination but also on the path toward it.

She traced a safe path through the maze that her library had become, avoiding the aisles where the infection had taken hold. Step by excruciating step, she worked her way forward.

And then her flow met with his, and a new wisp of their merged mana popped into existence.

Except here, in their inner world, it had a physical form.

It was indigo; the result of his bright blue and her amethyst, and the shape of a small humanoid with a child's proportions. It was smooth, had no facial features, and lacked details, except for its belly, which displayed a swirling galaxy. Peering into the luminous display sent Niala flashes of ideas and concepts. Things that could be, if only they had a fertile soil to plant themselves within and burgeon into reality.

She felt something shift behind her. She glanced back and realized with horror that the bubbles of corruption were moving, reaching for the as-yet unimpeded flow of mana.

She refocused on the mana construct. She had no time to be gentle. She laid firm hands on its shoulders, anchoring it in place. Instead of whispering her story to it, she impressed her will. She forced a vision; her and David's death. The only solution; the being's cooperation. She apologized, but demanded it make a choice.

The small mana humanoid tilted its head, and, after an instant which felt like a lifetime, sent back a grateful smile.

Of course, it would help its parents. It waited.

She sent along, drenched with gratitude, the idea of a pair of wings, great and powerful, to hold both she and David aloft. An instrument of freedom, to defy gravity and swim among the winds.

The wisp greeted the idea, swallowing it whole. It drifted down, down toward its belly, where it impacted with the galaxy of possibilities. With a catalyst of realization at its centre, the constellation collapsed on itself. The infinite potential contained within became a singularity.

The tiny humanoid, its belly pregnant with Niala's concept, fuelled by their mana, followed after the contracting galaxy and compacted into a ball, its light gaining in strength and radiance until they were both blinded and saw nothing but white. She closed her eyes.

She reopened them.

They were falling.

The ground was rushing up to meet them.

Panic gripped her senses for an instant.

A small bell rang, its crisp tone cutting through the din of approaching death.

A twang in her back, a pressure that sought release.

She flexed the phantom muscle, finding the right pull to uncoil it.

At the edge of her vision, unfurling from her back in great, wide spans of scintillating indigo light, a pair of ethereal wings.

She clamped her arms around David, as he did the same.

By newfound instincts that she never had, but had always been there, she flexed her wings, banking into a hard pull to flatten their dive.

The air caught in her feathers. Pain gripped her back, where her new limbs connected, but she ignored it.

She crossed over the threshold. The lift of her wings pulled her, and him, into an acute turn, going from vertical to horizontal within a second, a scant few metres above the treeline, going too fast to see anything but green blurs.

Behind them, the Alchemical Star finished its final voyage. The prow pierced into the blob, the rest of the ship disappearing within the undulating flesh.

Then a new sun was born.

For one terrible moment, it eclipsed the day's light.

A super-heated blast of air radiated outward. Combustibles flashed alight, only to be extinguished immediately as the trailing shock wave flattened everything.

The edge of the explosion swept up David and Niala, sending them tumbling forward and down into the forest.

David coiled himself around her, glowing a bright blue as he pushed his Iron Body to the maximum, even as he screamed the pain away from doing so.

Their tangled bodies impacted a tree, then the ground. They rolled along and smashed into something, turning their world off.

From up above, on the other airships, silent eyes were transfixed on the short-lived pillar of fire that had engulfed the blob.

The blaze burned itself out, and the smoke billowed out like a mushroom.

Of the blob and the ship, nothing remained but a burning crater. The fire licked up its side and spilled onto the ring of smashed and flattened trees surrounding the impact site. The expanding ring of fire, like a hellish halo, heralded the birth of a new, terrible weapon. The wind, disturbed and angry, howled a dirge as it rushed to fill the vacuum left behind.