I nodded, “You don’t have to tell me. These things crawl under your skin and play with your corpse like a puppet on strings. They’re bad news, and worse, they spread like wildfire. I’m here to see if we can get the Freedom Fighters to join me and the steel legion in fighting them.”

I gestured a hand at Tralis, “I’d prefer the fear kind of fighter though. You guys kick about a hundred times more ass than the freedom kind.”

Tralis grinned, “Bah, the legion knows nothing of real fighting. We stuck to our battling roots instead of being watered down to glorified merchants. Unlike them, we will only help for a price.”

I shrugged, “You can’t get off Earth, and these bugs ensure you won’t last long while your here. We have them quarantined in the city, but it’s only a matter of time before they break through. Combine that with the eldritch in Springfield evolving faster than normal and you have a recipe for disaster.”

I pointed at my title, “Here’s proof of the eldritch growing, if you needed any.”

Skill gained! Persuasion (lvl 1) – While others fight for favor, you gain it with words. +1% to charm and compulsion when trying to convince another party to change.

Suppressing a bout of joy at the skill, I kept calm as Arlo and Tralis stared at each other. They held it for a moment, like having one of those glances that tells a conversation. Arlo turned back to me,

“We would like to leave, but we have a bit of a conundrum on our hands. You see, there is a group of humans who are hunting this group. That’s why we found them so…dilapidated. These humans, the Freedom Fighters, are being bled to extinction by them. Why? We’ve yet to understand.”

Tralis’s eyes narrowed and his voice hardened, “They eat their own kind. They’re cannibals. They hunt these weaklings.”

I frowned, “Well fuck, sounds like they're already zombies.”

Arlo walked over towards the insects, grabbing one with a set of tweezers. I kept a close eye on the insect before he dipped into a beaker full of suspension fluid. Arlo tapped a sticker on the side of it, and the clear polymer slid onto the top of the beaker. He turned up to me,

“Not quite. From what we’ve discovered of them, they’re still human. They’ve simply lost their minds. If you can help us kill him, then we can migrate this group of people towards wherever it is you need to go. Until then, it’s risky to take the encampment away from shelter.”

I rolled my shoulders, “Sounds simple.”

Tralis nodded, “It would be, but their leader is strong. They call him Bloodbull. He outlevels even you, and we can’t beat him. The fact you got here without being attacked by him is a miracle. If you hadn’t have told us, we’d have thought he decimated our scouting party.”

I raised an eyebrow, “What level is he then?”

Tralis frowned, his mandibles shifting downward, “About 1000. If you help us, killing him shouldn’t be a problem.”

I cupped my chin, “I can act as the vanguard, your snipers will set up suppressive fire while I beat the shit out of him…” I glanced up, “Sounds pretty good to me.”

Tralis patted my shoulder, “It will be good to fight beside a warrior of your caliber. We won’t fail you.”

I shook his shoulder with a grin on my face, “Likewise. I look forward to it.”

Arlo stepped up, “I can set up voice relays on your system before you leave, if you have an obelisk that is. We can give you one if you don’t.”

Lifted my hand, and my obelisk lifted out of it. Arlo tilted his head, “I thought you haven’t left the Earth…”

I smiled, “Doesn’t mean I don’t know someone who has.”

He took the obelisk before fiddling with it for a few minutes. Tralis chattered away about past battles during the time. From what I gathered, most people took very few risks when fighting eldritch. They handled every situation with careful plans, even if they weren’t necessary. After hearing a bit about their builds, I saw why.

They were all glass cannon, and they didn’t even pretend like melee was an option. Guns and magic were prolific, so prolific that many melee styles of combat were forgotten. Only a few species had the tenacity for pulling off a physical build. remnants were the most infamous of those, along with the porytians like Yawm.

Humans were considered bulky and big by most species standards, and our metabolisms were slow. That was a surprisingly big thing. The smaller a species was, the faster it’s metabolism moved. This made the species live its life faster, and that in turn fed into an engine of progress. Instead of five or six thousand years for civilization to invent the internet, it took the Hellions only five or six hundred.

I ended up voicing my opinion against that viewpoint though. First off, it was an almost racist one. A species that doesn’t progress as quickly would also be less likely to inflict nuclear war for instance. You can’t say a whole race is inferior just because it was a larger size. Besides for that, it was outright wrong. I mean, if a member of a species dies quickly, then they can’t learn as much knowledge over the long term.

That results in shallower fields of knowledge, a fact I pointed out on multiple occasions. The biggest example came with how far ahead theoretical physics was of most technological fields. We formulated many of the principles Schema and the eldritch imply, like multi-verse theory.

Tralis and I never got too heated though. We kept things civil. I ended up learning the debate skill during the process though. Now I just needed the unique skill. In Torix’s own words, it would likely take a fancy speech or something like that. In my dictionary, that meant a lot of internal cringing and pain. I would much rather face life or death than a large crowd.

I could tell people to fuck off, but inspire them? I didn’t have much faith in myself for that specific task. Still, I’d bite the bullet and do it. As a wise philosopher once said, failure is the first step to success, and I was ready to fail hard.

But not at killing this Bloodbull guy. From what I heard, he sounds a bit weaker than one of Torix’s guards. Even without the backup from the FearFighters, I’d be fine, in my mind at least. It could be a tough fight, but that was my specialty.

With that in mind, Arlo and Tralis prepared a group of FearFighters as my backup. They were mainly snipers, the ones posted to guard the town. During the operation, the town would be vulnerable, but it was a calculated risk according to Arlo. With me in the vanguard position was the invisible girl I caught, Francis.

Once we readied up, she and I took the front of the formation while heading out towards Bloodbulls current camp. A few feet into the forest, and I could feel the grimace on Francis’ face through her mask. Before the tension became a problem, I said,

“Hey, no hard feelings about earlier, right? You were just doing your mission and I was defending myself, so no need to be antsy.”

She didn’t reply, staying silent. A moment later, she replied with her voice strained,

“I get it. We should have talked things out.”

Something was off about her voice. Like something was eating at her. I kept quiet about it though. There was plenty of horrors lurking out there that could leave you scarred, mentally and physically. I wasn’t about to blame her for something like that. At the same time, I kept my guard up and high. I didn’t want to be caught relying on someone so unstable.

We passed through the forest, every crackling leaf sounding like an enemy behind a bush. The sun leaked through the tree leaves, dousing a bit of light on the forest floor. The wind was cool, a bit of chill biting in it. The ground dried a while back, so it crunched underfoot. The smell of pine, wood and earth floated around us. It was a beautiful day.

Once we passed around the corner, I glanced behind me. Francis was nowhere to be seen. She activated her camouflage without telling me. It was a good thing in my mind. I now knew I couldn’t trust her, even in the slightest. Glancing behind me, the other guards were missing as well. I was alone in the forest.

A leaf crinkled around me. I turned my head, but nothing was there but a wobbling leaf. All around me, the sounds of shifting branches and crinkling pine straw echoed through the forest. The sounds came closer, like a pack of wolfs cornering a sheep.

I grinned. My armor shifted into jagged teeth. My ascendant mana flowed like magma in my veins and through my runes. I focused them, honing them to a deadly efficiency, letting not one drop of mana escape. The air shivered around me, almost excited. I clasped my fists, turning them to blocks of iron. The telekinetic pads condensed, turning my hands into rivets. Oppression reached outward. I was more than ready.

What these wolfs didn’t realize was that they hadn’t cornered a helpless sheep.

They cornered a ravenous monster.
