At Rain’s challenge, the other three protectors gathered around the Leader, ready for Rain’s attack, but it never came. Instead, every Sentinel within hearing range hefted their bows and drew their arrows, targeting the Leader and her companions. Master and Lin pleaded with Rain to stand down, their words the only sounds audible in the stifling silence as he locked gazes with the Leader.

Tilting her head in unconcerned curiosity, the Leader studied Rain carefully, the seconds ticking by ever so slowly. After a heart-stopping pause, she finally spoke. “Hmm... your Aura is neither overbearing nor sturdy, yet instead of breaking, it bends beneath my pressure. It’s a little like pushing mud, it gives way, yet retains its shape. How intriguing.” After another pause, she gestured at the surrounding Sentinels and asked, “So what message is this little tantrum meant to convey?”

“That being polite costs nothing in comparison.” Rain’s voice hardened as he moved Master and Lady Mei Lin aside, daring the Leader to act. Hands at his side, shield on his back, sword in belt, Rain stood unarmed, yet gave off the impression of a tiger ready to pounce, a naked blade drawn from its sheath. He was insane, by now he must realize the Leader alone could deal with his entire retinue.

Sighing loudly, the Leader shrugged and dispersed her Aura while the other protectors lowered their weapons. “Fair enough. Slaughtering everyone here is hardly worth the effort. Very well, I’ll not speak too sharply to the girl, but I don’t see why it matters so much. It’s not as though she’ll shatter at a harsh word. We won’t be leaving though, she wishes to stay, so we stay. You need only worry for your own skin foundling, she’ll not come to harm.”

“...Fine.” At Rain’s command, the Sentinels lowered their bows and followed him away. Quivering as the tension drained from her body, Song leaned against the wagon for support, watching the animals within. Unaffected by the minor clash, Sarankho cuddling with Auric while Jimu patiently suffered the attentions of the cubs, all of them oblivious of their close brush with death. How fortunate the Leader stepped back, sparing Rain and everyone present. Lifting a cub into her arms, Song mounted Erdene and cuddled with the small bear, steadying herself while lamenting the end of her carefree days

Then again, her days as a slave seemed numbered now that she followed a madman into battle. Perhaps her dream of becoming one of the Bekhai was closer than she’d thought.

Chapter Meme
