She stumbled left, as the Bone Golem raised another fist. A colorful man leapt past her.
“It’s gone rogue! Where are the lights?”
Tom the [Clown] looked around. Cirille ran forwards, towards the voice. It became louder. Not thirty paces ahead, a [Soldier] was shouting. Suddenly, his voice was a roar.
“Something just swept the [Sergeant] off the walls! What was it?”
A full-bellow. Cirille saw him whirl, bringing his sword up. She blinked at him.
“Bone Behemoth.”
“What?”
The [Soldier] stared at her. Cirille pointed.
“It’s attacking everything in sight! It’s right—”
She turned. And the giant undead was gone. Swallowed by the blackness. Yet—it was there.
Why was it so dark? Tom stared about. He giggled, high-pitched, uncertain. Staring at Cirille.
“Are you serious? You’re asking what’s happening? You two?”
The [Soldier] had a deep frown on his face.
“I think…I think we need to report this to Bastion-General…”
“The [Necromancers]. Hetarria needs support—”
Cirille was nodding. She turned, and Tom kicked her in the stomach. She had armor on, but Cirille still doubled over.
“Sir Tom! What was—”
“We are under attack, you idiots!”
The [Clown] howled into their faces. The [Soldier] and Drake looked at him. Tom spun, a desperate look in his eyes.
“Rogue undead? Darkness? Am I the only sane insane person here?”
Under…attack? Something in Cirille’s brain went click. She shook her head. And then clutched at it. Why hadn’t she picked up on all of this before?
“—wrong. What’s—my potion.”
She fumbled for something at her belt. Tom whirled back and saw the Drake take a gulp of a single potion. Her eyes cleared. She took one breath and screamed.
“Ancestors!”
Pain! The Clear-Mind Tonic was like snorting salt water while plunging your face into a freezing bath condensed into a single moment. Her nostrils ran and her eyes did the same. But it worked. Suddenly, the obvious revealed itself.
No torch-lights. Unnatural darkness. Rogue undead?
“We are under attack! There’s a mind-fog spell in the air. Sound the alarm!”
The Drake whirled. The [Soldier] blinked at her, stupidly. Then he grabbed for his horn at the same time she did. They both blew a shrill blast of sound into the air.
No one answered them. Cirille took a breath and blew again. By rights, she should have set everyone within miles to high-alert and they should have instantly taken up the call. But her war horn provided virtually no response. The Drake, panting, lowered the horn and heard something.
“…hear that? It sounded like an alarm.”
“…you sure? It’s too faint to…”
“Silence spells. Vision spells. And something’s numbing our minds. This—how far does this spell reach?”
The Drake stared about wildly. Tom was shouting down over the walls.
“You idiots! Get up here! It’s a raid! It’s—”
“Cirille! The Bone Behemoth is rampant!”
Hetarria was still fighting with her creation. It was assailing the wall, smashing its hand as she ran away from it, like some ludicrous game of cat-and-mouse. Cirille bellowed as she ran.
“Sound the alarm! Send a [Message] spell to 4th Wall! We’re under attack!”
The [Necromancer]’s eyes widened. Cirille saw her put a claw to her temple. Fighting the confusion spell.
Confusion spells? Area-wide? That was a Tier 5 spell. At least! Cirille kept running. The Demons were making a large-scale assault, or a raid! She had to raise the alarm! She had to—
“Tom, with me!”
The [Clown] appeared out of the darkness. A gaggle of the Gloomless Troupe followed. They looked more serious than any of the other startled [Soldiers] on the wall.
“Sound the alarm, you idiots!”
One of the [Jesters] shrieked as she brandished a blade. Another ran to an alarm-gong and began hitting it. The [Soldiers], bewildered, stared at them.
“What—”
“We’re under attack!”
Tom drew his knife and stabbed a [Soldier]. The man cried out and grabbed at his leg. But it worked. The pain and his training made him straighten. The [Soldier] looked around, and then shook his friend.
“Dead gods! It’s a spell! Sound the alarm! Sound—”
Why were the [Clowns] not affected? Madness. Tom laughed, his voice mixed with fear as well as…giddiness? And his troupe laughed as well.
“This way! Central command is below. Move aside! Move—”
Cirille shoved figures aside as she came to a walkway. She came upon a clump of bodies, tried to push at them.
“Move aside! That is an order—”
She saw the figure stumble backwards. Enraged, Cirille grabbed him. She saw a [Soldier] in dark armor, staring up at her. He was clutching at his chest. She looked down and saw blood.
Torn metal. The [Soldier] had been sliced deep. He looked up at her. Cirille tried to catch him as he fell.
She looked up. The clump of figures resolved itself in the darkness. Struggling [Soldiers] from Rhir. Fighting, dying, as other shapes in armor assailed them, hacking at them.
Demons. They turned, identical, horned figures with two-handed swords. They advanced without a word.
They were on the walls. Cirille counted eight. Half were wounded. They made no sound as they advanced. No one had heard them climbing. Or noticed, befuddled as they were.
“Demon attack—”
The Drake deflected the first two-handed cut. The Demons spread out, trying to flank her. She backed up. Feinted left. One raised his sword—
A dagger sprouted from one eye. The [Jester] lowered her hand and threw another.
Laughter. A [Clown] barreled into the second Demon. He grabbed at the air and the sword vanished from the Demon’s hands. Tom ran the enemy soldier through with it and ran past the Demon to stab another Demon.
“Sound the alarm!”
He screamed at her. Cirille saw the Gloomless Troupe flooding past her, teeth bared, screaming and laughing as more figures appeared out of the darkness. The Drake hesitated. She looked around, and then ran for the stairs.
 
—-
 
Alarm. 5th Wall heard it slowly. Too slow. The unnatural darkness, the sudden absence of light provoked little attention in the lower-level [Soldiers]. Something befuddled the senses.
Some of the officers noticed. Before Cirille had even encountered the rogue undead, some safeguards functioned.
Bastion-General Zavarial’s amulet emitted a shrill scream of sound and he shot out of his bed.
“Enemy hex! Sound an alarm!”
He bellowed; the half-Elf ran out of his quarters. He saw his subordinates staring dumbly at him. Two were shaking their heads, understanding something was wrong. Bastion-General Zavarial swore.
“By my authority as Bastion-General, sound a full-wall alarm! Everyone to the walls! Move!”
His command woke his subordinates from their stupor. They reached for cleansing potions, amulets; a [Secretary] grimly stabbed himself through the hand with a quill and woke up.
“[Message] spells to 4th Wall: ‘We are under a wide-scale spell, at least Tier 5—unknown location, unknown scale!’”
“Bastion-General, speaking stone!”
Someone blew a horn as Zavarial caught the stone keyed to Quiteil’s command. He waited for the other horns to pick up the alarm as his two subordinates produced magical keys to trigger 5th Wall’s alarm system. Even if the horns didn’t work, the spell built into the wall would—
“Triggering alarm and anti-shroud spells, Bastion-General—now!”
A [Defensive Commander] shouted. He unfurled the scroll-key.
Nothing happened. The scroll was dead. Bastion-General Zavarial saw it as he shouted into the speaking stone.
“Quiteil! We are under magical attack on 5th Wall! Mind-shroud spell! We are trying to raise the alarm, but—Quiteil?”
The speaking stone glowed. But nothing happened. The half-Elf paused. He looked around.
“What is happening? Commander, the alarm!”
“We’re trying, Bastion-General! 5th Wall should have anti-shroud spells already, but nothing’s working!”
The [Commander] checked the scroll. The command room was dark. Zavarial realized—many of the magical illuminations that should have been active, everything from Tier 0 [Light] spells to the glow of the enchanted war-table—were all dark.
The magic was dead. Or…suppressed. Zavarial’s hair stood up and he felt a lurch in his stomach.
“I don’t hear any other horns.”
“[Mass Silence] spell. Everyone in this room—get out there and sound the alarm. I don’t care if you have to run across all of 5th Wall. Go. Find every [Commander] and get their forces on the wall. Bastion-General Quiteil, respond!”
The speaking stone was directly keyed to Quiteil’s stone. A Tier 5 [Speech] spell. It shouldn’t be so easily knocked out. The stone was still glowing. Zavarial stared at it. But he heard nothing. He waited a second longer, and then dropped the stone and ran. They had to sound the alarm.
If he had stayed a moment longer, he would have heard a voice laughing at him.
 
—-
 
“Try it again.”
The commander’s mess wasn’t that full this late at night. But there were always those willing to stay up and socialize.
Commander Uxel sat at the table, clearly annoyed, as he sat with Merish, Paxhal, and Viri. The little Lizardman wasn’t really an officer, but he’d talked his way into being allowed into the nightly games with that ingratiating way he had.
Now, the Lizardman was testing his commander’s patience. But it wasn’t his fault! This time.
“Del.”
Viri slapped the card down. But the black fog failed to appear. Uxel cursed.
“What’s wrong with it? Is the enchantment broken? Viri, I swear, if you have broken the cards or this is a trick—”
“I didn’t, Commander! I promise! It worked last round!”
The [Longstick Jumper] hunched his shoulders. Paxhal tried another card. But the magic wasn’t working.
“Maybe it’s a sign we’re up too late? We can find out what the matter is tomorrow, Uxel. Lay off Viri.”
The Garuda yawned. He had flight duty tomorrow. He stood up. Merish perplexedly looked around.
“It’s not just the cards. The lights went out four minutes ago. Did no one else…notice?”
The [Shamanic Warrior] got nothing but blank looks. Uxel was still frowning. Merish stood up. He sniffed the air.
“…And I don’t smell anything.”
“So? We’re not filthy Humans. We bathe.”
The Gnoll Chief Warrior looked at the Gorgon.
“Uxel, I smell everything. Something is off. Don’t you feel it?”
The Gorgon blinked slowly. Which was also odd. Uxel was quick.
“I don’t know what you mean, Merish. Everything seems fine. Except for the cards. Maybe—”
“Alarm. Sound the alarm!”
A voice. The commanders turned. Cirille skidded into the room.
“Merish! Uxel! Paxhal! Get to your soldiers! We are under attack!”
The Garuda and two Lizardfolk blinked, confused. Merish’s eyes went round. He reacted with an oath, leaping up and knocking the table over.
“What? Are you certain? I didn’t hear anyth—”
Cirille took a page from Tom’s book. She shoulder-charged forwards and punched the Gorgon in the face.
“Ow. What was that f—”
Uxel recoiled, blinking stupidly. Then his eyes went sharp. He hissed as he drew himself up.
“Mind-spell!”
“What mind-spell? I don’t—”
Viri and Paxhal went flying as the Gorgon twisted and his tail slapped then off their feet. They got up cursing, and then looked around.
“But I didn’t even feel it!”
The Lizardman looked around wildly, slapping his cheeks. Cirille didn’t have time to waste.
“Everyone’s been hit. There’s no visibility, hearing—”
“Or smell. How far is the spell?”
“I’ve run at least four hundred feet and it’s still going! Everyone’s affected, on the battlements and not! Get your commands moving. Hit them if you have to—Demons are on the wall!”
The [Commanders] whirled. No time for questions. Cirille ran on. But though she’d done this with sixteen other officers so far, she was desperate. Most of the wall was asleep while the Demons were overrunning them! There had to be a faster way! There had to be!
 
—-
 
And there was. Bastion-General Zavarial could not see far into the darkness. But he saw further than most. He had been a lowly [Archer]. Then [Ranger]. [Veteran Ranger]. [Blightwarden]. And at the same time, he’d risen through the ranks of [Soldier], [Sergeant], [Captain]—he’d skipped [Lieutenant]—
In time he had become a [Blightranger General], an expert at fighting in the Demon’s territory in hit-and-away missions. He had made Bastion-General.
But he was no Quiteil, or another [General] class. His wide-reaching powers came from 5th Wall’s enchantments.
And every single one of them was dead. Zavarial’s abilities now were limited to the bow and sword he carried. He stood on the walls.
“World’s end. They’re everywhere.”
“Bastion-General? What do we do?”
One of his officers looked around, trying to see. But without Skills, his sight only went twenty paces. Zavarial looked around. Then he raised his bow.
“Commander. You will rally the wall. Hold the line and alert 4th Wall. By horse if you must! The spell might extend across all of 5th Wall. Break past it.”
The Dullahan, born on Rhir, saluted.
“Yes, Bastion-General! But the alarm—”
“Keep spreading it. I will punch a hole. Get below. Now.”
The officer ran. Not understanding. Bastion-General Zavarial checked his rings. He had been given six by the Blighted Kingdom, from the treasury. His bow was made from the bones of a long-dead animal, and his arrows were enchanted. He had fired one into the sky and never seen the detonation, although he had known it had gone off.
“Clever. But not enough. I am Bastion-General Zavarial of 5th Wall. I will not see this wall fall without a fight.”
The half-Elf swore into the darkness. He looked around and braced himself. He drew a single arrow to his bow and aimed straight up. He was not the most powerful [General] to counter this. But he was not helpless. The half-Elf drew back as far as he could and shouted.
“[Arrow of Greater Dispel]!”
He loosed. The arrow sped upwards, into the darkness. It detonated in the sky. Bastion-General Zavarial turned and—
 
—-
 
“What attack, Commander? I didn’t hear—”
Captain Shellc’s blank look vanished. Cirille punched him anyways. She saw him hit the ground and spring up, swearing. But suddenly—the barracks was full of shouting. Gnolls and Drakes looked up, shaking their heads.
It was suddenly brighter. The magic was still dead, but torches provided more illumination. Cirille could hear and think. The fog of wool that had been stuffed in her head despite the potion faded. She heard someone—several someones—desperately blowing horns, ringing gongs. She heard shouts, cries—
And then, the blessed sound of the wailing horn. A screaming wail from a hundred different places, so loud it woke everyone. Merish looked up.
“I smell blood.”
Cirille turned. Her division looked to her. The Drake bellowed.
