The central spear-wall was filled with Oldblood [Lineholders]. They advanced a step ahead of the others. And the Drakes and Gnolls sped up. They marched like thunder, in formation, in step. Faster. Cirille felt her heart pumping.
She saw a Drake go down, crying out as an arrow caught him between a gap in his shield and armor. The other Drakes pushed forward as someone dragged him back, fumbling for a potion. The formation didn’t slow.
Not yet. Not yet—Cirille saw the Demons closing, a wall of them now. Two hundred paces, one hundred—the first stragglers were already running. Now.
“Spearwall—charge!”
At last. The [Soldiers] roared and all the fury and fear they had felt up till this moment, the helplessness of the magic—turned into movement. They charged, and the Demons advanced.
The first wave hit the spears. Demons ran onto the metal. Cirille shouted.
“Oldbloods—breathe!”
Magic fire and lightning and acid—a dozen different effects struck the first rank of Demons. They jerked, burning, freezing—and Captain Shellc roared.
“Swords, forwards!”
They advanced amid the thrusting spear-tips. Gnolls and Drakes hacking at the Demons and parrying blows. Both sides hit each other with a clash of metal. Cirille saw the lines form as the Demons advanced forward, heedless of the casualties. She gritted her teeth.
“Advance. Advance!”
They couldn’t hold this place forever. They had to—
“[Company: Armorbane Weapons]! The spearwall will advance five steps!”
The Izrilian army stepped forwards. The Demons ran onto their blades as their armor suddenly became as tough as paper.
“1st Swords, fall back! 2nd Swords, forwards!”
“[Archers]—loose!”
Light. Ossky blinded the Demons as she flew up for a second. The thud of arrows hitting flesh and piercing armor was one sound. Cirille bellowed.
“The spearwall will advance five steps! Forwards! 1st Spears—fall back! 2nd Spears—forwards! Forwards, damn you!”
Forwards. The Drakes screamed and Gnolls snarled. A Demon cut through their ranks, breaking through one section. Others followed.
“5th Squad—fall back! Decles Tribe—forwards!”
Gnolls advanced on the gap. They swung huge clubs, overpowering the Demon’s shields and weapons, battering them down. The [Barbarians] howled, fighting—
“Decles Tribe—fall back! 8th Spears, forward! Ossky—covering flash!”
Light. The Gnolls, their fury spent for a moment, fell back, drinking stamina potions. Ossky opened her mouth and the Demons were blinded.
“Advance the spear wall!”
Formation. Thousands of hours of drilling, all for this. The front lines moved forwards as individual squads fell back, never giving the enemy an opening.
“They’re going down like flies, Commander!”
Shellc retreated, panting, a cut on his arm. He took a single gulp of potion and it closed. Cirille looked around. It was true; the Demons were falling back. They’d covered nearly two hundred paces on the wall. It felt like a second had gone by.
“Keep advancing! The Demons have the gates!”
It was true. The Demons had taken two gates and were pouring in from there. However, 5th Wall had been built to allow defenders to rally. Checkpoints held the Demons back from flooding up from behind. And as Cirille hit a wider section of the curtain wall she heard—
“Hold! Hold, damn you! Is everyone dead?”
Uxel was holding a section with only his Lizardfolk and a handful of her Drakes and Merish’ Gnolls. The Lizardfolk were fighting hard, but they had lighter, shorter spears, and their slings were doing even less damage. The Gorgons and Nagas were covering one section by themselves; the ground was covered in Demon bodies.
“Commander Uxel!”
Cirille bellowed. The Gorgon whirled. He grinned; his scimitars were covered in blood.
“Cirille! Guard yourselves!”
“Shields up! Gorgon stare incoming!”
The [Soldiers] hid behind their tall shields. Cirille saw Uxel’s eyes flash. She was a bit too slow and felt the paralysis of her limbs. For a second.
“Charge!”
The Demons had been stunned. Now, Cirille’s forces moved in, hacking them down before they could regroup. Uxel’s forces linked with hers.
“Where’s Merish?”
“I don’t know! Somewhere below—they’re trying to close the gates!”
“We have this wall—company with me! Uxel, can your forces fight?”
He bared his teeth, his scales gleaming.
“We’re fresh! But my Lamias are useless! Two of them managed Tier 4 spells, but they don’t have the mana to keep fighting!”
“Our [Mages] too. Wait—Tier 4?”
Cirille put that out of her mind for a second. She pointed.
“Serpent-crusher formation!”
“Nagas and Gorgons forwards! We’re taking the stairs!”
The Drakes and Gnolls made room for the two Lizardfolk species to take the vanguard. Cirille chanced a glance over her shoulder. She saw no more Demons—yet. Rhir’s [Archers] were on the walls with the infantry, knocking down more ladders.
“We’re good! Move down the stairs! Ossky—take eight squads and the [Archers] and hold this breach!”
The Oldblood Drake broke off and held the area above the gates. The rest descended.
 
—-
 
Below, the fighting was even fiercer. Without the narrow wall, the Demons were trying to push in until they could encircle the defenders from behind. The only thing stopping them were the three races who had rushed to this gate to hold them back.
Minotaurs, Gnolls, and Humans. The Minotaurian line of axes held. Three hundred Minotaurs formed a line, pushing the Demons back. Fighting on their flanks were the Gnoll tribes, led by Merish.
“Breathe and fall back!”
Chief Warrior Merish roared. He spat frost and lifted a glowing axe. Magic? The Gnoll brought it down and turned a Demon’s face into paste. He howled and the [Shamanic Warriors] fell back.
“Merish! The [Knights] are charging!”
A Gnoll howled. Merish turned. He saw three dozen [Knights] riding into the Demons from the side. Ser Vorn, the Order of the Thirsting Veil and four other [Knight] Orders charged.
The Demons fell back as the Humans charged in. One second—five—their lances stabbed, and they cut with swords, thrust spears home. Then they turned.
“Disengage!”
Ser Vorn’s voice was ragged. They’d charged nearly two dozen times already; a fifth of their number had fallen.
“We cannot hold this ground!”
Merish howled at the [Axe Captain], Kerten. The Minotaur raised his axe. He clutched at his side; someone had torn out half his guts. Merish slowed.
“If we fall back, the walls are lost. For the House of Minos!”
The [Axe Captain] bellowed. The Minotaurs answered him in a roar. Their axes fell like thunder. Merish nodded to Kerten. The Minotaur saluted him.
“Hold this ground, Merish. [Honor Guard], with me! We will close those gates.”
The Minotaur raised his axe. A dozen Minotaurs moved forwards. They began cutting into the Demons.
“Kerten!”
Merish bellowed. The [Captain] advanced. Merish saw one body fall. Then two more. The Demons pressed around them. Merish fought forwards with the Gnolls. Then he heard a welcome sound.
“Chief Warrior, fall back! Join the ranks!”
Cirille. The Gnoll whirled. He saw Drakes charging forwards. The Minotaurs moved back, as Drakes and Lizardfolk suddenly reinforced their lines. They began to push.
“Plain’s Eye Tribe, to me. After Kerten! Cut them apart!”
“Gorgons—with the Gnolls!”
Uxel screamed. Gorgons and the magical warriors followed the Minotaurs into the breach. Merish bared his teeth.
“[Enchantment: Flashfire].”
He swung one axe. The explosion blew a Demon’s face off. The Gnoll lifted his other axe.
“[Enchantment: Leaden Weight]!”
The second blow caved in a metal shield. The Gnoll roared. He saw a Gorgon leap; Uxel landed and his scimitars whirled, cutting the soldiers around him to bits.
“Close those damned gates!”
The [Soldiers] fought for the locking mechanism. Slowly—slowly—the gates began to close. Cirille took one group of archers left, aiming for a clear spot.
“Loose! [Instantaneous Reload]! Loose!”
Two ranks of Demons fell, armor bristling with arrows. Merish heard shouts of triumph. He howled. The gates slammed shut. The soldiers cheered. Merish wiped at the blood and sweat running down his fur.
“Kerten?”
The [Axe Captain] was dead. He had fallen at the gates as they closed. Two of the [Honor Guard] remained. Merish crouched next to his body.
“Chief Warrior.”
Cirille approached, panting. Her blade was wet. Merish’s head rose. Ser Vorn rode forwards. Uxel. Four [Commanders].
“Kerten is dead.”
“Damn.”
That was all she said. It was inadequate. But they had no time and Merish knew it. The [Commander] pointed at the walls.
“We’ve taken back one gate. Shel’s Cleansenborne just shut the other. We have to secure those walls! Merish—how are your warriors using magic?”
“What do you mean?”
The Gnoll was confused. He’d seen the other Drakes using their breath abilities. But then he realized; the Lizardfolk and Drakes hadn’t been using their spells.
“Nothing under a Tier 4 spell works! Our [Mages] are having to link to punch through whatever’s covering us!”
“At least there’s no elites. The Demons are sending low-level infantry at us in waves. There are thousands of them, but we’re holding. Back up to the walls—Ser Vorn. How are your [Knights]?”
“We have lost seven of our number. But we can still fight.”
“In that case—hold the ground in case they breach the gates! I’ll post Shellc and half of Uxel’s forces here. The rest of you, with me!”
Cirille raised her sword. And this time—Gnolls, Lizardfolk, Drakes, and Minotaurs moved as one. They took to the walls. Merish panted.
“I don’t understand. Our magic works just fine. But we are [Shamanic Warriors] and [Shamans]. Perhaps because it comes from our tribes—”
“There’s some kind of enemy enchantment. Yeah. Look—we’ve taken back parts of the wall!”
Cheering. Merish saw the walls were still struggling, but the Demons had been pushed back to distinct fighting zones.
“Commander! Acting-General Telvir wants your forces to hold your position!”
A messenger landed next to the officers. Viri. He ran towards Cirille, his little stick carrying him across the wall in another hop. The Drake turned to him.
“Viri! We can still fight—”
“Hold! The Demons are trying to overrun the gates! Keep them closed! That’s orders!”
The Lizardman panted as he pointed at the commanding officer, who had set up a command station further along the walls. Cirille bristled, but nodded tightly. It made sense. Merish saw the Demon numbers were crowding around the gates and ladders they still held. They still outnumbered 5th Wall’s defenders, but only just.
“We need to get word to 4th Wall. If they haven’t seen the darkness already.”
Uxel was panting. The Gorgon was a fierce fighter, but suffered from the frailties of serpents as opposed to mammals; he couldn’t fight as long and overheated in battle. Merish nodded, and then he spotted something.
“Look. Over there!”
Two groups were moving. The Harpies in the air dove after a group of nearly a hundred [Riders], making for 4th Wall down one of the main roads. The [Messengers] were moving in force. They were loosing arrows and the defenders on the wall were harrying the Harpies.
A second group took wing as the Harpies were distracted. Garuda. They flew, more agile and faster in the air than Oldblood Drakes, speeding past the distracted Harpies, higher and higher into the air.
“Paxhal’s wing. Lucky bastard gets to run for cover.”
Uxel grinned. He didn’t mean it. Merish’s heart lifted. He turned back to the [Riders]. They were fighting clear as well; the Harpies were under attack from all sides. They just needed to get past the shadow-barrier. 5th Wall could hold. It had to. Merish turned back to the fighting as Cirille pointed.
“Get your Gnoll [Hunters] on the wall, Merish. I want arrows raining down on the Demons. And your [Shamans]! Viri—tell General Telvir that we have some spellcasters in action!”
Merish turned and howled a command. The little Lizardman leapt off to deliver the news.
Gnolls streamed up the walls. He stared grimly into the milling, faceless Demons below. Fodder. But they had killed Kerten. His eyes narrowed as he stared past them.
There. On the far side of the magical barrier. Was that…a Demon? He stood alone. No—no, wait…there were two of them. One wasn’t in armor. Merish turned to the [Far Hunter] on the walls.
“Can you hit that target? Looks like an officer.”
“I can.”
The Gnoll drew his longbow, anchoring himself. He sighted—loosed.
 
—-
 
Flora stared at the carnage. Demons were dying. Falling off the walls, assailed from arrows and cut down.
“We’re losing?”
She couldn’t understand. What was Silvenia doing? Bazeth stood right next to the strange barrier that blocked sight and sound, glaive in hand. He glanced at her.
“No, Flora of Humanity. We are n—”
His weapon blurred. He knocked something out of the air and Flora jumped. An arrow hit the ground.
“It’s not safe here. Stay behind me.”
The Demon [Champion] cautioned her. Flora stepped back. This wasn’t war as she knew it. And despite his words—so many Demons were dying.
“Had Silvenia ordered this? Why?”
“We do not question her.”
Bazeth looked uncomfortable. He had been a senior commander until her…return. He stared at the distant bodies falling as they tried to reclaim the walls. Flora felt her gun in hand, sweat beading in her palm. She saw the flight of Garudas taking to the sky.
“They’re going to warn the others!”
She pointed. They were out of range, even with a Skill. Bazeth stirred. He spoke crisply into something.
An amulet. Not like a speaking stone. Primitive magic, Silvenia called it. This one reflected something. A laughing face. Well—
“Silvenia. The Blighted Kingdom is about to warn 4th Wall. What are your orders?”
The half-Elf smiled.
“Wait, Bazeth. Do you see, F-Flora?”
“No, Silvenia. This is a slaughter.”
“I know. W-wait. I h-have been waiting.”
“For what? Why?”
In the image, the half-Elf pointed. She smiled—her lips trying to move around their injuries. And suddenly—her eyes lit up.
“Because. It makes it funnier. Watch.”
She pointed d—
 
—-
 
Merish didn’t see the flash. His head was turned to the Demon officer. He heard the thunder, felt the world shake. He stumbled—turned.
The [Messengers] were gone. The Harpies flew away from the crater. Paxhal’s wing jerked in midair.
“Mage spell! Some kind of siege bombardment! Take cover! T—”
Cirille’s words were cut off by another sound. More thunder. Merish saw a spider web reach down out of the clouds. But it wasn’t silk.
