“A word of wisdom, Silvenia. Do not trust everything in books.”
She whirled.
“Bazeth, fall back!”
“Open portals! Slow her retreat! Activate Tier 7 scrolls now!”
4th Wall lit up.
 
—-
 
The Demons were on the walls, trying to finish the survivors. The Demon Giants were sowing the deadly seeds of infestation. Bazeth lowered the amulet as Silvenia’s panicked voice broke in.
“Lord Hayvon? Retreat at once!”
He knew the [Lord]. Silvenia had not. She had read a book.
How books lied.
The rain began to fall. The clouds were dark. The soldiers of 5th Wall fought, falling back into the corridors.
The first lightning bolts crackled down from the clouds. Distant, at first. The Demons glanced up as the weather swept over them. The soldiers, worn and exhausted, looked up as the skies brightened.
A bolt of lightning struck a Demon Giant in the chest. The huge figure stumbled. Armor torn. It fell, a gaping hole in its chest.
Bazeth whirled. The Demons were flooding back—a [Mage] raised her staff and vanished.
Another bolt landed, sending Demons flying. A woman rode out of the smoke, slashing into the bewildered Demons. And another bolt struck the Demon Giant.
“No.”
The [Champion] saw a figure emerge as the Giant fell. A lance was planted in its chest. Lord Hayvon looked around.
“Forwards!”
Bolts of living lightning, striking down across the walls. Moving, arcing—turning into men and women on horseback. Where they landed, the electricity turned into people.
“[Riders on the Storm]. Sweep left and right! Clear the walls!”
The [Lord] of Rhir roared. He had crossed the distance from his estates in a flash. His riders swept forwards as the Demons began to flee.
“Silvenia!”
The half-Elf was flying through the air, tearing a vortex behind her with her haste. Lightning twisted in the air, striking at her. She narrowed her eyes.
“Begone.”
She tore the lightning to shreds as Lord Hayvon wheeled his mount. Figures reappeared, falling from the skies. The [Lord] heard a voice from the speaking stone.
“I was unable to slow her, Lord Hayvon. The rest is up to you.”
“Rally to me!”
Lord Hayvon rode after another fleeing Demon Giant. He cast a spear and it struck the giant figure. It screamed as the flesh began to bubble and melt—
“E-enough!”
Silvenia pointed and the artifact went dead. Lord Hayvon felt half of his rings and armor flash—he rode out of the pillar of flames as the half-Elf swooped over the walls.
“[Mass Teleportation]!”
Demons flickered away from the riders running them down. The half-Elf hung in the air. Looking down at the [Lord].
“Your Majesty. I have confronted the enemy. Please confirm.”
Lord Hayvon spoke into the stone. He saw people fleeing the walls at last. The irregulars. And—Richard stopped as he saw Lord Hayvon’s elites.
The [Lord] had taken as large a force as he could for his Skill. Three thousand enchanted [Knights], armed with Rhir’s finest weaponry. They faced the half-Elf in the air.
“That is Silvenia the Traitor.”
Othius’ voice was old. Tired. In his war room, the [King] stared blankly ahead. He looked as though he were dying. He whispered.
“One of the Deathless. We thought they would be recovering another century. How did she heal from the wounds we gave her so quickly?”
“She is not healed, your Majesty.”
Lord Hayvon looked up. Silvenia’s face was a mask of rage as she counted the dead Demons. The lost Demon Giants—six of them. Her expression was twisted with rage.
Half of it. A…portion of her face was gone. Her very head had been torn open by something. Gone. But a magical simulacra filled the gap where flesh and blood and bone should have been. It flickered, and she froze at random.
“Deathless.”
The [Lord] said the word. And his warriors shuddered. The last, greatest weapons of the Demon King. Lord Hayvon spun. He rode down the lines of his warriors, reshaping themselves. Silvenia was ordering her forces back, ignoring the protests of her commanders. She waited alone.
“Soldiers of Rhir. Before you lies one of the Deathless. Silvenia the Traitor! The Traitor of Terandria! Islandbreaker! The Curse of Elves! She has laid waste to 5th Wall. But she will not haunt Rhir any further.”
The [Lord] rode down the ranks, his eyes on the half-Elf. Her smile was murderous.
“Lord Hayvon, fall back. Take the survivors to 4th Wall!”
Quiteil’s voice was an order. Hayvon ignored it. He spoke, his hand tight on his sword.
“Give the order, your Majesty! If I slay her, my death and everyone on the wall is repaid a thousand times! She is wounded from Bastion-General Quiteil and she still bears the wounds of the last war! I can do it. Let me end the Death of Magic once and for all.”
The Blighted King hesitated. Quiteil was arguing.
“If we lose you, Lord Hayvon, we are exposed. 5th Wall can be rebuilt with his Majesty’s Skills. It is not worth gambling over!”
The [Lord] dissented. He looked across the wall. Years of enchantments, broken. Brave [Soldiers], dead. He shouted into the speaking stone.
“Your Majesty! These last hundred years will be as peace and tranquility compared to the days that lie ahead! When one of the Deathless recovers—especially her—the others will follow. Her magic can heal almost any wound, even the ones we inflicted on the others. You know this!”
He knew the stories. His [King] had lived them. But still, Othius hesitated. And into that moment of hesitation—Silvenia acted.
 
—-
 
The half-Elf floated forwards. Hayvon twisted. His riders prepared to charge. Richard saw Emily fleeing, the other survivors running. He hesitated. And he saw the half-Elf who had broken 5th Wall by herself fly lower.
“Oh, such names you call me, Lord Hayvon Operland. Traitor. ‘Curse of Elves’? How harsh. I am the last true [Mage] in this world. I am Silvenia, the Death of Magic!”
The rain stopped. The half-Elf shone. Her broken face moved. The magic that had been replacing her flesh solidified. Becoming…like skin.
Her voice was clear, lacking a stutter now. Silvenia spoke as the air twisted around her. For a moment she was whole.
The Death of Magic. The Traitor. The fallen [Archmage] of Wistram.
Silvenia of Demons.
 
—-
 
Both sides stopped there. Looking. Listening. The Death of Magic hung in the air. Lord Hayvon’s riders waited.
5th Wall lay broken. By a single person’s will and power. Silvenia hung in the air.
They did not know her. Bazeth knew the stories. Hayvon had read of her. But she had been wounded long before they had been even children.
Only Othius was old enough to remember her. Him and few others. The Deathless had lain wounded, more myth than person even to the Demons, her kin. Until a girl had pitied her and helped her recover.
Now, she introduced herself. It was the polite thing to do. Silvenia spoke, so that everyone standing there heard her clearly.
“You call me Deathless. You do not know me, children. You know not why I dissented. Why this war began. Nor does it matter.”
She spread her arms. Her body was shining. The half-Elf laughed. She looked like Tom, to Richard.
“We are at war, after all. Why do you hesitate? Even my commanders fear to unleash Crelers on the enemy. The enemy. When did war become so soft? Look how beautiful this last stand was! Brave soldiers fighting. Dying. Against summoned foes. It was such a wonderful sight.”
She pointed down at the broken wall.
“It brings my heart joy to see how fat and complacent you’ve all become. Look how easy you have had it since we lay wounded. Look at your beautiful wall, which is all you have made in a hundred years of our absence. And—you didn’t even manage to kill us Deathless.”
Silvenia’s grin was like fire. Her broken face peeled apart, revealing the shattered flesh her magic had yet to heal. She pointed at it, laughing. Laughing.
“You did so well. But even your [Archmages] could not bring us down. Your champions died over a hundred years ago and you hoped we had died too. I have waited a century to see. Your. Faces. And it was worth it.”
They shuddered as she floated forwards. A stray bolt of lightning, natural, caused by the storm Hayvon had summoned, flashed down.
Silvenia caught it. She held it in her palm, all the fury of nature contained. Then she made it vanish.
“A hundred years of interlude have passed. Today, we begin again. And today, you all learned for the first time in your lives what hell meant. You think you know the word. But you have never seen hell. I am the Death of Magic. And you have never known magic such as mine.”
A finger extended. And she pointed past the soldiers on the ground. Past 4th Wall. Quiteil listened, seeing her pointing towards the distant capital and Othius clutched at his chest.
Fear. The half-Elf screamed, rejoicing.
“Let us make war until the Walled Cities crack and fall! Until I bring Wistram to wrath and ruin! Until the Death of Chains breaks all of Chandrar’s bonds! Until the world ends and the Death of Wings reclaims her homeland! Let us make glorious war. Properly. For the first time in centuries.”
Both sides shuddered. Silvenia was like nothing they had seen. Save for Richard. He looked up and saw a familiar expression. He took a step back, shuddering. Tom had hovered on the edge of that insanity.
Silvenia was consumed by it. She was so mad, she was sane. A beautiful, all-powerful commander of Demons.
Lord Hayvon stared up at her. He rode upwards, his boots carrying both horse and rider upwards. Silvenia waited as the [Lord] of Rhir drew his sword.
“Demon. You will never break the Blighted Kingdom. We will defy you even if it means our deaths. Even if you slaughter every soul here—you will never break this people. This land.”
He raised his blade higher.
“Mortal men and women have hurled you back, Deathless. We will again. The Blighted Kingdom has not sat idle upon your return. If it must be a hundred thousand more years, we will never fall.”
King Othius clutched at his chest. He lacked the conviction to utter such words anymore. But Lord Hayvon’s sword never wavered as he pointed it at the Death of Magic’s chest.
“I will be your end.”
Silvenia’s smile grew wider. She spread her arms. Rejoicing.
“Ah. Good! There’s at least one of you with fire. It would not be fun otherwise. Come, [Lord] of Rhir. Come and show me the sharpest fangs peace has given you.”
“Lord Hayvon—retreat.”
Othius whispered. The [Lord] rode down as his warriors lowered their weapons for a charge. He shifted his grip on his sword. Removed his gauntlet.
He plucked a single ring from his finger and handed it to Richard.
“I leave everything to my son. So long as he lives—let Rhir never fall.”
The [Lord] rode forwards. Silvenia’s spells hung in the air as she began calling more into life. Bazeth was shouting.
“Silvenia! You must stop!”
“Retreat, Lord Hayvon! That is an order!”
Bastion-General Quiteil was shouting. Neither warrior listened to the other. The Death of Magic was glowing brighter. Lord Hayvon whispered.
“Advance at a walk.”
“Silvenia! The Demon King orders you to fall back!”
The [Champion of Blades] roared. Silvenia’s eyes flickered. The half-Elf raised her finger.
“They are right there. Do not give me orders, brat.”
“His Majesty orders it. Fall back.”
The Death of Magic turned. Rage flickered across her face. Then—the light went out of her eyes.
“I am running low on magic. Very well.”
“No—charge the Deathless!”
Lord Hayvon roared. Silvenia turned back to him. She had a bitter expression on her face.
“Until next time, [Lord] of Rhir.”
She vanished. So did the Demons. Lord Hayvon’s lightning struck the air and the [Lord] landed on the walls. He howled.
“Deathless! After them!”
But it was over. And after—afterwards, only the dead were left to make peace with the living.
 
—-
 
The world was unfair. Cruel. Some people had all the power. In the end—they had died fighting shadows. 
They had died for nothing. Reinforcements had come. The complete destruction and infestation of the lands beyond 4th Wall had not happened. But so what?
Too late, too late. They died on those walls, far from home. In vain. Her face reflected that bitter truth. Cirille’s body lay among the ash. A ring or spell had saved her from complete incineration.
It had not saved her life. She stared up at the false dawn that had betrayed her, her face anguished in death.
Richard found her with the others, as reinforcements rushed from 4th Wall, people desperately trying to clear the construction zone of the monsters that the Death of Magic had ordered seeded. Others were fortifying, mounting a safeguard against the Demon’s inevitable next attack.
But most were looking for the living and the dead. The [Knight] found the [Clown], with Cirille.
“Tom? I thought you were—”
“Dead? There are two of me, you idiot. Who attacks a Deathless?”
The [Clown] was not laughing. He knelt there, leaning over her. The Drake’s cheeks were clear of soot in places; Tom had been crying.
“Tom, I—”
“Coward. They died here. While you hid. They could have lived if you’d fought.”
The young man raised his head. Richard just looked at him. Was he mad? They had died here. But the words also made him retreat in shame.
The Gloomless Troupe had been hundreds. Now—less than a dozen. But they walked the wall and even Rhir’s veterans gave them a berth. They had fought until the last.
So had the others. Uxel lay among what should have been a score of death, cut to pieces. Ser Vorn was gone, a casualty of an encounter no one had witnessed but Cirille and Uxel. Springwaters, Lacten…
Ossky. They had seen her light. Lord Hayvon had made for the flash of light as he rode for 5th Wall. The dead…Sisth had died with Delezza’s crossbow in hand. The [Hunters] had been wiped out to the last Human.
But some lived. A Gnoll breathed. Chief Warrior Merish had been covered by Drake and Gnoll bodies, but the arrows hadn’t killed him.
A little Lizardman lay on the ground, one of his legs severed, but alive. Viri.
“What will happen to them, Hayvon?”
Emily looked at the survivors as the Champions of Rhir accompanied Hayvon. Fractions of each company; some groups had been wiped out to the last, like the [Knights] from Ailendamus. The [Lord] walked amid the wounded, his face bowed. But he did not look away from them.
“They will be returned home as their wounds heal. To their homes, as heroes. The Blighted Kingdom will not forget their sacrifice. They were the finest warriors we could have asked for.”
“No. No, I won’t leave.”
A voice croaked. Richard stopped. A Drake was lying on a stretcher. A [Healer] was tending to him, but Captain Shellc was trying to sit up. Someone had taken out his eye and Silvenia’s flames had scarred his right side. He spoke, desperately, as the young man from Earth halted.
