“I can’t leave. I can’t—my command is here. Cirille is here. Tell them to let me stay. I have to keep fighting. We don’t run. Please?”
Shellc reached for Richard’s hand. The young man stared at him until the Drake collapsed, put to sleep by the [Healer]’s touch. Richard backed away.
 
—-
 
He found Lord Hayvon standing alone. The older man was leaning heavily on his horse. He turned as Richard approached.
“Oh. Richard.”
“Lord Hayvon? Are you…”
Are you okay? Richard closed his mouth on the question. He saw the [Lord] standing there. Away from everyone else, out of sight, Hayvon shook his head.
“We were too late, Richard. Too late. The Death of Magic broke our wall in hours. Like I could break a stick. I thought we could withstand her. What a fool I was. I truly thought we had more time. I thought with a new wall—”
He wiped water from his eyes and shook his head.
“We will fight on. But this is a dark day. Enough. But enough…let us at least give some meaning to this carnage. I was too late. I will bear guilt of that to the nations who entrusted the Blighted Kingdom with their warriors. Yet I will at least see them home.”
He clenched his fist. And his horse reared. Richard felt something move across the walls. He looked at the [Lord] who had been so misrepresented by a book. Richard heard a cry in the distance.
“Cirille!”
Richard spun. He ran, hearing Tom’s cry. It couldn’t be—he had seen her—
Dead. The Drake’s body lay on the ground, where she had died. And nothing could change that. Not anything they had. If—
No. She was dead. But she also stood there. Commander Cirille turned her head. Richard stopped, eyes wide. And the Drake looked at him.
“What is this?”
Richard heard a cry. Captain Shellc stared up as Ossky alighted on the ground. Across the walls, he heard exclamations. Shouts of fear.
“Commander!”
Viri screamed as he saw Uxel slither past him. The Gorgon paused a moment. And it was him.
Not him. Tom reached for Cirille. And his hand passed through her. The ghost offered him a bitter smile and saluted.
“It is their memory, Sir Richard. Sir Tom.”
The [Clown] spun. But he stopped as Hayvon came to stand before them. The [Lord] bowed to Cirille.
“Commander. We will take your remains to the Walled Cities. You are a hero of Rhir. I salute you.”
He knelt. Slowly, the [Soldiers] did likewise. The Drake turned. She met Merish’s eyes as he struggled to rise.
They were all there. Gnolls, Drakes. Minotaurs. Viri tried to use his staff like a cane. He hopped after Uxel.
“Commander. Wait for me. Wait!”
“Stay there, Viri.”
Uxel spoke. It was his voice. The Gorgon looked…well, annoyed. Even in death, he snapped at the little Lizardman.
“Thank you, Lord Hayvon. Chief Warrior Merish. I leave it to you.”
The Drake turned. She walked forwards. An army of ghosts followed.
They stood in formation. The pride of Izril. Gnolls, Drakes—with Uxel’s forces mixed in. Ser Vorn walked forwards, glancing back at his body.
“How?”
Richard whispered. This was beyond anything he had witnessed, even as terrible as the Death of Magic had been.
Lord Hayvon rose. He drew his sword and saluted them as the army began marching away. Some, Rhir’s own, walked towards their walls. The others turned in other directions.
Going home.
“[The Pride of the Fallen]. Come, Sir Richard. We must honor them.”
The [Lord] watched them go until he was out of sight. The dead vanished. They were not there for him. Their duties had ended. At last…
They were going home.
 
—-
 
Dragonspeaker Luciva was breaking her fast when the Gnoll found her. Spearmaster Lulv raced into her dining room and shouted.
“Dragonspeaker! Our army has returned from Rhir! Commander Cirille is standing at the gates of the city!”
“What?”
The Drake shot from her chair. From Rhir? Had they been recalled? Or had the Blighted Kingdom sent them back? Why hadn’t there been a communication?
“High Command to me!”
She thundered down the steps. A crowd was gathered at the gates. Bewildered citizens. Officers as well.
And soldiers. Luciva was glad to see it. It was too stupid to be a ploy, but she did not believe in making mistakes.
“I detect no magic at all, Dragonspeaker.”
“Then open the gates. Let them in. Prepare for anything.”
If Commander Cirille had returned without sending word over some incident, Luciva would have her stripped of her rank and imprisoned. The Oldblood Drake waited, her breath cracking with tension.
“Lady Rafaema, stay back…”
Lulv was guarding the true treasure of Manus. Rafaema stared as Drakes and Gnolls marched into the city.
Only a thousand or so. Manus hadn’t sent many; all the major Drake cities contributed to the ten thousand or so that went to Rhir. Cirille marched with Lieutenant Ossky and ranks of Drakes at their back.
But their precise formation was—odd. The formation split up, some Drakes breaking ranks to move towards a waving figure in the crowd. And there were absences; not all the Drakes that had been sent had returned.
That was to be expected. Even so, Dragonspeaker Luciva bellowed.
“Hold your ground! Commander Cirille, forwards! Explain yourself!”
She and a group of Manus’ highest commanders advanced as the lone Drake walked forwards to meet them. Cirille stood at perfect military attention. Neither afraid nor nervous as she should be.
“Commander Cirille. Why are your forces here?”
Dragonspeaker Luciva stared at Cirille’s face. The Drake paused. She looked around her city and inhaled, the scents of Manus filling her nostrils. She looked at Luciva and saluted. In a clear, carrying voice that the city heard, the Commander spoke.
“Dragonspeaker, I regret to inform High Command of the complete annihilation of my division sent to Rhir.”
The leader of Manus stared at Cirille. This was no joke. She reached out with a snarl.
“Commander, have you taken leave of your—”
Her claws passed straight through Cirille. Luciva froze.
“Ghost! Magical weapons forward—”
One of the officers cried out. But Luciva stopped them. Cirille hadn’t had the deathly chill of the undead. Luciva looked at the Drake.
“Commander?”
There were cries from the crowd. The other soldiers, Ossky included, were finding family. Friends. They walked through walls and people.
Memories. The Drake [Commander] kept her salute. Her eyes locked on Luciva. And they were filled with tears. She paused—took a shuddering breath, and then the words flowed forth.
“We encountered a superior foe the last night. Hundreds of thousands of Demons assailed 5th Wall and magic broke the earth. Our own spells were rendered useless. We perished in defense of the Blighted Kingdom.”
No one spoke. Cirille went on. She stared at her home, then looked ahead.
“I was honored to fight by Humans, Lizardfolk, Gnolls, Centaurs, half-Elves…I regret my inexperience led to our defeat. We were unable to strike down the enemy. The Death of Magic has overrun 5th Wall. But she was too slow to take 4th Wall. We stopped her. We did not run.”
The Death of Magic. Luciva felt cold sweat beading on her scales. Rafaema looked wide-eyed at Cirille.
“We did not run. Captain Shellc survives my command. But Izrilian forces have been for all intents and purposes eradicated on Rhir. The Deathless have returned.”
Manus shook. The people looked uncertainly at Cirille and then to Rhir, so distant few thought of them. Hell stirred.
“Commander…”
Luciva looked at the Drake. She was no simulacra. There she stood. She held back tears. The Drake’s salute quivered. But she stood in front of the Dragonspeaker, to deliver the last message. Cirille took a deep breath, and then bellowed.
“The Demons have superior spellcraft and new weapons. They have been our end! The Blighted Kingdom cannot stand alone! Commander Cirille of Manus, to the Walled Cities. I request reinforcements.”
The Walled City rang with her voice. Dragonspeaker Luciva stiffened. She heard voices rising across the city. She turned and the High Command answered in one word.
“Granted!”
Cirille smiled. Her form was flickering. Like a candle going out. Luciva wanted to reach for her again. She stepped forwards.
“They are coming. So—rest. Commander Cirille, you have done your duty. I relieve you from your post.”
The Drake nodded.
“Thank you. An honor to serve, Dragonspeaker.”
She stepped backwards. And her burdens left her. The clouds over Manus parted as dawn broke at last. Cirille looked up and smiled. Bitterly. With regrets. So many. But—her job was done. She had left the survivors. Now, she had come home.
The sun shone through the clouds and the Drake sighed. Light was too heavy for her soul, and it vanished.
She left. The other souls said their goodbyes and regrets and vanished. They disappeared from the world.
 
—-
 
Not just in Manus. Commander Uxel greeted his company. Lizardfolk walked into their homes. Ser Vorn knelt before his [King], answering the frantic questions until he vanished. Springwaters walked into a village of half-Elves for the last time.
From the House of Minos to the gates of Deríthal-Vel. In Chandrar—the Strongest of Pomle rose.
“Lacten?”
The [Martial Artist] bowed.
“Strongest. I was far too weak. I have seen the Death of Magic. I cannot touch you. I am dead. But I request one last match. To show you how I lived and died.”
The [Martial Artists] of Pomle watched as Orjin wavered, and then raised his fists. The Stitch-Man took a stance. They fought and Orjin touched nothing but air.
The dead left. But they were not forgotten. And thanks to a Skill—a terrible, wondrous Skill—they spoke. Conveying regrets, triumph…for an hour at most.
It was not enough. But it was a Skill every commander had wished for. Aside from the power to turn time itself back.
Now—look. The nations of the world stirred. The Death of Magic lived. Wistram trembled or hungered. Az’kerash stopped for a moment. And his eyes blazed with hatred for the same foes he had fought in life.
The Dragon sighed. He heard war on the wind again—as if it had ever stopped blowing. But best laid plans fell to ruin. The King of Destruction frowned, and checked himself, as if sensing another foe at his back.
The Demons. Hell was no longer safely contained and it mattered to everyone. To the Necromancer, to allies and foes. The Titan of Baleros hesitated a moment as he laid his plans.
Wall Lord Ilvriss sat and listened. And for a moment, something dark overshadowed even his foe. Even the Antinium rustled, wondering.
And Rhir? The survivors of 5th Wall lived another day. It was easy to say it hadn’t mattered. But that would have trivialized the life and death of everyone who had fallen. Merish closed his eyes as sleep took him. Viri slept, weeping. Shellc closed his eye, vowing to return.
Then…they too went home.
