“Message from Salazsar, Commander. Authenticated. The Wall Lord wants to request confirmation about the [Message] you sent.”
“Already?”
Cirille’s heart began pounding. She took the note with her claws. It was shorter than she’d thought. And the contents…she read it slowly. Then she looked up.
“What is this? I didn’t send—‘walls like cheese’? Do you know what this is?”
“I just run messages, Commander.”
The young Human girl stared blankly at the Drake. Cirille looked at the nonsense lines of insulting doggerel and her brows darkened. There was only one person with this sense of humor.
“Sir Tom. Excuse me. Please send a [Message] back to the Wall Lord saying that this was a mistake due to another—gah!”
She strode off as the [Messenger] ran to clarify the issue. Cirille knew where to find the [Clown]. The inn where they loved to perform those comedy bits and such.
“Sir Tom!”
She slammed the door open. The Gloomless Troupe turned, some falling out of their chairs in mock-surprise. Giggles swept across the room and the [Clown] looked up from his drink, surrounded by his followers.
“Commander Cirille! Here to see more comedy? Sorry, but I’m out of jokes! I could stab myself if that helps! Hah!”
The [Clown] laughed. The Drake strode over to him, not in the mood for politeness. She brandished the letter.
“Sir Tom, this is unacceptable! Pranks are one thing, but this has gone too far. Even Vir—even the Lizardfolk wouldn’t do this!”
He was in massive trouble. The [Messenger] hadn’t liked the wrong communications being sent any more than Cirille had. Security was of massive importance to the Blighted Kingdom. Bastion-General Zavarial would tear Tom’s head off.
If Cirille didn’t do it first. But the [Clown], far from laughing, just stared at Cirille blankly. He turned around.
“Is this a joke? Because if it is, I’m too tired for jokes. Anyone?”
His followers shrugged or giggled. But they seemed oblivious. Cirille slammed the letter down.
“Don’t play games, Sir Tom!”
“I’m not! Why does everyone blame the [Clown]?”
A huge smile spread over his face and he laughed at his own joke. But then—he snatched up the letter before Cirille could shout again. He read and blinked.
“What…is this? ‘Salazsar is naught but cowards and thieves…bring down your walls like cheese?’ That’s insane. Who rhymes like that? I could do better. This is insane, and I should know! But I didn’t do it.”
He handed the letter back to Cirille. She blinked. The [Clown] looked serious.
“Sir Tom—don’t play games.”
“I didn’t! This time!”
He grinned at her, which was an unconvincing move. But he sounded genuine. Cirille glanced around, suddenly confused.
“But if you didn’t do it, then who? Communications are strictly monitored. I thought only you would have access to a [Scrier]…”
The [Clown] stood up.
“You think they let me near a [Scrier]? I tried sending a [Message] to the Singer of—but I’m banned. Could it be one of the Lizardfolk? They’re funny.”
“No, I—no. I’m sorry, Sir Tom. I thought…”
Cirille heard giggling and half-blushed. But now she was concerned. Assuming Tom wasn’t lying, and that was a full possibility…
“I need to ask the message-[Mage] on duty about this. Excuse me.”
She left the inn. Tom followed her outside.
“I’m coming with you. Otherwise Zavarial will think I did it! You can be my witness.”
The Drake didn’t feel like arguing. She stumbled as she left the inn; the night sky was clouded. The helpful stars were out.
“Ow. Damn—it’s dark.”
The [Clown] bounded past Cirille with annoying energy.
“I see perfectly in the dark. Anyone got a [Light] spell?”
Someone muttered, but none was produced. Cirille stared around. The wall was…there. Damn, from behind the wall, the magical lanterns were very dark. Probably good if you were trying to hit the defenders with a bow. But it made walking about a pain…
She was hurrying towards the walls with Tom at her side. The night was dark. Cirille heard little, save for the [Clown] giggling. She turned to him.
“Once more, Sir Tom—will you swear it wasn’t you?”
“Cross my heart and hope someone else dies.”
He laughed at her. Cirille peered at his face. It was very dark. She looked around and realized something was in the way, next to the wall. They’d nearly walked into the Bone Behemoth.
“Ancestors!”
She jumped away from the undead. Tom glanced up.
“Oho! Mr. Bones and his friends.”
The undead skeleton stared ahead, eyes burning in the darkness. They were unnerving. Cirille backed up.
“We must have gone the wrong way. Sir Tom, with me to—Sir Tom!”
The [Clown] had walked over. He passed by the Bone Behemoth’s huge leg and leaned on a skeleton archer’s shoulder. It jerked, trying to support his weight and its head rotated to stare at him.
“What?”
“Sir Tom, don’t antagonize the undead!”
The Drake stared uneasily at the skeleton’s head. It was a Drake’s skull and bones. She could tell; the anatomy was different from a Human in significant ways. But Tom just laughed.
“Demons and Crelers and Fearless, oh my! And you’re worried about these guys? Don’t be silly—”
He pushed the skeleton aside and strode towards her, spreading his arms wide. Laughing. Then he tripped on a stone. He went down, prat-falling, cursing—and the three arrows flashed over his head.
“Tom—”
The skeleton archer lowered its bow and drew an arrow. Tom whirled. Cirille reached for her sword. That idiot had triggered their defense mechanisms! She began shouting.
“Hetarria! The undead are attacking! Hetarria—”
The walls were silent from above. But the Drake had to have heard—unless she’d already gone off-duty? Cirille saw Tom whirl. The [Clown]’s daggers were out and he was moving so fast she didn’t see him. He practically teleported to the skeletons who’d shot at him and slashed them down.
One, two, three. The enchanted daggers cleaved through bone with ease. They crumbled. Tom laughed, shrilly, surprise evident in his voice.
“Well, I guess you were right, Cirille! That’ll learn me!”
“We need to tell Hetarria. Sir Tom, please stop antagonizing the undead!”
The Drake hurried for the wall. The stairs leading up to Hetarria’s post she summited three at a time, Tom following and grumbling.
“…no one worries about me when I’m getting shot at. Bet you Emily would have…”
“Mage-Captain! The undead attacked Sir Tom!”
Cirille reached the top of the wall in a blur. She was panting. Her sword was still drawn; Hetarria backed up, wide-eyed.
“Commander Cirille—what? I just felt three of my skeletons die. Was that—”
“Sir Tom was leaning on the undead. Then they drew arrows and loosed at him. He would have died but for luck!”
The [Clown] giggled. Cirille pointed at Hetarria—and realized it was with her sword. The [Necromancer] stepped back.
“I’m sorry, Commander. It must have triggered their self-defense commands. I didn’t mean to—”
“No. I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to accuse—”
Cirille lowered the sword, shamefaced. Hetarria’s eyes were wide. And in a moment, Cirille had jumped to a conclusion involving a betrayal. An assassination attempt—
And in a moment, shown her real colors to Hetarria as well. The Drake moved back further. Her ivory breastplate was dark, without moon or torchlight.
“It was an accident, Commander.”
“I understand. I apologize. I…I should go. I’ll tell Bastion-General Zavarial. Sir Tom…?”
The Drake looked around. And suddenly, she realized the [Clown] was out of sight. It was very dark. Cirille stared about.
“…Mage-Captain. What happened to the magical lanterns?”
She looked back at the Drake. The [Necromancer] blinked.
“I didn’t notice. It is…dark.”
It was bright around them. But about twenty feet ahead of them it turned practically pitch-black. Cirille felt a prickle on her scales. She turned to look for more lights. How had that happened without her noticing?
There were only a few lights. No stars in the sky. No torches or magical lights on the wall. Just a pair of burning orange flames. Cirille stared at them. At least they provided l—
“Down!”
The [Clown] tackled her to the ground. Cirille hit the stone hard. She saw something huge, ivory-white pass over her head. And the Bone Behemoth’s fist hit the space where she had been. The impact was like thunder. Cirille lay there, staring up at the sky as Tom leapt off her.
“You traitor.”
The Commander leapt to her feet. She raised her sword—and saw Hetarria standing there. The [Necromancer] was pointing at the Bone Behemoth. She spun as Cirille and Tom advanced with weapons in hand.
“No! Wait! I didn’t do anything! I didn’t do anything!”
She flinched. Cirille hesitated. The Bone Behemoth was shaking—its hammer was raised. Tom looked at Hetarria. The Drake was pointing a finger. Trying to keep it from striking? Cirille hesitated.
She put down her sword. What the hell was happening? Then she heard a shout. Hetarria’s scream.
The Bone Behemoth swung again.
 
—-
 
When Flora was done speaking with the Giants, she found them waiting for her. People.
Demons. Some had horns. Odd…blemishes on their skin. Deformities, as small as a finger made of moving glass—or an extra eye.
It touched them, the corruption. The curse of Rhir. Despite their best efforts. But they were proud.
There were sixty of them. Flora caught her breath as she saw one of them, her guardian and friend, Bazeth. The [Champion of Blades] carried his glaive as always. His armor, his weapon, were magic. He had learned to fight in Drath—wherever that was.
But he was a Demon. He nodded to her; the Blight had touched his two horns, turning the tips of them into something like silver, but weak as sand. They flaked away when he moved hard and regrew like hair; faster actually.
Beyond that, he was hale. And the Blight had touched Flora not at all. It had to some Demons, but they had ways to defend against it. The Harpies suffered the most, flying as they did in miasma clouds, far above the stationary cleansing zones.
Yet that had changed. The world changed.
“Are you not going? I thought—you said it was tonight.”
“It is begun, Flora of Texas.”
Bazeth nodded at her. She hesitated.
“Stop saying that.”
“Flora of Earth?”
“Not much better.”
The Demon sighed. He was formal, from his tutelage by the proud Empire of Drath. But this was not a moment for idle chatter.
The others were waiting. They stood around her. The figure in the center of the sixty-odd people shone. She…unnerved Flora. When they had first met, she had been a pitiable figure, but also glorious. Desperate. Noble.
She was still all these things. Flora bowed slightly. She couldn’t help it. And the figure smiled. Or her lips twitched. Her entire body twitched, but she tried to repay the gesture. Flora didn’t deserve it, but the Demons copied her.
“Flora. It has begun. Will you come? Come and see. G-good and evil. Callidaz cannot s-show you.”
The girl from Earth had saved her life. Silvenia spoke, freezing by seconds. Her voice echoed. She should not have been alive. She was still wounded. Looking at her hurt Flora.
But what glory. Flora looked at Silvenia and was afraid.
“It’s begun? But you’re here.”
In the Demon Kingdom’s territory. Far from the front of any line. Silvenia’s eyes flashed.
“Distance is n-nothing. If you come. I will keep you safe. It has been too l-l-long.”
“Do you have to do this?”
Bazeth shifted. The others looked at Flora. But even the Demons did not know. They stood with Silvenia. Apart from her. Staring at her like Flora looked up at the Giants.
The air twisted. Silvenia’s smile was broken. Look at what they had done to her. The Blighted Kingdom. But she lived.
Now, the half-Elf laughed. Her staff rose. And Flora’s feet left the ground. The sixty Demons, Silvenia, and the girl floated higher. The half-Elf looked at her.
“I have done it. A thousand times a thousand before. We are warriors, Flora. You have seen the kindness of Demons. Heard the wisdom of Giants. Now. S-see wrath. D-decide. Walk with me. See why they call us Demons.”
The girl from Texas hesitated. She ran her fingers through her short, garnet hair with a hint of copper. Her denim jeans and long shirt, the same as she’d been carrying on the shooting range, looked patchy compared to the enchanted metal on the others. Her boots, which Bazeth admired, shifted in the dirt.
Then she nodded. Silvenia smiled, her eyes lighting up even more brilliantly. She raised her staff higher. And the Demons walked. The world blurred around them. Flora walked too. The gun was in the holster at her side.
She feared Callidaz was right. She had a choice. To give them the gun or not. To help or not. They might betray her, not let her go. But she thought they would.
Because it didn’t matter. Not at all. Silvenia led them through the brilliant night. Flora stepped through clouds. They followed the half-Elf. She needed no weapons from Earth.
Flora had seen images of weapons which erased cities. She had flown above the land. She had told the Demons of all these things. And Silvenia had taken a sprig of grass in hand. The half-Elf had split the sea. She had cured the blind and brought down fire. Then she had taken the staff and shown Flora wonders.
She was…passionate and wise, yet still full of mortal pettiness even after so long. Noble. Cruel. Pitiful, as Flora had met her. Courageous. But not kind. The half-Elf marched upon the Blighted Kingdom, her foes unawares. Her eyes were the silver of stars. Her hair was white and pale green. Skin scarred a thousand times. She wore wounds even her magic had yet to heal and her body shook.
None of it mattered. The half-Elf walked the skies once more. King Othius IV woke from his dreams turned to nightmares. And Silvenia laughed. She had but one weakness in the entire world and it was this:
She couldn’t rhyme.
 
—-
 
Cirille ducked. The huge claw made of bone passed over the wall. She heard a scream, distant; someone had been hit. A [Soldier] from Rhir, a Human, was carried off the wall. She screamed the entire way down.
“Hetarria!”
The [Commander] had few weapons capable of killing something this large. A ring with a one-use [Fireball] spell, her sword, enchanted—a few Skills if she had a company or more at her back.
“I’m not doing it! I’m trying to control—stop! Hetarria to the Necromancer Corps—report to my position!”
The Drake pointed and the Bone Behemoth froze again. Wavering. Hetarria was fighting—something. The huge, orange eyes glowed as Hetarria bellowed.
But no one heard. Cirille looked around. The darkness encompassed her position. And she heard the faintest echo of someone shouting.
“…what happened? Something just…”
