 
—-
 
The last commander lay dead. Silvenia floated just above the ruined walls, looking around.
“How they f-fought.”
She laughed. Her body shook with the strain of battle. The half-Elf floated, freezing for a micro-second as she spoke or moved. Wounded.
Yet invincible. The irregulars were targeting her. The arrows bounced off the magical shields; the half-Elf ignored them. She stared about.
“Well, those are enough survivors. Fall back.”
The Demons retreated. Bewildered, the few hundred irregulars stared upwards. The half-Elf floated past them—
A knife pierced one of her barriers and halted in midair. The half-Elf frowned. Then she twisted—
The enchanted blade wouldn’t have gone through her shields. But the [Clown] had guessed that. So he’d jumped with it. He stabbed, his blades meeting the magical shields, piercing—
“What are you? Whatareyouwhatareyou—”
Silvenia heard his crazed laughter. She pointed and the [Clown] twisted—that saved him. He landed on the wall. The half-Elf blinked at him. Tom dove, dodging her as she shot a bolt of magic that blew a chunk out of the walls. He was quick.
The Gloomless Troupe attacked her. Throwing daggers—the [Archers] aimed at her. A [Piercing Shot] broke one of her shields. The half-Elf didn’t look away from Tom. He slipped as he tried to leap again—and the [Fireball] went wide. He screamed as the flames burned him, but then rolled, drinking the potion. Silvenia blinked—and then smiled.
“Oh, look. A [Hero]. I k-know what to do with you.”
She pointed a finger—Tom saw her eyes flash.
“[Siphon Luck].”
The [Clown]…slowed. He felt something go out of him. He stared up at the half-Elf. And she laughed.
“You must be the [Clown]! Laugh for me, funny man.”
Tom stared up at Silvenia. His mouth worked.
“…What at?”
She clenched a fist and opened it. Tom’s body tore apart. The Gloomless Troupe saw blood and flesh and the tattered clown suit land on the ground.
“Well then.”
Silvenia floated past them. Bazeth stood on the ground. Flora stared up at Silvenia. The half-Elf pointed.
“Advance the real army, Bazeth. Seed the ground.”
“The real army?”
Bazeth’s eyes flickered. The half-Elf was breathing hard.
“Yes. I need to use my mana for this. [Dispel Phantasmal Warriors].”
The Demons—vanished. The faceless, nameless infantry. Silvenia started laughing again. She floated higher.
“Silvenia? What are you going to do?”
She turned. With madness in her eyes.
“You have your orders, Bazeth. Carry them out. Take the soldiers prisoner. Or slaughter them. You need to level. There are some hiding in the walls. I—am going to take 4th Wall.”
“Silvenia!”
But she was flying higher. The half-Elf flew faster, faster—towards 4th Wall. Leaving only the bodies of her foes behind.
 
—-
 
No Demons. They had all been illusions. Captain Shellc stared down at his clean sword. He looked up only when he heard the scream.
“Captain! The Demons!”
The Demon [Champion] was pointing. Now—now—at last—the real Demons came. Demon Giants. An army of fifteen thousand, and thirty Giants.
“Damn you!”
The Drake screamed. But Bazeth was advancing. The girl with the gun fired once; the irregulars fell back towards the walls. Richard stared at the battlefield from where he had seen them all dying. Cirille. Tom.
“All—illusions?”
The Demons moved forwards. Bazeth’s order was simple.
“Kill them. Avoid needless casualties. Giants—the frozen baskets. Forwards.”
The Demon Giants strode through the gaps in the wall. Smaller than Callidaz and the last true Giants. Children. Flora saw them bearing huge burdens; they ignored the walls completely, moving past it.
The defenders of Rhir retreated to the broken walls for their last stand. And the Deathless flew on.
 
—-
 
Too late. Too slow. His paranoia, his checking of timing—he should have called an army forwards the instant he’d woken up.
And he would have still been too late.
“Hurry, Lord Hayvon.”
That was all Quiteil said. The Bastion-General sat at his desk. And only now did the war-map flicker.
5th Wall disappeared. The [Peerless Logistician General] saw the wall turn into fragmented pieces. Some vanished altogether. Demon units flooded past the walls.
“Bastion-General. The wall—”
A strangled voice from the speaking stone. His Majesty, Othius IV, trembled. He had not been sure when Quiteil sounded an emergency alert. But the flash of light had confirmed the Bastion-General’s intuition.
“5th Wall is gone. The enemy is coming. Your Majesty, I estimate magical suppression of at least Tier 7. Requesting authorization of a Tier 7+ spell usage.”
“Quiteil. It has to be—”
The lights went out. Quiteil’s magical lighting, the war map—every speaking stone went out. The only thing glowing was the hum of the wall’s enchantment itself, worked into this very room.
“Ah.”
The Bastion-General sat in the darkness. Then he stood up. He heard laughter, magnified, from high above.
“I am coming again, Othius!”
Thump. Something hit the walls. The room shook. Quiteil stumbled. He heard screams. She was already here. Had she slain Lord Hayvon? If she had—
All communications were offline. Magic—the entire network that the Blighted Kingdom ran on. Quiteil paced around his room. He was no Zavarial, it was true. No warrior.
Yet he was Bastion-General of 4th Wall. The Human man looked up. He reached for a candle, a mundane candle, lit it with a flint in a flurry of sparks. Slapped a piece of paper accidentally set alight. Then he spoke.
“[Eighteen Minutes of the Secretary].”
The world…stopped. An underling froze, hand on Quiteil’s door. He could see her, through the glass pane. The Bastion-General sat down at his desk.
Enchantments were still dead. Which was inconvenient. But he had eighteen minutes. And an office to work with. Quiteil pulled out a list of names. He began writing memos.
 
—-
 
Archery Commander Victus, you are to prepare for Contingency #2: Deathless. All archers above Level 30, prepare Deathslayer Arrows and Anti-Magic Arrows. Arm enchanted munitions for all archers firing!
The voice roared into [Master Archer] Victus’ head in a moment, barely after he realized something had killed almost all the magic on 4th Wall. He wasn’t the only one.
[Memo]. The low-level Skill hit every commander on 4th Wall. Quiteil sent eighteen off to 3rd Wall. Two to the capital.
Request Nereshal to cast time spells on mark. Activating higher-Tier wall spells on 4th Wall. Singular enemy. Female.
That was all. He strode out of his office, knocking aside the subordinate who had been about to knock. Quiteil took to the walls. He looked up.
And there he saw. The half-Elf floated alone. She was laying waste to the walls. But as she did—the spells he had authorized activated.
4th Wall began to shine. Silvenia blinked—and the [Spellward] enchantment activated. Her [Fireballs] blinked out of existence as they struck the glowing walls. She frowned.
“Well, well. Anything below Tier 4 magic? That’s n-new. My turn.”
She flew upwards. The air howled as the half-Elf conjured something in the air. The sky froze and condensed. The [Soldiers] on the walls looked up and shouted in horror.
“[Arrow of Winter: Glacius Pillar].”
Silvenia began laughing hysterically. She was so caught up in the grand magic that she didn’t see the man walking onto the walls at first. But she sensed him.
The half-Elf caught herself. Bastion-General Quiteil glanced up. He was exposed; and despite the Tier 6 protective enchantment he’d just activated, he had no doubts he was in danger. But he had to see.
“Ah. Coordinates are…43.32, 1204.2, and…73.2 plus current height of the wall, which translates exactly into 153.5.”
His eyes flickered, doing the mathematical calculations instantaneously. It had always bugged him that the wall was 80.3 feet high.
“You must be the Bastion-General. I killed your friend.”
Silvenia pointed down at Quiteil. A beam flickered down from her fingertip as she called the [Arrow of Winter] to life. It struck a shield around Quiteil. Disappeared. Silvenia frowned.
The Bastion-General ignored the half-Elf. He was checking his calculations. He side-stepped; the beam twisted to hit his protective spells. Oh well. Then he spoke.
“[Unstoppable Command]. Attention.”
His voice echoed across the walls. In the war room of the Kingdom’s palace. Bastion-General Quiteil cleared his throat.
“By my command as Bastion-General of 4th Wall. I authorize Tier 7 Spell: [The Thousand Gateways of Orlaey]. Loose.”
Silvenia blinked. She saw 4th Wall g—
 
—-
 
Archers on 3rd Wall saw the portal opened and loosed the enchanted arrows. Nereshal raised his staff.
“[Time Slow]!”
The [Archers] in the Citadel put Deathslayer arrows to their bows and loosed. Nocked a second arrow, loosed again. The bubble of time collapsed after three seconds—the portal vanished.
4th Wall lit up. Every [Archer] group loosed into the portal spell. And at the same time, portals opened up around Quiteil.
Across the wall, hundreds of portals opened for a second, discharging glowing green-black-white arrows which shot forwards. They twisted, seeking the source of magic. Behind them came enchanted arrows, exploding, using Skills, or just locked on by the Bastion-General’s calculations.
Silvenia vanished. The magic detonated in the air, and the first volley consumed everything. Quiteil shielded his gaze. But the spell wasn’t over.
Open. Close. Open—arrows poured through from all four walls and the capital. One thousand volleys. Quiteil saw something flashing. Magical barriers breaking down. Spells absorbing the arrows meant for her.
But she did not die. Quiteil peered upwards. He saw the half-Elf floating in the air. Panting. She had tried to teleport—and failed. Quiteil heard her voice.
“Well done.”
A single arrow fell from her arm. Magic moved, healing the wound. Silvenia looked down at him. She should have been triumphant. But she was not. Quiteil for his part was displeased.
“You. I don’t l-like you.”
She aimed a spell at him. Quiteil activated another Tier 6 scroll. The walls began shining again.
Silvenia flew backwards, and he saw barriers appearing in front of her, hundreds. The Bastion-General held up a hand. She called at him, frustrated, enraged.
“My spells will tear your wall apart, little man! Match me with your magic and I will break your kingdom in twain!”
“I decline. I am no warrior. I will drown you in arrows instead.”
She howled at him, casting another spell. Quiteil broke it as 4th Wall’s enchantments activated.
“[Spellbreaker].”
“I broke your 5th Wall in a n-night!”
“You will not do the same for 4th Wall. This is a triumph of logistics. Of mathematics. Archers—make ready for a second volley.”
The half-Elf froze, stuttering again. Her face—Quiteil’s eyes narrowed.
“Your Majesty. Now.”
 
—-
 
Othius IV rose from his throne far away. He shouted a Skill and spent one million gold pieces.
 
—-
 
The skies opened. Silvenia looked up. A golden ray shone down. She flung up her hands—
“[Greater T—]”
The beam blasted half of her enchantments away. The 4th Wall opened up with a second volley. The half-Elf flew as the [Golden Rays of Rhir] burned from the heavens. The Blighted King’s Skill. She howled as her skin turned to gold—reversed the transformation.
 
—-
 
Quiteil watched as Silvenia vanished. The rest of the rays missed. He did the calculations on gold spent.
“Your Majesty. She is wounded.”
The enchantments were coming back to life. He raised the speaking stone; the half-Elf’s suppression effect had waned when she’d been forced to defend herself. Now, she floated far, far out of range of bows or the spells being launched from the walls.
“Bastion-General Quiteil. Code Velten-Pallass-Crelers. Cease fire. This is an order.”
He wasn’t sure if the communications had been manipulated. But codes still worked. The walls went silent. The half-Elf floated in the distance.
Her face. He couldn’t see it anymore, but Silvenia’s voice was audible. It was a hiss of frustration.
“I’ve seen enough. But your 5th Wall burns. And nothing will be left of the ground when I am done. Cower there, Bastion-General. And I will destroy everything.”
She floated backwards, and he saw the air warping.
Delay. Quiteil triggered a speaking stone.
“If you think so, Deathless. You are more of a fool than I thought. You…pathetic spellcaster.”
He did his best. Silvenia swung around. Her eyes narrowed.
“You can’t stop me.”
“On the contrary. 5th Wall will be rebuilt within the week.”
She laughed again.
“There will be nothing to protect.”
 
—-
 
The Demon Giants marched past 5th wall. The rest were besieging the defenders, wiping them out but taking care to preserve their forces. Yet, a third of the forces had marched past the wall.
Why? The construction workers and survivors saw as the first Demon Giant opened a…basket on his back.
Frost spewed into the air, cold vapors as the Demon Giant, heedless of anything else, began tossing objects from the basket into the huge moat being dug. Like a [Farmer], the other giants did the same. They deposited the contents of their baskets across the ground, sprinkling, retreating, sprinkling—
Orange eggs. Glowing little pellets which began to move as the frost spells faded from them. They hatched in moments, burrowing deeper.
Crelers. Not just them. Other eggs, larval creatures, fell onto the earth. A few of the serpent-creatures also disappeared into the soil. The Demon Giants had massive baskets, enchanted to hold and preserve the creatures.
 
—-
 
Silvenia was laughing again. Quiteil’s hand clenched over the speaking stone. Buy another second. He saw something flicker in the skies beyond Silvenia.
Lightning. The skies were dark. Rain was beginning to fall. The Bastion-General nodded.
“I believe your plan will not come to fruition, Deathless. If that is who you are. Your Majesty, can you confirm the identity of—”
“It is her. Silvenia, the Traitor!”
Othius screamed into the speaking stone. Quiteil nodded. The half-Elf frowned.
“Why are you so confident, little man?”
“Lord Hayvon is liberating 5th Wall. You may wish to retreat. Archers, prepare to slow the Deathless’ retreat.”
Quiteil saw Silvenia waver. The half-Elf’s eyes flickered.
“That [Lord]? I know him. The 5th strongest [Lord] in the world? You want to put him against me?”
She was mocking. Bastion-General Quiteil looked at Silvenia. And then he did something rare.
He smiled.
“Ah. You’ve read the book as well. Excellent. I knew funding the book was a good idea. So did Lord Hayvon.”
“Funding…”
The words clicked. Quiteil watched the lightning falling from the sky as the rain fell.
