“Mage-Captain.”
The Drake stood to attention and turned as Commander Cirille walked up to her post. At night, the [Necromancer] was one of only a few of her class awake.
It was necessary. To ensure the undead never ran rampant, Rhir demanded they were watched at all times. A level of monitoring that meant night-watches and no undead ever strayed out of eyesight. The last thing the Blighted Kingdom needed was an undead invasion.
But they did use undead. The Drake from Izril looked down at them and couldn’t suppress the shudder of revulsion.
The funny thing was that…her combat experience with undead was actually quite limited.
People remembered Az’kerash, the Necromancer’s campaign into Izril during the last great war. But while his wrath and ruin had fallen heaviest on Liscor; the undead he’d animated had indeed plagued Pallass and got as far as Manus.
But they hadn’t been a military threat. They had overrun smaller settlements, but they’d been crushed in every major engagement. The plague of undead had been a plague. Too widespread to eliminate easily. In a straight-up battle, Manus had crushed even armies three times their size.
Without a [Necromancer], undead were generally weak. Revenants were one thing, ghost-types or unique undead with minds another. But…
The Bone Behemoth stood, eyes illuminating the dark night. Magic lanterns provided vast areas of illumination, but it was still dark. The glittering stars in the skies, the undead’s eyes—nothing ruined her night-vision.
“Commander. This is a surprise.”
Hetarria’s scales glinted under the different light sources. She saluted crisply. Which was a surprise. Then again—she was a soldier of Rhir.
Military, Drake—and quite affable. If she wasn’t a [Necromancer], Cirille would have gone out of her way to make friends. Well…the last few days had been full of changes.
“Captain Hetarria. Am I distracting you?”
The [Necromancer] hesitated. Her eyes flicked to Cirille’s face, watchful, and then she glanced at the undead Bone Behemoth.
“Not at all, Commander. The behemoth doesn’t need tending to. It’s got orders to stay put and defend itself; regulations have me here, but I don’t need to do anything.”
“Ah. So you’re not drained of mana? I hear [Summoners] need to constantly give magic or something.”
Cirille leaned on the stone battlements. Hetarria shrugged.
“That would be accurate, Ma’am. Summoned creatures aren’t meant to hang around long. Undead are different. A horde can generate death magic enough to sustain itself. We…have a few support units. Bastion-General Zavarial authorized it.”
She pointed. Cirille saw a line of skeletons standing behind the Bone Behemoth. She felt another shock; they were armed.
“Skeleton archers?”
“That’s right. Supporting fire. They climb on the Bone Behemoth and shoot; we got the tactic from Oliphant-riders from Chandrar.”
“And all the dead bodies mean you don’t have to upkeep them. Smart.”
Hetarria smiled, unguarded. She had a white grin; her teeth were in excellent condition.
“Well, 5th Wall could support them if we hooked them into the mana reservoir. The trick for undead management is to run with a heavy [Necromancer] compliment. Most people think quantity is all we can do. But this Bone Behemoth has seen nearly forty three years of service. It’s been ground into dust, smashed to bits—but with more [Necromancers], we can keep it fighting an entire battle. A dispersible, regenerating giant-class fighter…”
She broke off, blushing in the shadows.
“Sorry, Commander. [Necromancer]-talk. Er…I meant to say the Behemoth might not be as tall as other titans, but it’s been custom-made. Reinforced. It could down a regular Bone Giant easily.”
“So there’s craftsmanship among [Necromancers]?”
“The best of all worlds, Commander. We craft like [Golem Artificers]. We create like [Summoners]. We can conjure vast armies or go singular. The only downside is…our creations go rogue.”
The Drake from Rhir saw Cirille nod. Hetarria eyed Cirille as the Drake stared down. She coughed.
“If yo—I’d b—I’ve…wondered what Izril is like, Commander.”
Cirille turned her head, surprised.
“You’ve never visited?”
“Not once. My parents—well, one of my grandparents—were from Izril. And my parents went back and forth. [Traders]. But once I started studying [Necromancy] in the magic schools, they told me never to visit.”
“I see. I’d say that’s…appropriate.”
“Necromancy really is outlawed there, isn’t it?”
“Yes. Terandria as well. Baleros and Chandrar are less restrictive, or so I understand.”
“They are. I’ve been meaning to visit. Use my vacations or take a leave for a year or two. See the world. But you know, Commander, I wanted to see the Walled Cities most of all. What are they like?”
“Beautiful. Contained worlds of their own, Hetarria. You can live your entire life in one and never want for diversions. Some people do.”
The Commander stared dreamily out across the empty landscape, towards Monarch’s Pass in the distance. Hetarria sighed.
“Funny. I want to visit. I imagine they’re nothing like what I think. I’ve seen mage-pictures of course. But I don’t know why I miss something I’ve never seen.”
“Perhaps you could visit someday.”
The [Necromancer] smiled crookedly.
“I doubt it. I am a [Necromancer], Commander Cirille. And I don’t plan on changing.”
“I know.”
Cirille turned her back to the wall and stood there, leaning on the cool stone. This was a harder thing to say.
“I owe you an apology, Mage-Captain. I let my beliefs get ahead of me. We are both soldiers; we fight together.”
“Thank you, Commander.”
Hetarria’s eyes widened. Cirille held up a claw.
“With that said—I still hate undead. I can’t help it. Even if I didn’t grow up hearing about The Necromancer, they still unnerve me. Using dead bodies…whose are those? I mean, the skeletons?”
She shook her head. Hetarria glanced down.
“Volunteers.”
“You mean, people actually…”
“Of course. It’s a choice. There’s a registry. Some volunteer as bodies for necromancy. Others for um…the [Golem Artificers]. Blood magic. Different things. It is a choice. But we have enough bodies.”
“Incredible.”
The Drake Commander shook her head again. She hated the idea, everything about what Hetarria was saying. But she didn’t say it out loud.
“I can’t see that point of view, Mage-Captain. But I admit: [Necromancers] are a useful asset on the battlefield.”
“Thank you, Commander. I…wish we’d been assigned to Huntress Delezza’s squad yesterday. But she hated undead. It’s fair; Noelictus was built on the undead and it still has problems from them. Undead can be terrible.”
The [Necromancer]’s eyes were shadowed. Cirille glanced at her.
“For instance? I know about Draug…or do you mean Ceiling Crawlers?”
“They’re not what gets bad, Commander. Those are just…strong bodies. I mean, Crypt Lords, Wailing Pits, Dorn Pillars…the ones that think. Every [Necromancer] trained in Rhir’s schools has to study one of them before we’re allowed to animate the dead.”
“I didn’t know Rhir had training academies.”
“It’s not Wistram. But Wistram doesn’t teach [Necromancy]. Ours are utilitarian. We have…more experimental practices. Including captive undead. To study the enemy.”
“What’s a Wailing Pit? Dorn Pillars?”
“Collections of the undead. They…command other undead. They think. And talk. A Dorn Pillar can wipe out a city if it’s left underground. Everything begins animating. It tries to kill and kill—that’s evil. I won’t deny that.”
“You sound like—”
Hetarria brushed at her face.
“I had to spend a night in its company. It was contained. But that was enough.”
An uncomfortable silence fell between the two. Cirille felt her scales crawling again.
“I can’t deny it. I think that’s horrific, Captain Hetarria.”
“Yes, Commander. I understand that. I can’t blame you. But I want you to know that I never animate undead with that kind of—potential. Never. I’m a [Soldier]. I also took courses from the officer academies. I know my job and that’s killing Demons.”
“I understand that, Hetarria…”
Cirille crossed her arms. She eyed the younger Drake. After a while, she went on.
“…Well, Izril isn’t perfect. I was a girl when the Antinium invaded. Feels like they’ve been here forever. And I’ve fought the Antinium.”
“Really? I thought there was a peace.”
Hetarria’s head snapped up. Cirille grimaced.
“That’s just writing on the paper. In practice, we raid each other. I’ve accompanied [Geomancers] who cast [Earthquake] or other spells—did you hear there’s a damn tunnel connecting the Hive in Liscor to the other ones?”
“I can’t imagine why a city would let them in…”
“No. They’re relentless. I’ve run into them six times. Twice on our side of the border. All kinds. All of them died hard. They’ll charge into your spears and won’t stop moving until you hack them apart. The worst ones are the ones that stalk you, practically invisible. Or explode.”
“Demon’s dicks, that sounds awful.”
The curse caught Cirille off-guard. She snorted and Hetarria grinned.
“Sorry. I don’t say ‘Ancestors’. Commander—”
“Cirille is fine.”
“Alright then, Cirille. May I ask why you’re here? This doesn’t feel like a social call.”
The Drake [Commander] turned to stare back towards 4th Wall. Towards safety. Towards—home.
“Well, Hetarria. I just got news. I’m being recalled. Or rather, I was offered a job. Promotion, salary, in one of the Walled Cities.”
“Should I say congratulations?”
“Thank you. I just sent a message back. I want to hire some of the other groups here. Commander Uxel’s company, maybe some of the Gnolls. Even a few [Knights]. Shake up the way armies are formed in Izril.”
“That—does sound big. Do you think it’ll be approved?”
Cirille shrugged.
“Either I get what I want, or I stay. I think I can get something, at least. The thing is…we need it. The Antinium aren’t going away, and there are always the Humans. They tried to take Liscor.”
“I heard about that. Sorry; Rhir’s mostly Humans.”
The Drake Commander hesitated.
“Oh. Right. Well—I meant, Izrilian Humans. But I think I have to go back. Seeing Delezza like that—she gave everything for the battle against the Demons. But I can’t. I want to go home and change things.”
Hetarria said nothing. And Cirille suspected it was the same way she hadn’t spoken her true thoughts about the undead. The [Commander] sighed.
“I respect the Blighted Kingdom immensely, Hetarria. But I think change has to come from home. It’s what I think I can do, anyways. The point is—I’ve learned from other species. I think the Walled Cities are wonderful. But insular. We must change. And Drakes hate changing things. Ancestors, we built Walled Cities back when Dragons flew about and they’re still there.”
A smile. Cirille glanced at her.
“So. It’s not going to be easy. But I’ll head to Salazsar after some negotiations. Er…the City of Gems. Very rich. Not my favorite city, but comfortable. There’s potential there. I’ll be a [General] and once my contracts ends I can—the point is that’s my plan. Want to come?”
It was a far worse pitch than she’d given to Merish. Hetarria was nodding until her eyes narrowed.
“What was that, Commander? Me?”
“Yes.”
The Mage-Captain didn’t move and Cirille looked straight ahead, trying to track her out of the corner of her eyes. Hetarria moved back and then came into view.
“Pardon me if I’m blunt, Commander. But my impression is that you don’t like me. I appreciate you coming here, but I can’t believe you’ve spun around and embraced the undead just like that.”
“True. I haven’t changed. I’m thinking about it. But I don’t like [Necromancers].”
Cirille met Hetarria’s eyes straight-on. As if she were confronting Shellc about comments about Lizards, or another dispute. She spoke earnestly.
“However, Mage-Captain. I’m aware of the usefulness of [Necromancers]. So I hope that if you’d agree and Rhir could spare you—I could learn to like you. And even if we don’t become friends—I think Izril might need you.”
“Me.”
Hetarria stood there, looking as if Cirille had…well, gone insane. The [Commander] nodded.
“I’m aware it would be hard on you. Especially given that you’ll be in a city full of Drakes who hate [Necromancers]. In fact, this would be a miserable assignment and I’d advise you to think on it. I might turn it down in your place. But Izril might need you.”
“I see. I have to admit, Commander. I’d never expect you to say that in a thousand years.”
The Mage-Captain just stood there. Then she shook her head.
“I can’t reply to that now, Commander.”
“No need to. I just came to float it. I put it in my request to the Wall Lord who wants to hire me. I expect he’s spitting fire if he can. But I worded my proposal carefully. I’ll fight for you, and Commander Uxel and Terandrian [Knights] if I can.”
“Why?”
Cirille stared ahead. She didn’t like the words that came out of her mouth next.
“…Delezza told me that the Antinium would have wiped the Walled Cities out in a month if they’d gotten to Izril at full-strength. I’m almost certain Salazsar wants me to fight them. The Wall Lord said as much. We nearly lost the first time. We forget that, with the Second Antinium war involving Goblins and everything else. They’ve had twenty years, Hetarria. How much have we done to prepare for them?”
“Huh. Well I…I’d have to request permission from Bastion-General Zavarial. He might grant it. And I’d want other [Necromancers]. And it would be sudden. Can I get back to you?”
“Of course. Thanks for your time. I uh—apologize for the late hour.”
The Drake Commander instantly stood up. She saw Hetarria salute.
“Not at all, Commander. I’m bored out of my mind on night-watch. At least I have time to think.”
“Good. Then I’ll see you later. Uh—”
The two looked at each other a few moments too long. Cirille threw a salute out of desperation, resorting to her training.
“Carry on, Mage-Captain!”
She did a smart about-face and marched off. Only when she was safely down the walls and heading back towards her barracks did Cirille pause to smack her head into a wall. A passing Centaur gave her an odd look.
Idiot. She should have done that better. But it was done. Cirille sighed. She half-wanted Hetarria to refuse. It would make her life easier. Still—she hadn’t lied.
Someone was waiting for her at the Drake’s barracks. One of the [Messengers]. She had a note for the Drake.
