It was lightning. Hundreds of lightning bolts, striking in a single flash of light. The world lit up and his vision went dark. The Gnoll covered his eyes.
When he opened them—the skies were clear.
“Paxhal?”
Ossky whispered. The Garuda was gone. Still shapes lay on the ground. Feathers fell out of the air. Slowly, Cirille pulled herself upright.
“A [Mage]? Some [Aeromancer]? What—”
 
—-
 
“Now. Bazeth. You may advance with the reinforcements. Happy hunting. Try to level up.”
Silvenia called. Flora was still half-blinded from the distant lightning strikes. Bazeth looked up sharply.
“Reinforcements? Wh—”
“[Pillar of Flame].”
It came down from the heavens. Like the first time she had shown Flora. Like biblical wrath. To mock her ideas of power.
 
—-
 
Fire. It struck the walls. Cirille’s head turned.
“General Telvir?”
The Dullahan vanished. The pillar of flames shot up a hundred feet. It rolled across the walls.
And the world became quiet. The defenders of 5th Wall, the officers, even the Demons stopped. Slowly, the pillar of fire moved down the wall. Chasing the fleeing [Soldiers]. Turning everything to ash.
“That is a Tier 6 spell. At least.”
Uxel whispered. He looked up, towards where the fire had come from. Cirille trembled.
“They just killed our command. They just killed Paxhal. We have to—”
“Cirille! Get off the walls!”
The shout came from below. Cirille turned. Merish, Uxel, and herself realized the same thing Ser Vorn was shouting as the [Knight] galloped along the wall. They were t—
 
—-
 
“I think we just lost General Telvir.”
Richard couldn’t take his eyes off the pillar of fire. The [General] had been right—right—
“Sir Richard. There is a powerful enemy [Mage] in the area. You should fall back.”
The flat voice came from the [Destroyer Knight], one of the Shel’s Cleansenborne. The massive man—or was it woman?—turned their helmet to regard Richard impassively. The unit was holding the gates and wall.
“But the wall—”
“Our orders are to ensure the safety of Rhir’s Champions. This battle is too dangerous. Fall back. We will attempt to clear the Harpy blockage.”
They were circling. Richard hesitated. But the giant soldier left no room for argument. Richard moved back, waving to the other Earthers. Emily fell back, protectively shielding Chole. Her spells hadn’t been working right.
“Find Tom. I think his group was on the walls near—”
 
—-
 
“[Hammer of the Obsidian Giant]. [Pillar of Frost]. [Pillar of Lighting]. [Implosion Well]. Now you may advance, Bazeth.”
She was laughing.
 
—-
 
The Shel’s Cleansenborne and the gates vanished. Richard saw something open in the air. And then contract. He recognized it. Something like a black hole—
The huge warriors were dragged towards the opening in the air. They screamed—the one near Richard thrust him back. Desperately—he—she—clawed at the ground. But the force sucked them into the air, into—
Pop. It vanished. Richard, screaming, found himself falling to the ground. A few feet away from the place where the—the—
Something lay on the ground. A sphere of—Richard looked at the walls. The gates. They were gone. A hole had been torn open in 5th Wall. And then he looked up.
 
—-
 
“—”
Cirille lay on the ground. When she got up, the gates were gone. She didn’t understand.
There was a hole in the wall. The explosive force—a giant, shimmering hammer made of black stone had—she didn’t understand.
“—”
The Drake said it. She looked around, blankly. Why was there a hole in the wall? That wasn’t right.
Two bright lights caught her attention. They were sweeping down the wall. One froze everything it touched. The other arced, electrifying, dancing from body to body.
She didn’t understand. The Drake saw a Gnoll running towards her. His ears were bleeding. A Gorgon seized her, slapped her face. Ser Vorn was looking around, shouting—
“—coming—”
She looked blankly up at Uxel. At Merish. Slowly, Cirille let them drag her forwards. Ossky was on the walls. The parts not destroyed, that was. Shellc was lying on the ground, trying to breathe. A piece of rock had hit him, shattered his ribs.
“Commander.”
At last, Cirille heard. And saw. The Demons were pouring over the walls in the areas cleared by the spells. They were attacking the shattered gates. And behind them—
 
—-
 
Silvenia’s voice was fragmented. She clutched at her chest. The magic—her face flickered.
“Silvenia.”
Flora looked at the broken wall. The half-Elf was doubled over in pain in the projection. But she grinned around the blood dripping from her nose, eyes, mouth—half of her face.
“See? Advance—advance!”
No tactics in it. No strategy. It was just more fun this way. Flora heard the first piece of armor moving. She saw the first body step out of the barrier behind her. Bazeth whirled.
 
—-
 
Reinforcements. A second wave of Demons walked through the wall. A second horde of infantry, as many as the first. Cirille looked at them blankly.
“That’s not fair.”
Ossky looked at the line of bodies, marching fast. Cirille looked around.
Command was dead. Bastion-General Zavarial was dead. Both gates at their location were broken. Spells had cleared sections of the wall. Demons were coming.
“I…how? How did this happen? It should not. A Great Company would have feared to attack this wall! This should not be happening!”
Uxel looked around. His face was blank. His hands shook as they clutched his scimitars.
“Who has done this?”
Merish looked around. The Gnoll stared up at the skies. Blood matted his fur. Cirille turned around again.
“I see.”
That was all she said. The Drake looked around for a superior. But there was no one. Ser Vorn clutched at his armor, broken in two places. The [Knight] looked up at Cirille. His gaze swept across to the others.
“I fear, friends. That we have no hope of victory. If you would retreat—I will hold this ground.”
The others stirred. Uxel looked around desperately, staring at the sky from which annihilation had come.
“Can we even retreat? The Harpies—and those spells. If they have more scrolls—more magic—”
“Commander. Your orders?”
It was Ossky who saluted. The Oldblood Drake stood at parade-rest, as if she were being inspected in Manus. Cirille looked at her. And she nodded.
 
—-
 
The second army of Demons advanced on the broken 5th Wall. Magic came down from the skies in bursts, in the distance.
The entire wall was under attack. The area that had been held by Bastion-General Zavarial stood—but barely. Other sections had been overrun.
Command was dead. The gates were breached. Half of Shel’s Cleansenborne had been destroyed by a single spell.
Rhir’s forces were scattered. Some were still trying to fall back, in larger groups. Harpies assailed them. Demons pursued. And the magic slaughtered them before they broke through the concealing enchantments.
In a way, it meant those still fighting were safest. Or…hiding. The Champions of Rhir and a portion of the armies had retreated inside the remaining sections of the wall, holding the narrow corridors and defensive positions.
But that meant the Demons could take 5th Wall unhindered. It meant they’d overrun the construction work. Taken the entire foothold the Blighted Kingdom had spent decades establishing.
They had to be stopped. Commander Cirille found the other irregular units drifting towards her position.
The Minotaurs. A handful of Garuda. Survivors from other detachments of the army.
A group of half-Elves, led by the master archer, Springwaters. The half-Elf saw the Drakes holding formation at the gates. The Demons were coming.
“They’ve overrun the walls to the east. Two sections. They’re going to surround us from all sides. Are we retreating?”
“There is no safe place from that magic.”
Another voice. Lacten, the [Martial Artist] of Pomle. He had lost an arm. He reattached another now, sewing the limb on.
“4th Wall might not even know there’s an attack. The enchantment spell—no one can cast magic below Tier 4, besides [Shamans] and Oldbloods with their breath attacks.”
“And our creations are stolen, Commander.”
A final group appeared out of the darkness. The [Necromancers]. About twenty of them remained. Hetarria was being supported by two of her soldiers.
Something had torn off her legs. But the Drake wasn’t bleeding; a cap of bone had encased her shins, and two artificial, primitive bone legs were allowing her to be helped along. She tried to salute.
“I beg to report failure, Commander Cirille. The Bone Behemoth is out of our control.”
Cirille turned her head and saw a huge giant made out of bone assailing a section of the walls. She just nodded.
“Can your [Necromancers] fight, Mage-Captain?”
“Hand-to-hand. Even the wands aren’t working. We’ll try to stop our Behemoth.”
That was all that could be said. Cirille looked around. And she realized—there was only her. Perhaps a higher-ranking officer still fought somewhere else along the walls. But right here…
“Commander! A second wave of Demons is coming! Your orders?”
The despairing call came from Viri on the walls. The Lizardman pointed.
A hundred thousand Demon [Soldiers] marched. Identical, numberless. Infantry, with barely any support. But a tide of them to equal the Antinium. They were moving down the entire wall, making for ladders, the broken gates.
The irregulars watched. Merish snarled. How were there so many? The irregulars numbered about ten thousand. They waited, Drake [Soldiers] staring at the endless enemy.
They wavered. Cirille looked about. Her mind was calm and the ice in her body cooled the raging emotions trying to leak in. She turned to the others.
“We have to stand here. We’ll deploy around the breach in the gates. At least we can funnel the enemy through there. Captain Shellc, hold that breach. Uxel, you take our left flank. Cut the enemy down as they come down the stairs and keep them from encircling us. Merish, our right.”
She pointed up, to a ruined siege tower.
“Springwaters, take every archer up there and give us support. Keep the Harpies off our backs. Ser Vorn, your [Knights] will hit any weak points in the line. I want the Minotaurs in reserve—”
The others looked at her. For a second, they wavered. But then the officers moved. Cirille saw the disparate companies moving. She also saw the despair on some faces.
“Listen up! You will hold this ground! The first Drake or Gnoll who deserts—”
Captain Shellc was shouting at the first ranks. Cirille stopped him. She walked forwards. She had been taught that speeches were idiotic, especially in the midst of battle. But she made one anyways, because they all needed to hear it.
The irregulars heard the Drake [Commander] speaking.
“Attention. The Demons are coming. We’re outnumbered. 5th Wall is falling. In another situation, I’d order a retreat. But there’s nowhere to retreat to.”
She looked around. A group of Dwarves took their places next to the Minotaurs. Cirille went on. The Demons were coming.
“We’re foreigners. We came here to fight in Hell. Well—this is it. Hold the line. Each second we buy is another second the Demons don’t get. Another second 4th Wall has to prepare.”
If they even know we’re under attack. The Drake closed her eyes. Then she drew her sword and pointed.
“We don’t run. Soldiers! For the Blighted Kingdom! For the Walled Cities!”
“From the gates of Deríthal-Vel! Grandfathers, watch us!”
A Dwarf bellowed. The Minotaurs lifted their axes. Cirille heard the other commanders shouting. Uxel was screaming something at the enemy. She felt cold. But she smiled anyways.
The Demons hit them nine seconds later.
 
—-
 
She was deaf. She couldn’t hear herself breathing. She couldn’t hear her heart beating, though she felt it. All the Drake heard were the voices.
“—coming over the walls!”
“Lieutenant Ossky!”
Light. Glorious, in the darkness. Five of Shel’s Cleansenborne held the gap, cutting down the Demons coming over ladders. Ossky ran as the blinded enemies charged onto spears. The Drake hacked through one helmet with her sword; another replaced it.
“Springwaters—Uxel’s position! Now! Now!”
The half-Elf whirled as Cirille shouted at him. Arrows struck the Demons, as the Gorgon and Lizardfolk fell back. Stretched too thin. Snarling Gnolls on the right, fighting with Drakes—
“Elites on attack!”
Something cut through a gap in the walls. Cirille pointed.
“Ser Vorn!”
The [Knights] charged. The Drake drew her sword as a section at the gates opened. She shouted.
“6th Spears, Minotaurs on me! [Impact Charge]!”
They hit the enemy and threw them back. Cirille saw a blank face; a helmetless Demon. She stabbed him through the throat, turned—another one cut at her.
“Commander!”
Captain Shellc ran the Demon through from behind. The [Swordsman] grabbed Cirille as she cut again. Again—
“Fall back! Your charge is done!”
That was the only thing Cirille heard. She looked down. Someone had put an arrow through her side. She yanked it out and drank a potion.
Advance. Again and again—the Demons had no fear. No morale to break! A Minotaur squad went down, swinging their axes. The last, her weapon buried in a foe’s midsection, grabbed a Demon and ripped their head off before they brought her down.
Nothing. The other Demons didn’t even pause. They just turned and fought through the gap in the lines. It was worse than fighting Antinium.
“[Shockwave Hammer]! At them!”
A Dwarf brought his hammer down and his warriors moved forwards, in heavy plate. They ignored the blows raining down on them. Cirille breathed. She turned again.
Merish coated one foe’s body with frost and his enchanted axes flashed. A Demon died. He turned—a Demon stabbed him in the stomach. The Gnoll howled.
“Merish!”
A hand grabbed the spear before it could impale the Gnoll. Lacten brought his hand down. He severed the spear and struck the Demon in the face with a blow that snapped the neck, rending armor. He kicked and a Demon flew backwards, metal crumpling. Merish’s warriors dragged him back.
Were they winning? Losing? Cirille didn’t know. She saw the irregulars falling, but cutting down multiple Demons for each one that fell. She looked around.
“Ser Vorn—fall back! Nagas, forwards! Cover his retreat!”
The [Knight] was enmeshed in the fighting at the stairs. His small group pulled back, two [Knights] unhorsed. Cirille saw the flash of light.
But it wasn’t Ossky this time. A shimmering arc cut through the air. She saw a squad of Drakes with spears collapsing. The Demon with the glaive severed their weapons. Then he extended his arm and cut. Armor—bodies—the slash went through them all.
