The Drake pointed, almost relieved. The first Demon not like the others. His horns were white at the tips, and he wore some kind of lamellar armor. He moved like he was dancing.
She wanted to kill him.
“Enemy commander! Springwaters—take him!”
The half-Elf screamed a reply. Cirille spun. A group of Harpies were attacking the [Archers]. Ossky was fighting desperately. But one twice Springwaters’ size had seized him. It dragged him upwards. The [Master Archer] plucked an arrow out of his quiver. His broken bow fell from his hands.
“The Village of the Spring!”
He plunged the arrow into the Harpy’s chest. Cirille saw the flash.
 
—–
 
Ser Vorn saw the half-Elf die. The [Knight] from the Order of the Thirsting Veil saluted the sky as the Harpies retreated. Then he returned to his spear.
A little black vial in his hands. He was coating a bit of cloth with it. Rubbing it over the spear’s tip, careful, as careful as could be. His order used poison. The enemy didn’t seem to be affected by it, though. He had watched them fight on even with the most deadly toxins coursing in their veins. But that one…
“Let the lance-arrows fall from Ailendamus’ walls…”
He realized he was humming under his breath. A song. The [Knight] looked up. Two of his Order were left. He nodded to them.
“The Demon Commander.”
They nodded back. Ser Vorn turned his warhorse. One enemy stood out to him among the rest. A true Demon. He fought on foot, but he was no mere [Soldier]. His glaive spun as he slashed and attacked, cutting down the irregular soldiers before they could even go near him.
The Dwarf [Stone Lieutenant] went down, his armor torn. Ser Vorn nodded.
“Enchanted blade. Don’t try to block it. On me. Sortieing.”
He charged. The remaining six [Knights] on horseback charged with him. A screen of Demons flung themselves forwards. Ser Vorn saw them coming—
“Gorgons!”
A hissing-scream. Ser Vorn saw the flash. His horse stumbled—but the Gorgons slowed the charging Demons. The [Knights] thundered past. Ser Vorn saw Uxel. He lifted one hand. Then gripped the spear tightly.
The Demon Commander saw the [Knights] coming. He set himself, face behind the helmet composed. Not fearless, but a master of fear.
A worthy foe. Ser Vorn leveled his spear. The first [Knight] shouted.
“[Extended L—]”
The Demon cut the air. The snap of the blade of wind hit the [Knight] in the chest. Her armor took the blow, but she reeled. The Demon moved sideways. Ser Vorn saw a flicker—
“Dodge!”
Two [Knights] went down. The glaive cut through their armor as the Demon blurred. Ser Vorn struck.
[Extended Strike]. [Hammer’s Blow].
The Demon blocked it. With the shaft of his glaive, somehow, spinning the weapon. But the impact threw him back.
A second [Knight] brought down a greatsword. The Demon pirouetted. Grace—he caught the blow again on his glaive. A superior enchantment. He swung as the [Knight] passed.
A third one died. Ser Vorn maneuvered. Turning for a second charge. Four [Knights] left. He heard a voice.
“Until my dying breath, from sea to glorious sea—”
Charge again. This time a lance and two spears struck from all sides. The Demon knocked one down; his glaive flashed impossibly fast. A lance was struck, and the rider reeled from broken armor. Ser Vorn saw the glaive spinning his way—
“Vorn!”
A bellowing voice. The Gorgon hurled his scimitar.
[Hurricane Throw]. The Demon [Champion] tried to dodge. The [Knight] thrust his spear. He struck enchanted armor—shouted.
“[Hydra’s Strikes]!”
His spear blurred. The Demon stumbled backwards. Eight wounds bled. Ser Vorn thundered past him as the Demon stumbled.
“Poison.”
Ser Vorn swore he heard the Demon muttering. He should have died before Ser Vorn turned amid the fighting. But today was full of disappointments. The Demon stumbled upright.
“You should be dead, sir.”
The [Knight] lifted his spear. The other [Knights] were separated in the fighting. The Demon’s face was pale in his helmet.
“[Purified Flesh]. Few poisons in this world can even harm me.”
“Drathians.”
A voice spat. Uxel slithered out of the fighting, his armor torn. The Demon [Commander] turned. The Gorgon drew a backup scimitar. Ser Vorn lowered his spear, aiming for the enemy’s chest. The Demon looked at him.
“It is dishonorable to fight two on one, [Knight].”
“I am aware.”
The two commanders charged. The Demon’s glaive spun. Ser Vorn saw Uxel deflect a blow. He stabbed again.
Deeper. The Demon was slowed. The spear sought his heart. The Demon staggered, backing up. Ser Vorn passed him. Turned—
“Bazeth!”
A young woman’s scream. The Demon looked up. Ser Vorn turned. He saw Uxel slashing down—
Crack. It was like thunder. The Gorgon recoiled. His scales opened up. Something had struck him in the shoulder. Ser Vorn’s head turned. He grabbed his shield—
Bang. The impact was heavy. Ser Vorn’s horse reared. The [Knight] reeled. What was that? It was heavy—too fast to see. A spell?
“Flora! Stay back! Silvenia—”
The Demon was shouting. He cut left and right, keeping the Lizardfolk away from him. Uxel was attacking again. But another shot rang out—the Gorgon screamed.
Where? Ser Vorn turned his head. He saw her behind a rank of Demons.
A young woman. Human. Not a Demon at all. The [Knight] hesitated until he saw her raise a piece of metal.
That sound again. So loud he heard it over everything else. The [Knight] felt pain.
His shoulder—the bullet had deformed the enchanted metal! He lowered his lance as he kept his shield up. Ser Vorn charged.
 
—-
 
Flora saw the [Knight] turn from Bazeth. He rode towards her, breaking past the Demons as his spear stabbed again and again. She felt her breath coming fast.
Reload. She’d practiced it countless times on the shooting range. Spent cartridges fell to the ground. She sighted—pulled the trigger.
Five shots this time. The [Knight] reeled. His horse went down. But his shield blocked the bullets. She hit him in the leg and saw the armor deform—
“Flora, retreat!”
Bazeth was trying to reach her. The [Gunslinger] saw the [Knight] charging on foot. He cut through Demons, his spear abandoned, a sword in hand. She reloaded, raised her revolver.
“[Double Tap].”
Two bullets fired simultaneously with one pull. This time he couldn’t stop it. She heard a sound—his shield fell from deadened fingers. Instead of scrambling for it, he ran towards her. She fired again.
Two rounds left. One missed. He actually dodged it, blurring left. A demon [Soldier] struck at him and the [Knight] slowed a second. Flora pulled the trigger again. Another miss. Again—
She hit him in the helmet. The [Knight] was barely twenty paces away. He stumbled. Flora saw him sag backwards. Then he caught himself. The sword cleaved the Demon’s head in half. She stared at his helmet.
Dented. The [Knight] charged, his sword raised. Flora reached for the fast-loader.
And dropped it. She saw the [Knight] running. She didn’t have another. Flora fumbled for the open cylinder. She whispered.
“[A Bullet A Day: Armor Piercing Round].”
She felt something in her fingers. Flora closed the cylinder. She raised the revolver.
Bang.
 
—-
 
Cirille saw Ser Vorn fall. The Drake screamed something. Uxel was howling. The Demon and the Human girl were falling back.
They were dying. Lacten had moved too far in. The [Martial Artist] was fighting in a circle of bodies, alone. He spun, kicked, dodged a flurry of blows—
An arrow struck him in the shoulder. The [Martial Artist] barely slowed as he deflected a thrusting spear. But enough. The Demons ran him through from behind. Lacten kept fighting. He backed up, reaching for a potion.
But there were none left. He vanished. Cirille saw Merish fighting forwards.
“Merish—retreat! [Rapid Retreat]!”
She shouted. The Gnoll howled—but the others dragged him back. The irregulars closed ranks. They were surrounded now. Instead of holding the gates and walls, they held only one section of wall and the gates, forming a rough semicircle.
“Commander—”
“Every archer, I want that Human dead. And that Demon.”
Cirille pointed. The [Archers] loosed, but the Demon’s glaive was cutting down arrows. Cirille heard a scream.
“Bone Behemoth!”
She looked up—and a fist obliterated a group of Gnolls. The undead was attacking.
“Hetarria!”
The [Necromancers] fought with something they couldn’t see. The [Necromancer]-[Captain] was screaming.
“Stop! Damn, you, stop!”
She was cursing at the other [Necromancers] as they struggled, freezing the undead giant as it tried to swipe across the lines of defenders. Then Hetarria’s expression went calm.
“Commander. I think I can stop it.”
“What? Then do it—”
The [Mage-Captain] just nodded.
“I’ll buy you a few minutes.”
She walked forwards as the other remaining [Necromancers] shouted at her. Cirille didn’t see Hetarria—she was looking around.
The last [Knights] fell back, with the Lizardfolk as another Naga died. Uxel stared blankly at the place where Ser Vorn had fallen.
“Where are our reinforcements?”
Cirille whispered. Did they not know? But look—the barrier still covered 5th Wall, for nearly a mile behind and back. She had to imagine whatever was still casting magic in the distance was creating an illusion.
Break it. Break through. But how? The Harpies had the air. They were attacking everyone who ran for the barrier. They’d see it at once, or the magic-user would—
A thought. Cirille’s eyes flickered. She looked up. The Harpies flew in ragged formation, shrieking, striking targets of opportunity.
“Lieutenant Ossky.”
“Commander?”
The Drake was leading the remaining [Archers]. She had not flown in the skies. It would be…suicide. She had less than thirty Drakes now, capable of flight.
“Lieutenant. I want you to fly. Take the battle to the Harpies.”
The Oldblood Drake paled. Cirille cut her off.
“Fight them. Pretend you’re trying to clear our position. Then fly higher. Every Oldblood with a breath attack—once you break through the enchantment, use it. That is your order.”
Ossky looked at Cirille. Her eyes flickered. There were at least four times as many Harpies up there. And the magic was coming from above. Cirille waited.
The Oldblood Drake saluted.
“It will be done, Commander. 1st Wing. To me.”
 
—-
 
“Hold your ground! Hold! I said—”
Captain Shellc was reaching for the healing potions he’d used up for the umpteenth time when he heard the bellow from above.
“First Wing, to the skies! Archers, supporting fire!”
The skies? The [Captain] stumbled back, away from the walls, for a clear view.
“Ossky! Are you mad? Come back! Come—”
The Drakes flew. Two Garuda joined them, shedding their armor. The Drakes were armed with a single weapon each, and their armor was light.
They flew. At first, the Demons didn’t seem aware of their presence. The Harpies were incredulous. They dove at the Drakes, shrieking, maneuvering in the air, as agile as Garuda. The Drakes were heavier. Slower.
But they could breathe magic. The sky lit up.
“Ossky! Come back!”
Shellc roared. But he heard another voice, bellowing from the walls.
“Lieutenant Ossky! Fly! Aim up!”
Drakes were falling from the skies. The last two Garuda went down, tangling with Harpies. They had armor too. And Skills. Ossky’s light flashed and the Harpies screamed, blinded. She was flying higher. But the Harpies tangled with her.
 
—-
 
She wasn’t going to make it. Cirille saw the Drake struggling; the Harpies were dragging at her, trying to shred her wings and throw her to earth! There were too many! The Drakes closed around her, fighting, breathing flame and then air that knocked the Harpies back. Ossky fought to get clear—
An arrow struck one of the Drakes protecting her and he fell. The Harpies closed in. She slashed at them with her sword, cursing. But she was panting, unable to breathe again so rapidly. Cirille saw wings—
And a flash of scales. Something flew into the sky, past the arrows. High—higher. Like a bird.
“Viri?”
Uxel looked up. The Lizardman flew higher. He struck a Harpy and leapt, using the Demon like a foothold. His staff lashed out as he struck them. They recoiled as the little [Longstick Jumper] screamed.
“Go—”
He fell.
 
—-
 
Ossky flew. She dropped her sword. Her armor fell away. She left the Harpies as she flew higher. Higher—faster than the others.
Up. Through the dark enchantment in the sky. It turned the world silent. But the Drake knew there had to be sky above. She flew higher—the air grew thin but the magic in her carried her up until—
The sky. Ossky broke through the miasma. She gasped. The stars were out. In the distance, 4th Wall shone, distant lights. Monarch’s Pass and the Demon lands. The Drake inhaled as she aimed at the clouds. The light grew in her chest, shining—
And her jaws snapped shut. The Drake froze, clawing at her mouth. She couldn’t—breathe! Or speak or open her mouth—
She heard laughter. And from above, she saw her.
The half-Elf. Silvenia waved a finger as she called forth a comet of light and flung it at a distant section of the walls. She pointed down and Ossky saw the illusion.
5th Wall, unbroken, completely normal. [Soldiers] were at ease on the walls. A few bats flitted through the air, just below Ossky. A perfect illusion.
The Demon raised a finger to her lips.
“Ah, ah. No breathing. But it was a good try.”
She watched as Ossky’s wings wavered. The Drake had no oxygen. No air. Ossky felt the world growing dark. As dark as the world below. 
They were dying. Viri was—Vorn—the Drake tried to fly at the half-Elf. Silvenia just flew above her, laughing and watching the Drake die. Ossky screamed but no sound came from her lips. The light was burning in her chest. Burning—
Silvenia saw the Drake clawing at her throat. The half-Elf turned back to the battle, narrowing her eyes. Then her gaze swung up. She saw Ossky digging into her throat. Tearing her scales. Silvenia raised a hand.
And then there was light. Ossky’s throat flashed. The sky turned golden. The flash was followed by thunder.
Lightning. A thousand arrows of light. They shredded the Drake’s body. She fell back to earth, through the milling Harpies.
But they saw it.
 
—-
 
Cirille saw the light. It shone down through even the magical darkness. She heard Shellc screaming.
“Ossky!”
How long had it been? How long would it be? Had the enemy a way to explain that? Cirille didn’t know. But she knew something.
They just had to hold out until dawn. The sky was lightening. Even in the darkness spell, she could tell. Dawn would see reinforcements, and the enemy couldn’t cover the walls forever.
She had to believe that.
“Hold out until dawn! Until dawn!”
The Drake shouted to everyone and no one. The irregulars moved together.
