“Arm up and get topside! Now!”
 
—-
 
The sirens shrilled across 5th Wall for miles as the spell lifted. Waking sleeping soldiers, alerting others. Those under the mental fog felt it fade and reacted at last.
Too late. Or just in time. Richard fell out of his bed, reaching for his sword but recalling tornado sirens—he rose.
“We’re under attack! Emily—get Chloe out of here!”
A [Nurse] screamed as the other Earthers scrambled out of their bunks. Fear, real fear gripped Richard. A surprise attack? Half of them had died close to 5th Wall. Half of them—he heard another sound from above. The roar of voices. The clash of metal.
Battle.
 
—-
 
Tom looked up and around. The [Clown] saw the dark skies flash. And Bastion-General Zavarial’s arrow lifted the darkness. Tom had no time to appreciate the relief. He turned.
“Why are there so many Demons!?”
There were hundreds on the wall. Tom saw them now. He threw eight knives, each one hitting a target and snatched. A Demon running at him, virtually a clone of the other faceless figures he’d been cutting down, flailed, suddenly bereft of his blade. Tom stabbed him. It was such a familiar sensation these days.
The Gloomless Troupe was locked in combat. They charged the enemy, as fearless as their foe. Tom laughed, feeling the other him reveling in the fighting. Or was it just Tom?
“Is it me? Is it me or me?”
He found himself stabbing someone on the ground. The [Clown] rolled away just in time; arrows hit the battlements. One stuck out of his leg. Tom laughed instead of screaming. He rolled over again—
And found Tom staring at him. The two [Clowns] staggered upright. They blinked at each other. Then they turned. One stabbed a Demon through the helmet; the other bum-rushed another and smacked into him. The Demon went flying. Off the walls.
Into a sea of Demons climbing from below. Thousands of black-armored figures, assailing 5th Wall.
A damn army. Tom looked around. No giants. Arrows—he took cover as the other Tom pulled an arrow out of his shoulder and stabbed his opponent in the eye with it. Just infantry.
Thousands and thousands of them, assailing the wall as far as the eye could see. Tom shouted.
“Fire the damn wall spells! I don’t have enough knives for all of them! Heh. Hahah—”
The wall stood there. Gray stone, no flickers of magic appearing. Tom looked around. And then he realized—aside from Hetarria, still fighting for control of the Bone Behemoth, he didn’t see any magic.
No magic at all.
 
—-
 
—Dove. Even as his arrow cleared the skies, the half-Elf had lunged. For the stairs, leading down from the tower.
He nearly made it. The half-Elf was halfway down the stairs, braced for the wall when his momentum ceased. He felt himself rising.
“No.”
He reached for a handhold. Anything. But something picked him up. Carrying him higher into the sky.
Around the Bastion-General, the world brightened. The enchantment affecting the wall vanished. The stars reappeared. The alarm began to spread. The half-Elf twisted, seeing the army.
“…sixty thousand. Eighty…dead gods. Quiteil? Quiteil. This is Zavarial. Code Shelten-Khelt-[Brigand]-Dirt. A hundred thousand attacking 5th Wall. At least. All infantry. Some kind of [Mage]. I regret to inform you of my—”
The backup, single-use speaking stone slipped from his fingers. The Brigade-General watched it fall. Always make plans. Quiteil had taught him that. He should have carried two. But he had heard nothing from that one either.
Zavarial felt himself rising higher, into the air. Above the ballista now firing into the mass of enemies below.
He had done his duty. 5th Wall fought. But…the real enemy was invisible to him.
The half-Elf drew another arrow to his bow. A Deathslayer Arrow. It cost over ten thousand gold pieces to produce. It was reserved for only the greatest foes. He had fired one at the serpent-titan. Now, he held the others in his fingers. Looking for a target.
The Bastion-General floated in the air, hundreds of feet higher than the wall now. Higher. Higher. He looked around, his eyes searching the ground for anything. But the Demon [Soldiers] were identical. He spotted a few irregular figures. But where?
Then he heard the laughter. It came from above. Zavarial twisted and looked up. Still higher. He stared, and his eyes widened.
“Who are you?”
He shot before he screamed. The Deathslayer arrow flew upwards, sent by half a dozen Skills to his target.
It winked out of existence. The half-Elf in the skies, hidden among the clouds, laughed at him.
“Goodbye, little [General]. You did well. Thank you for your voice.”
She pointed. Zavarial fell back towards the tower. Faster—faster—he aimed up with two arrows. Shouted—
“[Double Sh—]”
The explosion consumed him and the tower.
 
—-
 
“Hm.”
Bastion-General Quiteil woke up. He couldn’t have said why. Instinct? Paranoia?
He woke up many times each week. Fueled by a sudden thought, some unconscious conclusion, bad food…but the Bastion-General trusted his gut.
Quiteil of 4th Wall had placed his bedroom next to the office where he worked. Cirille had observed it was more like a [Secretary]’s office. Well and so—it was. And his bedroom was far smaller than the room dedicated to maps, communication devices, documents, and so on.
“Night-Commanders, report in.”
The [Secretary] picked at the corruption on his right arm as he keyed a group of speaking stones. Instantly, they lit up as the Night-Commanders on duty for 4th Wall gave their codes and reports. Nothing new. One reported eighteen bats; a completely irrelevant detail in most other armies that would have got him laughed at for paranoia.
Here? Quiteil made a note in case it was shape shifted enemies or spies from some [Beast Master]. Although the wall was enchanted to detect such things and he had sentries with detection Skills.
But that was Quiteil’s vigilance. The Bastion-General demanded more details from one [Commander]. Then he checked the other walls. 3rd, 2nd, 1st—and the capital reported all was well.
“5th Wall, report in. Code is…”
There was a brief moment of silence as Quiteil checked the war-maps. Nothing of note on 5th Wall. And then he heard Zavarial’s voice, crisp, a bit irritated. It was close to midnight, after all.
“Code Shelten-Khelt-[Brigand]-Dirt. All is well, Quiteil.”
“I see. Thank you. Apologies for the disturbance.”
The Bastion-General closed the connection. He sat back and had a few thoughts.
The code was good. No issues there. Second, no other disturbances anywhere else. All was well.
However…Zavarial was awake at a late hour. But that was perfectly natural and it had happened before. Many times, in fact.
Still—he was not Bastion-General Quiteil for nothing. The man keyed another stone.
“Commander Cirille. Report in.”
Until he was fully confident, he would do this all night. He had before.
 
—-
 
It took them three minutes for Cirille’s company to arm. Which was no time at all in most circumstances. Far too long for a night attack. But the Drakes and Gnolls were armored and assembled. After three long minutes.
The explosion that had shook 5th Wall from overhead hadn’t repeated itself. Nevertheless, Cirille waited, vibrating with nerves. She had sent Shellc’s squad ahead, and was bellowing at her officers to get above now!
She was just about to go above when her speaking-stone chimed. The Drake whirled, eyes wide.
The magic was working! None of her [Mages] had been able to send [Message] spells! Not even conjure [Light]! But now, she heard Bastion-General Quiteil responding.
“Commander Cirille. Report in. Night code is Invinctel-Surreptitious—”
“Bastion-General! We’re under attack! Er—Code Viridian-Adamantium-Salazsar-Terrium!”
The Drake shouted into the stone. She heard nothing from the other side for a second.
“Bastion-General, the spell is widespread and there are Demons on the walls. Unknown number; they had suborned command of undead forces and—”
“—this is Commander Cirille. Code Viridian-Adamantium-Salazsar-Terrium. Nothing of note to report, Bastion-General.”
Cirille heard her voice, coming from the speaking stone. The Drake froze.
“I see. Commander, how many arrows are currently stockpiled in your division?”
“I’d…have to consult my [Quartermaster], Bastion-General. One moment.”
“Bastion-General!”
The Commander screamed, but she knew it was no use. Someone was mocking her. And Quiteil’s voice was distant.
“No, never mind. Apologies, Commander Cirille.”
“Not at all, Bastion-General. Cirille out.”
The stone went dead. Cirille stared at it. That had been her voice, perfectly replicated. Her claw tightened around the stone. Then she heard a voice as the stone lit up for a second.
“Out of curiosity, how many arrows do you have?”
The Drake threw the stone to the ground and smashed it with the heel of her boot. She whirled.
“Officers, our speaking spells are compromised! 4th Wall is not aware of the attack! We need to find Bastion-General Zavarial and send word now! Move out!”
She ran for the wall. She never found Zavarial. The place where he stood was ash and burnt stone. And the Demons climbing the ladders had turned the wall into a bloody battleground. The Drakes advanced.
 
—-
 
Quiteil sat back in his seat. He had a few more thoughts.
He’d asked about arrows just the other day. It was conceivable that Cirille had forgotten. Also—she had been quite pleasant despite his history of interrupting her speech.
Just minor things. Perhaps she was holding her tongue and being civil. Perhaps she thought he wanted a full count.
He didn’t deal in ‘perhaps’. Quiteil touched another stone.
“[Scouts]. Report in. 5th Wall.”
Rhir had sentries posted in the dangerous lands between here and 5th Wall, watching for infiltrators. In towers, hidden—each one reported in.
“The Wall looks completely normal from a distance, Bastion-General. I can see [Soldiers] moving about; absolutely nothing of note.”
A [Sharpshooter] informed the Bastion-General. Quiteil nodded. He had conducted a perfect survey of 5th Wall. All was well. He sat back in his chair. All was fine.
Quiteil didn’t go back to sleep. Slowly, he keyed another stone. And then another, simultaneously.
“Commander Uxel, report in. Ser Vorn, report your status.”
His eyes flickered at the pause before their voices reported. Slowly, Quiteil pulled out an hourglass of sand and flicked four stones.
 
—-
 
Commander Cirille looked across 5th Wall. And at last, she saw hell.
Demon [Soldiers], coated in metal, climbed onto the wall from ladders. They had claimed two gates and were storming the walls from the inside. In the distance, she saw places where the wall had been overrun.
All before her division had even reached the battlements. Captain Shellc stared around, his mouth open.
“Impossible.”
But it was happening. The area around Cirille was the most stable. She saw Rhirian [Soldiers] fighting with the Demons, holding their lines.
Because of Bastion-General Zavarial. The half-Elf’s arrow had dispelled a massive radius, lifting the enchantment and buying the precious minutes needed. Now, his commanders were pushing forwards, trying to retake the walls.
“Commander, we need to link up with our other forces! The Demons are trying to seize the gates! Take your forces and push across the wall until you reach reinforcements!”
The sub-[General] bellowed. He pointed down the wall; Cirille saw the Demons fighting there. Tom and his Gloomless Troupe were advancing down the other side, but they’d already taken heavy casualties.
“Yes sir! Captain Shellc, move forwards! Spearwall formation! Where is Bastion-General Zavarial?”
The two [Commanders] hung back, shouting. The sounds of battle raged around them, but there was still that eerie silence. And now—Cirille saw black walls ahead and behind of her. The world cut off past those points. They were enclosed by some massive enchantment. Her scales tingled.
Tier 7? Or…higher?
“Dead. I saw him fall before something destroyed the siege tower. We have yet to receive word from 4th Wall. We are sending [Messengers] on foot, but—”
Both heard a shriek from above. They ducked and an [Archer Captain] bellowed.
“Harpies diving! Take cover!”
The [Archers] aimed up. But the figures flashed past the wall. Cirille saw a Harpy up close—a female figure, garbed in light cloth armor, with no legs or arms. Instead—a bird’s massive wings and talons for legs. Only her torso was humanoid. Her face was twisted in a snarl as she dove—
Below, a [Messenger] dove. But the Harpy dragged him up and then dove and dropped him. Cirille saw the body hit the ground.
“Harpies?”
“Yes. No Demon Giants. No [Mages]. They have archers, but no siege weapons—the Harpies only number a few hundred, but they have the skies! They only go after our [Messengers]! I don’t understand it.”
The Demons were attacking with numbers rather than any kind of army. Cirille looked around.
“Have you tried—”
The Dullahan snapped at her.
“We’ve sent a hundred [Messengers] from every point on the wall! They never make it! Take your command and clear that section, Commander!”
He whirled back to the furious defense. Cirille looked around.
Arrows in the sky. Flashes of light as potions were used, or Skills. Shouting, screams—the Demons made little sound as they advanced.
But no magic. Her [Mages] were helpless. Something was suppressing the magic of 5th Wall. If it hadn’t been, they would have torn this army apart with the same spells.
Something was stalking them. Cirille turned back to the Dullahan.
“Sir, someone was intercepting my speaking stone—”
“I know. Go, Commander.”
She ran, seeking her command. Cirille saw a flash of scales, saw the lines of her forces. Then saw them. The Demons turned, spilling onto the wall.
Like insects. They looked identical. Faceless, behind covered visors. The Drakes slowed.
“Spearwall formation! Squad, on me!”
Shellc bellowed. In front of him, Drakes with long spears lowered them. They kept their shields up as arrows fell in scattered bursts.
The Demons advanced. But their formation was weaker, scattered. They were trickling onto the walls from ladders.
“Soldiers, advance at a walk!”
Commander Cirille drew her sword. She walked, under the cover of fellow [Soldier]’s shields as her division spread out across the wall. The Demons ran forwards, disengaging Rhir’s [Soldiers].
“[Archers]! Loose!”
Lieutenant Ossky had command of the [Archers]. Arrows rained down from Drake bows, downing the Demons. But their armor was tough. The Drake looked up.
“1st Wing—”
“Belay that order, Ossky! The skies aren’t safe! Foot combat! Oldbloods! Prepare to breathe! Advance at a trot!”
