A flare went up, somewhere past this meadow, a bright sphere of fire, flying up towards the sky before it exploded in bright flame. Another spell followed, this one arcane in nature, then a sphere of smoke, then ice, and crystal. Ilea watched as mages of all species and schools of magic sent their spells towards the sky. Hundreds and soon thousands of individual pieces of magic, sent out by people, all with their own history, their own connection to these events.

They were those who remained. They had fought.

And they would fight again.

Ilea raised her hand and smiled, forming a single sphere of ash above her palm before she sent it up and outwards, her magic joining that of thousands before she willed it to disperse and join the clouds of mist and smoke.

The spells soon slowed and then died down, only few single ones still firing upwards.

Ilea healed two people in the range of her domain, both of them hit by stray debris, the collective gesture not necessarily practical with hundreds of mages involved. She could see a few barriers and healers rushing through the crowd now that conversations started up once more.

She breathed in deep and glanced at her companions. Dale and Walter who she knew the longest but also Erik and Verillion who she had fought with against Ravana and the void. “I don’t suppose you have some ale with you?” she said, looking at Walter.

He smiled and nodded towards Harthome and his large backpack, then glanced to Erik and Verillion. “You two are of course invited as well.”

“I’d prefer some dragonblood but I’m happy to try,” Verillion said.

“We can visit Ravenhall later, if you want to,” Ilea said. “I’m sure we can get you some blood. But I have to ask, mine wasn’t to your liking?”

“Blood offered from a friend is consumed with the due respect, and yours, I would only use in the most dire of battles.” The vampire paused. “I’ll take you up on that offer, if you would have me. It’s been a long while since I’ve had a day to sightsee.”

“There really is no need to hold back. I can give you a few hearts if you want to, I can regrow them near instantly.”

Verillion held up a hand. “There is no need to further destabilize our economy, Lilith. I will try some ale for now but I appreciate the generous offer.”

Ilea received her cup and raised it towards the others.

“To those we lost,” Dale said.

Ilea locked eyes with him for a moment, and then she drank.
