And then he recoiled almost instantly, smacked by Sidjin’s rising aura of intimidation.

His skill tasted differently than hers. It spoke of a great harvest, of bones exposed to the sun. It was less who he was and more what he could do, what he had done, and would do again. It felt less personal than Viv’s skill but Sidjin was also more distant when he fought. The mage reacted by standing between the two brothers with his hand clearly on a focus.

“Cast a spell in my house and I will consider this an attack,” Sidjin warned.

“Would it be too much to expect you two to behave?” the northerner mage asked in a calm voice.

Not just a bodyguard then.

“If you insult my paramour in my house again, I will kill you where you stand.”

Viv had let Sidjin defend her because it was him who was really targeted, and also because he was the host. Appearance and honor were important. That didn’t mean she couldn’t add her contribution now that he had made his position clear. Especially because the enemy mage’s jaws were clenched.

Viv deployed her own intimidation, immediately clashing with two auras. Sidjin’s brother tasted like hot sand and a sharp blade while the mage was final heat. Hers was younger but no less powerful for it. Her soul spoke to them of wings, scales, the woosh of a breath that could scour the very rock. Cold carnage.

“We’ll send you back to Glastia in picnic baskets,” she helpfully added.

Now the small study was very, very cramped. Viv wasn’t sure what effect she was having on the other two. They sure didn’t react. After a while, the other prince spoke slowly, articulating every syllable.

“I need an answer, brother.”

“I will speak if and when I decide. In the meanwhile, get lost. Now.”

The other prince waited for three seconds just to be a twat, then he made his way out. Viv stepped aside to let him pass. The mage stopped and glared, his eyes reddening.

It was a cheap trick, just channeling mana in the iris. Only fine tuning was required. Viv turned her own iris fully black and shook her head in her best ‘now fucking what’ expression. He left.

Sidjin sat down heavily for a quarter of a second, then he jumped back up and she was in his arms a moment later. His hand patted her back. He smelled of soap and of Sidjin.

“I am sorry you had to see that.”

“Relatives? Will you be fine?”

“I do not want to concern you with my problems.”

Viv broke the hug and stepped back, eyebrows raised and arms crossed.

“It will affect you anyway, will it not?” he asked with a sad smile.

“I mean I just threatened to turn a Glastian prince into a small, easily transportable format so…”

“Right. I was dead until recently, at least officially, so now there is the matter of the heir to the throne and my position in the list. My brother dear would like me to officially renounce my title.”

“Oh, succession wars. How exciting!”

“Duels, actually.”

“Ah, well I have just the guy.”
