Viv walked through unadorned (of course) corridors.

“Is this place always so gloomy?” Viv asked the majordomo, a tall black man she suspected might double as a bodyguard.

“The general has taken the initiative to bring proper tea on every trip, because he has been disappointed so many times. He would bring carpets but as a general, he has to set an example.”

“What about booze?”

“I will not confirm or deny any information about the general’s cellar.”

They found Jaratalassi in a small office with the same bare furniture as everywhere else. The man’s uniform was a pristine white but he had deep pockets under his eyes and a few more gray hairs in his beard. He watched Viv get in, then blinked owlishly.

“Viviane? What are you doing here?”

Viv felt paranoia claw at her chest with cold fingers. She readied a shield and looked around.

“You called me here?”

“Oh, yes I did.”

False alarm, though the majordomo looked at her curiously.

“Sorry,” the general said. “It has been a very long week.”

“And you have yet to celebrate,” Viv reminded him.

Jaratalassi glared. Then he removed two small glasses from a drawer as well as an old bottle with a tattered label, handwritten. Viv had spent enough time drinking homemade hooch in Provence to know this was the good stuff.

“Want some? As an apology for the wait.”

“With pleasure.”

“Kit, do we have any of that jerky left?”

“I’m afraid not sir.”

“Damn shame.”

“I’ll see what I can do.”

The majordomo left the both of them alone. Viv taught him how to clink glass, then they sipped from the bottle. It was floral and powerful with a sweet, persistent aftertaste after the alcohol had scraped every taste bud clean. Viv thought it was nice. She also detected a hint of life mana, which only enhanced the drink.

“I see you’ve proven the worth of your ‘combined arms’ approach to sieges and maneuvering. You have identified its weaknesses well according to what my reports say. I should demote someone for letting a warborn reach you.”

Viv shrugged.

“I wouldn’t have done it if I were not confident in my close quarter potential.”

“Yes. Though I would advise you to get a bodyguard.”

“Oh I have some pretty good ones.”

“Yes, well, in any case I am not confident this is the best use of war mages, however I cannot deny that you saved the lives of many men and so I grant you full grade for your thesis. You proposed a strategy, then went to the battlefield and proved its viability, as is fitting. Well done. Write a paper and you will have graduated.”

“You don’t want to see me work as part of a team?”

Jaratalassi waved her concerns aside.

“You’ve done it during training. And I cannot grade you for logistics since your attunement is ill-suited to it. Actually, I can, because of the portal spell. Full marks.”

The majordomo returned at this moment with grilled skewers. He waved his hand over them, possibly a skill, then gave it to them.

“Poison free,” Jaratalassi explained to a flabbergasted Viv.

“Oh.”

“Always a concern. But I digress. You pass, that is all.”

He sighed.

“Is something wrong? I have never seen a sadder victor,” Viv said.

“Yes the White Orchard knights said the same thing, but they miss the point.”

“Alright, what is the point then?”

Jaratalassi stared and Viv got the feeling he was calculating if the rant was worth the energy expenditure.

“Where are the rest of them?” He finally said, pointing at a wall where a map of the border was pinned.

“You mean the rest of the Halurian invasion?”

“Yes! Yes, dammit. We are celebrating as if the danger was gone but we have only faced the forces of a single warlord, a fraction of what we would usually fight off. Where are the rest of them? All border fortresses report no contact. No scouts have detected anything more than piddling raider bands. Where’s the meat, the faceless mages, the desert bone bowmen? The capital warborns? Where have they gone?”

“Any contact north or south?”

“Nothing north, but those are crags and mountains, and you would lose half your army to monsters trying to cross that hellhole. As for the south, it’s tundras and the deep forests of the wild folk but we would know if something was off. There are still merchants and coastal cities there. They have to be somewhere.”

“I never asked in class because I didn’t expect a straight answer, but don’t you have a spy network?”

“Spies!” the general bellowed, arms raised. He refilled his cup before speaking again.

“Spies in Haluria. Hah, you do not get it. You think there are peddlers and travelers and normal trade there. There is not. Think families, only larger. There are no strangers admitted unless they are vouched for and here for a purpose. Everyone knows everyone and if no one knows you, you are dead. That is the reality in Haluria. We cannot place spies because we cannot even establish contact to turn someone. The only snippets we get are from rare prisoners and when their leaders betray each other. Even then, it only goes in one direction.”

“But there is a diaspora, a recent one. Surely, they know someone you could convince.”

“You might be onto something,” Jaratalassi admitted, “yet even then Halurian society would be difficult to penetrate, not to mention each warlord would require their own spy network. Do not count on me to organize such a thing. My time is better spent juggling the various knight’s giant egos and I assure you, it takes more dedication than it should. If only I could work with the Entikku girls…”

“That order of female soldiers?”

“Yes. Disciplined. Celibate, sadly.”

He took another sip.

“They’re on the Glastian wall. A pity that. Anyway, I believe I am due some shut eye. You should rest as well. Sardanal knows when the next catastrophe will occur.”

He yawned.

“Off you go, strange witch. See you again on the battlefield, hopefully on the same side.”

***

It took a day for Viv to get supplies and a way home with a caravan of wounded soldiers. She said goodbye to a proud Cernit and his men, and paid a visit to the camp of the Order of the White Orchard. The knights were having some sort of political games based around having the biggest tent and inviting people in for wine and sweetmeats. It felt like a more elaborate version of a high school clique dynamics. Fortunately, the victuals made up for it.

Nobody tried to bed or even flirt with Viv, something that would have happened in another place with lots of hot-blooded young warriors and a dearth of ladies. A lazy analysis revealed that a couple of senior knights from different factions prevented their juniors from trying it. That was fine since some of them didn’t look a day over eighteen, but she still wondered if it was a mark of protective respect or if she was ‘radioactive’. It was possible the Enorians didn’t like her much, even the rebels. It wouldn’t surprise her if the Baranese preferred to wait until she survived a bit longer before making ties, if not their leaders then at least his subordinates.

Or maybe they just didn’t like her.

Viv realized she should try to talk to Sangor, establish a good relationship with her neighbor. She’d postponed that for too long because important matters had required her attention, yet she had to resign herself to the obvious. Harrak needed diplomacy. One that Solfis would have as little to do with as possible.

Finally, she was ready. As they departed, she considered her progress.

Arcane Constructs: Intermediate 4

That was a nice bonus considering she had not been truly enchanting, but rather using forged signs in new and creative ways. The largest bonus was shield mastery, however.

Beginner 2 to 6

That was a massive improvement not born just from her use of shields in combat but also from their power and adaptability. With aegis as a base, she could change the nature of the shield to better answer the threats she was facing. This didn’t just extend to her magical shield but to the way she held her physical one as well, though it felt a little redundant. Viv wondered if she could anchor a shield on, well, her real shield, and strengthen them somehow. She would have the experiment later. In any case, her defenses were now extremely powerful, well in line with her very important project of not dying.

Finesse: 24

That was a pleasant surprise, though not necessarily that helpful. Viv depended on her mental statistics for reacting to danger by casting defensive. A higher finesse would open options to dodge more effectively since shadow transportation had conditions and took some time to activate. It would also help with her perception to some extent. Not exactly the most useful advantage but it was always good to have.

All in all it had been a good haul. There was only one important matter to attend to before she could get back to the Academy and attend to her unfinished business there.

***

They had first met in an empty cave with still water and a dead world beyond. Now, their last meeting for a while would happen in a meadow by the sea. The sky was just as gray but it was snow, not death. The air smelled crisp like a winter morning with a hint of iodine, far away from the bustle and refuse of humanity. Sleepy trees waited in silence for the return of spring. It was secluded and peaceful.

Arthur barely had to stand to wrap her arms around Viv, her heavy serpentine head resting on the witch’s hair. Arthur smelled of mana and she was very, very hot. Her scales were smooth. Viv hugged her back.

After a while, they parted.

Arthur was taller and much stronger than Viv now, she who had once fit in her arms. Was this how it felt to have a teenage kid? To have who once depended on her be her own person, with her own plans and projects, with her own ability to affect the world? It tore at Viv’s heart but at the same time, she felt proud. It was just a shame it had taken so little time…

Mother, I must go.

I must fly and see.

I want to meet others like me.

“I know. Judgement said you would outgrow me. I just didn’t think it would be so soon.”

Not outgrow.

Become my own.

I waited so long in that cave.

Now I am free.

You saved me, mother.

“I think we saved each other.”

Of course, after.

I am mighty dragon.

“When you meet the others, don’t fight them, please?”

Of course I fight them.

Arthur stood again and spread her wings.

Fight to learn.

“Remember the green one we met in the Deadshield Woods. Large and dangerous? His name was Wind over Spring Meadow or something?”

He is stupid.

Lives in forest like a tree.

Cannot eat fish or get back brushed by wise humans who know what to do.

No pillows.

Complete idiot.

“He’s much bigger.”

Mother fought much bigger foes.

Ate them.

They were delicious.

Also, older dragons do not kill young dragons. I know this.

Sparring is important.

“Okay. I believe you. Just be careful, please?”

Just like mother.

“Consider me officially terrified.”

Carefully do not-careful things.

“I was not the best role model, alright?”

But you were!

Make den.

Acquire servants.

Acquire pillows.

Acquire food.

Acquire gold.

Pour gold down enemy throat!

Very scary.

Mother best model.

“I just want you not to get hurt.”

Life hurts.

“Don’t go philosophical on me now, you know what I mean.”

Arthur rolled her head dramatically.

Yes yes yes.

I am not gone for good.

I return often.

For important scritches.

“Please do. And send me letters if you can.”

Yes.

Paid upon reception.

“You know you can spend some of your own money?”

Can.

Will not.

I go now, find more gold!

“Go then,” Viv said, feeling misty-eyed.

I will return.

When I return can I be treasury minister?

“Who taught you that?”

Solfis said it was called that.

Can spend money.

If not my own!

“You’re ready to be a politician then. Off you go you small rascal, and come back safe.”

You be safe too, become part better.

Then we live forever.

“Good plan.”

Mother.

Try to grow wings.

Is very important.

“Okay.”

More so than scales.

I go now.

Despite Arthur’s words, she still hugged Viv for another minute, then she stepped back. Viv expected the dragon girl to spread her wings, but instead mana shifted and a large portal opened to a rocky landscape blasted by the winds.

This is how I win.

With magic!

Bye bye!

The portal closed as she took off.

“Wait, I never taught her that!”

***

After the separation, only one thing could salvage the day. Viv teleported back to Sidjin’s mansion on the edge of Helock. She moaned her dismay to find no one was around the lab. Surprised, she made her way up the stairs to Sidjin’s study where he would sometimes retire to read between two research sessions. She noted that he purchased some fencing equipment, eager to regain his former shape now that he was feeling much better. To her surprise, she heard voices coming from the closed room. Male voices. They quieted down when she approached. Her presence was known.

Viv knocked on the door rather than turning tail.

“Come in.”

Sidjin’s voice was cold and regal, not a voice she had heard before. The crammed study hosted two men on top of its owner and the mass of books he had managed to accumulate in a short period of time. One of them bore a strange resemblance to her loved one down to the wavy hair and short beard. The other was a northerner with the aura of a mage and heavy armor. He felt out of place in this cozy retreat, though Viv wore her armored robe as well. But Viv was home and he was a stranger. Sidjin was tense though a stranger could not tell with how in control he appeared.

“You allow your whores free reign over your house, brother?” the man said.

