I dreamed I was sleeping in my bed, with worried voices speaking loudly overhead. I couldn’t tell who had trespassed here, only that they had come in secret and stood around me, speaking anxiously and quickly. As I was dreaming, I missed most of what was said, but I knew it was important. I tried to remember, to grasp the words as they flitted by, but like memory and water, they flowed away, leaving me only with an impression. Snippets of a conversation.
 
“Is it time…?”
“I don’t think so.”
“…sure?”
“…we’re early. We…here!”
“…trouble!”
“Let’s…”
“Wait!”
“…We’re not…”
“…remember to…”
“…!”
“And…! …okay? Remember!”
“Quick…before—”
 
And then I woke up.
 
Day 85
 
As dreams went, it wasn’t the worst I’ve had by far. Not the best either—it was mainly confusing. I’ve had good dreams and bad dreams aplenty. Of course, I don’t remember most of them, and I never ‘see’ dreams.
Because of course, I’m blind. Hello, I’m Laken Godart, [Emperor] of the Unseen Empire. Protector of Durene’s Cottage, sovereign of the village of Riverfarm, Windrest, Tunslaven, Kiquel…and so on.
I’ve got a lot of titles. A lot of power. And yet, it feels like only yesterday that I was a normal young man, walking around in San Francisco. Forever ago and yesterday. Strange—I sometimes forget what my friends’ voices sound like. There are so many around me each day, asking me questions.
“Laken, do you want eggs on your, uh, weird potatoes, bacon, and onions?”
Sometimes the questions are good questions and come from people you love. Nevertheless, I roll my eyes as I get up.
“No eggs for me. And it’s called bratkartoffeln, Durene. Honestly, I keep telling you. How hard is it to remember?”
“Hey! I try, but—oh, you’re joking.”
I smile to myself at the sound of Durene’s voice. I can tell she’s in the kitchen, delicately stirring the fried potatoes with a long-handled spoon. She transfers the hot food to a plate and comes to sit by me as I dress and move towards the small table in her cottage. I have a chair—she uses the floor. We’re still pretty much on the same level because she’s a good bit taller than me. Bigger, too.
She’s half-Troll. And a [Paladin]. It’s a long story. I eat breakfast happily with Durene, talking about the day until a loud squawk interrupts us. A large and, apparently, blue bird is making a racket. She smells breakfast and wants in.
“Shut up, Frostwing.”
I toss some bacon at her and sense her catch the bit of meat and worry at it. Placated for a few moments, I turn back to Durene and keep eating. It’s wonderful to be able to sense where every part of your meal is on your plate. It’s what I always imagined sight to be like, but better, since I can sense everything in my domain. And that means I can sense everything from Durene scratching her leg, to Frostwing behind me, to the Mossbear snuffling around our front door—
“Um, Durene. He’s back.”
“Is he?”
Durene gets up, and I sense her opening the door. Feel it too—it’s no longer cold, and the breeze actually feels quite nice. Spring is finally here. Durene shouts at the large bear outside.
“Go on, shoo! I’ll feed you breakfast later!”
The bear whuffs, and I raise my voice.
“Bismarck—heh. Bismarck, go on, leave the door alone!”
I snort a bit as the bear obediently backs away. Yes, I named the bear Bismarck. I think it’s funny, and it needed a name. Especially because it’s now my pet. Or something.
[Lesser Bond: Bismarck]. I received it yesterday after I finally came up with a name for him. Bismarck was just called ‘Unnamed Mossbear’ before that. Apparently I tamed him by feeding him and having him fight in a battle alongside my people. Now he lets me ride him, hangs around the cottage for food, and in general pesters Durene.
“Shoo! I’ll give you potatoes later! And don’t you dare dig up my garden! It’s all growing, understand? Leave my plants alone!”
Possibly only Durene could push a bear off her property. She’s actually stronger than the Mossbear, and the Mossbear’s bigger and tougher than normal bears, to boot. Durene chalks it up to her [Enhanced Strength] and her other new Skills, but I wonder. Trolls are said to be extremely strong and tough, but they can’t gain classes or level.
As a half-Troll, Durene seems to have the benefits of both her Human and Troll heritage. Not that it helped her before she met me. She was an outcast, barely tolerated by the village. Only when I became an [Emperor] did everything change.
“Oh, how much it changed.”
I mutter to myself as I stroke Frostwing’s head. My lovely, stupid bird snaps at the meat I offer her.
“Soon you’re going to have to hunt for yourself. You can fly, and it’s a waste of good meat to keep feeding you cow and pig. How do you feel about rats?”
She poops in her nest. I sigh. Animals, Durene…what else? Well, there’s the young man waiting patiently outside the gate. I keep telling him not to do that, but Gamel is my [Knight] and seems to believe I should be attended to at all times. Since the villagers agree with him, it’s hard to tell him to stop. Plus, it is convenient.
Time to start my day! I stride outside as Durene, grumbling, chucks potatoes at Bismarck. Apparently bears can eat potatoes, and he chases after a spud as I walk past. I wonder if this is what it’s like having a dog?
“Good morning, Gamel.”
“Your Majesty.”
Gamel bows. Quite smoothly too. He must have been practicing. I nod at him and square my shoulders.
“Time to start the day. Durene, I’m heading into the village.”
“Wait for me! I just have to—no, Bismarck, there are no more potatoes! Go eat some berries!”
Disappointed, the Mossbear ambles out of the cottage gates as Durene hurries into her cottage. I sense Bismarck heading into the forest now that breakfast has been served. He’ll scavenge for food until dinner or when I call him. I’m fine with that. I know some people would prefer me to ride him around everywhere, but I like walking and Bismarck is not that comfortable to ride.
“I wonder if someone can make a saddle for him.”
“The bear, sire? I will ask Mister Prost about it right away!”
“No…”
I grimace and wave a hand. This is the problem with being an [Emperor]. Everyone takes my words as a command. And that can be a big problem.
“We have more important things to do than waste time with saddles for bears, Gamel. Maybe once we finish construction and get everyone settled.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
“Right.”
I wait until Durene comes out of the cottage. She’s got a greatsword, and she’s tying it to her belt. It’s old, and she doesn’t have a sheath—the greatsword is made of iron, not steel. Even so, she’s killed two Hobs with it and a score of Goblins.
Durene, my [Paladin], and Gamel, my [Knight]. Their lives were shaped by me. I saved Gamel’s life. Kept him alive when he was dying. I ordered him to live, and he lived. He has never told me whether he resents that order.
The cottage that we leave behind is mine. The dirt road that we walk down is mine. The village we enter is mine, as are all the people inside. I claimed it. I claimed the land around here, marked it with totems proclaiming the borders of my empire. So I can ‘see’ the entire area around the village if I concentrate. I can sense the hundreds, no, over a thousand people in this area alone, busy at work this early in the morning.
I sense houses going up, people carting timber to the areas under construction, the [Farmers] hard at work to the north in the new fields, the [Blacksmiths] at their forges, working to produce nails and hinges and so on for the construction. Riverfarm was a small village of just over a hundred people. Now it is turning into a city.
There’s a method to the chaos. It might seem chaotic at ground level—I wouldn’t know. The babble of voices greeting me, the sounds of horses and people shouting at each other, is confusing for a blind man. But I can view the village from above and get a very reliable idea of how things are laid out.
“Good, we’re still on track. Gamel, is Prost supervising the building?”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
“We’ll go see him, then. Durene?”
“I’m going to help carry stuff, Laken.”
“I’ll see you later, then.”
I part ways with Durene, knowing she’ll be carrying trees around and helping people lift things too heavy to carry without a team. I’d like to stay with her, but I have my duties too. I am an [Emperor], and my job is to oversee…this.
An empire. Or the beginnings of one. It’s small, and by small, I mean that it only has a few thousand people in it, but that’s a frightening number of people to house, feed, and protect every day. They’re all villagers, the people of Riverfarm, Windrest—villages that were raided by Goblins. Oh, and a town. The town of Trottvisk declared itself part of the Unseen Empire just the other day. It happens.
So much to do. I wouldn’t know where to start—but I have some advantages. My Skills as an [Emperor], my knowledge from Earth, my home, and my counselors. I might not know how to take care of so many people myself, but if there’s one thing I know from Earth, it’s that delegation is key.
In fact, my coming from another world is probably my biggest asset. One day I just appeared in this world. And while all the scientific knowledge in the world wouldn’t protect me from monsters, or starving to death by myself, it does help when I’m a leader of a large group of people. One of the things I brought from my world to this one was the idea of sanitation.
Obviously, people didn’t eat everything with dirty hands in this world before I came along, but they didn’t consider washing hands essential, and they sometimes built their outhouses and latrines way too close to the water.
That’s changed now. I walk towards a man directing people to dig the latest public outhouses away from the river that gives Riverfarm its name. He stops, turns to me, and bows the instant he notices I’m here.
“Emperor Laken, sire!”
Prost, my [Steward], has also changed markedly since I first met him. He was a [Farmer] who barely tolerated Durene and couldn’t accept that she and I were living under the same roof. Now he’s my right-hand man who oversees construction, settles minor disputes, coordinates things like food, housing—all the things I’m bad at. I nod to him.
“Mister Prost, how are we doing today?”
“Another four houses built since you last visited, sire!”
“Four? But I was here last night!”
Prost beams. I can sense it and hear it in his voice.
“Yes, Your Majesty. But we had a night team working, and they’re quick! Don’t fear that people minded the hammering—we sleep like rocks unless there’s an alarm called!”
I have to shake my head. Another of my Skills is [Blessing of the Hearth], which allows people a comfortable night’s sleep, even if they’re lying on the floor. I had no idea it could be used this way, but that’s the thing about leading, or so I’ve learned. It’s about combining multiple perspectives to achieve the best result.
“Well, carry on, Mister Prost. I just wanted to see if there were any new developments.”
“In the construction? No, sire. We’ve been keeping to the directions you gave—it’s very simple to understand!”
“Is it? Good, good.”
My directions. As I said, I can see the entire village and my empire with a bird’s eye view. That means I’m uniquely able to visualize the layout of the buildings in my head and organize it as best I can. However, there’s a lot to take in.
“Just let me know if you see any issues arising regarding wells, proximity to the outhouses, and so on. We want everything within reach, and I’d hate to know that we didn’t build a large enough road or something.”
“Yes, sire. Don’t worry, I’ve talked it over with the other [Village Heads] and [Farmers] and so on. They all agree your plan for the city is sound.”
One of Prost’s new talents, aside from all his organizational skills, seems to be reassuring me. I leave him to it. The village does look good in my head. I tried to copy it over as best I could to a map, but sadly I still can’t read books with my [Emperor] senses. I had to describe it and trust that everyone understood what I was talking about.
Creating a village. Planning it out with access to water, food, keeping houses away from [Blacksmiths] who are noisy, and organizing a central road that splits off into smaller paths—it would be a challenge for an [Architect], and I have absolutely no training in this area. However, I did my best. In fact, coming up with a design for my new empire reminded me a lot of video games—or rather, what I imagine video games are like.
It’s hard to play a lot of games when you’re blind. Board games sort of work, but anything with a strong visual component? No thanks. I did have friends who told me what it was like, though. The friend I was hanging out with in San Francisco, Zoe, she told me about a game. Age of Empires II or something. She described it like this, where you direct people around, lay out your kingdom, and defend it from enemies.
In my head, I’m thinking of where monsters or bandits might come from, how we’re going to expand—because we will expand, I’m sure of it—the placement of other villages, and of course, how to patrol the entire area I’ve claimed to keep it safe. I get headaches just thinking of all the problems. And people do this for fun?
“Gamel, I think I’ll look at our crops today. I see Wiskeria and our guest are near the farms, so we’ll visit her on the way.”
“Very good, sire.”
Though Prost is my [Steward], I’ve assigned him to worrying about construction and farming for the most part, which he knows the most about. However, I have two other people I regard as my counselors. I go to meet both of them now. They’re standing near the farms, talking with their own crowds of people.
One is a woman on horseback with a pointed hat and spectacles, overseeing the deployment of armed men and women. The other is a woman wearing a dress, out of place among the more simply dressed folk. But she is also in the thick of things, speaking eloquently as people bow to her and hurry off.
“Lady Rie, Wiskeria.”
I greet them as I approach. The two women break off immediately and come to me. Rie curtsies, and Wiskeria dismounts to bow slightly. Wiskeria is a [Witch] and my [General], tasked with defending my empire. Lady Rie is a [Lady], formerly the landowner of some of the villages and towns around here.
