The name’s only vaguely familiar to me, like Magnolia Reinhart. There are so many influential people in the world, and I feel like I’m a small fish in my corner of Izril.
“Tell me about Lord Tyrion, Lady Rie. He levied a vast army, but does he have his own private force? Do lords and ladies have armies of their own? I recall your mansion was defended, but…”
I can hear Lady Rie’s rueful smile in her reply.
“The Valerund family was…much diminished by the time I became its sole heir, Emperor Laken. Aside from the small number of guards I employed, I had no standing militia to speak of. I would have relied on the forces of towns and villages to root out threats. But my example is hardly indicative of more powerful nobles. Lady Magnolia Reinhart has many, many servants trained in espionage and combat. She often employs them to clean up…problems in her domain.”
I think of Odveig, the perfect spy, masquerading as a Silver-rank adventurer.
“I can believe that. Does Lord Tyrion do the same?”
Rie shakes her head.
“The Veltras family has a conventional army. As do the Reinharts, although theirs is far smaller and guards their family estate. Most powerful [Lords] and [Ladies] train their retainers. For instance, there is a Lady Bethal Walchaís who commands a knighthood. Her Knights of the Petal are elite and quite, quite dangerous.”
“I see. Everyone has their personal force on top of regular garrisons.”
“Yes, Your Majesty. I see you have started your own army as well.”
“My own army? Oh—yes, Wiskeria is doing her best.”
“Not just her.”
Lady Rie puts a gentle touch on my arm, and I jump. She withdraws her hand quickly.
“Forgive me. I meant no disrespect.”
“It’s nothing.”
Is she standing closer to me? Yes, she is. I clear my throat and keep my head turned towards the trebuchet which is being pushed to another spot. I don’t have to look at it of course, but people get nervous when I talk about things behind my back that I shouldn’t be able to ‘see’.
“What were you saying, Lady Rie? My own personal force?”
“Indeed, Emperor Laken. Your, ah, Sightless Riders have already developed a reputation.”
“My what? Oh—Beniar and his people? Yes, I could see that. That was due to a Skill, but perhaps I’ll obtain more.”
“One can only hope. But such specialized units are the hallmarks of any powerful ruler. And it is my sincere hope that your initiatives keep your empire safe. I know that I am eternally grateful for your intervention in my hour of need.”
She gently touches my arm again. I hold still and think.
Okay. She’s definitely flirting with me. That’s not hard to figure out. The question is—does she know Durene and I are an item?
I don’t get to ask, if I was intending to ask. Prost comes back, and Lady Rie stands demurely at my side. I continue the inspection and watch the trebuchets being fired for an enthusiastic crowd without any more incidents. But I do recall the touch. Was it just a casual touch? Am I overthinking things?
Her fingers were very soft.
 
Day 89
 
Between my personal assurances and the trebuchet demonstration, my people are calm enough not to panic at news of the Goblin Lord’s army. They trust me because I’ve protected them from Goblins before. However, that faith doesn’t apply to the other local towns and cities. They were all too willing to offer me a tribute so I’d protect their roads, but the Goblin Lord’s army is justifiably terrifying.
As such, I spend most of today entertaining audiences. I have no throne room, but one of the first non-essential buildings that went up was a meeting hall. It’s mainly a storage area, but someone decided it had to have a throne despite the lack of beds. So here I am, sitting on a wooden throne decorated with carved eyes. My [Carver], Jelov, is a famous man in the village. From a recluse who sold small trinkets, he’s now got eight apprentices and more work than he can handle.
“Of course my people will alert your town the instant Goblins cross my borders in force, [Headman] Filk. And I am committed to defending all the cities under my protection. My army will hunt down any stray monsters and bandits, as promised. Only an army could resist my forces.”
“Just as you say, Emperor Laken. Forgive me for troubling you. It’s just that the Goblin Lord has an army and—”
The man standing and bobbing nervously is the leader of a town nearby. I forget which one. I hope he’ll mention the name again in conversation. I shift on my throne. Why did Jelov not include a pillow?
“Indeed. The Goblin Lord has an army, and if he did march in this direction, I would be unable to stop him. But consider this, Filk. Lord Tyrion Veltras and Magnolia Reinhart have both committed their forces to stopping him. Do you truly believe they would allow the Goblins to rampage unchecked?”
“Lord Tyrion? Well, Your Majesty—Lady Reinhart might—but Lord Tyrion does have an army.”
There’s a question in his voice. His town—what was the name again? Started with a ‘g’, I think—doesn’t have a [Mage] who can receive [Message] spells. I nod.
“He has been gathering an army for weeks now, Headman Filk. A substantial one that outnumbers the Goblin Lord’s army by all accounts. I would trust him to take care of the Goblin Lord. And if any raiding parties should head this way in the meantime…I will deal with them.”
That relieves the man. He raises his head, bowing again awkwardly.
“I had no doubts, Your Majesty! I’m terribly sorry to take up your time—of course Lord Tyrion’s got his army! And you’ve got yours.”
“Of course.”
I smile at him, and he smiles back. Nervously. I feel his gaze on my closed eyes. I think the audience is over, so I gesture subtly to Prost, standing at the back of the room.
“You must be tired from your trip. Please, allow me to offer you refreshments before you go.”
“Oh—sire, I also meant to give you this!”
Filk nearly falls over himself as he rushes to the back of the room. He comes back with a small chest carried by several people from his town.
“It’s just a token of our appreciation, Your Majesty. Some of our local produce, a few bundles of cloth—rough stuff, but we wanted to show our thanks. The town of Gec isn’t prosperous like those big cities, but we’re grateful that we can sleep in our beds thanks to your men!”
Gec! Of course, how could I forget a name like that? I smile at Filk.
“I appreciate the gifts, Filk. They are not necessary—I have sworn to protect your town, and I mean to keep that pledge. Please, tell the people of Gec that I appreciate their faith in me. I would love to sample their produce—are those apples in the chest?”
“A few, sire. We have this cellar with runes of [Preservation] and—oh, pardon me for taking your time! It’s just a small token, hardly—thank you once again!”
He retreats, embarrassed. I smile as Prost moves forwards to take the gift. This is the fourth emissary to visit me today. People are worried, and they’re coming to me to hear what they already know. There is a Goblin Lord, but Lord Tyrion’s got an army. I can defend them from everything but a massive force and…that’s it. But they feel better because I’m an [Emperor].
That’s people for you.
 
—-
 
My day is occupied by entertaining guests and appearing as confident—and dignified—as possible. Lady Rie takes over for Prost, and it’s quite something when a [Lady] is personally greeting visitors and leading them into my throne room. It’s a long day, but I do get a pillow after my butt gets too sore to sit still.
“You may receive another pledge of loyalty from one of the nearest towns, Your Majesty. Headman Filk of Gec was quite taken with your village.”
“If they join, I’ll have to figure out a way to manage their town from here, Lady Rie. Perhaps I could send you to oversee it for a day or two? We can’t have more people coming here!”
The thought of my empire growing to encompass other cities and towns gives me a headache. Rie offers me a cool drink of water, and I take it gratefully.
“I assume that the news of the Goblin Lord means that politics are on hold for the moment?”
“On the contrary, Your Majesty. It means that the aristocracy is even more desperate to find allies. You have a number of missives that just arrived.”
“More letters? I would have thought the City Runners in Invrisil wouldn’t dare venture out.”
“Mm. Apparently they’re willing to risk it for enough coin. And your lands are known to be safe for Runners. Would you like me to read them to you?”
“Please.”
I sigh and sit back on my throne. I want to see Durene. Maybe I can have a day off where I just go walking with her? The woods are nice, and I could pretend to be inspecting it for valuable mushrooms or building spots or something. We haven’t had a quiet time to be together lately except at night. And sex isn’t the only part of a healthy relationship.
Lady Rie stands next to me as I sit on the throne. Her voice is soft as she reads through one letter.
“To [Emperor] Laken, I am Lord Tilwa Petroms of Invrisil. I have heard of your recent accomplishments and must congratulate you on your newfound success. Hm. Lord Tilwa is a known schemer, but if he’s acknowledging you openly as an [Emperor], he must feel you have quite a lot of power already. It seems he wishes to meet with you in Invrisil.”
“Oh? I’m not keen on travelling at the moment.”
If I leave my lands, I can’t ‘see’ anything with my [Emperor] senses. Lady Rie shakes her head. Is she standing closer again?
“An [Emperor] should not travel to meet a [Lord] in any case, Your Majesty. Lord Tilwa is testing you with this letter. Leaving him without a reply for a day or two should unsettle him slightly.”
“Oh? I’m good at ignoring [Lords] and [Ladies]. I think I responded to two dozen letters with polite nothings.”
“Including mine, Lord Laken?”
“You sent me a gift, as I recall. Are you saying I should demand something from Lord Tilwa?”
“Perhaps. He might send you a gift instead, if he hasn’t already.”
“I don’t recall. I think I left the letters lying around. It might be good to see if Prost remembers.”
A rustle. Yep, she just stepped closer. What is her game?
“I have no doubt that Lord Tilwa wishes the same thing from you that all the nobility do.”
“Which is?”
“Influence. Power, derived from your name. At the moment, your financial and military capacities are unknown, and you control very little land for someone of your class. Thus, your power is mainly in lending support, verbal or otherwise. However, if you can establish Riverfarm as a powerful exporter of goods or military might—”
“Defending areas under my protection or selling siege weapons?”
“As I understand it, Lord Tyrion himself lacks siege weapons. Your empire could be quite powerful economically, as well as militarily. Lord Tilwa understands that and is attempting to test the waters, but he can wait. There are more important individuals to address. Now, the next letter—”
I hear the rustle of paper and then a sharp gasp. I sense the letter fall from Rie’s hands and her quickly bending to snatch it up with trembling hands. I sit up.
“Lady Rie?”
“My apologies, Emperor Laken. But this next letter—it must have been mixed up and not placed at the top. City Runners normally organize such missives meticulously by rank—”
“Maybe one of the villagers mixed it up when they were giving it to you. Who is the letter from?”
“Lady Magnolia Reinhart.”
I pause. Magnolia Reinhart. My stomach doesn’t exactly sink with dread, but it does flutter a tiny bit.
“Isn’t she in Invrisil? Right where the Goblin Lord’s army is?”
“She is apparently still able to send letters. And this one—I will read it with your permission.”
Lady Rie opens the letter without waiting for me to say yes. I hear the crinkle of paper as she reads in silence and then what sounds suspiciously like a curse.
“Lady Rie?”
“The letter is—well, I shall skip the greetings. Magnolia Reinhart writes—To the [Emperor] Laken Godart of Riverfarm, I extend my warmest greetings. I had no idea such an august personage had arrived in Izril until this moment and must render you my deepest apologies for not contacting you sooner.”
“That’s a lie.”
“It is. She goes on. I am so deeply apologetic, in fact, that I feel the only thing I can do to express my sympathies in full is to host a small gathering of my fellow [Lords] and [Ladies] in your honor. Naturally, I would be remiss if I did not invite you, but I would hate for the pressing commitments of station or distance to dissuade you from attending. Thus, I have taken it upon myself to—that scheming bitch!”
“Lady Rie?”
“I—I am deeply sorry, Your Majesty. Please forgive me. Lady Magnolia writes—Thus, I have taken it upon myself to host this little gathering at your estates in Riverfarm.”
“What?”
“No need to thank me. I will most likely be too busy to attend the gathering myself, but I believe about thirty of the local nobility will attend, as will a close friend of mine, Lady Bethal Walchaís. I have scheduled this event to take place a week from today. I trust this gathering will be most informative to all parties, and I hope that you will allow one of my most trusted servants, Sacra, to convey my personal regards.”
Lady Rie paused.
“The name ‘Sacra’ is underlined heavily, Emperor Laken.”
“I understand what she means.”
I grit my teeth as I sit back on my throne. She’s sending Sacra? I mean, Odveig? Why? And a gathering? Here? For what reason? Lady Rie hesitates, and I see her looking at my face.
“Ah—there’s a few more lines, Emperor Laken. I trust you will entertain this small soiree in your honor, Emperor Laken. I am mistrustful of [Emperors] and royalty in general, but I feel that we will all be more secure when we get to know each other, possibly over a few light snacks and conversation? Lady Bethal shall tender you my warmest regards. Sincerely…”
Lady Rie folds up the letter without finishing. I sit back. The two of us wait in silence for a long time. At last, I speak.
“Lady Rie, how well do you know Lady Magnolia?”
“Not well, Emperor Laken. I have met her several times. The day before I travelled to your village, in fact.”
“Really? And what do you think of her?”
“As a person or as a [Lady], Your Majesty?”
“Either.”
“She’s dangerous, ruthless, and cunning, Your Majesty.”
“Do you think this is a trap?”
“Without a doubt. She might want to humiliate you by hosting the event here, gain more information about your empire, poison the other nobles against you, threaten you, or…”
“Or?”
“Kill you. It would not be unheard of, in Izril.”
