After Goblins attacked her mansion, Lady Rie pledged herself to my service. I was the one who led an army to save her, but I was surprised by her request to become my vassal. It’s been three days since she came to Riverfarm, and she’s already assisted in numerous ways.
“Good morning, Emperor Laken.”
“Morning, sire.”
The two greet me, Rie formally, Wiskeria informally. I nod to Wiskeria and incline my head to Lady Rie. There is a difference, and according her the status of her rank is important. Lady Rie is good with people. She is a [Lady] after all, and as the last member of the Valerund family, she knows how to organize and settle disputes.
“Lady Rie, thank you for your help. May I ask if there are any new developments?”
“None worth speaking of, Emperor Laken. However, I urge you once again to entertain the notion of an audience with some of the local nobility. I could arrange the meetings quite easily.”
I grimace and cut the motion short. Lady Rie has been floating the idea past me for the last few days.
“I understand your desire Lady Rie, but I have no desire to enter the political world just yet.”
“I fear it is far too late for that, Your Majesty. Your presence alone is significant, and I worry that the other nobles will take your expanding empire as a sign of…”
Rie hesitates delicately. I fill in the gap for her.
“Danger?”
She shifts ever so slightly.
“Perhaps. Which is why an audience may allay their worries. I have no doubt the other [Lords] and [Ladies] who own lands in the area have already investigated your presence, Your Majesty. They will be cautious, some afraid—but the truth is that there is a surplus of lands and not enough of the aristocracy to manage the land. Your presence may be quite beneficial, so long as the other nobles are assured that their lands will not be encroached upon. And you are needed. Many villages lack a local [Lord] or [Lady].”
“Is that a bad thing?”
The practice of landowning seems medieval to me—not the act of owning land, that’s as common as landlords, but the idea of owning everything on a piece of land, including the people. I don’t see why anyone would want that, but Lady Rie seems surprised by my question.
“Having a [Lord] is quite beneficial, Emperor Laken. Some would consider a village or town not protected by some kind of landowner to be very dangerous indeed, or at the least, troublesome.”
“How so?”
Wiskeria stands patiently to one side, listening, and I sense the crowds of people either moving away on business or waiting for me to finish. I feel as though I’m interrupting important work, but I am the [Emperor]. Teaching me important facts is quite necessary if I’m to lead well. Rie explains as I stand patiently with Gamel behind me.
“When my family was alive we managed a huge area of land. It is not simply protection we offer, but justice. We enforced laws, settled disputes, collected taxes, and dealt with disasters and monster attacks as they emerged—ruled in short. Each [Lord] is a [King] of his own domain, or so it is said.”
“I see. And there’s a lack of nobility in the area?”
Rie pauses.
“The Second Antinium War was…devastating, to put it mildly. Many of the aristocracy lost their lives defending their homes from the Goblin King. As such, there are many unattended lands that lack any local ruler.”
“I see. Well, if it will reassure the other [Lords] and [Ladies], I suppose I could consider an audience. But on the same note, Lady Rie, would you prefer to stay elsewhere? I know Riverfarm’s accommodations are less than what someone of your station might expect. Several of the local cities and towns have offered to give you their finest lodging.”
I float the idea by Lady Rie, wondering if she’ll bite. She declined the offer the first time I made it, but will she have changed her mind in the three days she’s been here? Lady Rie shakes her head instantly and then recalls that I’m blind.
“I am quite content here, Emperor Laken. I would like to see my home restored to me—but so long as the Goblin threat persists, I do not believe I would be safe anywhere but here. As to staying in a city or nearby town—if you will allow me to say so, I see greater opportunity in making myself useful to you here, Your Majesty. If you will permit me to stay, I would do so gladly.”
I nod.
“I won’t turn away aid, and I do consider you quite invaluable, Lady Rie. Your people are quite helpful as well. Although as I recall, your man—Geram?—was insistent on staying by your side.”
Adamant, in fact. He didn’t say so around me, but I got word of the argument through Prost. All of Lady Rie’s servants follow after her and treat me with the utmost respect, but it can’t be normal, having an [Emperor] pop up all of a sudden. Rie’s voice is apologetic.
“Do forgive him, sire. He worries for my safety, but I assured him I was quite safe in the village.”
“I quite understand. I believe he will be quite an asset to Wiskeria’s army.”
Geram is one of Lady Rie’s more notable servants. He’s a huge, bald man who fights with his fists. He’s apparently a former [Street Brawler] of some renown—an odd choice for a captain of the guard for a [Lady], but he does seem tough. He took down several Hobs himself while defending Rie’s mansion. I wonder if he’s romantically involved with Lady Rie, or if the other one, Nesor, her [Mage] is. He’s a young man with a lot of anxiety and isn’t the best [Mage], but I’ll take any magic-users I can get.
“I’m grateful for all the soldiers I can get, Lady Rie. On that note—Wiskeria, how goes training the army?”
Wiskeria steps forwards smoothly. She’s in charge of defense, which is a lot simpler, since I can tell if anything enters my lands. Wiskeria can send out a patrol to deal with most problems at once, which is why she devotes most of her time to actually creating an army to fight with.
We have a small core of adventurers and retired [Warriors] and so on, but I’ve had to rely on other towns and cities by using another Skill – [Imperial Levy]. I can request their soldiers to fight if a huge group of monsters or bandits come along, but I’d prefer to have a force at my disposal. Wiskeria’s been working in that area, but training [Soldiers] up from scratch is hard.
“We have a number of recruits interested in fighting, Emperor Laken. I suspect we’ll have less after the rigorous daily training, but then again, perhaps not. They are quite dedicated. However, we do have an issue.”
“Oh?”
She nods.
“There’s not enough weapons to train all the potential recruits, and many skilled workers—[Bakers], [Carpenters], and so on—don’t have the tools or space to ply their trade.”
“That was my observation as well. Too many villages fled without packing their supplies and lost them to Goblins or thieves.”
Lady Rie sighs. I nod. The Unseen Empire is comprised mainly of villagers who fled their homes, and as such, it lacks most of everything.
“I’m aware of the problem, Wiskeria, but I consider getting a roof over everyone’s head the first priority. Most of the villagers are still sleeping in barns—that can’t last forever. If they’re not training, send your soldiers to help with everyone else. That goes for our experienced craftspeople, Lady Rie. We have a lot of hands. Anyone can help lift, or hammer nails, or help make rope and so on. We’ll use that to get everyone housed quickly, and then focus on specialized buildings and tools. Our [Blacksmiths] can only work so fast, and I need them making nails before swords.”
Wiskeria nods reluctantly, but Lady Rie clears her throat softly.
“We may be able to procure some arms and tools without needing to forge them ourselves, Emperor Laken. If you will allow me to make a few inquiries, I believe I could obtain a good deal of supplies at a cheap price.”
“From the other cities?”
“Indeed. I could put in an order to Invrisil and further cities abroad as well. The transportation fee would be somewhat steep, but it would allow General Wiskeria and other craftspeople to begin working sooner. If you consider it wise? We have enough money.”
I shift uncomfortably.
“It is your money after all, Lady Rie.”
Perhaps it’s my Skill—[King’s Bounty]. Or perhaps it’s just how things worked out. But Lady Rie’s fortune is now part of the Unseen Empire. She told me it was mine to use, and I reluctantly accepted it. That money could buy a lot of tools—I just wonder how I’ll repay Lady Rie.
I’ll think about it later. And Lady Rie seems to regard it as an investment.
“Consider it a gift for saving my life, Emperor. Very well, I will send a few [Message] spells with Nesor’s help. If you will excuse me.”
She bows slightly and moves away. She’s graceful, intelligent, and extremely helpful. I can’t help but think that I lucked out in having her pledge her loyalty to me. I wait until she’s out of earshot to speak quietly to Wiskeria.
“You’ve been watching her?”
“Yes, Emperor. She’s done nothing out of the ordinary. She uses her personal [Mage] to send [Message] spells, but her people have settled in well. Fairly well. The [Servants] were arrogant until Prost settled them down, and I believe Lady Rie had a word with them.”
“Sounds good. But keep a discreet eye on her. I will too. In my own way.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Saving Lady Rie was an easy decision. Accepting her as my vassal…well, I didn’t have any reason to refuse. She’s competent, in need of a home, and knowledgeable on things like politics and trade, something neither Wiskeria nor Prost know that well. I haven’t had any reason to doubt her, and neither has Wiskeria.
However, after Odveig, neither of us are quite so trusting. Lady Rie seems perfectly willing to put herself behind me with coin as well as her help. Maybe she’s grateful. Or perhaps she thinks I’m a rising star and wants to secure as much influence as possible. I’m fine with either option, but I do worry.
“All’s quiet so far?”
“You would know that better than I, Emperor.”
Wiskeria’s voice is a little less formal without anyone else to hear. She treats me more like a person than Prost or Rie or anyone else besides Durene, which I’m grateful for. I smile.
“True, but I do worry. It might be my senses can’t detect hidden threats or…well, it puts my mind at ease to know your people are patrolling.”
“Of course, sire. I think it reassures the other towns and cities, too. But I have only a limited number of warriors at my disposal, and I prefer to keep most of them here in case you sense anything.”
“Right. Speaking of sensing—Beniar’s riders dispatched the [Bandit] group on the western road.”
“Ah. Any casualties?”
“None. They took them out in the middle of the night.”
I relay the news to Wiskeria with the utmost certainty despite Beniar being over fifteen miles southeast of here. I sensed him attack the [Bandits]. I felt it. It was almost like I was there.
 
—-
 
Darkness. The night is pitch-black, so dark that the distant stars and obscured moon do little to provide light. It’s so dark that the few lazy sentries outside of the camp of [Bandits] can’t see much. And why should they worry anyways? They’re hidden well off the road, far from any settlements. They can hide and strike at people on the roads at their leisure.
Or so they think. But galloping hooves break the night’s silence. I imagine the sound of galloping, anyways. I can’t hear, only sense. What I do sense is the [Bandits] on watch looking up in sudden alarm. They reach for their weapons, peer into the darkness. One goes to rouse the others.
Too late. The first rider appears out of the darkness like a ghost. He rides down on a sentry who screams once—the sword takes him in the chest, and he falls. Beniar, my [Cataphract] and [Captain], turns his mount, and more riders appear out of the darkness behind him. They charge the sentries and into the camp of bandits.
The ragged men and women are ready for a fight. What they’re not ready for is for Beniar to scatter their torches and campfires, plunging them into darkness. Again, I have to imagine the shadows flickering and the riders streaming through the camp. I don’t have a problem with seeing, since the images in my head aren’t really visual.
I sense Beniar and his [Riders] cutting the confused [Bandits] down as they flail at shadows. My riders have no problem seeing in the darkness, and as they cut down the last of the [Bandits], they cheer. I roll over in my bed miles away and go to sleep at last, relieved.
 
—-
 
[Blacksky Riders]. That’s the name of the last of my new Skills. After the battle at Lady Rie’s mansion, I gained a new Skill that allows my soldiers to become, well, terrors of the night. It was hard for me to figure out what my Skill did at first, but after one exciting night it all became clear.
My Skill allows a group of chosen riders to see in the night. Not only that—the effect extends to their mounts and lets them dampen the light when they so choose. Thanks to that, Beniar’s group of mounted warriors have become night ambushers who can attack in the darkness with ease. It’s a powerful Skill and has already led to rumors that the people of my empire don’t need eyes to see.
Just like their [Emperor]. I was relieved that none of the riders were hurt, though, and Wiskeria seems equally relieved. Losing just one soldier or horse is dangerous.
“Beniar should be on his way back. I think he’ll arrive after midday, but I’d like to put a [Mage] with his group. Someone who can send and receive [Message] spells.”
“I agree. Unfortunately, that young [Mage] that Lady Rie employs can neither ride nor send [Message] spells reliably. There are artifacts that can do the same, but they are quite expensive.”
“More problems. We’ll put that on our list until later, Wiskeria. At least I can tell where everyone is. But keeping the lines of communication open is one of the key principles of war. I think I read that somewhere.”
Wiskeria doesn’t even register my joke, much to my disappointment.
“Hm. I agree. But aside from Lady Rie’s personal artifacts, we have nothing of our own. And I would rather buy more swords, and bows, and so forth, than purchase a single artifact.”
“They’re that expensive?”
“Oh, yes. On that note, may I speak with you about the crops your [Farmers] are growing? Food is essential, I know, but they could easily devote a few fields to growing some crops that [Alchemists] would buy. Or a few varieties of mushrooms? I’m familiar with what sells well, and I could obtain some seed samples with enough coin…”
“You have my attention.”
