The work never ends. There’s always something to do, which isn’t bad, but it means that I always feel like there’s more I could be doing rather than taking a break. I’m sure that’s unhealthy, but I have energy, and it’s not like I’m running about. Just talking and listening.
In any case, the rest of my day is devoted to managing things with Wiskeria. She’s quite sharp despite only having been a Silver-rank adventurer before I made her into a [General], and I value her insight. We spend an entire day talking about how to use Beniar’s riders most effectively and hunting without depleting animal populations. It feels slightly wrong that I can tell where every deer herd is, but I have to keep my people fed. I work and then I go to sleep with Durene in the cottage.
It’s another day in the life of Emperor Laken. That is, until Nesor wakes up screaming and rouses the entire village.
 
Day 86
 
Zel Shivertail is dead. The army raised by Magnolia Reinhart at Invrisil has been defeated. The Goblin Lord is marching towards the city, only a few days away from this area. And like that, I’m facing another crisis. The same crisis I’ve always had to face, in fact. The enemy that has defined Riverfarm’s struggle, the nemesis of the Unseen Empire in my mind.
Goblins.
“Nesor, calm down and give me answers. How badly was Magnolia Reinhart’s army defeated? How did General Shivertail die? Where is the Goblin Lord’s army headed?”
It’s early morning. Rie, Prost, Wiskeria, and I are all standing in the large cottage assigned solely to Lady Rie. Nesor, a young man who failed to graduate from Wistram, is sitting at a table, face pale, hands shaking. He’s stuttering, barely able to speak.
“I—I just got a [Message], Lady Rie. It said General Shivertail was dead, and the Goblin Lord had won! It was a warning to all the nobility in the area, so I got it—”
“Nothing else?”
“N-n—”
He shudders. I look at Wiskeria. She has an impatient look on her face, the same one I’m trying to suppress.
“You can’t send [Message] spells, can you, Wiskeria?”
“I never learned. That kind of magic is more difficult for my class.”
“Nesor, calm down.”
Lady Rie is soothing Nesor. She looks at me apologetically.
“I apologize, Emperor. Nesor, send a [Message] spell back to—oh, First Landing? It must be chaos in Invrisil right now, and I don’t know that we’ll get a quick response. This might take a while.”
I nod and step out of the house with Prost and Wiskeria. I turn to them and sense the same worry and fear that I’m feeling. Only they’re looking to me for help. I can tell lights are on in the houses nearby, and a lot of people are standing in the streets, looking worried. Time to do my [Emperor] thing.
“Okay. Prost, calm everyone down. Don’t mention specifics, but let people know there are Goblins near Invrisil and—leave it at that. Tell them there will be an announcement later and that we are still waiting for details.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Prost hurries off. I turn to Wiskeria and draw her aside.
“Wiskeria, explain what Nesor said to me.”
“What part?”
“All of it. I know the Goblin Lord was marching north, but who’s General Shivertail?”
Wiskeria’s voice is surprised.
“You don’t know?”
“I have never heard of him before. Assume I’m from far away and have no idea of anything. Who is he, and why is this so important?”
I can sense Wiskeria looking at me. I never told her, or anyone besides Durene, that I’m from Earth, but Wiskeria isn’t stupid. She’s already expressed surprise at the things I know and don’t know. Right now I don’t care. I might tell her everything just in case—Ryoka would object, but I need people I can trust in possession of all the facts. For the moment, Wiskeria takes me at my word.
“General Shivertail is—was—a hero of the Antinium Wars, and the highest-leveled Drake [General] in the entire world. If he’s dead, then this Goblin Lord is extremely dangerous.”
“Antinium Wars. Wasn’t there a book on the history of the Antinium Wars? I never found a copy to read. Please explain all of it.”
“Yes, sire.”
I walk with Wiskeria to her private house, and she brews me some tea while she speaks, summarizing decades of history while the sun rises. Her home, like Rie’s, is hers alone. It’s a bit extravagant, especially since a lot of people are still sleeping crammed together, but rank has privileges, and as soon as we get personalized housing built, Wiskeria will move out and let a family take this home. She wants a forest cottage with a garden for mushrooms and other alchemical ingredients. And a place to brew potions where there’s no one to smell them.
Anyways, her explanation of Zel Shivertail and the Goblin Lord fills me with dread. The news we get just after morning is no better. Nesor finally got through to First Landing, and all the reports are of the battle and the Goblin Lord’s army.
Tens of thousands. That alone is enough to panic me. I could muster a force of a thousand soldiers. Maybe two thousand if I pressed every city and town in the area to turn out their garrisons. That’s all. If the Goblin Lord comes here—
“What should we do, Emperor Laken? People will panic if word spreads.”
“It’ll spread.”
Wiskeria glances sideways at Nesor. I grimace. The young man sounds like he couldn’t keep a secret to save his life. Funny, I’m probably only a few years older than he is.
“I won’t lie to people or hide the truth. Prost, we’ll tell them what happened. But when you do, tell them this: the Goblin Lord’s army is not headed our way just yet. They’re moving towards Invrisil, which is close by, but I haven’t sensed any Goblins in our radius, and I will know if they approach.”
I sense Prost nodding in relief. I don’t talk about my abilities, but people need reassurance now.
“If an army comes calling, we’ll evacuate or fight, but until then, there’s no reason to panic. Wiskeria will send out more patrols and alert all the settlements nearby in case they haven’t heard.”
“I’ll send riders now.”
“Good. Lady Rie, if you would keep communicating with First Landing?”
“Of course.”
I nod and stand.
“In that case, Prost, you and I will calm people down.”
And so we do. Prost shouts the news, and I tell people what I just told him. It doesn’t calm them down exactly, but no one screams or runs. And once we get people moving about their tasks, things calm down. I walk around the village, reassuring people, being there, and it does help. Everyone looks calmer when I’m around, and more than one of Riverfarm’s original villagers recounts the battle in the village to the others.
Everyone’s calm. But me. As I lie in bed next to Durene, I toss and turn and eventually wake her up.
“Laken, why are you so restless?”
“Why aren’t you? Durene, I promised them everything would be okay, but I have no plan if the Goblin Lord actually comes this way. We can’t fight, and we might not be able to escape.”
“You’ll figure out something. If you can’t do it, no one can.”
I laugh in the darkness. How does she believe in me?
“I wish that were true.”
“It’s true! Now come over here.”
She pulls me over, and I forget about Goblins for the moment. It’s nice to have someone with you who can take your worries away. For a while, I’m not an [Emperor], and the cottage is intimate.
A bird screeches, surprising both Durene and me in the silence. Frostwing objects to being woken up. I throw my pants at her.
“Shut up, Frostwing.”
 
Day 87
 
Today I consult with Rie and Prost. Reassurances are all very well, but I want to be prepared for a fight, if it comes to that. Ironically, Wiskeria’s not on my list—she’s training her forces, and there’s little I can do to help her. I don’t want to be a distraction.
However, there are things I can control, and one of them is my project that Prost’s been in charge of. Siege weapons. Ryoka Griffin taught me the fundamentals of how they work, and the rest has been trial and error. I have a few [Carpenters], one [Blacksmith], and three new [Tinkerers] on the job, with some other eager young men and women.
Lady Rie stares at the two prototype trebuchets and ballista and I realize that she’s never seen them before. We keep the siege weapons far, far away from the town in case of more accidents.
“Prost, how are the trebuchets working?”
“Well, Emperor. I haven’t been here all day, so I’ll let Miss Tessia explain. Tessia?”
Prost gestures, and a young woman steps up. She’s got red hair and loose work clothing. I first met her when I helped dig her out of the snow after an avalanche. She’s Gamel’s girlfriend, and her timid personality has been replaced by what I can only consider an engineer’s mania.
“Emperor Laken! We’ve finally gotten one of the trebuchets working! We can throw a twenty pound stone over two hundred feet with each shot, and I think that once we make a new trebuchet we’ll be able to hurl a stone twice as far!”
She grins as behind her the people crowded around the trebuchet step back. It fires, and I hear a creak as the arm comes up and a stone is hurled through the air. I stare at the sling as it releases a stone and sense it fly into the distance. The people cheer as two boys run after the stone to see how far it’s landed. Lady Rie just stares.
“Is that a…a catapult?”
“It’s a trebuchet, Miss!”
Tessia either hasn’t heard that Lady Rie is a [Lady] or doesn’t care. She begins excitedly talking about range and the ballista they’re building while I inspect the trebuchet up close.
“Amazing. And can you aim it?”
“We’re figuring it out now, sire. The lads—and lasses—have been firing it nonstop. I’d say Tessia’s got the best shot. She can hit a house from two hundred feet five shots out of eight!”
“Please tell me we’re not actually hitting houses, Mister Prost?”
“Oh, they built one out of spare wood, don’t you worry, sire. But I reckon that we could build two more trebuchets within the week! Those would make the Goblin Lord blink twice, don’t you think?”
“Indeed they would. But I want those trebuchets inspected carefully and tested thoroughly. The last thing we need is for someone to get hurt.”
“Yes, sire. I had to knock a few heads together when some of the lads kept wanting to rush things. But don’t fear—after the second time, Tessia started doing it for me! The lasses are much more careful about making sure no one’s in danger of being thumped by the arm and standing back and so on.”
Prost sounds like he is beaming with all the pride of a former [Farmer] now constructing weapons of war. Lady Rie stumbles a bit as she comes over to me.
“Emperor Laken—Your Majesty, may I ask whether this was your invention?”
I smile slightly.
“Not my invention, Lady Rie. I know about the theory, but the villagers of Riverfarm built all this.”
“I see. But you know how to build siege weapons?”
“Is that uncommon?”
Lady Rie stares at the trebuchet as people begin to load it again.
“Oh…slightly. I believe the Walled Cities have such devices. Pallass creates them, but the secret of such weapons is zealously guarded, and they refuse to sell to Humans. Other nations have them…but they are not mass-produced. And you’re building them here?”
“And we’re training [Engineers]. We have [Tinkerers]—I hope they’ll level up when I get them building some other inventions. War chariots, maybe. Or an irrigation system.”
Lady Rie stares at me. I smile. The feel of the trebuchet firing again gives me an idea, and I turn to Prost.
“Mister Prost, it occurs to me that most of the villagers haven’t seen the trebuchet in action. Maybe a test would impress them as much as Lady Rie and reassure them of their safety. Could you move the trebuchet to an open space and set up a target?”
“Of course, sire!”
“And why not make it a contest? Let Tessia and the other workers have a contest who can hit or get nearest to a target. The winner will receive…well, how about a few mugs of ale and a small coin prize? You decide.”
Prost chuckles.
“I think that would motivate them greatly, sire. But could I extend the offer of ale for the entire team? They’ve been working like Demons to get the trebuchet done.”
“Of course. Lady Rie?”
I leave my [Steward] to set it all up and walk a few paces back with Lady Rie. She still keeps turning her head towards the siege weapons.
“You know, that is the true treasure of your village.”
“Excuse me?”
“Those.”
Rie points to the trebuchet as Prost begins speaking, and Tessia and the others mill about in excitement. She nods to the path to Riverfarm behind us.
“If you’ll permit me to say so, Emperor Laken, Riverfarm is hardly a rich village. With your help, I have no doubt it will be quite self-sufficient, but planting cash crops as Wiskeria has suggested will only earn the people a modest income. However, building siege weapons? Exporting such devices would earn you a fortune.”
I nod slowly. I hadn’t considered it except as a form of protection, but…
“The war industry is always a profitable one. I don’t know that I’d like for my empire to be known for that, but at least we’ll be able to defend ourselves.”
“It is your choice of course, Your Majesty.”
“Choice. Yes, well, I’d like my people to have the same. I’m building trebuchets and teaching people to become [Engineers], Lady Rie. But I’d like them to be able to become [Alchemists], or [Blacksmiths], or [Scribes], or whatever they desire.”
“That is rather ambitious, Your Majesty. I suppose it might be possible, especially with your communal farming system. There will be less need for [Farmers].”
I shake my head.
“Less need for as many [Farmers], perhaps, Lady Rie. I intend to provide them with oxen, ploughs…Riverfarm used to consist of subsistence farming, where each family tended a small plot of land. By creating large fields, we can provide for a large number of people with only a few [Farmers].”
“And you intend to let the next generation grow up to become artisans instead?”
“That’s the theory. Or [Soldiers]. But to do that, they need to survive, and this place needs to be standing in a week’s time. The Goblin Lord’s army…I was hoping you had some thoughts on the matter. Is there any force that can stop them?”
Rie nods.
“Of course! There is already talk of Lord Tyrion’s army. He gathered one at the same time as Lady Magnolia, and his is by far the superior one. I doubt Lord Tyrion Veltras falls far behind General Shivertail regardless of level.”
“Huh. Lord Tyrion Veltras.”
