I’m hit with an extreme wave of humidity and heat. The air is overwhelmingly thick with mana and steam, it’s hard to breathe or see clearly further than 10-15m ahead of me. I grit my teeth and attempt to take a deep breath in through my nose.

The dank stench of sulfur fills my lungs as I look around to take in the view with squinted eyes while gripping both of my daggers tightly.

This is the boss room…

Hard red rock stretches out underneath us in all directions for about 100m on every side. There are cracks in the floor gushing lava with plumes of smoke rising high up into the jet-black sky.

The ground is very flat but there are many obstacles in our way. Complementing the occasional pools of lava, there are pillars of jagged stone and massive boulders strewn about.

I immediately activate enemy detection and inspect to locate any incoming threats.

The low hissing sound of the slow-flowing lava fills my ears as I focus on the numbers popping up in my mind’s eye.

[100m]

[Lv. 356]

[50m]

[Lv. 334]

[Lv. 332]

[20m]

[Lv. 320]

[Lv. 320]

[Lv. 320]

[Lv. 320]

The ground starts to rumble and I yell out to my team.

“Everyone! We’ve got four monsters incoming! They won’t be hard, but we need to get rid of them fast!”

I watch Rodrigo jump backward on top of a high pillar of stone. It appears he’ll be surveying us from above.

Bruce springs into action the moment words leave my mouth.

“Nessa and Maria, I’ll defend with my hammer. You two concentrate on landing hits. Abby, be our support from behind.”

He gives me a firm nod, then the girls follow him close behind. I reply.

“You take out two of them, Arie and I can handle the others.”

With that, we were off.

The 6 of us sprint forward into the white cloud of smoke griping our weapons and getting ready for war. The faint sounds of grunts and shrieks slowly become louder and louder until four 3m tall red-skinned Ogres come into view.

They charge at us with their shields steady and swords held high.

I grit my teeth and look over to Arie, then turn to the two Ogres nearest to us. We both jump into action, readying our blades and sprinting off to the right side to face our opponents.

I use my wind magic to give myself a boost, kicking off the air every step of the way. As I approach my selected charging red-skinned beast I go to activate my stat-boosting skills but hesitate for a moment.

I take a look at the monster I’m about to fight, then weigh the pros and cons of using my previously hidden abilities.

Most people in this boss room already know I’m a multi-skill user. When it comes to Maria, Nessa, Abby, or even Bruce I’d be happy to let them in on my secret if they asked. I don’t mind Arie knowing I have a few extra tricks up my sleeve either, but I’d still like to get to know him better…

The only one I’m truly worried about it Rodrigo, and well, the Association as a whole.

I let out a frustrated grunt as I come within 5m of the charging High Ogre in front of me. I can smell its breath and see the monstrous range built up in its eyes.

My frustration grows into a yell as we collide.

*CLANGGGG*

My left dagger meets its long blade, and my right bounces off its shield.

I struggle against the beast in front of me… It totally catches me off guard. My heart drops for a moment, fully realizing my old sword’s buff added 89% strength. My daggers only add 300 strength, that may not be enough. I’m used to fighting with much more, plus my berserker skill gives me an additional 50% on top of everything else.

The long silver sword pushing down on my dagger begins to inch closer and closer to me as the beast overpowers me in my weakened state.

The scraping sound of metal on metal fills my ears as I watch my grip begin to slip on its sword creating sparks.

The beast lets out a roar, and I copy it letting out a yell of my own.

There’s no way I’ll be able to defeat any stronger opponents ahead of me without going all out.

I’ve made my decision, I’ll use all my skills…

I stare the High Ogre in the eyes and activate my berserker, bloodlust, and newly acquired extreme strength skills.

A dark red aura emanates from my body, followed by a golden glow. The three abilities begin to mix as I’m filled with immense strength and other various magic buffs.

The red-skinned beast’s eyes widen as I lift my dagger throwing its blade backward instantly overpowering the vile creature. In this moment, it attempts to dart away, but I lock eyes on my prey and follow it ruthlessly aiming to kill.

I concentrate and cover both my blades with an invisible layer of dense wind magic, then let out a wave of intimidation to stop it in its tracks.

The monster before me is helpless. The confident angry stare in its eyes disappears as I run circles around it. A shining black blade pierces its neck as well as one in the abdomen through a gap in its armor.

I jump back using telekinesis to ensure deep cuts, then retrieve my blades by summoning them back to me from over 4m away.

Blood gushes from its vital areas, but it still stands tall. Breathing heavily, with a look of defeat plastered across its face, the monster charges in again.

I have to give it to these High Ogres, they don’t give up easily.

I smirk and air-step above the now rugged-looking beast. With a swift toss of my blades, using telekinesis to ensure a perfect shot, the disoriented Ogre receives two knives to the neck and falls to its knees as my wind magic decapitates it on the spot.

*THUDDD*

I turn around to see Arie finishing off his monster with great speed and precision as well. It takes him about 6 hits in total, I guess he is quite a lot weaker when he doesn’t use that legendary skill.

The other four members are in a tough battle of their own. I would jump in and help, but it seems greater trouble is nearby.

Stomping sounds ring out as the next wave appears right on schedule. I yell out to my team.

“Arie, let’s fight these new ones together! The boss will be here soon!”

We lock eyes, then turn to the large clouds of steam as two towering High Ogres emerge.

They have much darker skin, stand close to 4m tall, and seem to have slightly upgraded swords and shields. I grit my teeth.

“Mutants.”

The dark red monster to our right side begins charging at Arie. Its partner plants its sword into the solid rock ground letting out a grunt and crossing its arms to watch the battle play out.

It seems rather confident.

The charging Ogre approaches quickly, so I dart over to Arie’s side to assist. I take the beast’s left, while Arie takes the right.

Metal on metal rings throughout the boss room as the mutant surprisingly blocks both of our attacks with abnormally agile movements. I use Appraisal, but nothing seems to be any different than the normal High Ogres.

The only logical explanation here is a mutated increase in agility or speed. Its eyes are calm and track both of our movements with ease. This monster seems to be highly intelligent as well.

My blades slide down the monster’s sword. I air step and spin around its backside at neck level while Arie drops to the floor distracting it from the front.

With a swift double overhand throw, I release both my daggers with wind magic and telekinesis increasing their velocity as they travel toward the back of the creature’s neck.

*CLANGGGG*

My blades hit the flat side of this monster’s blade… It managed to toss its own sword from an underhanded position upwards spinning perfectly in the air to deflect my attack.

I stare wide-eyed in surprise, then smirk and let out a laugh while bringing my blades back to my hands.

“Now that was a neat trick, not bad for a-“

It cuts me off with a roar, turning to me showing eyes filled with fury.

It seems it’s time to get serious…

I land on the ground on both feet with a thud. Arie and I stand on opposite sides of the mutant searching for an opening. The monster catches its sword by the handle and begins sprinting forward to get us away from its blind spots.

Arie darts in, and I do the same. It got lucky at first, but I won’t be caught off guard so easily this time around.

With a few air steps, I manage to make it up to eye level with the beast once again. With another swift double-overhand throw, I toss my two blades at the monster’s neck from two separate directions.

The sharp black daggers curve through the air on both sides of the monster as Arie attacks from below.

It lets out an overwhelming roar while lowering its shield to block Arie’s incoming lunge and raising its sword to deflect one of my blades. That’s right… one of them.

The massive red-skinned beast lets out another ear-piercing fit of rage as one of my wind-covered blades slides through its neck leaving a nasty wound. Blood spurts out as it turns to me showing all of its sharp jagged teeth.

I air-step back with a grin as it mindlessly follows me with rage-filled eyes. I guess the previous guess that these mutants were highly intelligent wasn’t wrong, but definitely an overestimation on my part. They succumb to their emotions very easily.

They are tough though. My daggers fly back into my hands and I stare at the wound I just dealt. Maybe 15% of its health at best. This beast is going to take at least 6 or 7 hits to fully subjugate.

The monster lets out another roar as Arie leaves two deep cuts across its left leg with both daggers. Red crimson liquid pours out of the deep wounds and he darts off to let me go in for another attack. I grip both my blades and air-step forward to face the mutant again.

Its sword collides with both my daggers and we stand perfectly still as sparks fly up in the air.

Bruce, Abby, Nessa, and Maria finish handling their two High Ogres and begin running over to help. The mutant that was standing by before lifts its sword in the air and points it at the four of them.

I concentrate on my battle, but I believe in my team, they can handle it.

*THUDDDD*

*THUDDDD*

*THUDDDD*

I stare forward at the mutant clashing metal with me, but can’t help but notice the fog change color behind it… The white steam turns blood red.

Plus, the approaching heavy ominous footsteps… that’s never a good sign.

I grit my teeth and use a dense pocket of wind beneath my feet and around my blades to push the monster’s sword upwards with immense force. In doing so, this leaves an opening for Arie to land a double-dagger strike to its right leg.

I fall back to the ground as the mutant steadies itself as well while roaring in pain.

*THUDDDD*

*THUDDDD*

*THUDDDD*

I look up at my opponent with Arie no more than 5m to my side.

The thudding footsteps keep approaching, and the plumes of steam shine redder and redder.

I gulp.

The outline of an enormous towering Ogre appears directly behind the one we’re fighting. It’s easily 6m tall.

*THUDDDD*

*THUDDDD*

*THUDDDD*

It emerges from the back of the dungeon and announces its arrival with a roar that could shatter ear drums.

The giant monster before us has dark red skin that almost appears to be black. Two massive white horns emerge from the sides of its head, and two more even longer curl out of its back upwards to create natural armor.

It wears a golden chest plate, wrist guards, codpiece, and boots that match.

To top it all off… This monster wields two long swords. Each of them shimmers in the light showing off its pure silver color with golden accents down each of the sides.

The boss lets out another roar, then bursts its blades into a fiery display….

I gasp and stare, a wide grin appears across my face as I activate appraisal.

[Lv. 356]

Active Items:

[High Ogre King’s Sword] +50% Strength

[High Ogre King’s Sword] +50% Strength

[High Ogre King’s Armor Set] +700 Defense +300 Speed +300 Agility

[High Ogre King’s Ring] +60% Mental Strength

[High Ogre King’s Pendant] +60% Mental Strength

Active Skills:

Dual Wielding [Special Grade]

Combat Magic [Fire Summoning]

Buffs:

[High Ogre King’s Resistance] +70% Magic Resistance

[King’s Body Raised in Fire] +70% Extra Fire Resistance

Our final boss battle has really begun…
