I'd never seen the energy from outside. It was like a glowing ball of snow that covered the upper portion of Kessiah's torso. The energy extension returned to the sphere, pieces of Kessiah unveiled as it shrank. Kessiah raised the obelisk up.

"So here's what you do. Put your mana into the thing. The obelisk will then use your unique signature of mana from there on out. You can customize them later if you're into that kind of thing. Personally, I've seen way too many people waste their lives on these things, so I wouldn't recommend it."

I lifted the sphere out in front of me. Charging my runes, an orange light poured into the ball before the wall of white wrapped around me. No noise pierced the orb, mirroring the effect of Torix's sorcery. All around me, a lush, green forest hummed with life abound. I stood on a small island in the middle of a creek. Cicadas buzzed in my ears, and the rustling of the stream calmed me.

A map appeared and integrated into Schema's interface. With a thought, the orb shrunk back into my palm. The two-dimensional square took up a little bit of my peripheral vision, but it didn't get in the way. I pursed my lips.

"So you can change Schema's interface? Weird."

Kessiah half-smiled.

"What? Of course, you can. On the open market, you can find all kinds of adjustments for it."

I put my hands on my hips.

"Open market, huh? What's that like?"

Kessiah peered off in the distance.

"It's where Schema holds a system-approved marketplace to exchange goods. It works great for dumping eldritch loot, buying informational pamphlets, and finding rare supplies. To be fair, there's always a huge markup since everything has to be warped multiple times before it reaches some way off-world like this."

I furrowed my brow.

"Would you be better off going to the planet and getting it yourself?"

Kessiah put her hands on her hips.

"Huh. That depends on how good you are at making money. Most warps cost around 30,000 credits or so, depending on the time of year and distance. You can get that discounted by having a lot of people warp at once. It still costs a few pretty pennies. Heh. I like that phrase, by the way. It sounds nice, like jingling coins."

I smiled.

"It's a good one. Does that mean that most supplies have a 60,000 thousand uptick in the price?"

Kessiah made a finger gun in my direction.

"Bullseye. For me, it's always meant I have to desperately need a supply before I actually order one, and then I have to go to a currency exchange center to get whatever I've ordered or chosen to sell. That exchange is a big part of how Schema finances its operations. On more connected and developed planets, the prices are way lower since you can source supplies locally."

I peered up at the sky.

"Huh. Would Earth be better off if it was connected to a bunch of planets, then?"

Kessiah waved her hand back and forth.

"Eh, probably not. Everyone would come down here and take everything that wasn't bolted to the ground. Prices would be cheaper, but you'd also have far fewer opportunities to make some credits, assuming your planet didn't end up conquered by a larger empire."

I shook my head.

"Oof. Galactic empires and all that's more than a ways away, right?"

Kessiah cupped her chin.

"You know, I think it depends. Sometimes, a planet can have its entrance timer sped up or slowed down. Considering Earth is quarantined, you don't have to worry about that until after it's gone. It also stalls the timer for quite a while."

I tapped my sides out of nervousness.

"Any guesstimations for how long that's going to be for Earth?"

Kessiah shrugged.

"A decade. Maybe more."

I gulped.

"Let's hope we can catch up by then."

She smiled.

"You might, but your planet won't. Most early risers on worlds leave their home planets to rot. It's hard to keep an entire planet safe from a hostile galaxy, after all."

A surge of defiance rose in my chest.

"I'll see what I can do about that. This is my home, after all."

She laughed.

"You probably won't be able to do anything, short stuff. Besides, we have more immediate problems than trying to save your planet from indentured servitude."

I turned, and Althea surrounded herself in the white shielding of her obelisk. Kessiah shrugged.

"She's probably adjusting a few settings. You may want to do that yourself before we leave."

"Eh, alright. I'll give it a shot."

I opened my obelisk, and the creek surrounded me again. Soaking in the relaxing background, I fiddled with a few of the options. Changing the backgrounds, the opacity of my stats, and even the colors of my status screen was as simple as thinking. I didn't have to scroll through a menu screen or a trillion settings to get it done, either.

Of course, that didn't affect my baseline status at all, only the interface of my obelisk. The obelisk changed how a status looked to me, not someone else. Still, it was a dynamic display, and it was invaluable considering how much system interface I'd need during Torix's plans. In fact, the obelisks reminded me of phones from before the apocalypse.

I frowned at the thought. People dug their faces into those glass rectangles for hours on end, ignoring everything around them. I could just imagine how addicted and dependent some people may become on an obelisk, especially considering how much better it was at immersion and customization.

For me, I only organized my perks, skill trees, and my maps. In a cursory glance, I absorbed the information with sublime ease, and I would no longer scroll through screens and screens of data anymore. The obelisk visualized it into various charts, showing bar graphs tracking my exp gain per hour or levels per day. It made managing all the minutia far easier.

In the middle of my piddling, I received a message from Torix.

Torix Worm, of Darkhill | Level 1,301 - I uploaded a variety of my personal libraries to your obelisk. Carrying around an entire archive of books is impossible any other way. Therefore, always remember this - should you invest in knowledge, knowledge shall invest in you. In that regard, progressing without the right book at the right time can be quite rigorous. You happen to have many of them now, so bottlenecks shall be few and far between.

This is one of my first gifts to you, disciple. Use it well.

Now, to access the volumes of data, simply think of accessing the data storage, and it shall present itself. I recommend Finding Your Inner Resolve by Artemus Korgah. It details a few of the more advanced tricks behind augmentation and their initial manifestations. Good luck, though if you're diligent, you won't need something so esoteric.

I smiled to myself. Even if Torix hadn't held my hand as his disciple, he had given me what I needed most. However, this...This was a gift of immense magnitude. I perused the collection's names, and they held well over ten thousand unique titles. While not all of them were useful, many held immediate import to my current needs.

I held a fist, my resolve reinvigorated by a plan and purpose. Following Torix's advice, I visualized a library. The imagery of a creek altered into bookshelves, creating rows and rows of them. They passed by me in a blur before I stood in front of an ancient library. Aged by time but maintained by love, the library held three floors, all hosting dozens of bookshelves apiece.

I willed the title of Artemus Korgah's book, and I shot through the library without having to move. Rows upon rows of books flashed through my mind before I appeared in front of a shelf full of old, leather-bound tomes. Right in front of my eyes was the needed text. Reaching out a hand, the book floated out of the bookshelf before landing in my palm.

It had no weight, but when I flipped the pages, the sound was the same as in real life. That lovely smell of old books was here, too, along with the nice, quiet hum of conversations in the background. It was perfect, and I wanted to read it right then and there. Before I fell into the pages, I put the book back before closing my obelisk.

The wind brushed against my skin once more. Or, well, my armor, I guess? In a way, the armor was my skin and bones. Gazing at my hands, it was a weird thing to dwell on. Regardless, Althea and Kessiah waited on me, Kessiah tapping her foot all the while. After jogging over, she slapped my shoulder.

"And we're off."

Within a few minutes, we left the camp. Of course, we ran. Why waste one of the system's gifts? I mean, we had to fight monsters day and night, so we might as well enjoy traveling between locations. We reached a manhole cover before hopping down the ladder and into the sewers. I expected a sickening stench and quite a few disgusting horrors.

Instead, there was a boundless beauty encapsulated in the stone corridors. Flowers sprouted along the walls, each blossom fighting for the few patches of light that sheened through cracks on the surface. Phosphorescent plants lit the hallways in shades of blue and violet light.

The sheer variety of scents amazed me, each of them like a lit candle. The alternating lights and wondrous smells were like walking through a light festival and perfume shop all at once. As we passed by it all, we lingered. We couldn't help it.

The plants would creep towards us, and I expected blood-sucking vines or parasitic pollen. They proved harmless. Even when you let them crawl up your hand, they would, at most, tickle you. A soft grass grew at the center of the sewer, replacing what had once been sewage. The vibrant emerald green acted as a stunning walkway.

We ooh-ed and ahhh-ed for a while before racing through the tunnels. It was an adventure for once instead of this awful, terrifying task we had to accomplish at all costs. It was great for Althea's morale in particular. She grinned at the flowers, her eyes dancing in the low-lit light. It was one of the few times she seemed happy since I'd seen her.

It made me wonder if all she really wanted was to live out her life as peacefully as possible. I could understand that desire. If anything, my reasons for fighting were similar, though I doubted I could ever truly settle. In the end, what I wanted most was a choice in the matter. At the moment, I didn't have the luxury of choice. None of us did, and that weight bore down on our shoulders like harsh, unspoken truths.

All of us except Althea. With a slight smile on her face, she was a shy, gentle person forced into life-and-death battles. Despite that, her soothing demeanor contrasted with who she was when we first met like ice and fire. If I had to guess, this new side of her was who she truly was, while the coarser individual I first met was a forced adaptation.

It was an awful process to rebuild yourself into what others wanted of you. To become someone you're not weighed on the soul. To do so to appease a tyrant was even worse. It reminded me of my father and who I had to become to live under him. Small, silent, and afraid, I lived for years under his jaded gaze.

Yawm and the research facility had done the same to Althea, turning her into a hardened mercenary. Now, she could finally be something else, and for some reason, that brought me resounding joy. She had escaped her past. Maybe, one day, so could I. In a different world and a different time, it might have been heartbreaking to see how she lived that way for so long.

In this brutal world, we had to appreciate life when it changed for the better. And we did. We laughed for a while in the beauty of that underground paradise. When we finally left the sewer and came back to the surface, the dichotomy of the sewer and the surface was made all the more clear.

The streets crumbled under the strange fauna around us as the bile-colored plants smothered the suburbs in a dense jungle. Spores lingered in the air like floating dandelion seeds. They attached to all surfaces, spreading as a yellow mold mold. Whatever these seeds touched corrupted in Yawm's image.

I couldn't see the sky outside of a few cracks of light leaking onto the forest floor. Roots crawled across the ground, mushrooms budding in the darkest, dankest places. Vines crawled up the trees now, blood red and covered in spines. A few insects buzzed, and others tapped along peeling bark. Birds flew above us, each of them odd and deformed.

Having beaks of wood and feathers like leaves, they camouflaged into the surrounding area to perfection. No matter how closely I looked, I couldn't distinguish them. Below them, massive ants crawled along the ground, their red shells sticking out of the surrounding yellow. A black stripe traced along their abdomens, and white talons jutted from the front of their eyeless faces.

They were fierce and imposing. That is until they walked beside a nearby red mushroom smothered in yellow dots. A crab's claw snapped out from under the mushroom cap, catching the ant by surprise. Before the ants could swarm it, the mushroom cap descended against the ground. The ants crawled over the cap, searching for the crab.

They found nothing aside from poisonous spores. Crunching echoed just under the mushroom. In all honesty, the clever way of avoiding the ant's wrath was captivating, and it reminded me of watching a nature documentary. Kessiah snapped me out of my trance.

"What in the hell are you doing?"

"Uh, watching this crab thing."

"We're on a mission. Focus."

I nodded my head.

"Yeah, of course. Sorry."

I walked out in front of the others. As I did, I spread out Oppression. It killed off the spores, giving the others a safe path forward. We followed the obelisk's instructions, taking a less direct route. When messaged to do so, I spread the maximum extent of my aura. The vast forest around me withered over the next few seconds, all the fauna falling to ash.

