"What are these even for?"

"Windows?"

"No, this metal block."

My eyes widened in recognition.

"Oh, these? They're cars. They helped our old society get around. The wheels would turn and get you places."

"I guess this is pre-space flight technology. Oof. Rough. It reminds me of some cooking utensils glued together."

I scoffed.

"Like rolling pins under a cheesegrater?"

She laughed.

"Yeah. Whoever made this obviously wasn't too concerned with efficiency."

I reached up and flicked a car window. Cracks splintered over the windshield.

"Yeh, it's pretty abysmal compared with a spaceship, but you could say that about damn near everything we have on our planet technology-wise...But, yeah, what did you want to talk about?"

She put her hands on the wheel, turning it,

"Well, I was wondering if you could explain how you survived that hit from Dakhma. You should probably be dead."

I opened my character screen.

"Take a look and find out."

She gasped.

"What? 20,000 health before level 300...Wow. Gotta admit I'm impressed."

I weighed my hands back and forth.

"It's mainly from trees and some other bonuses."

She continued.

"I'm impressed by how unbalanced your build is. Sheesh. Only endurance, huh?"

I deadpanned.

"It held up when it mattered, didn't it?"

She scratched her cheek.

"You could argue that you could've gotten more done with some strength."

I met her eye.

"And you could also argue the sun is blue, but it's not exactly productive, is it?"

She nodded.

"Fair enough."

A few awkward seconds passed before she turned to me in a sudden rush.

"Look, I want to know how you got so strong at such a low level. It's kind of crazy, if I'm being honest."

I leaned back into the car door.

"Wouldn't you like to know?"

She met my eye.

"I'm serious."

My sarcastic tone fell as I leaned back up.

"Oh...Ok. Sorry. Hmm...I got strong from my armor, my trees, and my build. They make me effective, though not exactly physically powerful. I guess I focused on using what I had, and it all came together over time. To be fair, I don't actually feel strong. I feel like a walking and talking punching bag sometimes."

She frowned.

"Your build shouldn't be able to kill anyone or anything. It's so lopsided into endurance that you should just be a health sack at this point. You know, a walking blood bag for some parasitic eldritch to suck dry...But you aren't. Not by a longshot."

I considered what she said.

"Hm. So early on, I gained this tree called the Determinator. It gives me a ton of extra endurance and willpower, and I mean to the multiplier, not raw stats. It also doubles my regeneration too."

Kessiah furrowed her brow.

"If that's the case, then shouldn't you need even less endurance than a normal person?"

The windows of the car fogged from our breath. I raised a hand.

"It's the opposite. Endurance feeds into willpower, so every point of endurance is worth many more stat points than most others stats. A normal person puts a point into a stat then gets a third more from attribute feeding at most. I get one and a half then two thirds a stat point. The chain continues, and I get a fifth a stat point and so on. Anyway, the point is, I'm getting about two and a half stat points per one spent. A normal person would get, like, one and a third at most, usually less."

Kessiah pinched the bridge of her nose.

"But you're investing your points in useless stats. It's why endurance is rarely invested heavily in - it doesn't synergize with either willpower or intelligence at all."

I smiled.

"Blood magic."

Kessiah face palmed.

"No shit? Oh man, that explains a lot. You get the regen from willpower and the mana from intelligence as health. You're a bulk lord now. Hah. That's so dumb."

I tapped the side of my temple while raising my eyebrows.

"So dumb it's smart, right?"

Kessiah rolled her eyes.

"No, it's lucky is what it is."

I raised my palms.

"Ok, maybe, but I'd argue there are no useless stats. Besides that, I'm able to burn my health, mana, and stamina on extra levelling perks because of the Determinator tree. That makes me faster, stronger, and quicker to react without reducing my longevity in a fight. I end up needing less well rounded stats across the board because of the levelling perks for dexterity and perception."

Kessiah leaned back, the leather chairs squeaking.

"And usually those are skipped. That's how your mind is both percieving and keeping up with the battles as they get faster and faster paced."

I nodded.

"It is."

Kessiah sighed.

"So, you're relying on the per level bonuses to carry your combat abilities while burning extra resources to bridge the rest of the gap. It's a novel approach, though I've seen it tried a few times. It usually comes with the downside that the warrior isn't durable while strong or strong while durable. They end up having to pick and choose when to burn their health, mana, and stamina pools."

Kessiah scoffed.

"Burning your resource totals is extremely difficult to balance in the middle of a fight, and I have a lot of respect for immolators. You're different. I don't see that same balance in your approach."

I counted on my fingers.

"First off, that's because I'm inexperienced and still have a lot to learn. Secondly, I have way more health regen than you're average person. I'm talking an unholy amount."

Kessiah leaned forward.

"Show me that status again."

I did so. She whistled.

"Wow. That's...Wow. Even an endurance specialist would normally only have 500 or so. You're rocking nearly ten times that amount. In fact, a person's health total usually outpaces their regeneration by leaps and bounds as time passes. They can take several hits, but they can't recover from them, but your regeneration is the opposite. In fact, it's way better than it has any right to be."

I tapped my shoulder plate.

"That's from the armor. It gives health, damage resistance, and regen. Tons of it."

Kessiah raised a hand.

"That's it. That's what's pulling this sloppy build together. You're abusing that armor and its bonuses for all they're worth alongside a stat tree you shouldn't even have."

I shrugged.

"Oh, absolutely. And I'd argue I should abuse these benefits for all they're worth. After all, it's something I'm stuck with, and from the looks of things, I figured I might as well get my money's worth, right?"

Kessiah smirked.

"Right. Hm, I can see how the situation played out as it did, but it's a bit disheartening seeing how quickly you're amassing power. For instance, I wasn't nearly as strong as you are at your level."

I took a breath.

"You want me to be honest with you?"

She flung her hand.

"Well, duh."

I gestured to her.

"I don't think there's some secret to my efficiency. Personally, I think you haven't been using your strength well. Like, at all."

She leaned back and crossed her arms.

"Really now...What makes you say that?"

I raised a hand, counting on my fingers once more.

"For starters, I'm better at hand-to-hand combat than you."

She smiled, the expression light yet threatening.

"I could kill you ten times over. Easily."

I furrowed my brow.

"Why?"

She took a breath.

"Does it matter?"

I scoffed.

"Of course it does."

"Ok, ok, my levels and skills."

I turned a palm to her.

"That's my point. If your level wasn't higher than mine, you wouldn't be able to beat me as I am now."

Her brow furrowed. I continued.

"Sure, I've had a few years of experience with boxing, and I've really pushed myself since Schema took over. But still, you should still be able to beat me, easily in fact, when it comes to raw skill. But...You can't. That's a problem."

She leaned to me, her eyes narrowed.

"Alright, bigshot, if you're so convinced, why don't we fight right now?"

I raised a fist.

"You're on...Though I don't think that actually addresses anything I've said."

Kessiah deflated.

"Ok, maybe, maybe. But yeah, basically, you're saying I need to get my skills up to par?"

I shrugged, glancing out the window.

"I don't know why exactly. Half of what I know about close combat probably doesn't even work whenever you're slinging power poles at your enemy. I will say this, though - that who-cares-I'm-a-high-level mentality is stopping you from progressing."

Kessiah turned to face outside. She tapped her forearm with a finger for a few seconds, deep in contemplation. After a moment, she uncrossed her arms.

"I'll think it over. Is there anything else you can think of?"

I weighed my hands back and forth.

"From here, I'm throwing out some wild guesses. Firstly, I think the way you fight isn't well-rounded. You don't have any range or ways to stop enemies from moving. Enemies like Dakhma will crush you with the way you are."

I turned a palm to her.

"Not saying my way of fighting is perfect either, but you've had plenty of time to fix these faults. You decided not to, or you decided it wasn't a weakness. Honestly? I don't know exactly what you need to do. The thing is...There's work that needs to be done. A lot of it."

Kessiah furrowed her brow.

"Thanks for reminding me."

I put a hand on her shoulder.

"Anytime, anytime."

She shoved my hand away, a smile on her lips. She raised a brow.

"Alright, not-quite-so-little man. How about I give you some advice, too?"

I put my hands behind my head.

"Oh man, that's going to be hard when you're this perfect."

She rolled her eyes before grabbing the door handle. I tapped her shoulder.

"I'm being entirely sarcastic, and any feedback would be deeply appreciated."

"Where'd that humility come from?"

I remembered the fight before shivering.

"From having my guts say hi to the atmosphere earlier than I'd like."

She turned to me and nodded.

"Yeah. That's a wake-up call for anybody. It was for me, too. To be frank, I hadn't lost a fight in a while. Decades, to be more precise."

She cupped her chin.

"It might have been before Torix and I had a falling out. Crazy times back then."

I leaned forward a little, curious as a kid. She flicked my nose, making me lean back. She grinned all of a sudden.

"Ha ha! You wanna know about that, don't you?"

I frowned.

"I mean, I could be a little curious."

Kessiah relaxed a little.

"Advice first. Here-" She reached out a hand and flicked just shy of my forehead. For a moment, her hand was like a grim reaper's scythe as a plume of wind followed her motion. The car window exploded behind me as my hair flew back. I blinked as my life flashed before my eyes. She leaned forward and whispered.

"You're not invincible, and you never will be. That's why you can't keep fighting like you'll survive every hit because, at some point, you won't."

She leaned back.

"How's that for advice?"

I gasped.

"Enlightening."

She crossed her arms, the cool breeze rushing in from the window.

"But as for me and Torix's history, I suppose you earned a little piece of why. Torix and I met after Alfred left. Torix, he was devastated and was on the hunt. Honestly, I was glad he left his little moon base. You probably already noticed, but Torix is a homebody. He never leaves his lair, and that can make things a little stale from time to time."

I leaned into my seat.

"You make it sound like you enjoy traveling. Do you?"

She peered into the distance.

"Aghh, I love it. It kind of comes with the territory, being a remnant and all. We live on ships that go across the universe. Going from place to place is more in my blood than the changed genes will ever be."

Her eyes glowed, mana abound.

"Though I'm pretty sure some people would argue. Anywho, Dakhma mentioned it, but the remnants were a single species before we began splicing our genes. With a bit of telomerization, we can live forever, too. It's one of the first gene splices we mastered, and it carries no real downside. Well outside of the arbitrarily placed ones from Schema."

She chewed on nothing.

"Ugh. Fuck that robot."

She tapped her chin, glancing at the roof of the car.

"This conversation has got me nostalgic. I actually remember back when I was a kid. I'd run through the tight hallways in my parent's ship, and they'd always scream at me to stop running. I think I did it more for their attention than anything else. They had a habit of being too busy to bother with me much."

I winced, painful memories resurfacing in my own mind.

"I can relate, and yeah, that sucks."

She waved her hand.

"I don't need the sympathy of some newborn, and let's not derail the discussion too much. Anyway, I told Torix that what he really needed to do was change himself. He thought that his mistake with training Alfred was what made the poor guy leave. I said it was because he was forcing himself on the kid. What kind of disciple wants to be an undead necromancer when they're so young?"

I peered into the distance.

"Is it being a necromancer or just having someone decide who and what you'll be?"

"Probably both. When we met, Torix went on rants about how he wanted his son to live up to his potential and all that. I argued that it was Alfred's life and that he could do what he wanted. Torix said, and I quote, 'Ah, myes, you wish for him to become a wandering leech in a similar vein of destitution as yourself. Oh, pish posh, humbuggery. Did I mention I'm a skeleton that enjoys nagging? Allow me to elaborate that point in a dozen different ways.'"

I laughed before she raised her hand.

"I'm telling you. He said that word for word."

"Sure, sure."

She let her hands rest on the car wheel.

"Oh man, somehow you found me out. So yeah, there might've been a slight exaggeration. Regardless, I was hurt by what he said, but looking back, he was right in a lot of ways. Maybe not about his son, but he was right about me. Being a remnant, my genes were made for power. I was born with battle in my blood, and I never had to fight to become strong."

Kessiah stared at me.

