Keeping that goalpost in mind, I considered how to progress. I stuck with an attribute heavy approach, something Kessiah made light of at one point. She mentioned endurance and willpower based builds being useless. I aimed to change that idea. I would turn the intangible traits of those attributes into hallmarks of my own unique build.

Endless health with the will to use it...I wanted to become a living endorsement to that idea.

So I settled into maximizing my gains to their utmost extent. I’d abuse the Determinator tree until the stars died out in the distance if I had to. With that in mind, I peered at my status. I gained quite a few skill levels after all the fighting. Mightus and Slyvenia both carried unknown statuses too, and Obliterator doubled my experience gain from them.

That heightened experience bonus doubled another time because of the quarantine zone. It led me to gaining many more levels than I used to get. I smiled at the numbers I found waiting for me. With risks came rewards, after all.

Level 326 | Attribute Menu

Strength [100.1] | Constitution [100.1] | Endurance [567] | Dexterity [54] | Willpower [258] | Intelligence [101.4] | Charisma [29.3] | Luck [54.6] | Perception [34.8]

Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm | Character Screen

Health - 22,196/22,196 | Health Regen - 4,547/min | Stamina - 12,789/12,789 | Stamina Regeneration - 160/sec | Damage Resistance - 97.5% | Mental Resistance - 97.5% | Physical Power - (+)1,681% | Damage Increase - 5%  | Evolution: 26.8 Million/256.0 Million

Aura - Oppression | Current Damage: (10,000 + 30% of your health)/minute within a 175 ft radius.

The largest difference came from the vast rise in my physical power. Apocalyptic also came with an explosivity I appreciated at all moments. I could just detonate at any time. Just as potent, the constitution perk, Behemoth, exposed its benefits even while sitting there. Situated by crossing my legs on the grassy ground, I sunk into it by a slight amount. Even without trying too, the level one hundred perks demonstrated immense utility.

However, each time I selected one, I cut off my ability to get other ones.

Knowing this, I wondered which leveling perk to take next. The main standouts were dexterity, perception, and luck. Compared to those attributes, strength and constitution’s benefits stood out as obvious. I fought with my fists, so being strong and tough helped me out there. They both even gave me health after getting their leveling perks, further augmenting their necessary roles.

Perception, luck, and dexterity were different. Dexterity increased my reaction times, which would save my life in the future. The added flexibility may even make torn strips of armor more durable. The more I thought about it, the more I liked the idea. For perception and luck, I figured I’d think about them later. As I pushed myself up, a wave of unease passed over me.

Would I just keep pushing this kind of thing off? It was piss poor way of handling something this important. Even worse, if I understood anything about Schema’s system, it was that planning reaped benefits. My goal of piling up endurance resulted in a unique, powerful build that let me survive an encounter with Dakhma, someone thousands of levels over me. If I kept thinking ahead, there was no telling where I’d end up.

But that was the point - I had to keep thinking ahead. I sat back down. Taking a moment, I brainstormed some likely perks and trees that may form based on old tree patterns. The second tier of Obliterator might exist, maybe even a third one. There could even be perks for having 1,000 in an attribute. If perks like that did exist, then maxing out my endurance would be vital. Willpower may follow right after so I could handle the ensuing mana I generated.

So instead of just pouring points out in a haphazard manner, I aimed at reaching those goals. Dexterity first then either perception or luck. After that, I’d pile up endurance until I passed a thousand. That would give me my best chance at growing as fast as possible. Considering the fight with Dakhma, I needed immediate, world ending power. The fight passed in my eyes, and I flinched as Althea’s head flopped in the air.

I recalled Michael and Kelsey, dying in their stasis pods. We couldn’t save them.

I peered up, knowing that I wouldn’t have to deal with outcomes like that if I resolved myself. The situation with Dakhma pointed out how desperate our current situation was. In a moment, everything could devolve into a massacre, one where we existed on the receiving end of the slaughter. This was no different from BloodHollow, however. I faced grim odds then, and I came out on top.

I passed out of that dungeon from a load of tenacity and a little luck. From passing through that trial, I held opportunities flowing from my palms like water from a spring. The Determinator tree wasn’t even obtainable for most. My armor was wholly unique, and Obliterator was another feather in my cap. Genesis of Potential could’ve been the greatest of my advantages, something with unseen and unknown potential.

And by reaching that potential, I could race out into an uncertain horizon without fear. I could rise above where I was born. Following a whim, I stood and paced out of the camp towards the edge of the quarantine zone. Force of Iron soldiers walked beside the shield generators, holding in the petal bugs in the distance. To get a better view, I climbed towards the top of an old factory.

Traversing to its top was easier than I remembered. I hopped onto a train with a casual leap. I sprinted forward, crossing a several car wide gap to reach the factory’s ceiling. Once on it, I shoved my pointed fingertips through thin steel to reach the top of a smoke stack. The old relic of humanity’s golden age stuck out as a beacon of what once was. As I reached the top of it, I gazed out at the shell of Springfield.

An enormous, encroaching field of new life came over the entire expanse. It smothered and drained and sucked up everything in its pass. Colossal roots carved out enormous chunks of the scenery, birds resting on the tops of the huge walls of wood. They all collected into a massive world tree at the center of Springfield. In the core of that place, Yawm rested as a tiny blot of light in the distance.

I grimaced at the cosmic creature. My friends passed from him. My old hometown rested in shambles. Even my old way of life obliterated from Yawm’s mark, Springfield a mere blip in his path. Anger spiked in my chest as I grabbed the sides of the smokestack I sat on, I wrenched the steel, and it squealed in my palms before I ripped shards off. Staring at the bent metal, I flung the old pieces of soft steel into the distance.

As they fell, so did my anxieties. I already survived an apocalypse, and I came out stronger on the other side of it. Peering down at Springfield, I’d do the same thing again. Unlike in BloodHollow, I wouldn’t need luck this time. I’d get revenge for what was done to my home and for what was done to me. I’d walk across a mountain of corpses if that’s what it took to get there.

I aimed to redeem this place’s memory, to learn the secrets of Schema’s runic language, and to maybe even travel the stars one day. I closed my eyes, thinking about how Schema made all of those thoughts into realities. That AI turned this land into a new world, one where monsters roamed and beasts thrived, and I wouldn’t wash away in it.

I was Daniel Hillside, the Harbinger of Cataclysm.

And no matter what they threw at me, I would endure.

Book 2 Begin | Yawm's Rise

1 To Make a Difference

Upon a silent smokestack, I surveyed an altered world. Under a shining sky, the edge of Springfield deformed from the onslaught of Yawm's infectious trees. The petals fell and evolved into insects that drilled into the flesh and skin of anyone exposed to them. Black veins spread across their bodies, the mangled faces like horrid memories of a bygone era.

The Force of Iron fought against them, containing the tide of petal bugs. Shields powered by mages flickered as petals sizzled against them. Soldiers screamed orders as they gunned down errant zombies, and they exhausted their morale and their ammunition. In many ways, we operated under the weight of expectation.

And so, I could wait no longer.

I stood, peering down. I leaped from the side before jamming my clawed fingertips into the steel beside me. Sparks bolted out as I slowed my descent. I thumped onto the top of the factory, dust billowing out from my landing. Growls on the horizon echoed over the impact, and I smiled. I had plenty of fights ahead of me.

I opened my status and put all my tree points into Genesis of Potential. I closed in on the next tier at 750 points. Alas, I had a bit further to push before I could consolidate my gains. I leaped and parkoured my way through a post-apocalyptic cityscape, the empty factories as haunting as the empty homes.

At the medical bay, Althea slept, and Kessiah rested. I had a moment of downtime to relax and recharge. I did as all would, and I focused my efforts on a bit of self-improvement. In my case, that meant runes and forging. It emptied my mind of all distractions, acting as a fruitful cleanse of my worries. After heading into one of the work tents, I took a few slabs of metal and bent them together.

That makeshift anvil in hand, I took other bits of scrap metal to forge. Hours passed like minutes while I bent over the hodgepodge anvil and toiled. It was a side of myself I never uncovered in the old world. I fought against homework, rules, and expectations like a honeybadger in a hive. Here, amidst a world full of struggle and no determined path, I could only forge my own.

And I thrived.

It offered the urgency the old world never had. I had hated studying, yet I relished the research of runes. A passion for intellectual pursuit arose from within, and I never whipped myself into working. I fell into a series of experiments, a trial and error acting as a dance between ideas and reality.

As was the case in all kinds of creation, failure arose far more than triumph. I relished it. I failed no exams. I endured no harsh judgment. I listened to the desire to continue, and it roared in my mind, a lingering echo playing out as the hours passed. My fist was my hammer. The heat of plasma coils was my furnace.

In the tent, people passed, and they murmured under their breath about a brute who shouldn't be here distracting the others. I never allowed them to distract me. In time, the sun came up after a few hours, but that wasn't a reason to stop. Without a need for sleep, I continued. By the time my mind began wandering during my task, I'd made three different swords.

One would brandish fire when unsheathed, but it only flashed ablaze at that moment. The fire died seconds later; the blade was all spark and no blaze. The second sword unleashed a thin, static edge on its surface. It only offered a distraction if the static hit someone before the edge landed or during a clash.

The last blade gushed wind from the edge of the blade. It slowed the strikes by a hair, but it also helped parry and block incoming attacks. After a while, I tried my hand at yet another creation, but this other sword resonated as mana poured in. The runes didn't come together, and the energies spiraled into chaos. Seconds later, I leaned over the blade as it exploded.

Glowing fragments embedded into my skin. I turned to a few worried soldiers. I scratched the back of my head.

"Heh. Sorry about that."

They gawked at me. Obviously, my failure surprised them, and not the glowing shards of metal jutting out of my neck. I ripped the fragments out and continued. After several minutes, I immersed myself in my work once more. A firm grip clasped my shoulder, and I held down an incredibly manly squeal.

I turned, finding Kessiah staring at me with a new scar tracing down her cheek. She grinned, though something about the expression felt forced.

"Yo, I just want to say thanks for the save. I was dead if you didn't tank that for me."

I set what was left of my supposed sword down as my armor peeled back, exposing my face.

"Eh, no problem. I'd actually say you earned some thanks for not letting Dakhma kill us. So, uh, thanks. In fact, keeping us alive might even trump getting punched in the face."

She frowned.

"Or getting stabbed in the gut?"

I shrugged.

"I'll be a pincushion as many times as it takes if that means we make it through this."

Her frown lessened. She searched for something in my eyes before sighing. She pointed somewhere in the distance.

"Mind if we talk for a minute?"

I held up the shattered sword.

"Eh, why not. I need a break anyway."

She reached up, pulling a shard out of my shoulder. Blood dripped down for seconds before the wound sealed. She winced.

"You think?"

We paced out of the camp before I noticed a Sentinel stationed nearby. He towered as tall as the houses beside him, and he offered an incredible safety net against the followers of Yawm should they rear their ugly heads. Torix probably told the overseer about Dakhma's interference.

That Sentinel guarded us in its ominous shadow, and it calmed us. If our camp and Yawm's were countries, then that Sentinel would be a nuclear deterrent. Despite that, Yawm acted as an even bigger nuke than our own. Hell, progressing from here on out seemed impossible. At any moment, a follower could dive down and kill us all. It left a few members of the camp gloomy, me included.

Those swarming worries died down as Kessiah closed in on a car door beside me. Apparently, empty car chats were a thing now, so I walked around the car and sat in the passenger seat. The car's weight and tires bent under the stress of supporting us, but it still held up while letting out a few groans of distress. I leaned back into my seat.

"So, what's up?"

Kessiah tapped a window.

