"That's why when I look at you and how hard you fight...I can't help but feel weak in comparison. I'm stronger in body but weaker in my mind. So yeah, maybe you have a point."

I nodded, silent as she spoke. It could be hard to listen at times, but I learned a bit from Althea about how useful it could be to hear someone out. After all, sometimes, an open ear was all someone needed. Kessiah glanced away and shook her hands.

"Ah fuck, I'm rambling now. You must be bored. Sorry about this."

I waved my hands.

"Not at all. It's interesting. I didn't know much about you and Torix, so it's nice to hear about your history."

I grinned.

"Even if it is a bit of a tangent."

She hit my shoulder.

"Yeah, yeah, whatever."

She leaned back before stretching her arms out in front of her. She cracked her knuckles.

"Thanks for listening. I feel way better about all this stuff. My mind's clear."

I tapped her shoulder, "Don't worry about it. Anytime you need a car-versation, I'll be ready and waiting."

Kessiah rolled her eyes before opening the car door.

"Puns. They're so lame."

"Eh, everyone's lame sometimes. Me included."

She stepped out of the car, the calm wind outside refreshing us both and carrying our hair in its grasp. I stood outside and admired the open sky, though a group of gray clouds loomed in the distance. Kessiah smiled wide.

"Ah yeah, I forgot to mention it. Are you ready for Torix's new plan for clearing out Springfield?"

I raised an eyebrow.

"What could he even scrape together out of this situation? It's looking pretty bleak."

She clapped her hands together.

"Something you'll learn about Torix is that when he says he has a plan, he means it."

She turned.

"So get ready for a three-hour lecture."

My shoulders drooped.

"Ah, man. Not again."

Book 2| 2 Adaptation

We left the car as it howled from the wind passing through its opened doors. It was an eerie goodbye in a way, and we stepped past growing lawns and dilapidated streets on our way back to camp. By now, Kessiah bubbled with energy once more, and she chatted away as we walked. Our talk cleared her mind and my mind alike, so we both acted more like our usual selves.

At the medbay, we found Althea slumbering on one of the makeshift hospital cots. Her breathing was no longer labored, and color returned to her face. Kessiah walked over and put a hand on Althea's shoulder. Kessiah shook her with a bit more zeal than she probably needed to. Kessiah raised a brow.

"Hey, toots, wake up. You've had plenty of beauty sleep."

Althea frowned as her eyelids gradually opened.

"I don't want to study anymore, Torix. I just want to practice with my rifle."

Kessiah rolled her eyes.

"Everybody's been waiting on you, missy. We got places to go and things to see, so get the hell up."

Althea pursed her lips and furrowed her brow.

"Somebody woke up on the rude side of the bed this morning, didn't they?"

Kessiah put her hands on her hips.

"Depends on who you ask. Me? I think this is pretty much my usual."

Althea pushed herself up before putting her legs on the side of the bed. She wore a jumpsuit torn in several places. I turned away before pointing outside.

"I'll, ugh, go outside real quick."

Althea blushed before Kessiah opened a starry portal. She took out a few extra pairs of clothes.

"I've got plenty, and besides, we can't have you making me look bad walking around in that."

Kessiah laughed as Althea flustered about while I waited outside the tent. They both sauntered out minutes later, and the open sky grew overcast. It bathed the ground in gray, and the empty streets stood as a silent monument to what Springfield used to be. Now, the only sound you could hear was rustling trash or the whistling of wind.

Usually, I wouldn't notice it, but the gloomy weather brought out just how empty everything was now. I fought to keep those emotions from spilling over me until we reached Torix's house. It was more of a lair at this point. Several cords stretched out of the ground from all directions, amassing in a cord tower and an antenna on top of the home. It all looked new, like it was built since the last time I was here.

When we walked inside, there was a generator built into the center of the house connected with the cords outside. These cables draped across the homey hallways and roofs of rooms. Technology was tapered onto the wall, enabling instant communication of information. At the center of it all, Torix scribbled onto a summoned blackboard.

He would carve his finger into the expanse of black with white mana, like drawing on darkness with snow. When we walked in, he turned toward us.

"Excellent. You're all here. Come, come. Sit."

He walked up beside us and summoned an enveloping sorcery. It slightly shifted the air's color. As this subtle wave blanketed us, all sound from outside the barrier was muted. We pulled up nearby chairs, and once we were all within the magical distortion, Torix spread his hands.

"I've devised a method of safely clearing out new areas."

Althea crossed her arms.

"I talked a big game about it, so you better not let me down."

Torix pointed at the charts detailing the streets of Springfield.

"That was entirely your own choice and made outside my awareness. You'll suffer the consequences of your actions. That being said, I can't imagine my plan failing apart as easily as the first had."

He pressed his fingers together, making the blackboard hover over to him. Torix tapped it.

"The new plan carries many differences, most of all being evasion, distraction, and deception. Firstly, I resuscitated several tiny insect creatures. I've made them explore Yawm's camp to gather information. He is centered within the growing world tree at the center of Springfield, as I believed he would be."

I raised an eyebrow.

"Oh, man...A world tree? Like Yggdrasil?"

Kessiah leaned over.

"What's that?"

I scratched the side of my head.

"It's a part of Nordic mythology in our world. That being said, I'm starting to wonder how much of that was actually mythological or people just stretching the truth a little bit."

Kessiah scoffed.

"It can't be what this world tree is like then. These are monsters that tend to suck up a planet's resources, mainly ambient mana. It's how Yawm and his followers got to such a high level outside the system's influence, and it's probably the core of how Yawm sustains his operation. You know, economically speaking."

Althea murmured while frowning.

"He sells the fruit, wood, bark, leaves, all of it. The world tree's good in potions, poisons, and elixirs alike. So, er, yeah. He kind of grinds planets up for sale and keeps the profits for himself. Well, that and-"

Althea shivered.

"To fuel his experiments."

Torix swung his hand.

"That's why he won't leave that world tree before finishing his infestation. That gives us time. His followers are the primary problem for now. If we kill them and eliminate the infestation, we may weaken Yawm before he escapes his prison."

Torix pointed at a miniature map of Springfield with yellow dots all over it.

"These dots represent named ones that Yawm has either brought over or summoned."

He pointed at several red dots, each of them moving slowly.

"These are the followers. They are the primary threats like Dahkma."

We all nodded as Torix continued.

"So far, they've yet to even ascertain my initial tracking mechanisms, let alone my contingencies. It's a weakness derived from their years of experimentation. They lack sharpened senses and clear minds. That is where we will strike, tactically speaking."

Torix gestured to the map.

"This will track their movements. Depending on the day, I will assign areas they are far from, allowing you all to clear out areas and named ones with relative safety. I've arranged regular meetings with the Force of Iron to allow target encirclements to further progress despite the inherent complexity of this operation."

Kessiah winced.

"Yikes. Will the Force of Iron just be fodder so that Daniel can clear the areas out?"

Torix waved his hand.

"What? Oh, but of course. Their corpses will still be quite useful for our endeavors long after their demise, regardless of whether they are alive or not."

Althea and I gawked at the necromancer. Torix rolled his fiery eyes.

"And here I assumed my humor was lacking, but it would seem none of you is aware of the concept. That is to say, it was a joke."

I scoffed.

"A bad one."

Kessiah peered down at me.

"Coming from the pun lord."

I narrowed my eyes, turning to the side. I spoke with a dramatic undertone.

"Someone has to enact Pun...Ishment on our enemies."

Althea burst into laughter while Kessiah and Torix peered at each other. Kessiah murmured.

"Do we have to let him live?"

Torix shook his head.

"Regrettably so, but we can organize the plan so that he dies at the end."

I spread my hands.

"I'm right here, guys."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"And that's the problem we're troubleshooting."

Kessiah tilted her head at the other cords.

"Come on, guys, let's get back on track."

Torix pointed at the hanging cords.

"Of course, of course. Now, these allow me to contact the Force of Iron. I'll use this to communicate with each of you as well if our statuses fail for whatever reason."

I crossed my arms.

"Aren't communication technologies banned by Schema?"

Torix's eyes flared.

"Correct. This, however, isn't a long-distance communication. Schema shall allow a simple, short-distance radio to be used. However, it's good to be skeptical. Maintain that rigor when hearing the rest of my plan."

Torix pulled out three glass spheres with thin rings of electronics lining their centers. Torix handed one to each of us.

"Do you remember what these are?"

I nodded.

"Obelisks, right? They organize system interfaces and give you a few bonus options."

Torix held one up to observe.

"These will allow each of you to visualize the data and instructions I send to you in real-time. Kessiah will explain their operation. I've also created a private network for only our use. The Force of Iron will be told little of the operation's specifics. Trusting them too deeply is simply a risk I'd rather not take."

I didn't agree with that sentiment, but I didn't want to throw out my gut feeling since it lacked any logic to back it up. Torix grabbed the map of Springfield on the blackboard and pulled it out. A three-dimensional hologram rose from the board. Underneath the map was a layout of tunnels. Torix pointed at them,

"The underlying sewer system underneath Springfield is a relatively unexplored area for Yawm. We will use it for mobilizing the Force of Iron and our party. This will hide our movements during the operation as well. Likely, this won't last forever, but it shall obfuscate most of our movements during the earlier portions of this mission."

I smiled.

"Ah, then you'll use your summons on the surface while we stick to the underground sections. It's like guerilla warfare essentially but with a bit of added misdirection."

Torix tilted his head at the blackboard.

"Hm. I didn't plan to put my summons only on the surface, but it's a good addition to the plan. Just as well, I'll be giving one of my more powerful summons to Kessiah in case something unexpected occurs. That is actually a topic I wish to broach with each of you."

Torix met our eyes.

"I wish to apologize for my lack of caution. I dedicated an entirely lacking amount of forethought to our situation before. My nonchalance nearly killed everyone, and I will not underestimate Yawm or his followers again."

Kessiah's left eye twitched, painful memories flashing over her eyes.

"You and me both."

Althea uncrossed her arms.

"So, I'm not trying to bring anyone down, but can you manage all of this, Torix? It sounds like a solid plan, but it's also a lot for one person to handle. Er, unless I'm misunderstanding something."

Torix smiled, his eyes flaring bright. The expression lingered eerily on his cadaverous, dry body.

"I shall handle this and more. I'll be splitting these areas so that you may take down the named ones during each mission. They will be much like the disciples of Dakhma. The location of this base will also be hidden with a few more cloaking spells and some jamming technology now, for good measure. Even then, regular rotation of the base's location shall occur to prevent them from finding us too easily."

Kessiah grinned.

"I must say, it's good to see the old Torix is back."

Torix adjusted his robe.

"I do have a penchant for rising to an occasion. Now, if all of you are rested as well, I've already drawn up a few routes you can take when you're ready."

I shrugged.

"I'm down if the others are."

Kessiah clanked her fists together.

"I'm ready. I'll teach that evil piece of shit who's boss."

Althea gave a curt nod. Torix snapped his fingers, making the magical distortion disappear. A rush of white noise filled my ears as Torix spoke over the sudden cacophony.

"Then I'll see you when you all come back. Follow the routes of your obelisks. They'll show you the way from here."

Kessiah draped her arms over my and Althea's shoulders. She grinned between us.

"Let's go give this another shot, shall we?"

She patted our backs before walking out the front door. We stared before Kessiah turned to us. Kessiah waved an arm.

"Come on now. We don't have time to waste, so get out here. I can show you guys how to use the obelisks."

We walked outside the house, Althea's steps light and mine heavy. Once we reached outside, Kessiah lifted her obelisk, shooting a bit of mana into it. A holographic extension of the sphere expanded around her. The glass sphere acted as the center of it, and it worked like a 360-degree monitor. After a few seconds, she activated a setting, and the obelisk's hologram sheened to a glowing white.

