I almost regretted killing off so much life. That was until I saw several of the red mushrooms growing from the eye sockets of a decapitated head. That snapped me out of my sudden bout of empathy. Back on track, a panther with thorns jutting from its back leaped towards me from behind.

A spear sliced through the panther's chest before I surged my mana into my runes. A rush of power filled me as I bolted forward. The panther flipped midair as I grabbed its skull.

Swinging it up, I growled as it snapped branches. I crushed it into the ground beneath me, the bone popping under my armor. It splattered out, but my aura vaporized the yellow bile. Its body wasn't as dense as stone anymore. It was more like a creme brulee than a soft rock. The panther didn't even pretend to put up a fight.

It turned out to be an unnamed one of Yawm's. My perk unlocks made the sudden spike in strength apparent. I was a killing machine now. I lifted a foot and caved its torso in. A dull pop and sickening splat echoed across the branches before the forest's steady rumble swallowed the sound. A little cluster of mushroom crabs crawled towards me, squealing in pain.

Sores covered their forms, my aura antagonizing the already open wounds. When they reached me, I began stomping and crushing them underfoot. They were so small, yet their claws could clip through steel, apparently. The roots of the forest crawled towards me as well, but they withered before being able to wrap around me.

On the other hand, the sanguine vines slammed behind us while letting out vicious cracks. A quick, thrumming clap against my side left my armor dented. I grabbed the vine before it recoiled and uprooted them from the tree they wrapped around. Without a host, they withered in seconds. I wiped my brow, glad I could take the initial hit.

Right after I considered that prospect, one of the vines wrapped around Althea. She wrenched herself out of the smothering vine, but blood covered her before another smashed straight through her arm. It caved her chest in. My stomach sank at the sudden severity, and Althea screamed in pain before Kessiah crushed the vine in a split second.

Over the next few minutes, Kessiah applied a bit of first aid and fed Althea a health potion. Some system assistance finished healing Althea before Kessiah flicked Althea's forehead.

Kessiah sighed.

"I didn't think I'd need to help you out of that. Keep your guard up, or you're not making it out of here."

Althea nodded, grimacing. She couldn't even reply. Her enhanced regeneration got her back up to her feet soon enough. Killing her was deceptively tricky, after all. Our trek into the haunting forest continued for a while, and Althea and I expunged the unnamed and the swarms of wildlife.

After three hours of forest clearing, we reached a yellow dot on our map. It was at the top of an empty parking deck, one that helped prevent an old factory-turned-office from dealing with congestion. Of course, that plan never worked, and the post-apocalyptic signs of the unsolved traffic jam littered the place.

Cars rested bumper to bumper along the entire concrete spiral, and no streaks of blood congealed onto the walls. There wasn't a reason for people to return here outside of recovering their car. That wasn't an option since every entrance was blockaded by accidents, so all the vehicles sat up here like a used car sales lot.

It made the entire area act as a nostalgic reminder of a bygone era. I walked past a Honda Civic, one of those scented trees dangling from the rear-view mirror. Rearing my elbow back, I smashed the window before leaning in. It was black ice, a popular scent. I grabbed it, peering at the car freshener.

Althea leaned over to me.

"What's that?"

I handed it to her. She smelled it before smiling.

"It smells like moonlight."

I scoffed.

"It's supposed to be citrus and cedar. I actually really liked it before my dad started hanging the stuff up everywhere."

Althea furrowed her brow.

"Why'd that make you dislike the scent?"

I leaned against the broken car window.

"Because he smelled like cigarette smoke, body odor, and sadness."

Althea put the car freshener in one of her pockets.

"Did he honestly think it covered the smell? Because even this car smells like onions and fried food."

I scoffed.

"I don't know if he did or not. My mother loved the stuff, too, and he never quit using it after she died. I think it reminded him of her."

Althea pulled it out of her pocket before handing the car freshener to me.

"Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to take it then."

I pushed her hand away from me.

"No thanks."

She frowned.

"Er, why?"

I smiled.

"Because they remind me of him now. Honestly, I don't know why I even picked this one up."

She gave me a small smile.

"Notalgia?"

I smiled back.

"Eh, maybe, but let's go before Kessiah yells at us."

We continued walking up the concrete parking deck. When we reached the roof of the eight-story building, there was a humanoid entity perched on the ledge. It wore the armor of a knight, but instead of steel, its plates were mold and its embellishments were fungus. A sword draped on its back, and it oversaw the city below.

Something about it oozed a distant melancholy. Much of its interlocking plates were of bone, and the sword glistened as a sharpened and fused spine. Between the joints in the armor, a blue skin creased with each movement. It turned its head as we walked near it. A pair of downtrodden, blue eyes locked onto us.

Beside him, three decapitated heads of its victims stared out into the distance. The knight said in a deep voice.

"Tell me. Has the reaper come?"

I frowned.

"Why would you do this?"

Althea shrugged.

"Who cares why it did this."

Her biotic rifle hissed as she loaded another bolt of bone into it. She frowned.

"It's just a dead man talking."
