A ripple of amusement spread through Ascension’s original members, the Vestvallans sharing confused looks.

Rain sighed, looking away from Hanes to see many faces staring in his direction. Samson was standing in the crowd below beside Mollo. The freelord had been doing his best to keep everyone focused despite the distraction, but he was only human, and gawkers were going to gawk. Rain picked out Lyn, standing near the front, an amused expression on the noblewoman’s face. Both she and Atyl still held ties to their respective families, not going quite so far as to renounce them completely, but they were no less outliers when it came to attitude. Rain shook his head slowly, then looked back at Hanes, making sure to speak loudly enough for everyone to hear. “The exceptions prove the rule.”

“Fuckin’ aye,” called out Mollo, clapping Samson on the back hard enough to make him stumble. “Ain’t that right, Sammy?”

Samson recovered quickly, speaking in a matter-of-fact tone as he straightened his armor. “Fucking aye.”

After a moment of disbelief, another wave of laughter swept through the crowd, and Rain’s mouth twitched, a tiny measure of his tension draining away, though his headache remained undiminished. Hearing Tarny approaching behind him, he looked over his shoulder. “Anything?”

“No,” Tarny said, shaking his head. “But you already knew that.”

Rain nodded, taking it in stride. No news was good news, but it was also no news. Fortunately, he didn’t have to wait much longer. After a few minutes, a speck of green light appeared in the distance over the trees. “There!” someone shouted, pointing, but by then, the light had already crossed almost half the distance, so quickly was it approaching. It whizzed low overhead, overshooting the camp in a blur and causing no small amount of panic. Not for Rain, though.

“That’s her!” he roared, having recognized Energy Well for what it was. Jumping from the battlements, he landed in the animal pen with a heavy impact, then began making his way through the skittish livestock. “Val, light me up!”

“On it!” Val called from somewhere on the battlements. Soon after, white light fell over Rain as a Lunar Orb zipped from behind him to orbit around his head.

In the distance, there was a crash as something metallic struck stone at high velocity. “Samson!” Rain called, vaulting out of the pen, then shouldering his way through the defenders. “I’m going ahead!”

“Mereck!” Samson called out in response. “Stint, go with the captain, right now! Val, Lyn, Carten, you’re with—”

Rain stopped listening, breaking free from the press and out onto free ground. Pointing himself in the direction of the impact, he broke into a flat-out sprint. Behind him, he heard the sound of hooves as he reached for Velocity. He started the spell low as he always did, finding the transition less jarring. The hooves gradually stopped getting nearer as his speed increased, even after switching from a canter to a full gallop. Rain kept boosting the spell, but then a cry from behind him made him pause.

“Captain! The light!”

Muttering a curse, Rain slowed down so Stint and Dust could keep up. As worried as he was for Ameliah, he knew she’d have easily survived that kind of impact. Leaving Dust to gallop in the dark would be risking a broken leg at best, as would be extending the spell to include the animal. Velocity training for Ascension was on Rain’s list, but as with many things, he hadn’t gotten to it. This speed would have to do.

Feeling that he must be nearing Ameliah’s landing site, Rain flared Velocity and jumped before switching to Detection. He got a signal. Just at the edge of his range, slightly off to the left. Restoring Velocity before he hit the ground, Rain managed to get himself stabilized and pointed in the correct direction. The last hundred meters passed in a flash, Lunar Orb’s light revealing Ameliah digging herself out of a hole in a rocky hillside—a hillside that Rain was unable to prevent himself from slamming into moments later.

His speed being considerably less than Ameliah’s had been, he bounced off instead of creating his own crater, his new forceweave comfortably distributing the impact.

“Rain!” Ameliah gasped, moving quickly over to him. “Are you okay?”

“That’s my line,” Rain said, already back on his feet. Ameliah looked like she’d been through hell. The better part of her cloak was gone, seemingly burned away, and her armor was caked with unidentified filth that had dried in wind-streaked patterns. Rain activated Purify, scouring away the grime in an instant as he rushed to wrap her in a hug.

“Oof,” Ameliah said, stumbling as he crashed into her.

Rain released her instantly in horror. “Shit, did I—“

“I’m fine,” Ameliah said, stopping him with a raised hand. “You just surprised me. I’m tired and sore, but not from the…landing. That wasn’t deliberate. I just had a little trouble slowing down.”

Behind him, Rain heard the hooves slow to a stop, and Dust snorted, the horse somehow managing to sound affronted.

“Listen,” Ameliah said, raising her visor. Her eyes flicked to Stint before returning to Rain. “We don’t have time for hellos. We have to run. Fel Sadanis is gone. The Empire brought down the barrier.”

Rain’s heart skipped a beat. “What?” Behind him, Stint cursed explosively.

“There’s an army,” Ameliah said with a hard expression. “They knew I was coming. I fought off their scouts, but… I left tracks, Rain. We have to go.” She shook her head. “We have to get everyone, and we have to go. Now. I ran as fast as I could, but they could be here any second.”

“Shit!” Rain cursed, whirling to look to the west. Past Stint and Dust, a torch-bearing party was jogging toward them. Val and Lyn were in the lead, followed closely by Mereck, then Carten clanking after them a ways back. Rain clenched his jaw, thinking hard. His headache had somehow worsened, now a painful pressure in his skull.

This is bad. Oh, this is bad, bad, bad.

“Depths, Rain,” Val panted as he came to a stop. “Since when can you outrun a horse?”

“Pfft, as if that’s hard for someone like us,” Lyn said, not even breathing heavily as she looked at Val. “You’re just out of shape. And you call yourself a duelist.” She looked up, then jerked her head toward Ameliah. “I want to know what she was doing. Not even Flight is that fast.”

“Mereck,” Rain said, ignoring the pair and pointing at Ameliah. The former innkeeper had arrived, huffing and puffing. Without trying to speak, the man obediently followed Rain’s instruction, holding his torch out of the way as he laid his other hand on Ameliah’s shoulder.

“Thank you,” Ameliah said, steadying the Healer as he worked his magic. After a moment’s delay, green rings appeared around everyone there, including Dust, who almost threw Stint in surprise. “That’s good enough,” Ameliah said, releasing Mereck’s shoulder and moving past Rain. “We need to go.”

Rain nodded, hurrying to match her brisk pace. Ahead, Carten came to a stop, resting his shields on the ground. “What’s all this rushin’ about?” he asked as they passed. “Hey, Ameliah. Nice landing.”

“The Empire is coming,” Rain said in a clipped tone, debating whether now was a good time to get started with that Velocity training.

“Wha?!” Carten shouted behind them. “Say tha’s a joke.”

“It isn’t,” Ameliah said without looking back. Rain did, though, seeing both Lyn and Val standing next to Carten wearing shocked expressions. Stint had dismounted and was standing beside Mereck, the former innkeeper already seeming to have recovered under Energy Well’s influence. He still looked like he wanted to fall over. Only Dust seemed unbothered by the news, busy trying to bite the green rings rising around him.

“Come on,” Rain said, shaking his head and looking forward again. He’d decided there was no point in magically enhancing their speed, though cardio was definitely going on the company-wide training regimen. If the Empire really was coming, an extra minute or two wasn’t going to change things. His mind was already spinning, resurrecting the old, half-formed evacuation plan and working through scenario after scenario.

The soonest we could leave would be…

…

Fuck.

“Well?” Rain asked expectantly, looking at Tallheart as Ameliah finished speaking. “What do you think they’ll do?”

“Hmm…” Tallheart rumbled, scratching at the base of one of his antlers.

Rain fidgeted in his chair, waiting anxiously and ignoring the irksome pressure behind his eyes with practiced ease. He was no stranger to headaches, after all.

He, Ameliah, Vanna, and Samson had found Tallheart in Engineering, along with Jamus and Meloni. Tallheart had retreated there to work after surprisingly offering his room to house more city folk. The latter pair had been playing cards to pass the time while Jamus hid from his ex, and Rain hadn’t seen any reason to ask them to leave. They were both full members, and besides, Ameliah’s news was hardly going to be restricted to the council heads or anything. Even through the thick ceiling, Rain could hear the dull roar of several hundred different conversations, all discussing the Empire.

Finally, Tallheart lowered his hand from his antler, meeting Rain’s gaze. “I do not believe the situation is as dire as you fear.”

Rain exhaled slowly, melting back into his chair. Beside him, Ameliah let her head drop heavily into her hands, her hair falling limply over her brow. They’d both removed their helmets for this discussion.

“Would you care to elaborate?” Samson asked, looking at Tallheart.

“I would,” Tallheart replied placidly. “Firstly, the Empire only maintains a ten league perimeter around their forces. They do this because that is the approximate range of their Diviners. They would not tolerate a force such as Ascension within that perimeter. As we are outside of that distance, they will not immediately hunt us down and destroy us.”

“Even after Ameliah provoked them?” Samson asked.

“Hey,” Rain said sharply. “It wasn’t her fault.”

“I never said that it was,” Samson replied.

“It’s fine, Rain,” Ameliah said, sitting up and raking her fingers through her disheveled hair as she smoothed it back. “I know I screwed up.”

“You did not,” Tallheart said. “You were correct that the Empire was aware of your approach. They are quite difficult to take by surprise. If you had not reacted decisively, you would not have returned to us. You would have died. They would have sent Knives to deal with you the moment they realized you were not a Citizen.”

Ameliah shook her head, closing her eyes and leaning tiredly back in her chair.

Rain grimaced.

“Knives?” Vanna asked.

“A kill team,” Tallheart clarified. “Assassins.”

“How do you know all this?” Meloni piped up, looking at Tallheart. “You’ve fought them, haven’t you?”

“I have,” Tallheart said, swiveling his neck to meet her gaze. Meloni quickly looked away, and Jamus wrapped an arm around her shoulder, leaning in to whisper into her ear.

“Would you care to elaborate?” Samson asked, arching an eyebrow.

“I would not,” Tallheart replied, his tone no less placid than the first time Samson had asked that question. “We have more pressing matters to discuss than my…hmm…history. It is unlikely that the army will come this way, but they will send Hounds.” He paused, then rumbled as he elaborated. “Elite trackers and scouts. If the Adamants did not already know that Vestvall had survived the Shift, they soon will.”

“And what will they do about it?” Samson asked. “If I was their commander, I wouldn’t concern myself with Vestvall, given the lack of strategic value. That said, I wouldn’t want an unknown force like Ascension anywhere near my army either. They’ll see our camp and the fortifications Ameliah built, then conclude that we have a powerful Geomancer at the very least.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “At most, they will send a single battalion.”

Samson crossed his arms. “I don’t see how that makes things any less dire than we feared.”

“How many soldiers are in a battalion?” Vanna asked. “Could we fight them off?”

“Five hundred and twelve,” Tallheart answered, pivoting to look at her as she paled. “And no. We could not. The strength of such a group rivals a high silver party at least.” He shifted his attention back to Samson. “They will not commit until they have verified that there is no Citizen ambush waiting for them. Hounds are disposable. Even Knives. Hmm. Knives are the real concern. My presence will serve as a deterrent. I will do my best to make myself seen.”

“Hold on, there, Tallheart,” Rain said, sitting forward. “How the depths would knowing you’re here make them LESS likely to send killers after us?”

Tallheart snorted. “Snowlilly taught them not to.” He chuckled. “They were slow learners.”

A moment of shocked silence followed this pronouncement until Jamus spoke lightly. “And this is why I don’t ask Tallheart about his past.”

Tallheart rumbled.

After a brief pause, Samson sighed. “Well. We have a little time, it seems. I suppose we could try to kill the Hounds when they come. Keep them guessing.”

“We will not see them,” Tallheart said flatly. “I know what you are thinking. The soldiers Ameliah encountered were not Hounds. That was a common patrol, doubtless already in the area when the Eyes sensed her approach.”

Vanna sighed, exasperated. “Hounds, Knives, Eyes… This is all great, but we’re getting off track. Leave or stay; that’s the real question. I can’t see a reason for the Adamants to hold Fel Sadanis now that the teleporter has been destroyed. Now, I don’t think we should do this, but we should at least consider hunkering down and waiting for the storm to pass. The army might go west to attack Southguard or something.”

“We don’t know that the teleporter has been destroyed,” Samson said. “Majistraal artifacts are legendarily indestructible.”

“Like the barrier?” Vanna challenged.

“We know that they were able to bring it down,” Samson countered. “We don’t know that they destroyed the artifact that generates it. If either the obelisk or the teleporter survived, the Empire would wish to hold the city without question.”

“Point,” Vanna said, rubbing her eyes. “I’m out of my depth, here.”

“We all are,” Samson said diplomatically. “Your first question cut to the core. Stay or go.”

“Staying would be foolish,” Tallheart said. “This location is no longer safe. We can no longer rely on the Watch to stand between us and the war.”

