Floating weightlessly, Rain gripped the lip of the inlet pipe with one hand as he maneuvered the enormous turbine blade into position with skeletal fingers. His current avatar, Big Bone, had never gone past that point. The glossy adamant skeleton had simply looked too sick, especially with the burning blue flames he’d added for eyes. It was also perfect for work outside the Bastion, thanks to its lack of sensitive fleshy bits. The instinct to breathe was a lot easier to disregard when you could look down to see through your ribcage. Rain had taken advantage of the free space there, building himself a prototype sub-core in place of a heart.

He brought a hand in front of his sternum, and with a mental command, instructed the output port of the metal sphere to open. He guided the resulting trickle of essence through his ribs, gathering it into a ball. Closing the port again, he let the sub-core return to purifying chaos as he used the fresh essence to weld the blade to the central hub.

In truth, the sub-core was just a framework for a mental trick. The construct served as an anchor, allowing him to offload the conversion process to his subconscious. The moment he left this avatar, the trick would stop working. It was a far cry from his actual core, shining at the bottom of the expanded inlet pipe, which had been cleared of the flow-restricting grates. The conversion rate just didn’t compare. The sub-core couldn’t even outpace Dozer, currently floating somewhere behind him.

[You okay out there, Dozer?] Rain sent, spinning himself around to peer in the industrious slime’s direction.

[Happy, happy, happy!] Dozer sent, invisible through the smog.

Rain’s eyes flickered and danced in amusement, complementing his skeletal grin as he looked down at the Bastion. He had enlarged it significantly, and Dozer’s habitat had been no exception. The slime had still seemed unsatisfied at being cooped up inside all the time, however. Rain didn’t see how it made a difference—there really wasn’t a lot to see out here—but Dozer had been ecstatic when he’d finally relented and brought him out this time. The inquisitive slime had jetted off to explore without hesitation.

Shaking his head, Rain turned back to the inlet pipe, reaching for another fan blade from the bundle strapped to his back. As his core had continued to grow, so had its rate of purification, to the point that the old intake had been struggling to keep up. Hopefully, with this jet-engine-inspired upgrade, he’d really start making a dent.

Rain smiled, waiting for his sub-core to process enough essence for the next weld. In retrospect, he should have just brought some extra with him. He had a lot of free essence now, stored in enormous tanks after overflowing his core room. His crystalline core just kept pumping it out, whether he was here or not. Even now, with the intake off, it was still producing. From measuring the flow rates in a previous experiment, he’d come to the realization that souls made extra essence in addition to what they purified. Spontaneous production was significantly slower than purification, but the rate was increasing no less quickly. The bigger his core got, the better things worked.

The degree of time-acceleration in here was another good example of that. It was nowhere near what he’d experienced in soulspace, but a 1.12x factor was nothing to sneeze at, especially considering that it had been only 1.08x when he’d first noticed it. The acceleration only applied when he was actually inside his soul, but if the rate continued to grow along with his core, it would really start adding up to some extra time. That was good, as every minute spent in here was a minute not spent battling one of the thousands of other items on his to-do list.

Ugh. And now I’m thinking about it. [Hey Dozer, you ever have so much to do that you just end up taking a nap?]

[No sleep! Clean ⟬filth⟭!] Dozer sent encouragingly.

[Working on it, Dozer. Working on it.]

Rain shook his head slowly. He knew that he needed to spend more time in here, but he still felt guilty for stealing as much as this hour to work on his own problems. He was supposed to be out there captaining, not hiding in here building a fancy turbine. His scheduled meeting with the Council of Engineering had been canceled, yes, but there were plenty of other things that could have filled the gap in his schedule.

Rain’s flaming eyes became pensive as he considered the incident that had prompted that cancellation. When he had returned to camp and heard what had happened, he’d gone immediately to Tallheart’s room to check on him. However, the smith had been distant and evasive. Recognizing that he needed some alone time, Rain had left, but not before extracting a promise for a later explanation. Tallheart clearly wanted to talk about it, but he just wasn’t ready, and Rain knew well that the only way to deal with a brooding Tallheart was to wait.

Maybe Ameliah will have better luck with him when she gets back.

Sensing that his sub-core had produced enough essence, Rain willed the outlet port open again. Guiding the glowing liquid through his ribs, he used it to weld the blade into place. He’d planned for thirty-two blades in total—excessive, maybe, but anything worth doing was worth overdoing, and he was already more than halfway done.

Work, work.

Rain paused in maneuvering the next blade into position, tilting his head. With his growing proficiency, he’d found that he could retain more and more awareness of his physical body without risking getting booted back into it. Releasing the blade to tumble gently, he focused. Carefully, he edged himself back toward wakefulness, then his edging became a deliberate push as he recognized the sound that had disturbed him.

His eyes sprung open seconds before Vanna tore open the door to his office, the alarm bell ringing from behind her in the company hall.

“Good, you’re already awake,” she said, beckoning.

“What is it?” Rain asked, rising from his chair and searching around for the threat with Detection. “What’s going on?”

A grim expression on her face, Vanna reached into her pocket as he approached, then handed him a steel marble, painted black.

“Shit,” Rain said, staring at the blackened ball in his hand.

In a locked room in her office, Vanna had rigged up a system improving upon their accolade-messaging system. A wooden frame now held the plates, a metal ball balanced atop each one. If an Accolade was summoned, the ball would drop through the frame to land on a large sheet of aluminum, making a recognizable sound. Anyone could determine the message from the color of the ball without having to know accolades were involved. Black meant ‘extreme danger.’

“Yes, shit,” Vanna said in agreement.

Rain didn’t bother to ask Vanna if she’d checked her apparatus to make sure that it wasn’t a false alarm. She would have. He closed his hand around the ball tightly, then looked up. “Right. Here we go.”

An hour later, Rain stood silently on the battlements above the gate to Ascension’s compound, staring out at the crimson sky. The sun was steadily creeping below the darkening horizon, but the light of the crude street lamps was more than enough to see the gathered strength of Ascension arrayed below him.

It was a slightly rag-tag group, given the variation in equipment, but Samson had arrayed them in an orderly formation, with a line of shield-bearers at the front followed closely by unawakened wielding spears and the like. Fighters with shorter weapons—optimistically swords, but more often kitchen knives and in one case a pair of table legs—were placed behind them, surrounding the outer camp, which was full of livestock. All non-combatants had retreated to within the compound, including many who’d come in from Vestvall when news of the alarm had reached the city.

The battlements were positively choked with archers. If there was one thing they didn’t have a shortage of, it was hunting bows and hunters to wield them. Rain would have preferred crossbows, but Ascension only had a handful of the weapons in their possession despite continuing negotiations with Lady Sale, or rather, her intermediaries. The woman was paranoid to the extreme, refusing to meet with him, or even to show her face outside her mansion. The consensus from the townsfolk was that she was losing her mind in her old age, which was enough of a horrifying thought without even considering that she was supposed to be stronger than the other nobles.

A heavy sigh from Rain’s left made his eye twitch.

Speaking of the other nobles.

When Rain didn’t look over, Argan Urs cleared his throat, then spoke. “Exactly how long do you intend to stand out here?”

“Until she returns,” Rain said calmly, managing to keep his voice level. “Nobody told you you had to stand with me.”

In fact, I’d prefer it if you didn’t.

Rain managed to prevent himself from speaking the thought aloud. The last thing he needed right now was more drama. He’d thought things had been getting better, but the last few hours had disabused him of that notion. In the heat of the crisis, Lord Hakim had been a constant irritant, and as for Lord Urs, just having him around was enough. Rain loathed the man and everything he represented. The old noble was a total skeeve—even with the business with Jamus set aside, that was plain to see. For example, his guards were all female, forced to wear form-fitting armor that offered…dubious…protection. Lady Urs—Karilla, Jamus’s ex—was a piece of work too, intolerable for different reasons. Rain had no idea what Jamus had ever seen in the woman.

Unfortunately, Rain had thus far been unable to justify locking the Urs duo in a dark cell and throwing away the key. Lord and Lady Urs, for their part, had done nothing overtly criminal since Rain had arrived. If anything, their house was the least troublesome of the lot.

Rain’s eye twitched again as Lord Hakim laid a hand on Rain’s opposite shoulder.

“It will be true dusk soon. Lord Captain, you must consider what we will do if Lady Ameliah does not return before then. There is still time to send the commoners back to the city.”

“I told you to never call me that,” Rain said coldly, reaching up to remove the nobleman’s hand. “If night falls, so what? We have light, and until we know more about the threat, it is better to have everyone together as much as possible.” Damn that woman. Rain grit his teeth, attempting to put Lady Sale out of his mind. “We will stand watch as we always do.”

“In that case, I would be honored to command the first watch so you can rest,” Lord Hakim said. “We will need your strength when the threat arrives. Leave it to me. I have defended Vestvall for—“

“No,” Rain interrupted, his head throbbing. He keeps trying this shit. “Once dusk falls, we will thin the freshspawn, and only then will we begin a rotation if I deem it necessary. Not before. You may command your own house as you wish, but my people do not answer to you.” And never will. You think you’re clever, ding dong, but actually buying the ‘answers’ to the asshole test? Come on. Way to fall for the trap. Happy studying, asshole. Take it whenever you’re ready, and we’ll see what it gets you.

“But—” Lord Hakim began, but Rain cut him off.

“I said no.”

Lord Hakim mercifully closed his mouth, and Rain took a deep, calming breath, resisting the urge to rub at his temples. The headache had begun not long after the message had arrived, brought on by stress and worry. Silence returned but for the occasional creak of leather and mutter of conversation from below, and absently, Rain began opening and closing his hand, as he’d been doing on and off since the preparations had been completed.

Where is she? Come on, Ameliah. Come on.

He glanced over his shoulder. “Tarny.”

“Here,” Tarny replied, stepping forward between Rain and Lord Urs.

“Go check if Ameliah has sent another message,” Rain commanded. What he was really asking was to check if any of the plates had come unbound. Tarny would understand.

“I—yes,” Tarny said, retreating.

Rain nodded. This wasn’t the first time he’d asked. Rationally, he knew Vanna would have immediately sent word if the worst had happened, but he still needed to know for sure.

“You really care for her, don’t you?” Lord Urs asked, sounding pensive.

That’s it.

Rain spoke in a soft, controlled tone as he turned to stare directly at Lord Urs. “I am not your friend. Do not mistake my tolerance of your presence for anything but what it is. That tolerance has reached its end. Leave.”

What might have been a flicker of crazed anger crossed the lord’s face, but he hid it quickly. Silently, he nodded, then turned for the stairs. Rain was sure that Urs fully mirrored the hatred that Rain felt for him, but he wasn’t dumb. You could work with someone you hated, if the situation called for it.

“Ha!” Lord Hakim laughed. “That’s right, Urs, turn tail like—“

“You too,” Rain interrupted, looking back out at the sky.

“But Lord Rain, I—“

“Shortcrust!” Rain shouted, looking past Lord Hakim to the nearest sentry. “Please remove Lord Hakim from the wall.”

“With pleasure,” Joyanna said, though no one referred to the stocky former caravan guard by her proper name. She walked over, then reached up to clap a hand on Lord Hakim’s shoulder. “This way, my lord. The stairs are just here.”

“Unhand me, peasant!” Lord Hakim shouted, grabbing her hand and shoving it roughly away. “How dare you! I should burn you where you stand!”

“Move!” Joyanna shouted back, her false courtesy vanishing as she called his obvious bluff. She got right in his face, pointing sharply to the side.

Lord Hakim was clearly furious, a vein pulsing in his neck as he glared down at Joyanna. After a long moment, he looked away. Thick as he was, Lord Hakim wasn’t a complete moron and was fully aware of what Rain would do to him if he tried to follow through on his threat. With one last indignant snort, he turned, then flounced toward the stairs, every inch of him managing to convey his outrage.

Joyanna chuckled, then spoke softly so only Rain could hear. “He must have practiced that walk. Don’t worry, Captain. I’ll make sure he doesn’t cause trouble.”

“Thank you, Shortcrust,” Rain said, nodding to her as she moved away. He sighed again, then released his readied grip on Suppression as he returned his attention to the sky.

“You sure don’t like nobles, do you, Captain?” called Hanes loudly, to Rain’s mild surprise. Rain glanced over at him, taking in the Sharpshooter’s grin as the man continued, projecting his voice. “Asshats, am I right?”

