“Agreed,” said Samson.

Rain tipped back in his chair. They had the right of it, and he saw no need to add his voice in. He closed his eyes, rubbing tiredly at the bridge of his nose. The pressure in his sinuses was really becoming unbearable. He was starting to think that this headache was from something other than just stress. As soon as they were done here, he was going straight into his soul. He was leagues below the level of mana usage that he’d determined to be safe, but the last thing he needed was another rupture.

“What about the crack, though?” Vanna asked.

“We can’t hide down there,” Jamus pointed out. “It would be too dangerous for the unawakened.”

“I know that,” Vanna said hotly. “I didn’t mean hide in it. We just decided we’re leaving, didn’t we? I meant, what are we going to do about it. Could we collapse it so the Adamants don’t get access to the depths?”

“Ah,” Jamus replied. “My mistake. It is a good question. This war isn’t our business, but I don’t like the idea of handing the Empire an easy ticket to power. Collapsing it sounds wise.”

“I doubt we could do it, though,” Samson said. “Not so thoroughly so they couldn’t dig it back open, and not without delaying our departure. Corrin isn’t up to the task. Even if Ameliah switched back to Geomancer to help him, it would be an enormous undertaking.”

“I’m not switching,” Ameliah said, finally rejoining the conversation. “I need to keep my build how it is for now. Especially if Knives are coming.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled in agreement.

“The nobles’ ancestral lairs should be destroyed, though,” Samson mused. “Supposing they exist, that is, and that they are nearby. It isn’t a guarantee, especially with families as small as these. We should try to convince them to let us—“

Rain sneezed explosively, the front legs of his chair slamming back to the floor as he hunched forward to cover his mouth. Everyone jumped.

“Sorry,” Rain said, or rather, attempted to say, but another enormous sneeze interrupted him. He covered his mouth again, catching a splatter of mucus as the pressure in his sinuses shifted. He sneezed again, spluttering as yet more phlegm filled his nose and mouth.

“Rain?” Ameliah asked, reaching over to steady him as the sneezes continued. He was growing alarmed, each sneeze seeming stronger and more irresistible than the last. Finally, with one last enormous heave, Rain managed to clear his airway, translucent ooze spraying everywhere and taking the headache along with it.

“Ugh,” Meloni said in disgust.

Confused and not just a little bit embarrassed, Rain lowered his hands from his face, trailing strings of ropey snot. His hands, forearms, and knees were covered. He sniffed, then activated Purify, and befuddlement was quickly replaced by shock as the magic did nothing to clean up the mess. Instead, the phlegm was rapidly gathering itself together, oozing back into his outstretched hands, not stopping until it had formed a white, cloudy, grapefruit-sized glob.

The glob quivered, and the cloudiness vanished in a flash, leaving it entirely clear.

[Rain-King!] Dozer sent, the telepathic link stuffed to bursting with the Crystal Slime’s elation.

“Dozer!?” Rain demanded, lurching to his feet and knocking over his chair in the process. He cupped his hands and raised the tiny Crystal Slime to his face, staring in disbelief.

[Rain-King big!] Dozer sent, jiggling from side to side as silence fell over the room.

“Could someone please explain to me what just happened?” Samson asked lightly.

Ameliah moved silently next to Rain, peering over his shoulder. Dozer went berserk.

[Ameliah-Queen! Hello!]

“Dozer says hello,” Rain said numbly. Turning his thoughts toward the miniaturized slime, he pressed a wordless desire for an explanation through the link, receiving a confusing jumble of impressions. Dozer’s fear for his king, the irresistible urge to help, sharp metal blades and a tight squeeze, a tube leading to a warm rock, then pushing, followed by suction and a long tunnel leading to somewhere dark, cramped, and wet. It took Rain a moment to translate all that, but when he did, it was clear enough what had happened. Not how, of course.

Tallheart rumbled, breaking the spell.

“Humans. They always need to be the center of attention.”
