He was briefly glad that Korav had taken the initiative to get all of Astiviya's shades away from the battle. Who knew what this spell would have done to them?

Astiviya roared in fury, instinct driving her to bat at her arms to extinguish the flames, though they had not yet eaten through her barriers. Cale thought he should probably have been more concerned about that last line in the spell description—it was clear from the rage in Astiviya's eyes that the barrier or not, the spell was having an effect. Divine mana swirled within her, ready to coalesce into another spell meant to smite him.

Fortunately, Cale wasn't actually done just yet. This was the perfect spell for something he hadn't attempted in a while, and he was excited to try it out. Yet another one of the benefits of [Draconic Insight] was, after all, that it told him in advance which spells were most compatible with one another.

And to his delight, [Minor Dragonfire] was singing to him.

With his fire and draconic resonance ranks combined, it was one of the few spells he could cast at the third tier without risking an overload and a spell evolution, which was itself something he was excited about. This was the lowest tier of spell he had ever managed to cast, after all!

But in this instance, he was much more intrigued by what would happen when he did this.

At his call, dragonfire spilled out over the primal fire he had already ignited. The latter burned in shades of gray, but in all that gray, warm hues of light began to peek through. Dragonfire in its natural form could be almost any color, and it made for quite the sight as all the hues of the rainbow began burning through the gray.

[Primal Ignition] should have snuffed out any hint of dragonfire. It was a twelfth-tier spell, and a third-tier magic had no business taking root amongst its flames.

Yet when the two differing magics met, rather than one overwhelming the other, they began to intertwine.

Spell combination attempt detected. Evaluating request...

Priority mage detected. Allocating resources...

Like it had the last time he tried this, a storm began to crackle over the ocean. Thankfully, this time he did not consume so much of the Gift's processing power that he disabled the whole thing for everyone else. That would probably be bad, in the middle of an event like this.

But it worked, nonetheless.

Relevant resonance detected: draconic resonance, second rank. Fire resonance, fifth rank.

Now combining [Primal Ignition] with [Minor Dragonfire].
