That and the Gift had demonstrated some ability to interfere if things went south. Right now it was preoccupied, judging by the amount of activity above Utelia's oceans. Storms had been raging above them for days, and it likely wouldn't be safe to try until those storms had calmed.

So! Cale went back to his classes instead. Specifically, he went back to his classes and to the duty of training his apprentices. Now that Thorn had recommended them so strongly as the secondary team in the tournament, that was especially important—both Cale and his apprentices had been put into a special track to better prepare them for it. For the foreseeable future, they would be training with the academy's best professors in classes tailored to their needs.

This was even more disruptive than it normally would have been for three reasons that Cale was very excited for.

First, the professors themselves had changed dramatically. The Inspirations that many had gained during the duel between Cale and Astiviya meant a lot of their mages had made significant breakthroughs in power and knowledge. Many of them were frantically rewriting their coursework, in fact. In the four days Cale had been gone, the format of every class had been turned pretty much upside-down.

Second, Korav had made deals with many of the shades that Astiviya summoned, and while many of them chose to return to the River, a good deal of them had asked to stay. More specifically, they had asked to stay and work at the Academy as a professor, which Korav had obliged by working out a contract for each of them with the Headmaster.

As a result of all this, "the academy's best professors" as a category had been entirely reworked. On top of several professors that had made leaps and bounds with their magic, the list now included a number of liches, former dark lords, and ancient not-quite-evils that were eager to pass on their knowledge to the next generation.

Third and most significant, however, was that thanks to the Inspiration she had received, Professor Imrys had made a breakthrough with the labyrinth she'd attached to his room.

Specifically, she was claiming that she had invented a means of using it to temporarily travel to other realms.

It was an incredible claim. Cale wasn't even sure if he believed her just yet—there was a reason so many other mages had tried and failed. But Imrys wasn't one to make claims like these if she wasn't absolutely certain.

Either way, he would get to see for himself soon. It was the whole reason he was here. Imrys had insisted he attend her first class on the subject, just in case things went wrong. He had his own reasons for wanting to attend, of course; inter-realm travel had enormous implications for him, and more importantly...

The question of what happened to humanity still pulled at him. That scrap of paper Adam had left him had given him a few ideas, but Cale couldn't be certain of anything yet. He knew only where he needed to start.

Dark one and the holes in his memory surrounding them were connected to this, somehow. It would be difficult to chase after Utelia's dark lord, but if he could just see the cycle of darkness and divinity in its entirety by peeking into other realms, he could pry open the secrets surrounding them.

He really wished the class didn't have to start in his room, though.

Right on cue, Professor Imrys, in all her tiny, mousy glory, leapt onto the dresser with a mad gleam in her eyes. "Everyone is here!" she announced. "I am terribly excited for this, my dears. Welcome to the first ever lecture on Streaming the Realms!"

"I have a question," Cale said. "Can we not call it that?"

"Oh, goodness, no. I've already signed the paperwork," Imrys said, shaking her head. She hopped off his dresser and marched toward the door. "Now, if you would, please follow me into the deadly labyrinth that might kill you. Mind your steps, dearies."
