A thin smirk born of indifferent pride spread across Shiv’s lips. There was a time where he would have rejected Adam's request, where he would have done anything despite the people of Blackedge. He'd already saved them, even after years of being ostracized, even after so long being hated. He'd done his duty and he was free now to be whoever he wanted to be, to walk beneath the sky his own man.

But this was being his own man. He was ignoring the hate the System was trying to teach him, the hate the world seemed so determined to hold on to. Jessica and Roland. Starhawk and his friends, and now us… So many pointless judges. “Yeah, I'm not doing that. I am letting this stuff go. I'll go down there and talk to them. I can't guarantee how they'll react to me, but you won't have a problem the other way around. I can't say I ever liked them, but everything in the past is just a thing in the past. They aren’t who they were yesterday. And I’m definitely not that miserable street rat anymore either.”

Adam's relief made him look years younger, made him look like the same boy who just returned fresh from the academy with his fiancé by his side, prepared for marriage, ready to celebrate the Festival of the Eclipse. "You know, I've been thinking of establishing a proper Memorial Day for all those who perished during the siege. And, well, I think it would be a better day if there were proper food. As Gate Lord, I think I'm allowed to be the one who selects the Head Chef for this ceremony. Much like my father did for the Eclipse."

Shiv's grin took on a smug quality.

"As such, I would like to request the help of the second-best Manifold Orc Meatball chef in Integration."

Shiv’s grin took on the quality of a collapsing building. It crumbled even faster when Uva drew a desperate hand up to hide her quirked, snorting laugh. "You know, sometimes I really forget how much of an asshole you can be,” Shiv ground out. “I don't even know if I want to accept this honor now."

A vulpine smirk worked its way across Adam's scheming face. "Well, I would be heartbroken and offended, but I would be lying if I said I didn't have another option in mind. After all, I do know where to find the best Manifold Orc Meatball chef in Inte—"

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Adam is our battle-brother and friend. It is wrong to kill him. It is wrong to torture him. Even if it would feel extremely good to smash his face in right now.

"Adam, if you do that, I will kill him, I will kill you, and then I will kill myself—I accept the honor of being Head Chef, and I will never forget what you just did to me.”

"And thus the System successfully sows the seeds of enduring strife regardless," Uva commented, her voice dry as desert wind.

***

They came down from the sky to take a closer look at the living conditions for Blackedge's refugees. So far, things looked quite adequate. The structures were reinforced and additionally guarded by what looked to be earth and stone elementals. Furthermore, there were members from the Arachne Order stationed nearby, making sure that no harm would come to the refugees from any source. Up close, the temporary houses they resided in were long slabs filled with multiple families within every room. Said slab houses also had an underground component with tunnels connecting the different residences to each other—and safe rooms in between as well.

The disconcerting thing was how certain safe rooms were filled with biological signatures. There were people hiding inside them, packed tight like sardines in a can. And they clung to each other. They remained there, unwilling to rise, unwilling to depart, unwilling to move.

"The only safe place that remained in Blackedge was the underground," Uva said, noticing the same thing. "The people who managed to get into the cellars, who managed to descend into the castle's dungeons first avoided the worst of the attacks. The open sky, even guarded by wards, will forever be a vulnerability in their minds." But while the bulk of the refugees kept themselves sealed away, there was a group that dared to venture beyond. A few hundred people gathered beyond their current residences, and they lingered and sobbed as they stared at what looked like a long, black wall.

“What’s that they’re looking at?” Shiv asked.

Adam frowned. “I think…”

“A memorial,” Uva answered.

The memorial stood alone, an obsidian slab a few hundred meters away from the tenements and the Perch. Closer, Shiv could see that it looked to be something salvaged from a portion of the castle's walls, maybe even the floor. It was hard to tell, but judging from the cracked edges and the many names etched into its surface, Shiv suspected the memorial had been created while Blackedge was adrift in the Outside.

Uva's subsequent hitched breath served as confirmation. "They salvaged it. I thought it had been lost with the rest of the destroyed wing."

"At least some of it has been." Adam gestured at the upper corner of the slab. An entire section had been obliterated, and a trail of surface-eroding scratches made some of the names hard to discern. And on top of that, despite all the names that had been reported already, it wasn't nearly enough to account for all the casualties.

Shiv didn't see Georges’ name there, for one.

A solemn silence gripped the three, but in their quietude, there came a noise that pierced the air. It was a hitched noise, someone struggling to breathe, gasping between every breath. As Shiv listened, he realized someone was sobbing on the other side of the slab.

"You should probably go talk to him," Adam said quietly. Shiv met the Gate Lord’s eyes in confusion. "He knows you better than me. It’s best that you speak with him."

A beat of hesitation passed, but then Shiv descended onto the ground and rounded the monument. On the other side, standing in front of a large group of mourners, was a small, ragged-looking goblin who sported two wooden stumps in place of legs. He had three separate cigarettes clenched between his teeth, and he chipped away using hammer and nail, carving another name into what little space remained at the base of the monument. Though small of frame and starved of muscle, he made up for his lacking strength with frequency, swinging the hammer down upon the nail at a rapid pace. However, when Shiv's shadow fell over him, he drew his arm back and froze, his body radiating with fear. A sliver of power flowed out from the goblin into Shiv as a chain of dread formed between them. “N-nuh! No! D-don’t—“

Shiv barely noticed all that. He was too busy fighting his own disbelief. He recognized this goblin. He knew him. Not well, but well enough. "Seymour?" Shiv gasped.

His voice was like a splash of cold water. It broke Seymour out of his terrified trance. He looked up in an instant, and his bloodshot eyes widened as well. “Broken Moon… Shiv, is that really you?” The goblin chef dropped his tools, letting them bounce off the ground with resounding clinks before he rose and reached out with trembling fingers. As he touched Shiv's knee, he began to shake with disbelief and relief in equal measure. "Ascendants, you... Wow, you're so big. When did you turn into the size of a small building?"

"Are you sure it isn't you who just got a whole lot smaller? Maybe you finally smoked too many cigarettes."

A laugh of tearful incredulity escaped Seymour. "Hey, screw you," he said. "These ciggies were the only thing keeping me sane during all that. I… I can't believe it. I can't believe the others weren't wrong. I thought they'd gone insane when they said you came back and that you were a small giant now. Just like I thought they were insane when they said that the Tarrasque had your face, and that it was actually you trying to take revenge on us for treating you like trash."

He blinked. "They said that?" He then looked at all the surrounding mourners and noticed how petrified they were before him. A growl of loathing almost slipped out from him. System damn you to every hell in Integration, Sullain.

Of course, he was going to have to deal with this shit. The damn Tarrasque was made from his soul-stuff, and because of that, it looked like him. It was probably out there somewhere up North, ruining his reputation even more.

Shiv smiled reassuringly, not letting the displeasure show on his face, lest he scare anyone. "Yeah, no, I'm not actually the Tarrasque, Seymour. I'm just a little bit bigger than before, that's all."

Seymour spat his cigarettes out in a spray of ash and embers. "Little my ass. Your forearm is thicker than my entire torso!"

"About that, when's the last time you ate, Seymour? You look like a bag of skin holding together a mess of fish bones."

"I..." The goblin trailed off, trying to recall the last time he had a meal. "It doesn't matter. I'm fine right now. The smokes help with the appetite, you know how it is. I'll get something later. I'll get something once I'm done with uh… you know…"

Stormclouds of lingering grief returned, shrouding the brief moment of joy between the two. "You hear about Georges?" Seymour asked, his voice thin and frail.

Shiv nodded; he didn't say anything; he didn't want to say anything.

"I tried to go see him before the end, but it didn't work out. Too dangerous. You know, he was always kind of a prick to me, and he yelled a lot. But… uh…" Seymour swallowed and bowed his head. Loss was a weight upon the mind, and it bent one's spine, and it broke one's soul. Seymour was still here, but Seymour was more fragile than ever. He had always been the sensitive sort. The fact of his survival left Shiv astonished.

"I think I’m gonna miss him anyway," Seymour squeaked. "I’m gonna miss so many of them…"

"I know," Shiv whispered. "Me too."

"It feels bad to say out loud, but it really feels like I shouldn't be here, you know?" Seymour said. "So many of the people defending us died. Master Pathbearers. I'm not powerful. I'm not brave. I'm not any of those things. Somehow I'm still here. Doesn't make any sense, does it? It really doesn't…"

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: The guilt of a survivor is strong. Stronger than any logic. Don’t engage with it logically. Agree, but build him up. Sympathize. Don’t judge. He has to find his own way out.

I know. Shiv reached out and patted Seymour's back. He realized the goblin was right. He could wrap his hand around Seymour's torso with ease. The Deathless adapted. He decided to use his index finger and thumb to slightly pinch Seymour's shoulder instead. "I also think about that all the time. The System wants us to die. The world doesn't give a shit. But at the same time, I'm glad I'm still here. And I'm glad you're still here too."

A cough left the goblin, and slowly he took an awkward step before exploding into motion and wrapping his arms around Shiv's leg. He mumbled something, and then began inelegantly weeping. Shiv gently patted Seymour with a single finger. It was like brushing the back of a kitten. One that smoked and cried a bit too much.

Looking over his shoulder, he saw how Adam stared on appreciatively and proudly. The expressions on the mourners' faces were also changing. A few of them regarded Shiv in a new light, and with the way he acted and all he did to save the town, perhaps he wasn't damned by his past or the Vicar’s pet.

As such, Sage of the Enkindled Heart chuckled like a scheming mastermind.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: And so our reputational rehabilitation begins.

Shiv frowned. What does that even mean? Actually, why do you know a bunch of words I don't?

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: You do know the words, but only subconsciously, since you failed to internalize them. But a part of us has to be smarter than the other parts.

I'm getting tired of being insulted by my own skills, Shiv pouted. You should think twice before shit-talking me, Enkindled Heart. I got a lot of other skills I could be focusing on.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: And none of them will be half as kind as I am.

…Fuck.
