No one answered Yawm since he held us in place. Yawm put his hands behind his back, interlocking his fingers. He walked up to me,

"You fought against my words for so long. I failed to break you after months. How you've endured is a feat I've seen in no one else. You should be proud."

He turned towards Althea, "This one broke after a few sentences by comparison, as did the bird. To have such weak-willed friends...it does you a disservice, Harbinger. We'll rectify that over time."

A chill ran down my spine.

He turned back to Ajax,

"You know, molding you with the spear might be my greatest mistake. I trusted you as an equal, Ajax. I wanted us to fight alongside each other. Doing so proved impossible. You grew greedy. You wanted more from the spear. You wanted absolute freedom and zero responsibility."

Yawm shook his head, "You turned from my greatest friend into one of my most hated enemies. I'll be taking back the spear I integrated with you. I'll mold it with myself this time. Obviously, you don't deserve to wield its power. Giving it to you was like giving a grenade to a child."

Yawm spread out his arms, a bitterness leaking into his voice,

"I wish I could hear what retorts you have. I truly desire to listen to you and your concerns, but if I release you for even a moment, you will disappear forever. I never wanted this, but you forced my hand. You begged for the spear. You begged on your knees for that power I gave you."

Yawm's hands shook with fury,

"I give to you, and now you use my gift against me. I will never give again."

Yawm turned away, walking up to me,

"At least I understand your actions against me. You even gave a half-hearted attempt at rescuing me. It wasn't nearly enough to ensure my survival, but you were protecting yourself. I empathize. Even then..."

Yawm sighed, "You refuse to turn your back on Schema. You've plotted against me since you've come. I saw through your lies and deception. You are no master of words. Reasonable attempts mind you, but nowhere near enough."

Yawm shook his hands at me,

"What we could have been given time...I cringe at the thought of losing your potential. As a warrior, you are tremendous. You mirror my own progress, a being beyond normal sentients. You throw it at that automation's feet. That absurd potential is wasted in his hands."

Frustration leaked into his voice,

"I warned you. He would use you until you died. You still refused to listen to me. You were meant to be molded into my arbiter, a force against Schema. In the end, you chose a machine over flesh and blood. You chose greed over reason. So be it."

At this point, listening to him became infuriating. Hell, I tried saving his ass. He was trying to break my mind the whole time, yet he's acting like I betrayed his ass. We didn't even attack him. Ajax, the newly named mister dumbass, did.

Finished speaking with me, Yawm turned towards Hod,

"You'll listen over time, unlike the Harbinger. You will make a fine follower, if a bit dull."

Yawm grabbed his own chin, "I'm curious about what kind of being you are exactly...I sense you utilize eldritch energy as Althea does, yet it doesn't overwhelm you in the same manner. You lack the same deformation. It's as if your biology stabilizes it better. Intriguing."

Yawm tapped his chin, "It's like a potent medicine for you, and when taking too much, it acts like poison. Studying your unique species may give me unique answers. Look forward to it."

Hearing that made my stomach sink. Hod was trying to find a safe place for the Eltari. Having his entire race in the hands of a madman...Well, it couldn't feel good.

With supreme confidence, Yawm turned back to me. He tilted his head,

"In all honesty, you are the creature I'm most curious about. Your resilience disregards all norms and expectations. Since you're useless as a soldier, we'll explore the properties that allow for such tenacity."

He shrugged, "The contract we signed only forbid killing one another after all."

He turned to Althea,

"You know, managing our comradery was an actual struggle, Daniel. It's been some time since I formed a genuine relationship with someone else. Lying and manipulating you proved impossible."

Yawm tapped the surface of Althea's barrier, sending a ripple through it,

"Every time I felt as though I gained your trust, your doubt resurfaced. Indeed, you embody the word 'stubborn.'"

He walked over to me, tapping my barrier as well, "I believed you'd finally understood my reasoning after the incident with the Old Ones. Planting those agents on us both required a great deal of trouble, I assure you."

Yawm let his hands flop against his sides, "Even after noticing your sense of gravity and using it against you, you never lost your conviction against me. Once more, I schemed with the contract. Here I imagined you'd summon Ajax for escape."

I winced. The whole time I was right. Being right felt pretty damn bad.

Yawm raised a single finger, "Once more, my plan fell through. I couldn't tell if you discovered my plan or not. I'll assume you did. Even then, my persistence finally came together with this deception. The results I aimed for finally materialized."

At this point, dread rushed through me like jumping into cold water.

Yawm raised his fists, "Now I've lost nothing. I regained all four of my followers. You all are much more powerful than my previous subordinates. Each of you is an enormous boon to my research as well. My situation could not be better."

My mind raced with options. Torix's mana streams still flowed to me, as did Amara's mana. The legion was coming. With our numbers, maybe we could break Yawm with a war of attrition. Preventing Yawm from obliterating them was the problem.

Yawm understood how trivial armies were against him just as we did. He rubbed his hands together, glaring at me,

"You, in particular, will prove worthy of my study. The tenacity of your metal flesh will hold together even under...unfavorable circumstances. You also can channel mana into the cipher."

Yawm laughed, a bit of his inner madness leaking out,

"I'll learn your secrets. I'll learn all of your secrets. Once I have, we'll see what the Tears of Etorhma will do to you. I pray you don't disappoint."

It was like Yawm's mask was taken off in full, revealing the demon underneath. He steepled his fingers together in excitement,

"Our contract won't let me kill you, but after all, you're no use to me dead. You're far more valuable in other ways."

In the distance, a rumbling surged across the ground. The legion was coming, a group of several thousand soldiers. Torix trained, armed, and led them. If Yawm so much as touched them with his magic, they'd perish. If they reached us, we had a chance.

Otherwise, Yawm would have his way with us.

I winced at the thought. The legion reaching Yawm seemed unlikely. As the legion's thunder sounded louder, Yawm turned towards the source of all the noise. He spread out his arms,

"So this would be the other intruders then? Considering the number of them, it must be the group that escaped my grasp because of that pestering lich."

Yawm clapped his hands together, sending out a shockwave.

"They await another demonstration."

Air popped, and the ensuing green aura integrated into Yawm's palm. He clasped it, and our scenery changed. Atop a low lying building, we faced the oncoming legion.

Many of them flew across the sky on eldritch, jetpacks, or helicopters. Others raced across the ground on monstrous steeds of all different sizes. Many rode Torix's summons, covering the rough terrain with ease. All the eltari flew with grace. They were doomed at this rate.

Yawm raised a hand at the group. Knowing what would come next, I tried moving. As I expected, I couldn't even budge. Trying out option two, I reached out with mana. It affected the inside of the stasis, but it didn't change anything outside it. This prison froze me in place to perfection.

Yawm glanced at me,

"Trying your magic then? Good luck with your attempts at escape. This power over stasis was a gift from Etorhma. I have no idea the principles it uses to operate, but I do understand what it does. None of you will escape, not even Ajax."

I charged my mana, keeping it flowing through me. If Yawm stored a burst of mana in his body, why couldn't I? After a few seconds, the mana saturated my blood, bones, and muscle. A fundamental bloodlust came over me as the mana leaked into my head. I kept holding it in, the pressure growing.

As I charged myself, Yawm consolidated mana until it turned crystalline. The visible grain of mana sat on his palm. It looked like an emerald grain of sand. Stored within was an atomic power. In the hands of Yawm, it meant genocide.

With a casual air, Yawm hummed a cheery tune while preparing his attack. I could only think of one way to stop him. As the storming feet of Torix's army rushed down nearby streets and over the city, Yawm reared back his hand.

Yawm whispered, "It's a shame...Yet another skyline is consumed with fire."

As he pushed his hand forward, I used every bit of mana I stored up at the last minute. I even dipped into my health, leaving about 71% of my health remaining. The millions of mana burst, creating a gravity well.

I condensed the well, compressing it. At the edge of the emerald barrier, it collapsed. The resulting implosion cracked the green forcefield, launching me forward. I propelled to the front of Yawm's hand as he released his attack.

As I appeared in front of him, Yawm's eyes turned wide. He murmured,

"What?"

His attack destroyed the barrier, erasing me from existence. Everything turned white. No sensation. No thoughts. Nothing. I sat in that peace for a few seconds. As I opened my eyes, Yawm and I laid at the bottom of a massive crater.

Around us, several buildings collapsed. Further beyond, three green orbs lodged in the concrete wall of a parking deck. Each of the force fields cracked under the shockwave of Yawm's attack. Even then, none of the others escaped.

I sat up. The only reason I survived was because of my Invincibility tree. If I took over 70% of my health, I would live and store the overkill damage.

Charged with that overkill damage, I glanced at Yawm.

On his chest, bark skin flaked from burns. Half the skin on his face was gone, wooden fibers lying under it. I raised my hands, orienting myself. The cosmic energy in my hands amazed me. Twice already the tree saved my ass.

Wielding that otherworldly strength, I stood up. I dashed towards Yawm. As my feet thudded against the ground, he sat up. He rolled his eyes, raising a hand at me. Using the last bit of glow in his chest, he created a green sphere over me. With that, his chest no longer glowed green.

It was a dark yellow color, like snot.

Yawm grunted,

"If you believe I'll fall for that trick once more, you're sadly mistaken."

Once more in stasis, I watched Yawm push himself up. He shook his head, shaking off his confusion. He raised a hand to me again, building mana. He sent out another pulse.

My legs disintegrated. Yawm turned his arm, destroying my arms after. He lowered his hand,

"Let's see you utilize your magic in that state."

Yawm turned towards the others in their cracked green shells. He sighed,

"I can only imagine what I'd do if Ajax actually escaped. Death would be the least of your worries, I assure you."

He raised his palm. After a series of cracks, he placed mana into his hand. Before casting his spell, roots ripped out of the ground. They wrapped around his arm, pulling it downwards. A path of green forcefield formed as his arm moved.

Yawm squinted at the roots,

"What in Baldowah's name is this...Amara."

More roots came out of the ground from the world tree. They smothered Yawm, covering his entire frame. He roared in frustration, tearing the wood apart as it formed around him.

"There will be legends told of your suffering, Lost One. You will be remembered."

In the distance, other roots wrapped around the cracked orbs. Althea, Hod, and Ajax stood still as the wooden tendrils squeezed down. Fissures spread along the sphere's surface.

Amidst the turmoil, I charged my own mana once more. Yawm swatted through the abundance of roots. Along the edge of the crater, the legion arrived. A thick wave of troops ran down the side of the slope towards us.

Yawm turned to the oncoming soldiers. He turned towards Ajax and the others. He lifted his hand again, coalescing power. At the same time, he resisted the pull of the roots. Before he finished his spell, four eltari dived down from the sky. They crashed into him, their talons flared.

Yawm roared, "So the bird has allies I take it?"

He waved his arm, rending an armored eltari apart. Guts and blood splattered out, and Yawm laughed,

"Frail. Weak. Like waving away mist."

As if squashing bugs, he minced the eltari into slush. Beside Yawm, several vanguards landed from above. Coated in heavy power armor and hydraulics, they charged towards Yawm. With each move of his hand, Yawm killed one after the other.

Several of these vanguards landed blows on Yawm. They did no damage whatsoever. He tore them asunder. They bought time, however. The other troops reached us in a massive wave. Yawm fought off roots, diving eltari, and the charging cavalry all at once.

It was chaos.

Dozens of eldritch were sent flying with each of Yawm's strikes. A machine of war, he broke them apart. When he lifted his hand and tried magic, a flurry of attacks from all sides stopped him.

Within minutes, he killed hundreds of soldiers. It gave me the time I needed though. With another gravitational implosion, I cracked the green barrier once more. I launched myself right at Yawm's back. As he turned around, he struck my forcefield off instinct.

