His attack sent me flying backward. I rolled, crushing soldiers and eldritch alike. After bouncing for a few seconds, a bolt of ice crashed into the sphere. A plume of icy wind crashed over me, wind brushing across my face. I smacked on the ground.

I coughed into the dirt, my limbs regenerating. Even in this state, I shivered with stored energy from the Invincible tree. I still contained the dormant power from Yawm's earlier blast. I intended on using it.

As I gained my limbs and armor back, I pushed my face up off the ground.

A bony hand appeared in front of me. I took it, keeping my pull to a minimum. Torix grunted,

"By Schema you're heavy."

I lifted up, seeing his smiling, dry face. I grinned,

"Damn is it good to see you again."

With a curt nod, Torix pointed towards Yawm, "You as well, disciple. There's no time for greetings, however. Ready yourself. This is our last attempt at slaying him."

I turned towards Yawm. I spit my words a bit,

"I need an opening. I can injure him."

Torix nodded, opening a portal. From it, several ogres came out. Covered in scales and holding clubs of stone, they charged at Yawm. Torix opened another portal,

"I'm going to free the others. Show the eater of worlds why you herald calamity."

I shook my head and banged my fists together. With hundreds of legion members running past me, I dived into the ground. I drilled for a few seconds. With a detonation of my runes, I exploded out of the earth.

Yawm turned towards me, dragging his fist behind him. He swung it overhead. It collided with my own fist, unleashing a shockwave. In a thirty foot radius, soldiers and monsters alike flung aside like sand in a wind tunnel. My own bones groaned with effort, but they somehow held.

Yawm's own bones somehow didn't.

His fist cracked under pressure, my armor more durable than his skin. His upper arm bone split, stabbing up through his shoulder. He stayed standing, but the arm went limp after taking on the attack. It flopped against his side as useless as Kessiah in a fight.

Alright, that was a low blow. Anyways, I still took damage. Even though my own arm held up under the punishment, my body absorbed the shock of it. I'd never withstood the brunt of an impact like that. It rocked me to my core, fractures going through my bones and skin.

Blood exploded from my mouth, my eyes bleeding. My nose turned stuffy in an instant, filling up with god knows what. My knees wobbled as I took two steps back from the point of impact. Yawm boomed out a warcry, swatting his broken arm at me like a club.

The broken limb flashed before my eyes. I blacked out. I woke up, flopping into the side of a skyscraper like a ragdoll. Glass shattered. Concrete splintered. Dust from crushed stone erupted. Dazed and confused. I pushed myself out of the side of the building. I wobbled on my feet, running right back at Yawm. I may not be as strong as he was, but he wouldn't catch me giving in.

I wanted to give him a demonstration on being relentless.

I reached the fight once more. Yawm didn't seem as eager for the battle. He glanced around, an inkling of panic showing on his face. He found Torix floating on a ball of black mana. The lich cast scorching, elemental magic onto the sphere holding Althea. The orb was more crevice then forcefield at this point.

Yawm raised his hand, but once more a swarm of soldiers covered him from head to toe. Eltari jabbed their talons into him. Vanguards struck out with hydraulic fists. Yawm shouted in annoyance,

"I own goals that I must accomplish. Begone."

He lifted his fist, slamming it into the dirt. Another explosion sent soldiers outwards. With the second or two of an opening, he lifted up his hand at Torix. Before he could finish, I slammed into him like a speeding bullet.

Yawm fell to the ground, rolling from the crash.

From inside my armor, I pulled out the tip of Brim's spear that I stole earlier. Using the arcane blade, I stabbed it into the back of Yawm's neck. He lifted me up. I gouged the edge of the knife deeper as he did.

Yawm shook his back, shaking me like a tire swing in a hurricane. Using gravity, my grip, and molded armor, I held on by the breadth of a hair. I reared my fist back, punching Yawm three or four times in the face. Yawm looked around unfazed, growling out his words,

"I'm going to tear your insides out and wear that skin of yours."

He grabbed my head with his right arm, the only one still functioning. He pulled me from his back, pieces of my armor snapping. He slammed me into the ground. Tectonic impacts rippled outwards, the pavement launching out like shrapnel.

Using me as a club, he swung me at approaching soldiers. They splat against me, soft as playdough. I grabbed Yawm's arm, digging my armor into his flesh. I concentrated Event Horizon over his arm, enhancing the effect.

Yawm spun me around over his head then tossed me away again with a loud roar. I crashed through two skyscrapers, landing hundreds of meters away. Facing the sky, I looked up at my own foot. It bent the wrong way, along with one of my elbows.

Using my armor and gravity streams, I snapped my bones back into place. With tendrils of my armor and gravity wells, I hobbled back onto my feet. I created pillars of armor over my leg and arm like makeshift splints.

I  shuffled over chunks of broken rock and concrete towards Yawm.

I raised a hand, using a bit of my mana regen. I pulled myself along, speeding up as my bones healed. Once fixed, I dove into the ground, racing back towards Yawm.

Once I got there, Yawm busied himself with harpoons from Althea, magic from Torix, roots, and soldiers. When Torix and Althea reloaded or recharged, soldiers dog piled Yawm. The world tree helped amplify the effect of both.

Yawm's composure was cracking under the onslaught.

With his usual nobility gone, he swung out in desperation. He looked for opportunities to strike back with his magic. The recharge rate of his magic prevented him from doing so. With a vicious grin, I dashed into the fray.

As I did, Yawm turned towards me. His eyes widened, and his shoulders slumped,

"How do you still stand?"

When I reached him, he swung out with his arm. I jerked myself from his blow using a well of gravity. He charged towards me, but I dove into the ground, evading his grasp. I lifted myself back up out of the landscape, striking at his back.

He backhanded me, his hand landing on my right arm blocking my side. He crushed the arm, cracking my ribs like twigs. I shot into the sloped side of the crater he fought in.

As the dust settled, I pushed myself from the pile of broken rock and dirt. I stumbled on my right leg, my left one broken. I pulled my left leg back into place. I hobbled forward with my right arm looking like a slinky.

Yawm stood gawking at me in amazement,

"What are you?"

I didn't answer. I was too busy putting one shaky foot in front of the other one. It felt like running with someone else's legs. No one had time for me to wait until it was easy to move. We had a world eater to kill.

I wobbled back and forth, dashing downhill at Yawm. Above me, Althea and Torix rained down hell on Hod's green sphere. Soldiers drowned Yawm when he tried stopping them.

As I reached Yawm again, Hod's sphere shattered. Hod dove down like an eagle, his shade form condensing over him. Hod landed on the shadow of the building. Without any noise, he fell into the shade like a still pool of black water.

From behind Yawm, he rose. I tackled Yawm's front while Hod struck his back. Yawm swatted a hand out at Hod, but Hod disintegrated into Yawm's shadow. Taking advantage, I swiveled on my heels, launching a massive uppercut at Yawm's gut.

With gravity aiding my power, it left cracks in Yawm's bark skin. Yawm swung his fist over his head, slamming his knuckles into my forehead. My neck broke. My teeth shattered. I crushed into the ground. From behind me, Hod jumped out of my shadow and sliced at Yawm's arm.

His claws left three umbral streaks of fire. Yawm swatted his hand at Hod, but I jerked the bird from Yawm's grasp with gravity. Two bolts from Althea stabbed into Yawm's back while he was distracted. A fireball detonated on him right after.

I laid there, crushed beneath Yawm. Bruning from two different kinds of fires, Yawm no longer panicked. Yawm turned towards me, lifting his foot. He stomped my chest, my torso caving in. Yawm lifted his foot again, harpoons jamming into his neck and head.

Yawm absorbed the damage and continued stomping. The crater we fought in deepened with each strike, shockwaves rippling out. Hod appeared behind Yawm again, ripping at his legs. It didn't matter.

Yawm ignored the incoming damage, stomping me over and over. After ten stomps, my health dwindled. I lifted my arms, blocking another two stomps. He broke my arms under his heels. This must be what Korga felt like.

As my health reached 10%, my body was mush. I gurgled,

"What about the contract Yawm?"

Yawm wheezed in between stomps, "I'll. Endure. The. Consequences."

Yawm lifted his foot for a final time. Before he lowered his heel, I remembered the arcane blade lodged in his neck. With a burst of gravity, I shifted the edge. It cut through Yawm's neck.

At the same time, I moved it into the trajectory of one of Althea's bolts. The harpoon smashed into the arcane blade, slicing through 80% of Yawm's neck.

A fountain of yellow gunk spurted from his neck. Yawm stumbled sideways, grabbing at his throat. He was trying to hold in his blood. It was far too late.

Yawm fell onto his side. Hod picked up the arcane blade, jumping on top of Yawm.

He sliced at him, stabbing with brutality. Althea fired bolts into Yawm's head. Yawm's arms twitched as he struggled, weakened by blood loss. He choked out,

"I...I can't die...There is so....so much more...I need to do...Schema...eldritch..."

Yawm's hand quivered,

"Mother...father...no more..."

Yawm's hand thumped against the ground. When everyone ceased the slaughter, Yawm was nothing but mush. I splinted my neck with my armor, letting me heal. As sat up, I turned towards the others. A deafening silence passed over the battlefield.

We all looked at Yawm, disbelief spread over everyone. It didn't feel real. Everyone was thinking the same thing. He'd come back at any second now.

After the silence stretched, it was apparent. A series of notifications appeared in my inbox. Yawm was gone.

We killed the worldeater. We slayed Yawm of Flesh.
