His voice cracked. Normen nodded. He put his helmet back on his head.
“I know. Whether they think so or not—they were invisible until I saw them.”
The two Vampires had no idea what that meant. But Durene understood. And she only hoped they would get to Liscor without incident. As for taking a side—the Order of Solstice had already taken a side.
She was just glad it wasn’t the [Knights] of the Clairei Fields. If they had met that order, rain or not—she was pretty sure it would have gone to blood.
Vampires. She looked curiously at the couple. They were pale-skinned, and they did have fangs. Maybe they did drink blood and do all kinds of odd stuff. But they just seemed wet and frightened.
But then, what did she know? She was a half-Troll. She almost wished Monst had taken umbrage so she could have hit him. But then—maybe House d’Artien and Byres knew what was best and killing Vampires was the right thing to do. They were old, noble houses, and that meant they knew what was best.
Unless they didn’t. That thought bothered Durene for a long time on the long walk through the rain.
 
——
 
They weren’t Erin’s. Erin had helped make some of them, like Normen, but the Order of Solstice were not hers. They bore her fire, but if they were hers, they would have all been on Baleros already, following after.
They weren’t Lyonette’s either. They were not Laken’s…and therein lay the contradiction. The Order of Solstice was, in a way, defined more by who they could be, the few moments they had stood together, than any long legacy or other person.
Most people didn’t even know their first triumph: fighting Snow Golems to deliver a wagonload of food. And not all their members had been there from the start; Durene hadn’t been with Normen when he awakened his honor’s flame.
But she had been there when they challenged Elia Arcsinger. She had seen a [Knight] burning rather than letting good people fall victim to the Bloodfeast Raiders. She had witnessed Embraim’s demise. Watched Herove and Halrac meet their end and buried Zanze.
In a way, the Order of Solstice was defined by the [Knights] who had passed before them, like Brunkr, whom Durene had never met. It was who they could be, what they were trying to live up to, that gave them meaning.
Knights made of a criminal, a [Necromancer], an adventurer, a half-Troll girl, an Antinium, soldier, and more. If they could be [Knights]—who else?
When the Order of Solstice walked into Liscor, having used the door from Celum, they were welcomed with fresh food and drinks at The Wandering Inn. Mrsha raced over, demanding to see what they’d gotten, and her face fell when she realized they’d gotten squat.
“I should go to Riverfarm now.”
Durene knew Laken would be worrying over her, but she missed her moment to go through the door again as Lyonette strode over.
“Normen! Welcome back! I—oh, who’s this?”
She had spotted their two guests. Normen introduced Sevil and Lapsey hurriedly, and Lyonette’s eyes sharpened.
“I see. Well—let me see if Fierre is around. Vaulont most definitely is. If you two need passage to Pallass, of course, that can be arranged!”
The two Vampires looked astonished as Lyonette welcomed them into the inn. Mrsha just sniffed at Sevil’s sock and sneezed. She raced over to Jewel, who picked her up.
“Hello, Mrsha. No, we don’t have loot, but we did run into a very interesting set of monsters! Let’s have something e—is that Elia Arcsinger?”
Jewel nearly leapt into Ishkr, who was coming over with hot food, as she saw a half-Elf sitting at a table with Bird. Durene’s head snapped around, and she almost went for her greatsword. Lyonette raised her hands placatingly.
“Yes, it is, and she’s an employee.”
“A wh—an employee? Like me? I could have had Elia Arcsinger as my coworker? Wait a second, she tried to kill the Goblins!”
Jewel alternated between shock, outrage, and stupefaction. Which was classic Jewel. Normen frowned, and Durene paused to give the half-Elf a baleful look.
Lyonette gave them all cliff notes of what had led to Elia’s hiring, and Jewel summed it up with a sigh.
“Oh, she got Jeweled. Only instead of Erin, it was you. Makes sense.”
“Does it?”
Ama was the most disconcerted of the Order of Solstice. Antherr just nodded along with Normen as if this was inevitable, if unpleasant. The Antinium turned to Ishkr.
“I will not eat here. I must check in with the Free Antinium. I apologize, Ishkr. May I meet with the rest of you later?”
Normen nodded, and Jewel called out.
“We’ll have a table here, Antherr.”
“Oh—me too. I’m heading into the city.”
Vess also hurried to the door, and Durene sighed—but to her surprise, he pulled at her arm.
“Come on, Durene. You don’t have to go back right away, right?”
“I—maybe?”
She followed him down the hallway and into line again. Before they could even escape, Ishkr had returned with a serving of hot fried bites of dough filled with cheese. It made all of them perk up, including Antherr.
“I thought Antinium couldn’t eat anything but Garrybread, whatever that is, Antherr.”
“That is true of most Antinium. I am a new Soldier, with voice and immunity to the ravages of gluten. What are you going into Liscor for, Vess?”
“I, uh, I’m just checking on a friend. Sort of. Can I tag along?”
“Of course.”
People stared at them as the three waited for the door. Durene was obvious, as was a talking Soldier, but it was their armor and their crest, a multi-layered flame, that made them recognizable.
“The Order of Solstice. Hey, are you all recruiting?”
A Drake called out jokingly, and Antherr lifted a hand.
“If you are ready, you may apply.”
“Uh—I’ll think about it!”
More than one Gnoll stared at them as well, and Durene realized these weren’t city-Gnolls, but a bunch of Gnolls with far fewer coverings, clearly meant for outdoor travel. Most carried bows and a variety of tools.
“Silverfangs.”
Vess stared in surprise at them as some sniffed or nodded warily to all three of them. Antherr agreed.
“Yes. They have made up some of the applicants who wish to be [Knights] of Solstice.”
“Normen mentioned the applicants. Are we training them or vetting them?”
Durene had been at Riverfarm—again—and missed helping out with that. Antherr walked past Liska, who grumpily waved all three through.
“No charge for the glorious Order of Solstice.”
“Have a dough bite?”
Vess offered, and Liska brightened up.
“Thank you! Come again!”
They passed into Liscor, and Durene saw another crowd on the far end of Shivertail Plaza. She blinked at the sun, which seemed so bright and cheerful; it was still raining in Celum. The rain must have not made it over the High Passes. Someone noticed the water still on Durene’s armor and in her hair.
“Rainy, is it? Which city are you coming from?”
An old Drake asked in line, and Durene replied. With a sigh, he stepped out of line.
“The one day I decide ‘yes, I’d like to see those Golems in Celum’. Where can I get an umbrella?”
As it so happened, there were shopkeepers ready to oblige, and the line to the [Portal Door] broke up as more people bought umbrellas just in case. Durene realized Vess and Antherr were leaving her behind and hurried after them.
The Antinium Hive saw a lot of Workers and Soldiers on the streets these days, many holding little treats or going to work, rather than being the silent few. A couple even had pets; one was walking a dog, or perhaps the dog was walking the Worker, so fascinated was the Antinium.
That wasn’t all, naturally. 3rd District was flooded with Humans, and since it bordered the Free Hive, you got Humans and new Silverfangs and Drakes who had entered the city. In fact, one Gnoll was pulling what Durene at first took to be his sister by the paw.
“But Vok. I don’t want to go to school. I want to be a [Guard] like you! Can’t you tell them you took me?”
“You’ll make friends, Hickery. I promised your parents I’d take you. Plus, remember? Relc said Mrsha goes to that school.”
Hickery, the young Gnoll girl, whined.
“I don’t want to meet her! She’s scary! They say she poisons people she doesn’t like with spices!”
“Well…don’t eat anything she gives you. Come on.”
Durene watched the two go.
“Laken should make schools. He’s trying.”
“Laken this, Laken that. Pssh.”
Vess made a rude sound, and Durene pushed him, but lightly. They were nearly at the Free Hive, but they had to stop at crosswalks. A flashing light reminded Durene of Traffy, the Law Elemental of Riverfarm who’d begun all this. Most people grumbled at the light, but when it flashed green, they went in a big mob rather than hold up the many vehicles on the road.
“I am concerned about my fellow Antinium, which is why I am visiting the Hive. I heard there were more attacks from the dungeon, and if so, I will volunteer myself in its defense. Why are you going, Vess?”
“Oh, I, uh, just wanted to meet with an Antinium. But I…hey. Are you in the army?”
Vess caught sight of a group of [Crusaders] sitting at a cafe outside, and Durene blinked. They were clearly [Soldiers] of the army, but what was more astounding was the cafe.
As in—it was an Antinium-run cafe with Antinium servers and an Antinium owner. They were serving food only an Antinium could love—a roasted Shield Spider that even other Antinium were eying dubiously.
“That’s us. Can we help you, pal?”
One of the Workers spoke up, and Vess licked his lips nervously.
“I’m—looking for Crusader 53.”
“You and everyone else.”
The Worker with an odd bit of sass to him was breaking into the Shield Spider with a fork. One of the Soldiers began hand-signing with Antherr and stood up to shake hands with the [Knight]. Vess touched his chest.
“No, I’m—Vess. He knows me. I’d like to meet with him, but he’s been absent.”
“Yeah, too bad, buddy. He’s not here. And he doesn’t want to meet some Drake—”
One of the other Soldiers reached over and slapped the back of the Worker’s head. The Worker broke off, and in a far less sarcastic tone, turned to his fellow crusader.
“Crusader 114-4. Why did you do that? I almost achieved full sarcasm mode. I too will become a [Sasser].”
“No one can replace Crusader 57. Give it up.”
Another Worker responded. He turned to Vess.
“Crusader 53 was moved to the 7th Hive under Xrn. His whereabouts—unknown at this moment. Please excuse any sass.”
“Oh, that’s fine. If you see him, can you let him know I’d like to meet him? It’s Vess.”
“We will pass the message on, if possible.”
They all assured Vess, and Antherr broke off his signing and handshakes with the [Soldiers]. They kept going as Vess sighed—and then there was an explosion behind them from the Worker.
“That was the Order of Solstice? I have sassed too much!”
The pieces clicked into place, and Durene nudged Vess with a smile.
“You want to meet Crusader 53, Vess?”
The Drake nodded, looking almost relieved.
“I do. But I don’t know how much he…well, it explains why he’s never around. Antherr, did you have anything you wanted to do? I can’t drag Durene around forever; I was going to introduce her to 53.”
Antherr tilted his head.
“Perhaps. Will you have time to accompany me? The Soldiers say that the dungeon problem is largely contained at this moment. But I thought, in light of Durene’s distress with rampant sexisms, she would care to speak to someone.”
Every Antinium turned to Durene, and she blushed again, but nodded hesitantly.
“Do you think I’ll get good advice?”
“Perhaps. It is the best advice I would seek among the Antinium for this very cryptic matter.”
Durene and Vess exchanged a look. Best advice…? Durene followed Antherr and only realized belatedly that while his statement might be entirely true, she should have remembered that it was entirely a matter of relativity.
 
——
 
Pawn, [Priest] of the Free Antinium, worker of miracles, preacher of Heaven, and leader of the Painted Antinium, poured himself a tall glass of Rxlvn. Antherr sat there as Pawn took a shot.
“My emotional distress is incalculable. My day may be ruined.”
“I apologize, Priest Pawn. I hoped you had wisdom in this matter.”
Pawn gave Durene a long stare as she awkwardly sat there. The Rxlvn was really strong; she kept sipping it, and she didn’t know how he’d taken two shots already. Vess was staring at one hand.
“Is this…is this poison? How strong is this stuff?”
He leaned against Durene, and she saw he’d taken a single sip of Rxlvn. The others were made of stronger stuff, though.
Vess was so…funny. He leaned against Durene until he jerked upright, and she was conscious of his presence; he was radiating warmth. She didn’t mind his presence, though, far from it. Pawn poured himself a third shot as he spoke.
“I do not profess to know much about love, Antherr. The misconception among Antinium is that I am an expert. I am, perhaps, the only Antinium to understand it at this moment, but that is not a high bar. No, I misspeak; Chesacre and Thaina may well qualify, but they are gone with Magnolia Reinhart. I am, at least, better than the book, which is highly inaccurate.”
“I see. I was distressed by my inability to offer Durene words of comfort. I regret taking your time and hers.”
Antherr’s antennae drooped, and Durene waved a hand.
“No, I appreciate it, Antherr, really. No one ever…cares. You and Vess and everyone else?”
Vess raised a claw and placed it on Durene’s shoulder.
“You’re great. The [Emperor] sucks!”
Pawn shook his head slightly.
“Whether or not he does, I can assure you, Durene, that relationships of an intimate nature are no different than those of friendships or co-workers. Would you care for Riverfarm’s people to lecture you on how to be a [Knight] with Antherr, for instance?”
“No.”
Durene liked that phrasing, and she saw why Antherr considered Pawn a font of wisdom. She frowned.
“They don’t know anything about Antherr and me. Not really. Not better than we know each other.”
“Indeed. And three times of sex per day seems egregious. Mandatory oral and handjobs included.”
Durene spat out her drink onto Pawn, and the [Priest] paused a moment to wipe at his face.
“…Sex is a personal thing. I would not count the number so much as the fact that someone is telling Durene what to do. That is my real concern, Antherr.”
“I see.”
“With that said, I preach the value of proper lubrication! Which is what I am given to understand mitigates chafing!”
Pawn raised two of his arms, and Antherr nodded.
“I see. Amen.”
Durene had a lot of questions. She wasn’t quite sure she wanted answers, but Pawn turned to her.
