By the time the Order of Solstice returned, close to midnight, Chaoisa and Durene were fully drunk, and the Contempt of Man was singing on the stage at the far end of the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“—lover, I fear you’re driving me crazy. I don’t think you can save me. So I’ll drive away, away—”
For once, it wasn’t a Singer of Terandria song, but an Izrilian song about love that Durene knew. Even the [Princess], sitting with Pawn, was listening rather than objecting to Chaoisa’s taking over of the inn’s stage.
If anything, Lyonette looked impressed. Durene had been too shy, even dead drunk, to go on stage. But as it turned out, Chaoisa had an amazing singing voice.
Her voice filled the room as Normen stopped and saw Durene there.
“Durene. Were you looking for us? We were at Wishdrinks—”
“Something wrong, Durene?”
Vess added urgently, and Durene turned.
“No. Well, I broke up with Laken. I’m…going to be fine.”
The Order of Solstice stared at her, and then Antherr turned to Ishkr at the bar.
“I believe our drinking is not done. Do I offer congratulations or sympathy, Durene?”
“Both.”
Jewel came over and gave Durene a hug as Ama nodded.
“I never liked that [Emperor] guy anyways. Tell us about it, Durene. Did you make him cry?”
“I hope so. I mean, I hope he’s sad.”
Durene stumbled over to a table of people who wanted to hear from her, to make sure she was okay. Vess, Normen…Chaoisa came over as people applauded, and Durene realized this was what had lured her away from the Unseen Empire and even Laken.
More than a lover or even a nation. She had wanted a group like this. Durene reached for another drink, and when she had downed enough of it to pave the road for deep secrets to pour out, she gave vent to her feelings.
“And maybe now…I’ll know if someone can like me for me. I helped him when he was lost, before he became an [Emperor]. Now, I’m no longer weighing him down. And he’s no longer pulling me higher. I can find out who I am. I’ll always be grateful, but I want to know…who Durene Faerise is without the [Emperor] of Riverfarm.”
Yes. That would be nice. Durene had another drink and stayed up, wondering if she had done anything right or wrong. Until she went to bed and slept in until midday. But all she knew was that it had been her decision this time.
Hers.
 
[Class Consolidation: Farmer → Farm Lady!]
[Farm Lady Level 3!]
[Skill – Estate: Collect Taxes (Crops) obtained!]
[Skill – Estate: Forager’s Bounty obtained!]
[Skill – Above Common Law obtained!]
 
“Huh? Wait. No.”
Durene rolled over in her bed.
 
[Level Ups Canceled.]
 
Durene went back to sleep, shaking her head. Where had that come from?
 
——
 
Laken didn’t sleep that night. He stayed up, thinking.
Pacing.
Word was out around Riverfarm; Laken blamed Gamel for seeing the obvious. No; he’d sensed Durene heading out the portal door, and it would have been obvious to all that something was up.
Perhaps they could sense his ire. As the [Emperor] mourned, so the land mourned? Laken didn’t think he was at that stage yet. But a few things were clear to him in the circuitous thoughts that replayed the breakup.
This was not Durene’s fault. He understood how she had gotten to that point. He understood that he had missed some things—but he could also point out that without her telling him, he had been unaware of the problems.
No, Laken was clear.
He blamed the Yesels and Rams of the world. It seemed obvious to him, in hindsight, that the relationship had gone off a cliff because of their interference.
Of course Durene needed to break up. Laken himself felt oddly used at the thought people were engineering his hookups with Durene.
His struggle that night was to not lash out or do something drastic. He could see why the others had thought they were doing everyone a favor with Durene’s ‘advice’. In a way, it reminded him that Riverfarm had changed so much and not at all.
“That was how I met her. Durene. A girl this village tolerated—barely—and mistreated. They were never fully evil. They were certainly never fully good. They were a people. They didn’t deserve to be buried alive in an avalanche. But they didn’t have the right to lecture me about Durene. They were wrong about [Witches], many of them. We were all wrong about Goblins.”
This is what he believed. Laken knew there was a right and a wrong to things. Even if he didn’t always have the perfect answer, there was morality. Back in his world, he had never had a chance to do more than argue it person-to-person. A blind man.
Here, he was an [Emperor]. And here, he had operated on his beliefs and made terrible mistakes. His metaphorical blindness persisted, though, and it had cost him Durene.
It’s not over yet. A breakup isn’t forever. She isn’t leaving Riverfarm for good. Surely not. She’ll visit, and I can clear the weeds of people’s sycophancy. I must.
Laken had almost managed to talk himself into this being a good thing. Then he’d wondered if it was final, something unrecoverable, and he’d gone back to brooding.
Oh yes. When he heard a knock on the door past midnight, he had come to a decision. There would be…what was that Erin expression?
There would be consequences.
“Enter, Alevica. I’m sorry I missed the dinner. I was busy.”
“I’m sorry you missed it too. It would have been hilarious. I heard Durene dumped you and took your bear.”
Witch Alevica sauntered into the Durene’s cottage, and Laken resisted the urge to see if he could toss her out with his aura. He sat there, sullen and tired.
“So all of Riverfarm knows?”
“Yep. I think they’re lining up every eligible woman they’ve got. Lucky you.”
Laken’s scowl deepened, and he folded his arms as Alevica tossed some objects down on the table. Scrolls. She must have been continuing her study of the Hag Queen’s spellbook.
He couldn’t focus on it right now. Laken spoke abruptly.
“Durene’s still a [Paladin] of Riverfarm. She is a member of the Order of Solstice; I wish her luck, and I will support them, as I promised. But in light of her…absence, I am elevating her to [Lady] of Riverfarm.”
Alevica paused before swinging herself into a chair.
“Uh. Let me give you some advice. You can’t buy her back.”
“I’m not intending to. She’ll need some kind of funds. I’ll give her control of this area, her cottage included. She’ll own the proceeds, and the profits will go to her armor and needs.”
“Does Riverfarm do taxes?”
Laken shook his head hesitantly.
“Not…yet. However, we can work out what she might earn and allocate the funds to her. She’s a [L—a lady.”
For some reason, Laken couldn’t say ‘[Lady]’. As if part of him knew…Durene didn’t have the class? But he was certain he’d allocated the title to her.
“She’ll have the status of one, and I am going to sign the paperwork tomorrow. Which makes her one of the three noble classes I can assign people to.”
He said that rather sourly, and Alevica raised her brows.
“So Lady Durene, Lady Rie, and two others? Didn’t you give Prost the [Steward] class? I thought [Emperors] had hundreds of nobles.”
“Well, I’m not high-enough level, and Riverfarm isn’t big enough yet. Plus, I gave nearly four dozen noble titles away, and I’m afraid you can only have so many Dukes. And knights. And damn barons and ritters.”
Laken realized that Alevica had no idea what he meant, and he was forced to clarify.
“The Winter Sprites. I gave them classes in exchange for their help a long time ago.”
“Pfft. You gave them your noble ranks? I can’t tell if that’s stupid or genius. Too bad they’re all gone and the ones that came this time only like Ryoka.”
That was a sour point with Laken as well, actually. He had hoped that the lot who came with Shaestrel would be some of the ones he’d befriended, but they had all been different, it seemed. He folded his arms.
“It makes it hard. One of the reasons Riverfarm is always hungry for more talented people is because I can’t elevate the ones who are promising.”
Having sixteen [Lords] wouldn’t put him on par with House Veltras, but dead gods, it would have made a really good start. In fact, it would have solved more issues. Laken changed subjects.
“And I’m making it illegal to put a shrine to me up.”
“Yeah, that’ll work. You want to ban breathing too just for fun?”
Alevica seemed to be drinking in Laken’s bad mood. No…he noticed her lift her hat and glowered. She was absolutely taking in his ire. Maybe this was her way of trying to make him feel better; Laken felt a touch less angry already, and he resented that she was artificially moving his emotions around. So essentially it equalized any help she was doing.
“If they want to worship anything, they can worship Traffy or believe in Riverfarm’s laws. I just wish I had someone else they could look up to. They should have looked up to Durene. She’s a damn [Paladin]. Everyone should have seen her as an inspiration, but Yesel and Prost—yes, Prost—they made her smaller than she was.”
Alevica chewed over the issue and, to Laken’s surprise, gave him a helpful response instead of more mockery.
“People love Lady Rie. She’s like a mini-you for affection.”
“That’s what I want. Let them make a shrine to her. That’s…a bit better. Not me. Or…or…if only I had someone to manage each area of land! Give it some color, some personality. I’m already well past Gralton and Yitton for size, and I’ve looked into how the Five Families operate. I can’t manage and detail more than Riverfarm. House Veltras, El, Reinhart, all of them divide up their lands. A place becomes themed after each [Lady].”
“Like how House Ulva’s proud and uppity and how Gralton’s people love dogs? Whereas Riverfarm is just sorta safe and people have a thing about totems?”
Laken nodded.
“Exactly.”
He just needed more help, honestly. Two dozen more Rie’s. Heck, Laken would have taken an Erin in a heartbeat, but those kinds of people couldn’t be bought. Gralton couldn’t be…Laken had never made the offer since until recently he’d been smaller than Gralton’s lands.
Hmm. He sat there, and another thing occurred to the [Emperor] suddenly. Alevica was yawning, but she eyed him curiously.
“It’s interesting.”
“What is, Alevica?”
“I’ve seen you angry before, a few times. But never as interested as when you found out I was trying to research the Hag-language.”
“Aklat Vunn. Why should that surprise you? It’s fascinating. You are literally learning a dead language; possibly a magic one.”
Alevica made a face.
“Maybe. The spellbook has a few diagrams, but it’s all writ in language. A spellbook would have the spells manifested as concepts. Same with how [Witches] do magic. Incantations, mandatory incantations for spells, are old. Outdated. Who bothers with chanting a spell when you can point and say [Fireball]? Or think it? Why’s that fascinating?”
Laken couldn’t delve into the idea of magical worlds and fantasy settings to her in one go, so he settled on an easier reason.
“Because, Alevica, it implies the very words are magic. Ryoka would agree with me. Erin would. Deciphering a language is something I can do. It’s—not something I was necessarily the best at, but it’s what I liked, back in my world.”
She sat up a bit.
“Languages?”
“Being a traveller. Being aware of more than your own little bubble.”
He clarified with a shake of his head. Laken spread his arms.
“Riverfarm is wonderful in many ways. The people here work hard and have their good parts, for all I want to throw them in the river right now. But I would hate to be trapped here. My father was German. My mother was French. I was in California when I vanished. I have travelled to other lands, even if I haven’t seen them, Alevica. And each one does something right, something wrong. Like naming me ‘Laken’.”
“…What’s the problem with that?”
“In German it means—look, my mother didn’t like my name last-second, and she came up with a name that, uh, uh, translates into ‘bedsheet’ in German. And then it was written down and—”
Alevica began laughing, and Laken heard Frostwing wake up and sleepily peck at her. The [Emperor] decided this wasn’t the worst thing to happen to him recently and continued.
“The point is that I brought it here. To Riverfarm. Some new ideas. I liked the fact that we’re taking in [Witches], different points of view. Doing things like other people, changing wholesale, isn’t always good. But…”
He opened his eyes a second, remembering how bright Melidore had felt, even blind, or the wonder of meeting the faeries the first time.
“Goblins and Humans. We should be interesting. We should be unique. The fact that Durene, our only half-Troll resident, still feels like an outsider is disgraceful. Riverfarm pushed her when I should have pushed them to keep changing. Change and change until [Witches] are welcomed in this village. Now they love your charms and magic. Last year, they would have driven you all off. Changing your opinions for that better morality, that better viewpoint…”
That was what he thought was best. Change and change and keep the important part the same.
“Hearing a blind man speak about viewpoints is never not funny. I suppose you have a point. I’ve been all over Izril. It’s more fun than being a [Witch] who squats in a swamp and sees the same sights, day in, day out. I was going to travel to another continent when I turned thirty.”
Alevica stretched and sighed.
“So much for that dream. Keep making [Witches] happy—or keep people from throwing rocks at us—and we’ll give you enough loyalty. But I can see you’re still in a pet and my hat’s full enough for my trip tomorrow. So I’ll be off.”
She waggled her fingers at him as she stood, and Laken sat there, toying with an idea that had just struck him. Alevica paused by the door. After hesitating there, she came back, tone light and nettling.
“Or do you want to cry more about Durene? Because if you feed my two brats more of your food, they’ll stop telling me my cooking sucks.”
Alevica sat down after a second, and Laken inspected her in his mind’s eye. A change had come over her too, whether she admitted it or not. He almost wished she had remained the prickly, aloof [Witch] rather than this more likable, tired one.
Change comes for us all. Laken hadn’t asked Durene if she’d had anyone in mind when she referenced liking other people. He had been too guilty with the admonition that yes, sometimes he enjoyed the company of other women. Never with intent to do anything, but…
Well, now I’m officially allowed to flirt with anyone I want. Seven hours is way too soon. 
“—Actually, I’d better check on the girls.”
