“Yes. I—I don’t know what to say, Laken. Aside from the fact that I don’t feel like it’s special when we make love. I like you. I don’t remember that same feeling I got everytime you even touched me. I’m sorry. There’s a better way to say it, but I think I was lying to myself and you for a long time. Can we…break up?”
This wasn’t Laken’s first experience with a relationship ending. It was for Durene, and he wasn’t sure how he’d grade her speech on the Fetohep scale of speeches.
Honestly and privately—probably 4/10, with maybe a point for it being her first time. There was something she wasn’t telling him, that was clear.
Does she like someone else? She hasn’t been unfaithful—Laken’s mind raced ahead, and he cut himself off. No, she’d be more guilty, then. But she might have noticed the discrepancy of how she felt with him versus…
Another person? The Order of Solstice? Wait, stop thinking about that. 
Damn Yesel. Damn Ram and Beycalt and everyone else. Now, Laken was thinking back to how often they did get…frisky? How often they had sex. It had always seemed fine, even great, to him, but the frequency was getting called into account, and it made him feel dirty.
All of Riverfarm was in on it? How did he reprimand them for this? How did he punish a group for—Laken tried to focus on the conversation.
“I understand why you feel this way, Durene. I’m sorry…for not noticing. I wish you’d brought it up. We could have worked this out, I think. I don’t want to tell you ‘no’. It’s not my choice, obviously. I just—I like you.”
Tremendously, immensely. He was trying to keep his voice level. Laken cleared his throat.
“We could take a moment off. Go on a vacation. Certainly have all the people bothering you stop at once. Things might change a lot.”
“I’m sure they would. But I think…it’s already changed how we were, Laken. I’m sorry. It is my fault for not knowing what to say.”
Durene sounded miserable, and Laken reached out hesitantly and touched her hand. She squeezed his fingers.
“I know they helped raise you and you have an odd relationship with them all, Durene. How about this? What if we took a simple pause in the relationship?”
A week or two and they could talk, and he could work out her issues. He thought it was the best option—and then Durene came back with a swift reply.
“What if we didn’t?”
It flummoxed Laken. He was stunned by the response, not just because it cut him down, but because Durene seldom ever said…
She’s serious.
Two instincts warred in Laken’s mind as he tried to come up with another reply. One was his voice, his inner self, his guiding conscience in matters of right and wrong. It was very clear from his understanding what must be done.
You have to let her go. It’s her choice. There is no scenario where you can do anything else but agree without being completely in the wrong.
The second voice he didn’t like. And it sounded like Tamaroth or the voice of his class.
Don’t let her.
That was it. It didn’t tell him to order her, to argue, or to…it was just there. This cannot be. This should not be. Don’t let her.
He ignored the second voice because it was wrong. Even so, it felt like he was gargling gravel with every word.
“If that’s what you feel is best, Durene. I—won’t object, of course. But I think this is moving a bit too fast.”
Couldn’t they talk about this and come to a mutual decision tomorrow? Yet the [Paladin] simply heaved a huge, relieved sigh, which hurt more than anything else.
“Maybe. Maybe I’m being wrong about it or too fast. But, Laken…you don’t want us to break up?”
“Of course not. Never. I love you dearly, Durene.”
He thought she was smiling. She helped his fingers find her face, and he found she was. Durene’s voice rumbled through her fingertips.
“Then, Laken, it’s my choice. I’m sorry.”
She gave him the gentlest hug as she knocked the [Emperor] flat, harder than if she’d hit him. He was speechless, and Durene squeezed hard before letting go. Then she got up before he could say a word.
“Bismarck, leave Laken alone. Come here.”
Laken heard a faint fuss from outside—then he sensed Durene trudging back towards Riverfarm with the bear.
She’s taking my bear with her. That was one of the thoughts echoing through the [Emperor]’s head. The other was, trivially…
I’m glad she didn’t break up with me while I was wearing the chicken hat.
 
——
 
Durene did not, in point of fact, mean to take Bismark with her. She just didn’t think the Mossbear nosing around and bothering Laken was best for him, so she lured Bismarck away with the empty jar of honey. And by the time they’d gotten to Riverfarm, Durene realized she couldn’t just turn him loose to harass whomever he wanted.
She didn’t know what to do afterwards. She felt lost, relieved, bad about feeling relieved, and like she was still in a relationship with Laken. Except that she wasn’t.
Where do I go? Several Riverfarm people were giving her odd looks, as if wondering why she was here instead of with Laken, and Durene didn’t like it.
If she stayed in Riverfarm, word would be out across the entire town something was up. Gamel would probably report what was going on to the others even if Laken and Durene didn’t say anything. It wasn’t like it’d be hard to miss.
Durene wandered about a few streets until half a dozen people had come up to her and asked if she needed anything and how Laken was. Then she couldn’t take it.
“Bismark, come on.”
Durene marched through the door to Liscor, and that was how she found herself—with the giant Mossbear—sitting at a bar in The Wandering Inn nursing a drink.
“Something for your friend?”
Ishkr poured a Velrusk Claw into a cup, and Durene glanced at the bear.
“I don’t think we want a drunk bear in the inn. Is he a bother?”
“I think he’s amusing. It’s the first time I’ve had a bear as a guest. If he’s a bother, I’ll toss him back through the door to Riverfarm.”
Durene eyed Ishkr, who was a lot more slim than she was, but he seemed confident, so she let him pour a bowl of milk and honey for the bear. Bismark lapped at the bowl happily, and after a few gulps, Durene placed some coins on the bar.
“Can I get something stronger?”
“Firebreath Whiskey?”
“Something not as…spicy?”
“How’s Pirate Lord Rum sound? Three splashes of that, mixed with Fizzle Water?”
“Sure. Thanks.”
Durene found herself checking her coins. Normally, she didn’t worry about money. But if she and Laken were split…she’d have to actually have money. She had just asked Rie for coins whenever she needed some.
Do I keep my fancy cottage? I’m still Riverfarm’s [Paladin]. Will he give me orders? 
That wouldn’t be fun. Durene took another gulp from her drink. She knew she had to look miserable; she had hoped to find the Order of Solstice here, but they’d apparently gone out to Wishdrinks to have a small party instead of dinner here. Menolit had apparently bought them a booth, wanting to hear stories of the adventure.
Durene was in no mood to head out and ruin the fun. She didn’t know what to say; Ishkr was here, appearing behind the bar every now and then while serving tables. But the normally silent Gnoll seemed to have a few Erin qualities these days.
“Bowl of peanuts for your thoughts? On the house.”
He slid one over, and Durene moved Bismarck away from trying to steal her food. The bear whined until Ishkr gave him a bowl. After a while, a little white Gnoll girl appeared and began to ride Bismarck around by dangling a piece of meat in front of him, which took care of him for a bit.
“I…it’s complicated. I don’t, um, I don’t know what to say. Do you think the Order of Solstice will be here tonight?”
“Normen, Jewel, Antherr, Vess, and Ama all have rooms here. They might be late; Menolit likes to go drinking.”
“I guess I can see them in the morning. I, um, ah, do you have rooms? At the inn? I don’t know where I can stay.”
Ishkr’s brows didn’t rise; he just glanced at a little board on the wall.
“I could put you on the third floor? Your two guests are sleeping up there as well. The bed’s made. Here.”
He put a key on the table, and Durene fumbled for some coins.
“Thanks.”
“No need. You’re a friend of the inn; Lyonette would give you a room. As long as you need. Would that be long-term, then?”
Durene flushed as she fumbled the key into her belt pouch.
“I don’t know. Maybe? I—I might not be welcome in Riverfarm for a while.”
Certainly not by the people, no matter what Laken said. Or would they be happy that Laken was finally rid of her? Both options seemed bad. Ishkr polished a mug and then spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“Tell me if I’m being obtrusive. But my guess is that you and a certain [Emperor] aren’t seeing eye to eye?”
“We’re not seeing each other, actually. I—broke up with him.”
Durene took a huge gulp of her drink and noticed it was half-empty. Ishkr filled a cup with water.
“You don’t want to be dehydrated. Tough breakup?”
“No? I think it was fast, and he didn’t argue. Maybe it was too easy. I said what I had to and—left. Maybe I should have done or said something else?”
She didn’t know. No one had given her advice on this, for once, so she’d fumbled through it. Ishkr shrugged.
“Better than average, then.”
When she looked at him quizzically, he elaborated.
“Neither of you got violent. There was no meltdown, no breaking things?”
“No. But maybe I should have…”
“Given him a final memory?”
Durene reddened, and Ishkr shook his head.
“Simple and straightforward has a lot going for it. I knew a Drake once that couldn’t tell his girlfriend no. So he led her on, stopped talking to her, avoided her for nearly a month—then blew up at her in public. All because he didn’t want to ‘hurt her’ by doing it outright.”
“That would be bad. Then again, I think—I think I waited too long, too.”
Another drink came sliding down the bar.
“On the house. One second, would you?”
Ishkr stepped away from the bar as Durene nodded. She was so lost in her thoughts, second-guessing herself, that she only looked up when she realized Ishkr was walking back instead of teleporting. With someone else.
“I’m paying t’be a guest here, not—oh. Durene, my girl! Why didn’t you say it was her?”
Chaoisa, the Contempt of Man, was apparently staying at the inn as well. The high-level [Driver] was bad-tempered as ever until she saw Durene. Ishkr put a half-finished pizza and her drinks on the bar.
“I could set you two up at a table. Drinks are on the house.”
The [Driver] sat down with a grunt as Durene turned to her. She nodded to Ishkr as Chaoisa gave Durene a gap-toothed grin.
“I thought you were going to be with that fancy [Emperor]. What happened? He said something that pissed you off?”
“Actually—I broke up with him.”
Chaoisa’s face registered shock for barely a moment before she put her head back and laughed. Her tangle of short-cropped hair shook as she put a hand out.
“Something he did?”
“Not quite. It’s—”
Durene ended up giving Chaoisa her version of things. The [Driver] had heard half of it in the wagon, and she spat onto the floor when Durene was done. Ishkr appeared with a mop and a mild glare.
“From what I heard, it sounds like the rest of Riverfarm was filled with shittalking brown nosers so far up his ass they were making your life miserable. If he let you go, he’s a fool for not knowing what he had.”
“I don’t think he was happy. But he wouldn’t have made me stay.”
“He didn’t even beg? Sounds like he was too full of pride then.”
“He didn’t do…anything wrong, really. He didn’t know. I should have told him. Then I just sprang it on him the first thing when I got back, then walked out. I even took Bismarck with me.”
Durene was feeling her actions now, and she put her head down, pressing a glass of cold water to her forehead.
“You don’t need him.”
Chaoisa assured Durene, and the half-Troll girl gave the [Driver] a wretched look. She had no idea why the Contempt of Man, the famously insociable [Driver], had taken such a shine to her in the first place. Chaoisa was always checking in on Durene, like a big sister Durene had never had. It was…Durene liked Chaoisa, so she came out with some of her worries.
“Maybe I don’t need him. But I think I was the luckiest person in the world for getting to him. Now I’m wondering if I tossed that all away instead of trying to take a break and make it work.”
“Pah.”
Chaoisa pursed her lips again, and Ishkr gave her a warning stare. She met his eyes for a good ten seconds, then swallowed instead of expectorating again. Which went some way to showing the power of Ishkr. Durene took a hefty drink.
“You’ll find someone else, my girl. You’re young, stronger’n anyone but a Gold-ranker; you’re a [Paladin] and a Knight of Solstice.”
“That might be true. But I’m also half-Troll. Who else would like me?”
Maybe a non-Human like Vess? Durene flashed to the Drake, and Chaoisa took another bite of her pizza. This time, she stared down at her plate.
“Most men might, but they’re cut from bastard’s cloth anyways. You don’t need them to live happy, Durene. There’s coin for pleasure, and besides. We’re not changing what we look like or how we are. Look at me.”
She turned and gave Durene a grin that showed her yellowed teeth and her soiled coat and jacket.
“I’m a [Driver]. No one wants a big girl who’s pushing forty who spits tobacco and swears like one of Rhir’s Demons. But I do the job no one else can. You, now, you’re a catch.”
Chaoisa’s face was vulnerable—then proud as she raised a glass to Durene. The [Paladin] looked at Chaoisa, then shook her head.
“I think you’re magnificent, Chaoisa. I wish I was as brave as you. You’ve been nothing but nice to me.”
It was definitely the drinks, but Chaoisa’s eyes misted up around the same time as Durene’s, and she patted Durene wetly on the shoulder.
“I don’t really—‘snot like I liked them [Knights]. But when I saw you, I thought you were like myself. An honest girl, and you showed that Elia Arcsinger what was what! You’re going to be fine, Durene, I promise. Happier than I was, I promise. It’s hard to be a lady like us, sometimes.”
The [Unstoppable Roller] patted Durene on the shoulder as the girl hugged her, moved as her throat closed up.
Down the bar, Elia Arcsinger raised her head from a plate of spicy shrimp noodles and decided she didn’t want any part of the conversation. She kept eating as Calescent glared at her in outrage as she slurped down red noodles.
 
——
 
