“Five dead overall?”
“Five dead Vampires, Your Majesty.”
Laken shook his head, and his shoulders hunched. It should have been a fresh start in many ways. Instead—the dead were lingering. It reminded him of last spring. Only, instead of Drakes sabotaging the north, it was Vampires.
This time, Laken half-believed the north deserved it.
 
——
 
“Speak to me, Gamel. Summon the [Witches]. Rie—add Yesel, and get Durene too.”
“She’s not here, Your Majesty. The Order of Solstice—”
“Right. Then…Tessia, Ram, Beycalt. Beniar’s riding too far north of here to call back.”
Laken rattled off his entire inner circle, perhaps needlessly, but it was something he could control, and he didn’t always hold a full court. He stood there, leaning on his cane, while Gamel nodded.
“I shall send for them at once.”
“Send f—”
The [Emperor] paused as Gamel began snapping instructions at a group of young people who dashed off in every direction. That was the thing: even Gamel had underlings these days.
Laken didn’t rush to his throne room. He didn’t run anywhere at all. In fact, when Gamel suggested it, the young man just shook his head.
“If it’s like the previous ones, I want information, Gamel. It’s not a secret, and we have work to do. Send word to New Windrest. There’s a farm south-southeast with eight cows. I think they have an Eater Goat.”
Gamel began to swear and caught himself. Laken wanted to know about the Vampires, but he had work to do.
“Beniar and the Blacksky Riders are…”
“Too far. Master Helm is there, isn’t he? Have them grab bows and check it out. Maybe it’s just an aggressive goat, but it makes me uneasy. Possibly, it’s rabid.”
“South-southeast. Eight cows. I will send them a [Message] right away.”
Gamel went running for that one. Laken exhaled. Here was his great issue: he had eyes to see within his realm. None to understand the world beyond. And even with all the eyes in the world…he muttered as someone else jogged over.
“We’re going to need to keep a militia or a few good [Archers] with bows at each village. Beniar and his riders could handle Riverfarm when it was three villages. Now he can’t move fast enough. What does my [Head Engineer] think, Tessia?”
The young woman took a beat to respond, but she was his best [Engineer], and she didn’t have the timidity of when they had first met. Now, she regarded it like a puzzle, tilting her head as she responded, voice analytical.
“Can we split them up, Your Majesty? Divide and conquer?”
“No. If the Darksky Riders have to root out bandits or respond to a really nasty monster like an Armored Crawler, they have to move in force.”
“Then…what if we put a siege weapon at each village?”
Laken was highly amused by the suggestion. He smiled as he kept walking towards the fields, and a trail of mewling creatures popped out of an alleyway and began to march behind him. Sariant Lambs, looking as innocent as could be, doubtless lured by the topics he was discussing. Laken let them be as he turned to Tessia.
“A trebuchet? Only an [Engineer] can operate them, let alone aim them in real time.”
“I meant a ballista, Your Majesty. We still have the prototypes for them. Work has slowed since we’re developing the sewage system in accordance with Drake city standards, but give me two weeks and I can have a large prototype working.”
Dead gods, am I putting a ballista on top of every village? Like The Wandering Inn? Laken made a face, imagining it.
“Loading and operating that thing still isn’t a job for non-[Engineers], Tessia. A child plays with it, unloaded or not, and…I’ve met Mrsha. I don’t think it’s an option. Walls, perhaps, but that takes time. If you have another engineering proposal, I’ll hear it. And what do you think, Wiskeria?”
His [Witch]-[General] walked calmly into place and spoke.
“You need more [Soldiers], Your Majesty. Creating a new group of fighters won’t hurt.”
“So now I’m Tyrion instead of Erin.”
Laken grumbled to himself, and Wiskeria tilted her head.
“Do you think Riverfarm shouldn’t have an army, Laken? Also, I heard a dozen complaints on my way here.”
“What? About the sewers?”
Laken scanned the area behind him, but he didn’t sense any problems. Wiskeria coughed delicately.
“No…they’re all worried you’re displeased.”
The [Emperor] realized a greater-than-average number of people were sneaking glances his way, at least, their body positions indicated that. He frowned.
“Why? Is my shirt on backwards? Gamel dressed me.”
“No…they’re distressed because you’re not wearing your hat.”
“My h—”
Laken almost said something pithy in German to express how little he wanted a hat on this cool spring day. He wasn’t a hat person. He never got the sun in his eyes, and as for fashion…he growled.
“You’re serious.”
“They’re very worried. They think you didn’t like this week’s contest winners.”
The [Emperor] bit back another oath. He would have loved to say something about where they could put the hats, but the problem was he suspected his subjects were picking up some of his German. At least, insofar as they understood uncomplimentary words.
“…Tessia, can you go grab my hat? The one—which one? I believe it was a festive…chicken.”
“At once, Your Majesty.”
Laken stood there gloomily for a second, then continued walking as if trying to prolong his encounter with the hat of chickenhood for as long as possible. Maybe if he stopped asking what the hat looked like it wouldn’t be so bad.
“Is this where I laugh?”
Wiskeria inquired, voice mild, and Laken sighed.
“I think you missed your moment, Wiskeria. And I think they believe it’s charming and love when I wear it.”
The [Farmers] had won the contest this week, and the votes were in. Chicken hat for Laken, [Emperor] of Riverfarm.
He could put an end to the contest, of course. He could refuse to wear the hat. But they loved making hats and seeing him wear them. The irony was that anyone cared what Laken wore, but that was Riverfarm’s relationship with their [Emperor]. They loved him, and Laken wasn’t sure if it was due to his class, his deeds, a mix of the two, or the fact that he’d wear a chicken hat all day to make them smile.
Not wearing the hat would make the people who’d designed it despondent. Curse the hat; Laken put it out of his mind as Tessia ran back, and he shoved it on his head.
“Your Majesty, you’re wearing it lopsided.”
A louder sigh as Wiskeria fixed the hat for Laken. He kept his face straight and tried to pretend he couldn’t hear the Sariant Lambs sniggering at him.
Everything an [Emperor] did had weight to it. It was a lesson Laken had thought he’d known, but with his advancing class, even trivial matters had taken on new aspects he hadn’t foreseen. Why was there a hat competition?
Well, when Erin had come by for her very notable visit, Laken had organized a little competition for fun. He’d promised to wear the winning [Witch]’s hat to settle a feud between Agratha and Oliyaya. His people had liked it so much they’d gathered together to make their own hats the next week. No one had said ‘Your Majesty, you must wear this hat’.
But what was Laken going to do, be presented with the winning hat and slap it in the face of the children and people who’d made it? He’d thought wearing it’d spell the end of that. Until the second hat contest came along. And the third.
At least he’d stopped a full clothing contest…for now. And only by hinting that he wanted silk clothing and higher-quality materials. That’s right. Laken was so desperate to avoid being dressed by enthusiastic subjects that he was willing to resort to classism.
Laken had a brilliant idea as he began to cross the bridge leading to the farmlands.
“…Why don’t we make the next week’s contest different, Wiskeria? I think the Sariant Lambs deserve some clothing. Ah, Miss Yesel, you’re back. More strife up north. Hat contest for the Sariants? Maybe full costumes?”
“Your Majesty! What a wonderful idea! I’ll tell the judges and participants that, and I’m sure the darling lambs will love the occasion!”
The [Emperor] brightened up and turned his head to give the Sariant Lambs a baleful smile. They mini-stampeded away in a huff as he reflected the little lambs had their uses.
Being an [Emperor] was a day of minor events like that, which translated into major events for the empire. Eater Goat in New Windrest. Costume contest for Sariants.
“We’re waiting for the rest of the [Witches], Wiskeria, Tessia, to discuss the issue. Am I going to have to approve a new company of [Soldiers], Wiskeria?”
Her voice was bland. Not uncaring, but lacking the emotion Laken felt when he thought of another battle on the heels of the Solstice. Wiskeria’s tone was as level as it had been when facing down the undead. No…she’d sounded a bit excited when she saw the Draugr coming at them. Right now, Wiskeria’s tone was serious, precise; impartial.
“Every nation or city needs fine soldiers, Your Majesty. You recall the Solstice. Another event like that will require a fine army.”
“Another event like that will wipe out a fine army to the last. Manus is supposed to be the ‘City of War’, isn’t it? I didn’t see them pulling ahead.”
“Lady Rie suggests a core group of elite warriors, Your Majesty. If you gained a new Skill or wished to equip them well, the Dwarves are willing to sell us armor.”
Laken kicked his way over the bridge, voice sour.
“Elites. Every army in the world has elites. It feels like a relative term. I don’t want to equip and train a thousand Gamels. I don’t want to watch them die. Is there a…a way to supplement the need for so many soldiers?”
“Well, we could use undead, Golems, summoned creatures, [Slaves], [Mercenaries], ask our Goblins to fight…”
“I don’t like those options. We’re not copying Khelt either. You don’t have a [Witch]-based option?”
Wiskeria stomped on the bridge as she reached its apex, and Laken heard a splashing sound from below. He jumped, and Tessia made a faint, worried sound. Wiskeria just snapped down at her feet.
“Go back to sleep or I’ll murder you. Sorry, Your Majesty. The river again. Speaking of which, [Witches] traditionally ally with [Warlocks] or summon or enchant monsters. It’s not really scalable.”
Laken crossed the bridge fast, though there hadn’t been any issues since Erin’s last visit. Even so…he turned when he had finished walking over it.
“Is it doing more than just splashing water about?”
“No, he’s quiet. A few splashes when you’re not expecting it or an odd feeling when swimming is the worst. But I’m afraid Erin really did wake him up.”
That was Riverfarm for you. Laken kept walking after a while and tried not to imagine fighting a river or the cost of winning. Then he imagined a line of [Soldiers] fighting the river and being swept away to their deaths.
I don’t enjoy war. He knew he’d need more [Soldiers], but dead gods…Laken turned his head.
“We don’t even have a specialty. Aren’t you supposed to have unique soldiers or something?”
Riverfarm’s army was a group of men and women equipped with decent weapons from local forges; nothing special, nothing bad, and they trained with Beniar and other former [Soldiers] giving them pointers. Beniar was a [Cataphract] and a former adventurer. He fought in heavy armor, but aside from him and the Darksky Riders, who operated in pitch blackness at perfect vision, they didn’t have quirks.
“We have a lot to do, Your Majesty. Specialities can be designed for. Good morning; are we to discuss this Vampire situation as we tend to the business of the fields?”
That was Lady Rie. She was already surveying the farmlands when the others arrived. Her mellifluous tones were, as always, refined and at odds with the soil and people hard at work around her. Laken scowled in her direction.
“You appear to have my [General] on your side, Lady Rie.”
“Izril needs an empire capable of protecting itself, Your Majesty. I suggest we review the Dwarves’ offer. From Dwarfhalls Rest. May I present that after the Vampire situation? And I remind you, we have a scrying orb booked for the Gnolls’ auction at midday.”
“I know. Focus on the Dwarves first, Rie. Tell me about them. Is that Master Ram? Good morning! Which field?”
A cluster of people was approaching now. Mister Ram, who was head of the farms. Beycalt, the construction leader. Eloise, Hedag, and Agratha, senior [Witches], more Sariant Lambs, and even a special representative that Laken allowed because she’d get upset if he turned her away.
Plus, Pebblesnatch told the Goblins what was going on, and the news about Vampires was surely important. They fell into place as Ram spoke.
“We were thinking the tomato field furthest to the right, Your Majesty? We’re trying some new fertilizer. Pardon the smell…but we reckon that’s worth a try today?”
“Tomatoes. Is that the most pressing thing we need for the spring, Master Ram?”
Laken was a bit dubious. People weren’t hungry in Riverfarm; they had countless farming villages who’d saved enough over the winter. Now it was warm enough, Riverfarm was producing food other settlements were gobbling up. Even so, he wanted to be strategic about the fields and not waste harvests on…tomatoes?
“Well, they’re a crop that produces time after time, Your Majesty. Plus, the tomatoes we have are mostly getting old or in preservation spells. What with ketchup being so well-sold in Liscor, it’s not the worst to sell fresh while we’re cornering the market. Of course, if you wish to do another field—”
The [Emperor] was smart enough not to take the suggestion. Ram would defer to almost anything he said, even if what Laken said was stupid.
“No, no. You are the expert on plants. Just a thought. Very well. Field is clear…we’ve got some bugs in the…sixth field up, three to the right.”
He pointed across the grid of fields laid out so [Farmers] could take turns using their Skills and working each plot and also so Laken could identify them. Ram swore.
“Milk a thistle. It’s those weevils again. I’ll get on it, Your Majesty!”
He strode off, and Laken concentrated. He focused on the field Ram had indicated and sensed tilled earth and freshly planted tomato seeds, tiny in the ground. He didn’t know if the soil was watered, and it didn’t really matter. If the fertilizer was in there…Laken spoke.
“[Empire: Field of Harvests]!”
There was a gasp from one or two people around him and a cry of delight from Pebblesnatch. Laken sensed the Cave Goblin scampering forwards and heard her voice.
“Tomat! Tomats!”
“Hey, that’s for us! Scat, you!”
