She tossed the piece of paper at him in exasperation, and Laken calmly smoothed it out and held out a hand.
“Quill, please, Malluni? Thank you. I think what you’re describing is like this.”
He wrote, trying to keep the character legible, and held it up. Alevica blinked.
“What is that? A weird b? What is it supposed to mean?”
“It’s ‘ß’. Eszett. I think we’re working with ligatures. That’s how you express what you’re struggling with.”
Laken smiled smugly. It was a staple of the German language…something that Alevica had never encountered before. But Alevica made a sound of interest, and Laken gestured her over.
“Let’s go back over the characters again. Maybe it’s not forty-one characters. If we have ligatures…let’s keep breaking it down.”
 
——
 
It was six in the morning when Alevica, Laken, Malluni, and Cirsa squinted at each other and realized it was daylight streaming through the window. That put paid to their research in the night.
Mostly because it was now day.
Gamel, full of chagrin, helped carry the two girls upstairs to Alevica’s bed to sleep and then Alevica decided to pass out on the floor. Laken stumbled back to his house and told Gamel to hold all his meetings until at least ten o’clock.
They had gotten solid work done. Laken realized what they needed was to have every single [Witch] repeat their own recollections of the Hags’ words and try to match them up with spells in the book for analysis.
They’d already managed to write down the alphabet and match it up to the words Alevica knew. That was a huge part of the puzzle; the auditory component would have been impossible without that clue.
Laken wondered as he lay in bed, exhausted but unable to sleep, how they’d uncover the letters not used by the Hag Queens. Perhaps they were impossible to think of, but there were some words that he bet you could put together with the seventeen characters Alevica had already charted out more or less.
She’d gone to the start of the spellbook, where the incantations got a lot simpler, and sounded out a few of the words for Laken. He was fitting the pronunciations together with his own vague memory of the Hag Queens, massaging them with his own knowledge of German and French for how they must have to sound…
Gamel heard a shout of panic and pain from inside Laken’s bedroom and rushed in, sword drawn.
“Your Majesty!?”
He looked around for a threat, but all he saw was Laken sitting in bed, holding his head in his hands. The [Emperor] waved Gamel away.
“It’s nothing—no, wait. Get Alevica to join me for breakfast. Whenever we wake.”
He made the [Knight] go away and then sat there. Smiling. Wincing—Laken muttered to himself as he felt at his forehead.
“Okay, that’s useful. Turns out even pronouncing the words right in your head hurts.”
Linguistics. He grinned until he passed out.
 
——
 
Early the next morning, as Laken and Alevica were finishing up their linguistics discussion, someone else with a special relationship with the [Emperor] of Riverfarm was also thinking about him.
Or maybe, more accurately, being introspective in general. She was uncertain. She often was—but in this case, the uncertainty was doubt.
Durene Faerise didn’t do much doubting in general. Doubts got you tangled up, and then you were harvesting turnips when they were half-ripe and having to replant them. Doubt was…well, the kind of thing she assumed people who knew better dealt with. Only, the people who knew better knew better than she did, which implied they had little doubt to have.
So doubts were the kind of thing you didn’t need in your life as long as you had someone helping you do things right. If she had articulated that viewpoint before, she would have admitted it sounded rather silly, but Durene had always been told she wasn’t that smart.
Even so, she had doubts, and they wouldn’t go away. So as dawn broke over her back, the woman who looked rather like a boulder herself shifted her position on the slate-grey mountain. Grey rock, grey, cracked skin—grey greatsword.
Impassive rock, weathered skin, and bright steel. Not all greys were the same. To Durene, she felt like each shade was as vibrant and distinct as could be, but everyone said that she looked like part of a boulder if she held still and was wearing the right clothing.
Just like how they said ‘black’ was one color. Mister Prost had once lost a cast-iron pan in his old barn and searched for it for two weeks. Durene had walked inside, seen it, filled with brackish water, in the shadow of the door, and handed it to him.
So, to Durene, the campsite was bright already, despite the few rays of dawn’s light, and she saw her companions shifting blearily and sipping at the pot of tea that Jewel had made. But she also stared into the open cliff face and the chasm beyond and quite clearly saw a pile of rocks littering a narrowing tunnel filled with some kind of unnatural stone.
She kept chewing on her breakfast of cheap bread, cold sausage, and Yellats. It wasn’t good—even Antherr was nibbling on the food with less vigor than normal—but packing enough meals for this adventure meant they needed travel food. Durene longed to be at The Wandering Inn, eating some of that spicy pottage…or at Riverfarm with fresh vegetables ready to go into something hot.
However, the Order of Solstice needed her, and in this one thing, Durene felt confident. She held her tongue on her personal quandaries as Normen took a sip of tea. He was fine because he had [Greater Fire Resistance]. Jewel took a sip and instantly burned her tongue.
“Any movement, Durene?”
“Nope, Grandmaster Normen. The tunnel’s quiet. Still looks artificial.”
Normen glanced up from his tea, and Jewel handed a cup of tea with a wooden straw to Antherr and tilted her head curiously. Ama and Vess both squinted into the cave, but the Drake shook his head after a second.
“Are you sure, Durene?”
“I am!”
She tried not to sound nervous. Durene waved a hand at the rocks.
“They’re all…fake looking. No one has rock like that anywhere I’ve seen. You know?”
The others squinted at the cave’s entrance. The cave over what had been Rheirgest’s village had been unearthed by the Giant of Bone’s passing. It was circular, narrowing after the devastation the giant had caused ended. And the rock was striated in this curious, semi-circular wavy pattern, as if something had bored through it long ago.
“…It looks like any cave to me. But I don’t know caves. Antherr, Jewel? What do you think? And don’t call me Grandmaster, Durene.”
Normen was a city fellow. The adventurer of them, Jewel, and the Antinium, Antherr, both got up and paced a few steps ahead, having to climb over the shifting stones.
“It seems very much like stones to me. I do not know. I am not a Worker; this tunnel feels mostly sound.”
“Something might’ve bored the tunnel long ago. Looks like an old monster to me, or water erosion in a weird way. Maybe from an underground spring bursting?”
Jewel was also nonplussed. But Durene insisted.
“It’s fake stone. It looks like…like concrete.”
That was it. There was a lighter color to it in her mind. She tried to describe it.
“Regular rock’s got all kinds of variations to it. You know, cracks, fault lines, and everything? Sure, this stuff looks like it’s natural, but see how it doesn’t have any of that?”
Ama produced a wand and shone it at one of the walls as the Order of Solstice took a closer look.
“Now you mention it…huh. It doesn’t have that rounding you get in natural stone. So this is a dungeon?”
Vess looked nervous.
“Or a cleverly concealed hideout. Either way, it means we might run into traps.”
“Or monsters who decided to live in an abandoned place. That’s right. Listen, if it gets too hot, we back out. We can still turn back. We’ve only wasted, what, four days on getting here and some supplies?”
Jewel looked at Normen for clarity. He scratched at his chin. Not at stubble like Laken had to deal with. The burns from the Bloodfeast Raiders may have kept him from growing more facial hair. He barely had any on his scalp. It still made Durene’s blood boil to focus on his injuries, but the [Grandmaster] of the Order of Solstice seemed to not mind them these days. His missing eye…well, his good eye was steady as it flicked to the other [Knights].
“We haven’t seen any trouble yet. We’re six [Knights]—as prepared as any Silver-rank team.”
“Probably Gold. And you forgot Sillias and your undead, Rojer, Normen.”
Ama added indignantly. By ‘Rojer’, she meant the Rheirgest Skeleton Retainer that he could summon with his Skill. Ama had insisted on giving the skeleton a name since it was always apparently the same one.
The [Knight-Artisan] patted her cat affectionately, and Normen sighed.
“…And Rojer. If you spot anything else, tell us, Durene. Do you think the walls are fake?”
Every head turned to her, and the half-Troll girl froze. She was tallest of the lot, even compared to Antherr and Normen, well above Vess, and she knew she was big and scary looking. She was strongest as well, even if the others might be more dangerous.
“I…no? I think it’s just concrete. If there were seams or something, it wouldn’t look poured into place. I could be wrong. I’m probably wrong.”
“You have the best eyes in the dark, and you made sense with the fractures thing. I think you’re right.”
Ama smiled at Durene, and the [Paladin of Fire’s Oath] hesitated. She wasn’t used to being right. Jewel, on the other hand, was nodding.
“I like Durene having good eyes in the dark. Trolls are supposed to be good in caves. Maybe it’s part of your heritage?”
Once more, Durene felt a spike of apprehension in her chest. But instead of a hostile comment, Jewel just glanced sideways at her, and Durene shrugged helplessly.
“I don’t know. I’ve never met other Trolls. Have you…fought any?”
“Me? No. I, uh, know teams that have. They’re in the Adventurer’s Guild’s bestiary. Not that—I’m just saying you’re a good scout.”
Jewel had the amazing tendency to put her foot in her mouth. It was her turn to flush, but Normen simply nodded.
“Then what if Durene and Antherr take the lead? Or we could send Rojer first.”
Jewel instantly shook her head.
“Bad idea. I knew some teams who liked to do that. Send a summon in and see what happens. Rojer might wake up all the monsters or set off a trap that hits us. Only send him in when we want to know if something’s dangerous.”
“Got it. Then…Durene and Antherr in front. Vess and Ama in the middle. Jewel and I will take up the rear. If you spot anything, stop and call out so Jewel can evaluate it.”
The six [Knights] nodded and, after chewing down their breakfast, got up. Durene was wide awake, having taken the final night shift on lookout. Here they were about to enter the caves in the mountain over Rheirgest.
On an adventure.
Durene, Ama, Normen, Jewel, Vess, and Antherr. [Knights] of the Order of Solstice. Not the first group you’d think would be doing classic adventurer work. In truth, Durene was excited by the chance to go on an adventure like her stories. And nervous.
The Order of Solstice wasn’t cut out for adventuring work by and large. They didn’t have a registration in the Adventurer’s Guild, and only Jewel was a former Gold-rank adventurer. However—on the other hand—they had armor.
Nice armor. Normen had his Demas Metal plate, and even the poorest-equipped members like Ama had a chainmail shirt she kept complaining was ‘too heavy’. Durene had steel armor on, courtesy of Laken and Master Helm, and a greatsword enchanted to be sturdy.
They were at least as good as a high-level Silver-rank team, and point two…they could really use some treasure.
As they made their way over the initial rockfall and towards the suspicious concrete opening of the cave, Vess whispered.
“Let’s say we run into something we don’t think we can handle. What’s the best plan? Sell the information to an adventurer?”
Jewel whispered back.
“If we have to. But most won’t buy it for much…and it’s not like this place is secret, Vess. Also, keep your voice down.”
“Oh. Right. Monsters.”
The [Spell Knight of Mercy] gulped and made a zipping motion with his claws. He was the youngest of the group, Durene being a year older than him, and almost as uncertain as her. He was a young prodigy with wands, though, and having him and Ama, their [Necromancer], behind Durene made the [Paladin] feel a lot more safe.
The tunnel shrank from the cavernous opening until it was about ten feet high and wide enough for two to go abreast comfortably, but Durene realized she wouldn’t be able to swing her greatsword around with impunity here.
Antherr clearly had the same thought, because he held up his hand and then made an intricate symbol with the other three.
“Uh. What, Antherr?”
The Antinium kept making hand-signs, then realized they didn’t understand, so he spoke in a whisper.
“I thought we were to keep quiet. I believe I should move back and switch with someone else. Durene and I both carry greatswords. We will be unable to fight side-by-side.”
“Oh, good idea. I’m glad you said it.”
Durene exhaled. She’d had the same thought but hadn’t been sure if it was a good one. Doubts, again.
Normen acted like the leader he was, telling Jewel to move up with Durene and moving Antherr back with him. Durene kept moving, thinking about the nature of doubts.
It wasn’t that she liked following orders all the time. But being helpful made people happy with her, and until recently, if they got unhappy, Durene’s life got a lot worse. Was she more qualified to tell people what to do than Normen or Laken?
No, definitely not. Durene stared down the tunnel as it sloped upwards strangely, then split to the right and left. The right side narrowed down until a lip of stone would force even Vess to crouch; Durene would have to crawl under it. The left side just continued onwards, though the floor looked unnaturally smooth, albeit lined with debris.
“Hm. Classic tunnel choice. Going right looks bad. I say we wall it off with Ama’s spell. That way, nothing sneaks up on us. If we have to go right, we do, but getting out in a hurry is risky.”
Jewel made a concise decision, and Ama strode over to cast [Bone Wall], which sealed off the right passage with a line of bones, criss-crossing each other like a ghastly fence. Jewel nodded confidently and took a few steps forwards.
“Ground looks too smooth to be natural stone. Durene’s probably ulp—”
That was the sound of Durene grabbing Jewel and dragging her back. Everyone stopped as Jewel whirled.
“What?”
Durene’s voice was urgent and low.
“Are you sure stepping on the trap is wise?”
“…What trap?”
