She gave such a castigating look to the girl that Durene wilted. Which made Chaoisa’s face go slack with guilt. Ama made a fist-punching gesture with one hand. Chaoisa turned a glare of relief on the [Necromancer], raised a fist, and Ama decided to let bygones be bygones.
“I always do what I’m told. Almost always. Don’t you?”
Durene gave the others a look of earnest confusion. She turned to the former [Soldier] who’d quit his city, the Individual Antinium, a Gold-rank adventurer, a [Necromancer], and a criminal with a hat for confirmation that this was the good and proper way of things.
Durene didn’t like their stares.
 
——
 
It was a multi-day journey back to Celum. The Order of Solstice liked each other’s company, but it was a strained trip this time. Well, mostly because of Durene.
She kicked around the campsite at night and forgot to help build the fire or set up tents by the wagon. She was so upset that when Vess limped over, Durene was kicking rocks and trying to hit a tree in the distance.
“Hey, Durene. You okay?”
“What’s wrong with your leg, Vess?”
The Drake glanced at it.
“Oh, that? I think I twisted my ankle when I was running from the stupid bats. It’s fine. I don’t want to waste a healing potion on it.”
It felt like the days when you could pop a potion and not worry about a scrape were long gone. Durene nodded, and Vess sat down and watched her kick another stone.
“So…you seem upset.”
She kicked a rock so hard it gouged a hole out of the tree. Vess winced, but Durene spoke before he could leave.
“I’ve always done what the others told me to do. Always. When I was young, Prost told me how to sow a field. When they needed help getting a wagon unstuck or pulling up a stump, they called for me.”
“And you did it? I guess you were a good girl growing up. I just ran around with a fake wand and got into trouble with the Watch.”
Vess looked embarrassed, and Durene stopped kicking at a new rock.
“Was I a good girl?”
“I mean, you sound like it. My parents would have loved you.”
The boot swung. The rock spun into the air with a shower of dirt, and Vess shielded his face. Durene stared ahead, fists clenched, and knew exactly how it felt to have a rock strike you on the head. Or even in the eye.
“If I was a good girl, why did they make me live alone, even when I was small? Or let the other kids throw rocks at me? Yesel’s always told me what to do. I always listen. She’s never said I’ve been a good girl. ‘Good for Laken’ is what she said. I’m ‘good for him after all’. Even though she tried to get him to dump me when he was first in Riverfarm.”
“She said that? That’s crazy.”
Vess was perhaps the master of understated emotion. He was no wordsmith; but when Durene glanced down, he seemed genuinely astonished and sympathetic. Since that was more than she had ever gotten more than a handful of times in her life, the words poured out of her.
“They’ve always done that. Laken was the first person who was nice to me. And that was because he was blind.”
“No one likes you? Why? You’re nice. You brought a pie for our trip, and you saved me from getting bat bites.”
Vess was astonished. Durene’s voice rose as Chaoisa drank noisily at the fire and Ama, Antherr, Jewel, and Normen played cards.
“Because I’m half-Troll, Vess! I look like this. I’m stupid and dangerous—and ugly. And they didn’t like me together with Laken until he got mad at them. Now they’re trying to push me and him into every bed we find.”
Quite literally. Master Ram would bustle over and say that if Laken wanted to miss the morning field-growing, hint hint, nudge nudge, they’d quite understand. It was like a kind of game that Durene felt all of Riverfarm was playing.
And Durene didn’t like it. In fact, she hated it. If she was honest, it was one of the reasons she and Laken hadn’t been intimate recently and why she’d snuck away at every opportunity.
“Does he know about that?”
Vess asked after a while, and Durene hung her head.
“No. I’m too afraid to tell him.”
“Because…”
“Because if he gets mad at them, they’ll get mad at me, Vess. And they might be right. Look at me now. I’m a [Paladin]. Laken’s an [Emperor]. I have a good life, and I’m part of an empire. Listening to Laken worked out. Listening to Prost and the others was how no one killed me for being a half-Troll.”
If she quashed the doubts and her ego…and managed to understand that everyone was telling her things that were for her own good, she might feel better. For a moment, Durene really believed it and felt wretched. Until Vess snorted.
It was just a single snort of air, and it came with a booger, which made him scramble for a handkerchief. But the Drake made Durene laugh. Red-faced, he blew his nose.
“I…think that’s a bunch of Yoldenite crap, Durene. Your village sounds awful. Almost as bad as the High Command in the alliance. You’re ugly because you’re a half-Troll?”
“Yeah. Don’t you think so?”
Vess stared at Durene. Then he leaned over and stared at Chaoisa, Jewel, Ama, and Normen. He lowered his voice.
“Actually…Humans all looked really ugly to me when I first came to Liscor. I’m used to it now. But dead gods, they look like Drakes if you peeled their scales off.”
He shuddered, then gave Durene’s cracked skin a closer look. The flesh covering her arms was like dry ground under baking sun. However, unlike a Human, the cracks on her skin weren’t signs of her skin breaking up; there was another, darker layer underneath. Durene had never been proud of it, but the Drake nodded.
“Your skin’s cooler. It’s like different scales.”
The sudden compliment made Durene blush.
“But what about being so huge or…?”
“Nah, that’s cool too. Tall people are just really tall. It’s not like you have five noses or something, is it? Did they really order you around all your life? What happened when you said no?”
Durene sat down.
“Well, the kids would throw more stones at me, so I guess that was it. Mostly, they wouldn’t feed me. But it’s not like I starved or anything. I just…ate a lot, so sometimes times were hard. When I got to be…eleven, I learned how to farm things, and then I was mostly okay. They used to say the Watch would haul me off or the Five Families would send adventurers after me when I got angry. One time I was so furious about some of the kids stealing my garden plants I punched a fist through the barn wall, and they said they’d send for a [Guardsman] the next day. They never did, but…”
Durene was recounting what were, to her, vivid memories that sometimes played themselves, even when the same people were all smiles, offering her fresh food or complimenting her on something she’d done. She was lost in the retelling until a bright glow, harsh and simultaneously filled with softness, illuminated the air around her.
Vess was staring at his clawed hands, and flames, grey and jagged, were dancing from his palms, like the High Passes in the distance. Each flame pierced the night with a light that was beyond dazzling, yet within the harsh outer shell was a soft, mournful glow. It was like the light of candles Durene used to stare at at night when it was dark and she was alone and afraid.
The flame of mercy burned brighter as Vess turned his eyes to Durene. Both filled with regret for her and a cold judgement in his eyes.
“You should have pushed down that man’s house. Why do you keep going back to them?”
Durene stared at the glow and smiled ruefully at his fury. Normen half got up, glancing at them, and Durene waved a hand, and he sat. She answered Vess in a faraway voice, forcing the bad memories back. Not forgotten, but…
“Prost is dead, Vess. He pushed Laken out of the way of a spell meant for him.”
“Yeah, but—”
Durene talked over Vess.
“I was there when he pulled his girl out of the snow and she wasn’t breathing. I think he was hurt enough by that. I think, whenever I’m angry at him—maybe I wanted to push him back or hit him. But did he deserve that? Did any of them, at their worst?”
She stared at her hands and wished she’d been faster or she and Laken had known what the faeries were warning them about. Durene’s eyes stung.
“Prost was the man who shouted at me when he thought I was naughty or he saw me trying to make the other children stop bullying me. He was also the man who checked on me when I was so sick with a fever I couldn’t even get water, and if he hadn’t come by, I would have died. Yesel raised me when my mother died. They’re my people.”
The Drake sat there, looking up at her, and the fires of mercy didn’t dim, but the harshness became less piercing.
“I left my people behind. Because I fought and watched my friends die and killed people all for a lie. I think you’re allowed to do that.”
Durene wiped her eyes and smiled, then nodded.
“But I like Laken a lot. It’s just not easy to…well. He’s important. He’s an [Emperor].”
The Drake nodded along to all that and added softly.
“And you’re a Knight of Solstice. Durene Faerise, the [Paladin of Fire’s Oath].”
She ducked her head, smiling under the moonlight.
“He made me a [Paladin], Vess.”
“Sure he did. And he also punched out that Draugr with your fists and took out all those Snow Golems. In fact, Laken Godart pulled me away from that bat, and I’m only sad he didn’t heal my leg too.”
The Drake’s sarcastic tone rose into the night, and Durene did laugh then, in relief. And because she had another friend. For his furious defense of her—she loved him for that, let alone the rest.
Then she felt guilty about it.
 
——
 
The intruders were long gone from the old mines when a pair of scouts inspected the place. The guardians were still upset, and their bodies swung their huge fists warningly, but the scouts did not approach, and the guardians recognized them after a while.
They knew things, even if they were simple. That they were attacking even the scouts was odd—they must have been fighting fiercely, though they didn’t seem to have taken much damage. The scouts left them an offering, which placated the guardians, and then were allowed to access the new opening to the caves and mines.
The scouts inspected the opening to the mines and realized the earthquake must have let in intruders when they saw the opening caused by falling stones. Everything else was as it should be, but the wide opening to the outside world…both groaned when they saw that. They knew what it meant.
People. The Blessed People. No telling which ones. The scouts found the remains of a campfire and worriedly stood there. The mines were agitated too; the scouts had had to kill a few of the giant bats. At least that was food.
The Heartbeat of the Mountain must know about this. It was yet another way into home, another danger. The guardians were fierce, but slow; if they were destroyed, more of the Blessed People might come into home.
—And there was already trouble along the other entrances. Above and below. The People of Kings were one thing; they kept to themselves. But they attracted war.
The Stone Folk had gone marching to war, and one of the Great Devourers had died; the slumbering Tyrant of Flames kept flying about, and a smaller Tyrant of Lightning had torn up the mountainside for months.
None of this was, of course, strictly dangerous to the scouts. All of these threats had stayed away from their home of homes; only once had danger come from above, and it had been swiftly suppressed. The gift of song had been fair.
The Folk of Deep and Song just wanted to be left alone. They had no concept of why so many places were heaving. But the First Doors had thousands of the People of their Ancestors fighting around the concealed entrance; they might well enter, and then it would be war.
The scouts murmured in dismay to each other at the thought of a new place to watch in this mine. They shook their heads as they checked to see if the intruders had gotten any further in. Why now? What did this portend?
No answers. One stopped and sniffed the air before retreating into the blessed quiet and darkness. Strange smells.
It was of fire, of bone, magic—these things were simple. The scents of the Blessed Folks were always confusing and complex. But one smell was a bit…odd. Nostalgic?
The two Trolls looked at each other, then swiftly retreated into the mines, into the deeps where only the great drums sounded. Kinfolk on the surface? A strange thought indeed. Stranger things had happened. They slipped past the angry Earth Elementals and headed deeper, deeper.
Back to their home.
 
——
 
The next day, Lyonette called during a spring storm. Rain came down, absolutely spitting out of the skies with such profusion that Chaoisa’s wagon got bogged down on the roads, despite her wheels meant to cope with just this issue.
“This damn road’s more mud’n solid ground! Yer going to have to get out and push! Thudder, Widehorn, stop complaining! We’re nowhere close to a waystation, so shut yer yaps!”
Her bulls were throwing a fuss, but one shout at them and they kept straining against the wagon. The Order of Solstice was on the ground, pushing against the wagon. Durene put her back into it, and the wagon popped out of the ground.
“Yes! Nonon—”
Splut. That was the sound of Vess and Ama going over in the muck as the wagon shifted. Durene pulled Vess up, Sillias dragged Ama out of the mud, and Chaoisa shouted.
“You have to walk!”
The wagon was threatening to sink even as she tried to keep it from getting halted again. Normen waved a hand, and they began to trek. That was when Lyonette showed up.
“Normen! How was your dungeon dive? Oh my, it’s really raining here.”
She looked around, slightly in awe, and Normen shouted back.
“Miss Lyonette! No luck! We ran into some monsters—we have information.”
“What? Are you hurt?”
“No!”
The shouting over the din of the rain went on for a few minutes before Lyonette screamed back.
“I. Will. Expect. You. Tomorrow!”
Then she vanished. Durene sighed longingly, already imagining a towel, fireplace…going back to Riverfarm and getting pestered to pay more attention to Laken…
She shuddered, and Jewel noticed.
“Durene, are you okay? Hey, Vess, keep up! We don’t want you drowning in a puddle!”
“Coming!”
He limped after them, and Durene remembered his leg was hurting. Normen had seen it too.
“Should we give you some potion, Vess? You don’t want to walk all day in this, even to the waystation.”
“I’m…fine. Just give me—whoa, Durene!”
That was because she bent down, picked up Vess as if he weighed nothing at all, and put him on her shoulders. The Drake found himself riding piggyback, and he protested, but Durene called out.
“I can carry you! You don’t weigh anything at all!”
“But…are you sure?”
