Alevica had taken her mentor’s lessons to heart in part; she had never gone for the traditional [Witch] route but realized her ability to travel could make her a killing as a City Runner. Hence, she’d grown rich enough to afford all kinds of custom-made equipment. Her mentor had never told Alevica she was doing the wrong thing. Other [Witches] had, but Oliyaya had just congratulated Alevica on her work. But Oliyaya had sat there, taking apprentices, doing her craft, never wanting more gold than what she pulled in on her sales of charms and hexes.
A Great Witch should be as rich as her name. As famous as her skill. Instead, she’d been just ‘a [Witch]’ who’d come to Riverfarm after the bargain was struck, amused herself with the [Emperor]’s domain, and then gone to war for a new [Witch]—and died.
Killing a Hag Queen of an entity that Alevica didn’t know.
Hag Queen of Aklat Vunn.
Who were they? What were they? What was Aklat Vunn? Who was Kasigna?
Alevica had no answers. Only a dead mentor.
Erin Solstice had called for help. [Witches] had answered her. The [Innkeeper] owed her fellow [Witches] a debt.
Someday, Alevica would collect on it.
 
——
 
Two months had passed since Oliyaya’s death. No one but other [Witches] really invoked her name. She was one of Riverfarm’s casualties, and they had been ‘low’.
Prost was another. Halrac, the third, if you were counting those with important classes or high levels. Only the people who mattered to them still thought of them regularly or had to reckon with their passing.
Alevica finished her delivery late, but her client was understanding. Lady Ieka Imarris gushed over the custom-designed fabrics she had ordered from First Landing and assured Alevica they would be put to good use by the best fashion experts here…for her secretary.
Alevica gave the embarrassed Fierre a stare and decided she didn’t really care. When she got to The Wandering Inn, the annoying Doorgnoll charged her for entry to Riverfarm, despite Alevica protesting she was a ‘friend of the inn’.
“I don’t know you. And you can’t say ‘friend of the inn’ with a straight face. Pay up.”
The [Witch] slapped some coins down and strode through the doorway, glaring at Liska, who stuck her tongue out in reply. And that was that. She walked into Riverfarm, whose denizens didn’t interact with The Wandering Inn as much as Liscorians. There, Alevica let out a huge, exasperated breath—
And sighed louder as Emperor Laken Godart along with Witch Eloise, Hedag, Agratha, and Lady Rie all found her not a hundred steps into the bustling town.
“Alevica! There you are, my dear. Emperor Laken told us you’d arrived. Your poor broom! A mending ritual will sort it out, I’m sure. How are you feeling? How, ah, is your hat?”
Witch Agratha was a kindly, fussy woman who belonged in front of a class of students. That was how she presented herself, and that was how most, including other [Witches], saw her.
Oliyaya had never been able to stand her. Alevica couldn’t tolerate Agratha either. Behind those round spectacles and that smile that was best seen when Agratha offered you a pie she’d baked along with some homespun wisdom was a [Witch].
She could be the [Witch] of simple charms—or be the one who held a cudgel in one hand when sweet words weren’t enough.
Normally, Alevica got along with Agratha by not having to interact with her, but the other [Witch] seemed to think she owed it to Oliyaya to ensure Alevica was doing alright.
“My hat is out of craft. Which you all know. Thank you, Witches. Thank you, Your Majesty. If you’d like to rub it in my face, I’ll go find a pig trough so we can get it over with.”
Eloise frowned mildly at Alevica, but Hedag just laughed.
“Would it help, Alevica, girl, or do you already understand what needs to be done?”
Hedag. Now—Alevica shot Hedag a careful glance. She had hands like a butcher and an axe to match. You didn’t want to get Hedag mad, but Alevica liked Hedag more than the other two.
“I know there’s a problem. My broom went out. I’ll find another craft or get my head in order. Okay? Solved.”
“Just so long as you’re fine, my dear. Taking a tumble out of the skies is a quick way for a [Witch] to meet her end.”
Agratha gave Alevica a direct look, and the Witch Runner ground her teeth. It was Laken who spoke in that reasonable voice as his head swung her way. His eyes were closed, and she never quite knew what he was thinking.
“I don’t intrude in [Witch] affairs, Alevica. The others simply told me what was going on when you asked for a ride. I trust Lord Pattin was a help?”
“Oh yes, he asked to be remembered to you, Your Majesty. And Vaunt’s filled with aspiring Gershals, ready to die in the name of cheese. And Wistram is stealing both runner and driver jobs. I leave it to you to deal with.”
Alevica sketched a sarcastic bow and saw Lady Rie frown. Another mystery; she had been an ordinary lady when Alevica had first known her. Now she had a strange poise, an alluring presence, as if she had twenty levels on the former Lady Rie. She seemed impressive, but Alevica wasn’t convinced it was due to levels. Nor…could Alevica easily read Rie’s emotions.
The [Emperor] had a court fit to his class, even if Prost was gone. Durene wasn’t here, and if you added in Gamel, the [Knight], and Wiskeria, child of Belavierr, greatest prodigy of witches to ever grace this world despite doing nothing much—you had the full set.
Alevica wasn’t one of them. Oh, she had been present in the initial coven, but as Oliyaya’s reluctant representative. She didn’t want to be some advisor to power. She had flown off, gone back to enjoying life—and until two months ago, things had been fine.
Today? Alevica paused as Laken leaned on his staff.
“You mean the magical carriages. I understand what’s going on. Wistram has decided to automate jobs. They’re advertising new magic, new services—teleportation, even.”
“Am I going to look forwards to having Nesor do my job in Riverfarm?”
“No. I don’t feel the need to replace Runners. For transport, certainly, but I’d prefer to have my own magical carriages, not ones owned by Wistram. There’s a benefit to the goodwill of the Runner’s Guild and Driver’s Guild, as I’m sure you’d tell me, Alevica. Please tell them that.”
Laken smiled, and Alevica drew up short. Awkwardly, she cleared her throat.
“I will, then. Unless you want to send Charlay or someone?”
“I may. I trust you’ll spread the word. If you need anything from me, Alevica, I’ll hear you out at any moment.”
He left it at that, whereas Agratha and Eloise tried to get Alevica alone to have a nice talk with other [Witches] about Alevica’s problems. But Laken’s words haunted Alevica more than the [Witches]. Alevica had grown up around [Witches].
Laken…had a kind of power they did not. And that made Alevica think.
The [Emperor] knew what she was doing. Or so she assumed. He had ‘eyes’ everywhere in Riverfarm; he was transparent about his abilities. But did he have ears? He was from another world, and he understood things in ways that made him more interesting, especially to [Witches].
Such as his understanding that the magical carriages would be revolutionary, but the Driver’s Guild and Runner’s Guild would always be needed. If Riverfarm was one of the few groups smart enough to keep them on its side…
It’s the right call to make. I’d have told him that, but he didn’t need my advice. Hence, I don’t need to be an advisor. Alevica could have lived perfectly happily with preferential treatment at Riverfarm’s Runner’s Guild.
Charlay certainly liked her status as a local hero; Laken had set up a Runner’s Guild as Riverfarm began to gain multiple villages and its town widened to the point where one was required. Alevica could pop in and pretty much get any delivery she wanted to take.
A life of living on the laurels of helping an [Emperor] once—and not even that much. That was the Alevica dream. She could get cheap food here, had a house she could live in, rent-free, associate with a community of [Witches], and enjoy her riches as a renowned City Runner until she decided she wanted to settle down in some other fashion.
That was her life two months ago.
 
——
 
“I’m back. Cirsa, did you clean the dishes or is there a mess? Malluni, where are you?”
The door to Oliyaya’s cottage stuck, despite it being newly built, and Alevica had to put her shoulder into it until she could squeeze into the building. That was because, somehow, there were piles of objects behind the door. All of Oliyaya’s possessions; old urns filled with who knew what, old spellbooks sharing space with spider nests inside of boots.
When Alevica entered the cottage, it was dark. Empty. She’d gotten back in the afternoon; the cottage seemed deserted. Alevica had a bunch of fresh vegetables, a cut of Corusdeer venison wrapped up, and flour, bread, salt, everything she’d been able to get from Riverfarm’s markets.
Prices were the best in Riverfarm for everything but salt, which was still cheaper in Invrisil. But the winter had sent prices skyrocketing everywhere. More than one person who’d entered Riverfarm had been a Drake, Gnoll, or even a Dullahan or Garuda from Pallass seeking lower prices despite the cost of using the door.
“Cirsa? Malluni?”
Alevica dumped the food on a table after sweeping it clear of spiderwebs and a scattering of dirty utensils. She tossed the silverware in a bucket by the sink and wondered when Laken was going to get plumbing for Riverfarm.
He insisted it was one of the things you ‘had to have’, so he’d laid out the houses with areas meant for working water. At the moment, you just used well or river water, which was plentiful. Alevica noted that there weren’t that many dishes in the sink and nodded approvingly.
“Come on, you two. Where—”
She was turning around, past piles of uneven detritus that cast looming shadows, squinting up towards the stairwell leading to the second floor. The light coming from the door and through the shutters flickered a second, and then someone shut the door.
Darkness.
Alevica sighed and raised her wand. She lit it up and looked around.
A second ago, there had been only piles of Oliyaya’s witchy trash. But the moment Alevica’s wand lit up, she saw a girl dressed all in black sitting on top of a pile of ancient cauldrons. She was grinning with all her teeth, and the little [Witch] had a pattern of burn scars all over her face.
“Aiiiiiiiiiiiieeeeeeee!”
Cirsa’s shriek came from her open mouth, like a pit of blackness, and her eyes bulged wildly. More than one visitor to Oliyaya’s hut had experienced heart problems when Cirsa had done that before.
Alevica just took her fingers out of her ears and picked up the wand she’d dropped.
“I’m back. Where’s Malluni?”
For answer, Cirsa pointed up with a huge grin on her face. Instead of looking towards the stairs, Alevica looked straight up—and saw the second of Oliyaya’s apprentices climbing overhead on all fours, staring down at her.
Malluni had black hair; Cirsa had blonde. But Malluni had long hair that ran down to her waist that she liked to cover her face with. Right now, she resembled a spider-[Witch] who dropped from the ceiling.
Alevica caught Malluni in her arms.
“You mastered the [Spider’s Grip] spell. Good. Have you two eaten yet?”
Shake, shake. Malluni was mute. Possibly not from birth; she had scars that Alevica could feel when she rubbed her head, under her hair. Elsewhere, too; Alevica didn’t dwell on the scars. Oliyaya had paid them back tenfold the day she’d claimed Malluni as her apprentice.
Alevica beckoned.
“Then one of you make sure the oven’s clear and start a fire. I’ll make something.”
She fished out her spellbook and rifled through it as Cirsa poked around the groceries while Malluni started the fire. Cirsa feared flames, quite naturally. Alevica opened her book to the last page and found a recipe for braising venison. She stared at the ingredients, then handed the book to Cirsa.
“Make the braising and I’ll prepare the meat.”
Obediently, the apprentice began pulling drawers open and revealing spices, which she combined in a bowl without looking at the quantities. Alevica only checked her once.
“That’s a tablespoon and a half.”
The little [Witch] caught herself and adjusted the amount. You had to be able to measure a tablespoon of whatever you wanted by eye; Oliyaya didn’t believe in hard and fast measurements when doing witchcraft. Most of the old recipes and rituals didn’t say ‘520 milligrams of Ember Salamander scale sheddings, 3 months growth’. They said ‘a handful of the green stuff and don’t inhale’.
Witchcraft overlapped with alchemy quite a lot, so this was good training. Not only did the two apprentices learn how to make sure the venison was cooked and seasoned as if this were a brew, they learned how to cook food, another very useful talent for [Witches].
Neither one really spoke much. Cirsa could—but she was best friends with Malluni, and since the other girl was incapable or refused to, they operated in silence.
Creepy silence. Oliyaya’s two young apprentices were, to put a fine word on it, horrifying. Not just their appearances or Cirsa’s visible scars; they quite enjoyed being the terror of Riverfarm by night.
“A woman should be allowed to be horrific.”
Alevica quoted her mentor’s favorite saying. She spooned marinade over the venison and then chanted a little spell. She had enough magic from the people waiting in line for Liska’s door for that, or so she thought.
“Cooking oven, nice and bright. Give me a feast tonight. Or I’ll stain your iron and give you a fright!”
She waved her wand, tapped the food, and, satisfied the food had a better-than-even chance of coming out tasty, let Malluni put the food in the oven. Then the two girls tried to distract Alevica with a huge and hugely-dead horseshoe crab they’d found somewhere.
The giant, armored arthropod was useful in some alchemy; Alevica took it, inspected it, and put it in one of the piles.
“Yes, yes. Very nice. Get over here, you two. Did you eat properly yesterday? I’ll make you stay with Agratha if you didn’t.”
She produced a comb and, to their visible dismay, began to comb their hair, starting with Malluni. The [Spooky Apprentice] tried to pull away, then bite Alevica.
Unimpressed, Alevica caught the girl by her chin and inspected her teeth.
“Yellow. But they look healthy. You’re brushing, then. And eating uncooked Yellats and using carrot juice. Fine. Cirsa?”
