“Only you can resolve this issue with your partner Laken, Durene. I would advise honesty in this issue; if he is trustworthy, he will understand this pressure upon you and resolve it.”
“That’s…what I have to do. Thank you, Pawn.”
So why did that fill her with a dread beyond just the fact that he might snap at Riverfarm’s folk? Durene sat there, uncertain, until Pawn lifted a finger.
“However, I would like to relate one thing to you before you go.”
He stood up and put his hands behind his back, taking a few deep breaths. When he turned to face them, his voice was heavy.
“This is difficult for me to speak of, but I must relate it for your sake. Have you heard of the tale of…Lionette? Not to be confused with Lyonette. They are very different things.”
They were sitting, incidentally, in the barracks in the Painted Antinium’s headquarters. Antherr clearly knew this story, and a few passing Painted Workers murmured.
“Boo.”
“Hiss.”
“Sounds of disparagement.”
Durene eyed them, then faced Pawn. Really? She and…oh my. Oh wow.
“Um. No. What is the tale of Lyonette?”
Pawn sat down heavily and began to drink his third cup of Rxlvn.
“The tale is simple. And cautionary. Love…is a very good thing. A glorious thing. You can devote your all to it. And then, for reasons that one side thinks are clear, it can dash your heart to pieces. Then have her stomp on said pieces. And kick them into the toilet. Even if you love someone…maybe she, or a hypothetical he, does not. Just know that breaking apart is a terrible thing.”
Antherr nodded, drinking in this sage wisdom as Vess, sobering up a little, jerked away from Durene and patted her arm. She glanced at him, then nodded hesitantly at Pawn.
“That, uh, sounds bad.”
“Remember the pain you inflict on others.”
Pawn gave her a serious look. Then he shook his head.
“It was so—sudden. A brief absence and then a commitment that felt as strong as mithril turned out to be made of sand? Lionette and…uh…Rook broke apart when they had loved each other truly. At least, so I—he—Rook—believed.”
Another nod from Antherr; Vess was licking cautiously at his drink again. Durene stared at the murky liquid in her cup and spoke, hesitant.
“Maybe she stopped liking him and thought it was for the best.”
Pawn’s head jerked up, and Antherr paused mid-nod. Pawn responded a touch stridently.
“How would that happen by mere separation of time? It was a few months.”
“That can be a long time. Maybe he changed, or she changed, and they weren’t…the same people that they had met.”
Pawn’s mandibles opened, and his antennae began to wave slightly.
“But—but they still liked each other. Was that not enough?”
The half-Troll girl stared past Pawn.
“It’s enough to be best friends. Maybe, though…”
“It wasn’t fair.”
The [Priest] leaned over the table, voice low, and Durene looked at him sympathetically.
“I know. It’s not fair. I don’t think it ever is. But would it have been fair to him if she…couldn’t remember why she wanted to do everything for him, even die? If she started liking other people—”
She glanced sideways at Vess, and he paused mid-slurp of his drink. Durene jerked her head away and stared at her hands.
“Even if she tried…does that make her a bad person?”
Pawn stared at Durene, then Vess, then sat back.
“I believe this analogy has lost me. But she…couldn’t she pretend to like him? Just for a bit longer?”
His voice wobbled, and Durene saw the Worker reach for a cup of water another Painted Soldier was using. He poured it over his head, and Durene tried not to laugh. Because she did understand how he felt.
“But if it wasn’t real—isn’t that worse? It wasn’t his fault. It wasn’t hers.”
“Well, what am I supposed to do now? If I can’t even look at her?”
Pawn sat there, dripping with water. Durene gave him a wretched look, and she hesitated. She squeezed her eyes shut.
“Can you still try to be friends?”
She cracked one eye open after a bit. Pawn sat there. Then he looked up.
“…I don’t know why I stopped. Or wanted to stop. At least that.”
He stood up.
“I must go. Thank you, Durene. It is you who have helped me today.”
He shook hands with her, all four of his, then began to run from the Hive, waving all four hands. Durene saw Antinium rushing after him.
“Oh no. He is going back.”
“Stop him. Not to Lyonette the Heartbreaker.”
“Alarm. Alarm? Alarm!”
She had a feeling she had helped instigate something, especially when hundreds of Antinium began racing after Pawn. But Durene just rubbed at one eye.
“I think that…might have cleared something up for me too. Maybe. Thanks for doing that, Antherr.”
“I am amiably uncertain about everything that has transpired, but if I helped, I am glad.”
The Soldier smiled at her, then leaned over confidentially.
“I do not have the sexy-objects of which to make love with. Nor do I think I need them. But I think I understand what it is to love.”
“Oh? Do you love someone?”
Vess had been staring at Durene and jerking his eyes away every time she glanced at him. Relieved, both looked at Antherr, and the Soldier nodded confidently.
“I am in love with Shaman Theikha of the Meeting of Tribes. She helped give me my name. Her heartbeat is a wonderful sound.”
Durene blinked. The…Vess opened his mouth, then began to chuckle.
“I think, uh, Antherr, you should look up platonic love first.”
The Antinium paused. He buried his head in his hands.
“…There are multiple kinds?”
 
——
 
“[Like Fire, Love].”
“No. That is too silly. [Like Fire, Romance].”
“What if it gets nasty? [Like Fire, Infidelity]?”
“Ooh, I like that. Not the idea, but it sounds better.”
“Why? Please explain, Durene.”
“Well…in love, don’t you get burned?”
It made sense to Durene, but Antherr gave her such an amazed look that she felt like she was the expert in love. At least, compared to the Antinium.
They were heading back from the Free Hive, and Durene actually did feel better. She wasn’t looking forwards to some things, but she was ready to return to Riverfarm. She just had to check on the inn—and see if their Vampire guests were alright.
As it so happened, that was harder than it looked like. Mostly because a crowd of Antinium were surrounding the inn as Pawn spoke to a very flustered Lyonette. The Antinium were chanting things like—
“Friendship is better than love!”
“Do not become the friendshipslayer as well as the heartbreaker!”
“Use proper lubricant in all applicable situations!”
…The last type of comment might have explained why Lyonette was as mad at Pawn as gratified by his change of heart. At any rate, Durene found Normen sitting with Jewel. He was frowning a bit, but when she asked about Sevil and Lapsey, he assured her it was settled.
“Miss Lyonette put them on a waiting list for transit through Pallass. There’s a provisional Grade 1 Passport they can apply for; come tomorrow, they’ll be allowed through. General Edellein wasn’t pleased, but Lyonette spoke to a Strategist Esor.”
Durene had no idea who those two were. Jewel frowned and scratched her head.
“They’re all top brass to me. The Edellein fellow—he’s an angry Drake. Wasn’t there another one in charge of Pallass?”
“Duln. He died. Esor used to come to the inn with Chaldion. He wasn’t that notable, but Erin would probably have remembered him. Chaldion snapped at him least of all. So he’s smart and dangerous. He doesn’t seem to be in charge, though.”
Normen’s time in The Wandering Inn had given him a number of insights into the guests. He frowned briefly, perhaps for Pallass’ leadership, but Durene nodded.
“In that case, I’ll go to Riverfarm.”
“With me!”
Vess began, but Durene gave him a smile and pat on the shoulder.
“I’ll go myself, Vess. You can visit tomorrow; maybe we could go with Sevil and Lapsey, Normen? Or are we going back to the cave with pickaxes after all?”
He shook his head, casting an eye around the full inn. Then he beckoned.
“I didn’t mention it, but I think going with them would be best. A short escort—even a day’s walk. Some gold; they can tell us what is happening.”
“Can’t we talk here…?”
One look around the busy inn and Antinium surrounding Lyonette and Durene doubted they’d be overheard. But Normen just tapped the side of his nose.
“There are spies, even with Miss Lyonette’s help. The [Garden of Sanctuary] is…unavailable, and the theatre isn’t as secure. Besides, the two of them want to be out of the north, and they are exhausted. Tomorrow makes sense.”
Plus, wouldn’t it be really hard to spy on the two Vampires if they passed through a Walled City? Durene blinked.
“Oh! Right! Pallass is really secure. Duh.”
She slapped her forehead and nodded.
“Then I’ll get Laken to let me go for a day. I’ll—be ready in the morning?”
Everyone nodded. Normen cleared his throat.
“If you would like Vess or someone to go with you—”
“No. I think it will be fine.”
The [Grandmaster] peered at Durene, then he smiled briefly.
“Good luck.”
Durene hoped she wouldn’t need it. But then again…she steeled herself as she lined up for the door to Riverfarm. It was one thing to be Laken, always busy with things to do in the Unseen Empire. But sometimes she wondered how he thought his Empire, well, looked.
 
——
 
When you entered Riverfarm, did you expect a quaint, provincial village? You would get one if you looked at the houses made of sturdy timber, saw Riverfarm’s people trooping to work in bands, [Farmers], [Ranchers], and so on.
Then—the effect faded if you actually knew provincial villages. Because Durene did, and provincial villages did not have brick streets so neatly placed that you could roll across them without so much as a bump.
Villages did not have glass windows, nor hanging lanterns that flashed lights to tell traffic when to go and stop. Nor did villages have so much—well—magic.
Yes, Laken was constantly bemoaning the fact that it would take ages for sewers and all the amenities of a city like Liscor to appear. But even in Liscor, Durene didn’t see magical charms hanging outside windows.
In fact, the first thing a small crowd of Drake and Gnoll visitors saw was an archway with hanging charms overhead. The Drakes paused suspiciously, and a Gnoll sniffed.
“Smells like mint. What’s this?”
“Welcome to Riverfarm! Welcome!”
Councilwoman Beatica strode forward with one of those fake smiles on her face. She only lost a tiny bit of the smile when she saw Durene, who glowered her way.
Beatica, the woman from Lancrel who’d caused so much trouble for Riverfarm in Laken’s absence, was a completely unchanged woman. Self-serving, power-hungry, and unpleasant to her enemies.
—She just hid it well. And she had been defeated by Lady Rie and subsumed into Rie’s staff; the other option had been being tossed in the river, Durene understood.
The annoying part was that she was good at her job. The group of Drakes and Gnolls stepped forwards bemusedly as Beatica and a group of four people, one a Drake himself, approached with baskets in hand. They began to hand out cookies, and Beatica pointed up.
“Don’t mind our archway; it’s just a little [Witch] thing. A Goodwill Arch or some such; see the charms? They flash if someone has weapons, insects, illness—welcome to Riverfarm! Is this the entire tour group for the day? Seventeen, eighteen, I think we’re all here. Good day, [Paladin] Durene. I think His Majesty is in the fields. He’s expecting you.”
Some of the visitors stared at Durene, but a Liscorian Gnoll sniffed the cookie with evident delight and nodded appreciatively at the arch.
“Oh. How smart! What is this?”
“A snickerdoodle; a type of cookie. Cinnamon. Just a small gift for all visitors. Riverfarm, as you will see, is not short on things to eat. In fact, on our little tour, you’ll have the chance to buy all the fresh produce you want. And any magical charms.”
“Charms?”
They were everywhere, actually. Beatica had one that she showed off as if she loved [Witches] and had been on-board with them from the start.
“This is one to stop my dress from ripping or picking up stains. Just the thing, isn’t it?”
“Dead gods, and you can buy a charm like that?”
Even Pallassians tended to be surprised at the variety of charms one could get in Riverfarm. Which had surprised Durene, but here was the thing: you had to consider the difference between [Mages] and [Witches].
[Mages] made big magic. Valeterisa could lift a city overhead or enchant a sword to be nigh unbreakable. She could preserve food, freeze it—but she required copious magical gemstones, time, and effort.
Eloise could whip together a little hanging charm for a small bit of magic in an hour while sitting and drinking tea. Her charms would be something along the lines of ‘the tea bags you hang from this little hoop shall never lose flavor even if you re-use them several times’.
Small—but if you were a tea person, that was a charm you were going to buy, right? It was perhaps the most obvious contribution of the [Witches] to Riverfarm.
Rather than being a city of glass and steel, it was becoming a city of magic. And the evidence was everywhere.
“Hey, this lumber’s at the wrong spot. You want Ivolethe Street, not Ivor Street.”
Beycalt was scolding a new work crew, and the groaning lot of four Humans regarded a huge stack of cut lumber that would have to be re-loaded onto a wagon and pulled several streets over. Beycalt spotted Durene as the half-Troll girl tried to be unobtrusive.
Alas. Beycalt waved Durene over.
“Hey, Durene! You’re back! Excellent; His Majesty’s in the fields. He’ll be delighted to see you. Did you do much with the Order of Solstice?”
Durene was mindful of Vess’ disdain for Riverfarm, and she tried not to analyze Beycalt’s words for any hidden malice, implicit or otherwise. The woman wasn’t from Riverfarm; she seemed friendly as could be, and Durene smiled. She eyed the stack of lumber.
“Just a bit of fighting, but no one got hurt. No treasure. Um…”
Do you need a hand with the lumber? Durene counted a stack of twenty beams of wood; even she’d find them heavy, and she didn’t really want to load a wagon. But all her childhood she’d been the go-to for this kind of labor.
I should offer to help. It’s the right thing to do.
I don’t want to.
The duality of Durene. Well, a duality these days instead of a singularity of ‘I should be helpful’. For once, though, it seemed like she wasn’t needed.
