I offered her a choice, and she took it. I hope it makes her better. He hoped it made them, his new vassals—more independent. More trustworthy. Like what Lyonette was to Erin; someone that Laken could rely upon. Certainly, the literal changes of a vassal’s domain was just what he’d wished for.
But it wasn’t all just fun and games. Laken felt parts of his empire had changed. Helm was the first to speak.
“Every piece of cold iron’s gone out of my forge, Your Majesty. Steel’s fine, but…the hammers feel heavy. What does this mean?”
“It means, Master Helm, you and I had better have a chat about customs. It means you had all better thank people properly. Especially if they’re fae or witch. Because they will be responsible for your wellbeing or ailments.”
Laken waggled a finger at them all, and Pebblesnatch groaned.
“It mean we actually are Emperor’s Goblins? And we pay taxes?”
Oh yes. It changed…everything. In fact, Laken was most curious about the effects Lady Rie, as the highest-level [Lady], had on her people. He turned to Gamel.
“Feeling any different, Gamel? Lady’s Rie influence will be positive, I trust? Beatica will get used to the feathers.”
Gamel felt at himself surreptitiously.
“I feel fine, Your Majesty. Ah—wait. Didn’t Nesor say…?”
Lady Rie spoke up, voice filled with emotion she suppressed as well as she could.
“I believe…several structures lost in the Second Antinium Wars have appeared on House Valerund’s lands. I shall, with your leave, go to inspect them, Your Majesty. I may soon levy my own household guard. Valerund’s old household guard.”
Laken nodded to her.
“You have my permission, of course. I suggest we all take a day to get used to the new situation. I, myself, will not know what to do without Durene. But if I can struggle through it, so can you.”
He gave them all a brilliant smile, and his subjects stared at the [Emperor] of Riverfarm and his genial wrath. Laken Godart was still smiling when he recalled one thing that he had known when he hatched his crazy plan.
Which was that the fae would surprise him each and every time. Beware…the consequences.
“Aiiiieret.”
It was a high, unnatural voice. Well, not words, but that kind of sound that made Laken spin in alarm. Gamel’s Skill had worn off, and the [Knight] raised his shield, jumping between Laken and something that had crawled up from…
Out of the shrine? The frost-covered offerings now dedicated to Ivolethe parted, and something leapt up, holding the feather from Frostwing. It landed on the ground, and Laken paused.
“What is…”
He felt just…cold. Cold and snow. In a curious, moving tumble of motion as he and Gamel backed up. It stumbled closer on two ‘legs’ it made, and Laken heard a gasp.
From the [Witches]. Then there was a cracking sound, and someone who had gone to inspect the fields came running.
“It’s alive! It’s aliiiive!”
Not what you wanted to hear. Laken spun as something came stumping out of the field to cries of alarm—then stopped, swaying where it stood. And then Laken felt it.
The wicker scarecrow and the ball of snow given life moved forwards slowly, and Witch Agratha, the normal one, the amazingly normal one even in moments of wonder and stress, spoke.
“Well. I daresay this is a Snow Elemental, and a friendly one too! And if I don’t miss my guess—is there such a thing as a…a Farm Elemental?”
A wicker man—or woman, Laken wasn’t clear on the inspiration of the model—walked forwards. It was made of pieces of hardwood, wrapped together, and it held a hoe someone had dropped.
“It’s not a Golem. Not a summoned creature…oh my. Fascinating.”
Typhenous remarked in that too-calm voice of someone far away. Laken had hoped this would snap him out of it, but he couldn’t win all his victories in one day.
Wasn’t there some kind of film about wicker creations and cults? Aren’t living scarecrows coming to life in fields out of horror stories? It fits Mavika’s domain, anyways.
“…I think we also have our new guardians. Worship them.”
Laken pointed to the Elemental of Ice or whatever it was, and it chirruped again. An astonished Master Helm bent down to pet it—a second before Traffy and a Sariant Lamb bodyslammed the rival for Riverfarm’s affection.
Then the [Emperor] just stood there, chuckled to himself, and laughed as his Empire changed once more. He only stopped when a thought hit him.
“I miss Durene.”
He had done it. Created a new group of power, of magic and wonders that would move Riverfarm ahead. Yet still—the [Emperor] glanced at Alevica, and she tipped her hat to him, and he was glad of that.
Still.
He was alone. He was peerless in the continent famous for its lack of [Kings] and [Queens], let alone [Emperors]. And he had just given his most trusted people more work that would keep them away from him. Right now, Laken thought they deserved it. But that loneliness…Laken closed his eyes.
“It will be the end of me more surely than that bearded man. I see it now.”
More than a lover, Laken realized he had always needed Durene as a friend. He wished he’d told her that. The [Emperor] stood there, leaning on his cane, and then shook his head. There was nothing for it.
He decided to go have a drink.
