Durene felt tense, even though she was sure she could take a few punches if the Rock Elementals got past her shield. She stood there as the others muttered, confirming timing, how far Jewel and Vess would investigate the right passage, checking gear—
“Everyone ready? Anyone have questions, reservations?”
Normen called out softly as a Rock Elemental waited to hammer an arm down on one of them. Durene bit her lip.
This was all right. This—strange encounter with the Rock Elementals? She had a bruised jaw, a loose tooth, she’d slept on rocks all last night, and had had to hold a night shift into the morning. They might not get anything of concrete value on this trip.
She could have done this for the rest of her life. Her comrades looked at each other, and Normen’s eyes caught Durene’s, sensing, perhaps, her doubts. Her reservations unspoken.
“Durene? Anything to say?”
Everyone looked at her. Durene squinted at the rock cave, the bright stone of the elementals, at her friends—and asked the question she had really been worrying over this entire trip.
“D—d’you—I don’t know, and I know I’m stupid for asking. But how often should you be, um—having sex with the person you love? Because I think twice or three times a day is a lot. Let alone the other stuff. I mean, I really like Laken, but is that normal?”
Antherr shifted, and his raised greatsword lowered slightly. Vess’ mouth opened a bit, and Jewel stopped crouching to bring her head up. In silence, Ama covered her mouth with a look of delight and curiosity on her face, and Normen…
Normen stared at Durene along with the first Rock Elemental. He and the animated creature of stone had about the same expression on their faces. After a moment, Normen lowered the visor of his helmet.
“Let’s go. We’ll bring that up—afterwards. Order of Solstice! Forwards!”
Durene was so red-faced she was grateful for a chance to hit the Rock Elemental with one gauntleted fist as Vess rolled under the lip of stone and Jewel slid under it. She heard a shout.
Ama.
“Sillias! Block that one!”
Normen.
“Jewel! What do you see?”
Jewel.
“Dead gods! It’s deep—Vess, get back! It’s really deep—”
Vess.
“Aaaah! Bats! Giant bats! Run! It’s an old mine! Argh! My leg!”
And Antherr, who pivoted, parrying another Rock Elemental’s punch. He spoke conversationally as high-pitched squealing was followed by Jewel sliding out the way she’d come and Vess screaming as he crawled after her.
“I have never had sex before, so I believe that number feels high.”
Durene stared at Antherr in gratitude—then she stumbled back as one of the elementals shoved her. Vess was struggling, a huge, biting bat’s mouth gnawing at his feet, and everyone was pouring back. Durene acted on instinct. She reached down, put him on her shoulders, and ran as the Rock Elementals advanced a few steps after them, then backed away.
 
——
 
“Okay. It was this huge, deep mining shaft. Filled with giant bats. It kept sloping downwards, and because there were bats, I’m going to assume that there’s another entrance for them. Also—that this is a gemstone mine of some kind, and therefore…no treasure. At least, nothing beyond gemstones. Crap.”
The Order of Solstice was descending the mountain as Jewel recounted what they’d seen. Vess shuddered, patting at his chest.
“They were gigantic. Way more terrifying than the elementals! What do bats that big live off of?”
“Giant bugs?”
Ama suggested, and they all thought about that. Durene shuddered. Still, it provoked a question for her.
“Were there mines here in the past owned by Humans, Jewel? Who made tunnels like that?”
Jewel frowned.
“I’m no expert. As far as I know, Rheirgest was the only settlement here…ever. Those might be tunnels made by Gnolls or Drakes in antiquity. Which is crazy! The Rock Elementals clearly took over this section…I wonder how long it takes for one to form? We could probably guess based on the fact there are eight there, all of them pretty large. I’ll do some research. Anyways, I didn’t get a good look at the mines.”
“They are strange mines.”
Antherr agreed. Everyone turned to him.
“How’s that, Antherr?”
The Antinium seemed to think it was obvious.
“Well, the mines are very tall. The entrance was ten feet tall. Was it smaller on the other side?”
Jewel instantly shook her head.
“Nope. Same height. Very wide across, too. Different stone; Durene was right. The Rock Elementals covered this stuff up, but it was more natural-looking in there. What’s wrong with that?”
Antherr scratched at one antenna.
“…If the miners are like Antinium, they would not make the mines so big. It is a lot of work making a tunnel big enough for a Soldier to march in opposed to one ten feet tall.”
Especially if they were going through stone. That was a really good point. Jewel shrugged.
“Maybe they needed the space for minecarts or something? It’s a good point. What I can tell you is that the shaft goes deep. Vess had about two seconds of light, but it looked like it had to go down at least five hundred feet. No bones I could see, though given how long ago it was made…what do you think? Do we go back or tell someone or what?”
Normen sighed and scratched at his head.
“I think we’ll inform Lyonette. She is curious. Then we’ll consider selling the information to Archmage Valeterisa or an adventuring team. But perhaps let’s find out more about the mines first. And if those Rock Elementals are worth more than mere gold, we can go back and smash them.”
“Aw. I sort of liked them.”
Ama scuffed down the mountainside. Vess spluttered.
“Liked them? They threw rocks at me and punched us for the last hour!”
“Yeah, but they’re just defending their home. They’re cute, don’t you think? Crude, but cute.”
Only someone who loved her pet, undead bone cat Sillias more than other people would describe the towering Rock Elementals as ‘cute’. Normen wearily rubbed at his chest again.
“I think Chaoisa won’t be at our pickup spot until at least midday. She said she had a delivery. Good work, [Knights]. Let’s relax. We may not have acquired any treasure, but no one was hurt, and we learned enough for today.”
It was, amazingly, still early morning. After all the fighting, it surprised Durene barely an hour had passed.
She felt a bit bad about their unceremonious retreat, but the Order of Solstice’s heart wasn’t in the fight. If they wanted to knock down the right passage, they could come back, but it would behoove them to at least have a pickaxe or two and a wheelbarrow.
Everyone lapsed into silence for a few minutes of picking their way down the rocky slopes. Every now and then, Vess would slip, and Durene would grab his arm. For a Drake who’d grown up in the hills, he didn’t do rocky terrain that well; she was steady as could be, as was Antherr.
After a few minutes, she realized everyone was looking at her. Durene flushed, and Normen cleared his throat.
“I, uh—regarding your question in the cave, as it were, Durene. As Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice, I am bound to hear out all the members’ issues. At the same time…”
He colored faintly under his burn scars.
“…The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings are not in long-term relationships by and large. And my advice is—always treat the lady kindly. Always accept a ‘no’ whenever it’s given. Show up with a gift, and remember to wear protection unless you want to settle down and hang up your hat for good.”
He seemed to be reciting that from memory and then, clearly, realized this advice might not have the most resonance with Durene. Normen cleared his throat again.
“—And now to you, Jewel.”
“Wh—me? What? I’m—I’m an adventurer. I don’t do long-term relationships either. Don’t sleep within the team. Ask them if they’ve got anything nasty first. Do a spot inspection of anything that goes into you.”
“Gross.”
Ama made a gagging sound, and Jewel glared at her.
“Well, you give advice.”
“I don’t have to. My love is for Sillias! Now, if you want to hear about how to do that—”
Everyone instantly turned to Vess, who stood there, perplexed, as he stared around.
“Do none of you have experience with relationships?”
He gazed at Jewel, a Gold-rank adventurer, who had either been more famous than her partners or dealing with other adventurers; Normen, a member of an all-male group of criminals; Antherr, who had once read a book on sex written by other Antinium; and Ama, whose relationship seemed to be with her cat.
Vess stared at Durene.
“I mean, three times feels like a lot. Every day?”
She was beet red and nodded. The Drake whistled.
“If you’re having fun, that’s good. What’s the problem? Don’t let people shame you…about things, Durene.”
He looked as uncomfortable as she did, but he gave her an encouraging smile, and she felt a bit better. It was just—Durene hesitated. She looked anywhere but at her fellow [Knights].
“I wouldn’t. Be ashamed, that is. And if it’s fun, it’s good. Right. Right…but do you think I should be, um, offering it three times? For him? Laken, I mean. Because I keep getting told it should be that many plus the other things.”
“What other things?”
Antherr raised a hand, and Durene turned red even more. But then her words clicked, and Jewel raised her brows.
“Wait, are you getting told that’s how much you should put out? By who?”
“Whom.”
Antherr added helpfully. But then the other five [Knights] stared at Durene, and she hesitated.
“…Everybody?”
 
——
 
Some conversations were personal.
Some conversations were fascinating.
Some conversations were both.
And it seemed, at least to the Order of Solstice, that it was a conversation that needed to happen, even if the tips of Jewel’s ears were about to burst into flame themselves, and even if Normen was squirming worse than that time someone set him on fire.
—Because it was also clear Durene had no one else to talk to.
“I mean, I could talk to Wiskeria and Hedag. But Hedag’s…solo. I’m pretty sure. And Wiskeria—no. Her advice is usually, um. Different?”
Durene didn’t want to run down a rabbit hole about tantric sex, the myths, the reality, all passed secondhand to Wiskeria from her mother. Because if you thought Durene had issues…
They were all sitting by the road waiting for a huge, armored wagon run by the Contempt of Man, Chaoisa, one of the most famous [Drivers] on the continent. The reason the notorious woman who rode through bandit territory and storms was willing to work for cheap with the Order of Solstice was simple:
She liked Durene. Though she was often in a spitting bad temper; she glared at Normen as she pulled to a stop, about to offer some caustic remark as he tilted his helmet to her. But to Chaoisa’s surprise, the entire Order of Solstice got in the wagon while barely acknowledging her glower, greeting her absently, but talking. The [Driver] waved at Durene and got a smile from the half-Troll girl, but Durene looked so miserable that Chaoisa glanced at them.
“So, uh, what about that cave then?”
Chaoisa was chewing on some tobacco gum she made up herself. She spat over the side of the wagon, and Jewel answered.
“Filled with Rock Elementals. We didn’t explore the entire thing. What’s this about…wait, I get that you can’t talk with anyone else, Durene. But are you saying that you’re not the one instigating the sex stuff each day?”
“I am. Or he does.”
Durene was beet red, and the [Driver] stared at them as her two bulls got the wagon moving. Then she developed the same long ear as the rest of them and listened as they bumped down the road to Celum. Durene struggled to explain.
“It’s just—advice.”
“From everyone. In Riverfarm? You mean, other people you know. Like…your friends? Can you give names? What is it, a dozen people?”
Vess was scratching at his neck spines, trying to make sense of this. Durene’s blush deepened, but she shook her head.
“Not friends exactly. It’s…well Miss Yesel and all the washer women, Lady Rie but she was more subtle about it? Even Ram, Beycalt brought it up once, and Jelov—”
She began counting on her fingers, and Normen had to seek clarity.
“The [Carver]? The one who spits on everything?”
Durene was up to five fingers. Which, as it turned out, didn’t mean ‘five’. It meant fifty.
“They’re all giving you advice on how often you and that [Emperor] enter the wailing pit?”
Ama looked highly amused—until, for some reason, it stopped being as funny. Durene nodded.
“I mean, they love Laken. They have opinions on how…I should be acting.”
“You should be acting? What about his conduct?”
Antherr was confused, and Durene laughed and hugged him one-armed.
“He’s the [Emperor], Antherr. I’m—very lucky he liked me. Because he could have found anyone. So I get advice. Lots of advice on things to do. With hands and…things…”
She grew more uncomfortable. Jewel gave Normen a sharp look. He was scratching at his chin and caught her eye. Durene rushed on, seeing the glances.
“It’s not like it isn’t fun! Mostly. But it feels weird.”
“Yeah.”
Vess had stopped in making a sandwich for himself. He gave Durene such a nonplussed look that she answered with confusion. The Drake twisted around.
“That’s super weird, isn’t it? Someone telling Durene to have sex with the [Emperor] all the time? Is that not weird?”
The Order of Solstice glanced at each other and answered in a rush.
Jewel.
“No, that’s not normal to me.”
Normen.
“I agree.”
Ama.
“Yep.”
Antherr.
“I have already expressed my lack of understanding, but I believe it is odd.”
Chaoisa spat over the side of the wagon and turned to give Durene a long stare.
“Sounds like that [Emperor] fellow needs a boot up his ass. What’s that lot fawning over him doing giving you orders, my girl?”
“They just want what’s best for him. I do too. I just…I know they know what’s best, but it’s getting hard. Laken wanted me around, but I knew you were all going to check out the cave, so I said I promised to go. It’s not a big deal.”
Ama slowly sipped from a canteen as she petted Sillias on the head.
“Not a big deal to you, maybe. I’d set fire to his underwear if I had to deal with that.”
Durene looked up, surprised by the murmurs of support. Even the boys like Normen, Vess, and Antherr seemed dubious about the advice.
“But I mean—it’s not bad advice?”
A second glob of brown spit told Durene what her [Driver] thought about that. Chaoisa turned with a full glare.
“Who says you’ve gotta listen to it? Do you go around obeying every little thing, Durene? I thought you were a woman like thunder and metal—like me!”
