She nodded, readying herself. She had other Skills too, but her last few level ups as a [Paladin of Fire’s Oath] had given her new abilities she’d not needed—yet. Normen stumbled as he reached the stones blocking the entrance to the cave.
“Our footing is terrible!”
“Clear the stones! They’re coming—slowly—Sillias! Don’t get cracked!”
The cat was eating punches as it snarled and tried to slow the Rock Elementals, who just kept coming, swinging their arms in wide, horizontal ‘punches’ that cracked the cat’s bones, but didn’t seem that fast.
Durene had to holster her shield and greatsword for a second to hurl stones away and clear a place to fight. Antherr didn’t drop his greatsword, but he used his two free arms to work as Normen reached for a jar of acid. Then hesitated.
“They’re made of stone. Acid won’t do much on them. We need hammers.”
Jewel gestured with her rapier, pointing the [Knights] to positions.
“Just get me an opening and I can try a [Piercing Thrust]. Don’t let them get out of the tunnel. One at a time!”
They had cleared about ten feet of fighting room when Durene saw the first Rock Elemental walking towards them. She braced, drawing her sword and raising her shield. This was it! The Order of Solstice tensed as Sillias came bounding back, mouth open in a silent yowl, his skull fractured in several places. Ama put her hand to his head.
“[Mend Creation]! Come on, you stupid piles of stone! We’ll see who’s made better!”
“Steady—”
Vess fired a pair of [Arrows of Light], then held one wand up. The tip of it began to glow brighter and brighter as he charged up a spell, and the [Knights] waited. The first Rock Elemental strode towards the entrance of the cave—regarded its foes—
…Then it turned around and went back the way it had come.
After six seconds, Vess fired an [Arrow of Radiance] into its back, and the scorching arrow cracked the stones on the Rock Elemental’s back slightly. It half-turned, regarded Vess—and then threw a part of its body at the Drake.
“Vess!”
Durene leapt forwards, blocking the piece of stone, which thudded hard against her shield. She imagined it would have cracked the skull of an ordinary person. Vess leapt backwards.
“T-thanks, Durene!”
The Rock Elemental turned as the thrown part of it floated back. Antherr struck the floating rock again with his greatsword, but all he did was send it bouncing to the ground, whereupon it floated back into the cave. The Rock Elemental lumbered back the way it had come. Ama blinked in surprise.
“They’re retreating?”
“Did they sense the trap?”
Normen turned to Jewel, and the adventurer scratched her head.
“They must have. Or they don’t want to leave their cave. Wait—wait—”
The Rock Elementals filed back the way they’d come. Then, as they moved around the corner of the cave on the left-hand side, Durene saw the one in front pause and shuffle back.
It stood just around the corner of the tunnel, frozen in place. After a few seconds, it took another step back. It seemed like it had one fist raised, ready to swing down on the first fool to round the corner. Only, it wasn’t quite out of view.
The Order of Solstice stared at the ‘ambush’, and after a moment, Ama exhaled loudly.
“Wow. These are the dumbest monsters I’ve ever met. Even the Snow Golems were smarter.”
 
——
 
In fairness, they were smart. For literal rocks. The elementals didn’t want to exit the cave. Conversely, the Order of Solstice didn’t want to enter the cave.
Advantages on the Order of Solstice’s side: they were smarter than rocks and had eyes.
Advantages on the Rock Elemental’s side: they were made of stone.
“I can’t leave a dent on them! Every time I crack their armor, they just repair the stone!”
Vess was exhausted and sweaty after firing his sixtieth arrow spell. He staggered back to the campsite to gobble down food along with a mana potion, and Durene and Normen retreated as well.
Durene’s jaw ached, and Normen was rubbing at his chest. She’d eaten a stone punch that had dented her helmet; he’d taken a battering blow to his armor. Antherr and Jewel engaged the Rock Elementals furiously for four minutes before retreating.
“They’re too tough! I got through their first layer of stones—then my [Piercing Thrust] Skill failed! Is my rapier bent?”
Jewel felt worriedly at her sword as Antherr regarded his greatsword with dismay. Even with full windup, all Durene had done was dull her own greatsword’s edge.
Hacking through an eight-foot-tall behemoth made of literal stone was not the job for a greatsword. Durene had been confident in her strength and had even tried to punch the Golem; her bruised knuckles told you how well that had gone.
“Dead gods. The bestiary never said anything about fighting eight Rock Elementals at once! They’re not supposed to come in more than twos and threes at most!”
Jewel flopped down on her back. Normen half rose, wincing.
“We’ll go in after Sillias and Rojer—”
“We’re not going to make a dent! Can your honor’s fire do more than shield you, Normen? Glory isn’t doing much on the stone things—I wish Embraim were here.”
Jewel raised her head, and everyone fell silent, remembering the fallen [Knight]. Antherr lifted a faintly burning hand.
“The fire of honor keeps me safe. It is not a very strong weapon.”
“[The Bonfire Rages] calls down flame…but they’re fireproof.”
Normen’s voice was filled with chagrin. He had faced down Elia Arcsinger’s team, the Bloodfeast Raiders—but the [Knight] who carried Erin’s flame of honor didn’t have much expertise or advantage fighting what was essentially a giant boulder with an attitude. As for Durene…she felt at a tooth.
“[Oath of Flames] only lets me set my shield and sword on fire. I have to promise to do something—if I break my oath, the flames go out.”
“Great. And I’m a [Necromancer]. So what you’re saying is that because our enemies aren’t alive, aren’t flammable, and don’t have…honor or whatever, we’re fighting our worst enemies?”
Ama stopped tending to Sillias, and Antherr clacked his mandibles together.
“This would appear to be the case. I did not think the Order of Solstice had any weaknesses. But surely, Grandmaster Normen, you can intensify your flames?”
Every eye turned to Normen. The [Grandmaster] sat with a thin veil of flames over his armor, like a film of green fire over the azure. It was beautiful—but Durene had seen him fully ablaze during the Solstice, like a living bonfire.
Normen hesitated. His fire could shield him from harm, reveal who had honor in their hearts, and probably a lot more. However, right now, it was barely more than a coating. He gave Antherr an embarrassed shake of his head.
“I…don’t have more than this, Antherr. Do you?”
“No.”
The Antinium lifted his own greatsword and stared at the same meager amount of flames. They turned to the other two bearers; Jewel, who had some pink flames at the tip of her rapier. Vess?
“Vess, where’s your flame of mercy?”
The [Spell Knight] hunched his shoulders. He produced a tiny puft of grey flame from a wand…which went out. His voice held a note of complaint.
“What mercy? Mercy for rocks? Mercy for me? I can’t even figure out what I’m supposed to be showing mercy to!”
“Ah.”
Durene realized what was going on about the same time as the others. Normen scratched at his chin.
“…I don’t think any of us are feeling this fight, as it were. And it would appear that the Order of Solstice fights best when it believes in a cause.”
Everyone sat there, patently embarrassed, until Ama slapped her forehead.
“Oh, come on. We killed Draugr. Now we’re losing to a bunch of rocks?”
 
——
 
About half an hour later, the Order of Solstice made camp again. Everyone watched the cave, but the Rock Elementals didn’t come out to fight, and the Order of Solstice had gotten tired of going in to try and take them out.
If they even cracked one Rock Elemental’s body, it would walk back and let a new one take over. By the time it returned, it would have mended all the damage to its stone body. Jewel had a new theory about this cave.
“It might not even be a dungeon, people. It could be the Rock Elementals built this entire place. Think about it. They find a leyline that creates more of their kind, and they decide to build a cave. They might have sealed it off themselves. In which case, all the treasure is…them.”
“They’re not that smart. Surely. Their entire tactic is standing behind a wall to hit you. I see you in there!”
Ama protested, shouting and shaking a fist at a Rock Elemental, which was indeed standing with its fist raised. Normen muttered ruefully.
“I don’t know. That’s a working strategy of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. And it seems to be working quite well on us.”
Durene couldn’t help but agree. Even Bismarck or a big monster who wanted a free cave would think twice about throwing hands with this many Rock Elementals. What could take this lot out?
“Okay, we can do it with pickaxes, a few wall spells, and…hammers. Lots of hammers. We just have to prep right.”
Jewel was working up a strategy to take out the Rock Elementals. It was Normen who glanced at her calculations, grimaced, and asked a pertinent question.
“Ah…Jewel?”
“Yes?”
She looked up at him expectantly, and he smiled at her, which earned him an answering smile that lit her face up. Durene looked on, faintly jealous. They were a couple, the pair of them. During Erin’s beach, they’d developed a relationship, and while neither one advertised it…Normen glanced down.
“Tier 3 [Wall of Stone]. Six spells?”
“Good point. It should be [Wall of Ice]; they might be able to use the stones against us. Those are rarer, but Ama can raise a few [Bone Walls].”
“Only a few! I’m not Pisces. I do creations. Not random walls.”
Jewel nodded and amended her list. Normen read.
“So six Tier 3 spell scrolls to block them. Two pickaxes, four hammers.”
“Mauls, more like. And I think a Potion of Blast might be worth having.”
“What’s the cost of all that?”
Jewel ran a few calculations as Durene thought she saw where this was going.
“Eh…you can get a Tier 3 scroll for a hundred and twelve gold pieces? So six hundred and sixty…good pickaxes and mauls…eight hundred gold pieces tops?”
“Eight hundred?”
Durene’s voice cracked, and Jewel, the Gold-rank adventurer, shrugged.
“Yeah, but those Rock Elementals are worth at least a thousand gold pieces for each one’s core. If we get them undamaged, they’re probably worth…five or six times even that! Or more! One could go for tens of thousands of gold pieces!”
She rubbed her hands together, beaming, until a thought struck her. It had already, clearly, hit Normen.
“Lyonette is rich. If that’s all we get for fighting the Rock Elementals, I say we leave them to their cave.”
“But—they’re worth gold.”
Jewel began, and Normen pointed back vaguely west.
“Lyonette can hand over ten thousand gold pieces in an instant. Why are we fighting these things? If they were worth more to us than gold, I’d understand. Are they?”
It was the most surreal question Durene had ever asked herself, and yet…she wasn’t a poor [Farmer] living on the outskirts of a small village. She would have risked her life for a hundred gold pieces a year ago. Right now? She weighed sixty thousand gold pieces against getting a tooth punched out of her face. And the tooth felt more valuable.
“There’s a lot of value to this cave, Normen. The leyline is valuable information. [Mages] would love to know where this is. Isn’t Archmge Valeterisa flying over the High Passes just to find this kind of thing?”
Vess pointed out that, and Normen nodded.
“So let’s sell the information to her. And let her…melt the Rock Elementals.”
Durene didn’t envy the simple monsters going up against the Archmage of Izril. Jewel looked manifestly unhappy as she pointed at the cave.
“But…adventurer. I’m an adventurer.”
Ama slapped her on the shoulder happily.
“Now you’re a [Knight]. And [Knights] are cowards, apparently. Works for me!”
The [Necromancer] had a bit of self-loathing towards her class. Antherr folded his arms.
“I do not believe in dying for no purpose. This is a value I have decided upon after experiencing death once already. If Grandmaster Normen wishes to retreat, I vote we run while passing excrement, which I am led to believe deters pursuit.”
Everyone turned to him, and Durene tried not to laugh at the expression on Jewel’s face. Vess covered his snout—when they locked eyes, both burst out in guffaws. Antherr looked pleased with himself.
“I have told an inadvertent joke. This mission has been a success for me.”
“Wait, wait. We have to at least check out the right-hand passage. Maybe there’s more to this cave.”
Jewel brought up one objection, and the Order of Solstice eyed the cave. Durene groaned as she saw how close the elementals were to the right-hand passage. Now, in hindsight, not going right seemed like a poor choice. Normen eyed the passageway with concern.
“We’ll have to stall them long enough for someone to get through there. And if they follow or block the tunnel…is it worth the risk?”
“Nothing ventured—and they’re too fat to duck under the lip of stone. It looks to me like they sealed that spot off. Heck, they might repair it if we come back later. What do you think?”
Jewel rose to her feet and adjusted her belt. Vess, Ama, Normen, and Antherr looked at each other, and Durene hesitated.
“I—I bet we could buy Jewel time to squeeze under the rock.”
“And I can go! I’m quick and the smallest.”
Vess volunteered as well. Normen glanced at Jewel, and Antherr nodded.
“We shall block the Earth Elementals. Or die trying.”
He held out a hand, and Durene hesitated, then grasped it, feeling his strong hand.
“See—that’s the kind of talk you don’t do on an adventure. No dying. Let’s just—Ama, bone wall, and use Sillias to block the elementals? Durene, Antherr, hold them back?”
Everyone agreed with that. Normen frowned as he stared at the right-hand passage.
“Agreed, but if you run into trouble…I’ll hang back. Either I’ll push the elementals back if they try to cut us off or I’ll use my fire to cover you two. Got it?”
The [Knights] nodded. They lined up with Durene, Antherr, and Ama on one side, Jewel and Vess on the other, and Normen at the back. They advanced slowly, halting a good dozen paces from the tunnel intersection.
