“Fine. I’ll charge them if the hat doesn’t work. Now, where was I? Oh, right. [Frostbolt].”
She turned, pointed her wand at the Street Runner who’d tripped her, and a bolt hit the girl in the chest and knocked her flat out of her chair. The Street Runner stared at the frost covering her front where the bolt had struck her and groaned.
Every Runner and the [Receptionist] leapt to their feet with a shout of anger. Alevica just took to her heels, boots leaving a trail of dust with each step.
 
——
 
To Alevica’s disbelief, her boots ran out of power seven minutes later. She came to a stop down the road, panting, sweat beading under her dress, which was not meant for running but flying, and stared at her boots.
“That’s impossible.”
She’d charged the enchantment up with strife she had generated on the spot! A lot of it. And yet it had leaked out of her boots when it should have given her hours! She glanced over her shoulder nervously, but the pursuit had ended five minutes ago.
Even so, if the Runners realized she was out of magic on the road…Alevica jogged faster, cursing as the dirt road leading from the town opened up into pastures of cattle-infested farmland.
She might have continued running like this, or hidden, but someone shouted her name on the road, and Alevica spun, drawing her wands again.
“Miss Alevica?”
She had two wands, the ability to raise the dead, and alchemical items; if the Runners wanted a fight, they would get one. However, killing wasn’t something Alevica wanted to do—she tensed until she realized there weren’t Runners coming her way, but a small group of [Riders].
And—she blinked—they looked somewhat fancy.
They were a group of five, with a sixth horse riding empty next to them. Their leader was a young man; he had four bodyguards, and Alevica thought he seemed vaguely familiar?
“Witch Alevica, I’m glad we spotted you! We said we were inbound to Kevaunt; is your delivery that urgent? We came at all speed!”
“That’s me. Are you my ride? I asked for a carriage.”
Alevica glanced down the road behind her and saw what might have been some Runners hurrying her way. She strode to the young man, who was gesturing at the horse. He gave her an apologetic look.
“So I understand, but there is no carriage in the city—at least, ah, currently active. They are all refusing to work, and the Wistram carriages aren’t on demand yet. We have a horse, if you’ll ride?”
Alevica didn’t hesitate after a glance over her shoulder.
“Yep. Let’s go.”
She swung herself into the saddle, noting the horse she was riding wasn’t upset or angry; always good to check. After a moment of hesitation, the young man pointed back the way they’d come, and his group turned.
“It’s only a short ride to the city. I, eh, ah, hope you’ll remember me to Emperor Laken. Not that this is much of a service, but I took his request the moment I heard it. Lucky I was about, really. They forwarded his request to my family given the dispute with the Driver’s Guild…”
Alevica had no idea what he was talking about, but she did know about the damn magical carriages from Wistram.
“So they’re trying to sell the enchanted carriages in your city too? And the Driver’s Guild is refusing to work.”
“That is the gist of it. I understand Invrisil and other cities have the same issue. But Wistram’s carriages are ludicrously fast. I’ve ridden in Magnolia Reinhart’s personal carriage once, and these are the fastest things next to it. Frankly, I’d use them, but the [Drivers] will be out of work since the enchanted ones need no drivers. My father looks at them as a good thing. I have reservations, especially since the Wistram carriages might be more expensive.”
“Fascinating.”
Who was he, and why was he so chatty? How did he know Laken? The young man shot a few glances at Alevica’s face and cleared his throat, flushing a bit.
“I don’t believe we’ve been introduced. I am Lord Pattin. Of Vaunt.”
“Mhm.”
“I was a guest of His Majesty’s last year.”
“I see.”
It made sense. Laken knew lots of nobles, or at least, they knew of him. The young man clearly seemed to hold the [Emperor] in some regard.
“I do apologize if I sound familiar; the Witch Runner is a fairly famous name around here. You’ve been to Vaunt more than once. Seeing you fly in was a surprise, I must say.”
Alevica thought of her broom and scowled.
“It’ll be rarer still these days. One of those [Drivers] ran over my broom in the middle of the night.”
Pattin and his bodyguards had to work this out a moment. Lord Pattin coughed.
“Er—in the air?”
Alevica did not dignify that with a response.
 
——
 
The problem with riding with the young [Lord] was that Alevica had to be somewhat sociable. [Witches] spoke to whomever they pleased, as they pleased, but part of the freedom of the class was the freedom to lose your head.
Therefore, Alevica eventually stopped brooding about the entire mess she was in and played nice. For her.
“And how is the city of cheese?”
They were staring at it in the distance as they rode towards it; Kevaunt and other local settlements all were subsidiaries of the famous…cheese place.
Honestly, unless you liked cheese or you lived nearby, Vaunt was just one city on the map. Alevica had flown there any number of times, but she only associated the spot with cheap cheese and nothing else. It was, to her, a place you passed through rather than lived.
Lord Pattin hesitated as if this were a difficult question, and Alevica sighed as he gave a rather nuanced response. He struck her as more intellectual than most [Lords] his age—which was not a high bar. The huge boulders they were riding around, set into the ground of this pastoral landscape, were more intelligent than most [Lords] that Alevica had met.
“Well, I’m not always in Vaunt itself. I live in Jomsvaunt—”
“All the local towns have ‘vaunt’ in the name?”
“Yes.”
Pattin winced as Alevica rolled her eyes. He was interesting; his bodyguards were bristling a bit with annoyance at her casual tone and attitude, but he was remarkably un-annoyed.
Alevica could sense emotions very strongly; it let her moderate her tone when her usual attitude would cause trouble. Eloise was even better at reading feelings, hence her status as the Tea Witch, another of Izril’s Great Witches.
Eloise, Hedag, Agratha, Oliyaya…Califor…
The list was getting shorter. Alevica focused on Pattin, ignoring the image of Oliyaya cackling at her. He wasn’t angry or even peeved. He felt uncertain.
“—The economy is, well, never the best. It’s all down to the Merchant’s Guilds and these old contracts with the [Farmers] they love to use to keep cheese prices down—then sell at high rates elsewhere. I keep telling my father to renegotiate them, but fighting a [Merchant] on contracts is an expensive nightmare. Vaunt does well enough, I suppose; it’s not like we had those food shortages, and the prices have risen for everyone despite the gouging. It’s, ah—um—”
“Someone’s cow not producing enough milk?”
Alevica had noted how many pastures and farmlands catering towards cows and other milk-producing animals there were. If you could milk it, Vaunt had it. Goats, cows, sheep, reindeer, donkeys, horses, Humans—well, she doubted the last group sold cheese, but maybe on some kind of horrific black market.
There was something going on in the field closest to Vaunt’s low walls. Alevica peered at a group of figures galloping around. Pattin’s voice was hesitant.
“No. Actually. Rather, it’s more military than all that. Our army—it’s not more than a few companies most of the time. But we’ve had thousands of recruits. All because of…do you know a Gershal of Vaunt?”
Alevica had been tired, upset and angry with herself, impatient, and bored all at once. She felt those emotions crystalize in her chest, then break to pieces, and a true feeling, stronger than the trivial ones, rose.
It felt like pain, like terror, like the howling of a hundred thousand Draugr voices, the determination to fight or die, the bravery of seeing other [Witches] standing against the undead—and that damnable pink fire that captured another [Witch]’s craft.
Erin Solstice’s fire. For a moment, Alevica tasted glory and saw it as a man holding a sword aloft, Zel Shivertail’s legacy. A falling banner—a damn wheel of cheese.
Gershal of Vaunt.
Her head snapped around, and Pattin started as Alevica stared at him. The [Witch] lifted her hat, and it was empty, but she tipped it suddenly at the city of Vaunt, as if it meant the world. Not the [Lord]; her eyes stared through him, because he had not been there.
“Yeah. I know him. Vaunt’s greatest hero and warrior, right? The one who didn’t back down when the Draugr overran his spot? That idiot?”
The [Bodyguards], Lord Pattin, all looked at each other and then at her as if she had suddenly become a [Storyteller]. Pattin cleared his throat a few times, and his voice wobbled a second.
“Ah. Yes? That would be who I meant. That was him.”
He paused.
“Was that him?”
The single question defined the men and women training in the field for Alevica. It changed the city in her eyes, and when she turned to the young [Lordling], so uncertain, so ignorant, she regained her mocking smile.
“Yes.”
She then refused to elaborate.
 
——
 
Here was a secret only a few people knew: Alevica was jealous of…Ryoka Griffin. Why?
Well, Ryoka Griffin had the power of the wind on her side. She had her stupid-looking wingsuit and paraglider, but the upshot was that she could fly.
Alevica could fly. She could fly better than Ryoka, who was at the mercy of the wind and normally could perform only limited tricks in the air. Alevica could maneuver her broom in any direction, even do tricks in the air, since she flew under her own power.
The flipside was that Alevica couldn’t fly often. Or long distances. Ryoka could.
Oh yes. Everyone knew the Witch Runner could fly. They also knew, if they looked into her files, that Alevica napped in carriages. She was lazy because she used other vehicles to transport her, and most put it down to Alevica’s sloth.
The truth was that even if Alevica wanted to, she didn’t have the power to keep herself airborne all the time. She had to ration her power; her craft was not unlimited. Even so, she was the sole [Witch] who flew Izril’s skies with any regularity, a point she took pride in.
Now, it seemed like she might have to go back to the ground. Alevica thought about that and what it might entail for her future as a Runner. Running was very profitable. But if she had lost her craft…
I’ll get it back. I am not a Nanette nor a Wiskeria. I am neither a child nor a melodramatic [Witch] whose mother is a legend.
That was the decision she came to during her long return trip from Vaunt. Not that there weren’t a few unpleasant surprises on the way.
Lord Pattin kept asking about Gershal of Vaunt until they got to the city, whereupon Alevica lost him by inquiring after a ride to Invrisil via the Mage’s Guild. Upon learning the price of a carriage given the Driver’s Guild protests, she elected to ride.
Because of that, she went to the Runner’s Guild to ask for packages to justify the trip. Anything from Vaunt to Invrisil. That was where she got a nasty surprise that made the issues the Driver’s Guild was facing far more personal to her.
“What? Already claimed?”
The [Receptionist] was a man this time, and he gave her a look that said he’d heard what had gone down at Kevaunt, but his concern for their occupation overrode his desire to be snippy.
“That’s right. Wistram says it’ll run a delivery carriage from Invrisil to each city all the way to First Landing every single day. No need for Runners.”
“That’s insane. Every [Bandit] will be hitting that for—”
“Not if it’s letters. And not if Wistram blasts them with magic for even trying. They ran one from First Landing south to Liscor just yesterday. It passed through; we had to give up our packages.”
“The Guildmaster here okayed that?”
The [Receptionist] lowered his voice with a glower.
“It wasn’t his choice. The nobility love the idea. Lord Camos Ouslend approved it along with the Five Families; what’s anyone to do? But if they do run that carriage, you City Runners will be out of luck for all but exclusive deliveries. At least Wistram isn’t making something to deliver inside cities.”
Alevica just stood there, trying to work out how much income would be lost by Runners. Not just that; they’d all be competing over far less work. That spelled…well, she just left the Runner’s Guild and continued riding with more of an eye towards impressing her clients than before.
 
——
 
Money. Money mattered. Every [Witch] had to have an occupation. Being a [Witch] didn’t mean much if you were penniless. True, you got some who lived in nature, but even Hedag tried to scrape together coins. Not that people liked paying the Hedag who cut people’s heads or limbs off; she made money selling charms.
Eloise was one of the ‘rich’ [Witches], which said a lot about how lucrative most were. Tea sold well. Oliyaya, Alevica’s mentor, had been a traditional [Witch] who sold hexes and charms. Usually more charms than hexes.
You might be surprised because Oliyaya had been a fright, a truly horrific-looking woman with a crooked nose, bad teeth, and who played up being the big bad witch, rival to Agratha, who thought all [Witches] should be kind and friendly and not alarming.
When she was a child, Alevica had kept asking why no one wanted Oliyaya’s hexes. Because they worked. Have an unfaithful man? Buy an impotency charm made from a pig’s severed you-know-what, grind it up into his food or drink, and he was going to be limp as a boiled noodle for the next month or more.
And that was the nice hex. Oliyaya could—and had—make a lot worse. It was a bone of contention between her and other [Witches]. How far was too far?
“Ah, Alevica. My curses are meant to be bought once a blue moon, if that. They do more for a community by not being sold, you see? Everyone knows they’re there. Everyone knows they work. So mind your manners lest you get to the moment where they’re bought and used.”
She had called that ‘respect by mutual fear’ as opposed to Agratha’s ‘let’s all get along’ charade.
