The [Knight of the Glittering Blade] instantly put a hand on the hilt of her sword. She half-unsheathed it, and a glowing blade, bright blue and sparkling, illuminated the ground around her. Everyone froze, and Durene decided, yes, it was a good thing she’d spoken up.
“The…glowing rune or something. There. You saw it, right?”
Jewel gave Durene a supercilious look, then bent down and sprang back with an oath.
The detritus of stone on the ground was not like the rockfall from the giant’s passage. The stones were unnaturally flat or round, some of them. To be precise—some pieces were flat and ovoid, like jagged dinner plates. Others were round and rough, but there were no exceptions between them.
There was no funny, weirdly cracked stone, no off-kilter shape. And one of the flat stones had a very faint gemstone or geode matrix set into it. Jewel pointed down at it.
“That’s the kind of thing you mention, Durene.”
“I thought you saw it.”
“Me? You’re the one with good eyes! You shout that out. It’s not a trap, as far as I can tell. Anyone want to double-check for me? It looks like an eye.”
Everyone gathered around, and Vess pointed his wand down cautiously. The gleaming stone revealed what Durene had seen.
Normen bent over the stone, shaking his head after a moment.
“It’s like…a geode. Natural crystal formations. I agree, it’s not a trap. I’ve seen that kind of spell, and it doesn’t have any visible sigil work.”
He would know, being a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings. But Vess disagreed.
“That’s no natural geode. On a flat stone like this? Either someone cut it out of a big one—and Jewel’s right. It’s eye-like. Weird.”
“[Detect Magic]. It’s not magical. Well, it’s a bit magical; all the stones are. But it’s no spell.”
That came from Ama. Antherr tilted his head. The Soldier’s voice was steady; he had been given a voice by the Free Queen after his rebirth, and while he had lost ten levels, he seemed to think it was worth the tradeoff.
“The stone is brown. The walls are grey. All the stones here are brownish.”
Durene would have said a luminescent, even rich brown like fertile soil, but everyone could spot the basic difference. Normen straightened up, his eye gleaming.
“Definitely a dungeon of some kind then? That means treasure. Jewel, how do we proceed?”
“I…think the stones aren’t dangerous? Don’t step on any of the ones with the gemstones in them. There are only a few.”
Most of the brown stones were plain and, apparently, not that magical according to Vess and Ama. Jewel made a quick call, clearly uncertain.
“If this is a dungeon…I haven’t, uh, been to that many. Okay, okay, we step back, and someone pokes one of the ordinary stones. I think we clear a path and then keep going. Otherwise, we break the stones up? But there’s no need to waste time.”
The very experimental…poking of a stone was carried out by Antherr, who poked one of the round rocks, jumped back, then, after a moment, declared them safe. Durene and Jewel began kicking the round stones to the side, clearing a path for the Order of Solstice to move forwards.
“Who makes a random dungeon in the side of a mountain above Rheirgest, anyways? I always wanted to know.”
Ama wondered aloud as the two women cleared space for the others. Jewel called over her shoulder.
“Why do random [Necromancers] occupy waystations in the middle of winter?”
“Hey. It was cold. No one likes us. We have to hide out in caves and—oh…”
“Yep. There’s always some eccentric [Mage] who doesn’t want his enemies to find his stuff. Or weird hermits. Or secret societies. I bet this is some secret hideout. I doubt it’s active. What we’re looking at, maybe, is some old base that a few monsters might have taken refuge in. There was an earthquake, or they sealed it up; when the giant moved, this place was uncovered. If we’re lucky, they’ll have left some loot behind.”
“How much loot are we talking? I wanted to be an adventurer—well, I wanted to be a lot of things. Being a [Soldier] does not pay well.”
Vess was from the Hectval-Luldem-Drisshia alliance that had fought against Liscor. He was still guilty about that, especially because he had thought the war was due to Liscor’s aggression. Circumstances had led to him denouncing his city and coming to Liscor, whereupon he’d helped rescue Normen during the winter delivery to Rheirgest.
A few more incidents and now he was a [Knight]. Funny how life worked out. Durene had told Vess that was pretty much how she’d become a [Paladin]; she helped a random blind man and then he was leading an empire.
“Could be nothing. Could be a huge haul. That’s the adventuring way.”
Jewel gave them all a big smile that made Durene excited—then coughed into a fist.
“…About ninety-nine percent of the time it’s nothing. You make your money on monster parts and contracts. But every now and then, you get a Dungeon of Liscor. Actually, that’s a bad example. The Dungeon of Liscor sucks for treasure. Chalence—that was big.”
“We could use a few relics. I mean, I know Lyonette promised us lots of gold, but if we’re doing the [Knight] thing, I’d love a really powerful artifact. Especially if we’re fighting a bunch of Draugr again. Or the Bloodfeast Raiders or Bloodtear Pirates. Or…the next monster Erin decides to piss off.”
Ama’s comment made everyone go quiet. Normen shifted, his hand on his mace, and Durene glanced at him.
All the things that the Order of Solstice had fought were way above their level and experience. Embraim had gone after Erin to die at sea. Durene’s eyes still stung remembering the flames coating a [Pirate]’s ship.
“We’ll be ready when the time comes. We need a keep. We have no cause at the moment—no great one we can take on at this moment. This is a kind of training and preparation, as it were.”
Normen spoke after a moment and got a firm nod from everyone. This was training. Durene tightened her grip on her greatsword and the tower shield she carried. She would help out the Order of Solstice as much as she could. They were all good people, the kind of people she wanted to be, who’d fight for a good cause without hesitation. She wanted to help them; that’s why she was here.
She just hoped Laken wouldn’t need her. And she wondered how long she could be part of the Order of Solstice until her duty to Riverfarm dragged her back.
That was the thing. Durene loved the Order of Solstice. She had found, via Laken’s continued ruling of the Unseen Empire, people who she felt she understood.
That was—Hedag, Normen, Jewel, Wiskeria, Vess, Ama, Antherr—friends who wanted to do the right thing and who were brave. In Hedag’s case, she was more like what Durene wished she could be. Confident. Someone who helped those in need. She wanted the Order of Solstice to be a great organization. She was proud to be part of it.
She was just ashamed because she wasn’t really a [Knight] like the others. She was Riverfarm’s [Paladin]. If they needed her…
Maybe Wiskeria and Beniar will make that army and I won’t be needed. Then I can devote my time to the Order. But Laken will miss me. He was already upset about me going after helping with Rheirgest, and I couldn’t even go the entire time. And everyone keeps saying…
They picked their way past the stones and entered a new section of the caves. The oddly fake concrete widened again, whereupon the first thing Durene saw was a wide, circular room. It was once more filled with unnaturally flat stone, but in the center was something that was definitely not natural to caves.
“Hold. Durene, is that…”
Jewel squinted as Vess aimed a glowing wand at the object in the center, and Durene murmured.
“It looks like a bunch of gemstones. Is that…a trap?”
“It has to be, right?”
Ama stood on her tiptoes and stared dubiously at the glowing jewels hovering in the air. Vess just frowned ahead.
“That’s a lot of magic running through the area. Whoa. Are we on one of those magical grounds? It looks like…a leyline.”
Normen’s brows rose.
“A what?”
Everyone turned to Vess, but the Drake shrugged.
“I don’t know. I never studied magic in school. I just heard other [Mages] talk about it. You know, places of magical power? Like Erin’s inn?”
Jewel snapped her fingers.
“Leyline. Of course! This is a natural leyline! This has to be someone’s lair! Leylines are places where magic gets strong. See? You can even see the line in the center of the room. Dead gods, those gemstones might be produced by the magic here!”
The gemstones were clustered around what Durene could only describe as a pool of melted stone in the center. But instead of fire, the stone was glistening and vibrant. A line of faintly glowing rock seemed to cross the room, brightening where it met at this natural leyline. It faded away until it passed out of the room; clearly an intersection of power that made the magic visible to the naked eye.
“So someone found a leyline, decided to harvest the magic here…is that it?”
Normen sounded mildly disappointed, but Jewel gave him an incredulous look.
“See those hovering gemstones, Normen? The leyline might be producing them.”
Each one was a different color and looked exceptionally pure and beautiful. Even as they watched, the [Knights] saw a tiny globule of the molten stone rise up and join a small ball hovering in the air. It looked like this place was…producing gemstones?
“Okay, free gemstones every month? Let’s make this our headquarters, lock the door, and be rich forever.”
Ama rubbed her hands together eagerly. Durene got excited too. Vess was the most cautious, though.
“There’s a lot of magic in those gemstones, guys. Each one’s got more than I do. You too, Ama.”
“Hey. Don’t compare yourself to a rock. And that just means it’s worth tons of gold. Normal gemstones are actually sorta cheap if you get them from Salazsar. Magic gemstones? You can make artifacts and do crazy magic with those.”
Ama slapped him on the shoulder. It was Antherr who observed something quietly, having been watching in silence as everyone else spoke.
“Query. Do magical gemstones normally fly? Or shiver?”
Durene’s eyes darted back to the gemstones. They were indeed hovering in the air around the leyline of power. But now, the voices of the [Knights] had provoked an odd shivering in the gems. Jewel backed up a step.
“Uh—back up. Back up—”
“Do we attack the gemstones? I have a shot.”
Vess called out, raising his wands. Normen turned and drew his mace.
“The stones behind us are moving. Activate your flames.”
“Honor be with us.”
Antherr drew his greatsword as green flames roared down along the hilt, and Normen’s armor lit up. Jewel drew her sword, and it burned with pink glory. Durene and Ama had no specific flames, but Vess’ wand burned with small, grey flames of mercy.
“Shoot the stones, Vess!”
Durene heard Jewel shout, and Ama protested.
“But they’re worth so much—”
Vess drew a bead on one of the largest gemstones and fired a single [Arrow of Light]. It was bright, piercing, and swift and cut through the quiet room towards the gemstone, which…hovered out of the way. It dodged the spell, and Vess took another shot.
A second gemstone flicked sideways, and the glowing arrow hit the far wall and gouged a tiny hole in the stone. Vess swore, but before he could take more shots, Normen called out.
“Behind us! The stones are moving!”
The [Knights] whirled. All the curious stones in the hallways were flying upwards. Antherr struck one down with a clang, but the rest flew past him as Normen raised his shield, covering Antherr. Durene braced—but the stones floated past her and into the circular room. Then they whirled around the gemstones, and Ama breathed out.
“Um. Sillias, dear? Get over here.”
Her bone cat bounded forwards to shield her from the eight gemstones, each of which settled into place in the center of a whirling formation of rock and stone. The oval ‘faces’ locked into place at the top of each stone body, enclosing the gemstone hearts, and Jewel snapped her fingers.
“Oh! Rock Elementals! I knew that was familiar.”
Everyone turned to look at her. Then the first goliath made of stone strode forwards, two legs and humanoid arms swinging with wide, powerful sweeps, and Durene backed up as seven more followed. Normen spoke.
“[Summon Skeleton Retainer]. Sillias, Rojer, slow them down. Everyone else, fall back! Vess, Ama, hit them!”
 
——
 
Rock Elementals. Natural beings formed when magical gemstones decided they’d had enough of being mined for their value and learned how to manipulate stone and create bodies. They were like Snow Golems; the gemstones were their real bodies, and they surrounded themselves in hard layers of stone to defend themselves with.
Jewel kept up a running commentary, explaining things as the Order of Solstice retreated down the cave. Vess fired both wands as he backed up, but his spells didn’t do more than leave a few fractures on the stone bodies of the Rock Elementals.
Ama had even less luck; she was shooting [Bone Darts] while Sillias, her ferocious giant cat, her mastercrafted undead, tried to cling to one arm and gnaw on it. The Rock Elemental swung an arm and sent the cat reeling, then punched Rojer in the face.
The Skeleton Retainer’s bones scattered everywhere, but he began reforming as the Order of Solstice backed up, luring the Rock Elementals into a place where they would be able to fight with more space.
Durene was bringing up the rear with her shield, raising it, ready to be attacked. The Earth Elementals advanced, but every time they raised a fist—they hesitated.
They didn’t hesitate to pound Rojer into bone powder, but Durene saw them abort a swing several times. One punched Sillias, raised a hammer-fist—
She jabbed at it with a short stab, striking it in the ‘face’ with her greatsword. It was all stone and too tough; the Earth Elemental just recoiled a bit. It held its fist up, and Durene swung her sword again, hacking against one arm.
That made it decide to swing at her, and she took a huge punch to her shield with a grunt. Durene heard a shout and stumbled back. The Earth Elementals slowed as the Order of Solstice kept moving back. They certainly weren’t shy about the other [Knights]; Ama ducked a stone one of them hurled at her, and Normen raised his shield, shouting.
“We choke them in the tunnel. Durene, get back! Let Sillias stymie them and hold them while the rest of us break them to pieces one by one.”
Normen checked the right passage, but no enemies were coming from the tunnel there. Durene’s heart was pounding, but she was ready.
“When do I use my Skill, Normen? I have [Oath of Flames]—”
“Wait till we join battle.”
