It was eleven forty-five and she had just finished cleaning another part of Oliyaya’s house, sorting things that other [Witches] might want from junk and keepsakes that Cirsa and Malluni might use when they were old enough. She was covered in dust and filth, but she knew she had to hurry; midnight would be here soon, and then the witching hour from three to four in the morning, and then she needed at least two hours of sleep for the next day. She’d nap when she got the two witches to Agratha’s school—if they didn’t bite their fellow [Apprentices] again.
Alevica was so tired that she only realized someone was in Oliyaya’s hut when he spoke.
“Witch Alevica, do you have time for a word?”
Alevica spun and nearly brained Laken with a bucket. He’d snuck up on her! Well, maybe she hadn’t heard him over pouring water on herself. Alevica was used to anyone who entered Oliyaya’s cottage knocking into something, but the blind [Emperor] could be extraordinarily stealthy when he wanted to be.
“Er, Your Majesty? What are you doing here?”
She tried to keep her voice less-than-hostile, but it was late, she was tired…and yet Laken stood there, smiling ruefully.
“Just checking to see if you’re going to head out like you do every night. Well, most nights. Can I have a word about your project? I don’t mean to intrude, but—I see a lot.”
He waved his hand over his face with a grin to indicate the joke. Alevica folded her arms.
“…Not everything, apparently.”
“Well, not everything, but I did notice. I haven’t told the other [Witches]. Will you speak with me? Can you show me what’s going on?”
Alevica exhaled. She’d thought Eloise would get on her first, or Mavika. Well, not Mavika. She’d just warn Alevica that whatever happened was on her own head. Alevica wondered how much Laken was on her side. He’d tolerated Wiskeria, and she was a nightmare on her own. She suppressed a slightly vindictive smile.
“I suppose I have no choice. Give me a second to put my clothes on.”
“Your—”
“I’m naked.”
He’d walked in on her in the bathroom. Laken’s mouth opened, and he backed up a step, though he didn’t instantly swing around the other way; there really wasn’t a point.
“I am sorry. I’ll just—”
He backed into a pile of objects that began to tilt, and Alevica grabbed them before they could wake the two [Witches] and start chaos. That brought her in close contact with him, and the [Emperor] recoiled, but didn’t run into anything else, thankfully.
“I’ll just be outside. I’m very sorry about that, Alevica—”
She got to see him turn red, which was a treat. Alevica sensed shame, attraction, embarrassment, surprise—so it was genuine. She wondered if he and Durene weren’t having as much sex of late.
Well, that was a problem for older [Witches] to stick their noses into. It wasn’t Alevica’s business if two people broke apart. Unless she helped engineer it on purpose, of course.
 
——
 
Gamel was waiting for them when they left the house, but he stayed far back as Alevica led Laken away from Riverfarm towards a clearing in the woods that was off-limits, even to people foraging or logging, let alone going for a stroll.
Burnt trees and the first hints of life marked devastation around the area. And the hill and single charred oak was a place no one wanted to go.
A man had hung himself here. Dark deeds had been wrought here. Belavierr’s shadow still hung over the spot where Witch Hunter Tagil had ended his own life after betraying his teammates. The [Witches] hadn’t exactly claimed it at first, just let it be known that here they were conducting the kind of magic that no one wanted to barge in on.
That was its first purpose. The second was as a storage area.
“Ah, of course. You…kept it here. Them?”
“The bodies. You knew we recovered most of them.”
Alevica got to see another side of the [Emperor] again this night. Nervousness. He walked along, tapping his cane as if he weren’t perfectly confident, but he was sure-footed thanks to his [Emperor] senses. This was a habit he fell back on; his emotions were roiling with clear trepidation. Not outright fear, but uncertainty, of course.
“All…eight of them?”
“Three. There wasn’t much left of most of them. The one in the best condition was the one Oliyaya killed.”
“With the boulder to the face. So—I see. I must have let it slide from my memory. The [Witches] said they’d tell me the instant they did anything with the bodies. I gather Eloise wanted to burn them.”
Alevica strode up the hill, through burnt grass, to a trio of what might have seemed to Laken to be mounds, odd humps rising from the hilltop. To her eyes…they looked like giant toads. No, toads were too normal.
Beings of wart and rot. Yet no rot touched them; no maggots dared burrow into their empty eyes or down the smashed, gorey stump of one’s body. No birds came near them; no predators ate of their flesh.
Three Hag Queens of Aklat Vunn lay there, only one with a recognizable face, twisted in surprise. Each one slain at great cost.
The one who had killed Alevica’s mentor still clutched a staff in a hand glistening—still glistening—with blood. Even the blood refused to dry up.
Laken halted well back from them as Alevica stood there. Someone had placed objects around the Hag Queens. A bench made of stone slabs, a spell circle, a hexagram around one of their bodies. Someone had taken a sliver of one of the Hag Queens’ flesh; more [Witches] had clearly conducted spells and rituals to divine the nature of the dead foe. Their origins. Their weaknesses.
No one had touched them. Just the memory of the rot and death they had inflicted was why all three were bound with dozens of the most dangerous charms Alevica had ever seen. If one of them came back to life, every [Witch] would know in an instant—and the Hag Queens would be vaporized by the magic going off.
“Who decides who gets to…research them?”
The [Emperor] glanced at the Hag Queens. In truth, even recovering three corpses had been difficult. When the battle had ended—even during it—the Hag Queens had been immolated or hacked to bits by those who wanted to make sure they weren’t coming back.
In the aftermath, the [Witches] had recovered the Hag Queens’ possessions; the few adventurers on the field had been more interested in the monsters not visibly filled with plague, and no one wanted to touch the objects they carried.
Even now, Alevica refused to touch the object lying on the stone altar. When she lifted her hands, a breeze blew, and the leathery sound the pages made provoked a shiver in Laken.
“Is that…”
“A spellbook. I think. The Hag Queen who killed Oliyaya was carrying it. Don’t touch anything; I don’t think it’s trapped or cursed, but I don’t know what it’s made of. No one knows. Their flesh, their bodies, they’re all unnatural. One of Mavika’s crows took a bite of them, and the others pecked the crow to death, then dragged it into a pit and buried it ten feet deep.”
“Duly noted. So you’re trying to learn her magic?”
Laken approached only one more step; he was probably not going to get more from getting closer other than the smell, which was also…foreign. It wasn’t exactly sweet, and it didn’t smell like any decomposing corpse Alevica had ever known. The Hag Queens in death smelled like what fresh air might be like if you took out the ‘fresh’ but kept the other qualities. Ripe, full, bursting with energy and yet completely and utterly dead.
“I am studying my foe. My master told me to make something of their hide.”
“…Out of their skin? That’s…I feel I should forbid that. That’s a dark path, Alevica. Witchcraft or not.”
She glared at him as his uneasiness grew.
“Have you ever had boots made of leather? If it’s old magic, I will do it. I was trained in the old ways, Laken. As old as Wiskeria. Ask her if she’d make a hat out of their flesh, and she’ll tell you all about what her mother made. Besides. This spellbook is made out of someone’s skin.”
Laken made a faintly ill sound. Alevica just produced a notepad and began to write. After a while, the [Emperor] called out.
“So what kind of magic…”
“I don’t know.”
“You don’t know as in you don’t know what kind of magic you’re learning?”
Alevica turned red.
“I don’t know as in I don’t know what it says. I’m trying to understand the words. It’s in another tongue, and it’s a lot more different than Gnollish or Drakeish or even Drathian.”
“Another language?”
The [Emperor] had been edging away, but he grew interested again, and Alevica’s frown at the snarl of words and symbols on the parchment turned to him.
Wait a second.
He was from another world. He might understand what she was looking at. Then Alevica realized the one person familiar with other languages, who spoke more than one…was blind.
She sighed.
 
——
 
“I’m actually pretty good with languages, you know. I speak French, German, English…”
“You don’t write it. Leave me alone.”
“Try looking for vowels.”
“Leave me—what’s a vowel, and why do I care?”
“It’s the common letter used in most words. ‘A’, ‘E’, ‘I’, ‘O’, ‘U’. You see? If it behaves like a Latin language—and it might not—it’ll use those letters more than others. Wait, is it even phonetic?”
“What’s phonetic?”
“Letter-based. If it’s character-based, each character is a different meaning unto itself, and then we’re in trouble. Chinese does that…do the letters repeat, or are they all different with only similarities between a few?”
“Don’t you have somewhere to be? Why do you sound happy? They’re all repeating. I think. There’s a lot of weirdness; none of the letters are straightforwards. There’s…spirals in some of them, and a lot have subtle differences.”
“Like…?”
“Like this one. It’s a snail with too many spirals, but it has these weird eye-antennae that change in several spots.”
“Aha! Accents! The umlaut! This is so fantastic. Proper language!”
“Are you making up these phrases?”
Laken rubbed his hands together, looking more eager and excited than Alevica could remember seeing him in a while. He chuckled to himself, blowing on his hands in the cold.
“Alevica, you’re lucky I’m here. Anyone else from Earth—Erin, Joseph, Imani—they can’t help you. But my language has all kinds of difficulty. Believe me, German has words like Streichholzschächtelchen.”
She just stared at him for a while. After a while, Laken frowned.
“…I do wish I could see what you’re working with. Are there pictures?”
Alevica glanced down at the spellbook. She glanced up at him.
“Oh, yes, there are. You’re lucky you can’t see some of them.”
“Ah. How horrific…?”
“They’re not actually that grotesque. They just—make my eyes hurt. Hold on. I think they’re bleeding again. I can only do this for a few hours before my mind shuts off.”
The [Emperor] grew instantly alarmed. He handed her a handkerchief as she fished around for something, and Alevica blinked away the spots in her vision. The spellbook—she glanced down and saw something she was sure was not meant to exist.
An image from another world, from a people who had pigments and shapes not in line with this one.
After a while, Laken spoke.
“At least you have a chance. If you want to learn magic from this book, that is.”
“Oh yeah? Why?”
Alevica was grumpy. Not only because she had an enthusiastic [Emperor] here who hadn’t lost his mentor. Not only because she felt stupid when he said things she’d never learned about—Oliyaya had been a fine teacher and had never cared about academic book studies—
She was bristling, but he was genuinely enthusiastic, and she sensed he wanted to help. Damn witchcraft telling her truths. Alevica was about to say something hurtful, and she had loaded up a comment about Durene, when Laken spoke.
“Well, remember what Ka…signal said? During her ritual? I don’t remember the full wording, and she probably translated it, but the last part was clear. The Hag Queens of Aklat Vunn. Aklat Vunn. If you can pronounce that—you might be able to actually read what’s going on here.”
Alevica stopped. He had an actually good point there. Her eyes darted to the spellbook again.
“If I read anything from this book, there’s no telling what’ll happen. It’s not magic like I understand it.”
“But it is a language. If I can help…I don’t know what to do, Alevica. Witch Oliyaya died like a hero.”
“She died like a [Witch].”
Alevica snapped back, and she felt a touch of embarrassment at the look on his face. She tugged her hat down, and Laken nodded.
“So let me honor that in some way. Do you…remember any of the spells they chanted? We can’t do anything, even if we work out what the book says, if we don’t have that.”
The [Witch] muttered ever-so-quietly.
“I can’t forget. I’ve written it down. Here. Read this.”
She handed him a note. After a moment, the [Emperor] threw it back at her, and that made the Witch Runner laugh.
 
——
 
How did one decipher a foreign language? That was a good first question, and Laken had consumed a few documentaries on the subject, though he had to own, the visual component escaped him.
But translating ancient texts via the Rosetta Stone was the kind of challenge he appreciated, even if he had no real experience with it himself. Learning a foreign language? He knew several. But what made him excited—and filled him with fair trepidation—was the added challenges.
How did you translate another language when you were blind? That wasn’t Alevica’s problem, but it hindered Laken’s own ability to help her somewhat. However, more crucially than that—
“How do you translate a language when there is a high probability that you can’t even pronounce the right words? When the words, structure, all might be based on another species? Let alone another root language?”
Alevica was making herself a cup of coffee. She sipped at it in her cottage; not Laken’s multiple homes or Durene’s cottage, but Alevica’s home.
It was close to Oliyaya’s, and like Durene’s cottage, set further out towards the forest for privacy. The two had retired there; Laken had no desire to wake up the sleeping Bismarck and Frostwing, and Alevica had no inclination to wake her two apprentices.
“If you’re trying to make me feel worse about this, it’s working.”
“I’m just trying to explain the problems we have to bear in mind, Alevica. You get that languages are derived from root languages in my world?”
“Sure. This world’s got…three proper ones? The common tongue, Drathian, though that’s a mix of different things according to Eloise, and Goblin.”
