“He told you about the class. And that he was getting new armor. Rie and Gamel probably hoped you’d get used to it.”
“I can hardly tell him not to wear better armor. Does he have to have a cape? I have it on good authority that capes are dangerous for your own health.”
Laken sounded amused by the cape mention for reasons Durene didn’t know. She was used to his self-referential Earth humor. She shrugged.
“They think you should look better. They’re always trying to get armor or clothing to fit me.”
It was hard to give her modern fashion that fit her skin; in the end, they’d settled on making her armor bright and golden. Laken sighed.
“I have to stop the shrines, Durene. And you should tell me about Gamel’s armor or anything else I’m missing. Is there anything else? I can trust your opinion, and the [Witches]’, at least.”
Durene thought about things Laken had missed. She eyed his head, and his blonde hair was barely visible under the stylized white-and-red felt hat that resembled a chicken.
“…You do know that you’re wearing—”
“The chicken hat? Yes.”
Durene grinned as Laken tugged it off. She toyed with it as Bismarck begged for more honey with a whine.
“Then you know all your [Merchants] and [Traders] have been going to other cities with all the contest hats on? The chicken, the Traffy hat…it makes people look twice.”
Laken groaned, but then began to laugh. He saw the humor in this, at least.
“Affection. Dead gods, I have too much of it. Everything Riverfarm does should be unique and extraordinary. We’re becoming a local power. I need a bigger army too. Rie has been hounding me about it with Wiskeria all day.”
“That’s probably good.”
“Aren’t you sick of the idea of more wars?”
Laken sat up a bit, edging closer to her, and Durene saw him glancing at the door. The proximity of Gamel was something he had gotten over. It bothered Durene if she thought of the [Knight].
“I used to be afraid every time a [Bandit] group came within a hundred miles, Laken. If Beniar’s Darksky Riders never go to war, I’ll be happy, but the small army and them aren’t enough.”
“Fair. They need to be everywhere…argh, let’s not talk about work. Tell me about your journey with the Order of the Solstice. You didn’t find anything in the cave?”
“No, but we picked up some Vampires running from those hunters. We’re helping them go through Pallass tomorrow. I promised I’d head out.”
Laken’s face fell the moment Durene mentioned that.
“Vampires? And you’re leaving already? If it’s to help them, that’s good—how insane were the hunters?”
He listened gravely to the story that Durene relayed and shook his head.
“That’s not rightful fear of Vampires. That’s…a witch hunt. It smacks of mania. A crusade? An inquisition? I need to speak to Yitton and tell him to stop endorsing this.”
Durene swiveled to face him.
“You need to do it now, Laken. The couple we found seemed desperate. Neither one looked like a murderous killer.”
He was nodding. And that she did love him for. For Laken Godart, there was right and wrong. And he always, always did what was right.
“If we must take a side, we will. I am reluctant to do so because it might lead to a conflict. But I will not make the mistake of Goblins again. Just—be careful, would you? The Order of Clairei Fields hates the Order of Solstice. Are you going to keep journeying with them? I could use you here, if only because you’re honest with me, Durene.”
He smiled at her, and Durene squirmed inside. Uh oh. Here it came. She had an image of Pawn pouring a cup of water over his head. She hoped Laken wouldn’t do that.
“I—I like them a lot, Laken. Vess, Antherr, Normen, Jewel, Ama—they’re all amazingly brave people.”
“Of course they are. Normen is one of the most honorable men I’ve ever met. Of course you want to be with them. And it’s safer than going alone…so you’ll keep journeying?”
“Tomorrow and any time they go out, if I can. They want to build their keep somewhere, but they haven’t found a spot, and there are trainees…”
Laken mumbled to himself.
“I offered Normen a place in Riverfarm, but he thought it was too political. Maybe somewhere just over the border or connected by door? What if I offered to let the recruits train here? That would let you stay. It’s not a bad idea to help the Order of Solstice grow, anyways.”
That was Laken for you. Durene watched him as he pet Frostwing on the head. And she wondered…
“Laken, if I asked you for a necklace of diamonds, could I have one?”
His head rose, and he half-smiled.
“That sounds gaudy. Do you need it for anything?”
“No. Just if I wanted it.”
He raked a hand through his hair.
“It might be expensive, but…gemstones are less egregious than in my world. If you want one, I could see about having one bought or commissioned. Is that hypothetical or serious?”
“Just a question. I don’t really want one. I am sorry I’ve been gone so much, Laken. But the Order of Solstice feels like a home. Like…a family?”
That was truly honest. Laken grimaced and seemed envious for a moment. Then, with another glance at the door, he murmured.
“Well, I can survive being jealous of them if it makes you happy. Dinner with Alevica and her two terrors is soon, but we have some time today and before you leave. What if I told Gamel to go for a walk?”
Aha! He does like it! Not that anything in her observations of young men had ever told Durene they were opposed to sex. But normally, she was the one instigating because she was mindful of what people told her.
She didn’t feel that familiar stirring of excitement and embarrassment—and yes, shame, but delight—as usual. Instead, she was more conscious of how Ram and Yesel would be smiling afterwards, and Gamel. Did he report to them how many times the two got into bed each night?
The thought made Durene pull away from Laken’s arm.
“I think I’d rather kick Gamel into a tree first.”
“Huh?”
The sound came from both Laken and outside, which clearly showed that Gamel had heard it too. Durene’s eye twitched. She looked at the brilliantly blue bird perched on her arm.
“Frostwing, attack.”
The bird opened its mouth and begged for more meat scraps. Durene turned to Laken.
“You should get a [Falconer] to train her. All she does is eat and poop.”
“Has Gamel made you upset? Or is it—Gamel, further away from the cottage, I said.”
The [Knight] shuffled off quickly, clearly deciding this was the best for his health at the moment. Durene took a huge breath.
“Laken…can we have an honest talk? About us?”
He gave her a puzzled look and one filled with trepidation. Laken wasn’t stupid. He sat up, facing her as best he could, as Bismarck tried to nose forwards, whining for more honey. Durene grabbed the jar and the bowl of meat and tossed both out the window as she opened the door.
Bird and bear raced outside. Laken opened his mouth, then frowned.
“Durene. What’s wrong?”
“I…I don’t know how to say it, Laken. Did you—I never brought it up because I was embarrassed. And maybe I thought it was for my own good. But I’m tired of it.”
Durene bowed her head and stared at her hands for a second. Troll’s hands. Troll’s skin. She was a simple farm girl who didn’t know much and had lucked into being the lover of an actual [Emperor].
At least, that was what they told her, implicitly or explicitly. Sometimes—Durene wondered if she was really that stupid. She raised her eyes and saw his closed eyelids were squeezed into a frown as he tried to work out what was bothering her.
“Tired of…people around us? Riverfarm?”
“Tired of having Yesel, Ram, Beycalt, and everyone else advising me on when you look like you could use a quick tumble, Laken. Tired of being lectured about both ‘keeping you happy’ and ‘not tiring you out’. Tired, Laken, of being the person they go to when you’re mad. And maybe I’m just—maybe we need a break.”
Durene saw Laken’s face pale, then begin to redden. She saw, not for the first time, the [Emperor] of Riverfarm lose his temper.
She?
She felt relieved.
 
——
 
Hi, it’s me.
Laken Godart.
I am sitting in Durene’s cottage at night. There’s some annoying fly buzzing around the outside; Gamel is standing at the entrance gate to Durene’s home with four of his lackeys, and she’s sitting across from me, voice soft, guilty, for some reason, as she describes being pressured into being intimate with me.
She wants to break up. How am I taking this, you may ask?
Well, let me tell you what’s happening in Riverfarm at the moment.
I am…Riverfarm, in some ways. In some ways, it’s separate from me, but I see it.
—In the Goblin Lands, a group of Goblins are hunting a pack of Corusdeer. They are herding them towards the two walls set up to contain and protect Goblins, but the deer, in their panic, actually burn holes through the wooden walls with their antlers.
One of the Goblins has fallen, kicked in the chest by a Corusdeer. The rest surge on, chasing the herd past the walls. They hunt through the forest as deer scatter, startling a [Witch] going for a walk and picking herbs.
The [Witch] tips her hat. One of the Goblins waves; then they’re onwards, hunting across the fields now, and the farmers on the night shift and people turn to stare.
Jelov backs away from the Goblin hunt and steps on a rake, hitting himself in the nuts. The Goblins continue, letting the rest of the herd scatter to take down two of the deer. Just two; then they come to a halt close to Riverfarm.
Armed Goblins and my subjects. A few people have rushed out of the house. I see all this in my mind’s eye, a stalemate captured in moving figures without sound or color—but then I see a Human hurry into a house and come out with a knife. Not to defend herself with or attack; she offers the tool to the Goblins for butchering.
They have their own knives, and a few Humans offer to help. Or so it seems; the Goblins wave them off. Someone spits at them covertly from the side. The Goblins tend to their wounds, and a [Witch] makes an offer on the Corusdeer antlers, which the Goblins accept.
In this metaphor, I am Jelov, lying on the ground, clutching at his nuts.
That is how it feels, honestly. I sit here as Durene lays out what is going on, and I can’t believe it. She…
How dare Yesel and the others do this? I’m boiling with fury, and I want to summon them and castigate them and have them apologize to Durene. But I can’t focus on that. Can’t even fully focus on this conversation.
I’m—what do I say?
“Laken?”
“I’m sorry. I’m listening. Keep going, Durene. And they…gave you tips?”
“Demonstrations.”
“Demonstr—”
“With bananas.”
It’s funny. I want to laugh, but I can’t. Here I am listening to Durene’s unwilling sex-ed class from half of Riverfarm and I just wonder—how did I miss this?
What are you going to say to her? She wants to break up. I am suddenly reminded of my unfaithful thoughts. Not even unfaithful; just flashes of brief arousal, really. The real question is how I missed this.
The real question is…what do I do?
I should have seen this coming. I should have realized my position was affecting her. No one told me. Durene should have. No, that’s not fair; she’s shy. I should have had someone who was honest and told me…
What do I do? Apologize, tell her I’ll fix this—don’t let her just go off into the sunset. But you know what I am thinking of most in this situation?
It’s…well, it’s silly, but—
What would Fetohep do?
That undead ruler of Khelt. It’s not like I put him on the same pedestal as his subjects, but I wonder what advice he would have in this situation. Something vaguely condescending, but also, I suspect, morally or principally correct.
I ask—because you know what I realize in this situation? More than the shock of Durene’s admissions?
I am alone.
I realized it a bit ago when Lyonette invited me to the poker night. Me. She comes out of nowhere and asks if I’m willing to participate in a little charade, a trap, and I agree. Then she sits me at the kid’s table, and I realize I’m a distraction.
My feelings on that aside, it was an insane gamble, a brilliant play. If I thought I could have hired Lyonette for the Unseen Empire, I would have on the spot. It’s one of the things that makes me realize how Erin found or trained her own people.
But what I realized when I heard the other rulers chatting and playing games with each other, even when they were sniping literal hundreds of thousands of pieces of gold from one another was…
It is lonely. That Duke Rhisveri, even the way Lyonette spoke to her mother, all smacked of a loneliness I thought I knew. It turns out the isolation of people in power really is different from even social introversion. And I wished…
I wish I had talked to Fetohep more. Because now, I sit here, and who can I confide in or ask for help in this matter? Who should have warned me?
The [Witches]? They’re subjects of a different kind. Alevica? Perhaps, perhaps; I’ve just gotten to know her. Gamel? He’s part of the damn problem. Rie? Even if she’s closest, she is an underling.
Now, Durene is sitting there, and I’ve half-heard it all. My head is in a daze. I feel stunned, and I need to say something to her to stop this from happening. But most of all, I realize, with irony, with regret—
I am alone. She is not. She has the Order of Solstice.
All I have—is her.
I don’t want to lose her.
 
——
 
Of all the things Laken had expected to happen today, this was not it. And today had been going well, despite the shrine thing and his lack of sleep because he’d been excited about Alevica’s project.
Now—it felt like someone had hit him with a few hammers. In quick succession; he had just been about to lose his temper over people telling Durene to be intimate with him. Then it was like she poured ice water over his head.
“Slow down, Durene. Let’s go over this. First—how long has this been going on?”
“I think ever since you made it clear you liked me and no amount of trying to break us up would work—so just after the fighting with the Goblins?”
“And you didn’t tell me?”
“I thought they knew better. I thought it was normal. People are always nosy about relationships in villages, Laken. I’ve heard Yesel giving that kind of advice to other women. They just do it more to me than anyone else.”
She sounded so—calm. As if her mind was made up. Laken was the one in a mild panic. He held up a hand.
“I can tell them to stop at once. It’s wholly inappropriate. But a break between us?”
