Alevica levered herself up so fast that Laken groaned.
“Did I mention how I hate that [Witches] know what I’m feeling at all times?”
She paused, hand on the door.
“Well, imagine being a [Witch] and knowing exactly who finds you attractive. And who wants to be earnest with you, and the people whom you should never find yourself alone with?”
“What a dark thought. There aren’t any people like that in Riverfarm, are there?”
Laken thought of the man Hedag had killed, and Alevica’s chuckle was lower.
“If there were, we’d sort it out. It’s not like such people are always beyond hope. Eloise, hate her, find her annoying, she’s good about that. Hedag is the final resort. Should I be flattered?”
“Forget my feelings. It’s embarrassing, and I’m a mess. We have wording to go over, Alevica. And I’d like Witch Alevica’s input on an idea I just had. Something that will change Riverfarm once more for the better.”
Laken’s smile made the Witch Runner hesitate at the door. She came back a third time and sat down; this time, back straight, wary.
“Is this the kind of thing you should ask your advisors about?”
“No. I’m asking the advisor I trust right now, not the ones who caused Durene to leave. That means [Witches]. That means you. Are you a nosy [Witch] or should I summon Eloise?”
That got her. Alevica put her feet up on the table as Laken stood up to open the door. He paused a second as a sad, snuffling sound turned to panting.
“…She brought Bismark back.”
He smiled. The Mossbear padded into the cottage, threw himself down, and began snoring. Laken leaned against the overgrown sack of lard as Alevica waited.
“So? What’s the big plan?”
The [Emperor] smiled with all the well-intentioned malice in the world. He told Alevica, and she stopped, made an inarticulate sound, then laughed and told him even the other [Witches] would think he was crazy.
Which was good enough for him. The [Emperor] concentrated…and the next morning, Riverfarm, nay, the Unseen Empire awoke to strange circumstances indeed. Then Laken got back to work with Alevica, mood restored slightly, waiting for the reactions of his subjects.
Frankly, he thought they deserved it.
 
——
 
“Your Majesty! Your Majesty, are you aware of the changes in Riverfarm?”
The next morning, Laken was strolling into the center of town, yawning, so tired he nearly walked into Ram as the man pelted towards him. Laken held out his staff.
“Yes, I’m aware. Durene’s broken up with me.”
“I—yes, sire. But the fields! I woke up and I heard—everyone across the Unseen Empire’s in a panic! They’re all asking what happened!”
“I don’t blame you, Farmer Ram. Or you, Miss Yesel. But I am aware of the pressure you put on Durene. We will have a conversation.”
“Yes, sire, but—er—”
Ram fell silent a moment, and another woman spoke up, a touch breathlessly.
“Your Majesty, Durene’s…choice is terrible. I can’t imagine what she was thinking, but I’ll have a word with her as soon as may be. However, the fields? It’s snowing over some of them! In the spring!”
Laken waggled a finger at Yesel.
“Absolutely not, Miss Yesel. Durene—excuse me, Lady Durene—has made her choice, and if I find anyone is going after her, we will have words. In fact, she’ll have words with you. I think she’s done being pressured, and that is that.”
He strode on, and the flustered Yesel and Ram trailed after him. Laken turned his head as more people flocked towards him.
“Ah, Gamel, good. You know what? Keep the armor. But watch out for the capes. I’m told they’re a liability.”
“I—uh—yes, Your Majesty. But what’s this about me being assigned to—to—Lady Rie?”
“Her demesne is Riverfarm. I thought I’d reward her with the town. Are you worried it’s not mine? Not to worry, Gamel. I am all of the Unseen Empire. This is just subdivisions. Oh, by the way, I’d watch out for Durene if you run into her again. She’s not best pleased with you. I’m not, but I’ll get over it. That’s why I decided not to give you a grant of land at this time. But we shall mend our rifts.”
“Y-Your Majesty?”
The [Knight] stuttered as Laken walked on. The [Emperor] kept moving. The trick was to keep moving and let people catch up to your chaos. That was Alevica’s wisdom, and he assumed it worked for her.
She was actually watching the chaos with her two young [Apprentices], fully enjoying the scene. Laken managed to deflect Beycalt, Helm, who’d actually ridden here overnight in a complete tizzy, and the next six of his court with the same strategy.
Alas, he ran into stiffer resistance as a woman dismounted from a horse.
“Your Majesty, am I to understand you’ve given me control over my town and Riverfarm as the liege-lady?”
“Lady Rie. I thought you were having a word with Yitton.”
Laken frowned at her reprovingly, and she responded innocently.
“In light of certain events, I sent Geram and two of my people to have the conversation.”
“Would that be Durene breaking up with me or last night’s changes?”
“Both, Your Majesty? Might I seek clarity on the second? I am sorry to hear about the former—I had nothing to do with the regrettable pressure Durene was under. I regarded her as a worthy rival.”
“She didn’t have rivals. As for the changes, what is there to say? I’m outlawing the shrines. Or rather…the shrines to me. You may now find the shrines are perfectly appropriate, since they are not, in fact, to me.”
The confusion his statement elicited gave Laken immense satisfaction, and Rie trailed after him, asking questions he refused to answer.
Laken’s march of malice only ran into a problem when he met someone his ‘I refuse to answer questions’ technique failed to work against. Which was Pebblesnatch.
She marched up to him.
“Emperor person. You is behind weird thing in Goblinlands?”
She asked him in sleepy, grouchy tones that said she resented being woken up early by his shenanigans. Laken smiled.
“Yes, that’s right. Do the Goblins have questions?”
Pebblesnatch yawned, then stepped forwards and kicked him under the kneecap as hard as she could. Gamel grabbed her as Laken swore, and Pebblesnatch shouted.
“No! Leafarmor said do that. Is our message.”
“Argh. That really—dead gods, that stings.”
Laken clutched at his knee and waved away the proffered healing potion. He deserved that, he supposed. Trust the Goblins to have an un-ambivalent response. Laken turned as someone else walked over.
“Your Majesty. Good morning to you. I see it’s snowing again. I have theories about what has gone on; will you elaborate?”
“Ah, Witch Eloise. You turned me down.”
The [Witch] tipped her hat to him, voice polite as the other [Witches] blinked at her.
“I did. I was quite flattered, but I have had enough of that sort of thing for one lifetime. And I did find your other…decision fascinating? The [Witches] are not minded to kneecap your other leg, incidentally.”
“We may buy you a drink instead, [Emperor] Godart, lad! I laughed for a good hour this morning!”
Hedag’s voice was so hoarse Laken believed her, but she was in the best of spirits and rescued Pebblesnatch, who was drooling on Gamel’s armor to make him let her go. Everyone turned to Laken, and he even realized Typhenous was here.
The old man seemed querulous today, but even he was murmuring.
“Oh my, oh my. Snow at this time of year? Fascinating. What’s this all about?”
For answer, Laken turned. He was approaching the fields and farmlands, which, as ever, were in full production for the spring. But he spoke.
“Gamel? I think this calls for a Skill. What do you see?”
The [Eye of the Emperor] stopped. He spoke, and Laken felt a flash of cold—but in the distance. Cold, the sensation running down his body, freezing powdery snow, the touch of flakes landing and melting on his skin.
The feeling was intense, but he didn’t shiver; it wasn’t a physical reaction, it was how he experienced snow. Yet he felt it was distant and placed it several hundred feet away, falling from the sky.
As if he could feel the snow Gamel was seeing, and chart its progress down from high overhead, even sense the clouds above. Things Laken had never imagined, but now understood, and understood how vision must be for other people.
Simultaneously, Laken felt-saw cold frost, thick and heavy, on what should have been growing squash. Only it hadn’t killed the fruits; were they ice themselves?
In another field, he sensed an overgrowth of plants, so many he couldn’t have walked forward without getting enmeshed in their vines. They were all ‘brightly colored’; Laken experienced that as a sharp, sour taste in his mouth.
“[My Eyes Described the World I Beheld].”
It was like a thousand experiences, each one in terms Laken understood; the cold feeling of snow, the overgrowth of plants, even the feeling of soil and grass, painting a ‘picture’ in his head equivalent to Gamel’s vision.
What would vision be to a man who had never seen before? Color would be alien. But this…Laken exhaled as he ‘saw’ the snow falling over a field of frosted melons, another a wild surge of plants. Some fields were the same, but they were a patchwork of craziness. And even the totem that had held a shrine to him yesterday was changed. People were gathered around it, and he felt their presence as smell, the physical touch of their clothing, a whisper of voice…
Ah, I do love how this world gives me so many things that I wanted to know. But never, ever in such ways that told him his lack of sight meant he was inferior.
It would have been so banal to give his eyes vision. Yet he didn’t want it, and whomever called the shots understood him.
So Laken drank in his changed lands and smiled.
“What do the Goblinlands look like, Pebblesnatch?”
“Eh. Is lotta pear trees. Everyone is call Raidpear ‘milord’ and bows. He hates it. Is really funny.”
Every head turned to Laken, and the [Emperor] called out, for now a crowd had gathered.
“Well, and it should be! Let it be known that Baron Raidpear is the ruler of the Goblinlands until he should relinquish the title. The profits from their iron and, indeed, the muster of troops is his responsibility under me. I also congratulate Lady Durene, owner of Durene’s Cottage and surrounding lands, Lady Rie, who rules House Valerund and Riverfarm proper—the many nobles of the Fae, whom I am sure will administer their lands well—”
“The what?”
Miss Yesel squeaked, but Laken silenced her with a wave.
“—And of course, our ranking noble at this moment, Margravine Mavika.”
There was a gasp. A flutter of thousands of wings, and Laken felt feathers running below his fingertips, heard-saw the voices of thousands of crows—and the woman herself alighted on the ground.
Strangely, Mavika seemed oddly hesitant today. She shuffled her feet, then spoke in something less like a rasp.
“You…are sure of your decisions, Emperor of Men?”
“If you are of yours; I did offer the rank to Witch Eloise first, but you were my second choice, Margravine. Your rank, incidentally, is ‘Margrave’, just below the two Dukes, who are both fae. To you, I cede the forests and several fields. Which are…those two, I believe.”
Laken pointed, and a visible wince from several [Farmers] and Ram’s moan made him turn.
“…Am I imagining what you’re seeing, Gamel? Or is it really…?”
“Filled with giant worms, Your Majesty? It is. And some twisted plants the likes of which I don’t know—”
“A carrion crow’s due, I have no doubt. We’ll have to see what Mavika’s fields yield. Aside from giant worms. Your duties are very simple, Witch Mavika. Aside from defense of the realm and administration of your lands as you see fit, I will require taxes of your lands. The tithe to you is yours to do with as you see fit, of course.”
Every head swung back from Laken to Mavika, and some of the Riverfarm’s people stood there. Gamel was the first to actually work out what was going on.
“You divided the entire Unseen Empire among the nobility, Your Majesty? Then I’m one of Lady Rie’s subjects?”
“Yes, subject to me, of course. I imagine there will be some effects. From here on out, each shrine in each of my vassal’s lands is for them. If you must thank anyone, thank them. Indeed, where is Ivolethe’s lands? I am going to make an offering right now.”
Laken had gotten one of Frostwing’s feathers, and he made a show of stepping over to the shrine covered in frost. It was cold, and he shivered as he put the feather down, but he swore he felt…something as he did.
“B-but, Your Majesty, some of us are beholden to the—the fae folk! I’ve been assigned to a Ritter Lashinxe!”
Laken turned to Ram with a huge smile on his face. He patted the man on the shoulder.
“I don’t hold the Durene thing against you at all, Ram. Ritten Lashinxe? A splendid vassal of mine. One of the greatest knights of the Unseen Empire. Indisposed, of course; they have a dual allegiance to the King of the Fae. I’m sure it won’t affect your duties unduly.”
“My hair’s gone white.”
“Oh my. Really? Well. You’re the same Ram to me.”
Laken patted the man on the shoulder in a reassuring way. Then he heard a squeal.
“W-w-wait. I’m assigned to her?”
Beatica pointed at Mavika, and Laken beamed.
“Ah, well, it would have been unfair to designate all of Riverfarm to Lady Rie alone; it is so big. So I had to do carve outs…”
There was a shriek, a thud, and Laken stood there. Beaming like the sun shining down. Everyone turned to him as Alevica and her apprentices cracked up.
Part of the reason Beatica might have been so upset was because the changes to Riverfarm weren’t just in the fields or even structural; Laken turned to Gamel.
“Am I right or does she have feathers?”
It was Ram who replied in a strangled voice, feeling at his hair.
“It’s very…fetching, Your Majesty? Like a plume around her neck and across her shoulders. Is—is that something we should expect? Do we have a choice in the matter?”
The [Emperor] decided to humor him and reassure the others.
“Of course, Riverfarm’s folk have a choice. In time, I imagine we will see reshuffling of people with similar results. But each one will change Riverfarm in no small way.”
It was Mavika who responded, voice a bit hoarse.
“I am now [Witch] and ruler of land. A leader of covens I can be no more; I will rule with the oldest of ways. As best I can.”
She seemed to be defending herself not just to the people of Riverfarm and the incoherent Beatica, but to her fellow [Witches]. Laken actually felt bad for Mavika, a bit.
