As there had been in days of old, a [Witch] flew through the night skies, passing over sable forests that whispered and moved like a vast, shifting sea beneath her, dark and roiling with secrets, the ponds and lakes bright eyes staring up at the heavens, filled with the stellar sins only they had witnessed.
Once, they had been filled with magic, trees older than Dragons, stones with voices who spoke of the deeds of Dwarves and Elves. Now, the forests had been cut low, and their ignorant descendants had half-memories and lacked for souls. The memory was fading; even the ground had begun to forget. But the stories retold themselves time and again, and the pointed hat—that too was an old story. One of the oldest.
The [Witch] flew in the face of every tradition she had been taught, her shoes bought from Invrisil’s best Stitch-folk [Shoemaker], an enchanted ring on her finger from Gemsinger, as expensive as her styled hair and clothing no other [Witch] could afford. She carried a wand on each hip, a superior expression on her face, and snacks for stray cats in her rightmost belt pouch.
She had redone every single stitch in her boots in the old way, thrice-made: the wool she had combed herself, the string dipped in the blood of an animal she had butchered out of mercy, and the incantation she had spoken at the witching hour under two full moons.
Her name was Alevica, the Witch Runner. She carried an earring set into the tip of her left shoe, taken from another City Runner whom Alevica had hexed. Her fiancé had hurled the earring in his beloved’s face, and Alevica had taken it, set it into the costly leather, and drawn a sigil out of magic grease and a drop of her enemy’s tears.
Proof against malice. For her other proof against malice, Alevica had a pair of wands made by Archmage Viltach himself. She carried a Runner’s Seal and her deliveries without pride, her hat like a challenge, and the ashes of her mentor, the Great Witch Oliyaya, in a small pendant around her neck.
So she flew, dipping lower and lower over the swaying treetops. Those who looked up saw what was extraordinary: a witch flying by midnight. As it should be. As it so rarely was.
As it might not be—soon. More accurately, she guessed she had fourteen seconds.
“Up! Up, you stupid—nononono.”
Down the [Witch] came, fighting with her broom as it became clearer that her descent was turning into more of a slow crash. The smooth gliding through air turned into a plummeting nosedive, and Alevica took one look at the ground and bailed off of her broom, reaching for her side.
Proof of her riches, at least relative to [Witches], was the magical scroll, which glowed as she held it upright.
“[Featherfall]!”
The spell caught her, suspending her as if she were in jelly and slowing her descent twenty feet above the ground. The broom hit the ground near the road, bouncing off the side of a wagon. A [Driver] taking his goods across the continent. Alevica cursed as she thought she saw the expensive broom lose part of its coat of paint.
Then she saw it bounce and, maliciously or by chance, roll and land in front of the wagon. The driver didn’t notice the object as he gawked at her.
“Hey! Stop! Stop the—”
Crunch. The [Driver] reacted to the sound instantly by halting the wagon, and he shouted at her.
“Hey! If you’re robbing me, I only have a bunch of corn from—”
“My broom!”
Alevica howled. She landed on the road and ran forwards, drawing her wands. Which did look like a robbery. The [Driver] held up his hands, but Alevica took one look at her broom and saw it was neatly split down the center.
She began to curse.
“You stupid, clodbrained, mudroller without eyes or—that broom cost me thirty gold pieces! It was hand-crafted, and you broke it with your stupid wagon—”
It was said some [Witches] could turn the air blue with cursing. Alevica only managed this [Driver]’s ears. She stomped forwards, her beautiful boots picking up dust, as she harangued him by midnight until he drove away.
“I’m sorry! I didn’t see you! You fell on top of me! I have a delivery of Lupp Corn to make!”
“What corn? Hey! Get back here!”
Alevica was picking up her shattered broom and staring at the splintered haft of it when she looked up, then around.
She realized she was in the middle of a road leading south from Reizmelt, by midnight, the blue moon shining down over her head.
The light of the moon made her feel as though she were deep underwater; a road at the bottom of the sea. Only distant trees and the bare dirt path were visible to her. There wasn’t anyone else on the road but the luckless driver. And…she stared at her broom.
“Come back!”
 
——
 
When Alevica got to town, she was footsore from hours of walking, and it was, by her reckoning, perhaps 3 in the morning.
She had no idea which town this was; in all likelihood, she had flown past this one many times and never paused once to ask the name.
But it had a Runner’s Guild, so she stomped into it, startling a sleepy [Receptionist] awake.
“Hey. I need a [Message] sent. Wake up. I’m a City Runner, and I’ve got a problem.”
“Yes? Hello?”
The younger woman fumbled with her spectacles and peered at Alevica. She took in the iconic hat and dress—and Alevica’s scowl—and sat up.
“Are you—”
“Witch Runner Alevica. Get me a [Message] to Riverfarm, a drink of something hot—make that breakfast—and I need a carriage to Invrisil. Now.”
The [Receptionist] gave Alevica the look of someone in the service industry hoping they had a bad fever instead of reality.
“W-what seems to be the matter, Runner Alevica? I can certainly help you with…”
The duty of a [Receptionist] was to help Runners, and City Runners ranked above Street Runners. Still, ordering breakfast and a [Message]—Alevica’s glower brought the [Receptionist] up short.
“My broom got run over by a [Driver]. I’m lodging a complaint with them. I need a [Mage] in this dirt-town to send a [Message] to Riverfarm.”
The [Receptionist] licked her lips.
“We don’t have a carriage service in this town, Runner Alevica. As for a [Message], the Mage’s Guild can help you. Wait, do you mean the place with the [Emperor]?”
Alevica rolled her eyes. By now, she was attracting attention from the other Runners in the guild who were dozing in between runs or here for morning work. Several heads turned her way as she raised her voice.
“Yes, the [Emperor]. The [Emperor] who’ll be upset if I don’t finish my delivery. Now?”
She stared at the [Receptionist] until the young woman, flustered, made a choice and dashed out from behind her counter.
“I—I can see if someone’s awake in the Mage’s Guild for an emergency [Message]. Wait right here, Runner Alevica.”
By the time the panting [Receptionist], an aspiring Street Runner herself, got back, she found Alevica had found a table and chair, put her feet up, and was eating food she’d looted from the Runner’s Guild’s breakroom. Alevica was still glowering and crunching on some bright red corn.
“What the hell is up with all this corn?”
“It’s Lupp Corn.”
“What corn?”
Clearly, Alevica hadn’t heard about the prolific corn that had really helped prices during the winter. She was eating the spicy corn with enough gusto, anyways, and sat up when she saw the sleepy [Mage].
“What’s this about an emergency?”
“I have a message to [Emperor] Laken, Riverfarm. Send to Mister Prost—no, wait. He’s dead.”
Alevica’s face flickered a moment, then grew harder.
“Send to Lady Rie Valerund or [Emperor] Laken. Tell them it’s from Alevica. Message reads: ‘My broom is broken. I’m stuck in’—where are we?”
“Kevaunt.”
“‘—Kevaunt. Wherever that is. Can you direct a carriage my way? Otherwise, I’ll have to ride.’”
The [Mage] copied this down, repeated it once, and hurried off to send the [Message]. The [Receptionist] tried not to stare at her breakfast entering Alevica’s mouth. The Witch Runner yawned.
“That should do it. There’s no possibility of a travel carriage coming through, even if there’s no guild here?”
“No, Runner Alevica. But our city might have a guild. It’s only twenty-six miles from here.”
Not far for a Runner, right? Alevica just snorted.
“I’m not riding twenty-six miles—much less renting a horse! I’ll take a nap. Does this place have an inn?”
An inn? The [Receptionist] was dismayed, but Alevica seemed footsore and tired, and the young woman instantly quoted the Bee’s Knees, a cheap stopover for any Runner. Alevica nodded and got up.
“Fine. Wake me up if my ride gets here.”
She went to stride out of the guild as the lower-level Runners stared at her. Was this how bigshot Runners acted? The [Receptionist] stood there, stung almost as much as the eponymous inn Alevica was bound for, but she managed to console herself.
“What about the delivery, Witch Runner? If it’s priority, we can send it onwards. Will the [Emperor] be fine with a delay?”
She spoke up, trying to sound her most professional. Alevica half-turned, then patted her side where her bag of holding was.
“What, that? It’s just some fancy clothing for a [Lady] in Invrisil.”
Then she strode out of the guild as the [Receptionist]’s mouth dropped open.
 
——
 
The Bee’s Knees was an inn with an owner who was both [Beekeeper] and [Innkeeper]. That turned out to combine into a class called [Buzzkeeper], which Alevica hated.
She hated the name. She hated the huge smile and open-armed welcome he gave people, and she hated the bee-themed motifs sprinkled around the room, including the patterned sheets.
She didn’t even get under the covers, just jumped onto it, boots and all, put her hat over her head, and got forty winks of sleep. When she woke up, she walked downstairs, grabbed a honey mead, and after taking it down with a hot meal, went back upstairs and fell asleep again.
When she awoke—Alevica stared at the ceiling and knew two months had passed since the day Oliyaya, the Great Witch of the Hapis Coven, had died. She could still see her mentor turning to her, face as crooked and twisted as anyone’s image of a [Witch]: warty and horrific, mouth open in a gap-toothed grin, the moment before her head exploded.
Alevica, still bleary, flinched as a part of Oliyaya hit her cheek. She sat up, banishing the image. A swell of merriment and good cheer rose from below, proof the Bee’s Knees was probably a good place run by a friendly innkeeper who was obsessed with honey and liked bees.
The Witch Runner hated it. She reached up as she put her hat on her head, but there was nothing under her hat; hence why she had fallen from the sky.
“Hmph. Time to get more.”
Alevica stomped back to the Runner’s Guild to harvest more of her craft. She should have had a surplus. Whatever. She’d get enough out of them there if the [Receptionist] were still on duty.
 
——
 
She was. The young woman who Alevica didn’t know the name of was at her desk, and she simmered with resentment, anger, and a bit of fear.
All things Alevica drank like a thirsty sailor handed a cup of rum. Not just the [Receptionist]; the entire guild had decided it hated Alevica while she slept, and she took all of it and tucked it under her hat.
This had the dual benefit of charging up her powers and tamping down on the hostility in the room. Now she was filled up with energy, Alevica leaned over the counter.
“Where’s my ride?”
The [Receptionist] didn’t meet Alevica’s eyes; the [Witch] had taken most of the emotions. Not strongly; that was wrong, but enough so that fear should have outweighed the other feelings.
“Your conveyance will be here very soon, Runner Alevica. A reply was sent from the Mage’s Guild to inform you that transport has been arranged. His Majesty of Riverfarm is apparently concerned about your safety.”
“Thanks.”
Alevica injected as much natural sarcasm into that statement as was possible and felt another spike of ire from the young woman, which she drew into her hat again. Alevica was a good witch.
Not a nice one. Nor a caring one. Not even one with a positive reputation, not even among other [Witches].
But she was quite competent. No [Witch], let alone one her age, could fly. She had been trained by the great Oliyaya, and Alevica was Oliyaya’s finest apprentice. Her craft was ire and anger and fear; in short, it was strife. Alevica was very good at collecting and using it.
It should have kept me in the air all the way to Invrisil. Did I not charge it up at Reizmelt, or do they not hate me still? Maybe I have to pick more fights.
Alevica shrugged as she spun to the door and began to march out. She was almost there when someone stuck a foot out, and she tripped and went sprawling.
Laughter broke out from the other Runners, and Alevica hit the ground hard. She got up slowly, and the laughter died down as the [Witch] calmly drew one wand.
“Miss Alevica, no fighting in the—”
The Runner who had tripped Alevica was giving the [Witch] a challenging stare; she was some local Runner brimming with righteous indignation on behalf of the [Receptionist], no doubt. A scrawny farm-girl who wanted to become a Courier, almost literally hay-haired.
Alevica gave her one look up and down while holding a wand worth more than the entire Street Runner, but her main concern was her boot.
She bent down and stared at the earring in her boot. The hex to ward malice was…
“Huh.”
Alevica heard a faint cracking. Dried bits of grease flaked to the floor, and she came up with a very dirty, but still faintly glimmering ruby earring. The Street Runner stared at it as Alevica looked at her hex—then felt at her boots.
“The strings have loosened up.”
It was true; her boots had the slightest give to them when they had been sturdy as rocks for years. It wasn’t just her broom. Alevica felt at her hat, then lifted it off her head.
In view of the other Runners, she stared up inside of it, mystified.
“Empty.”
Alevica checked her hat as if expecting to find a hole. In a way, she did find one. She stood there, turning her hat over and over in her hands, then looked around.
“Damn it. I hate it when Eloise is right.”
That was a non-sequitur. A statement which made no sense to anyone else. Alevica jammed the hat back on her head and glared at no one and nothing.
“I am not a Wiskeria or a Nanette. Boots, behave. Take to my heels with wings upon my feet. Be swift, be fleet. Or else my end I’ll meet.”
A little rhyming charm. [Witch] magic. Even the [Receptionist] was fascinated as she saw Alevica grab something out of the air and flick it onto her boots. They didn’t glow or spark, but she tapped her heels together and sprang back a step, and she moved. As if she were gliding, fast, graceful—
“Five seconds? That’s all I get?”
Alevica stared at her boots, then shrugged.
