“Gnolls, Drakes, and other species too. Drakeish is written different, right?”
Alevica waved that off airily.
“They’re not proper languages spoken anymore. Drakeish is different symbols, but each one’s a letter.”
“Huh. So it’s more like a cipher than…it always struck me as weird the single major language in this world is English. If this world really is tens of thousands of years old, it should have at least a hundred languages, especially given its size.”
That was Laken’s inference as a child of Earth. As a child of this world, Alevica hit back instantly.
“Why? It’s convenient for everyone to have a shared tongue. Why would time lead to so many languages when we all communicate in one? Accents I’ll give you.”
The question stumped the [Emperor] for a second, and he had to reason it out loud until he found the logical fallacy in her assumptions.
“Because…right! You’re correct, actually, Alevica. Earth’s languages might actually be decreasing in number over time, and as globalization becomes more of a thing, some languages are spoken less and less and some are more widely spoken. English, for instance, is very common in Germany; they have to use it given how much of the world speaks English.”
“So I’m right.”
She had a smirk in her voice, and Laken shook his head.
“Only if you assume that each species and people in this world spoke English from the start. Here’s the thing, Alevica: language is invented by the first primitive peoples figuring out ways to communicate verbally. We evolved to speak and made it up; that’s why you get languages. How did people first learn to speak in this world?”
The [Witch] stopped drinking her coffee as she brought over a cup for him.
“They…huh. They were taught?”
“By who? Dragons? Did one species teach the others? What about isolated groups who had no contact with other species until they were found? Why did every single species and nation in this world begin with English? That’s not possible.”
That’s deliberate design. Laken was frowning. The fact that their English was still so close to modern English on Earth was also astounding. There was something here…but Alevica just exhaled.
“Fine, I get it. That’s going to really make it hard for me to learn a new language. But those Hag Queens aren’t from your world. They’re giant frog-women. Not even frogs; I don’t know what they are. Their bodies don’t function like anything from this world.”
“Have you dissected them?”
Laken was drawn into this line of reasoning for a moment. Alevica muttered.
“Outside of the battle? Not much. No one wants to touch them, but even their eyes aren’t normal. You know how normal eyes work? Well, one of the dead hags has a bit of her eye mushed out, and it’s sort of similar, but it has lots of strange tubules instead of…mush. And her pupils are huge.”
Laken shuddered at the image.
“Strange. Wait…wait, this is also useful. Think biologically, now. If the Hag Queens have huge pupils—”
“They’re good at seeing in the dark. Yeah, we got that. What did that Kaligma woman say? ‘Eight swore a pact to me under blackest sun.’ Our best guess is that they lived somewhere really dark. They might have been blinded by the light when they were fighting us, night or not.”
The idea that the Hag Queens had been almost as blind as he was and had still done that much damage made Laken shudder.
“Are they amphibians?”
“Eh…sort of? They have huge throats that inflate; those are like external lungs. There’s a lot that some of the [Witches] are finding out from their bodies, but the most notable thing is that they have a weird doubling of a lot of organs. Even tripling; they have mini-hearts, or what passes for them. They’re smaller than the main organs.”
“Weird. Redundancies?”
The [Witches] might not have been scientists, but they had an impressive understanding of the natural world, and Alevica demurred.
“Mavika has a theory. She thinks it’s actually a defensive mechanism. Like how some toads play dead? If they shut down their big organs, they can reduce their heartbeat and go into stasis. Or hide from something big that’s listening to them.”
Now, Laken had an image of the Hag Queens of Aklat Vunn. Whatever they had become, like Humans, they retained vestigial organs that might have been used in their past, like how Humans had appendices and spleens some people thought had been used to do things like consume bark or whatnot.
His image of the ancestors of the Hag Queens showed him an amphibious species living in pitch-black areas, forced to hide and even play dead as larger predators swam or walked the deeps. Laken shuddered.
“They didn’t wear clothing, right? They had tools. Staff, spellbook—I wonder how advanced that makes their civilization.”
“Is there a correlation between clothing and civilization?”
Alevica shot back. Laken frowned.
“I’d imagine so. Clothing is…a useful protection and social signifier.”
“Spoken like a land dweller. Clothing would weigh down someone in the water and wear down a lot faster.”
Intriguing. Was he being biased and using too much of Earth’s preconceptions to judge this other species? Laken had to admit—
“This is a bunch of fun. Okay, let’s assume they are intelligent, on par with Humans from my world and yours. My worry is that they’re subvocalizing on levels you and I can’t hear, but let’s assume they’re not. Let’s try matching the chants you remember to the incantation the Hag Queen wrote on her chest. That’s our most obvious link.”
Alevica, frowning, paged through the spellbook she’d taken from the stone altar. She had taken precautions; she was using a pair of tongs to flip the pages. It wasn’t exactly as safe as Laken would have hoped, but aside from disease…
Actually, that was a good thought. He swallowed.
“Maybe we should contain the Hag Queens. If they have some pestilence from their world, we could all fall ill. They used sickness in battle.”
“Hm? Oh, that’s what the ward charms are for. Some of the [Witches] can detect sickness, so we monitored them for ages. I was really worried about getting cursed when I first opened the book.”
“And they had neither? That’s sort of hard to imagine.”
The Hag Queens were spiteful. One had cursed Pryde for being beautiful. But Alevica just chuckled darkly.
“Oh, they were cursed to ten hells and back. But we broke through them. Rather easily, actually.”
“Really. Easily?”
Alevica shrugged.
“[Remove Basic Curse] or whatever the Skill is called worked on everything. Weird, huh?”
“Hmm. That doesn’t sound right. Unless…”
Laken lapsed into silence as Alevica frowned at her spellbook. Then he came up with a thought and snapped his fingers.
“—Unless the rules governing them are so foreign that our Skills work differently than they should. What, exactly, did the [Witches] remove when they de-cursed the artifacts, Alevica?”
The Hag Queens were from a different world. One foreign to Earth—but also to this world’s system of levels. Laken would bet both his eyes that the Hag Queens had never set foot on this world before Kasigna had summoned them. Their magic wasn’t just unique like a spell school…
Alevica glanced up suddenly. She frowned at Laken, and the two heard a gasp from the window.
Laken spun, and Alevica jumped in alarm. She thrust open the windows as he groaned.
“How did they sneak up on—?”
“You brats!”
Cirsa and Malluni tried to run, but Alevica grabbed Malluni and hauled her up.
“I told you to sleep! They’re damn nocturnal; they must have noticed you visiting. Go back to bed.”
“Nuh!”
Cirsa shook her head. She leapt onto the windowsill and perched there like a cat, regarding Laken, or so he assumed. He put on his best smile.
“If they’re such a handful and you’re taking care of them, why not let them stay, Alevica?”
“Not anywhere near the spellbook. Hey, Cirsa. Touch it and your hands will fall off. My hat on it. This is not a game.”
Cirsa hesitated; Alevica’s snap in her tone was serious, and even the young [Apprentices] seemed to understand the danger. However, they were curious, and Laken noted the suddenly weary tone in Alevica’s voice.
“I’ll put them to bed or give them a task, Laken. They don’t have the patience to stand around and think on this kind of thing.”
He didn’t want to waste their limited hours. Laken was well aware of the foibles of children, but Cirsa and Malluni gave him the impression of being fiercely interested. Why?
It only took him a moment to realize they had to know what Alevica was doing. Deciphering the secrets of Oliyaya’s murderer had to be a kind of victory for the girls as well. They turned to him silently, and he had an idea.
“Well, maybe they can be helpful. It seems to me we need some consultation here. Malluni, Cirsa, could you run a question to the senior [Witches] for me? And go to the kitchens? I think we need a snack for everyone.”
They brightened up as Alevica glared at him, but she seemed a bit relieved as he stumped over to the table. She snapped at the girls.
“If you’re going to help, you’d better listen to Laken’s instructions. He’s an [Emperor], and I’m your mentor.”
Laken opened one eye, the better to wink at the girls as Alevica glared at him. Then they really got down to the brass tacks, or in the case of the Hag Queens…
The removable skin and the weird eyebrows.
 
——
 
“They have what?”
Laken’s idea to consult with the other [Witches] to pool their impressions paid off. Most [Witches] had a night life, and even the ones who didn’t were able to contribute their opinions—after Cirsa and Malluni woke them up.
A few gifts of food and the two apprentices’ insistence got results. As Laken and Alevica pored over the book—well, she read it, and he gave commentary—they discovered more disturbing factoids.
“Well, well, well. They’ve got clothing after all. Their skin. Sounds like that outer layer might have been something you…put on. Gross.”
Alevica was more amused than horrified. Laken had to admit…it was biologically sound. Especially for creatures who might need watertight clothing.
“Is it—Cirsa, is it artificial skin? Or someone’s actual skin?”
“Witch Quiraka says…it’s knitted.”
The apprentice laughed happily as Laken blanched. He didn’t ask further questions. Alevica, meanwhile, was moving even further back from the spellbook.
“Dead gods. Okay, Malluni? Get back. Tell Mavika I want her best safety-charm for everyone here.”
“Er—something wrong, Alevica?”
The [Witch] had just gotten confirmation on Laken’s other hunch about the curses. [Remove Basic Curse] was a really low-level Skill to work on the Hag Queens’ magic when one had cast a version of [Regeneration] and the others had resurrected insane undead and fought on the level of Named-ranks or above.
Laken had just wanted to know why that was, and apparently, the answer was…
“They definitely removed the curse, Laken. It looks like the curse is some kind of mini-spell. It’s sort of elegant; you make a simple trigger and then you…connect it to the real spell. That’s why [Remove Basic Curse] worked.”
“Oh, like a trigger running to the real bomb.”
That was a fascinating insight into—wait, hold on.
“—Does that mean the real spell is—?”
Alevica swallowed.
“The real spell isn’t active, and I don’t think I can trigger it. But it, uh—no one should break this spellbook. If that releases the spells…”
Laken’s mouth went dry.
“Maybe we should move the Hag Queens and their artifacts? Build a containment facility?”
“I think I’ll propose that to the [Witches].”
Alevica nodded a few times. Yet despite that, she kept reading the book, or rather, scribing things out. Laken noticed her wiping her eyes. He called out as Malluni came racing back with a charm in her hand.
“Still bleeding? Malluni, Cirsa, don’t look at the book. Get Alevica more ink.”
“I’m fine. Once I stare at the stuff I’ve written down, it’s all okay.”
That was another trick they’d uncovered. Laken had been so concerned about Alevica bleeding from her eyes when reading that he’d asked if she could copy down the individual letters rather than keep reading the dangerous incantations.
What they’d found was…when you wrote down individual components, the letters ceased becoming deadly. There was another benefit too. Alevica wrote something down, stared at her writing, and began swearing.
“Okay! I figured out another word!”
Each magical word or incantation had progressively more delirious effects on the mind and body. Cirsa made a sound as she peeked.
“Ow. Ow—”
“Ink and paper. Stare at it again and I’ll make you go bother Mavika.”
Alevica shoved the girl, and Laken spoke.
“Right, now we have a bunch of words that might correspond to the phrases that the Hag Queen spoke for the curse ritual. Do the words correspond to any other pieces of the book?”
“Maybe? Yeah? I can’t pronounce what the Hag Queen said, though.”
“Give me a try.”
Alevica cleared her throat a few times and gave Laken a grunting, rasping bark that made Malluni and Cirsa hoot with laughter. While the Witch Runner chased them around, Laken decided pronunciation was going to be their hardest problem.
The issue, as he saw it in his head, was the alphabet. To his relief, this was an alphabetic system, but Alevica had noted there were not only tonal indicators—she had no idea how some words worked.
“There are forty-one characters. This word here. It’s almost something I can sound out. R-ieigh—the ‘i’ is strange—aeereeeh? But that’s one word—teh-groat.”
“R-eigh-aeereeh-teh-groat?”
It sounded actually fairly mundane to Laken, but Alevica assured him it was the most comprehensible of the Hag Queens’ chanting. She had a better memory than he; it was all a blur of their screams and taunting. Laken frowned.
“Seems straightforward. Can you pin down the pronunciation from each component character for us? Obviously, they’ll change in context, but we can use this as a baseline.”
Alevica was doing just that, trying to write down the phonetic words. The ones she was having trouble with she described as the ‘i’ sound with an umlaut designating how it was supposed to be said—and the ‘aeereeh’ sound.
“I’m not doing it right. This character is all wrong. It looks like two mashed together.”
Laken’s ears perked up. His head rose, and he smiled.
“Wait. Say that again?”
He listened to Alevica describing the character, which she said was like a downwards ‘v’ insect that intersected with an open ‘o’ type character. Laken grinned.
“Aha! Just another reason why non-English speakers have an advantage in this world!”
“Oh, really? What am I missing?”
