The other girl heaved a huge sigh and brought out her spellbook as Alevica went back to combing. She sat there and opened it to the page Alevica had made them study while she went on her delivery. One look told Alevica why the two girls were trying to get out of lessons. It was hard stuff. So she thought for a second, then nodded.
“Sympathy magic. Califor used it to shield all of Riverfarm from undead one time. And stop the wildfire.”
Both girls perked up. Cirsa crept closer, and Malluni sat more readily on the chair as Alevica spoke.
“She had a Cloak of Balshadow, an old one. I saw her swing it across the entire village and cloak it in a moment. That’s sympathy. It’s not boring; Oliyaya would have taught you to…let’s see. She’d probably have you blow out a candle and extinguish a fire that way. But maybe, if we’re lucky, Mavika will give you lessons.”
They liked that. Mavika was another creepy [Witch], which was what Alevica, Cirsa, Malluni, and Oliyaya all fell into the camp of. They believed [Witches] should be feared, in part. Alevica went on, glancing out the window.
“If we’re lucky, she can teach you two how to manipulate an owl with a feather, or maybe move a tree with a leaf from it. Let’s do that after dinner, okay? Now, show me you understand the basics. Sympathy is…?”
She glanced at Malluni, who squirmed, then began to write on the table with a finger. Alevica bent over her.
“Yes. Yes…a small object makes a big one move if the two can be convinced to care for each other. Yes…no. That’s not how it works. Cirsa?”
She busied herself with their hair, then discovered Cirsa might have been eating and brushing her teeth, but she hadn’t bothered to change her dress for the last few days. So they needed washing.
Alevica kept the lesson going and only stopped for the food, which had turned out nicely thanks to her charm. She led the two apprentices out of her hut to find Mavika, who was willing to give them a lesson on convincing mice that a piece of bark was cheese so the owls could pounce on them.
The girls liked that. Alevica then brought them back to their hut and had them both mix small brews using their own blood. Pinprick Potions, which hurt when you drank them like, well, getting your finger stabbed with a needle to draw blood. More sympathy.
Then they had to brush their teeth, wash, sleep—Alevica realized the spiders were getting rampant again and resolved to wipe them out, not that the apprentices minded. She put away the food first, managed to organize one pile by adding to five more, then put her feet up on the table and passed out.
If you had asked her if she enjoyed any of the work today, she would have said absolutely not. Teaching the two apprentices was a pain; Oliyaya always took in the girls who needed her expertise the most, the ones who had lost or been called to the class when no other voices arose.
Alevica hated cleaning. She hated cooking.
But her mentor was dead. Someone had to take care of them.
Alevica slept until sunlight hit her face, and she heard Cirsa scaring the daylights out of their neighbors. Then the [Witch] arose.
And she wondered why people were concerned about her.
 
——
 
As far as Laken could tell, Alevica was stable. As far as he could tell, Yesel was stable. Briganda was the one who was having the most visible difficulty adjusting. Or maybe it was Typhenous, but he didn’t show it, and the [Witches] were helping him in their way.
Those who had lost something on the Solstice didn’t show it in the ways Laken might have expected. He didn’t want them to be filled with visible grief or rage or angst, but it was what he had been primed to expect from his world’s culture.
Instead, they just—worked. Indeed, Alevica dedicating herself to raising Oliyaya’s apprentices had begun the day she’d walked back to Riverfarm to tell them Oliyaya was dead. Laken hadn’t seen tears from the two apprentices, not at Oliyaya’s funeral, nor after.
If Alevica wept when he sensed her sitting at the dinner table in Oliyaya’s home with her feet up—he couldn’t tell, and his ‘vision’ was more and more precise these days. He didn’t mean to be a voyeur, but since his powers didn’t have an off-switch, he had learned to accept what he knew.
Such as Typhenous and Eloise seeing something of each other. Was that therapy as [Witches] practiced it? Or was it just…interpersonal?
Laken didn’t know. He didn’t ask, and he certainly brought it up with no one. He was concerned about those who had been bereaved.
Prost was dead.
Miss Yesel and his family were not. As Laken was walking around the village with Gamel in the morning, greeting people who called hello to him, he noticed Miss Yesel heading his way, so he switched streets.
She followed him. Laken turned left, then right. Then he did a hop down a side alley. Then it became clear she was definitely following him.
Playing hide-and-go-seek or even tag with someone who knew where you were at all times was very hard, as the children and Pebblesnatch had learned. But Yesel knew Riverfarm as well as Laken, and she couldn’t miss the calls. He stopped and nodded to her.
“Miss Yesel. Good morning.”
“Your Majesty. I hope I’m not interrupting. I just wished you to know that I’m back to organizing my section of Riverfarm. Lady Rie was very understanding about my time off, but I have work to do. I trust that is acceptable?”
Her voice was calm, polite, with an attempt at being what Riverfarm’s folk thought of as ‘refined’, which was enunciating their words and elevating their tones a bit. Laken nodded.
“Of course, Miss Yesel. If you need more time…”
Since Prost’s death? But the woman just shook her head.
“There’s nothing to do with myself but work and take care of the children. It will be good for me. Just—please continue to give me directions as needed, Your Majesty. What with the sewers and plumbing and all the other issues, I’m at your disposal, or Lady Rie’s.”
Lady Rie was acting as the functional steward. Laken inclined his head again, but hesitated.
“I wouldn’t want to call upon you too heavily, Yesel—”
“Your Majesty. Please don’t push me away. Prost meant everything to us, and I know he meant so much to you and Riverfarm—please let us continue.”
That drew Laken up short. His avoidance of Yesel—no, not avoidance; he’d tried to be kind at every moment, and helpful, and he had been guilty—he realized it was probably a disservice.
So he took a breath.
“If you would like to stand in the throne meetings as a representative of Riverfarm, Miss Yesel—”
“If you’d like, Your Majesty. I don’t have Prost’s insight.”
That was neither yay or nay, but Laken made a swift decision.
“Then I will ask you to, and to share your opinion. And I won’t avoid…putting responsibilities in your lap, Yesel. But do tell me if they’re onerous.”
“I will, Your Majesty.”
He nodded, and he thought she smiled; she certainly bowed, and Laken stood there afterwards.
“I have been avoiding Yesel, I suppose. It was my fault. Alevica—just is too busy. Gamel, what does she look like?”
The [Knight], who was ever-present, spoke quietly to the [Emperor].
“She seemed grateful, Your Majesty. I believe she was more worried you would refuse.”
“No, not that. How does she look?”
One of Laken’s enduring curiosities was sight. Not sight-sight; he didn’t care if someone’s hair was blue, except if that was somehow unique. Beauty, ugliness, he didn’t understand it. But how they looked was more than appearance. Gamel took his time replying, used to the nature of the question.
“She seems like a single mother, Your Majesty. Strained. Keeping up good appearances. She seemed—as if you could have held the bridge on the river up on her back.”
Laken exhaled.
“Like that?”
“Yes, sire.”
“I thought you’d see cracks. I thought…Prost pushed me out of the way. He saved me. Is she angry? Is she proud of him? What is she?”
He couldn’t understand it. After a long while, the [Knight] murmured.
“I think she misses him, Your Majesty. More than anything else.”
“I see. That makes sense. And Alevica?”
“Busier still, Your Majesty. Impatient, when you met her yesterday.”
Another nod from Laken.
“And Briganda? Typhenous?”
“—Better, Your Majesty? As well as you can be? In both cases, along with grieving or…relieved, I would say.”
The [Emperor] rubbed at his face with one hand. Relieved?
It was part of his fascination, his obsession to know why.
 
——
 
Briganda was sewing a new shirt up when Laken checked on her, and Typhenous was sitting on a bench as Cade, Briganda’s child, ran around with other children about the new playground. It was supposed to be child-safe, but there was always a parent watching.
Not interfering with the fun; children dashed from slides to a sandpit to swings, all the traditional things in a park. The weird, magic stuff would come later. Laken had asked the [Witches] for help, and while this was more of a [Mage] thing, they had ideas.
Both adventurers looked up when Laken approached. Briganda rose, and Typhenous began to, then just leaned on his staff. Briganda spoke brightly.
“Your Majesty, can we help you? Is there news about Revi?”
“No, no. Nothing about Revi. I was just…checking in on you two. Are you sewing today, Briganda?”
The [Shield Maid] held up the cloth, not that Laken could see it, but Gamel made an approving noise that didn’t sound forced.
“I have [Advanced Stitching] and [Craft: Supple Clothing]. I never could do more than sew up a travel bag, but it looks fine now. I might be able to do that for a living, Miss Yesel says, Your Majesty. Cade loves the clothing. It’s something I can make for him now…”
Her voice trailed off, and Laken filled in the gap.
“Now your combat Skills are gone? Beniar and Wiskeria couldn’t unearth any synergies out of your class?”
“Not really.”
Briganda murmured, her tone altering faintly. She sat down slowly as Laken sat at the table with Typhenous. The old man was watching Cade play, Laken guessed from the position of his head. Briganda’s voice was forcibly cheerful.
“I guess I didn’t get lucky with my [Shield Maid] Skills. There’s a lot of defensive stuff, still. But no…well, my axe Skills are just gone. I could pull my weight in a fight, but I think I’d fall behind other Gold-rankers. Maybe it’s what I wanted. Now, I don’t have a choice.”
A bitter tone entered her voice, but it was replaced by a laugh of chagrined affection as her son ran over.
“Mom! I fell!”
He had indeed. Laken had noticed him go splat, but little Cade was tough. Apparently, there was an issue though, because Laken smelled something foul.
“Cade. Right in a horsepat? Hold still.”
The [Emperor] was about to edge away politely when Briganda put down the needlework, lifted a towel she probably kept just for Cade-purposes, and swung it around him.
“[Wardrobe Change]!”
Laken couldn’t tell if anything had happened, but the smell was gone, and the faint exhalation Gamel made told him something had altered.
“Did she just switch Cade’s clothes?”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Handy. A very [Maid]-like Skill. Briganda bundled up Cade’s clothes with a sigh.
“Don’t fall in the poop again, Cade.”
“Yes! I’ll try!”
And off he went, pretty much exactly where he’d fallen the first time. Briganda turned to Laken, embarrassed and amused.
“It’s like I levelled up twenty times. So many new Skills that I can’t keep track of them, and I keep finding ways to use them, Your Majesty. If it weren’t for losing all my axe Skills, I’d call it my birthday. I have other Skills, mostly like that. It’ll probably be more useful than me being able to hack up a zombie.”
Now that she was retired, she meant there was little call for her as an adventurer. Griffon Hunt was functionally disbanded.
Halrac was dead. Ulrien was dead; the rest of her team was scattered, save for Typhenous. Briganda could—had to be a mother.
Yes, she did sound relieved. Not just because her class had been altered by the arrow Halrac had tried to use on Kasigna. Laken turned to the silent [Mage].
“Typhenous? How are you doing?”
“Hm? What’s that?”
The old man jerked and seemed to wake up. Laken realized he hadn’t been listening in quietly; he’d been dozing. He looked around, collected himself as Briganda whispered to him, and responded.
“I’m grand, Your Majesty. Simply…no new word from Revi?”
“None.”
“Good, good. Then she’ll be fine. She’s quite a tough girl. In good company with that Badarrow fellow. Chasing after her won’t do much good by myself. And I think…”
His voice trailed off. Everyone waited, but Typhenous only murmured after a good minute of silence.
“Yes. I think it’s a pleasant day.”
Laken didn’t need Gamel shifting next to him, nor the way Briganda changed the subject quickly to talk about her new cleaning Skills, to read the room. It felt like something had vanished from the two remaining members of Griffon Hunt.
Ambition? Drive? Spirit? Typhenous was nodding off, and Briganda was forcibly cheerful, but Laken didn’t change his opinion of them.
“…It is relief. They’re relieved. But why?”
He walked off and studied them in his mind’s eye as Cade ran over to his mother, and it took Laken a while to figure out a hypothesis. When he had it—it twisted the knife in his chest.
“Ah. Perhaps it’s because the worst has happened.”
Halrac was dead. Their team was well and truly over, unless they got Revi back, and they would have still had to recruit someone else. The last time Griffon Hunt had schismed, it had been due to Typhenous the Plague Mage accidentally causing a regional crisis.
The worst had happened.
It was neither’s fault. Typhenous seemed to be succumbing to old age with alarming rapidity, and Briganda seemed like she’d hung up her axe.
It was all—incredibly bitter to Laken. Did he blame Lyonette? No. Could he blame The Wandering Inn when everyone had been warned of the costs? Not entirely. Laken of all people knew the costs.
But could he still, privately, hold Erin Solstice and Kasigna to account? For right or wrong, their war had cost everyone too much. Too much.
Erin might have had every good reason in the world to make her stand. But Laken was loath to take out another loan in the future. And yet…
It wasn’t like there was nothing to do. Quite the opposite. Gamel broke off from a whispered conversation with one of his underlings. The [Knight] tugged at Laken’s sleeve as he checked on the three groups who remembered the dead as spring began.
“Your Majesty. There’s been another clash. House Tellis this time. Arson. Three buildings in a town and two fields torched and five dead in the fighting afterwards, according to House Artien.”
