“And they thought that was an appropriate message to send?”
“If the goal is to kill any Vampire you want…why not? Vampires have torched House Byres and killed more than one group trying to hunt them. The Order of the Clairei Fields has pledged to rid Izril of ‘taint’.”
“After three of their number were killed while attempting to investigate Vampire rumors, Your Majesty.”
Gamel hastened to add that clarification, but Laken just shook his head.
“It’s getting worse. When the Order of Solstice helped the first wave get away, I thought it would subside. ‘How many Vampires could there be?’”
He gave a harsh laugh. Partly at Delanay d’Artien and the most anti-Vampire groups. They had probably thought the same thing. How many Vampires could there be these days?
A lot, it turned out. And each time one group found a bunch of Vampires or got slaughtered while investigating, the anti-Vampire crusade seemed to grow in strength. It was one thing for a few people to be found or to hear rumors of an old foe you barely remembered. Another to hear three [Knights] had been found with their heads planted on pikes, drained of blood.
Where did Laken land in this entire conflict? Well…he carefully avoided looking at Lady Rie. She wasn’t exactly uncomfortable when the Vampires were brought up, but she had been transformed by a rite rather similar to the bloodsucking creatures. She professed no need for blood after becoming an agent of the Circle of Thorns—even if she was still loyal to Riverfarm as far as he could tell—but the similarities were there.
Rie wasn’t in immediate danger; she could hold a bar of silver all day long for fun. Rather, Laken was well aware of the mythos of Vampires. Powerful, bloodsucking monsters with the ability to fly, shapeshift, hypnotize…
It didn’t seem to square with the conflicts now spreading across Izril’s north. Laken closed his eyes.
“It seems like House Tellis have opened their doors to more arson attempts and more attacks on their land. Once any area weeds out Vampires, they come under attack. Pellmia and House Quellae lost half an orchard to whoever chopped the trees down in the night. It seems to me that if these Vampire Hunters come calling, we should find a good reason to refuse them.”
“Or else Riverfarm becomes another target. But do you have a verdict on the nature of this old threat, Your Majesty? We [Witches] remember them quite well. I do not agree that this approach led by Delanay and the most ardent and alarmed groups is wise. But I can say the Nights of Blood were an intensely terrible time in Izril’s history that rivals the Reign of Dragons and the Selphids’ Domination of Form.”
Eloise’s voice was careful. Laken scowled at nothing in particular.
“I don’t doubt it. What do I think? I think…I would be a fool to think of them as monsters.”
Especially if Erin thinks they’re people. I should listen to her. And at the same time—he glanced sideways.
“What does the Hedag think?”
Hedag made a soft sound.
“Aye, I’ve been wondering that myself. I have been turned from villages time and time again, and that is a Hedag’s duty to accept or to mete their justice where they wander. Now I wonder which ones needed or wanted me not and which feared what I might uncover. I know the stories. But this rooting of men and women and children…”
She leaned on her axe.
“I’d go wandering north if I could, Your Majesty. But I am old. And to hear Mavika tell it, like as not I’d end up spitted on a [Knight]’s lance. I am a Hedag alone and meeker than those that came before. Not with axe may I make my case, and the like who hunt Vampires…”
“…Don’t have any love for [Witches]. Damn. Is that why we’re getting more and more?”
Witches were continuing to come to Riverfarm, and Laken just bet that a group of highly suspicious men and women waving around stakes, fire, and silver weren’t attractive to [Witches] either.
“If this spreads, it may become a hysteria. First Vampires, then [Witches] and classes less…desirable. It would not be the first time, Your Majesty. I hope this paranoia does not spread. And I would hope that cooler heads prevail. There are enough, even now, among the Five Families and lesser houses.”
Eloise’s comment made Laken nod. The [Emperor] turned his head sideways.
“Rie. I hate to ask it of you after your last visit, but would you have time to ride north and have a very confidential word with Gralton?”
“Of course, Your Majesty. I can be there and back in four days. Faster if I can get a magical carriage.”
That was fast. But Lady Rie seemed to not need as much sleep, and she could hop in a saddle and ride day and night with little effort.
She and Durene are in far better shape than I am. I can’t ride for more than an hour before my butt wants to kill me. What I wouldn’t give to have a moment with Durene.
Laken hadn’t seen her in a week, and she’d been gone a long while before that as well. The Order of Solstice. Of course, she’d had good reasons to be helping out and be abroad so much. But was it too much to ask for a moment to themselves?
Otherwise, Laken would start inappropriately fantasizing about what certain people might feel like clothless. And it didn’t help when his power was the ultimate voyeur’s ability.
He dragged his mind away from that subject, especially since the [Witches] were here and could probably tell exactly how he felt, which—great. Laken focused on someone he definitely didn’t want to see naked and, at this moment, didn’t think he wanted to see at all.
“Yitton Byres has gotten his mines open, then.”
“He seems to have dug a new shaft. It isn’t producing much silver, but enough. And I rather suspect House Byres had a surplus of silver.”
“And he’s sent how many people to help with Delanay’s hunts?”
“At least a hundred. I believe he’s one of the reasons House Tellis would have allowed the intrusion into their lands. He is well respected.”
Yitton Byres. That quelled any lewd thoughts Laken had at the moment. He was surprised—well, not surprised after the first few times he’d heard Yitton helping with the hunts. But he was disappointed, even now.
It made sense. House Byres was a traditional foe of Vampires. They knew the legends, and it was probably Vampires who’d attacked their home in revenge for…well, being House Byres. Laken could not fault Yitton for fearing and hating his foe.
If it was fear and hate, Laken would have understood. But there was a cynical part of Laken’s mind that doubted it. He had met Yitton, hosted him and his wife and his people before they had headed north with a sizable guard to try and rebuild.
Laken had never seen Yitton Byres lose his temper, not in war against the Goblins, and not even with the Vampires. He had been shocked, astounded, hurt, angry, grieving—but this all smacked to Laken of something he really didn’t like.
“Say, Lady Rie. When you were negotiating with the Dwarves…did House Byres come up? They’re not nearly as large as the Dwarves for smithing, but…”
Lady Rie’s voice was cautious as she responded. Perhaps wondering how he’d take it.
“As a matter of fact, Your Majesty, the Dwarves actually invoked House Byres by informing us they could make, ah, silver-laced metalwork if we had an order for that specialty. Not as strong as their Dwarfsteel by far, but I gathered they made the proposal given the extraordinary number of orders for the metal coming from House Byres.”
“I. See.”
He really did, despite the eye thing. Laken saw what Yitton did: an opportunity. Yes, House Byres had incurred great losses this winter, such that they’d had to borrow help from friends, and Yitton’s own son had gone to the New Lands to earn gold.
But what was better for the small noble house than a sudden demand for silver, especially silversteel armaments? Those hadn’t been popular for millenia. But now the old foe was back…
“He can’t be that mercantile. He can’t. I’m sure he just thinks the Vampires are a threat. If he was stoking those fears…well, Vampires are real and about.”
It just left a bad taste in Laken’s mouth. Yitton had petitioned him twice, not for security or food, but for any [Miners] or [Smiths] that Laken could spare. They were allies; Laken had obliged him once and then regretfully declined.
But dead gods, he never had guessed he’d regret trusting Yitton Byres of all men. Laken sat there a while, then pushed himself up.
“Alright, let’s talk about armies and whether we can afford that kind of metal. It’s expensive to even maintain a new group of [Riders]. Horses, gear…you have an hour to talk me into it, Rie. Then I get to go to an auction. Either way, I’m going to be counting coins.”
 
——
 
Laken attended the Meeting of Tribes’ expo, but he didn’t really buy much. Correction: he bought nothing. He had a mind to buy something, especially when Gamel described the plane pieces to him and Laken realized what had been found.
But after listening to the bidding, Laken had swallowed his tongue and his pride and slunk away to the ‘I have not enough gold’ corner. At least he hadn’t been stabbed like that poor Stitch-man.
One of Laken’s Skills was [King’s Bounty], which ensured he never became poor. Rie had theorized that they might use the Skill to generate gold forever; what if he kept tripping over bags of gold every time he used his last gold piece?
On the other hand…what if he didn’t? Beggaring the Unseen Empire to try that out wasn’t on Laken’s priority list.
“Gold, soldiers, trouble with my neighbors…I wish I had perfect answers for any of it.”
Laken muttered to himself after the auction had closed. It was very exciting for people with eyes; he had spent the entire time and the hour afterwards explaining to Tessia and the [Engineers] what he thought the Gnolls had made. Laken didn’t know quite how batteries worked, or some of the other inventions, but he could give the [Engineers] pointers.
The blunt truth was that he didn’t have as many earth-shaking Earth technologies in his pocket. He didn’t have a mountain of gold buried under his feet—at least, that he could tell—and perhaps most crucially of all…he didn’t have a mysterious ally telling him what would happen.
It felt a bit like Laken had been in easy-mode, despite all the trials of last year. He had had…Tamaroth’s help. The god had told him exactly what was going to happen, armed him in ways Laken could have never anticipated on his own. For instance, knowing how to save Rie from becoming an agent of the Circle of Thorns? Priceless.
But Tamaroth was now gone. Which was great, truly—and yet it meant Laken was now struggling. Heck, he’d even take Ryoka’s help if she came back, even if it meant another punch to the gut.
“Damn. The fae. I could really use them here too.”
All the fortune that had rained down on him—and the misery—had become a normality that wasn’t that bad. Riverfarm was doing well. It was just, in the back of Laken’s mind, he kept asking himself.
What about next time? 
He wasn’t the only one either.
It was probably why Durene insisted on hanging out with her new companions so much, the Order of Solstice. She was a [Paladin] and now a member of the new group of [Knights] who were the embodiment of valor and bravery. Normen was a hell of a man, Laken would be the first to state—he’d gone after the Bloodfeast Raiders and been burned alive to save as many people as possible.
It just felt like it had continued the trend of him and Durene drifting apart. It wasn’t just seeing each other less. Durene had her own life that seemed to intersect with his more safe one less and less.
All of this was why, late that night, a disconsolate [Emperor] wearing a chicken hat walked through the slumbering town. There were, of course, people on the night shift, but he avoided them by using his senses to change streets. His only companion was Gamel, and the [Knight] was steadfastly silent and loyal.
“I won’t be long. Wait here, would you?”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
The two came to a stop outside of a cottage set decently far out from the town itself in a more suburban setting than the close-knit town proper. Laken knocked once on the door, and after hearing no response, opened it.
He reasoned that with all these damnable, unsolvable, weighty matters hanging over his head, he might as well deal with the things he could affect. And at least one of the people he could actually help; he didn’t know what to do about Briganda or Typhenous. He was going to have dinner with Miss Yesel and her family tomorrow.
Maybe the chicken hat would make Chimmy and Finnon smile. But in this particular case…Laken felt like his presence might be needed. He was almost sure that even the other [Witches] had no idea what was going on. Thus, he called out as he entered the hut, trying not to trip on the piles of whatever-it-was Oliyaya had owned.
“Witch Alevica, do you have time for a word?”
 
——
 
Alevica had spent all day cleaning Oliyaya’s house and trying to make sure the two unruly young [Witches] were getting a proper education. It wasn’t like they ran around all day. They only ran around half the day; the other half, they were in an older [Witch]’s care or Alevica’s.
They had to learn witchcraft, and they did, but the two had quirks. Cirsa and Malluni’s desire not to speak, or to communicate in ear-splitting shrieks, meant you needed a patient [Witch] who wouldn’t rise to their provocations.
And there were so many things a young [Witch] needed. Alevica wondered if anyone was taking care of Nanette. She’d put away her hat, but had anyone helped her sew up her own boots, taught her how to make a safety charm, or write down recipes in her spellbook? Did anyone make sure she had a handkerchief that was clean or check to make sure she was eating three meals a day?
Hate cleaning. Hate sewing. Hate putting scar cream on Cirsa. I’d better make sure Witch Voneng is making a new batch. And that the next time I go, someone helps her put it on. I hate cooking…wait, what should I make tomorrow?
Something with tomatoes. They like bloody-looking stuff. Oliyaya used to cook eyeball dumpling stew. We’d sit outside and make people shriek while we ate it.
Her hat was almost empty. Alevica had diagnosed the problem: it couldn’t hold spite anymore. Something had changed in her. The same emotions she used to love provoking in other people no longer stayed under her hat. They no longer…mattered to her.
She simply had to find what mattered, then. Simple. In the meantime, Alevica could harvest other emotions; they just had a half-life and half-power compared to her craft.
