One of the scrawnier-looking men was heaving on one of the heavy beams, trying to lift it with a partner. It had to weigh at least two hundred pounds; it was heavier than he was, and Durene was about to help out to avoid him dropping the entire load on his foot. But then he slapped his forehead.
“Dead gods, I’ll forget my own head next. One second.”
Then he plucked a pair of gloves from his belt, donned them, and lifted the entire beam of wood with a grunt that said it was heavy—but doable.
Durene blinked. Beycalt gave the man a severe look.
“Break a leg because you didn’t put those Gloves of Strength on and I’ll break the other one, Madsam. Get the timber over to the inn, prompt!”
“Aye, Beycalt. We’re on it.”
Gloves of Strength? He was the only one who had them; the other four men had to work in teams of two, and Durene pointed as Beycalt turned to her.
“We’re making artifacts now? Who made those?”
Beycalt looked very pleased with herself, and she showed Durene a similar set of gloves, albeit with lovely, green-dyed leather and padded interiors.
“One of the new [Witches] collects satisfaction in her hat. Witch Quiraka. She’s one of the Great Witches like Eloise; she offered to make several artifacts for a special house. I got three sets of gloves. Well, she made four; I had to give up one pair to Beniar.”
Durene wondered if Normen or Jewel would want some. And she wondered why more cities didn’t invest in [Witches] if this was what they could do.
Then again, there were downsides; Beycalt grimaced as she leaned over.
“Quiraka is getting a three-story ‘house’ out of all this. More’n more powerful [Witches] are showing up, each one in a different coven. Remember how Eloise warned us some didn’t get along, like Oliyaya and Agratha?”
“Yes…don’t tell me they’re that bad. I mean—were that bad?”
Beycalt laughed a touch sadly.
“That bad? I had to have a team scrub the street outside of a mess hall. Another of the [Witches] heard Quiraka paid for a big house, and the two had a screaming match. They shouted so many insults at each other the air turned blue and stained the street! That’s fun enough, I suppose, and the markings come off with a lot of soap.”
Throw in [Witch] pranks and the tendency for people to buy curses along with charms or just the penchant for the hatted women to do odd things, like Mavika and her crows, and you got a city of people who were a bit careful about magic.
But respectful. No one had forgotten Califor’s saving of the city, and Belavierr was the reminder of what a really bad [Witch] looked like. [Witches] weren’t always embraced with open arms; Durene knew that some people spat when they saw them or avoided them like the plague, moving to other settlements in the Unseen Empire to get away. But the [Witches] seemed to be able to live with this because they had a place to be.
And if they can do it, shouldn’t I? Durene inhaled the smell of baking, the feeling of this growing city, and smiled. Right up until Beycalt nudged her.
“You should get going, Durene. His Majesty’s definitely going to be happy to see you.”
One suggestive raise of her eyebrows and Durene was back to piqued. She tried not to frown, but Beycalt’s next words drew it out of Durene.
“Plus, he’s been hanging around Witch Alevica all day long. Not that I’m suggesting—but better to have a real Riverfarmer by his side than her, eh?”
Was that comment meant to inspire Durene to rush to Laken? Alevica? Durene couldn’t even imagine the two being romantic. She frowned at Beycalt, who seemed to think Durene had taken the wrong impression.
“He’s not laid a hand on her! I’m just saying—”
“I get it. Thank you, Beycalt. I’ll see Laken as soon as I see him.”
Durene was half tempted to walk to her cottage to check on Frostwing and Bismarck; Gamel took care of the two animals, but she missed them. However, before she had gotten a street over, someone else found her.
“Durene!”
“Miss Yesel!”
Uh oh. Durene tried to smile at the woman who had lost her husband, but Yesel didn’t want pity. She gave Durene a brisk smile.
“Laken’s in the fields inspecting the, ah, totems. Hurry on over; he’s clearly missed you. Enough so that Witch Alevica is making eyes at him. And Lady Rie is up to her tricks. I’ll suggest he clears his schedule today.”
“Oh, throw me into bed with him, why don’t you? Hello, Miss Yesel, the Order of Solstice is fine.”
Durene was shocked by the words that came out of her mouth. So was Yesel, and the woman actually stopped, mouth open, with a load of laundry in hand.
“Why, Durene. You sound like you want them to steal a march on you.”
“With Laken? He’d never do something like that! And Alevica would make advances on Laken after trying to charm—Jelov!”
Durene snapped back. She chose the [Carpenter] out of maliciousness, and both she and Yesel heard a surprised grunt.
“Really? I have that much of a shot?”
Jelov smoothed back what remained of his hair and the [Carver] straightened his dirty jacket with great satisfaction. Durene opened her mouth, but Yesel swiveled back to her.
“No one is suggesting His Majesty would be anything less than himself, Durene. I’m just pointing out that they’re quite attractive ladies, and he is an [Emperor]. They have lots of wives, some of them. Harems in Chandrar, you know.”
Durene blamed herself for talking this out with the Order of Solstice. Otherwise, she wouldn’t have made the mistake of making a comment. And she wouldn’t be so—
Annoyed.
She knew Yesel meant well.
For her or Riverfarm?
Durene knew that the woman was just doing what she thought was best.
Even if it never means best for me.
The [Paladin] tried. She really did, but for one of the first times in her life, she folded her arms and spoke.
“Firstly, Laken is blind. He doesn’t care what the two look like because he can’t tell. He likes a charming voice more than anything else. Secondly, harems are a myth that people made up about other nations that exaggerate what actually happens. Laken told me all about it.”
Yesel was so astonished that she just stood there for a second, then reddened and said in a hurt tone that Durene couldn’t believe was coming from her—
“I apologize, Durene, I just thought you wanted help with your relationship with Laken.”
“My relationship—”
Durene bit back the rest. She realized people were staring at her, then turned.
“I think I’ll talk to him right away. I’m sorry, Yesel. I’ll go right now.”
She had been on the fence, then deciding she was overreacting. Being back for five minutes in Riverfarm? She saw Yesel frowning at her, and Durene shook her head.
Maybe it was his class. Maybe it was just how they had built him up. But the people of the Unseen Empire hadn’t just put Laken on a pedestal; they were building statues of him.
Quite literally, as it turned out.
 
——
 
Laken Godart was inspecting something in his fields when Durene marched over, trying not to glare at the way everyone smiled when they saw her. Ram had been crushing a hat in his palms, but he ushered her forwards like he was already imagining she solved everything.
That was it, Durene realized. It wasn’t just the getting-into-bed thing. It was just her and Laken being a couple. If they were good together, why not more of that?
Alright for Laken; no one told him what to do. Everyone told good old Durene what to do.
“Durene.”
Laken knew she was here. Of course he did. He smiled and rose from where he was feeling with his fingertips at a huge totem of wood in the ground. It was planted deep and twelve feet tall; the wood was carved with symbols of eyes, little Winter Sprites, a village—and a man with a crown that Durene supposed was meant to be Laken.
The totems, dubbed ‘The Emperor’s Eyes’ by people, were all over the Unseen Empire. They marked Laken’s control and allowed him to ‘see’ in a wide area around them.
Making them was as simple as having some of the [Carpenters] or [Carvers] work on them and then planting them in the ground. They still had requirements like Laken having to own the area; he couldn’t do this somewhere another noble or city owned the land. But they were effective.
Here was the thing: this particular totem had additions that Laken had clearly only noticed today. He didn’t ‘see’ everything.
“I was just inspecting the…shrines people have begun putting up. To me, apparently.”
Laken’s voice was dry, which Durene knew meant he was annoyed. He gestured, and Durene didn’t have to look to see the little pile of colorful stones, the wicker dolls of him, garlands of flowers, all lovingly arranged in front of the pole.
“Your Majesty, it’s just a small thing. If someone finds a gold coin in the soil or takes a tumble but doesn’t get hurt—”
“I’m not the one saving them, Mister Ram. I dislike the practice intensely. I dislike the precedent. How many more of them are there? And why didn’t anyone bring it up? Durene, how was your trip?”
“Because they thought you knew. The Order of Solstice is fine, Laken.”
Durene stepped forwards into place beside Laken and forestalled Ram’s response. He gave her an odd look, but Laken paused.
“—It looks like a mound of soil or whatnot around the totem unless I focus. There are…they’re everywhere.”
His voice was getting peeved. Durene didn’t quite get the issue.
“People want to show their appreciation, Laken. They have miniature totem-things in their houses. What’s wrong with this?”
“It’s close to worship. And [Emperor] I may be, but my ego isn’t that large.”
“You could have fooled me. What’s the problem? And can I go?”
Another voice. Not all of the court was here today. Rie was actually absent for once, and the [Witches] only showed up for weighty matters. It was Ram, Gamel, one of Rie’s people, and a dozen others.
A ‘small’ gathering these days. The odd one out was Alevica, who got a glare from all present. She looked sleepy; actually, Laken did too. He turned to her.
“If you wish, Alevica. I’ll find you at dinner maybe?”
“I have to make some for Cirsa and Malluni.”
Alevica replied instantly, and Laken waved a hand.
“Why don’t I have someone make food for everyone? Gamel, take an order for the [Chef] to make what they like. And we can go over the phonetics then—Durene, Alevica’s doing some translation of other languages. Isn’t it exciting?”
“Yep. Exciting.”
Durene and Alevica exchanged glances. They didn’t really like or hate each other; Durene didn’t like how Alevica bullied Charlay, whom Durene was friends with, but they had been through a lot. Alevica gave Durene a sardonic look and rolled her eyes skywards.
Ram seemed to be keen on gesturing to Alevica behind the [Witch]’s back, then at Laken, as if to indicate the impropriety of someone edging into Durene’s relationship. The [Paladin] ignored him as Alevica chewed over Laken’s offer.
“Fine. See you later.”
She stomped off. Durene distinctly heard someone call out in a too-friendly voice.
“My oh my, Alevica! Fancy seeing you here. I was thinking we should go for a walk—”
“Piss off, Jelov. Not interested.”
“Ah.”
Laken turned back to the shrine around his totem pole, his problem of the day.
“Tear it down, Ram.”
“But, Your Majesty—”
“Take it down. I don’t want worship. If people get lucky, it is not me.”
“Maybe it is you. You are an [Emperor]. Don’t you have Skills that affect your entire nation? Like [Empire: Minor Blessing of Luck]?”
Everyone stirred as Durene spoke, and the glower she got from Laken told her that he had hoped she wouldn’t bring that up. Ram’s eyes lit up, and Laken growled.
“—I don’t need this. Pull them down.”
“They’ll just put them up somewhere else, Laken. It won’t stop them. You can’t stop them from being proud of you or doing the worship stuff. You might as well embrace it.”
“I am not looking to be a Pope.”
Laken’s voice rose, and as always, he turned to her and modulated his tone. He’d shout at anyone else in the world. Except for her.
“You get it, don’t you, Durene? Being an [Emperor] is one thing. This cult of personality is closer to that of a despot.”
He’d told her all kinds of stories and parallels of his world, historical and current. Durene got Laken’s reservations. She just turned her head and stared pointedly at Gamel.
“I think, Laken, it’s too late for that.”
Laken could at least tell where she was looking. He frowned at his [Knight] as Gamel shuffled his feet and gave Durene a warning glare, but she was making full use of her status as Laken’s concubine or partner or whatever she was in their eyes.
“…What is it?”
Durene leaned over and whispered in his ear.
“Ask Gamel if he’s changed his armor.”
She had the great, immense satisfaction of seeing Laken’s brows knit together in confusion. Yes, the things he didn’t know—the little ways his own subjects lied to him.
 
——
 
It was just a stylized set of armor embossed with a huge, closed eye. Good steel, courtesy of Master Helm, made when Laken had given the [Smith] his [Golden Yield]. Gamel had a sword and shield that Rie had found an [Enchanter] for.
The bare minimum for a bodyguard of an [Emperor]. Yes, the armor was dark black and the eye was embossed with gold to make Gamel look more intimidating.
Naturally, he’d told Laken he’d levelled up in the last battles on the Solstice; everyone who’d participated had.
“[Eye of the Emperor]. A dedicated [Knight] with seeing Skills. I knew he levelled up; he’s got [Blind Foe] and [Farsight] and a host of useful Skills. How flashy is the armor?”
“It has a cape.”
Laken put his head in his hands.
“I thought that was a cloak for the cold! Why didn’t you tell me? Why didn’t Rie tell me?”
Durene was scratching Bismarck under the chin as the Mossbear sat in their cottage, which was twice as large as it used to be, filled with fancy chairs, refloored, glass windows replacing her shutters—
She didn’t recognize her home anymore. People kept coming in and making it ‘suitable for His Majesty’ whenever she was gone. Her old kitchen was now shiny marble countertops and magic heating runes.
At first, she’d been gratified, even if she missed her home. Now, she looked around and it made her upset.
Her home. At least Bismarck was the same. He was being fed honey from a spoon as Laken ranted to Durene. Alone.
Except for Gamel, who’d stationed himself outside with a group of four. And Frostwing, who kept pecking at a bowl of meat Durene held out. And several Street Runners, who kept pounding up the road with messages for Gamel that he hung onto until Laken was ready.
And everyone who knew Durene and Laken were having ‘alone time’.
