Ram went running after her, but it was too late. Pebblesnatch ducked his hands, leapt forward, and snagged three tomatoes off some vines. She ripped them away and began chewing on them. Laken turned.
“Are they properly grown, Wiskeria? Or only partially?”
The [Witch] sounded amused.
“They’re as red as a baby’s bottom, Your Majesty.”
Laken hesitated.
“…Uh. I see?”
Gamel took over for Wiskeria, sounding affronted. He chose more relative terms for Laken.
“They’re lush, and some are bigger around than my hand if I’m a judge, Your Majesty. They look perfectly ripe to me, and Pebblesnatch is devouring one as if it’s tasty as can be. They look plump. Appealing.”
Laken tried to imagine what that was like, but he had a decent understanding from that description. He smiled and nodded to himself.
“Good choice on the fertilizer, then. Ram? What’s the taste?”
The [Rancher] shouted back.
“Fair as can be, Your Majesty! Just the slightest hint of sweet and—eugh—no, wait! That’s the fertilizer. Better wash these first. Hey, get the baskets! His Majesty’s field is ready!”
There was a team of [Farmers] ready to go. Not just generic [Farmers] either, but specialists in picking. Even as Laken stood there and Pebblesnatch ran back with her ill-gotten gains, he sensed one [Fruit Picker] shuck an entire tomato plant in seconds and add them to a basket.
There was a joy to observing, even in Laken’s own way, a team working in perfect unity. Normally, a farm had jack-of-all trades like [Farmhands] who could satisfy most roles to competency. But Riverfarm using so many [Farmers] together let them specialize and optimize their planting.
Oh—and having an [Emperor] didn’t hurt either. Laken called out as Ram jogged back.
“I’ll look forwards to tomato-themed dishes tonight. What’s tomorrow, Ram? Cucumbers again?”
“They grow too large, Your Majesty. All water, no taste. We were hoping for wheat? There’s a new variety we want to test in the soil.”
“Wheat it is.”
The [Emperor of Farmlands] smiled. He adjusted his silly chicken hat and nodded to the [Farmers], calling out to them before continuing on his path.
Level 35 [Emperor of Farmlands]. Laken had levelled in both war and peace over the winter, and his new Skills weren’t war-focused—because he was sick of it. True, he might have gotten a fancy new group like the Darksky Riders. But was that better than the ability to grow a field from seeds to harvest every single day?
Ludicrous power. Insane power. Skills on the level of an [Emperor]. Then again, Laken had heard that a high-level [Farmer] could do the same, and many of the fields sewn by the best [Farmers] had already sprouted and grown at prodigious pace.
Laken had Skills fit for an empire, though, and so his next task was to pass through the farming area and head on a walk around Riverfarm proper, towards the areas where logging and more mass-raising of animals was going on.
“Who needs [Golden Yield] today, Ram, Beycalt? Are we looking for construction? Food? Farming?”
He didn’t have to go in person, but he felt like waving his hand and just making a field turn into bloom was pretentious. Plus, he liked the exercise and greeting people. Beycalt spoke up.
“Ah, we’d actually like it for Master Helm, Your Majesty? He’s producing all the pipework for Tessia’s plumbing.”
“Say no more. [Golden Yield: Master Helm]. Make sure it all comes out of his smithy, would you?”
“Of course, sire.”
A few more steps as someone ran that message to Nesor, head of the Mage’s Guild. Laken turned to Rie.
“Now you can tell me about the Dwarves. Eloise, Hedag, Agratha, I’m being told we need soldiers. Do you have sage [Witch] advice?”
Hedag spoke in a loud chuckle.
“If your tone tells me you don’t want them, then I’d listen to your own voice, Your Majesty. A fort needs [Soldiers]. A city needs guardsmen.”
Laken kicked at a piece of grass. He complained out loud.
“Why is most [Witch] advice just telling me to think for myself?”
“Because it’s good advice.”
At least three of them chorused, and Laken heard a scandalized sound from Gamel and a chuckle from Lady Rie. She got along well with the [Witches] and took over.
“Your Majesty, let me paint a picture from my meetings with the Dwarves. I was well-received by them; they’re clearly used to hosting more eminent guests, and they came to Izril to make a profit. They had rather lavish guest rooms, and they treated me excellently.”
“They recognized Riverfarm?”
Her voice was amused at Laken’s surprise. He still felt like Riverfarm was a no-name place, but the times were a-changing.
“Oh yes, Your Majesty. I will say that the, ah, other visitors were less complimentary. I ran into two Reinharts.”
“Reinharts.”
There was a scowl implicit in Laken’s tone, and he would have bet gold that more than one frown appeared around the group. He nodded.
“Go on. Tell me about Dwarfhalls Rest.”
“They heard the same pitch I did, just so you know, Your Majesty. The mountain is…well, I cannot explain it as well as Gamel, but I invite you to imagine a huge line of Dwarves hammering away, grinding on metal, or performing metalwork, each one in their section. There is this grand conveyance that lets objects move down the mountain; from the ore they shovel into their massive furnaces, some of them eight times my size, to the massive magical hammers that pound the largest quantities of metal, they have teams working at every hour. The heat and sound is intense.”
It sounds like a magical factory. Laken was always sad he couldn’t experience these sights himself, even if he knew his experience would be far more limited. Without owning an area, he was limited to his ears, nose, and sense of touch, and a place like that would overwhelm him. Even so, he greedily tried to piece together more images as Rie went on.
“Of note, and what Master Helm lacks, despite his many fellow [Smiths], isn’t just the scope of the work. It’s…well, it’s the elements I don’t believe Izrilian [Blacksmiths] have at all. There were [Runeworkers] pressing their version of magic into completed hammers, and I was shown Mithril samples. In fact, that was their offer. For a fee, we can be their priority clients and equip each [Soldier] we want head-to-toe in Dwarfsteel. They can even forge mithril armor for our officers.”
“Impressive. If you think metal makes an army.”
That came from Agratha, and the [Teacher Witch]’s voice was unusually dry. Wiskeria just sniffed.
“Mithril. No Adamantium? They know how to make it.”
Witch Eloise admonished Wiskeria lightly.
“Not every army’s one from your mother’s legends, Wiskeria. That would be a fine army if you had each [Soldier] in that kind of metal. It would put Riverfarm above even nations like Pheislant in terms of quality. I suspect the cost will be the prohibiting factor.”
Rie sighed and, without preamble, unfolded something with a crinkle of paper.
“The, ah—ah—cost per soldier was quoted to me as highly reasonable at seven hundred and forty gold pieces per unit of gear, armor, and standard weapons. If we order in bulk, it drops to seven hundred twenty.”
Laken heard what sounded like someone doing a spit take behind him. He just did a bit of math.
“So we can afford maybe, what, a hundred sets, and we blow through our entire army’s budget for the year?”
And that would be pushing it. Rie cleared her throat.
“They will accept payments in increments, Your Majesty. I only suggest if we move, we place a bid now…the Reinharts weren’t shy about doing so.”
“So they’re remaking their armies? Dire news. Magnolia Reinhart truly has lost her leash on them.”
Eloise’s voice was dour; she spoke from experience. Even Lady Rie was too young to actually remember a time before the Reinharts had been subdued by Magnolia. Laken frowned to himself.
“She’s not clashing with them, is she, Rie?”
“If her servants are, I haven’t heard of it. Save for the standoff between her servants and the Terlands at House Walchaís…there has been no sign of her people. I believe she is well and truly quitting the north for the moment. Her family is in full force, and they are running over their opponents. Quite literally.”
Laken had heard about that too. The Reinharts had emerged from their mansions and homes, where they had been quietly decadent, like a storm. They had begun seizing holdings belonging to Magnolia and asserting their power in no uncertain terms. More than one person who had forgotten their reputation had literally been hit by carriages moving at slower speeds than Magnolia’s pink one…but it seemed like vehicular manslaughter ran in the family.
He never thought he’d miss Magnolia Reinhart, but Laken really wasn’t looking forwards to running into the Five Families.
“How much clashing are they doing? Is this related to the Vampires? How much can we expect?”
Rie was his expert in the social fields, along with Eloise, and the [Lady] responded crisply.
“My sources seem to believe they’re mostly concerned with regaining their power and fighting among the other Five Families, who did take advantage of their inaction, at the moment. They’re trying to take over cities who lost their noble families, and they’re warring with each other…they’re coming from the north on downwards due to their proximity, but also due to the value of the northern areas. I believe Riverfarm has time; we are hardly an appetizing place with an [Emperor] claiming us, nor are we traditionally valuable.”
She described them like locusts. Laken rubbed at his head, frowning.
“We’re producing food when most of Izril wants it, but I take your point. We’re rich in food, but that doesn’t translate into gold unless we want to gouge people hungry from the winter.”
In fact, Riverfarm was doing the opposite. Their food stores were one of the reasons they had continued to grow by offering aid to people who decided to join the Unseen Empire when only the Order of Haegris, The Wandering Inn, the Knights of Solstice, and the Unseen Empire were giving out food.
Well, Magnolia Reinhart and Tyrion Veltras had both done the same, but that was duty. Each of the smaller groups had made a name for themselves, and in Riverfarm’s case, it had led to direct expansion.
Laken’s new Skills meant that Riverfarm was a real breadbasket…but none of that equated to the kind of gold to outspend the Reinharts.
“Maybe a few sets of Dwarfsteel. But we can make decent armor with the iron the Goblins dig up.”
“Crude steel, Your Majesty. Dwarfsteel is a grade above it in durability, weight—”
“And cost. If I wanted to buy armor, I might as well go to Yitton. Enough. I’ll think it over. Now, tell me about the Vampires.”
Laken took a seat by the edge of the forest leading to the Goblin Lands. His mood soured further as he thought of his closest allies.
Those were, in order, Lord Gralton, directly to the north, then Lord Yitton, both of whom had lands that had a distinct speciality.
Gralton raised dogs. Yitton mined silver. Gralton’s dogs had made him the larger and more successful of the two, and a recent spat of bad events had seen House Byres’ principal silver mine collapse and their entire manor burn down.
Laken had hosted Yitton over the winter and helped House Byres as much as he could due to his friendship with the man. He wasn’t sure if he now regretted it.
“Witch Mavika can speak to what is going on in the north, Laken, if you want me to summon her. She didn’t see this latest encounter—or maybe she did, but her crows have eyes everywhere.”
“Yes, summon her. Rie, tell me what happened.”
The [Lady]’s voice was not so eager now. She spoke in abrupt, matter-of-fact tones.
“All we know is what House Artien stated, Your Majesty. House Tellis was inspecting its own villages for…signs of taint, I believe the expression was. The [Soldiers] and local Watch were about their business when they came under attack. Whether they uncovered a…a Vampire or they were ambushed is unclear. The upshot is that the Watch House was torched; several other buildings and fields went up in flames, and House Tellis claims five assailants were slain. All of whom disintegrated into ash when run through the heart.”
Laken felt like someone was narrating pieces of a fairytale to him. He sat there, rubbing his hands together, as he heard the cawing of a murder of crows, and a [Witch] alighted on the branch overhead. He spoke quietly.
“So they slew five Vampires while searching for signs of them. But they were attacked first. Is that the right of it, Witch Mavika?”
A harsh, sibilant whisper came from overhead. A woman who had been described to Laken as a ‘half-naked woman who wears her clothing like feathers and has the features of a bird, beady eyes and all’ spoke in a rasping voice. She always sounded harsh, but her tone was dark.
“Is that what you believe, Emperor? Or is that what you wish to believe?”
Laken kept his tone steady, quelling any desire to snap back.
“I wish to know what happened, Witch Mavika. Please, I crave a boon. What did you see, if you witnessed it?”
Her voice became rhythmic and heavy. Mavika whispered, and the light filtering down from the sunny sky above seemed less warm on his skin for a moment.
 
“I saw through raven’s eyes—
Tools of old, to burn through dark disguise
Cruel tools, and I heard the buzzing of flies.
Metal from days so old, and still
They echoed with pain-filled cries.
Most followed in ignorance of what they might find
A few knew full well their enemy’s kind
They brought a hanging coffin made of silvered steel
How do you think their quarry feels?
They tried to flee, and hide, and lie
When there was no option, both sides died.”
 
It was a lengthy response and more formal than Mavika sometimes acted. Laken took a moment to try to decipher what she had said, then gave up.
“Witch Agratha?”
The [Teacher] leapt into action, to Mavika’s great displeasure, but even her eager tones were somewhat dismayed.
“I think, if I decode Witch Mavika’s statements, we have a situation where House Tellis likely allowed the, ah, ‘hunters’ to gather and investigate a village, much as many noble houses have done. Most were ignorant of the true nature of their quarry, as Mavika points out. However, the oldest houses like d’Artien have long and detailed histories of their foe. It appears they brought…a hanging coffin, Mavika? An iron maiden?”
Laken vaguely knew the name of the object, but he had to have someone remind him of what it was. Wiskeria gave the most helpful and disturbing explanation.
“A torture device. A coffin filled with spikes on the inside. You close it over your enemies to torture them. This one was likely made of silver.”
