She nodded, and to her delight, Vess acquiesced after a moment and waved a wand.
“Well in that case—[Shield of Air]!”
A small, whirling disc appeared over his head, and he held the impromptu umbrella aloft. It didn’t cover all of him or her, but Vess conjured another, and it made the rain a lot less miserable for Durene. She laughed upwards.
“Thank you, Vess! That’s good teamwork!”
The rest of the Order of Solstice trooped onwards. Ama was riding her cat as Antherr and Normen strode ahead, having a merry conversation. That was because both had activated their flames of honor, which were acting like rain jackets against the worst of the rain as well.
Jewel was forced to stump along without any protections aside from a cloak that kept getting blown into her face as she held it up. But she seemed used to bad weather and called up to Durene.
“Are you okay, Durene? Do you want to go back to Riverfarm after telling all that last night?”
“I’ll be fine, Jewel. They’re mostly just annoying about me and Laken. It’s not like they force me to do anything.”
“They can’t force you to do anything, and if they try, hit them. Or get us. I’ll hit them. Unless they’re as big as Chaoisa.”
Vess reassured Durene, and she smiled, though he couldn’t see it. He kept wriggling around like an eel on her shoulders, peering around the storm as if all this was fun. Jewel persisted.
“But they’re not unpleasant about this…intimacy stuff with Laken, right?”
“No…not really. But I really hope they don’t give, um, demonstrations.”
“What now?”
The other two [Knights] looked at Durene, and the half-Troll girl muttered.
“On how to do things. Lyonette got a bunch of ‘bananas’ from Oteslia, which are great, but I don’t think I can eat any more again. Did you know about using your hands and your mouth on the bananas?”
Jewel made a faint sound. Vess developed a coughing sound overhead. The adventurer nodded slowly.
“I may have…some inkling of that, yes.”
“Well, I don’t need a step-by-step guide on it. With a fruit! Nor do I want to know Beycalt’s special technique—”
“Wait, what special technique?”
That caught Jewel’s interest, and nothing would do but Durene give her an approximation, much to Vess’ embarrassment. Which was so funny to the two female [Knights] that Durene began describing other sacred texts imparted to her by Riverfarm’s people.
“I mean, I bet that all works. It’s gross they’re all telling you to do it and pushing you, but I bet…I might borrow one or two of those.”
Jewel glanced casually at Normen, and Durene giggled despite herself.
“If you two have fun, that’s great. It’s just—not fun with Laken anymore. I think it’s because I know everyone’s thinking about it. Does that make sense?”
“If I thought everyone was thinking of me and Normen—yeah. What do you think, Vess?”
The Drake had been squirming the entire time, especially the more explicit the conversation got. He muttered.
“I think I’d like to be put down now.”
His tail swished across Durene’s back, and she realized how close they were while she’d described…she turned red. She hadn’t had close contact with anyone like this save for Laken.
“Your leg’s still hurt, Vess.”
“No, I think you should put me down. Now, Durene. Someone’s coming.”
Durene realized it wasn’t just Vess’ embarrassment. She froze—then he slid down one arm and drew a wand. Chaoisa had halted up ahead, despite the mud, and they heard her voice through the rain.
“—hitchhikers! I’m not some regular [Driver]. Beat it!”
Her voice was pitched high and carrying, and the Order of Solstice stopped, then spread out slightly. Durene reached for her greatsword as Jewel mouthed.
“Bandits?”
It would be like them to use a storm. Durene strode ahead, crouching by the wagon, as Vess limped up with her. Jewel vanished in the rain, and then Chaoisa was right ahead of Durene, perched on her seat.
She was waving a fist at someone up ahead of her. When she spotted Durene, Chaoisa lowered her voice.
“Durene. They popped out of the storm. I’ll swear they were moving fast as wolves. They set my [Dangersense] off a second—”
“How many?”
Durene peered up as Normen strode forwards. Chaoisa mouthed.
“Two I can see.”
“Only two?”
Durene’s head rose. She then finally saw the two travellers. A young man and a young woman, him holding a cloak over her head, standing together by the road. They were facing the wagon, and both were dressed in the oddest clothing.
Durene blinked. Normen, clearly prepared for a trap, stared at what was either the most obvious trap…or something else entirely.
The young man had a black suit on, old and faded, but expensive, sewn with ancient thread. He’d lost one shoe, exposing white socks, but he even had a battered top-hat, which he’d used to wave down Chaoisa. His hair was jet black, and he was covered head to toe in cloth; he even had black gloves on.
The woman wore a mud-spattered white veil and an equally white dress. Her skin was dead white, whether it was from the rain or chill, except for her red lips. And red eyes.
Durene stared at the couple, bride and groom, in full wedding dress, then at Vess. Chaoisa sat with narrowed eyes as Normen called out.
“Hello! I am Ser Normen of the Order of Solstice!”
Instantly, the couple backed away from him. They had been alarmed when they saw Jewel and Normen emerging from the rain; the sight of Antherr and Normen’s identification made the young man put an arm out.
“We don’t want trouble. We just wanted a way out of the rain. We’ll be going.”
He barked, suddenly doing an about-face. But the young woman grabbed his arm.
“Sevil. Look! An Antinium! Did you hear what he said? The Order of Solstice? Isn’t that…”
Sevil turned, saw Antherr standing aflame with green fire, rain pouring down around him as he held his greatsword casually in two hands, the third raised in greeting, and stared. Then his eyes darted back to Normen in recognition. Durene straightened, and the couple stared at them.
“Uh oh. Uh oh…”
Durene was muttering. She had a suspicion born of her association with Rivel. He’d been secretive, but it wasn’t hard to figure out when you noticed the trend.
Red lips. Red eyes. Was that a fanged tooth she saw? She didn’t know, but Chaoisa had said they’d been moving ‘fast as wolves’.
Either they were a high-level bride and groom eloping from some kind of failed wedding. Or…
Normen’s voice was level.
“If you’re free of malice and need help, we are [Knights] sworn to defend anyone in need. Vess? Jewel? Ama?”
He lifted something as the couple hesitated. Before they could react, a green flame lit a lantern Normen carried. The [Grandmaster Knight of Honor’s Flame] held his lantern, and his eyes flashed green as he inspected them.
Jewel lifted a second lantern, which flared pink, and Vess, a third, which shone with his pale grey flames. Antherr didn’t raise his lantern; Normen was of his order.
To Durene’s surprise, even Ama lit a lantern, though she held it diffidently, with less pride or weight as the others. Her flame was blue, and she shivered.
“It’s hecking cold. Durene, which one are you carrying?”
“I don’t have one. Yet.”
Durene hadn’t identified with any one flame yet, as she was still a [Paladin] and she didn’t…know how long she could be purely a Knight of Solstice. She watched with envy and awe as Normen spoke.
“I see honor. Of a kind. One-sided honor, perhaps. But it is there.”
His eyes found the defiant Sevil’s gaze, then the bride’s, and both flinched away from him, but they stared with recognition. Jewel was next.
“I see glory. From her more than him. Whether that’s good or evil, I cannot say, but there is a glory here nonetheless. Tainted, but not by their own deeds, I think. Embraim would have seen far more than I.”
She stared at the bride, then hung the lantern at her side. Ama interrupted next, teeth chattering.
“Listen, I don’t think I’m sadness, and this is a really cold lantern. Something—something bad has happened. I don’t know what, but…”
The two strangers looked at her, and Sevil stared down at his muddy sock in the rain. Ama lowered her arm with a gasp and rubbed at it if she had been lifting a hundred pounds.
“It’s so heavy. The sadness is real.”
Every head turned towards the final [Knight]. Vess held mercy’s fire aloft, and even Chaoisa and the bulls waited as his eyes glowed. The Normen looked at the two and nodded.
“I don’t know whether it is deserved or not. But do they crave mercy?”
Vess’ flame glowed brightest of all, and Vess’ claw trembled as he slowly lowered the lantern.
“Yes.”
The [Grandmaster] nodded again, and Vess met Durene’s eyes without a word. The Order of Solstice exchanged looks, then nodded. Normen touched the brim of his helmet slightly and bowed to the couple.
“Can we offer you escort anywhere you need to go, Mister Sevil? Miss…?”
“Lapsey. Lapsey Garlet.”
She replied breathlessly with a familiar accent that spoke of the countryside to Durene. It was like her own. Then the young woman caught herself.
“Lapsey Vonderack. I’m—we’re married. Today.”
“We had an accident down the road, and we’re bound for Celum. The door to The Wandering Inn? And elsewhere.”
Sevil spoke in a low voice, eyes darting up the road. Durene closed her eyes.
Yep. Definitely Vampires. But Normen just nodded.
“In the wagon. Chaoisa, I understand this is an odd request, but we’ll pay—”
She spat at his feet and glowered as she waved a hand.
“Just get them aboard, Mister Fancy Grandmaster, afore my wheels sink clean through to the ocean floor. Come on.”
 
——
 
Sevil and Lapsey were quiet at first as the Order of Solstice marched through the rain. They didn’t say much; Sevil had a hand on his belt where he carried a knife, but he seemed more concerned about what might be behind them than the Order of Solstice. He kept looking at Normen as if he knew the [Knight].
Not impossible, as Normen was famous, but Sevil seemed to know something else about Normen. As if someone had told him Normen could be trusted.
The reason for the two’s nerves was clear enough; not eleven minutes later, Chaoisa turned her head, and Jewel spoke.
“Riders. They’re moving fast.”
“I didn’t see them coming.”
That was all Normen said. He turned and drew his mace. There was a shout as Durene raised her shield. She sensed something coming and raised the shield—
Thud.
A crossbow bolt hit the shield hard, and Antherr, seeing it, fired back into the night. Someone rode down on Normen, sword drawn, then wavered as he struck at the horse. Both missed, and there was a cry from the rider.
“Hold! Hold! It’s not the quarry!”
More shouts; horses raced around, and Durene almost activated her Skill as one passed by, but Normen bellowed.
“I am the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice! Attack and die. This is your last warning, on my hat.”
He’d begun to pull off his helmet, which wasn’t a sign of peace; if he threw it, the helmet would explode like a fireball. The first [Rider] held up gloved hands, and half a dozen others broke off their charge.
“Hold, hold! We’re hunting for foulbloods! By Noelictus, House Byres, and House d’Artien, hold!”
“Oh great, it’s them.”
Durene saw a coat of livery flash, then what seemed like a group of disparate [Riders] revealed themselves as soldiers—and [Knights] or well-armored [Warriors]—bearing multiple crests. Normen kept his mace raised, helmet in one hand.
“Do you attack travellers on the road?”
“No! Apologies! We are hunting two Vampires, Ser Grandmaster! True foulbloods of the night! I am Sir Monst of House Byres! My comrades are a hunting party from House d’Artien, and even [Hunters] of Noelictus! Quick, have you seen a duo pass by? They’re fast as wolves, but we have them on the run.”
“Faster than thought! If only the Order of Clairei Fields were here—you’ll believe us now, Hunters of Noelictus?”
That came from an excited figure on horseback, the one who’d shot the crossbow bolt. Durene had half a mind to pull it from her shield and hit him with it, but one of the two black-clad figures responded.
“We see. Rest assured, this goes to the Guildmaster of Noelictus. But the hunt is underway. Have you seen the two, Grandmaster?”
A feminine voice. A [Hunter] wearing leather armor instead of knightly plate stared hard at Normen. Durene licked her lips; she glanced at the covered wagon Chaoisa was sitting on. The [Driver] was like a statue, face unreadable…and as far as Durene could tell, the covered goods weren’t moving. Or at least, no one could see in the rain.
“We have seen nothing before we were attacked.”
Normen responded, tone hard. The [Hunter] lifted her hat.
“Ser Solstice, is it? Your name precedes you, Grandmaster.”
“Not Ser Solstice. I am only the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice. I believe Ser Solstice is elsewhere; with me are five [Knights] and Driver Chaoisa. No more.”
The [Hunter] nodded, and intrigued, a few riders drew closer.
“Your name precedes you, Ser Normen! An honor to meet—dead gods!”
Ser Monst caught sight of Durene and recoiled in his seat. She saw his look of horror and confusion.
“Is that a Troll?”
“Half-Troll.”
She responded, voice tight, and Normen’s grew even more clipped.
“Dame Durene, [Paladin] of Riverfarm.”
“Of Riverfarm? I knew Lord Yitton mentioned the—ahem. Well met, Dame and Sers.”
The [Knight] of House Byres cleared his throat, then remembered his chase.
“We must ride, then. The rest of you, split up! Apologies, Ser Normen. If you should see anyone in this damnable rain, tell us at once! And be warned—they were only sixteen strong, but they fought like wild animals. With me, Hunters! Ride!”
He took off without another word to shouts from the others. Only the [Hunters] waited a beat before heading after him. One nodded at Normen.
“Apologies, once more, Grandmaster. I would hate to come to blows with another [Knight] order.”
Then they were gone. Only after they were long, long in the distance did Durene dare let out her breath.
“I think the [Hunters] knew you were lying, Normen.”
“They probably had tracking Skills. Either they’re disinclined to fight us or they’re gathering reinforcements. Chaoisa, how fast can you get us to Celum?”
“Not faster’n a horse on the gallop. But I reckon I can do half as. Damn rain, damn idiots fighting in the rain, damn…”
Chaoisa’s voice was drowned out by the wagon getting moving. Durene saw a figure poke his head up out of the wagon at last. Sevil looked at Normen with a baffled expression of gratitude on his face.
“Thank you. We didn’t attack them. We were getting married.”
