From the chamber’s entrance, a human tried to enter, only to be shoved back. Boney took one look at the flashing lights inside, turned, and ordered the warriors off the steps and away from the tower. Behind them, a spluttering human was pulled along.

Elson’s eyes began to tremble. One second, two healthy pupils were there. The next, they dilated, expanded, and started to marginally inflate. Two irises growing more and more oblong until they couldn’t. With a squelch, they popped. Twin fountains of blood spewed onto the cobble flooring. In their place, golden and purple glows flared to life, like the divine itself was peering through.

Sythara hummed thoughtfully. “The host’s ocular orifices have given out. His human vitality is acting as a sort of catalyst, a lifetime of intent harnessing all that corruption and unknown energy. Intriguing that the most distress was experienced nearest the pupils… It likely stems from the process occurring in the mind.”

Elson’s screams had finally stopped, golden light pouring from his throat, ears, and nose. Instead, a hollow rushing came. More and more of that mysterious energy spilling out.

Then she frowned. Why was she hearing more screams? The subject should not be revitalizing and capable of making further signs of distress. And in a voice that wasn’t the same… She’d just seen the insides of—oh.

In the back of the room, Veron had woken. Unbeknownst to Sythara, he too was placed directly over one of those nondescript grates. It was only now she noticed the purple and golden energies diffusing into the channels that connected them all. An empty tower chamber that was looking more and more like anything but.

“Child, what have you stumbled upon?” she gasped.

There was a blinding light, from void to white, and something far, far beneath the tower clicked. Sythara had just a second to register that tiny noise before Elson Bredford’s body imploded. Blood, bone, flesh, and viscera splattered from wall to wall.

And at its epicenter, sapphire eyes observing it all, was a demoness. Dripping with the remains of her second subject ever in this human realm.

Everything was silent. The drips that just moments before were water and condensation now replaced with vital liquids.

She made a small circle, observing what was left.

“Subject has expired.”

Too busy in her fascination with Elson's unfortunate demise, she didn’t even notice the blackened, malformed golden disc that shot in an arch, landing somewhere in the citadel district outside. The picture of Solari’s sunlit sigil staring up at the evening sky. Along it, a single droplet of crimson wept.
