“I only started accessing the top library this year. If I could stare at them as hard as you were, I would,” Quinyeth said. “Our knights…it’s wonderful to see people I know choosing to place their hands and feet where the knights who came before did. I knew Asay would choose it before he ever said it. I don’t know what it will feel like on the day when I see him painted in that way, but I know it will happen.”

If you’re so stoked that some of your classmates are making the choice, then why won’t you respect Stuart’s?

Alden was still angry about the skill research journal with the blank comment page. It was hard to forget about it when he was carrying it farther and farther from the shelf it belonged on with every step he took. Maybe he wasn’t picking up on every detail that made things the way they were, but he couldn’t imagine how Stuart could have experienced his old school friends ignoring that one journal as anything but a slap every time he checked it for replies.

Luckily, before he asked Quinyeth that question in what would no doubt have been a challenging tone, his better judgement caught his tongue, and he picked up on what she’d just said.

Only accessed that library this year…plus Stuart was surprised she’d chosen votary already. And Noh-en made the comment about her doing it as soon as she wouldn’t look silly for rushing.

Quinyeth was younger than Stuart, Noh-en, and Asay-tor. Maybe by a significant enough amount that they had never even shared classes. And she hadn’t had reason or time to read a graduate’s journal, as far as Alden knew.

Don’t group her in with the gokoratches. She’s a nice person who was excited to show off her vanilla candle from Earth.

“You want to be Asay-tor’s votary,” he said. “How did you decide that? And is it something that’s sure-sure once he’s a knight? How does everything flow now that you’ve both made your choices?”

“We don’t have an obligation to each other,” she answered. “I can still change my mind about how I want to serve the needs of the Rapports, and of course a knight can always decide not to have a votary dedicated to them. Asay’s been my older sibling in behavior for years, though, so we know each other well. I’m not brave enough to do what he’s doing, but by deciding early that I’ll help him, I’ll make some of his troubles fade. He can choose his courses of study with confidence that I’ll make up for any lack. He can tell me all his secrets, and I’ll keep them eternally. He hasn’t told me any yet, but he could.

“And don’t tell him this part because it’s a surprise—I’m doing everything necessary to qualify to go on his first mission as a casting assistant! I only have to convince everyone I’m ready, and I’m sure I can.”

“That sounds brave to me,” said Alden.

“It’s not brave if you’re not fearful.” Quinyeth turned her head to look at his commendation. “As you know. I like your pezyva. Who embroidered your honor upon it?”

Alden told her about Tuck and Yinuo.

“Human Ryeh-b’ts, like you.” She started down a staircase Alden recognized from their trip up earlier. It was on an exterior wall, and the windows overlooked the grounds. Alden could see the bokabv down there, with no company other than her interesting stick.

“You’re the first human any of us in the library had ever seen close enough to talk to.”

“Sorry if I’m not the most wonderful representative.”

“Stu must think you are! If it’s not rude of me to ask, when are you going to grow your face hair?”

Alden laughed. “I’m already growing it, but there’s not enough of it yet to look good. I shave it off. When my beard is fuller I’ll probably try it to see if I like it.”

“Beard,” Quinyeth said.

She definitely just added that to her English vocabulary list.

“Is there a ceremony when you decide there’s enough hair for a good beard?”

“Not in my culture. Maybe somewhere. I don’t know. There should be.”

I’m the first human any of them have ever seen up close.

That wasn’t surprising in one way. Humans were a fraction of the Avowed population, and they weren’t a big fraction. But in another way, it didn’t match with the impression he’d gotten at LeafSong, on Anesidora, and with all the wizards currently staying at Matadero.

Maybe I’m always running into human enthusiasts just because I’m human.

“A lot of the art’hs hadn’t met one of us until I visited either.”

He was trying to work out how to ask, “If you Rapport kids are all so curious, why don’t the adults just summon one of us for you to meet?” without it sounding off.

Quinyeth didn’t give him time.

“Earth was such a controversial resource world. Even some of the Rapportfolk who summon Avowed very casually won’t call your people unless their service is <<irreplaceable>>. It’s changing, but Rapport I changes more slowly, I think. The first thing Asay asked when I told him you were here was whether or not I was sure you were a human! Like I might have been confused about it after walking with you all over the school.” She trailed her hand through the fringe on the bottom of a tapestry as they left the stairs behind. “He was so surprised that he asked that before he even wanted to know about Stu finally coming back. Asay thinks Instructor Rel-art’h is hinting that he hopes we’ll include his brother in the beauties and traditions of school votary service. Do you think that’s what the instructor wants? Did he say anything to you about it? The duty list says Stu will be here tomorrow, too. So we have time to plan something special.”

Alden’s burning interest in why Earth was so controversial was dampened by the question about Stuart. Quinyeth was asking so sincerely, like it was obvious to her that Stuart’s personal guest would be onboard with a plan to fill his life with special votary service moments. It threw him off-balance.

“Um… ”

She’s just asking if Stuart wants to do votary traditions with them. Maybe he would under certain circumstances. Maybe it’s gone well with Noh-en and the others, and he’d love to now.

But he was totally going to run away from them all earlier.

And there was the assumption that Rel-art’h was giving them all hidden signals through their chore list, of all things.

It feels like she’s scheming against Stuart without realizing she’s scheming against him.

The messenger bag on his shoulder felt heavier than it had a moment ago.

Deciding what to say was hard.

“Stu is very sure he wants to be a knight,” he said. “He hasn’t changed his mind. Maybe he would enjoy spending time with you all and experiencing the traditions with you, but I think he would be hurt if you only included him in something special for the wrong reason.”

She stopped and faced him, so he stopped, too.

“Do you think their reasons are bad?”

“I don’t know what all the reasons are,” Alden said slowly. “But if Stu-art’h knows them and disagrees with them…”

Quinyeth rose up onto her toes and then went back down again a couple of times, her expression thoughtful. “Asay says if he had Stu’s place in the way of things, he wouldn’t let his feelings deafen him to the call of better service.”

“Better service?”

“Stu-art’h’s life is his father’s <<centermost joy>>. Normally, I wouldn’t say so about a person with siblings, but even his siblings say it openly. And then there is all of their love for him. And Hn’tyon Alis-art’h’s. If Stu is wrong, he risks more than himself. More than most people who choose the path of highest onus.”

When Alden didn’t answer quickly, she hurried to add. “I think about it from my own perspective, too! There are no knights in my family, but I have Asay to consider. I know for sure I’ll be able to carry the role of votary, so even if I do love the paintings…and imagine sometimes…trying what I’m not sure I can do would be too selfish. Wouldn’t it?”

She looked like she was really hoping for an answer.

“I don’t know,” said Alden. “But Stu is sure. And the Primary gave his permission.”

Only after his son got his foot chomped and his leg exploded while hanging out with people committing a criminal act. What was the Primary thinking?

“Declared Asay-tor probably made the most thoughtful choice for himself during his own choosing season,” he said. “I doubt he had time to choose more properly for Declared Stu-art’h than Declared Stu-art’h could. So.”

He gave her a friendly smile because he didn’t want her to feel like he was mad at her. She seemed more like the gokoratches’ kid sister, who’d jumped the gun on her own choosing season a little bit if she was confiding hints of wistfulness in the outsider she’d just met today. “I’m not sure what Hn’tyon Rel-art’h thinks, but the bokabv is something Stu requested for me. I needed to see one for my mind healing. I hope the instructor only wanted to do a fun thing for the children at this school while he was helping me anyway. My respect for him will be profoundly diminished if he used his brother’s kindness toward me to manipulate him into a situation that makes him unhappy.”

Quinyeth gasped.

Probably the word Alden had used for “profoundly” was too strong.

Claiming I’ll lose respect for a knight is kind of wild actually, he admitted to himself. Rel-art’h would have to be heinous for him to actually stop respecting his sacrifices, and so far, all the guy had done was get him a herdcreature and possibly nudge his little brother and his little brother’s former friends together, using Alden as an excuse. Well, I said it, so let’s not backtrack on it when I’m trying to make a point.

“Thank you for offering to show me the classrooms. It sounds fun, and I enjoyed visiting your room and smelling the candle and meeting you. But I want to go see Stu now. If he’s busy, I don’t mind watching and waiting.”

He made it three steps down the hall before Quinyeth was chasing after him, her words tumbling over themselves as she tried to simultaneously tell him that she would lead the way to Stu and that Instructor Rel-art’h was a beacon of forthrightness and worthiness and she couldn’t believe she had said something that suggested in the smallest way that he might be capable of respect-diminishing plots.

By the time they made it outside, Alden felt like he owed her a cup of hot chocolate for her nerves.

She tried to direct him toward the hillside stairs, but he shook his head and pointed toward the back wall of the courtyard. “He’s that way.”

She blinked. “Let me send a message. They were all supposed to be at—”

“I know the way,” Alden said. “I can target him. It’s part of my skill.”

He could feel Stuart in that direction.

[Hello. I’m coming your way,] he texted. [If you don’t want me to, shout or send a spell or glare at me when I arrive.]

It was absurd that he could run around the Rapport and sleep in the same cottage as Stuart, but Stuart still couldn’t text him back without impersonating Evul. He didn’t have the I-am-Evul tablet with him here as far as Alden knew.

No shouts or spells came, so Alden climbed up the root-festooned courtyard wall and headed uphill. It was almost too steep for the first few steps, but it became more manageable.

“I’ll leave,” Quinyeth said suddenly from behind him. “Noh says I should.”

He looked back at her. She was just standing there on a hummock that was half root, half soil. Watching him hopefully. He wondered if she wanted him to give her permission to stay. It seems equally likely that she wants me to tell her I changed my mind about Rel-art’h.

“Do you want a piece of fruit from Earth?” he asked. “The next time I come I could bring you one. Or maybe honey. Bees make it.”

“Yes!” she exclaimed. “Yes! I will have a gift for you, too!”

He watched her go, then sent a message to remind himself to buy honey.

Only a couple of minutes later, he and Stuart found each other under one of the trees.

Ah, they got him in the whole outfit, Alden thought, taking in the sight of the wooly cape and the long skirt-like layer that split in the front to reveal the pants. It was a cool looking uniform.

“I’m sorry our plans were interrupted.” Stuart spoke with unmistakably false cheer. “I hope you enjoyed the bokabv. And the school. I’m glad you got to see the interior. It’s an important part of the Rapport, and I…”

Alden let the Primary’s son ramble until the purple faded from his ears. Then he said, “I accidentally ate swimmers that are poisonous for my liver, and I looked into a painting in the top library that I couldn’t escape from on my own, and I upset Quinyeth by telling her that I would have diminished respect for Rel-art’h if he used my bokabv to make your life harder.”

Stuart stared at him.

Alden smiled.

“You ate something poisonous to you?”

“That was the smallest mistake of the morning. The Contract said I didn’t eat too much. I feel fine.”

“Poison is not a small mistake, Alden.”

“It was, it was. Did you hear about how I insulted your brother?”

“Rel’s feelings are less important than your liver. I should have been more watchful! After you ate that jar of oil—”

“Shhhhh. The oil was embarrassing.”

They were still staring at each other. Stuart had a real smile fighting its way through the fake one he’d been wearing just a moment ago.

“Was it all right?” Alden asked. “Seeing the people you used to spend so much time with? Or should we have run to hide in the woods?”

“It was shitty,” Stuart said. “They were very happy to see me, and I have missed them, and it was shitty.”

Alden nodded. “Are we leaving?”

“Yes,” Stuart said fervently.

