The messenger bag weighed about a hundred pounds now.

“Good. But first…I really did make a mistake. I hope you won’t be angry.”

“If it was a mistake, of course I won’t,” Stuart said. “We will not be friends who lose our affection for each other because of mistakes, will we?”

Oh no. He’s making me want to tell him even less.

“I don’t intend to be that kind of friend. Let me explain. I know I wasn’t supposed to be reading in the library at the top of the tower.”

Stuart’s brows lifted. “If you speak of proper discretion, I think you weren’t supposed to be in that library at all.”

“Right. You’re right. But I wanted to be there, so I didn’t tell Quinyeth no when she took me. I even said, ‘Yes, please take me there. I want to go.’ And I found some books. Upstairs.”

“Those aren’t books.”

“No. But they had writing in them, and I was interested in them. And I was looking at some of them when someone started talking about how there was a human in the library. I was afraid they were going to be upset when they found me reading up there, so I panicked and put the ones I was looking at in my bag.”

Stuart’s eyes turned to the bag. “You took <<study journals>>?”

Alden winced. “I panicked,” he repeated. “I wouldn’t have done it if I’d had thoughts in my head other than panic. Can I blame this on being human? If I could split my thoughts, part of me could have panicked and another part of me could have been calm and responsible.”

“Only if you had a medical problem,” Stuart disagreed. “That’s not how fear is supposed to affect an Artonan.”

Alden sighed. “I know.”

Stuart was still looking at the bag.

“This is not <<unmanageable>>,” he said. “First, you’ll tell me what you read. If it’s so serious that the idea of being caught reading it gave you intense fear, then it may be something we have to cover with a contract. Next, I’ll return the study journals to the library. After that, I can schedule meetings between you and the students who wrote the journals.”

“Meetings?”

“For you to apologize to them,” Stuart said matter of factly. “I’ll apologize to them, too.”

Oh my sweet echoing klerms, he’s so non-casual about this! Is it because I committed an offense against educational materials? It is, isn’t it?

“Here!” Alden said, hastily opening his bag and grabbing the journals. “And here.”

He shoved his hand into his pezyva’s hidden pocket. “I only took…seven. I’m sorry. I read the first couple of pages of each and then all of the comments people wrote in the backs. Then I got caught by the painting.”

He held them out toward Stuart, who was looking down at the stack with widening eyes. The silver swoop on top of the first pale purple cover glimmered.

“But these are all mine?” He sounded unreasonably confused about it.

“I recognized the color. It’s the same as your auriad, so they were easy to find. But then I couldn’t put them all back quickly—”

“That’s because you took so many.”

“I apologize. I was interested in them.”

Stuart looked up from the stack at last. “Why?”

“Because they’re yours. And I know you.”

“You said you read the pages at the back.”

“I wanted to find out what school here was like for you.”

That’s so nosey of me, he thought. Why am I confessing to snooping through his past? I’m as bad as Haoyu eavesdropping and then telling everyone about it.

“And as I said that, I realized how nosey it is. Is there an Artonan word for nosey? I’m that. And I’m very sorry. I won’t take seven of your notebooks from the top library again without permission.”

Stuart smiled and took the stack from him. “Did you like the first pages of my thoughts for the studies?” he asked. “Since you read those.”

He’s not mad?

“I did. The teleportation one looks like it would be fascinating if I knew all the other sources of information you referenced. And the one about skills…I could tell you were working hard to figure yourself out. You were finding your way toward Maker of Narrow Ways, weren’t you? I imagined you taking your time to find the perfect skill for yourself. One rooted in concepts of connection, even though it severs. It’s very meaningful to see a record of that.”

Stuart held the stack of journals to his chest. “I was doing that. Thank you.”

Alden waited for him to say something else. He kind of expected it to be something about not eating poison or not picking up manuscripts in the first place if you were afraid of being caught with them.

“Let’s go take some more things from the school,” Stuart said.

“What?”

“It’s important to have others acknowledge your strength and determination, isn’t it? I respect yours. There are rings here I can use to create much more realistic demon-like effects with my casting. I think we should use them to train you this afternoon.”

“Is this a reward for my mistake?”

“No. I just want to give you my sincere best, since we are learning partners of a sort today.”

He strode down the hill toward the school. It took him a while to realize Alden hadn’t followed right after him. Rust-colored eyes turned back questioningly.

“I’m coming! Thank you. I’ll do my sincere best, too.”

******
