A few last minute Platforms raced across the land, laden with deliveries that simply had to get through the Gate Network tonight, because the Gates were closing. Burhendurur’s forces watched those Gates for those last minute packages, rapidly checking people through to their destinations. The only thing accomplished in most of those deliveries was a bit of time and money saved, except when it came to the Gates to Stratagold. Those deliveries saved a month of travel, or more. Those deliveries to Stratagold had also been done hours ago, for Stratagold had been the ones to suggest that the Gates close for the Feast, and they had prepared for that ahead of time.

And now, as the sun touched down upon the western horizon, the stars of the New Cosmology began to appear in the distant sky. Closer to Veird, the Nodes and powerlines of the Gate District began to truly glow, looking much like constellations. Those lines of light stood out against the night; a spider’s web too large for any one spider, but smaller than the Wizard in residence was capable of making.

That Wizard hovered in the sky above the Gate District like a second sun, to light the world as the real sun began to dip below, to begin the transition from day to night, on this longest night of the year.

All across the world, in the places that the sun had already set and in the places that were yet to fall to the Dark, people lit bonfires to chase away the night. But the Dark was already present. Melemizargo had always been here. He simply chose to remain in the background, until tonight. This one night a year, Melemizargo, the True God of Magic, unleashed his power across Veird.

The sun did not simply set.

That orb of light and fire was chased away by something much larger and more powerful than a simple sun could ever hope to be.

And then, Darkness.

But the Wizard remained in the sky, a beacon of light above his illuminated House.

The Dark solidified, blotting out the real stars above, turning every source of light upon the land into a distant, weak thing.

Erick gave one last concession to the waning light as he whispered a small happy birthday to a child, still shining brightly to the south like a mountain of green fire; the only other source of light in this land that remained unimpeded. Yggdrasil had turned one year old today, and though Erick had had a small party with the big guy, he couldn’t really focus on that sort of thing right now. Yggdrasil had understood. Erick still promised to make it up to him next year.

Under Dark heavens, Erick moved around the sky of his House like flickering lighting, sweeping counterclockwise in a grand circle, leaving behind rapidly cast wardlights the size of large mansions with each of his eight steps. The first step left behind the world of Yoril, the third rock from the sun, but transformed from barren, airless rock into a land of blue and green, with a massive southern continent and clouds and oceans covering all the rest.

Another lightward appeared in the sky, between lines of Node light, at Erick’s second step. Paal, the fifth planet from the sun, was a rocky thing of a million lakes and one thin ocean, but now, it was not that at all. When the forces of House Benevolence transformed that planet into a living world, it was either a choice between a million lakes, and a waterworld, depending on the level of the ocean decided upon, so Erick went with the version with lakes.

Another step took Erick to another world. This one was completely made of water with barely anything for a rocky core. Erick was almost halfway around the House, now. There were five more steps to go.

And then came another world, and another, and another, and another. And then finally one more, and Erick stood in the sky where he had started.

Erick had filled the sky with hope for new worlds. Real hope. Not the imagined things made by the Shades of last year. There were no worlds where land floated above land, and oceans rolled through skies. These were real worlds; extrapolations of the work of astronomers, made with the best telescopes and the best Sight-based spellworks, and with visions overlaid upon those lands of what could be.

For what would happen.

When Erick was done, eight new worlds hung in the skies over the Gate District, each of them placed equally around the House, each of them slowly spinning in place, showing off what would eventually come to pass.

Erick’s words filled the Gate District,

“There was some confusion over what to call this night; this celebration. For it surely couldn’t be ‘Shadow’s Feast’, for that would imply that the Last Shadow’s Feast was somehow not the last we’ve heard of the destructive Shades, and all the horrors they have caused this world. But ‘Shadow’s Feast’ has a much larger history than the one everyone knows of on Veird, where the God of Magic has been not-himself for a long, hurtful, and terrible time. But still rather short in the grand scheme of things.

“The origins of this festival date back a million years and more, to the time of the Old Cosmology, when the Dark was a force of expansion. Back then, a long line of Gods and Goddesses of Magic, with mantle passed down from worthy to worthy, were the ones who tested those who ventured into the Edge of Existence, to make them stronger or to force them back to the safer spaces, all in an effort to continually expand civilization. This festival is a celebration of that; of achievements won against adversity, and of making civilization a larger, better place.

“This, then, is the true nature of Shadow’s Feast.

“So let us simply name this night in the manner of the older ways, to respect the Dark and the history of a universe gone by. Let us leave last year’s festivities and final naming to the history books, and to something more imaginative than simply affixing ‘Last’ to that particular festival’s name.

“If you can still hear this voice, I hope you are one of the people invited to this party, for if you are not, you should run and hide. Danger abounds in the Dark, and tonight will be the largest test of many of our lives.

“Welcome to Shadow’s Feast.”
