Mephistopheles tried to keep the grin off of his face, but he could not, so he reveled in that brief emotion and shot his smile directly at Justine. “Nope! I did not. And I’m not going to tell you who did! Besides! It was empty at the ti—”

Outside, on the docks, where several smallish fishing vessels were tied, a ball of fire bloomed across the waters like the release of a napalm flood. Erick sent an Ophiel to solve that problem and to heal whoever had been targeted, and to undo whatever had happened as fast as he could, for that wasn’t the only [Fireball] bursting into the darkness across the city—

— While inside the meeting room, Erick cut through hate, saying, “[Fireball]s are blooming across the city.” All eyes turned his way. “I’m already working on it, but I do believe you three are needed elsewhere to help ensure a safe transition. I see Slip is out by Market Street—” Erick scowled as bright lights to the north caught his attention. “Now the farms are on fire. Why would anyone set the farms on fire?” Erick turned on the rain. The sky darkened even further as the moons vanished behind clouds. Two seconds later, great big drops of water tinkled against the crystal dome above the meeting room. Two more seconds passed and the tap-tap-tapping of rain turned into a torrent. He asked whoever felt like answering, “I’m going to turn on a lot of different Denial-type spells. All the main 6. Do any of you foresee a problem with this? Specifically with people being trapped in stone, or something like that.”

Justine and Mephistopheles both realized something at the same time, after Erick had mentioned Denial spells, and now that their initial panic had passed. Erick was uncomfortable with the recognition he saw in Justine’s red eyes, and in Mephistopheles’s pool of white light. They saw Erick as something Shade-adjacent, if not a Shade-in-hiding. They had no basis for dealing with Wizards, but both of them had lived and worked under Shades long before now.

Instead of being more scared, though…

They relaxed. They prepared themselves to accept a yoke that they had worn for many, many years already. The shape of that yoke was different, but it was a familiar yoke all the same.

Huh.

Ava’s own experiences as a shadeling were a lot further from her mind, though, since most of her time as a shadeling was unknown to her; according to her, anyway.

Unsure, Ava answered, “Don’t do the Stone Denial?” And then she regained some of her wherewithal and realized her first answer wasn’t sufficient. “Keep it above ground.”

Erick had the Ophiel already blanketing the city with [Spatial Denial Aura] open up a second aura; a spell he rarely got to use, but which was perfect for this situation. [Prismatic Lullaby Aura]. According to the text, and to the spells Erick had put into that working, he would ‘lull the primary elements to slumber!’ It even had a lesser effect against esoteric elements, like Blood and Force.

Prismatic waves blossomed all across the city, expanding out from every Ophiel Erick had set up to do so. They kept their aura about a decimeter off the ground, and then worked to keep it like that; this was complicated, constant Shaping, and the land here was not perfectly flat, though it was close.

Erick had his message Ophiel, currently flying high and repeating his previous message, switch to a new message,

“Attention. All Elemental magic is now being Denied. Please stop hurting each other, or anything else for that matter. Come out from the ground while you still can. Stone Magic will soon be denied. Come out of the ground while you still can. Don’t get trapped underground.”

Erick’s [Physical Domain] was loud enough and cast over a wide enough area that even though Particle Magic was partially Denied, because it was untyped Force Magic, it didn’t matter. Erick felt the very stone of the room shake a little as Ophiel continued to repeat his message using Erick’s voice.

And soon enough, holes opened up in the ground, and people began to step out into the night. Based on their clothes, Erick guessed that these people were part of the ‘slums’ Ava had mentioned earlier.

In the lull between the second and third repetition of Erick’s message, he told Mephistopheles, “Good luck out there. I’ll ensure that no one dies, but I will be doing that from Yggdrasil. And don’t worry about the stuff that Candlepoint is going to lose due to this cleansing. I’ll make sure that we’re fully connected to Stratagold soon enough, and with all of the resources that will come with that sort of connection.” Erick stood, saying, “I’ll be back.”

He opened a [Gate] to the side of the room, leading to Yggdrasil’s branch outside of his house, and stepped through. Teressa followed. The lightning portal soon closed behind him, sending out one final zap against the floor as it did so, leaving behind a trail of soot.

No one saw the soot since the floor was already black to begin with.

- - - -

Mephistopheles watched Erick vanish beyond his [Gate] and felt something like hope rekindle inside his chest.

Keeping Candlepoint together had been so difficult. More difficult than he had ever thought it would be. Everyone wanted something. All the traders and all the little people and all the—

So many, many different wolves-in-skin pulled at this land from every angle, hoping to rip off a large enough chunk for their own purposes, hoping to push the shadelings from their own homes, and to take everything that had been given to them by Melemizargo. They had succeeded as much as they could. They had almost assassinated Mephistopheles twice, now. But he survived.

The larger enemies had survived, too; those who had ordered those assassinations saw no proper recompense for their acts of swordpoint diplomacy, because while Mephistopheles had killed the actual assassins, he had no idea who had actually ordered the hits, and he could not do what he needed to do in order to find out. Not with the little power he had. Not with his hands bound with the chains of propriety and civility. If he had acted like he wanted to, breaking whoever he needed to break in order to get answers, Candlepoint would have been destroyed by all the larger powers of the world.

But now that power had finally come back to Candlepoint?

… Erick was not a Shade. He probably wouldn’t do as a Shade would do.

But he was strong enough to bring the fight to whoever brought the fight first.

“Good enough for now,” Mephistopheles whispered, as he smiled way too much to be proper.

He smiled brightly and turned to Ava—

Ava was lost. She was unsure what would happen now. Mephistopheles pitied her a bit, for she had lost all her memories of being a shadeling. If she had had those memories, then perhaps she wouldn’t be like this right now.

He turned around, to face Justine on his other side.

Mephistopheles didn’t like Justine, for she had turned away from Melemizargo. Ever since her [Reincarnation] she was a Koyabezite through and through. It was shameful! And yet… He saw in her red eyes a recognition. A realization. The same one that he had experienced, sometime between where their new demigod walked away through his [Gate], and now. Sure, her personal realizations probably lined up with exactly what that ‘god’ Koyabez desired, too, but whatever! Only foolish Cultists couldn’t adjust with the times, and in that moment, Mephistopheles knew that Justine was no fool at all.

Justine was looking at him, too. She spoke first, “I thought you had quit the Cult.”

Mephistopheles stood from the table, saying, “You can’t quit the Cult, Justine. You know that. You can only go into hiding until the time is right to reveal yourself, and now is that time.”

“You and I will have words before this is through, Mephistopheles.” Justine stood, scowling. “And you will not be mayor. We cannot have that going forward.”

“I will be mayor until Erick, himself, casts me down.” Mephistopheles teased, “But it’s not a total loss for you: At least our people will get their homes back!”

Justine spat, “All you can do is follow the wind.”

“It’s the only way to stay alive,” Mephistopheles said, with perhaps too much force.

Justine looked at Mephistopheles, and in that moment, they were closer in purpose than they had been in a long time. She knew which way the wind blew, too.

Justine ignored and moved to stand near Ava. She filled her voice with kindness for those less fortunate, and asked, “Ava? Are you okay?”

Ava instinctively stood like a proper shadeling called to attention, even though she had and left behind this life almost a year ago. And then she realized what she had done and was embarrassed for her instincts. She said, “I appreciate your concern, Justine. I am fine. The words the wrought left us with yesterday make a lot more sense now. Under the illumination of…” She found her footing, saying, “Upon Sighting these certain events, I feel I might actually enjoy a proper connection to Stratagold. Aloethag had told me that opportunity for real beauty and security would come soon enough and the barnacle-cities of the Geodes always made the best of everything down below.” She muttered, “I certainly did not expect a Wizard, though. I had put no stock in those recent rumors but perhaps I should have.”

“Koyabez had told me to be alert.” Justine said, “He spoke of everything changing but would not give details; only saying that I would know the lay of the land after it was revealed.”

Ava muttered, “And what a revelation it was.”

Mephistopheles cheerfully ignored the personal plights of lesser gods and their worshipers and strode toward the double doors of the meeting room, happily saying, “We’re officially a nexus of the world, girls!” He threw the doors wide open, saying, “Our time to [Grow] is now!”

The hallway was empty, though some doors had been thrown open here and there down the way. Those doors rapidly closed as Mephistopheles’s voice filled the corridor, echoing off of the solid walls and the emptiness contained between. Some people had been thinking of venturing outside, but they had decided not to.

People did not fill the hallway, for there were no idiots in Mephistopheles’s city hall, like they were running around outside. City hall had spies and opportunists hiding in rooms, of course! Lots of those. But no fools. In a situation like this, when magic spilled out across the world and changed everything in the blink of an eye, the only people who should be out were those working for the powers that be; people like Mephistopheles.

For at that moment, Erick was certainly looking down upon Candlepoint, and judging. He was probably plucking people off of the street and setting them aside to be sorted through at his convenience—

And didn’t that thought bring a smile to Mephistopheles’ face. The widest smile he had had in a while! Finally, Candlepoint had power! Finally, city hall wouldn’t be a nest of minor intrigue and appeasement for all the other nations of the world to carve apart at their leisure!

Mephistopheles cheerfully called out to all those who lurked, to those who needed to know which way the wind now flowed, “Our Archmage has returned to us, no longer a simple archmage, but a Wizard King! Those who would follow, follow! Those too scared to step into the shadows, prepare to be judged!”

His words echoed down the empty hallway.

Slowly, a few doors opened.

Behind him, Ava shuddered. “Wizard King.”

“Wizards,” Justine whispered, worriedly. And then she rapidly added, “We should not call him a Wizard even if he is open about that.”

Mephistopheles took Justine’s concerns under advisement and decided that she was probably right. No matter what treaties and such Erick had managed to wring out of the wrought and the Headmaster and the gods, it was better to be circumspect about some of these things, even if the Wizard himself wasn’t being circumspect at all—

And wasn’t that wonderful!

Power unhidden! Force unfurled!

Erick was a Shade in all but allegiance to Melemizargo, and since he was a Wizard, his allegiances to everyone else were always going to be in question, and Mephistopheles could work with that. He had worked with Shades for many, many years, after all. Erick would be a fine 'Shade' to work under, too.

Mephistopheles turned to Justine, saying, “You are not seeing what I am seeing, but other than that, I agree that we should be circumspect, though with caveats. We will speak more of the intricacies of our stances when this crisis is concluded.” As people cautiously stepped out into the hallway, Mephistopheles noted that a few spies had chosen to come out, too, but most everyone here was a former or current shadeling. The people still inside the rooms were a lost cause. He included these people here in the conversation, saying, “Erick believes he is a Wizard, and that this truth will cause him no end of headache and worry over who is at his back. This is a valid concern. This concern of his will be the first of many to come, because, even if he doesn’t conceptually understand that he is a power emplacing himself, he is doing exactly that. He is a king coming into his power, crystallizing this land into a proper kingdom. And so, as any good king does, he will be evicting all those who might give him trouble. We are to assist in this eviction.” Mephistopheles stressed, “And it will be an eviction. They will leave with all of their belongings intact and unmolested. We’re a civilized kingdom, after all. That part has not changed.”

Mephistopheles led the way.

- - - -

Upon the boughs of Yggdrasil, Erick paused.

He stared up at the sky of flaming green leaves, and at the lightning-like branches that stretched up to support that glowing canopy. He had a moment.

“Ahhh, Teressa.” Erick said, “I could have handled that a lot better. I could have taken them aside and told them in private. Or scheduled a meeting and not just assumed that everyone would have been there. Quietly let the rumors drive all the opportunists and spies away. I’m not sure why I did it that way… And now that I think about it, the spies are probably the ones who stay.” Along with the shadelings and former shadelings, of course.

Teressa took off her helmet. Her green eyes sparkled with grey light as she faintly smiled. “There’s not a single person out there who would be caught off guard by a sudden upheaval, especially one that’s not actually dangerous. I’m sure they all had emergency-bags ready to go.”

