Of course, reaching the courthouse (or the city hall, or whatever they called it) and meeting with Mephistopheles was not as easy as a calm stroll through the predawn streets of Candlepoint. Shadelings were wide awake at this hour, and everyone (mostly not shadelings, strangely enough) recognized Erick.

Some dashed away. Others sent out tendrils of thought. Very few of those people looked to be gearing up for something big; to come back with a question, or a concern. Mostly, they were just telling everyone that Erick was finally in town.

And slowly, over the course of walking down two calm streets, Erick encountered a street that was not so calm. People waited for him. They had paperwork and ideas and came forward, asking if Erick would approve this business plan or that business plan—

Most of them were trying to be respectful, but like flipping a switch, the crowd suddenly turned needy. They had to talk to Erick before everyone else! Everyone else was just in their way! Erick instantly decided to avoid whatever this was and opened a [Gate] directly into the center of what he assumed they were calling City Hall these days.

He left one demanding crowd behind, and landed right in the middle of a suddenly worried crowd of guards and a scant few lawyers.

Some shadeling guards instantly rose to the challenge of defending what they were right to defend, but they all rapidly realized who he was, as if Ophiel wasn’t enough of a clue. Thanks to a very quick thinking head guard of city hall, Erick was quickly and courteously extracted from that central hallway and shown to the main meeting room on the top floor.

A dome of smoky crystal held overhead. If it wasn’t still an hour till sunup, Erick suspected that dome would let in natural light and shadow in equal measure. But as it was, the room was bathed in the shadows and light of various sconces around the room, and in the ceiling. The room and the furniture inside was black like all the rest of the building, and like the building, all of the stonework here had lines of white stone inlaid as accents to the black.

The room was quiet, and a bit too dark for Erick’s tastes.

Other than that, the room was paradoxically bright and welcoming. Sure, there were shadows everywhere, but the room itself was well lit. Can’t have shadows without light, after all. Erick’s own Benevolent light flickered and skittered inside of him, around his core, protecting his most vulnerable part from any sort of direct attack, but he wasn’t really worried about anything like that happening right now.

Erick was the only one inside the room, not counting Teressa, who stood behind him near the wall, or Ophiel or Yggdrasil, who hovered on the back of his chair. He had not sat down yet, for that seemed odd to do when he was the only one in here, but Ophiel and Yggdrasil had already scouted out his chair and sat upon the headrest, marking Erick’s territory for him.

Every office worker, lawyer, judge, janitor, clerk, and otherwise, was at least two rooms over in every direction but on the roof, acting like they didn’t know what was going on, or stressing about what was going on. A few of them clearly had mana sense or some other method of spying into this room, and they were trying to be circumspect about it, and yet nothing was happening. No one was coming this way. People were trying to get work done, but there were a lot of thought tendrils out there.

Erick had only been here for two minutes so far. Two very quiet minutes.

The head guard had just dumped Erick here and then left as fast as he could.

Perhaps it was too much to hope to be offered tea? The next room over to the left held a small kitchen with a multitude of small snacks in stone boxes, and various teas and teapots. Perhaps curiously, all of the teapots clashed with the décor of the room; none were black and white like the rest of the space. Erick guessed they were all from other places outside of Candlepoint. All of the cookies were in boxes that labeled them as from here or there, with most of them actually labeled with a pearl-like design; from the Pearl Kingdom, from Portal.

Erick wondered at that.

Like, yes, he had hope that Candlepoint would get some trade up and running, but he had also hoped that they would start making their own stuff, too. Were they not making their own stuff here in Candlepoint?

The farms to the north of the city looked to be churning out food, according to Erick’s casual observations with Ophiel. According to his casual observations, the shadelings and otherwise in town all seemed to be wearing nice-ish clothes, as well. Erick had assumed that they were making their own fabrics and such, but now that he was here, and really looking everything over…

There were an awful lot of browns, reds, and whites; three of the easiest colors to impart into fabric on Veird. Were they actually not making their own fabrics here in town?

… Erick checked on the farms through an Ophiel he had hovering above.

There were no cottonfruit fields. And no dyefruit fields, either?

How strange?

Had industry failed to materialize while Erick was gone? Like, sure, it was hard to make clothes and such, but Erick would have expected Sewermaster Ava to go gung-ho for luxury goods, and then to start producing them herself, or ensuring they got produced, as soon as it was apparent that none of the other nations wanted to trade properly with Candlepoint. Sewermasters usually had a great deal of pull in a city, based on the amount of rads (and thus wealth) that they naturally funneled back into that city, so why hadn’t the higher-end markets happened as Ava wished them to happen—

In the adjoining kitchen and preparation room, a few extra people appeared. By their appearances, Erick gained answers and more questions.

Ava Jadescale slipped out of the wall, stonestepping, no doubt. She looked like Erick remembered; A 25ish young human woman, but with tiny green scales up and down the sides of her body. Most shifters wore masks, as a cultural thing, but Ava did not, though she did wear sparking green eyeshadow in great abundance. Her eyes were green and not slitted at all. Sometimes a snake shifter’s eyes were slitted, not always.

Ava wore some of the nicest day-to-day clothes and bright, enchanted jewelry that Erick had ever seen on a sewermaster. Al, back at Spur, wore really nice clothes, too, because he could afford it. Ava was even more rich, or something along those lines, because she had actual enchanted stuff wrapped around her wrists and neck and fingers. Maybe she had made them herself? It was entirely possible. Perhaps sewermasters from Ava’s part of the world, before she was turned into a shadeling, were enchanters, too. Whatever the case, she was clearly well off.

Richer than Mephistopheles, it seemed.

The mayor of Candlepoint was a shadeling incani who stepped out of the crystal in the same room as Ava. His eyes were aglow with white light, while his skin and curving horns were as red as fresh blood. Nice clothes on par with Ava, but no enchanted jewelry on him. Then again he was a monster and people didn’t normally make enchanted stuff that worked for monsters. Erick could make some stuff that worked for monsters, though. He was pretty sure that Mephistopheles, or some other shadeling in town, knew how to make monster-compatible enchantments. There had to be someone, right? So why no enchanted defensive items, at least?

The other person to blip into that room was Justine Erholme. She looked about as good as the last time Erick had seen her, too, if a bit more tired than before. She was an incani with bright red eyes and milk-white skin. Justine was originally from the Underworld around Enduring Forge, in Nelboor, before she succumbed to the shadeling curse and unknowingly opened her Underworld city to attack from monsters, and then monsters did what monsters do; they killed everyone who could not flee.

Justine was still working for Koyabez, last Erick heard. He had expected her to be brokering peace between shadelings and other nations elsewhere, but perhaps, since none of the nations of the world let shadelings live openly, Justine’s continued life here in Candlepoint was not that much of a surprise. What was a surprise, though, was that she was dressed like a full priest, in plain white robes, and she had deep bags under her eyes like she hadn’t slept well in months.

Justine also had a brief scowl for Mephistopheles, but other than that, the three of them glanced at each other, and then at the door separating their room from the meeting room. Ava glanced at Justine’s garb and at Mephistopheles’s outfit and then put them out of her mind; she didn’t like their style, but that was not important right now. Mephistopheles almost went for the door, but then he paused, and caught himself.

All three of them were somewhat scared about what was to come and they were putting it off as best they could.

Justine decided that she wasn’t going to wait any longer. She went for the door first, but then Mephistopheles shadowstepped forward and led the way, both to get there first, and to deny Justine whatever Justine wanted. There was friction between Mephistopheles and Justine, and there always had been as far as Erick had known, but now that friction seemed mean spirited. Ava glanced at that small interaction and ignored it as one would ignore shit on the sidewalk; it was unpleasant, but not her problem.

It appeared that this place was a bit dysfunctional.

Not actively broken, of course, but not a well-oiled machine at all. And where was Slip, the guard captain? Or Valok, the former master farmer of the former Farms of Spur, and now the master farmer for the farms of Candlepoint, and Erick’s old frie— Well. Not ‘friend’. Not really. Not after he had been murdered by Portal and been turned into a shadeling in order for Bulgan to be able to taunt Erick. But they had been friendly enough—

Anyway.

The black doors opened.

Candlepoint put as many of their best feet forward as they could.

“Welcome back to Candlepoint, Archmage Flatt.” Mephistopheles warmly greeted. “We’re glad to hear that you’ve moved into Yggdrasil, and are here to stay. And congratulations on [Gate]! A monumental achievement. Let us throw a party sometime soon! A commemoration.”

“I don’t need a party, Mephistopheles, but I thank you for the idea, anyway. Good to see you again.” Erick turned to Ava and Justine. “Good to see you two, as well.” He asked, “Is Slip still the guard captain? Is Valok still the master farmer?”

Justine said, “Slip—”

Mephistopheles quickly answered in order to speak over Justine, “Slip is still guard captain, and Valok is still master farmer. They will be joining us as soon as they are able.” He gestured to the table. “Shall we sit and discuss what is to come? Would you care for tea?”

Erick looked at the man, and wondered…

Mephistopheles used to be rather flamboyant and sarcastic. He had been the overseer of the Garrison back when Erick deposed Bulgan, but Mephistopheles had only gained that office after the previous several appointees met untimely ends at the hands of Bulgan, or adventurers, or otherwise. Mephistopheles had always been very aware that he could have been killed at any moment, back then, and so he had armored himself with an extravagant persona to deflect his mortal worries. This Mephistopheles wore a nice suit and tried to be presentable, but mostly he was overly worried about being deposed, or assassinated, or killed, or any number of horrible things. His mental armor was gone. It had rotted away under the constant demands of this mayoral job.

Not having any actual power, such as an archmage, available to back him up has probably made it tough to run a city such as Candlepoint.

Or maybe Erick was giving the man too much credit?

From what Erick was seeing and what he knew of Candlepoint, this city needed someone who was very, very good at their job, and maybe Mephistopheles was that person, or maybe someone else was needed.

Erick glanced across Ava and Justine, and then flicked his sight back to Mephistopheles, saying, “Sure. Let’s sit down and have some tea.” Erick put on a smile as he sat down in the chair that Ophiel and Yggdrasil had commandeered. “I would like to be apprised of everything that needs appraising.”

Mephistopheles did not miss a beat as he sat down across from Erick, instantly asking, “Where would you like to start?”

Justine and Ava took their seats to the left and right of Mephistopheles, leaving Erick alone on his side of the table, which was how it was to be. There was room for more people to fit in on both sides if they needed, and to that end—

Erick cut his thoughts short.

Erick said, “I can save the questions of the farms and the security of Candlepoint until Valok and Slip get here, and so—” He looked to Ava. “Ava. It’s good to see you, and to see that you seem to be doing well. How has it been getting luxury to Candlepoint? Have you had any trouble with the sewers?”

Mephistopheles tensed, as though he had failed in some unknown way.

For a brief moment, Justine tensed, too, but then she relaxed a fraction. She knew she would get her turn to speak, and then everything that needed to be said would be said. She happily waited her turn.

Ava suddenly didn’t know what to do with herself, now that she was in the spotlight. But then she realized that yes, she did know what to do; she knew exactly where to start. With a serious tone, she said, “Every single week it’s something, from unexpected shadow slimes to shadelings trying to use my sewers as hideouts, but I’ve handled worse back when I was the sewermaster for my Jadescale enclave all those years ago. The problem I’m actually having, though, is that people keep stealing from me! Now theft of rads is a large issue for any town, because such a theft removes a reliable source of enchantment materials which are better served being turned into reliable enchantments from reliable enchanters. But never has a respectable sewermaster needed to make allotments for shadelings! There’s nothing wrong with them going out into the Crystal Forest and smashing mimics for their meals now, but instead, they steal from all of us!

“It’s a problem because all the solutions I can come up with are negated because every time I fix it, they just set up slums in another part of the system! Actual slums! Always popping up in some other corner of the sewers and diverting waters and stealing necessary resources from the city’s coffers!” She digressed. “But I have been able to scrounge up some decent clothes, thank Aloethag. Thank you, too, for noticing. I probably wear this outfit too much, though, because… Well. The rads are not flowing like they should.”

Slums?

That seemed…

Not right.

