Erick scrunched his face. “Why are there slums at all?” Erick looked to Mephistopheles. “Housing should be easy?”

Mephistopheles held his tongue, but he Sighted Erick’s look.

Justine spoke, “Because people tried running away and then they got shoved back here, and now we’re having a crisis of housing—”

“It’s not a crisis.” Mephistopheles spoke, “We’re simply low on people who can make good housing, and every time someone gets a good house, we have others tearing them down. A normal city would be able to exile some of the malcontents and impose actual order on outsiders who look to do us harm. I could wish them better luck in the next town over. But the original people are stuck here and they’ve mostly been pushed out by the outsiders who bring in the goods. The actual crisis we have is that the original people are outnumbered 3 to 1, and those 3 have formed blocks to lock out the original inhabitants of this land.” Mephistopheles said, “Kind words won’t rid us of the problems we are having; I need actual power to be able to expel some of these miscreants, and we have no power, for as soon as we decide to use our power we will be seen as monsters. And so… We abide as best we can.”

Justine frowned at Mephistopheles, adding, “And the ‘1’ out of that scenario is actually more like 1100 shadelings working against 3000 former-shadelings who tried and failed to leave, and who want their homes back, but those homes have been sold to outsiders in order to line the pockets of Mephistopheles and his cronies! And now, we’ve got 16,500 people —most of them outsiders— working against 3000 returners who have nowhere to live!”

Mephistopheles weathered Justine’s accusations like a mountain would the rain, and then simply said, “Those newcomers now rightly own land, and they bring with them money and otherwise. You know, the things we cannot go out and get ourselves? That stuff. Like proper fabrics and stationery and books and pots and pans and other metalwork. And seeds for plants and knowledge to construct houses that don’t fall down the next day, and all sorts of other necessities.” He said, “There are 1100 shadelings who decided against rolling the dice with the Darkness’s [Reincarnation] because we knew which way the light moved. We originals have taken care of this land and done as much as we could. Those who have left are welcome to participate, but they left. Returners don’t get to have their house back when it has already been sold to an investor bringing in goods that we all need.”

Erick heard and understood a few of the problems laid in front of him, though he was still stuck on one part that made no sense.

A housing issue? That seemed… Too easy to solve.

Erick would solve that issue today. Right now, actually. And probably not in the way any of them expected or wanted it to be solved. This meeting was within the sensory range of others, after all. Not two rooms away, people were listening in with mana sense. High in the sky, people watched with [Long Range Scry] eyes. The walls had eyes and the shadows spied.

And so, Erick saw the pile of problems with no easy solution, and set it on exploding fire, “I’m sure a lot of those new investors will want to leave soon, because I am apparently a Wizard. I made [Renew]. I made the anti-Sundering Element which I call Benevolence. I made [Gate], myself, without Melemizargo’s final help. To that end, there will probably be some sort of establishing war soon enough, when that information gets more wide-spread and people come for me and everything I have built. This information was already spreading wide and fast, but now you’re in the loop.” He added, “Such a war won’t come from Kirginatharp, or the wrought, for I have maintained alliances with them. I’m also allied with the dragons, and have made [Reincarnation] just half an hour ago, so we’ll probably get some former dragons up in here, too. It’s a variant on the same spell that Melemizargo used on you, Ava… or something. It’s probably not like that at all, but it works. I turned some shadowolves into dogs just half an hour ago. Anyway. Dragons. The dragons who come here and partake of [Reincarnation] will be cleansed of their Curse, so there shouldn’t be any dragon fights in the area, but if we do get dragon fights around here then I will simply solve those problems and [Reincarnation] the dragons into less destructive lives right then and there.”

There.

That was not everything, but it was a lot, and it was as succinct as Erick could make it.

Mephistopheles blinked, uncomprehending. And then he leaned back in his chair, pretending at calm thought, but whatever was going through his head was not calm at all.

Ava escaped in a [Teleport]. One Script Second later she came back, mumbling, “Sorry, sorry. Instinctual.”

Justine froze, eyes wide, softly breathing. Justine seemed to freeze a lot in the face of fear. Erick had once toyed with the idea of using Justine to replace Mephistopheles as mayor of Candlepoint, but that was a bad idea for any number of reasons. Like, sure, Justine could handle herself well in talks, and her heart was clearly in the right place with how she spoke before, but she also froze in fear sometimes.

Erick let them have a moment or five, and then he said, “I feel that this problem between the originals and the returners will solve themselves, because I already see people escaping from a few rooms over here and there, probably off to tell whoever they report to.” He glanced to Ava. “Or maybe they’re just escaping.”

“Yeah… There are spies everywhere.” Mephistopheles’s voice was a small thing, warbling with uncertainty. “I had thought that the wrought were rather accommodating yesterday. They knew we’d be losing everything we’ve worked for on our own.” He sat straight, then looked at Erick. With a steady voice, he said, “It was unkind to explain things in this manner. You could have warned us and we could have prepared.”

“I don’t do subterfuge, Mephistopheles.” Erick said, “But you are right; this was unkind. You have had no real say in your own circumstances in a long while, and this is just another expression of that particular fate. Sorry.”

Mephistopheles flinched a fraction. “… Accepted.”

For a long moment, no one spoke.

And then Ava broke the silence, muttering, “Gods above.” She was staring at the wall, but according to her flickering eyes she was focused on somewhere else. “It’s going to be a full-scale evacuation, isn’t it? It’s already started.”

Outside, under cover of darkness and a morning that was still an hour away, people raced across the city, heading here or there. Some went to the market streets—

Erick saw something unconscionable. He had only ever experienced it once, himself, way back when he was working with the Greensoil Republic to clear Odaali of the Halls of the Dead. Back then, someone had used [Stoneshape] to tear down their first command center, while they were inside. Such an act of magic was considered worse than Soul Magic in some circles. It was one of the reasons that the Sovereign Cities didn’t allow houses made of [Stoneshape] (though that particular situation was a lot more nuanced than that particular law).

And here now, someone cast [Stoneshape] on an occupied building. In this case, the building was a general goods store on the market street. A human man and woman lived above the store, and now, they were trapped in rapidly solidifying stone. They had been sleeping. They were certainly awake now, though. The caster, an orcol (non-shadeling), had been trying to get into the store, to steal everything he could. He didn’t even care that people were now locked in stone.

Erick’s heart sank. There was no way to avoid what was coming. It was always going to be bad. He just didn’t think that someone would start looting this fast.

Erick would have helped out with the trapped people, but he saw them [Stoneshape] away their trap and advance on the orcol. This seemed to delight the orcol just fine, for he seemed to hate the store owners. That story was merely one small occurrence out of ten thousand happenings all across Candlepoint, though. Erick needed to do something bigger to stop the larger problems before they happened.

Ophiel descended onto the Crystal in the center of Candlepoint and opened up his [Spatial Denial Aura], shaping it to flow over almost all of Candlepoint. Where one Ophiel could not reach, the other Ophiel could. Soon, the entire city was filled with Denial.

The shift in mood of Candlepoint was instantaneous.

The thing about [Spatial Denial] was that it felt like a prickling of the skin that you could ignore most of the time. But it felt exactly the same as a Shade’s [Teleport Lock]. It functioned more or less the same, too.

The orcol who had been raiding Market Street suddenly stopped and started running for his life. The owners of that store also started running, and in the opposite direction. A pair of incani who had been following that orcol to Market Street, suddenly turned tail and ran. Half of Candlepoint was awake already, and every single person out there felt they knew what was happening, for there were no children, there were no innocents here. Every single person here in Candlepoint had either come here as a shadeling, not of their free will, or as a person looking to strike it rich through Erick’s promises of a Gate Network.

They all knew what it felt like to be near a Shade.

They were wrong, of course. This was not a Shade attack.

He decided to tell everyone the short version.

While Erick sat in the meeting room with Ava, Justine, and Mephistopheles, he also had an Ophiel take to the sky, and open up his [Physical Domain]. He looked up at the shadowed crystal dome above, and also down through the eyes of his [Familiar]. He began speaking to Candlepoint.

“Attention. Attention. Some of you have just heard some disturbing news, that I am a Wizard. Some of you seek to capitalize on the coming confusion. I am stopping that capitalization right now. If you wish to leave Candlepoint with your stuff, you are free to do so, but you will do so in an orderly, calm manner and the guard will be verifying your departure. For clarification: I am, apparently, a Wizard. I have also made [Gate]. Those of you who are able and desire to leave may do so, but for those of you who stay, or for those who cannot leave, know that I am here now, and nothing will ever be the same.”

The first repeat of the message was done, and everyone in the room with Erick was staring overhead, or directly at him. Erick just sat calmly.

Teressa went, “Uh. Boss? Uh. Was that wise?”

Erick almost answered that yes, it was wise, and also necessary, but Mephistopheles looked like he had his own answer. Erick nodded at Mephistopheles, letting him speak.

Mephistopheles looked at Erick with narrowed eyes, saying, “If the goal was to make for an easy transition and keep everyone here who is here, then no; this was not wise. So obviously that was not your goal. You want most people to leave.”

“Correct.” Erick said, “Those who are put off by this will leave and take their uncertainty with them, and we’ll all be better off for it, because my own truth of Wizardry will not change. The truth sitting at the foundation of Candlepoint will not change. It will only fester and come out as a cancer, later, for I can’t lie for shit and I won’t have the future built upon any lies, either. Besides that, the wrought and Kirginatharp and all the gods know this truth already.”

Mephistopheles breathed in, then nodded, steeling himself before he spoke with authority, “I need to start organizing the guard and the exodus.” He stood. “Is there anything else that needs to be said? Or shall I begin to enact your will?”

“I’ll leave the [Spatial Denial] running to prevent people from escaping with whatever they wish to steal, but no; there’s nothing else that needs to be said right now.” Erick said, “We can talk more at sunset, when most of the people are either gone or settled. Know now that I wish to discuss the nature of the Cult in Candlepoint, of which I am rather sure you are still a member.”

Justine frowned. She glanced at Mephistopheles, uncertain.

Mephistopheles almost lied directly to Erick’s face, but then he thought better, and said, “For what it is worth, the Cult is not what it used to be. We’re mostly an affiliate system helping each other these days.”

Justine’s red eyes filled with hate and worry as she stared at Mephistopheles. Ava frowned at the man, then she turned her thoughts back to her own situation.

Erick just nodded, saying, “That’s fine. You might have heard already, but after the Chelation War I helped the Dark Sects of Nelboor turn away from their dangerous ways. The Church of Koyabez took a lot of them in, but I’m absolutely sure that most of them are still Cultists. I’m pretty sure that Koyabez wants Melemizargo’s cult to return to how it used to be before the Sundering; for the Cult to stop their destructive activities. So as long as you aren’t undermining your own city, or planning on harming people, then I have no problem with the Cult. I will have a problem with the Cult if you are planning harm.”

Justine paused her hate as Erick spoke, as though he had been reprimanding her as well.

Now that was a complicated situation. Justine was working for Koyabez, and probably trying to do stuff against or with the Cult in Candlepoint, but she did not know that Mephistopheles was still a member. Erick was pretty sure that all the shadelings were members of the Cult, by status if nothing else, and simply because Melemizargo could take over their mind at any time he wished…

Or something like that.

Erick wasn’t 100% knowledgeable about the Cult, actually. Probably only 85%. Erick did not want to get into the intricacies of whatever was going on between Justine and Mephistopheles, either. And so, he had delivered his warning. He hoped Mephistopheles would abide.

Mephistopheles said, “Since we are airing truths… If we do manage to get a true Interfaith Church up and running —instead of several separate buildings and our Dark Temple constantly being torn down and us needing to tear down the temples of the other gods in response— it is our hope that you will ensure that such a true Interfaith Church is only allowed when we are all allowed within its doors.” As a quick afterthought, he added, “And it can’t be a wholly-white building.”

With a voice like a whispered quake, Justine accused, “You tore it down!”

