“… They do have emergency bags.” Erick was present on that branch, but he was also flying across Candlepoint with Ophiel, putting out metaphorical fires; all the real fires were already turned off, and unable to be recast, thanks to [Prismatic Lullaby]. “My Denials are hindering a lot of those quick escapes, though, which was the plan, anyway. I want people taking all their stuff and leaving and us not being called thieves after this is over. I do recognize that there was no easy way to do this...”

Erick saw the guard deploy down Market Street, and run right into a crowd of people trying to ‘loot the stores’, according to half of those in that street. Some of those ‘looters’ were just owners, though, and they wanted to leave. Erick had Ophiel repeat his message about allowing people to leave with whatever they could prove was theirs, which seemed to inflame the crowd but also vindicate the shop owners, while also assigning the guard a side to take in the conflict.

Back on Yggdrasil, Erick said, “I suppose it was only ever going to be a clusterfuck. Best get it out of the way as quickly and solidly as possible.”

Teressa smiled. “Hopefully this will stop people from bothering you when you’re out and about, now.”

Erick chuckled at that thought. “Thanks, Teressa.”

“Anytime. Now you want pancakes for breakfast?” Teressa began walking to the house, which was about ten meters away and still invisible. “Or something fancier? Steak and eggs? Jane told me about that one time, and I haven’t made that yet.”

Teressa vanished beyond the edge of the porch.

Erick followed. As he stepped foot onto the porch, and the house reappeared, Teressa was already by the door. “Steak and eggs sounds wonderful. I’m going to sit out here and watch the sun come up, though, and to oversee the city.”

Teressa nodded and gave a quick, comfortable salute, saying, “Sure thing, Boss.”

Erick turned his full attention to Candlepoint.

The sun was still half an hour from rising, but the city was fully awake now. Mephistopheles, Justine, and Ava, were on the move, along with everyone else in uniform, shouting orders and calming the worried people in the streets. There wasn’t much calm to be had when everything Erick had said was true, though.

He was a Wizard, and that was terrifying.

‘Worse than a Shade!’ was a widespread consensus, and that hurt, but Erick let that hurt flow away as much as he could. People worriedly spoke of the Sundering, and of tales of Wizards that they had never given much thought to in most of their lives. They spoke of Hullbreaker the Pirate mostly, since he was the most well known and recently-active of the Wizards of Veird, but Erick also heard new stories, of Oathbreaker the Scourge of Greensoil, and Deathstealer the Broken. Oathbreaker was a claimant to the Viridian Throne centuries ago, but she was revealed as a Wizard before she could take the throne. She broke everything she could break before they finally killed her. Deathstealer was long, long ago, and part of the reason why [Resurrection] wasn’t considered real; he had created souls whole-cloth and claimed they were the original people. Even those people didn’t realize they were completely fake—

Poi joined Erick on the porch, asking, “How can we help?”

Erick felt warmth at that kind offer. “There’s to be lines and organization and a mass exodus as soon as they can get a viable means of sorting truth from lies, and Candlepoint does not have enough truthstones. I need verification that people are only taking their own stuff.”

Poi nodded. Tendrils of thought escaped his head, going off into the manasphere. After a moment he came back, saying, “We can provide truthstones and organization. If you will [Gate] some people in from Spur, they can be here within ten minutes.”

“I can do that.” Erick sent an Ophiel flying across the world, as he said, “Have them come to the house. There’s still a lot of people around there, so let me know which ones are the Mind Mages when they get there.”

“Will do.”

Within a minute, three nondescript people carrying small bags of truthstones appeared at the house in Spur. They were promptly stopped by guards, like all the rest of the people eyeing Erick’s house from outside the property lines. But at Ophiel’s appearance, and Erick’s waving of one of Ophiel’s wings, the guards parted and the Mind Mages came through onto the property. Ophiel opened a [Gate] from there to Candlepoint’s city hall.

The Mind Mages met up with Mephistopheles and Slip and Justine, and everything started to go easier from there.

- - - -

The sun rose, turning the world to shades of blue and then pink and gold, illuminating long lines of people with all their belongings packed into carts. They waited for their turn at guard stations set up on the very edge of Erick’s Denials; their freedom waited for them beyond one final bit of bureaucracy. They were fleeing, and that was fine.

Erick had already flown some Ophiel to a few places around the Crystal Forest to help with the exodus; to the lands just outside of Spur’s northern gate, and outside Kal’Duresh’s public access ramp, and even outside Portal’s eastern public gate, down on the coast. Soon, the first of those no longer interested in living under a Wizard departed the city of Candlepoint with all their stuff in tow, passing through the [Gate] that led to Spur.

A few, very few people, upon seeing the [Gate]s and realizing that this, right here, was the reason they came to Candlepoint in the first place, decided to turn around. To go back to the lives they were trying to create in this land. And that was fine by Erick.

Most people decided to leave. Some people who were on the fence, decided that the getting was good, and so they would get. A few people didn’t even want to take Erick’s [Gate]s; they went through the queue for the [Gate]s but they just blipped away as soon as they exited the Denial.

Most people seemed to leave through the Spur-destination [Gate].

Erick would have to keep that in mind for the future.

According to the heraldry on some of the boxes and on the uniforms of those leaving, almost everyone with an organized cart was from a merchant house, or here on behalf of a kingdom from the Wastelands, or a kingdom in the Greensoil Republic, or from some other organization. Those people had come as a part of a company, and the company had said ‘no Wizards!’, and so, they left.

Very few of those escaping were those who had come here hoping for a new life. It was easy to tell those people apart from the rest, for they left with boxes of clothes and assorted household items packed into wooden boxes, floating atop [Force Platform]s.

Erick ensured the transition happened peacefully.

- - - -

Soon enough, Teressa served breakfast on the porch. Poi and Erick and Teressa all enjoyed a nice breakfast of steak, sunny side up eggs, hash browns, and hot coffee. It was wonderful. Soon enough Jane and Kiri came out, too, carrying their own meals in their hands.

Jane started off the topic of the day, asking, “So what’s happening with Candlepoint?”

Erick winced, then began, “I’m not happy with how it happened, but...”

He explained. They listened.

And when he was done, none of his people thought that he had done any wrong.

“I feel you are all focusing on the wrong thing, here.” Erick tried repeating what he had done wrong in a different way, hoping that they would understand, “These people came here hoping for something better, and now that they know I’m a Wizard they’re running for their lives. One of my larger goals was to help Candlepoint grow into a real city, but now Candlepoint has lost almost all of that growth.”

Kiri waved a dismissive hand and summed up what Erick had yet to understand, “You’re a king clearing his castle. That you have done so bloodlessly is fantastic—” She realized something. She said, “Not a ‘king’, sorry.” With no small amount of delight, Kiri said, “A Wizard King.”

Erick instantly slumped in his chair, his eyes unfocused as he stared at the underside of the porch roof. It was painted light blue, like the sky that was impossible to see from under here, inside Yggdrasil’s canopy. “Oh, gods above. I’m not a… ki...” His voice failed him.

With too much delight, Poi struck with words that he had been saving for quite some time. “A Benevolent Wizard King.”

… Erick slowly turned his gaze upon Poi.

Everyone looked at Poi, wondering what the fuck was this, now.

And Poi just laughed.

Jane glanced around, asking, “I don’t get it?”

Poi happily explained, “A title for your father! How do you like ‘Emperor Erick’?”

At Erick’s suddenly deepened scowl, Jane burst out laughing.

Kiri’s eyes just went wide as she whispered, “I was joking but are we actually making a kingdom here?” She looked to Erick. “You want to be a king?”

“No!” Erick complained.

Teressa offered, “Overlord Flatt.”

“Not you too!” Erick complained.

Teressa grinned as she shrugged. “You used the word ‘oversee’ earlier. ‘Overlord’ makes sense.”

Erick felt the blood drain from his face.

Kiri decided she was good with making a kingdom. “I like ‘King’. Simple, effective.”

“ ‘Harbinger Flatt’?” Poi offered. “ ‘Tyrant Flatt’ is the fallback option.”

“No.” Erick stated, “I am not a king.”

Erick’s complaints fell on deaf ears. Everyone had opinions for what his official title would be, and each one was more outlandish than the last.

And all the while, Candlepoint emptied of over half of its opportunists and would-be citizens. Erick tried to get the conversation back to discussing that, but it was impossible.

For Kiri summed it up again, saying, “People in the Crystal Forest have [Teleport]. They might not have enough mana to use it properly, but they have enough to move around as they wish. Look at Spur! That place is at 350,000 people right now, and it’s still growing. Two years ago they had less than 80,000 people. I bet almost all these people who move out today will move up there for a while, anyway.” She nodded, and secure in her opinion, she said, “I bet they’ll all be back, too, once you’ve secured your reign and shown yourself to be a just and fair Wizard King.”

Erick scowled, and Kiri laughed.

In an attempt to change the subject, Erick said, “Enough about kingdoms. I made [Reincarnation] this morning—”

“YOU DID WHAT?!” Jane exclaimed, standing up from her chair.

Kiri stared, disbelieving. But when Teressa and Poi both gave no indication that Erick was telling anything other than the truth, Kiri just started laughing and laughing.

“I reincarnated some shadowolves into dober dogs and set them on the northern coast, too. Nice stone homes. Plenty of room to run around in.” Erick said, “De-monsterfied them, of course. They’re doing okay; I’ve been checking on them. They recognize each other as pack members, so now that that first problem is cleared, I’ll see how they develop as dobers in the coming weeks and months. Probably end up giving them away to someone, though, unless you all want dogs here?”

Kiri chortled right along, happily laughing.

Jane sat back down and stared out at the horizon. “I shouldn’t be that surprised at [Reincarnation], should I.”

“Nope!” Teressa happily said. “This is normal, now.”

Jane added, “And you already made most of that spell in Ar’Cosmos, right, dad?”

“I did!” Erick said, “But putting it all together was still a task.”

Kiri exclaimed, “A spectacular accomplishment, Wizard King Erick Flatt!”

Erick frowned.

“How about ‘Divine Emperor’?” Teressa offered.

“Probably shouldn’t have ‘Divine’ in the title,” Poi digressed. Then he offered, “But ‘Glorious Wizard King’ could work.”

“How about ‘Saint Wizard’?” Jane offered.

Poi said, “I’m sure there’s at least one god out there willing to bestow that status.”

“Oh!” Teressa said, “He always starts off with ‘I am —apparently— a Wizard’, so how about ‘The Apparent King’?”

Kiri’s eyes went wide as she said, “I like that one!”

Erick had not succeeded in changing the subject.

… And this was kinda fun to think about, anyway. Distracting, at the very least. Which was probably why Poi had started this naming mess in the first place. As that thought crossed Erick’s mind, Poi smiled.

And then Poi said, “The Wizard Dictator!”

Erick scowled again.
