Unlike the little penknife, the curved dagger had a sheath decorated with stampings in a vine pattern. He slid the dagger in and tossed both it and the giant-ass mana crystal into his backpack.

Then he went to the nest and destroyed the eggs, smashing each one. At that point, he was too numb to feel bad.

Each egg had a tiny little mana crystal, about half the size of the ones from the regular demon chickens. They came in blue, white, and with a sprinkling of red. He thought that might be air, water, and some fire.

Overall, it was a pretty good haul. He looked under the nest, too, just in case there were any more goodies, but found nothing. Not even bird shit. Maybe this place might be more fake than he thought.

Man, his arm stung. He really hoped he didn't get demon bird rabies.

Walking out of the glade, he looked around one more time to make sure he didn't hear anything else crawling in the underbrush. There was nothing. The dungeon had an empty, sterile feeling about it. He had cleaned it out. Actually, he had exterminated everything.

No, he was going to focus on the positive. He wasn't exactly a mighty hunter, but he had certainly cleared this place out.

He went back to the door for the exit room. It was like a regular door, with a knob and everything. The knob turned easily as he opened it and stepped in.

"Bob Ross, Bob Ross, Bob Ross," he chanted to himself. Not because he particularly liked painting, but because it would be much easier to spend the rest of his life with that rather than, say, sneezing wind blades.

There were two chests waiting for him. Both were firmly stuck to the floor. Apparently, he couldn't take those with him.

The first was filled with five mana stones. This was his reward for the dungeon, and... it was a little disappointing, as each of the mana stones was the same size as the ones from the regular demon chickens. Three were air, one was water, and one was fire. There was also a little bar the size of his pinky finger of what he assumed was steel. Well, whatever. He added it all to his pack.

The next box was the real prize. As Thomas lifted the lid, he swore he heard an "awe," like from a chorus of angels.

Nestled on a bed of dried grass inside was an old-style vellum scroll like you'd get from medieval times.

"Nice," he said.

Taking a deep breath, he unrolled the scroll. The contents were written in florid calligraphy that might have been hard to read if it didn't have the same aspect as the sky writing. He could read it as perfectly as print.

Thomas Coldstrike: You have unlocked the Gift of Loot.

Any dungeon monster you kill is five times more likely to drop an item from the dungeon monster's loot table. In addition, rare drop chances have increased from 0.5% to 5%.

"Oh," he said. "Suddenly a few more things make sense."
