Markus reached over for the half-empty can of energy drink beside him and found his hand brushing cold, hard stone instead.

“Greetings, combatant.”

“What in the hell?..”

This wasn’t right. This wasn’t even half right. Markus’ eyes shot open, fully alert, moreso than he thought possible without a carbonated stimulant at the ready. The sight that greeted him made him wanna go straight back to sleep.

A red-eyed, grey-horned creature with slits for nostrils and a fanged, toothy smile stared down at him, shrouded by an entourage of robed creatures whose features Markus couldn’t quite make out. The entire room was blanketed by a muted red glow.

“The fuck is this…” Markus rubbed the sleep from his eyes, jolting back as horror quickly substituted sleepy inertia, only for his back to brush against an invisible wall that kept him locked in place. The desire to go back to his bed, back to his life, and back to his soon to be finishing download were extremely strong. He’d even set his alarm an hour early so he could game a little before he left for work, and now…

He looked down only to find that not only did this same transparent wall seem to surround him in a wide circle, but that below him, intricate symbols and carvings had been freshly placed, painted in what he could only assume in his panic-addled mind to be blood.

“Shit. I ain’t even played Hades 2 yet…”

He was somewhere between laughing and shaking, fear and disbelief. Gone were his usual threads, no stained grey hoodie, no baseball cap, no ripped jeans or odd socks. Instead, they’d been swapped out for cuffs and manacles, as well as a plain black robe that ran all the way to his ankles.

At least he had his modesty. Hell couldn’t be THAT terrible if they took the time to dress you, right?

The strange, hellish creature looked down at him with a faint sense of bemusement, before brandishing a small flicker of electricity from his right hand. Markus’ eyes followed. He couldn’t see a taser or anything in the creature’s grip.

Magic?

“Strange. Usually otherworlders take longer to subdue. I’m accustomed to prolonged bouts of hysteria.”

“I’m sorry, would you feel better if I started crying?”

The demonic creature tutted, before waving his hand at what Markus could only assume were his subordinates. At once, the creatures around him lowered their hands, and the invisible barrier behind Markus fell away. He crashed back against the hard stone ground, barely avoiding slamming his head, only for a text box to immediately pop up in front of his face.

[Containment field deactivated. System integration initialising.]

[Processing…]

[Warning: subject’s World of Origin is undocumented. Subject’s inborn traits and physiology may not be fully compatible with this world. Unique traits may emerge. Would you like to return the subject?]

“What in the…”

Markus was struggling to read it all. His eyes were still blurred, and he hadn’t expected a litany of text to suddenly get dropped in his face. He didn’t have a clue what half of this meant…

“Relax.”

That was all the guidance he got, and Markus watched skeptically as the demon pressed a couple of buttons and verbally said the words ‘no’ and ‘yes’ once or twice each, all the while growing increasingly cognisant of his thundering heart.

The boxes were going too fast for Markus to read at this point, barely even appearing for an instant before being accepted or declined, and that either meant that his summoner had exceptional reading skills or he’d gone through this set of options many, many times before.

Before Markus could ponder the implications, a new text box appeared, this one not instantly getting whisked away like the rest. It seemed apparent that his summoner was intent on him at least getting to read this one.

[Greetings, Markus Brown. Welcome to Firrelia, The First World.]

“Uhh… thanks, I guess?”

[Your astral spirit and physical body have been summoned to Firrelia by means of ritual magic. You are hereby bound to a Firrelian system, through which the potential of your body and soul will be summarily measured.]

That was pretty foreboding. Always the off-chance this was a cool thing that he’d wind up being grateful for? …probably not. The implication that his body and soul had been whisked across space was pretty hard for Markus to get his head around, and the confirmation of the cause being magic was just that bit more bonkers, even if it’d been incredibly obvious from the start.

The demon cleared his throat. “Now that you understand your situation—”

“That’s an overstatement,” Markus laughed; he couldn’t help it. “Five hours ago I was crawling into bed on Earth and setting my alarm. All I ‘understand’ is that I’m probably gonna be late to work now.”

“Earth, hmm?” The demon inspected his fingernails as he spoke, another spark shooting across his hand as Markus interjected. If he was bothered by it, his tone didn’t betray his anger. “Is that the little world that I plucked you from?”

Markus’ head tilted. “You don’t even know where I came from? You summoned me here, didn’t you?”

“You were pulled from deep space as a last-minute replacement. One of our combatants… expired upon arrival, and I was pressed for time, so I deigned to gamble on a specimen from an unknown world.” His eyes narrowed, and with a click of his fingers, Markus was launched to his feet. “Are you ready for your appraisal?”

Without being given any time for a response, one of the demon’s hooded subordinates stepped forwards, placing an icy, calloused hand upon Markus’ wrist. Explosive pain immediately shot out from the point of contact, as all the while, text boxes began to flash around Markus once more.

[Growth stat estimated range: E to SS.]

[Inborn trait established: ???.]

[Unique trait established: ???.]

[Traits are currently unlisted. Attempting to calibrate against documented skills and passives.]

[Decoding…]

[Inborn trait decoded: Mana Manipulation. Ability Grade: ?]

“Mana Manipulation?..”

It had been the creature holding him that had whispered it, not Markus, who was currently too busy dealing with freezing pain shooting through his whole body to whisper shit.

[Unique trait is… unidentifiable.]

“Sir… his ability scores are all reading as rather low, but he has—”

[Prolonged contact established. Would you like to absorb this creature’s essence?]

Huh? What did that mean?

All at once, Markus felt the agony cessate as the demon clicked his fingers and his subordinate immediately let up on the torture, causing the system’s strange offer to vanish. “Yes. It seems he’ll do just fine.”

“Isn’t that ability—”

The demon briskly waved him away. “It’s likely a useless permutation. The grading could also be low. I suppose we will see soon enough, though.”

Whatever it was, the ghoulish looking creature that had appraised him seemed pretty riled up about it. Markus imagined Mana Manipulation had to be at least a somewhat uncommon thing to see, else he wouldn’t have said anything.

Still, he didn’t like the sound of his ability scores being ‘low’. Could he see those himself somehow?

The demon turned to Markus as he rubbed his sore wrist, his eyes glinting like rubies in the darkness. He smiled. “Well, Markus Brown, it seems you’re just about good enough to die for us! What do you say? Ready for your new life to begin?”

Markus ignored him, alongside the unnatural, static feeling in his body that still persisted after being magically scanned. This was all so much to take in…

Finally, he grit his teeth. “I’m not interested in whatever you’re selling me. I don’t want to be a combatant, or a mana whatever. What I’d really like to do is go home.”

Now it was the demon’s turn to laugh, a short, barking snap that his subordinates seemed to emulate by instinct more than anything.

The demon leaned in, regarding Markus with a measured, imperious stare. He lowered his tone, its richness substituted for cold depth. “Let us be clear. I own you. You were summoned for the purpose of entertainment, and you will entertain. Alternatively, you will be disposed of and quickly replaced.”

Markus felt his legs threatening to buckle. There was a literal demon snarling over him, his breath so hot that even a full foot away the creature made him sweat, teeth so sharp he looked as if he could tear Markus in half with a single bite. Not to mention his entourage. He couldn’t even tell what those guys were with how they were hooded and garbed, but he could only assume they looked just as nasty and imposing as their leader.

[Drathok of the Severed Star wishes to make a soul contract with you. Would you like to view terms?]

A soul contract? Well, that sounded just wonderful.

Markus reached out to touch the latest text box, and another one appeared instantaneously.

[With this signing, your soul is intrinsically bound to the will of Drathok of the Severed Star. Drathok may call upon you to fight for him at any time and you are forced to oblige him with both courteous respect and diligent focus.]

[Failure to oblige will result in your immediate termination.]

[Do you accept these terms? Yes/No.]

Yup. That sounded like your average showbiz contract.

Ugh…

He’d be a madman not to accept whatever document he was presented with, what with this terror staring him in the face. He’d have to have an absolute death wish.

But…

“Not interested. Just kill me here.”

For a long, painful moment, there was only silence.

The demon clicked his tongue. Licked his lips. Fire danced behind his eyes, and not in a figurative sense either. He reached a clawed hand forwards, and for a moment, Markus thought he’d made a terrible mistake, that the demon would simply oblige his request and crush the life out of him right there and then, but before he could attempt any prayers or try to take off sprinting, Drathok stayed his hand.

“Please… explain your decision.”

“You’re just gonna use me to fight until I die anyways, you already told me as much. Why die for your profit when I can just die here and save myself the trouble? Better death than a life of servitude.”

Drathok smirked, an evil thing devoid of any real mirth. It was more like a predatory mimicry of human emotion than anything remotely genuine. He reached forwards, grabbing Markus by the already aching wrist.

In an instant, his entire body was convulsing with electricity, frying him from the inside out. He felt as if his soul were being split into a million fractions, his body not so much a collection of neurons and signals as it was an orchestra of pain receptors firing at full tilt… his vision was beyond blurred, stomach convulsing, each of his senses in overdrive as he struggled to maintain any sense or semblance of self beyond the mind-numbing pain.

Just as suddenly, it stopped, retreated, retracted, as all the while Drathok held his limp body like a wet rag.

“Do you wish to reconsider your position?”

[D Grade Shock Mana absorbed. Retaliation Strike available.]

“The fact…” Markus was cut short by a cough. What had that said? I absorbed something from Drathok’s attack? Was it because I touched him? Was this my new power at play somehow?

Even if it was, he was sure it was nothing he could use to force his way out of this situation. If it was just Drathok, he might try his luck, but with all these other creatures stood around him… Diplomacy was surely best.

He hacked and wheezed his way through the next ten seconds before finally attempting to speak again, forcing himself on-balance and back to his own feet all the while. “The fact you haven’t killed me yet tells me there’s a reason. If I was that easy to replace then you’d have done it already.”

“You think you’re clever, you insect?” Drathok growled, molten coals rumbling in his throat. He glanced at a new screen for a moment, one Markus could only assume came from his own system, then looked back at him.

“Fine…” Drathok smirked again, that same smile that came with inflicting pain. “I’ve revised my contract. Tell me if it’s more appealing to you now.”

[With this signing, your soul is intrinsically bound to the will of Drathok of the Severed Star. Drathok may call upon you to fight for him during scheduled arena bouts and you are obligated to participate in earnest. Your contract will be satisfied after twenty consecutive victories in armed combat.]

[Victories will earn you rewards which may help you to fight onward.]

[Do you accept these terms? Yes/No.]

Markus read the terms carefully after they were shoved in front of him. It was still worded in a very predatory manner, and it didn’t say anything about what precisely might happen after the contract was satisfied, but the clarification about rewards and an actual end-condition for the contract was at least something to feel positive about.

It wasn’t indefinite slavery. It was actually a lot better than that. It was an opportunity to find a way to thrive in this world, maybe even a way home.

Still…

“Well? Is this more to your liking?”

“Twenty is too many. Ten fights.”

With that, Markus lost his pinkie finger. Searing, horrible pain gripped him as the demon sliced the finger from his left hand without even making contact with him, then all at once cauterised the wound with the glow of blue-hot flame.

[Transfer initiated. C Grade Flame Mana absorbed.]

“Twenty fights. I need a presentable combatant now. I do not need him in perfect condition.”

Markus swore, clutching at his wounded hand. The pain was fading unnaturally fast, but the shock and phantom sense were in full force, and all at once, he was realising just how much he might’ve overplayed his hand, even to the point that he’d lost some of it.

Still, I took something from him again… Flame Mana. He didn’t even touch me that time, and I still took a bit of his energy.

But with the bevy of mana he’d absorbed from Drathok’s attacks, maybe this would be one of his more fortuitous mistakes…

“Ten fights,” Markus growled, ignoring his recent injury as best he could, staring straight into the demon’s eyes. “Or you can find a new last minute fighter. Think you’ll have time?” Markus forced himself to smile. “Well, what about it? Better make your mind up quick… clock’s ticking, buddy.”

“Grr…” The demon swiped the air and replaced the contract before him once more. “You are a difficult creature, Markus Brown.”

“And you’re a fucking asshole.”

