Markus signed the contract as soon as he’d checked it for any last minute loopholes, but the demon insisted on shaking. Guess that custom existed wherever Firrelia was, too. Grinning fiercely, Drathok extended his left hand, prompting Markus to do the same, trying not to stare at the charred nub where his pinkie had once been.

The demon squeezed hard, hard enough that Markus almost wished he’d cut off the rest of the hand too so he didn’t have to experience this anymore.

Then, another prompt:

[Contact Established. Absorb this creature’s essence?]

It was so tempting to say ‘yes’, to see what might happen if he did, but Markus held what seemed to be his biggest trump card back for now. Whatever he’d been doing up until now via passive absorption seemed to be fairly undetectable to these guys, but he imagined straight up essence draining wouldn’t be as invisible to them, nor taken kindly.

Drathok continued to smile as they shook, but it was a facade. Any form of compromise with an otherworlder must’ve been a horrible concession for him. This was his way of ensuring he showed Markus just how much he’d revel in his newfound servitude.

As soon as he let go, the circle around Markus pulsed, and the demon gave a neighbourly wave. “Now, you’re due out in four minutes. Take the time to select weapons, pray, soil yourself, whatever it is you need do. And do try to put on a good show for your new gods.”

My new gods?..

With that, reality flashed out of focus, and Markus was whisked away from the chamber full of demons to a large, torch-lit room filled with various weapons and pieces of armour, of which he didn’t even recognise the use of half. There was a persistent rumble above, though he couldn’t figure out why or what it was.

“You the new summon?” A horrible purple thing with tentacles on its face asked, looking up from a nearby desk.

“I… yeah.” Markus didn’t have time to question it. His eyes scanned the various items all out on display, some of them rusted, some stained by blood. “Any idea what I should grab?”

The tentacled creature glanced him up and down. “Something heavy if you wanna die quickly… Something light if you wanna die slow.”

Well, that’s fucking helpful. Markus searched out a weapon in a hurry, pushing his way through spears and axes, maces and morningstars, kunai and daggers, trying to find something that made sense to him, that fit his real-world knowledge whatsoever.

No guns or tire irons here, that was for sure. Time was ticking. When Markus looked up, the creature had gotten up from his table and started to pull open a large metal grate which he could only assume led to his destination.

“Two minutes,” the guard stated, looking down at Markus with eyes bereft of any obvious emotion.

Markus was no closer to picking anything than when he’d started. He’d been about to grab a sword and just try his luck with it when suddenly he happened across something else.

It was a…

[Identify: Glaive. Long wooden pole affixed with curved, single-bladed tip. Ideal for combat at four to eight feet.]

[Weapon Grade: Unknown.]

It was a glaive, apparently. More apparently, his system had identified it for him? Whatever, he didn’t have time to ponder that, and the glaive would have to do. Looked easier to swing from a distance than a spear, and Markus was sure he wasn’t gonna want to get close to whatever was waiting for him out there.

He grabbed it, and a new prompt came up.

[Iron Glaive equipped.]

[Attune this weapon to an essence? Flame, Shock, and Spirit Mana available. Mystic Mana available, but incompatible.]

Were those all the things I’d absorbed already? He wished he understood how they all worked, and what the attunement process even did, but he was pressed for time as it was and he had no clue if he’d get a chance to do this later. He selected ‘yes’ and began to attune his weapon to flame mana, watching as the previously dull and uninteresting blade took on new life, glowing with mystical arcane carvings as the blade seemed to take on its own warm, orange glow.

Suddenly, Markus was thankful he hadn’t grabbed a metal sword or dagger. It might’ve been too hot to hold with the heat suddenly being conducted through it. He could only hope this would help with whatever came next.

…what did come next?

“One minute left.”

The voice made him realise just as much. He had no clue what he was even fighting! Why’d he gotten such little time to prepare?!

“Hey, any chance you know what I’m facing out there?”

“Horror.”

“I can tell why you aren’t my new tour guide,” Markus spat, marching past the tentacled guard into the dark unknown.

Torches lit themselves as his feet compelled themselves forwards, a digital timer ticking down at the edge of his vision. It was his job to fight now. If he didn’t, he was as good as dead, and regardless of how little preparation he might’ve had, Markus was determined to see this through. He hadn’t gambled his life pushing for a potential way out to squander that now, and if there was even a chance he could see his way through his first fight, he’d grab it and run with it.

There was no way he was dying in the middle of some sick arena on some random bumfuck planet, not after everything he’d been through back home. No. He was gonna fight his way through this and get back to his life, to the one thing that mattered. He was determined to make this work.

The rumbling sound from earlier became increasingly clear the closer he came to his fate. It wasn’t thunder, it was cheers and boos, shouting and jeering. A packed audience waiting for him to come out and give them a show.

He’d give them a fucking show alright. He’d get through this if it took every last thing he had.

Markus clutched his fiery glaive tighter as he approached the ring, fuelled by desperate bravado, by fierce determination. Whatever awaited him on the other side was just another challenge for him to conquer, another trial for him to blaze through, another day for him to seize.

Because he’d been doing so much of that in his old life, hadn’t he?

“Grr… fuck this!”

He shouted it at no one in particular. Perhaps god, if there was such a thing, for stranding him in this new mayhem. The gates creaked open, and the crowd exploded into fresh, rapturous cheer, their excitement swirling and only continuing to elevate as he stepped forth into the arena, a gleeful announcer taking over, his magically amplified voice peaking over the invigorated crowd.

“ALLLLRIGHT, SUN CITY! IT’S TIME FOR THE NEXT EXHIBITION! AREEEE YOUUU READDYYYY?”

More cheers. More boos. As Markus stepped out into the arena, the first thing he noted was just how massive it was—like the Colosseum on Earth, but perhaps even larger, with a crowd so loud and energetic it’d make packed rock concerts seem quiet and dull by contrast.

It was terrifying. He couldn’t make out faces from here, but while some of the creatures looked to be strangely shaped and sized, others seemed almost human-looking, or at the very least, humanoid.

Creatures of all shapes and sizes had come to see him get torn apart. Terrific.

“ON THE REEED SIDE, WE HAVE WHAT APPEARS TO BE A REGULAR HUMAN, BUT DON’T BE FOOLED! THIS CREATURE HAILS FROM A PLANET SO FAR FROM HERE, SO PRIMITIVE, THAT THERE IS NO CHANCE HE COULD EVER COMPARE TO A FIRELLIAN! NOTE HIS GREEN EYES, THE DARK HAIR ON HIS FACE! WHATTTT A FREAKSHOW! MAY THE GODS FIND AMUSEMENT IN HIS DEATH!”

This display elicited shouting, pointing, laughter, and more cheers as Markus’ face was plastered on a magical screen for all around to see up close. This raised many questions, but there was only one on Markus’ mind right now, and that was what the fuck the creature lurching its way through the much larger gate opposite him even fucking was.

“AND ON THE BLUEEEEE SIDEEEEE, A HORRIFIC MONSTER FOUND DEEP WITHIN THE D GRADE ALZORE ZONE! IT TOOK FOUR HUNTERS TO BAG HIM, AND THOSE ARE JUST THE ONES THAT DIED! THE BIGGEST BULLY IN ITS HABITAT, UGLY AND POWERFUL AS ALL SIN, BUT IT’S GOT THE CHARISMA TO MAKE UP FOR IT!”

With that, the creature let forth a mighty belch, as if on queue, with such intensity that the entire arena began to shake. Fucking charming.

“GIVE IT UP FOR OUR STAR OF THE SHOW, THE CUDDLIEST CRITTER YOU EVER SAW, THE ABOMINABLE BULLEATERRR.”

The more the terrible creature swayed and bounded its way onto the scene, the more the name began to feel like an understatement. That thing looked like it’d take a bull as a light snack, let alone a full meal.

He was supposed to fight that?

“AND NOWWWW, LET THE SLAUGHTERRRR BEGINNNN!”

Well, no. He wasn’t supposed to fight it, was he? He was supposed to flail and die against that.

Walking on four legs, the creature was easily twice Markus’ height, perhaps moreso, and if he had to guess, likely two or three times as thick as a horse, its body more akin to that of a hippo or a rhinoceros, if not for the oblong angles of its face and shoulders, the way it hunched, the spittle dripping down from its jowls that seemed to freeze the arena floor below…

As Markus took stock of this threat, its apparent strength, its weight, and the fact that apparently four people had given their lives just to capture this thing, a few things became apparent to him all at once:

One, the prospect of him winning even one fight here was a joke, let alone ten. That fucking demon had probably been laughing at his expense all along. He probably found it even funnier to make Markus think there might be a path out of this.

Fuck it, I’ll forge my own path.

Two, the arena was designed to discourage him hiding. Everything was spiked and serrated, so if he were to attempt to crawl into a crevice and wait for the creature to get tired, he’d only impale himself in the process, and there was nothing easily climbable that he could see.

Doesn’t matter. No point in hiding anyways.

Three, the creature hadn’t noticed him yet. He was likely too insignificant. He’d maybe have a few moments to think up a game plan before that thing decided he looked tasty. Its jaws looked like they radiated ice, a cool mist breezing from them. If that thing did gobble him up, at least he’d probably freeze before he felt himself being chewed to pieces.

Still, there was one thing that demonic loser didn’t know about, and that was the trick up Markus’ sleeve, the one he was still only beginning to figure out now. He brandished his weapon, flames flickering from the tip as he stared up at his new foe. Then, he immediately cast [Identify], taking advantage of the small moment of preparation he’d been afforded.

[Abominable Bulleater. Essence attunement: Ice. Level ??. Threat level: Extremely High.]

Markus glared at the horrible creature’s ugly maw as it snarled and thrashed before him, but past it he saw only the burning eyes of the demonic summoner that had toyed with him, tortured him, and royally fucked him over. It was all he could think about.

Extremely high, huh? Sounded better than impossible. He’d have to like those odds.

Gritting his teeth, glaive in hand, Markus advanced on his prey, forcing his legs to move.
