It wasn’t that it was looking easy. As his excitement fell to a reasonable level, he was becoming more aware that his assurance to Yenu-pezth that he’d be completely done preparing for this in only six Artonan days was probably too ambitious. Especially if she wanted him to come up with multiple scenarios. The idea was to escape from the corruption zone while the disaster was still in the early stages, when demon grasshopper strikes posed serious risks to Alden, the car, and Kibby. The lab and the surrounding crater had largely shielded them from those during the early days, and the only reason they hadn’t had to run through a storm of freshly demonified bugs at the end of their journey last time was Alis-art’h having smashed the things out of existence.

So that was going to be dicey.

But in the dream, they would get ahead of the spread and stay ahead of it, traveling all the way to civilization with only the resources they could carry or obtain along the way. The distance they had to travel would be much farther because there would be no Quaternary there to greet them. One of the scenarios would probably involve the car being damaged beyond repair inconveniently early in the trip.

There would still be ways to die, but Alden could now do much more to prevent them.

His skill was stronger. He thought he would be able to hold Kibby through all the demon bug strikes. He would definitely be able to hold her while he drove the car. He might be able to lift or leverage the vehicle through bad terrain when the mover discs failed. When their ride became irreparable, he could carry enough supplies to keep them going on foot for ages.

Got to get that sprinkler info and make sure they’ll work wherever we need them to. Have to find out how the car drives on that rocky area if we can get it all the way there. I should also…

He kept coming up with problems. He kept feeling less fazed by them than he should have.

Because he wasn’t years away from being able to save them both from the pain of sitting through that chaos for all those months. The chances wouldn’t be thin as threads if Thegund happened again. The survival wouldn’t be miraculous.

It would be something he could actually count on and make possible with his own preparation and power. This time, when he told Kibby he had so many plans to save them, the words wouldn’t be a loving lie.

He let himself flop back onto the floor of the cottage. It was cool against his back.

I can’t have Yenu-pezth account for the auriad in the dream.

That was a regret. But since the goal was for him, as he was now, to face the problems in the nightmare…maybe the auriad would just appear in it naturally one night while he was dreaming?

I’ll plan like I won’t have it. Think of it as additional therapy—peacemaking with my affixation by relying on my Avowed powers alone.

After a while, he realized he’d let the auriad slip down his arm so that he could hold it in his hand.

But could I stop the demon with this? If I had to do it to get us out of there?

Along the way, he’d find that out, too. Somehow. Just for himself.

Stuart had agreed to cast some spells at him to mimic the effects of their made-up demon. If he didn’t have time tonight, he promised he’d do it later when they could both meet up again.

He seems pleased to have an activity planned with me, but it’s still mostly about me. And he’s so busy. I’ve got to find something that he’ll benefit from, too. Maybe I should ask him more about how he’ll kill demons with Maker of Narrow Ways while we practice? He was so thrilled to talk about that last time.

Alden wondered what he’d been about to say about Ro-den earlier. Something about his chaos research that would probably have gone right over Alden’s head anyway, from the sound of it.

He grimaced. The only good thing about thinking of Ro-den was that it was a direct line to thoughts about a much more important person who would probably want to weigh in on what Alden was doing.

I think she’ll like this.

He stood, picked up his tablet, and went over to his suitcase to video himself beside Other Alden, who was sleeping on top of it with her neck tucked through a strap.

“Hi, Kibby,” he said. The new mourning name wasn’t official yet, but he’d need to talk to Stuart or Esh-erdi about that one very soon. “I’m recording this message to tell you about a nightmare I’ve been having. A good healer is talking to me about it, but I’d like your advice, too, since a dream version of you might be helping me get out of trouble. If you don’t mind.”

He managed to record the whole message before Stuart made it back. The look on the Artonan boy’s face was so devastated that Alden was worried he’d gotten some horrible news up at the main house. Despite Stuart’s willingness to explode things near Emban-art’h, he did seem very watchful of her moods. Alden had wondered so many times if there were signs that Emban-art’h was doing well for a young knight, if there had been signs that Sina-art’h wasn’t…

How and when did you bring up a question like that?

“Is everything all right?” he asked while Stuart slumped onto the floor.

“She asked me if I had more bananas,” he replied. “I said I had plenty, but I really only had one left. And I gave it to her.”

“That’s what’s wrong? I’ll bring you more.”

“I’m not complaining so that you’ll—”

“I’ll bring you more. It’s so easy.”

Stuart didn’t protest again. “She also wants to go on a trip with a couple of members of her squad. I don’t know exactly when yet because the two she’s going with are disorganized. So whatever practice we schedule for helping you <<devise>> approaches to handling the demon may be interrupted by them. It would be good for them all to spend time together right now, and they actually will need a votary with them for the trip so that they can meet social obligations.”

“I’ll bring extra bananas, and I’ll disappear back to Earth if they need you,” said Alden. “No trouble at all.”******
