Now, one of the most elite Hobgoblin warriors offered the best rations they had taken from the last ship they’d sunk. Wine, vittles—even [Pirates] relied on stored goods, even with bags of holding unless they were really high-level. But the old Goblin who snatched the food ate the dried food in good humor and washed it down with wine which ran into his beard.
“Lord Greydath. What else do you want?”
The [Shaman] addressed Greydath of Blades respectfully. He was still wet from the sea. They had found him swimming across the ocean.
“A map. Forgot where the island was. Where is it moving?”
The Goblins looked at each other. The [Shaman] called out in their language and a crude map was made. Not found; the Goblins needed no map, and the [Captain] of the ship navigated by memory alone.
“Hrr. Stupid island. Moving here, moving there…was going to swim to Isle of Minos and wait.”
Greydath grunted. He sat cross-legged, the ancient blade his only possession. He had been eating fish. The other Goblins stood wide of him, staring in awe. They knew who he was. The [Shaman] glanced past Greydath.
The moss-covered Goblins were staring at the Goblin Lord.
“Goblin Lord Greydath. We cannot bring you to home. We go to Baleros. If you wait…the ship returns.”
“Baleros? Why?”
Greydath’s crimson eyes glinted. He was smiling—as he had when they’d pulled him up at the unexpected encounter. But it was with an edge. The [Shaman] bowed his head.
“Tribes died. Lizardfolk killed three. She tells us to go there.”
“I see. I will swim. I need practice.”
Greydath’s greatsword shifted on his back. The [Shaman] nodded. Then he looked past Greydath.
“The warriors want to challenge you, Goblin Lord. To see strength.”
The Goblin Lord sat there. His red eyes glinted as he looked up from his food and the wine.
“I am in a bad mood. Do they want to die?”
He shifted. The Goblins standing behind him saw his head turn. The Goblin Lord stared at them. The [Shaman] hesitated.
“No, Lord. What happened on Izril? She said you stayed there—”
He stopped as Greydath looked at him.
“Goblins died.”
The Goblin Lord bit into his food and drank savagely.
“What else?”
He sat there, moody. The ship sailed on as the [Shaman] asked what questions he dared. He might have asked as much as he dared; it was unlikely the two would meet again. But then a Goblin on the crow’s nest made a sound.
The other Goblins looked up.
Ship passing. They fell silent. Greydath made no sound, but that was because he kept drinking from the wine flask.
The Goblins had been told to avoid conflict. So they waited for the ship to pass them at night. But—then there was another sound.
“Coming.”
The [Captain] spun the wheel. The ship turned, slipping quietly away. But within a minute the watcher spoke again.
“Following.”
The Goblin crew stirred. Some ship had sighted them despite the dark and distance and was bearing down. Poor luck for the [Pirates] or whomever they were.
“Outrun it. Her orders.”
The [Shaman] ordered. The Goblin [Captain] tried to obey. But in the distance—the other ship was following. And despite the wind which the [Shaman] conjured to their sails—the other ship was gaining.
“Coming closer.”
The [Shaman] stared over the port-side towards the ship. It was too dark to see—but as the other ship pursued the Goblin vessel at incredible speed, he saw a flash in the darkness.
Light. It poured from the other ship suddenly. The hull glowed. And the ship began to move faster.
Only one ship in the entire sea did that. The [Shaman] bared his teeth.
“Her. Hero-death comes. Stop the ship.”
The Goblin ship slowed. There was no outrunning one of the most famous ships in the sea. The Illuminary. And as it drew closer, the famous [Pirate Captain] herself stood at the prow.
Rasea Zecrew, the Drowned Woman whose body was half-Angler. Glowing like her ship.
Greydath stirred. But as he slowly stirred—the Goblins on the ship walked forwards.
Both ships slowed until they drifted closer. In silence. Rasea’s crew, one of the most feared [Pirate] crews on the seas, stood behind her.
They saw crimson eyes staring back. The Goblins waited. Hobgoblins standing with arms folded beside smaller Goblins. Then—
They smiled. They were waiting.
The first type of Goblin in this world had never known fear. Never learned to hide and run from the other species of this world. The crew of the Goblin ship waited. The Illuminary’s crew stirred.
But it was the [Pirate Captain] herself who called out.
“Raise the flag!”
She bellowed. The [Shaman] stirred as he saw a familiar color rising above the Illuminary’s colors.
A white flag. Parlay? He raised a hand. [Pirates] obeyed the laws of the sea surprisingly well.
“Wait. Lord?”
“Don’t care.”
Greydath watched Rasea. Her eyes were flicking across the deck. She had spotted Greydath. But she was looking across the crew.
“Ahoy! You’re one of the Goblin ships from the fabled Isle of Goblins, aren’t you?”
Rasea bellowed as their ships drifted alongside one another. The Goblins did not reply. They waited for their [Shaman] to speak. He just watched Rasea. She pointed at him, grinning.
“I heard your ship had been seen at Kraken’s Pass! Well—it’s been a while since then and my crew’s been dancing with Admiral Seagrass. He holds a grudge!”
Her [Pirates] laughed. Still—the Goblins were silent. Rasea looked past them. She stood amid the backlight coming from her ship.
“I’m looking for a larger battle still. And I need the best and fiercest warriors of the sea to fight with me. What about it? Any of your lot interested in crewing with the Illuminary?”
The [Shaman] blinked. Rasea grinned, waiting. She had found them and sailed up to ask them to join her crew?
The Goblins stirred at last. Some looked interested, but none of them responded. They were a different kind of Goblin. Rasea looked past them and sighed.
“Damn Goblins. But what about you?”
She pointed at Greydath. He looked at her. The Goblin Lord was drinking again while seated. He eyed Rasea and laughed contemptuously.
“Me? Leave, little Human. I’ve killed a thousand of your kind.”
The Illuminary’s crew muttered. Rasea’s shine glinted.
“Really? I’ve never heard a Goblin lie before. That just makes me want to fight you.”
She drew her sword slowly. The [Shaman] stirred. It was Rasea’s crew who held her back.
“Captain—we don’t have time for this. Or the people to spare.”
“Ah—alright! Fine!”
Rasea threw off the hands holding her from swinging across and jumping at Greydath. She scowled, but her smile returned.
“We’re after larger quarry and I can’t take a fight now. Shame. Think any Goblins from your island would join me?”
At last, one of the Goblins spoke.
“Try to land.”
They laughed, high-pitched, falling over. Rasea’s glowing eye on the fish-side of her face narrowed. She smiled.
“Someday. I will.”
She met the [Shaman]’s eyes and then turned.
“Waste of time, lads! To Savere! Maybe there’s someone good among the rabble! Onwards!”
The Illuminary moved away, accelerating with a speed no other ship could match. The [Shaman] watched the water rippling after the ship. Then he nodded.
“Baleros.”
The [Captain] spun the wheel. The Goblin ship sailed on through the night. Carrying Goblins who had never left their island before to their new home. You could call them…
Reinforcements.
 
—-
 
The second kind of Goblin was common. They were Goblins who knew fear. Fear, for a world that hated them. Fear, for all the kinds of death.
He saw them now. Adventurer-death. Even now—they made the Hobgoblin’s stomach twist.
They didn’t see him; he was several thousand feet away and only his keen eyes allowed him to pick them out in detail. Badarrow still kept low, only glancing now and then. The Gold-ranks could have vision Skills or spells like his.
Downwind, camouflaged. The small team of Goblins were eight in number. They hid in the High Passes, the others keeping an eye out for threats sneaking up on them.
That was the real danger here. As you waited to ambush, an Eater Goat herd could come at you, or a Gargoyle you were sitting on decided to have a snack. A Frost Wyvern—
Well…most of the Frost Wyverns were hiding. The adventurers combing the High Passes had cut a swathe through them. They were everywhere. Gold-ranks, Silver-ranks, even a few very stupid Bronze-rank teams who’d been eaten.
Some idiot had put a huge bounty on Wyverns. Badarrow had learned that through the Goblin’s intelligence networks of eavesdropping on Humans. They were mad with gold-lust to kill even a single Wyvern; they’d even abandon the valuable carcass to take the head back, or just swear on truth spell they’d killed one.
It didn’t matter, to be honest. The adventurers were combing the High Passes. Mostly the lower elevations at first, but to pursue the Wyverns who were flying higher, the adventurers were climbing. Mostly, they missed the one spot where Goblins had made their fortress.
But this group was too close. Badarrow did not like them. There were twelve and they were Gold-ranks. Probably a Gold-ranked team rather than all individual Gold-ranks. But far too many.
And that was the first team. The second was a group of thirty! Thirty—probably multiple teams working together. Both were equipped for serious air-combat. The [Sniper] had seen a Wyvern dive at them and practically vanish in the face of all the spells and munitions they had.
They were climbing right towards Goblinhome. Any higher and they’d discover one of the passes to the valley. Goblinhome wasn’t exactly unobtrusive; if they reached that spot, they’d see the fort and it would be a fight.
So they had to be stopped. Badarrow had a longbow. He took one last look. He was waiting. Both teams were climbing and neither had sighted the other. But if he was right—as soon as the team of twelve passed by that large rock down there, they’d see the team of thirty-two below.
“Arrow.”
He whispered. A Cave Goblin put it into his clawed hand. It was a special arrow. The tip glowed; it was hollowed ruby, filled with a bit of liquid that exploded on contact with air.
An enchanted arrow. Badarrow put it to his bow and lined up his shot in his head. He had to place it perfectly…
Now. The [Sniper] rose, loosed, and dove down in one moment. He had already known where to aim and loosed exactly at the right moment. The adventurers never saw him. But one cried out as the arrow sped towards its destination.
“Hold up! My [Dangersense] just—”
Boom. The Goblins had covered their ears. Badarrow heard what was happening. The arrow had detonated as it struck an overpass just ahead of the team of thirty. Rocks were showering down; the overpass might collapse. If they had been any closer…
“Dead gods! What was that?”
Badarrow listened to the shouting. From both teams. The group of thirty were screaming at each other, checking for injuries.
“Hey! Are you okay? What was that?”
The Gold-rank team shouted at the second group. They were answered by curses.
“What? You shot that arrow, you bastards!”
One of the adventurers below aimed her staff upwards. The Gold-rank team was confused.
“We shot nothing!”
“Salamander shit! Get down here! I’ve heard other teams are attacking us! You try that again and we’ll erase you!”
“Shut up, Silver-ranks! We don’t need to ambush you! Go home and behave yourselves and stop fouling us up!”
The Gold-ranks heard a roar of fury from below. They looked around in confusion.
“Who said that? Andry—”
“It wasn’t me!”
Badarrow saw the Goblin camouflaged against the rocks slipping backwards as curses drifted upwards. The Goblin was an expert in voice tricks like that. One of Numbtongue’s disciples, actually. Now both teams were screaming at each other.
The luckless Gold-rank team, who were in fact Todi’s Elites, back for round two, were in a stand-off with the adventurers below. Todi’s attempts with the other level-headed adventurers turned to chaos when someone hurled a rock.
Again—a Goblin. But the arrow that nearly hit Todi was all-adventurer. Badarrow slipped away with his team, sighing in relief.
It had worked. Sometimes it didn’t. The arrow-trick, the Goblins with their shouts and rocks—it was all a huge risk. Badarrow’s squad had analyzed the adventurers, tested their detection capabilities to make sure they could pull this off.
Halrac wouldn’t have been fooled. Adventurers who were already angry and looking for a fight on the other hand…Badarrow just wished the adventurers would leave.
But apparently there was some kind of route they were taking from Invrisil all the way to the High Passes that make the adventurers more inclined to rotate in and out. Badarrow cursed whatever new trick the adventurers were using. He hurried off to check another trap. It was a busy day.
A third team was climbing up towards Goblinhome. There weren’t that many routes, but one of the captured Wyverns had been sighted flying too high, and they were checking out the nest. Badarrow found more Goblins finishing their prep.
“Okay. Is good?”
“Good!”
The second Goblin-leader raised a thumb. Not Snapjaw; she was with Rags in the negotiations. The Hob in charge of the Goblins was in fact, Calescent, the [Cook] who made everything too damn spicy.
But he had worked his magic here. The [Cook], Badarrow, and the other Goblins ran for it as they heard the adventurers coming up the slopes. Far away, Badarrow listened to them coming up.
“Keep low. We’re not letting Todi take another Wyvern. Wish we could find the Wyvern Lord.”
“We’re not fighting a damn Greater Wyvern, you idiots. That’s suicide. Hold up—I see something ahead. Mendel, check it out.”
The team sent ahead a Gnoll [Tracker]. He sniffed the air, but the Goblins were good at hiding their scent. And what the Gnoll saw made him go running back.
“Dead gods! Dead gods!”
“Mendel, what is—Rhir’s fucking hells! Back! Back! Oh, Selphid’s tits, there are hundreds of them!”
“Wh—oh no.”
The sniggering Goblins tried to keep quiet. Calescent felt Badarrow nudging him proudly. The [Cook] offered one of the spares he’d kept for Badarrow to inspect. The [Sniper] took a look and sniffed before taking a bite.
Not great. But that wasn’t the point. He swallowed the special egg and watched the adventurers panicking.
Calescent had worked hard on them. He’d taken your basic egg and actually hollowed the interior while leaving a transparent outer layer just solid enough to hold a gel. He’d made the gel too, out of a few ingredients.
Sage’s Grass, some orange dye, and water and voila. The Goblins had made a glowing nest of eggs which the adventurers were freaking out over.
“Crelers! Do you see any living?”
“No—but if they’re out in the open?”
