Until the world shook. The Keeper of the Valley had seen the fighting. He expressed his displeasure. Goblins and Ogres both halted their battle. The Keeper of the Valley demanded an end to the raiding.
Kerra’s Chieftain obeyed. So did the Ogres. They came with two of their spellcasters to make peace. The Goblin [Shamans] were wary, but they made peace at last, and it was a pact made in blood.
For years thereafter, there was peace. Ogres and Goblins were wary. They fought. But they had made peace and both side’s wisest honored and enforced the bargain. Kerra learned to like Ogres. She made friends among their people.
Even slept with them. Some of them joined her tribe. The Ogres were prideful, more solitary than Goblins. They came and went, unlike Goblins who stuck together unless their tribe itself failed.
Kerra met Ogres, then a colony of Trolls, who were doughty fighters. Able to heal and endure even what Ogres and Great Goblins could not. They preferred the more marshy areas though. 
Trolls. Ogres. Goblins. Even a Cyclops all lived there. Different species, in the hidden valley.
So passed decades. Kerra was over fifty years old when the peace ended. The Keeper of the Valley called all the peoples to him. Each one, whom he had allowed to reside in his lands.
They gathered. Goblin, Troll, Cyclops, Ogre, even other species, fewer, but united. The Keeper of the Valley looked down at them all and spoke.
“The Humans come. They come for my children. They come for me. Will you fight with me?”
For nearly a century, the Valley Pact Tribe had known his peace. They answered the Keeper’s plea and so did the Ogres, the Trolls…almost every race. The Keeper charged the Cyclops with a single order—he told them to take the children of each race and lead them to safety with his children if death came.
And they came. Humans. A vast army of them, bearing the banners of over a dozen kingdoms. 
Rags realized they were Terandrians. She saw [Knights] marching in ranks. She felt Kerra’s despair as she beheld their numbers.
But no Goblin fled. They went to war for the Giant of the Valley. Kerra saw the Humans throwing rocks up the mountain as the valley-dwellers charged towards the arrows and spells. She crashed through a line of Humans coated in armor, tearing their weak metal-coated bodies apart with her bone axe.
But there were so many. And one with a spear like the night itself threw the spear up and the Keeper of the Valley cried out. Kerra looked up and lost track of a Human below—
Pain. Rags woke gasping as she felt Kerra die. The Giant still fell in her vision, bringing his hand down towards the Human who had slain him. She was crying.
She hated remembering dying. And oh, they died.
But that was a Goblin thing. And Rags knew now what gifts Invek wanted. She went outside, grateful she had brought as much as the bags of holding could fit.
 
—-
 
The next day, Rags presented Invek with a pile of nuggets of gold and cut gems, taken from Goblinhome’s stash generated by the Goldstone Tribe. Not gold dust or the smaller, equally precious gems, but the largest, most magnificent specimens.
Invek was delighted. Rags knew from Kerra’s memories that these treasures were an excellent gift for Ogres, who prized the gems. They were not natural miners, being too big for cave-work. Rags could have also offered weapons or food, those being common objects.
And sure enough—Invek offered her a pile of Goblin-sized weapons. Excellent steel daggers, armor too small for Ogres—and to complete the bargain, three full sets of plate armor.
It felt like Rags was getting the better deal, but she knew better than to show it. She had to kick the Redfangs to stop them from showing their excitement. Invek was happier to get the gold and gems; Rags was well aware that the Ogres had no use for chainmail or the weapons they had given the Goblins.
It was goodwill on both sides. Rags was very happy about the haul which more than justified her time spent. Unfortunately—a huge complication came up shortly after the exchange.
A group of sixteen Ogres approached Rags. They were all young, some not even full-grown, but all warriors armed with the lowest-grade of weaponry. Stone or bone weapons, not the coveted steel or enchanted weapons. They had no armor, forced to rely on their bare skin which was still very tough.
They did not beat about the bush.
“Chieftain Goblin. Want to join tribe.”
The biggest Ogre announced. Invek stopped smiling. Every Ogre turned to the sixteen. Rags stared up at the Ogre, who was female. She knew what she was doing. Her eyes were keen as she stared at Rags.
“Why?”
The female Ogre glanced at Invek, and then spoke loudly. She pointed at Redscar.
“Strong small Goblin. Has good metal. We fight for good metal if give. And potions.”
The other Ogres nodded rapidly. Potions? Rags knew the Ogres had plenty of potions; they looted Humans for potions too. But when she turned to Invek for clarification she made the biggest discovery yet.
Rags turned to the scowling Invek. She was not pleased by this development. From Kerra’s memories, Rags knew that Ogres abandoning a clan wasn’t the terrible indictment it usually was among Goblin tribes.
But it wasn’t great. To buy time, Rags turned to Snapjaw.
“Snacks. Give.”
The [Biter] looked pained as she dug out more of Calescent’s snacks. The spicy, mouth-watering bits of the large-tailed rodents he fried up were excellent meals for Goblins—or snacks for the huge Ogres.
That quieted everyone down as they went to find water or milk; only Snapjaw could eat them without leaking from most orifices. Rags turned to the Ogres who wanted to come with her.
“Ogres can’t fly on Wyverns. Too heavy. Too many Goblins.”
“Can walk.”
The younger female Ogre looked blankly at Rags. The vast distance to the High Passes didn’t seem to deter her. Rags chewed on her lip.
In theory, a single Ogre might be able to ride an adult-Wyvern. And it was certainly possible to find a route back towards the High Passes for the Ogres. But why?
“Want potions? What kind of potions? Healing potions?”
Rags gave the Ogress a dubious look. Instantly, she shook her head and slapped her chest.
“Ogres too strong! Not healing. Other potion. All clans need for live.”
Seeing Rags’ totally blank expression, the Ogre scratched at her head. She turned to the others. After some conferring, they produced something. A nearly-empty bottle. Rags took it, opened it, sniffed it.
It was…violet. Which told her nothing. Potions were all kinds of colors because each [Alchemist] had a different recipe. This one shimmered with bits of glowing red. Rags narrowed her eyes. That looked like Sage’s Grass. Which meant this potion might be—
She took a tiny sip as the Ogres watched carefully. Rags felt the energy run through her. Weak—but it recharged her. The [Steelflame Tactician] lowered the bottle and exhaled a small gout of flame with the excess magic she’d taken in. The Ogres nodded. Rags looked at them.
“Mana potions?”
A few questions later, it was clear. The what. Not the why, not just yet. But the Ogres were adamant. They didn’t want paying in steel—weapons their size. They’d happily take mana potions over that.
They fought Humans for mana potions. Not just—treasure or slaves or any other reason. Rags was astounded.
“Very need. Is bad…bad without many.”
“Why? Ogres need magic to live?”
Another shake of the head. Invek had consented to talk despite her clear annoyance with the situation. Rags scratched at her head. Invek sighed impatiently.
“Magic makes magic.”
No kidding? Rags gave her the same annoyed look. She saw Invek gesture.
“Look. Clan Shaman.”
An Ogre with a crude staff had been sitting among the others. Rags had noticed Invek listening to this Ogre now and then. He was clearly not a warrior. Now, he rose and walked over as Invek deferentially gestured.
“This Dolom. Great spellcaster of Tormek Al. Came from smaller tribe for many gold. Potions.”
Ah, so they were in great demand. Rags inclined her head. Dolom eyed her, then nodded.
“Rags Goblin casts spells. We—kin.”
He lowered the staff and touched Rags’ chest gently. Rags felt the power in the staff and swatted it away. Dolom was watching her. She had the distinct impression he’d just checked her magical abilities.
“Touch again and I cast [Fireball].”
She warned him. Dolom grinned toothily.
“Human magic. Ogres have magic too. Need potions. I was Ogre. Stupid. Drink many potions. Now, magic is mine.”
That explained it. Rags blinked.
“You…got magic powers from potions?”
For answer, Dolom pointed his staff towards the smoldering fire from last night. He spoke.
“Falgut’se.”
Rags recognized the root word. Falgut was fire—her eyes widened as a huge flame roared from the embers. The other Ogres moved back, looking at Dolom with envy and awe.
“Ogres have little magic. Potions give. Many potions. Many drink, slowly.”
Dolom bent over and whispered to Rags, as if imparting some great secret. And perhaps—it was. She had never heard of this.
“Magic comes from potions?”
The other Ogres nodded. It was an ambition they all had. From Invek to the Ogress who wanted to join Rags’ Tribe. Dolom sat cross-legged.
“Magic. Drank many, many. Learned words of power from others.”
The process of becoming an Ogre Shaman was arduous. You had to get many potions. Not just dozens, but up to a hundred and drink them slowly. Too fast and you’d die of fever and madness. But just drink them—until the magic in the potions became yours. Even now, Dolom gathered more potions and drank them. Not when he needed them, when his natural magic was low, but when he was healthy, at his vital prime.
It was adding to his mana pool somehow. The Ogre touched Rags again and she recoiled as she felt that his reserves exceeded hers! She wondered what Noears would have made of this.
“Ogre Shamans stronger than Human [Mages]. Strongest in world. Why Humans can’t kill Ogres.”
Dolom had refused to go on the clan’s rampages, but he’d halted some of the counterattacks. Still—they wanted to leave before Named Ranks took up the call to exterminate them. It revealed much.
However, Invek seemed to think this differential made Ogres superior. She was smirking and Rags decided it was time for some pushback.
“Can make fire too. All Goblins can. Snapjaw, show.”
The Hobgoblin raised her sword. The Ogres looked at her suspiciously and Snapjaw spoke.
“[Burning Blade].”
Her sword burst into fire along the metal. The Ogres gasped. Invek looked dismissive, though.
“Not big fire.”
“All Goblins, though. Redscar?”
“[Burning Blade].”
The Goblin waved one of his swords as he combed Thunderfur with his other hand. His blade burst into light as well. The Ogres saw the other Redfangs do the same and gasped.
Dolom had more magic, but no Skills. Fire was easy. A basic spell that Rags’ entire tribe could do thanks to her Skill. The Ogres, upon hearing that, were shocked. Rags smiled, keeping her inner thoughts to herself.
The revelation about mana potions was important. She’d have to experiment. For now—she wanted the female Ogress and the fourteen others who wanted to leave. They’d be good additions to the tribe if they could be trusted, and Rags would see just how good they were before Invek’s tribe arrived.
The pageantry was over. Rags turned to Invek and saw the Clan Leader’s grumpy face. It could have been dicey—but Rags had insight thanks to Kerra, again. She clapped her hands.
“More gifts!”
This time she gave a different sort of gift to the Ogre clan.
Meat. Eight Ogre’s weight of meat put a huge smile on Invek’s face and she practically ushered the mates and children out of her camp along with the warriors. Rags had depleted the stores of food she’d brought for the Wyverns and Goblins, but she had the hang of this now.
“Good gift. Good meat. Better than weak warriors. Goblins and Ogres still friends!”
Rags nodded with a smile on her face. Casually, she produced something from their stores. She had only two, but Invek’s eyes locked onto the mana potions only Rags needed.
“Would give more gifts.”
Invek and Dolom both jostled to see the medium-grade mana potions. Rags pulled them back before they could be snatched away.
“Gifts for gifts, right? What does Clan Tormek Al have?”
Instantly, the Ogres opened their supplies. Rags walked around, looking without trying to focus on anything. She spotted something dirty, lying among Dolom’s stash and pointed to it.
“Books?”
“Mm. Good fuel and wiping. Also—pictures. Want? What give?”
For a single mana potion, Dolom turned over half a dozen books. Clearly, not an equal trade. Rags gave the other mana potion over to Invek, who was glaring.
“Friendship. Got more books?”
She received them—most torn, used for kindling or other purposes. But the Ogres had cleverly saved pictures, even diagrams and maps. They had no use for histories or stories.
So that was how you traded with Ogres. Always something given and taken. Rags sensed it was more than materialistic need or greed itself. There was ritual there.
The last trades completed, Rags stepped back. She saw the Ogres milling about, disappointed there were no more potions. But a good deal had been wrought on both sides; Invek was already drinking her potion and Dolom had spirited his away. The Ogres were looking at the Goblins with equal parts avarice and interest.
One of the Redfangs was arguing with a young Ogre who wanted to trade for his steel sword, under the wrongful impression that all of the Goblin’s blades were enchanted. Rags saw the two gesticulating as the Redfang tried to rip off the Ogre for a dagger that was enchanted. She made an annoyed sound. The young Ogre swiped for the sword, wanting to try the enchantment himself—
And was cut across the chest as the Redfang refused to let go. Red blood ran into the ground. The Ogre cried out, clutching his chest. Rags’ eyes widened as the Redfang warrior leapt away.
“Stop! Idiot!”
Invek was as good a leader in her way as Rags. She bellowed before the other Ogres could take offense. She raced over and Rags saw her smack the badly-bleeding Ogre on the head. The young warrior fell down from the heavy blow.
“Goblins friends. Cause trouble? Idiot!”
Rags was more concerned that the Ogre would die from the blood loss. She pointed at the guilty Redfang.
“You. Potion!”
The Redfang fumbled for his healing potion, a mark of his elite status that he carried one. But Dolom moved faster than the Goblin. He shoved other Ogres aside and stopped Rags and the Redfang.
“No need. I Shaman. Watch.”
