The Goblins had artistically piled them up near an overhang, as if spilling outwards. The adventurers were debating what to do. Badarrow was worried—until he heard their leader whispering.
“No! No, no, no! We’re not fighting a nest that size! You want to end up like those guys at the Bloodfields? I heard it was a multi-party wipe! We call it in, and someone else can burn the nest to hell and back. Evacuate now! Spread the word!”
They practically sprinted away from the deadly eggs. Badarrow slapped Calescent on the back. Another team distracted and hopefully this one would spread the news.
“Chieftain has good ideas. Anyone want spare eggs?”
Badarrow shook his head. Calescent chewed on his creations good naturedly as he shared them around. Honestly, the hardest part had been getting that many eggs. They’d had to use all kinds of pilfered eggs now that Rabbiteater couldn’t easily get food and supplies. Actually—they had some livestock too. But they’d used goose eggs, chicken eggs, duck eggs…
It was Rags’ idea, the traps. She had come up with all these deterrents, borrowing from Pyrite for some tactics but improving her own. Badarrow’s favorite was the poo technique. They hadn’t had to employ that one; that was higher up.
It was nothing fancy. It was just a matter of spreading a week’s worth of Goblin and Wyvern excrement over an area where the adventurers might conceivably climb towards Goblinhome.
They…tended to turn around and go elsewhere when the wind blew the perfume at them or they saw the issue covering—well, everything. The only problem was that you had to reapply whenever it rained, but there was always a supply, as it were.
Launching wasp nests, planting traps some other adventurer had ‘accidentally’ left behind…oh, there were wonderful things you could do. All of it had kept Goblinhome safe. Not every adventurer was fooled of course…but none had ever lived to talk about Goblinhome.
The last defense between adventurers and Goblinhome was simple. If they made it past all the deterrents for whatever reason, the trap-hill with the crossbow Cave Goblins waited. And—from the cliffs—a single Hobgoblin [Greatbow Sniper], certified by Badarrow himself. The Hobgoblin would be sitting in front of a Thunderbow. And the oversized crossbow-ballista had claimed exactly three adventurer’s lives. One had been a Gold-rank.
It didn’t make Badarrow feel good, killing adventurers. Nor did the Redfangs in general like it; attacking them in an ambush wasn’t sporting. But Goblinhome was undetected—for now—and most of the adventurers never had to meet Goblin snipers for the first and last time.
He trudged home with Calescent. All this because some idiot had flown a Wyvern too high. Well—they were temperamental animals. Badarrow had no idea why Snapjaw adored her mount so much.
“Badarrow. Going to go now? Can distract adventurers now.”
Calescent pointed out. He looked down the High Passes. Towards Liscor. Badarrow scratched at his head. The adventurer-influx had certainly taken up his time. But he had had something to do. The [Sniper] had a hunch that the ‘magic door’ some of the adventurers had been talking about might be in a place he knew.
None of them talked about a Goblin in an inn, but that wasn’t exactly a huge conversation topic. He had to know.
The [Archer] nodded slowly.
“Soon, Calescent. Just need spare Wyvern. When Chieftain returns. How long?”
The [Cook] counted on his fingers.
“Hmm. Six days. So…bit longer. Talk long with them. Negotiations go well?”
“Maybe. Stupid talking.”
Badarrow grumped. He missed Snapjaw. Calescent patted him on the shoulder.
“Make cheer up. Let’s throw gold and watch adventurers beat each other up.”
Badarrow brightened. He did enjoy that. He wished that Chieftain Rags would return with the others so he could use one of the tamed Wyverns, of which there were exactly three. She had left with Redscar, Snapjaw, and a dozen other of the best Redfangs despite the risk to Goblinhome.
Well—he couldn’t even fault her on taking so long. It was important to negotiate. They might have allies. And while it had taken the emissary weeks to arrive, the Goblins had been able to reply thanks to the Wyverns, even if they did have to move out of sight to reach the hills. Badarrow just couldn’t imagine it, though.
Ogres?
 
—-
 
The range of hills that covered hundreds of miles northeast of Invrisil belonged to Ogres. The massive humanoid people had a history of clashing with the Humans who lived in the low-lands. Ogres were dangerous. Tough, intelligent enough to use weapons and fight with crude tactics—their Clans could wipe out weaker armies when enough Ogres massed together.
Yet they had no ability to level. Which was a good thing frankly; the natural strength and resilience of Ogres meant that one with [Warrior] levels would be an unstoppable force. Even without levels, some ruled over Goblins, subjugating them, or took other species as slaves.
When the other species weren’t strong enough, that was.
This Ogre was among the largest Rags had ever seen. Eleven feet tall. And to make him even more fearsome, his already-tough skin which was like leather, was covered by hide-and-iron armor.
It was thick. It might not be steel, but no javelin would ever piece the armor without a Skill. The Ogre himself used a two-handed club to deadly effect. He was fast, lethal—the champion of his clan. He roared behind the crude helmet he wore.
Rags wouldn’t have fought the Ogre. But the Goblin who stood in front of the Ogre was barely taller than she was. He had two swords in his hand. His wolf, Thunderfur, watched from the side.
The Ogre champion charged with a roar. He brought his club up and then feinted—he swung across the ground horizontally. It should have blown the dodging Goblin away. The Ogre halted his backswing, ready for another blow as he raised a fist—
The Goblin was gone. The Ogre’s head swiveled, eyes wide. He brought his club up. Too late—he saw the figure swing off the club. Redscar had lodged one of his blades into the wood and metal.
Now, he leapt into the Ogre’s guard. He raised the crimson blade and cut. The Ogre cried out as the enchanted sword cut through hide and flesh with ease. He backed up, swinging desperately, kicking—
Redscar dodged, keeping close to the Ogre. Within his guard. He didn’t do anything flashy. More importantly—he didn’t use a Skill. He just stuck next to the Ogre, slashing, evading—
The Ogre fell to one knee after the sixth cut. Redscar cleaned his blades and put them away as the other Ogres roared insults at their champion. The smart ones were just silent.
“Strong.”
A voice muttered. Rags turned her head and saw the leader of the clan watching Redscar. It was a female Ogre, not as tall as some, but equipped with a large double-sided axe, a tomahawk-type weapon which was enchanted to return to her hand. She was an excellent thrower.
“Strongest.”
Rags corrected the female Chieftain. She saw the female Ogre scowl, but there was no denying it. Rags had asked Redscar to win without Skills if possible. The [Blademaster] had proved just how good he was.
“Enchanted sword.”
The Ogress spoke challengingly. Rags narrowed her eyes.
“Could have done it without. Want to see?”
For a moment Invek seemed about to demand it. But then the leader of the Ogre Clan of Tormek Al turned her head away.
“No. Redscar Goblin proves. Tormek Al makes peace with Flood Water Tribe. Work together.”
Rags exhaled slowly. It was done. Invek had spoken loud enough to be heard around the circle where the other Ogres—nearly two hundred in all—sat.
It had taken six days of negotiations since the Ogre had chanced upon Goblinhome. To be more accurate—a patrol had run into them and both sides had nearly killed each other until the Ogre had seen reinforcement coming out of the fortress and spoken. He had known Goblins and demanded to speak to Rags.
“So. Tormek Al comes to the High Passes?”
Rags looked at Invek for confirmation. The Ogress grunted.
“Yes.”
It was very far to the High Passes. Rags turned her head. The Wyverns had flown for nights to get here. But Ogres moved fast; their long stride was complimented by their endurance. Hills and mountains were natural homes for them. Invek nodded. She gestured at the lowland below. Beautiful, green lands stretched downwards if Rags stood just right. But it was the world of Humans. Hostile to their kind, hence the peace-negotiations.
“Humans come. Killing Ogres. Too many. These. Want to leave.”
Another Ogre volunteered. His manner of speech was even cruder than Invek’s, but it was perfectly understandable to Rags. She nodded.
Ogres had been raiding Human lands, which had provoked an inevitable response. The clans who had gone to war were depleted. Invek’s own mate was dead, killed by the [Lady] of House Ulta. The Ogres wanted to escape, but not if they had to go to war with Goblins.
Ogres were tricky. Rags had been wary because Invek’s tribe, despite being numerous, could slaughter ten times their number of Goblins without elites or Hobs. She knew from the Redfangs that Ogres sometimes took Goblins as slaves like the Raskghar or preyed on them.
But each clan was different. Rags looked at Invek.
“Will more tr—clans come to High Passes?”
“Maybe.”
The Clan Leader gave Rags a blank look. The Goblin scratched at her head. Their negotiations had been like this. At least Invek wasn’t getting offended as she had at the start whenever Rags asked for clarification; apparently her mastery of the common tongue was best among all the Ogres.
“How many clans live here?”
“More? Over there.”
Invek pointed vaguely to the north. Rags’ head turned. She saw Snapjaw rolling her eyes and sliced a claw across her neck. The [Biter] sighed.
Ogres were simpler in speech than even Goblins, but not stupid. No, not by any means. Rags heard one of the Ogres mutter something to another. In…their language.
Her ears perked up. Rags casually watched as Redscar was approached by more Ogres who wanted to see his sword. And she distinctly heard a few Ogres glancing at him and muttering. It—was not the common language. It sounded like—
“Tourek tal something something Tourek…”
They stopped when Invek made a sound and the Ogres realized Rags was watching. They weren’t stupid. Oh no. They were watching the Goblins. Communicating in a language outside of the common tongue.
Rags had thought only Goblins did that. But then—this was her first encounter with another species that wasn’t ‘civilized’. Who were monsters, like her.
But could the Ogres be trusted? That was what had given Rags all the headaches. The agreement with Invek was verbal and the Ogres wanted to move to the High Passes to get away from the Humans. They liked the idea of Goblins being there because it meant an ally against monsters.
Unless they wanted to take Goblinhome for themselves. They’d be in for a world of hurt if they tried of course, but Rags wanted to be certain. The problem was that she was no [Diplomat] or even a [Negotiator].
She’d negotiated and dealt with a total of two major Goblin factions—three if you counted Reiss’ forces for the short period she had known them. Maybe Cave Goblins made four? Either way, Rags wasn’t sure what trustworthy looked like. Each tribe had been different.
“Who is Tourek?”
Rags spoke up. Invek and the Ogres in her inner circle jumped.
“You know how to speak proper language?”
Invek scowled suspiciously at the little Goblin Chieftain. Rags smiled inwardly. But she kept her face smooth. She had learned that from Pyrite. She grunted in an approximation of the Goldstone Chieftain.
“Hrm. Some. Tourek?”
The Ogress hesitated.
“Clan Leader. Before. Died. Best warrior. Killed Gold-Humans.”
Gold-ranks. Rags wondered if Redscar could have beaten this Tourek. Well—the Ogres could speculate. She was glad it was Invek she had met; the Ogress was reasonable, not like some of the Ogres who looked down on the much smaller Goblins; the smallest Ogre was six feet at least. 
“Goblins no fight Ogres. Ogres no fight Goblins. Is good. Tonight—eat. Tomorrow—gifts! Peace!”
Invek raised her voice and shouted. The Ogres echoed her words. Rags blinked. She started sweating again.
Gifts? She saw Redscar and Snapjaw turn to look at her. There was nothing for it. Invek saw Rags hesitate, but unwilling to show ignorance, the Chieftain smiled and nodded. After all—she was a [Great Chieftain] now.
She had a few tricks. That night, Rags slept in the tents as the Wyverns curled up around the Goblin camp. Redscar kept an eye out in case the Ogres tried anything funny with his Redfang elites. And Rags took the tincture one of the Goblin [Herb Mixers] had made for her and fell asleep.
She dreamed of Ogres.
 
—-
 
It was easier, now, to dive backwards. Her class had made her more adept. Rags could now think in dreams. She still felt and experienced what the previous Goblins had.
Ogres. As always—her first memory was of him.
Velan had fought Ogres—but dealt with them seldom. Rags saw flashes of them kneeling, of the Goblin Chieftain sparing them, the Goblin Lord being too fearful for their small claims to attack. No—
This was the wrong memory. Rags wrenched her mind away. She delved away from Velan. The Goblin King’s memories were too strong. She cast about, searching….searching through her history. For—
There. Rags reached out and—
She was the greatest of her clan, a giant as tall as Tremborag. Carefully, she walked among the smaller Hobgoblins and Goblins, who were like children to her. One of six.
Kerra, that was who she was. Her tribe had six Great Goblins. Their Chieftain had another name for them. Fomirelin. What that meant Kerra didn’t know, but the Chieftain could look back and see many things.
Not that it mattered to Kerra. She didn’t want to become Chieftain. She was a proud warrior! Her tribe needed her only to win every battle. And oh—that wasn’t given. Because Kerra was a giant, but her foes could be just as vast.
She brought her axe down on an Ogre’s shield, grunting as they traded blows. The Ogre roared, but a Great Goblin was stronger than an Ogre. Faster! They could level and Ogres could not!
But Ogres were stronger naturally. Kerra roared a Skill and the Ogre backed up too slowly; her next blow pulverized his face and half of his torso.
The other Ogres ran when they saw that. Kerra’s tribe, the Valley’s Pact tribe, won. But the Ogres raided every spring.
The Chieftain was sick of it. He was a [Mage], as powerful as their tribe had ever known. He led Kerra and the best Goblins on a battle to end this once and for all. Kerra fought the Ogre’s best warriors as spells collapsed the Ogre clan’s bases on the hills, raining death upon them—
